A 33-year-old HIV-infected man was given antiretroviral therapy with zidovudine and lamivudine. After ten months' treatment the patient had elevated hepatic transaminase levels. Severe hepatic steatosis was found in the biopsy. Clinical history, laboratory, microbiologic and X-ray examination revealed no other abnormalities. The transaminase levels remained high after withdrawal of zidovudine alone, but a decrease was observed when both zidovudine and lamivudine were stopped. Rechallenge of lamivudine therapy caused the levels to increase again. The hepatic steatosis was considered to be caused by the antiretroviral therapy, lamivudine having a synergistic influence on this side effect of zidovudine. Ten months after the therapy was changed to the protease inhibitor indinavir combined with zalcitabine and stavudine, two other nucleoside analogues, hepatic steatosis recurred.
Arsenic (As) is a well-known human carcinogen and a potent hepatotoxin. Environmental exposure to arsenic imposes a serious health hazard to humans and other animals worldwide. Tetrahydrocurcumin (THC), one of the major metabolites of curcumin, exhibits many of the same physiological and pharmacological activities as curcumin and in some systems may exert greater antioxidant activity than the curcumin. It has been reported that THC has antioxidant efficacy attributable to the presence of identical β-diketone of 3rd and 5th substitution in heptane moiety. In the present study, rats were orally treated with arsenic alone (5mgkg(-1)bw/day) with THC (80mgkg(-1)bw/day) for 28days. Hepatotoxicity was measured by the increased activities of serum hepatospecific enzymes, namely aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin along with increased elevation of lipid peroxidative markers, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances. And also elevated levels of serum cholesterol, triglycerides, free fatty acids and phospholipids were observed in arsenic intoxicated rats. These effects of arsenic were coupled with enhanced mitochondrial swelling, inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase, Ca(2+)ATPase and a decrease in mitochondrial calcium content. The toxic effect of arsenic was also indicated by significantly decreased activities of enzymatic antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase along with non-enzymatic antioxidant such as reduced glutathione. Administration of THC exhibited significant reversal of arsenic induced toxicity in hepatic tissue. All these changes were supported by the reduction of arsenic concentration and histopathological observations of the liver. These results suggest that THC has a protective effect over arsenic induced toxicity in rat.
A double-blind study was conducted in 60 female patients with moderate or severe insomnia, hospitalized for gynaecological surgery. After an initial 2-day placebo selection phase, 30 subjects received 15 mg midazolam and the remaining 30 received 1 tablet Vesparax (= 50 mg hydroxyzine, 150 mg secobarbital, 50 mg brallobarbital) for 5 nights. This verum phase was immediately followed by a 2-day placebo withdrawal phase in order to study the occurrence of rebound phenomena. Both verum compounds were effective in hastening sleep onset, increasing sleep duration, and improving sleep quality, without causing residual effects on the following day. There was no difference in effect between the two agents. Neither active drug caused rebound effects on withdrawal.
In a double-blind parallel study in which a placebo phase preceded and followed the double-blind verum phase, midazolam 15 mg and Vesparax (150 mg secobarbital, 50 mg brallobarbital, 50 mg hydroxyzine) were administered to 30 female patients aged 20-76 years, suffering from insomnia secondary to neuromuscular disease. Both products were shown to be efficient hypnotics maintaining a constant level of effect. Midazolam proved to be better tolerated and, in contrast to Vesparax, did not cause hangover, nor did rebound phenomena ensue after its withdrawal.
A 52-year-old Caucasian male underwent heterotopic cardiac transplant and subsequently developed a ventricular tachycardia in his native heart. The arrhythmia was successfully treated by cardioversion, despite an increased rate associated with induction of anaesthesia with propofol. The method of synchronised cardioversion is described and a possible hypothesis for the acceleration of ventricular tachycardia following induction is discussed.
We studied the effect of the combination of streptozotocin-induced diabetes and spontaneous renal injury in male MWF rats. Renal hemodynamics was studied by micropuncture 1 month after streptozotocin administration, and kidney morphological evaluation was performed after 4 months of diabetes. We also studied the effect of angiotensin II antagonism on development of renal lesions. Untreated animals developed mild hypertension, proteinuria, and glomerulosclerosis. Induction of diabetes, and maintenance of a moderate hyperglycemic state, was associated with slight but significant elevation in systemic and glomerular capillary blood pressure. Development of proteinuria was not accelerated or exacerbated by diabetes. Glomerular and tubular structural changes were also not worsened by diabetes. Antihypertensive treatment with an ACE inhibitor (benazepril) or with an AII receptor antagonist (valsartan) almost completely prevented systemic and glomerular capillary hypertension, proteinuria and renal structural changes. No significant differences in glomerular volume were observed among the four groups. That induction of experimental diabetes, although associated with glomerular capillary hypertension, did not aggravate the rate of progression of renal dysfunction would suggest that glomerular injury is not directly influenced by glomerular hemodynamic conditions in these animals. Prevention of renal functional and structural abnormalities by antagonism of AII activity in diabetic MWF rats suggests a pathogenetic role for angiotensin in inducing the renal disease in these animals.
The effects of the addition of a calcium channel blocker, verapamil (20 mg/kg/day) to an ACE inhibitor, trandolapril (0.7 mg/kg/day) in a 6-month treatment on renal insufficiency development in rats with 5/6th nephrectomy, were studied. Every month we measured heart rate and arterial pressure by the tail-cuff method. Renal function studies were performed in metabolic cages. At the end of the study, renal tissue was prepared for light microscope analysis. Renal lesions were assessed by semiquantitative scores in a blind fashion. Corpuscular section area, intraglomerular and tubulointerstitial fibrosis were determined by digital image analysis with a specific software (Fibrosis HR) on syrium red-stained renal sections. Trandolapril markedly increased the survival ratio that after 6 months reached 87% in comparison with 61% in untreated rats. No mortality was observed in rats treated with the combination of verapamil and trandolapril. Trandolapril treatment prevented the development of hypertension. The combination verapamil-trandolapril did not induce further reduction on blood pressure. The untreated group showed a marked proteinuria, that in the trandolapril group showed an important reduction. The verapamil + trandolapril group showed a proteinuria significantly smaller than that of all the other groups. Light microscopy semiquantitative studies of the renal injury showed that the trandolapril and verapamil + trandolapril groups had a marked reduction in glomerular and tubulointerstitial alterations, compared with untreated animals. Quantitative determinations of glomerular and interstitial fibrosis performed on syrium red-stained renal sections demonstrated that fibrosis was reduced when rats when treated with trandolapril and even more with verapamil + trandolapril when they were compared to untreated animals' values. In conclusion, long-term treatment with verapamil given in addition to trandolapril produces additional protection against progressive renal injury associated to subtotal nephrectomy.
Toluene can have striking acute behavioral effects and is subject to abuse by inhalation. To determine if its actions resemble those of drugs used in the treatment of anxiety ("anxiolytics"), two sets of experiments were undertaken. Inasmuch as prevention of pentylenetetrazol-induced convulsions is an identifying property of this class of agents, we first demonstrated that pretreatment with injections of toluene delayed the onset of convulsive signs and prevented the tonic extension phase of the convulsant activity in a dose-related manner. Injections of another alkyl benzene, m-xylene, were of comparable potency to toluene. Inhalation of toluene delayed the time to death after pentylenetetrazol injection in a manner related to the duration and concentration of exposure; at lower convulsant doses, inhalation of moderate concentrations (EC50, 1311 ppm) prevented death. Treatment with a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist (Ro 15-1788) failed to reduce the anticonvulsant activity of inhaled toluene. Anxiolytics also attenuate the reduction in response rate produced by punishment with electric shock. Toluene increased rates of responding suppressed by punishment when responding was maintained under a multiple fixed-interval fixed-interval punishment schedule of reinforcement. Distinct antipunishment effects were observed after 2 hr of exposure to 1780 and 3000 ppm of toluene; the rate-increasing effects of toluene were related to concentration and to time after the termination of exposure. Thus, toluene and m-xylene resemble in several respects clinically useful drugs such as the benzodiazepines.
In this multicenter, randomized, controlled study, we compared the analgesic efficacy and safety profile of a new single-dose extended-release epidural morphine (EREM) formulation (DepoDur) with that of epidural morphine sulfate for the management of postoperative pain for up to 48 h after elective cesarean delivery. ASA physical status I or II parturients (n = 75) were anesthetized with a combined spinal/epidural technique. Parturients received intrathecal bupivacaine 12-15 mg and fentanyl 10 mug for spinal anesthesia and a single epidural injection of either 5 mg of standard (conventional preservative-free) morphine or 5, 10, or 15 mg of extended-release morphine after cord clamping for postoperative pain control. Single-dose EREM 10 and 15 mg groups significantly decreased total supplemental opioid medication use and improved functional ability scores for 48 h after surgery compared with those receiving 5 mg of standard morphine. Visual analog scale pain scores at rest and with activity at 24 to 48 h after dosing were significantly better in the 10- and 15-mg single-dose EREM groups versus the standard morphine group. There were no significant differences between the two 5 mg (single-dose EREM and standard morphine) groups. Single-dose EREM was well tolerated, and most adverse events were mild to moderate in severity. Single-dose EREM is a potentially beneficial epidural analgesic for the management of post-cesarean delivery pain and has particular advantages over standard morphine for the period from 24 to 48 h after surgery.
Highly active antiretroviral therapy containing three nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors has been somewhat successful, but the clinical efficacy is unclear.
Randomized, controlled, open-label trial of 180 antiretroviral drug-naive HIV-infected patients allocated to a regimen of abacavir, stavudine and didanosine (A/S/D, n = 60), ritonavir and saquinavir (R/S 400/400 mg twice daily; n = 60) or nelfinavir and nevirapine (N/N 1250/200 mg twice daily; n = 60); the latter two in combination with lamivudine and zidovudine. The primary endpoint was HIV plasma RNA < or = 20 copies/ml after 48 weeks.
At baseline, the median CD4 cell count was 161 x 106 cells/l (range, 0-920) and the HIV RNA was 5.0 log10 copies/ml (range, 2.7-6.7). At 48 weeks, 43% in the A/S/D arm had a HIV RNA < or = 20 copies/ml, compared with 69% in the N/N arm (P < 0.01) and 62% in the R/S arm (P < 0.05). In a multivariate analysis, the A/S/D arm had an odds ratio of obtaining a viral load of < or = 20 copies/ml at week 48 of 0.25 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.10-0.59] versus N/N and 0.53 (95% CI, 0.33-0.83) versus R/S. The A/S/D arm had a particularly poor outcome in patients with higher viral load and AIDS at baseline: 63% had to discontinue A/S/D (any drug). Side effects were more frequent in the A/S/D arm and included neuropathy 27%, suspicion of hypersensitivity 12%, and increase in lactate accompanied by systemic symptoms 8%.
The A/S/D regimen had a low efficacy and a high frequency of adverse events and cannot be recommended.
The intake of deoxynivalenol (DON), a mycotoxin contaminating cereal food items, causes gastro-intestinal illness in human and animal. This study investigated whether intracellular inflammatory cascades (MAPKs and NF-κB), cell maturity (proliferating vs. differentiated), cell state (control vs. inflamed) and exposure duration (chronic vs. acute) affect IL-8 secretion and PGE-2 synthesis in Caco-2 cells exposed to plausible intestinal concentrations (50, 500 and 5000 ng/ml) of DON. IL-8 secretion and PGE-2 synthesizing capacity were dose-dependently upregulated in differentiated Caco-2 cells exposed to DON during 24h, reaching an increase of ∼25 and 1.7-fold respectively, whereas transcript level of IL-8 and COX-2 were increased by ∼40 and 17-fold. Similar results were obtained with proliferating cells. The upregulation decreased upon simultaneous incubation with inhibitors of MAPKs ERK1/2 or p38 or of transcription factor NF-κB. IL-8 secretion and PGE-2 synthesizing capacity increased respectively by ∼15 and 2-fold after chronic 21 day incubation with DON (50 ng/ml). IL-8 production was exacerbated (∼510-fold versus negative control) upon simultaneous exposure to inflammatory stimuli. These results suggest activation of inflammatory pathways in intestinal epithelial cells exposed chronically or acutely to DON. The sensitivity to DON, whereas not affected by cell differentiation, is exacerbated by the presence of additional stimuli.
This study was undertaken to determine whether the cerebral vascular response to hypocapnia is preserved during isoflurane-induced hypotension. In six dogs (group 1) cerebral vascular resistance and cerebral blood flow were determined at normocapnia (PaCO2 40 mm Hg) and at hypocapnia (PaCO2 20 mm Hg) while mean arterial pressure was normal, and then again during isoflurane-induced hypotension to a mean arterial pressure of 50 mm Hg. Hypocapnia increased cerebral vascular resistance and decreased cerebral blood flow during both normotension and isoflurane-induced hypotension. However, the magnitude of these responses was greater when mean arterial pressure was normal. In another six dogs (group 2), CO2 responsiveness was examined during isoflurane-induced hypotension without prior determination of CO2 responsiveness at normal mean arterial pressure and during sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension to a mean arterial pressure of 50 mm Hg. As in group 1, partial preservation of CO2 responsiveness was observed during isoflurane-induced hypotension; the magnitude of the response in group 2 during isoflurane-induced hypotension was similar to that in group 1. In contrast, in group 2 during sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension, hypocapnia caused no significant change of cerebral vascular resistance or cerebral blood flow. It is concluded that cerebral vessels respond to changes in PaCO2 differently during isoflurane-induced hypotension than during hypotension with other commonly used hypotensive treatments. Hypocapnia decreases cerebral blood flow during isoflurane-induced hypotension and, therefore, may also decrease cerebral blood volume, brain bulk, and intracranial pressure.
The association between an adverse early life environment and increased susceptibility to later-life metabolic disorders such as obesity, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease is described by the developmental origins of health and disease hypothesis. Employing a rat model of maternal high fat (MHF) nutrition, we recently reported that offspring born to MHF mothers are small at birth and develop a postnatal phenotype that closely resembles that of the human metabolic syndrome. Livers of offspring born to MHF mothers also display a fatty phenotype reflecting hepatic steatosis and characteristics of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. In the present study we hypothesised that a MHF diet leads to altered regulation of liver development in offspring; a derangement that may be detectable during early postnatal life. Livers were collected at postnatal days 2 (P2) and 27 (P27) from male offspring of control and MHF mothers (n = 8 per group). Cell cycle dynamics, measured by flow cytometry, revealed significant G0/G1 arrest in the livers of P2 offspring born to MHF mothers, associated with an increased expression of the hepatic cell cycle inhibitor Cdkn1a. In P2 livers, Cdkn1a was hypomethylated at specific CpG dinucleotides and first exon in offspring of MHF mothers and was shown to correlate with a demonstrable increase in mRNA expression levels. These modifications at P2 preceded observable reductions in liver weight and liver∶brain weight ratio at P27, but there were no persistent changes in cell cycle dynamics or DNA methylation in MHF offspring at this time. Since Cdkn1a up-regulation has been associated with hepatocyte growth in pathologic states, our data may be suggestive of early hepatic dysfunction in neonates born to high fat fed mothers. It is likely that these offspring are predisposed to long-term hepatic dysfunction.
In our previous phase I study of temozolomide in patients with acute leukemia, temozolomide was well tolerated and demonstrated significant anti-leukemic activity. The maximum tolerated dose was 200 mg/m2/d for 7 days, repeated approximately every 5-6 weeks. In the current study, we evaluated the same dose of temozolomide in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome. Fourteen patients received 19 courses of temozolomide. The median age was 71 years. In this study, treatment was poorly tolerated with patients requiring admission in 9 of 19 courses. Toxicity included worsening cytopenias, neutropenic fever, and exacerbation of cardiac disease, the latter due to worsening anemia. An unusual finding was the development of leukocytoclastic vasculitis in 4 patients. There were no formal responses to therapy. The current schedule of temozolomide is not efficacious in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and related chemicals are potent cardiovascular teratogens in developing piscine and avian species. In the present study we investigated the effects of TCDD on murine cardiovascular development. Pregnant mice (C57Bl6N) were dosed with 1.5-24 microg TCDD/kg on gestation day (GD) 14.5. At GD 17.5, fetal mice exhibited a dose-related decrease in heart-to-body weight ratio that was significantly reduced at a maternal dose as low as 3.0 microg TCDD/kg. In addition, cardiocyte proliferation was reduced in GD 17.5 fetal hearts at the 6.0-microg TCDD/kg maternal dose. To determine if this reduction in cardiac weight was transient, or if it continued after birth, dams treated with control or 6.0 microg TCDD/kg were allowed to deliver, and heart weight of offspring was determined on postnatal days (P) 7 and 21. While no difference was seen on P 7, on P 21 pups from TCDD-treated litters showed an increase in heart-to-body weight ratio and in expression of the cardiac hypertrophy marker atrial natriuretic factor. Additionally, electrocardiograms of P 21 offspring showed that the combination of in utero and lactational TCDD exposure reduced postnatal heart rate but did not alter cardiac responsiveness to isoproterenol stimulation of heart rate. These results demonstrate that the fetal murine heart is a sensitive target of TCDD-induced teratogenicity, resembling many of TCDD-induced effects observed in fish and avian embryos, including reduced cardiocyte proliferation and altered fetal heart size. Furthermore, the combination of in utero and lactational TCDD exposure can induce cardiac hypertrophy and bradycardia postnatally, which could increase the risk of cardiovascular disease development.
Whether serotonin-1B (5-HT(1B)) receptor activation enhances or diminishes the reinforcing properties of psychostimulants remains unclear. We have previously shown that increased expression of 5-HT(1B) receptors in nucleus accumbens (NAcc) shell neurons sensitized rats to the locomotor-stimulating and rewarding properties of cocaine. In this study we further examined the contribution of 5-HT(1B) receptors on the effect of cocaine under conditions intended to selectively influence either conditioned place preference or avoidance (CPP or CPA, respectively). Viral-mediated gene transfer techniques were used to overexpress 5-HT(1B) receptors in medial NAcc shell medium spiny neurons projecting to the ventral tegmental area. Animals were then conditioned to associate place cues with the effects of either a low (5 mg/kg) or moderately high (20 mg/kg) dosage of cocaine immediately or 45 min after intraperitoneal cocaine administration. Animals with increased 5-HT(1B) expression showed cocaine-induced CPP immediately after administration of the low 5 mg/kg dose of cocaine, but a CPA 45 min after administration of the high 20 mg/kg dose. Control animals showed no preference at the 5 mg/kg dose and a significant preference at 20 mg/kg. Given this, we believe that increased 5-HT(1B) receptor activation in NAcc shell projection neurons intensifies both the rewarding and negative properties of cocaine use.
The occurrence of behavioral disturbances during four-week treatment of depressed patients with the nonselective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, phenelzine sulfate (N = 14), the selective MAO-type A inhibitor, clorgyline (N = 12), and the partially selective MAO-type B inhibitor, pargyline hydrochloride (N = 13), was studied. Behavioral disturbances were encountered during treatment with each of the MAO-inhibiting drugs, with an overall incidence of 15% (six of 39 patients). All but one episode met criteria for mania or hypomania. Patients with bipolar illness experienced significantly greater incidences of behavioral disturbances in comparison with patients with unipolar illness (35.3% v 4.5%, respectively). The earliest latency to onset of a behavioral disturbances was 18 days, whereas the mean latencies were 22 to 26 days. Episodes of hypomania were observed after discontinuation of drug treatment in individual patients with unipolar and bipolar illness. Repeated MAO-inhibitor treatment, as part of a crossover study of clorgyline and pargyline, produced an increased severity of behavioral disturbances and a significantly shortened latency to onset.
Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) is an important genetic disorder in pediatric nephrological practice. Mutation of the polycystic kidney and hepatic disease gene 1 (PKHD1) was identified as the cause of ARPKD. Rapamycin is a highly specific inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). Rapamycin exerts its biological activity by inhibiting the serine-threonine kinase mTOR, which regulates important cellular processes such as control of cell cycle, cell size, translation initiation and transcription. The ability of rapamycin to cause G1-cell cycle arrest, reduced cell growth and a reduced rate of proliferation has led to efforts to develop rapamycin and related mTOR inhibitors as anti-cystogenesis agents. Therefore, we investigated the relationship between the decreased FPC and the protein levels of mTOR and the inhibitory effects of rapamycin on the expression of mTOR, Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1alpha) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the human 293T cell line. These observations should provide an important platform for determining FPC function and the pathogenesis of ARPKD, with the targeting of mTOR signaling being exploitable as a novel therapy.
Two combinations of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide (L/HCTZ, 20 mg/12.5 mg and 20 mg/25 mg) are currently marketed. The licences are based primarily on a dose ratio study and a parallel titration study. In the former randomized study of 209 patients with sitting DBP of 90-115 mm Hg, the antihypertensive effects of L/HCTZ 20 mg/12.5 mg and 20 mg/25 mg were significantly greater than either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy (P less than or equal to 0.01), while the effect of L/HCTZ 20 mg/6.25 mg, was greater than hydrochlorothiazide but not lisinopril monotherapy. In the latter study, 394 patients with sitting DBP of 90-120 mm Hg received lisinopril 20 mg, HCTZ 12.5 mg, or L/HCTZ 20 mg/12.5 mg once daily for 12 weeks of double-blind therapy. All of the dose regimens could be doubled at 4 and 8 weeks for adequate BP control. The L/HCTZ group had significantly greater effect than either monotherapy (P less than or equal to 0.01). Thus, concomitant therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide provides BP reduction beyond that of either monocomponent. Studies on new combinations of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide are under way to increase prescribing options for practitioners.
Majority of studies on gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) that include patients with or without erosive disease have documented the efficacy of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) as well as their superiority to H(2)-receptor antagonist (H(2)-RA). The purpose of this study was to clarify the difference in quality of GERD treatment with PPIs and H(2)-RA in step-down protocol using lansoprazole.
Forty-three patients with reflux esophagitis were randomly divided into three groups and assessed by severity score; group 1 received 30 mg lansoprazole initially and maintenance therapy with a standard dose H(2)-RA; group 2 received 30 mg of lansoprazole initially and maintenance therapy of 15 mg lansoprazole; and group 3 received 15 mg of lansoprazole once daily for 16 weeks. If the patients experienced symptomatic recurrence while on H(2)-RA, they were switched to PPI maintenance.
Heartburn, regurgitation and dysphagia were hardly found in any group at 8 weeks after 15 mg or 30 mg lansoprazole treatment. After 8 weeks, however, heartburn and regurgitation recurred at 50% and 78.6%, respectively, in the stepped down to famotidine group, and quality of life (QOL) was significantly impaired. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) analysis showed reduction of the submucosal layer without any change in the mucosal surface in the stepped down to famotidine group.
Step-down lansoprazole therapy is considered very effective in terms of rapid effect, long-term effect and high quality GERD treatment.
We report a 48-year-old woman with a 17-year history of PD who developed a peripheral sensory-motor neuropathy secondary to chronic administration (8 years) of amantadine. Discontinuation of amantadine resulted in resolution of trophic skin ulcers, paresthesias, and distal weakness. Amantadine may be hazardous to patients with severe and chronic livedo reticularis.
Activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) plays important roles in tumorigenesis and tumor development. Previously, we have reported that overexpression of STAT3 potentiates growth, survival and radioresistance of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells. The aim of this study was to investigate the prognostic significance of STAT3 expression and its correlation with chemoresistance of NSCLC cells. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR was performed to detect the expression of STAT3 mRNA in 12 NSCLC and corresponding adjacent lung tissues. Immunohistochemistry was performed to detect the expression of STAT3 protein in 76 NSCLC tissue samples. Additionally, the correlation between STAT3 expression and prognosis of NSCLC patients was statistically analyzed. The role of STAT3 in chemoresistance of NSCLC cells was also assessed by the vector-based small interfering RNA. The expression level of STAT3 mRNA in NSCLC tissues was significantly higher than that in corresponding adjacent lung tissues (P<0.05). Positive immunostaining of STAT3 protein was mainly located in the cytoplasm of tumor cells. The expression of STAT3 protein was significantly correlated with tumor differentiation, clinical stage and lymph node metastasis of NSCLC patients. Moreover, the 5-year overall survival rate of patients with high STAT3 expression (42.3%) was significantly lower than that of patients with low STAT3 expression (58.8%; P<0.001). Multivariate analysis using the Cox proportional hazard model showed that high STAT3 protein expression was an independent prognostic factor for NSCLC patients (P=0.021). Furthermore, two stably transfected cell lines (A549/shSTAT3 and SPC-A1/shSTAT3) were successfully established, and RNAi-mediated STAT3 inhibition could significantly increase the sensitivity of NSCLC cells to cisplatin by enhancing caspase-3-dependent apoptosis. Together, the expression of STAT3 might be an independent prognostic marker for NSCLC patients and RNAi-mediated STAT3 inhibition would be a potential strategy for chemosensitization of NSCLC cells.
A case of systemic allergic-type vasculitis after the administration of quinidine and digoxin is described. The renal biopsy findings are unique in that they describe an arteritis with eosinophilic infiltration and non-caseating granulomata. We believe quinidine is the antigen that was responsible for the reported findings.
It has been proposed that gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analog administered after testicular damage stimulates the recovery of spermatogenesis. However, GnRH analogs suppress the function of sex accessory organs. In this study, we investigated whether testosterone also stimulates the regeneration of rat spermatogenesis after exposure to busulfan.
Male Fisher rats were divided into three groups of five each and all rats were treated with busulfan, 25 mg/kg, intraperitoneally at week 0. Group A served as the control. The other two groups received testosterone enanthate, 8 mg/kg, subcutaneous injections at 3 week intervals two times before (group B) or three times after (group C) busulfan. States of spermatogenesis were evaluated by histology and by the number of spermatid nuclei per testis at week 25.
The mean percentage of 'recovered' seminiferous tubules plus or minus standard deviation was 10.3 +/- 7.8% in group A and 2.1 +/- 1.2% in group B. In both groups, more than 80% of the tubules remained degenerated. However, testes of group C rats showed an improvement of up to 37.1 +/- 20.5% (P < 0.05). The significant recovery of spermatogenesis was also demonstrated in group C by counting the number of spermatid nuclei per testis ([78.8 +/- 57.5] x 106). However, the count was only (7.6 +/- 13.5) x 106 and (0.52 +/- 1.0) x 106 in group A and B, respectively.
Testosterone administration after severe testicular damage enhanced the regeneration of spermatogenesis in rats. We assumed that supplementary doses of testosterone would be more practical for clinical application than GnRH analogs, because exogenous testosterone maintains androgenicity.
Vitamin D (VD), is a steroid hormone with multiple functions in the central nervous system (CNS), producing numerous physiological effects mediated by its receptor (VDR). Clinical and experimental studies have shown a link between VD dysfunction and epilepsy. Along these lines, the purpose of our work was to analyze the relative expression of VDR mRNA in the hippocampal formation of rats during the three periods of pilocarpine-induced epilepsy. Male Wistar rats were divided into five groups: (1) control group; rats that received saline 0.9%, i.p. and were killed 7 days after its administration (CTRL, n=8), (2) SE group; rats that received pilocarpine and were killed 4h after SE (SE, n=8), (3) Silent group--7 days; rats that received pilocarpine and were killed 7 days after SE (SIL 7d, n=8), (4) Silent group--14 days; rats that received pilocarpine and were killed 14 days after SE (SIL 14d, n=8), (5) Chronic group; rats that received pilocarpine and were killed 60 days after the first spontaneous seizure, (chronic, n=8). The relative expression of VDR mRNA was determined by real-time PCR. Our results showed an increase of the relative expression of VDR mRNA in the SIL 7 days, SIL 14 days and Chronic groups, respectively (0.060+/-0.024; 0.052+/-0.035; 0.085+/-0.055) when compared with the CTRL and SE groups (0.019+/-0.017; 0.019+/-0.025). These data suggest the VDR as a possible candidate participating in the epileptogenesis process of the pilocarpine model of epilepsy.
The aim of this study was to examine the clinical profile of statin-induced myalgia in patients with no apparent predisposing factors. Patients who reported muscle complaints that limited daily functioning during statin use were prospectively identified among the patients of Kuusankoski District Hospital and its catchment area, a population of about 100,000, between January 2003 and July 2004. Twenty patients in whom the muscle complaints were probably attributable to the use of a statin were included in this series. There were no cases of severe myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, and the highest creatine kinase value observed was only about 1900 U/l. Of the 18 patients that were evaluable for creatine kinase level, 5 (28%) did not exhibit elevation of creatine kinase and 6 (33%) showed a minor increase only. Following discontinuation of the statin, resolution of symptoms and normalisation of creatine kinase occurred in 11 of the 13 patients with elevated creatine kinase value as well as muscle complaints. Statins may cause clinically important muscle symptoms without inducing a marked creatine kinase elevation.
To investigate the toxicity and carcinogenic potential of indole-3-carbinol (I3C), the National Toxicology Program has conducted 13-week subchronic studies in Fisher 344 rats and B6C3F1 mice, and chronic 2-year bioassays in Sprague-Dawley rats and B6C3F1 mice. While the chronic study results are not yet available, subchronic study results and short-term special evaluations of interim sacrifices in the 2-year rat bioassay are presented. F344 rats were orally gavaged ≤300 mg I3C/kg body weight 5 days a week for 13 weeks. Rats treated with ≥150 mg/kg demonstrated a dose-related dilation of lymphatics (lymphangiectasis) of the duodenum, jejunum, and mesenteric lymph nodes. Material within dilated lacteals stained positively for Oil Red O and Sudan Black, consistent with lipid. Electron microscopic evaluation confirmed extracellular lipid accumulation within the villar lamina propria, lacteals, and within villar macrophages. Analyses of hepatic and pulmonary CYP1A enzymes demonstrated dose-dependent I3C induction of CYP1A1 and 1A2. B6C3F1 mice orally gavaged ≤250 mg I3C/kg body weight did not demonstrate histopathological changes; however, hepatic CYP induction was similar to that in rats. The histopathologic changes of intestinal lymphangiectasis and lipidosis in this study share similarities with intestinal lymphangiectasia as observed in humans and dogs. However, the resultant clinical spectrum of protein-losing enteropathy was not present.
A novel series of N-linked β-D-xylosides were synthesized and evaluated for inhibitory activity against sodium-dependent glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) in a cell-based assay. Of these, the 4-chloro-3-(4-cyclopropylbenzyl)-1-(β-D-xylopyranosyl)-1H-indole 19m was found to be the most potent inhibitor, with an EC(50) value similar to that of the natural SGLT2 inhibitor phlorizin. Further studies in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats indicated that 19m significantly increased urine glucose excretion in a dose-dependent manner with oral administration. The antihyperglycemic effect of 19m was also observed in streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetic SD rats. These results described here are a good starting point for further investigations into N-glycoside SGLT2 inhibitors.
Transient receptor potential melastatin 8 (TRPM8) is a nonselective cation channel that is thermoresponsive to cool to cold temperatures (8-28 °C) and also may be activated by chemical agonists such as menthol and icilin. Antagonism of TRPM8 activation is currently under investigation for the treatment of painful conditions related to cold, such as cold allodynia and cold hyperalgesia. The design, synthesis, and optimization of a class of selective TRPM8 antagonists based on a benzimidazole scaffold is described, leading to the identification of compounds that exhibited potent antagonism of TRPM8 in cell-based functional assays for human, rat, and canine TRPM8 channels. Numerous compounds in the series demonstrated excellent in vivo activity in the TRPM8-selective "wet-dog shakes" (WDS) pharmacodynamic model and in the rat chronic constriction injury (CCI)-induced model of neuropathic pain. Taken together, the present results suggest that the in vivo antagonism of TRPM8 constitutes a viable new strategy for treating a variety of disorders associated with cold hypersensitivity, including certain types of neuropathic pain.
We performed a genome-wide association study of non-Hispanic, white individuals with fibrotic idiopathic interstitial pneumonias (IIPs; n = 1,616) and controls (n = 4,683), with follow-up replication analyses in 876 cases and 1,890 controls. We confirmed association with TERT at 5p15, MUC5B at 11p15 and the 3q26 region near TERC, and we identified seven newly associated loci (Pmeta = 2.4 × 10(-8) to 1.1 × 10(-19)), including FAM13A (4q22), DSP (6p24), OBFC1 (10q24), ATP11A (13q34), DPP9 (19p13) and chromosomal regions 7q22 and 15q14-15. Our results suggest that genes involved in host defense, cell-cell adhesion and DNA repair contribute to risk of fibrotic IIPs.
