The effects of diet-induced ketosis on the signs of hypoglycemia were investigated. Lard, medium chain triglycerides, or 1,3-butylene glycol comprised 43% of the diet fed to mice. The diet containing lard or medium chain triglycerides greatly protected the animals from the manifestations of acute insulin-induced hypoglycemia. Furthermore, both diets protected the animals from the effects of repeated insulin injections (every eight hours) for 10 days. In contrast, 1,3-butylene glycol had no protective effects. These experiments suggest that ketogenic diets may be of value in the treatment of recurrent hypoglycemic conditions.
Aminoglycosides, primarily gentamicin, are the most commonly used antibiotics worldwide despite their toxicity to the kidney and the inner ear. A preventive therapy against these side effects should combine safety and efficacy with low cost because aminoglycoside-induced deafness is most prevalent in developing countries. We have previously shown that aminoglycosides catalyze the formation of free radicals in an iron-dependent reaction and have delineated the structure of an iron-gentamicin complex. Here we demonstrate that 2-hydroxybenzoate (salicylate), which can act as an iron chelator and antioxidant, effectively protects against gentamicin-induced hearing loss in guinea pigs. Co-therapy with salicylate reduced a profound gentamicin-induced auditory threshold shift of more than 60 dB to less than 20 dB. Morphological assessment of the inner ear confirmed protection of auditory sensory cells. Salicylate altered neither serum levels of gentamicin nor its antibacterial efficacy. Because the required salicylate levels correspond to anti-inflammatory levels in humans, this treatment holds promise for clinical application.
To explore the effects of ghrelin on disturbed myocardial energy metabolism during chronic heart failure (CHF). Rats were subcutaneously injected with isoproterenol (ISO) for 10 days with or without ghrelin for another 10 days. Enzyme immunoassay was to measure ghrelin concentrations. Compared with the control group, ISO-treated rats showed suppressed cardiac function with high ghrelin/GHS-R expressions. These rats also showed the decreases in food consumption and weight. The decreased levels of plasma glucose and myocardial glucogen, but the high lactate in blood and myocardium showed myocardial metabolic disturbance. Compared with the group given ISO alone, the rats with ghrelin (20 and 100 microg/kg/day) improved cardiac dysfunction and increased food intake by 13.5 and 14.2% (both P < 0.01), and rate of weight gain by 95% (P < 0.05) and 1.71-fold (P < 0.01), respectively. The plasma glucose were increased by 49.7 and 50.8% (both P < 0.01), and myocardial glucogen, by 40.5 and 51.7% (both P < 0.01), but blood lactate decreased by 1.56- and 1.96-fold (both P < 0.01), and myocardial lactate by 32.1 and 48.7% (both P < 0.05), respectively. Their MCT1 mRNA and protein expressions increased. The myocardial ghrelin/GHS-R pathway can be upregulated during CHF. The ghrelin can attenuate cardiac dysfunction and energy metabolic disturbance in CHF rats.
A 25-year-old woman who was hospitalized for worsening endocarditis had a prolonged QT interval at baseline and developed monomorphic ventricular arrhythmias, which were managed successfully with pacing and antiarrhythmic therapy. Several days later, the patient started receiving high-dose fluconazole for fungemia and subsequently experienced episodes of torsades de pointes, a polymorphic ventricular arrhythmia associated with a prolonged QT interval or prominent U wave on the electrocardiogram. The arrhythmia developed in the presence of known risk factors. Clinicians should be aware of these risk factors and other relevant structural similarities with drugs that cause torsades de pointes so that they can recognize patients who may be at risk for fluconazole-associated arrhythmia.
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is a redox component in the respiratory chain. CoQ10 is necessary for human life to exist; and a deficiency can be contributory to ill health and disease. A deficiency of CoQ10 in myocardial disease has been found and controlled therapeutic trials have established CoQ10 as a major advance in the therapy of resistant myocardial failure. The cardiotoxicity of adriamycin, used in treatment modalities of cancer, is significantly reduced by CoQ10, apparently because the side-effects of adriamycin include inhibition of mitochondrial CoQ10 enzymes. Models of the immune system including phagocytic rate, circulating antibody level, neoplasia, viral and parasitic infections were used to demonstrate that CoQ10 is an immunomodulating agent. It was concluded that CoQ10, at the mitochondrial level, is essential for the optimal function of the immune system.
Although acetazolamide usually prevents paralytic attacks in hypokalemic periodic paralysis, not all patients benefit from this treatment. We studied a father and two sons in whom attack frequency and severity increased on acetazolamide. Administration of triamterene virtually abolished attacks in three separate single-blind trials totaling more than 12 months. Spontaneous and glucose-insulin provoked occurred with only slight hypokalemia. Acetazolamide produced slight hypokalemia and provoked attacks of weakness whereas triamterene increased potassium levels significantly. Certain patients with hypokalemic periodic paralysis are worsened by acetazolamide, perhaps because of its kaliopenic effect. Triamterene may be effective in some of these patients.
The computer-assisted static and dynamic light evoked pupillometry (TV-pupillometer 1050, Whittaker Corp.) had been proved to be a sensitive procedure for assessment of the effect of psychoactive drugs. Therefore, this method was used in 26 heroin dependent patients (mean age 24.42 years), 20 methadone substituted patients (mean age 29.75), and 20 morphine-substituted patients (mean age 30.65 years) to answer the question whether there were no differences within the patient groups but significant differences between the patients and healthy normals. Indeed, pupillary diameter (vegetative activation) as well as relative change (pupillary reagibility) showed no significant differences between the heroin dependents, the methadone substitution group and the morphine substitution group. However concerning pupillary diameter and relative change the patient groups differed significantly from the healthy controls. Onset latency revealed no differences within the patient groups and between patient groups and healthy controls respectively. Thus the variable pupillary diameter and relative change could be used to assess the additional application of opiates in patients participating in a substitution program.
Opiate abuse during pregnancy may result in abnormal nervous system function. In order to evaluate the effects of morphine on the development of the nervous system, the present study focused on the effects of maternal morphine consumption on neural tube development in Wistar rats. Female Wistar rats (250-300 g) were crossed with male rats and coupling time was recorded (embryonic day 0-E0). Experimental groups received 0.1, 0.05, and 0.01 mg/ml of morphine in drinking water daily (14 ml water for each rat). Control group received tap water. On embryonic day 9.5 (E9.5), the animals were anesthetized and the embryos were surgically removed. The embryos were fixed in 10% formalin for 1 week. After this time, weights and lengths (antero-posterior axis--A-P) of the embryos were determined and then tissues were processed, sectioned, and stained in hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). The sections were investigated for neural tube development by light microscope and MOTIC software. The decrease in "A-P" length and embryonic weight for the group that received 0.01 mg/ml morphine was significant. It seems that daily consumption of morphine sulfate could delay neural tube development. In addition, administration of 0.01 mg/ml of morphine led to damage to the regulated neuro-ectoderm layer and its thickness. This study showed that oral morphine consumption leads to neural tube defects, as indicated in the morphometric change and also reduction in weight and length of the embryos. These defects might affect the behavior of the animals.
In this study, we evaluated the effect of intrathecal and oral clonidine as supplements to spinal anesthesia with lidocaine in patients at risk of postoperative alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS). We hypothesized that clonidine would have a prophylactic effect on postoperative AWS. Forty-five alcohol-dependent patients (daily ethanol intake >60 g) scheduled for transurethral resection of the prostate were double-blindly randomized into three groups. All patients received hyperbaric lidocaine 100 mg intrathecally. The diazepam group (DiazG) was premedicated with diazepam 10 mg orally; the intrathecal clonidine group (Clon(i/t)G) received a placebo (saline) tablet and clonidine 150 microg intrathecally; and the oral clonidine group (Clon(p/o)G) received clonidine 150 microg orally. For patients diagnosed with AWS, the Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol, revised scale, was used. Twelve patients in the DiazG had symptoms of AWS, compared with two in the Clon(i/t)G and one in the Clon(p/o)G. The median Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol, revised scale, score was 12 in the DiazG versus 1 in the clonidine-treated groups. Two patients in the DiazG had severe delirium. Patients receiving oral clonidine had a slightly decreased mean arterial blood pressure 6-12 h after spinal anesthesia (P < 0.05); patients in the DiazG had a hyperdynamic circulatory reaction 24-72 h after surgery. In conclusion, preoperative clonidine 150 microg, intrathecally or orally, prevented significant postoperative AWS in ethanol-dependent patients.
In this randomized, double-blinded study, clonidine 150 microg both intrathecally and orally prevented postoperative alcohol-withdrawal symptoms in alcohol-dependent men. The effect was superior to that with a single dose of diazepam 10 mg orally.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is the leading cause of cirrhosis worldwide. One effective strategy to prevent recurrence or transmission of HBV infection after liver transplantation exists is prescription of Lamivudine, although it is associated with high resistance rates. Adefovir dipivoxil (AD) is a nucleotide analogue of adenosine that has achieved significant results in virologic, biochemical, and clinical parameters in lamivudine-resistant HBV-infected patients. Between 1990 and 2003 7 adult recipients of orthotopic liver transplants who experienced lamivudine-resistant HBV infection (pretransplantation or posttransplantation) were enrolled in a prospective study to administer AD for 48 weeks. At baseline they showed serum HBV DNA between 2.2 x 10(6) and 1.1 x 10(8) copies/mL. After 48 weeks of AD treatment, the median time-weighted average change in serum HBV DNA (log 10 copies/mL) was -3.19 (SD, 1.65). In 3 patients with HBV, DNA was undetectable (<400 copies/mL) at the end of the follow-up. HBe antigen seroconversion was observed in 1 patient. No significant adverse effects were recorded, except for renal functional impairment in 1 patient who had previous renal insufficiency. In our study, adefovir was an effective drug to suppression HBV replication in liver transplant recipients with lamivudine-resistant HBV. Excluding renal function abnormalities, tolerance of the drug was excellent. None of the patients developed resistance to adefovir. Therapy with AD in liver transplant recipients is effective and safe, although renal function should be monitored closely.
We describe a case of clozapine-induced seizures in a patient with treatment-resistant schizophrenia. She had previously been treated unsuccessfully with a number of atypical antipsychotic medications, before she was eventually started on clozapine. She experienced two separate episodes of observed fits whilst on an initial daily dose of 125 mg and, subsequently, on a daily dose of 237.5 mg. Following discontinuation of clozapine, she was rechallenged and again was observed to have seizures. Appropriate investigations ruled out any organic cause of the fits and clozapine was successfully restarted, together with sodium valproate. By the time of treatment stabilization, the patient had not experienced any further fits. These findings suggest that clozapine-induced seizures can be successfully treated, that gradual dose titration can reduce the likelihood of further episodes of seizures and that concomitant use of a suitable mood stabilizer/anti-epileptic medication can improve the outcome of treatment-resistant schizophrenia. Furthermore, the concomitant use of fluoxetine and clozapine is discouraged, with citalopram suggested as a suitable antidepressant in those depressed patients receiving clozapine.
Enprofylline is a novel xanthine derivative with negligible adenosine antagonizing ability. It is eliminated almost exclusively by renal clearance with a half-life of about 2 h. Three i.v. infusions of enprofylline (1 mg/kg body weight over 10 min) were given at hourly intervals to 16 patients with stable, reversible airway obstruction. The patients were pretreated at random with i.v. terbutaline (4 micrograms/kg body weight) or placebo according to a double blind cross-over design. Lung function and drug concentrations in plasma were followed. Enprofylline produced significant and concentration-dependent bronchodilation between plasma levels of 1.24 and 3.22 mg/l. The improvement in ventilatory function was significantly enhanced by terbutaline pretreatment. At the highest plasma levels of enprofylline nausea and headache were found as subjective side effects. The results suggest that enprofylline and terbutaline might best be used in a low dose combination in the treatment of bronchial asthma.
The responses in cervicogenic headache to four different agents have been studied. Nitroglycerin was given sublingually to 27 patients. Eighteen patients got more than 20% increase of their headache. Of those with any headache increase at all, 12 got bilateral and 12 unilateral pain. The typical late cluster headache response to nitroglycerin was not seen in cervicogenic headache. The provocative effect of nitroglycerin seemed less marked in cervicogenic than in cluster headache. Oxygen inhalation, a frequently used treatment for cluster headache, was given to 14 patients with cervicogenic headache. In general, the effect seemed uncertain and probably clearly inferior to the effect in cluster headache. Ergotamine treatment (given to 13 patients) also seemed to be of little avail in cervicogenic headache. Morphine injections given to 11 cervicogenic headache patients resulted in "marked" improvement in 4, but complete pain freedom was only seen in 2 cases. In our opinion, the present results add further evidence to the view that different etiologic and pathogenetic factors underlie cervicogenic headache and cluster headache.
Although a lot of evidence from neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies supports the view that patients with substance dependence have abnormalities in the prefrontal cortex, functional deficits in the prefrontal cortex have not been fully investigated in methamphetamine (MA) dependent patients. This study was prepared to examine whether MA abusers have cerebral metabolic abnormalities and executive dysfunction.
Twenty-four abstinent MA dependent patients and 21 age-matched control subjects underwent resting brain FDG-PET and completed computerized versions of the Wisconsin card sorting test (WCST). Resting brain PET images were obtained 30min after an intravenous injection of 370MBq of (18)F-FDG. Significant differences in glucose metabolism were estimated for every voxel using t-statistics on SPM2 implemented in Matlab.
Resting brain FDG-PET revealed significant hypometabolism in the left inferior frontal white matter (Talairach coordinates (x, y, z): -34, 7, 31) in MA dependent patients compared to the control subjects (corrected p=0.001, peak Z=5.37, voxel number 201). The nearest gray matter region was the left inferior frontal cortex (Brodmann area 9). There were negative correlations between the relative regional cerebral metabolism for glucose (rCMRglc) in the left inferior frontal white matter and the total cumulative dose of MA (r=-0.57, p<0.01). MA dependent patients completed significantly fewer categories (3.8+/-2.2) and made more perseveration errors (21.3+/-11.8) and total errors (43.5+/-19.5) on the WCST when compared to the control subjects (p<0.01).
These data suggest that MA dependent patients have dose-dependent frontal hypometabolism and frontal executive dysfunction.
The overall survival for patients with metastatic melanoma is very poor, with a median survival of 8.5 months. In this Phase II trial, we assessed the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of a sequential biochemotherapy schedule, using dacarbazine as antiblastic agent and immunomodulant doses of interleukin-2 and interferon-alfa. Thirty-one eligible patients with metastatic melanoma received dacarbazine IV as antiblastic therapy and interluekin-2, plus interferon-alfa SC as sequential immunotherapy, for 6 months. Responding and nonprogressing patients were subsequently maintained on immunotherapy treatment for further 6 months. Twenty-nine patients had an adequate trial, and were assessable for both response and toxicities, with a median follow-up of 49 months. The overall response rate was 52 percent (3 CR and 12 PR), SD was 8 (27 percent) and PD were achieved in 6 patients (21 percent). The median survival duration of responders was 28 months, significantly longer (p < 0.001) than the 16 months of nonresponders. Therapy was well tolerated and produced a significant improvement in progressive-free survival. Further studies, thus, are recommended for larger groups of patients not only to confirm these results, but also to apply this biochemotherapy regimen as adjuvant postsurgical treatment in early stages of malignant melanoma.
Nitrofen-induced pulmonary hypoplasia (PH) with or without coexistent congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) in animals mimics the human condition. We have demonstrated reduced steroid-thyroid-retinoid receptors in hypoplastic lungs. Therefore, we hypothesize that expression of two additional mesenchymally derived nuclear transcription factors, retinoid X receptor alpha (RXR-alpha) and homeobox b-5 (Hoxb-5), would also be altered in hypoplastic lungs.
We used timed-pregnant CD-1 mice either untreated or gavaged with nitrofen on gestational day (Gd) 8. Normal lungs were compared with hypoplastic lungs with severe left PH and CDH at Gd 14, 16, and 19 and from neonates. We performed immunoblotting for RXR-alpha and Hoxb-5 proteins and immunohistochemistry for Hoxb-5 protein.
Almost 70-80% of nitrofen-exposed mice had no apparent external phenotypic abnormalities, such as craniofacial defects. Fetal body and lung weights were reduced. RXR-alpha and Hoxb-5 proteins were highest at Gd 14 and decreased as development progressed. Densitometric analysis of RXR-alpha or Hoxb-5 proteins in normal and hypoplastic lungs showed no significant difference; however, the immunolocalization pattern of Hoxb-5 protein differed. Hoxb-5 protein was primarily in mesenchymal cells of normal lungs on Gd 14; however, by Gd 19, it appeared to be mainly in the epithelial cells of prealveolar structures and in adjacent subepithelial mesenchymal cells. In hypoplastic lungs no significant changes were observed in Hoxb-5 staining in mesenchymal cells at Gd 14 nor at Gd 16; however, Hoxb-5 expression persisted in mesenchyme and epithelium at Gd 19 and in neonatal hypoplastic lungs, unlike normal lungs.
(1) Unaltered RXR-alpha protein implies that despite altered retinoic acid receptors (RARs) in hypoplastic lungs, the mechanisms of nitrofen-induced PH may be independent of RXR-alpha pathways. (2) In hypoplastic lungs, the persistent mesenchymal expression of Hoxb-5, in later stages of development and at birth, suggests delayed development and maturation compared to normal lungs. We speculate that nitrofen induces PH via RAR-dependent but RXR-independent interactions, which may be downstream of the Hoxb-5 gene or may involve other more anteriorly expressed Hox genes.
The effects of the epileptogenic agent, picrotoxin, on inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) were studied in the amygdala in vitro slice preparation. Picrotoxin was superfused onto the tissue and intracellular recordings were obtained from basolateral amygdaloid neurons (BLANs). Stimulation of the stria terminalis pathway evoked an excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP)--IPSP sequence. Depolarization of the membrane potential increased the amplitude of the IPSP, whereas hyperpolarization of the membrane potential decreased the amplitude of the IPSP. The IPSP reversed polarity at -74 mV. Application of picrotoxin reduced the IPSP and resulted in the development of paroxysmal depolarizing shifts. Picrotoxin itself had no apparent effect on the resting membrane potential or input resistance. These results indicate that epileptiform activity induced by picrotoxin in the basolateral amygdaloid neuron is of synaptic origin.
We investigated the expression of the genes for matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-2 and MMP-9 in the ventricle for 1, 2 and 4 days after acute treatment with doxorubicin (DOX) to induce cardiomyopathy in mice, at a single dose of 25 mg kg(-1). Ventricle weights, ventricle weight-to-tail length ratios, and left ventricular systolic and diastolic internal dimensions all decreased time-dependently. Histology showed increased vacuolisation of cardiomyocytes in the DOX-treated mice on day 4 compared with controls. Northern blot hybridisation revealed that MMP-2 and MMP-9 gene transcripts increased in the ventricle of DOX-treated mice on day 2. MMP-2 mRNA approximately doubled in the DOX-treated mice on days 1 and 2, measured using quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. By contrast, MMP-9 mRNA expression did not differ in either group on day 1, whereas it increased significantly to 2.9-fold and 2.1-fold in the DOX-treated mice on days 2 and 4, respectively. Consequently, MMP-2 and MMP-9 gene expressions are induced in the ventricle after treatment with DOX, indicating that they might play an important role in the development of DOX-induced cardiotoxicity.
This self-matched control study aimed to compare the efficiency of two different regimens of active treatment: aspirin in low (100 mg daily) versus intermediate (500 mg daily) doses in abolishing angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI)-induced cough. A dry bothersome cough is the most common adverse class effect of all angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Prostaglandins (PG) have been pinpointed as playing a leading role in the genesis of ACEI-associated cough. The role of different doses of the most commonly used PG inhibitor-aspirin-in ACEI cough modification was not yet elucidated. Of 350 consecutive ACEI-treated patients, we identified 34 (9.7%) nonsmoking ACEI-related coughers. Patients with lung disease, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) treatment, and those who did not agree to participate in the study were excluded. In the remaining 14 ACEI coughers (eight men, six women; mean age, 63 +/- 11 years), the treatment was discontinued; the dry cough completely disappeared, but returned in all patients within 1 week after ACEI reintroduction. At the end of the rechallenge period, patients started a low dose of aspirin for 1 week, switching thereafter to the intermediate dose of aspirin for an additional week. On each visit the cough severity (CS, 0-4) and frequency (CF, 0-10) scores were registered. Low doses of aspirin were ineffective in suppressing ACEI-induced cough, whereas intermediate doses completely abolished cough in five patients and reduced coughing in all but one patient; CS and CF decreased, respectively, from 2.5 +/- 1.0 to 0.9 +/- 1.1, P < .002 and from 6.6 +/- 2.4 to 2.4 +/- 1.1, P < .0002. Overall, intermediate doses of aspirin beneficially modified cough scores in 13 (93%) patients, enabling nine (64%) to continue ACEI treatment. Aspirin did not influence blood pressure control either in hypertensives or in postinfarction patients. We conclude that intermediate but not low doses of aspirin probably can suppress ACEI-induced cough. These findings propose a new alternative therapeutic approach for patients with ACEI-related cough, especially those in whom ACEI treatment seems to be essential.
The effect of TJ-8014, a lyophilized extract of Syo-Saiko-To without Zingiberis rhizoma, annexing Coptidis rhizoma and Hoelen, on puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis in comparison with the effect of dipyridamole was evaluated. PAN nephrosis was induced in rats by intraperitoneal injections of PAN, once daily for 6 days. When TJ-8014 was given from the initial day of PAN treatment (just before PAN injection) at 2.0 g and 4.0 g/kg/day, p.o., it was markedly inhibited urinary protein excretion and elevation of serum cholesterol content-throughout the experimental periods. In addition, the mild adhesion of Bowman's capsule to capillary walls in glomeruli was also improved by TJ-8014 at 2.0 g and 4.0 g/kg/day, p.o. Dipyridamole was also effective in inhibiting the urinary protein excretion as well as histopathological changes. TJ-8014 at 4.0 g/kg/day, p.o. inhibited the decrease in superoxide dismutase (SOD-like), catalase and glutathione peroxidase activities in the renal cortex and SOD-like activity in the glomeruli in PAN-induced nephrosis. Dipyridamole failed to inhibit the decrease in scavenger activities. These results suggest that TJ-8014 is effective against PAN-induced nephrosis, and they suggest that the mechanisms of action of this medicine may be partly due to the enhancing activities of scavengers in the renal cortex and glomeruli.
Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is a key component in the catabolism of monoamines. B12 deficiency is associated with various neuropsychiatric disorders and may be more frequent in psychiatric inpatients. The authors describe a case report of a newly admitted and relatively young patient (52 years old) with organic psychosis secondary to vitamin B12 deficiency. No other overt clinical features of cobalamin deficit were observed. Symptoms were resolved with B12 and folate replacement. The patient's mental status remained stable over the 3 months after the treatment. The authors note that organic mental changes were reversible with B12 replacement.
The authors propose that determination of serum vitamin B12 and folic acid levels should be recommended as routine screening in all new admissions of psychiatric patients regardless of their age or previous state of health.
We investigated the expression of high-mobility group box 2 (HMGB2) in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and its clinical effects with underlying mechanisms.
HMGB2 mRNA levels were measured in 334 HCC patients by real-time reverse transcription-PCR and HMGB2 protein levels in 173 HCC patients by immunohistochemical studies. The HMGB2 expression level was measured by Western blotting for three HCC cell lines. To clarify the precise role of HMGB2 on cell proliferation, we did in vitro analysis with expression vectors and small interfering RNAs.
HMGB2 mRNA and protein expression were significantly higher in HCC than in noncancerous surrounding tissues (P < 0.0001) and showed a positive correlation (Ï = 0.35, P < 0.001). HMGB2 overexpression was significantly correlated with shorter overall survival time, both at mRNA (P = 0.0054) and protein level (P = 0.023). Moreover, HMGB2 mRNA level was an independent prognostic factor for overall survival in a multivariate analysis (P = 0.0037). HMGB2 knockdown by small interfering RNAs decreased cell proliferation, and overexpression of HMGB2 by expression vectors diminished cisplatin- and etoposide-induced cell death.
Our clinical and in vitro data suggest that HMGB2 plays a significant role in tumor development and prognosis of HCC. These results can partly be explained by altered cell proliferations by HMGB2 associated with the antiapoptotic pathway.
We previously showed that intrastriatal administration of aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA) produces striatal lesions by a secondary excitotoxic mechanism associated with impairment of oxidative phosphorylation. In the present study, we show that and the specific complex I inhibitor rotenone produces a similar neurochemical profile in the striatum, consistent with an effect of AOAA on energy metabolism. Lesions produced by AOAA were dose-dependently blocked by MK-801, with complete protection against GABA and substance P depletions at a dose of 3 mg/kg. AOAA lesions were significantly attenuated by pretreatment with either 1,3-butanediol or coenzyme Q10, two compounds which are thought to improve energy metabolism. These results provide further evidence that AOAA produces striatal excitotoxic lesions as a consequence of energy depletion and they suggest therapeutic strategies which may be useful in neurodegenerative diseases.
Patients with pemphigus vulgaris may occasionally present the highly active, widespread form of the disease, and/or maybe resistant to conventional oral steroid therapy, and/or manifest significant side effects from the prolonged use of high oral prednisone dosage. Our purpose was to evaluate the efficacy of steroid "pulse" therapy (PT) in these patients.
Eight patients were given alternate-day, one hour, infusions of 8, 9, or 10 mg/kg methylprednisolone Na succinate. Oral prednisone and a second immunosuppressive agent were simultaneously administered; these were rapidly decreased when control of the disease was achieved.
All patients initially responded well to therapy. The disease recurred in four patients after 3, 4, 9, and 16 months of remission, respectively. Three of these patients were treated again with PT and went into remission. None of the patients who received cyclophosphamide had a recurrence. One patient died of cardiac arrest, 12 days after PT. On a follow-up of 59 +/- 25 months since the last relapse, patients continue in remission.
Pulse therapy is recommended as an adjunct to the total management plan of severely affected patients with pemphigus vulgaris. The addition of cyclophosphamide may prevent the disease from recurring. Alternate-day small-quantity bolus infusions over 16-20 days, may be equally effective as the administration of 15 mg/kg/daily for 3-5 days. The risk of cardiac arrest exists even with this, less aggressive form of PT therapy. A medical history of supraventricular arrhythmias may be considered a risk factor.
The effects of induced hypotension with isoflurane and labetalol on cerebral edema formation were compared following a cryogenic brain injury in dogs. Thirteen dogs received a maintenance anesthetic of 70% N2O, 0.5% isoflurane in O2 and a fentanyl infusion (3 micrograms.kg-1 x hr-1). All dogs were normoventilated (PaCO2 of 35-40 mmHg) and monitored for temperature, arterial blood pressure, central venous pressure (maintained between 7-10 mmHg), end-tidal CO2, end-tidal anesthetic level, and urine output. Following a right parietal craniectomy, a standard sized cryogenic brain lesion was made. The animals were randomly allocated in two groups. Group I (n = 6) received maintenance anesthesia, but within a 30 minute period, mean arterial pressure (MAP) was reduced to 60 mmHg with isoflurane varying in inspired concentration from 2 to 4%. Thereafter, the MAP was maintained at this level for 60 minutes. The inspired concentration of isoflurane was decreased, then discontinued to allow the MAP to return to baseline during the next 30 minutes. Group II (n = 7) received maintenance anesthesia, and MAP was reduced to 60 mmHg during a 30 minute period with intravenous labetalol (20 mg.kg-1). This MAP was maintained for one hour with a continuous labetalol infusion. The infusion was discontinued and the MAP returned to baseline during the next 30 minutes. The wounds were surgically closed. Anesthesia was discontinued, paralysis was reversed, and the animals were extubated and transported to a recovery room. Forty-eight hours postoperatively, all animals were reanesthetized, injected with Evans' blue dye and sacrificed. The brain was removed, fixed in formalin, and sent "blindly" coded for neuropathologic evaluation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Olfactory disorders are among the rare adverse effects of antibiotic therapy. To date, olfactory losses or distortions have been reported after the use of doxycycline, amoxicillin, clarithromycin, roxithromycin, kanamycin sulfate, and streptomycin sulfate. We describe what we believe to be the first case of transient anosmia associated with the use of intravenous amikacin sulfate. The appearance of the disorder and its subsequent resolution were demonstrated by psychometric testing as well as by chemosensory evoked potentials. Based on the well-documented temporal course of the anosmia, there is a probable causal correlation between the administration of amikacin and the appearance of the olfactory disturbance. However, the exact pathogenesis of the anosmia is still a matter of conjecture.
The gene Fgf-3 is expressed in rhombomeres 5 and 6 of the hindbrain and has been functionally implicated in otic development. We describe new sites of expression of this gene in mouse embryos in the forebrain, the midbrain-hindbrain junction region, rhombomere boundaries, a cranial surface ectodermal domain that includes the otic placode, and in the most recently formed somite. In the early hindbrain, high levels of Fgf-3 transcripts are present in rhombomere 4. The surface ectodermal domain at first (day 8 1/2) extends laterally from rhombomeres 4 and 5 (prorhombomere B), in which neuroepithelial levels of expression are highest, to the second pharyngeal arch ventrally; at day 9, when the region of highest level of neuroepithelial Fgf-3 expression is in rhombomeres 5 and 6, the dorsal origin of the surface ectodermal domain is also at this level, extending obliquely to the otic placode and the second arch. The initially high level of Fgf-3 transcripts in the otic placode is downregulated as the placode invaginates to form the otic pit. Fgf-3 is a good marker for the epithelium of pharyngeal arches 2 and 3, and our in situ hybridization results confirm the dual identity of the apparently fused first and second arches in some retinoic acid-exposed embryos, and the fusion of the first arch with the maxillary region in others. Correlation between Fgf-3 expression and morphological pattern in craniofacial tissues of normal and retinoic acid-exposed embryos indicates that prorhombomere B, the second arch and the otic ectoderm represent a cranial segment whose structural integrity is maintained when hindbrain morphology and pharyngeal arch morphology are altered. Comparison of normal Fgf-3 expression domains with those of Fgf-4 and with the phenotype of Fgf-3-deficient mutant embryos suggests that there is some functional redundancy between Fgf-3 and Fgf-4 in otic induction and second arch development.
