Although psychiatrists have medical responsibility for many alcoholic patients, the psychiatric literature, in contrast with the general medical literature, contains few reports of disulfiram-induced hepatotoxicity. For that reason, the authors review the literature on disulfiram hepatitis and report a case of severe fulminating hepatitis associated with disulfiram use, despite careful and currently accepted standard-of-care clinical and biochemical monitoring. All but two of the 17 disulfiram-associated hepatotoxic cases reviewed developed symptoms after 2 weeks to 2 months of use. Six patients died. This article discusses strategies for avoiding that rare but life-threatening side effect. The strategies include more frequent initial measurements of liver enzymes than is now accepted. Currently, only two reports recommend liver-function studies on a regular schedule for patients taking disulfiram. The authors believe that liver-function tests should be administered before treatment, at 2-week intervals for 2 months, and at 3- to 6-month intervals thereafter. The authors emphasize that the hepatotoxicity reaction is rare and do not discourage the use of disulfiram in appropriate patients; rather, they wish to heighten the index of suspicion to disulfiram-induced hepatotoxicity.
We investigated the effect of clonidine on intravenous (i.v.) lidocaine-induced haemodynamic changes and convulsions in awake rats. Wistar rats (200-250 g) were divided into three groups of eight and were pretreated with i.v. clonidine or normal saline 15 min before lidocaine infusion. Group 1 received normal saline; Group 2, 1 microgram.kg-1 clonidine; and Group 3, 10 micrograms.kg-1 clonidine. After surgical preparation and recovery from anaesthesia, all groups received a continuous i.v. infusion of lidocaine (15 mg.ml-1) at a rate of 4 mg.kg-1.min-1 until generalized convulsions occurred. Oxygenation was well maintained in all groups. Pretreatment with clonidine changed neither cumulative convulsant doses (Group 1: 41.8 +/- 2.2, Group 2: 43.8 +/- 2.6, Group 3: 42.3 +/- 2.0 mg.kg-1, respectively) nor plasma concentrations of lidocaine at the onset of convulsions (Group 1: 10.5 +/- 0.3, Group 2: 10.8 +/- 0.3, Group 3: 10.6 +/- 0.3 micrograms.ml-1, respectively). The mean arterial blood pressures in Groups 2 and 3 were decreased after clonidine pretreatment (Group 2: 93 +/- 1, P < 0.01, Group 3: 90 +/- 1%, P < 0.01, respectively) and they gradually increased during lidocaine infusion. The heart rates decreased after clonidine pretreatment (Group 2: 94 +/- 2, P < 0.05, Group 3: 86 +/- 2%, P < 0.01, respectively) and the combination of clonidine and lidocaine potentiated the bradycardic effect of lidocaine at a subconvulsant dose. Our results indicate that clonidine has neither anticonvulsant nor proconvulsant effects on lidocaine-induced convulsions. However, the interactions of clonidine and lidocaine on blood pressure and heart rate should be investigated further.
The syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) is a feature of approximately 7% of cases of small cell lung cancer (SCLC). The elaboration of peptide hormones by this tumour is well recognised and cerebral oedema resulting from inappropriate ADH secretion may be a life-threatening complication of this illness, requiring prompt intervention. We report a patient with SCLC who presented with SIADH which worsened abruptly each time he was treated with trifluoperazine for a co-existing psychosis.
We describe a case of marked swelling of the tongue in a patient after a long prone position neurosurgery, who was treated for hypertension with alacepril. The tongue was not congestive and history of taking an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor suggested an alacepril-induced angioedema. The day after surgery, the patient's tongue was still swollen; however, fibrescopic observation of the larynx and pharynx through the nasal cavity revealed that the edema was limited to anterior tongue, and the oral cavity and oropharynx were not involved. Although, tongue angioedema was observed, we introduced a 3-mm tube exchanger to the patient's trachea and removed the endotracheal tube. The ventilation and oxygenation were maintained, and 30 min later, the exchanger was detached. On the second postoperative day, the angioedema disappeared completely and the patient was transferred to a ward without any complication.
Estrogen stimulates endothelial nitric oxide (NO) production and attenuates endothelial dysfunction in ischemia/repurfusion and menopause. Recent studies have shown that phytoestrogens from dietary sources improve endothelial function and reduce cardiovascular risks. The Thai medicinal plant Pueraria mirifica (PM) contains many potent phytoestrogens including miroestrol and deoxymiroestrol but no study on vascular function has been established. Ground powder of PM was orally given to ovariectomized White New Zealand rabbits (OVX + PM group) (n = 4) weighing 3.2-4.0 kg at the dose of 100 mg/kg for 90 days. Saline-treated ovariectomized rabbits were assigned as a control group (OVX group) (n = 5). At the end of treatment thoracic aorta was isolated for functional evaluation. Maximal relaxant response to acetylcholine (ACh) was significantly increased (24%) with 3.5-fold decrease in EC50 while no change in relaxant response to sodium nitroprusside was observed Minimal and maximal responses to 17beta-estradiol (E2) were increased in the OVX + PM group and L-NAME (100 mM) attenuated Emax of E2. PM significantly decreased maximal contractile responses to norepinephrine (NE), but no change in EC50 was observed. In addition to vascular study, the authors found no significant alteration in serum cholesterol, LDL, triglyceride, HDL, ALT AST alkaline phosphatase, and lipid peroxidation in OVX + PM rabbits. These data demonstrate that PM (100 mg/kg/d) improved endothelial function through NO-dependent pathway and increased response to E2 while sensitivity to NE was reduced. In addition, it had no impact on lipid profile, liver enzymes, and ALP activities. PM is a potential source of phytoestrogens for postmenopausal women to improve cardiovascular function or reduce cardiovascular risks.
Huntington's disease (HD) is characterized by chorea, cognitive and behavioral changes. Amantadine, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, has shown an antidyskinetic effect on levodopa-induced dyskinesias, which are known to have strict pathogenetic analogies with choreic hyperkinesias. The antidyskinetic efficacy of amantadine and its effects on cognitive and behavioural symptoms were evaluated. Eight HD patients received oral amantadine (100 mg tid) unblinded for a 1-year period. A significant reduction of dyskinesias was reported ( p<0.01). No changes were observed in neuropsychologic and psychiatric assessments after 6 and 12 months of therapy. These data may have relevance to the treatment of HD with amantadine.
Transcutaneous electrical stimulation (ES) has been shown to produce long-lasting fall of arterial blood pressure in animal or human models. Previous reports have shown that ES of acupuncture points (acupoints) enhances the hypotensive effect of isoflurane anesthesia. This study was designed to investigate the combined effect of acupoint ES and different infusion rates of nitroglycerin on controlled hypotension.
Fifty-one adult ASA I patients undergoing elective mastoeidectomy were randomly divided into two groups, to receive either true or sham ES of ST36 (Zusanli) and ST38 (Tiaokou) acupoints. Each group was further subdivided into four groups to receive four different rates of nitroglycerin infusion (1.5, 2, 2.5 and 3 microg/kg/min). Steady state mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and time to reach it were compared between two groups. The amount of bleeding in microscopic surgical field was quantitatively assessed and compared between two groups.
Steady state MAP was significantly lower in true ES group compared with sham ES group (60 +/- 4 mmHg in true ES vs. 66 +/- 5 mmHg in sham ES, P = 0.000) and the difference was significantly greater in lower dosage of nitroglycerin compared with higher dosage. In addition time to reach steady state MAP was significantly shorter in true ES compared with sham group (10 +/- 3 min in true ES vs. 15.8 +/- 4 min in sham ES, P = 0.000). Heart rate decreased significantly in true ES compared with sham ES group after commencement of ES and nitroglycerin infusion. Quality of operative ischemia was excellent in 20 (83.3%) patients of true ES compared with 6 (25%) patients in sham ES group (P = 0.000).
The result of this study shows that ES of ST36 combined with nitroglycerin infusion facilitates lowering of blood pressure and produces a bloodless surgical field. The mechanism of blood pressure lowering effect of acupoint ES may be reducing of norepinephrine and other sympathomimetic substances in the blood.
The enzyme arsenic (+3 oxidation state) methyltransferase (As3mt) catalyzes reactions converting inorganic arsenic to methylated metabolites, some of which are highly cytotoxic. In a previous study, female As3mt knockout (KO) mice treated with diet containing 100 or 150 ppm arsenic as arsenite showed systemic toxicity and significant effects on the urothelium. In the present study, we showed that the cytotoxic and proliferative effects of arsenite administration on the urothelium are dose dependent. Female wild-type C57BL/6 mice and As3mt KO mice were divided into five groups (n = 7) with free access to drinking water containing 0, 1, 10, 25, or 50 ppm arsenic as arsenite for 4 weeks. At sacrifice, urinary bladders of both As3mt KO and wild-type mice showed hyperplasia by light microscopy; however, the hyperplasia was more severe in the As3mt KO mice. Intracytoplasmic granules were detected in the urothelium of As3mt KO and wild-type mice at arsenic doses ≥ 10 ppm but were more numerous, more extensive, and larger in the KO mice. A no effect level for urothelial effects was identified at 1 ppm arsenic in the wild-type and As3mt KO mice. In As3mt KO mice, livers showed mild acute inflammation and kidneys showed hydronephrosis. The present study shows a dose-response for the effects of orally administered arsenite on the bladder urothelium of wild-type and As3mt KO mice, with greater effects in the KO strain but with a no effect level of 1 ppm for both.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is present in a significant number of patients with heart failure (HF) caused by left ventricular systolic dysfunction and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. The deleterious interaction of AF and HF is mediated through a number of mechanisms including hemodynamic alterations and activation of the sympathetic nervous system. Beta-blockers have been shown to improve symptoms and survival in patients with HF. In addition, beta-blockers have been used in patients with AF, primarily for rate control. A retrospective analysis of the U.S. Carvedilol Heart Failure Trial demonstrated that carvedilol improves outcomes in the high-risk subgroup of patients with HF and concomitant AF.
Perinatal exposure to low doses of methylmercury (MeHg) can cause adult neurological symptoms. Rather than leading to a net cell loss, the toxicant is assumed to alter the differentiation and neuronal functions such as catecholaminergic transmission. We used neuronally differentiating murine embryonic stem cells (mESC) to explore such subtle toxicity. The mixed neuronal cultures that formed within 20 days contained a small subpopulation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons with specific dopaminergic functions such as dopamine transport (DAT) activity. The last 6 days of differentiation were associated with the functional maturation of already preformed neuronal precursors. Exposure to MeHg during this period downregulated several neuronal transcripts, without affecting housekeeping genes or causing measurable cell loss. Profiling of mRNAs relevant for neurotransmitter systems showed that dopamine receptors were coordinately downregulated, whereas known counterregulatory systems such as galanin receptor 2 were upregulated. The chronic (6 days) exposure to MeHg, but not shorter incubation periods, attenuated the expression levels of endogenous neurotrophic factors required for the maturation of TH cells. Accordingly, the size of this cell population was diminished, and DAT activity as its signature function was lost. When mixed lineage kinase activity was blocked during MeHg exposure, DAT activity was restored, and the reduction of TH levels was prevented. Thus, transcriptional profiling in differentiating mESC identified a subpopulation of neurons affected by MeHg, and a pharmacological intervention was identified that specifically protected these cells.
A diverse array of chemical and physical stressors increases the synthesis of a class of proteins referred to as heat shock proteins (hsp) or stress proteins. We are investigating the potential of using altered protein synthesis patterns, including the enhanced synthesis of stress proteins, as biomarkers of exposure and cellular injury. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the effect of a model hepatotoxicant, cadmium (Cd(II)), on stress protein synthesis in male rat liver. To assess target tissue specificity, stress protein synthesis was also studied in kidney. Liver and kidney slices from exposed rats were incubated with [35S]methionine for 1.5 hr, subjected to one-dimensional SDS-PAGE, and 35S-labeled proteins were analyzed by autoradiography. Enhanced de novo synthesis of 70-, 90-, and 110-kilodalton (kDa) relative molecular mass (M(r)) proteins was detected 2 hr after exposure to 2 mg Cd/kg, with maximum activity occurring at 2-4 hr. By 8-16 hr postinjection, synthesis of these proteins had decreased. Synthesis of a 68-kDa protein present in control liver was inhibited 2 hr after exposure with synthesis restored at 16-24 hr. Dose-related increases in synthesis of the three stress proteins were observed 4 hr after iv injection of 1.0 and 2.0 mg Cd/kg, with concomitant inhibition of synthesis of the 68-kDa protein. Mild single cell necrosis of hepatocytes was observed 8 hr after injection of 2 mg Cd/kg which progressed to mild multifocal necrotic foci at 16 hr. No lesions were evident at lower dosages. Increases in plasma sorbitol dehydrogenase activity, a clinical indicator of hepatic injury, was not apparent until 8 hr after exposure. A functional deficit, decreased hepatic microsomal N-demethylase activity, was not observed until 16 hr after iv injection of 2 mg/kg. No changes in kidney de novo stress protein synthesis were observed. No evidence of renal injury was apparent, as evaluated by histopathology, uptake of [para-3H]aminohippurate into renal slices, and blood urea nitrogen values. The 70-kDa stress protein induced early after Cd treatment was identified with a monoclonal antibody as the 72-kDa-inducible hsp. The 90-kDa protein induced by Cd reacted negatively with three monoclonal antibodies to hsp90 and was subsequently identified as a glucose regulated protein (grp94). The data demonstrate that Cd induces alterations in the expression of hepatic gene products in vivo as evidenced by enhanced stress protein synthesis and inhibition of synthesis of constitutive proteins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The control of high blood pressure (BP) after awakening in the morning (morning hypertension) as determined by home BP (HBP), as well as BP control throughout the day, may prevent diabetic vascular complications. We examined the effect of an alpha-adrenergic blocker (doxazosin) on BP measurements taken by HBP after awakening and during clinic visits (CBP) in 50 patients with type-2 diabetes and morning hypertension. We evaluated the urinary albumin excretion rate as an indicator of nephropathy. Doxazosin was taken orally once at bedtime for 1 to 3 months. The mean (+/- SD) dose was 2.9 +/- 2.1 mg/day (1 to 8 mg/day). The BP was measured monthly at the clinic during the day and at home after awakening in the morning. In this short-term trial (2.8 +/- 0.4 months), the systolic HBP decreased significantly from 164 +/- 17 mmHg before treatment to 146 +/- 19 mmHg after treatment, and the diastolic HBP decreased significantly from 85 +/- 14 mmHg before treatment to 80 +/- 9 mmHg after treatment. The systolic, but not the diastolic CBP, decreased significantly after treatment. There was no significant difference in the systolic or diastolic values between the HBP and the CBP after treatment. The percentage change in the systolic HBP after treatment was three times greater than for the systolic CBP. The median (interquartile) urinary albumin excretion rate decreased significantly (P < 0.001) from 62 (25-203) mg/g creatinine before treatment to 19 (9-76) mg/g creatinine after treatment. On multiple regression analysis, the decrease in the systolic HBP with treatment positively correlated with the reduction in urinary excretion of albumin. The control of morning hypertension reduced the albuminuria found in both untreated and treated hypertensive patients with type-2 diabetes. Bedtime administration of doxazosin appears to be safe and effective in reducing morning hypertension as measured by HBP. This finding also demonstrates that HBP taken in the morning has a stronger predictive power for the albuminuria level than does CBP.
Nicotinic acid, widely used to lower serum cholesterol levels, may rarely cause cholestatic jaundice.
A 61-year-old white man with hypercholesterolemia complained of marked pruritus and became jaundiced after taking 3.0 g of crystalline nicotinic acid daily for 13 months. His total serum bilirubin level was increased at 144 mumol/L (8.4 mg/dL) and his alkaline phosphatase level was markedly elevated at 35.00 mukat/L (2100 U/L). Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography failed to demonstrate an obstructive lesion in the extrahepatic biliary system, computed tomography showed no intrahepatic dilatation, and ultrasonographic studies of the liver, gallbladder, and pancreas were normal; these factors all suggest intrahepatic cholestasis. Symptoms improved and liver function test results returned to normal within 51 days after stopping the drug.
Nicotinic acid-induced cholestatic jaundice may not be as rare as previously thought, and physicians should observe their patients for it.
Aquaporin-1 (AQP1) is a member of aquaporin family that was previously proven to be involved in myocardial dysfunction; however, the role of AQP1 in myocardial stunning is less clear. To determine the change of AQP1 expression level in the heart and its effect on oedema after global myocardial ischemia, 40 adult goats underwent cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) with an aortic cross-clamp time of 2 h and total bypass time of 6, 12, 24, 48 and 72 h followed by subsequent reperfusion. AQP1 function of eight goats was inhibited by HgCl(2) during the 24 h on CPB. All groups were compared with eight sham bypass control goats. Myocardial water content was measured, and the APQ1 mRNA and protein levels were detected by RT-PCR and immunoblotting, respectively. The results showed that the degree of myocardial oedema increased significantly at 6, 12, 24 and 48 h of reperfusion after CPB as compared with the control and recovered at 72 h of subsequent reperfusion. Expression levels of AQP1 mRNA and protein began to increase at 12 h and peaked at 24 h of CPB following reperfusion. Furthermore, myocardial oedema was reduced in the HgCl(2) group compared with the time-matched CPB and control groups. These data suggested that AQP1 expression increases in CPB and AQP1 plays an important role in myocardial oedema during CPB.
A 15-year-old boy with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) presented with complex visual hallucinations of rats running around and touching and smelling him soon after receiving a first low dose of methylphenidate. The hallucinations resolved upon discontinuation of the drug. Reintroduction of the drug 7 years later at an even lower dose had the same effect. Other cases of vivid complex hallucinations of living creatures associated with methylphenidate have been reported in the literature. The pathogenetic mechanism is still unknown. In our case, the occurrence of hallucinations after a very low dose of the drug on 2 occasions may suggest an idiosyncratic reaction. The phenomenon might also be explained by a drug-induced dysfunction of the monoamine transmitters. Given the wide use of methylphenidate, clinicians should be aware of this possible side effect.
Labetalol, a compound that blocks both alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptors, is the only drug of its class currently available in the United States.
To review the pharmacology of labetalol and related compounds.
Unlike "pure" beta blockers, labetalol maintains cardiac output, reduces total peripheral resistance, and does not decrease peripheral blood flow. It has been used to treat hypertension of all degrees of severity and may be especially useful in black patients, elderly patients, patients with renal disease, and in pregnancy. It can be used in conditions that produce catecholamine crises, such as pheochromocytoma, clonidine withdrawal, and cocaine overdose. Its hemodynamic profile is attractive for use in myocardial ischemia. The parenteral form is useful in situations where blood pressure must be lowered quickly. The major side effect is orthostatic hypotension, and hepatotoxicity has been reported.
Labetalol has several advantages over pure beta-blocking drugs and offers an alternative in managing hypertension that is difficult to control.
We report a 28-year-old man with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who presented with acute onset of diplopia 3 weeks after the completion of combination chemotherapy with vincristine. He had a left esotropia with marked decrease in abduction. Magnetic resonance imaging scan of the brain showed thickening and enhancement of the left abducens nerve. Lymphomatous and other intracranial pathologies were excluded, and vincristine neurotoxicity was considered as the possible etiology of the abducens nerve palsy. His diplopia improved gradually, then completely resolved 4 weeks after the cessation of vincristine therapy. We concluded that isolated ocular muscle paresis can be the presenting sing of a toxic neuropathy associated with vincristine use.
The chemotherapeutic effectiveness of vincristine was first reported in 1962, and with its increased use the incidence of reported neurologic side effects has also increased. We reported a case of acute sixth-nerve palsy occurring soon after administration of vincristine for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), a previously unreported side effect.
The hepatotoxic effect of 1,1 bis (p-chlorophenyl) 2,2,2 trichloroethane (DDT) treatment for 10 consecutive days has been examined in Wistar rats. DDT exposure increased relative liver weight, dose dependently, with a marked decrease of glycogen content and profound histological changes including cytoplasmic vacuolization, signs of necrosis and nuclear enlargement. The hepatomegaly induced by DDT (50 and 100 mg/kg body weight day-1) appeared not to be accompanied by a significant alteration of the hepatic glucocorticoid receptor concentration and affinity while, serum corticosteroid binding globulin level increased slightly with the lower dose of the pesticide. It is concluded that a short-term exposure to DDT did not lead to a status stress and, therefore, the hepatotoxic effect of organochlorine seemed not to be mediated by endogenous glucocorticoids.
Recent studies have shown that overexpression of c-jun activation domain binding protein 1 (JAB1) and reduced expression of p27(kip1) are associated with advanced tumor stage and poor prognosis in several human cancers. Here, We investigated the functional role and correlation of JAB1 and p27(kip1) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Immunohistochemical study for JAB1, p27(kip1) was performed on 76 cases of HCC and adjacent nontumorous tissues. 6 Fresh specimens of HCC and the adjacent liver tissue were collected for Western blot analysis. The influence of As2O3 on HCC SMMC-7721 cells, was detected by flow cytometry and Hochest staining. The expression and subcellular localization of p27(kip1) and JAB1 were investigated by Western blot and immunofluorescence.
The expression of JAB1 was higher but p27(kip1) was lower in HCC than that in adjacent liver tissue. As2O3 treatment inhibited the growth of SMMC-7721 cells. In As2O3-treated cells, p27(kip1) expression was increased while JAB1 was decreased. The location of p27(kip1) and JAB1 were transferred from cytoplasm to nucleus.
In HCC, JAB1 was inversely correlated with p27(kip1). As2O3 attenuated the expression of JAB1, disturbed the location and expression of p27(kip1), which may participate in regulating the growth of human hepatoma cells.
Paraquat (PQ)-induced pulmonary toxicity is known to result in pulmonary edema, infiltration of inflammatory cells and damage to the alveolar epithelium, which may progress to severe fibrosis. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their physiological inhibitors, tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases (TIMPs), which degrade and remodel the excess extracellular matrix, are believed to play an important role in the development of fibrotic tissue. In this study, we examined the sequential expression of MMP-2, MMP-9 and TIMP-1 in a rat model of pulmonary fibrosis induced by PQ. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated intraperitoneally with PQ (20 mg/kg) and saline (control group). Rats were sacrificed at days 1, 3, 7 and 21 after the PQ treatment. Lungs were excised for histological evaluation and immunohistochemical analyses, as well as the determination of collagen content, gene expression by fluorimeter-based quantitive RT-PCR assay and gelatinolytic activity by zymography. Lung MMP-2 and -9 mRNA expression progressively increased and reached a peak on day 7 after PQ treatment, while TIMP-1 mRNA levels in the PQ-treated lungs reached a peak on day 21 after modeling. Lung zymography revealed an increase in progelatinase B, progelatinase A and their active forms. In conclusion, unbalanced MMP/TIMP-1 expression and excessive gelatinolytic activity contribute to PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Their precise role should be studied in depth as they may represent relevant therapeutic targets for PQ poisoning-induced pulmonary fibrosis.
The primary use of lithium is as maintenance treatment of bipolar disorders to prevent relapse. Although it effectively treats acute mania, lithium must often be used in conjunction with neuroleptics. Once-daily lithium therapy may help avoid some side effects and long-term renal damage. Neurotoxicity can be a problem for a small number of sensitive patients when neuroleptics and lithium are combined. Whenever possible, lithium should be avoided in the first trimester of pregnancy because of its potential for inducing cardiovascular abnormalities in the fetus.
Vitamin A and its metabolites have been shown to be teratogenic in animals and humans producing defects of neural crest derived structures that include abnormalities of the craniofacial skeleton, heart, and thymus. Our prior studies with retinoic acid have established that gestational day (gd) 9 is a sensitive embryonic age in the mouse for inducing craniofacial and thymic defects.
We exposed pregnant mice to variable doses of vitamin A (retinyl acetate) on gd 9 and embryos were evaluated for changes in developing pharyngeal arch and pouch morphology, neural crest cell migration and marker gene expression. Additionally, we investigated whether a single organ system was more sensitive to low doses of vitamin A and could potentially be used as an indicator of vitamin A exposure during early gestation.
High (100 mg/kg) and moderate (50 and 25 mg/kg) doses of vitamin A resulted in significant craniofacial, cardiac outflow tract and thymic abnormalities. Low doses of vitamin A (10 mg/kg) produced craniofacial and thymic abnormalities that were mild and of low penetrance. Exposed embryos showed morphologic changes in the 2nd and 3rd pharyngeal arches and pouches, changes in neural crest migration, abnormalities in cranial ganglia, and altered expression of Hoxa3.
These animal studies, along with recent epidemiologic reports on human teratogenicity with vitamin A, raise concerns about the potential for induction of defects (perhaps subtle) in offspring of women ingesting even moderate to low amounts of supplemental vitamin A during the early gestational period.
Inflammatory tissue injury has been implicated in tumor promotion and progression. 3,5,4'-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene (resveratrol) and 3,4,3', 5'-tetrahydroxy-trans-stilbene (piceatannol), 2 structurally related plant polyphenols, have been reported to possess antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and chemopreventive properties. This study was aimed at investigating the possible protective effects of resveratrol and piceatannol against dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced inflammation in mouse colonic mucosa. Administration of DSS (2.5%) in drinking water for 7 days to male ICR mice resulted in colitis and elevated expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB), a major transcription factor known to upregulate proinflammatory gene expression. Phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3) was also enhanced after DSS treatment. Oral administration of resveratrol or piceatannol (10 mg/kg body weight each) for 7 constitutive days attenuated the DSS-induced inflammatory injury, upregulation of iNOS expression, and activation of NF-kappaB, STAT3, and ERK.
7,12-Dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) presents a pollutant implicated in various toxicological effects. The aim of this experiment was to study the effects of DMBA administration on oxidative stress, histopathological signs, and 18 kDa translocator protein (TSPO) binding characteristics in rat liver. We also studied the effects of dose stoichiometry, dose frequency, and duration of protocol of DMBA administration. In this study, rats surviving eighteen weeks after DMBA exposure showed mild to moderate histopathological changes in the liver, mainly characterized by glossy appearance of hepatocytes, heterochromatic nuclei, and glycogen overload in the midzonal region of the hepatic lobe. These changes were accompanied by significant rises in oxidant levels, along with declines in nonenzymic antioxidants, indicating that DMBA induced oxidative stress in the liver. This finding correlated well with decreases in TSPO binding capacity in the liver of the rats in our study. Other studies have shown that TSPO can be affected by oxidative stress, as well as contribute to oxidative stress at mitochondrial levels. Further studies are needed to assay whether the decreases in TSPO density in the liver are part of the damaging effects caused by DMBA or a compensatory response to the oxidative stress induced by DMBA.
To determine if respiratory depression is an important mechanism of cocaine-induced death in conscious rats.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing between 200 and 300 g and fitted with cortical electrodes were pretreated intraperitoneally with either saline (vehicle), MK-801, or valproic acid for 30 minutes before challenge with 70 mg/kg IP cocaine followed by spontaneous breathing or mechanical ventilation after acute tracheostomy. Behavior, seizures, death, EEGs, and ECGs were observed and measured.
In group 1, animals received saline followed by cocaine. The incidence rates of seizures and death were 92% and 83%, respectively. Group 2 received saline followed by cocaine and then were ventilated mechanically through an acute tracheostomy after respiratory arrest (late mechanical ventilation). This group experienced seizures in 100% and death in 67% of animals. Group 3 also received saline followed by cocaine but were ventilated mechanically immediately after the first seizures (early mechanical ventilation). They had experienced seizures in 100% and death in 30%, the latter being significantly (P less than .025) reduced compared with group 1. In group 4, an anticonvulsant (1 mg/kg MK-801) was given before cocaine challenge, resulting in seizures in 10% (P less than .002 compared with group 1) and death in 90%. Group 5 received MK-801 followed by cocaine and then were ventilated mechanically after respiratory arrest (late mechanical ventilation). They experienced seizures in 20% (P less than .002 compared with group 1), and no animals in this group died (P less than .002 compared with group 1 or 4). Group 6 received an anticonvulsant (400 mg/kg valproic acid), followed by cocaine. This resulted in seizures in 20% (P less than .002 compared with group 1) and death in 90%. Group 7 received valproic acid followed by cocaine and then were ventilated mechanically (late mechanical ventilation). They experienced seizures in 30% (P less than .002 compared with group 1), and all animals survived (P less than .002 compared with group 1 or 6).
Early mechanical ventilation reduces cocaine toxicity. Control of seizure activity with specific anticonvulsants allows delayed mechanical ventilation to protect against cocaine toxicity. This suggests that respiratory depression in conjunction with seizure activity plays a major role in the mechanisms of cocaine-induced death in this model.
