Evidence of the effectiveness of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) within continuum of atherothrombotic conditions and particularly in the treatment and prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD) is well established. Large-scale, randomized, prospective trials involving patients with CHD have shown that statins reduce the clinical consequences of atherosclerosis, including cardiovascular deaths, nonfatal myocardial infarction and stroke, hospitalization for acute coronary syndrome and heart failure, as well as the need for coronary revascularization. Direct testing of varying degrees of low-density lipoprotein (LDL)- cholesterol lowering has now been carried out in 4 large outcomes trials: PROVE IT-TIMI 22, A to Z, TNT and IDEAL. However, the question whether more aggressive LDL-cholesterol lowering by high-dose statins monotherapy is an appropriate strategy is still open: higher doses of statins are more effective mainly for the prevention of the nonfatal cardiovascular events but such doses are associated with an increase in hepatotoxicity, myopathy and concerns regarding noncardiovascular death. Moreover, despite the increasing use of statins, a significant number of coronary events still occur and many such events take place in patients presenting with type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. More and more attention is now being paid to combined atherogenic dyslipidemia which typically presented in patients with type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. This mixed dyslipidemia (or 'lipid quartet') - hypertriglyceridemia, low high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels, a preponderance of small, dense LDL particles and an accumulation of cholesterol-rich remnant particles - emerged as the greatest 'competitor' of LDL-cholesterol among lipid risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Most recent extensions of the fibrates trials (BIP, HHS, VAHIT and FIELD) give further support to the hypothesis that patients with insulin-resistant syndromes such as diabetes and/or metabolic syndrome might be the ones to derive the most benefit from therapy with fibrates. However, different fibrates may have a somewhat different spectrum of effects. Other lipid-modifying strategies included using of niacin, ezetimibe, bile acid sequestrants, CETP inhibitors and omega-3 fatty acids. Particularly, ezetimibe/statins combinations provide superior lipid-modifying benefits compared Tenenbaum/Fisman/Motro/Adler 128 with any statins monotherapy in patients with atherogenic dyslipidemia. Atherogenic dyslipidemia is associated with increased levels of chylomicrons and their remnants containing 3 main components: apolipoprotein B-48, triglycerides and cholesterol ester of intestinal origin. Reduction in accessibility for one of them (specifically cholesteryl ester lessening due to ezetimibe administration) could lead to a decrease of the entire production of chylomicrons and result in a decrease of the hepatic body triglycerides pool as confirmed in number of clinical studies. However, the ENHANCE study showed no difference in the progression of carotid atherosclerosis between ezetimibe/simvastatin vs. simvastatin alone over a 2-year period. Conclusions regarding ezetimibe/statins combinations should not be made until the three large clinical outcome trials will be completed within the next 2-3 years. In addition, bezafibrate as a pan-PPAR activator has clearly demonstrated beneficial pleiotropic effects related to glucose metabolism, insulin sensitivity and pancreatic beta cell protection. Because fibrates, niacin, ezetimibe, omega-3 fatty acids and statins each regulate serum lipids by different mechanisms, combination therapy - selected on the basis of their safety and effectiveness, could be more helpful in achieving a comprehensive lipid control as compared with statins monotherapy.
High concentrations of nitric oxide (NO) produced by the inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS) are associated with ulcerative inflammation and disease activity in colitis. Therefore, inhibition of iNOS serves as a novel experimental approach to treat gut inflammation. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of a novel highly selective iNOS inhibitor, N-[3-(aminomethyl)benzyl]acetamidine (1400W), as compared with a nonselective NOS inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine-methyl-ester (L-NAME), in 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced acute colitis in the rat. Increased expression of iNOS protein and mRNA was found in acute TNBS-induced colitis along with neutrophil infiltration, inflammatory edema, and tissue damage. In a 24-h model of acute colitis, subcutaneous injections of 1400W (5 or 10 mg/kg t.i.d.) produced a 56 and 95% reduction in inflammatory edema formation, a 68 and 63% reduction in neutrophil infiltration (measured as myeloperoxidase activity), and a 19 and 26% decrease in the size of mucosal lesions as compared with vehicle treatment. Administration of L-NAME (35 mg/kg) failed to produce any significant beneficial effects as compared with vehicle treatment in this experimental model of acute colitis. Treatment with 1400W, a highly selective inhibitor of iNOS, reduced formation of edema, neutrophil infiltration, and macroscopic inflammatory damage in experimentally induced acute colitis in the rat. In contrast, nonselective nitric-oxide synthase inhibition with L-NAME provided no benefit. These results support the idea that selective iNOS inhibitors have a promise in the treatment of colitis.
In May 1978, the National Prostatic Cancer Project Treatment Subgroup activated its first clinical trial evaluating adjuvant chemotherapy (Protocol 900). This protocol is a comparison of long-term adjuvant chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, estramustine phosphate, or no additional treatment in patients with definitive surgical therapy for adenocarcinoma of the prostate. To date, 128 patients have been entered with an entry rate of approximately 2.2 patients per month. One hundred five patients form the basis of this report, with 96 patients still on active therapy. Estramustine phosphate has been administered at a dose of 600 mg/m2 orally daily in three divided doses. The cyclophosphamide is administered 1 g/m2 intravenously every 3 weeks. Results are still preliminary; only two evaluable patients have died. Approximately two-thirds of patients entered have had negative lymph nodes. Recurrent disease has been documented in 15 patients, including eight receiving cyclophosphamide, three receiving estramustine phosphate, and four on the no-treatment arm. The recurrence rate has been disproportionately high (50%) in patients receiving cryosurgery rather than radical prostatectomy (12%). Maximum survival has reached 241 weeks. Side effects have consisted of leukopenia in patients receiving cyclophosphamide (56%), and nausea and vomiting with cyclophosphamide (85%), and estramustine phosphate (36%). This study continues with patient entries now over one-half of the number anticipated in the original study design.
Drug administration during the last trimester of pregnancy may have adverse effects for the newborn.
A hemolytic anemia occurred during the first hours of life in a full-term neonate whose mother had taken nitrofurantoin during the last month of pregnancy.
The immature enzymatic systems of the neonate are exposed to this adverse effect and justify the recommendation not to prescribe nitrofurantoin at the end of pregnancy.
We evaluated the effect of melatonin (Mel), in male Wistar rats which received aluminium (Al) lactate for 12 weeks (0.57 mg Al/100g body weight (b.w.), i.p. three times per week). Moreover rats received Mel (10 mg/kg b.w. i.p. 5 days/weeks) for 12 weeks. At the end of the treatment water and sodium balances were studied, and nephrogenic cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) was also measured. Urinary osmolality was measured after the administration of desmopressin (vasopressin agonist) to assess concentrating capacity. Oxidative stress in renal tissue and Na(+)-K(+)ATPase and gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) activities in whole plasma membrane were determined. Sodium and water balances were impaired by Al. We found decreased urinary concentrating ability and nephrogenic cAMP excretion. Al increased the Na(+)-K(+)ATPase activity, and serum aldosterone concentration. Mel normalized serum aldosterone level, the Na(+)-K(+)ATPase activity and potassium urinary without improving water and sodium excretion. Mel treatment did not improve the impaired urinary concentrating ability. Al reduced the GGT activity, an effect that persists in Al(+) Mel. Al exposure promoted oxidative stress with an increase in lipid peroxidation (LPO), and a decrease in glutathione (GSH) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and catalase (CAT) activities. Mel markedly attenuated oxidative stress produced by Al. This may result from the higher efficacy of melatonin in scavenging various free radicals and also because of its ability in stimulating the antioxidant enzymes. However, it only reduced some alterations in the renal functions particularly related to the water and sodium excretion, which would be independent of the increased production of reactive oxygen substances.
Male F344 rats were given a diet containing 0.75 ppm of ethinyl estradiol for 3 weeks and a basal diet for 2 weeks alternately 10 times, and 2 days after each change to basal diet (on the third day of feeding of the basal diet), a single s.c. injection of 50 mg/kg body weight of 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl. Then they were given the basal diet until week 60 and sacrificed for histological examination. Prostatic carcinomas were found in 18 of 21 rats (85.7%) after this treatment but in only 1 of 19 rats (5.2%) maintained on normal diet throughout the experiment but given 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl at the same times as the diet given to test rats. All the carcinomas were microscopic and developed in the ventral lobe of the prostate. This method may ultimately lead to a useful animal model of prostatic carcinoma.
Exposure of the fetus to excess estrogen is believed to increase the risk of developing breast cancer during adult life. Fetal exposure to low doses of the xenoestrogen bisphenol A resulted in long-lasting effects in the mouse mammary gland that were manifested during adult life. It enhanced sensitivity to estradiol, decreased apoptosis, increased the number of progesterone receptor-positive epithelial cells at puberty and increased lateral branching at 4 months of age. We now report that fetal exposure to 2.5, 25, 250 and 1000 microg bisphenol A/kg body weight/day induces the development of ductal hyperplasias and carcinoma in situ at postnatal day 50 and 95 in rats. These highly proliferative lesions have an increased number of estrogen receptor-alpha positive cells. Thus, fetal bisphenol A exposure is sufficient to induce the development of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions in the mammary gland in the absence of any additional treatment aimed at increasing tumor development.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are increasingly being used to treat interferon-associated side effects in patients receiving hepatitis C virus (HCV) therapy. Because there is an increased risk of bleeding in HCV-infected patients who have developed cirrhosis and either portal hypertension or hepatic failure or both, we critically reviewed the literature on SSRI-associated bleeding.
We performed a MEDLINE search of literature from 1966 to the present using hemorrhage, SSRI, and antidepressants as search terms and followed up on relevant citations. We reviewed 6 retrospective studies, 5 of which were case-control studies, and 18 case reports of bleeding in 37 people. Our review is supplemented with a case report of a possible connection between SSRI treatment and a fatal gastrointestinal bleed in an HCV-infected man.
Bleeding events in 12/18 reports (67%) describing 19/24 people (79%) were closely associated with the use of SSRIs.
Combining aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs with SSRIs for the treatment of interferon-associated neuropsychiatric side effects increases the risks of hemorrhage in patients with HCV who have developed cirrhosis and either portal hypertension or hepatic failure or both. We recommend that clinicians exercise caution when prescribing medications that can promote spontaneous bleeding to patients with multiple risk factors for internal hemorrhage.
The importance of regular monitoring of both serum lithium and creatinine levels, together with thyroid function assessment, in a patient taking lithium carbonate therapy for bipolar affective disorder (hypomanic type) is emphasised. In this case it was the gradual rise of serum creatinine that alerted the physician to the onset of insidiously progressive renal impairment. In the absence of any evidence for another aetiology, it was concluded that a possible cause for the renal problem was the lithium therapy itself. By reducing the dosage it was found that serum lithium levels were maintained within the reference range, thus avoiding the potential psychiatric consequences of high concentrations--which could well have occurred had the former dosage been continued during the period of deteriorating renal function. The situation is currently being carefully monitored in case another cause for renal disease, other than that of a side-effect of therapy, emerges at a later date.
ABT-089, an α4β2 neuronal nicotinic receptor partial agonist (generic name pozanicline), has demonstrated efficacy in adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) at doses of 40 mg once daily and 40 mg twice daily. The purpose of this exploratory pilot study was to obtain initial safety, tolerability, and efficacy data for an ABT-089 80-mg once-daily regimen to inform a decision of whether to include an 80-mg once-daily dose regimen in subsequent, definitive (phase 3) efficacy studies.
This phase 2, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled pilot study was conducted at 12 sites from March to August 2008. A screening/washout period of up to 4 weeks was followed by an 8-week double-blind treatment period. Eligible subjects met DSM-IV-TR criteria for ADHD and were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to ABT-089 40 mg once daily, ABT-089 80 mg once daily, or placebo. The primary efficacy variable was reduction from baseline to the final evaluation in the investigator-rated Conners' Adult ADHD Rating Scale for each active treatment group versus placebo. Safety assessments and pharmacokinetic sampling were also conducted.
A total of 160 subjects were randomized, with 137 (86%) completing the trial. No statistically significant treatment effects were observed with either ABT-089 dose for any efficacy measures. The most commonly reported adverse events in the active treatment groups were nasopharyngitis (6.6%), upper respiratory tract infection (6.6%), and somnolence (5.7%). The incidence of adverse events did not differ significantly between active groups and placebo. There were no clinically significant laboratory, electrocardiogram, or physical examination findings.
ABT-089 was generally well tolerated at doses up to 80 mg. Because ABT-089 is a weak partial neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist, the results may not predict the potential efficacy for other, more potent neuronal nicotinic receptor agonists.
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00640185.
The most effective treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) is, at present, the dopamine precursor L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), however a number of disadvantages such as a loss of drug efficacy and severe side-effects (psychoses, dyskinesias and on-off phenomena) limit long-term effective utilisation of this drug. Recent experimental studies in which selective antagonists of adenosine A(2A) receptors were used, have shown an improvement in motor disabilities in animal models of PD. The A(2A) antagonist [7-(2-phenylethyl)-5-amino-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo-(4,3-e)-1,2,4-triazolo(1,5-c) pyrimidine] (SCH 58261) potentiated the contralateral turning behavior induced by a threshold dose of L-DOPA or direct dopamine receptor agonists in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned rats, an effect accompanied by an increase in Fos-like-immunoreactivity in neurons of the lesioned striatum. Likewise, other A(2A) receptor antagonists such as (3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine) (DMPX), [E-8-(3,4-dimethoxystyryl)-1,3-dipropyl-7-methylxanthine] (KF 17837) and [E-1,3-diethyl-8(3,4-dimethoxystyryl-7-methyl-3,7-dihydro-1H-purine-2,6-dione] (KW 6002) antagonized catalepsy induced by haloperidol or reserpine in the rat, whereas in non-human primate models of PD, KW 6002 reduced the rigidity and improved the disability score of MPTP-treated marmosets and cynomolgus monkeys. Moreover, in contrast to L-DOPA, selective A(2A) receptor antagonists administered chronically did not produce dyskinesias and did not evoke tolerance in 6-OHDA and MPTP models of PD. An additional therapeutic potential of adenosine A(2A) antagonists emerged from studies showing neuroprotective properties of these compounds in animal models of cerebral ischemia and excitotoxicity, as well as in the MPTP model of PD. Adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists by reversing motor impairments in animal models of PD and by contrasting cell degeneration are some of the most promising compounds for the treatment of PD.
A series of dihydro-1H-pyrrolo[1,2-a]imidazole-2,5(3H,6H)-diones were synthesized. These bicylic derivatives contain both the 2-pyrrolidinone and 4-imidazolidinone nuclei, already recognized as important for cognition enhancing activity. In addition, these structures maintain the backbone of piracetam and oxiracetam with the acetamide side chain restricted in a folded conformation. Their ability to reverse scopolamine-induced amnesia was assessed in a one trial, step-through, passive avoidance paradigm. The main features observed are a potent antiamnestic activity after ip administration (minimal effective dose being between 0.3 and 1 mg/kg ip for most compounds), the presence of a bell-shaped dose-response curve and, generally, a reduction of biological activity after po administration. However, the unsubstituted compound (15, dimiracetam) shows no evidence of a bell-shaped dose-response curve and completely retains activity when given orally, being 10-30 times more potent than the reference drug oxiracetam.
High inter-individual variation in chemical-induced liver injury is a frequent observation with many hepatotoxic chemicals, yet the mechanism underlying it remains poorly understood. Even with carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)), a well-known model hepatotoxicant, substantial individual variations are observed in the severity of liver injury. Using microarray, many attempts have been made to identify the key genes in CCl(4)-induced liver injury but mostly, they examined the gene expression of liver after CCl(4) exposure, unable to dissect out the complicating factors from pathological changes secondary to liver injury. To more accurately identify the genes for the individual variation in CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity, we compared the innate gene expression of the individual liver samples pre-biopsied prior to CCl(4)-treatment with the severity of liver injury after CCl(4)-treatment. Effect of biopsy procedure and 3 week recovery period on liver function and gene expression were confirmed to be insignificant. Using this design, we found that the expression of genes associated with immunity and defense, lipid metabolism, transport and complement-mediated immunity, which are previously known to be suppressed by CCl(4)-treatment, were innately lower in the susceptible animals than resistant animals. Moreover, we demonstrated that the genes such as Gsta2, Sult2a1, Fgl1 and C6 were newly found to be innately lower in the susceptible animals to CCl(4)-hepatotoxicity. These naturally lower gene expression patterns were further confirmed by RT-PCR. We believe that this pre-biopsy design may provide a useful tool for understanding the cause of variability of hepatotoxicity and for the prediction and pre-screening of the susceptible individual to drug-induced hepatotoxicity.
A 20-year-old female hospitalized with status asthmaticus was treated with bronchodilators, antibiotics, and high-dose corticosteroids, and was paralyzed with vecuronium for 10 days to facilitate mechanical ventilation. When this was discontinued, she was found to have a flaccid quadriplegia with areflexia and 4-fold elevation in serum creatine kinase. A muscle biopsy showed extensive loss of thick (myosin) myofilaments, sometimes in core-like distribution, with relative preservation of thin (actin) filaments and Z-discs. Muscle strength returned to normal after 2 months. The pathological lesion in this patient's muscle fibers resemble those in rats treated with high doses of corticosteroids following denervation.
Smoking, one of the avoidable causes of mortality, is considered a major risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, and bronchopulmonary cancer. Many studies suggest that nicotine induces vasoconstriction, not only in coronary arteries but also in peripheral vessels, hypertension, pro-atherogenic effects, due to increase of platelet activation and fatty acids concentration, alterations of endothelial-cell shapes, as well as endothelial-cell proliferation. The main affected vascular biochemical parameters are: endothelin-1, cholesterol, triglycerides, lipoproteins, C-reactive protein, nitric oxide, fibrinogen, and uric acid. Cigarette smoke induces inflammation in respiratory epithelium, through local irritation due to release of oxidants, aldehydes, acids, ammonium; impaired ciliar function, and retention of mucus and toxins, followed by infection; carcinogenesis due to oncogene-expression induced by oxidants, aromatic hydrocarbons, and nitrosamines. These effects are induced by alterations of endothelin-1, nitric oxide, IL1, IL6, TNF, and the CYP Enzyme System. Saliva is the first biological fluid encountered by the cigarette smoke. In vitro and in vivo salivary exposure to cigarette smoke has been shown to determine changes of concentrations of lactate dehydrogenase, amylase, and uric acid, in saliva--important factors of the antioxidant salivary system. Such changes may promote occurrence of upper digestive cancers.
The carcinogenicity of 3-chloro-2-methylpropene (CMP), a chemical intermediate and insecticide, was studied because of possible human exposure and because of its structural relationship to vinyl chloride and allyl chloride. CMP in corn oil was administered by gavage to groups of 50 male and 50 female Fischer 344/N rats at 0, 75, or 150 mg/kg body weight and to groups of 50 male and 50 female B6C3F1 mice at 0, 100, or 200 mg/kg body weight, 5 times a week for 103 weeks. The body weights of the two CMP treated groups of rats were 3-15% lower than the controls; the survival rates were similar. The body weights and survival rates of the CMP-exposed male and female mice were not different from the respective controls throughout the study. CMP administration resulted in dose-related increases in the incidence and severity of forestomach basal cell hyperplasia and the incidence of forestomach squamous cell papillomas in both sexes of rats and mice. In the two groups of CMP-exposed male mice the incidences of squamous cell carcinoma of the forestomach were also increased. Invasion or metastasis of the squamous cell carcinomas to other organs was observed in 2 male mice treated at 100 mg/kg and in 3 male mice and one female mouse treated at 200 mg/kg. The data show that CMP is a carcinogen for the forestomach in rats and mice and acts at the tissue site of contact and support genetic toxicity findings that CMP is a direct-acting alkylating agent.
To clarify the roles of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in behavioral symptoms of Parkinson's disease, antiparkinsonian effects of various dopamine agonists in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned parkinsonian monkeys were investigated with regard to induction of hyperactivity such as excitability, irritability and aggressiveness. The non-selective dopamine agonist apomorphine ameliorated the parkinsonism, but induced marked hyperactivity dose-dependently. Pretreatment with either the dopamine D1 antagonist SCH 23390 or the dopamine D2 antagonist sulpiride markedly suppressed the apomorphine-induced hyperactivity with slight attenuation of the antiparkinsonian effects. Both the dopamine D2-receptor agonist quinpirole and the dopamine D1-receptor agonist SKF 82958 ameliorated the parkinsonism in a dose-dependent manner with a slight induction of hyperactivity. Combination treatment of a threshold dose of quinpirole with that of SKF 82958 augmented the antiparkinsonian effects without a marked induction of hyperactivity. However, the combination treatment at higher doses induced marked hyperactivity accompanied by augmented antiparkinsonian effects. These results suggest that stimulation of either central dopamine D1 or D2 receptors is requisite for the antiparkinsonian effects and concurrent strong stimulation of both central dopamine D1 and D2 receptors causes marked hyperactivity which may be predictive of dopaminergic psychiatric side effects.
Azathioprine, an analog of 6-mercaptopurine has been used as a steroid-sparing agent in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease for over 30 years. Hypersensitivity reactions to azathioprine including fever, myalgia, arthralgia, rash are well documented in the literature. Here, we report 2 cases of azathioprine hypersensitivity in patients with inflammatory bowel disease manifesting with the unusual symptom of profound muscular weakness resulting in inability to perform simple tasks such as lifting even light objects, sitting upright, and walking a few steps. Development of severe weakness raised concern about myositis, rhabdomyolysis, myopathy, and sepsis in these patients. Discontinuation of azathioprine resulted in prompt improvement of muscular weakness, and rechallenge led to recurrence of similar symptoms within hours. These observations suggest that the development of muscular weakness in patients on azathioprine should be considered as an adverse effect of the drug. Failure to recognize this adverse outcome can lead to prolonged periods of muscular weakness in this group of patients.
Sevoflurane is a fluorinated ether with low blood solubility and biotransformed by an oxidative enzymatic liver system involving cytochrome P450 2E1. Lipid peroxidation occurs during ethers biotransformation process under action of cytochrome P450, a possible mechanism for liver and kidney toxicity promoted by such compounds. This study aimed at determining the levels of substances reactive to thiobarbituric acid (TBARS), as an index for lipid peroxidation in sevoflurane-treated rats, previously treated or not with isoniazid, enzymatic inducer of cytochrome P450 2E1.
Forty two male Wistar rats were randomly distributed in 4 groups receiving respectively: G1 - 1 L.min-1/60 minutes of 100% oxygen for 5 consecutive days; G2 - 4% sevoflurane in 1 L.min-1/60 minutes of 100% oxygen for 5 consecutive days; G3 - intraperitoneal isoniazid (50 mg.kg-1/day) for 4 consecutive days and then treated as G1; G4 - intraperitoneal isoniazid (50 mg.kg-1/day) for 4 consecutive days and then treated as G2. Animals were sacrificed 12 hours after the last treatment, plasma was collected for TBARS analysis and the liver left lobe and both kidneys were removed for histological evaluation.
Results have shown increased TBARS levels in G3 and G4, with mild increase in G2. Histological evaluation has revealed focal liver necrosis in rats pretreated with isoniazid (G3).
Sevoflurane has promoted lipid peroxidation only when associated to isoniazid.
Sodium nitroprusside (disodium nitroferricyanide) has been suggested to cause cytotoxicity through either the release of cyanide and/or nitric oxide. The present study investigated a possible mechanism that after a brief release of nitric oxide, iron moiety of breakdown products of sodium nitroprusside could cause a long lasting oxidative stress, such as hydroxyl radical generation, lipid peroxidation and cytotoxicity. Intranigral administration of sodium nitroprusside (0-16.8 nmol) to rats induced an acute increase in lipid peroxidation in the substantia nigra and a chronic dopamine depletion in the caudate nucleus. Photodegraded (nitric oxide-exhausted) sodium nitroprusside, however, still produced lipid peroxidation and neurotoxicity in the midbrain. Moreover, non-iron containing nitric oxide-donor compounds, such as S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, did not cause oxidative brain injury in vivo suggesting that nitric oxide may not mediate neurotoxicity induced by sodium nitroprusside. Additional in vitro studies demonstrated that both freshly prepared (nitric oxide donor) and photodegraded (nitric oxide-exhausted) sodium nitroprusside generated hydroxyl radicals in the presence of ascorbate and also increased lipid peroxidation in brain homogenates. These pro-oxidative effects of sodium nitroprusside were blocked by nitric oxide, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, oxyhemoglobin, and deferoxamine (iron chelator). The present results suggest that iron moiety, rather than nitric oxide, may mediate the pro-oxidative properties of sodium nitroprusside. With this new information in mind, the misuse of sodium nitroprusside as a selective nitric oxide donor in both basic and clinical uses should be urgently addressed.
We report the case of a 45-year-old man with HCV treated with pegylated interferon-alpha/ribavirin, in whom fatal cardiomyopathy occurred. Cardiomyopathy is a rare complication of high dose of standard interferon but has never been reported with pegylated interferon. The relationship between pegylated interferon-alpha/ribavirin and the development of cardiomyopathy is highly probable for the following reasons: (1) a cardiologist consultation with specific investigations had been performed before treatment excluding a pre-existing cardiomyopathy; (2) symptoms of advanced dilated cardiomyopathy appeared immediately after the end of treatment; (3) other causes of cardiomyopathy have been ruled out. In all except one of the 21 reported cases with standard interferon, cardiomyopathy was reversible. In our patient, fatal cardiomyopathy occurred with a usual dose of pegylated interferon-alpha. Clinicians should be aware of this potential complication when evaluating the ratio benefit/risk of treatment in patients with chronic hepatitis C infection.
Pathophysiology of neurodegeneration following spinal cord injury (SCI) involves alterations of cellular redox status, activation of transcription factors and induction of proinflammatory genes. In addition, recent evidence indicates that nicotine can induce potent neuroprotective effects. To study the influence of nicotine on the redox signaling pathways in relationship to SCI, moderate contusions of spinal cords at the level of T-10 were induced in rats treated or untreated with nicotine. Cellular oxidative stress, DNA binding activity of redox-responsive transcription factors (AP-1, NF-kappaB and CREB) as well as mRNA levels of inflammatory genes (MCP-1 and TNF-alpha) were determined in the thoracic and lumbar regions of the spinal cords. Nicotine was administrated 2 h after the SCI in a single i.p. injection at the dose of 0.35, 3.5 or 7 mg/kg, and rats were sacrificed 3 h following such an injection. Spinal cord trauma was associated with a significant increase in oxidative stress, and activation of NF-kappaB, AP-1 and CREB, as well as overexpression of MCP-1 and TNF-alpha in both the thoracic and lumbar regions. Nicotine administration following the SCI markedly attenuated, especially in the lumbar region, these oxidative and proinflammatory responses. These protective effects of nicotine were fully reversed by inhibition of neuronal nicotinic receptors by mecamylamine. The present results indicate that nicotine administration can attenuate the oxidative injury to spinal cords and suggest that neuronal nicotinic receptors can be attractive targets for neuroprotective therapy.
Although the effects of estrogenic compounds administered during the perinatal period on the size and morphology of the prostate have been well documented, the effects of such exposures on inflammatory changes in the prostate have not been well characterized. Since neonatal estradiol exposure has been shown to cause periods of hyperprolactinemia later in life and a relationship exists between high prolactin levels and rat lateral prostate inflammation, we hypothesized that an exposure to environmental compounds with estrogenic activity could result in an increase in lateral prostate inflammation in adulthood. To investigate this possibility and compare differences between estrogen agonists and antagonists, we examined the effect of a perinatal exposure to 17beta-estradiol, the insecticide methoxychlor, the partial estrogen agonist tamoxifen, and the pure antiestrogen ICI 182,780. Dams were dosed from gestation day (GD)18 to parturition and then the pups were dosed from postnatal day (PND) 1 to 5 with 0.1 mL of a solution of 0.355 mM and .0178 mM by sc injection, respectively, of all compounds in sesame oil, except for methoxychlor, which was administered only to the dam by gavage from GD 18 through PND 5 at a dose of 50 mg/kg in sesame oil. At 90 d of age, the weight of the lateral and ventral prostate in the estradiol group was significantly decreased. Tamoxifen caused a decrease in the weight of the lateral prostate, whereas the ventral lobe was not affected. ICI 182,780 did not alter prostate weight. The methoxychlor exposure increased the lateral lobe weight, but the ventral lobe weight was not affected. In the estradiol and tamoxifen groups, an inflammatory infiltrate was observed in the ventral prostates in 45.0 and 27.8% of the animals, respectively. There was a significant increase in the percent and severity of inflammation in the lateral prostate (as determined by a myeloperoxidase or neutrophil quantification assay) in the estradiol, tamoxifen, and methoxychlor groups as compared to controls. The ICI group was comparable to the controls in both ventral and lateral lobes. This study demonstrates that perinatal exposure to estrogenic compounds can result in alterations in the size of the adult prostate and increase the incidence of prostatitis.
DNA methylation and histone modifications have emerged as key mechanisms in transcriptional regulation. The target of methylation-induced silencing 1 (TMS1) is a bipartite protein. Recent studies have indicated that methylation-associated silencing of TMS1 occurs in many cancers. However, whether and how TMS1 is regulated by epigenetic mechanisms in cancers remains unknown. In this study we showed that methylation of the TMS1 promoter occurred in five of six hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines. TMS1 expression was reduced in four HCC cell lines and correlated with methylation status. Furthermore, the TMS1 promoter was completely methylated and mRNA expression was undetectable. TMS1 expression could be restored by 5-aza-2'-deoxycitidine (5-Aza-dC) (a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor) or trichostatin A (TSA) (a histone deacetylase inhibitor) alone and the promoter methylation was partially reversible. TSA was more efficient than 5-Aza-dC in inducing TMS1 expression, and the combination of 5-Aza-dC and TSA resulted in markedly synergistic reactivation of the gene and completely reversed promoter methylation. Interestingly, TMS1 promoter methylation-associated gene silencing was accompanied by histone H3 Lysine 9 (H3K9) hypoacetylation and trimethylation. 5-Aza-dC and/or TSA also had some effect on conversion of methylated to acetylated H3K9 in restoring TMS1. This conversion was dynamic at the TMS1 promoter and a decrease in H3K9 trimethylation preceded an increase in H3K9 acetylation after 5-Aza-dC and/or TSA treatment. Our results thus suggest that epigenetic inactivation of TMS1 expression is regulated by promoter hypermethylation and H3K9 modifications in a coordinated way.
The main object of the present study was to explore the effect of perinatal bisphenol A (BPA) exposure on glucose metabolism in early and later life of male rat offspring, and to establish the potential mechanism of BPA-induced dysglycemia. Pregnant rats were treated with either vehicle or BPA by drinking water at concentrations of 1 and 10 µg/mL BPA from gestation day 6 through the end of lactation. We measured the levels of fasting serum glucose, insulin, adiponectin and parameters of oxidative stress on postnatal day (PND) 50 and PND100 in male offspring, and adiponectin mRNA and protein expression in adipose tissue were also examined. Our results showed that perinatal exposure to 1 or 10 µg/mL BPA induced hyperglycemia with insulin resistance on PND100, but only 10 µg/mL BPA exposure had similar effects as early as PND50. In addition, increased oxidative stress and decreased adiponectin production were also observed in BPA exposed male offspring. Our findings indicated that perinatal exposure to BPA resulted in abnormal glucose metabolism in later life of male offspring, with an earlier and more exacerbated effect at higher doses. Down-regulated expression of adiponectin gene and increased oxidative stress induced by BPA may be associated with insulin resistance.
We report the case of a 67-year-old woman in whom onset and regression of acute hepatitis were closely related to the time of administration and withdrawal of the smooth muscle relaxant alverine. Antinuclear antibodies were positive, and their titer followed the course of hepatitis. They presented a smooth rim-like nuclear immunofluorescence staining pattern. Immunoblot assay showed that they were directed against lamin A and lamin C. This suggests that alverine should be added to the list of drugs known to produce acute hepatitis, and that drug-induced liver injury is a possible cause of antinuclear antibodies specific for lamin A and lamin C.
Propylthiouracil (PTU), a thyonamide class drug commonly used to treat hyperthyroidism has been reported to cause adverse reactions in 3% to 12% of patients. The side effects have been described more frequently as mild, but ocasionally severe fatal reactions may occur. We report the case of a fourteen years old patient in use of PTU for the last three years who presented with fever, hemorrhagic blisters, necrotic ulcers, and that developed purpuric lesions and nodules in lower extremities. Laboratory and histopathologic findings were compatible with skin leukocytoclastic vasculitis, a pattern found in hypersensitivity reaction vasculitis. Suspension of PTU and introduction of prednisone, induced complete remission of symptoms and healing of the skin lesions. The importance of this study is to call attention to the occurrence of serious cutaneous manifestation with a mortality rate that might reach 10%, associated with a systemic drug frequently used in internal medicine. Early diagnosis and withdrawal of the suspected medication is mandatory. Administration of corticosteroids and/or immunosuppressives agents must be considered.
Rothmund-Thomson syndrome (RTS), a rare recessive autosomal disorder, presents genome instability and clinical heterogeneity with growth deficiency, skin and bone defects, premature aging symptoms and cancer susceptibility. A subset of RTS patients presents mutations of the RECQL4 gene, member of the RecQ family of DNA helicases, including the RECQL2 (BLM) and RECQL3 (WRN) genes, defective in the cancer prone Bloom and Werner syndromes, respectively. Analysis of the RECQL4 gene in six clinically diagnosed RTS patients shows five patients, including two siblings, with eight mutations mainly located in the helicase domain, three patients presenting two mutations. The alterations include four missense mutations, one nonsense mutation and the same frameshift deletion, g.2881delG in exon 9 found in three patients. Seven RECQL4 polymorphisms, two being new, have also been identified. Primary RTS fibroblasts from these RTS patients show no sensitivity to a wide variety of genotoxic agents including ionizing or ultraviolet irradiation, nitrogen mustard, 4NQO, 8-MOP, Cis-Pt, MMC, H2O2, HU, or UV plus caffeine which could be related to the RECQL4 alterations identified here. This is in contrast with the DNA damage sensitive Bloom and Werner cells and highlights the complexity of the numerous RecQ protein functions implicated in the different cellular pathways required for maintaining genomic integrity.
