A 65-year old man, a known case of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of base of the tongue and epiglottis presented with complaints of pneumaturia and faecaluria. He had received the first cycle of cytotoxic therapy (CHOP-regimen). At the end of the cycle he developed febrile neutropenia (circulating granulocyte count <1500/mm3). Cystogram showed air in the bladder area and a fistulous communication to a cavity behind the bladder. CT-scan showed air in the bladder, a fistulous communication between the sigmoid colon and bladder along with an intervening small abscess cavity. On exploration a fistulous communication between the sigmoid and bladder along with an intervening small abscess cavity was found. Resection of involved portion of sigmoid and end to end anastomosis along with a diverting colostomy was done. The bladder was closed in two layers with an omental interposition between it and the sigmoid along with a suprapubic cystostomy. The histopathology demonstrated only inflammatory response without any evidence of malignancy or diverticular disease.
A single injection lumbar plexus block for acute pain management after hip surgery is usually limited to the immediate postoperative period. We conducted a randomized controlled trial to determine the effect of a continuous lumbar plexus block on perioperative opioid requirements and pain intensity.
Adult patients undergoing elective hip arthroplasty under general anesthesia were randomized to continuous lumbar plexus block combined with patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) or PCA only for postoperative pain. Patients allocated to the lumbar plexus block had the catheter placed before surgery. Patients were followed for 36 hours. Perioperative opioid requirement was the primary outcome; secondary outcomes included assessment of pain intensity, patient and surgeon satisfaction with the analgesic technique, and occurrence of nausea and vomiting.
Seventeen patients were randomized to each treatment group. Compared with patients in the PCA group, patients in the continuous lumbar plexus block group required less morphine (12 mg) (95% CI, -12.9 to -3.9), had on average less pain (-2.1 units on a 0 to 10 scale) (95% CI, -3.8 to -1.1), were more satisfied with their analgesic technique, and experienced less nausea and vomiting. One patient in the continuous lumbar plexus block developed a delayed paresis and 1 patient in the PCA group developed respiratory depression.
Continuous lumbar plexus block combined with PCA is superior to PCA alone for postoperative pain management following hip replacement. It reduces opioid requirements, opioid related side effects, and enhances patient satisfaction. However, additional research is required to determine its safety in light of the neurologic injury observed.
Single or repeated subcutaneous administrations of naloxone in doses of up to 4 mg X kg-1 did not alter the time for onset or the duration of ethanol- or pentobarbital-induced narcosis in rats. An increase in the naloxone dosage to 50 mg X kg-1 s.c. resulted in a small reduction of ethanol-induced sleep duration. Repeated i.p. or i.v. administrations of much higher doses of naloxone (300-400 mg X kg-1 and 120-180 mg X kg-1, respectively) did produce significant reductions in ethanol-induced narcosis. However, similar naloxone doses, when administered alone, i.v., had marked convulsant effect. It appears that naloxone, in low doses, is not an effective antidote for narcosis caused by ethanol or pentobarbital at the ethanol and pentobarbital doses tested, whereas the antagonism of ethanol-induced sleep by high doses of naloxone may be due to the analeptic action of this drug.
Deficiencies in folate and vitamin B12 have been associated with neurodegenerative disease.
To examine the association between rates of age-related cognitive change and dietary intakes of folate and vitamin B12.
Prospective study performed from 1993 to 2002.
Geographically defined biracial community in Chicago, Ill.
A total of 3718 residents, 65 years and older, who completed 2 to 3 cognitive assessments and a food frequency questionnaire.
Change in cognitive function measured at baseline and 3-year and 6-year follow-ups, using the average z score of 4 tests: the East Boston Tests of immediate and delayed recall, the Mini-Mental State Examination, and the Symbol Digit Modalities Test.
High folate intake was associated with a faster rate of cognitive decline in mixed models adjusted for multiple risk factors. The rate of cognitive decline among persons in the top fifth of total folate intake (median, 742 microg/d) was more than twice that of those in the lowest fifth of intake (median, 186 microg/d), a statistically significant difference of 0.02 standardized unit per year (P = .002). A faster rate of cognitive decline was also associated with high folate intake from food (P for trend = .04) and with folate vitamin supplementation of more than 400 microg/d compared with nonusers (beta = -.03, P<.001). High total B12 intake was associated with slower cognitive decline only among the oldest participants.
High intake of folate may be associated with cognitive decline in older persons. These unexpected findings call for further study of the cognitive implications of high levels of dietary folate in older populations.
In this study we investigate whether Amphotericin B (AmB), a widely used antifungal agent, could decrease the proliferation of a myofibroblast cell line - GRX, a model of activated hepatic stellate cells (HSC). Three different hepatic cell lines (GRX, Hep G2 and ARL-6) were treated with two concentrations of AmB (1.25 μg/mL or 2.50 μg/mL). Cytotoxicity was assessed by MTT assay. The effects of AmB on GRX migration was evaluated by Wound-healing Assay. Cell cycle arrest was investigated by flow cytometry. Apoptosis and autophagy were analyzed by Caspase 3 and LC3 immunostaining, respectively. Treatment with AmB 1.25 or 2.50 μg/mL showed a decrease in viability of GRX cells. This decrease was not observed for Hep G2 or ARL-6 in any of the two AmB concentrations tested. GRX cells treated with 1.25 μg/mL AmB were unable to close the wound after 96 h. Cell cycle analysis showed an increase in sub-G1 population and a decrease in G2/M population in AmB-treated cells. In addition, AmB-treated GRX cells showed increased expression of LC-3 and Caspase-3 by immunohistochemistry, suggesting an increase in both autophagy and apoptosis. Here we show that AmB is cytotoxic for GRX cells, a model of activated HSC, but not for hepatic lineages HepG2 and ARL6.
The present study tested if a positive modulator of AMPA-type glutamate receptors would counteract the behavioral effects of a drug that enhances the release of dopamine. BDP-29, a compound shown to increase AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic responses in hippocampal slices, markedly attenuated the amount of stereotypic rearings seen in rats after methamphetamine injections. These results suggest that AMPA receptor modulators ameliorate certain aberrant, dopamine-related behaviors and hence may be of interest with regard to schizophrenia.
Phenazopyridine (Pyridium) is a commonly used urinary tract analgesic. It has been associated with yellow skin discoloration, hemolytic anemia, methemoglobinemia, and acute renal failure, especially in patients with preexisting kidney disease. We report a 17-year-old female with vertically transmitted human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, presenting with acute renal failure and methemoglobinemia following a suicidal attempt with a single 1,200 mg ingestion of Pyridium. She had no prior evidence of HIV nephropathy. The patient had a progressive nonoliguric renal failure on the 3rd day following the ingestion. She was treated with N-acetylcysteine, intravenous carnitine, and alkalinization of the urine. Her kidney biopsy revealed acute tubular necrosis with no glomerular changes. After 7 days of conservative management, she was discharged home with normal kidney function. To our knowledge, this is the second smallest amount of Pyridium overdose resulting in acute renal failure with no previous history of kidney disease.
Cellular mechanisms which account for disruption the blood-brain barrier during acute hypertension are not clear. The goal of this study was to determine the role of synthesis/release of bradykinin to activate B2 receptors in disruption of the blood-brain barrier during acute hypertension. Permeability of the blood-brain barrier was quantitated by clearance of fluorescent-labeled dextran before and during phenylephrine-induced acute hypertension in rats treated with vehicle and Hoe-140 (0.1 microM). Phenylephrine infusion increased arterial pressure, arteriolar diameter and clearance of fluorescent dextran by a similar magnitude in both groups. These findings suggest that disruption of the blood-brain barrier during acute hypertension is not related to the synthesis/release of bradykinin to activate B2 receptors.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is associated with poor-prognosis breast cancer. We used a nude mouse xenograft model to determine the effects of COX-2 inhibition in breast cancer. Oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive MCF7/HER2-18 and ER-negative MDAMB231 breast cancer cell lines were injected into nude mice and allowed to form tumours. Mice then received either chow containing Celecoxib (a COX-2 inhibitor) or control and tumour growth measured. Tumour proliferation, apoptosis, COX-2, lymphangiogenesis and angiogenesis were assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC), Western blotting or Q-PCR. Celecoxib inhibited median tumour growth in MCF7/HER2-18 (58.7%, P=0.029) and MDAMB231 (46.3%, P=0.0002) cell lines compared to control. Cyclooxygenase-2 expression decreased following Celecoxib treatment (MCF7/HER2-18 median control 65.3% vs treated 22.5%, P=0.0001). Celecoxib increased apoptosis in MCF7/HER2-18 tumours (TUNEL 0.52% control vs 0.73% treated, P=0.0004) via inactivation of AKT (median pAKT(ser473) 57.3% control vs 35.5% treated, P=0.0001--confirmed at Western blotting). Q-PCR demonstrated decreased podoplanin RNA (lymphangiogenesis marker) in the MCF7/HER2-18 - median 2.9 copies treated vs 66.6 control (P=0.05) and MDAMB231-treated groups--median 160.7 copies vs 0.05 control copies (P=0.015), confirmed at IHC. Cyclooxygenase-2 is associated with high levels of activated AKT(ser473) and lymphangiogenesis in breast cancer. Cyclooxygenase-2 inhibition decreases tumour growth, and may potentially decrease recurrence, by inactivating AKT and decreasing lymphangiogenesis.
To investigate the changes in transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta1)/Smads signaling pathway in rats with chemical hepatocarcinogenesis.
Fresh diethylnitrosamine (DENA) solution was administered in SD rats to induce hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The protein expressions of TGF-beta1, phosphorylated Smad2, Smad4 and Smad7 were detected in these rats with immunohistochemistry, and the mRNA expression of Smad4 was evaluated with RT-PCR.
Cirrhotic nodules occurred in the rats 8 weeks after DENA treatment, and HCC nodules were found 16 weeks after the treatment. In the normal liver tissue, very low levels of TGF-beta1 and Smad4 expressions, low Smad7 expression and high phosphorylated Smad2 expression were detected. The development of liver cirrhosis was accompanied by increased expressions of TGF-beta1, Smad4 and Smad7 but at 8 weeks after DENA treatment, the expression of phosphorylated Smad2 was significantly decreased, followed then by gradual increment till nearly the normal level. Twenty-two weeks after DENA treatment, Smad4 expression in liver tissue decreased markedly as compared with the levels at 8 and 16 weeks. The expressions of Smad4 and phosphorylated Smad2 in the HCC tissue was significantly lower than those in normal liver tissue.
Hepatocarcinogenesis involves very complex mechanisms, can can be related partially to the decreased Smad4 and phosphorylated Smad2 expression and TGFbeta1 and Smad7 overexpression in advanced stage of liver cirrhosis.
The present study was undertaken to determine the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interaction of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) with garlic homogenate (GH), in rats. The influence of garlic on pharmacokinetics of HCTZ was studied by HPLC method, while pharmacodynamic interaction was studied using diuretic activity, ECG and BP changes and isoproterenol (ISO) induced myocardial injury. HCTZ was given orally at 10mg/kg and GH was administered at three different doses of 125, 250 and 500 mg/kg, p.o. The CK-MB, LDH, SOD, catalase and histopathological studies were carried out. The administration of HCTZ in GH pretreated rats found to decrease the QRS duration, RR interval, QT segment, systolic blood pressure, heart rate, serum potassium level, serum LDH and serum CK-MB activities significantly. The diuretic effect of HCTZ was significantly increased in presence of GH; however, kaliuresis was significantly reduced in presence of GH 250 mg/kg. Histopathological studies of heart tissue reveal the protective effect of GH 250 mg/kg in presence or absence of HCTZ during ISO stress to myocardium. The pharmacokinetic studies show that GH increases the bioavailability and half-life, along with decrease in clearance and elimination rate of HCTZ when administered orally. It was concluded that careful addition of garlic in moderate doses might result in beneficial effect during treatment of hypertension in patients with myocardial stress as garlic causes substantial fall in excretion of potassium when compared to HCTZ alone treatment in rats. This could be important in reducing the dose of HCTZ to achieve enhanced therapeutic effect with minimal adverse effect.
So far, no common environmental and/or phenotypic factor has been associated with melanoma and renal cell carcinoma (RCC). The known risk factors for melanoma include sun exposure, pigmentation and nevus phenotypes; risk factors associated with RCC include smoking, obesity and hypertension. A recent study of coexisting melanoma and RCC in the same patients supports a genetic predisposition underlying the association between these two cancers. The microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) has been proposed to act as a melanoma oncogene; it also stimulates the transcription of hypoxia inducible factor (HIF1A), the pathway of which is targeted by kidney cancer susceptibility genes. We therefore proposed that MITF might have a role in conferring a genetic predisposition to co-occurring melanoma and RCC. Here we identify a germline missense substitution in MITF (Mi-E318K) that occurred at a significantly higher frequency in genetically enriched patients affected with melanoma, RCC or both cancers, when compared with controls. Overall, Mi-E318K carriers had a higher than fivefold increased risk of developing melanoma, RCC or both cancers. Codon 318 is located in a small-ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) consensus site (ΨKXE) and Mi-E318K severely impaired SUMOylation of MITF. Mi-E318K enhanced MITF protein binding to the HIF1A promoter and increased its transcriptional activity compared to wild-type MITF. Further, we observed a global increase in Mi-E318K-occupied loci. In an RCC cell line, gene expression profiling identified a Mi-E318K signature related to cell growth, proliferation and inflammation. Lastly, the mutant protein enhanced melanocytic and renal cell clonogenicity, migration and invasion, consistent with a gain-of-function role in tumorigenesis. Our data provide insights into the link between SUMOylation, transcription and cancer.
We previously demonstrated that beta-D-xylopyranosyl-(1-->3)-beta-D-glucuronopyranosyl echinocystic acid (codonoposide 1c), a biologically active compound isolated from the roots of Codonopsis lanceolata, is cytotoxic to cancer cells. In the present study, we investigated the effects of codonoposide 1c on the induction of apoptosis, and its putative action pathway in HL-60 human promyelocytic leukemia cells. Codonoposide 1c-treated HL-60 cells displayed several features of apoptosis, including DNA fragmentation, formation of DNA ladders by agarose gel electrophoresis, and externalization of annexin-V targeted phosphatidylserine (PS) residues. We observed that codonoposide 1c caused activation of caspase-8, caspase-9, and caspase-3. A broad caspase inhibitor (z-VAD-fmk), caspase-8 inhibitor (z-IETD-fmk), and caspase-3 inhibitor (z-DEVD-fmk) almost completely suppressed codonoposide 1c-induced DNA fragmentation. We further found that codonoposide 1c induces mitochondrial translocation of Bid from cytosol, reduction of cytosolic Bax, and cytochrome c release from mitochondria. Interestingly, codonoposide 1c also triggered the mitochondrial release of Smac/DIABLO (second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases/direct inhibitor of apoptosis-binding protein with a low isoelectric point) into cytosol, and a reduction in X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP). Taken together, our data indicate that codonoposide 1c is a potent inducer of apoptosis and facilates its activity via Bid cleavage and translocation to mitochondria, Bax reduction in cytosol, release of cytochrome c and Smac/DIABLO into the cytosol, and subsequently caspase activation, providing a potential mechanism for the cytotoxic activity of codonoposide 1c.
Retinoids as important growth and differentiation regulating agents have a potential role in the chemoprevention of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Despite the promising preclinical and early clinical findings, limitations of application are raised by intrinsic resistance acquired during carcinogenesis. Retinoic acid receptor beta2 (RAR beta2) is one of the proximate mediators of retinoid signalling and its expression is often diminished in early stages of head and neck carcinogenesis. One form of retinoid resistance has been associated with the methylation-induced silencing of the RAR beta gene. We studied primary HNSCC samples of different anatomical sites in respect of methylation, expression and allelic loss of RAR beta gene. A strong correlation (p<0.01) was found between hyper-methylation and reduced expression of RAR beta2, however the allelic loss at 3p24, the locus of RAR beta, did not considerably influence its mRNA level. Hypopharynx tumors showed significantly lower hypermethylation (p<0.05) and higher mRNA expression levels of RAR beta2 compared to the tumors located at other sites of the head and neck. We could also provide evidence that poorly differentiated grade 3 tumors had significantly higher RAR beta2 expression and lower methylation levels (p<0.05) than better differentiated grade 1 and grade 2 tumors. In addition, we found a good correlation between the methylation degree of the RAR beta2 promoter and the ages of patients. Collectively, our results suggest that evaluation of several factors such as tumor location, age, histology and methylation state of the RAR beta gene might contribute to the selection of patients for retinoid-based chemoprevention.
Cardiac tamponade secondary to ventricular wall perforation is one of the possible complications of right-sided as well as left-sided cardiac catheterization. Ventriculography was performed on a patient with obstructive cardiomyopathy using a nonionic contrast medium. During the procedure, the right ventricle was accidentally perforated and the patient developed cardiac tamponade. Pericardiocentesis was unsuccessful and surgical drainage was needed after the patient developed progressive hemodynamic deterioration. At surgery, pericardial thrombus was found. We consider the reason for failure of pericardiocentesis was rapid coagulation of the extravasated blood in connection with nonionic contrast material.
Female F344/N rats were given 70% partial hepatectomies and intubated with diethyl-nitrosamine (DEN, 10 mg/kg) 24 hours later. They were fed a cereal-based diet, NIH-07 (NIH) + 0.05% phenobarbital (PB) for 6 months, at which time NIH + PB was withdrawn and the rats were ovariectomized (OV) or sham-operated (SH). Groups of 7-10 rats were fed a semipurified diet (AIN-76) for 1 or 2 months after withdrawal of NIH + PB, or NIH + PB for 2 months, or AIN-76 diet for 1 month and subsequently NIH + PB for 1 month. Placental glutathione S-transferase (PGST)- and gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT)-positive (+) altered hepatic foci (AHF) were analysed by quantitative stereology. Ovariectomy stimulated growth of AHF after withdrawal and reintroduction of NIH + PB. AHF, especially PGST+ AHF, continued to regress throughout the PB withdrawal period in rats fed AIN-76 diet. In most studies of chemical hepatocarcinogenesis, females have been shown to develop a greater volume of AHF than males. In our study, however, ovariectomy stimulated the growth of AHF after withdrawal and reintroduction of PB. Because AHF occurring spontaneously in male rats develop more rapidly than in female rats, the greater rate of growth of AHF in OV female rats may reflect a similar mechanism.
Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI), which can be inherited or acquired, is characterized by an inability to concentrate urine despite normal or elevated plasma concentrations of the antidiuretic hormone, arginine vasopressin (AVP). Polyuria, with hyposthenuria, and polydipsia are the cardinal clinical manifestations of the disease. Nephrogenic failure to concentrate urine maximally may be due to a defect in vasopressin-induced water permeability of the distal tubules and collecting ducts, to insufficient buildup of the corticopapillary interstitial osmotic gradient, or to a combination of these two factors. Thus, the broadest definition of the term NDI embraces any antidiuretic hormone-resistant urinary-concentrating defect, including medullary disease with low interstitial osmolality, renal failure, and osmotic diuresis. About 90% of patients with congenital NDI are males with X-linked recessive NDI (OMIM 304800)(1) and have mutations in the AVP receptor 2 (AVPR2) gene that codes for the vasopressin V(2) receptor; the gene is located in chromosome region Xq28. In about 10% of the families studied, congenital NDI has an autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant mode of inheritance (OMIM 222000 and 125800)(1). Mutations have been identified in the aquaporin-2 gene (AQP2, OMIM 107777)(1), which is located in chromosome region 12q13 and codes for the vasopressin-sensitive water channel. NDI is clinically distinguishable from neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (OMIM 125700(1); also referred to as central or neurogenic diabetes insipidus) by a lack of response to exogenous AVP and by plasma levels of AVP that rise normally with increase in plasma osmolality. Hereditary neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus is secondary to mutations in the gene encoding AVP (OMIM 192340)(1). Neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus is also a component of autosomal recessive Wolfram syndrome 1 or DIDMOAD syndrome (diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus, optic atrophy, and deafness) (OMIM 222300)(1), an autosomal recessive disorder. Other inherited disorders with complex polyuro-polydipsic syndrome with loss of water, sodium, chloride, calcium, magnesium, and potassium include Bartter syndrome (OMIM 601678)(1) and cystinosis (OMIM 219800)(1), while long-term lithium administration is the main cause of acquired NDI. Here, we use the gene symbols approved by the HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee (http://www.gene.ucl.ac.uk/nomenclature) and provide OMIM entry numbers [OMIM (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man)(1); McKusick-Nathans Institute for Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University (Baltimore, MD) and National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine (Bethesda, MD), 2000; World Wide Web URL: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/omim/].
Ethyl carbamate (EC, urethan) is carcinogenic probably because it is converted in vivo to vinyl carbamate and then to vinyl carbamate epoxide, which reacts with DNA bases. We hypothesized that vinyl carbamate arises from EC by oxidation to 2-hydroxy-EC (HEC) and dehydration of the HEC, rather than by direct dehydrogenation of EC. In that case, HEC should be more carcinogenic than EC. In a previous test, HEC showed only borderline initiating activity for mouse skin, but its synthesis was poorly described. In the present study, HEC was synthesized by reacting ethylene carbonate with ammonia and was characterized. A single dose of HEC or EC in saline was injected i.p. into adult male strain A mice, which were maintained for 16 weeks. HEC doses of 1.12, 4.6 and 11.2 mmol/kg induced 0.16, 0.32 and 0.32 lung adenomas/mouse, respectively. The 28% tumor incidence for the two highest doses was significantly (P < 0.05) greater than that in controls injected with saline alone. The number of tumors/mouse with 4.6 mmol HEC/kg was one-fortieth of that for an equimolar dose of EC. The weak activity of HEC supports the view that HEC is not a proximal carcinogenic metabolite of EC, i.e. that vinyl carbamate is produced directly from EC.
Bilateral intrastriatal injections of quinolinic acid (QA) (180 nmoles) induced weight loss and neurologic and behavioral deficits including convulsions, decreased catalepsy response to haloperidol, increased nocturnal locomotor activity, and abnormal feeding behavior in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Pretreatment with the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, MK801 (4 mg/kg IP) 30 min prior to stereotaxic surgery prevented the appearance of all QA-induced behavioral abnormalities and prevented weight loss. Twelve weeks after surgery the QA-lesioned animals recovered to sham levels on feeding behavior and nocturnal locomotor activity, but showed persistent reductions in haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Histological examination of the QA-lesioned brains showed extensive lesions of the dorsolateral striatum and frontoparietal cortex. MK801 pretreatment protected against these lesions. These results confirm that MK801 treatment prevents the appearance of neuropathological damage after QA neurotoxicity, and further show that neuronal protection with MK801 is correlated with the absence of QA-induced behavioral deficits.
Overall, doxorubicine-congestive heart failure (CHF) (male Wistar rats and NMRI mice; 6 challenges with doxorubicine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) throughout 15 days and then a 4-week-rest period) is consistently deteriorating throughout next 14 days, if not reversed or ameliorated by therapy (/kg per day): a stable gastric pentadecapeptide BPC157 (GEPPPGKPADDAGLV, MW 1419, promisingly studied for inflammatory bowel disease (Pliva; PL 10, PLD-116, PL 14736)) (10 microg, 10 ng), losartan (0.7 mg), amlodipine (0.07 mg), given intragastrically (i.g.) (once daily, rats) or in drinking water (mice). Assessed were big endothelin-1 (BET-1) and plasma enzyme levels (CK, MBCK, LDH, AST, ALT) before and after 14 days of therapy and clinical status (hypotension, increased heart rate and respiratory rate, and ascites) every 2 days. Controls (distilled water (5 ml/kg, i.g., once daily) or drinking water (2 ml/mouse per day) given throughout 14 days) exhibited additionally increased BET-1 and aggravated clinical status, while enzyme values maintained their initial increase. BPC157 (10 microg/kg) and amlodipine treatment reversed the increased BET-1 (rats, mice), AST, ALT, CK (rats, mice), and LDH (mice) values. BPC157 (10 ng/kg) and losartan opposed further increase of BET-1 (rats, mice). Losartan reduces AST, ALT, CK, and LDH serum values. BPC157 (10 ng/kg) reduces AST and ALT serum values. Clinical status of CHF-rats and -mice is accordingly improved by the BPC157 regimens and amlodipine.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the correlation between urine and serum benzoylecgonine (BE) levels in pregnant women who use crack cocaine. Ten women who had recently smoked crack cocaine were recruited from a prenatal substance abuse clinic to participate in this study. Urine and serum were obtained concurrently for quantitative determination of BE, (the major metabolite of cocaine), using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Pearson correlation was used for statistical analysis. The median reported interval since most recent crack use was 35 hours (range 9.5 to 63 hr). The median gestational age of the subjects was 31 weeks (range 22 to 38 weeks). Urine benzoylecgonine levels ranged from 1038 ng/mL to 1,950,563 ng/mL and serum BE levels ranged from 2.5 to 3074.3 ng/mL. Pearson correlation for urine and serum BE levels was 0.92, p < 0.001. This is the first study to report the correlation between urine and serum BE levels in pregnant women who use crack cocaine.
An ethyl acetate extract of Spigelia anthelmia (EASa), with validated anthelmintic activity, was evaluated for its acute toxicity and general effects in albino Swiss mice and for neuromuscular relaxant activity in the frog sciatic-gastrocnemius and rectus abdominis preparation. The extract induced a dose-related myotonia and muscular paralysis of rapid onset at higher doses. The calculated LD50 after oral and intraperitoneal administration was 345.9 [241.4-484.7] mg/kg and 60.8 [47.4-80] mg/kg, respectively. In broilers, intramuscular injection of EASa-induced spastic paralysis qualitatively similar to that obtained after succinylcholine administration and contrasting to the flaccid paralysis induced by D-tubocurarine. The contraction elicited by direct stimulation of the gastrocnemius was blocked by EASa by 54.3+/-4.7% (IC50 = 21.4 [11.2-35.8] microg/ml) and the twitches evoked by stimulation of the sciatic nerve were blocked by 69.1+/-7.4% (IC50 = 17.9 [4.5-34.23] microg/ml). EASa also blocked acetylcholine-induced contractions in the frog rectus abdominis by 58.6+/-7.4% (IC50 = 7.4 [1.7-15.28] microg/ml) but did not decrease tonic contractions induced by a high-potassium Ringer solution. In summary, the ethyl acetate extract of Spigelia anthelmia induces tonic paralysis in vivo, and decreases amplitudes of twitches and increases tonus of skeletal muscle in vitro.
