To use the Bst U I polymorphism as a genetic marker in the search for the association between patients with prostate cancer and normal control subjects. The formation or progression of prostate cancer is presumed to be associated with a polymorphism of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene. The most frequently seen polymorphism is Bst U I (C to T) located at the -460th nucleotide upstream of the VEGF gene.
A normal control group of 119 healthy people and 96 patients with prostate cancer were examined. The polymorphism was seen after polymerase chain reaction-based restriction analysis.
The analysis revealed significant differences between normal individuals and patients with cancer (P <0.001). Also, the distribution of the "TT" homozygote in the patient group was greater than that in the control group. The odds ratio per copy of the "T" allele was 2.3 (95% confidence interval 1.4 to 3.8) and was 2.2 (95% CI 1.3 to 3.8) when adjusted for age. No statistically significant differences in clinical stage or grade were found. We also categorized the 54 patients who received hormonal therapy into response and nonresponse groups, but no statistically significant differences between these two groups were revealed (P = 0.110, Fisher's exact test).
The Bst U I polymorphism of the VEGF gene is a suitable genetic marker of prostate cancer but cannot be used in the prediction of the outcome of patients who have received hormonal therapy.
O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) plays a crucial role in the defense against the alkylating agent-induced cytotoxic lesion O(6)-alkylguanine in DNA. Although a significant circadian variation in MGMT activity has been found in the liver of mice, the exact mechanism of the variation remains poorly understood. In this study, we present evidence that glucocorticoids were required for the 24-h oscillation of MGMT expression in mouse liver. The exposure of mouse hepatic cells (Hepa1-6) to dexamethasone (DEX) significantly increased the mRNA levels of MGMT in a dose-dependent manner. The DEX-induced increase in MGMT expression was reversed by concomitant treatment with RU486 [11beta-[p-(dimethylamino) phenyl]-17beta-hydroxy-17-(1-propynyl)estra-4,9-dien-3-one], a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist. The mRNA levels of MGMT and its enzymatic activity in the liver of mice showed significant 24-h oscillations, which were not observed in adrenalectomized mice. A single administration of DEX to adrenalectomized mice significantly increased the mRNA levels of MGMT in the liver. These findings suggest that the 24-h oscillation in the hepatic expression of MGMT is caused by the endogenous rhythm of glucocorticoid secretion. Dacarbazine (DTIC), a potent O(6)-guanine-alkylating agent, causes serious hepatotoxicity accompanied by hepatocellular necrosis and hepatic vein thrombosis. DTIC-induced hepatotoxicity in mice was attenuated by administering the drug at the time of day when MGMT expression was abundant. The present findings suggest that glucocorticoid-regulated oscillation in the hepatic MGMT expression is the underlying cause of dosing time-dependent changes in DTIC-induced hepatotoxicity.
The importance of dysregulation of microRNA (miRNA) expression in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) has been increasingly recognized; however, the association between altered expression of miRNAs and pathophysiological features of NASH and whether there is a connection between susceptibility to NASH and altered expression of miRNAs are largely unknown. In this study, male inbred C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice were fed a lipogenic methyl-deficient diet that causes liver injury similar to human NASH, and the expression of miRNAs and the level of proteins targeted by these miRNAs in the livers were determined. Administration of the methyl-deficient diet triggered NASH-specific changes in the livers of C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice, with the magnitude being more severe in DBA/2J mice. This was evidenced by a greater extent of expression of fibrosis-related genes in the livers of methyl-deficient DBA/2J mice. The development of NASH was accompanied by prominent changes in the expression of miRNAs, including miR-29c, miR-34a, miR-155, and miR-200b. Interestingly, changes in the expression of these miRNAs and protein levels of their targets, including Cebp-β, Socs 1, Zeb-1, and E-cadherin, in the livers of DBA/2J mice fed a methyl-deficient diet were more pronounced as compared with those in C57BL/6J mice. These results show that alterations in the expression of miRNAs are a prominent event during development of NASH induced by methyl deficiency and strongly suggest that severity of NASH and susceptibility to NASH may be determined by variations in miRNA expression response. More important, our data provide a mechanistic link between alterations in miRNA expression and pathophysiological and pathomorphological features of NASH.
Cocaine interacts with sigma receptors at physiologically relevant concentrations. While earlier studies demonstrate that antagonism of sigma(1) receptors attenuates the behavioral actions of cocaine, the contribution of sigma(2) receptors is unclear. Therefore, in the present study, 3 alpha-tropanyl-2-(4-chlorophenoxy)butyrate ((+/-)-SM 21), a compound with high and preferential affinity for sigma(2) receptors, was tested for its ability to attenuate cocaine-induced behaviors. Pre-treatment of Swiss Webster mice with (+/-)-SM 21 significantly attenuated cocaine-induced convulsions and locomotor activity.
To examine the relationship between age and short-term clinical response to psychostimulant treatment in youths with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and to examine whether weight-corrected doses of optimized psychostimulant therapy varied as a function of patient age.
One hundred seventy-seven patients were treated with either methylphenidate (MPH) or Adderall (ADL). Sixty-six youths received ADL and 111 patients were treated with MPH. All youths were evaluated at baseline and after receiving a week of treatment at each blinded, randomized dose level (placebo, 5, 10, or 15 mg). A "best dose" for each patient was assigned before the medication blind was broken. Behavioral ratings by both teachers and parents were examined for dose and medication effects.
The medications had similar efficacy in children and teenagers. Older youths, however, benefited from a smaller weight-adjusted dose of medication than did the younger children. Similar efficacy was observed between the medications.
These data suggest that psychostimulants are equally effective in treating children and adolescents with ADHD. Adolescents with ADHD may not necessarily require more medication than younger children to achieve a similar therapeutic response.
Hepatitis C antiviral therapies have significant psychiatric side effects. It is therefore believed that they might exacerbate mental illness in patients with pre-existing psychiatric disorders, resulting in poor adherence and response to antiviral treatment. We aimed to assess adherence to treatment, virological outcomes and mental safety in psychiatric patients, compared with non-psychiatric patients, treated for hepatitis C.
A cohort study involved unselected hepatitis C patients on scheduled therapy with pegylated interferon-alpha2b and ribavirin, between 2002 and 2005 in France, and followed-up until 6 months after the end of treatment. Virological response was reported by the physician according to standard definitions and adverse events were monitored. Adherence to treatment was assessed by patient report.
Among 1,860 patients, 403 (22%) had pre-existing psychiatric disorders, mostly depressive and anxiety disorders. Strict adherence was similar in psychiatric and non-psychiatric patients (35% versus 39%; P=0.20) as was the rate of sustained virological response (52% versus 51%; P=0.75). Conversely the rate of mental adverse events was higher in psychiatric patients (78% versus 57%; P<0.001). Baseline characteristics independently associated with the risk of later mental adverse events were history of depression, initial pegylated interferon-alpha2b dose and female gender.
Antiviral therapy in hepatitis C patients with associated psychiatric disease appears as effective as in other patients but results in a higher rate of mental adverse events, emphasizing the need for close monitoring of these psychiatric patients.
Valproate (VPA)-associated hepatotoxicity is usually considered a problem of young children with polytherapy, mental retardation, and underlying metabolic defects.
An adult patient with fatal liver failure during treatment with VPA is presented, and a review of the literature on other adult patients is given.
A 29-year-old female patient with Friedreich's ataxia and partial seizures with acute liver failure during VPA treatment is reported. The first symptoms of liver failure (i.e., apathy during febrile upper airway infection) occurred 2 months after starting VPA therapy. VPA was discontinued 10 days later on hospital admission, when she had hepatic encephalopathy and severe bleeding diathesis. The patient died of severe liver failure and bronchopneumonia after 4 weeks of supportive treatment.
Twenty-six adult patients (>17 years) with VPA-associated fatal hepatotoxicity have been reported in the literature. Of the 26 adult patients, three were receiving VPA monotherapy. The age ranged between 17 and 62 years. The duration of VPA treatment before the first symptom varied between 7 days and 6 years. Twelve of the 26 affected adults had no underlying disease or a clearly nonmetabolic and non-hepatic disease. Therefore VPA-associated severe side effects also must be considered in adult patients without any evidence of a metabolic defect or underlying neurologic disease.
The modifying effects of dietary feeding of two estrogenic compounds, 4-tert-octylphenol (tOP) and benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP), on 3,2-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenol (DMAB)-induced prostatic carcinogenesis were investigated in male F344 rats. We also assessed the effects of the test compounds on the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) index in induced neoplasms, prostatic intra-epithelial neoplasm (PIN), and non-lesional glands in the prostate. To induce prostatic neoplasms, rats were given subcutaneous injections of DMAB (25 mg/kg body weight) every other week, 10 times in total. They also received the experimental diet containing 10 or 100 ppm tOP and BBP for 40 weeks, starting 1 week after the last dosing of DMAB. DMAB exposure produced prostatic adenocarcinoma with an incidence of 41.2% at the end of the study (week 60). Dietary administration of tOP and BBP did not affect the incidence of prostatic adenocarcinoma: 43.8% in the DMAB --> 10 ppm tOP group; 25.0% in the DMAB --> 100 ppm tOP group; 43.8% in the DMAB --> 10 ppm BBP group; and 43.8% in the DMAB --> 100 ppm BBP group. The PCNA indices in adenocarcinomas, PIN, and non-lesional glands in rats treated with DMAB and tOP or BBP were slightly lower than that of the DMAB alone group, but the differences were not statistically significant. These results might suggest that dietary feeding of the estrogenic compounds tOP and BBP did not modulate DMAB-induced prostatic carcinogenesis in rats.
In 232 Japanese patients receiving long-term amiodarone therapy for life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias, hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism developed in 29 patients (12.5%) and 25 patients (10.8%), respectively. In patients with hyperthyroidism, the recurrence of sustained ventricular tachycardia was significantly higher with thyrotoxicosis than in the euthyroid period (31% vs 3%, p<0.01). Holter monitoring showed that the average heart rate and ventricular premature complexes significantly increased with hyperthyroidism. On the other hand, there was no increase in the recurrence of ventricular tachyarrhythmia with hypothyroidism. There was no change in the dose or the plasma concentration of amiodarone or desethylamiodarone in the euthyroid period or when hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism manifested. It is important to monitor for arrhythmia when hyperthyroidism develops during amiodarone therapy.
One hundred and forty-one patients for general and urological surgery were anaesthetized by epidural anesthesia (PDA) using bupivacaine-CO2 0.5% solutions. A frequency peak for the initial dose between 21-23 ml was noted. The response time and latency period were found to be 2.99 +/- 1.40 min and 11.02 +/- 3.66 min (smallest time unit 0.5 min). The effective duration was 5.02 +/- 0.93 h. The sensory spread reached on average to T 6.06 +/- 1.41 segments for the patients with typical injection locations at L2/3-L4/5. A mean dose of 6.25 +/- 0.18 mg per spinal segment was used. Side effects were not seen apart from occasional hypotension. The failures were not related to the anesthetic drug. The degree of muscle relaxation was for the majority of cases evaluated at 2 +, which was sufficient for the abdominal operations. The results are compared with the data obtained using bupivacaine-HC1; the advantages of bupivacaine-CO2 are described.
We present the clinical and laboratory findings in an institutionalised adult patient originally referred for autism. A high risk of colorectal cancer was predicted when an interstitial deletion of the long arm of chromosome 5, del(5)(q15q22.3), was detected in her lymphocytes and deletion of the MCC and APC genes confirmed by molecular analysis. Adenomatous polyposis coli and carcinoma of the rectum were subsequently diagnosed in the patient. She was profoundly mentally retarded, autistic, and had minor dysmorphic features consistent with those of previous patients with similar deletions. The deletion arose as a result of recombination within the small insertion loop formed at meiosis by the direct insertion (dir ins(5)(q22.3q14.2q15)) found in the patient's mother. This family further confirms the cytogenetic mapping of both MCC and APC genes to 5q22 and comparison with other recent cases suggests that both genes and their closely linked markers lie within the 5q22.1 subband.
The combination of penicillin with an aminoglycoside has been recommended as an initial treatment of choice for patients with acute infections of the biliary tract. However, many patients have incidence of renal problems and for this reason aminoglycosides must be avoided. Newer antimicrobial agents with lesser nephrotoxic effects will be tried. We, therefore, performed a prospective, randomized trial of ofloxacin, a new quinolone and ceftriaxone in patients with acute biliary tract infections. Fifty-two patients with severe biliary tract infections (cholecystitis and cholangitis) were randomly assigned to receive either ofloxacin (n = 28) or ceftriaxone (n = 24). The 2 groups receiving antibiotics were similar with respect to all clinical and laboratory parameters. Bacteria were documented in 48% of patients in the ofloxacin group and in 46% in the ceftriaxone group. The percentage of patients with a clinical cure or significant improvement was the same in the 2 groups. No significant difference was noted between the 2 treatment groups with respect to drug toxicity. These data suggest that intravenous ofloxacin followed by oral administration is an effective and safe single drug for the therapy of patients with acute biliary tract infections.
In a cross-over study with Pindolol, 15 mg/day, against placebo, we studied during 4 weeks 22 patients aged between 20 and 65 years who where treated by means of lithium carbonate retard (Quilonum Retard). The tremor was measured twice a week by means of three apparative methods: an accelerometer, a 'hole-plate' and an 'aimed tapping plate', both constructed by Janke, and was also studied by means of a self-evaluation rating-scale. We obtained a positive therapeutic effect of Pindolol on lithium-induced tremor, which was statistically significant by means of the 'hole-plate' and of self-evaluation. Differences in results are discussed.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a psychiatric disorder characterized by alternating episodes of mania and depression. The intracerebroventricular (i.c.v) administration of ouabain (a Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase inhibitor) in rats has been used as an animal model of mania, because present face, construct and predictive validities. Several studies strongly suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction play a central role in the pathophysiology of BD. Citrate synthase (CS) is an enzyme localized in the mitochondrial matrix and represents one of the most important steps of Krebs cycle. The aim of this study was to investigate CS activity in brain of rats after the administration of ouabain. Adult male Wistar rats received a single i.c.v. administration of ouabain (10(-2) and 10(-3) M) or vehicle (control group). Locomotor activity was measured using the open field task. CS activity was measured in the brain of rats immediately (1 h) and 7 days after ouabain administration. Our results showed that spontaneous locomotion was increased 1 h after ouabain administration, and that the hyperlocomotion persists 7 days after the administration. Moreover, CS activity was inhibited immediately after the administration of ouabain in the prefrontal cortex at the doses of 10(-3) and 10(-2) M. This inhibition remains by 7 days after the administration of ouabain. On the other hand, it was not observed any difference in CS activity in the hippocampus and striatum. Considering that inhibition of CS activity may reflect a mitochondrial dysfunction, it is tempting to speculate that the reduction of brain energy metabolism might be related to the pathophysiology of BD.
Increased oxidative stress is involved in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); however, plasma and bronchial lining fluid contains the antioxidant extracellular superoxide dismutase. Approximately 2% of white individuals carry the R213G polymorphism in the gene encoding extracellular superoxide dismutase, which increases plasma extracellular superoxide dismutase 10-fold and presumably also renders bronchial lining fluid high in extracellular superoxide dismutase.
We tested the hypothesis that R213G reduces the risk of COPD.
We studied cross-sectionally and prospectively (during 24 yr) 9,258 individuals from the Danish general population genotyped for R213G.
We determined plasma extracellular superoxide dismutase concentration, pulmonary function and COPD diagnosed by means of spirometry or through national hospitalization and death registers.
In the general population, 97.5% were noncarriers, 2.4% were heterozygotes, and 0.02% were homozygotes. Among R213G noncarriers, extracellular superoxide dismutase plasma concentration was 148+/-52 and 142+/-43 ng/ml (mean+/-SD) in individuals with and without COPD (Student's t test, p=0.02). Among heterozygotes, corresponding concentrations were 1,665+/-498 ng/ml and 1,256+/-379 (p<0.001). The adjusted odds ratio for spirometrically diagnosed COPD in heterozygotes versus noncarriers was 0.5 (95% confidence interval: 0.3-0.9). After stratification, the equivalent adjusted odds ratio was 1.5 (0.3-6.6) among nonsmokers and 0.4 (0.2-0.8) among smokers (p value for interaction=0.10). The adjusted hazard ratio for COPD hospitalization or death during follow-up in heterozygotes versus noncarriers was 0.3 (0.1-0.8).
Extracellular superoxide dismutase R213G heterozygosity protects against development of COPD in the Danish general population. This was observed in smokers, but not in nonsmokers.
To compare the rates of torsades de pointes associated with ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, levofloxacin, gatifloxacin, and moxifloxacin administration.
Retrospective database analysis.
Evaluation of reported rates of torsades de pointes in patients who received these quinolones between January 1, 1996, and May 2, 2001.
In the United States, 25 cases of torsades de pointes associated with these quinolones (ciprofloxacin 2, ofloxacin 2, levofloxacin 13, gatifloxacin 8, moxifloxacin 0) were identified. Ciprofloxacin was associated with a significantly lower rate of torsades de pointes (0.3 cases/10 million prescriptions, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.0-1.1) than levofloxacin (5.4/10 million, 95% CI 2.9-9.3, p<0.001) or gatifloxacin (27/10 million, 95% CI 12-53, p<0.001 for comparison with ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin). When the analysis was limited to the first 16 months after initial U.S. approval of the agent, the rates for levofloxacin (16/10 million) and gatifloxacin (27/10 million) were similar (p>0.5).
Levofloxacin should be administered with caution in patients with risk factors for QT prolongation. Gatifloxacin should be avoided in the same patient population, and the recommended dosage of 400 mg/day should not be exceeded.
This paper presents a method for the analysis of drugs in dosage form. It is based on galvanostatic generation of oxidation agent from a suitable precursor on one segment of interdigitated microelectrode array (IDA) and its consecutive amperometric detection on second segment. High collection efficiency of this process in comparison to rotational ring disc electrode (RRDE) is a unique feature of IDA system. The transfer of oxidation agent can be influenced by addition of species, which reacts with oxidant. This influence can be used for its determination. Evaluation of generator-collector current dependence (diffusion layer titration curve) reveals the value of generator current I(genE) of the end-point of titration. I(genE) is proportional to the bulk phase concentration of determined species. The method was applied to the analysis of pharmaceuticals Antabus (Disulfiram Alpharma NOR, tetraethylthiuram disulfide (TETD)), a popular drug for alcoholism treatment, and Celaskon (vitamin C, Léciva CZE, ascorbic acid (AA)). From model samples analysis rather low detection limits, 9x10(-7) mol dm(-3), respectively, 4x10(-6) mol dm(-3), were estimated which enables trace content analysis of the drugs. A small size of IDA sensor also makes it suitable for microanalytical improvement.
A patient experienced a transient deterioration of renal function induced by indomethacin during recovery from idiosyncratic phenylbutazone-associated renal failure. Since both drugs inhibit prostaglandin synthesis, this patient may illustrate a unique enhancement of the more common and clinically unimportant effect of altered glomerular filtration rate induced by such drugs. The renal insufficiency per se associated with the idiosyncratic reaction to phenylbutazone may have also enhanced this patient's reaction to indomethacin. Careful observation of patients during administration of such drugs in this and other settings of acute renal failure appears warranted.
To broaden the safety database for oral terbinafine by determining the incidence of adverse events, particularly rare risks, that accompany its uncontrolled use in actual clinical practice.
Four open, prospective, uncontrolled, postmarketing surveillance studies were conducted in unselected patients in 4 countries. No exclusion criteria were applied. The only treatment instructions participating physicians received were the manufacturer's product information. Physicians monitored patients for adverse events at baseline, during treatment, and at the end of treatment. Serious events were identified according to study protocol, which was consistent for all 4 studies, allowing data to be pooled and analyzed collectively.
Patients were recruited from dermatology, general, and family practices in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, and Austria.
Of the 25884 patients who entered the study, 38.6% had concomitant diseases, 42.8% were taking other medications, and 22.7% were older than 60 years. The predominant indication for terbinafine treatment was onychomycosis (72.2%).
Data on treatment duration was available for 25091 patients. Median duration of treatment was 12 weeks (mean, 13.2 weeks). Treatment extended beyond 6 weeks in 76.0% of patients and for at least 12 weeks in 59.3%.
The incidence of adverse events as reported by physicians, with their opinions regarding relationship to terbinafine therapy.
The incidence of adverse events was 10.5%; the majority involved the gastrointestinal system (4.9%) or skin (2.3%). These tended to be mild, transient, and reversible. Terbinafine was considered a possible or probable cause of 11 (0.04%) serious adverse events. No drug interactions were reported, even in patients taking oral antidiabetic agents, astemizole, terfenadine, or cimetidine hydrochloride.
The positive safety profile established during controlled clinical trials of oral terbinafine extends to its uncontrolled use in clinical practice. No previously unrecognized risks were identified.
1,5-anhydro-d-fructose (1,5-AF), a monosaccharide formed from starch and glycogen, exhibits antioxidant and antibacterial activity, and inhibits cytokine release by attenuating NF-kappaB activation in LPS-stimulated mice. The present study examined whether 1,5-AF inhibits lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in vitro and in vivo. We found that 1,5-AF significantly blocked the production of NO, and protein and mRNA expression of iNOS, and up-regulated IL-10 production in vitro. We also investigated the effects of 1,5-AF on acute lung inflammation in C57BL/6J mice. We found that protein and mRNA expression of iNOS in lung tissues were inhibited by 1,5-AF pretreatment. In addition, the serum level of IL-10 was upregulated by 1,5-AF. Collectively, the iNOS transcriptional and translational inhibitory effects of 1,5-AF seem to be prolonged and enhanced by the production of IL-10. These results suggest that 1,5-AF could be a useful adjunct in the treatment of acute lung inflammation.
The therapeutic efficacy of novel designed nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, M2000 (beta- D- mannuronic acid) on experimental immune complex glomerulonephritis was evaluated. Bovine serum albumin (BSA) nephritis was induced in rats by a subcutaneous immunization and daily intravenous administration of BSA. M2000 solution (30 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally at regular 48-hr intervals for 4 weeks. Onset of treatment was day 56. Urinary protein was measured weekly and serum anti-BSA antibody was assessed by ELISA method at different intervals. Animals were killed on day 84 and blood samples and kidney specimens were obtained. Serum (creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, cholesterol, and triglyceride) and urine (protein, urea, and creatinine) determinants were measured at the time of sacrifice. Kidney specimens were processed for light and immunofluorescent microscopic examination. The fibrosarcoma cell line was used for assaying tolerability and matrix metalloproteinase type 2 (MMP-2) activity. MMP-2 activity was assessed using zymography. Our data showed that M2000 therapy could significantly reduce the urinary protein excretion in treated rats versus non-treated controls. Anti-BSA antibody titer was lower in treated rats than in controls at the 12th experimental week. Polymorphonuclear neutrophil leukocytes infiltration and glomerular immune complex deposition were less intense in treated rats than in controls. Cytotoxicity analysis of M2000 showed a much higher tolerability compared with other tested drugs (diclofenac, piroxicam and dexamethasone). The inhibitory effect of M2000 in MMP-2 activity was significantly greater than that of dexsamethasone and of piroxicam at a concentration of 200 microg/ml. Moreover, the toxicological study revealed that M2000 had no influence on serum (BUN, creatinine, triglyceride and cholesterol) determinants, urinary protein excretion and glomerular histology in healthy group receiving drug.
These findings suggest that treatment with M2000 can reduce proteinuria, diminish antibody production, and suppress the progression of disease in a rat model of immune complex glomerulonephritis.
Sulfur mustard (SM) is a vesicating chemical warfare agent causing skin blistering, ulceration, impaired wound healing, prolonged hospitalization and permanent lesions. Silibinin, the lead compound from Silybum marianum, has also been discussed as a potential antidote to SM poisoning. However, its efficacy has been demonstrated only with regard to nitrogen mustards. Moreover, there are no data on the efficacy of the water-soluble prodrug silibinin-bis-succinat (silibinin-BS). We investigated the effect of SIL-BS treatment against SM toxicity in HaCaT cells with regard to potential reduction of necrosis, apoptosis and inflammation including dose-dependency of any protective effects. We also demonstrated the biotransformation of the prodrug into free silibinin. HaCaT cells were exposed to SM (30, 100, and 300μM) for 30min and treated thereafter with SIL-BS (10, 50, and 100μM) for 24h. Necrosis and apoptosis were quantified using the ToxiLight BioAssay and the nucleosome ELISA (CDDE). Pro-inflammatory interleukins-6 and -8 were determined by ELISA. HaCaT cells, incubated with silibinin-BS were lysed and investigated by LC-ESI MS/MS. LC-ESI MS/MS results suggest that SIL-BS is absorbed by HaCaT cells and biotransformed into free silibinin. SIL-BS dose-dependently reduced SM cytotoxicity, even after 300μM exposure. Doses of 50-100μM silibinin-BS were required for significant protection. Apoptosis and interleukin production remained largely unchanged by 10-50μM silibinin-BS but increased after 100μM treatment. Observed reductions of SM cytotoxicity by post-exposure treatment with SIL-BS suggest this as a promising approach for treatment of SM injuries. While 100μM SIL-BS is most effective to reduce necrosis, 50μM may be safer to avoid pro-inflammatory effects. Pro-apoptotic effects after high doses of SIL-BS are in agreement with findings in literature and might even be useful to eliminate cells irreversibly damaged by SM. Further investigations will focus on the protective mechanism of silibinin and its prodrug and should establish an optimum concentration for treatment.
Tamoxifen therapy may result in a variety of endometrial proliferative lesions, including adenocarcinoma, and as recently suggested, proliferative changes within endometriosis. This report describes an endometrioid adenocarcinoma arising in ovarian endometriosis in a patient taking tamoxifen. There were also foci of benign and borderline endometrioid adenofibroma in the same ovary and a synchronous endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinoma in the uterus. The spectrum of benign, borderline, and malignant endometrioid neoplasia arising within endometriosis suggests that tamoxifen, as a result of its estrogenic effects, may cause proliferative and, in rare instances, malignant changes in endometriosis.
The "cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway" provides neurological modulation of cytokine synthesis to limit the magnitude of the immune response. This study aimed to evaluate the impact of the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway on the extent of tissue integrity, oxidant-antioxidant status and neutrophil infiltration to the inflamed organ in a rat model of acetic acid-induced colitis. Colitis was induced by intrarectal administration of 5% acetic acid (1ml) to Sprague-Dawley rats (200-250g; n=7-8 per group). Control group received an equal volume of saline intrarectally. The rats were treated with either nicotine (1mg/kg/day) or huperzine A (0.1mg/kg/day) intraperitoneally for 3 days. After decapitation, the distal colon was scored macroscopically and microscopically. Tissue samples were used for the measurement of malondialdehyde (MDA) and glutathione (GSH) levels, and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. Formation of reactive oxygen species was monitored by using chemiluminescence (CL). Nuclear factor (NF)-κB expression was evaluated in colonic samples via immunohistochemical analysis. Trunk blood was collected for the assessment of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-10, resistin and visfatin levels. Both nicotine and huperzine A reduced the extent of colonic lesions, increased colonic MDA level, high MPO activity and NF-κB expression in the colitis group. Elevation of serum IL-1β level due to colitis was also attenuated by both treatments. Additionally, huperzine A was effective to reverse colitis-induced high lucigenin-enhanced CL values and serum TNF-α levels. Colitis group revealed decreased serum visfatin levels compared to control group which was completely reversed by nicotine. In conclusion, modulation of the cholinergic system either by nicotine or ACh esterase inhibition improved acetic acid-induced colonic inflammation as confirmed by macroscopic and microscopic examination and biochemical assays.
