RNA interference (RNAi) has proven to be a powerful technique to study the function of genes by producing knock-down phenotypes. Here, we report that intrathecal injection of an siRNA against the transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1) reduced cold allodynia of mononeuropathic rats by more than 50% over a time period of approximately 5 days. A second siRNA targeted to a different region of the TRPV1 gene was employed and confirmed the analgesic action of a TRPV1 knock-down. Furthermore, siRNA treatment diminished spontaneous visceral pain behavior induced by capsaicin application to the rectum of mice. The analgesic effect of siRNA-mediated knockdown of TRPV1 in the visceral pain model was comparable to that of the low-molecular weight receptor antagonist BCTC. Our data demonstrate that TRPV1 antagonists, including TRPV1 siRNAs, have potential in the treatment of both, neuropathic and visceral pain.
Two potential manifestations of proarrhythmic responses to type IA antiarrhythmic agents in the electrophysiology laboratory were evaluated in 122 patients with chronic coronary artery disease and previous myocardial infarction: (1) conversion of uniform nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) into sustained VT after drug administration, and (2) induction of sustained VT by fewer extrastimuli after drug administration. Forty-two patients were evaluated for nonsustained VT. Eighty patients were evaluated for sustained VT: 30 of these had spontaneous sustained VT only while receiving empiric therapy with quinidine or procainamide, whereas the remaining 50 developed spontaneous VT in the absence of antiarrhythmic drugs. All patients underwent programmed stimulation in the baseline state and after procainamide. Four patients had conversion of induced uniform nonsustained VT into the same morphology, but sustained VT after procainamide administration. These responses only occurred in patients evaluated for nonsustained VT. Over 90% of patients presenting with sustained VT had uniform sustained VT induced at the baseline study and after procainamide, regardless of whether the spontaneous arrhythmia occurred only in the presence or absence of antiarrhythmic drugs. There was no significant difference in the change in mode of induction from baseline to procainamide study, regardless of whether patients had developed spontaneous VT only in the presence or absence of antiarrhythmic drugs. One patient with no inducible VT at the baseline study had inducible uniform sustained VT after procainamide administration, and 1 patient with inducible VT at baseline developed spontaneous sustained uniform VT after procainamide administration. Both patients had developed spontaneous sustained VT only while receiving therapy with type IA agents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rg1 and Rb1 are two major active compounds of ginseng that facilitate learning and memory. The present study aimed to compare the nootropic effects of Rg1 and Rb1 in a scopolamine induced dementia mice model. After 6 and 12 mg/kg of Rg1 and Rb1 intraperitoneal administration to mice for 7 days, their effects were assessed using the step-down passive avoidance (SD) and the Morris water maze (MWM) tests, the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, acetylcholine (ACh) content and serotonin (5-HT) level in the hippocampus were analysed after SD and MWM tests. The results showed that Rg1 and Rb1 ameliorated cognition-deficiency in mice with dementia. Rg1 showed stronger effects than Rb1 on escape acquisition in MWM. Both Rg1 and Rb1 increased ACh levels in the hippocampus, but Rg1 inhibited AChE activity while Rb1 had no effect on AChE activity. Both Rg1 and Rb1 inhibited the decrease of 5-HT induced by scopolamine, but Rb1 was more active than the same dose of Rg1. These results demonstrate that multiple administrations of Rg1 and Rb1 are effective in improving memory deficiency induced by scopolamine. Rg1 appears to be more potent than Rb1 in improving acquisition impairment, and the two ginsenosides may act through different mechanisms.
Maturation of dendritic cells (DCs) is usually attenuated in the tumor microenvironment, which is an important immunological problem in DC-based immunotherapy of cancer. In this study, we report the effect of a Mori fructus polysaccharide (MFP) on DC maturation. MFP was treated to DCs generated from mouse BM cells. MFP induced phenotypic maturation of DCs, as proven by the increased expression of CD40, CD80/86, and MHC-I/II molecules. MFP induced functional maturation of DCs, in that MFP increased the expression of IL-12, IL-1β, TNF-α, and IFN-β, decreased antigen capture capacity, and enhanced allogenic T cell stimulation. MFP efficiently induced maturation of DCs from C3H/HeN mice having normal toll-like receptor4 (TLR4), but not DCs from C3H/HeJ mice having mutated TLR4, suggesting that TLR4 might be one of the membrane receptors of MFP. As a mechanism of action, MFP increased phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPKs), and nuclear translocation of NF-κB p65 subunit, which were important signal molecules downstream from TLR4. These data suggest that MFP induces DC maturation through TLR4 and MFP can be used as an adjuvant in DC-based cancer immunotherapy.
Weight gain is a common and potentially serious complication associated with the treatment of second generation antipsychotics such as clozapine and risperidone. Increased peripheral adipogenesis via the SREBP-1 pathway could be one critical mechanism responsible for antipsychotic drug-induced weight gain. Berberine, a botanical alkaloid, has been shown in our previous studies to inhibit adipogenesis in cell and animal models. MTT was used to determine the cytotoxic effects of clozapine and risperidone in combination with berberine. Differentiation of 3T3-L1 cells was monitored by Oil-Red-O staining and the expression of SREBP-1 and related proteins was determined by real-time RT-PCR and western blotting. The results showed that neither clozapine nor risperidone, alone or in combination with berberine had significant effects on cell viability. Eight days treatment with 15 μM clozapine increased adipogenesis by 37.4% and 50 μM risperidone increased adipogenesis by 26.5% during 3T3-L1 cell differentiation accompanied by increased SREBP-1, PPARγ, C/EBPα, LDLR and Adiponectin gene expression. More importantly, the addition of 8 μM berberine diminished the induction of adipogenesis almost completely accompanied by down-regulated mRNA and protein expression levels of SREBP-1-related proteins. These encouraging results may lead to the use of berberine as an adjuvant to prevent weight gain during second generation antipsychotic medication.
The present study was aimed to investigate the combined effects of green tea and vitamin E on heart weight, body weight, serum marker enzymes, lipid peroxidation, endogenous antioxidants and membrane bound ATPases in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction in rats. Adult male albino rats, treated with ISO (200 mg/kg, s.c.) for 2 days at an interval of 24 h caused a significant (P<0.05) elevation of heart weight, serum marker enzymes, lipid peroxidation and Ca+2 ATPase level whereas there was a significant (P<0.05) decrease in body weight, endogenous antioxidants, Na+/ K+ ATPase and Mg+2 ATPase levels. Administration of green tea (100 mg/kg/day, p.o.) and vitamin E (100 mg/kg/day, p.o.) together for 30 consecutive days and challenged with ISO on the day 29th and 30th, showed a significant (P<0.05) decrease in heart weight, serum marker enzymes, lipid peroxidation, Ca+2 ATPase and a significant increase in the body weight, endogenous antioxidants, Na+/K+ ATPase and Mg+2 ATPase when compared with ISO treated group and green tea or vitamin E alone treated groups. These findings indicate the synergistic protective effect of green tea and vitamin E during ISO induced myocardial infarction in rats.
To evaluate postthoractomy analgesia in patients receiving lumbar epidural hydromorphone versus intrapleural bupivacaine.
A randomized, prospective, double-blind study.
A university-affiliated medical center.
Twenty patients undergoing lateral thoracotomy for either pulmonary wedge resection, lobectomy, or pneumonectomy.
Nine patients received epidural hydromorphone, and 11 patients received intrapleural bupivacaine in the postoperative period.
Severity of pain was assessed using a visual analog pain scale (VAPS) (0 to 100 mm) at 1, 3, and 5 hours. Patients receiving epidural hydromorphone had a statistically significant improvement in VAPS scores. Patients who received intrapleural bupivacaine did not achieve a significant reduction in pain scores. Nine of 11 patients in the intrapleural bupivacaine group had "failed" postoperative analgesia as defined by a VAPS greater than 30. Only 3 of 9 patients in the continuous epidural hydromorphone group had "failed" analgesia.
Epidural hydromorphone is superior to intrapleural bupivacaine in achieving satisfactory pain outcomes during the first 5 hours after thoracotomy.
Renal magnesium wasting is an important cause of hypomagnesemia observed in hospitalized patients. The purpose of this review is to present an index case of symptomatic hypomagnesemia associated with renal magnesium wasting during capreomycin therapy, and to survey the available literature regarding the various therapeutic agents associated with the causation of this syndrome. Finally, we have considered the pathophysiologic mechanisms that may contribute to the development of the multiple electrolyte abnormalities observed in these patients, and have outlined the current strategies to treat this syndrome.
To define the changes in gene and protein expression of the neuronal glutamate transporter (EAAT3/EAAC1) in a rat model of temporal lobe epilepsy as well as in human hippocampal and neocortical epilepsy.
The expression of EAAT3/EAAC1 mRNA was measured by reverse Northern blotting in single dissociated hippocampal dentate granule cells from rats with pilocarpine-induced temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and age-matched controls, in dentate granule cells from hippocampal surgical specimens from patients with TLE, and in dysplastic neurons microdissected from human focal cortical dysplasia specimens. Immunolabeling of rat and human hippocampi and cortical dysplasia tissue with EAAT3/EAAC1 antibodies served to corroborate the mRNA expression analysis.
The expression of EAAT3/EAAC1 mRNA was increased by nearly threefold in dentate granule cells from rats with spontaneous seizures compared with dentate granule cells from control rats. EAAT3/EAAC1 mRNA levels also were high in human dentate granule cells from patients with TLE and were significantly elevated in dysplastic neurons in cortical dysplasia compared with non-dysplastic neurons from postmortem control tissue. No difference in expression of another glutamate transporter, EAAT2/GLT-1, was observed. Immunolabeling demonstrated that EAAT3/EAAC1 protein expression was enhanced in dentate granule cells from both rats and humans with TLE as well as in dysplastic neurons from human cortical dysplasia tissue.
Elevations of EAAT3/EAAC1 mRNA and protein levels are present in neurons from hippocampus and neocortex in both rats and humans with epilepsy. Upregulation of EAAT3/EAAC1 in hippocampal and neocortical epilepsy may be an important modulator of extracellular glutamate concentrations and may occur as a response to recurrent seizures in these cell types.
Adriamycin (ADR) is a useful antitumor agent but causes severe cardiotoxicity requiring dose limitation. Methylprednisolone (MP) has been shown to stabilize cell membranes and, in ischemic heart models, to protect mitochondria lysosomes and sarcolemma. The purpose of this study was to determine if MP could prevent ADR-induced cardiotoxicity in rats. Twenty-eight normal, male, Wistar rats were placed in two groups of 14 each. One group received ADR 2 mg/kg iv weekly for 3 weeks, followed by 2 mg/kg subcutaneously weekly. The other group received the same dosage of ADR but also MP 20 mg/kg subcutaneously 3 hr before, with ADR and 3 hr after ADR. Seven rats in each group were sacrificed after the 10th week of treatment. At autopsy 7/7 (100%) of the rats in the ADR groups had obvious ascites and pleural effusion whereas 0/7 in the ADR + MP group developed this complication (P less than 0.01). Microscopic examination of the hearts revealed vacuole formation, loss of muscle mass, tapering off of myocardial cells, or inflammatory changes in 7/7 (100%) of the rats in the ADR group and in 2/7 (28%) of the ADR and MP group (P less than 0.05). Among the rats left to monitor survival, at 11 weeks from the initiation of treatment, 4/7 (57%) in the ADR group and 7/7 (100%) in the ADR + MP group were alive. These data indicate that MP provides some protection from Adriamycin-induced cardiotoxicity in rats.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are now in widespread use for the treatment of essential and renovascular hypertension. Consequently, angioedema, an uncommon complication of ACE inhibitor therapy is being encountered with increasing frequency. Since ACE inhibitor angioedema predominantly involves the face, lips, oral cavity, and occasionally the larynx the otolaryngologist is often consulted to evaluate affected patients. Treatment ranges from simple cessation of the drug to emergent airway intervention. The pertinent pharmacologic properties of ACE inhibitors and the pathophysiology of angioedema are discussed. The authors' experience with the evaluation and treatment of ACE inhibitor induced angioedema is presented.
This study determines whether epidural fentanyl given before incision decreases the requirements for opioid analgesia postoperatively, compared with the same dose of epidural fentanyl given after the surgery.
Forty patients scheduled to undergo elective abdominal surgery were randomly allocated between two groups according to the time of administered of fentanyl. None of the patients in either group received premedication. Prior to induction of general anaesthesia an epidural catheter was inserted at the L2-3 interspace and flushed with 0.9% NaCl. Patients then received 100 micrograms fentanyl in 10 mL 0.9% NaCl through this catheter either 15 min before awaking at the end of the operation (group I), or else the same dose given at an estimated time of 15 min before the start of surgery (group II). Postoperative analgesia consisted of patient-controlled intravenous fentanyl. The amount of fentanyl used by the patients was noted at 2, 4, 8, 12 and 24 h after surgery. Pain scores and sedation scores were assessed at 0, 2, 4, 8, 12 and 24 h postoperatively.
The consumption of fentanyl was similar in both groups in all studied periods postoperatively. The mean pain score was lower for patients in group I than group II immediately after operation. There were no statistically significant differences between the mean pain scores of groups at 2, 4, 8, 12 and 24 h after operation. Mean sedation scores were similar in both groups at all times postoperatively.
This study showed that the dose of fentanyl administered epidurally prior to surgical incision did not produce any clinically useful pre-emptive analgesic effect.
A common over-the-counter (OTC) non-opioid antitussive drug, clobutinol, was recently withdrawn from the market due to its potential to induce cardiac arrhythmias by a blockade of the potassium channel coded by the human ether-à-go-go-related gene (hERG). In this study, we investigated the effects of a number of antitussive compounds on the hERG ion channel current using patch-clamp electrophysiology, and compared the effects to that of clobutinol. The compounds clobutinol, pentoxyverine, dextromethorphan, and codeine inhibited the outward current in hERG transfected cells with half-maximal inhibition concentrations (IC50) of 1.9 microM, 3.0 microM, 5.1 microM, and 97 microM, respectively. For theobromine, no significant effect on the hERG current at a concentration up to 100 microM was detected. Safety margins between the effects of the drugs on the hERG ion channel current and their calculated maximal free therapeutic plasma concentration were calculated. These results were compared to assess potential risks of the compounds to induce torsade de pointes-type arrhythmias.
Turmeric (the rhizomes of Curcuma longa L., Zingiberacease) is widely used as a dietary pigment and spice, and has been traditionally used for the treatment of inflammation, skin wounds and hepatic disorders in Ayurvedic, Unani and Chinese medicine. Although the topical application or oral administration of turmeric is used to improve skin trouble, there is no evidence to support this effect. The aim of this study was to clarify whether turmeric prevents chronic ultraviolet B (UVB)-irradiated skin damage. We examined the effects of a turmeric extract on skin damage including changes in skin thickness and elasticity, pigmentation and wrinkling caused by long-term, low-dose ultraviolet B irradiation in melanin-possessing hairless mice. The extract (at 300 or 1000 mg/kg, twice daily) prevented an increase in skin thickness and a reduction in skin elasticity induced by chronic UVB exposure. It also prevented the formation of wrinkles and melanin (at 1000 mg/kg, twice daily) as well as increases in the diameter and length of skin blood vessels and in the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2). Prevention of UVB-induced skin aging by turmeric may be due to the inhibition of increases in MMP-2 expression caused by chronic irradiation.
Delta9-Tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC), the major psychoactive ingredient in preparations of Cannabis sativa (marijuana, hashish), elicits central nervous system (CNS) responses, including cognitive alterations and euphoria. These responses account for the abuse potential of cannabis, while other effects such as analgesia suggest potential medicinal applications. To study the role of the major known target of cannabinoids in the CNS, the CB1 cannabinoid receptor, we have produced a mouse strain with a disrupted CB1 gene. CB1 knockout mice appeared healthy and fertile, but they had a significantly increased mortality rate. They also displayed reduced locomotor activity, increased ring catalepsy, and hypoalgesia in hotplate and formalin tests. Delta9-THC-induced ring-catalepsy, hypomobility, and hypothermia were completely absent in CB1 mutant mice. In contrast, we still found Delta9-THC-induced analgesia in the tail-flick test and other behavioral (licking of the abdomen) and physiological (diarrhea) responses after Delta9-THC administration. Thus, most, but not all, CNS effects of Delta9-THC are mediated by the CB1 receptor.
106 EEG investigations were carried out in 17 children with various types of neoplastic disease without cerebral involvement during one or more courses of treatment with cytotoxic agents. EEGs were recorded before and 24 h after administration of the drugs. A transient slowing of the dominant frequency in the alpha-band by about 1 c/s and a decrease in the relative power of alpha-activity by 20-30% was observed in only 4 patients. These children did not receive the same antineoplastic treatment. 1 patient received very high dose methotrexate, 2 patients received vincristine combined with other cytotoxic agents, and the other patient received L-asparaginase. It is suggested that EEG changes in patients receiving intravenous cytotoxic treatment usually occur only where there is a preexisting impairment of the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier or the blood-brain barrier.
Saethre-Chotzen syndrome is a craniosynostosis syndrome further characterized by distinctive facial and limb abnormalities. It shows complete penetrance and variable expressivity and has been linked to the TWIST gene on chromosome 7p21; more than 80 different intragenic mutations and, recently, large deletions have been detected in Saethre-Chotzen patients. The aim of this study was to genetically and phenotypically characterize patients with a clinical diagnosis of Saethre-Chotzen syndrome.
Patients with a clinical diagnosis as well as those with a genetic diagnosis of Saethre-Chotzen syndrome (n = 34) were included in the study.
The study showed that the important features of Saethre-Chotzen syndrome are brachycephaly (occurring in 74 percent of patients), a broad, depressed nasal bridge (65 percent), a high forehead (56 percent), ptosis (53 percent), and prominent auricular crura (56 percent). Furthermore, using different molecular techniques, pathogenic mutations in the TWIST gene were identified in 71 percent of patients.
Patients with deletions of the TWIST gene did not differ from those with intragenic TWIST mutations in frequency or severity of craniofacial abnormalities. However, they did distinguish themselves by the presence of many additional anomalies and diseases and--most importantly--the high frequency of mental retardation, which was borderline significant. The authors conclude that when using stringent inclusion criteria for studies of Saethre-Chotzen syndrome, patients who have a pathogenic mutation of the TWIST gene should be excluded.
Chronic lithium (Li) administration to rats was found to inhibit the hyperactivity induced by 0.5 mg/kg d-amphetamine but not that induced by 1.0 mg/kg d-amphetamine. Contradictory results on the ability of Li to inhibit amphetamine-induced hyperactivity may be due to the different dosages of amphetamine employed. 2 days after withdrawal from 3 weeks of chronic Li administration, rats showed no rebound supersensitivity of the hyperactivity response to 0.5 mg/kg d-amphetamine. Surprisingly, Li-withdrawn rats showed a marked subsensitivity of the stereotypy response to apomorphine. Such subsensitivity to apomorphine in Li withdrawal may relate to recent reports of homovanillic acid increases in rat brain in Li withdrawal, and to clinical reports of Li withdrawal inducing psychosis.
Insulin resistance is prevalent in heart failure (HF) patients, and beta2 adrenergic receptors (beta2-AR) are involved in glucose homeostasis. We hypothesized that beta2-AR Gln27Glu and Arg16Gly polymorphisms affect insulin resistance in HF patients, and we explored if effects of beta2-AR polymorphisms on glucose handling are modified by choice of beta blocker. We studied 30 nondiabetic adults with HF and a history of systolic dysfunction; 15 were receiving metoprolol succinate, and 15 were receiving carvedilol. We measured fasting glucose, insulin, and insulin resistance, and we determined beta2-AR genotypes at codons 27 and 16. The cohort was insulin resistant with a mean HOMA-IR score of 3.4 (95% CI, 2.3 to 4.5; normal value, 1.0). Patients with the Glu27Glu genotype exhibited higher insulin and HOMA-IR compared to individuals carrying a Gln allele (P = 0.019). Patients taking carvedilol demonstrated lower insulin resistance if also carrying a wild-type allele at codon 27 (fasting insulin, 9.8 +/- 10.5 versus 20.5 +/- 2.1 for variant, P = 0.072; HOMA-IR, 2.4 +/- 2.7 versus 5.1 +/- 0.6, P = 0.074); those on metoprolol succinate had high insulin resistance irrespective of genotype. The beta2-AR Glu27Glu genotype may be associated with higher insulin concentrations and insulin resistance in patients with HF. Future studies are needed to confirm whether treatment with carvedilol may be associated with decreased insulin and insulin resistance in beta2-AR codon 27 Gln carriers.
Renal functions were examined in 53 patients before the start of long-term lithium treatment (I) and then after 4 months (II) and 12 months (III) on lithium treatment. The tubular function was studied by means of the DDAVP (Minirin) test and the glomerular filtration rate was measured by creatinine clearance. The mean maximum urine osmolality (+/- SE) on the first occasion (I) was 800 +/- 20 mosm/kg H2O, 702 +/- 20 on the second (II), and on the third (III) 723 +/- 17 mosm/kg H2O. The mean creatinine clearance before the start of lithium treatment (I) was 128 +/- 5 ml/min, after 4 months (II) 106 +/- 4 and after 12 months (III) 114 +/- 5 ml/min. The results of the present study suggest that lithium treatment with serum levels of approximately 0.6 mmol/l causes a decrease in renal concentrating ability and the glomerular filtration rate in the early stages after the start of therapy. This decrease in the renal functions does not seem to progress during the first year of lithium treatment.
The beneficial effects of aspirin in atherosclerosis are generally attributed to its antiplatelet activities, but its influence on endothelial function remains uncertain. We hypothesized that a cyclooxygenase-dependent constricting factor contributes to the endothelial dysfunction in atherosclerosis and that its action can be reversed by aspirin.
In 14 patients with coronary atherosclerosis and 5 with risk factors, we tested femoral vascular endothelial function with acetylcholine and substance P and endothelium-independent function with sodium nitroprusside before and after intravenous aspirin. Drugs were infused into the femoral artery, and Doppler flow velocity was measured. Acetylcholine-induced but not substance P-or sodium nitroprusside-induced vasodilation was lower in patients with atherosclerosis than in those with only risk factors. Aspirin had no baseline effect but improved acetylcholine-mediated vasodilation only in patients with atherosclerosis; at the peak dose, acetylcholine-mediated femoral vascular resistance index was 19 +/- 5%, P=.002 lower. There was a correlation between the baseline response to acetylcholine and the magnitude of improvement with aspirin (r=.5, P=.05). Thus, patients with a depressed response to acetylcholine had greater improvement with aspirin, and vice versa. The presence of atherosclerosis was an independent determinant of improvement with aspirin. Aspirin had no effect on the responses to either substance P or sodium nitroprusside.
Cyclooxygenase-dependent, endothelium-derived vasoconstrictor release modulates acetylcholine-induced peripheral vasodilation in patients with atherosclerosis. Improvement of endothelial dysfunction with aspirin may improve vasodilation, reduce thrombosis, and inhibit progression of atherosclerosis and provides a pathophysiological basis for the beneficial effects of aspirin in atherosclerosis.
Research in mammalian hair cell regeneration is hampered by a lack of in vivo model of adult mouse inner ear injury. In the present study we investigated the effects of a combination of a single dose of aminoglycoside followed by a loop diuretic in adult mice. The auditory brainstem response threshold shift, extent and defining characteristics of the cochlear lesion were assessed and verified at different time points post-treatment. Our data indicated that this drug combination caused the rapid and extensive death of outer hair cells (OHCs). OHC death presented throughout the cochlea that commenced in the basal turn by 24 h and progressed apically. In contrast, inner hair cell (IHC) loss was delayed and mild. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labelling-positive nuclei demonstrated that the majority of OHCs died via an apoptotic pathway. Auditory threshold shifts of up to 90 dB SPL indicated a profound hearing loss. In addition, the endocochlear potential (EP) in the drug-treated animals displayed a significant decline at 12 h post-treatment followed by recovery by 48 h post-treatment. Despite this recovery, there was a significant and progressive decrease in strial vascularis thickness, which was predominantly due to atrophy of marginal cells. The present study reproduced an adult mouse model of aminoglycoside-induced hearing loss. The mechanism underlying the recovered EP in the model with extensive hair cell death is discussed.
Evidence suggests that de novo, therapy-related and benzene-induced acute myeloid leukemias (AML) occur via similar cytogenetic and genetic pathways, several of which involve aneuploidy, the loss or gain of chromosomes. Aneuploidy of specific chromosomes has been detected in benzene-related leukemia patients as well as in healthy benzene-exposed workers, suggesting that aneuploidy precedes and may be a potential mechanism underlying benzene-induced leukemia. Here, we analyzed the peripheral blood lymphocytes of 47 exposed workers and 27 unexposed controls using a novel OctoChrome fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) technique that simultaneously detects aneuploidy in all 24 chromosomes. Through this chromosome-wide aneuploidy study (CWAS) approach, we found heterogeneity in the monosomy and trisomy rates of the 22 autosomes when plotted against continuous benzene exposure. In addition, statistically significant, chromosome-specific increases in the rates of monosomy [5, 6, 7, 10, 16 and 19] and trisomy [5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 14, 16, 21 and 22] were found to be dose dependently associated with benzene exposure. Furthermore, significantly higher rates of monosomy and trisomy were observed in a priori defined 'susceptible' chromosome sets compared with all other chromosomes. Together, these findings confirm that benzene exposure is associated with specific chromosomal aneuploidies in hematopoietic cells, which suggests that such aneuploidies may play roles in benzene-induced leukemogenesis.
The basal ganglia are involved in the organization of movement and function in the initiation and expression of generalized and limbic seizures. Dopamine is the principal neurotransmitter of the mesencephalic efferent pathways terminating in the mammalian striatum. No function has been ascribed to mesostriatal dopamine in the control of seizure spread in the brain. This work presents evidence that bilateral application of picomole amounts of apomorphine (a dopamine agonist) into the striatum confers protection against seizures produced by pilocarpine (a cholinergic agonist) in rats. The anticonvulsant effect of apomorphine is topographically confined to the caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, and olfactory tubercle. Bilateral application of nanomolar amounts of haloperidol (a dopamine antagonist) into the caudate-putamen or systemic application of haloperidol both lower the threshold for pilocarpine-induced seizures. Local application of an excitatory amino acid N-methyl-D-aspartate, into the substantia nigra pars compacta, ventral tegmental area, or retrorubral area, sites of origin of mesostriatal dopaminergic pathways, protects rats against seizures produced by pilocarpine. These results suggest that dopaminergic transmission in the striatum may be operative in complex neuronal networks modulating the seizure threshold.
Excessive exposure to the widely used herbicide atrazine (ATR) affects several organ systems, including the brain, where neurochemical alterations reflective of dopamine (DA) circuitry perturbation have been reported. The present study aimed to investigate effects of short-term oral exposure to a dose-range (0, 5, 25, 125, or 250 mg/kg) of ATR on behavioral, neurochemical, and molecular indices of toxicity in adult male C57BL/6 mice. The experimental paradigm included open field, pole and grip tests (day 4), novel object recognition (NOR) and forced swim test (FST; day 9), followed by tissue collection 4h post dosing on day 10. After 4 days of exposure, ATR decreased locomotor activity (≥125 mg/kg). On day 9, ATR-exposed mice exhibited dose-dependent decreased performance in the NOR test (≥25 mg/kg) and spent more time swimming and less time immobile during the FST (≥125 mg/kg). Neurochemically, short-term ATR exposure increased striatal DA and DA turnover (its metabolite homovanillic acid [HVA] and the HVA/DA ratio; ≥125 mg/kg). In addition, ATR exposure increased the levels of the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the striatum (≥125 mg/kg) and it also increased DA turnover (≥125 mg/kg), 5-HIAA (125 mg/kg), and norepinephrine (≥125 mg/kg) levels in the prefrontal cortex. In the hippocampus, the only effect of ATR was to increase the norepinephrine metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG; 250 mg/kg). At the molecular level, the expression of key striatal (protein) or nigral (mRNA) markers associated with nigrostriatal DA function, such as tyrosine hydroxylase, DA transporter, vesicular monoamine transporter 2, and DA receptors, was not affected by ATR. These results indicate that short-term ATR exposure targets multiple monoamine pathways at the neurochemical level, including in the striatum, and induces behavioral abnormalities suggestive of impaired motor and cognitive functions and increased anxiety. Impaired performance in the NOR behavioral test was the most sensitive endpoint affected by ATR; this should be taken into consideration for future low-dose ATR studies and for the assessment of risk associated with overexposure to this herbicide.
Attempts to avoid gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity in the presence of renal dysfunction assume that the nephrotoxicity threshold is unchanged from that of the normal patient. The purpose of the present study was to compare the response of the subclinically diseased kidney to the normal kidney when exposed to identical serum concentrations of gentamicin. This study used exponentially declining infusions based on preinfusion pharmacokinetics to achieve identical serum gentamicin concentration profiles in intact (intact-gentamicin) and subtotally nephrectomized (nephrectomized-gentamicin) beagle dogs. After 10 daily 12-hr infusions, relative nephrotoxicity was compared using serum chemistries and histopathologic analysis in intact- and nephrectomized-control (untreated) dogs. For intact-gentamicin and nephrectomized-gentamicin dogs, respectively, infusion steady-state serum concentrations were 5.3 +/- 0.3 vs. 5.5 +/- 0.5 (microgram/ml) and elimination rates were 0.19 +/- 0.02 vs. 0.20 +/- 0.01(hr-1) (mean +/- S.E.M.). Postinfusion histopath scoring of renal lesions (0-30, with 30 being most severe) were 11 +/- 5 (nephrectomized-gentamicin), 4 +/- 2 (nephrectomized-control), 2 +/- 2 (intact-gentamicin) and 0 +/- 0 (intact-control). Gentamicin-induced renal dysfunction in nephrectomized dogs was characterized further by administering nonindividualized multiple dosage regimens. Toxicity in the subclinical disease state was marked by oliguria and acute renal failure in contrast to the mild polyuria seen in intact animals. These findings support increased sensitivity to gentamicin nephrotoxicity in dogs with mild renal dysfunction secondary to subtotal surgical nephrectomy.
Studies in rats have shown that neomycin administration attenuates certain types of adrenocortical steroid dependent hypertension, including ACTH hypertension. The effects of oral neomycin on ACTH induced hypertension were examined in conscious sheep. Neomycin has no effect on the blood pressure or metabolic responses to ACTH in sheep.
