Genetic iron overload, or hemochromatosis, can be caused by mutations in HFE, hemojuvelin, and hepcidin genes. Hepcidin, a negative regulator of intestinal iron absorption, is found to be inappropriately low in both patients and in animal models, indicating that proper control of basal hepcidin levels requires both hemojuvelin and HFE. In mice, repulsive guidance molecule c (Rgmc, the hemojuvelin mouse ortholog) and hepcidin levels are transcriptionally regulated during inflammation. Here, we report that basal Rgmc levels in Hfe-deficient mice are normal and that these mice retain the ability to suppress Rgmc expression after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge. Thus, Rgmc regulation by LPS is Hfe-independent. The response of Rgmc to LPS involves signaling through toll-like receptor 4 (Tlr4), because Tlr4-deficient mice do not show altered Rgmc expression after LPS administration. We further show that tumor necrosis factor-alpha, but not interleukin-6, is sufficient to cause Rgmc down-regulation by LPS. These results contrast with previous data demonstrating that hepcidin levels are directly regulated by interleukin-6 but not by tumor necrosis factor-alpha. The regulation of iron-related genes by different cytokines may allow for time-dependent control of iron metabolism changes during inflammation and may be relevant to chronic inflammation, infections, and cancer settings, leading to the development of anemia of chronic disease.
We have previously reported that selective dopamine (DA) D3 receptor antagonists are effective in a number of animal models of drug addiction, but not in intravenous drug self-administration, suggesting a limited ability to modify drug reward. In the present study, we evaluated the actions ofS33138, a novel partially selective D3 receptor antagonist, in animal models relevant to drug addiction. S33138, at doses of 0.156 or 0.625 mg/kg (i.p.), attenuated cocaine-enhanced brain-stimulation reward (BSR), and the highest dose tested (2.5 mg/kg) produced a significant aversive-like rightward shift in BSR rate-frequency reward functions. Further, S33138 produced biphasic effects on cocaine self-administration, i.e., a moderate dose (2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) increased, while a higher dose (5 mg/kg, p.o.) inhibited, cocaine self-administration. The increase in cocaine self-administration likely reflects a compensatory response to a partial reduction in drug reward after S33138. In addition, S33138 (0.156-2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) also dose-dependently inhibited cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. The reduction in cocaine-enhanced BSR and cocaine-triggered reinstatement produced by lower effective doses (e.g., 0.156 or 0.625 mg/kg) of 533138 is unlikely due to impaired locomotion, as lower effective doses of S33138 decreased neither Ymax levels in the BSR paradigm, rotarod performance, nor locomotion. However, the higher doses (2.5 or 5 mg/kg) of S33138 also significantly inhibited sucrose self-administration and rotarod performance, suggesting non-D3 receptor-mediated effects on non-drug reward and locomotion. These data suggest that lower doses of S33138 interacting essentially with D3 receptors have pharmacotherapeutic potential in treatment of cocaine addiction, while higher doses occupying D2 receptors may influence locomotion and non-drug reward.
To compare the effect of budesonide Turbuhaler 400 microg/day with budesonide aqua 256 microg/day in the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR). Secondarily to ascertain patients' preferences for the two nasal devices and to assess quality of life.
Randomized, multicentre, double-blind, double- dummy, parallel groups study.
Private practices and hospital clinics in Ontario, Quebec and Manitoba.
Two hundred and eighty-four out-patients with SAR, who were symptomatic during the ragweed season, volunteered for enrolment (243 randomized).
Mean daily nasal symptom scores were significantly reduced with treatment. There were no statistically significant changes from baseline for eye symptoms. Most patients (more than 80%) achieved substantial control of their symptoms with budesonide. The most common nasal and non-nasal adverse events for both groups were epistaxis and headache. Turbuhaler was easier to use and more convenient to carry, had less of an unpleasant taste, and caused less nasal irritation than the aqua spray. More than twice as many patients preferred Turbuhaler to the aqua spray (69% versus 31%). Improvement in quality of life from baseline to clinic visits was statistically significant in both groups.
Once daily use of 256 mg of budesonide aqua and 400 mg of budesonide Turbuhaler are equally safe and efficacious in the treatment of SAR. Patients preferred the budesonide powder formulation delivered via Turbuhaler two to one over the aqua formulation.
Well known complications related to cocaine use are myocardial insufficiency, myocardial infarction, myocarditis, aortic dissection, neurologic damages, ischemic colitis, thrombotic phenomenons, renal infarction and acute liver failure. Cases of splenic infarctions related to cocaine use are extremely rare. A 17-year-old drug addict was found by her boy-friend liveless in her bed. She was well known using cocaine since years. Autopsy revealed multiple splenic infarctions with secondary mixed bacterial infection and abscesses. Petechial bleedings were found and microabscesses in the myocardium, the meninges and the kidneys. The absolutely rare bacterial infection of the cocaine-associated splenic infarction leads to sepsis with lethal course.
Protein trafficking across the glomerular capillary has a pathogenic role in subsequent renal damage. Despite evidence that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors improve glomerular size-selectivity, whether this effect is solely due to ANG II blocking or if other mediators also play a contributory role is not clear yet. We studied 20 proteinuric patients with IgA nephropathy, who received either enalapril (20 mg/day) or the ANG II receptor blocker irbesartan (100 mg/day) for 28 days in a randomized double-blind study. Measurements of blood pressure, renal hemodynamics, and fractional clearance of neutral dextran of graded sizes were performed before and after 28 days of treatment. Both enalapril and irbesartan significantly reduced blood pressure over baseline. This reduction reached the maximum effect 4-6 h after drug administration but did not last for the entire 24-h period. Despite transient antihypertensive effect, proteinuria was effectively reduced by both treatments to comparable extents. Neither enalapril nor irbesartan modified the sieving coefficients of small dextran molecules, but both effectively reduced transglomerular passage of large test macromolecules. Theoretical analysis of sieving coefficients showed that neither drug affected significantly the mean pore radius or the spread of the pore-size distribution, but both importantly and comparably reduced the importance of a nonselective shunt pathway. These data suggest that antagonism of ANG II is the key mechanism by which ACE inhibitors exert their beneficial effect on glomerular size-selective function and consequently on glomerular filtration and urinary output of plasma proteins.
A case of hepatocellular carcinoma in a young female is presented in which the apparent etiology was the use of oral contraceptives for 5 1/2 years. Sequential therapeutic trials with intraarterial 5-fluorouracil, intraarterial adriamycin, and intravenous 1,3 bis[2-chloroethyl]-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) were unsuccesful. The adverse effects of oral contraceptives on the structure and function of hepatic tissue are reviewed.
A case of hepatocellular carcinoma in a 28-year-old female is presented in which the apparent etiology was use of oral contraceptives (OCs) for 5.5 years. The patient's medical history was nonrevealing, except that she had been taking Norinyl 1/50 regularly from age 22.5-25, stopped for several months, and then restarted and continued use for the 3 years preceding illness. The total calculated dose from April 1969 to May 1975 was 1365 mg of norethindrone and 68 mg of mestranol. Data on the hepatocellular carcinoma development after exposure to androgenic anabolic steroids are reviewed, and mention of mestranol as a previously postulated causative agent is emphasized. In an attempt to relate the hepatic carcinogenicity of androgens to OCs, however, another report cited suggests that the progestational agents derived from 19-nortestosterone have androgenic activity and thus are highly suspect. Modulation of androgenic activity by the estrogenic compound may be a complex interaction yielding a final end point through a spectrum of minor and benign hepatic changes into a final phase of malignant transformation.
Iron, presumably by participating in generation of hydroxyl radical or other oxidant species or initiation of lipid peroxidation, has been shown to play an important role in several models of tissue injury, including acute renal failure induced by the antibiotic gentamicin. However, the sources of iron remain unknown. Rat renal mitochondria incubated at 37 degrees C with gentamicin resulted in a time- (15-60 min) and a dose-dependent (0.01-5 mM) iron release as measured by formation of iron-bathophenanthroline sulfonate complex FeII-(BPS)3 [at 60 min, control: 1.2 +/- 0.1 nmol/mg protein, n = 7; gentamicin (5 mM): 5.1 +/- 0.4 nmol/mg protein, n = 7]. No formation of FeII(BPS)3 complex was detected in the absence of mitochondria or when incubations were carried out at 0 degrees C. Similar results were obtained when 2,2'-dipyridyl, another iron chelator, was used for measurement of iron release. On the basis on our previous study that gentamicin enhances generation of hydrogen peroxide by renal cortical mitochondria, we examined whether effect of gentamicin on iron release is mediated by hydrogen peroxide. Catalase (which decomposes hydrogen peroxide), but not heat-inactivated catalase, as well as pyruvate, a potent scavenger of hydrogen peroxide, prevented gentamicin-induced iron mobilization. Superoxide dismutase, a scavenger of superoxide anion, or hydroxyl radical scavengers (dimethylthiourea or sodium benzoate) had no effect. Taken together, the data with scavengers indicate that gentamicin-induced iron mobilization from mitochondria is mediated by hydrogen peroxide.
Exercise has recently been suggested as an attractive alternative to pharmacotherapy for treating drug addiction. The goal of this study was to determine, using an animal model, whether aerobic exercise may block reinstatement of cocaine-seeking and its underlying neurobiology (i.e., neuronal signaling in the prefrontal cortex).
Following acquisition and 10 days of 24-hour access to cocaine (1.5 mg/kg/infusion) or saline under a discrete trial procedure (four infusions/hr), rats began a 14-day abstinence period. During this period, rats were either given access to a running-wheel for 2-hours each day or placed in similar boxes with the wheel locked. Cocaine-seeking was assessed following the 14th day of abstinence using a within-session extinction/cue-induced reinstatement procedure. Neuronal activity was assessed by examining phosphorylated levels of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK) using Western blot analysis.
Wheel running reduced cocaine-seeking during both extinction and reinstatement. Cocaine-seeking was positively associated with pERK levels in the prefrontal cortex. Although pERK levels were not different among saline controls, in the cocaine group, pERK levels were significantly decreased by exercise.
Aerobic exercise may reduce relapse vulnerability by preventing the increase in cocaine-seeking and associated neuroadaptations in the prefrontal cortex that develop over an abstinence period.
Inhalation of the superantigen,staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB), leads to the activation of the host T and invariant natural killer (iNK) T cells, thereby resulting in acute lung inflammation and respiratory failure but the underlying mechanism(s) of disease remain elusive, with limited treatment options. In this study, we investigated the therapeutic effectiveness of resveratrol, a plant polyphenol, during SEB-induced lung inflammation.
C57BL/6 mice were exposed to SEB (50 µg·per mouse), administered intranasally, and were treated with resveratrol (100 mg·kg(-1)) before or after SEB exposure. Lung injury was studied by measuring vascular permeability, histopathological examination, nature of infiltrating cells, inflammatory cytokine induction in the bronchoalveolar fluid (BALF), apoptosis in SEB-activated T cells and regulation of SIRT1 and NF-κB signalling pathways.
Pretreatment and post-treatment with resveratrol significantly reduced SEB-induced pulmonary vascular permeability, and inflammation. Resveratrol significantly reduced lung infiltrating cells and attenuated the cytokine storm in SEB-exposed mice, which correlated with increased caspase-8-dependent apoptosis in SEB-activated T cells. Resveratrol treatment also markedly up-regulated Cd11b+ and Gr1+ myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) that inhibited SEB-mediated T cell activation in vitro. In addition, resveratrol treatment was accompanied by up-regulation of SIRT1 and down-regulation of NF-κB in the inflammatory cells of the lungs.
The current study demonstrates that resveratrol may constitute a novel therapeutic modality to prevent and treat SEB-induced lung inflammation inasmuch because it acts through several pathways to reduce pulmonary inflammation.
The case described here illustrates the need to consider milk-alkali syndrome in the differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia, even in this age of histamine2 blockers and mucosal protectors. Thorough history taking and gastrointestinal workup help rule out alternative causes of hypercalcemia, such as cancer, hyperparathyroidism, and other metabolic and endocrine diseases. Milk-alkali syndrome is managed by administration of saline solution and loop diuretics and avoidance of thiazide diuretics. Patient education regarding the hazards of abusing calcium-containing antacids is essential.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a prominent neuropeptide involved in micturition reflexes, and different roles in these reflexes have been suggested. These studies examined the expression of CRF in the urinary bladder and lumbosacral sacral parasympathetic nucleus (SPN) in response to cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis (4 h, 48 h, or chronic) in rats. The expression of CRF receptors, CRF(1) and CRF(2), was examined in urinary bladder from control and CYP-treated rats. Urinary bladder and lumbosacral spinal cord were harvested from rats killed by isoflurane (4%) and thoracotomy. CRF protein expression in whole urinary bladders significantly (P < or = 0.01) increased with 48 h or chronic CYP treatment. CRF immunoreactivity (IR) was increased significantly (P < or = 0.01) in the urothelium and SPN after CYP treatment. CRF IR nerve fibers increased in density in the suburothelial plexus and detrusor smooth muscle whole mounts with CYP-induced cystitis. CRF(2) receptor transcript was expressed in the urothelium or detrusor smooth muscle, and CRF(2) receptor expression increased in whole bladder with CYP-treatment, whereas no CRF(1) receptor transcript was expressed in either urothelium or detrusor. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated CRF(2) IR in urinary bladder nerve fibers and urothelial cells from control animals, whereas no CRF(1) IR was observed. These studies demonstrated changes in the expression of CRF in urinary bladder and SPN region with CYP-induced cystitis and CRF receptor (CRF(2)) expression in nerve fibers and urothelium in control rats. CRF may contribute to urinary bladder overactivity and altered sensory processing with CYP-induced cystitis.
Central administration of angiotensin IV (Ang IV) analogues attenuates scopolamine-induced amnesia. Ang IV mediates its effects by binding to a high affinity, binding site, AT(4) receptor, that has recently been identified as insulin regulated aminopeptidase (IRAP). The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of the distinct AT(4) ligand, LVV-hemorphin-7 (LVV-H7), on scopolamine-induced learning deficits, one which involves fear-conditioning and the other spatial learning. Rats were pretreated with an intracerebroventricular (ICV) dose of scopolamine hydrobromide followed by treatment with 1 nmol LVV-H7 or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF). During the acquisition phase of the water maze task, daily ICV infusions of 1 nmol of LVV-H7 25 min after scopolamine treatment produced marked improvement in both the latency and distance swum in order to locate the submerged platform using visual cues compared to animals treated with scopolamine only. In addition, the same dose of LVV-H7 attenuated the learning deficit observed for scopolamine-treated animals in the passive avoidance task. These studies clearly demonstrate that LVV-H7, like Ang IV, is a pharmacologically active AT(4) ligand that attenuates the deleterious effects of scopolamine on learning performance in two different behavioral paradigms.
To define the clinical characteristics of acyclovir neurotoxicity and to outline how to distinguish it from viral encephalitis.
Case series of acyclovir neurotoxicity.
All cases reported in Index Medicus or in bibliographic reviews of acyclovir neurotoxicity plus two representative studies of Varicella zoster and Herpes simplex virus encephalitis.
Thirty-five patients who developed neuropsychiatric symptoms during acyclovir therapy.
Analysis of the patients' demographics, risk factors, acyclovir dosages and duration, clinical and laboratory findings and outcome.
All clinical and laboratory findings that were statistically significantly different from viral encephalitis.
The median age was 53.3 years. The most common predisposing factors were the use of other potentially neurotoxic medications (17 cases) and acute or chronic renal failure (15 cases). Acyclovir levels were frequently found above the therapeutic range. The characteristic manifestations were confusion (15 cases), hallucination or delirium (9 cases), agitation (8 cases) and lethargy (10 cases). Few patients had associated tremors (11 cases). Fever, headache, seizures and focal neurologic findings were distinctly rare. Cerebrospinal fluid and computed tomography were normal except in patients with other central nervous system disorders. Symptoms appeared within 2 days of therapy in the majority and resolved completely within several days of discontinuing acyclovir.
Acyclovir neurotoxicity is a self-limiting, dose-dependent phenomenon which is more common in the elderly, in patients with renal failure or in association with other neurotoxic medications. It is distinguished from viral encephalitis by its sudden onset, absence of fever or headache, lack of focal neurologic findings and normal cerebrospinal fluid.
2-Chloro-10-[3(-dimethylamino)propyl]phenothiazinemonohydrochloride (chlorpromazine) is a phenothiazine derivative used clinically to control psychotic disorders. It also exhibits an anticancer activity. Treatment with chlorpromazine (CPZ) results in cell-cycle arrest at the G2/M phase in rat C6 glioma cells. CPZ reduces the expression of cell cycle-related proteins, such as cyclin D1, cyclin A, and cyclin B1, but causes an increase in the p21(Waf1/Cip1) level. The molecular mechanism by which CPZ regulates p21(Waf1/Cip1) expression is unknown. Here, we provide evidence that CPZ activates the p21(Waf1/Cip1) gene promoter via induction of the transcription factor early growth response-1 (Egr-1) independently of p53 in C6 cells. A point mutation in the Egr-1-binding motif within the p21(Waf1/Cip1) promoter abrogated promoter inducibility due to CPZ. Forced expression of Egr-1 enhanced p21(Waf1/Cip1) promoter activity. In contrast, knockdown of endogenous Egr-1 by small interference RNA attenuated CPZ-induced p21(Waf1/Cip1) promoter activity. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay demonstrated that Egr-1 binds to the p21(Waf1/Cip1) gene promoter. Further analysis showed that the ERK and JNK MAP kinases are required for induction of Egr-1 by CPZ. Finally, stable silencing of Egr-1 expression lead to attenuated CPZ-inducible p21(Waf1/Cip1) expression and inhibited G2/M phase cell-cycle arrest. These results demonstrate that a functional link between ERK and JNK MAP kinase pathways and p21(Waf1/Cip1) induction via Egr-1 contributes to CPZ-induced anticancer activity in C6 glioma cells.
In 1997, it was reported that a PTEN gene deletion, a common genetic mutation in Cowden's disease (CD), was identified in a patient with Bannayan-Riley-Ruvacalba (BRR), suggesting that the two diseases were allelic. However, the clinical overlap between the two diseases has largely remained unclear.
To confirm the genetic and clinical association in a family segregating both CD and BRR.
Clinical evaluation and genetic analysis using a denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), temporal temperature gradient electrophoresis (TTGE), and DNA sequencing techniques.
Our patient presents with typical BRR clinical manifestations, including multiple lentigines on his penis, while his mother presents with typical manifestations of CD, including multiple malignancies. Genetic analyses of leukocytes from the patient and his mother showed mutations in exon 8 that was identified as the presumably truncating mutation R335X.
This report provides clinical evidence that both BRR and CD are closely related and confirms the PTEN gene mutation in BRR and CD patients segregating in the same family, thus confirming the genetic linkage between the two genodermatoses.
Dose-response expression of kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) gene in kidney cortex and its correlation with morphology and traditional biomarkers of nephrotoxicity (plasma creatinine and blood urea nitrogen, BUN) or segment-specific marker of proximal tubule injury (kidney glutamine synthetase, GSK) were studied in male rats treated with proximal tubule segment-specific nephrotoxicants. These included hexachloro-1:3-butadiene (HCBD, S(3) segment-specific), potassium dichromate (chromate, S(1)-S(2) segment-specific), and cephaloridine (Cph, S(2) segment-specific). Rats were treated with a single intraperitoneal (ip) injection of HCBD 25, 50, and 100 mg/kg, subcutaneous (sc) injection of chromate 8, 12.5, and 25 mg/kg; or ip injection of Cph 250, 500, and 1,000 mg/kg. KIM-1 gene showed a dose-dependent up-regulation induced by all segment-specific nephrotoxicants. Interestingly, magnitude of the up-regulation reflected the severity of microscopic tubular changes (degeneration, necrosis, and regeneration). Even low-severity microscopic observations were evidenced by significant gene expression changes. Furthermore, KIM-1 showed significant up-regulation even in the absence of morphological changes. In contrast, traditional and specific markers demonstrated low sensitivity or specificity. In conclusion, this study suggested KIM-1 as a sensitive molecular marker of different levels of tubular injury, and it is likely to represent a potential tool for early screening of nephrotoxicants.
Five, 3-month-old mongrel dogs weighing between 4.5 to 5.5 kg were studied to evaluate and compare the efficiency of 99mTc-DTPA, 99mTc-MAG3, and 99mTc-DMSA in detecting gentamicin-induced renal tubular injury. After baseline renograms using all three methods, all dogs received daily intramuscular injections of gentamicin at a dose of 30-45 mg/kg. Additional studies were obtained after a cumulative dose of 450, 1,575, and 2,250 mg of gentamicin was reached. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR), effective renal plasma flow (ERPF), and percentage of total renal uptake measurements were calculated. Baseline and post-gentamicin injection blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine values were determined. A Duncan test revealed significant renal function impairment at 450 mgs of cumulated gentamicin with 99mTc-DMSA and at 1,575 mgs of cumulated gentamicin for 99mTc-DTPA and 99mTc-MAG3. There was no correlation between BUN and serum creatinine values when compared to gentamicin (p > 0.05). The images obtained with 99mTc-MAG3 were of better quality than those obtained with 99mTc-DTPA even under severe renal dysfunction. Percentage of 99mTc-DMSA uptake indicated renal damage, before than GFR and ERPF. BUN and serum creatinine measurements were poor indicators of gentamicin-induced renal failure.
To detect the methylation of P15INK4B gene in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and to investigate the demethylating effects of decitabine and arsenic trioxide (As2O3).
The bone marron mononuclear cells from 14 MDS patients were collected. The methylation of P15INK4B gene was detected with restrictive endonucleases combined with PCR technique. The peripheral blood mononuclear cells from one of the patients who had progressed into acute leukemia were treated with decitabine and As2O3 in vitro to test the change of methylation.
No methylation of P15INK4B gene was detected in MDS patients with low risk of leukemia. The methylation of P15K4B gene was found in 4 MDS patients with high-risk of leukemia and 4 patients who had progressed from MDS to acute leukemia. After exposed to decitabine or As2O3, the methylation went down by 50%.
P15INK4B gene hypermethylation is closely associated with MDS pathogenesis. Decitabine and As2O3 have demethylating effect on the cells from the MDS patient.
Clonidine is a hypotensive drug acting as an alpha-mimetic agent in the central nervous system and causing cardiovascular depression. Clonidine administration in animals and man causes slight hyperglycemia and lipid mobilization, as well as an increase in growth hormone levels. We have studied the effect of a 3-day oral treatment (78 microgram three times daily) upon glucose (5 g i.v.)- and tolbutamide (1 g i.v.)-induced insulin release in subjects without metabolic alterations. Acute insulin response (3 min after IVGTT) and insulin release (area between 0 and 10 min) were significantly reduced after clonidine treatment. Blood glucose levels were not affected by clonidine treatment; the insulinogenic index 3 min after the glucose load was significantly reduced by clonidine administration. There was neither an evident effect on tolbutamide-induced insulin release nor a modification of the hypoglycemic effect of tolbutamide. Clonidine did not affect basal lipolysis, evaluated in vitro as glycerol release from human subcutaneous adipose tissue fragments, while norepinephrine-induced lipolysis was slightly reduced. The results presented are compatible with an alpha-mimetic effect of clonidine on pancreatic and adipose tissue.
1-Nitropyrene (1-NP), 1,6-dinitropyrene (1,6-DNP) and 1,8-dinitropyrene (1,8-DNP), which are potent mutagenic components of diesel exhaust and air pollutants, were injected subcutaneously into the back of F344 rats. No tumor was induced by experimental day 650 in rats treated with 40 or 4 mg of 1-NP. On the other hand, 1,6-DNP at a total dose of 4 mg was demonstrated to induce sarcomas at the injection site in all 10 rats. 1,8-DNP at total doses of 0.4 and 0.04 mg also induced sarcomas in 10 and 9 out of 10 rats, respectively, by day 320. Our previous finding that 1-NP was carcinogenic was possibly due to contamination of the preparation with dinitropyrenes.
A case of fetal demise and maternal recovery after acetaminophen overdose is presented, to our knowledge the first reported. Fetal liver and maternal serum concentrations indicate overdose to be the cause of fetal death. Maternal disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) may have been related to maternal acetaminophen-induced liver disease alone or to a combination of liver disease and the presence of a dead fetus.
Although the mechanisms and susceptibility factors of troglitazone-associated idiosyncratic liver injury have not been elucidated, experimental evidence has identified oxidant stress and mitochondrial injury as a potential hazard in vitro. In search of upstream mediators of toxicity, we hypothesized that troglitazone-induced increased mitochondrial generation of superoxide might activate the thioredoxin-2 (Trx2)/apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (Ask1) signaling pathway, leading to cell death, and that, hence, the mitochondrially targeted radical scavenger, mito-carboxy proxyl (CP), would prevent the increase in superoxide net levels and inhibit mitochondrial signaling and cell injury. Immortalized human hepatocytes (HC-04) were exposed to troglitazone (0-100 microM), which caused concentration and time-dependent apoptosis after 12-24 h (ketoconazole-insensitive). We found that troglitazone rapidly dissipated the mitochondrial inner transmembrane potential (DeltaPsi(m)) and independently increased the net levels of mitochondrial superoxide by 5-fold. This was followed by a shift of the redox ratio of mitochondrial Trx2 toward the oxidized state and subsequent activation of Ask1. Cell injury, but not the decrease in DeltaPsi(m), was prevented by cyclosporin A (3 microM), indicating that mitochondrial permeabilization, but not membrane depolarization, was causally involved in cell death. Mito-CP not only decreased troglitazone-induced superoxide levels but also prevented Trx2 oxidation and activation of Ask1 and protected cells from toxic injury. These data indicate that troglitazone, but not its oxidative metabolite(s), produce intramitochondrial oxidant stress that activates the Trx2/Ask1 pathway, leading to mitochondrial permeabilization. Furthermore, the data support our concept that targeted delivery of an antioxidant to mitochondria can inhibit upstream signaling and protect from troglitazone-induced lethal cell injury.
To assess the mortality and resource utilization that results from acute renal failure associated with amphotericin B therapy, 707 adult admissions in which parenteral amphotericin B therapy was given were studied at a tertiary-care hospital. Main outcome measures were mortality, length of stay, and costs; we controlled for potential confounders, including age, sex, insurance status, baseline creatinine level, length of stay before beginning amphotericin B therapy, and severity of illness. Among 707 admissions, there were 212 episodes (30%) of acute renal failure. When renal failure developed, the mortality rate was much higher: 54% versus 16% (adjusted odds of death, 6.6). When acute renal failure occurred, the mean adjusted increase in length of stay was 8.2 days, and the adjusted total cost was $29,823. Although residual confounding exists despite adjustment, the increases in resource utilization that we found are large and the associated mortality is high when acute renal failure occurs following amphotericin B therapy.
One-third of Wistar rats bred in our laboratory present recurrent seizures whose EEG and clinical symptomatology resemble those of human petit mal. Bilateral cortical synchronous spike- and wave discharges (7-11 c/s; 200-600 microV, lasting 0.5 to 40 s) accompany behavioral arrest and are associated frequently with facial myoclonia. These seizures, observed as long as the animals survive, appear spontaneously and seem to be unrelated to surgical procedures. Antiepileptics in common clinical use were tested. Ethosuximide (greater than 12.5 mg/kg), diazepam (greater than 0.5 mg/kg), trimethadione and sodium valproate (greater than 50 mg/kg) suppressed these discharges in a dose related manner. Carbamazepine and phenytoin were ineffective or aggravated the seizures. Phenobarbital, effective at 2.5 to 10 mg/kg, was ineffective at 20 mg/kg. The similar effects of these antiepileptics on both the rats' seizures and human petit mal confirm the hypothesis that this phenomenon constitutes a valid pharmacological model of petit mal epilepsy. Its predictive value appears to be superior to that of other currently used models.
Vinblastine sulfate (VLB) suspended within a collagen matrix (CM) as a diffusion limiting drug delivery vehicle was examined in vitro, as well as in mouse subcutaneous and brain tumor models. Against RIF-1 and KHT subcutaneous tumors, there was enhancement of antitumor activity with intratumoral (i.t.) delivery of VLB when it was combined with CM and/or epinephrine (epi) provided as a vasoactive agent to limit diffusion of VLB away from the injection site. Furthermore, in pharmacokinetic studies an 3-fold enhancement of tumor exposure to drug (AUC) with the CM-formulation was observed relative to the administration of free VLB i.t. Craniotactic injection of VLB into mouse brain in doses from 0.2 to 2 mg/kg revealed that the CM association markedly reduced the acute toxicity of VLB in normal mouse brain. Furthermore, mice with stereotactically implanted KHT brain tumors treated with 0.2 mg/kg VLB in CM had less tumor present in the brain histologically compared to the free VLB and untreated control groups.
There is little doubt that members of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) families play key roles in the transition from adaptive hypertrophic remodeling to heart failure. Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 7 (MKK7) is a critical component of stress-activated MAP kinase signaling pathway. The role of MKK7 plays in mediating cardiac remodeling in response to load stress has yet to be defined. Herein, we investigate the role of MKK7 in regulating cardiac remodeling in response to pressure overload. We generated and examined the phenotype of mice with cardiomyocyte-specific deletion of the mkk7 gene (MKK7(cko)). Following one week of pressure overload, MKK7(cko) mice exhibited characteristic phenotypes of heart failure evidenced by deterioration in ventricular function and pulmonary congestion. Cell death assays revealed an increased prevalence of cardiomyocyte apoptosis in the MKK7(cko) heart, in which elevated p53 levels and attenuated expression of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) were found. Moreover, extensive interstitial fibrosis was discovered in the knockout heart likely attributable to upregulation of transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling. These results reveal an essential role of MKK7 in cardiomyocytes for protecting the heart from hypertrophic insults thereby preventing the transition to heart failure.
