A number of experimental data indicate that hyperprolactinemia inhibits the activity of 5-alpha-reductase; however, no information is available about the time required for this enzyme to re-activate after prolactinemia has returned to normal values. In the present study, five normal caucasian men, whose fertility had previously been proven, were given HCG (5000 IU/day by intramuscular route for three days) both in basal conditions and after sulpiride-induced hyperprolactinemia (dosage = 200 mg/day for ten days). In both conditions, the plasma levels of prolactin (PRL), testosterone (T), dihydro-testosterone (DHT), 17-beta-estradiol (E2), and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHAS) were monitored during the treatment with HCG and for an additional 24 hrs after HCG discontinuation. All hormones were assayed by RIA. Our results demonstrate that hyperprolactinemia causes a marked decrease (58%) of DHT, a less marked decrease (39%) of T, an increase (43%) of DHAS whereas only a small increase (2%) of E2 was observed. Steroids were shown to behave differently after the HCG tests performed in the two experimental conditions. In particular, the levels of DHT had a much more pronounced increased after HCG in the second test than in the first; in contrast, both DHAS and E2 had a less marked response after the second test. Our data, on the one hand, confirm that 5-alpha-reductase is inhibited by hyperprolactinemia; on the other hand, the hyperprolactinemia-induced block of this enzyme appears to be rapidly reversible because the enzyme is reactivated within 48-72 hrs after normalization of prolactin levels. (Normal values of prolactin were on the average achieved on the 4th day after sulpiride discontinuation).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A study involving the use of a mixture of ketamine and midazolam delivered via patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) device was trialed to assess its effectiveness in reducing pain associated with repeated burns dressings in an adult population.
Patients undergoing burns dressings changes were given a PCA device of ketamine and midazolam to use during the procedure. The aims were to investigate the efficacy of the device and to ascertain what (if any) adverse effects were associated with its use.
During the trial period, 44 patients who underwent 95 separate procedures were enrolled. The effectiveness of the device was rated (out of 10) by both staff and patients with the mean scores being 8.47 and 8.50, respectively. In all but 1 case, the proposed procedure was carried out successfully. Thirteen patients reported a total of 23 adverse effects, with hallucinations (11) being the most common.
The use of ketamine/midazolam delivered by PCA was shown to be an effective means of pain control during burns dressings as assessed by both staff and patients. The incidence of adverse events was low.
Standardized hyperventilation in young subjects induces changes in the EEG, a decrease in the velocity of the cerebral blood flow and a decline in cognitive performance, which are comparable to those occurring in patients with cerebral ischaemia. The anti-ischaemic properties of aniracetam and 3-OH aniracetam were tested in this model. A single oral dose of 3-OH aniracetam 1500 mg appeared to have the most pronounced effect on hyperventilation-induced EEG changes and cognitive deterioration. The test drugs had no effect on the heart rate or blood flow velocity. The effects agree with those of other drugs classified as noötropics.
There has been a steady increase in the number of newborns affected by maternal drug use. Cocaine and its metabolites cross the placenta and have been routinely measured in neonatal urine; however, due to the short half-life of the drug many exposed fetuses have negative urine tests. We have developed a neonatal hair test for measuring cocaine and its metabolites by radioimmunoassay. Since the validation of this test we prospectively evaluated its clinical utility by physicians, hospital nurseries and social welfare agencies who requested neonatal hair analysis to verify clinical suspicion of maternal cocaine use during pregnancy.
The objective of the present research was to establish the sensitivity of the hair test in validating clinical suspicion of in utero exposure to cocaine in the presence of negative urine test.
We hypothesized that the use of the hair test in cases of clinical suspicion but negative urine test will yield a substantially higher rate of positivity than expected in the general population.
Between October 1991 and April 1995 we prospectively analyzed a total of 192 neonatal hair samples to confirm clinical suspicions of intrauterine exposure to cocaine. Of these, 10 did not have sufficient hair to analyze for cocaine metabolites.
Fifty-five (30%) of the remaining 182 were positive for cocaine metabolite. This rate was 5.5-fold higher than the 5.5% found by us in a population-based research study in three nurseries in Toronto (p < 0.001), thus documenting the efficiency of this test in confirming clinical suspicions of fetal exposure to cocaine. Benzoylecgonine concentrations in this cohort were 2-fold higher than among positive cases in a previous population-based screening study (p = 0.0001) indicating that when clinical suspicions prompted physicians to test neonatal hair, they identify a subgroup of heavy cocaine users, who are probably at higher perinatal risks.
Since 1985, when Heyliger et al., first demonstrated that oral administration of sodium orthovanadate (0.8mg/ml) to STZ induced diabetic rats resulted in normoglycemia, numerous extensive studies have been reported on the antidiabetic actions of vanadium. The acceptance of vanadium compounds as promising therapeutic antidiabetic drugs has been slowed due to the concern for chronic toxicity associated with vanadium accumulation. In order to circumvent the toxic effects of vanadium, a combinational approach wherein a novel V3HF complex was synthesized, characterized and its toxic as well as antidiabetic potential were evaluated in STZ diabetic rats. Experimental and clinical studies suggest that hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress primarily contributes to the pathogenesis and progression of both primary as well as secondary complications of diabetes. It is possible to reduce the risks caused by excessive generation of free radicals by either enhancing the body's natural antioxidant defenses or by supplementing with proven antioxidants. The present study was aimed to study the role of V3HF complex on hyperglycemia mediated oxidative stress in STZ-diabetic rats and the results indicate that the complex improves pancreatic beta cell function. Histological and ultrastructural studies also evidenced that the complex protect the beta cells from hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress.
The kinetics of captopril plasma levels and of the drug-induced plasma converting enzyme activity (PCEA), plasma renin activity (PRA) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) modifications were studied over 24 h after oral administration of captopril, 1 mg/kg, to ten hypertensive patients. Free unchanged captopril pharmacokinetic parameters were: t1/2, alpha: 0.45 +/- 0.06 h; tmax: 0.98 +/- 0.13 h; Cmax: 1.31 +/- 0.20 mg l-1; t1/2,z: 0.66 +/- 0.13 h; V: 0.614 +/- 0.104 1 kg-1 and CLtot: 0.690 +/- 0.082 l h-1 kg-1. At 6 h captopril was no longer detectable in plasma. The onset of PCEA inhibition and of DBP decrease closely followed the rise of captopril's plasma levels, while that of PRA increase was delayed. In contrast, while captopril rapidly disappeared from plasma, its biological and antihypertensive effects were long-lasting. The lack of correlation between the relative bioavailability of captopril and the induced reduction in DBP (evaluated by the corresponding AUCs) suggests that free unchanged captopril plasma monitoring is not an adequate indicator of hypertensive patients' potential responsiveness to captopril's blood pressure lowering effects.
Combined dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) releases such as phentermine (PHEN) and fenfluramine (FEN) are reported, in open label studies, to reduce craving for alcohol and cocaine and to prevent relapse. The objective of the studies reported here was to assess the actions of these agents alone and in combination in various animal models of drug addiction. Study 1. In vivo microdialysis experiments demonstrate that these agents preferentially release mesolimbic DA (PHEN) and 5-HT (FEN). Patients who relapse and use cocaine while taking these medications report diminished cocaine-like subjective effects. Microdialysis experiments were performed in awake rats, and dialysate samples were analyzed for DA and 5-HT. PHEN (1 mg/kg, intravenously (i.v.)) elevated DA (2-3-fold) for over 1.5 hr. Administration of cocaine (3 mg/kg, i.v.) increased DA 6-fold in saline-treated rats, but only 3-fold in PHEN-treated rats. PHEN did not reduce cocaine-induced increases in 5-HT. Study 2. These agents were assessed in a mouse model of cocaine-conditioned motoric activity (CCMA). Pretreatment with non-activating doses of PHEN (4.6 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)) enhanced CCMA, whereas non-depressing doses of FEN (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) did not alter CCMA or the PHEN-induced increase in CCMA. In contrast, sub-effective doses of FEN reduced CCMA stereotypy-like locomotion, whereas sub-effective doses of PHEN were without effect. PHEN reversed the FEN-induced increase in CCMA stereotypy-like locomotion. Study 3. PHEN and FEN were assessed in the conditional place preference model. FEN produced marked aversions for an environment previously associated with its administration and the minimum dose producing this effect was 3.0 mg/kg. In contrast, administration of PHEN, amphetamine (1.0-3.0 mg/kg) or morphine (3.0-5.0 mg/kg) produced dose-related preferences for the drug-paired place. However, the magnitude of the response to PHEN was less than that produced by the other prototypic drugs of abuse. In rats that received FEN (0.3 or 3.0 mg/kg) in combination with PHEN (3.0 mg/kg), the conditioned rewarding effects of PHEN were abolished. These data demonstrate that the rewarding effects of PHEN can be conditioned to stimuli previously associated with its administration. However, the conditioned response to this agent is less than that produced by prototypic drugs of abuse. The finding that PHEN-induced place preferences were attenuated by doses of FEN demonstrates that the combination of FEN/PHEN is devoid of motivational effects. The preclinical data obtained with PHEN/FEN in various models of drug provide a strong rationale for pursuing controlled clinical trials in humans with agents that act via a similar mechanism of action.
Amnesic patients have difficulty consciously recollecting past events, but they perform normally on implicit memory measures that do not require conscious access. Now, an innovative study offers compelling evidence that even implicit memory can be impaired during amnesia, temporarily induced in healthy subjects using a neuropharmacological manipulation (midazolam). Importantly, midazolam impaired implicit, relational memory, whereas non-relational memory was preserved, supporting the characterization of conscious memory in terms of relational encoding.
Whether isoflurane has the potential to produce coronary artery steal and associated myocardial ischemia is still controversial. Previous studies addressing this issue in humans did not purposefully control hemodynamics or use continuous measures of myocardial ischemia. The authors used transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) and continuous Holter electrocardiography (ECG) to study the relative risk of myocardial ischemia during isoflurane or sufentanil anesthesia under strict control of hemodynamics in 186 high-risk patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. Overall, hemodynamics were well controlled (increased heart rate = 9.8%; increased systolic blood pressure = 7.1%; decreased systolic blood pressure = 10.8% of total prebypass time compared with preoperative baseline values), with no difference between the two anesthetics. In the 162 patients with interpretable TEE recordings, moderate to severe TEE ischemic episodes (grade change greater than or equal to 2) developed in 33 (21%) during the prebypass period, with no difference between isoflurane (12 of 56 = 21%) and sufentanil (21 of 106 = 20%) (P = 0.97). The duration and severity of TEE episodes were not significantly different between the two groups. No correlation was observed between TEE ischemic episodes and isoflurane concentrations (range 0.47-1.75%). In the 181 patients with interpretable ECG recordings, ECG evidence of ischemia developed in 34 (19%) during the prebypass period, with no difference between isoflurane (12 of 59 = 20%) and sufentanil (22 of 122 = 18%) (P = 0.87). The duration and severity of electrocardiographic ischemic episodes were also similar in patients receiving either isoflurane or sufentanil. Four of the 62 patients (6%) who received isoflurane had an adverse cardiac outcome versus 15 of 124 patients (12%) who received sufentanil (P = 0.34). The authors' findings demonstrate that, when hemodynamics are controlled, the incidence of myocardial ischemia (TEE or ECG) during isoflurane and sufentanil anesthesia is similar.
To evaluate the effect of recruitment maneuvers in prone positioning on hemodynamic in dogs with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) of pulmonary or extra pulmonary origin.
Forty-eight mongrel dogs were randomly divided into 8 groups with six dogs in each group. Hydrochloric acid was instilled into trachea to reproduce pulmonary ARDS (ARDSp) and oleic acid was intravenously injected to produce extra-pulmonary ARDS (ARDSe). ARDSp and ARDSe dogs were divided into conventional mechanical ventilation group (group A), prone-position ventilation group (group B), sustained inflation (SI) group (group C) and prone-position ventilation + SI group (group D) respectively. Hemodynamic parameters were monitored before injury and 0, 2 and 5 hours after ARDS was reproduced.
(1) In group A and group C, central venous pressure (CVP) increased significantly at 5 hours after ARDSp. Five hours after the establishment of ARDSp, pulmonary arterial wedge pressure (PAWP) increased in group C and group D. Mean pulmonary arterial pressure (MPAP) increased remarkably in group A, group C and group D at 2 hours and 5 hours after onset of ARDSp. In group C, intrathoracic blood volume index (ITBI) decreased at 5 hours after the onset of ARDSp. In all the four groups, extravascular lung water index (EVLWI) increased sharply at 0, 2 and 5 hours after onset of ARDSp. In group B and group C, cardiac index (CI) decreased to a greater extent at 2 and 5 hours after onset of ARDSp. CI decreased at 2 hours after onset of ARDSp in group D with statistically significant difference at different time points (all P<0.05). (2) In all four groups, EVLWI increased sharply at 0, 2 and 5 hours after onset of ARDSe. In ARDSe model, there was no significant difference in other hemodynamic parameters between groups (all P>0.05).
There are less influence on hemodynamics when SI is performed in prone position, and it is even more significantly so in ARDS dogs.
We aimed to evaluate antioxidant paraoxonase 1 activity together with malondialdehyde (MDA) (an oxidative stress parameter) levels in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
Fifty-seven rheumatoid arthritis patients were included in the study and subgrouped according to disease activity (active, n = 31; inactive, n = 26) and compared with healthy controls (n = 25). Serum paraoxonase 1 activity and MDA levels were measured according to an enzymatic spectrophotometric method.
Serum MDA level was higher (P = 0.001) whereas paraoxonase 1 activity was lower (P = 0.001) in the patient group than the controls. When active and inactive subgroups were compared with the control group, there was a statistically significant difference between each parameter. Serum MDA levels were significantly higher, while paraoxonase 1 activity was lower in the active and inactive rheumatoid arthritis groups than the control group. But there was not any difference between active and inactive patients with RA. There was a negative correlation between MDA levels and paraoxonase 1 activity.
Increased reactive oxygen species levels in rheumatoid arthritis may result in a pro-oxidation environment, which in turn could result in decreased antioxidant paraoxonase 1 activity and increased MDA levels.
Lesions of the internal segment of the globus pallidus are increasingly being utilized in the surgical treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease, yet studies to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of these procedures are only now being completed. The importance of procedural variations between centres in the outcome of pallidotomy is not yet known. In order to compare accurately results between centres, carefully designed, prospective studies are needed. The authors utilized blinded, randomly evaluated videotaped examinations of pre- and post-operative patients undergoing microelectrode-guided GPi pallidotomy. Their results demonstrate significant effects on contralateral akinesia and tremor in the "off" state, and striking attenuation of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in the "on" state. More modest effects on postural stability and gait disturbance were seen only in non-blinded evaluations. This type of study design should enable many of the outstanding issues related to pallidotomy indications, procedures and outcomes to be addressed.
Although the safety of gold nanoparticle (AuNP) use is of growing concern, most toxicity studies of AuNPs had focused on their chemical characteristics, including their physical dimensions, surface chemistry, and shape. The present study examined the susceptibility of rodents with healthy or damaged livers to AuNP-induced hepatotoxicity. To induce a model of liver injury, mice were fed a methionine- and choline-deficient (MCD) diet for 4 weeks. Sizes and biodistribution of 15-nm PEGylated AuNPs were analyzed by transmission electron microscopy. Levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) were estimated with an automatic chemical analyzer, and liver sections were subjected to pathological examination. Activities of antioxidant enzymes were determined by biochemical assay. Lateral tail vein injection of MCD diet-fed mice with 5 mg kg(-1) AuNPs significantly elevated the serum ALT and AST levels compared to MCD diet-fed mice injected with mPEG (methylpolyethylene glycol). Similarly, severe hepatic cell damage, acute inflammation, and increased apoptosis and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production were observed in the livers of AuNP-injected mice on the MCD diet; these liver injuries were attenuated in mice fed a normal chow diet. The results suggest that AuNPs display toxicity in a stressed liver environment by stimulating the inflammatory response and accelerating stress-induced apoptosis. These conclusions may point to the importance of considering health conditions, including liver damage, in medical applications of AuNPs.
The effect of fibrinopeptides A and B (FAB) on the action of compounds affecting the dopaminergic receptors in central nervous system (CNS) of rats was investigated. These peptides given intraperitoneally (ip) or intraventricularly (ivc) exerted dose-dependent stimulatory effects on the CNS: Enhanced the apomorphine and amphetamine-induced stereotypies and reduced the catalepsy induced by haloperidol. FAB depressed the dopamine level, especially when given together with alpha-MT, and elevated the level of homovanillic acid in the striatum. The results suggest that the stimulatory effects of FAB depend on their interaction with dopaminergic receptors in the CNS.
To determine whether serum levels of unconjugated bilirubin (UCB) can be decreased by enhancing fecal fat excretion.
Gunn rats were fed a high-fat diet (control) or the same diet mixed with the lipase inhibitor orlistat. At regular intervals, plasma UCB concentrations were determined and 72-hour fat balances were performed.
Orlistat treatment decreased plasma UCB concentrations (at 3 weeks; 100 mg/kg, -33%+/-8%, P<.05; 200 mg/kg, -46%+/-10%, P<.01). Within days of treatment, orlistat treatment increased fecal excretion of UCB (at day 3; +220%, P<.05). During 24 weeks of orlistat treatment (200 mg/kg diet), the plasma bilirubin concentrations were continuously approximately 35% lower than in control rats. Plasma UCB concentrations were inversely correlated with the amount of fecal fat excretion (n=12, r=-0.87, P<.001).
In Gunn rats, orlistat treatment increases the fecal excretion of fat and enhances the disposal of UCB. This approach could lead to novel strategies for prevention and treatment of unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia in patients.
Therapeutic utility of primaquine, an 8-aminoquinoline antimalarial drug, has been limited due to its hemolytic toxicity in population with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. Recent investigations at our lab have shown that the metabolites generated through cytochrome P(450)-dependent metabolic reactions are responsible for hemotoxic effects of primaquine, which could be monitored with accumulation of methemoglobin and increased oxidative stress. The molecular markers for succeeding cascade of events associated with early clearance of the erythrocytes from the circulation were evaluated for understanding the mechanism for hemolytic toxicity of primaquine. Primaquine alone though did not induce noticeable methemoglobin accumulation, but produced significant oxidative stress, which was higher in G6PD-deficient than in normal erythrocytes. Primaquine, presumably through redox active hemotoxic metabolites generated in situ in human liver microsomal metabolism-linked assay, induced a dose-dependent methemoglobin accumulation and oxidative stress, which were almost similar in normal and G6PD-deficient erythrocytes. Primaquine alone or in presence of pooled human liver microsomes neither produced significant effect on intraerythrocytic calcium levels nor affected the phosphatidyl serine asymmetry of the normal and G6PD-deficient human erythrocytes as monitored flowcytometrically with Annexin V binding assay. The studies suggest that eryptosis mechanisms are not involved in accelerated removal of erythrocytes due to hemolytic toxicity of primaquine.
A 21-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) had meningismus, conjunctivitis, lymphadenopathy, and elevation of liver function values following ibuprofen therapy. All symptoms and laboratory value abnormalities resolved rapidly when the drug therapy was stopped. Two years later, a similar reaction occurred after taking tolmetin sodium. Fever, adenopathy, aseptic meningitis with a polymorphonuclear pleocytosis, and serum transaminase level elevations resolved rapidly after use of the drug was discontinued. The mechanism of this reaction to nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in patients with SLE is not known.
We have previously reported that 10 patients who developed glomerulonephritis (GN) in association with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection showed a marked increase in DR+CD4+ and DR+CD8+ subsets of T cells and in T cells expressing several T-cell receptor (TCR) V beta+cells, perhaps representing V beta-specific T-cell activation by MRSA-derived superantigens (Kidney Int 1995; 47: 207-216). In this study we examine cytokine levels, T-lymphocyte subsets, natural killer NK cells, memory T cells, and the expression of IL-2 receptors in order to better understand the role of bacterial superantigens and cytokines in the pathogenesis of MRSA-associated GN.
Twenty-two patients with MRSA infection who later developed GN caused by staphylococcal enterotoxin were evaluated immunologically in comparison with patients whose MRSA infection was not followed by GN (non-GN group) and normal individuals.
Among peripheral lymphocytes, the frequency of T cells expressing several TCR V betas, especially V beta 5-family TCR, was higher in the GN group than in both the non-GN group and the normal healthy control group. GN patients also showed increased serum levels of several cytokines, including tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10, which have been implicated in the onset of nephritis. Memory cells, and IL-2 receptors also were elevated in the GN group.
These results suggest that T cells activated by MRSA-derived staphylococcal enterotoxins and subsequent production of cytokines may play an important role in the pathogenesis of MRSA-associated GN.
The roles of intrarenal angiotensin (A) and thromboxane (TX) in the vascular hypersensitivity to renal nerve stimulation (RNS) and paradoxical vasoconstriction to renal perfusion pressure (RPP) reduction in the autoregulatory range in 1 wk norepinephrine (NE)-induced acute renal failure (ARF) in rats were investigated. Renal blood flow (RBF) responses were determined before and during intrarenal infusion of an AII and TXA2 antagonist. Saralasin or SQ29548 alone partially corrected the slopes of RBF to RNS and RPP reduction in NE-ARF rats (P less than 0.02). Saralasin + SQ29548 normalized the RBF response to RNS. While combined saralasin + SQ29548 eliminated the vasoconstriction to RPP reduction, similar to the effect of renal denervation, appropriate vasodilatation was not restored. Renal vein norepinephrine efflux during RNS was disproportionately increased in NE-ARF (P less than 0.001) and was suppressed by saralasin + SQ29548 infusion (P less than 0.005). It is concluded that the enhanced sensitivity to RNS and paradoxical vasoconstriction to RPP reduction in 1 wk NE-ARF kidneys are the result of intrarenal TX and AII acceleration of neurotransmitter release to adrenergic nerve activity.
Vitamin C helps to prevent brain oxidative stress and participate in the synthesis of progesterone. It also possesses a progesterone-like effect and acts synergistically with progesterone on the brain. Progesterone and its metabolites, but also vitamin C have been associated with anticonvulsant effects. We evaluated the progesterone concentration 30min and 24h after the last administration of vitamin C (500mg/kg, i.p. for five days). We also evaluated how vitamin C altered pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced seizures by measuring the onset latency of seizures, percentage of incidence and mortality as well as amino acid levels after seizures. Vitamin C treatment alone increased basal progesterone concentrations to 531% after 30min compared to 253% after 24h. Furthermore, vitamin C significantly increased the latency to the first myoclonic, clonic and tonic seizure induced by PTZ (80mg/kg, i.p.) and decreased the percentage of incidence of clonic and tonic seizures as well as the mortality rate. Changes in tissue concentration of amino acids were primarily observed at 24h after vitamin C treatment. Our results suggest that vitamin C together with progesterone and/or its metabolites are involved in the protection against PTZ-induced seizures in immature rats.
To assess the efficacy and safety of intravenous diltiazem, 54 patients with inducible sustained supraventricular tachycardia received diltiazem, 0.25 mg/kg or 0.25 mg/kg, followed by 0.35 mg/kg body weight, or placebo in a double-blind, randomized study. Twenty patients had atrioventricular (AV) node reentrant tachycardia, whereas 34 had orthodromic AV reciprocating tachycardia associated with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Supraventricular tachycardia was terminated in 24 (86%) of 28 patients given intravenous diltiazem compared with 5 (19%) of 26 given placebo (p = 0.0000014). Nineteen (95%) of 20 patients initially given placebo had termination of supraventricular tachycardia after receiving diltiazem. Overall, 43 (90%) of 48 patients receiving intravenous diltiazem had conversion of supraventricular tachycardia to sinus rhythm; the median time to tachycardia termination was 2 min after initiation of a 2 min diltiazem infusion. All 20 patients (100%) with AV node reentrant tachycardia treated with diltiazem had conversion of tachycardia to sinus rhythm as did 26 (81%) of 30 patients with AV reciprocating tachycardia treated with diltiazem. Diltiazem prolonged refractoriness and slowed conduction of the AV node and thereby provided antiarrhythmic action to cause tachycardia termination. Diltiazem had no effect on the electrophysiologic properties of accessory AV connections. Adverse effects were seen in 3 (6%) of the 48 patients given diltiazem. For paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia initiated in the electrophysiology laboratory, it is concluded that intravenous diltiazem is safe and very effective for acute tachycardia termination when the AV node is part of the reentrant circuit.
There is a known relationship between convulsive status epilepticus (SE) and hippocampal injury. Although the precise causes of this hippocampal vulnerability remains uncertain, potential mechanisms include excitotoxicity and ischaemia. It has been hypothesised that during the early phase of seizures, cerebral blood flow (CBF) increases in the cortex to meet energy demand, but it is unclear whether these compensatory mechanisms occur in the hippocampus. In this study we investigated CBF changes using perfusion MRI during SE in the pilocarpine rat.
First, we determined whether SE could be induced under anaesthesia. Two anaesthetic protocols were investigated: isoflurane (n=6) and fentanyl/medetomidine (n=7). Intrahippocampal EEG electrodes were used to determine seizure activity and reflex behaviours were used to assess anaesthesia. Pilocarpine was administered to induce status epilepticus. For CBF measurements, MRI arterial spin labelling was performed continuously for up to 3h. Either pilocarpine (375 mg/kg) (n=7) for induction of SE or saline (n=6) was administered. Diazepam (10mg/kg) was administered i.p. 90 min after the onset of SE.
We demonstrated time-dependent significant (p<0.05) differences between the CBF responses in the parietal cortex and the hippocampus during SE. This regional response indicates a preferential distribution of flow to certain regions of the brain and may contribute to the selective vulnerability observed in the hippocampus in humans.
Using an Affymetrix 10K SNP array to screen for gene copy number changes in breast cancer, we detected a single-gene amplification of the ESR1 gene, which encodes estrogen receptor alpha, at 6q25. A subsequent tissue microarray analysis of more than 2,000 clinical breast cancer samples showed ESR1 amplification in 20.6% of breast cancers. Ninety-nine percent of tumors with ESR1 amplification showed estrogen receptor protein overexpression, compared with 66.6% cancers without ESR1 amplification (P < 0.0001). In 175 women who had received adjuvant tamoxifen monotherapy, survival was significantly longer for women with cancer with ESR1 amplification than for women with estrogen receptor-expressing cancers without ESR1 amplification (P = 0.023). Notably, we also found ESR1 amplification in benign and precancerous breast diseases, suggesting that ESR1 amplification may be a common mechanism in proliferative breast disease and a very early genetic alteration in a large subset of breast cancers.
Heme oxygenase (HO) catabolizes heme into biliverdin, carbon monoxide (CO), and free iron. CO generated in endothelial and smooth muscle layers of blood vessels modulates vascular tone by inducing relaxation of vascular smooth muscle cells. The aim of this study was to verify the role played by HO in regulating renal arterial resistance and Na(+) excretion in cirrhosis.
Twenty control rats and 20 rats with CCl(4)(-) induced cirrhosis, 10 of which were chronically treated with the HO inducer cobalt-protoporphyrin (CoPP), were studied. Pressurized renal interlobar arteries were challenged with increasing doses of phenylephrine (PE) and acetylcholine (ACh). Dose-response curves were evaluated under basal conditions and after inhibition of HO with chromium-mesoporphyrin (CrMP). HO-1 (inducible form) and HO-2 (constitutive form) expression was measured in the main and interlobar renal arteries. Serum and urinary levels of Na(+) and creatinine were also evaluated.
In renal interlobar arteries from cirrhotic rats, the response to PE was increased, while that to ACh was blunted. After HO inhibition, the responsiveness to these vasoactive substances was comparable in the two groups. In cirrhotic rats, HO-1 expression was impaired in the main and the interlobar renal arteries. Chronic HO induction normalized the response to the vasoconstrictor, but not to the vasodilator. Cirrhotic rats treated with CoPP showed higher urinary Na(+) concentration and fractional Na(+) excretion, compared to both untreated cirrhotic and control rats.
In cirrhotic rats, an impaired HO-1 expression promotes vasoconstriction of renal interlobar arteries. Chronic HO induction normalizes the sensitivity to PE and promotes Na(+) excretion.
Alzheimer's Disease(AD), characterized by a deposition of beta-amyloid peptide (beta/A4) in the brain and in the cerebral microvasculature of affected individuals, is derived from its precursor protein (beta APP) via proteolytic processing by enzyme(s) which have not yet been characterized or localized. Since platelets carry APP in one of their granules, they have been implicated as a source of the beta/A4 deposits in the microvasculature of AD patients, attributable to either an abnormality in the platelets' stimulus response, in the quantity or nature of the APP they release upon activation and/or in the processing of that protein. We show here that platelets from patients with severe AD have abnormal stimulus responses to alpha-thrombin. Specifically, these cells hyperacidify. While it is not clear why this abnormality occurs, it may contribute to aberrant granule secretion since we have demonstrated earlier that release of platelet granule contents is partially controlled by the cytoplasmic pH.
To establish a rat model suitable to investigate the repetitive relapsing inflammations (RRI) characteristic to Crohn's disease.
Colitis was induced by 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS). RRI were mimicked by repeating administrations of TNBS. Tissue samples were taken from control, once, twice and three times treated rats from the inflamed and adjacent non-inflamed colonic segments at different timepoints during the acute intestinal inflammation. The means of the ulcerated area were measured to evaluate the macroscopic mucosal damage. The density of myenteric neurons was determined on whole mounts by HuC/HuD immunohistochemistry. Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression was evaluated by molecular biological techniques.
TNBS-treated rats displayed severe colitis, but the mortality was negligible, and an increase of body weight was characteristic throughout the experimental period. The widespread loss of myenteric neurons, and marked but transient HO-1 up-regulation were demonstrated after the first TNBS administration. After repeated doses the length of the recovery time and extent of the ulcerous colonic segments were markedly decreased, and the neuronal loss was on a smaller scale and was limited to the inflamed area. HO-1 mRNA level was notably greater than after a single dose and overexpression was sustained throughout the timepoints examined. Nevertheless, the HO-1 protein up-regulation after the second TNBS treatment proved to be transient. Following the third treatment HO-1 protein expression could not be detected.
Experimentally provoked RRI may exert a protective preconditioning effect against the mucosal and neuronal damage. The persistent up-regulation of HO-1 mRNA expression may correlate with this.
