Patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have shown to benefit from tamoxifen treatment. The mechanisms of tamoxifen effects in HCC, however, are not yet clearly understood. The PI3K/Akt/mTOR signal pathway is involved in cell proliferation, tumorigenesis, and apoptosis. Over-expression of survivin has played an important role in leading to antiapoptosis. The current study investigated changes in mTOR pathway and survivin expression in hepatocarcinoma cell line HepG2 treated with tamoxifen. We detected apoptosis of hepatocarcinoma cells by flow cytometry assay. Survivin transcription level and p70S6k was demonstrated by PCR, dual-luciferase reporter assay and western blot analysis respectively. Our results are showed as follows: tamoxifen leads to apoptosis of the cells, and reduction in survivin expression, as well as a dramatic reduction in the activated form of p70S6 kinase. Twenty micromoles tamoxifen treatment significantly depresses transcription of survivin mRNA. Treating HepG2 cells with rapamycin, a specific mTOR inhibitor, significantly reduce survivin protein level but did not affect survivin transcription, which indicated that tamoxifen and rapamycin were synergistic in regards to down-regulation of survivin expression in hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Our results suggest that tamoxifen down-regulate survivin expression in HepG2 cells is mediated by transcriptional and posttranscriptional level via PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway to induce apoptosis.
The great challenge for those attempting to develop safer NSAIDs is shifting from a focus on GI toxicity to the increasingly more appreciated cardiovascular toxicity. At present, coxib shows an unmatched GI safety and appears to be a rational choice for patients at a low cardiovascular risk who have had serious GI events. In these patients, however, a cost-effective alternative is the use of tNSAIDs associated with comedication with a low-cost PPI or PN400. Because it seems prudent to avoid coxibs in patients who have cardiovascular disease or who are at risk for it, naproxcinod will be an appealing alternative to coxibs and tNSAIDs. However, because naproxcinod carries a significant risk of GI bleeding, a comedication therapy with a PPI inhibitor will be required if these patients also present risk factors for GI events. Although the development of H2S-releasing anti-inflammatory drugs is in its infancy, the preclinical data available thus far provide cause for optimism. The quest for the development of NSAIDs devoid of cardiovascular toxicity and that spare the gastric mucosa to the same extent as that of a coxib, however, is still open.
A pediatric patient who was taking carefully monitored doses of theophylline for chronic asthma, was placed on erythromycin base for bronchitis. She subsequently developed theophylline toxicity which caused her to experience seizure activity. Any patient taking a theophylline preparation who is then placed on ANY of the available erythromycin compounds must have close monitoring of serum theophylline levels.
Three cases of choreoathetosis which developed during phenytoin therapy in children less than 2 years of age are described. The most striking clinical manifestations included the sudden onset of restlessness and agitation with superimposed choreoathetosis. None of these children had toxic levels of phenytoin in the blood. Discontinuation of phenytoin resulted in prompt cessation of the symptoms. Phenytoin-induced choreoathetosis should be a diagnostic consideration in children with a preexisting CNS insult who manifest violent choreoathetosis during therapy for seizure control. This consideration is especially pertinent in the pediatric intensive care unit, where other more common causes of agitation could be misdiagnosed.
Alitretinoin (9-cis-retinoic acid) is an FDA-approved topical therapy for the treatment of Kaposi sarcoma. Alitretinoin is a naturally occurring endogenous retinoid that binds to and activates all known intracellular retinoic acid receptor (RAR) subtypes alpha, beta, and gamma and retinoic X receptor (RXR) subtypes alpha, beta, and gamma. Photoaging of the skin is the result of accumulated exposure to solar UV radiation. Several topically applied retinoids have been proven clinically effective for treating the appearance of photoaging. Tretinoin and tazarotene, which have been shown to improve photodamaged skin, bind RAR subtypes only. The theoretic benefit of alitretinoin gel 0.1% (Panretin) in the treatment of photoaged skin stems from the binding and activation of both RARs and RXRs, which promote the repair mechanisms in damaged skin. The objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of topical alitretinoin gel 0.1% in the treatment of photodamaged skin. The treatment was well tolerated by participants (N=20) and subjectively showed improvement of benign skin lesions (eg, seborrheic keratoses) and precancerous lesions (eg, actinic keratoses). Larger, blinded, controlled trials are needed to investigate the role of this novel retinoid in the treatment of photoaging.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a man-made compound used to make polycarbonate plastics and epoxy resins; public health concerns have been fueled by findings that BPA exposure can reduce sex differences in brain and some behaviors. We asked if a low BPA dose, within the range measured in humans, ingested during pregnancy, would affect social behaviors in prepubertal mice. We noted sex differences in social interactions whereby females spent more time sitting side-by-side, while males engaged in more exploring and sitting alone. In addition BPA increased display of nose-to-nose contacts, play solicitations and approaches in both sexes. Interactions between sex and diet were found for self grooming, social interactions while sitting side-by-side and following the other mouse. In all these cases interactions were produced by differences between control and BPA females. We examined brains from embryos during late gestation to determine if gene expression differences might be correlated with some of the sexually dimorphic or BPA affected behaviors we observed. Because BPA treatments ended at birth we took the brains during embryogenesis to increase the probability of discovering BPA mediated effects. We also selected this embryonic age (E18.5) because it coincides with the onset of sexual differentiation of the brain. Interestingly, mRNA for the glutamate transporter, Slc1a1, was enhanced by exposure to BPA in female brains. Also we noted that BPA changed the expression of two of the three DNA methyltransferase genes, Dnmt1 and Dnmt3a. We propose that BPA affects DNA methylation of Sc1a1 during neural development. Sex differences in juvenile social interactions are affected by BPA and in particular this compound modifies behavior in females.
There is wide-spread human exposure to bisphenol A (BPA), a ubiquitous estrogenic endocrine disruptor that has been implicated as having potentially harmful effects on human heart health. Higher urine BPA concentrations have been shown to be associated with cardiovascular diseases in humans. However, neither the nature nor the mechanism(s) of BPA action on the heart are understood.
The rapid (<7 min) effects of BPA and 17β-estradiol (E2) in the heart and ventricular myocytes from rodents were investigated in the present study. In isolated ventricular myocytes from young adult females, but not males, physiological concentrations of BPA or E2 (10⁻⁹ M) rapidly induced arrhythmogenic triggered activities. The effects of BPA were particularly pronounced when combined with estradiol. Under conditions of catecholamine stimulation, E2 and BPA promoted ventricular arrhythmias in female, but not male, hearts. The cellular mechanism of the female-specific pro-arrhythmic effects of BPA and E2 were investigated. Exposure to E2 and/or BPA rapidly altered myocyte Ca²⁺ handling; in particular, estrogens markedly increased sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca²⁺ leak, and increased SR Ca²⁺ load. Ryanodine (10⁻⁷ M) inhibition of SR Ca²⁺ leak suppressed estrogen-induced triggered activities. The rapid response of female myocytes to estrogens was abolished in an estrogen receptor (ER) β knockout mouse model.
Physiologically-relevant concentrations of BPA and E2 promote arrhythmias in a female-specific manner in rat hearts; the pro-arrhythmic actions of estrogens are mediated by ERβ-signaling through alterations of myocyte Ca²⁺ handling, particularly increases in SR Ca²⁺ leak. Our study provides the first experimental evidence suggesting that exposure to estrogenic endocrine disrupting chemicals and the unique sensitivity of female hearts to estrogens may play a role in arrhythmogenesis in the female heart.
Postoperative behavioral disorders are common in children, but the occurrence in infants is not yet clear. In the present study we focus on postoperative sleep disturbances, which we hypothesized would be more common after sevoflurane anesthesia than propofol-remifentanil anesthesia.
In total, 39 infants 4-6-mo-old were prospectively enrolled and randomized to receive either a combination of propofol and remifentanil (n = 17) or sevoflurane and fentanyl anesthesia (n = 22) for surgical repair of cleft lip-gum-palate. Postoperative observations were blinded. The parents kept a sleep diary for 2 wk before admission and 2 wk after returning home. The diary included information about how many times the infant awoke during the night and was difficult to comfort and the longest duration of continuous sleep during the night.
Longest continuous sleep was significantly longer in the sevoflurane group (median 7.2 h) compared with the propofol-remifentanil group (median 5.1 h, P < 0.05). No other significant difference was found between groups. Sleep pattern was impaired after surgery in both groups compared with that before surgery (P < 0.01), but it was considered by the parents to be back to normal after a median of 10 days, with no significant difference between groups.
Postoperative sleep disturbances occur in infants after both propofol-remifentanil and sevoflurane anesthesia. Sevoflurane seems to be associated with less impairment of postoperative sleep than propofol-remifentanil in the first weeks after repair of cleft lip and palate in infants.
The incidence of carbamazepine-associated behavioral side effects in 65 individuals with mental retardation and additional seizure and/or psychiatric or behavioral disorders was evaluated. We identified 6 patients (9.2%) who experienced medication side effects, ranging from irritability to mania. Four of the 20 patients (20%) who received carbamazepine purely for treatment of a behavioral or psychiatric disorder experienced medication side effects, whereas none of the 21 patients treated for an isolated seizure disorder experienced similar effects. This difference was statistically significant, p less than .05. The incidence of behavioral side effects of medication was not associated with age, sex, or serum carbamazepine level. The chemical structure and mechanism of carbamazepine use in various disease processes were discussed.
Homocysteine is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease in the general population. In addition, it plays a main role in the development of atherogenesis and thrombosis, particularly in end-stage renal disease patients. Therefore, hemodialysis patients are under the burden of homocysteine toxic effects, present in nearly 90% of dialysis patients. Our group found that folic acid is an efficient therapeutic approach to decrease homocysteine levels, and the addition of intravenous methylcobalamin potentiates this effect; however, methylcobalamin alone was unsuccessful to normalize homocysteine levels. With time a group of patients required a higher dose of folic acid to reduce hyperhomocysteinemia. Patients homozygous and, to a lesser extent heterozygous, to the C677T thermolabile variant of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) presented a reduced catalytic activity and required a higher folic acid dose. Vascular-access thrombotic events were similar in all patients according to the variants of the enzyme, suggesting that treating hyperhomocysteinemia was the key to lower the risk of thromboses. Noteworthy, hypohomocysteinemia, generally acompanying malnourishment, is associated to higher mortality. Albeit hyper-homocysteinemia is considered a vascular risk factor in renal failure patients, it has not yet been established in this population if its correction is associated with a decrease in the rate of vascular disease and thrombosis. However, given the mentioned evidence about the low risk and good tolerance of vitamin therapy, we believe it useful to know folate, cobalamin and homocysteine blood levels in chronic renal patients and start a prompt treatment, which may proof adequate to maintain homocysteine levels of 10 +/- 5 micromol/l.
The association between selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors(SSRIs) and hyponatremia has been documented throughout the world. In Japan, since SSRIs have recently come into use for patients with depression, there are only a few reports of hyponatremia associated with SSRIs. We present here three cases of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone(SIADH) associated with the administration of fluvoxamine for depression. They were admitted to our hospital because of deep coma, and revealed severe hyponatremia. Their serum sodium levels were 103-112 mEq/l, serum osmolalities were 227-241 mmol/kg, urine sodium levels were 38-107 mEq/l, and urine osmolalities were 352-781 mmol/kg. These patients were started on fluvoxamine 3 days-3 months previously. The diagnosis of SIADH in these patients was made based on hyponatremia, and low serum and high urine osmolalities. The fluvoxamine treatment was discontinued, and hypertonic saline was infused. Their serum sodium levels and osmolalities were subsequently normalized. None of the other known causes of hyponatremia, including diuretic therapy, tumors, and respiratory and central nervous system diseases, were present. High plasma AVP levels observed in the two cases suggest that SSRIs stimulate AVP secretion, thereby causing SIADH. Many reports have shown that people older than 70 years were at a particularly high risk of developing hyponatremia when SSRIs were used. In the future, since the use of SSRIs will be increasing, the water and electrolyte balance of elderly patients should be monitored carefully during SSRIs therapy.
Prenatal exposure to ethanol has been reported to cause developmental defects in the brain. During brain development, a sufficient energy source is deemed essential and glucose is regarded as the primary energy source for neurons. In this study, the impact of ethanol on embryonic malformation and cerebral glucose metabolism in developing embryo was investigated. Different doses of ethanol (0, 10, 20, 40 mg/egg) were administrated to chicken embryos after 36 h incubation. Embryonic brain weight was found significantly decreased. Moreover, we observed an obvious reduction of neurofilament expression in the central nervous system (CNS) by immunostaining assay. All the above indicated that ethanol exposure caused obvious CNS damages and resulted malformations in the developing brain. Mechanism research showed that cerebral glucose and lactic acid contents, activities of hexokinase, pyruvate kinase and lactic dehydrogenase were decreased dose dependently. Meanwhile, mRNA levels of glucose transporter 1, glucose transporter 3 and insulin-like growth factor I in the brain demonstrated a significant decrease in gene expression after ethanol exposure. These results suggested that glucose metabolism disorder is an important risk factor in ethanol exposure induced malformation in embryonic brain.
We report the case of a 47-year-old female patient, suffering from multiple hydatid cysts of the liver, in whom hepatitis developed after mebendazole treatment. Clinical manifestations of hypersensitivity were absent. A correlation was found between serum mebendazole concentrations and the degree of cytolysis; this is compatible with a direct hepatotoxic effect of mebendazole.
Serotonergic agents appear to be effective treatments for premenstrual symptoms in a number of small trials. The purpose of this open-label treatment study was to collect pilot information on the efficacy of fluvoxamine for premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PDD).
Twelve women who sought medical treatment for premenstrual symptoms were evaluated. The main outcome measure was the premenstrual score from daily symptom reports (DSRs) maintained by the subjects. After a 2-month screening period, 10 subjects who met DSM-IV criteria for PDD were treated with fluvoxamine taken daily for two menstrual cycles. The mean dose at 4 weeks was 85 mg/day; at 8 weeks, all subjects took 100 mg/day.
The mean premenstrual DSR scores improved at 4 weeks from the pretreatment baseline (paired t test, p < .0008) and remained improved at 8 weeks at approximately the same level (p < .003). Symptoms with the greatest improvement (p < .003, significant with the Bonferroni adjustment) were irritability, anxiety, feeling out of control, and decreased interest in usual activity. Sixty percent (6/10) of the subjects reported at least a 50% reduction in the DSR scores, a conservative clinical definition of improvement. The mean premenstrual Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression scores decreased from 19 at the pretreatment baseline to 9 at the 4-week evaluation. The main side effects were insomnia (N = 6), fatigue (N = 4), dry mouth (N = 4), and nausea (N = 3) and were generally mild and transient.
These promising pilot data show the importance of a controlled trial over a longer time period to provide definitive information on the efficacy of fluvoxamine for premenstrual dysphoric disorder.
Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) plays a central role in the pathophysiology of inflammatory bowel disease. The present experiments were designed to characterize the action of this cytokine on enteric neurones.
Myenteric ganglia from newborn rats were treated for 20 h with TNF-alpha (100 ng mL(-1)) and studied with the patch-clamp technique.
Control neurones showed a membrane potential of -34.6 +/- 2.2 mV (n = 22), whereas TNF-alpha-treated cells exhibited a membrane potential of -50.8 +/- 3.5 mV (n = 25). The depolarization evoked by carbachol (50 microm) was potentiated from 5.2 +/- 0.7 mV (n = 6) in control neurones to 27.5 +/- 2.0 mV (n = 10) in TNF-alpha-treated cells. This effect was mimicked by 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium iodide, but not by bethanechol. The changes in basal membrane potential and in the nicotinic receptor response were suppressed by the non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor indomethacin (10 microm), and the COX II-specific inhibitor, nimesulide (100 microm), whereas the COX-I selective inhibitor SC-560 (5 microm) and the proteintyrosinekinase inhibitor genistein (50 microm) only partially inhibited the action of TNF-alpha. Staining of the ganglionic cells with an antibody against the transcription factor STAT5 revealed that TNF-alpha induced a nuclear translocation of STAT5 in non-neuronal cells.
TNF-alpha changes the electrophysiological properties of myenteric neurones via cyclooxygenase metabolites and protein tyrosine phosphorylation; the cells primarily responding to the cytokine seem to be non-neuronal cells in the ganglion culture, which respond with a nuclear STAT5 translocation suggesting an action on gene transcription.
The authors report on schizophreniform states in juvenile drug consumers. The following psychodiagnostic instruments have been used in this investigation: a list of complaints, a self-estimation scale, a psychosis-depression-neurosis inventory (v. Zerssen), the Freiburg personality inventory (FPI, Fahrenberg, Selg and Hampel). According to clinical-psychopathological data in the course of psychosis, three groups of patients (N = 21) have been formed and defined as schizophrenia-, borderline-, intoxication-psychosis-groups. The report describes the procedure of two discriminant analyses by which the said three groups have been selected. In addition to methods of a cross section approach, the necessity of longitudinal observations is discussed by means of an own clinical example, considering also observations described in the literature.
Oral dose of enalapril or captopril moderately reduced the blood pressure of the spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) but not those of normotensive rats. The single daily dose of captopril (30 mg/kg) produced antihypertensive response equivalent to enalapril (3 mg/kg). Chronic administration of these drugs for 2 weeks revealed that systolic blood pressure was reduced more by captopril than enalapril. We did not find differences in hypotensive activity between Enalapril IF and Renitec Merck as well as Captopril JZF Polfa and Capoten Squibb.
The primary objective of this study was to determine whether montelukast, an oral leukotriene receptor antagonist, provides additional clinical benefit to the effect of inhaled corticosteroids. A total of 642 patients with chronic asthma (FEV(1) 50 to 85% of predicted value and at least a predefined level of asthma symptoms) incompletely controlled with inhaled beclomethasone, 200 microg twice daily using a spacer device, during the 4-wk run-in period were randomly allocated, in a double-blind, double-dummy manner to one of four treatment groups: (1) montelukast 10 mg plus continuing inhaled beclomethasone; (2) placebo tablet plus continuing inhaled beclomethasone; (3) montelukast 10 mg and inhaled placebo (after blind beclomethasone removal); and (4) placebo tablet and inhaled placebo (after blind beclomethasone removal). The primary endpoints were FEV(1) and daytime asthma symptoms score. Montelukast provided significant (p < 0.05) clinical benefit in addition to inhaled beclomethasone by improving FEV(1), daytime asthma symptom scores, and nocturnal awakenings. Blind removal of beclomethasone in the presence of placebo tablets caused worsening of asthma control, demonstrating that patients received clinical benefit from inhaled corticosteroids. Blind removal of beclomethasone in the presence of montelukast resulted in less asthma control but not to the level of the placebo group. All treatments were well tolerated; clinical and laboratory adverse experiences were generally similar to placebo treatment in this study. In conclusion, montelukast provided additional asthma control to patients benefitting from, but incompletely controlled on, inhaled beclomethasone.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)), a valuable anticancer drug for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia, may also have therapeutic potential for the treatment of solid tumors. However, its therapeutic efficacy against solid tumors is lacking even at high dosages. Other therapeutic strategies are required to enhance the efficacy of As(2)O(3) against solid tumors such as hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which is refractory to chemotherapy. B7H3, a new member of the B7 family, has been shown to induce antitumor immunity. Intratumoral injection of B7H3 plasmids eradicates small EL-4 lymphomas, but monotherapy is ineffective against large tumors. Here we investigated whether As(2)O(3) would synergize with B7H3 immunotherapy to combat HCC. Large subcutaneous H22 HCCs (0.7-0.8 cm in diameter) established in BALB/c mice were rapidly and completely eradicated when intratumoral administration of As(2)O(3) was preceded by in situ gene transfer of B7H3. In contrast, neither As(2)O(3) nor B7H3 monotherapy was effective. The antitumor activity of As(2)O(3) was attributed to increased tumor-cell apoptosis, perhaps as a result of direct cytotoxicity as well as decreased tumor angiogenesis. Combination therapy generated potent systemic antitumor immunity mediated by CD8(+) and NK cells that was effective in combating a systemic challenge of 1 x 10(7) parental H22 cells. It led to the simultaneous and complete regression of multiple distant tumor nodules, concomitant with increased levels of serum IFN-gamma and cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity. In conclusion, combining B7H3-mediated immunotherapy with As(2)O(3) warrants investigation as a therapeutic strategy to combat HCC, and other malignancies.
To investigate the dynamic characteristics of Smad anchor for receptor activation (SARA) expression during liver fibrogenesis in rats and the relationship between SARA and liver fibrosis.
Liver fibrosis was induced in 74 rats by intraperitoneal injection of dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) with a dosage of 10 microl/kg body weight, once a day, 3 days per week for 4 weeks. The model rats were randomly divided into 9 groups for studying the changes: 1 d, 3 ds, 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks and 4 weeks after starting the ip injections (intoxicating phase), and 1 week, 2 weeks and 4 weeks after stopping the injections (5th w, 7th w and 8th w, recovery phase). Each group included 5 to 8 rats. In addition, 10 non-treated rats served as normal controls. The rat liver tissues were examined. Collagen deposition was stained with Sirius red, and hydroxyproline (Hyp) was measured with Jamall' method. SARA spatial expression in the livers was detected by immunohistochemistry, and the expressions of TGFbeta1, alpha-SMA and SARA protein were detected by Western blot. The relationships of SARA with Hyp, TGFbeta1 and alpha-SMA were analyzed.
During the intoxicating phase, the rat hepatic collagen production (Hyp content) and deposition increased as DMN intoxication continued, and there was marked fibrous septum and pseudo-lobule formation at the end of the 4th w. During the recovery phase, the rat hepatic collagen deposition and fibrous septum formation were lessened, but the Hyp content in the livers of the model rats at the end of 4th w, 5th w, 6th w and 8th w was still higher than that of the controls (193.04+/-39.15, 188.49+/-39.92, 174.39+/-21.22, 163.59+/-31.47 vs 125.64+/-19.51; t from 3.43 to 4.9, P<0.01). SARA was mainly stained positively in interstitial cells surrounding the hepatic sinusoids in both normal and fibrotic livers, and the number of the positive stained cells decreased as liver fibrosis developed, and gradually returned to normal after stopping the intoxication. The expressions of TGFbeta1 and alpha-SMA were gradually increased, as shown with Western blot, but SARA decreased as liver fibrosis developed. The expressions of TGFbeta1 and alpha-SMA were slightly decreased, SARA expression recovered to the normal level after stopping the DMN intoxication. During liver fibrosis developing and recovery phases, SARA was significantly negatively correlated with TGFbeta1 and alpha-SMA expressions and Hyp contents.
SARA was mainly expressed in the liver interstitial cells, and it was negatively correlated with liver fibrosis formation.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of a China made adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) treatment for hepatitis B e antigen-positive patients with chronic hepatitis B.
Two hundred and thirty patients with chronic hepatitis B who were positive for hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) were randomly put into groups A or B, and 58 patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B were randomly put into groups C or D. During the first 12 weeks of the trial, 112 patients in group A and 115 patients in group B received 10 mg of ADV and a placebo once a day; 28 patients in group C received 100 mg of lamivudine (LMV) and 10 mg of ADV; 29 patients in group D received 100 mg of LMV and a placebo once a day. In the second trial period, all patients received ADV for 36 weeks. The primary checking criterion was the serum HBV DNA change during the treatment. The secondary ones were alanine aminotransferase (ALT) normalization, HBeAg loss, and HBeAg seroconversion.
At week 12, the median serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA level of group A (ADV-ADV) was reduced 2.8 log10 copies/ml, significantly greater than that of group B (placebo-ADV) of 0.3 log10 copies/ml reduction (P = 0.000). At week 48, the median serum HBV DNA level of group A and group B were reduced 3.6 and 3.4 log10 copies/ml respectively. At week 12, the median serum HBV DNA level of group C (LMV+ADV) was reduced 3.0 log10 copies/ml, significantly greater than that of the group D (LMV+placebo) of 0.16 log10 copies/ml reduction (P = 0.000). At week 48, the median serum HBV DNA level of group C and group D were reduced 3.6 and 3.8 log10 copies/ml respectively. Only 5.56% (16/288) patients had adverse events that were mild to moderate. There was no significant difference in the change of serum creatinine compared with their baseline levels.
In our HBeAg positive lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B patients, 48 weeks of ADV treatment was safe and resulted in significant virological and biochemical improvements.
Despite the widespread notion that controlling hypertension is essential to improve cardiovascular outcome, uncontrolled hypertension rates remain high. Fixed-dose combinations are used routinely to reduce the impact of hypertension. Treatment with fixed-combination perindopril/indapamide, for example, at the currently approved doses (perindopril 2 mg/indapamide 0.625 mg [Per2/Ind0.625] and perindopril 4 mg/indapamide 1.25 mg [Per4/Ind1.25]), reduces blood pressure, end-organ damage, and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in a wide range of hypertensive patients.
This article reviews three published randomised trials that evaluated the efficacy and safety of the highest dose of perindopril/indapamide (perindopril 8 mg/indapamide 2.5 mg [Per8/Ind2.5]) in blood pressure lowering and end-organ protection studies.
In the first (dose-finding) study, incremental reductions in SBP/DBP were observed with each dose doubling. After 8 weeks of treatment, decreases in supine SBP/DBP were statistically significant compared to placebo for all three doses, with incremental and progressive reductions with each dose doubling: ranging from SBP/DBP respectively -14/-9 mmHg for Per2/Ind0.625 to -23/-15 mmHg for Per8/Ind2.5 compared to -5/-5 mmHg for placebo. In the PICXEL and PREMIER trials, SBP/DBP decreases of 16.3/8.1 mmHg (p < 0.0001) and 2.5/2.6 mmHg, respectively, were noted when Per4/Ind1.25 was doubled to Per8/Ind2.5 (decreases from 167.7/101.7 to 151.4/93.6 in PICXEL and from 154.9/92.1 to 152.4/89.5 in PREMIER, respectively). As a consequence more patients had normalised blood pressure (22% and 17%), more patients responded to treatment (68% and 45%), and 29% and 10% of non-responders became responders, in PICXEL and PREMIER, respectively. Additional end-organ benefits were also noted with Per8/Ind2.5. In PICXEL, significant decreases from baseline in left ventricular mass were noted with all three doses, with a 17.5 g/m(2) decrease from baseline in patients whose maximum dose was Per8/Ind2.5 (from 148.5 g/m(2) +/- 39.5 (mean +/- SD) to 131 g/m(2); p < 0.0001). In PREMIER, changes in albumin excretion rate were also noted with all three doses, with a 45% reduction from baseline in patients whose maximum dose was Per8/Ind2.5 (p < 0.0001). When safety data, including potassium levels, were analysed, the increase in dose to Per8/Ind2.5 did not have a notable impact on the safety profile of perindopril/indapamide.
Based on data available from an evaluation of three randomised clinical trials, fixed-combination Per8/Ind2.5 provided a significant, incremental reduction in blood pressure as well as cardiac and renal end-organ protection while remaining safe and well-tolerated.
Quantitative sensory testing revealed that pain induced by intracutaneous capsaicin injection elicited secondary hyperalgesia coexisting with secondary tactile hypoesthesia. Mapping the areas of altered mechanical sensations adjacent to the capsaicin injection disclosed that the area of secondary hyperalgesia was always nested in a larger area of secondary hypoesthesia easily detected as numbness by most subjects. Psychometric functions revealed a twofold rightward shift of tactile detection (hypoesthesia), which coexisted with a more than fourfold leftward shift of pricking pain detection (hyperalgesia) in the same skin area. As a mechanism we propose a functional switch at the spinal level based on C-fibre-induced primary afferent depolarisation resulting in presynaptic inhibition of low threshold mechanoreceptor input and an ensuing loss of tactile sensitivity.
Acetazolamide, furosemide, chlorothiazide, and amiloride are pharmacologic agents that act primarily in the proximal tubule, loop of Henle, early distal tubule and late distal tubule and collecting duct, respectively. In order to investigate the renal pathophysiology induced by amphotericin B, these diuretic agents were used as probes of discrete segments of the nephron in the neonatal rat. Six-day-old rats were treated with amphotericin B (20 mg/kg, sc) or the vehicle. Twenty-four hours later, when evidence of amphotericin B-induced renal pathophysiology is detectable, the responses to the diuretic agents were assessed in a 2-hr clearance test, during which creatinine clearance (CCr) and the fractional excretion (FE) of water and various components of the filtrate were determined. Amphotericin B induced alterations in basal function including azotemia, hypostenuria, increases FE water and electrolytes, and a decreased FE urea (although CCr was normal). The diuretic responses to furosemide, chlorothiazide, and amiloride were not altered, indicating that the functional viability of the respective tubular segments was not affected by amphotericin B treatment. Although the maximal response to acetazolamide also remained unchanged in amphotericin B-treated pups, there was an attenuation in the half-maximal response, reflecting an apparent shift in the sensitivity to acetazolamide. All of the diuretic agents elicited an increase in urea excretion in amphotericin B-treated pups such that FE urea approached control values. Additionally, the magnitude of this increase was proportional to the magnitude of the increase in water excretion induced by each diuretic agent. These results indicate a disruption of urea recycling in the nephron and support the hypothesis that amphotericin B acts to increase the permeability of the distal tubule to urea. Thus, results from this study demonstrate the usefulness of pharmacologic agents as functional probes in the characterization of specific components of renal pathophysiology.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by the protozoan Leishmania sp., affects 500000 people annually, with the Indian subcontinent contributing a significant proportion of these cases. Emerging refractoriness to conventional antimony therapy has emphasised the need for safer yet effective antileishmanial drugs. Artemisinin, a widely used antimalarial, demonstrated anti-promastigote activity and the 50% inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) ranged from 100 microM to 120 microM irrespective of Leishmania species studied. Leishmania donovani-infected macrophages demonstrated decreased production of nitrite as well as mRNA expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase, which was normalised by artemisinin, indicating that it exerted both a direct parasiticidal activity as well as inducing a host protective response. Furthermore, in a BALB/c model of VL, orally administered artemisinin (10mg/kg and 25mg/kg body weight) effectively reduced both splenic weight and parasite burden, which was accompanied by a restoration of Th1 cytokines (interferon-gamma and interleukin-2). Taken together, these findings have delineated the therapeutic potential of artemisinin in experimental VL.
One hundred and fifty extradural infusions of diamorphine and bupivacaine after major surgery in children were audited over a 15 month period. The majority of the children (69%) were less than 5 years of age. Analgesia was assessed or self-rated as 'very good' in over 75% of patients. Urinary retention was seen in 11% of patients and pruritus in 10%. Respiratory depression requiring intervention was only seen in one patient--a premature infant of 39 weeks post-conceptual age. Technical complications resulted in the early loss of 16.7% of the infusions. Although analgesia was good the complexity of the extradural infusion technique demanded significant medical and nursing time especially to overcome technical problems.
