Detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with aortic valve stenosis (AS) is clinically difficult. Thallium-201 images were generated in 27 patients with AS during combined intravenous dipyridamole and handgrip test, which induces a marked acute increase in coronary blood flow. Isolated AS was noted in 21 patients and combined AS and aortic regurgitation in 6. Thirteen patients had more than 50% diameter stenosis in 1 or more coronary arteries on angiography. Eleven of them had reversible perfusion defects on post-stress thallium scans (sensitivity 85%). Two patients had thallium defects without angiographic evidence of significant CAD (specificity 86%). In the other 12 patients with normal coronary angiographic findings, the thallium scans were normal. Two patients had dizziness and hypotension after dipyridamole infusion, which disappeared during the handgrip test; 2 others had chest pain during handgrip. One of them was treated with aminophylline and the other with aminophylline and nitroglycerin. No other adverse effects were reported by the patients and no major complications occurred during stress testing. Thus, thallium imaging during combined intravenous dipyridamole and handgrip test appears to be a promising noninvasive method of revealing CAD in patients with AS.
Notch signaling pathway plays critical roles in human cancers, including osteosarcoma, suggesting that the discovery of specific agents targeting Notch would be extremely valuable for osteosarcoma. Our previous studies have shown that diallyl trisulfide (DATS) inhibits proliferation of osteosarcoma cells by triggering cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in vitro. However, the underlying mechanism is still unclear. In this study, we found that DATS suppressed cell survival, wound-healing capacity, invasion and angiogenesis in osteosarcoma cells. These effects were associated with decreased expression of Notch-1 and its downstream genes, such as vascular endothelial growth factor and matrix metalloproteinases, as well as increased expression of a panel of tumor-suppressive microRNAs (miRNAs), including miR-34a, miR-143, miR-145 and miR-200b/c that are typically lost in osteosarcoma. We also found that reexpression of miR-34a and miR-200b by transfection led to reduced expression of Notch-1, resulting in the inhibition of osteosarcoma cell proliferation, invasion and angiogenesis. These results clearly suggest that DATS inhibited osteosarcoma growth and aggressiveness via a novel mechanism targeting a Notch-miRNA regulatory circuit. Our data provide the first evidence that the downregulation of Notch-1 and reexpression of miRNAs by DATS may be an effective approach for the treatment of osteosarcoma.
Cadmium is an environmental toxic metal implicated in human diseases. The mechanism of its toxicity is not fully understood. Therefore, the role of cadmium in renal toxicity, and the protective role of selenium against this toxicity were investigated. Forty-five male rats were used through out the study and divided into three groups of 15. The first group received saline solution daily for 10 days. The second group, received cadmium chloride (CdCl2) (2 mg/kg body weight) intraperitoneally daily for a period of 10 days. The third group, received sodium selenite (1 mg/kg body weight, twice in 10 days) and cadmium chloride (CdCl2) once a day [corrected] The results showed that cadmium treatment increased renal lipid peroxidation (measured as malondialdehyde, MDA) which was associated with a significant decrease in the antioxidant systems such as reduced glutathione levels and the activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and thioredoxin reductase (TrxR). On the other hand, pretreatment of rats with selenium and cadmium led to a significant decrease in MDA concentration, and increased levels of GSH and the activities of GPx and TrxR when compared with those of cadmium-treated group. The total levels of phospholipid, triglyceride, and cholesterolester classes were decreased, while free fatty acids levels were markedly increased after cadmium treatment. In addition, the total levels of both mono- and poly-unsaturated fatty acids of different lipid classes were significantly decreased, while the total saturated fatty acids was significantly increased by cadmium treatment. Pretreatment of rats with selenium, was found to protect kidney tissues of rats against the biochemical changes resulting from cadmium administration. These results suggest that cadmium causes renal toxicity by inducing lipid peroxidation, decreasing antioxidant systems, and also by altering lipid metabolism. In addition, selenium treatment could protect the kidney tissues against the toxicity of cadmium since it reduced MDA levels and increased the activities of antioxidant enzymes in these tissues. These results could be important for the further understanding of the complex mechanisms of cadmium toxicity in kidney tissues and in the development of better treatments for people and/or animals exposed to the heavy metal.
Methotrexate (MTX) has been widely used for the treatment of inflammatory diseases and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), as well as a variety of tumors. However, MTX-induced toxicity is a serious and unpredictable side effect of this therapy and an important clinical problem. We used microarray analysis to examine MTX-induced gene expression in a human lung epithelial cell line (BEAS-2B) and identified 10 differentially expressed genes related to the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, including IL-1beta, MKK6, and MAPKAPK2. Differential gene expression was confirmed via real-time RT-PCR. To determine the functional significance of MTX-induced p38 MAPK activation, we used a p38 MAPK inhibitor (SB203580) to block the p38 MAPK cascade. We also used protein array technology to investigate the modulated expression of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in BEAS-2B cells. MTX activated IL-1beta expression and induced the phosphorylation of various proteins in the p38 MAPK cascade, including TAK1, MKK3/MKK6, p38 MAPK, MAPKAPK2, and HSP27. Finally, HSP27 activation may increase IL-8 secretion, resulting in a pulmonary inflammatory response such as pneumonitis. Although IL-1beta and IL-8 expression increased, the expression of IL-4, IL-6, IL-12, TNF-alpha, MIP-1alpha, and MIP-1beta decreased in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that the modulation of cytokine expression may play an important role in MTX-induced pulmonary toxicity.
In humans, the use of cocaine and cigarette smoking each increase the heart's metabolic need for oxygen but may also decrease the supply of oxygen. As cocaine abuse has proliferated, cocaine-associated chest pain, myocardial infarction, and sudden death have occurred, especially among smokers. We assessed the influence of intranasal cocaine and cigarette smoking, alone and together, on myocardial oxygen demand and coronary arterial dimensions in subjects with and subjects without coronary atherosclerosis.
In 42 smokers (28 men and 14 women; age, 34 to 79 years; 36 with angiographically demonstrable coronary artery disease), we measured the product of the heart rate and systolic arterial pressure (rate-pressure product) and coronary arterial diameters before and after intranasal cocaine at a dose of 2 mg per kilogram of body weight (n = 6), one cigarette (n = 12), or intranasal cocaine at a dose of 2 mg per kilogram followed by one cigarette (n = 24).
No patient had chest pain or ischemic electrocardiographic changes after cocaine use or smoking. The mean (+/- SE) rate-pressure product increased by 11 +/- 2 percent after cocaine use (n = 30, P < 0.001), by 12 +/- 4 percent after one cigarette (n = 12, P = 0.021), and by 45 +/- 5 percent after both cocaine use and smoking (n = 24, P < 0.001). As compared with base-line measurements, the diameters of nondiseased coronary arterial segments decreased on average by 7 +/- 1 percent after cocaine use (P < 0.001), by 7 +/- 1 percent after smoking (P < 0.001), and by 6 +/- 2 percent after cocaine use and smoking (P < 0.001). The diameters of diseased segments decreased by 9 +/- 2 percent after cocaine use (n = 18, P < 0.001), by 5 +/- 5 percent after smoking (n = 12, P = 0.322), and by 19 +/- 4 percent after cocaine use and smoking (n = 12, P < 0.001). The increase in the rate-pressure product and the decrease in the diameters of diseased segments caused by cocaine use and smoking together were greater (P < 0.001 and P = 0.037, respectively) than the changes caused by either alone.
The deleterious effects of cocaine on myocardial oxygen supply and demand are exacerbated by concomitant cigarette smoking. This combination substantially increases the metabolic requirement of the heart for oxygen but simultaneously decreases the diameter of diseased coronary arterial segments.
A 91-year-old woman, presenting with flu-like symptoms, developed a brief episode of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in the emergency department. The arrhythmia resolved spontaneously, and a subsequent electrocardiogram revealed Q waves and ST-segment elevation in the anterior precordial leads, along with a prolonged QT interval. The presumed diagnosis was ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction with ischemia-induced ventricular tachycardia. Emergent coronary artery angiography revealed only minimal luminal irregularities. It was discovered that the patient had been taking levofloxacin and, apparently as a result, developed drug-induced torsades de pointes. The case of this patient is an example of the difficulties that are occasionally encountered in differentiating ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction from nonischemic ST elevation.
Acute exposure of acetaminophen (APAP), a widely used analgesic and antipyretic drug, causes severe renal damage and no specific agent has been reported so far that plays any beneficial role in this organ pathophysiology. In the present study, the protective role of taurine on APAP-induced nephrotoxicity was investigated in mice. In order to induce acute nephrotoxicity, APAP was administered at a single dose of 2g/kg body weight orally to male adult albino mice of Swiss strain. APAP exposure for 24h significantly increased plasma level of blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, uric acid, TNF-alpha, NO production, urinary gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) activity, total urinary protein and urinary glucose level accompanied by a decrease in Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity. Moreover, APAP administration significantly increased MDA, protein carbonylation, GSSG level, intracellular ROS production and cytochrome P450 enzyme (CYPP450) activity. The same exposure decreased GSH level, ferric reducing/antioxidant power (FRAP) as well as the activities of antioxidant enzymes indicating that APAP-induced renal damage was mediated through oxidative stress. Besides, APAP exposure significantly reduced mitochondrial membrane potential and induced up-regulation of CYP2E1 in renal tissues although JNK did not play any significant role in this APAP-induced renal pathophysiology. Caspase 9/3 immunoblot and DNA fragmentation analyses showed that APAP-induced renal cell damage was mostly necrotic in nature, although some apoptosis also occurred simultaneously. Taurine treatment both pre and post (150 mg/kg body weight for 3 days, orally) to APAP exposure, however, significantly reduced APAP-induced nephrotoxicity through its antioxidant properties, urinary excretion of APAP and suppression of CYP2E1. Results suggest that taurine might be a potential therapeutic candidate against APAP-induced acute nephrotoxicity.
The mechanisms of bromate (BrO(3)(-))-induced toxicity in Normal Rat Kidney (NRK) and human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells were investigated. BrO(3)(-) (added as KBrO(3)) induced concentration-dependent decreases in 3-(4, dimethylthiazolyl-2)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) staining after 48 h. BrO(3)(-)-induced necrosis based on tandem increases in annexin V and PI staining. Cell cycle analysis demonstrated that BrO(3)(-) also induced G2/M arrest and nuclear fragmentation, prior to alterations in MTT staining or annexin V and PI staining. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that the G2/M arrest correlated to induction of phosphorylated (p)-p53, p21, cyclin B1 and p-cdc2. Further, BrO(3)(-) induced time-dependent increases in the activity of the mitogen activated protein kinases p38 and ERK1/2. Treatment of cells with the p38 inhibitor SB202190, but not the ERK1/2 inhibitor PD98059, partially reversed BrO(3)(-)-induced G2/M arrest and decreased BrO(3)(-)-induced p-p53, p21 and cyclin B1 expression. In addition, BrO(3)(-) treatment induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) based on increases in CM-H(2)DCFDA fluorescence. The antioxidant ascorbic acid inhibited BrO(3)(-)-induced p38 activation, G2/M arrest, p-p53, p21 and cyclin B1 expression; however, ascorbic acid had no effect on BrO(3)(-)-induced formation of 8-OHdG, a marker of DNA oxidative damage, whose increases preceded cell death by 24h. These data suggest that ROS mediated MAPK activation is involved in the molecular mechanisms of BrO(3)(-)-induced cell cycle arrest, which occurs independently of 8-OH-dG production. The similar mode of action in both NRK and HEK293 cells suggests that the mechanisms of BrO(3)(-)-induced renal cell death are model-independent.
Several investigators have reported recently that in rats, oral calcium load is associated with a marked amelioration in gentamicin-induced renal failure. In contrast to these reports, using the same animal model, we could not observe calcium-induced moderation in gentamicin nephrotoxicity as reflected by either urea or creatinine serum concentration or by various renal cortical intracellular enzymatic activities. Similarly, verapamil, a calcium channel blocker, had no effect on the degree of renal failure in these animals. We conclude that manipulation of calcium diet may not be uniformly effective in reducing gentamicin nephrotoxicity. Additional nutritional factors may play a crucial role in achieving the amelioration of this model of toxic nephropathy.
Developmental exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) disrupts reproduction in animals. Human data are lacking. We measured PCBs in preserved mothers' serum samples collected during 1960-1963, 1-3 days after their daughters' birth. We recorded time to pregnancy (TTP) in 289 daughters 28-31 years later. PCB congeners 187, 156, and 99 in mother's serum were associated with longer TTP in their daughters while PCB congeners 105, 138 and 183 were associated shorter TTP. Probability of pregnancy fell by 38% (95% CI 17-53%) and infertility was higher (30% not pregnant after 13 cycles versus 11% not pregnant after 13 cycles) among women whose mothers had a higher proportion of PCB congeners associated with longer TTP (75th percentile versus 25th percentile). This study demonstrates, for the first time, that developmental exposure to PCBs may disrupt pregnancy in humans.
There is increasing evidence that the late sodium current of the sodium channel in myocytes plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of myocardial ischemia and thus is a potential therapeutic target in patients with ischemic heart disease. Ranolazine, an inhibitor of the late sodium current, reduces the frequency and severity of anginal attacks and ST-segment depression in humans, and unlike other antianginal drugs, ranolazine does not alter heart rate or blood pressure. In experimental animal models, ranolazine has been shown to reduce myocardial infarct size and to improve left ventricular function after acute ischemia and chronic heart failure. This article reviews published data describing the role of late sodium current and its inhibition by ranolazine in clinical and experimental studies of myocardial ischemia.
Three patients developed acute Guillain-Barré syndrome while on steroid treatment. The first patient suffered from ulcerative colitis and developed Guillain-Barré syndrome when the steroid dosage was being tapered. Another patient with long-standing multiple sclerosis received steroids during relapse and the Guillain-Barré syndrome appeared while treatment was reduced. The third patient, with aqueductal stenosis and ventriculoatrial shunt, who received steroids when malfunction of the shunt was suspected, developed Guillain-Barré syndrome while steroids were being tapered. Based on the putative immune pathogenesis of inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, the occurrence of the syndrome in these patients could have been due to a selective effect of low-dose steroids on a specific, maybe suppressor lymphocyte subpopulation.
The possibility that the use of conjugated estrogens increases the risk of endometrial carcinoma was investigated in patients and a twofold age-matched control series from the same population. Conjugated estrogens (principally sodium estrone sulfate) use was recorded for 57 per cent of 94 patients with endometrial carcinoma, and for 15 per cent of controls. The corresponding point estimate of the (instantaneous) risk ratio was 7.6 with a one-sided 95 per cent lower confidence limit of 4.7. The risk-ratio estimate increased with duration of exposure: from 5.6 for 1 to 4.9 years exposure to 13.9 for seven or more years. The estimated proportion of cases related to conjugated estrogens, the etiologic fraction, was 50 per cent with a one-sided 95 per cent lower confidence limit of 41 per cent. These data suggest that conjugated estrogens have an etiologic role in endometrial carcinoma.
Tics-disorders are hyperkinetic movement disorders which manifest in childhood or early adolescence and ameliorate in later adulthood. We report on two patients with a basically subclinical tic-disorder (age of 53 and 68 years). During the therapy of polymyalgia rheumatica and endocrine orbitopathy in Graves disease with prednisolone the tics exacerbated and were therefore diagnosed and treated for the first time. Possible causes for the exacerbation of the tics during the therapy with glucocorticosteroids are discussed in the context of the dopamine hypothesis of tics.
Male lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) are one of the most common causes for a consultation with a health care provider, and one of the most common causes of male LUTS is benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). In recent decades, medical therapy has established itself as viable and cost effective for the majority of men. For the treatment of male LUTS in the United States, the 5 currently available alpha-adrenergic receptor blockers are alfuzosin, doxazosin, silodosin, terazosin, and tamsulosin. alpha-Blockers remain one of the mainstays in the treatment of male LUTS and clinical BPH. They exhibit an early onset of efficacy (within less than 1 week) with regard to both symptoms and flow rate improvement, maintain such improvements in open-label and controlled trials for up to 5 years, and have been shown to prevent symptomatic progression.
Ataxia and depression developed in 21 of 50 (42%) laboratory cats wearing flea collars impregnated with 2,2-dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate (dichlorvos or DDVP) in a warm dry environment. Five (10%) of the cats died. Whole blood cholinesterase (ChE) activity was significantly (P smaller than 0.001) reduced in all cats and cervical dermatitis occurred in 37 (74%) of them.
The effect of alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-adrenoreceptor antagonists (prazosin and yohimbine, respectively) on streptozotocin (STZ)- and vincristine (VIN)-induced hyperalgesia in rats was studied. In two experimental models, yohimbine (1.0 mg/kg ip) completely abolished STZ and VIN-induced hyperalgesia. This effect was markedly prolonged in diabetic rats. Prazosin (0.3 mg/kg ip) attenuated and delayed development of STZ-induced hyperalgesia. In VIN-elicited neuropathy, the administration of prazosin not only delayed hyperalgesia but also produced antinociception. After cessation of drug administration, a significant decrease in nociceptive threshold was observed. The obtained results seem to indicate that both alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-adrenoreceptors are engaged in diabetic (STZ) and toxic (VIN) neuropathy.
Methamphetamine (MA) dependence accounts for substantial neuropsychiatric morbidity. Furthermore, there is evidence in the literature of psychiatric and cognitive impairment in chronic users.
This report compares the general psychiatric and cognitive functioning, including impulsive decision-making, of individuals dependent on MA and normal controls.
Forty-one currently abstinent individuals in treatment for MA dependence and 41 controls participated. Controls were selected to minimize group differences in age and gender. MA users met DSM-IV criteria for MA dependence, had average daily use of 0.5 g/day (0.5-6 g/day), had been abstinent at least 2 weeks (2-24 weeks), and did not currently meet criteria for other Axis I psychiatric disorders. Psychiatric symptoms were rated on standardized scales. Cognitive function was assessed with a battery of standardized neuropsychological tests. Impulsivity was assessed using a delay discounting task, which measured preference for small, immediate, and large delayed rewards.
The MA group reported more psychiatric symptoms than controls, and was impaired relative to controls on the Babcock Story Recall-Delayed and the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test. MA-dependent subjects discounted delayed rewards more than controls, and this measure of impulsivity was correlated with memory impairment in the MA group but not in the controls.
MA-dependent individuals are more impulsive than controls, and this may be causally related to memory deficits but was unrelated to any other measure of psychiatric or cognitive impairment or any drug use history variable.
To evaluate the efficiency and safety of intravenous (i.v.) remifentanil and propofol for gastroscopy in healthy adults.
Randomized, double-blinded study.
Endoscopy Center, West China Hospital, Sichuan University (Chengdu, People's Republic of China).
199 adult ASA physical status I and II patients.
Patients were randomly allocated to either the fentanyl group (n = 99) or the remifentanil group (n = 100). Patients received either fentanyl 0.5 microg/kg or remifentanil 0.5 microg/kg, followed by a bolus injection of one mg/kg of propofol. The subsequent doses of propofol were 0.5 mg/kg when the patient was conscious or body movement appeared.
Noninvasive blood pressure, heart rate, arterial pulse oxygen saturation, and respiratory rate were recorded before gastroscopy and at two-minute intervals until the end of the gastroscopy procedure. Patients were asked to evaluate their level of cognition using the Digit-Symbol Substitution Test score before gastroscopy and at 10 minutes after discontinuation of the drug injection.
Recovery time was significantly shorter in the remifentanil group than in the fentanyl group (P < 0.05). Postoperative Digit-Symbol Substitution Test scores were significantly higher in the remifentanil group than in the fentanyl group (P < 0.01). Total dosage of propofol given in the remifentanil group was significantly less than it was in the fentanyl group (P < 0.01). Frequency of apnea was significantly higher in the remifentanil group (P < 0.05). There were no significant differences in frequency of hypoxemia, bag ventilation, or body movement between the two groups (P > 0.05).
Intravenous remifentanil and propofol were more efficient for gastroscopy than i.v. fentanyl and propofol.
We present a 9-month-old exclusively breast-fed baby of a strict vegetarian mother who had excluded all animal proteins from her diet. The patient's symptoms included dystrophy, weakness, muscular atrophy, loss of tendon reflexes, psychomotor regression and haematological abnormalities. Biochemical investigations revealed severe methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria in the patient, slight methylmalonic aciduria in the mother and low concentrations of serum vitamin B12 in both patient and mother.
Experimental painful peripheral neuropathies produced by the chemotherapeutic drugs, paclitaxel and vincristine, are produced by relatively low doses that do not cause axonal degeneration in peripheral nerve. Using quantitative immunolabeling with the PGP9.5 antibody, we have investigated whether these painful neuropathies might be associated with degeneration that is confined to the region of the sensory fiber's receptor terminals in the skin. Because complete and partial nerve transections are known to cause an increase in PGP9.5 in epidermal Langerhans cells (LCs), we also examined whether this effect occurs in chemotherapy-treated animals. At the time of peak pain severity, rats with paclitaxel- and vincristine-evoked painful peripheral neuropathies had a significant decrease (24% and 44%, respectively) in the number of intraepidermal nerve fibers (IENF) in the hind paw glabrous skin and an increase (217% and 121%, respectively) in the number of PGP9.5-positive LCs, relative to control. However, neither loss of IENF nor an increase in PGP9.5-positive LCs was found in rats with a painful peripheral neuropathy evoked by the anti-HIV agent, 2',3'-dideoxycytidine. We also confirmed that there is a decrease in IENF and an increase in PGP9.5-positive LCs in rats with neuropathic pain following a partial nerve injury (CCI model) and in rats with a complete sciatic nerve transection. Partial degeneration of the intraepidermal innervation suggests mechanisms that might produce chemotherapy-evoked neuropathic pain, and activation of cutaneous LCs suggests possible neuroimmune interactions that might also have a role.
Pleasure and reward are critical features of alcohol drinking that are difficult to measure in animal studies. Intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) is a behavioral method for studying the effects of drugs directly on the neural circuitry that underlies brain reward. These experiments had 2 objectives: first, to establish the effects of alcohol on ICSS responding in the C57Bl6/J (C57) and DBA2/J (DBA) mouse strains; and second, to compare these effects to those of the psychostimulant cocaine.
Male C57 and DBA mice were implanted with unipolar stimulating electrodes in the lateral hypothalamus and conditioned to spin a wheel for reinforcement by the delivery of rewarding electrical stimulation (i.e., brain stimulation-reward or BSR). Using the curve-shift method, the BSR threshold (theta(0)) was determined immediately before and after oral gavage with alcohol (0.3, 0.6, 1.0, 1.7 g/kg) or water. Blood alcohol concentration (BAC) was measured to determine the influence of alcohol metabolism on BSR threshold. Separately, mice were administered cocaine (1.0, 3.0, 10.0, 30.0 mg/kg) or saline intraperitoneally.
In C57 mice, the 0.6 g/kg dose of alcohol lowered BSR thresholds by about 20%, during the rising (up to 40 mg/dl), but not falling, phase of BAC. When given to the DBA mice, alcohol lowered BSR thresholds over the entire dose range; the largest reduction was by about 50%. Cocaine lowered BSR thresholds in both strains. However, cocaine was more potent in DBA mice than in C57 mice as revealed by a leftward shift in the cocaine dose-response curve. For both alcohol and cocaine, effects on BSR threshold were dissociable from effects on operant response rates.
In C57 and DBA mice, reductions in BSR threshold reflect the ability of alcohol to potentiate the neural mechanisms of brain reward. The DBA mice are more sensitive to the reward-potentiating effects of both alcohol and cocaine, suggesting that there are mouse strain differences in the neural mechanisms of brain reward that can be measured with the ICSS technique.
Status epilepticus (SE) produced by excitatory amino acids is a well established model in adult rodents. Limbic neuronal degeneration and synaptic reorganization observed after, for example, kainic acid-induced SE are considered relevant to human epilepsy. Kainic acid also produces severe seizures in infant rats, but neuronal injury and sprouting have not been demonstrated. The results of the present study show that corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH)-induced SE causes limbic neuronal death and reorganization in infant rats. In adults, CRH produced seizures at much higher doses, and no neuronal degeneration. As a modulator of the CNS stress response, CRH is activated in various 'stressful' circumstances. Its age-dependent ability to kill neurons represents a unique form of cell death potentially important in human medicine.
Lidocaine has been shown to inhibit neural conduction and to have anti-inflammatory properties. The purpose of this study was to determine whether intraoperative lidocaine infusion reduces opioid consumption in the postanesthesia care unit (PACU).
Fifty patients were enrolled in this prospective, randomized and observer-blinded study. At induction of anesthesia the control group (n = 25) received fentanyl 3 microg.kg(-1) while the lidocaine group received fentanyl 1.5 microg.kg(-1) and a bolus of lidocaine 1.5 mg.kg(-1) followed by a continuous infusion of lidocaine 2 mg.kg(-1).hr(-1). General anesthesia included propofol, rocuronium, and desflurane titrated to maintain blood pressure and heart rate within set parameters, and the bispectral index between 35 and 50. No supplemental opioids were given during surgery. All patients received acetaminophen, ketorolac, dexamethasone, droperidol and local anesthetics in the skin incision. Patients received fentanyl and ondansetron in the PACU. The primary outcome variable was the amount of fentanyl required in the PACU to establish and to maintain visual analogue scale pain scores < 3.
Most patients received fentanyl for pain relief in the PACU, but the cumulative mean dose was lower in the lidocaine group compared to the control group (98 +/- 54 microg, vs 154 +/- 99 microg, respectively, P = 0.018). Lidocaine infusion reduced by 10% the amount of desflurane required (P = 0.012). White-Song scores > 12 were attained by all patients in both groups within 30 min of their arrival in the PACU. Median time from arrival to the PACU to discharge home was similar in both groups, 167.5 min in the control group vs 180 min in the lidocaine group (P = 0.649).
Intraoperative lidocaine infusion reduces opioid consumption in the PACU and intraoperative requirements of desflurane.
To investigate the influence of combined hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and lamivudine (LMV) treatment on hepatitis B virus (HBV) surface antigen and polymerase overlapping gene mutations in HBV reinfected liver transplant recipients.
From June 2002 to December 2003, 320 patients who underwent liver transplantations due to HBV-related end-stage liver diseases were followed-up for 1.5 to 3 years postoperatively. Fourteen patients developed HBV reinfection. They had LMV before their liver transplantations and had LMV and HBIG after the transplantations to prevent HBV infections. Their serum levels of HBV DNA were measured by polymerase chain reaction. Gene sequencing method was used to analyze HBV genotype and mutations of the S gene. Micro-particle enzyme immunoassay was used to measure the serum concentration of HBIG.
(1) There was no obvious difference in the number of amino acid mutation sites in S and P regions before and after the transplantations. (2) The HBV genotypes were B-type (n=2) and C-type (n=12) in the reinfected group before the transplantations, and genotypes after the transplantations remained the same. (3) HBIG concentrations were 0 U/L in 7 patients, less than 100 U/L in 5 patients, and more than 100 U/L in 2 patients. Mutations were detected as I126S, T131N, S143T and G145R in 'a' determinant and L110F, I113S, T160K in up- or down-stream of 'a' determinant. (4) Mutations in S gene caused missense mutation in the surface antigen region. These mutations also caused corresponding missense mutations in the polymerase region. The missense mutation in the polymerase region involved lamivudine mutation sites and other mutation sites.
Immunosuppressant therapy has no obvious influence on the numbers of mutations, but it can influence the sites of the mutations. Besides 'a' determinant mutations, there exist mutations in up- or down-streams of 'a' determinant and they may cause HBV reinfection.
This study evaluated the safety and cognitive impact of patient-controlled analgesia with fentanyl compared to patient-controlled analgesia with morphine among elderly postoperative patients. In addition, two screening tests for cognitive impairment, the Mini Mental Status Exam and the Short Portable Mental Status Questionnaire, were compared. Ninety-six elderly patients were randomly allocated to receive patient-controlled analgesia with either fentanyl or morphine following hip or knee arthroplasty. Patients were evaluated postoperatively for clinical confusion, cognitive function test results, adequacy of analgesia, drug use and complications. Fentanyl produced less depression in postoperative cognitive function compared to morphine. The incidence of clinical confusion was not statistically different between groups (4.3% for fentanyl versus 14.3% for morphine). Fentanyl patients used more opioid based on a dose ratio of 100:1 suggesting that this dose ratio is inadequate. The incidence of urinary retention was lower in the fentanyl group. A poor agreement between the two tests of cognitive impairment mandates caution when peri-operative cognitive function is compared using different tests.
Mitomycin-C is a commonly used anticancer drug for patients with advanced anal, breast, colorectal, gastric, lung, or pancreatic cancers. Mitomycin-C can cause severe necrosis and ulceration when extravasated inadvertently into skin and soft tissues following IV drug administration. Local applications of heat, ice, and common antidotes such as glucocorticosteroids and hyaluronidase or sodium thiosulfate have failed to reduce the experimental toxicity of these vesicant reactions in mice. Plastic surgery with split-thickness skin grafting may be required to palliate local pain symptoms and loss of function, although some extravasations heal without any local treatment. This brief communication summarizes two case reports of the treatment of severe mitomycin-C venous extravasations using topical applications of dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). Although the authors' experience represents the results of DMSO interventions in only two patients, the response to treatment in both patients was so pronounced that others may find this useful in their practice.
Traditional herbal formulations, such as Juzen-taiho-to (TJ-48), are used extensively in medical practice in Asia even though their mechanism of action remains elusive. This study tested a hypothesis that TJ-48 is protective against hepatocarcinogenesis by impeding Kupffer cell-induced oxidative stress. Forty-eight patients were randomly assigned to receive TJ-48 (n = 10), or no supplementation (n = 38) for up to 6 years after surgical treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In addition, to investigate the mechanism of protective action of TJ-48, diethylnitrosamine-containing water was administered for 22 weeks to male mice that were fed regular chow or TJ-48-containing diet. Liver tumor incidence, cell proliferation, number of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine- or F4/80-positive cells, and cytokine expression were evaluated. Although most of the patients experienced recurrence of HCC, a significantly longer intrahepatic recurrence-free survival was observed in the TJ-48 group. In mice, TJ-48 inhibited the development of liver tumors, reduced oxidative DNA damage, inflammatory cell infiltration and cytokine expression. Administration of TJ-48 improves intrahepatic recurrence-free survival after surgical treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. On the basis of animal experiments, we reason that the protective mechanism of TJ-48 involves inhibition of Kupffer cells. This leads to lower levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and oxidants in liver which may slow down the process of hepatocarcinogenesis and improves hepatic recurrence-free survival in patients with HCC.
