Epileptic seizures can be evoked in chicks homozygous for the epileptic seizure gene (epi, epi) by elevating their body temperature using microwave diathermy. These seizures precede and differ in motor seizure pattern from a second clonic-tonic seizure produced by hyperthermia in both epileptic and carrier (heterozygote, Epi, epi) chicks. Hyperthermia did not evoke seizures in adult epileptic chickens. Phenobarbital delayed the onset of epileptiform seizures whereas phenytoin and valproate had no effect. These data suggest that epileptic chicks may provide a suitable model for studies on febrile convulsions.
Formaldehyde (FA) irritates the skin, eyes, and respiratory system and is considered to be a typical air pollutant. We investigated the effects of FA on the manifestations of airway inflammation caused by a house-dust mite allergen (Der f). ICR mice were exposed to 0.5% FA mist once a week for 4 weeks. The mice were sensitized intraperitoneally with Der f and ALUM prior to FA exposure. After the last FA exposure, theywere instilled intratracheally with Der f. The airway inflammation was subsequently examined. The Der f-specific IgG1 and IgE in plasma as well as the asthma-relevant cytokines in the lungs were measured. We found an increase in the plasma IgG1 production of and in the expression of interleukin-5 (IL-5) and regulated on activation, normal T cell expressed, and presumably secreted (RANTES) in the lungs of mice treated with Der f. The FA exposure enhanced the manifestation ofthe histopathological changes caused by Der f. This observation corresponded to the enhancement of IL-5 and RANTES production. However, the antigen-specific IgG1 antibody did not increase. The IL-4 cytokine level induced by Der fwith or without FA was the same as that of the control. IL-2, granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and antigen-specific IgE were not detected. FA exposure enhanced the eosinophilic airway inflammation and the proliferation of goblet cells, which were induced by a mite allergen responsible for the increased local expression of IL-5 and RANTES.
Cocaine abuse has been associated with various cardiovascular complications, including angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, and sudden cardiac death. The first report of myocardial infarction temporally related to the recreational use of cocaine appeared in 1982. This article discusses the possible pathological mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of myocardial ischemia and infarction secondary to cocaine abuse, and current ideas on the management of cocaine-induced myocardial infarction. We report a case of acute myocardial ischemia in a young healthy male patient and his 5-year follow-up.
The role of renal calcium handling in the hypotensive response to calcium channel blockers has not been investigated previously. The acute vasodilatory effect of calcium channel blockers may be accompanied by changes in renal electrolyte handling that are important in renal electrolyte handling that are important in producing the hypotensive response seen with these agents. Nifedipine has been shown to cause acute and chronic natriuresis and diuresis, which are important in the ability to use nifedipine chronically in essential hypertension. We prospectively investigated the acute effect of 10 mg of nifedipine orally on renal cation handling in normotensive and untreated essential hypertensive subjects during a standard oral water load. At baseline there was no difference between normotensives and hypertensives in serum ionized calcium or magnesium, or in the urinary fractional excretion of these two cations. Oral nifedipine acutely increased the fractional excretion of sodium without changing the fractional excretion of calcium or magnesium. Nifedipine did not alter the serum concentrations of sodium, calcium, or magnesium. Augmented sodium excretion may play a role in the acute hypotensive response to oral nifedipine. The acute hypotensive response does not seem to be caused by altered renal handling of calcium or magnesium. Counterbalancing effects of nifedipine on proximal and distal nephron calcium handling may explain the disassociation of augmented sodium excretion and no net change in calcium excretion.
Thirty adult patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were studied to evaluate prospectively the significance of early decline in left ventricular ejection fraction after low cumulative doxorubicin dose (200 mg x m(-2)) in predicting the later impairment of left ventricular function. Cardiac function was monitored with radionuclide ventriculography at baseline and after cumulative doxorubicin doses of 200, 400 and 500 mg x m(-2). Cardiotoxicity was defined as a decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction of more than 10% units to a final left ventricular ejection fraction < or =50%. Twenty-eight patients received doxorubicin > or =400 mg x m(-2) and were evaluable for cardiotoxicity. Clinical heart failure developed in two patients (7%) after a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 500 mg m(-2). Left ventricular ejection fraction decreased more than 10% absolute ejection fraction units to a final left ventricular ejection fraction < or =50% in 10 patients (36%). Left ventricular ejection fraction decreased from 56+/-1.5% to 53.6+/-1.5% (P=0.016) in patients with no cardiotoxicity, and from 60.8+/-2.4% to 41.8+/-2.0% (P<0.001) in patients with cardiotoxicity. For patients who developed cardiotoxicity, the fall in left ventricular ejection fraction after a cumulative doxorubicin dose of only 200 mg x m(-2) was highly significant (left ventricular ejection fraction 49.7+/-1.8%, P=0.001 vs baseline). In receiver operator characteristic analysis, the area under the curve for the decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction at a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 200 mg x m(-2) for predicting cardiotoxicity in all patients was 0.858. The decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction of more than 4% units after a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 200 mg x m(-2) had a 90% sensitivity and 72% specificity for predicting later cardiotoxicity. Our results show that the significant impairment of left ventricular function during doxorubicin therapy can be predicted early, already at low cumulative doxorubicin doses. This finding may be of value in identifying patients at high or low risk for the development of anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
We examined WNT2 as a candidate disease gene for autism for the following reasons. First, the WNT family of genes influences the development of numerous organs and systems, including the central nervous system. Second, WNT2 is located in the region of chromosome 7q31-33 linked to autism and is adjacent to a chromosomal breakpoint in an individual with autism. Third, a mouse knockout of Dvl1, a member of a gene family essential for the function of the WNT pathway, exhibits a behavioral phenotype characterized primarily by diminished social interaction. We screened the WNT2 coding sequence for mutations in a large number of autistic probands and found two families containing nonconservative coding sequence variants that segregated with autism in those families. We also identified linkage disequilibrium (LD) between a WNT2 3'UTR SNP and our sample of autism-affected sibling pair (ASP) families and trios. The LD arose almost exclusively from a subgroup of our ASP families defined by the presence of severe language abnormalities and was also found to be associated with the evidence for linkage to 7q from our previously published genomewide linkage screen. Furthermore, expression analysis demonstrated WNT2 expression in the human thalamus. Based on these findings, we hypothesize that rare mutations occur in the WNT2 gene that significantly increase susceptibility to autism even when present in single copies, while a more common WNT2 allele (or alleles) not yet identified may exist that contributes to the disorder to a lesser degree.
In most patients with chronic viral hepatitis the predominant lobular location of hepatic necrosis and fibrosis is the periportal zone. We established a new simple model of hepatic fibrosis in rats by repetitive periportal necrosis with allylalcohol.
Of 40 male adult rats, 30 were injected with 0.62 mmol/kg of allylalcohol intraperitoneally twice a week, the remaining 10 with normal saline as controls. Ten rats were killed at each of 4, 8, and 16 weeks later. The extent of fibrosis was evaluated according to the portal-portal extent. Transforming growth factor (TGF) beta1 mRNA in liver tissues was detected by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, and its levels were determined by the endpoint titers of serial two-fold dilutions of cDNA.
After 4 weeks, periportal fibrosis was produced in only 6 out of 10 rats, and was mild in extent. However, after 8 weeks, 8 out of 9 survivors showed moderate to severe fibrosis, which corresponded to a score of 7 or more. The extent of fibrosis correlated significantly with the amount of collagen and TGFbeta1 mRNA expression in liver tissues. The collagen content and expression of TGFbeta1 mRNA were also upregulated significantly in liver tissues with a fibrosis score of 7 or more.
Hepatic fibrosis can be sufficiently induced by repetitive intraperitoneal injection of 0.62 mmol/kg of allylalcohol twice a week for 8 weeks. This simple model of hepatic fibrosis, in which TGFbeta1 is overexpressed at the transcriptional level, may be useful in the study of patients who have predominantly periportal necrosis and fibrosis.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a global health problem and is fourth leading cause of cancer related deaths. Now-a-days new strategies have been accounted for the chemoprevention of liver cancer due to ineffective traditional treatments against HCC. In the present study, we have shown that diosmin attenuates 2-AAF induced hepatic toxicity and early tumor promotion markers (ODC, PCNA and Ki67), its chemopreventive efficacy against DEN initiated and 2-AAF promoted hyper-proliferation and hepatocarcinogenesis in Wistar rats. Hepatocarcinogenesis has been characterized by the presence of apparent hepatic nodules, hepatic proliferation, elevation in the levels of proliferation markers (PCNA and Ki67), and inflammatory markers (COX-2 and iNOS) in DEN and 2-AAF administered rats. Protective efficacy of diosmin has been investigated in terms of its potential in reducing the percentage of visible hepatic nodules and the restoration of early tumor markers (PCNA, Ki67 and ODC), oxidative stress biomarkers, serum cytotoxicity markers (AST, ALT and LDH), cell necrosis markers (NF-kappa B and TNF-α) and inflammatory markers (COX-2 and iNos). Our study demonstrates that the inhibition of cell proliferation and down regulation of inflammatory markers may be, at least in part, the underlying mechanisms related to the liver tumor inhibition by diosmin. The present study allows us to conclude that diosmin being a dietary supplement, could be used as chemopreventive agent to prevent hepatocarcinogenesis.
Studies have shown anti-hyperlipidemic actions of melatonin, with pharmacological doses inducing changes in cholesterol levels. This study was designed to evaluate the effect of melatonin on adriamycin-induced (25mg/kg b.w., i.p.) hyperlipidemia under constant light exposure. Melatonin was injected i.p. (1,000 microg/kg b.w./day). Triglycerides, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, light-density lipoprotein cholesterol, non-proteic nitrogen compounds (urea and creatinine levels), total protein in serum, proteins eliminated in the urine and melatonin levels in serum and kidney were determined. Results show a decrease in melatonin levels induced by both adriamycin and constant light. Likewise, adriamycin induced significant increases in triglycerides, total cholesterol and light-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and lowered high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. Constant light exposure also prompted an increase in LDL-c levels and a decrease in HDL-c values, and intensified the effects of adriamycin on these two lipoproteins. All changes induced by adriamycin and constant light were reverted toward normality by melatonin administration.
Previous studies have demonstrated that sera from patients with severe liver damage after halothane anesthesia ("halothane hepatitis") contain antibodies reacting with novel antigenic determinants expressed on hepatocytes from rabbits exposed previously to halothane. To determine the structure of the halothane-induced antigen(s), immunoblotting experiments were performed using patient sera and rabbit liver subcellular fractions. Three polypeptide antigens (Mr 100,000, 76,000 and 57,000) expressed in liver fractions from animals sacrificed 16 hr after exposure to 1% halothane in oxygen for 45 min, but not in fractions from unexposed animals, were identified. Analysis of fractions prepared by differential and sucrose density gradient centrifugation, and characterized by enzyme marker analysis, localized all three antigens to a microsomal subfraction relatively enriched in glucose-6-phosphatase activity, therefore, presumably derived from the endoplasmic reticulum. Antibodies to these antigens were detected in 19 of 24 sera from patients with halothane hepatitis, and four distinct patterns of antibody specificity were observed: 100,000 + 76,000 (seven patients), 100,000 alone (seven patients), 76,000 alone (three patients) and 57,000 alone (two patients). Such antibodies were not detectable in sera from 24 normal blood donors or 36 control patients. Thus, halothane induces expression of three distinct polypeptide antigens in liver, and patients with halothane hepatitis differ in patterns of recognition of these antigens by circulating antibodies.
The acute effects of nifedipine (20 mg sublingually) on hemodynamics and cardiac function were studied at rest and during supine bicycle exercise in 20 patients with aortic regurgitation. At rest, heart rate increased by 13%, systemic vascular resistance decreased by 34% and regurgitant index decreased by 17%. The change in systemic vascular resistance was related to its initial rest level (r = 0.82, p less than 0.001) and to the changes in forward cardiac output (r = 0.58, p less than 0.01) and regurgitant index (r = 0.60, p less than 0.01). Left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes, stroke volume and ejection fraction were unchanged, whereas right ventricular ejection fraction increased. During exercise, nifedipine administration further increased heart rate by 8% and decreased systemic vascular resistance by 19%. Both forward stroke volume and forward cardiac output increased, but total left ventricular stroke volume was unchanged, resulting in a significant decrease in regurgitant index. Although left ventricular end-diastolic volume was slightly decreased, end-systolic volume did not increase; thus, ejection fraction was higher than that during control exercise (p less than 0.01). Right ventricular ejection fraction increased further. In aortic regurgitation, the acute administration of nifedipine improved cardiac performance and reduced regurgitation at rest and during exercise as a result of afterload reduction and increased heart rate. Whether these beneficial effects will occur during long-term therapy requires further investigation.
It has long been known or suspected that phenytoin and probably phenobarbitone prescribed in pregnancy may lead to fetal malformations. The use of troxidone for epileptic women during pregnancy was reported in 1970 to lead to malformations. Over 50 instances of pregnancy in women taking troxidone have since been reported. In 8 of these the drug was used alone. 13 pregnancies resulted in abortion and 33 of the 40 survivors had a minor congenital anomaly, leading to death in 14. Complex congenital heart lesions with patent ductus, septal defects and aortic hypoplasia were apparent in half the survivors. Malformed or low-set ears were seen in nearly half the cases, palatal deformities were less common and evidence intrauterine growth retardation was frequently present. A 29-year-old mother taking troxidon and carbamazepine, and with a history of hypertension and proteinuria dating back to adolescence, delivered her first child prematurely. The child was small, showed deformed ears, displayed feeding problems and was found to be in cardiac failure with a systolic murmur and absent femoral pulses. Postnatal growth was retarded and after further cyanotic attacks a cardiac catheter study was performed. This showed a hypoplastic aortic arch with an anomolous origin of the left subclavian artery and patent ductus arteriosus, findings similar to those previously reported in neonates following maternal use of troxidone.
Vomiting in children suffering from acute gastroenteritis interferes with the oral rehydration process and equally frustrates parents and health care providers. Adjuncts such as promethazine and metoclopramide are less than optimally effective and are associated with side effects. Ondansetron, a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist marketed as Zofran, is a safe and effective antiemetic used extensively in oncology and postoperative patients. We evaluate the effect of the antiemetic ondansetron versus placebo on the clinical outcome of patients with vomiting from gastroenteritis in a pediatric emergency department.
This was a randomized, prospective, double-blind clinical trial in a university-affiliated children's hospital ED. Children between the ages of 6 months and 12 years who had vomited at least 5 times during the preceding 24 hours were randomized to receive either oral ondansetron or a taste- and color-matched placebo. Oral rehydration was commenced 15 minutes later at 5 mL/min per standard oral rehydration protocols. Patients were discharged after they voided and continued standard oral rehydration at home with the introduction of a bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast (BRAT) diet after the first 24 hours. Any patient requiring admission was considered a treatment failure, and no further doses were given. Discharged patients were given 5 additional doses to be used every 8 hours, and they were contacted by telephone 24 and 48 hours after discharge to record the number of episodes of vomiting and diarrhea. The parents were also required to complete a diary of the same information, which was mailed to the investigators for confirmation of the telephone data.
One hundred forty-five patients were enrolled, of whom 51% (n=74) were randomized to ondansetron. At baseline, age distribution, sex, and severity of illness did not differ between the ondansetron and placebo groups. During the observation period in the ED, the median number of episodes of vomiting was 0 in both groups, but the rank sum of vomiting episodes was significantly lower in the ondansetron group (P =.001). The number of episodes of emesis in the ED after enrollment ranged from 0 to 7 in the placebo group and 0 to 2 in the ondansetron group. During the 48 hours of follow-up, the median number of episodes of vomiting remained 0, with no statistically significant difference between the groups. There was no statistically significant difference in the rank sum of episodes of diarrhea in the ED between the groups (P =.622); however, during the next 48 hours, the patients in the ondansetron group had significantly more diarrhea than the placebo group. A lower proportion of patients receiving ondansetron compared with placebo required intravenous fluid therapy (P =.015). The admission rate was also lower in patients receiving ondansetron (P =.007). The revisit rate was higher in the ondansetron group compared with the placebo group (P =.047).
Ondansetron was effective in reducing the emesis from gastroenteritis during the ED phase of oral rehydration and in lowering the rates of intravenous fluid administration and hospital admission.
Administration of lithium in the diet to new-born rats induces chronic renal failure associated with hypertension, proteinuria and irreversible tubulo-interstitial morphological changes. In the present study we induced chronic renal failure by administration of lithium for 16 weeks to new-born rats, and examined the spontaneous course of this nephropathy and the effects of antihypertensive treatment with either perindopril (12 mg/kg diet) or hydrochlorothiazide (500-1000 mg/kg diet) during a 24 weeks follow up period without lithium. In the placebo group, progression to terminal uraemia occurred in all rats with severe renal failure (initial Purea > 15 mM) (10 of 18). Rats with mild-moderate renal failure (Purea 9-15 mM) showed no deterioration in renal function despite persistent systolic hypertension and irreversible structural renal changes. Perindopril normalized the blood pressure in all rats but did not prevent the progression to terminal uraemia (8 to 18). Hydrochlorothiazide partially controlled the hypertension and accellerated the progression of uraemia without increasing the mortality (7 of 17). Irrespective of treatments, the predominant quantitative structural changes (e.g. decreased volume of proximal tubular cells) showed significant correlations with the degree of renal dysfunction, but not with systolic blood pressure in the surviving rats. It is concluded that progression of lithium-induced nephropathy to terminal uraemia occurs when the nephrotoxic insult results in a more than 50% reduction of the glomerular filtration rate, judged from Purea levels. The failure of effective antihypertensive treatment with an angiotension-converting enzyme inhibitor to modify the progression suggests that in this model, systemic or glomerular hypertension may not be an important pathophysiological factor. The structural and functional deterioration observed in Li-uraemic rats during treatment with hydrochlorothiazide remains unexplained.
Blocking poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation of nuclear proteins protects the heart from ischemia-reperfusion injury. In addition, activation of Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades also plays a pivotal role in the survival of cardiomyocytes during ischemia-reperfusion; however, the potential interplay between these pathways is yet to be elucidated. We therefore tested the hypothesis whether poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibition can modulate Akt and MAPK signaling of ischemic-reperfused rat hearts. A novel PARP inhibitor, L-2286 [2-[(2-piperidin-1-yletil)thio]quinazolin-4(3H)-one] was administered during ischemia-reperfusion in Langendorff perfused rat hearts and in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction. Thereafter, the cardiac energy metabolism, oxidative damage, and the phosphorylation state of Akt and MAPK cascades were monitored. L-2286 exerted significant protective effect against ischemia-reperfusion-induced myocardial injury in both experimental models. More importantly, L-2286 facilitated the ischemia-reperfusion-induced activation of Akt, extracellular signal-regulated kinase, and p38-MAPK in both isolated hearts and in vivo cardiac injury. By contrast, isoproterenol-induced rapid c-Jun N-termainal kinase activation was repressed by L-2286. Here, we provide evidence for the first time that PARP inhibition beneficially modulates the cardiac Akt and MAPK signaling in ex vivo and in vivo ischemia-reperfusion models. We therefore propose that this novel mechanism may contribute to the cardioprotective properties of PARP inhibitors.
Three patients developed autoimmune haemolytic anaemia while being treated with mefenamic acid. In each case the autoimmune haemolytic anaemia was of the warm antibody gammaG type, and the antibodies had some rhesus specificity. All three patients recovered when the drug was withdrawn.Attempts to inhibit or enhance the activity of the antibody in vitro were unsuccessful.Direct antihuman globulin tests were made in.the red cells of 36 patients receiving long-term mefenamic acid therapy, but only one was found to be transitorily positive.
Recent epidemiological data have reaffirmed that elevated plasma triglyceride and low HDL-cholesterol levels are important risk factors for atherosclerotic vascular disease. The rationale for the clinical use of fibric acid derivatives, which are designed to correct this metabolic nexus, is now on firmer ground. The mechanism of action of fibrates on lipoprotein metabolism has recently been elucidated at the molecular level and involves the activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha 1 in the liver, with the net effect of improving the plasma transport rates of several lipoproteins. Other potential anti-atherothrombotic effects include the inhibition of coagulation and enhancement of fibrinolysis, as well as the inhibition of inflammatory mediators involved in atherogenesis. These consequences probably underpin the favourable effects of fibrates seen in recent angiographic and clinical trials. Two important clinical trials on the effect of gemfibrozil (Veterans Administration-HDL-Cholesterol Intervention Trial) and bezafibrate (Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention Study) have recently been completed in subjects with elevated triglyceride, low HDL and normal or near-normal LDL-cholesterol levels. The results testify to the efficacy of these agents in decreasing the incidence of cardiovascular events, particularly in patients with multiple risk factors and plasma triglyceride levels of over 2.2 mmol/l. The findings of these trials are compared with the statin-based Air Force/Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study, with a recommendation that future studies in appropriately selected patients should examine the synergistic effect of the fibrate/statin combination. The absolute risk reduction in the incidence of coronary events in the Veterans Administration-HDL-Cholesterol Intervention Trial compares favourably with the statin trials. The therapeutic aspects of the efficacy and safety of fibrates are reviewed. Besides primary mixed hyperlipidaemias, particular indications for the clinical use of fibrates include type 2 diabetes, the metabolic syndrome and renal insufficiency. The St Mary's, Ealing, Northwick Park Diabetes Cardiovascular Disease Prevention Study has suggested that fibrates may decrease the incidence of coronary events in type 2 diabetes, but this hypothesis will be more extensively tested in the Diabetes Atherosclerosis Intervention Study, Fenofibrate in Event Lowering in Diabetes Study and Lipids in Diabetes Study projects. Although significant new knowledge has accrued over the past few years concerning the fundamental and clinical aspects of fibrates, the success of these agents in clinical practice depends on the availability of methods for assessing cardiovascular risk as well as on treatment guidelines, which as presently designed and recommended may be inaccurate and suboptimal.
A patient in chronic renal failure, who was receiving large doses of the combined alpha- and beta-blocking agent, labetalol, was selected for renal transplantation. A low concentration of halothane was used for induction and maintenance of anaesthesia, but severe myocardial depression occurred which proved unresponsive to atropine or isoprenaline, although it responded to a dopamine infusion. Synergism has already been reported between labetalol and high concentrations of halothane, but this case suggests that, in patients with previous myocardial damage, much lower concentrations of this inhalational agent may prove fatal.
Resveratrol is a natural polyphenol that protects from cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Resveratrol is able to induce apoptotic cell death and it inhibits the cyclooxygenase (COX) cascade. We measured the antinociceptive effect of resveratrol on carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia, prostaglandin-E2 (PGE2) concentration in CSF and COX-1/COX-2 gene expression in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) in rats. Resveratrol induced a prolonged antinociceptive effect, which was correlated to the inhibition of COX-2 mRNA increase in DRG and cord elicited by carrageenan. An increase in the basal threshold of mechanical nociception was also observed with resveratrol in the absence of any inflammatory insult. A rapid bilateralisation of COX-2 mRNA production, not accompanied by a parallel increase in c-Fos expression, was observed in spinal cord three hours after the inflammatory insult. This increase in COX-2 mRNA concentration in the spinal cord on the opposite side of the inflammatory insult was abolished by resveratrol. In conclusion, the antinociceptive effect exhibited by resveratrol was related to the prevention of COX-2 mRNA increase induced by carrageenan. Resveratrol also prevented the bilateralisation of COX-2 expression. The later effect, together with the prolonged analgesia induced by a single injection, may be of great benefit for preventing chronic pain states often seen after inflammatory insults.
Innovated catanionic solid lipid nanoparticles (CASLNs) carrying carmustine (BCNU) (BCNU-CASLNs) were grafted with anti-epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) (anti-EGFR/BCNU-CASLNs) and applied to inhibiting the propagation of human brain malignant glioblastomas cells. U87MG cells were treated with anti-EGFR/BCNU-CASLNs and stained for the expression of EGFR. The minimal average diameter of BCNU-CASLNs and maximal entrapment efficiency of BCNU emerged when the concentration of catanionic surfactants was 1 mm. An increase in the weight percentage of cacao butter (CB) reduced the zeta potential, enhanced the viability of human brain microvasscular endothelial cells (HBMECs), and decreased the expression of tumor necrosis factor-α by HBMECs. The dissolution rate of BCNU and inhibition against the multiplication of U87MG cells using anti-EGFR/BCNU-CASLNs followed the order: 100% CB > 0% CB > 50% CB. Anti-EGFR/BCNU-CASLNs demonstrated the properties including an effective delivery to U87MG cells and antiproliferative efficacy against the growth of malignant brain tumors.
Trimethylbenzene isomers (TMBs): 1,2,4-TMB (pseudocumene--PS), 1,2,3-TMB (hemimellitene--HM) and 1,3,5-TMB (mesitylene--MES) are important constituents of solvent mixtures. In the US, the adopted TLV-TWA value for TMBs is 125 mg/m3 or 25 ppm (ACGIH 1996). Recent experiments at our laboratory have revealed an impaired learning of passive and active avoidance responses and a longer persistence of an effect of footshock (increase in latency of the paw-lick response to heat) in rats tested several weeks after a four-week inhalation exposure (6h/day, five days/week) to PS at a concentration of 100 or 250 ppm (15). The concentration-effect relationship appeared to be nonlinear; the effect of 100 ppm HM was more pronounced than that of 250 ppm. In the present experiment we investigated the effects of a repeated four-week (6h/day, 5 days/week) inhalation exposure to HM at concentrations of 0, 25, 100 or 250 ppm on radial-maze performance, open-field activity, passive and active avoidance learning, and on the shock-induced changes in latency of the paw-lick response to heat (hot-plate test). The tests were performed between days 14 and 61 after the last exposure. No significant effects on radial-maze performance and open-field activity were noted in any of the dose groups. In the remaining tests effects of exposure were noted but, similarly as in the case of PS exposure, the concentration-effect relationship was not linear. In rats exposed to HM at 25 or 100 ppm, but not 250 ppm, learning of the passive avoidance, i.e. refraining from performance of a punished response (stepping off an elevated platform) was significantly impaired. Moreover, in rats exposed to 100, but not 250 ppm of HM, acquisition of the two-way active avoidance in the shuttle-box was slower and the footshock-induced increase in latency of the paw-lick response to heat persisted longer than in the unexposed animals. The results suggest that a low-level inhalation exposure to HM, just like low-level exposure to PS, may lead to long-lasting disturbances in the CNS functions. The nonlinear concentration-effect relationship observed in the case of both TMB-s requires clarification in further studies.
In the present study we investigated the effect of seizures on rat performance in the Morris water maze task, as well as on choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities in rat hippocampus. Wistar rats were treated with 0.9% saline (i.p., control group), lipoic acid (20 mg/kg, i.p., LA group), pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p., pilocarpine group), and the association of LA (20 mg/kg, i.p.) plus pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p.), 30 min before of administration of LA (LA plus pilocarpine group). After the treatments all groups were observed for 1 h. The effect of lipoic acid administration was observed on reference and working spatial memory of seized rats. The ChAT and AChE activities were measured using spectrophotometric methods and the results compared to values obtained from saline and pilocarpine-treated animals. Its activity was also determined after behavioral task. Results showed that pretreatment with lipoic acid did not alter reference memory when compared to saline-treated animals. In the working memory task, we observed a significant day's effect with significant differences between control and pilocarpine-induced seizures and pretreated animals with lipoic acid. In LA plus pilocarpine group was observed a significantly increased in ChAT and AChE activities, when compared to pilocarpine group. Results showed that acute administration of lipoic acid alone did not alter hippocampal ChAT and AChE activities. Our findings suggest that seizures caused cognitive dysfunction and a decrease of ChAT and AChE activities that might be related, at least in part, to the neurological problems presented by epileptic patients. Lipoic acid can reverse cognitive dysfunction observed in seized rats as well as increase the ChAT and AChE activities in hippocampus of rats prior to pilocarpine-induced seizures, suggesting that this antioxidant could be used in clinic treatment of epilepsy.
To scrutinize published data from small mono-centric studies and case reports which implicated high response rates and promising survival times for a combination therapy consisting of epifocal dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) and dacarbazine (DTIC) for metastasized melanoma. This therapy merges the effects of an allergic contact dermatitis elicited at the site of a cutaneous metastasis, and systemic chemotherapy.
We performed a retrospective survey with nine German centers and evaluated 72 patients treated from 1993 to 2005.
The objective response rate in stage III melanoma (n = 39) was 62%. In contrast, only 9% objective responses were observed in 33 stage IV patients. Interestingly, more than half of patients with objective remissions remained progression-free for more than 1 year irrespective of the stage of disease.
Epifocal DNCB combined with DTIC is effective in patients with regionally metastasized melanoma not amenable to surgery or isolated limb perfusion, whereas in stage IV disease in spite of few durable remissions the addition of DNCB does not improve the therapeutic efficacy of DTIC.
To investigate the effect of lidocaine on LPS induced apoptosis of cultured adult rat alveolar Type II (AT-II) cells.
Cultured cells were exposed to LPS and lidocaine for 24 hours. Apoptosis and necrosis rates of cells were detected by flow cytometry and electron microscope. The activity of lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) was analyzed by using LDH kits.
LPS induced the AT-II cell injuries by increasing not only the necrosis and apoptosis rates but also the LDH release of cultured AT-II in vitro. Lidocaine decreased the necrosis and apoptosis rates of AT-II cells.
Lidocaine can directly inhibit the apoptosis and necrosis induced by LPS in cultured AT-II cells.
This study examined whether paroxetine produces cognitive toxicity in elderly patients suffering from a major depressive episode. Twenty-nine depressed patients with a wide range of cognitive functioning were treated with paroxetine. At baseline and during 6 weeks of treatment, patients were asked to complete various measures of cognitive function and had blood drawn to determine serum anticholinergicity. Measures of attention and cognitive speed showed significant improvement with treatment, while the memory performance remained unchanged. A similar pattern of results was found in both cognitively impaired and intact patients. The slight increase in serum anticholinergicity seen in some elderly patients did not significantly impair cognitive function, even in patients with a preexisting cognitive impairment.
Enolase-alpha (ENO-1) is a key glycolytic enzyme that has been used as a diagnostic marker to identify human lung cancers. To investigate the role of ENO-1 in breast cancer diagnosis and therapy, the mRNA levels of ENO-1 in 244 tumor and normal paired tissue samples and 20 laser capture-microdissected cell clusters were examined by quantitative real-time PCR analysis. Increased ENO-1 mRNA expression was preferentially detected in estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) tumors (tumor/normal ratio >90-fold) when compared to ER-negative (tumor/normal ratio >20-fold) tumor tissues. The data presented here demonstrate that those patients whose tumors highly expressed ENO-1 had a poor prognosis with greater tumor size (>2 cm, *P = .017), poor nodal status (N > 3, *P = .018), and a shorter disease-free interval (<==1 year, *P < .009). We also found that higher-expressing ENO-1 tumors confer longer distance relapse (tumor/normal ratio = 82.8-92.4-fold) when compared to locoregional relapse (tumor/normal ratio = 43.4-fold) in postsurgical 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen (4-OHT)-treated ER+ patients (*P = .014). These data imply that changes in tumor ENO-1 levels are related to clinical 4-OHT therapeutic outcome. In vitro studies demonstrated that decreasing ENO-1 expression using small interfering RNA (siRNA) significantly augmented 4-OHT (100 nM)-induced cytotoxicity in tamoxifen-resistant (Tam-R) breast cancer cells. These results suggest that downregulation of ENO-1 could be utilized as a novel pharmacological approach for overcoming 4-OHT resistance in breast cancer therapy.
The aminopyrine breath test has been shown to be a sensitive noninvasive indicator of liver cell dysfunction. In a search for a noninvasive method of monitoring the effects of methotrexate therapy, we have investigated the use of the aminopyrine breath test in patients receiving methotrexate for the treatment of severe psoriasis. The [14C]-aminopyrine breath test was performed in 20 normal control subjects, 32 patients with psoriasis receiving methotrexate therapy, and 8 patients with histologically confirmed cirrhosis of differing etiology. Eighteen patients on methotrexate had liver biopsies classified as grade I changes, 6 patients as grade II, and 8 patients as grade III. The normal value for the breath test was 11.0 +/- 1.6% (mean +/- 1 SD). The mean [14C]-CO2 excretion (8.3 +/- 4.4%) of the 8 patients with grade III liver disease was significantly different from the control subjects (p less than 0.02), and those with grade I liver changes (p less than 0.04). The aminopyrine breath test was only able to detect the later severe stages of methotrexate hepatotoxicity, grade III, when fibrosis occurs, before established cirrhosis was present. Our data suggests that the aminopyrine breath test is not a sensitive indicator for the detection of early methotrexate-induced hepatotoxicity, (stages I and II), but will detect the precirrhotic stage III change. Consequently, we recommend that a liver biopsy should be performed annually in all psoriatic patients receiving methotrexate, to detect histological damage, especially when the aminopyrine breath test score falls below the 95% confidence limits of normal.
