A microangiopathic syndrome was observed in 3 of 14 (21%) patients receiving cyclosporine and methylprednisolone (CSA-MP) for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis between January 1991 and June 1992 at our center. The syndrome consisted of neurological abnormalities, arterial hypertension, intravascular hemolysis with red cell fragmentation, and a drop in platelet counts after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) for hematological malignancy, and it occurred around day 50 after BMT. Treatment with plasma exchanges against fresh-frozen plasma resulted in a decrease of serum lactate dehydrogenase and an improvement of neurological symptoms. We compared CSA-MP patients retrospectively with patients who had received cyclosporine and methotrexate (CSA-MTX) for GVHD prophylaxis (n = 70) at our institution. All patients in both groups engrafted. Day 100 survival (80% vs. 79%) and transplant-related mortality (16% vs. 14%) were identical in the two groups. CSA-MP patients had significantly more acute GVHD II-IV (57% vs. 17%, P < 0.01). Arterial hypertension (P < 0.01) and neurological symptoms (P < 0.01) were significantly more frequent in the CSA-MP group. The 11 asymptomatic CSA-MP patients had significantly higher lactate dehydrogenase levels (P < 0.01) and lower platelet counts (P < 0.01) at 40, 60, and 100 days after BMT, which suggests the presence of a subclinical form of microangiopathy. Significantly higher plasma levels of von Willebrand factor antigen in CSA-MP patients on day 50 after BMT (P < 0.05) and absence of large von Willebrand factor multimers on gel electrophoresis in 4 of 13 (31%) CSA-MP patients compared with 0 of 14 (0%) CSA-MTX patients (P < 0.01) further suggest profound endothelial damage in patients receiving CSA-MP for GVHD prophylaxis.
Gene by environment interactions (G × E) are thought to underlie neurodevelopmental disorder, etiology, neurodegenerative disorders, including the multiple forms of autism spectrum disorder. However, there is limited biological information, indicating an interaction between specific genes and environmental components. The present study focuses on a major component of airborne pollutants, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), such as benzo(a)pyrene [B(a)P], which negatively impacts cognitive development in children who have been exposed in utero. In our study, prenatal exposure of Cpr(lox/lox) timed-pregnant dams to B(a)P (0, 150, 300, and 600 μg/kg body weight via oral gavage) on embryonic day (E14-E17) consistent with our susceptibility-exposure paradigm was combined with the analysis of a replicated autism risk gene, the receptor tyrosine kinase, Met. The results demonstrate a dose-dependent increase in B(a)P metabolite generation in B(a)P-exposed Cpr(lox/lox) offspring. Additionally, a sustained persistence of hydroxy metabolites during the onset of synapse formation was noted, corresponding to the peak of Met expression. Prenatal B(a)P exposure also downregulated Met RNA and protein levels and dysregulated normal temporal patterns of expression during synaptogenesis. Consistent with these data, transcriptional cell-based assays demonstrated that B(a)P exposure directly reduces human MET promoter activity. Furthermore, a functional readout of in utero B(a)P exposure showed a robust reduction in novel object discrimination in B(a)P-exposed Cpr(lox/lox) offspring. These results confirm the notion that common pollutants, such as the PAH B(a)P, can have a direct negative impact on the regulated developmental expression of an autism risk gene with associated negative behavioral learning and memory outcomes.
To determine the factors associated with virological response (VR), HBeAg loss or the emergence of adefovir (ADV)-related mutations in ADV-treated chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients with lamivudine (LAM) resistance.
Fifty-four LAM-resistant CHB patients (46% HBeAg-positive) were treated with ADV monotherapy (n=28) or ADV plus LAM (n=26) for a mean of 30.4 months.
Thirty-eight patients (70.4%) achieved VR defined as HBV-DNA levels <10(4)copies/ml within the first 12 months of treatment. Six (24%) of 25 HBeAg-positive patients exhibited HBeAg loss and 20% seroconverted to anti-HBe. Eight patients (14.8%) developed ADV-related mutations. In the multivariate analysis, female gender (HR=0.20, 95% CI: 0.05-0.76, p=0.018), HBeAg-negative (HR=0.37, 95% CI: 0.14-0.96, p=0.040) and low baseline HBV-DNA levels (HR=0.65, 95% CI: 0.45-0.95, p=0.027) were independent predictors of VR, whereas low HBV-DNA levels (HR=0.36, 95% CI: 0.11-1.20, p=0.095) and HBV-genotype D (HR=0.06, 95% CI: 0.004-0.84, p=0.037) independently predicted HBeAg loss.
ADV therapy suppresses viral replication in more than 70% of LAM-R patients. Factors associated with virologic response are female gender, HBeAg-negative status and low baseline serum HBV-DNA levels. Genotype D HBV infection and low baseline HBV-DNA levels independently predict HBeAg loss.
Experience with three patients whose courses are described suggested that delirium and persistent neurologic dysfunction follow rapid correction of hyperlithemia, which develops after regular lithium doses. From all retrievable published reports of adult hospitalization for hyperlithemia, all cases that described cognitive dysfunction after lithium administration for at least 10 days with insubstantial neuroleptic exposure were selected. Lithium was universally discontinued before or on admission. Of the 65 such cases, 50 were at least somewhat responsive on admission; of these, substantial deterioration during hospitalization occurred in 56%. Dialysis was associated with greater incidence of persistent neurologic sequelae (62% vs. 22%, P = .012) and deterioration during hospitalization (85% vs. 46%, P = .016), although cognitive dysfunction on hospital admission was less (P < .001) for patients who were then dialyzed. The greater neurotoxicity after dialysis suggests that while hyperlithemia can be toxic, its rapid correction can be more toxic. Parallels with hyponatremia, including a potential mechanism, suggest that gradual rather than abrupt correction of hyperlithemia might decrease the risk of neurotoxicity.
The present studies test the hypothesis that contraction to EGF is dependent on mineralocorticoids and/or an elevation in systolic blood pressure (SBP). Endothelium-denuded thoracic aortas from sham normotensive, N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) hypertensive, Wistar-Kyoto (WKY), and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were used in isolated tissue-bath experiments. Maximal contraction to epidermal growth factor [EGF; percentage of phenylephrine (PE; 10 umol/l)-induced contraction] was greater in strips from L-NNA (32 +/- 5%) and SHR (53 +/- 8%) rats compared with sham and WKY rats (17 +/- 1 and 12 +/- 4%, respectively). Wistar-Furth rats became only mildly hypertensive when given DOCA salt (134 +/- 6 mmHg) compared with Wistar rats (176 +/- 9 mmHg), but aortas from both strains had a similarly enhanced contraction to EGF (approximately 9 times the maximal contraction of sham aorta). Furthermore, in vitro incubation of aortas from Wistar and Wistar-Furth rats with aldosterone (10 nmol/l) increased EGF-receptor mRNA expression by >50%. These data indicate that arterial contraction to EGF may occur independent of hypertension and be stimulated by mineralocorticoids.
Hexavalent chromium (Cr[VI]) is an industrial waste product known to cause nasal and lung cancer in exposed workers. Intracellularly, Cr[VI] undergoes a series of enzymatic reductions resulting in the formation of reactive chromate intermediates and oxygen free radicals. These metabolites react with DNA to cause numerous types of genomic lesions, but the cellular response to these genotoxic insults is poorly understood. Recently, we demonstrated that in response to DNA damage induced by Cr[VI], an ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) and structural maintenance of chromosomal protein 1 (SMC1)-dependent S-phase checkpoint is activated. Interestingly, this checkpoint response was only ATM-dependent in cells exposed to low doses of Cr[VI], we demonstrate that the ATM and Rad3 related kinase, ATR, is required to activate the S-phase checkpoint. In response to all doses of Cr[VI], ATR is activated and phosphorylates SMC1 to facilitate the checkpoint. Further, chromatin binding ability of Rad17 is required for this process. Taken together, these results indicate that the Rad17-ATR-SMC1 pathway is essential for Cr[VI]-induced S-phase checkpoint activation.
Recent studies of hereditary renal tubular disorders have facilitated the identification and roles of chloride channels and cotransporters in the regulation of the most abundant anion, Cl-, in the ECF. Thus, mutations that result in a loss of function of the voltage-gated chloride channel, CLC-5, are associated with Dent's disease, which is characterized by low-molecular weight proteinuria, hypercalciuria, nephrolithiasis, and renal failure. Mutations of another voltage-gated chloride channel, CLC-Kb, are associated with a form of Bartter's syndrome, whereas other forms of Bartter's syndrome are caused by mutations in the bumetanide-sensitive sodium-potassium-chloride cotransporter (NKCC2) and the potassium channel, ROMK. Finally, mutations of the thiazide-sensitive sodium-chloride cotransporter (NCCT) are associated with Gitelman's syndrome. These studies have helped to elucidate some of the renal tubular mechanisms regulating mineral homeostasis and the role of chloride channels.
The M-VAC (methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) regimen has been utilized at our two institutions to treat 17 patients with advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. We report 2 cases of carcinomatous meningitis resulting from metastatic transitional cell carcinoma which occurred in patients treated with M-VAC. Review of the literature suggests that our experience with central nervous system metastases is not unique, and that treatment of advanced stage transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder with M-VAC may enhance the incidence of meningeal metastases. Carcinomatous meningitis, although rare, is a rapidly fatal manifestation of metastatic transitional cell carcinoma if left untreated. However, prompt diagnosis and early aggressive therapy may result in palliation and stabilization of neurologic status. We review the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of transitional cell carcinomatous meningitis.
Temporal arteritis is a systemic necrotizing vasculitis for which the only effective treatment is systemic corticosteroids. A review of the literature suggests that there is a significant mortality rate in untreated patients but that those patients who receive adequate corticosteroid treatment rarely experience a reduced life expectancy. I had the opportunity to evaluate a patient with temporal arteritis who eventually died from disseminated aspergillosis 6 weeks after beginning corticosteroid treatment. A high index of suspicion for infections with opportunistic organisms should be maintained in patients with temporal arteritis receiving corticosteroids.
Chronic cholestatic liver injury induced by cholestasis in rodents is associated with hepatic fibrin deposition, and we found evidence of fibrin deposition in livers of patients with cholestasis. Key components of the fibrinolytic pathway modulate cholestatic liver injury by regulating activation of hepatocyte growth factor. However, the exact role of hepatic fibrin deposition in chronic cholestasis is not known. We tested the hypothesis that fibrinogen (Fbg) deficiency worsens liver injury induced by cholestasis. Fbg-deficient mice (Fbgα(-/-) mice) and heterozygous control mice (Fbgα(+/-) mice) were fed either the control diet or a diet containing 0.025% α-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT), which selectively injures bile duct epithelial cells in the liver, for 2 weeks. Hepatic fibrin and collagen deposits were evident in livers of heterozygous control mice fed the ANIT diet. Complete Fbg deficiency was associated with elevated serum bile acids, periportal necrosis, and increased serum alanine aminotransferase activity in mice fed the ANIT diet. Fbg deficiency was associated with enhanced hepatic expression of the transcription factor early growth response-1 (Egr-1) and enhanced induction of genes encoding the Egr-1-regulated proinflammatory chemokines monocyte chemotactic protein-1, KC growth-regulated protein, and macrophage inflammatory protein-2. Interestingly, peribiliary collagen deposition was not evident near necrotic areas in Fbg-deficient mice. The results suggest that in this model of chronic cholestasis, fibrin constrains the release of bile constituents from injured intrahepatic bile ducts, thereby limiting the progression of hepatic inflammation and hepatocellular injury.
There is controversy about the prophylactic measures proposed for the prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN). We aim to compare the efficacy of the combination of sodium bicarbonate and isotonic saline and that of isotonic saline alone in preventing CIN.
Randomized double-blind controlled trial.
265 consecutive patients 18 years or older with a serum creatinine level of 1.5 mg/dL or greater undergoing elective coronary angiography from August 2007 to June 2008 in Tehran Heart Center, Tehran, Iran.
Study participants were randomly assigned to receive either 75 mL of 8.4% sodium bicarbonate added to 1 L of isotonic saline (n = 135) or isotonic saline alone (n = 130) as a bolus of 3 mL/kg for 1 hour before contrast injection, followed by an infusion of 1 mL/kg/h for 6 hours after the procedure.
The primary end point was an absolute (>or=0.5 mg/dL) or relative (>or=25%) increase in serum creatinine level 48 hours after the procedure (CIN).
There were no significant differences between the bicarbonate and saline groups regarding baseline demographic and biochemical characteristics, including baseline serum creatinine level (1.63 +/- 0.32 [SD] versus 1.66 +/- 0.50 mg/dL), baseline glomerular filtration rate (46.4 +/- 12 versus 45.4 +/- 12 mL/min/1.73 m(2)), and baseline urine pH (5.42 +/- 0.6 versus 5.46 +/- 0.8). Nine patients (7.4%) receiving sodium bicarbonate developed CIN as opposed to 7 patients (5.9%) in the saline group, which was not statistically different (odds ratio, 1.26; 95% confidence interval, 0.45 to 3.50; P = 0.6).
The trial did not follow up participants to assess need for dialysis and mortality rate.
The combination therapy of sodium bicarbonate plus saline does not offer additional benefits over hydration with saline alone in the prevention of CIN.
Low levels of hepatic glutathione S-transferase and increased formation of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1)-DNA adducts correlate with hepatocyte proliferation and increased hepatocarcinogenesis in both newborn mice and partially hepatectomized adult mice, as compared to normal, adult C57BL/6J mice. Newborn mice, which are highly susceptible to the hepatocarcinogenic effects of AFB1, have active proliferation of hepatocytes until 3 weeks of age, when hepatocyte proliferation abruptly ceases. At about this time, the mice become highly resistant to AFB1. In adult mice, AFB1 carcinogenicity is increased after stimulation of liver proliferation by partial hepatectomy. To become carcinogenic, AFB1 is activated in the liver by the P450 enzyme system to electrophilic intermediates, some of which form DNA adducts believed to be responsible for mutations leading to cancer. The most carcinogenic intermediate, AFB(1)-8,9-epoxide, is detoxified by glutathione S-transferase-mediated conjugation to glutathione. Glutathione levels, glutathione S-transferase levels, and AFB1-DNA adduct formation were measured at 4, 10, 30, 120, 245 and 365 days of age in C57BL/6J mice. There was a 5-fold increase in hepatic glutathione S-transferase levels and 13-fold decrease in hepatic AFB1-DNA adduct formation over these ages. Induction of hepatocyte proliferation following partial hepatectomy of 120-day-old mice lowered hepatic glutathione S-transferase levels and increased the extent of hepatic AFB1-DNA formation to levels similar to those measured in 4-day-old mice. These results indicate that increased susceptibility to AFB1 hepatocarcinogenesis in newborn mice, and in adult mice following partial hepatectomy, is due to decreased GST and increased adduct formation in proliferating liver.
Blocking angiogenesis is a promising approach in cancer therapy. Natural inhibitors of angiogenesis and derivatives induce receptor-mediated signals, which often result in the endothelial cell death. Low-dose chemotherapy, given at short regular intervals with no prolonged breaks (metronomic chemotherapy), also targets angiogenesis by obliterating proliferating endothelial cells and circulating endothelial cell precursors. ABT-510, a peptide derivative of thrombospondin, kills endothelial cell by increasing CD95L, a ligand for the CD95 death receptor. However, CD95 expression itself is unaffected by ABT-510 and limits its efficacy. We found that multiple chemotherapy agents, cyclophosphamide (cytoxan), cisplatin, and docetaxel, induced endothelial CD95 in vitro and in vivo at low doses that failed to kill endothelial cells (cytoxan > cisplatin > docetaxel). Thus, we concluded that some of these agents might complement each other and together block angiogenesis with maximal efficacy. As a proof of principle, we designed an antiangiogenic cocktail combining ABT-510 with cytoxan or cisplatin. Cyclophosphamide and cisplatin synergistically increased in vivo endothelial cell apoptosis and angiosuppression by ABT-510. This synergy required CD95, as it was reversible with the CD95 decoy receptor. In a mouse model, ABT-510 and cytoxan, applied together at low doses, acted in synergy to delay tumor take, to stabilize the growth of established tumors, and to cause a long-term progression delay of PC-3 prostate carcinoma. These antitumor effects were accompanied by major decreases in microvascular density and concomitant increases of the vascular CD95, CD95L, and apoptosis. Thus, our study shows a "complementation" design of an optimal cancer treatment with the antiangiogenic peptide and a metronomic chemotherapy.
Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the buccal mucosa is an aggressive oral cancer. It mainly occurs in Central and Southeast Asia, and is closely related to the practice of tobacco smoking and betel squid chewing. The high recurrence and low survival rates of buccal SCC require our continued efforts to understand the pathogenesis of the disease for designing better therapeutic strategies. We used proteomic technology to analyze buccal SCC tissues aiming at identifying tumor-associated proteins for the utilization as biomarkers or molecular targets. With the exception of alpha B-crystallin being substantially reduced, a number of proteins were found to be significantly over-expressed in cancer tissues. These increased proteins included glycolytic enzymes, heat-shock proteins, tumor antigens, cytoskeleton proteins, enzymes involved in detoxification and anti-oxidation systems, and proteins involved in mitochondrial and intracellular signaling pathways. These extensive protein variations indicate that multiple cellular pathways were involved in the process of tumorigenesis, and suggest that multiple protein molecules should be simultaneously targeted as an effective strategy to counter the disease. At least, SCC antigen, G protein, glutathione S-transferase, manganese superoxide dismutase, annexins, voltage-dependent anion channel, cyclophilin A, stratifin and galectin 7 are candidates for targeted proteins. The present findings also demonstrated that rich protein information can be produced by means of proteomic analysis for a better understanding of the oncogenesis and pathogenesis in a global way, which in turn is a basis for the rational designs of diagnostic and therapeutic methods.
Alcohol dependence frequently co-occurs with cigarette smoking, another common addictive behavior. Evidence from genetic studies demonstrates that alcohol dependence and smoking cluster in families and have shared genetic vulnerability. Recently a candidate gene study in nicotine dependent cases and nondependent smoking controls reported strong associations between a missense mutation (rs16969968) in exon 5 of the CHRNA5 gene and a variant in the 3'-UTR of the CHRNA3 gene and nicotine dependence. In this study we performed a comprehensive association analysis of the CHRNA5-CHRNA3-CHRNB4 gene cluster in the Collaborative Study on the Genetics of Alcoholism (COGA) families to investigate the role of genetic variants in risk for alcohol dependence. Using the family-based association test, we observed that a different group of polymorphisms, spanning CHRNA5-CHRNA3, demonstrate association with alcohol dependence defined by Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edn (DSM-IV) criteria. Using logistic regression we replicated this finding in an independent case-control series from the family study of cocaine dependence. These variants show low linkage disequilibrium with the SNPs previously reported to be associated with nicotine dependence and therefore represent an independent observation. Functional studies in human brain reveal that the variants associated with alcohol dependence are also associated with altered steady-state levels of CHRNA5 mRNA.
The improved prognosis and increased expected lifetime among long-term survivors of childhood malignancies have made these patients especially sensitiveto the late toxicity of cancer therapy and prone to secondary malignancies. Recently, new strategies aiming to protect against cancer treatment toxicity have been developed, including the drug amifostine (Ethyol), which is suggested to protect normal tissues from the toxic effects of radiation and cytotoxic agents. In the present study, the possible protective effect of amifostine against toxicity induced by a single injection of doxorubicin (3 mg/kg) in immature rats was evaluated. Specifically, we evaluated the protection against long-term toxicity and the effects of amifostine on growing immature tissues. Amifostine (50-200 mg/kg) given 15 min before doxorubicin had a significant protective effect against doxorubicin-induced early alopecia in young rats. Significant protection against cataract formation was obtained by the use of low-dose amifostine (50 mg/kg). However, amifostine did not protect young rats against the late toxic effect of doxoubicin on linear growth, body weight, plasma leptin levels, and heart or testicular tissue. Worrisome, and in contrast to earlier studies in adult rats, an increased doxorubicin toxicity actually was observed and mortality was increased when the higher doses of amifostine (100-200 mg/kg) were used. The present results suggest that more data from growing immature animal models are needed to analyze the safety of amifostine treatment and its mechanisms of action before wider clinical use of this drug in pediatric cancer patients is recommended.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias are a common complication of long-term therapy in Parkinson's disease. Although both pre- and post-synaptic mechanisms seem to be implicated in their development, the precise physiopathology of these disabling involuntary movements remains to be fully elucidated. Abnormalities in glutamate transmission (over expression and phosphorylation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors) have been associated with the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in animal models of Parkinsonism. The role of glutamate function in dyskinetic patients with Parkinson's disease, however, is unclear. We used (11)C-CNS 5161 [N-methyl-3(thyomethylphenyl)cyanamide] positron emission tomography, a marker of activated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ion channels, to compare in vivo glutamate function in parkinsonian patients with and without levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Each patient was assessed with positron emission tomography twice, after taking and withdrawal from levodopa. Striatal and cortical tracer uptake was calculated using a region of interest approach. In the 'OFF' state withdrawn from levodopa, dyskinetic and non-dyskinetic patients had similar levels of tracer uptake in basal ganglia and motor cortex. However, when positron emission tomography was performed in the 'ON' condition, dyskinetic patients had higher (11)C-CNS 5161 uptake in caudate, putamen and precentral gyrus compared to the patients without dyskinesias, suggesting that dyskinetic patients may have abnormal glutamatergic transmission in motor areas following levodopa administration. These findings are consistent with the results of animal model studies indicating that increased glutamatergic activity is implicated in the development and maintenance of levodopa-induced dyskinesias. They support the hypothesis that blockade of glutamate transmission may have a place in the management of disabling dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease.
microRNAs (miRNAs) are an abundant class of small noncoding RNAs that function primarily as oncogenes and tumor suppressors by mediating translational repression or mRNA degradation via binding target genes. In this study, malignant human bronchial epithelial cells transformed by anti-benzo[a]pyrene-trans-7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide were used to help characterize the possible mechanisms of miRNA function in chemical carcinogenesis. The expression level of miR-106a was measured by the real-time, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. We used the miR-106a inhibitor and the miR-106a mimic to downregulate or upregulate miR-106a activity in malignantly transformed cells to determine the effects of miR-106a on the biological properties of the cell. We observed overrepresentation of miR-106a in transformed cells compared with control cells. Silencing miR-106a by transfection with the miR-106a inhibitor suppressed cell proliferation, induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, and inhibited anchorage-independent growth and tumor growth in nude mice. Increasing miR-106a in malignantly transformed cells by transfection with the miR-106a mimic gave the opposite results. Moreover, untransformed cells showed a reduction of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis rate followed by transfection with the miR-106a mimic. Bioinformatic analysis showed that tumor suppressor RB1 is one of predictive targets of miR-106a. We confirmed this target by Western blot and dual luciferase assay. Our findings suggest that miR-106a might function as an oncogene in transformation induced by a chemical carcinogen. Thus, knock down of miR-106a in malignant cells is a potential therapeutic strategy.
To examine the potential inhibitory effects of a novel liver-selective thyromimetic, KAT-681 (KAT), on the development of hepatocellular proliferative lesions, male F344 rats were given a single intraperitoneal injection of 150 mg/kg diethylnitrosamine (DEN), followed by gavage administration of 7.5 mg/kg per day of 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) twice daily from weeks 2 to 4 with partial hepatectomy (PH) at week 3. From 5 weeks after the completion of 2-AAF administration, the rats were orally dosed with 0.04, 0.1, or 0.25 mg/kg per day KAT for 3 weeks, and subjected to morphometric analysis of the induced glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive lesions and hepatocellular adenomas (HCAs). Administration of KAT significantly and dose-dependently reduced the total area of GST-P-positive lesions (by 34-48%) and also their numbers (by 20-44%), their mean size not being significantly changed. No effects on the number of HCAs were apparent, although a reduction in their mean size was detected at a dose of 0.25 mg/kg per day KAT (by 34%). On biochemical analysis, serum activity of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, an enzyme related to hepatocarcinogenesis, was markedly reduced in rats given 0.25 mg/kg per day KAT (by 64%). The results of the present study thus suggest that KAT inhibits the development of altered hepatocellular foci and might be a promising chemopreventive agent for hepatocarcinogenesis.
To determine the cardiac, renal, and neuroendocrine effects of lisinopril in men with untreated, symptom free left ventricular systolic dysfunction.
A randomised, double blind cross over trial with six week treatment periods to compare lisinopril (10 mg/day) and matching placebo.
Hospital outpatient department.
Patients with pronounced systolic dysfunction on cross sectional echocardiography due to myocardial infarction at least six months previously, without angina and with no or minimal breathlessness. Eighteen men were identified of whom 15 completed the study.
Lisinopril (10 mg) or placebo given once daily by mouth.
Primary: oxygen consumption at peak exercise. Secondary: resting cardiac function as measured by radionuclide ventriculography and echocardiography, renal function estimated radioisotopically, and plasma indices of neuroendocrine activity.
Compared with placebo, lisinopril increased (mean (SD)) peak oxygen consumption during exercise (19.8(3.1) ml/kg/min v 21.4(3.2) ml/kg/min; p < 0.003). Lisinopril did not improve indices of cardiac function at rest. It reduced plasma concentrations of angiotensin II (median values 7 pg/ml to 5 pg/ml; p < 0.02), aldosterone (median values 113 pg/ml to 66 pg/ml; p < 0.05) and atrial natriuretic peptide (median values 69 pg/ml to 40 pg/ml; p < 0.04), but noradrenaline and antidiuretic hormone concentrations did not change. Renal blood flow increased and glomerular filtration rate declined.
Even before the onset of heart failure lisinopril improves the cardiopulmonary response to exercise in patients with systolic ventricular dysfunction.
During iron deficiency, perturbations in copper homeostasis have frequently been documented. Previous studies in iron-deprived rats demonstrated that enterocyte and hepatic copper levels increase and a copper transporter (the Menkes Copper ATPase; Atp7a) is induced in the duodenal epithelium in parallel to iron transport-related genes (e.g. Dmt1, Dcytb, Fpn1). Moreover, two ferroxidase proteins involved in iron homeostasis, hephaestin expressed in enterocytes and ceruloplasmin, produced and secreted into blood by the liver, are copper-dependent enzymes. We thus aimed to test the hypothesis that Atp7a function is important for the copper-related compensatory response of the intestinal epithelium to iron deficiency. Accordingly, iron homeostasis was studied for the first time in mice expressing a mutant Atp7a protein with minimal activity (Brindled [Mo (Br) (/y) ]). Mutant mice were rescued by perinatal copper injections, and, after a 7-8 week recovery period, were deprived of dietary iron for 3 weeks (along with WT littermates). Adult Mo (Br) (/y) mice displayed copper-deficiency anemia but had normal iron status; in contrast, iron-deprived Mo (Br) (/y) mice were iron deficient and more severely anemic with partial amelioration of the copper-deficient phenotype. Intestinal iron absorption in both genotypes (WT and Mo (Br) (/y) ) increased ∼3-fold when mice consumed a low-iron diet and ∼6-fold when mice were concurrently bled. WT mice exhibited no alterations in copper homeostasis in response to iron deprivation or phlebotomy. Conversely, upregulation of iron absorption was associated with increased enterocyte and liver copper levels and serum ferroxidase (ceruloplasmin) activity in Mo (Br) (/y) mice, typifying the response to iron deprivation in many mammalian species. We thus speculate that a copper threshold exists that is necessary to allow appropriate regulate of iron absorption. In summary, Mo (Br) (/y) mice were able to adequately regulate iron absorption, but unlike in WT mice, concurrent increases in enterocyte and liver copper levels and serum ferroxidase activity may have contributed to maintenance of iron homeostasis.
Shikonin (SHK), a natural naphthoquinone derived from the Chinese medical herb Lithospermum erythrorhizon, induces both apoptosis and necroptosis in several cancer cell lines. However, the detailed molecular mechanisms involved in the initiation of cell death are still unclear. In the present study, caspase-dependent apoptosis was induced by SHK treatment at 1μM after 6h in U937 cells, with increase in DNA fragmentation, generation of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), fraction of cells with low mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), and in the expression of BH3 only proteins Noxa and tBid. Interestingly, caspase-independent cell death was also detected with SHK treatment at 10μM, observed as increase in SYTOX® Green staining and release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Necrostatin-1 (Nec-1) completely inhibited the SHK-induced leakage of LDH and SYTOX® Green staining. Cell permeable exogenous glutathione (GSH) completely inhibited 1μM SHK-induced apoptosis and converted 10μM SHK-induced necroptosis to apoptosis. Gene expression profiling revealed that 353 genes were found to be significantly regulated by 1μM and 85 genes by 10μM of SHK treatment, respectively. Among these genes, the transcription factor 3 (ATF3) and DNA-damage-inducible transcript 3 (DDIT3) were highly expressed at 1μM of SHK treatment, while tumor necrosis factor (TNF) expression mainly increased at 10μM treatment. These findings provide novel information for the molecular mechanism of SHK-induced apoptosis and necroptosis.
Misclassification of Curcuma species (family Zingiberaceae) may lead to unwanted human exposure to Curcuma elata sesquiterpenes zederone and germacrone which have caused hepatotoxicity and changes in CYP expression in laboratory animals. We investigated how these compounds interact with the human cytochrome P450 (CYP) system, in order to evaluate their potential for human liver toxicity and herb-drug interactions. We found that both sesquiterpenes (1-30 μM) greatly induced expression of CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 but not CYP1A2 mRNAs in human primary hepatocytes (HPHs). This induction profile correlated with activation of constitutive androstane and pregnane X receptors. Cytotoxicity was also observed in exposed HPHs. CYP inhibition studies with pooled human liver microsomes (HLMs) indicated that zederone and germacrone moderately inhibited CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 activities in vitro, with IC50 values below 10 μM. When zederone was incubated with HLMs and NADPH, one di-epoxide metabolite was formed and by using glutathione trapping, five epoxide-derived conjugates were detected. Germacrone produced two oxidized metabolites and four glutathione conjugates. The results suggest that enzymes in HLMs convert sesquiterpenes into reactive, electrophilic compounds which may be causative for the reported liver injuries. These findings provide insight on the safety and drug-herb interactions of the Curcuma species.
Ceftriaxone, a third-generation cephalosporin, has been reported to occasionally cause fatal drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia (DIHA). A clinical and serologic analysis of the first two patients with severe drug-induced thrombocytopenia (DITP) due to ceftriaxone and one patient with fatal DIHA is reported.
Sera were assessed by the IAT, EIA, glycoprotein (GP)-specific immunoassay, flow cytometry, and immunoprecipitation using transfectants expressing GPIIb/IIIa and GPIb/IX and with different cephalosporins.
Sera from Patients 1 and 2 reacted strongly with PLTs in the presence of the drug, but not with RBCs. The binding sites of the drug-dependent antibodies (DDAbs) could be localized to GPIIb/IIIa and GPIb/IX, respectively. Inhibition studies indicated that DDAbs recognized epitopes residing on the GPIIb/IIIa complex and on the GPIX subunit, respectively. No cross-reactivity was observed with other cephalosporin derivatives. Serum 3 showed strong agglutination with RBCs of Rh(null) phenotype in the presence of ex-vivo metabolites of ceftriaxone, but no cross-reactivity with PLTs.
The first two cases of severe DITP and a third patient with DIHA are reported. DDAbs from all patients showed individual reaction patterns and clear cell lineage specificity. In addition, the DDAbs were dependent on the substitution at position 3 of the ceftriaxone molecule. Epitopes on GPIIb/IIIa and GPIX were involved on PLTs. The Rh protein was not the only target of DDAbs on RBCs.
Cyclophosphamide (CYC) is the cornerstone of the treatment of systemic sclerosis (SSc)-associated fibrosing alveolitis (FAS). Despite treatment with CYC, in a not negligible proportion of SSc-FAS patients, deterioration in lung function can be observed. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) cluster gene single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were implicated in the pathogenesis of some interstitial lung diseases and may favor the progression of restrictive lung disease in SSc. The present retrospective case-control study was conducted on 18 SSc patients previously treated with oral CYC (2 mg/kg) and medium-dose steroids (prednisone 25 mg for 3 months and then tapered to 5 mg/day) for the presence of FAS-defined as the presence of areas of ground-glass attenuation on high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) and a recent deterioration in lung function. The T/C substitution at position -889 of the IL-1alpha promoter gene (T-889C) was determined by polymerase chain reaction and restriction length fragment analysis. Patients carrying the T allele showed a significant decrease in forced vital capacity (FVC) values after 12 months of therapy (2.46+/-1.09 vs 2.59+/-1.17 l), while wild-type patients showed an increase in FVC values (2.73+/-0.54 vs 2.54+/-0.5 l) (p=0.005 between the two groups, analysis of variance for repeated measures). Patients with the T-889C polymorphism presented higher baseline erythrocyte sedimentation rates (ESR) compared to wild-type patients (50.3+/-25.4 vs 23.3+/-17.7 mm/h). Baseline ESR inversely correlated with the variation of FVC (DeltaFVC) after 12 months of therapy (r=-0.50 and p<0.05). The two groups were otherwise similar with respect to autoantibodies, age, disease duration, disease subset, radiological HRCT grade, and baseline lung physiology. The T-889C polymorphism represents a marker for worse functional responses to CYC in SSc-FAS. The mechanisms by which this SNP may negatively influence the response to CYC therapy are unknown, but might be linked to increased inflammatory responses in the lungs.
