Systemic hypertension is common in individuals with non-insulin-dependent diabetes (NIDD) and, in this population, markedly increases the risk for cardiovascular complications. The aims of this study were to develop a rat model of combined NaCl-induced hypertension and NIDD, and to determine the contribution of the sympathetic nervous system to the development of the manifest hypertension. Two-day old male Wistar-Kyoto rats were injected with either streptozotocin (90 mg/kg, ip; NIDD) or vehicle (citrate buffer; control). At 4 weeks of age, the animals underwent either a right nephrectomy or a sham operation. Animals in each group were further subdivided, with one group maintained on normal (0.72 %) NaCl diet whereas the other was placed on a high (8%)-NaCl diet. At 6 months of age, diabetes was confirmed by glucose tolerance testing. Hemodynamic parameters were measured in the freely moving animal (ia) before and after the administration of prazosin (peripheral alpha1-adrenergic antagonist, iv) or clonidine (central alpha2-adrenergic agonist). The NIDD rat displayed a higher (P < .05) blood glucose concentration than the nondiabetic control rat during the glucose tolerance test. Elevated dietary NaCl significantly increased mean arterial pressure (MAP) in the uninephrectomized, but not the sham-operated groups. Acute administration of prazosin resulted in a significantly greater reduction in MAP of both hypertensive groups than of their normotensive counterparts. Moreover, clonidine caused a significant reduction in MAP of the hypertensive control rat but not in the normotensive controls. By contrast, both the hypertensive NIDD and the normotensive NIDD rats showed a similar reduction in MAP in response to clonidine administration. The data suggest that the combination of uninephrectomy and dietary NaCl excess confers hypertension on the NIDD rat. Moreover, enhancement of the sympathetic pathway plays an important role in the regulation of arterial pressure in the hypertensive NIDD rat.
To review the published clinical data assessing the role of amiloride in the prevention of amphotericin B (AmB)induced electrolyte disorders.
A MEDLINE search (January 1966-April 1999) of English-language literature pertaining to AmB, amiloride, potassium, and magnesium was performed. Tertiary sources were also used.
In vivo and in vitro human and animal data and case reports were included due to the lack of published clinical trials.
AmB administration can result in severe hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia requiring chronic supplementation. In one prospective, controlled study of hypokalemia with AmB administration, patients receiving concomitant amiloride had significantly greater potassium concentrations (p < 0.01) and required significantly less potassium supplementation (p < 0.001). Amiloride may also reduce the amount of magnesium supplementation required by sparing elimination through the kidneys.
Amiloride may be considered for the prevention of AmB-induced hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia, especially in patients at high risk for complications resulting from these electrolyte disorders. Further studies are needed to assess concomitant use of other potassium-sparing diuretics and AmB.
Many people use dietary supplements or herbal products to help them sleep. We analyzed the associations between melatonin use and insomnia and between valerian use and insomnia in a representative sample of the United States population.
The data reported upon here were collected in the 2002 Alternative Health/Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) Supplement to the National Health Interview Survey. This was a survey of 31,044 personal interviews that constituted an age-representative and socioeconomically representative sample of the civilian noninstitutionalized population of the United States.
Of the survey sample, 5.9% used valerian and 5.2% used melatonin. Of those using valerian, 29.9% endorsed insomnia as 1 reason for CAM use, and, of melatonin users, 27.5% endorsed insomnia as 1 reason for CAM use. Relatively greater use occurred in individuals under age 60 years. The decision to use such substances was made in consultation with a health care provider less than half of the time.
Large segments of the United States population used valerian or melatonin for insomnia within the year preceding the survey, and usage typically fell outside the purview of the health care system.
Non-specific X-linked mental retardation (MRX) is a very common disorder which affects approximately 1 in 600 males. Despite this high frequency, little is known about the molecular defects underlying this disorder, mainly because of the clinical and genetic heterogeneity which is evident from linkage studies. Recently, a collaborative study using the candidate gene approach demonstrated the presence of mutations in GDIalpha, a Rab GDP-dissociation inhibitor encoded by a gene localized in Xq28, associated with non-specific mental retardation. GDIalpha is mainly a brain-specific protein that plays a critical role in the recycling of Rab GTPases involved in membrane vesicular transport. The study presented here was designed to assess the prevalence of mutations in the GDIalpha in mentally retarded patients and to discuss the clinical phenotypes observed in affected individuals. Mutation screening of the whole coding region of the GDIalpha gene, using a combination of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and direct sequencing, was carried out in 164 patients found negative for expansions across the FRAXA GCC repeat. In addition to the nonsense mutation recently reported in MRX48, we have identified a novel missense mutation in exon 11 of the GDIalpha gene in one familial form of non-specific mental retardation. In this family (family R), all affected males show moderate to severe mental retardation, and the X-linked semidominant inheritance is strongly suggested by the severe phenotypes in males with respect to mildly affected females or unaffected obligatory carriers. This study showed that the prevalence of GDIalpha mutations in non-specific mental retardation could be estimated to be 0.5-1%, and molecular diagnosis and genetic counselling in some cases of non-specific mental handicap can now be provided.
Eugenol and isoeugenol, two components of clover oil, have been reported to possess several biomedical properties, such as anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial and antioxidant effects. This study aims to examine the anti-inflammatory effects of eugenol, isoeugenol and four of their derivatives on expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) activated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in mouse macrophages (RAW 264.7), and to investigate molecular mechanisms underlying these effects. We found that two derivatives, eugenolol and glyceryl-isoeugenol, had potent inhibitory effects on LPS-induced upregulation of nitrite levels, iNOS protein and iNOS mRNA. In addition, they both suppressed the release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) induced by LPS. Moreover, they both attenuated the DNA binding of NF-kB and AP-1, phosphorylation of inhibitory kB-alpha (IkB-alpha), and nuclear translocation of p65 protein induced by LPS. Finally, we demonstrated that glyceryl-isoeugenol suppressed the phosphorylation of ERK1/2, JNK and p38 MAPK, whereas eugenolol suppressed the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK. Taken together, these results suggest that that eugenolol and glyceryl-isoeugenol suppress LPS-induced iNOS expression by down-regulating NF-kB and AP-1 through inhibition of MAPKs and Akt/IkB-alpha signaling pathways. Thus, this study implies that eugenolol and glyceryl-isoeugenol may provide therapeutic benefits for inflammatory diseases.
Enalapril, atenolol, and hydrochlorothiazide were compared in a double-blind randomised parallel study in general practice. 436 patients with mild to moderate hypertension were included at 76 centres. A two-week placebo run-in period was followed by 16 weeks of monotherapy. The initial doses were: enalapril 20 mg; atenolol 50 mg; and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg. These were doubled if treatment was not effective after 4 weeks. Adverse reactions were the main reason for withdrawal from the study (9 on enalapril, 19 on atenolol, and 8 on hydrochlorothiazide). Systolic and diastolic blood pressures were significantly reduced in all three groups. The reduction in systolic blood pressure was greater on enalapril than on atenolol. Serum potassium was reduced and uric acid increased on hydrochlorothiazide. Fasting blood sugar rose on atenolol but fell on enalapril. The frequency of adverse reactions was acceptable in all three groups. After 16 weeks on treatment significantly more adverse reactions were recorded in the atenolol group than in the enalapril group. Enalapril is effective and well tolerated in patients with mild to moderate hypertension.
Cocaine abuse is associated with a constellation of serious medical complications. An unrecognized and recently described complication of cocaine use is rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure. We describe the first patient identified in our institution with this entity, admitted to the medical services with oliguric acute renal failure. Three days prior to admission the patient had a cocaine snorting binge. He presented with bilateral flank pain, gross hematuria, vomiting and chills. No history of crush injury, prolonged immobilization and or seizures was reported. On admission the vital signs were normal, physical exam revealed periorbital edema and marked soft tissue neck swelling. Lab values: Bun 120 mgs%, Creat. 10.7 mgs%, Na 132 meq/lt, Co2 13mq/lt, Cl, 103meq/lt, Co2 13meq/lt, Ca 5.3 mgs%, CPK 30,800 U/L with a MM fraction of 98%, LDH 600 U/L, SGOT 300 U/L. The urine was dark red with a ph of 6.5 and 100 rbc/hpf. The anti-GBM antibody and blood cultures were negative. An abdominal sonogram was normal. He received peritoneal dialysis and was discharged on his 14th hospital day with a CPK of 2,800 U/L and decreasing azotemia. Cocaine associated rhabdomyolysis has only been recently described in the literature (AJM April, 88). Acute myoglobinuric renal failure needs to be added to the growing list of medical complications of cocaine use.
Peroxisome biogenesis disorders are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of very severe autosomal recessive disorders caused by impaired peroxisome biogenesis. The prototype of this group of disorders is the cerebro-hepato-renal syndrome of Zellweger.
Here we report a patient with Zellweger syndrome, who presented at the age of 3 months with icterus, dystrophy, axial hypotonia, facial dysmorphy, posterior embryotoxon, and hepatomegaly. Abnormal findings of metabolic screening tests included hyperbilirubinaemia, hypoketotic dicarboxylic aciduria, increased C(26:0) and decreased C(22:0) plasma levels, and strongly reduced plasmalogen concentrations. In fibroblasts, both peroxisomal alpha- and beta-oxidation were impaired. Liver histology revealed bile duct paucity, cholestasis, arterial hyperplasia, very small branches of the vena portae, and parenchymatic destruction. Immunocytochemical analysis of cultured fibroblasts demonstrated that the cells contain peroxisomal remnants lacking apparent matrix protein content and PEX14, a central membrane component of the peroxisomal matrix protein import machinery. Transfection of fibroblasts with a plasmid coding for wild-type PEX14 restored peroxisomal matrix protein import, indicating that the primary genetic defect affecting the patient is indeed linked to PEX14. Mutational analysis of this gene revealed a genomic deletion leading to the deletion of exon 3 from the coding DNA (c.85-?_170+?del) and a concomitant change of the reading frame (p.[Ile29_Lys56del;Gly57GlyfsX2]).
This report represents the second PEX14-deficiency associated with Zellweger syndrome and the first documentation of a PEX14-deficient patient with detailed clinical follow-up and biochemical, morphological, and radiological data.
Is it possible to prevent atrophy of key brain regions related to cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease (AD)? One approach is to modify nongenetic risk factors, for instance by lowering elevated plasma homocysteine using B vitamins. In an initial, randomized controlled study on elderly subjects with increased dementia risk (mild cognitive impairment according to 2004 Petersen criteria), we showed that high-dose B-vitamin treatment (folic acid 0.8 mg, vitamin B6 20 mg, vitamin B12 0.5 mg) slowed shrinkage of the whole brain volume over 2 y. Here, we go further by demonstrating that B-vitamin treatment reduces, by as much as seven fold, the cerebral atrophy in those gray matter (GM) regions specifically vulnerable to the AD process, including the medial temporal lobe. In the placebo group, higher homocysteine levels at baseline are associated with faster GM atrophy, but this deleterious effect is largely prevented by B-vitamin treatment. We additionally show that the beneficial effect of B vitamins is confined to participants with high homocysteine (above the median, 11 µmol/L) and that, in these participants, a causal Bayesian network analysis indicates the following chain of events: B vitamins lower homocysteine, which directly leads to a decrease in GM atrophy, thereby slowing cognitive decline. Our results show that B-vitamin supplementation can slow the atrophy of specific brain regions that are a key component of the AD process and that are associated with cognitive decline. Further B-vitamin supplementation trials focusing on elderly subjets with high homocysteine levels are warranted to see if progression to dementia can be prevented.
Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of clonidine and adrenaline-induced hypotension and bradycardia in urethane anaesthetized spontaneous hypertensive rats. The hypotension induced by clonidine (3 microgram i.c.v.) was antagonized by pretreatment with the alpha-antagonists piperoxan, which also antagonized clonidine-induced bradycardia, and yohimbine. The hypotension and bradycardia induced by adrenaline (10 microgram i.c.v.) were unaffected by alpha-antagonist pretreatment, while beta-antagonist pretreatment with (--)-propranolol or metoprolol was effective against adrenaline but not clonidine-induced hypotension and bradycardia. Pretreatments with the histamine H2-receptor antagonists metiamide and cimetidine antagonized clonidine but not adrenaline-induced hypotension. These data indicate that different central mechanisms are involved in mediating the hypotension and bradycardia induced by centrally administered clonidine and adrenaline and do not, therefore, support the hypothesis that the hypotensive effects of clonidine (i.c.v.) are mediated by central adrenaline receptor activation in urethane-anaesthetized spontaneous hypertensive rats.
Postoperative atrial fibrillation (AF), a frequent complication after cardiac surgery, causes morbidity and prolongs hospitalization. Inotropic drugs are commonly used perioperatively to support ventricular function. This study tested the hypothesis that the use of inotropic drugs is associated with postoperative AF.
We evaluated perioperative risk factors in 232 patients who underwent elective cardiac surgery. All patients were in sinus rhythm at surgery. Sixty-seven patients (28.9%) developed AF a mean of 2.9+/-2.1 days after surgery. Patients who developed AF stayed in the hospital longer (P<0.001) and were more likely to die (P=0.02). Milrinone use was associated with an increased risk of postoperative AF (58.2% versus 26.1% in nonusers; P<0.001). Older age (63.4+/-10.7 versus 56.7+/-12.3 years; P<0.001), hypertension (P=0.04), lower preoperative ejection fraction (P=0.03), mitral valve surgery (P=0.02), right ventricular dysfunction (P=0.03), and higher mean pulmonary artery pressure (27.1+/-9.3 versus 21.8+/-7.5 mm Hg; P=0.001) also were associated with postoperative AF. In multivariable logistic regression, age (P<0.001), ejection fraction (P=0.02), and milrinone use (odds ratio, 4.86; 95% confidence interval, 2.31 to 10.25; P<0.001) independently predicted postoperative AF. When only data from patients with pulmonary artery catheters were analyzed and pulmonary artery pressure was included in the model, age, milrinone use (odds ratio, 4.45; 95% confidence interval, 2.01 to 9.84; P<0.001), and higher pulmonary artery pressure (P=0.02) were associated with an increased risk of postoperative AF. Adding other potential confounders or stratifying analysis by mitral valve surgery did not change the association of milrinone use with postoperative AF.
Milrinone use is an independent risk factor for postoperative AF after elective cardiac surgery.
After the 1972 mercury poisoning in Iraq, there was widespread concern over the use of mercury fungicides in seed dressing. The ethyl mercury fungicide Ceresan M, claimed to be responsible for the two earlier outbreaks of poisoning in 1956 and 1960 in Iraq, was tested in Drosophila to study its mutagenic potentialities. Of the two concentrations used, namely 30 and 40 mg of the chemical in 100 cc of the food medium, the latter treatment resulted in a significant increase in the frequency of sex-linked recessive lethals.
Clinical human genetic studies have recently identified the tetrodotoxin (TTX) sensitive neuronal voltage gated sodium channel Nav1.7 (SCN9A) as a critical mediator of pain sensitization. Herein, we report structure-activity relationships for a novel series of 2,4-diaminotriazines that inhibit hNav1.7. Optimization efforts culminated in compound 52, which demonstrated pharmacokinetic properties appropriate for in vivo testing in rats. The binding site of compound 52 on Nav1.7 was determined to be distinct from that of local anesthetics. Compound 52 inhibited tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium channels recorded from rat sensory neurons and exhibited modest selectivity against the hERG potassium channel and against cloned and native tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channels. Upon oral administration to rats, compound 52 produced dose- and exposure-dependent efficacy in the formalin model of pain.
Aminoglycosides (AGs) and vancomycin (VM) are potentially nephrotoxic antibiotics and their co-administration increases the incidence of nephrotoxicity in adult patients. Their combined effects on renal function in extremely low birth weight (ELBW) infants (<1,000 g) have not been previously reported.
Investigation of tubular disturbances in five ELBW neonates following repeated and prolonged treatment with a variety of AGs combined with VM.
The drug levels were maintained in the neonatal therapeutic range. Renal tubular wasting of potassium, phosphate, and calcium, along with hypokalemia, was documented in all neonates studied while associated hypophosphatemia was observed in three of the five neonates and a transient rise in serum creatinine in four. The renal disturbances resolved completely 1-2 weeks after cessation of treatment.
Renal tubular disturbances due to AG and VM treatment in ELBW neonates may be more common than they are diagnosed. Early detection and appropriate electrolyte supplementation may help to normalize serum electrolyte levels in these infants.
Clinical characteristics of ten patients with metoclopramide hydrochloride-induced parkinsonism were studied. This condition was found to be more common in aged women and developed subacutely with bilateral symptoms. Clinically, metoclopramide-induced parkinsonism is sometimes accompanied by a rest tremor and may therefore be confused with Parkinson's disease. It is distinct from the latter in that orolingual dyskinesia and postural tremor are often found before the administration of antiparkinsonian drugs. The patients with metoclopramide-induced parkinsonism made a complete recovery within a few months after administration of the drug was discontinued.
The present study examined the effects of cocaine-regulated and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide (CARTp) fragment 55-102, on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-mediated nociceptive transmission in vivo and in vitro. In-vivo experiments were conducted in Sprague-Dawley rats to evaluate the effects of CARTp on thermal hyperalgesia induced by NMDA or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA). Intrathecal NMDA (1, 2, 4 nmol) or AMPA (0.5, 1, 2 nmol) dose-dependently decreased the tail-flick latency. Intrathecal CARTp was without effect on the tail-flick latency. Interestingly, it significantly enhanced NMDA-induced, but not AMPA-induced, nociceptive effects. The in-vitro effects of CARTp on NMDA-induced or AMPA-induced depolarizations in substantia gelatinosa neurons were studied in rat spinal cord slices. CARTp (100, 300 nM), which caused no significant change of membrane potentials, increased the amplitude of NMDA-induced depolarizations in substantia gelatinosa neurons with little effect on AMPA-induced depolarizations. The present study demonstrates that exogenously applied CARTp selectively facilitates NMDA receptor-mediated nociceptive transmission.
We describe the successful treatment of a 20-year-old patient with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), by unrelated bone marrow transplantation (UBMT). The patient is relatively old compared to other CGD patients treated with BMT. He had had repeated serious infections from early childhood and was diagnosed as CGD, gp91-phox deficiency. Prolonged antibiotic-resistant pneumonitis worsened when the patient was 18 years old. In addition, he suffered Aspergillus osteomyelitis and acute renal failure due to amphotericin B. He received 94 granulocyte transfusions from 94 adult donors and the infections gradually improved. In September 1998, at 20 years of age, he underwent UBMT from an HLA 6 antigen-matched male donor, with CY and TBI conditioning. He received MTX and CsA as prophylaxis against GVHD. No serious complications occurred and rapid engraftment was achieved. Acute GVHD (grade 2, at day 19) and chronic GVHD (limited, at day 192) occurred. However, both were easily controlled. The patient is alive and well with no late rejection 26 months after UBMT.
To report a case of acute neurologic adverse effects related to fluorouracil administration and to review the neurotoxicity of this agent.
A 73-year-old white man with a history of esophageal carcinoma was treated with fluorouracil 1,500 mg iv daily for four days. After completing treatment, he presented with sudden onset of confusion, cognitive disturbances, a cerebellar syndrome, and repeated seizures. A magnetic resonance image of the brain showed no structural abnormalities, and cerebrospinal fluid examination was normal; none of the other laboratory tests provided an explanation for his symptoms. The patient was treated with anticonvulsants, and the cognitive changes resolved in 72 hours. The cerebellar signs, however, did not resolve completely and persisted when the patient was examined two weeks after discharge.
Fluorouracil can cause both acute and delayed neurotoxicity. Acute neurotoxicity manifests as encephalopathy or as cerebellar syndrome; seizures, as seen in our patient, have rarely been reported. Acute neurotoxicity due to fluorouracil is dose related and generally self-limiting. Various mechanisms for such toxicity have been postulated, and treatment with thiamine has been recommended. Delayed neurotoxicity has been reported when fluorouracil was given in combination with levamisole; this form of subacute multifocal leukoencephalopathy is immune mediated and responds to treatment with corticosteroids.
Clinicians should be aware of the adverse neurologic effects of fluorouracil and should include them in the differential diagnosis when patients receiving the drug present with neurologic problems.
To report an interaction between tacrolimus and rifampin with subsequent adverse effects on renal allograft function.
A 61-year-old Chinese man received a cadaveric renal transplant in 1991. Progressive deterioration of allograft function developed during the following six years while the patient was receiving cyclosporine and prednisolone. In January 1998, tacrolimus was substituted for cyclosporine for late biopsy-proven graft rejection, with target trough blood concentrations between 5 and 8 ng/mL. After conversion, serum creatinine fell to 2.0 mg/dL; the nadir was reached within one year. At the same time, rifampin was instituted for controlling tuberculosis and empiric fluconazole was discontinued. Twelve days later, the patient's serum creatinine concentration rose to 2.9 mg/dL and tacrolimus concentration fell to 1.5 ng/mL, along with oliguria. These findings suggested acute rejection, which was successfully reversed by steroid therapy. However, more than a tenfold increase in the tacrolimus dosage was required to maintain the same concentrations during subsequent months, accompanied by an increase in serum creatinine (from 2.0 to 2.6 mg/dL) and decrease in urine excretion. Biopsy at this time demonstrated acute rejection (Banff I), chronic allograft nephropathy (Banff II), and suspected tacrolimus nephrotoxicity. After unsuccessful methylprednisolone recycling, mycophenolate mofetil was introduced to control rejection and facilitate reduction of the tacrolimus dosage to minimize its nephrotoxicity.
As a potent CYP3A4 isoenzyme inducer, rifampin coadministration caused the abrupt decrease in tacroiimus blood concentrations, leading to an approximate tenfold increase in its daily dose, which may be important to subsequent allograft dysfunctions.
Endocrine and reproductive alterations are frequently reported to occur in women with temporal lobe epilepsy as well as in female rats in different experimental models of limbic seizures. We have recently observed that rats with structural damage of limbic structures induced by sustained convulsions triggered by systemic administration of pilocarpine develop spontaneous seizures after a mean latency of 15 days. In order to investigate the possible substrate of endocrine alterations in epilepsy, changes of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and the neuropeptide galanin (GAL) were studied in the hypothalamus of epileptic female rats after pilocarpine treatment. Female rats injected with pilocarpine (320-350 mg/kg, i.p.) and control cases injected with saline were killed 10-20 h, 10-15 or 60-90 days following treatment. In some of these animals colchicine was injected in the lateral cerebral ventricle 24 h before death. GnRH immunopositivity was observed in the hypothalamus in neuronal cell bodies, fibers and punctate elements of both epileptic and control cases. A striking reduction of the density of GnRH-immunoreactive fibers and puncta was observed in the hypothalamus of the epileptic female rats killed 10-15 or 60-90 days following pilocarpine administration. No significant differences were observed in the number and size of GAL-immunoreactive perikarya of epileptic and control cases. The present findings suggest that a substantial rearrangement of GnRH-containing efferents, and in particular a loss of their terminal branches, occurs in the epileptic rat brain. Comparable regressive changes could account for alterations in endocrine and reproductive functions observed in temporal lobe epilepsy.
We hypothesized that inhibitors of peroxide removal, such as BCNU, an indirect inhibitor of glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (AT), a direct inhibitor of catalase (CAT), should cause toxicity to cancer cells after manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) overexpression due to elevated peroxide levels. In vitro, hamster cheek pouch carcinoma cells (HCPC-1) and human oral squamous carcinoma cells (SCC-25) were infected with various combinations of adenovirus containing MnSOD cDNA (AdMnSOD). Cells were then treated with or without BCNU and assayed for viability using Annexin/PI staining and flow cytometry. In AdMnSOD plus BCNU-treated SCC-25 and HCPC-1 cells, a 30-60% decrease in cell viability was observed compared to BCNU alone. In vivo, HCPC-1 and SCC-25 xenografts were allowed to grow to approximately 70 mm(3) and 10(9) plaque forming units (pfu) of AdMnSOD were injected directly into the tumors. Two days later, 15 or 30 mg/kg BCNU was injected intratumorally. Tumor growth was greatly inhibited (4- to 20-fold) by this combined treatment, as well as increasing animal survival. Tumor volume could be decreased further by giving multiple doses of AdMnSOD or inhibiting catalase activity with AT. These results suggest that, by using these combination therapies, a significant decrease in tumor mass can be achieved.
This report describes a 64 year-old female patient admitted to our department for recurrent and symptomatic episodes of atrial fibrillation. Antiarrhythmic therapy with sotalol at 240 mg/day was started, and after 48 h the patient experienced several episodes of sustained torsade de pointes, dramatic marked QT interval prolongation and negative T wave, in absence of overt cardiac disease, renal failure, electrolyte abnormalities or baseline QT interval prolongation. This case emphasizes the importance of hospitalization at the starting of sotalol therapy, especially in female patients, even in absence of predisposing factors for drug-induced tachyarrhythmias.
An array of evidence indicates that long-term exposure to cocaine alters several components of the brain dopamine system. Because the release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) has been implicated in mediating the reinforcing effects of cocaine, changes in dopamine function can have profound effects on drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior. The present study examined the effects of the chronic self-administration of cocaine on the D1 family of dopamine receptors in the rhesus monkey. The brains of three rhesus monkeys that had intravenously self-administered an average of 1.35 mg/kg cocaine per day for 18-22 months were compared to the brains of three cocaine-naive controls. The in vitro quantitative autoradiographic technique was used to quantify binding densities of the D1 ligand [3H]SCH-23390 on cryostat-cut sections of fresh frozen tissue. In animals that self-administered cocaine, the density of D1 binding was significantly lower in the regions of the striatum at the level where the nucleus accumbens is most fully developed. The shell of the NAc showed the largest difference with significantly lower D1 binding also detected in adjacent regions of the caudate nucleus and the putamen. No differences were found in the rostral pole of the NAc or the dorsal striatum at that level. These findings suggest that chronic self-administration of cocaine can modulate the density of dopamine D1 receptors in specific portions of the primate striatum. Such changes might underlie some of the behavioral consequences, like drug dependence and craving, of long-term cocaine use.
Ketanserin is a new strong antiserotoninergic drug that, unlike the previous ones, is selective for 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors. This drug has been employed successfully in the treatment of arterial hypertension and of some peripheral vascular diseases. The authors are carrying out a trial on medium term treatment with ketanserin (K) or propranolol (P) in comparison with placebo, to evaluate their effects on blood pressure, haemocoagulative parameters and peripheral circulation. The trial is a double-blind cross-over random trial on subjects with mild or moderate hypertension. Until now 13 patients have ended the study; six of them are suffering from arteriosclerosis obliterans of the lower limbs at 1st or 2nd stage according to Fontaine. Both propranolol and ketanserin significantly reduced the blood pressure, although the decrease in systolic blood pressure was more evident after propranolol. Heart rate diminished significantly only after propranolol administration. The noninvasive, intermittent (every 30 min) monitoring of blood pressure showed a significant 24-hour reduction of blood pressure after administration of propranolol or ketanserin without significant changes of circadian behaviour of the blood pressure. After administration of ketanserin a slight improvement in peripheral circulation was demonstrated, evaluated by using strain-gauge plethysmography. As regards the results obtained for platelet function and other haemocoagulative parameters examined, adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation, adenosine diphosphate slope, collagen lag period, antithrombin III biological activity, and serum fibrinogen did not show noticeable modifications after treatment, while beta-thromboglobulin levels decreased slightly after ketanserin administration.
To investigate the expression of PDGF receptor-beta and its correlation with extracellular matrix in hepatic tissue during hepatic fibrosis.
The model of hepatic fibrosis in rats was induced by carbon tetrachloride. PDGF receptor-beta subunit, collagen I, collagen III and a-SMA in hepatic tissues of these rats were examined using immunohistochemistry. The correlation between PDGF receptor-beta subunit and collagen I, III was analyzed using SAS software after the results of immunohistochemistry were semi-quantified.
PDGF receptor-beta subunit and a-SMA were not detected in normal controls. Collagen I and III were distributed in the portal tracts and beneath the endothelia of the central veins and of the Disse spaces. Two weeks after CCl4 injection, the PDGF receptor-beta and a-SMA were detected, and the expression of collagen I and III increased. At the end of 4 and 6 weeks, the above four proteins were further increased. Two weeks after CCl4 injection, PDGF receptor-beta had no apparent correlation with collagen I and III. However, PDGF receptor-beta had a significant correlation with collagen I and III 2 weeks later, and the correlation coefficient was 0.74 and 0.60 respectively at 4 weeks, and 0.83 and 0.67 respectively at 6 weeks. PDGF receptor-beta had a significant correlation with a-SMA during the whole process of hepatic fibrosis and the correlation coefficient was 0.62, 0.69 and 0.81, respectively at the time of 2, 4 and 6 weeks after CCl4 injection.
The PDGF receptor-beta was overexpressed during the process of hepatic fibrosis development, and it significantly correlated with collagen I and collagen III.
Hypotension and bradycardia during spinal anesthesia are common and may relate to severe adverse events such as cardiac arrest or death. The authors'first retrospective study identified three non-modfiiable factors including females, age more than 40 years, and type of operation. Level of blockage higher than T5 was the only one modifiable factor that could be confirmed That study was strongly limited by the nature of the retrospective anesthetic record reviewed study.
The authors prospectively studied the records of 2, 000 patients who received spinal anesthesia at Sriraj Hospital from 1 July 2004 to 31 December 2004. The collected parameters were patient demographic data (sex, age, body weight, height, ASA status), operative data (type of operation, emergency status, position and duration of operation), anesthetic data (type and dosage of local anesthetic agents used, intravenous fluid, vasoactive and sedative agents, highest sensory level of spinal blockage, usage and doses of spinal opioids). Recording forms of hypotension and bradycardia were completed by the responsible anesthetic team in each consecutive patient.
Incidence of hypotension (20% or more decrease in systolic blood pressure) in the present study was 57.9%. The highest incidence was in cesarean section. Four non-modifiable risk factors could be identified which included females, age more than 50, body mass index more than 35 (OR = 2.1, 95% CI 1.01-4.29) and type of operation. Two modifiable risk factors included high dose of heavy bupivacaine (OR 1. 88, 95%CI 1. 3-2.74) and level of sensory blockage equal to or higher than T5 (OR 2.27, 95%CI 1.73-2.97).
Usage of high dose of heavy bupivacaine and level of blockage higher than T5 were two modifiable risk factors associated with hypotension during spinal anesthesia. Avoidance of high block and lower dose of heavy bupivacaine can reduced the incidence and severity of hypotension after spinal anesthesia.
Tonotopic organization is an essential feature of the primary auditory area (A1) of primate cortex. In A1 of macaque monkeys, low frequencies are represented rostrolaterally and high frequencies are represented caudomedially. The purpose of this study was to determine if changes occur in this tonotopic organization following cochlear hearing loss. Under anesthesia, the superior temporal gyrus of adult macaque monkeys was exposed, and the tonotopic organization of A1 was mapped using conventional microelectrode recording techniques. Following recovery, the monkeys were selectively deafened for high frequencies using kanamycin and furosemide. The actual frequencies deafened were determined by the loss of tone-burst elicited auditory brainstem responses. Three months after deafening, A1 was remapped. Postmortem cytoarchitectural features identifying A1 were correlated with the electrophysiologic data. The results indicate that the deprived area of A1 undergoes extensive reorganization and becomes responsive to intact cochlear frequencies. The region of cortex that represents the low frequencies was not obviously affected by the cochlear hearing loss.
