Desmodium gangeticum is widely used in the indigenous system of medicine in India and is reported to contain flavone and isoflavonoid glycosides. It forms the ingredient of many Ayurvedic formulations used for diabetes. The present study was thus aimed at evaluating the insulin secretion and antidiabetic activity of Desmodium gangeticum. Treatment of diabetic rats with aerial parts of D. gangeticum extract (DG, 100 and 250 mg/kg body weight) for 3 weeks showed a significant reduction in blood glucose. D. gangeticum extract caused a significant increase in insulin secretion from MIN6 cells grown as monolayers and as pseudoislets, indicating that the antidiabetic activity may be as a result of increased insulin secretion. It also had a role on the lipid profile of the rats by causing reductions in cholesterol and triglycerides and increasing the HDL significantly (p < 0.05). This works supports the traditional use of D. gangeticum in the treatment of diabetes and this is likely to be due, at least in part, to its stimulation of insulin secretion by pancreatic islet cells.
We describe a case of acute ischemia of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th fingers of the right hand secondary to peripheral vascular occlusive disease induced by repeated intra-arterial cocaine injections. The complete occlusion of the distal arteries resolved following treatment with iloprost, a synthetic stable analogue of prostacyclin PGI2, in addition to anticoagulants and antibiotics.
The pathophysiology underlying the nephrotic syndrome is becoming clear for several inherited podocytopathies; the mechanisms of injury that lead to the acquired forms of this disease are not well understood. We explored these mechanisms using the mouse model of adriamycin-induced proteinuria.We estimated the fractional clearances for FITC-Ficolls, albumin, and neutral albumin in cooled, isolated,perfused kidneys (cIPK) in situ. Treatment with adriamycin led to a significant increase in the fractional clearance of albumin and of Ficoll with radii larger than 20 A. Neutral albumin (33.4 A) and similarly sized Ficoll behaved similarly to each other. In addition, adriamycin led to a significant loss of charge density and size selectivity of the glomerular barrier. The thickness of the glomerular endothelial surface layer(i.e., or the glycocalyx) in adriamycin-treated animals was only 20% of that in normal animals. Finally,several proteoglycans were downregulated in isolated glomeruli. In summary, adriamycin thins the glomerular glycocalyx, perhaps by downregulating proteoglycan synthesis, and alters glomerular charge- and size selectivity. These data suggest that the glomerular endothelium may play a role in the pathogenesis of proteinuric renal diseases.
To examine the in vivo effects of PD-0200347, an alpha(2)delta ligand of voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels and a compound chemically related to pregabalin and gabapentin, on the development of cartilage structural changes in an experimental dog model of osteoarthritis (OA). The effects of PD-0200347 on the major pathways involved in OA cartilage degradation, including matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), were also studied.
OA was surgically induced in dogs by sectioning the anterior cruciate ligament. OA dogs were randomly distributed into 3 groups and treated orally with either 1) placebo, 2) 15 mg/kg/day of PD-0200347, or 3) 90 mg/kg/day of PD-0200347. Dogs were killed 12 weeks after surgery. The severity of the lesions was scored macroscopically and histologically. Cartilage specimens from the femoral condyles and tibial plateaus were processed for RNA extraction and quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) or immunohistochemistry. Specific probes and antibodies were used to study the messenger RNA and protein levels of iNOS, MMP-1, MMP-3, and MMP-13.
No clinical signs of drug toxicity were noted in the treated animals. Treatment with PD-0200347 at both dosages tested (15 and 90 mg/kg/day) reduced the development of cartilage lesions. There was a reduction in the score of lesions, with a statistically significant (P = 0.01) difference when the highest dosage of the drug was administered. The reduction in the score was mainly related to a decrease in the surface size of the lesions. Quantitative RT-PCR showed that PD-0200347 significantly reduced the expression of MMP-13, a key mediator in OA. Immunohistochemical analyses showed that treatment with PD-0200347 significantly reduced the synthesis of all key OA mediators studied.
This study demonstrated the efficacy of PD-0200347 in reducing the progression of cartilage structural changes in a dog model of OA. It also showed that this effect is linked to the inhibition of the major pathophysiologic mediators responsible for cartilage degradation.
2-[4-(4-Chlorophenyl)piperazin-1-ylmethyl]pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyridine (FAUC 213) is a highly selective antagonist at the dopamine D(4) receptor subtype. It was designed as a derivative of two partial antagonists and has been proven to be a complete antagonist in mitogenesis assay.
In the present study, FAUC 213 was examined for antipsychotic properties in animal models of behavioural neurobiology and neurochemistry.
Different concentrations of FAUC 213 were screened for effects on spontaneous, as well as amphetamine-induced, locomotor activity and apomorphine-induced prepulse disruption. The liability of causing extrapyramidal side effects was investigated in models of catalepsy and by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) detection of dopamine turnover in several brain regions. The application schedule was validated, and the bioavailability of the compound determined, by means of a HPLC-pharmacokinetic study.
A significant effect in both the reduction of amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity and the restoration of apomorphine-disrupted prepulse inhibition was found at 30 mg/kg. This dose proved not to be high enough to induce catalepsy or to increase dopamine turnover in the dorsal striatum, nucleus accumbens and medial prefrontal cortex. The selective D(4) antagonist FAUC 213, therefore, is not believed to mediate the above-mentioned effects via D(2) receptor antagonism, but a partial involvement of 5-HT(2)- and alpha(1)-receptors cannot be ruled out at present.
We have gathered evidence that FAUC 213 exhibits atypical antipsychotic characteristics.
Chloroquine and its derivatives have been drugs of choice in the prophylaxis and treatment of malaria for over 50 years. These drugs are also frequently used in the treatment of various rheumatologic disorders. Because many Americans now travel abroad and may require chloroquine prophylaxis, as well as the fact that such medications are readily available through Internet-based supply houses, clinicians should be aware of the potential toxicity associated with the use of these agents. We present the case of an adolescent female who presented with acute, chloroquine-induced toxic psychosis resembling that induced by phencyclidine (PCP) in clinical presentation and laboratory findings. In the acute setting, the differentiation between chloroquine toxic psychosis and PCP psychosis may be difficult. Therefore, the syndrome of chloroquine-induced psychosis is reviewed and its differentiation from PCP psychosis highlighted as it relates to important aspects of this case.
The authors applied an optimization model (direct search) to find the optimal combination of bupivacaine dose, fentanyl dose, clonidine dose, and infusion rate for continuous postoperative epidural analgesia.
One hundred ninety patients undergoing 48-h thoracic epidural analgesia after major abdominal surgery were studied. Combinations of the variables of bupivacaine dose, fentanyl dose, clonidine dose, and infusion rate were investigated to optimize the analgesic effect (monitored by verbal descriptor pain score) under restrictions dictated by the incidence and severity of side effects. Six combinations were empirically chosen and investigated. Then a stepwise optimization model was applied to determine subsequent combinations until no decrease in the pain score after three consecutive steps was obtained.
Twenty combinations were analyzed. The optimization procedure led to a reduction in the incidence of side effects and in the mean pain scores. The three best combinations of bupivacaine dose (mg/h), fentanyl dose (microg/h), clonidine dose (microg/h), and infusion rate (ml/h) were: 9-21-5-7, 8-30-0-9, and 13-25-0-9, respectively.
Given the variables investigated, the aforementioned combinations may be the optimal ones to provide postoperative analgesia after major abdominal surgery. Using the direct search method, the enormous number of possible combinations of a therapeutic strategy can be reduced to a small number of potentially useful ones. This is accomplished using a scientific rather than an arbitrary procedure.
This report describes a parturient who, within 1 month of recovering from a neurologic deficit, suffered cardiac arrest secondary to succinylcholine-induced hyperkalemia. This patient's course may not apply to all patients with GBS because the diagnosis of GBS, although supported on clinical grounds, was not supported by conclusive, objective data. Furthermore, pregnancy, drug abuse, and malnutrition may have had a unique impact on her muscle physiology. Nevertheless, it is important to note that, in any patient who is recovering or has clinically recovered from a neurologic deficit, a normal neurologic examination does not ensure that succinylcholine-induced hyperkalemia will not occur. Although these patients should eventually not be susceptible to succinylcholine-induced hyperkalemia, current data do not support a specific recommendation of when succinylcholine would be safe.
The effects of combined administration of hepatocarcinogens at low doses on the development of glutathione S-transferase P-form (GST-P)-positive foci of rat liver were examined utilizing a bioassay model which consists of a single injection of diethylnitrosamine (DEN, 200 mg/kg, ip), two-thirds partial hepatectomy at week 3 and a 6-week administration of test compounds. The chemicals used, 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF), 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (3'-Me-DAB), phenobarbital (PB), thioacetamide (TAA), N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethylnitrosamine (EHEN), benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P), carbazole, and alpha-hexachlorocyclohexane (alpha-HCH) were incorporated in the diet, except for EHEN which was dissolved in the drinking water, at levels of 1/6 of the doses usually used. The combinations were: I) 2-AAF, 3'-Me-DAB, PB, TAA, EHEN and B[a]P, II) 2-AAF, 3'-Me-DAB and PB, III) TAA, EHEN and B[a]P, IV) 2-AAF, 3'-Me-DAB, carbazole, TAA, EHEN and alpha-HCH, V) 2-AAF, 3'-Me-DAB and carbazole, and VI) TAA, EHEN and alpha-HCH. All combinations, except for II, caused an increase in the area of the foci as evaluated by the ratios of areas in the combined administration groups to the sum totals of 3 or 6 individual data: I) 1.75, II) 0.81, III) 2.01, IV) 3.62, V) 1.34 and VI) 2.91. The non-synergistic effect in combination II might be related to PB induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes leading to enhanced enzymatical detoxification of 2-AAF and 3'-Me-DAB. The present results indicate that exposure to several chemicals of similar organotropism, even at doses lower than the apparent carcinogenic levels, might be critical to the carcinogenic process.
We conducted a treatment trial to determine the relative toxicity of FK-506 and cyclosporine A (CSA) in liver transplant recipients.
Between October 1990 and October 1991, 37 patients were enrolled in an open-labeled, randomized study of two immunosuppressive regimens after liver transplantation.
Of the 23 men and 14 women, 20 received FK-506 plus prednisone, and 17 received CSA plus prednisone and azathioprine. Renal function was assessed before and after transplantation (day 1, month 1, month 4, and month 12) by measurements of serum creatinine (SCr) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) as determined by urinary iothalamate or creatinine clearance (or both). FK-506 trough plasma levels (enzyme immunoassay) were to be maintained between 0.2 and 5.0 ng/mL, and CSA trough blood levels (whole blood high-performance liquid chromatography) were to be maintained between 250 and 400 ng/mL. Severe nephrotoxicity was defined as sudden decreases in urine output to less than 10 mL/h or rapid increases in SCr (more than 0.5 mg/dL daily) that necessitated withdrawal of study medication for more than 48 hours. Mean patient age and values for SCr and GFR were comparable between the two groups at entry.
Both study groups demonstrated a similar deterioration in renal function during a 12-month follow-up, although patients who received FK-506 had a significantly (P < 0.05) lower GFR when measured at 12 months than did patients treated with CSA (45 +/- 4 versus 64 +/- 6 mL/min per body surface area). Mild nephrotoxicity that responded to decreased drug doses was noted in 9 CSA-treated patients (53%) and 10 FK-506-treated patients (50%). Severe nephrotoxicity that necessitated drug withdrawal occurred in only four patients, all of whom were in the FK-506 group. These severe nephrotoxic reactions to FK-506 occurred early after transplantation, often during intravenous administration of the drug, and were not associated with poor liver allograft function or drug levels outside the therapeutic range.
Both FK-506 and CSA are significantly nephrotoxic in liver transplant recipients. In this trial, however, we observed an early development of severe nephrotoxic reactions only in some patients who received FK-506.
Gastrodia elata Blume (G. elata) is a famous restorative food in East Asia. It can be used as an auxiliary reagent in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) treatment. Previous studies unveiled that G. elata exhibited immunomodulatory activities. To explore the active ingredients contributing to its immunomodulatory activities, gastrodin, vanillin, and parishin B were purified from G. elata and their anti-HCC effects were assessed in vivo. Among these compounds, only gastrodin was capable of repressing transplanted H22 ascitic hepatic tumor cell growth in vivo with low toxicity. Further investigations were designed to explore the effects of gastrodin on the immune system of tumor-bearing mice and potential molecular mechanisms underlying these effects. Our data showed that gastrodin ameliorated tumor cell transplantation-induced activation of endogenous pro-apoptotic pathway in CD4+ T cells and abnormalities in serum cytokine profiles in host animals. These events enhanced cytotoxic activities of natural killer and CD8+ T cells against H22 hepatic cancer cells. Gastrodin administration specifically upregulated mRNA levels of several nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) responsive genes in CD4+ T cells but not in CD8+ T cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay showed that gastrodin increased the association of NF-κB p65 subunit to the promoter regions of IL-2 and Bcl-2 encoding genes in CD4+ T cells. Our investigations demonstrated that gastrodin is the main active ingredient contributing to the anticancer immunomodulatory properties of G. elata. Promoting NF-κB-mediated gene transcription in CD4+ T cells is implicated in its immunomodulatory activity.
YMDD hepatitis B virus (HBV) mutants emerge in more than one third of patients treated with lamivudine. The development of escape mutants potentially limits the efficacy of this new therapy for chronic HBV infection. Transplant centers may be hesitant to perform orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) in patients with progressive liver disease who develop the YMDD mutant because of concerns of graft reinfection. We describe a 56-year-old man with chronic liver disease caused by HBV who successfully underwent OLT after the emergence of a YMDD mutant and progressive liver disease. Perioperatively, he received high-dose intravenous hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) treatment with continued lamivudine treatment. Thirty-two months after OLT, there was no evidence of HBV reinfection with the use of lamivudine and high-dose HBIG. Our experience suggests that the emergence of a YMDD HBV mutant is not a contraindication to OLT. The combination of lamivudine and high-dose HBIG can protect against reinfection of the hepatic allograft with the YMDD HBV escape mutant.
Therapy with phentolamine can improve the condition of patients with congestive heart failure due to the inotropic effect of this drug as well as its vasodilating action. Therefore, 8 patients with volume-overloaded left ventricles due to aortic insufficiency and mitral insufficiency received 50 mg of phentolamine 4 times a day for 2 weeks. Peak and end systolic wall stress were estimated using a noninvasive echocardiographic technique. The peak systolic wall stress in this group was 133 X 10(3) dynes/sq cm, which is similar to the reported normal value. However, the end systolic wall stress was 89 X 19(3) dynes/sq cm, which is much higher than the reported normal values. After PO administration of phentolamine, the end systolic stress was normalized while the peak systolic stress was reduced below normal. As a result of therapy with phentolamine, the ejection fraction, the percentage of change in the minor axis, and the velocity of circumferential fiber shortening significantly increased. Thus, PO administration of phentolamine can improve left ventricular function in patients with mitral insufficiency and aortic insufficiency.
To evaluate, for the first time, the efficacy of copper-indomethacin in the inhibition of aberrant crypt foci formation using the azoxymethane-induced adenocarcinoma model, to examine cell viability in the HCT-116 colorectal cancer cell line, gastrointestinal permeability, mitochondrial oxidative damage, and renal toxicity in rat models.
Azoxymethane-induced adenocarcinoma rats were dosed with indomethacin and copper-indomethacin for 28 days and aberrant crypt foci were evaluated. HCT-116 colorectal cancer cells were exposed to indomethacin and copper-indomethacin at 0-250 microg/mL (0-698 microM for indomethacin, and 0-147 microM for copper-indomethacin), and cell viability was measured. Acute gastrointestinal toxicity was measured using gastrointestinal permeability markers, gastrointestinal ulceration and bleeding, and measurement of an acute-phase protein haptoglobin. Effects of acute and chronic administration of indomethacin and copper-indomethacin on urinary electrolyte concentrations were examined.
Both indomethacin and copper-indomethacin resulted in a significant reduction in aberrant crypt foci in azoxymethane-treated rats. In parallel, high concentrations of indomethacin and copper-indomethacin also reduced cell viability in HCT-116 colorectal cancer cells. However, copper-indomethacin was considerably safer in all measures of gastrointestinal toxicity compared to indomethacin. In addition, indomethacin reduced urinary electrolytes at an ulcerogenic dose of 10 mg/kg acutely and chronically at 3.0 mg/kg for 28 days, whereas copper-indomethacin at equimolar doses of indomethacin affected urine electrolytes after acute dosing but not after chronic dosing for 28 days.
Copper-indomethacin has both gastrointestinal and renal sparing properties while maintaining efficacy in experimental adenocarcinoma.
Intravenous azithromycin is increasingly administered for treatment of hospitalized patients with community-acquired pneumonia. Macrolide antibiotics cause ototoxicity, which occurs most frequently when high serum concentrations are achieved. Current dosing guidelines for intravenous azithromycin can result in much higher serum concentrations than is seen with oral administration. We describe a 47-year-old woman who developed complete deafness after receiving 8 days of intravenous azithromycin.
Animal models of prenatal nicotine exposure clearly indicate that nicotine is a neuroteratogen. Some of the persisting effects of prenatal nicotine exposure include low birth weight, behavioral changes and deficits in cognitive function, although few studies have looked for neurobehavioral and neurochemical effects that might persist throughout the lifespan. Pregnant rats were given continuous infusions of nicotine (0.96mg/kg/day or 2.0mg/kg/day, freebase) continuing through the third trimester equivalent, a period of rapid brain development. Because the third trimester equivalent occurs postnatally in the rat (roughly the first week of life) nicotine administration to neonate pups continued via maternal milk until postnatal day (P) 10. Exposure to nicotine during pre- and early postnatal development had an anxiogenic effect on adult rats (P75) in the elevated plus maze (EPM), and blocked extinction learning in a fear conditioning paradigm, suggesting that pre- and postnatal nicotine exposure affect anxiety-like behavior and cognitive function well into adulthood. In contrast, nicotine exposure had no effect on anxiety-like behaviors in the EPM in adolescent animals (P30). Analysis of mRNA for the alpha4, alpha7, and beta2 subunits of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors revealed lower expression of these subunits in the adult hippocampus and medial prefrontal cortex following pre- and postnatal nicotine exposure, suggesting that nicotine altered the developmental trajectory of the brain. These long-term behavioral and neurochemical changes strengthen the case for discouraging cigarette smoking during pregnancy and clearly indicate that the use of the patch as a smoking cessation aid during pregnancy is not a safe alternative.
2 case reports of ischamic symptoms from aorto-iliac occlusion in premenopausal women (ages 29 and 44 years) which began during medication with oral contraceptives suggest that oral contraceptives may be dangerous to patients with a latent tendency to arterial disease and that such patients can be identified before complications arise.
The aims of this study were to compare the in vitro responses of murine lymphocytes to HgCl2 to determine the requirement for adherent cells, and the contribution that costimulation plays in T cell proliferation. The in vitro proliferative response of murine splenocytes to HgCl2 was found to be both cell concentration- and HgCl2 concentration-dependent with the greatest response occurring with 5 x 10(6) cells/ml in the presence of 10(-5) M HgCl2. Both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells proliferated in response to HgCl2, but B cells and immature T cells (thymocytes) did not. Proliferation required the presence of splenic adherent cells and was inhibited by addition of anti-IL-1 alpha antibodies. Antibodies to the other co-stimulatory molecules CD40 ligand, CD80 (B7-1), and CD86 (B7-2), although inhibitory, were less effective. Xenobiotics such as the heavy metal mercury can elicit a spectrum of immunological responses ranging from immunosuppression to autoimmunity. The most common response, in vivo and in vitro, is lymphoproliferation, which may be a prelude to immune activation. Although a number of the requirements for mercury-induced T cell proliferation in vitro have been described, the role that adherent cells play remains to be explained. The studies described here show that interaction between co-stimulatory molecules of adherent cells and mature T cells contributes to HgCl2-induced T cell proliferation. Among these co-stimulatory molecules, IL-1 appears to play an important role. The requirement for mature T cells, adherent cells, and co-stimulatory molecules argues that HgCl2-induced T cell proliferation possesses the properties of an antigen-induced response.
Although the pathogenesis of aspirin-induced urticaria (AIU) is not fully understood, mast cell activation has been noted in patients with AIU. Tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, a potent pro-inflammatory cytokine, is released by human skin mast cells and other inflammatory cells in patients with urticaria. To investigate the role of TNF-alpha promoter polymorphisms in the development of AIU, we performed an association study of TNF-alpha promoter polymorphisms with AIU phenotype.
Two hundred thirty-nine patients with AIU consisting of 120 patients with aspirin intolerant chronic urticaria (AICU) and 119 with aspirin-intolerant acute urticaria (AIAU), and 524 normal controls were enrolled. AIU was confirmed by oral aspirin challenge test. Five SNPs in the TNF-alpha gene (-1031T>C, -863C>A, -857C>T, -308G>A, -238G>A) were genotyped by a single-base extension method. Haplotype analyses were done.
The genotype frequencies of TNF-1031T>C and TNF-863C>A were significantly higher in the AIU patients than in the normal controls in both co-dominant (P = 0.014, P = 0.007) and dominant (P = 0.007, P = 0.004) models. The frequency of TNF-ht2[CACGG] containing a genotype in the AIU group was significantly higher in the normal controls with both co-dominant (P = 0.004, Pc = 0.02) and dominant models (P = 0.002, Pc = 0.01).
These findings suggest that the two promoter polymorphisms of TNF-alpha at -1031T>C and -863C>A may contribute to the development of AIU.
The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (formerly known as PS-341) recently received Food and Drug Administration approval for the treatment of multiple myeloma, and its activity is currently being evaluated in solid tumors. Bortezomib triggers apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells, but the mechanisms involved have not been fully elucidated. Here, we show that pancreatic cancer cells exposed to bortezomib formed aggregates of ubiquitin-conjugated proteins ("aggresomes") in vitro and in vivo. Bortezomib-induced aggresome formation was determined to be cytoprotective and could be disrupted using histone deacetylase (HDAC) 6 small interfering RNA or chemical HDAC inhibitors, which resulted in endoplasmic reticulum stress and synergistic levels of apoptosis in vitro and in an orthotopic pancreatic cancer xenograft model in vivo. Interestingly, bortezomib did not induce aggresome formation in immortalized normal human pancreatic epithelial cells in vitro or in murine pancreatic epithelial cells in vivo. In addition, these cells did not undergo apoptosis following treatment with bortezomib, suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, or the combination, showing tumor selectivity. Taken together, our study shows that inhibition of aggresome formation can strongly potentiate the efficacy of bortezomib and provides the foundation for clinical trials of bortezomib in combination with HDAC inhibitors for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
The frequency of complications in patients with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction is unknown. This study was performed to determine the short-term morbidity and mortality secondary to cocaine-associated myocardial infarction.
We performed a retrospective cohort study at 29 hospital centers throughout the United States. Patients with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction that occurred between 1987 and 1993 were identified through record review. The primary outcome measures were in-hospital mortality and the incidence and timing of major cardiovascular complications.
Cocaine-associated myocardial infarction was identified 136 times in 130 patients. Patients were generally young (mean age, 38 years), nonwhite (72%), tobacco smokers (91%) with a history of cocaine use in the past 24 hours (88%). The initial electrocardiogram disclosed infarction in 44% and ischemia in an additional 18% of patients. Myocardial infarctions were evenly distributed between anterior (45%) and inferior (44%) and were most often non-Q-wave (61%). Complications occurred 64 times in 49 patients (36%; 95% confidence interval, 28% to 44%), including congestive heart failure in nine patients, ventricular tachycardia in 23 patients, supraventricular tachycardia in six patients, and brady-dysrhythmias in 26 patients. Most patients who had complications (90%) had them within 12 hours of presentation. Acute in-hospital mortality was 0% (95% confidence interval, 0% to 2%).
The mortality of patients hospitalized with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction was low. The majority of complications occurred within 12 hours of presentation.
Administration of 2.5% griseofulvin in the diet to male CD1 mice produced protoporphyria and cholestasis. Protoporphyria became evident as early as after 10 days of treatment, whereas cholestasis, expressed in terms of total bile flow reduction, developed only after 45 days of griseofulvin. Bile flow impairment was due both to the length of treatment and to the severity of liver protoporphyria. Griseofulvin administration was also associated with a significant modification of the relative amounts of hepatic microsomal cytochromes P-450 and b5, a loss in concentration/mg of protein of cytochrome P-450 and a concomitant increase of b5. Despite these changes, the activity of aniline hydroxylase expressed per mg of microsomal protein, assessed in vitro, was not modified.
To determine whether dopamine (DA) D1 or DA D2 receptors are associated predominantly with the antiparkinsonian versus the dyskinetic effect of levodopa.
The authors used four L-dopa-primed, dyskinetic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-exposed monkeys to test whether acute and selective blockade of the DA D1 receptor subtype, using SCH 23390 and NNC 01-112, could reduce L-dopa-induced dyskinesias without altering the relief of symptoms. Blockade of DA receptors using sulpiride (D2) and clozapine (D1-D2-like) was studied for comparison.
With the notable exception of the lowest dose of clozapine tested, coadministration of DA D1 or D2 antidopaminergic agents with L-dopa reduced the L-dopa-induced dyskinesias but also caused a return of parkinsonian disability. Prolonged latencies from intake of a single oral dose of L-dopa to turning "on," decreased duration of the "on" state, and a complete failure to induce benefit was also observed.
Low-dose clozapine could be an effective adjunct to reduce L-dopa-induced dyskinesias without altering the relief of parkinsonian symptoms. Interactions with many neurotransmitter systems may explain the better pharmacologic profile of clozapine, including DA D4 (rather than D1), serotonin, acetylcholine, and noradrenaline. Neither dyskinesias nor antiparkinsonian effects can be ascribed solely to the D2 or D1 receptor. Thus, some cooperation between the two receptors appears necessary for these behavioral effects.
Amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) is the toxic agent in Alzheimer's disease (AD), although the mechanism causing the neurodegeneration is not known. We previously proposed a mechanism in which excessive Abeta binds to regulatory heme, triggering functional heme deficiency (HD), causing the key cytopathologies of AD. We demonstrated that HD triggers the release of oxidants (e.g., H(2)O(2)) from mitochondria due to the loss of complex IV, which contains heme-a. Now we add more evidence that Abeta binding to regulatory heme in vivo is the mechanism by which Abeta causes HD. Heme binds to Abeta, thus preventing Abeta aggregation by forming an Abeta-heme complex in a cell-free system. We suggest that this complex depletes regulatory heme, which would explain the increase in heme synthesis and iron uptake we observe in human neuroblastoma cells. The Abeta-heme complex is shown to be a peroxidase, which catalyzes the oxidation of serotonin and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine by H(2)O(2). Curcumin, which lowers oxidative damage in the brain in a mouse model for AD, inhibits this peroxidase. The binding of Abeta to heme supports a unifying mechanism by which excessive Abeta induces HD, causes oxidative damage to macromolecules, and depletes specific neurotransmitters. The relevance of the binding of regulatory heme with excessive Abeta for mitochondrial dysfunction and neurotoxicity and other cytopathologies of AD is discussed.
Increased expression of cytokines and chemokines has been observed in chronic heart failure (CHF). Amiodarone reduces circulating cytokine levels, so it may attenuate the production of monocyte cytokines and chemokines by C-reactive protein (CRP) and thus improve the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) patients with ventricular tachycardia (VT).
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were stimulated by 25 microg/ml CRP in 23 patients with DCM, who were divided into 2 groups based on whether or not amiodarone was included in their treatment (Amiodarone group n=8; No amiodarone group n=15). Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 on monocytes at baseline and after 4 weeks of treatment was measured by ELISA and expressed as mean+/-SD (pg.ml(-1)x10(-6) PBMCs). The LVEF and the CRP-induced monocyte cytokine and chemokine production were unchanged in the No amiodarone group after 4 weeks; however, LVEF in the Amiodarone group was increased (32.7+/-6.9 to 39.2+/-6.9%; P=0.005), and TNF-alpha and MCP-1 production in the Amiodarone group were decreased (P=0.012, respectively).
Amiodarone attenuates the production of monocyte cytokines and chemokines by CRP, and improves LVEF in CHF patients with VT.
Dyskeratosis congenita is a rare inherited disorder characterized by abnormal skin manifestations. Morbidity and mortality from this disease is usually due to bone marrow failure, but idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and an increased cancer predisposition also occur. Families with autosomal dominant dyskeratosis congenita display anticipation and have mutations in the telomerase RNA gene. We identified a three-generation pedigree with autosomal dominant dyskeratosis congenita, anticipation, and telomere shortening. We show that a null mutation in motif D of the reverse transcriptase domain of the protein component of telomerase, hTERT, is associated with this phenotype. This mutation leads to haploinsufficiency of telomerase, and telomere shortening occurs despite the presence of telomerase. This finding emphasizes the importance of telomere maintenance and telomerase dosage for maintaining tissue proliferative capacity and has relevance for understanding mechanisms of age-related changes.
Deficiency of folate has been associated with several disorders characterized by enhanced activation of the cellular immune system (non-allergic th1 type immune response). Whether folate status is also associated with atopic disease (allergic th2 type immune response) is unknown. We aimed at examining the association between atopy and markers of impaired folate metabolism, i.e. MTHFR(C677T) genotype, plasma total homocysteine, and dietary intakes of methionine, folates, and vitamins B12, B6, and B2.
Cross-sectional population-based study of 1,671 male and female residents of Copenhagen County, Denmark, aged 30-60 years participating in a health examination during 1999-2001. Atopy was defined as positive levels of specific IgE against a panel of inhalant allergens. MTHFR(C677T) genotype was determined by PCR followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses. Total homocysteine was measured by fluorescent polarization immunoassay. Dietary vitamin intakes were estimated from a semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire.
The prevalence of atopy was associated with MTHFR(C677T) genotype. TT individuals had a significantly higher risk of atopy compared with CC/CT individuals [odds ratio 1.76, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.19-2.60]. Additionally, gene-diet interaction effects were identified. Dietary markers were negatively associated with risk of atopy in persons with the TT genotype. Total homocysteine was not related to atopy (odds ratio per 5 mumol/l = 1.12, 95% CI 0.98-1.29).
The results suggest that an impaired folate metabolism may be causally related to the development of atopy.
