Cotreatment of rats with a low hepatotoxic dose (30.7 mg/kg, i.p.) of allyl alcohol (AA) and a higher, but nontoxic, dose (150 mg/kg, oral) of caffeine (CF) potentiated the hepatotoxicity of AA. This was verified by significantly higher levels of plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity and histopathologically greater severity of lesions in the periportal hepatocytes than those due to AA alone. Treatment of rats with 4-methylpyrazole (4-MP) (0.5 mmol/kg, i.p.) (an inhibitor liver alcohol dehydrogenase) for 30 minutes, followed by similar cotreatment with AA and CF, completely prevented the elevation of plasma levels of ALT and histological damage induced by cotreatment with CF and AA 24 hours following their administration. Severe liver damage induced by cotreatment with CF and AA was further, markedly enhanced by phenobarbital pretreatment (80 mg/kg, i.p., 3 days). Thus, extensive necrosis of periportal hepatocytes was noted, as well as edema and accumulation of inflammatory cells in the necrotic foci caused by such pretreatment. The depression of hepatic nonprotein sulfhydryls resulting from CF plus AA was much more severe than that caused by AA or CF alone and appeared as early as 30 minutes after administration. However, much less marked depletion of protein thiols was observed following similar treatments. Significant increase in lipid peroxidation (as measured by melondialdehyde [MDA] formation) was also observed in rat liver but only 24 hours after administration. The production ofMDA in the rat liver was significantly higher after administration of AA plus CF than after administration of AA alone. Pretreatment of rats with phenobarbital further significantly enhanced the formation of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNP)-reactive metabolite(s) (measured as DNP-acrolein adduct equivalents) in rat liver induced by AA (30.7 mg/kg) plus CF (150 mg/kg) within 1 hour following such treatment. Cotreatment with AA and a higher dose of CF resulted in significantly higher excretion of urinary thioethers or mercapturic acids than in rats treated with AA alone. Thus, these data suggest that an increased bioactivation pathway of acrolein involving a P450 mixed-function oxidase system caused by CF may be involved in such potentiating effects of CF on AA-induced hepatotoxicity in rats.
To assess critically the efficacy and safety of lithium and replicate earlier findings in a larger sample of aggressive children with conduct disorder and to assess the utility of the Profile of Mood States (POMS) in this population.
Children hospitalized for treatment-refractory severe aggressiveness and explosiveness and with diagnosed conduct disorder were subjects in this double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. After a 2-week placebo baseline period, children were randomly assigned to lithium or placebo treatment for 6 weeks of placebo. The main outcome measures were the Global Clinical Judgments (Consensus) Scale, Children's Psychiatric Rating Scale, Conners Teacher Questionnaire, Parent-Teacher Questionnaire, and the POMS.
Fifty children (mean age 9.4 years) completed this study. The mean optimal daily dose of lithium was 1,248 mg and the mean serum level was 1.12 mEq/L. Lithium was superior to placebo, although the effects on some measures were more modest than in a previous study.
Lithium appears to be an effective treatment for some severely aggressive children with conduct disorder. Although the POMS appeared to be reliable, it did not detect any response to lithium.
Thirteen reports of patients who developed polymyositis or dermatomyositis during treatment with D-penicillamine are reviewed and a fourteenth case is described. Twelve of the fourteen patients recovered after D-penicillamine was withdrawn; two patients died from cardiac involvement. Proximal muscle weakness was present in 13 patients and dermatomyositis in 4 patients. Dysphagia was the presenting symptom in 6 patients. Although D-penicillamine is useful in the management of rheumatoid arthritis, this drug should be used with caution and patients monitored closely for evidence of polymyositis or dermatomyositis.
Natural killer (NK) cell activity was evaluated after the initiation and promotion steps in a medium-term multi-organ bioassay for carcinogenesis. NK cell activity was assessed in vitro by Cr51 release assay at the 4th and 30th weeks of the experiment. Male Wistar rats were sequentially initiated with N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN i.p.), N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN drinking water), N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU i.p.), dihydroxy-di-N-propylnitrosamine (DHPN drinking water) and N,N'-dimethylhydrazine (DMH s.c.) at subcarcinogenic doses for 4 weeks (DMBDD initiation). One group was evaluated at the 4th week and the other was maintained without any further treatment until the 30th week. Two initiated groups were exposed through the diet to 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) or phenobarbital (PB), from the 6th until the 30th week. Five additional groups were studied to evaluate the effects of each initiator on NK activity. All groups submitted to initiation only, initiation plus promotion, or promotion only, developed significantly more preneoplastic lesions than the untreated control group. The main target organs for tumor development in the initiated animals were the liver and the colon, irrespective of treatment with 2-AAF or PB. NK cell activity was not affected by exposure to genotoxic carcinogens after initiation, at the 4th week. Treatments only with PB or 2-AAF did not change NK cell activity. However, decreased NK cell activity was registered in the group only initiated with DMBDD and in the group given DMBDD+2-AAF. This late depression of NK cell activity at the 30th week could be related to the production of suppressing molecules by the tumor cells.
Myocardial contrast echocardiography currently involves intro-arterial injection of contrast. For this technique to have a broader application, it is necessary that myocardial opacification be achieved from a venous injection of contrast.
To achieve myocardial opacification after right-side injection of contrast, two groups of open-chest anesthetized dogs were studied. Group 1 included nine dogs in whom microbubbles of various sizes, concentrations, and volumes were injected into the left atrium to determine microbubble characteristics that influence myocardial opacification. Group 2 included eight dogs in whom the effect of the combination of microbubble characteristics and myocardial blood flow on myocardial opacification was evaluated after right atrial injection of contrast. Background-subtracted time-intensity plots were generated from the myocardium to measure peak videointensity. In the group 2 dogs, digital subtraction and color coding were used to further highlight the contrast effect. The number, concentration, and size of the microbubbles all independently affected (p less than 0.01) peak myocardial videointensity after left atrial injection of contrast on multivariate analysis. Highly concentrated microbubbles (4.4 to 5.1 billion/ml) given during dipyridamole-induced coronary hyperemia was most frequently (88%) associated with myocardial opacification after right atrial injection of contrast and was the best predictor of this result on multivariate analysis (chi 2= 9.01, p = 0.003). No changes were noted in left atrial, left ventricular, and pulmonary artery pressures despite injection of large numbers of microbubbles into the right atrium.
Successful and reproducible myocardial opacification can be achieved during myocardial contrast echocardiography after right atrial injection of contrast. These findings could have far-reaching implications in the use of myocardial contrast echocardiography in acute and chronic ischemic syndromes in humans.
A 59-year-old man presented with atrial flutter and a 2:1 atrioventricular response, which, after intravenous disopyramide, became 1:1. A mechanism of slowed atrial flutter rate and improved atrioventricular nodal conduction, similar to that recognised with quinidine, is suggested.
The thioredoxin system has essential functions in the maintenance of cellular redox homeostasis in the cytosol, nucleus, and mitochondria. Thioredoxin (Trx) and thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) are targets for mercury compounds in vitro and in vivo. This study aimed at understanding mechanistically how the mitochondrial and cytosolic thioredoxin systems were affected by mercurials, including the regulation of TrxR transcription. The effects of coexposure to selenite and mercurials on the thioredoxin system were also addressed. Results in HepG2 cells showed that TrxR1 expression was enhanced by Hg(2+), whereas exposure to MeHg decreased expression. Selenite exposure also increased the expression of TrxR1 and resulted in higher specific activity. Coexposure to 2 µM selenite and up to 5 µM Hg(2+) increased even further TrxR1 expression. This synergistic effect was not verified for MeHg, because TrxR1 expression and activity were reduced. Analysis of Nrf-2 translocation to the nucleus and TrxR mRNA suggests that induction of TrxR1 transcription was slower upon exposure to MeHg in comparison to Hg(2+). Subcellular fractions showed that MeHg affected the activity of the thioredoxin system equally in the mitochondria and cytosol, whereas Hg(2+) inhibited primarily the activity of TrxR2. The expression of TrxR2 was not upregulated by any treatment. These results show important differences between the mechanisms of toxicity of Hg(2+) and MeHg and stress the narrow range of selenite concentrations capable of antagonizing mercury toxicity. The results also highlight the relevance of the mitochondrial thioredoxin system (TrxR2 and Trx2) in the development of mercury toxicity.
The neurotoxicity of vincristine sulfate, a commonly used antineoplastic agent, has been well described. A literature review failed to reveal any absolute contraindications to the initial use of vincristine. We describe two patients with nodular sclerosing Hodgkin's disease in whom a rapidly progressive, but reversible, severe polyneuropathy developed when they were given a total of 4 mg of vincristine sulfate. Each was later shown to have the demyelinating form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome. This association suggests that the use of vincristine is contraindicated in patients with the demyelinating form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome.
Cardiotoxicity represents the major factor that limits the use of anthracyclines in long-term cancer chemotherapy, therefore, the early detection of cardiac dysfunction is very important. Currently, the left ventricular ejection fraction is routinely used to screen cardiotoxicity. The most common methods in use are represented by 2-dimensional (2D) echocardiography and radionuclide angiography. The aim of the present investigation was to compare the findings obtained in patients subjected to doxorubicin (DXR) chemotherapy, by 2D echocardiography with hemodynamic parameters, resulting from a new non-invasive method based on an inert gas rebreathing technique. The study was conducted in 35 adult female patients (mean age 48 years, range 30-67) submitted to chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer with DXR and paclitaxel. DXR was administered at a dose of 60 mg/m2 and paclitaxel at a dose of 200 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for a maximum of 8 cycles. Heart function evaluation was performed before initiating chemotherapy, after 3 cycles, 1 month after the completion of chemotherapy and when clinically requested. The mean cumulative dose of DXR, in patients who had received at least 4 or more cycles, was 320 mg/m2 of body surface area with a range of 240 to 480 mg/m2. The data obtained with 2D echocardiography (left ventricular end diastolic and systolic dimensions and ejection fraction) were compared with hemodynamic parameters obtained by the inert gas rebreathing technique (cardiac output, stroke volume, cardiac index and stroke index). Hemodynamic monitoring showed a progressive decrease of all parameters during DXR treatment, which became statistically significant at the end of the treatment. A significant reduction of ejection fraction due to an increase in the end systolic dimension of the left ventricle, without significant modification of the end diastolic dimensions, was observed. A good correlation was found between data obtained with the echocardiographic method and those obtained by the inert gas rebreathing technique. Two patients showed symptoms of congestive heart failure, the deterioration of cardiac function was simultaneously detected by both methods. These data confirm that cardiac function deterioration is detectable at a cumulative dose lower than 550 mg/m2 and that the inert gas rebreathing method for the determination of hemodynamic parameters could represent an alternative tool, in addition to conventional echocardiographic examination, in the evaluation of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.
The effect of a potent agonistic analog of LHRH, D-Trp6-LHRH, on hyperprolactinemia induced by sulpiride was studied in normal men. Six men received sulpiride (100 mg, twice daily, orally) for 44 days. D-Trp6-LHRH was given sc during the last 2 weeks of sulpiride administration; the dose was 500 micrograms on the first day and 100 micrograms daily for the subsequent 14 days. All men had high serum PRL levels before D-Trp6-LHRH administration (mean +/- SEM, 56 +/- 9 ng/mL), which decreased significantly after the first dose of the analog (45 +/- 5 ng/mL; P = 0.031) and also after 15 days of analog administration (41 +/- 6 ng/mL; P = 0.016). These data demonstrate that administration of LHRH agonist can inhibit the hyperprolactinemic effect of sulpiride, suggesting a direct action of the analog on the pituitary gland to modulate PRL secretion.
To grasp the clinical characteristics, treatment and prognosis of trichloroethylene medicamentose-like dermatitis, seven hospitalized cases were analyzed in detail. The disease has various manifestations, among them, those accompanied by hepatitis or renal diseases are crucial. Adequate dose of corticosteroid hormone in earlier period could effectively control the patient's condition. Besides paying close attention to changes of the patient's skin, we should also keep an eye for the changes of the liver and kidneys and their relevant indices, as different patients have different prognoses.
Epidemiological data suggest an association between exposures to bromodichloromethane (BDCM), a trihalomethane found in drinking water as a result of drinking water disinfection, and an increased risk of spontaneous abortion. We previously hypothesized that BDCM targets the placenta and showed that the secretion of chorionic gonadotrophin (CG) was reduced in primary cultures of human term syncytiotrophoblasts exposed to BDCM. In the present study we extend this observation by evaluating the effects of BDCM on the morphological differentiation of mononucleated cytotrophoblast cells to multinucleated syncytiotrophoblast-like colonies. Addition of BDCM to cytotrophoblast cultures inhibited the subsequent formation of multinucleated colonies in a dose-dependent manner, as determined by immunocytochemical staining for desmosomes and nuclei. The effect was seen at BDCM concentrations between 0.02 and 2 mM and was confirmed by quantitative image analysis. Secretion of bioactive and immunoreactive chorionic gonadotropin was also significantly inhibited in a dose-dependent manner under these culture conditions, and cellular levels of CG were also reduced. Trophoblast viability was not compromised by exposure to BDCM. We conclude that BDCM disrupts syncytiotrophoblast formation and inhibits CG secretion in vitro. Although other tissue targets are not ruled out, these data substantiate the idea that BDCM targets the placenta and could have implications for understanding the adverse pregnancy outcomes associated with BDCM exposure in humans.
We conducted a cross-sectional study to compare the prevalence and severity of obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCSs) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in patients with schizophrenia treated with clozapine or haloperidol. Structured Clinical Interview for Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, Axis I disorders-patient edition was used to diagnose schizophrenia and OCD. Sixty subjects, 40 of them using clozapine and 20 using haloperidol, completed the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale, the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), and the Clinical Global Impression. The prevalence of OCD in patients taking clozapine was 20%, whereas the prevalence of patients taking haloperidol was 10%, although this difference was not statistically significant (P = .540). However, patients using clozapine showed higher severity of OCSs than patients using haloperidol (P = .027) did. When schizophrenia patients were divided according to the presence or absence of OCD or OCSs, patients with schizophrenia and OCD or OCSs showed higher severity of schizophrenia symptoms when compared to those with schizophrenia without OCD and OCSs (P = .002). A PANSS total score higher than 70 and the use of antidepressants were predictors of the presence of OCSs or OCD. Schizophrenia patients taking clozapine had higher severity scores both in obsessive-compulsive and schizophrenia rating scales. These results may support an association between the exacerbation of obsessive-compulsive phenomena and the use of clozapine.
The aim of this study was to determine the levels of tissue and blood zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), magnesium (Mg) in nitric oxide (NO) synthase blockade-induced hypertension. A group of albino rats received a NO synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (L-NAME, 60 mg/kg/d) in their drinking water for 21 d. L-NAME intake caused a progressive rise in this group's resting mean arterial blood pressure compared to a control group (p < 0.01). There were no differences between the groups with regard to tissue and blood levels of Zn or Cu; however, Mg concentrations were significantly lower in the hypertensive rats' erythrocytes (20.2% reduction from control levels), cerebral cortex (17.0%), heart (9.1%), renal cortex (12%), renal medulla (16.7%), and in the tissues of the caval vein (23.7%), mesenteric artery (29.8%), renal artery (18.4%), and renal vein (22.1%). There were no significant Mg concentration changes in the hypertensive group's plasma, cerebellum, liver, duodenum, or aortal tissue. These findings suggest that Mg depletion may play a role in the blood pressure rise that occurs in the model of chronic NO synthase inhibition-induced hypertension.
In this study we compare distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs), transient evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAEs) and ABR threshold shifts in an animal model (chinchilla) of cochlear hearing loss. Subjects were treated with an aminoglycoside (amikacin) to produce basal cochlear lesions of various degree. DPOAE and TEOAE were measured throughout the treatment period and until hearing thresholds stabilized. ABR thresholds to tone pip stimuli were determined. Cytocochleograms of cochleas were prepared using scanning microscopy. DPOAEs (2f1-f2) were compared to fast Fourier transform (FFT)-analyzed TEOAEs components in the 1-, 2-, and 4-kHz frequency regions. Both types of emission were compared with corresponding ABR thresholds. There was no significant linear correlation between these different measures of cochlear function. Moreover, the amplitudes of DPOAEs reflected smaller regions of cochlear outer hair cell (OHC) damage better than TEOAEs. These results suggest that DPOAEs can be used to more accurately monitor hair cell function at specific hearing locations than TEOAEs.
We describe the first reported case of generalized tonic-clonic seizures induced by meperidine premedication for a colonoscopy procedure in a 63-year-old woman with Alzheimer's disease. The active metabolite of meperidine, normeperidine, is postulated to be the precipitating cause of the seizures, although a cholinesterase inhibitor and an N-methyl-D: -aspartate receptor antagonist, both routinely used for treatment of Alzheimer's disease, may have contributed by reducing the seizure threshold. The neuronal changes which occur in Alzheimer's disease can themselves also predispose to seizures. We recommend avoidance of meperidine for all flexible endoscopic procedures on patients with Alzheimer's disease and in any patient with a condition that predisposes to seizures, and suggest the use of alternative opioids.
Recent clinical studies have indicated that intra-tumoral gene expression levels of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) metabolism-related enzymes may predict the clinical response of several cancers to 5-FU-based chemotherapy. However, few studies examining oral squamous cell carcinomas (OSCCs) have been reported. In this study, we determined the expression levels of 5-FU metabolism-related enzymes like thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), thymidine phosphorylate (TP) and orotate phosphoribosyl transferase (OPRT) using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) combined with laser capture microdissection (LCM). We also evaluated the correlation between the mRNA expressions of these genes and clinico-pathological factors or the treatment effects of 5-FU-based chemotherapy combined with radiotherapy in 27 patients with OSCC. No significant correlation was observed between the mRNA expression levels of any of the examined genes and the T-stage, N-stage, differentiation grade or mode of tumor invasion. Although TS and OPRT mRNA were not correlated with the histopathological effects and the development of tumor recurrence, DPD and TP mRNA were significantly correlated with the histopathological effects and tumor recurrence. A significant positive correlation was also observed between the expression of TS and DPD mRNA, but no other correlations were observed among the other genes. Our results suggest that the combined evaluation of TP and DPD mRNA expression in tumor cells using LCM and RT-PCR may be a useful predictor of the efficacy of 5-FU-based chemotherapy combined with radiotherapy in patients with OSCC.
Blood loss and replacement in 57 consecutive otherwise healthy young patients undergoing radical thoraco-abdominal dissection of retroperitoneal lymph nodes is reviewed. Twenty-five patients received nitroprusside (hypotensive group); 32 patients (normotensive group) did not. Blood loss varied significantly between the hypotensive and normotensive groups: the mean loss (+/- SEM) was 920 +/- 72 ml for the hypotensive group compared with 1341 +/- 98 ml for the normotensive group (P < 0.001). The total blood requirement for the normotensive patients was three times that of the hypotensive group. The difference between the two groups was more apparent in patients with advanced disease.
This case report details the onset of masseter muscle rigidity, elevated creatine kinase levels, and rhabdomyolysis following a sevoflurane mask induction and succinylcholine administration in a 12-year-old boy. The patient had no family or personal history of neuromuscular disease or malignant hyperthermia. Hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, and rhabdomyolysis occurred within 75 minutes of masseter muscle rigidity. Subsequent to this event, it was recommended that the patient undergo a workup for neuromuscular disease and malignant hyperthermia with muscle biopsy. Until this workup is completed, the family should advise anesthesia providers that the patient is "malignant hyperthermia susceptible." Masseter muscle rigidity, elevated creatine kinase levels, and rhabdomyolysis will be thoroughly discussed in this article.
Thalidomide (Thal) has antiangiogenic and immunomodulatory activity. Clinical research provided clear evidence that Thal is one of the most active drugs for the treatment of multiple myeloma leading to decrease of monoclonal protein of at least 50 % in 30 % of patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. Randomized trials based on a large body of evidence from phase II trials determined that Thal significantly increases total response rate in combination regimens (dexamethasone [Dex] and or chemotherapy) for relapsed as well as newly diagnosed patients. Thal also decreases time to response in combination therapy approaches. Thal has therefore been recognized by leading organizations as part of the treatment concept for patients with relapsed or refractory disease. Strict guidelines apply for the treatment and monitoring of Thal therapy to prevent the teratogenic effects of Thal and to monitor and prevent other potential adverse events as neuropathy and thrombosis. Additional randomized studies will now define the status of Thal for newly diagnosed patients and will be the basis for the approval in Europe and other countries world wide.
Sixty-three newly admitted schizophrenic patients were given a test dose of thiothixene and their subjective response was recorded by a technician blind to clinical ratings. All patients were then treated wih thiothixene in an active milieu setting. Patients varied widely in their subjective responses. An initial dysphoric response was a powerful predictor of both immediate and eventual drug refusal. Before treatment, dysphoric responders tended to be less symptomatic and did significantly better on the Continuous Performance Test. Dysphoric responders experienced significantly more extrapyramidal symptoms following the test dose. Some dysphoric responders did have a good outcome when treated with very low doses. We recommend that patients with a history of dysphoric response be given a very low dose initially.
N,N-diethyl-2-[4-(phenylmethyl)phenoxyl]ethanamine (tesmilifene), a tamoxifen derivative with antihistamine activity, greatly enhanced the survival of doxorubicin-treated, advanced stage breast cancer patients in a phase III trial. However, the molecular basis of tesmilifene action is not firmly established. The effects of tesmilifene on activity of several anticancer drugs was investigated using human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) and breast carcinoma cell lines as a model system. Multidrug resistant (MDR) variants of an HNSCC cell line, HN-5a/V15e, and a breast carcinoma cell line, MCF-7/V25a, both highly overexpressed mdr1 (ABCB1) mRNA and the proteins P-glycoprotein and glutathione transferase-pi. Drug sensitivities were measured by a vital stain after 4 days of continuous exposure to anticancer drug in the absence and presence of tesmilifene at a concentration that alone had no antiproliferative effect. Tesmilifene had minimal effect on drug cytotoxicity against the parental cell lines. However, the same tesmilifene treatment enhanced cytotoxicity of docetaxel, paclitaxel, epirubicin, doxorubicin, and vinorelbine against both MDR cell lines by up to 50%. Flow cytometric measurement of annexin V/propidium iodide staining demonstrated that tesmilifene increased the killing of HN-5a/V15e cells caused by docetaxel after 24 and 48h exposure. Tesmilifene increased accumulation of radiolabelled vincristine in HN-5a/V15e cells, over 4h, by up to 100%. The results suggest that tesmilifene might be effective in the treatment of tumors that are resistant to natural product drugs. The mechanism of enhancement appears to be related to expression of an ABC pump-dependent, MDR phenotype.
Nephrotic syndrome (NS) secondary to drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) is well described in adult but is very rare in children. We report an unusual case of AIN mimicking prototypical childhood minimal change NS. A 2-year-old girl on long-standing amoxicillin therapy for vesicoureteral reflux presented with the acute onset of generalized edema, proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia, hypercholesterolemia, and an inactive urinary sediment. She was placed on empiric steroid therapy for presumed minimal change NS. When she did not respond to steroids, a renal biopsy was performed and revealed AIN. Her NS resolved completely with cessation of her amoxicillin therapy and concomitant tapering of her steroids. This patient demonstrates that the association of AIN with NS should be carefully considered in children on antimicrobials who develop NS, even in the absence of the classic clinical features of AIN. In addition to the usual work-up and care of a child with NS, in these patients consideration may also need to be given to withdrawal of the potential precipitating agent.
The present study assessed the role of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in the production of an extrapyramidal syndrome (EPS) in Cebus apella monkeys. Previous studies have shown the development of EPS in both old and new world monkeys with haloperidol administration. We now report that repeated weekly administration of a selective D1 antagonist, SCH 23390, does not produce this syndrome in cebus monkeys. Cebus monkeys were treated with either vehicle (n = 6), the specific D2 antagonist haloperidol (0.3 mg/kg p.o., n = 9) or the specific D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (10.0 mg/kg p.o., n = 9) once a week for approximately 1 year and behavioral effects were observed and scored. The drug doses used in this study produced similar sedative scores when given acutely and sedation increased over the first 12 weeks of the study for both treatment groups. However, by the 12th week of dosing with haloperidol all the monkeys showed a profound EPS characterized by limb extensions, head pushing, tongue protrusions and sometimes severe biting movements. In contrast, none of the SCH 23390-treated monkeys showed any abnormal movements, suggesting D1 antagonists have a low EPS side-effect liability. The profile of the incidence of EPS seen with classical neuroleptic drugs in cebus monkeys and their blockade of EPS by anticholinergic drugs mimics the profile seen in humans. The models presented appear to be predictive of the production of the EPS in humans and could be used to screen neuroleptics for EPS liability. Furthermore, the EPS is probably due to the selective blockade of dopamine D2 receptors with its associated enhancement of cholinergic neurotransmission.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The acute renal effects of chemotherapy are known, but long-term nephrotoxicity has rarely been investigated. The aim of the present study was to assess long-term renal function in children and adolescents who received at-risk chemotherapy, including cisplatin, ifosfamide, and methotrexate, to treat an osteosarcoma. Renal function tests [creatinine clearance, microalbuminuria, and renal excretion of sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium, magnesium (Mg), phosphorus (P), and uric acid] were prospectively performed 5.4+/-2.2 (+/-SD) years after chemotherapy (total cumulative dose: methotrexate 41+/-31 g/m2, ifosfamide 39+/-14 g/m2, cisplatin 674+/-188 mg/m2) in 18 children and adolescents. The results were compared with 13 normal volunteers matched for age and sex. Creatinine clearance, which was greater than 80 ml/min per 1.73 m2 in all patients, correlated with the total dose of ifosfamide (r=0.55, P<0.05) and cisplatin (r=0.48, P<0.05). Microalbuminuria was noted in 4 patients. Hypomagnesemia was present in 4 and hypercalciuria in 3 patients; renal excretion of P, Mg, and uric acid was higher in patients than in controls. Glomerular function was not significantly altered and only mild tubular dysfunction was present. Since renal excretion of P and Mg were increased in patients compared with normal volunteers and hypercalciuria was occasionally seen, divalent ion disorders are the most-likely potential complications.
A 58-year-old patient suffered from rapidly progressing renal insufficiency and 11 kg weight-loss three months after adjuvant treatment of a carcinoma of the lower bowel (G 2 T 3 N 1 M 0 ) with mitomycine C. At the point of hospitalisation the patient was anuric while suffering from pulmonary oedema, hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia.
Computed tomography and bronchial endoscopy showed pulmonary haemorrhage. Recurrence of carcinoma or metastases were excluded. Renal biopsy revealed mesangiolysis and concentric intimaproliferation (onion skinning). Beside haemolytic anaemia and fragmentocytes toxic damage of the bone marrow was found.
After one week treatment in the intensive care unit because of respiratory insufficiency recovery was observed under plasma separation and high dose corticosteroid therapy. Disease activity involved renal failure, bone marrow insufficiency, microangiopathic anaemia thrombopenia and pulmonary haemorrhage.
Lung involvement in the course of haemolytic uremic syndrome is rare and carries a high lethality. The case illustrates the need of detailed diagnostic for correct treatment of haemolytic uremic syndrome. If chemotherapy is required in patients with pre-existing or intercurrent renal failure dose adaptation is necessary to avoid dose-dependent toxicity of mitomycine C.
Well-differentiated endometrial adenocarcinoma of the secretory type (FIGO Grade 1) with minimal myometrial invasion occurred in a postmenopausal patient on tamoxifen therapy 5 years after mastectomy for breast carcinoma. We believe that this is the first report of secretory carcinoma of the endometrium associated with tamoxifen use. This unusual pattern of low-grade endometrial carcinoma adds to the spectrum of uterine neoplasia associated with tamoxifen therapy.
