To delineate clinical characteristics useful for identifying children with liver failure due to accidental paracetamol overdose.
Retrospective review of medical records of all patients admitted from 1985 to 1998 with fulminant hepatic failure.
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children, a tertiary referral centre for paediatric liver transplantation.
Contribution of paracetamol to liver failure; other risk factors for liver failure; comparison of clinical features of paracetamol group and others.
18 patients were identified. Eight were considered to have accidental paracetamol hepatotoxicity. In a further three, other risk factors were present but paracetamol was considered a major contributor to liver failure. The seven remaining patients had other risk factors for liver failure. Patients with paracetamol-induced liver failure usually had an acute prodromal illness with prolonged fasting and, at presentation, had encephalopathy, coagulopathy, very high transaminase levels, but disproportionately low total bilirubin levels. Five patients had hypoglycaemia. End-stage liver failure occurred in 4/11 of the paracetamol group compared with 7/7 of the others.
Accidental paracetamol overdose is associated with fulminant hepatic failure in infants and children. Patients present with high transaminase levels and liver synthetic failure out of proportion to the level of serum bilirubin. Prompt identification of such patients is important as many recover with supportive therapy.
Prognostication of breast cancer using clinico-pathologic variables, although useful, remains imperfect. Recent research has focused on finding new markers of prognosis using gene expression profiling. Panels of proteins assessed by immunohistochemistry might also be useful in this regard. This study focused on Bcl-2 protein expression in triple-negative (TNBC) and non- triple-negative breast cancer (non-TNBC) with correlation to clinico-pathologic variables.
We analyzed Bcl-2 expression in 77 women with primary breast carcinoma divided into two groups; triple-negative and non- triple-negative according to expression of estrogen (ER), progesterone (PR) and human epidermal growth factor receptors (Her2/neu). Bcl-2 expression was assessed in relation to age, histo-pathological subtype, grade, nodal status and tumor size.
Bcl-2 was expressed in 74% of triple-negative breast cancers and 70% of non- triple-negative cancers. In TNBC, expression was significantly correlated with invasive ductal subtype, while in non-TNBC it was significantly correlated with age and negative nodal status. In both groups higher Bcl-2 expression associated with favourable prognostic factors in breast cancer, but no significant statistical correlations were found.
Frequency of Bcl-2 expression does not differ between TNBC and non-TNBC, but different prognostic factors correlate with Bcl-2 in the two cases.
Oxymetazoline is a sympathomimetic amine found in over-the-counter nasal decongestants. We report a case of chronic use of nasal oxymetazoline associated with thunderclap headache due to reversible segmental intracranial vasoconstriction.
Alpha-, beta-, and gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (alpha-, beta-, gamma-HCH) isomers are widespread environmental pollutants; alpha-HCH can cause liver tumors in rats and mice. In the present study we have checked first the tumor-initiating activity of HCH using the appearance of phenotypically altered foci in female rat liver as an end point. Foci were identified by means of the gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) reaction and by morphological alterations. No evidence of initiating activity was found. Secondly, we have attempted to determine quantitatively the ability of HCH isomers to promote tumor development. For this purpose growth and phenotypic changes of foci were used as an end point. Rats received a single dose of N-nitrosomorpholine. Then five different doses of each HCH isomer or phenobarbital (PB) (as a positive control) were administered continuously via the diet for 4, 15, and 20 weeks. Both number and size of altered foci were enhanced by doses of 2 to 3 mg/kg or more of the three isomers; in addition, foci phenotypes showed a pronounced shift towards strong expression of GGT and sharp demarcation from the surrounding liver. Based on daily doses the three HCH isomers were approximately equipotent; based on concentrations in liver or adipose tissue, gamma-HCH was severalfold more effective than alpha- and beta-HCH. Thirdly, size and DNA and monooxygenase activities of the liver were determined. All three parameters were enhanced by HCH isomers and PB. However, no strict correlations were found. Rather, at the highest doses tested PB was the most effective inducer of monooxygenases, alpha-HCH was the most potent inducer of liver growth, and all three HCHs were more potent than PB as inducers of focal expansion. Thus, induction of liver growth appears to be associated with foci expansion (tumor promotion); however, neither liver growth nor monooxygenase induction can be used for quantitative predictions of foci expansion by chemical compounds. Finally, no-observed-effect levels were estimated for the parameters studied and are discussed in relation to human exposure.
To verify the hypothesis that impaired autoregulation may contribute to cerebral swelling or hemorrhage after a sudden recovery of perfusion pressure, we studied the chronic effects of cerebral hypoperfusion on the autoregulatory responses of the pial arterioles in situ.
Eight to 12 weeks after a carotid-jugular fistula was created in rats, experiments were performed under alpha-chloralose and urethane anesthesia. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was determined by the hydrogen clearance method, and carotid pressure was measured. Using a closed cranial window, we determined the autoregulatory responses of the arterioles (30 to 50 microns) to both hypertension induced by norepinephrine and sudden fistula closure at various mean arterial pressures (MAPs).
rCBF on the fistula side was reduced by 27%. Carotid pressure was significantly lower than normal but was immediately increased by fistula closure. The pial arterioles showed marked elongation and enlargement. During induced hypertension, the arterioles in the fistula group started to dilate at an MAP lower than that of the control group (130 versus 180 mm Hg, respectively). The arterioles constricted when the fistula was occluded at normal MAP. However, when the fistula was occluded at an MAP higher than 130 mm Hg, the vessels dilated.
It was demonstrated that (1) chronic hypoperfusion induced impairment of the upper limit of autoregulation and (2) sudden fistula closure under hypertensive conditions caused vasodilation of the arterioles. These findings suggest that rapid restoration of perfusion pressure is possibly followed by a pressure breakthrough phenomenon in a chronically hypoperfused cerebrovasculature.
Neurosurgery is regarded as the first-line treatment of acromegaly. Because of its low cure rate in macro and invasive adenoma, the role of primary medical treatment is debated.
Our objective was to evaluate primary pharmacological treatment in acromegaly.
We conducted an open prospective study at two Italian tertiary level centers.
We studied 67 consecutive patients (36 women; age, 54.9 +/- 14.2 yr; 72% bearing macroadenoma).
Individually tailored octreotide LAR (OCLAR) was administered.
Outcomes included safe GH (<2.5 mug/liter), normal age-matched IGF-I levels, and tumor shrinkage.
After a median follow-up of 48 months (range, 6-108 months), safe GH levels and normal age-matched IGF-I values were obtained by 68.7 and 70.1% of patients, respectively. Hormonal endpoints were achieved regardless of basal levels, and early results were predictive of outcome. Tumor shrank in 82.1% of patients by 62 +/- 31% (range, 0-100%), decreasing from 2101 +/- 2912 to 1010 +/- 2196 mm(3) (P < 0.0001). The higher the basal GH values and the greater the GH/IGF-I changes on treatment, the greater the tumor shrinkage. Tumor disappeared in three patients and was progressively reduced to empty sella in five patients; apparent magnetic resonance imaging cavernous sinus invasion disappeared in three. In males, testosterone increased, restoring eugonadism in 64% of hypogonadal patients.
The efficacy on GH/IGF-I levels in unselected patients and the outstanding volumetric control indicate that treatment with OCLAR may be the first therapeutic approach to all acromegalic patients not amenable to surgical cure. Tumor shrinkage might also encourage the evaluation of primary OCLAR adoption in patients with initial visual field defects.
Male mice of the DBA/2J strain were injected with procarbazine at a dose of 200 mg/kg body weight twice weekly until an accumulated dose of 2400 mg/kg was reached. A concurrent control group, injected only with the vehicle (saline) was also established. Most of the treated animals died as a result of exposure and all survivors became temporarily sterile. After regaining fertility the few survivors were repeatedly mated with C57BL/6J females over several weeks time to generate a population of F1 animals. The parental animals and the F1 were subsequently analyzed by electrophoresis for the occurrence of newly arisen mutations of spermatogonial origin. A mutation in the gene Pep-3 was found.
Mice were trained to run through a maze with six gates, each consisting of three doors--two locked and one unlocked. They learned to choose a correct (unlocked) door at the gates close to the beginning and end better than in the middle, showing the primacy and recency effects of serial learning. A low dose of scopolamine unexpectedly enhanced the primacy effect, while a high dose impaired learning in general. The enhancement of the primacy effect can be explained in terms of reduction of retroactive interference.
The frequency of muscle pain following the use of suxamethonium was compared in pre- and post-ovulatory women and in those taking a combined oral contraceptive pill. There were no statistically significant differences between the groups. It is suggested that serum concentrations of progestogen were too low to produce the protection against suxamethonium pains reported in late pregnancy.
98 healthy women aged 16-40 undergoing minor surgery warranting tracheal intubation were included in a study to determine whether small fluctuations in serum progestogen concentration which occur during the normal menstrual cycle, or the concentrations achieved during use of a combined oral contraceptive (OC) pill, affected the frequency of muscle pain in young women following the use of suxamethonium. The women had regular menstrual cycles and were free of systemic illness or past history of any illness or drug use affecting hormonal status and were not breastfeeding or pregnant within 3 months. Women not taking the pill were classified as pre- or postovulatory according to their menstrual history, while those taking OCs were divided into 2 groups according to the progesterone activity of the preparation. A standard anesthetic technique was used. Premedication was with pethidine and atropine, anesthesia was induced with thiopentone, and immediately after loss of the lash reflex, suxamethonium was given. Anesthesia was maintained with halothane and nitrous oxide in 30% oxygen. All patients commenced mobilization on the day of surgery. Patients were interviewed the next day about their experience of muscle pain. The patients in each group were well matched regarding their physical characteristics and the surgery performed. The overall frequency of pain attributable to suxamethonium was 61%. The frequency of muscle pain and pain scores in the pre- and postovulatory women were almost identical. There were no statistically significant differences between the other groups. Serum concentrations of progestogen were probably too low to produce the protection against suxamethonium pain reported in late pregnancy.
Smooth muscle cells (SMC) make up most of the vascular system. In advanced atherosclerotic plaques, dying SMCs undergo a complex death mode. In the present study, we examined the activation of autophagy in SMCs overloaded with excess free cholesterol (FC) and investigated the possible role which autophagy plays during the FC-induced cell death. After incubation with excess FC, a robust expression of autophagic vacuoles (AV) was detected using both fluorescence microscopy and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The results revealed that FC induced a time-dependent upregulation of microtubule-associated protein-1 light chain 3-II (LC3-II). Inhibition of autophagy by 3-methyladenine (3-MA) enhanced both cell apoptosis and necrosis, while on the contrary, rapamycin inhibited cell death following cholesterol application. Furthermore, the impact of the colocalization of fragmented mitochondria with AVs was observed after cholesterol treatment. Our results also revealed that the modulation of autophagy directly influenced the cellular organellar stress. In conclusion, our findings demonstrated that excess FC induced the activation of autophagy in SMCs as a cellular defense mechanism, possibly through the degradation of dysfunctional organelles such as mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum.
The liver tumor promoters, phenobarbital (20-500 micrograms/ml), lindane (1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane, gamma-isomer; 0.1-5.0 micrograms/ml), and DDT (1,1-bis[4-chlorophenyl]-2,2,2-trichloroethane; 0.5-10.0 micrograms/ml), and the hydrogen peroxide-generating enzyme, glucose oxidase (0.01-0.10 units/ml) inhibited gap junctional intercellular communication between B6C3F1 mouse hepatocytes in primary culture. Addition of the antioxidants, superoxide dismutase (100 units/ml), DPPD (N,N'-diphenyl-1,4-phenylenediamine; 25 microM), and vitamin E (DL-alpha-tocopherol acetate; 100 microM), to tumor promoter-treated cultures prevented the inhibition of hepatocyte intercellular communication. DPPD and vitamin E, prevented the inhibition of hepatocyte intercellular communication by glucose oxidase. Superoxide dismutase had no effect on the inhibition of intercellular communication caused by glucose oxidase. These results suggest that activated oxygen species are produced during liver tumor promoter treatment of cultured mouse hepatocytes and are responsible for the inhibition of mouse hepatocyte intercellular communication by the promoters.
Nucleoside/nucleotide analogues are a fundamental tool for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV). Sequential anti-HBV treatment might lead to the selection of mutations.
This report aimed to analyze the genetic evolution of the reverse-transcriptase (RT) gene of viral quasispecies in a patient with hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive chronic HBV who received, sequentially, lamivudine (LAM), adefovir dipivoxil (ADV), and ADV + telbivudine (LDT) combination treatment over a total of 108 weeks.
A 20-year-old Chinese man presented to Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China, with hepatitis B surface antigen-positive and HBeAg-positive chronic HBV and was sequentially treated with LAM 100 mg/d for 18weeks,ADV 10mg/d for 68weeks, and ADV 10mg/d + LDT 600 mg/d combination treatment for 22 weeks. Compliance was monitored every 4 weeks using a pill count. For genotypic analysis, the RT region of the polymerase gene from the serum of this patient was amplified, cloned, and sequenced. Fifty clones with HBV insert were selected for sequencing at weeks 0 (baseline), 18, 22, 60, 70, 86, and 108.
The rtM204V/L LAM-resistance mutation was detected in 4.4% (2/45) of clones prior to LAM treatment. At week 18 during LAM treatment, the rtM204I mutation became predominant, being present in 79.5% (35/44) of clones. The rtM204I mutation was associated with compensatory mutations (rtL180M and rtT184L). A total of 9.1% (4/44) of the clones harbored the rtL180M + rtT184L + rtM204I mutations. Two new mutations, rtL229V and rtV191I, were detected in 75.0% (33/44) and 11.4% (5/44) of clones, respectively. At week 22 during ADV treatment, LAM-resistance mutations (rtL180M, rtT184L, rtM204I, rtV191I, and rtL229V) were not detected. At week 86 during ADV therapy, the rtN236T ADV-resistance mutation was detected in 58.8% (20/34) of clones. A total of 20.6% (7/34) of the clones harbored the rtK212T + rtM250L mutation, and rtA181V was found in 2.9% (1/34) of the clones. At week 108, after the patient had been receiving ADV + LDT combination therapy for 22 weeks, rtS202G and rtI269T had emerged, representing 28.9% (13/45) and 8.9% (4/45), respectively, of the viral population during ADV + LDT combination treatment. We also detected several polymorphic sites,including rtF221Y, rtS223A, rtI224V, rtN238H, rtL267Q, and rtQ271M, during the sequential treatment. After 22 weeks of combination treatment, HBV DNA count was decreased to less than the lower limit of quantitation (<200 copies/mL).
This report identified HBV mutations that escaped the antiviral pressure of LAM, ADV, and ADV + LDT in this patient and provided insight into the process of mutation selection through genotypic analysis during antiviral treatment. Mutations selected under sequential treatments of LAM, ADV, and ADV + LDT can lead to a series of compensatory mutations, which partially restore the level of viral replication. ADV administered in combination with LDT appeared to be effective in this selected case with clinical or virologic resistance to sequential treatment with LAM and ADV.
To report 11 cases of adverse systemic reactions to topical ocular application of phenylephrine 10% in pledget form and to discourage this method of treatment for hemostasis in laser assisted in-situ keratomileusis (LASIK) surgery and other ophthalmic uses.
Observational case series.
The literature, reports provided to the spontaneous reporting system of the United States Food and Drug Administration and the National Registry of Drug-Induced Ocular Side Effects (Casey Eye Institute, Portland, Oregon) were reviewed. Age, sex, duration of therapy, other drugs the patient was taking, and systemic reactions are provided in the series of 11 cases with adverse systemic reactions.
Eleven cases of adverse systemic reactions to topical ocular phenylephrine 10% applied in pledget form occurred in 8 male and 3 female patients with an age range from 1 to 76 years. All cases occurred after a single exposure, most patients noted systemic effects within minutes of phenylephrine application, and the adverse systemic reactions included severe hypertension, pulmonary edema, cardiac arrhythmia, cardiac arrest, and subarachnoid hemorrhage.
We recommend ophthalmologists not use this method of phenylephrine application and believe it is contraindicated in ophthalmic surgery, especially when other medications may be used.
The haemodynamic effects of a new anti-anginal drug, dilitazem HCl, were studied in 20 patients with angina pectoris. The 131I-dilution method was used. In two patients, one with atrial septal defect and the other with pulmonic regurgitation, heart catheterization was carried out. The drug exerted significant decrease in stroke volume, cardiac output, cardiac work, stroke work and cardiac output/circulating blood volume ratio. The patients who underwent direct cardiac catheterization disclosed no changes in Vmax and ejection fraction, but there were decreases in stroke volume. The decrease in cardiac work and stroke work after after diltiazem Hcl therapy was apparently due to diminution of venous return and prolongation of systemic circulation time. It is postulated that such a decrease leads to inhibition of myocardial oxygen consumption, which in turn has beneficial effects on angina pectoris.
Ranitidine may cause liver injuries ranging from transient, subclinical serum transaminases increase every 100-1,000 treated patients to cholestatic hepatitis in less than 1/100,000. Other H2-receptor antagonists are more dangerous: 11 toxic hepatitis cases have been reported as adverse effect after 1 year of marketed ebrotidine. A 75-year-old male with ischemic cardiopathy history was started on an 8 days treatment of oral ranitidine due to pirosis, without any other changes of therapy; 48 h after drug withdrawal, light-coloured stools, dark urine and icteric scleras developed. On hospital admission, 10 days later, physical examination showed slight hepatomegaly and severe jaundice with skin excoriations followed by serum mixed bilirubin further increase and aminotransferases activities mild rise. Total bilirubin peaked at 381.33 mmol/l (5.1-17.1) and progressively returned to normal, after discharge home, in 3 months and now, 1 year later, there is no sign of liver disease. Ultrasonographic biliary anomalies and the most frequent causes of liver damage were excluded. Liver biopsy confirmed ranitidine as the most likely cause of liver toxicity since histological and ultramicroscopical study revealed a drug-induced picture. We report a rare case of intrahepatic cholestasis jaundice related to ranitidine, a widely used drug. Diagnosis would need an ethically unacceptable rechallange test.
We have established immortalized human hepatocytes by transduction of HPV16 E6/E7 and hTERT (HHE6E7T-1). The cells retained the characteristics of differentiated hepatocytes, but the functional characteristics such as albumin secretion, ureogenesis, and glyconeogenesis decreased gradually as the passages progressed beyond 200 population doublings (PDs). In this report, we transplanted minimally differentiated HHE6E7T-1 cells into the spleens of acute liver failure severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice to examine the potential of the cells to redifferentiate in vivo.
Acute liver failure was induced in SCID mice by intraperitoneal injection of 400 mg/kg acetaminophen. Two hours later, HHE6E7T-1 cells at 200 PDs were transplanted: group 1 (n = 10) 50 microL phosphate-buffered saline (PBS); group 2 (n = 9), lysate of 1 x 10(6) HHE6E7T-1 cells at 200 PDs resuspended in 50 microL PBS; and group 3 (n = 8), 1 x 10(6) HHE6E7T-1 cells. Survival rates at 7 days after transplantation were compared. Blood glucose levels, plasma ammonia levels, and spleen histology were examined at 24 hours after transplantation.
Survivals in each group were: 30% for group 1, 33% for group 2, and 100% for group 3. The survival of group 3 was significantly higher than groups 1 or 2 (P < .01). Plasma ammonia levels in group 3 (200 +/- 34 microg/dL) were significantly lower than those in group 1 (325 +/- 92 microg/dL; P < .05). Blood glucose levels in group 3 (110 +/- 20 mg/dL) were significantly higher than those in group 1 (83 +/- 14 mg/dL; P < .05). Upon histologic examination of spleen, the clusters of HHE6E7T-1 cells were clearly identified.
The immortalized human hepatocytes, HHE6E7T-1 at 200 PDs, improved the survival of acute liver failure mice through possible redifferentiation in vivo.
DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) is crucial for maintenance of methylation, gene regulation and chromatin stability. DNA mismatch repair, cell cycle regulation in post-mitotic neurons and neurogenesis are influenced by DNA methylation. Here we show that mutations in DNMT1 cause both central and peripheral neurodegeneration in one form of hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy with dementia and hearing loss. Exome sequencing led to the identification of DNMT1 mutation c.1484A>G (p.Tyr495Cys) in two American kindreds and one Japanese kindred and a triple nucleotide change, c.1470-1472TCC>ATA (p.Asp490Glu-Pro491Tyr), in one European kindred. All mutations are within the targeting-sequence domain of DNMT1. These mutations cause premature degradation of mutant proteins, reduced methyltransferase activity and impaired heterochromatin binding during the G2 cell cycle phase leading to global hypomethylation and site-specific hypermethylation. Our study shows that DNMT1 mutations cause the aberrant methylation implicated in complex pathogenesis. The discovered DNMT1 mutations provide a new framework for the study of neurodegenerative diseases.
We report a genome-wide association study for open-angle glaucoma (OAG) blindness using a discovery cohort of 590 individuals with severe visual field loss (cases) and 3,956 controls. We identified associated loci at TMCO1 (rs4656461[G] odds ratio (OR) = 1.68, P = 6.1 × 10(-10)) and CDKN2B-AS1 (rs4977756[A] OR = 1.50, P = 4.7 × 10(-9)). We replicated these associations in an independent cohort of cases with advanced OAG (rs4656461 P = 0.010; rs4977756 P = 0.042) and two additional cohorts of less severe OAG (rs4656461 combined discovery and replication P = 6.00 × 10(-14), OR = 1.51, 95% CI 1.35-1.68; rs4977756 combined P = 1.35 × 10(-14), OR = 1.39, 95% CI 1.28-1.51). We show retinal expression of genes at both loci in human ocular tissues. We also show that CDKN2A and CDKN2B are upregulated in the retina of a rat model of glaucoma.
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency (McKusick 274270) is a clinically heterogeneous autosomal recessive disorder of pyrimidine metabolism. DPD is the enzyme that catalyses the first and the rate-limiting step in the catabolism of uracil, thymine and the analogue 5-fluorouracil. To date, more than 30 patients have been diagnosed with a complete enzyme deficiency. Here, we describe the fifth case with a complete DPD deficiency presenting at birth with severe neurological abnormalities. The patient was homozygous for the common splice-site mutation IVS14+1G > A.
Angle-closure glaucoma (ACG) is a subset of glaucoma affecting 16 million people. Although 4 million people are bilaterally blind from ACG, the causative molecular mechanisms of ACG remain to be defined. High intraocular pressure induces glaucoma in ACG. High intraocular pressure traditionally was suggested to result from the iris blocking or closing the angle of the eye, thereby limiting aqueous humor drainage. Eyes from individuals with ACG often have a modestly decreased axial length, shallow anterior chamber and relatively large lens, features that predispose to angle closure. Here we show that genetic alteration of a previously unidentified serine protease (PRSS56) alters axial length and causes a mouse phenotype resembling ACG. Mutations affecting this protease also cause a severe decrease of axial length in individuals with posterior microphthalmia. Together, these data suggest that alterations of this serine protease may contribute to a spectrum of human ocular conditions including reduced ocular size and ACG.
Eighteen patients with essential hypertension uncontrolled by hydrochlorothiazide alone were randomly assigned to receive additional therapy with either guanadrel sulfate or guanethidine sulfate. The frequencies of morning orthostatic faintness, other orthostatic faintness, and diarrhea were twice as high in eight patients treated with guanethidine as in ten patients treated with guanadrel in a six-month comparison. The two drugs reduced blood pressure about equally well. In light of the efficacy without severe side effects, guanadrel may be an agent for step II therapy of hypertension.
1. Propranolol, a beta-adrenoceptor blocking drug with local anaesthetic and a direct myocardial depressant action, and MJ 1999, a beta-adrenoceptor blocking drug which has no local anaesthetic or intrinsic sympathomimetic action, were compared for beta-adrenoceptor blocking activity in man.2. Propranolol was 2.67 times more active than MJ 1999 in reducing by 50% the tachycardia produced by the intravenous infusion of isoprenaline in healthy volunteers.3. Propranolol and MJ 1999 intravenously both reduced resting heart rate in the standing position and an exercise tachycardia, but there was no qualitative or quantitative difference between them.4. On oral administration, both propranolol and MJ 1999 reduced resting heart rate and an exercise induced tachycardia; propranolol was only slightly more active than MJ 1999.5. In patients with thyrotoxicosis propranolol was about twice as active as MJ 1999 in reducing the heart rate.
The HMG-box transcription factor Sox2 plays a role throughout neurogenesis and also acts at other stages of development, as illustrated by the multiple organs affected in the anophthalmia syndrome caused by SOX2 mutations. Here we combined proteomic and genomic approaches to characterize gene regulation by Sox2 in neural stem cells. Chd7, a chromatin remodeling ATPase associated with CHARGE syndrome, was identified as a Sox2 transcriptional cofactor. Sox2 and Chd7 physically interact, have overlapping genome-wide binding sites and regulate a set of common target genes including Jag1, Gli3 and Mycn, genes mutated in Alagille, Pallister-Hall and Feingold syndromes, which show malformations also associated with SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome or CHARGE syndrome. Regulation of disease-associated genes by a Sox2-Chd7 complex provides a plausible explanation for several malformations associated with SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome or CHARGE syndrome. Indeed, we found that Chd7-haploinsufficient embryos showed severely reduced expression of Jag1 in the developing inner ear.
80 patients with inoperable non-small cell bronchial carcinoma were treated, at an interval of 4 weeks between them, with ifosfamide (2 g/m2 on days 1-5) and cisplatin (75 mg/m2, day 1). All diagnoses had been confirmed histologically. The course of 72 patients (36 with squamous carcinoma, 25 with adenocarcinoma, two with alveolar-cell carcinoma and nine with large-cell carcinoma) could be evaluated. There were four complete and 21 partial remissions (response rate 35%). In a further 14 patients temporary arrest of tumor growth was registered. Median survival time of all patients was 8.3 months, for those with complete and partial remission 11.5 months. Patients in whom the tumor progressed lived on average 3.9 months. Age and general state of the patients, as well as histological tumor type, had no influence on the results of treatment. Patients in stage IV lived, at seven months, significantly less long than those with only loco-regional spread (11 months). Main side-effects were vomiting, bone-marrow depression and neuropathy. Urotoxicity was not significant, as a result of treatment with mesna. Remission rate and survival time of these patients corresponded with the results obtained with other cisplatin combinations.
This study demonstrates that the tachycardia produced by systemic injections of the beta-adrenoceptor agonist, isoproterenol (10 microg/kg, i.v.), in conscious rats were not reduced after injection of the selective beta(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist, atenolol (1 mg/kg, i.v.), or after subsequent injection of the beta(1,2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, propranolol (1 mg/kg, i.v.). The hypotensive responses produced by isoproterenol were slightly diminished by atenolol and markedly diminished by propranolol. The tachycardia produced by catecholamines released for cardiac sympathetic nerve terminals were blocked by atenolol. These results suggest that the hypotensive actions of a 10 microg/kg dose of isoproterenol are mediated by activation of beta(1,2)-adrenoceptors whereas the increases in heart rate may be due to activation of another type of beta-adrenoceptor in cardiac pacemaker cells.
