TAC has been shown to be a potent immunosuppressive agent for solid organ transplantation in pediatrics. Neurotoxicity is a potentially serious toxic effect. It is characterized by encephalopathy, headaches, seizures, or neurological deficits. Here, we describe an eight-and-a-half-yr-old male renal transplant recipient with right BN. MRI demonstrated hyperintense T2 signals in the cervical cord and right brachial plexus roots indicative of both myelitis and right brachial plexitis. Symptoms persisted for three months despite TAC dose reduction, administration of IVIG and four doses of methylprednisolone pulse therapy. Improvement and eventually full recovery only occurred after TAC was completely discontinued and successfully replaced by everolimus.
Blood dyscrasias developed after drug therapy in three dogs. Two died, one with pancytopenic marrow failure and the other with non-regenerative anaemia and thrombocytopenia. The third dog developed pancytopenia but recovered. An adverse reaction to phenylbutazone was suspected as the cause in each case, although two of the dogs had also received other drugs which sometimes cause blood dyscrasias in humans.
Orexin A/hypocretin-1 (oxA/hcrt-1) is known to be a modulator of dopamine-dependent neuronal activity and behaviors. However, the role of this system in driving motivated behaviors remains poorly understood. Here, we show that orexin/hypocretin receptor-1 (ox/hcrt-1R) signaling is important for motivation for highly salient, positive reinforcement. Blockade of ox/hcrt-1R selectively reduced work to self-administer cocaine or high fat food pellets. Moreover, oxA/hcrt-1 strengthened presynaptic glutamatergic inputs to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) only in cocaine or high fat self-administering rats. Finally, oxA/hcrt-1-mediated excitatory synaptic transmission onto VTA neurons was not potentiated following an arousing, aversive stimulus, suggesting that oxA/hcrt-1-mediated glutamatergic synaptic transmission was potentiated selectively with highly salient positive reinforcers. These experiments provide evidence for a selective role of oxA/hcrt-1 signaling in motivation for highly salient reinforcers and may represent a unique opportunity to design novel therapies that selectively reduce excessive drive to consume positive reinforcers of high salience.
Indinavir sulfate is a protease inhibitor used of the treatment of primary HIV infection either as monotherapy or as part of antiretroviral treatment schemes. Approximately 10% of all patients develop urolithiasis with radiolucent stones consisting of indinavir. We present our results of the treatment in 11 HIV positive patients (9 men, 2 women), who developed Indinavir lithiasis after 5-8 months of antiretroviral therapy. Following the initial procedures (spasmoanalgetic drugs, ureteroscopy, double J-stent or nephrostomy), the patients were further treated by increasing diuresis and urinary acidification. All the patients responded well to the treatment, the obstruction was releieved and their renal function was restored to normal.
We investigated whether the neuroprotective mechanism of progesterone involves modulation of the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We show that BDNF expression is upregulated following cerebral ischemia in mice and in C6 glioma cells exposed to cytokines, while reduced in cerebellar granule neurons exposed to the excitotoxin glutamate. Progesterone was without additional effect on BDNF in these paradigms. Progesterone also protected PC12 neurons deprived of trophic support, while it decreased cerebellar granule neuron viability. Both the effects of progesterone and the expression of BDNF can clearly vary following stroke-like injuries, however we found no evidence for a neuroprotective relationship between progesterone and BDNF.
This study was undertaken to determine the effect of lidocaine pretreatment on reduction of succinylcholine-induced myalgia in patients undergoing general anesthesia for gynecological surgery. One hundred and thirty-five patients were assigned to one of three groups in a prospective, double blind, randomized manner. Group PS, the control group, received normal saline and succinylcholine 1.5 mg x kg(-1); Group LS, lidocaine 1.5 mg x kg(-1) and succinylcholine 1.5 mg x kg(-1); Group PR, normal saline and rocuronium 0.6 mg x kg(-1). Morphine 0.1 mg x kg(-1) iv was given for premedication and all patients were monitored with a noninvasive blood pressure monitor, ECG and pulse oximetry. Anesthesia was induced with 5 mg.kg(-1) thiopental iv. followed by succinylcholine (Group PS, LS) or rocuronium (Group PR) for tracheal intubation. Following administration of these agents, the presence, and degree of fasciculation were assessed visually on a four point scale by one investigator who was blinded to the drug administered. The blood pressure and heart rate of each patient were monitored on nine occasions. Twenty-four hours later, any myalgia experienced was assessed according to a structured questionaire and graded by a four point scale by one investigator blinded to the intraoperative management. The results indicate that muscle fasciculation was not found in Group PR while the patients in Group LS had a lower incidence of muscle fasciculation than those in Group PS (p < 0.001). At 24 h, the incidence of myalgia was higher in Group PS than in Group LS and PR (p < 0.05). A correlation was not found between the incidence of myalgia and the occurrence of muscle fasciculation. The changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate were not significant among the three groups. In conclusion, where succinylcholine is used, lidocaine is proven to be the useful pretreatment agent for the reduction of postoperative myalgia.
There are few reports on the utility of ketamine for the prevention of postoperative shivering. We thus established the efficacy of two doses of ketamine compared with meperidine for the treatment of postoperative shivering.
This is a prospective, randomized double-blind study involving 90 ASA I-II patients after general anesthesia. Patients with shivering grade 3-4 were allocated to receive either meperidine 25 mg, ketamine 0.5 mg/kg, or ketamine 0.75 mg/kg IV. Shivering and side effects were monitored at set time intervals.
Shivering grades for the first 4 min after treatment were lower in the ketamine groups; however, nystagmus and feeling like "walking in space" was experienced with both doses of ketamine.
Ketamine 0.5-0.75 mg/kg is more rapid than meperidine (25 mg) for the reduction of postoperative shivering, but the side effect profile may limit its usefulness.
Antimalarial drugs are well known for their cardiovascular toxicity. Quinine, the most famous antimalarial agent, mostly causes bradycardia. Quinidine, its dextrorotatory isomer, may cause 1:1 atrioventricular (AV) conduction during atrial flutter. The newly developed drug mefloquine was reported to have fewer cardiac side effects. We describe a 63-year-old male patient with atrial flutter in whom mefloquine use was associated with 1:1 AV conduction, and who then responded to therapy with digoxin and sotalol. The patient had a history of palpitations. This case report emphasizes that mefloquine should be used with caution in patients with a history of palpitations or underlying heart disease.
Polycystin-2 represents one of so far two proteins found to be mutated in patients with autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease. Evidence obtained from experiments carried out in cell lines and with native kidney tissue strongly suggests that polycystin-2 is located in the endoplasmic reticulum. In the kidney, polycystin-2 is highly expressed in cells of the distal and connecting tubules, where it is located in the basal compartment. It is not known whether the expression of polycystin-2 in the kidney changes or whether it can be manipulated under certain instances. Therefore, the distribution of polycystin-2 under conditions leading to acute and chronic renal failure was analyzed. During ischemic acute renal failure, which affects primarily the S3 segment of the proximal tubule, a pronounced upregulation of polycystin-2 and a predominantly combined homogeneous and punctate cytoplasmic distribution in damaged cells was observed. After thallium-induced acute injury to thick ascending limb cells, polycystin-2 staining assumed a chicken wire-like pattern in damaged cells. In the (cy/+) rat, a model for autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease in which cysts originate predominantly from the proximal tubule, polycystin-2 immunoreactivity was lost in some distal tubules. In kidneys from (pcy/pcy) mice, a model for autosomal-recessive polycystic kidney disease in which cyst formation primarily affects distal tubules and collecting ducts, a minor portion of cyst-lining cells cease to express polycystin-2, whereas in the remaining cells, polycystin-2 is retained in their basal compartment. Data show that the expression and cellular distribution of polycystin-2 in different kinds of renal injuries depends on the type of damage and on the nephron-specific response to the injury. After ischemia, polycystin-2 may be upregulated by the injured cells to protect themselves. It is unlikely that polycystin-2 plays a role in cyst formation in the (cy/+) rat and in the (pcy/pcy) mouse.
Although C/EBPβ(ko) mice are refractory to Bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis the molecular mechanisms remain unknown. Here we show that blocking the ribosomal S-6 kinase (RSK) phosphorylation of the CCAAT/Enhancer Binding Protein (C/EBP)-β on Thr217 (a RSK phosphoacceptor) with either a single point mutation (Ala217), dominant negative transgene or a blocking peptide containing the mutated phosphoacceptor ameliorates the progression of lung injury and fibrosis induced by Bleomycin in mice.
Mice expressing the non-phosphorylatable C/EBPβ-Ala217 transgene had a marked reduction in lung injury on day-13 after Bleomycin exposure, compared to C/EBPβ(wt) mice, judging by the decrease of CD68(+) activated monocytes/macrophages, bone marrow-derived CD45(+) cells and lung cytokines as well as by the normal surfactant protein-C expression by lung pneumocytes. On day-21 after Bleomycin treatment, C/EBPβ(wt) mice but not mice expressing the dominant negative C/EBPβ-Ala217 transgene developed severe lung fibrosis as determined by quantitative collagen assays. All mice were of identical genetic background and back-crossed to the parental wild-type inbreed FVB mice for at least ten generations. Treatment of C/EBPβ(wt) mice with a cell permeant, C/EBPβ peptide that inhibits phosphorylation of C/EBPβ on Thr217 (40 µg instilled intracheally on day-2 and day-6 after the single Bleomycin dose) also blocked the progression of lung injury and fibrosis induced by Bleomycin. Phosphorylation of human C/EBPβ on Thr266 (human homologue phosphoacceptor) was induced in collagen-activated human lung fibroblasts in culture as well as in activated lung fibroblasts in situ in lungs of patients with severe lung fibrosis but not in control lungs, suggesting that this signaling pathway may be also relevant in human lung injury and fibrosis.
These data suggest that the RSK-C/EBPβ phosphorylation pathway may contribute to the development of lung injury and fibrosis.
The metabolic syndrome, including type 2 diabetes, insulin resistance, obesity/abdominal obesity, hypertension and dyslipidemia, is a major public health problem. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) ligands such as thiazolidinediones are effective against this syndrome. In this study, we showed that nonaqueous fractions of licorice (Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisher) extracted with ethanol, ethyl acetate and acetone, but not an aqueous extract, had PPAR-gamma ligand-binding activity with a GAL4-PPAR-gamma chimera assay. Some prenylflavonoids including glycycoumarin, glycyrin, dehydroglyasperin C and dehydroglyasperin D, a newly found compound, were identified as active compounds with PPAR-gamma ligand-binding activity in the nonaqueous fraction of licorice. A licorice ethanolic extract contained these four active compounds at a total concentration of 16.7 g/100 g extract. Feeding the licorice ethanolic extract at 0.1-0.3 g/100 g diet [approximately 100 to 300 mg/(kg body x d)] for 4 wk decreased (P < 0.05) blood glucose level in younger (6 wk old) and older (13 wk old) diabetic KK-Ay mice and reduced (P < 0.05) weights of intra-abdominal adipose tissues in high fat diet-induced obese C57BL mice. An increase in blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats was suppressed (P < 0.01) by 3 wk of oral administration of the licorice ethanolic extract at 300 mg/(kg body x d). These findings indicate that licorice ethanolic extract is effective in preventing and ameliorating diabetes, ameliorating abdominal obesity and preventing hypertension, and suggest that licorice ethanolic extract would be effective in preventing and/or ameliorating the metabolic syndrome.
Adolescence is a time of high-risk behavior and increased exploration. This developmental period is marked by a greater probability to initiate drug use and is associated with an increased risk to develop addiction and adulthood dependency and drug use at this time is associated with an increased risk. Human adolescents are predisposed toward an increased likelihood of risk-taking behaviors [Zuckerman M. Sensation seeking and the endogenous deficit theory of drug abuse. NIDA Res Monogr 1986;74:59-70.], including drug use or initiation. In the present study, adolescent animals were exposed to twenty days of either saline (0.9% sodium chloride), cocaine (20 mg/kg) or ethanol (1 g/kg) i.p. followed by a fifteen-day washout period. All animals were tested as adults on several behavioral measures including locomotor activity induced by a novel environment, time spent in the center of an open field, novelty preference and novel object exploration. Animals exposed to cocaine during adolescence and tested as adults exhibited a greater locomotor response in a novel environment, spent less time in the center of the novel open field and spent less time with a novel object, results that are indicative of a stress or anxiogenic response to novelty or a novel situation. Adolescent animals chronically administered ethanol and tested as adults, unlike cocaine-exposed were not different from controls in a novel environment, indicated by locomotor activity or time spent with a novel object. However, ethanol-exposed animals approached the novel object more, suggesting that exposure to ethanol during development may result in less-inhibited behaviors during adulthood. The differences in adult behavioral responses after drug exposure during adolescence are likely due to differences in the mechanisms of action of the drugs and subsequent reward and/or stress responsivity. Future studies are needed to determine the neural substrates of these long lasting drug-induced changes.
The clinical significance of myocardial perfusion defects present early after angiographically successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was assessed in 53 patients using thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography combined with pharmacologic vasodilation induced by a large dose (300 mg) of orally administered dipyridamole. Myocardial tomographic images were obtained at a mean of 20 +/- 6 h (SD) before and 2.9 +/- 2.7 days after angioplasty. Before angioplasty, 15 (28%) of the 53 patients developed angina after dipyridamole administration, in contrast to only 3 (7.5%) of 40 patients after angioplasty (p less than 0.001). The mean percent luminal area stenosis decreased from 93 +/- 6% before angioplasty to 34 +/- 17% after angioplasty (p less than 0.001). Myocardial perfusion defects, present in 49 (93%) of the 53 patients before angioplasty, were reversible in 44 patients (83%), all of whom underwent dilation of arteries supplying the ischemic areas. After angioplasty, 26 (65%) of 40 patients had no ischemic defects, whereas 14 (35%) of the patients still had an ischemic defect in the vascular territory of the dilated artery. After a mean follow-up period of 21.7 months, 13 (33%) of 39 patients developed restenosis, 10 of whom had an ischemic defect early after angioplasty. Restenosis developed in 10 (71%) of 14 patients with an ischemic defect after angioplasty, but in only 3 (11.5%) of the patients without an ischemic defect (p = 0.007). In conclusion, thallium-201 tomography after oral dipyridamole affords convenient assessment of the physiologic significance of coronary stenosis present before angioplasty and the residual stenosis after angioplasty.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The development of posttransplantation diabetes mellitus has a major impact on the quality of life and long-term outcome.
One hundred thirty-nine patients without known glucose metabolism abnormalities and treated with FK-506, methylprednisolone, and mycophenolate mofetil/azathioprine were analyzed for incidence of and risk factors for developing impaired fasting glycemia (IFG) and diabetes mellitus (DM).
Using the American Diabetes Association criteria, 15% developed IFG and 32% developed DM in the first year after transplantation. High trough levels of FK-506 during the first month after transplantation (especially >15 ng/ml) and high body mass index (BMI) were significant risk factors for IFG or DM. Patients with (steroid-treated) acute rejections in addition to high trough levels of FK-506 were most prone to develop DM, whereas high BMI conferred risk of developing IFG. Patients with posttransplantation glycemic abnormalities also had higher levels of serum triglycerides at the time of transplantation, but they needed a lower dose of FK-506 to obtain higher trough levels of FK-506, suggesting metabolic differences already present before transplantation. The only risk factor retained for persistent IFG or DM beyond the first year was a higher number of trough levels of FK-506 >15 ng/ml during the first month after transplantation.
Induction with an FK-506 based immunosuppressive regimen resulted in a high incidence of glucose metabolism disorders in renal transplantation recipients. Higher trough levels of FK-506 during the first month, acute rejections, and higher BMI were the most obvious risk factors.
The present study aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of mirtazapine in amphetamine detoxification in a 14-day randomized, placebo-controlled pilot trial in a Thai population. Subjects retained at a Specialized Probation Center, Department of Probation, Ministry of Justice, Thailand (n=20), who met DSM-IV criteria for amphetamine dependence and the inclusion criteria of the study, were randomized for either mirtazapine treatment or placebo. Efficacy was assessed by the Amphetamine Withdrawal Questionnaire (AWQ) for amphetamine withdrawal symptoms and the Montgomery-Asberg Depression rating scale (MADRS) for depression. Mirtazapine safety was assessed by interview during each follow-up period on days 3 and 14 after treatment. Nine subjects were randomized to the mirtazapine group and 11 to the placebo group. Among the initial 20 subjects, 16 (seven in the mirtazapine and nine in the placebo group) completed the study. There were significant improvements in the total AWQ score changes in the mirtazapine group versus placebo both at days 3 (P<0.005) and 14 (P<0.030). Significant improvements in favour of mirtazapine were also seen in the hyperarousal and the anxiety subscale score changes at days 3 (P<0.029) and 14 (P<0.018), respectively. No significant differences were seen (P>0.05) in the MADRS scores changes within or between the groups. Mild adverse events, such as headache, sedation, nausea and vomiting, were reported. In conclusion, despite its small sample size, this randomized, placebo-controlled pilot trial lends support to the hypothesis that mirtazapine may be an option in the meager armamentarium of amphetamine detoxification treatment.
The authors present a case of mania associated with the prolonged ingestion of large doses of L-dopa. Prior reports relating L-dopa therapy to mania in patients with bipolar disorders are discussed. The induction of a classic manic syndrome by catecholamine augmentation is possible in a nonbipolar individual.
The case is reported of a 77-year-old man who died from hepatocellular carcinoma without accompanying cirrhosis, after being treated with a total of 668 g diethyl-stilbestrol over a 12-year period for suspected carcinoma of the prostate. Possible relationships between this treatment and the hepatic cancer are discussed in the light of the relevant literature.
Recent evidence has demonstrated the efficacy of pegylated interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) in treating hepatitis C virus infection. Neuropsychiatric complications commonly occur during the course of IFN treatment, with depressive symptoms usually appearing within the first 12 weeks. Few cases of the pegylated interferon-alpha-induced psychosis and depression have been reported compared to standard interferon-alpha therapy. We report the first case of a major depressive episode with psychotic features induced by pegylated IFN-alpha-2b and ribavirin in the last 2 weeks of therapy.
The frequency of postanesthesia side effects and times to reach "benchmarks" in the recovery process for IV preinduction doses of 20 micrograms/kg butorphanol, 40 micrograms/kg butorphanol, or a 2 micrograms/kg dose of fentanyl were compared in a double-blinded study involving ambulatory surgical patients. The authors hypothesized that all drugs would perform equally well in all study areas. Sixty ASA physical status I and II women undergoing laparoscopic tubal sterilization were randomly assigned to one of three groups: Group I (n = 20) received 20 micrograms/kg butorphanol as a preinduction agent; Group II (n = 20) received 40 micrograms/kg butorphanol; Group III (n = 20) received 2 micrograms/kg fentanyl. Anesthesia management for all groups was the same. Statistically significant variance was found in time to discharge-ready status and duration of nausea (p less than 0.05) between 40 micrograms/kg butorphanol and 2 micrograms/kg fentanyl, but no significant difference was found between 20 micrograms/kg butorphanol and 2 micrograms/kg fentanyl in these areas. Statistically significant variance was found in duration of dizziness and time to obtain a 10 on the Aldrete Post Anesthesia Recovery Score (APARS) between 40 micrograms/kg butorphanol and 20 micrograms/kg butorphanol and 40 micrograms/kg butorphanol and 2 micrograms/kg fentanyl. From the study, 20 micrograms/kg butorphanol appears to be as suitable as 2 micrograms/kg fentanyl for use as a preinduction narcotic analgesic, whereas 40 micrograms/kg butorphanol appears to be unsuitable due to increased duration of nausea, dizziness, and time to score 10 on APARS and reach discharge-ready status.
The efficacy of ifosfamide (IFO), an antineoplastic drug, is severely limited by a high incidence of nephrotoxicity of unknown etiology. We hypothesized that inhibition of complex I (C-I) by chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), a metabolite of IFO, is the chief cause of nephrotoxicity, and that agmatine (AGM), which we found to augment mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and beta-oxidation, would prevent nephrotoxicity. Our model system was isolated mitochondria obtained from the kidney cortex of rats treated with IFO or IFO + AGM. Oxidative phosphorylation was determined with electron donors specific to complexes I, II, III, or IV (C-I, C-II, C-III, or C-IV, respectively). A parallel study was done with (13)C-labeled pyruvate to assess metabolic dysfunction. Ifosfamide treatment significantly inhibited oxidative phosphorylation with only C-I substrates. Inhibition of C-I was associated with a significant elevation of [NADH], depletion of [NAD], and decreased flux through pyruvate dehydrogenase and the TCA cycle. However, administration of AGM with IFO increased [cyclic AMP (cAMP)] and prevented IFO-induced inhibition of C-I. In vitro studies with various metabolites of IFO showed that only CAA inhibited C-I, even with supplementation with 2-mercaptoethane sulfonic acid. Following IFO treatment daily for 5 days with 50 mg/kg, the level of CAA in the renal cortex was approximately 15 micromol/L. Taken together, these observations support the hypothesis that CAA is accumulated in renal cortex and is responsible for nephrotoxicity. AGM may be protective by increasing tissue [cAMP], which phosphorylates NADH:oxidoreductase. The current findings may have an important implication for the prevention of IFO-induced nephrotoxicity and/or mitochondrial diseases secondary to defective C-I.
The effect of systemic administration of Interleukin 2 (IL2) on intravesical Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) therapy was studied in an established murine bladder tumor, MBT-2. BCG (100 micrograms.) was administered intravesically on days 7 and 14 after seeding bladders with MBT-2 cells. IL2 (5,000 U/injection) was given intraperitoneally every eight hours for 10 times (days seven through 10 and 14 through 17). BCG or IL2 therapy alone failed to reduce incidence of tumor implantation and tumor weight; whereas, combined treatment with BCG and IL2 reduced tumor weight significantly compared to saline or BCG treated mice. Cytotoxicity was assessed in a four-hour 75Semethionine-release assay. Augmentation of natural killer cell activity was only observed in mice treated with BCG plus IL2. MBT-2 target cells were not lysed by spleen cells from mice treated with BCG or saline. IL2 therapy produced lymphokine-activated killer cell activity, though combining BCG with IL2 suppressed this activity after each course of treatment. The results suggest that combined treatment with IL2 enhances the therapeutic effect of BCG therapy. However, this enhancement of antitumor activity is not clearly explained by augmentation of natural killer or in vivo-generated lymphokine-activated killer cells.
There is increasing evidence supporting the involvement of the muscarinic-cholinergic system in schizophrenia. We examined the M1 muscarinic receptor density and mRNA expression in brains of a rat amphetamine model of schizophrenia. We also assessed the effect of the model and chronic treatment with haloperidol and clozapine on brain M1 receptor density and gene expression. A significant decrease of about 20% in the density of M1 receptor was detected in the cortex and in the striatum of amphetamine model rats. A significant increase of 33% in the density of the M1 receptor was found in the cortex and striatum of rats treated chronically with clozapine (0.5 mg/kg), but not with haloperidol (25 mg/kg). Chronic clozapine, but not haloperidol, normalized the decrease in M1 receptors observed in amphetamine model rats, in both cortex and striatum. Regulation of the M1 receptor may occur in a post-transcriptional phase. Our findings suggest involvement of both dopaminergic and cholinergic-muscarinic systems in the pathophysiology and pharmacotherapy of schizophrenia.
A differential effect of pregnancy on the growth of subcutaneous implants of four murine tumors has been observed. Two tumors lacking receptors for progesterone and estrogen [methylcholanthrene-induced fibrosarcoma (MC-C) and spontaneous lymphoid leukemia (LB)] exhibited slow kinetics throughout the course of pregnancy, although inhibition was stronger beyond day 10. On the other hand, one of two tumors bearing receptors for progesterone and estrogen [medroxyprogesterone (MPA)-induced mammary adenocarcinoma (C7HI)] exhibited three phases: up to days 8-10 of gestation the tumor grew faster than in virgins, between days 8-10 and 15 it reached a plateau, and beyond day 15 a sharp reduction in tumor mass was observed. The other tumor [mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV)-induced mammary carcinoma(T2280)] behaved as a typical pregnancy-dependent tumor (i.e., it grew in pregnant but not in virgin mice, regressed soon after delivery, and reassumed its growth at the middle of a second round of pregnancy). Neither MPA nor estrogen affected MC-C and LB tumor growth. On the other hand, MPA-treated mice enhanced C7HI tumor and reciprocally C7HI tumor-bearing mice treated with estrogen strongly inhibited tumor growth. As for T2280, neither MPA nor estrogen alone could promote tumor growth and, in consequence, no tumor developed. However, when MPA plus estrogen was administered in a schedule simulating the successive appearance of these hormones in pregnancy, T2280 grew even faster than in pregnant mice. When the four tumors were implanted in mice bearing grafts of embryonal tissues (teratomas), all of them were inhibited. This antitumor effect was similar to that observed in pregnancy when tumors unresponsive to progesterone and estrogen were tested. On the other hand, with tumors bearing progesterone and estrogen receptors, differences in tumor growth were detected in pregnant and teratoma-bearing mice. This suggested the existence during pregnancy of two factors potentially acting on tumor growth. First, a progesterone and estrogen-mediated hormonal component, which would exert either inhibitory or stimulatory effects only evidenced with tumors bearing hormonal receptors. Secondly, an antitumor effect proportional to the growing embryonal mass, inhibiting all tumors independently of their origin or hormone responsiveness. This antitumor effect could be attributed to a beat-resistant serum factor (1,000-1,200 Da molecular weight) presumably associated with the pathway of the arachidonic acid metabolism. The interplay between the hormonal component and the serum factor associated with embryonal mass could account for some of the largely heterogeneous and otherwise unexplained effects of pregnancy on tumor growth reported in the literature and illustrated by the four tumors studied here.
The occurrence of a myocardial infarction is reported after chemotherapy containing etoposide, in a man with no risk factors for coronary heart disease. Possible causal mechanisms are discussed.
Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are effective in gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), but their cost effectiveness is unknown. This is usually determined by cost/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, but whether PPI therapy improves QALYs has not been assessed in a randomized trial. The PPI acid suppression symptom (PASS) test is a five-item questionnaire that identifies patients with persistent acid-related symptoms. We evaluated whether a PASS test-based management strategy of changing GERD therapy to esomeprazole in those with continued symptoms on another PPI or H(2) receptor antagonist therapy would be cost effective. We expressed the data in terms of cost per quality-adjusted life months (QALM), as this was a 4-week trial.
This is a multicenter, cluster-randomized, open-label study in primary care physician centers across Canada. Primary care physician centers were randomized to intervention or control arms. Patients on acid-suppressing medication were identified from primary care records and asked to complete the PASS test. PASS test failures at baseline assessment continued current therapy in control practices or switched to esomeprazole 20 or 40 mg daily (the dose was at the clinician's discretion) for 4 weeks in intervention practices. A planned secondary end point was QALM gain, measured using the validated Euroqol (EQ-5D) completed at baseline and 4 weeks. Medication use was also assessed by questionnaire. Canadian unit generic costs were applied to all GERD drugs, except to esomeprazole and lansoprazole, wherein proprietary costs were used (all costs in Canadian $). Data were analyzed using bootstrap sampling.
A total of 1,564 patients were recruited from 134 intervention sites and 92 control sites. Data were evaluable for 808 intervention and 445 control patients. The mean (±standard deviation) QALM at 4 weeks in the intervention group was 0.885±0.164 compared with 0.814±0.179 in the control group, resulting in a mean 0.071 (95% CI=0.091-0.051) QALM gain (P<0.0001). Esomeprazole was cost effective for PASS test failures, with a mean cost of $763 (95% CI=456-1,414) per QALM gain.
Esomeprazole was associated with a statistically significant gain in QALMs and was cost effective in primary care patients with persistent acid-related symptoms identified by the PASS test.
