Pulmonary mechanics of anesthetized dogs were not changed or were minimally altered by breathing the following compounds as submicron aerosols in concentrations up to 17.3 mg/m3 for 7.5 min: (1) sodium chloride (as a control), (2) sodium sulfate, (3) ammonium sulfate, (4) zinc sulfate, (5) zinc ammonium sulfate, (6) ammonium bisulfate, (7) aluminum sulfate, (8) manganese sulfate, (9) nickel sulfate, (10) copper sulfate, (11) ferrous sulfate, and (12) ferric sulfate. Submicron aerosols of these compounds in concentrations of 4.1-8.8 mg/m3, administered for 4 h to anesthetized dogs, did not affect mechanics of breathing, hemodynamics, and arterial blood gases. In conscious sheep, tracheal mucous velocity was not altered by exposure to the submicron aerosols of the sulfate compounds. None of these compounds, injected iv in a dose of 1 mg, had adverse effects on mechanics of breathing, pulmonary and systemic hemodynamics, or arterial blood gases. In 100-mg injections, zinc sulfate and zinc ammonium sulfate produced a fall in cardiac output, systemic hypotension, hypoxemia, and metabolic acidosis. Copper sulfate at this dose produced pulmonary hypertension, a fall in cardiac output, hypoxemia, respiratory acidosis, and a decrease of specific total respiratory conductance. It is concluded that submicron aerosols of sulfate salts do not have adverse cardiopulmonary effects when administered in high concentrations for up to 4 h. However, prolonged exposure to high concentrations of zinc sulfate, zinc ammonium sulfate, and copper sulfate aerosols should be carefully monitored because of the possibility that lower levels of these compounds in the bloodstream for long time period might have adverse cardiopulmonary effects.
The results of an overview of early (90-240 min) and late (24 hours or more) patency and of stroke rates for each of the three commercially available thrombolytic agents, streptokinase, alteplase, and anistreplase are presented. Studies included in this analysis are all those published between 1985 and March 1992 and focus on the licensed dosage regimens of each agent. The rates of early and late patency for streptokinase were 64.7% and 80.8%; for alteplase, 66.6% and 73.7%; and for anistreplase, 72.1% and 84.5%. The rates of total and hemorrhagic stroke for streptokinase were 0.69% and 0.17%; for alteplase, 1.27% and 0.50%; and for anistreplase 0.91% and 0.38%. These results provided evidence that the rates of early and late patency appeared to be greatest for anistreplase and that the rates of stroke are within "acceptable" ranges for all three thrombolytic agents with streptokinase affording the lowest rate.
The Ca(2+)-calmodulin-activated Ser/Thr protein phosphatase calcineurin and the downstream transcriptional effectors of calcineurin, nuclear factor of activated T cells, have been implicated in the hypertrophic response of the myocardium. Recently, the calcineurin inhibitory agents cyclosporine A and FK506 have been extensively used to evaluate the importance of this signaling pathway in rodent models of cardiac hypertrophy. However, pharmacologic approaches have rendered equivocal results necessitating more specific or genetic-based inhibitory strategies. In this regard, we have generated Tg mice expressing the calcineurin inhibitory domains of Cain/Cabin-1 and A-kinase anchoring protein 79 specifically in the heart. DeltaCain and DeltaA-kinase-anchoring protein Tg mice demonstrated reduced cardiac calcineurin activity and reduced hypertrophy in response to catecholamine infusion or pressure overload. In a second approach, adenoviral-mediated gene transfer of DeltaCain was performed in the adult rat myocardium to evaluate the effectiveness of an acute intervention and any potential species dependency. DeltaCain adenoviral gene transfer inhibited cardiac calcineurin activity and reduced hypertrophy in response to pressure overload without reducing aortic pressure. These results provide genetic evidence implicating calcineurin as an important mediator of the cardiac hypertrophic response in vivo.
The relative contributions of the hemodynamic and morphological (vascular and cardiac) modifications induced by long-term administration of an angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor, quinapril, to the drug's long-lasting preventive effects vis-à-vis genetic hypertension development (GHD) have been investigated in young spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). Two groups of SHRs were given quinapril (10 mg/kg/day) or distilled water from 5 to 20 weeks of age. The drug was then stopped, but observations continued for another 7 weeks. At selected times systemic and regional hemodynamic parameters as well as cardiac and vascular morphological effects were investigated. During the treatment period, quinapril partially opposed GHD and limited the early rise in total peripheral and regional vascular resistances observed in control animals. Quinapril's partial preventive effect vis-à-vis GHD persisted, but faded after treatment withdrawal. From a morphological point of view, quinapril strongly opposed aortic wall hypertrophy as evidenced by significant reductions in media thickness and wall to lumen ratio and by a significant increase in aortic nuclear density. Quinapril also limited vascular fibrosis development. At the cardiac level, quinapril reduced heart weight to body weight ratio and opposed myocardial hypertrophy and cardiac collagen synthesis. All these vascular and cardiac morphological changes were delayed (starting after 9-15 weeks of treatment) as compared to quinapril's hemodynamic effects. Finally, the drug's vascular and cardiac antihypertrophic properties persisted after treatment withdrawal. In conclusion, our data indicate that the early systemic and regional hemodynamic effects of quinapril initiate its antihypertensive action, but the drug-induced delayed and prolonged vascular morphological changes later take over and may be partly responsible for quinapril's residual blood pressure lowering effects after treatment withdrawal.
A possible association between environmental exposure to benomyl and anophthalmia has been suggested. The aim of the present study was to investigate potential teratogenic effects of benomyl using the 9.5 day rat embryo culture method using rat and human serum. Explanted rat embryos were cultured in rat serum (n=121) or human serum (n=90) with differing concentrations of benomyl [170 nM to 13.6 microM], dissolved in ethanol (0.136%), at least five embryos per concentration being cultured. In addition, 18 embryos were cultured in both human and rat serum with the equivalent concentration of ethanol to act as a vehicle control. The cultured embryos were then measured and scored for growth and differentiation by two blinded observers. Embryotoxic effects were considered to be demonstrated by a decrease in parameters of growth such as crown rump length, yolk sac diameter and protein content, whereas embryopathic effects were considered to be those causing a decease in parameters of differentiation such as morphological score, somite number and optic development. Benomyl [> or =5 microM] produced a significant concentration dependent deterioration in morphological score, somite number and optic development. Gross toxic effects were noticed at concentrations of >12 microM in rat serum and >10microM in human serum as indicated by a significant effect on parameters measuring size (crown rump length; yolk sac diameter and protein content). This study provides evidence that benomyl is a potential developmental toxicant, affecting many parameters of differentiation, including optic development at levels below those that could be considered embryotoxic.
Taxol is a novel and promising oncolytic agent the use of which is hampered by its neurotoxicity. We now describe a taxol-induced neuropathy in rats and its prevention by the adrenocorticotropic hormone-(4-9) (ACTH-(4-9)) analog, ORG 2766. A decrease in sensory nerve conduction velocity was seen in taxol-treated rats, both with daily injections of small amounts (6 mg/kg per week) and with weekly injections of higher amounts (9 mg/kg per week) of taxol. Concomitant administration of ORG 2766 completely prevented the occurrence of a neuropathy.
Valproic acid (VPA), a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, induced in vitro differentiation of primary acute myeloid leukemia (AML) blasts, an effect enhanced by all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). Clinical responses to VPA were recently observed in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Herein, the authors have described results of a clinical trial with VPA plus ATRA in 26 patients with poor-risk AML.
VPA (5-10 mg/kg starting dose) and ATRA (45 mg/m(2)) were administered orally. Low-dose AraC or hydroxyurea were permitted to control leukocytosis. Biologic activity of VPA was confirmed by serial analysis of HDAC2 protein levels in peripheral blood (PB) mononuclear cells.
Nineteen of 26 patients completed at least 4 weeks of VPA/ATRA treatment; 7 patients were withdrawn prematurely because of rapidly progressive disease (n = 3) or unacceptable neurologic and cardiovascular toxicity (n = 4). Additional cytoreductive treatment was required in 58% of patients enrolled. Median treatment duration was 3 months. No patient achieved complete remission, one with de novo AML had a minor response, and two patients with secondary AML arising from myeloproliferative disorder (MPD) achieved a partial remission and clearance of PB blasts, respectively. The latter responses were accompanied by profound granulocytosis and erythrocytosis in both patients, reminiscent of the response pattern known from ATRA treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia. However, cytogenetic analysis of isolated CD34(+) cells and granulocytes did not reveal terminal differentiation of leukemic blasts.
Treatment with VPA/ATRA results in transient disease control in a subset of patients with AML that has evolved from a myeloproliferative disorder but not in patients with a primary or MDS-related AML.
A case-control study was performed to identify and quantify risk factors for amphotericin B-associated nephrotoxicity.
Thirty-five patients receiving intravenous amphotericin B for treatment of proven or suspected fungal infection who developed nephrotoxicity (greater than 100% increase in baseline serum creatinine to a level above the normal range) were compared with 60 control patients receiving amphotericin B who did not develop nephrotoxicity. Amphotericin B dosing variables and other potential risk factors were analyzed in a logistic regression model.
Cases of nephrotoxicity received a significantly higher average daily dose of amphotericin B (0.49 +/- 0.18 mg/kg/day) than did controls (0.34 +/- 0.17 mg/kg/day). In a multivariate model, the risk of nephrotoxicity increased 3.7-fold for each 50-mg increase in total dose for a fixed duration of therapy and patient weight. Risk decreased by a factor of 0.4 for each extra day of therapy for a fixed total dose and weight. An increase in weight was also protective when the two other dosage variables were held constant. Each 0.10 mg/kg/day dose increment was associated with a 1.8-fold (95% confidence interval, 1.2 to 2.7) increase in the risk of nephrotoxicity. Other significant risk factors included diuretic use during amphotericin B therapy (12.5, 1.7 to 94.7), for which a linear dose-response relationship was demonstrated, and an abnormal baseline serum creatinine level (15.4, 1.4 to 173.2).
Risk factors for amphotericin B-associated nephrotoxicity include higher average daily doses (approximately a doubling for each 0.10 mg/kg/day increment), diuretic use, and abnormal baseline renal function. These data suggest possible protective interventions and will aid clinicians in assessing the risk-benefit ratio of amphotericin B therapy for deep fungal infection.
Intraluminal pressure recording systems have not demonstrated predictable esophageal motor correlates of unexplained chest pain. This study used continuous high-frequency intraluminal ultrasonography to characterize esophageal contraction at the time of spontaneous and provoked chest pain.
Intraluminal pressure, pH, and ultrasound images of the esophagus were recorded for a maximum of 24 hours in 10 subjects with unexplained chest pain. Changes in esophageal muscle thickness were measured as a marker of muscle contraction. Ten additional subjects with suspected esophageal chest pain were studied after edrophonium chloride injection to provoke symptoms. Ten healthy subjects were studied as controls.
Eighteen of 24 spontaneous chest pain episodes were preceded by a sustained esophageal contraction (SEC) detected on ultrasonography (mean duration, 68.0 seconds). This motor pattern was not accompanied by changes in intraluminal pressure. Four of 24 asymptomatic control periods were accompanied by SEC, although these contractions were of shorter mean duration (29.0 seconds; P < 0.001). SEC was observed in 5 subjects with a positive chest pain response to edrophonium and in none of the 5 subjects with a negative response. SEC was not detected in normal subjects.
There is a strong temporal correlation between a previously unrecognized esophageal motor event, SEC, and both spontaneous and provoked esophageal chest pain.
Vinclozolin, a widely used fungicide, has been characterized as a potent androgen antagonist. In this study, the effects of vinclozolin on the interrenal system of the rare minnow (Gobiocypris rarus) were evaluated. The results revealed a decline of the renal somatic index (RSI) and the presence of histopathological effects, including shrinkage of the glomerulus and expansion of the Bowman's space in the kidneys, in rare minnows exposed to vinclozolin. Elevated plasma cortisol concentrations in females exposed to ≥ 2 μg/L vinclozolin and males exposed to ≥ 10 μg/L vinclozolin (p<0.05) suggested that endocrine stress was evoked by vinclozolin exposure. Significant decreases in mRNA levels of interrenal crf, pomc, gr, and nka in females and gr and nka in males were observed after exposure to ≥ 0.5 μg/L and 2 μg/L vinclozolin (p<0.05), respectively; however, no changes in expression of these genes were observed in the brain of males (p ≥ 0.159) or females (p ≥ 0.053) compared with the control. The results indicated that female rare minnows were more sensitive than males to vinclozolin exposure. In conclusion, vinclozolin exposure evoked endocrine stress on the hypothalamic-pituitary-interrenal axis in the rare minnow, and the interrenal tissue was more sensitive than the brain tissue to stress caused by vinclozolin exposure. These results provide additional data about the modes of toxicological action of vinclozolin.
The North American Contact Dermatitis Group (NACDG) tests patients who have suspected allergic contact dermatitis with a broad series of screening allergens, and publishes periodic reports of its data.
To report the NACDG patch-test results from January 1, 2005, to December 31, 2006, and to compare results to pooled test data from the previous 10 years.
Standardized patch testing with 65 allergens was used at 13 centers in North America. Chi-square statistics were utilized for comparisons with previous NACDG data.
NACDG patch-tested 4,454 patients; 12.3% (557) had an occupation-related skin condition, and 65.3% (2,907) had at least one allergic patch-test reaction. The 15 most frequently positive allergens were nickel sulfate (19.0%), Myroxilon pereirae (balsam of Peru, 11.9%), fragrance mix I (11.5%), quaternium-15 (10.3%), neomycin (10.0%), bacitracin (9.2%), formaldehyde (9.0%), cobalt chloride (8.4%), methyldibromoglutaronitrile/phenoxyethanol (5.8%), p-phenylenediamine (5.0%), potassium dichromate (4.8%), carba mix (3.9%), thiuram mix (3.9%), diazolidinylurea (3.7%), and 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol (3.4%). As compared to the 1994-2004 data, there were significant increases in rates of positivity to nickel, quaternium-15, potassium dichromate, lidocaine, and tea tree oil. Of patch-tested patients, 22.9% (1,019) had a relevant positive reaction to a supplementary allergen; 4.9% (219) had an occupationally relevant positive reaction to a supplementary allergen.
Nickel has been the most frequently positive allergen detected by the NACDG; rates significantly increased in the current study period and most reactions were clinically relevant. Other common allergens were topical antibiotics, preservatives, fragrance mix I and paraphenylenediamine. Testing with an expanded allergen series and supplementary allergens enhances detection of relevant positive allergens.
Intracarotid (IC) injection of bestatin produced a dose-dependent biphasic change in blood pressure (BP) of the rat, consisting of an initial short-lasting fall followed by a long-lasting increase. This effect was regularly depressed or abolished by IV injection of naloxone. IC injection of Leu-enkephalin also produced a biphasic BP response, with the same characteristics as that produced by IC injection of bestatin. This effect was also easily blocked by IV injection of naloxone. IC injection of bestatin significantly potentiated the BP response to IC injection of Leu-enkephalin. This potentiated response was blocked by naloxone. IC injection of both bestatin and phosphoramidon, whether separately or in combination, significantly depressed the hypertensive response to physostigmine. This depressive action of bestatin and phosphoramidon on physostigmine hypertension can be significantly antagonized or even reversed by IV injection of naloxone. IC injection of both bestatin and phosphoramidon did not affect the BP response to either acetylcholine or catecholamines. It is concluded that bestatin and phosphoramidon, injected into the carotid artery, inhibit the activity of aminopeptidase and "enkephalinase", thus producing an accumulation of enkephalins in the central nervous system. These enkephalins activate opioidergic receptors in the brain, but concomitantly produce a depression of the cholinergic-adrenergic interaction in the central nervous system, which is known to be a prerequisite for the hypertensive response to physostigmine in the rat.
Intravenous injection of clonidine produces a biphasic blood pressure response, a transient increase followed by a prolonged decrease. Significant increases in plasma norepinephrine (NE), epinephrine (EPI), and dopamine (DA) levels occur 5 min following injection, corresponding to the hypertensive phase. Thirty minutes after clonidine injection, blood pressure, NE, EPI, and DA levels had returned to control levels. However, at 60 min, when the blood pressure had decreased to below control levels, a significant decrease in plasma NE was found. This finding confirms that clonidine decreases blood pressure, in part, by reducing sympathetic nerve activity. Naloxone, an opiate antagonist, when given prior to clonidine, abolished the hypotensive phase as well as preventing the decrease in plasma NE levels. The hypertensive phase was potentiated. Naloxone, when given alone, increased plasma NE levels at 15, 40, and 70 min following injection, indicating that naloxone increases sympathetic nerve activity peripherally, and may prevent clonidine's hypotensive phase by also increasing sympathetic activity in the central nervous system through blockade of opiate receptors. Therefore, the hypotensive effect of clonidine may involve interactions with endogenous opiate peptides.
Dopamine has a wide spectrum of receptor and pharmacologic actions that may affect cerebral blood flow (CBF). A new, selective dopamine-1 agonist, fenoldopam, is a potent systemic vasodilator with moderate alpha(2)-receptor affinity. However, the effects of fenoldopam on the cerebral circulation are undefined. We therefore hypothesized that infusion of fenoldopam would decrease mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and might concurrently decrease CBF via vascular alpha(2)-adrenoreceptor activation in awake volunteers. We studied nine healthy normotensive subjects, using positron emission tomography to measure CBF in multiple cortical and subcortical regions of interest. In addition, bioimpedance cardiac output and middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity were determined during fenoldopam-induced hypotension. Three men and four women, aged 25-43 yr, completed the study. Fenoldopam infused at 1.3 +/- 0.4 microg. kg(-1). min(-1) (mean +/- SD) reduced MAP 16% from baseline: from 94 (89-100) mm Hg (mean [95% confidence interval]) to 79 [74-85] mm Hg (P < 0.0001). During the fenoldopam infusion, both cardiac output (+39%), and heart rate (+45%) increased significantly, whereas global CBF decreased from baseline, 45.6 [35.6-58.5] mL. 100 g(-1). min(-1), to 37.7 [33.9-42.0] mL. 100 g(-1). min(-1) (P < 0.0001). Despite restoration of baseline MAP with a concurrent infusion of phenylephrine, global CBF remained decreased relative to baseline values at 37.9 [34.0-42.3] mL. 100 gm(-1). min(-1) (P < 0.0001). Changes in middle cerebral artery velocity did not correlate with positron emission tomography-measured changes of CBF induced by fenoldopam, with or without concurrent phenylephrine.
In awake volunteers with (presumably) intact cerebral autoregulation,fenoldopam-induced hypotension significantly decreased global cerebral bloodflow (CBF). Clinicians should be aware of these pharmacodynamic effects when choosing a vasodilator to control blood pressure, especially in situations where control of CBF, cerebral blood volume, and intracranial pressure are therapeutic priorities.
We analyzed expression of genes associated with metabolism of chemotherapeutic drugs in locally advanced esophageal adenocarcinomas before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy to study whether there is a change in gene expression induced by chemotherapy and whether such changes are associated with tumor response or nonresponse. We included 21 patients with locally advanced esophageal adenocarcinomas treated by cisplatin- and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy before surgery. Messenger RNA was extracted from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded preoperative endoscopic esophageal tumor biopsy specimens and tumor tissue specimens after surgical resection. Expression levels of chemotherapy metabolism-associated genes thymidylate synthase (TYMS), thymidine phosphorylase (TP), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), multidrug resistance-associated protein 1 (MRP1), and multidrug-resistance gene 1 (MDR1) were determined by quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. There was a significant posttherapeutic reduction in the expression levels of TP (P = .028) and MRP1 (P = .006). Furthermore, down-regulation of MRP1 (P = .041) and TYMS (P = .028) after chemotherapy was associated with tumor response to chemotherapy, assessed clinically and by histopathologic tumor regression. Down-regulation of chemotherapy metabolism-associated genes occurs after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and may modulate tumor response to chemotherapy.
We describe three patients with RA who developed cirrhosis while taking low dose methotrexate (MTX). This report includes a review of the risk factors for cirrhosis occurring in association with MTX. Two of these patients were part of a prospective study to quantify changes in pericellular and total collagen in 76 patients with RA receiving low dose pulse MTX, giving a point prevalence of cirrhosis of 2.63%.
Although triggered activity has been identified in isolated atrial tissue with the use of cellular electrophysiologic techniques, there has been no identification of triggered atrial arrhythmias in situ. Moreover, it is unclear whether triggered rhythms of different causes and sites of origin in the heart exhibit uniform responses to pacing that might aid in their identification. We therefore studied arrhythmias induced by overdrive pacing in three canine preparations, and based the analysis of our results on guidelines derived from microelectrode studies. We studied ventricular tachycardias induced by ouabain or by anterior wall myocardial infarction and atrial (coronary sinus) arrhythmias induced by the infusion of epinephrine into the great cardiac vein. In the ouabain and postinfarction preparations, right ventricular epicardial pacing induced ventricular premature beats or tachycardias whose recovery intervals after cessation of pacing shortened and showed overdrive acceleration as pacing rate increased. The first postpacing beat displayed progressive fusion with the paced beats but transient entrainment could not be induced. In the coronary sinus, the recovery intervals of impulses induced by epinephrine and pacing decreased as the drive rate increased, and inducibility of the paced rhythms increased at faster drive rates. Thus, the recovery intervals of triggered activity induced in the coronary sinus are phenomenologically similar to those of infarct- and digitalis-induced triggered rhythms. This is the first demonstration of consistent behavior in response to pacing of diverse types of triggered activity. Considered in light of the failure to induce transient entrainment, the results emphasize the potential utility of pacing in clinical identification of triggered rhythms and their differentiation from reentry.
Cytochrome P450IIE1 (P450IIE1) is involved in metabolic activation of carcinogenic nitrosamines, aniline and benzene. We detected a restriction fragment length polymorphism of the human P450IIE1 gene with the restriction endonuclease DraI. The population was thus divided into three genotypes, namely, heterozygotes (CD) and two forms of homozygotes (CC and DD). The distribution of these genotypes among lung cancer patients differed from that among controls with statistical significance of P less than 0.05 (chi 2 = 7.01 with 2 degrees of freedom). This result strongly suggests that host susceptibility to lung cancer is associated with the DraI polymorphism of the P450IIE1 gene.
Stable amides of clozapine derived from fatty acids prominent in cerebral tissue might enhance the central activity of clozapine and reduce its exposure to peripheral tissues. Such derivatives might enhance the safety of this unique drug, which is the only agent with securely established superior antipsychotic effectiveness, but with a risk of potentially lethal systemic toxicity. Amide derivatives of clozapine were prepared from structurally varied fatty acid chlorides and evaluated for ability to inhibit behavioral arousal in rat induced by dopamine agonist apomorphine and to induce catalepsy. Their duration-of-action and potency were compared to free clozapine, and concentrations of clozapine were assayed in brain and blood. Selected agents were also evaluated for affinity at dopamine receptors and other potential drug-target sites. Clozapine-N-amides of linoleic, myristic, oleic, and palmitic acids had moderate initial central depressant activity but by 6 h, failed to inhibit arousal induced by apomorphine. However, the docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) derivative was orally bioavailable, 10-times more potent (ED(50) 5.0 micromol/kg) than clozapine itself, and very long-acting (>/= 24 h) against apomorphine, and did not induce catalepsy. DHA itself was inactive behaviorally. Clozapine showed expected dopamine receptor affinities, but DHA-clozapine was inactive at these and other potential target sites. After systemic administration of DHA-clozapine, serum levels of free clozapine were very low, and brain concentrations somewhat lower than after administering clozapine. DHA-clozapine is a long-acting central depressant with powerful and prolonged antidopaminergic activity after oral administration or injection without inducing catalepsy, and it markedly reduced peripheral exposure to free clozapine. It lacked the receptor-affinities shown by clozapine, suggesting that DHA-clozapine may be a precursor of free, pharmacologically active clozapine. Such agents may represent potential antipsychotic drugs with improved central/peripheral distribution, and possibly enhanced safety.
A number of technical and clinical conditions reportedly associated with diazepam-related thrombophlebitis were investigated. Diazepam alone and in combination with fentanyl and methohexital was administered intravenously to 519 healthy, predominantly young adult patients undergoing routine oral surgery for removal of third molars. Indirect evidence is provided to show that two slightly different vasculopathies are involved: thrombophlebitis, in which pain and induration are both present but in which there is a slight delay in the time of inception of the condition; and phlebothrombosis, in which the reaction is almost immediate but pain is not significant and induration of the vein is the predominant feature. The overall incidence was 2.3% for thrombophlebitis and 9.8% for phlebothrombosis. There were four significant variables associated with phlebothrombosis: use of tobacco, use of oral contraceptives, multiple injections of diazepam, and pain during injection. The only significant variable associated with thrombophlebitis was the site of injection.
In vascular smooth muscle, calcium overload is a highly pathogenic event, which increases with advancing age. An increase in the calcium content of arterial wall may be produced in rats by treatment with vitamin D3. The aim of this study was to evaluate the renal clearance of sulfanilamide (a model organic anion, preferentially eliminated by the kidneys) and other parameters of global renal function in rats with arterial calcinosis. Arterial calcinosis was produced in adult rats by means of a single dose of vitamin D3 (300,000 UI/kg bw, i.m.) 5 days before the experiment. Treated rats showed a large increase in calcium content of aortic tissue and an increase in systolic arterial pressure. No modifications were observed in plasma calcium levels and in plasma lipid profiles. Statistically significant decrements were observed in renal clearance of sulfanilamide, in renal blood flow, in fractional excretion of sodium and potassium. A slight decrease, not statistically different, was observed in the glomerular filtration rate. Rats with arterial calcinosis also showed an increment of total calcium levels in renal tissue, in fractional excretion of calcium and in the expression of organic anion transporter 1 (OAT1). Histological studies revealed tubular alterations. In summary, modifications in hemodynamics and tubular parameters are early manifestations of nephropathy in rats with arterial calcinosis, some of which may account for the changes observed in organic anions renal depuration. It is important to mention that the decrease in clearance of organic anions were seen in spite of the increase in expression of OAT1.
To investigate the serial changes of the hepatic metabolites in a chemical-induced rat model of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in vivo by a clinical 1.5 T MR scanner.
Diethyl nitrosamine (DEN) induced HCC model rats (n=60) and control rats (n=20) were included. From week 7 to week 20 after DEN administration, every other week 10-12 animals (8-9 treated and 2-3 controls) were randomly scanned before being sacrificed. According to the pathologic changes, the whole process of tumorigenesis was divided into early and late periods (week 7-13 and week 14-20, respectively). The serial hepatic changes were tested by both routine MRI and single voxel 1H-MRS and compared with pathological results. Point resolved spectroscopy sequence (PRESS) was used for the location in MRS. The integrations of lipid- and choline-containing metabolites were calculated and analyzed.
All of the listed tests were fully finished in 66 rats (48 treated and 18 controls). Of the MRS curves, 65.2% (43/66) could be analyzed (mainly with resistant baseline with peaks appearing at right positions). From those qualified MRS curves, there were up to seven peaks which could be identified. The peaks of methylene lipids and methyl lipids were combined together in most cases and became the most notable component. The relative integrals of the combined lipid peak and that of the choline-containing compounds in different groups and stages were measured. Comparing with that of the controls of the same stage, the lipid of treated rats decreased in the late stage, and the choline-containing compounds increased in the same stage. Statistically significant differences were found (P<0.05) for the integrals of the lipid and the choline-containing metabolites between treated and controls in the late stage.
Our initial studies for the integrals of the lipid compounds and the choline-containing metabolites might be useful for a better understanding of the metabolic activity of this DEN-induced rat HCC model.
Optic neuropathy is a well-known complication of ethambutol therapy and usually manifests as a decrease in visual acuity, cecocentral scotomas, and deficits in color vision.
To support or disprove the hypothesis that a significant majority of patients who develop ocular toxicity while undergoing treatment for a mycobacterium infection do so after experiencing either a prolonged course or unusually high serum levels of ethambutol.
Retrospective chart review (16 cases) and literature meta-analysis (54 cases).
Many cases lacked important data, but none countered the hypothesis. Age, duration of ethambutol, and dose of ethambutol were positively correlated with risk of toxicity.
Given an understanding of the risk factors for ethambutol optic toxicity, there exists a rationale for an optimization of ethambutol dosing protocols that can maximize the therapeutic effect while minimizing the incidence of optic toxicity.
An attempt has been made to quantify myocardial lesions produced in the rat by isoprenaline for use as a model to assess possible incremental effects of environmental and dietary factors. This was initially made difficult by variation in the cardiotoxicity of different samples of isoprenaline. Investigation of these samples failed to reveal the basis for the differences. Active preparations have, however, produced profound changes both clinically and pathologically. The earliest light-microscopic changes both clinically and pathologically. The earliest light-microscopic change was loss of fuchsinophilia of fibres in sections stained by the picro-Mallory technique. By 24 hr obvious necrosis, fragmentation and lysis of the fibres had occurred. Treatment of frozen sections to demonstrate succinate dehydrogenase showed early changes in the character of formazan, suggesting the possibility of a transient alteration in the hydrogen transport system. By 48 hr, this is reversed except in those fibres undergoing necrosis where there is a complete loss of formazan. This contrast in staining between normal and necrotic fibres constitutes the basis for quantification which has been carried out by point counting. The results show some differences in the amount of myocardial necrosis between different batches of animals but relatively small differences within individual batches, suggesting that the introduction of additional variants into the system should be capable of producing clear cut results.
Arsenic is an environmental toxicant and carcinogen. Exposure to arsenic is associated with development of liver fibrosis and portal hypertension through ill defined mechanisms. We evaluated hepatic fibrogenesis after long term arsenic exposure in a murine model. BALB/c mice were exposed to arsenic by daily gavages of 6 μg/gm body weight for 1 year and were evaluated for markers of hepatic oxidative stress and fibrosis, as well as pro-inflammatory, pro-apoptotic and pro-fibrogenic factors at 9 and 12 months. Hepatic NADPH oxidase activity progressively increased in arsenic exposure with concomitant development of hepatic oxidative stress. Hepatic steatosis with occasional collection of mononuclear inflammatory cells and mild portal fibrosis were the predominant liver lesion observed after 9 months of arsenic exposure, while at 12 months, the changes included mild hepatic steatosis, inflammation, necrosis and significant fibrosis in periportal areas. The pathologic changes in the liver were associated with markers of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) activation, matrix reorganization and fibrosis including α-smooth muscle actin, transforming growth factor-β1, PDGF-Rβ, pro-inflammatory cytokines and enhanced expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 and pro(α) collagen type I. Moreover, pro-apoptotic protein Bax was dominantly expressed and Bcl-2 was down-regulated along with increased number of TUNEL positive hepatocytes in liver of arsenic exposed mice. Furthermore, HSCs activation due to increased hepatic oxidative stress observed after in vivo arsenic exposure was recapitulated in co-culture model of isolated HSCs and hepatocytes exposed to arsenic. These findings have implications not only for the understanding of the pathology of arsenic related liver fibrosis but also for the design of preventive strategies in chronic arsenicosis.
Loss of superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity is a defining biochemical feature of asthma. However, mechanisms for the reduced activity are unknown. We hypothesized that loss of asthmatic SOD activity is due to greater susceptibility to oxidative inactivation.
Activity assays of blood samples from asthmatics and healthy controls revealed impaired dismutase activity of copper-zinc SOD (CuZnSOD) in asthma. CuZnSOD purified from erythrocytes or airway epithelial cells from asthmatic was highly susceptible to oxidative inactivation. Proteomic analyses identified that inactivation was related to oxidation of cysteine 146 (C146), which is usually disulfide bonded to C57. The susceptibility of cysteines pointed to an alteration in protein structure, which is likely related to the loss of disulfide bond. We speculated that a shift to greater intracellular reducing potential might account for the change. Strikingly, measures of reduced and oxidized glutathione confirmed greater reducing intracellular state in asthma, compared with controls. Similarly, greater free thiol in CuZnSOD was confirmed by ~2-fold greater N-ethylmaleimide binding to C146 in asthma as compared with controls.
Greater reducing potential under a chronic inflammatory state of asthma, thus, leads to susceptibility of CuZnSOD to oxidative inactivation due to cleavage of C57-C146 disulfide bond and exposure of usually unavailable cysteines.
Vulnerability of CuZnSOD influenced by redox likely amplifies injury and inflammation during acute asthma attacks when reactive oxygen species are explosively generated. Overall, this study identifies a new paradigm for understanding the chemical basis of inflammation, in which redox regulation of thiol availability dictates protein susceptibility to environmental and endogenously generated reactive species.
