The authors report a case of cardiotoxicity secondary to 5-FU, the 67th in literature in a 46-year-old woman subjected to adjuvant therapy with a CMF protocol after surgical treatment for carcinoma of the breast, and presenting onset of clinical symptoms 16 hours after administration of the first dose. Analysis of previous cases reported in literature revealed no evidence of age or sex as risk factors. Doubts exist as to whether or not pre-existing heart disease and thoraco-mediastinic radiotherapy increase the risk. With regard to the causes of the syndrome, the authors are inclined to attribute its onset to an auto-immune mechanism. 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity, though rare, should be borne in mind and the use of the drug should be discontinued at the first signs of cardiotoxicity.
This study assessed the clinical or echographic factors predisposing to dynamic left ventricular obstruction (LVO) during dobutamine echocardiography (DE) in patients with angina-like chest pain but without coronary artery disease (CAD). DE is an effective technique for the noninvasive diagnosis of underlying CAD. During DE, an LVO is not unusual in ischemic patients.
DE (5-40 microg/kg/min) was performed in 52 consecutive patients with angina-like chest pain and normal coronary angiogram. Mean (standard deviation) age was 61 +/- 10 years (27 men, 25 women). Dobutamine-induced LVO was defined as a new intracavitary flow acceleration of at least 3 msec in the left ventricle.
Dynamic LVO was observed during DE in 20 (38%) of the 52 patients and was not related to clinical or baseline echocardiographic parameters. The chronotropic response and the systolic blood pressure during DE were higher in the group with LVO (P < 0.03 and P < 0.05, respectively). Appearance of chest pain during the test was also more frequent when LVO occurred (P < 0.02).
Dynamic LVO is common during DE in a population of patients with angina-like chest pain without epicardial CAD and is associated with a higher hemodynamic responsiveness to dobutamine.
Ticlopidine, an adenosine diphosphate receptor blocker, is widely used to prevent subacute stent thrombosis after percutaneous coronary intervention. Along with neutropenia and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, cholestatic hepatitis is one of the most serious potential side-effects of ticlopidine therapy. Four patients with prolonged jaundice after ticlopidine therapy, including one fatal case, are presented. Alternative antithrombotic therapy for subsequent percutaneous coronary intervention is also described. Clopidogrel therapy was found to be safe and effective in two patients with a history of ticlopidine-related cholestatic hepatitis.
In a 90-year-old man undergoing prolonged digitalis therapy, digitalis toxicity was precipitated by the administration of quinidine. The electrocardiogram revealed supraventricular bidirectional tachycardia, a rare but characteristic arrhythmia associated with digitalis toxicity. Upon withdrawal of digoxin, the clinical and ECG signs disappeared. A diagnosis of digitalis toxicity rather than quinidine intolerance led to appropriate treatment.
A 63-year-old man with liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma presented with abrupt encephalopathy with markedly elevated blood ammonia levels. He was found lying down in front of the hospital 2 days after treatment of right hypochondrial pain with sustained-release oral morphine sulfate. He tended to be constipated before receiving morphine sulfate. The excess production of ammonia due to his constitutional constipation exacerbated by the use of oral morphine was thought to be the causal association with transient hepatic encephalopathy. He regained consciousness by receiving aminoleban intravenously and anticonstipating suppository. We realized that much care should be taken to avoid such opioid-related constipation at the time of pain management for quality of life improvement in patients with cancer pain.
To ascertain whether increased sympathetic nervous system activity may contribute to the attenuation of prazosin's effect on congestive heart failure, we measured plasma norepinephrine levels in 10 patients with severe heart failure before and after chronic prazosin therapy. Norcpinephrine levels were increased in eight of 10 patients while supine (145 +/- 133 pg/mL; after, 481 +/- 376 pg/mL; P < 0.01); levels measured in five patients while upright were also increased (before, 351 +/- 238 pg/mL; after, 651 +/- 258 pg/mL; P < 0.05). Left ventricular ejection fraction measured by gated blood pool scan was increased from 16.9% +/- 8.1% to 25.4% +/- 11.3% (N = 10, P < 0.01). Mean systemic blood pressure and heart rate were unchanged. Increased plasma norepinephrine levels may attenuate prazosin's vasodilator action in heart failure. The cause of the increase in norepinephrine levels is unclear and warrants further study.
Five of fourteen patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA) experienced a total of eight episodes of malignant syndrome, three episodes in 1, two episodes in 1 patient, and a single episode in each of the other patients. Four patients had extrapyramidal symptoms and required antiparkinson therapy, including dopaminergic agonists. Five episodes occurred in the summer season. Two were caused by decreased or irregular doses of antiparkinson drugs, one by administration of an antidepressant drug, three by complications, and two by elevation of body temperature of environmental origin. A patient without parkinsonism became febrile after administration of droxidopa, which may be a central pyrogenic substance that acts via the noradrenergic system. Administration of dopaminergic drugs and dantrolene sodium was followed by recovery in four episodes in three patients. One patient manifested dysautonomia after recovery from the malignant syndrome. Another patient with high serum creatine kinase levels and myoglobinuria developed renal failure requiring hemodialysis. Another patient died of DIC. Besides withdrawal of dopaminergic agents, which alter monoaminergic neuron activity, stress to the body and heating by a variety of factors tend to trigger the malignant syndrome in MSA.
The authors report a case of probable serotonin syndrome caused by the coadministration of sertraline and oxycodone. A 34 year-old male patient experienced visual hallucinations and severe tremor after dramatically increasing his dosage of oxycodone while on stable amounts of sertraline and cyclosporin. Discontinuation of cyclosporin did not result in resolution of his symptoms. Consideration of a possible sertraline-oxycodone interaction led to withholding sertraline, which resulted in symptom resolution. Serotonin syndrome has been noted with sertraline in combination with other drugs, but this is the first report in combination with a narcotic analgesic. Possible pharmacological mechanisms are discussed. In complicated patients that are taking multiple medications, physicians should be aware of this possible interaction to avoid delay in the diagnosis of serotonin syndrome.
One hundred thirty-four assessable patients with stage II-IV large-cell lymphoma (LCL) were treated with the combination chemotherapy regimen methotrexate with leucovorin, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dexamethasone (m-BACOD) between July 1981 and May 1986. The m-BACOD regimen substituted moderate-dose methotrexate (200 mg/m2 x 2) for the high-dose methotrexate used in the preceding M-BACOD regimen; all other drugs were administered as with m-BACOD. Eighty-two patients (61%) in the completed m-BACOD trial achieved a complete response (CR). With a median follow-up of 3.6 years, 62 patients (76%) continue in CR. Predicted survivals of 1, 3, and 5 years for the entire m-BACOD group are 80%, 63%, and 60%, respectively, with a 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) of 74% for the patients who achieve CR. The results obtained with m-BACOD are comparable with those obtained in the preceding M-BACOD trial, which now has a median follow-up of 8.0 years. The reduction in methotrexate dosage in m-BACOD patients was not associated with an increased incidence of CNS relapse. Long-term follow-up of the 215 M/m-BACOD patients indicates that the regimens are not associated with an increased incidence of secondary malignancy. Prolonged follow-up also indicates that advanced-stage patients have a persistent rate of late relapse of about 7.0% per year for years 2 to 5 of their follow-up and that stage II patients have an approximate 2.1% per year rate of late relapse. Application of the previously described prognostic factor model to the 215 M/m-BACOD patients from the completed trials identifies a high-risk group of patients with a CR rate and predicted 5-year survival (38% and 24%, respectively) that are significantly worse than those of the group as a whole (65% and 57%, respectively).
Gemcitabine monotherapy is the standard palliative chemotherapy for pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Gemcitabine requires plasma membrane nucleoside transporter proteins to efficiently enter cells and exert it cytotoxicity. In vitro studies have demonstrated that deficiency of human equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 (hENT1), the most widely abundant and distributed nucleoside transporter in human cells, confers resistance to gemcitabine toxicity, but the distribution and abundance of nucleoside transporters in normal and malignant pancreatic tissue is unknown.
We studied tumor blocks from normal pancreas and 21 Alberta patients with gemcitabine-treated pancreatic cancer. Immunohistochemistry on the formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues was performed with specific hENT1 and human Concentrative Nucleoside Transporter 3 monoclonal antibodies and scored by a pathologist blinded to clinical outcomes.
hENT1 was detected in normal Langerhan cells and lymphocytes but not in normal glandular elements. Patients in whom all adenocarcinoma cells had detectable hENT1 had significantly longer median survivals from gemcitabine initiation than those for whom hENT1 was absent in a proportion (10 to 100%) of adenocarcinoma cells (median survival, 13 versus 4 months, P = 0.01). Immunohistochemistry for human Concentrative Nucleoside Transporter 3 revealed moderate to high-intensity staining in all adenocarcinoma tissue samples.
Patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma with uniformly detectable hENT1 immunostaining have a significantly longer survival after gemcitabine chemotherapy than tumors without detectable hENT1. Immunohistochemistry for hENT1 shows promise as a molecular predictive assay to appropriately select patients for palliative gemcitabine chemotherapy but requires formal validation in prospective, randomized trials.
Rosiglitazone was found associated with approximately a 43% increase in risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in a two meta-analyses of clinical trials. Our objective is to estimate the magnitude of the association in real-world patients previously treated with metformin.
We conducted a nested case control study in British Columbia using health care databases on 4.3 million people. Our cohort consisted of 158,578 patients with Type 2 diabetes who used metformin as first-line drug treatment. We matched 2,244 cases of myocardial infarction (AMI) with up to 4 controls. Conditional logistic regression models were used to estimate matched odds ratios for AMI associated with treatment with rosiglitazone, pioglitazone and sulfonylureas.
In our cohort of prior metformin users, adding rosiglitazone for up to 6 months was not associated with an increased risk of AMI compared to adding a sulfonylurea (odds ratio [OR] 1.38; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.91-2.10), or compared to adding pioglitazone (OR for rosi versus pio 1.41; 95% CI, 0.74-2.66). There were also no significant differences between rosiglitazone, pioglitazone and sulfonylureas for longer durations of treatment. Though not significantly different from sulfonylureas, there was a transient increase in AMI risk associated with the first 6 months of treatment with a glitazone compared to not using the treatment (OR 1.53; 95% CI, 1.13-2.07)
In our British Columbia cohort of patients who received metformin as first-line pharmacotherapy for Type 2 diabetes mellitus, further treatment with rosiglitazone did not increase the risk of AMI compared to patients who were treated with pioglitazone or a sulfonylurea. Though not statistically significantly different compared from each other, an increased risk of AMI observed after starting rosiglitazone or sulfonylureas is a matter of concern that requires more research.
Studies performed in adult patients unambiguously demonstrate a marked effect of risperidone on prolactin blood levels, with possible clinical effects related to hyperprolactinemia, such as gynecomastia and galactorrhea. However, the largest study performed in children and adolescents showed a weak effect of risperidone on prolactin concentrations during short-term treatment and a negligible effect during long-term treatment, which was probably because of the relatively low dosages of risperidone used [approximately 0.04 mg/(kg x d)]. Among the 10 psychotic adolescents treated with risperidone in our unit, we had 3 cases of gynecomastia in 3 male patients and 2 cases of galactorrhea in 2 female patients. The prolactin blood levels in these cases and in 3 other patients without apparent prolactin-related side effects were all above the normal range (median, 59 ng/mL; range, 30-123 ng/mL). Thus, risperidone administered to adolescents at doses commonly used for the treatment of psychotic symptoms can strongly increase prolactin levels, with clinical consequences such as gynecomastia and/or galactorrhea. Given that the long-term effects of antipsychotic drug-induced hyperprolactinemia are not well documented, especially regarding osteopenia, infertility, growth, and pubertal delay, risperidone should be administered with caution to children and adolescents.
Few therapeutic options are available for malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs), the most common malignancy associated with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). Guided by clinical observations suggesting that some NF1-associated nerve sheath tumors are hormonally responsive, we hypothesized that the selective estrogen receptor (ER) modulator tamoxifen would inhibit MPNST tumorigenesis in vitro and in vivo. To test this hypothesis, we examined tamoxifen effects on MPNST cell proliferation and survival, MPNST xenograft growth, and the mechanism by which tamoxifen impeded these processes. We found that 1-5 μM 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen induced MPNST cell death, whereas 0.01-0.1 μM 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen inhibited mitogenesis. Dermal and plexiform neurofibromas, MPNSTs, and MPNST cell lines expressed ERβ and G-protein-coupled ER-1 (GPER); MPNSTs also expressed estrogen biosynthetic enzymes. However, MPNST cells did not secrete 17β-estradiol, exogenous 17β-estradiol did not stimulate mitogenesis or rescue 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen effects on MPNST cells, and the steroidal antiestrogen ICI-182,780 did not mimic tamoxifen effects on MPNST cells. Further, ablation of ERβ and GPER had no effect on MPNST proliferation, survival, or tamoxifen sensitivity, indicating that tamoxifen acts via an ER-independent mechanism. Consistent with this hypothesis, inhibitors of calmodulin (trifluoperazine, W-7), another known tamoxifen target, recapitulated 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen effects on MPNST cells. Tamoxifen was also effective in vivo, demonstrating potent antitumor activity in mice orthotopically xenografted with human MPNST cells. We conclude that 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen inhibits MPNST cell proliferation and survival via an ER-independent mechanism. The in vivo effectiveness of tamoxifen provides a rationale for clinical trials in cases of MPNSTs.
Seven patients with hematologic malignancies who were treated with miconazole for either suspected or proven fungal infections developed eight episodes of major adverse cardiorespiratory and anaphylactic reactions. All the episodes occurred after the first dose was administered, and the seven patients recovered without sequelae after the drug was withdrawn. None of them had a history of cardiac disease, and with the possible exception of one case of cardiac arrest, where the patient received doxorubicin, no predisposing factors could be found. The rate and length of administration, as well as the dose, should be carefully monitored to avoid these complications.
To explore the influences of rapamycin (RAPA) upon the cytokine changes of activated spleen γδT lymphocytes and lung tissue macrophages in acute lung injury of mice induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS).
A total of 24 healthy male C57BL/6 mice, 6-8 weeks old, were randomly divided into phosphate buffered saline (PBS), LPS, RAPA and LPS + RAPA groups. Acute lung injury was induced by a single intratracheal instillation of LPS in mice. And spleen γδT lymphocytes and lung macrophages were purified by immunomagnetic beads at Day 1. The purified spleen γδT lymphocytes and lung macrophages were adjusted to 10(6) cell/ml. And 24-well plates were used for 4 groups. Each group were further separated with spleen γδT lymphocytes alone, lung tissue macrophages alone and co-culturing. Supernatant fluid was collected after 24 hours. The expressions of IFN-γ and TNF-α were analyzed by ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay). And the expressions of mRNA were analyzed by real-time quantitative PCR (polymerase chain reaction).
The total cells numbers and lymphocytes numbers of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were significantly higher in LPS group than those in PBS and LPS + RAPA groups (P < 0.05). And the level of IFN-γ was significantly higher in LPS group than that in PBS, RAPA and LPS + RAPA groups by co-culture (P < 0.05). The level of TNF-α was significantly higher in LPS group than that in RAPA gand LPS + RAPA groups by co-culture (P < 0.05). However, the mRNA of IFN-γ was higher in LPS group than that in PBS and RAPA groups (P < 0.05).
RAPA inhibits the secretion levels of IFN-γ and TNF-α in spleen γδT lymphocytes and lung tissue macrophages in acute lung injury of mice induced by LPS.
To describe a complication of low-molecular-weight heparin (enoxaparin) in the setting of critically ill patients.
Case report.
The medical and surgical intensive care units of a tertiary care university teaching hospital.
Two adult patients receiving enoxaparin developed retroperitoneal hematoma and abdominal compartment syndrome. Both patients became anuric and required high-dose intravenous fluids and vasopressors to maintain blood pressure.
Discontinuation of enoxaparin, followed by exploratory laparotomy and evacuation of the hematoma.
Immediate clinical improvement following evacuation of hematoma.
High-risk patients receiving low-molecular-weight heparin should be identified and closely monitored to prevent serious bleeding complications.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a neurotoxic drug of abuse that damages the dopamine (DA) neuronal system in a highly delimited manner. The brain structure most affected by METH is the striatum where long-term DA depletion and microglial activation are maximal. Endogenous DA has been implicated as a critical participant in METH-induced neurotoxicity, most likely as a substrate for non-enzymatic oxidation by METH-generated reactive oxygen species. The striatum is also extensively innervated by serotonin (5HT) nerve endings and this neurochemical system is modified by METH in much the same manner as seen in DA nerve endings (i.e., increased release of 5HT, loss of function in tryptophan hydroxylase and the serotonin transporter, long-term depletion of 5HT stores). 5HT can also be modified by reactive oxygen species to form highly reactive species that damage neurons but its role in METH neurotoxicity has not been assessed. Increases in 5HT levels with 5-hydroxytryptophan do not change METH-induced neurotoxicity to the DA nerve endings as revealed by reductions in DA, tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter levels. Partial reductions in 5HT with p-chlorophenylalanine are without effect on METH toxicity, despite the fact that p-chlorophenylalanine largely prevents METH-induced hyperthermia. Mice lacking the gene for brain tryptophan hydroxylase 2 are devoid of brain 5HT and respond to METH in the same manner as wild-type controls, despite showing enhanced drug-induced hyperthermia. Taken together, the present results indicate that endogenous 5HT does not appear to play a role in METH-induced damage to DA nerve endings of the striatum.
A 28-year-old woman experienced a confusional attack with hallucinations associated with moderate motor deficiency of the lower limbs during treatment with disulfiram 1 g/day. Later on, a temporary increase in disulfiram dosage to 1.75 g/day was followed by quadriplegia and paralysis of the facial and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Paralysis regressed rapidly in the cranial and upper limb areas, but very slowly in the lower limbs. Disulfiram-induced peripheral neuropathies are not uncommon. They may take various forms, such as optic neuritis, polyneuritis of the limbs and, exceptionally, severe multiple paralysis with psychic disorders, as in the case reported here.
A randomised, multicentre, double-blind, placebo controlled trial was conducted in Chinese patients with chronic hepatitis B to compare the efficacy of once-daily lamivudine and placebo on serum HBV DNA, and to assess the long-term efficacy and safety of lamivudine. Patients received lamivudine 100 mg (n = 322) or placebo (n = 107) once daily for 12 weeks, and were then offered open-label lamivudine treatment for 2 years. Lamivudine therapy resulted in increased hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) loss and seroconversion (loss of HBeAg plus the development of antibodies to HBeAg) in patients with high baseline serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) concentrations. At 2 years, loss of HBeAg was achieved by 27% (38/140), 38% (25/66) and 60% (9/15), and seroconversion was achieved by 17% (24/140), 24% (16/66) and 33% (5/15) of patients with baseline serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) concentrations of >1 x upper limit of normal (ULN), >2 x ULN and >5 x ULN, respectively. With lamivudine treatment, serum HBV DNA decreased rapidly to very low concentrations and remained low throughout the 2 years of the study. At 1 year, 15% (43/295) of patients in the lamivudine group had developed YMDD (tyrosine-methionine-aspartate-aspartate amino acid motif of HBV polymerase) variant HBV. These patients derived clinical benefit with continued lamivudine therapy, demonstrated by serum HBV DNA and ALT concentrations below baseline, or normal serum ALT concentrations. Lamivudine was well tolerated and an effective once-daily oral therapy for Chinese patients with chronic hepatitis B with viral replication and liver disease.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3); ATO, TRISENOX®) is used to treat patients with refractory or relapsed acute promyelocytic leukaemia while its application for treatment of solid cancers like glioblastoma is still under evaluation. In the present study, we investigated the interaction of arsenic trioxide with metallothionein (MT) isoforms as a possible (protective response) resistance of glioblastoma cells to arsenic-induced cytotoxicity. Special attention was focused on MT3, the isoform expressed mainly in the brain. MT3 has low metal inducibility, fast metal binding/releasing properties and outstanding neuronal inhibitory activity. The human astrocytoma (glioblastoma) cell line U87 MG was treated with 0.6, 2 and 6-7 μM arsenic (equivalent to 0.3, 1 and 3-3.5 μM As(2)O(3)) for 12, 24 or 48 h and gene expression for different MT isoforms, namely MT2A, MT1A, MT1F, MT1X, MT1E and MT3, was measured by real time qPCR using SYBR Green I and Taqman® gene expression assays. TfR, 18S rRNA, GAPDH and AB were tested as reference genes, and the last two evaluated to be appropriate in conditions of low (GAPDH) and high (AB) arsenic exposure. The gene expression of MT3 gene was additionally tested and confirmed by restriction enzyme analysis with PvuII. In the given conditions the mRNAs of six MT isoforms were identified in human glioblastoma cell line U87 MG. Depending on arsenic exposure conditions, an increase or decrease of MT gene expression was observed for each isoform, with the highest increase for isoforms MT1X, MT1F and MT2A mRNA (up to 13-fold) and more persistent decreases for MT1A, MT1E and MT3 mRNA. Despite the common assumption of the noninducibility of MT3, the evident MT3 mRNA increase was observed during high As exposure (up to 4-fold). In conclusion, our results clearly demonstrate the influence of As on MT isoform gene expression. The MT1X, MT1F and MT2A increase could represent brain tumour acquired resistance to As cytotoxicity while the MT3 increase is more enigmatic, with its possible involvement in arsenic-related induction of type II cell death.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that an increase in intracellular levels of Ca(2+) in neurons is an important component of both the antinociception produced by morphine and morphine's tolerance. The present study tested the hypothesis that the Ca(2+) signaling second messenger, cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPR), derived from CD38 activation participates in morphine antinociception and tolerance. We first showed that morphine's antinociceptive potency was increased by the intracerebroventricular injection of CD38 substrate beta-NAD(+) in mice. Furthermore, morphine tolerance was reversed by intracerebroventricular administration of each of three different inhibitors of the CD38-cADPR-ryanodine receptor Ca(2+) signaling pathway. These inhibitors were the ADP-ribosylcyclase inhibitor nicotinamide, cADPR analog 8-bromo-cADPR, and a large dose of ryanodine (>50 muM) that blocks the ryanodine receptor. In CD38 gene knockout [CD38(-/-)] mice, the antinociceptive action of morphine was found to be less potent compared with wild-type (WT) mice, as measured by tail-flick response, hypothermia assay, and observations of straub tail. However, there was no difference in locomotor activation between CD38(-/-) and WT animals. It was also found that less tolerance to morphine developed in CD38(-/-) mice compared with WT animals. These results indicate that cADRP-ryanodine receptor Ca(2+) signaling associated with CD38 plays an important role in morphine tolerance.
Oxidized lipids and proteins, as well as decreased antioxidant levels, have been detected in human atherosclerotic lesions, with oxidation catalyzed by iron and copper postulated to contribute to lesion development. Zinc has been postulated to displace iron from critical sites and thereby protect against damage. In this study, metal ion and protein oxidation levels were quantified in human carotid and abdominal artery specimens containing early-to-advanced lesions, to determine whether zinc concentrations correlate inversely with iron levels and protein oxidation.
Metal ions were quantified by EPR and inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy. Native and oxidized protein side-chains were quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography. Elevated levels of zinc ( approximately 6-fold) were detected in advanced lesions compared to healthy tissue or early lesions. Zinc did not correlate negatively with iron or copper levels suggesting that zinc does not displace these metal ions. Highly significant positive correlations (P<0.005) were detected between zinc and calcium levels.
Zinc did not correlate with low iron levels and reduced protein oxidation. These data indicate that zinc does not prevent protein oxidation in advanced lesions. The reported protective effect of zinc accumulation is proposed to be associated with lesion calcification.
Digoxin excess can produce characteristic bradyarrhythmias, tachyarrhythmias, and hyperkalemia. The bradyarrhythmias, which consist of disturbances in conduction and block at the level of the atrioventricular and sinus nodes, are mediated by a direct and vagotonic effect. The vagotonic effect of excess digoxin may also result in a marked slowing of the sinus rate in the setting of severe toxicity. Digoxin increases automatic and triggered electrical activity in atrial muscle, His-Purkinje system, and ventricular muscle, which predisposes to tachycardias. Many of the tachyarrhythmias are relatively specific for the toxic effects of digoxin. Atrial tachycardias with variable atrioventricular block, accelerated junctional rhythms (especially in the setting of atrial fibrillation), and fascicular tachycardias are characteristic digoxin toxic rhythms. Digoxin-specific antibody fragments should be considered the treatment of choice for any digoxin toxic arrhythmia associated with hemodynamic compromise or the threat of hemodynamic compromise. Hyperkalemia, when due to acute severe digoxin toxicity, is also an appropriate indication for digoxin-specific Fab fragment therapy. When assessing the risk:benefit ratio for using digoxin-specific Fab fragment therapy, one needs to determine, in addition to the electrocardiographic manifestations and patient's hemodynamic status (1) the severity of toxicity, as indexed by the amount ingested and/or the serum digoxin concentration; (2) the expected time course for reversal of toxicity, which is usually determined by the status of renal function; (3) the need for digoxin to provide ventricular rate control or improved ventricular contractility and therapeutic alternatives to digoxin; (4) the presence of a strong allergy history; (5) the presence of such factors as increased age and severity of heart disease that may predispose to digoxin toxicity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Complete thrombotic occlusion of the arterial blood flow in the upper extremity was produced after mixture of Isovue 370 (iopamidol) and papaverine hydrochloride during routine angiography. Bolus and then continuous infusion of urokinase failed to dissolve the thrombus. The patient required a surgical thrombectomy and recovered uneventfully. This case report demonstrates that caution should be exercised when Isovue 370 and papaverine are used in angiography.
To evaluate the next-day residual effects of the novel hypnotic, gaboxadol, following bedtime dosing in healthy elderly subjects.
Healthy women (N = 15) and men (N = 10) aged 65-79 years received a single bedtime (22:00 h) dose of gaboxadol 10 mg, flurazepam 30 mg (positive control), and placebo in a randomized, double-blind, crossover study. Measures of information processing and psychomotor performance (choice reaction time, critical flicker fusion, digit symbol substitution, compensatory tracking, body sway), memory (immediate and delayed word recall), and daytime sleepiness (Multiple Sleep Latency Test), as well as subjective ratings (line analog rating scales, Leeds Sleep Evaluation Questionnaire), were obtained starting at 07:00 h the following morning. Adverse events were recorded.
Gaboxadol did not show next-day impairments versus placebo on any pharmacodynamic measures whereas the positive control, flurazepam, did show impairments versus placebo on most measures. Gaboxadol showed improvements versus placebo on some measures including subjective rating of next-day alertness/clumsiness on the Leeds Sleep Evaluation Questionnaire. Gaboxadol was generally well-tolerated; there were no serious adverse experiences and no subjects discontinued due to an adverse experience.
A single oral bedtime dose of gaboxadol 10 mg did not have next-day residual effects in healthy elderly subjects, as measured by a range of pharmacodynamic assessments, in contrast to the clear impairments produced by flurazepam 30 mg.
Mitoxantrone (MITO) is associated with dose-related cardiotoxicity when administered concomitantly with other cytotoxic agents with or without radiotherapy for leukemia and solid tumors.
To review observed cardiotoxicity of single-agent MITO therapy for MS.
Records of 1,378 patients from three clinical trials of MITO treatment for MS were reviewed for signs and symptoms of cardiac dysfunction and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) results. Duration of follow-up was a median of 29 months (4,084 patient-years).
No patients experienced congestive heart failure (CHF) before treatment. Cumulative MITO doses ranged from 2 to 183 mg/m(2) (mean 60.5 mg/m(2), median 62.5 mg/m(2)), and 141 patients received >100 mg/m(2). Two of 1,378 patients experienced CHF after initiating MITO therapy. Of 1,378 patients, 779 completed baseline and scheduled follow-up LVEF testing. Baseline LVEF was >50% in all 779 patients. Seventeen of 779 patients had asymptomatic LVEF of <50% (incidence proportion = 2.18%, 95% CI = 1.28 to 3.47%). Although the incidence of asymptomatic LVEF of <50% was not significantly related to monthly versus 3-monthly therapy, duration of therapy, age, or gender, asymptomatic LVEF of <50% trended higher with a cumulative dose of >/=100 mg/m(2) (5.0%) than with <100 mg/m(2) (1.8%) (p = 0.06).
The observed incidence of CHF in patients with MS who received a mean cumulative dose of 60.5 mg/m(2) MITO was <0.20%. Continued monitoring of patients with MS who are receiving MITO is needed to determine whether the incidence of CHF increases with higher cumulative MITO doses and prolonged follow-up.
