Local pain on injection of propofol remains a considerable problem in clinical anaesthesiology. As slow infusion of a low dose of propofol induces little or no pain at the site of injection, and as propofol-induced pain fades during prolonged exposure, this randomized, double-blind, clinical cross-over study was designed to test whether pain on injection of propofol is attenuated by initial slow injection of a low dose of propofol by the same intravenous line.
Seventy-seven adult surgical patients were cannulated in a dorsal vein on each hand. In each cannula, a 0.5-ml priming dose of either propofol 10 mg/ml dissolved in an emulsion of medium- and long-chain triglycerides or aqueous sodium chloride 9.0 mg/ml was injected over 30 s, and followed 120 s later by a main dose of 2.0 ml of the same propofol formula over 6 s. After each injection, the patients were asked by a blind investigator to score the maximal pain intensity on a visual analogue scale (VAS).
Although the decrease in maximal pain intensity did not reach statistical significance (P= 0.070), significantly fewer patients reported moderate or severe pain intensity (corresponding to 3.0 VAS units or more) after the main dose of propofol was preceded by a priming dose of propofol than by sodium chloride (P= 0.041).
The incidence of moderate to severe local pain induced by intravenous propofol can be decreased by a readily applicable technique in which a low dose of propofol emulsion is slowly administered by the same intravenous route 2 min in advance.
The effects of intrathecal administration of prostaglandins on pain responses in conscious mice were evaluated by using hot plate and acetic acid writhing tests. Prostaglandin D2 (0.5-3 ng/mouse) had a hyperalgesic action on the response to a hot plate during a 3-60 min period after injection. Prostaglandin E2 showed a hyperalgesic effect at doses of 1 pg to 10 ng/mouse, but the effect lasted shorter (3-30 min) than that of prostaglandin D2. Similar results were obtained by acetic acid writhing tests. The hyperalgesic effect of prostaglandin D2 was blocked by simultaneous injection of a substance P antagonist (greater than or equal to 100 ng) but not by AH6809, a prostanoid EP1-receptor antagonist. Conversely, prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia was blocked by AH6809 (greater than or equal to 500 ng) but not by the substance P antagonist. Prostaglandin F2 alpha had little effect on pain responses. These results demonstrate that both prostaglandin D2 and prostaglandin E2 exert hyperalgesia in the spinal cord, but in different ways.
Sera from 71 patients with acute liver injury have been tested for antibodies to hepatocyte membrane lipoprotein complex (LSP) using a sensitive radioimmunoassay. Two main patterns of anti-LSP response were seen. In the first, seen in patients with type A and B viral hepatitis, anti-LSP antibodies were detectable at presentation, with the highest titres two to 10 days before the peak in serum aminotransferases and, in the hepatitis B patients, when viral DNA polymerase concentrations were still high, indicating active viral replication. These findings are consistent with the anti-LSP response being consequent on an interaction between T cells and neoantigens on the liver cell surface. A similar pattern was found in halothane hepatitis where immune responses to a halothane-altered liver membrane antigen are present early in the course of the disease. In the second type of response, exemplified by cases with paracetamol-induced hepatic necrosis, anti-LSP was only occasionally detectable at presentation, although present in very low titre later in the clinical course. This may be due to the release of altered antigen at the time of hepatocellular injury. The same pattern was found in a selected group of patients with uncomplicated acute alcoholic hepatitis, suggesting that in both these groups of patients the liver damage may have been due to a direct toxic effect on liver cells.
The toxicity profile of the antidepressant drug sertraline was determined in a series of preclinical studies in mice, rats, rabbits and dogs. Acute, subchronic, reproductive, chronic and carcinogenicity studies were conducted by the oral route. The highest doses tested in these studies were the maximum tolerated doses based on clinical signs, decreased food consumption, body weight effects, organ weight changes or clinical/anatomical pathology findings. Genetic toxicity studies were also performed. The liver was identified as a target organ in the mouse, rat and dog. The observed liver findings were consistent with hepatic xenobiotic-metabolizing enzyme induction and included hepatomegaly, hepatocellular hypertrophy, slightly increased serum transaminase activity and proliferation of smooth endoplasmic reticulum. Hepatocellular fatty change, a minimal toxic effect, was seen in mice and rats. There was no teratogenicity in studies conducted at maternally toxic doses in rats and rabbits. Decreased neonatal survival and growth observed in these studies have been previously reported in reproduction studies with serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Sertraline was not genotoxic in an extensive battery of tests. Carcinogenicity tests were negative in rats, while benign liver tumors were slightly increased in drug-treated male mice. Liver tumors were considered secondary to the enzyme inducing potential of sertraline and not indicative of human risk.
Background. Allicin has anti-inflammatory, antioxidative and proapoptotic properties. Aims. To evaluate the effects and investigate the mechanism of allicin on trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid-induced colitis, specifically with mesalazine or sulfasalazine. Methods. 80 rats were divided equally into 8 groups: control; trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; allicin prevention; allicin; mesalazine; sulfasalazine; allicin + sulfasalazine, and mesalazine + allicin. Systemic and colonic inflammation parameters were analysed. In addition, protein and culture medium of Caco-2 cells treated with various concentrations of IL-1β or allicin were collected for investigation of IL-8, NF-κB p65 P38, ERK, and JNK. One-way ANOVA and Kruskal-Wallis H test were used for parametric and nonparametric tests, respectively. Results. Allicin reduced the body weight loss of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid-induced rats, histological score, serum TNF-α and IL-1β levels, and colon IL-1β mRNA level and induced serum IL-4 level, particularly in combination with mesalazine. In addition, 1 ng/mL IL-1β stimulated the P38, ERK, and JNK pathways, whereas pretreatment with allicin depressed this phenomenon, except for the ERK pathway. Conclusions. The inflammation induced by trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid is mitigated significantly by allicin treatment, particularly combined with mesalazine. Allicin inhibits the P38 and JNK pathways and the expression of NF-κB which explained the potential anti-inflammatory mechanisms of allicin.
Iatrogenic sexual dysfunction has been associated with many pharmacologic agents. The authors report 6 cases of orgasm dysfunction associated with the use of fluorxetine in 77 depressed outpatients. Fluoxetine is a novel antidepressant known to block the reuptake of serotonin with little effect on other neurotransmitter systems. Because fluoxetine has a specific mechanism of action, it serves as a useful model to hypothesize about potential mechanisms of drug-induced sexual dysfunction. The possible effects of serotonin on central, spinal, and peripheral anatomical areas are discussed in relation to drug-induced sexual dysfunction.
To test the reported antipanic efficacy of clonazepam, the authors randomized 72 subjects with panic disorder to 6 weeks of treatment with either alprazolam, clonazepam, or placebo. Endpoint analysis demonstrated a significant beneficial effect of both active treatments, but not placebo treatment, on the frequency of panic attacks, overall phobia ratings, and the extent of disability. Comparison of the two active treatments revealed no significant differences and no consistent tendency for one agent to be favored over another, although power to detect small differences was limited. Sedation and ataxia were the most common side effects reported, but these effects were mild and transient and did not interfere with treatment outcome. The results of this double-blind, placebo-controlled trial are consistent with previous reports of clonazepam's antipanic efficacy.
DNA hypermethylation events and other epimutations occur in many neoplasms, producing gene expression changes that contribute to neoplastic transformation, tumorigenesis, and tumor behavior. Some human cancers exhibit a hypermethylator phenotype, characterized by concurrent DNA methylation-dependent silencing of multiple genes. To determine if a hypermethylation defect occurs in breast cancer, the expression profile and promoter methylation status of methylation-sensitive genes were evaluated among breast cancer cell lines.
The relationship between gene expression (assessed by RT-PCR and quantitative real-time PCR), promoter methylation (assessed by methylation-specific PCR, bisulfite sequencing, and 5-aza-2'deoxycytidine treatment), and the DNA methyltransferase machinery (total DNMT activity and expression of DNMT1, DNMT3a, and DNMT3b proteins) were examined in 12 breast cancer cell lines. Unsupervised cluster analysis of the expression of 64 methylation-sensitive genes revealed two groups of cell lines that possess distinct methylation signatures: (i) hypermethylator cell lines, and (ii) low-frequency methylator cell lines. The hypermethylator cell lines are characterized by high rates of concurrent methylation of six genes (CDH1, CEACAM6, CST6, ESR1, LCN2, SCNN1A), whereas the low-frequency methylator cell lines do not methylate these genes. Hypermethylator cell lines coordinately overexpress total DNMT activity and DNMT3b protein levels compared to normal breast epithelial cells. In contrast, most low-frequency methylator cell lines possess DNMT activity and protein levels that are indistinguishable from normal. Microarray data mining identified a strong cluster of primary breast tumors that express the hypermethylation signature defined by CDH1, CEACAM6, CST6, ESR1, LCN2, and SCNN1A. This subset of breast cancers represents 18/88 (20%) tumors in the dataset analyzed, and 100% of these tumors were classified as basal-like, suggesting that the hypermethylator defect cosegregates with poor prognosis breast cancers.
These observations combine to strongly suggest that: (a) a subset of breast cancer cell lines express a hypermethylator phenotype, (b) the hypermethylation defect in these breast cancer cell lines is related to aberrant overexpression of DNMT activity, (c) overexpression of DNMT3b protein significantly contributes to the elevated DNMT activity observed in tumor cells expressing this phenotype, and (d) the six-gene hypermethylator signature characterized in breast cancer cell lines defines a distinct cluster of primary basal-like breast cancers.
A 109-year-old woman was hospitalized with myocardial infarction in the geriatric long-term care ward of our hospital. Her medical history was unknown, and she was receiving only peroral 20 mg/day furosemide. Her medical records at another hospital revealed that she had been given a previous diagnosis of myocardial infarction of the anteroseptal wall of the left ventricle by a cardiovascular specialist approximately 10 years previously. Although treatment with cardiovascular drugs such as an angiotensin II receptor blocker, aspirin, and spironolactone had been started, it was discontinued because of her hospital transfer and change in her attending physician. Because of aggravation of the symptoms of cardiac failure caused by infection, treatment with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor temocapril (1 mg/day), spironolactone (12.5 mg/day), aspirin (100 mg/day), and a beta-adrenoceptor blocker carvedilol (2 mg/day) was tentatively initiated. Consequently, her B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) level improved and her condition stabilized. She finally died of old age. Both inappropriate sharing of patient information among medical facilities and restrictions on medical care in Japanese health care system for the elderly may lead to improper and/or inadequate medical treatment for elderly patients. Although little evidence is available to support medical care for centenarians, treatment which is based on a thorough understanding of their physiological characteristics enables us to improve their quality of life.
200 adolescent (Group I) and 200 adult male Sprague Dawley rats (Group II) were divided into 4 subgroups of 50 animals each. Animals were treated on the 29th (Group I) or 98th day of life (Group II) either with acetone or Amuno carrier in acetone or Amuno on acetone (2.5 mg indomethacin/100 g animal weight in acetone) or with the pure substance indomethacin 2.5 mg/100 g of animal weight in acetone, giving a single application on the shaved dorsal skin. Subsequently the animals remained under observation until their deaths, followed by autopsy and histopathologic examination of several organs. The rats treated with Amuno of indomethacin in the adolescent stage showed lower body weights and a shorter total survival time. The adolescent animals treated with Amuno or indomethacin showed a significantly higher rate of interstitial testicular tumors of the Leydig tumor type, adenomas and adenocarcinomas of the small and large intestine as well as hepatocellular tumors. The total number of neoplasias was higher in the animals treated with Amuno or indomethacin compared to those treated with acetone or carrier with acetone. Application of Amuno or indomethacin also resulted in a higher rate of hyperplasias (sole of foot, lymph nodes, prostate). The impairment of the synthesis of prostaglandins caused by indomethacin apparently results in starting complex pathomechanisms which have effects until the late death of the animals. Adolescent animals were affected more frequently by the application of indomethacin as were already adult animals.
An autopsy case of disseminated necrotizing leukoencephalopathy in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma associated with high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) is reported. The patient was a 5-year-old girl, who was admitted to Hamamatsu University School of Medicine because of an abdominal mass in April, 1984. She was diagnosed as having diffuse lymphoma, medium cell type, according to the LSG classification of a biopsied specimen of the liver mass and great omental lymph nodes. Chemotherapy containing HD-MTX was given until the first bone marrow relapse occurred in September, 1985. Subsequently, the physical and CT findings were normal except for decrement of deep tendon reflex, though slight gait disturbance was apparent. In serial spectral EEG analysis, the alpha/s ratio showed slowing activity upon administration of HD-MTX, and it became irreversible. In June, 1986, second bone marrow relapse occurred, and the patient died in July, 1986. At necropsy, multifocal necroses and extensive spongiosis in the white matter of the parietal and occipital lobes were revealed in the bilateral hemispheres of the cerebrum and cerebellum. Irregular confluent demyelination and necroses were also present in the brain stem, especially the pons. Therefore, serial EEG analysis might be a means of achieving early detection of leukoencephalopathy in HD-MTX-treated patients.
We report a patient with cervical hematomyelia associated with oral anticoagulant therapy, which is a very rare case. Intraspinal hemorrhage is a rare but life-threatening complication of anticoagulant therapy. Early diagnosis by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) prevents major morbidity and mortality from intraspinal hemorrhage.
A total of 235 patients with diagnoses of Alzheimer's dementia together with psychotic and/or affective symptomatology, as well as behavioral disturbances was included in an open label postmarketing surveillance study. The study objectives were to asses: 1) risperidone efficiency in psychotic and affective symptomatology and behavioral disturbances; 2) risperidone influence in the patient's performance, 3) dosage range at which efficiency is observed; and 4) safety in this group of patients. Patients were observed during a six month period. Risperidone was used at a mean dosage of 1.23 +/- 0.86 mg daily (range: 0.5-4.5 mg daily).
Risperidone was assessed by the Clinical Global Impression (CGI), Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS), Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), Clinical Deterioration Rating (CDR), UKU subscale for neurological side effects and spontaneous reports. Patients were evaluated at baseline, 15 days and months 1, 2, 4 and 6. Sixteen patients (6.8%) were excluded from the statistical analysis due to protocol violation. Fifty four patients (24.7%) dropped out.
Risperidone produced a significant improvement in the mean total scores of CGI, NPI, GDS (patient's satisfaction, hope.) and CDR (judgment and problem solving, community affairs, hobbies.) scales. Extrapyramidal symptoms improved from day 15 onwards in patients who had received antipsychotic treatment previously; in naive treated patients these symptoms did not change during the study period.
Risperidone was well tolerated. Only 6 (2. 7%) discontinued treatment due to adverse events. Ninety seven percent of the patients did not suffer any adverse event; the resting 2.7% suffered one or more side effects: sedation (1.4%), constipation (0.5%) and vomiting (0.5%) among others.
Human brain natriuretic peptide (hBNP) is a cardiac-derived peptide hormone with potent hemodynamic and renal effects in dogs, monkeys, and humans, but not in rats. At present there is no small animal model to study the actions of hBNP. These studies describe the effects of hBNP in New Zealand White rabbits in normotensive and acute norepinephrine-induced hypertensive states. Intravenous administration of hBNP (1, 3, 10, and 30 microg/kg) to anesthetized rabbits resulted in a dose-dependent diuresis and natriuresis and a decrease in systolic blood pressure. Bolus administration of hBNP resulted in a time- and dose-dependent accumulation of plasma cyclic GMP, consistent with activation of a particulate guanylyl cyclase receptor. The hemodynamic actions of hBNP suggest clinical utility for the management of acute hypertension associated with numerous surgical procedures, a condition linked to catecholamine activation. In rabbits with norepinephrine-induced acute hypertension, bolus and continuous infusion of hBNP markedly reduced blood pressure. These studies demonstrate that the rabbit is a useful species to study the hemodynamic and renal effects of hBNP and that this peptide may have therapeutic utility for the acute reduction of hypertension associated with catecholamine activation.
The effect of concurrent administration of phenobarbital on the hepatocarcinogenicity of N-nitrosodiethylamine (diethylnitrosamine; DENA) in rats was investigated by determination of the incidence of gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase) (GGT)-positive foci and liver tumors. Male outbred Sprague-Dawley rats received either a weekly oral dose of DENA (0.08 mol/kg), phenobarbital sodium (500 ppm) in their drinking water, or DENA and phenobarbital sodium concurrently. After 16 weeks, only the animals treated concurrently with DENA and phenobarbital sodium had GGT-positive foci (3.65 foci/cm2). At 30 weeks, the group treated with DENA and phenobarbital sodium exhibited more foci (23.6 foci/cm2) compared to the group that received only DENA (3.08 foci/cm2). The average size of foci in both of the DENA-treated groups was the same. The tumors in the group that received DENA plus phenobarbital sodium showed a greater incidence of GGT activity compared to the tumors in the DENA group. Under the conditions of this study the incidence of GGT-positive foci did not predict the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas.
We performed a prospective, randomized, double-blinded, multicenter study to compare the analgesic efficacy and adverse effects of intrathecal nalbuphine, at three different doses, and intrathecal morphine for postoperative pain relief after cesarean deliveries. Ninety healthy patients at full term who were scheduled for elective cesarean delivery with spinal anesthesia were enrolled in the study. They received 10 mg of hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.5% with either morphine 0.2 mg (Group 1), nalbuphine 0.2 mg (Group 2), nalbuphine 0. 8 mg (Group 3), or nalbuphine 1.6 mg (Group 4). Only patients in Groups 1 and 2 reported pain during surgery. Postoperative analgesia lasted significantly longer in the morphine group, compared with the nalbuphine groups (P: < 0.0001). In the nalbuphine groups, postoperative analgesia lasted longest with the 0.8-mg dose. The additional increase to 1.6 mg did not increase efficacy. The incidence of pruritus was significantly higher in Group 1 (11 of 22), compared with Group 2 (0 of 22, P: < 0.0002), Group 3 (0 of 23, P: < 0.0001), and Group 4 (3 of 20, P: < 0.02). Postoperative nausea and vomiting were more frequent in Group 1 (5 of 22), compared with Group 2 (0 of 22, P: < 0.05), Group 3 (0 of 23, P: < 0.05), and Group 4 (3 of 23, not significant). There was no maternal or newborn respiratory depression. Neonatal conditions (Apgar scores and umbilical vein and artery blood gas values) were similar for all groups. This study suggests that intrathecal nalbuphine 0.8 mg provides good intraoperative and early postoperative analgesia without side effects. However, only morphine provides long-lasting analgesia.
Small doses of intrathecal nalbuphine produce fewer adverse effects, such as pruritus and postoperative nausea and vomiting, compared with intrathecal morphine. This may allow earlier discharge of patients from the recovery room.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) has been reported to have both positive and negative effects on carcinogenesis. Here, we show that the loss of c-Met signaling in hepatocytes enhanced rather than suppressed the early stages of chemical hepatocarcinogenesis. c-Met conditional knockout mice (c-metfl/fl, AlbCre+/-; MetLivKO) treated with N-nitrosodiethylamine developed significantly more and bigger tumors and with a shorter latency compared with control (w/w, AlbCre+/-; Cre-Ctrl) mice. Accelerated tumor development was associated with increased rate of cell proliferation and prolonged activation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling. MetLivKO livers treated with N-nitrosodiethylamine also displayed elevated lipid peroxidation, decreased ratio of reduced glutathione to oxidized glutathione, and up-regulation of superoxide dismutase 1 and heat shock protein 70, all consistent with increased oxidative stress. Likewise, gene expression profiling done at 3 and 5 months after N-nitrosodiethylamine treatment revealed up-regulation of genes associated with cell proliferation and stress responses in c-Met mutant livers. The negative effects of c-Met deficiency were reversed by chronic p.o. administration of antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine. N-acetyl-L-cysteine blocked the EGFR activation and reduced the N-nitrosodiethylamine-initiated hepatocarcinogenesis to the levels of Cre-Ctrl mice. These results argue that intact HGF/c-Met signaling is essential for maintaining normal redox homeostasis in the liver and has tumor suppressor effect(s) during the early stages of N-nitrosodiethylamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis.
In this study we investigated genetic polymorphisms of five metabolizing genes and their association with occupational chronic manganism. We recruited 49 patients with chronic manganism and 50 unrelated healthy control subjects who were welders and ferromanganese smelters and occupationally exposed to manganese dust and fume in the same workshops from three metallurgical industries. The controls were matched to the cases by sex, age, cigarette and alcohol intake, as well as the manganese exposure duration. Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) was used to genotype the cytochrome P450 2D6L gene (CYP2D6L) and the NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase gene (NQO1). Allele-specific PCR was used to detect the cytochrome P450 1A1 gene (CYP1A1), and the glutathione-S-transferase mu and theta genes (GSTM and GSTT). The frequency of polymorphic alleles, a mutation of CYP2D6L, was significantly lower in patients with chronic manganism (16.3%) than in controls (29.0%). Individuals with the homozygote polymorphism (L/L) of CYP2D6 had a 90% decreased risk of chronic manganism compared with the wild-type (Wt/Wt) (odds ratio =0.10, 95% confidence interval = 0.01-0.82). A significant association between the CYP2D6 genotype subgroup and the latency of chronic manganese poisoning was also found. Patients who had homozygous (L/L) or heterozygous (Wt/L) mutant alleles developed manganism an average of 10 years later than those who were homozygous wildtype (Wt/Wt). However, the allele and genotype frequencies of CYP1A1 and NQO1 genes were distributed similarly in cases and controls. In addition, no difference in the frequencies of GSTM1 and GSTT1 null genotypes were observed between cases and controls. The results suggest that CYP2D6L gene polymorphism might influence susceptibility to manganese-induced neurotoxicity. However, because of limited sample size, our results should be validated in large-scale studies.
To compare U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and manufacturer data about patient reactions to ionic and nonionic, low- and high-osmolar contrast media from 1990 through 1994.
Reactions to all available high-osmolar and four low-osmolar contrast media (ioxaglate, iohexol, iopamidol, and ioversol) were compared. Ioxaglate is composed of charged particles, and data are reported separately. Reactions were also compared with data from 1980 to 1984, when only high-osmolar contrast media were available.
With high-osmolar contrast media compared with the three noncharged low-osmolar media, the incidence (per million examinations) was highest for all reported reactions (193.8 vs 44.4), severe reactions (37.4 vs 10.5), and deaths (3.9 vs 2.1). With high-osmolar media compared with ioxaglate, respectively, the incidence of total reactions was higher (193.8 vs 142.5), of severe reactions was almost the same (37.4 vs 33.6), and of death was lower (3.9 vs 6.4). The incidence of severe reactions to total reactions was higher with nonionic media (23.7%) and ioxaglate (23.6%) than with ionic media (19.3%). The incidence of death to severe reactions was 19.7% with nonionic media, 19.0% with ioxaglate, and 10.4% with high-osmolar media. The incidence of renal failure (as a percentage of total reports) was approximately 3.6 times higher with all low-osmolar contrast media (2.3%) than with high-osmolar media (0.6%), usually in patients with pathologic cardiac conditions.
All of these factors merit consideration in the evaluation of the utility of a given contrast medium.
Endometriosis is associated with aberrant gene expression in the eutopic endometrium of women with disease. To determine if the development of endometriotic lesions directly impacts eutopic endometrial gene expression, we sequentially analyzed the eutopic endometrium across the time course of disease progression in a baboon model of induced disease. Endometriosis was induced in baboons (n = 4) by intraperitoneal inoculation of autologous menstrual endometrium. Eutopic endometria were collected during the midsecretory phase (Days 9-11 postovulation) at 1, 3, 6-7, 10-12, and 15-16 mo after disease induction and compared with tissue from disease-free baboons. RNA was hybridized to Human Genome U133 Plus 2.0 Arrays, and data were extracted using Gene-Chip Operating Software. Subsequently, both Gene Set Enrichment Analysis and Ingenuity Pathways Analysis were used to find biological states that have a statistically significant enrichment concomitant with pairwise comparison of human endometriosis arrays. Within 1 mo of induction of the disease, 4331 genes were differentially expressed (P < 0.05). Hierarchical clustering revealed self-segregation into two groups-a) 1, 3, and 10-12 mo and b) 6-7 and 15-16 mo-together with controls. Clustering analysis at each stage of disease validated dysregulation of several signaling pathways, including Nodal-like receptor, EGF, ERK/MAPK, and PI3/AKT. Sequential analysis of the same animals during disease progression demonstrated an early disease insult and a transitory dominance of an estrogenic phenotype; however, as the disease progressed, a progesterone-resistant phenotype became evident. Furthermore, we demonstrate a 38.6% differential gene expression overlap with endometrial samples in the midsecretory phase from women with endometriosis, concomitant with similar dysregulation in human disease candidate genes Fos, Nodal, Suclg2, and Kras, among others. Molecular changes in the eutopic endometrium, associated with endometriosis, are directly impacted by endometriotic lesions, providing strong evidence that it is the disease rather than inherent defective endometrium that results in aberrant gene expression in the eutopic endometrium. Furthermore, this baboon model provides a powerful means whereby the early events associated with the pathology of disease and the resulting infertility may be elucidated.
To report a case of death due to Augmentin-induced cholestatic hepatitis and discuss a possible drug interaction between Augmentin and oestrogenic steroids.
An 81-year-old man, on oestrogen therapy for prostatic malignancy, presented with obstructive jaundice one week after completing a four-week course of Augmentin for recurrent urinary tract infection. Liver biopsy showed features of a drug-induced cholestatic hepatitis with bile duct injury. His clinical course was marked by progressive deterioration with increasing jaundice and the development of hepatic encephalopathy. A course of prednisolone did not result in any improvement and he died nine weeks after the onset of jaundice.
The cholestatic hepatitis induced by Augmentin is usually reversible but may be progressive, leading to death. The concurrent administration of ethinyloestradiol, a potentially cholestatic agent, may have altered the susceptibility and/or course of the reaction in this patient.
Respiratory perception can be altered by changes in emotional or psychological states. This may be due to affective (i.e., anxiety) modulation of respiratory sensory gating. Nicotine withdrawal induces elevated anxiety and decreased somatosensory gating. Respiratory sensory gating is evidenced by decreased amplitude of the respiratory-related evoked potentials (RREP) N(1) peak for the second occlusion (S2) when two 150-ms occlusions are presented with a 500-ms interval during an inspiration. The N(1) peak amplitude ratio of the S2 and first occlusion (S1) (S2/S1) is <0.5 and due to central neural sensory gating. We hypothesized that withdrawal from nicotine is anxiogenic and reduces respiratory gating in smokers. The RREP was recorded in smokers with 12-h withdrawal from nicotine and nonsmokers using a paired occlusion protocol. In smokers, the RREP was measured after nicotine withdrawal, then with either nicotine or placebo gum, followed by the second RREP trial. Nonsmokers received only placebo gum. After nicotine withdrawal, the smokers had a higher state anxiety compared with nonsmokers. There was a significant interaction between groups (nonsmokers vs. smokers with nicotine vs. smokers with placebo) and test (pre- vs. posttreatment) in RREP N(1) peak amplitude S2/S1. The S2/S1 in the smokers were larger than in nonsmokers before treatment. After gum treatment, the smoker-with-placebo group had a significantly larger S2/S1 than the other two groups. The S2/S1 was significantly decreased after the administration of nicotine gum in smokers due to significantly decreased S2 amplitudes. The RREP N(f) and P(1) peaks were unaffected. These results demonstrated that respiratory sensory gating was decreased in smokers after nicotine withdrawal. Nicotine increased respiratory sensory gating in smokers with a S2/S1 similar to that of the nonsmokers. Nicotine did not change respiratory sensory information arrival, but secondary information processing in respiratory sensation.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate smoking abstinence effects and the dissipation of tolerance (reactivity to nicotine) under controlled laboratory conditions. Seventeen male and female regular smokers were tested first in a session following ad libitum smoking and then in an additional five sessions over the course of 11 days during which they abstained from smoking. A metered dose of nicotine was administered via intranasal spray to ensure standard exposure, and pre- and post-dosing measures of heart rate, blood pressure, cortisol, galvanic skin response (GSR), craving, and several DSM-IV withdrawal symptoms (anxiety, irritability, restlessness, difficulty concentrating, and appetite) were collected. Prior to the nicotine test dose during deprivation sessions, heart rate and systolic blood pressure evinced elements of both an 'offset abstinence pattern' (deflection in a direction opposite to that produced by smoking) and a 'transient abstinence pattern' (deflection followed by a subsequent return); for cortisol, an offset pattern was observed, whereas for GSR and craving, a transient pattern was found. With respect to loss of tolerance, heart rate reactivity was found to increase significantly after 2 days' abstinence from nicotine, and the increase was sustained in subsequent sessions. Cortisol reactivity revealed more gradual dissipation, with significant differences evident only after 9 days of abstinence. These findings extend research on nicotine abstinence effects and on the dissipation of tolerance to nicotine deprivation intervals of nearly 2 weeks and confirm prior observations of variability across different response systems.
Hemodynamic effects were followed for 25 days in conscious nontumor bearing Lou/M Wsl rats during i.v. administration of doxorubicin (DXR) (1 mg/kg) on 5 consecutive days and then weekly. At day 24 cardiac output was significantly reduced in the DXR-treated group (cumulative dose of 7 mg/kg) in comparison with a saline-treated group, suggesting a reduction in myocardial performance. Urethane anesthesia at day 25 depressed cardiac output in control rats whereas this variable was not influenced in DXR-treated rats. Furthermore, blood pressure was significantly higher within DXR-treated rats, suggesting the presence of compensatory mechanisms. Separate experiments 25 days after the first DXR administration (cumulative dose of 7 mg/kg) demonstrated that the inotropic response toward dobutamine or norepinephrine as well as the vasoconstrictor response toward norepinephrine were impaired profoundly, suggesting compensatory mechanisms were functioning within the DXR-treated rats around day 25. In the isolated and perfused rat heart no changes in myocardial contraction under either basal or inotropic stimulatory conditions were observed 24 days after DXR treatment, indicating extracardiac phenomena have to contribute to a reduction in cardiac output and the occurrence of counter regulation mechanisms as observed in the in vivo experiments. However, after a cumulative dose of 11 mg/kg (at day 52), contraction function appeared to be disturbed upon contractility demand by dobutamine in the isolated heart. This observation supports the histological evidence of cardiomyopathy occurring at that time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
