We report an extensive characterization of the Na(+)/monocarboxylate transporter (SMCT), a plasma membrane protein that mediates active transport of monocarboxylates such as propionate and nicotinate, and we show that SMCT may play a role in colorectal cancer diagnosis. SMCT, the product of the SLC5A8 gene, is 70% similar to the Na(+)/I(-) symporter, the protein that mediates active I(-) uptake in the basolateral surface of thyrocytes and other cells. SMCT was reported in the apical surface of thyrocytes and formerly proposed also to transport I(-) and was called the apical I(-) transporter. However, it is now clear that SMCT does not transport I(-). Here we demonstrate a high-affinity Na(+)-dependent monocarboxylate transport system in thyroid cells, which is likely to be SMCT. We show that, whereas thyroidal Na(+)/I(-) symporter expression is thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH)-dependent and basolateral, SMCT expression is TSH-independent and apical not only in the thyroid but also in kidney and colon epithelial cells and in polarized Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. We determine the kinetic parameters of SMCT activity and show its inhibition by ibuprofen (K(i) = 73 +/- 9 microM) in Xenopus laevis oocytes. SMCT was proposed to be a tumor suppressor in colon cancer. Significantly, we show that higher expression of SMCT in colon samples from 113 colorectal cancer patients correlates with longer disease-free survival, suggesting that SMCT expression may be a favorable indicator of colorectal cancer prognosis.
Skin reactions associated with oral coumarin-derived anticoagulants are an uncommon occurrence. Leukocytoclastic vasculitis (LV) is primarily a cutaneous small vessel vasculitis, though systemic involvement may be encountered. We report 4 patients with late-onset LV probably due to warfarin. All 4 patients presented with skin eruptions that developed after receiving warfarin for several years. The results of skin lesion biopsies were available in 3 patients, confirming LV Cutaneous lesions resolved in all patients after warfarin was discontinued. In 2 of the 4 patients, rechallenge with warfarin led to recurrence of the lesions. LV may be a late-onset adverse reaction associated with warfarin therapy.
Parkinson disease is caused by the death of midbrain dopamine neurons from oxidative stress, abnormal protein aggregation, and genetic predisposition. In 2003, Bonifati et al. (23) found that a single amino acid mutation in the DJ-1 protein was associated with early-onset, autosomal recessive Parkinson disease (PARK7). The mutation L166P prevents dimerization that is essential for the antioxidant and gene regulatory activity of the DJ-1 protein. Because low levels of DJ-1 cause Parkinson, we reasoned that overexpression might stop the disease. We found that overexpression of DJ-1 improved tolerance to oxidative stress by selectively up-regulating the rate-limiting step in glutathione synthesis. When we imposed a different metabolic insult, A53T mutant α-synuclein, we found that DJ-1 turned on production of the chaperone protein Hsp-70 without affecting glutathione synthesis. After screening a number of small molecules, we have found that the histone deacetylase inhibitor phenylbutyrate increases DJ-1 expression by 300% in the N27 dopamine cell line and rescues cells from oxidative stress and mutant α-synuclein toxicity. In mice, phenylbutyrate treatment leads to a 260% increase in brain DJ-1 levels and protects dopamine neurons against 1-methyl 4-phenyl 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) toxicity. In a transgenic mouse model of diffuse Lewy body disease, long-term administration of phenylbutyrate reduces α-synuclein aggregation in brain and prevents age-related deterioration in motor and cognitive function. We conclude that drugs that up-regulate DJ-1 gene expression may slow the progression of Parkinson disease by moderating oxidative stress and protein aggregation.
The authors describe a young female patient with intracranial hypertension associated with ocular manifestations, during treatment with tetracycline. This is a rare adverse effect described in the medication warnings, and in a few reported cases in the scientific literature.
The addition of pentosan polysulphate sodium (NaPPS) to thrombogenic prothrombin complex concentrates (PCC) dose-dependently reduces or abolishes thrombus formation in rats in the stasis model acc. to Wessler. However, no reduction of thrombogenicity was found in PCC preparations manufactured in the presence of NaPPS.
Respiratory chain dysfunction leads to reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation with following oxidative stress and cellular damage. A histochemical and immunohistochemical study was performed on muscle biopsies from 17 patients with mitochondrial disease [chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO), mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS), myoclonic epilepsy with ragged red fibers (MERRF)] to evaluate the expression pattern and location of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) and reduced glutathione (GSH) in skeletal muscle fibers. Our data showed that: (1) MnSOD, CuZnSOD and GSH are expressed in fibers with respiratory chain deficiency; (2) the antioxidant induction is correlated with the degree of mitochondrial proliferation, but not with clinical phenotype, patients' age, duration of disease, biochemical defects or mitochondrial DNA abnormalities. In addition, we suggest that expression of MnSOD and GSH may be considered an initial, indirect sign of respiratory chain dysfunction because it is observed in the early stages of the disease.
We have previously shown that prostate cancer LNCaP cells are resistant to TRAIL, and downregulation of PI-3K/Akt pathway by molecular and pharmacological means sensitizes cells to undergo apoptosis by TRAIL and curcumin. The purpose of this study was to examine the molecular mechanisms by which resveratrol sensitized TRAIL-resistant LNCaP cells.
Resveratrol inhibited growth and induced apoptosis in androgen-dependent LNCaP cells, but had no effect on normal human prostate epithelial cells. Resveratrol upregulated the expression of Bax, Bak, PUMA, Noxa, Bim, TRAIL-R1/DR4 and TRAIL-R2/DR5, and downregulated the expression of Bcl-2, Bcl-XL, survivin and XIAP. Treatment of LNCaP cells with resveratrol resulted in generation of reactive oxygen species, translocation of Bax and p53 to mitochondria, subsequent drop in mitochondrial membrane potential, release of mitochondrial proteins (cytochrome c, AIF, Smac/DIABLO and Omi/HtrA2), activation of caspase-3 and caspase-9 and induction of apoptosis. The ability of resveratrol to sensitize TRAIL-resistant LNCaP cells was inhibited by dominant negative FADD, caspase-8 siRNA or N-acetyl cysteine. Smac siRNA inhibited resveratrol-induced apoptosis, whereas Smac N7 peptide induced apoptosis and enhanced the effectiveness of resveratrol.
Resveratrol either alone or in combination with TRAIL or Smac can be used for the prevention and/or treatment of human prostate cancer.
Since the clinical introduction of trastuzumab (Herceptin) for metastatic breast cancers that overexpress human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), this anticancer agent has played an important role in breast cancer treatment. We examined the effects of trastuzumab and vinorelbine (Navelbine) as a second- or third-line therapy in 24 patients whose HER2-positive tumors did not respond to or relapsed after administration of trastuzumab alone or in combination with taxane.
Trastuzumab was administered at 2 mg/kg (loading dose 4 mg/kg) once weekly and vinorelbine at 25 mg/m(2) once weekly. The median treatment duration was 118.5 days (range, 22-351 days).
The response rate was 42% (95% confidence interval (CI): 22%-63%). The adverse events of NCI-CTC grade 3 or above consisted of neutropenia in three patients; other adverse events, including vasculitis, generalized fatigue, anemia and thrombocytopenia, were grade 1 or 2. All adverse events were reversible after treatment withdrawal and were easily manageable.
A combination of trastuzumab and vinorelbine can be safely administered on an outpatient basis, and is useful in the treatment of patients with HER2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer.
A report is given on two children suffering from meningitis caused by ampicillin- and chloramphenicol-resistent Haemophilus influenzae. Since effective therapy has been started with delay, recovery was affected with complications. The need for the early determination of minimal inhibitory concentrations and detection of beta-lactamase-production is emphasized as well as for repeated measurement of C-reactive protein in serum. Cefotaxime is recommended in case of presence of resistent Haemophilusstrains.
A series of studies demonstrated a possible relationship between eye-blink rate and central dopamine activity. First, apomorphine and other dopamine agonists acutely increased blink rate in monkeys, an effect blocked by sulpiride. Secondly, parkinsonian patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesia exhibited twice the mean blink rate (21 blinks/min) of other parkinsonians (11 blinks/min, P less than 0.002) whereas the more symptomatic of the nondyskinetic patients had a very slow rate (3 blinks/min, P less than 0.01). Thirdly, schizophrenic patients had an elevated mean blink (31 vs 23 blinks/min for normals, P less than 0.05) which was normalized by neuroleptic treatment. Thus, the correlation with central dopamine activity may also prove clinically useful in selected neuropsychiatric disorders.
We examined the association between plasma concentrations of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1, soluble E-selectin, angiotensin II, renin activity and the risk of hypertension among 2589 study participants aged 20 years and older from Inner Mongolia, China.
Three blood pressure measurements were obtained using a standard mercury sphygmomanometer and hypertension was defined as blood pressure of at least 140/90 mmHg or use of antihypertensive medications. Overnight fasting blood samples were obtained to measure the biomarkers of endothelial dysfunction and inflammation.
The average levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (7.5 vs. 5.4 mg/l), soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (339.4 vs. 322.6 ng/ml), soluble E-selectin (19.1 vs. 18.2 ng/ml), and angiotensin II (52.0 vs. 47.0 pg/ml) were significantly higher, whereas renin activity (1.3 vs. 1.5 mg/ml.h) was lower in hypertensive compared to normotensive participants (all P value <0.001). Compared to the lowest quartile, the multivariable-adjusted odds ratios (95% confidence interval) of hypertension for the highest quartile were 1.41 (1.06, 1.86) for high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, 1.93 (1.48, 2.53) for angiotensin II, and 0.70 (0.54, 0.91) for renin activity.
Our study indicated that elevated plasma levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and angiotensin II were positively and renin activity inversely associated with the risk of hypertension. These data suggest that inflammation and endothelial dysfunction may play a role in the cause of hypertension.
The peripheral selectivity of the newer quaternary narcotic antagonist levallorphan methyl iodide (SR 58002) was found superior in mice to those of the previously available compounds N-allyl levallorphan (CM 32191), N-methyl nalorphine (MNph) and N-methyl naloxone (MNx). SR 58002 and MNph were the most potent (ID50, mg/kg s.c., 3.6 and 3.7) in preventing constipation by s.c. morphine (charcoal meal). Antinociception (hot-plate) of s.c. morphine was completely prevented by MNx, MNph and CM 32191 (ID50, mg/kg s.c., 1.6, 8.6 and 15.2) but only partially antagonized by 30 mg/kg s.c. SR 58002. Constipation elicited centrally by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) morphine was prevented by either s.c. MNx or MNph but not by SR 58002 or CM 32191, up to 60 mg/kg.
Previous studies have demonstrated that the fall in inulin clearance which occurs 3 hours after the intrarenal administration of norepinephrine can be markedly attenuated by the prior administration of intrarenal prostaglandin E2 (PGE). Since in the previous studies PGE led to a marked increase in both renal blood flow and solute excretion, we designed the present series of experiments to investigate whether an increase in renal blood flow, solute excretion, or other factors were responsible for the protective effect in the norepinephrine model. Two renal vasodilators, bradykinin and secretin, were evaluated initially. Bradykinin administration prior to norepinephrine administration had a protective effect similar to that previously found with PGE, whereas secretin did not. Both of these vasocilators increased renal blood flow to the same degree, but only bradykinin increased urine flow and solute excretion. The fall in inulin clearance 3 hours after the administration of norepinephrine was also attenuated by two diuretics (mannitol and furosemide) which tended to increase renal blood flow. In contrast, two natriuretic agents, which are also renal vasoconstrictors (chlorothiazide and benzolamide), had no protective effect. Further, chlorothiazide and benzolamide obviated the protective effect of bradykinin. These studies demonstrate that there are several types of pharmacologic agents which can modify the magnitude of renal functional impairment resulting from extreme renal ischemia. Although the mechanism of the protective effects remain unclear, the findings are compatible with the view that the protective effect noted with PGE, bradykinin, mannitol, and furosemide may be related to an increase in osmolar excretion which occurred with administration of each of these agents. This potentially salutory effect (increased osmolar excretion), however, could be overcome by an agent (e.g., chlorothiazide or benzolamide) which also increased renal resistance prior to the administration of norepinephrine.
Twenty hypertensive outpatients WHO stage I or II, with supine diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mmHg at the end of a 4-week treatment period with atenolol (Tenormin) 100 mg daily, continued atenolol in free association with half a tablet of Moduretic (i.e., hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg + amiloride 2.5 mg) for a further 4 weeks. Atenolol monotherapy induced a drop of systolic blood pressure from 175.0 +/- 11 (mean +/- s.d.) mmHg to 158.7 +/- 6 mmHg (p less than 0.01), and of diastolic blood pressure from 113.5 +/- 8 mmHg to 102.7 +/- 5 mmHg (p less than 0.01). After 4 weeks with atenolol in association with half a tablet of Moduretic, systolic blood pressure further decreased to 145.7 +/- 8 mmHg (p less than 0.01), and diastolic blood pressure to 90.2 +/- 10 mmHg (p less than 0.01). Seven out of 20 patients remained with diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mmHg despite the above combination therapy. In these patients, the doubling of diuretic dose (hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg + amiloride 5 mg) in combination with atenolol resulted in a further drop in systolic pressure (to 142.1 +/- 9 mmHg) and diastolic (to 92.1 +/- 6 mmHg) (both p less than 0.01). Plasma potassium concentration showed a slight and non-significant increase during atenolol monotherapy (from 4.4 +/- 0.5 mEq/l to 4.6 +/- 0.7 mEq/l; n.s.).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Two female patients with acute intermittent porphyria, who received oestrogen skin pads as supplementary treatment for postmenopausal discomfort, developed severe psychiatric disorders with persistent confusion, aggression and paranoid reactions. Some decades earlier they had reacted with symptoms of acute porphyria following oral contraceptive usage. There is well documented evidence of the advisability of restrictiveness in the use of oestrogens in conjunction with acute porphyria, particularly in cases of patients with a history of hormone-related symptoms of acute porphyria. The putative mechanisms by means of which oestrogens may exert effects on neurotransmitters and peptides are discussed in the article. The authors would be grateful to hear from colleagues abroad who have treated patients with similar symptoms following postmenopausal treatment with oestrogens.
The effects of the dihydropyridine (DHP) calcium channel antagonist, nicardipine, on central cardiovascular regulation were investigated by injecting it into the cisterna magna or directly into the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS), in anesthetized normotensive or spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) rats. Intracisternal injections of nicardipine (1-10 micrograms/kg) dose-dependently decreased blood pressure in SHR; there was no significant change in cardiovascular parameters in normotensive rats. In SHR, nicardipine (100 ng) microinjected bilaterally into the NTS produced hypotension and bradycardia. The same doses of nicardipine intravenously injected did not change either parameter. Previous administration of the beta-adrenoceptor blocking drug, tertatolol (50 micrograms/kg i.v.), prevented the nicardipine-induced bradycardia and hypotension after injection into the NTS. These data suggest that part of the central cardiovascular effects of nicardipine result from an interaction with DHP sites within the NTS leading to a withdrawal of the sympathetic tone.
The effect of 3-monoalkyl and 3,5-dialkyl substitution (R = CH3, C2H5, and i-C3H7) on hepatotoxicity of the analgesic paracetamol was studied in vivo. To that purpose, varying doses of paracetamol and six alkyl-substituted derivatives were orally administered to male DAP mice. Paracetamol caused hepatotoxicity as judged from elevation of plasma transaminase activities and liver histopathology at a dose of 3.95 mmol/kg. All 3-monoalkyl-substituted derivatives of paracetamol caused centrilobular necrosis at oral doses of 4.40, 4.85, and 5.30 mmol/kg of 3-methyl-, 3-ethyl-, and 3-isopropyl derivatives, respectively. Oral dosage of the 3,5-dialkyl-substituted derivatives up to 6.25 mmol/kg did not result in hepatotoxicity. Since 3,5-dialkyl substitution of paracetamol does not reduce the analgesic activity, the observed prevention of paracetamol-induced hepatic necrosis by 3,5-dialkyl substitution may offer perspectives for the design of safer analgesics.
Dobutamine stress echocardiography is considered a relatively well-tolerated diagnostic modality, effective in the management of patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease. Adverse effects during testing are relatively frequent, precluding the achievement of a diagnostic end-point in about 5 to 10% of tests. These adverse effects, mostly tachyarrhythmias and arterial hypotension, are usually minor and self limiting. However, severe life-threatening complications, as well as death, also occur. By analysing Medline-quoted literature up to March 1999, we found 35 original studies from a single institution with more than 100 patients, as well as 2 multicentre studies, concerning the feasibility and safety of dobutamine stress echocardiography. In a cumulative total of 26438 tests performed, 79 life-threatening complications (such as acute myocardial infarction, asystole, ventricular fibrillation, sustained ventricular tachycardia or severe symptomatic hypotension) have been reported, giving an incidence of 1 severe adverse reaction per every 335 examinations. In addition, 29 isolated case reports have been published describing life-threatening complications during dobutamine echocardiography. In case reports, 2 deaths have been described, both due to acute cardiac rupture in patients with recent inferior myocardial infarction. Severe adverse reactions during dobutamine echocardiography can be ischaemia independent, and are independent of operator experience and are unpredictable; some complications can be late occurring and long lasting. As a consequence, the procedure must be clearly indicated, written informed consent has to be obtained from the patient, an attending physician must be present during testing, and long term observation of outpatients is useful in order to manage late complications. In conclusion, while the safety of dobutamine stress echocardiography was reported to be outstanding in early reports, further experience presents a substantially more worrying picture. This must be taken into account by both physicians and patients when assessing the risk-benefit profile of the procedure.
Information on gene variants and blood levels (APOE, BCHE-K, TF-C2, HFE-D, HFE-Y, ACE I/D, AR1; homocysteine, folate and vitamin B(12)) is available for participants in the Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Ageing (OPTIMA) cohort (n=575). This information identified four risk sets for Alzheimer's disease (AD) using grade of membership analysis (GoM). Graded membership scores that relate individuals to each set are automatically generated. Sets I and III had low intrinsic risk. Set II had high intrinsic risk associated with multiple gene variants, e.g., APOE44/34. Set IV also had high intrinsic risk demonstrating low folate and B(12) levels. Membership in the high intrinsic risk sets was summed, coded as either close versus not close (>or=0.80 versus <0.80) and input into logistic models to predict relative risk: close resemblance multiplied risk 80-fold for possible AD before age 65 and 55-fold for probable or definite AD at ages 65-74. These findings implicate both biochemical and genetic factors in the risk for AD and further support dietary supplementation with folate and vitamin B(12) as a potential means to delay the onset of AD and/or its rate of progression.
Raloxifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator, reduces risk of invasive breast cancer and osteoporosis, but the effect on risk for stroke and venous thromboembolism in different patient subgroups is not established. The purpose of this analysis was to evaluate the effect of raloxifene on the incidence of all strokes, stroke deaths, and venous thromboembolic events according to participant subgroups.
This was a secondary end point analysis of an international, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 10 101 postmenopausal women with or at increased risk of coronary heart disease followed a median of 5.6 years. Strokes, venous thromboembolic events, and deaths were adjudicated by expert centralized committees. Strokes were categorized as ischemic, hemorrhagic, or undetermined and venous thromboembolic events were subclassified.
The incidences of all strokes did not differ between raloxifene (incidence rate per 100 woman-years=0.95) and placebo (incidence rate=0.86) treatment groups (P=0.30). In women assigned raloxifene versus placebo, there was a higher incidence of fatal strokes (incidence rates=0.22 and 0.15, respectively, P=0.0499) and venous thromboembolic events (incidence rates=0.39 and 0.27, respectively, P=0.02). No significant subgroup interactions were found except that there was a higher incidence of stroke associated with raloxifene use among current smokers.
In postmenopausal women at increased risk for coronary events, the incidences of venous thromboembolism and fatal stroke but not all strokes were higher in those assigned raloxifene versus placebo. Raloxifene's effect did not differ across subgroups, except that the risk of stroke differed by smoking status. Treatment decisions about raloxifene should be based on a balance of projected absolute risks and benefits.
