Nitroso-2-hydroxyethylurea and its methyl ether, nitroso-2-methoxyethylurea, were administered to male and female rats by gavage, each at two dose rates. The highest dose rate of nitrosohydroxyethylurea was 14 mg twice a week for 18 weeks, which led to death of all animals by week 34 with a variety of neoplasms, which have been observed in earlier experiments at lower doses, and included those in lung, colon, thyroid, forestomach, tongue, duodenum, jejunum, Zymbal's gland, thymus and mammary gland adenocarcinomas. At a dose 10 times smaller, the animals survived much longer, but the distribution of tumors was similar, except that there were few of the duodenum and jejunum. At an equimolar dose of nitrosomethoxyethylurea (1.6 mg, twice a week), the pattern of tumors was similar to that seen with nitrosohydroxyethylurea, including the absence of tumors in the duodenum and jejunum, although there were tumors of the colon. The rats treated with the methyl ether died earlier than those given nitrosohydroxyethylurea, indicating a greater potency of the former. At a dose of 3.2 mg twice a week, nitrosomethoxyethylurea produced the same pattern of tumors as the lower dose, but the animals died earlier. In all groups, there were more lung tumors in males than in females, and this was true to a lesser extent of the colon. The main effect of methylation of the hydroxyl group in nitrosohydroxyethylurea was to increase the potency of the carcinogen, but there was no effect on the target organ specificity of the nitrosourea.
The effect of dexamethasone on hypotension induced by mu-, kappa- and delta-opioid receptor agonists was investigated in pentobarbital-anaesthetised rats. Morphine (nonselective opioid receptor agonist), DAGO (D-Ala2-N-methyl-[Phe4-Gly5-ol]enkephalin; mu-opioid receptor-selective agonist), U50-488H (trans(+/-)-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-(2[1pyrrolidynyl]cyclohexyl)-benzeneacetamide; kappa-opioid receptor-selective agonist) and deltorphin II (delta-opioid receptor-selective agonist), given intravenously, 5 micromol/kg, induced hypotension in rats. This hypotension was characterised by a fall in mean arterial blood pressure in 1-2 min that recovered in 30 min for morphine and U50-488H and in 5 or 20 min for DAGO and deltorphin II, respectively. Dexamethasone per se at a dose of 7.5 micromol/kg, i.v. did not significantly modify the mean arterial blood pressure of animals. Dexamethasone administration 90 min, but not 30 or 60 min, before the opioid agonists injection, prevented the hypotension induced by morphine or U50-488H, but not that induced by DAGO or deltorphin II. Pretreatment with RU-38486 (mifepristone; 7.5 micromol/kg, i.v.), a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, 15 min before the steroid, prevented dexamethasone inhibition of hypotension induced by morphine and U50-488H. Furthermore, pretreatment with cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor (3.5 micromol/kg, i.v.), was also able to abolish the effects of dexamethasone on morphine- and U50-488H-induced hypotension. Results of the present study indicate that dexamethasone inhibited kappa-opioid receptor-mediated hypotension in rats, indicating a further important functional interaction between corticosteroids and the opioid system at kappa receptors. The ability of cycloheximide and RU-38486 to block dexamethasone effects indicates that steroid interference with kappa-opioid receptor-mediated hypotension involves a protein synthesis-dependent mechanism via glucocorticoid receptors.
The effect of 10 oral doses of phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride 25 mg four times a day on blood pressure and heart rate in Korean patients with hypertension controlled by hydrochlorothiazide was studied. A randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover, double-blind study design was used. Twenty Korean patients with mild hypertension controlled by hydrochlorothiazide were recruited from an ambulatory-care clinic. Blood pressure and heart rate were measured in triplicate before treatment, after a five-day washout period between phases of treatment, and two hours after the last dose in each phase of treatment. Eighteen patients completed both phases of treatment, and one patient completed only the placebo phase. Mean baseline values for systolic and diastolic blood pressures and heart rate before the placebo phase did not significantly differ from mean baseline values before the phenylpropanolamine phase. Comparison of mean baseline values for systolic and diastolic blood pressures and heart rate with mean after-treatment values showed no clinically relevant or statistically significant changes for the 19 patients who completed the placebo phase or the 18 patients who completed the phenylpropanolamine phase. There was no significant difference between the mean change in systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, or heart rate when the phenylpropanolamine phase was compared with the placebo phase. Phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride 25 mg p.o. four times a day (total, 10 doses) given to Korean patients with hypertension controlled by hydrochlorothiazide did not affect blood pressure or heart rate according to single-point outcome measurements.
Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) is an animal carcinogen. However, the underlying mechanism in cancer initiation is still largely unknown. Recently identified microRNAs (miRNAs) may play an important role in toxicant exposure and in the process of toxicant-induced tumorigenesis. We used PFOS to investigate PFOS-induced changes in miRNA expression in developing rat liver and the potential mechanism of PFOS-induced toxic action. Dams received 3.2 mg/kg PFOS in their feed from gestational day 1 (GD1) to postnatal day 7 (PND 7). Pups then had free access to treated feed until PND 7. We isolated RNAs from liver tissues on PND 1 and 7 and analyzed the expression profiles of 387 known rat miRNAs using microarray technology. PFOS exposure induced significant changes in miRNA expression profiles. Forty-six miRNAs had significant expression alterations on PND 1, nine miRNAs on PND 7. Specifically, expression of four miRNAs was up-regulated on PND 7 but down-regulated on PND1 (p < 0.05). Many aberrantly expressed miRNAs were related to various cancers. We found oncogenic and tumor-suppressing miRNAs, which included miR-19b, miR-21*, miR-17-3p, miR-125a-3p, miR-16, miR-26a, miR-1, miR-200c, and miR-451. In addition, four miRNAs were simultaneous significantly expressed on both PND 1 and 7. Functional Annotation analysis of the predicted transcript targets revealed that PFOS exposure potentially alters pathways associated with different cancers (cancer, melanoma, pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, and glioma), biological processes which include positive regulation of apoptosis and cell proliferation. Results showed PFOS exposure altered the expression of a suite of miRNAs. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol 30: 712-723, 2015.
Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF) is a problematic clinical arrhythmia that is usually symptomatic. Unfortunately, few adequate trials and trial methods are available for assessment of the value of therapy, and traditional treatment has often been ineffective or associated with unacceptable side effects. Transtelephonic monitoring is a new method that allows evaluation of paroxysmal arrhythmias and arrhythmia-related symptoms in outpatients. We used a patient-initiated transtelephonic monitor system to evaluate the potential of flecainide, a class 1C antiarrhythmic, in prevention of symptomatic recurrences of PAF. Sixty-four patients qualified for the study (two or more PAF attacks documented within a 4-week baseline period) and entered a dose-finding phase to determine drug tolerance. Dose was incremented at weekly intervals from 200-300 and finally to 400 mg/day. The largest dose that was well tolerated was selected for the 4-month, double-blind, randomized, crossover comparison with placebo. Fifty-five patients entered and 53 received both treatments in the double-blind phase; 48 of these patients without protocol violations were evaluable for efficacy comparisons. Evaluable patients had undergone an average of 3.8 previous drug trials (range, 1-8); 30 were men, 18 had hypertension, and 14 had ischemic heart disease. The study demonstrated a highly significant correlation (p less than 0.0001) between perceived symptoms and documented PAF by transtelephonic monitoring. The rate of symptoms and PAF attacks was also significantly reduced by therapy (median dose, 300 mg/day). The first PAF attack occurred after a median of 3 days on placebo versus 14.5 days on flecainide (p less than 0.001) therapy. Similarly, the time interval between attacks was lengthened, from a median of 6.2 days on placebo to 27.0 days on flecainide (p less than 0.001) therapy. PAF was prevented in 15 patients (31%) during flecainide and four (9%) during placebo therapy (p = 0.013). However, during the study, 13 patients dropped out, seven because of adverse effects (five cardiac), five for other reasons, and one because of cardiac arrest/death. Adverse cardiac events occurred in a total of seven patients (11%) during flecainide therapy. Thus, transtelephonic monitoring is a useful method for documentation of the occurrence of paroxysmal arrhythmias such as PAF and its related symptoms during daily living and for assessment of new therapies in an outpatient setting.
The exercise response to a single oral dose (25 mg) of a new beta-blocking agent that also has potent vasodilating properties, carvedilol, was assessed in 15 patients with stable exertional angina, positive exercise tests (greater than or equal to 1 mm ST depression) and coronary artery disease. A placebo-controlled, randomized, crossover study was carried out. Compared with placebo, carvedilol significantly reduced both resting heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP) at rest. After the administration of carvedilol, 10 of the 15 patients did not have angina at peak exercise and 5 had ST shifts less than 1 mm. Total exercise time and time to 1 mm ST depression were prolonged, and ST segment depression at peak exercise was significantly reduced. Systolic BP was reduced both at peak exercise and at 1 mm ST depression whereas mean HR at peak exercise did not change significantly compared with placebo. Overall, mean HR-BP product at peak exercise was significantly reduced by carvedilol compared with placebo. However, four patients achieved similar or higher HR-BP product and yet did not experience angina and had less ST depression (or no ST segment shifts) during exercise. This indicates an increase in their coronary flow reserve. These results suggest that carvedilol is effective therapy for effort-induced angina, and this may be related to its combined beta-blocking and vasodilatory properties.
The effect of 100 mg of phenobarbital (PB) at bedtime for the last few wk of pregnancy on the incidence and severity of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia was studied. No effect was observed in the newborns of mothers who took less than ten tablets. In the 1310 newborns of adequately treated mothers (PB greater than or equal to 1.0 g), the incidence of marked jaundice (bilirubin > 16.0 mg/dl) and the need to perform an exchange transfusion were reduced by a factor of six in relation to the incidence in 1553 control infants. A randomly selected group of 415 children (182 control, 233 PB) were reexamined at 61 to 82 months of age. There was no difference in the overall morbidity and mortality between the control and treatment group. A detailed neurologic assessment failed to reveal any differences between the two groups. In the VisuoMotor Integration test, the PB group scored significantly better than the control group. In the Draw-A-Woman and the Verbal Intelligence Test, the difference was in the same direction but was not statistically significant. The degree of jaundice was not found to significantly influence the performance in the neurological examination and the intelligence tests. Sensorineural hearing defect was significantly more common in the children with moderate or marked jaundice (bilirubin > 12 mg/dl) than in those with lesser degrees of jaundice. Prenatal PB is a practical, effective, and safe method for decreasing the incidence of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia.
A total of 39 patients with essential blepharospasm and 2 patients with hemifacial spasm were treated with one or more forms of therapy. All patients underwent neurologic and ophthalmic assessment to rule out ocular causes of blepharospasm. Thirty-six patients were given a trial of various medications. Only one patient was successfully treated: her condition was markedly improved with pimozide after benztropine mesylate, clonazepam and amantadine hydrochloride had failed to help. Patients who did not respond to drug therapy were offered the option of undergoing eyebrow-eyelid muscle stripping surgery. The six patients who underwent surgery showed considerable improvement; however, side effects such as frontal anesthesia, exposure keratitis, lagophthalmus, scarring and eyelid malposition occurred, and three of the six had residual spasm. At this point type A botulinum toxin became available. A total of 27 patients (26 who did not respond to drug therapy, including the 3 with residual spasm after surgery, and 1 previously untreated patient) received type A botulinum toxin injections. Most experienced rapid relief from their spasms. The beneficial effects lasted weeks to months, and there were no major side effects. Treatment with type A botulinum toxin appears to be a safe and effective means of temporarily relieving blepharospasm. The long-term results with repeated injections are yet to be determined.
Intravenous infusions of enoximone or dobutamine were given, using a double dummy technique, in a randomized, double-blind study, to 18 patients with acute myocardial infarction who had persisting signs of left ventricular failure after treatment with intravenous diuretics. Blood pressure, heart rate and cardiac output, by transcutaneous Doppler aortovelography, were measured and any arrhythmias recorded by Holter monitoring. Eight of the nine enoximone treated patients showed clinical improvement. One patient in the enoximone group failed to respond and subsequently died. Five of the nine dobutamine treated patients showed clinical improvement. The other four patients in the dobutamine group experienced tachyarrhythmias and were withdrawn from the study; one of these patients also deteriorated and died. There were no significant differences in systolic or diastolic blood pressure either within or between the two treatment groups during the study. Enoximone increased cardiac output by 32% (P = 0.003), and dobutamine by 46% (P < 0.001); there was no significant difference between groups. Dobutamine also significantly increased heart rate from a mean of 108 beats.min-1 to 117 beats.min-1 (P < 0.001). There was no difference between the two groups in ventricular ectopic counts, but dobutamine produced significantly more runs of supraventricular and ventricular tachycardia (P = 0.0003). Enoximone was better tolerated with fewer side-effects than dobutamine in doses which produced similar increases in cardiac output. In the setting of an acute myocardial infarction when inotropic therapy is indicated, enoximone is a better choice than dobutamine.
Despite an encouraging outcome of antioxidant therapy in animal models of acute lung injury, effective antioxidant agents for clinical application remain to be developed. The present study investigated the effect of pre-treatment with amifostine, a thiol antioxidant compound, on lung endothelial barrier dysfunction induced by Gram-negative bacteria wall-lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Endothelial permeability was monitored by changes in transendothelial electrical resistance. Cytoskeletal remodelling and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production was examined by immunofluorescence. Cell signalling was assessed by Western blot. Measurements of Evans blue extravasation, cell count and protein content in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were used as in vivo parameters of lung vascular permeability. Hydrogen peroxide, LPS and interleukin-6 caused cytoskeletal reorganisation and increased permeability in the pulmonary endothelial cells, reflecting endothelial barrier dysfunction. These disruptive effects were inhibited by pre-treatment with amifostine and linked to the amifostine-mediated abrogation of ROS production and redox-sensitive signalling cascades, including p38, extracellular signal regulated kinase 1/2, mitogen-activated protein kinases and the nuclear factor-kappaB pathway. In vivo, concurrent amifostine administration inhibited LPS-induced oxidative stress and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase activation, which was associated with reduced vascular leak and neutrophil recruitment to the lungs. The present study demonstrates, for the first time, protective effects of amifostine against lipopolysaccharide-induced lung vascular leak in vitro and in animal models of lipopolysaccharide-induced acute lung injury.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was set up to study the effects of acute and chronic administration of carvedilol, a vasodilatory beta-blocker in essential hypertension. Acute administration of a single dose of 50 mg of carvedilol reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure, without inducing reflex tachycardia. Renal blood flow was preserved; accordingly renal vascular resistance was significantly reduced. A significant reduction of glomerular filtration rate and filtration fraction was observed. Plasma renin activity (PRA) and plasma aldosterone were not changed. Chronic carvedilol treatment produced a significant fall in systolic and diastolic office and ambulatory blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac output, PRA and plasma aldosterone. Blood pressure variability was not changed. Renal blood flow, glomerular filtration rate and filtration fraction also remained unchanged; renal vascular resistance decreased significantly. It is concluded that carvedilol possesses definite antihypertensive and renal vasodilating properties, both acutely and after chronic treatment.
A 66-year-old-male patient with a history of depression voluntarily ingested around 400 ml of an insecticide composed of 5% methylparathion, 75% isoparaffin, 8% etoxylated oleic acid, 4% 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene, 6% naphtha, 1% 1,3,5- trimethylbenzene, 0.4% propylbenzene and 0.3% xylene. The patient was conscious and alert at admission. Gastric lavage was performed and activated charcoal administered. There were no clinical symptoms of organophospate ingestion despite reduced concentrations of erythrocyte and plasma cholinesterase. Chest X-ray showed pulmonary infiltrate compatible with bronco-aspiration. The patient evolved to respiratory failure refractory to treatment and died from multiorganic failure 23 days after ingesting the insecticide. The pathological findings included a pulmonary fibrosis in the alveolar spaces which caused enlargement of the intra-alveolar septa. Abundant lipin-laden macrophages were observed within the alveolar spaces. We review the most relevant aspects of cases of fatal lipoid pneumonia and point out that on occasion severe or fatal intoxication is due to the substances accompanying the active ingredients.
Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) is a clinical and radiologic syndrome of heterogeneous etiology. Although it has been described in association with intravenous cytotoxic chemotherapy including cisplatin and molecularly targeted therapies such as bevacizumab and sorafenib, it has not been described in the setting of intraperitoneal chemotherapy.
A 64-year-old woman with stage IIIC fallopian tube cancer developed acute mental status changes and radiologic findings consistent with RPLS in conjunction with hypertension after one cycle of intravenous paclitaxel, followed by intraperitoneal (IP) cisplatin. Symptoms resolved over the course of 4 days with no obvious residual effects.
The use of an intravenous paclitaxel and intraperitoneal cisplatin regimen can be associated with RPLS. Hypertension should be controlled in patients prior to receiving this chemotherapy regimen due to potential toxicity.
Embryonic levels of retinoic acid (RA) and the response of cells to RA are critical to the normal development of vertebrates. To understand the effects of RA signaling in Fundulus heteroclitus, we exposed embryos to a range of RA concentrations of 2 h during gastrulation. Embryos exposed to low concentrations of RA (10(-10)-10(-7) M) develop normally, whereas those exposed to higher concentrations (5 x 10(-7)-10(-4) M) develop characteristic dose-dependent defects. We describe, in detail, four stages of development that represent morphological effects of RA on (1) cell death and defects in the brain, heart, and eye, (2) relative size and differentiation, (3) duplications of pectoral fins, and (4) deletions in craniofacial cartilage elements. Analysis of cartilaginous skeletal elements demonstrates distinct patterns of deletions in the neurocranium and pharyngeal skeleton in response to increasing concentrations of RA. In F. heteroclitus, RA treatment during gastrulation results in five highly consistent phenotypes, which we have incorporated into an index of embryonic RA defects. This index should be valuable in the genetic analysis of RA pathways and in evaluating chemicals that interfere with embryonic RA signaling.
Carvedilol (BM 14190) is a new potent and well-tolerated beta-adrenoceptor antagonist with vasodilating properties. Acute clinical studies have confirmed its efficacy as an antihypertensive agent. The present double-blind, randomized, metoprolol-controlled, long-term study reports the therapeutic results of carvedilol in essential hypertensive patients. Compared with placebo, carvedilol significantly reduces blood pressure after oral administration of 50 mg on a single and twice daily regimen. The antihypertensive effect was acute in onset, comparable in supine and standing position, and exercise-induced hypertension and tachycardia were significantly reduced. Indirect automatic 24 h blood pressure monitoring reliably confirmed clinic blood pressure and demonstrated a good antihypertensive effect of carvedilol after a single oral administration throughout daily activities and sleeping periods.
To investigate the role of endothelin in noradrenaline-induced hypertension in rats.
The dose-response relationship of chronic noradrenaline infusion on arterial pressure was characterized to identify a dose that would produce sustained hypertension, and the effect of combined endothelin ETA and ETB receptor blockade (TAK-044) on the response to this dose was then examined.
Noradrenaline (or vehicle) was infused intravenously at 1 (subpressor acutely), 24 or 48 microg/kg per h (acute pressor response of 9 +/- 1 and 11 +/- 1 mmHg, respectively) for a 14-day infusion, and blood pressure was measured by radiotelemetry. Noradrenaline infusion at 1 microg/kg per h did not produce a 'slow pressor' rise in blood pressure. During noradrenaline infusions at 24 and 48 microg/kg per h, mean arterial pressure peaked initially on days 2-3 (+10 +/- 1 and 14 +/- 2 mmHg, respectively; P < 0.01), fell towards basal levels after day 3, and then began to rise again at days 5-6 only with 48 microg/kg per h, being 10 +/- 1 mmHg above control levels at days 13-14 (P < 0.05). TAK-044 treatment did not alter the magnitude of the initial (13 +/- 1 mmHg) or eventual (12 +/- 2 mmHg) rise in blood pressure achieved in response to 14 days' infusion of noradrenaline at 48 microg/kg per h, but abolished the transient fall.
Chronic noradrenaline infusion at acutely pressor doses leads either to a transient blood pressure elevation at a moderate dose, or to a triphasic but sustained hypertension at a higher dose, with a temporary escape from the hypertension apparently mediated by endothelin.
To test the hypothesis that the enhanced vascular responsiveness to norepinephrine that occurs during deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt induced hypertension is causally related to increased expression of cyclo-oxygenase (COX)-2 and oxidative stress, which diminishes the vasomodulatory influence of endothelium-derived nitric oxide.
Four groups of age-matched, male Sprague-Dawley rats were studied: Sham (normotensive); DOCA-salt (hypertensive); DOCA-salt treated with manganese(III) tetra(4-benzoic acid) porphyrin chloride [MnTBAP, an antioxidant; 15 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.) for 21 days]; DOCA-salt treated with {N-[2-(cyclohexyloxy)-4-nitrophenyl]-methane sulfonamide} (NS-398, a COX-2 selective blocker; 5 mg/kg i.p. for 7 days). Contraction and relaxation were measured with FT03 force transducers coupled to a Grass polygraph in aortic rings bathed with physiologic salt solution (37 degrees C) and bubbled with a 5%CO2/95%O2 gas mixture. Aortic sensitivities (pD2 values) to norepinephrine and serum isoprostanes (8-iso-prostaglandin F2alpha, a marker of oxidative stress) were measured for each experimental paradigm.
NS-398 significantly reduced maximal contractions in response to norepinephrine in aortic rings from Sham (44 +/- 3%) and DOCA-salt (96 +/- 2%) group rats. Expression of COX-2 protein increased significantly in vessels from DOCA-salt rats compared with those from Sham group rats. Treatment of DOCA-salt rats with either MnTBAP or NS-398 alleviated hypertension, normalized aortic pD2 values for norepinephrine and restored serum 8-isoprostane concentrations towards those observed in Sham group rats.
COX-2 expression increases during DOCA-salt hypertension, and mediates production of factors that enhance rat aortic contractility in response to norepinephrine. Our data also suggest a role for increased oxidative stress, which is at least in part dependent on enhanced COX-2 expression, in the mechanism(s) of enhanced aortic contractility in response to norepinephrine during DOCA-salt hypertension.
It has been proven that ribonucleotide reductase M1 (RRM1) expression level was closely related to gemcitabine drug-resistance to tumor cells. The aim of this study is to explore the relations between RRM1 protein expression levels and effects of gemcitabine and cisplatin chemotherapy in advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients.
The expressions of RRM1 in 75 advanced NSCLC tissues were qualitatively detected by immunohistochemical methods. Seventy-five patients had received gemcitabine and cisplatin (GP) chemotherapy regimen. General characteristics of patients, response to treatment, efficacy evaluation and survival time were retrospectively investigated. Differences between the groups were statistically analysed by chi-square test. Survival differences were analysed by temporal inspection and Kaplan-Meier survival curves.
RRM1 protein expression rate was 38.7%. RRM1 protein expression had no obvious relationship with gender, age, smoking status, and the clinical stages and histopathological types (P > 0.05). Response rate in RRM1 protein high expression groups (31.3%) was remarkably lower than that in low expression groups (41.3%), the difference was statistically significant (P=0.005). 1-year survival rate in RRM1 protein high expression groups (27.6%) was remarkably lower than that in low expression group (58.7%), the difference was statistically significant (P=0.009). No significant different of median survival was observed between RMM1 protein high expression group and low expression group (P >0.245). Time to progression in RRM1 protein high expression groups (3.10 months) was remarkably lower than that in low expression group (5.11 months), the difference was statistically significant (P=0.042).
RRM1 protein expression levels are closely related to effects of gemcitabine and cisplatin chemotherapy and prognosis of advanced NSCLC patients.
Lipid peroxidation, a major contributor to cellular damage, is also implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases (AD). The focus of this study was to elucidate the role of lipid peroxidation-derived aldehydes in autoimmunity induced and/or exacerbated by chemical exposure. Previous studies showed that trichloroethene (TCE) is capable of inducing/accelerating autoimmunity. To test whether TCE-induced lipid peroxidation might be involved in the induction/exacerbation of autoimmune responses, groups of autoimmune-prone female MRL +/+ mice were treated with TCE (10 mmol/kg, i.p., every 4th day) for 6 or 12 wk. Significant increases of the formation of malondialdehyde (MDA)- and 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE)-protein adducts were found in the livers of TCE-treated mice at both 6 and 12 wk, but the response was greater at 12 wk. Further characterization of these adducts in liver microsomes showed increased formation of MDA-protein adducts with molecular masses of 86, 65, 56, 44, and 32 kD, and of HNE-protein adducts with molecular masses of 87, 79, 46, and 17 kD in TCE-treated mice. In addition, significant induction of anti-MDA- and anti-HNE-protein adduct-specific antibodies was observed in the sera of TCE-treated mice, and showed a pattern similar to MDA- or HNE-protein adducts. The increases in anti-MDA- and anti-HNE-protein adduct antibodies were associated with significant elevation in serum anti-nuclear-, anti-ssDNA- and anti-dsDNA-antibodies at 6 wk and, to a greater extent, at 12 wk. These studies suggest that TCE-induced lipid peroxidation is associated with induction/exacerbation of autoimmune response in MRL+/+ mice, and thus may play an important role in disease pathogenesis. Further interventional studies are needed to establish a causal relationship between lipid peroxidation and TCE-induced autoimmune response.
The objective of this study was to compare the long-term tolerability and efficacy of tolcapone and entacapone in patients with fluctuating Parkinson's disease (PD). Tolcapone and entacapone are two currently available catechol- O -methyltransferase inhibitors that have demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of advanced PD. There are little published data on long-term experience and no direct comparisons. We compared the results of two separate, simultaneous, long-term open label extensions, one for tolcapone and the other for entacapone. The inclusion/exclusion criteria were similar. Data were collected prospectively at 6, 12, 24, and 36 months. Efficacy measures included the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) total score, subscores, items 32 (duration of dyskinesia) and 39 (duration of "off" time), and levodopa dose. The two groups were compared using a Mann-Whitney U test for change from baseline and analysis of variance. Tolerability was defined as the ability of patients to maintain therapy and was compared using a Kaplan-Meier analysis. Eleven patients enrolled in the entacapone study and 14 in the tolcapone study. The tolcapone group had more severe disease with significantly higher UPDRS motor score, duration of "off," and levodopa dose requirement. Tolcapone was more effective in lowering UPDRS motor and complication subscores, duration of "off" time, and levodopa doses. UPDRS motor scores and change in levodopa dose in the tolcapone group remained below baseline level for 36 months; however, they were above baseline in the entacapone group from 6 months on. Tolerability was the same for both treatments. Tolcapone appears to have greater and longer efficacy with regard to motor symptoms, "off" time, and change in levodopa requirements than entacapone. These findings indicate that tolcapone continues to have a place in the treatment of advanced PD. However, the risks associated with this drug, particularly hepatic injury, and the requirement for rigorous blood monitoring, need to be considered when choosing an appropriate treatment for patients with advanced PD.
We investigated the effects of risperidone on quality of life (QoL) and hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis hormones. In this prospective, open-label study, the subjects were 10 male schizophrenia patients with acute exacerbation. After a mean period of 44.6 d treatment, patients were taking a mean dose of 7.0 mg risperidone daily. After treatment, we found that (i) the total BPRS score decreased, (ii) the scores on psychosocial and motivation/energy subscales in the Japanese version of the Schizophrenia Quality of Life Scale decreased, but the scores on symptoms/side-effects subscale did not, (iii) prolactin increased, but the HPG axis hormones did not change, and (iv) the mean plasma homovanillic acid concentration decreased. Eight patients needed anticholinergic medications, one patient reported impotence, and one patient reported ejaculatory dysfunction during treatment. Our findings suggested that risperidone might improve psychosocial and motivation/energy QoL subscales, and increase prolactin without affecting the HPG axis hormones.
Amiodarone is a potent new antiarrhythmic drug that has multiple effects on thyroid function, including inhibition of extrathyroidal triiodothyronine production and rarely, iodine-induced hypothyroidism. This report describes a man with recurrent ventricular tachycardia in whom hypothyroidism developed during amiodarone therapy and who died of probable myxedema coma. Parenteral and oral thyroxine therapy promptly reduced serum thyroid-stimulating hormone concentrations without increasing the patient's very low serum triiodothyronine concentration. This response to thyroxine suggests that thyroxine itself may have biologic activity and participate directly in regulation of thyrotropin secretion. Because amiodarone-induced hypothyroidism may be life-threatening, thyroid function should be monitored before and during amiodarone therapy, and the drug discontinued or appropriate therapy instituted if hypothyroidism develops.
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of propranolol in rats 2 days after laparotomy were compared to control animals. The apparent volumes of distribution and the systemic clearance of propranolol were decreased to about 20 to 40 and 70% of control values, respectively. The area under the blood concentration-time curve (AUC) of propranolol after p.o. administration showed a marked elevation after surgery and its availability increased about 2-fold at doses of 5.0 and 12.5 mg/kg. These changes were associated with a decreased plasma unbound fraction of propranolol after surgery. Immunological determination of alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP) revealed a marked increase after laparotomy and a linear relationship was found between the plasma AGP concentration and the binding capacity of high-affinity binding site for propranolol in plasma (r = 0.961, P less than .001). AUC of p.o. administered propranolol was also correlated with plasma AGP concentration. The beta-blocking activity of propranolol assessed by the reduction in the isoproterenol-induced tachycardia was decreased in rats after laparotomy when it was evaluated in terms of the total plasma concentration of propranolol. In contrast, its activity evaluated by the unbound plasma concentration showed no difference between control and laparotomized rats, suggesting the dependence of the pharmacological activity of propranolol on its unbound level in plasma. Thus, laparotomy-induced changes in both pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics could be considered largely due to an increase in its binding to the increased plasma level of AGP.
We report the case of a 44-year-old right-handed woman who experienced her first convulsion while taking bupropion. Electroencephalography showed frequent bilateral independent temporal lobe epileptiform discharges that resolved when bupropion was discontinued. This is the first well-documented case of epileptiform discharges induced by bupropion in humans.
Despite the fact that the circadian variations in the density of striatal dopaminergic D2 receptors are well documented, there are few reports concerning whether these variations may regulate the extrapyramidal symptoms produced by antipsychotic drugs. To test this hypothesis, we selected 18 male hospitalized schizophrenic subjects, who had been treated for 2 wk with 10 mg haloperidol three times a day. The extrapyramidal symptoms were evaluated 1 h after each haloperidol administration (e.g. 09:00, 14:00 and 19:00 hours). The diurnal profiles of haloperidol-induced extrapyramidal symptoms showed that akathisia and dystonia were milder in the morning and increased in severity during the night. However, Parkinsonian symptoms were more severe during the morning evaluations than during the evening tests. The difference in the diurnal pattern of the haloperidol-induced side-effects, suggests that receptor-related mechanisms with a different circadian profile contribute to the induction of the extrapyramidal symptoms.
Zileuton, a leukotriene pathway inhibitor used to treat asthma, improves lung function, relieves symptoms, and is well tolerated. The purpose of this 12-month, parallel-group, open-label study was to assess the efficacy of zileuton and evaluate liver function in patients treated with this drug (approximately 2% of patients treated with zileuton in controlled trials had reversible liver enzyme elevations). A total of 2,947 patients at 233 centers in the United States were randomly assigned in a 5:1 ratio to treatment with zileuton plus usual asthma care or usual asthma care alone. Efficacy variables included asthma exacerbations; need for alternative treatment, steroid rescue, emergency care, and hospitalizations; forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1); and asthma symptom scores. The safety evaluation included measurement of alanine aminotransferase levels. Patients treated with zileuton had significantly fewer corticosteroid rescues (P < 0.001), required less emergency care (P < 0.05), had fewer hospitalizations, and had greater increases in FEV1 (P = 0.048). They also had significantly greater improvements in asthma symptoms. Increases in alanine aminotransferase levels to three times or more the upper limit of normal occurred in 4.6% of patients treated with zileuton and 1.1% of those receiving usual care (P < 0.001); most increases occurred during the first 2 to 3 months. Alanine aminotransferase levels decreased to less than two times the upper limit of normal or to baseline levels during zileuton treatment or after drug cessation. Jaundice or chronic liver disease did not develop in any patient. Adding zileuton to the therapeutic regimens of patients with asthma is likely to improve asthma control and lower utilization of healthcare resources.
