Nine out of 14 patients treated with intraventricular methotrexate (MTX) for meningeal carcinomatosis from breast carcinoma and surviving more than 4 months developed disseminated necrotising leukoencephalopathy (DNL). All four patients who had received both intraventricular MTX and whole brain radiotherapy developed DNL. Five of the six patients who experienced an acute febrile reaction with mild encephalopathic signs following intraventricular administration of MTX developed DNL after a mean time of 5 months and a low mean dose of 44 mg MTX. DNL was also noted in two patients without a previous febrile reaction or whole brain radiotherapy, following prolonged intraventricular MTX therapy after a mean time of 19.5 months and a mean dose of 147 mg MTX. These findings confirm the hazards of (1) high cumulative doses of intrathecal MTX and (2) combined intrathecal chemotherapy and whole brain radiotherapy. This study also suggests a possible relationship between an early and transient febrile reaction during intraventricular administration of MTX and the development of DNL.
A tissue culture cell line has been developed from the MBT-2, a carcinogen induced bladder tumor of C3H/HeN mice. The culture-adapted cells retained the capacity to induce progressive tumors in syngeneic mice. Amputation-challenge experiments with live cells showed that MBT-2 induces transplantation immunity. Immunization with irradiated MBT-2 cells or hypotonic membrane preparations from this tumor protected the animals against challenge with viable MBT-2 cells. Intraperitoneal administration of bacille Calmette Guérin failed to protect against tumor development and may have adversely affected the immunoprotection yielded by tumor extracts.
Resveratrol is a natural polyphenolic compound that activates nicotinamide adenosine dinucleotide-dependent deacetylase SIRT1. Resveratrol has recently been shown to exert potent antidiabetic actions when orally delivered to animal models of type 2 diabetes. However, the tissue(s) mediating these beneficial effects is unknown. Because SIRT1 is expressed in central nervous system (CNS) neurons known to control glucose and insulin homeostasis, we hypothesized that resveratrol antidiabetic effects are mediated by the brain. Here, we report that long-term intracerebroventricular infusion of resveratrol normalizes hyperglycemia and greatly improves hyperinsulinemia in diet-induced obese and diabetic mice. It is noteworthy that these effects are independent of changes in body weight, food intake, and circulating leptin levels. In addition, CNS resveratrol delivery improves hypothalamic nuclear factor-kappaB inflammatory signaling by reducing acetylated-RelA/p65 and total RelA/p65 protein contents, and inhibitor of nuclear factor-kappaB alpha and IkappaB kinase beta mRNA levels. Furthermore, this treatment leads to reduced hepatic phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 mRNA and protein levels and ameliorates pyruvate-induced hyperglycemia in this mouse model of type 2 diabetes. Collectively, our results unveiled a previously unrecognized key role for the CNS in mediating the antidiabetic actions of resveratrol.
The cardiac troponin T (TnT) I79N mutation has been linked to familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and high incidence of sudden death, despite causing little or no cardiac hypertrophy in patients. Transgenic mice expressing mutant human TnT (I79N-Tg) have increased cardiac contractility, but no ventricular hypertrophy or fibrosis. Enhanced cardiac function has been associated with myofilament Ca2+ sensitization, suggesting altered cellular Ca2+ handling. In the present study, we compare cellular Ca2+ transients and electrophysiological parameters of 64 I79N-Tg and 106 control mice in isolated myocytes, isolated perfused hearts, and whole animals. Ventricular action potentials (APs) measured in isolated I79N-Tg hearts and myocytes were significantly shortened only at 70% repolarization. No significant differences were found either in L-type Ca2+ or transient outward K+ currents, but inward rectifier K+ current (IK1) was significantly decreased. More critically, Ca2+ transients of field-stimulated ventricular I79N-Tg myocytes were reduced and had slow decay kinetics, consistent with increased Ca2+ sensitivity of I79N mutant fibers. AP differences were abolished when myocytes were dialyzed with Ca2+ buffers or after the Na+-Ca2+ exchanger was blocked by Li+. At higher pacing rates or in presence of isoproterenol, diastolic Ca2+ became significantly elevated in I79N-Tg compared with control myocytes. Ventricular ectopy could be induced by isoproterenol-challenge in isolated I79N-Tg hearts and anesthetized I79N-Tg mice. Freely moving I79N-Tg mice had a higher incidence of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) during mental stress (warm air jets). We conclude that the TnT-I79N mutation causes stress-induced VT even in absence of hypertrophy and/or fibrosis, arising possibly from the combination of AP remodeling related to altered Ca2+ transients and suppression of IK1.
The objective of this study was to estimate the effects of intramuscular haloperidol and lorazepam on the QT interval in volunteers with schizophrenia. Intramuscular haloperidol and intramuscular lorazepam are standard treatments in the acute management of agitation and aggression. Although prolongation of the QT interval and sequelae, including torsade de pointes and death, have been reported for haloperidol (but not lorazepam), formal studies have been lacking. Volunteers with schizophrenia (n = 12) were administered a single intramuscular injection of 7.5 mg haloperidol or 4 mg lorazepam in a blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled crossover design. Serial EKGs and concurrent blood samples were obtained over 6 hours following each injection. Changes in the QT interval were evaluated, as were plasma drug and prolactin concentrations. Haloperidol injection increased the heart rate-corrected QT interval an average of 5.1 msec using Bazett's correction (QTb 90% confidence interval [CI]: 0.3, 9.8), 3.6 msec using Fridericia's correction (QTf 90% CI: 0.02, 7.2), and 4.2 msec using an empirically derived "baseline correction" (QT(ii) 90% CI: 0.3, 8.0). Effects of lorazepam on QT were nullified by correction for the heart rate elevation (QTb 3.8 msec, 90% CI: 0.6, 7.1; QTf 0.0 msec, 90% CI: -3.2, 3.4; QTii -2.3 msec, 90% CI: -6.6, 2.0). An association between QT prolongation and occurrence of extrapyramidal symptoms was observed. On average, intramuscular haloperidol led to minimal prolongation of the QT interval. This propensity is of theoretical concern in individuals with risk factors for torsade de pointes but seems unlikely to be a problem in the vast majority of patients.
A 51-year-old woman with myelodysplastic syndrome developed HHV-6 encephalitis on day 34 after unrelated bone marrow transplantation. Although prompt treatment with foscarnet stabilized encephalitis and there were no serious neurological sequelae, the patient developed both hyponatremia and natriuresis 11 days after intravenous administration of foscarnet. Subsequent investigation demonstrated hyponatremia due to salt-wasting nephropathy induced by foscarnet. Discontinuation of foscarnet and fluid replacement therapy with adequate sodium chloride (NaCl) resulted in a gradual resolution of hyponatremia and natriuresis. Currently, 8 months after these clinical events, the patient is under outpatient treatment for persistent nephropathy that requires small amounts of oral NaCl supplement, but she is otherwise in good clinical condition.
We studied structural reorganization of the liver after toxic injury caused by a single injection of doxorubicin in a sublethal dose (10 mg/kg). The morphogenesis of doxorubicin injury to the liver is determined by two main pathogenetic factors: cytotoxic effect of doxorubicin and its metabolites on liver cell populations (primarily hepatocytes) and pronounced hemodynamic disorders in the greater circulation resulting from the development of chronic cardiac insufficiency. Changes in hepatocyte caused by doxorubicin manifest by fatty degeneration in the periportal zones and by pronounced lytic changes in the pericentral zones, most pronounced by day 30 of the experiment. Doxorubicin in the studied dose exhibited no cytostatic effect on the hepatocyte population. Hepatocyte proliferation, observed during the entire experiment, leads to an appreciable increase in their count and liver weight.
Muscarinic M(5) receptors are the only muscarinic receptor subtype expressed by dopamine-containing neurons of the ventral tegmental area. These cells play an important role for the reinforcing properties of psychostimulants and M(5) receptors modulate their activity. Previous studies showed that M(5) receptor knockout (M (5) (-/-) ) mice are less sensitive to the reinforcing properties of addictive drugs.
Here, we investigate the role of M(5) receptors in the effects of amphetamine and cocaine on locomotor activity, locomotor sensitization, and dopamine release using M (5) (-/-) mice backcrossed to the C57BL/6NTac strain.
Sensitization of the locomotor response is considered a model for chronic adaptations to repeated substance exposure, which might be related to drug craving and relapse. The effects of amphetamine on locomotor activity and locomotor sensitization were enhanced in M (5) (-/-) mice, while the effects of cocaine were similar in M (5) (-/-) and wild-type mice.
Consistent with the behavioral results, amphetamine-, but not cocaine, -elicited dopamine release in nucleus accumbens was enhanced in M (5) (-/-) mice.
The different effects of amphetamine and cocaine in M (5) (-/-) mice may be due to the divergent pharmacological profile of the two drugs, where amphetamine, but not cocaine, is able to release intracellular stores of dopamine. In conclusion, we show here for the first time that amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and dopamine release as well as amphetamine sensitization are enhanced in mice lacking the M(5) receptor. These results support the concept that the M(5) receptor modulates effects of addictive drugs.
Previous work has highlighted the adverse consequences of early-onset cannabis use. However, little is known about the predictors and effects of early-onset amphetamine use. We set out to examine these issues using a representative cohort of young people followed-up over 11 years in Victoria, Australia.
A stratified, random sample of 1943 adolescents was recruited from secondary schools across Victoria at age 14-15 years. This cohort was interviewed on eight occasions until the age of 24-25 years (78% follow-up at that age). Cross-sectional associations were assessed using logistic regression with allowance for repeated measures. Both proportional hazards models and logistic regression models were used to assess prospective associations.
Approximately 7% of the sample had used amphetamines by the age of 17 years. Amphetamine use by this age was associated with poorer mental health and other drug use. The incidence of amphetamine use during the teenage years was predicted by heavier drug use and by mental health problems. By young adulthood (age 24-25 years), adolescent amphetamine users were more likely to meet criteria for dependence upon a range of drugs, to have greater psychological morbidity and to have some limitations in educational attainment. Most of these associations were not sustained after adjustment for early-onset cannabis use.
Young people in Australia who begin amphetamine use by age 17 years are at increased risk for a range of mental health, substance use and psychosocial problems in young adulthood. However, these problems are largely accounted for by their even earlier-onset cannabis use.
We sought to determine whether polymorphisms in the large-conductance calcium and voltage-dependent potassium (BK) channel beta1 subunit gene, KCNMB1, are associated with blood pressure response to verapamil SR or adverse outcomes in the GENEtic substudy of the INternational VErapamil SR/trandolapril STudy (INVEST-GENES).
KCNMB1 is involved in calcium sensitivity and hypertension. The association between variability in KCNMB1 and calcium antagonist response, however, has not been assessed.
Genetic samples were collected from 5979 patients in INVEST. Blood pressure response to verapamil SR and time to achieve blood pressure control was assessed in relation to Glu65Lys and Val110Leu genotypes. The primary outcome (all cause mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction or nonfatal stroke) was compared between genotype groups, and interaction with verapamil SR therapy was assessed.
Systolic blood pressure response to verapamil SR did not differ by KCNMB1 genotype. Lys65 variant carriers, however, achieved blood pressure control earlier than Glu65Glu individuals [1.47 (interquartile ratio 2.77) versus 2.83 (interquartile ratio 4.17) months, P=0.01] and were less likely to require multiple drugs at the time of blood pressure control (adjusted odds ratio 0.43, 95% confidence interval 0.19-0.95). Leu110 variant carriers had a reduced risk of primary outcome (hazard ratio 0.68, 95% confidence interval 0.47-0.998). Subgroup analysis revealed this finding to be more pronounced in verapamil SR-assigned patients (hazard ratio 0.587, 95% confidence interval 0.33-1.04) compared with atenolol-assigned patients (hazard ratio 0.946, 95% confidence interval 0.56-1.59). No difference was seen in the occurrence of the primary outcome compared by codon 65 genotype.
Our findings suggest that KCNMB1 genotype influences responsiveness to verapamil SR and risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes.
The mammalian sperm acrosome reaction (AR) is essential to fertilization. It can be initiated in vitro by progesterone, a putative physiological initiator that helps to activate sperm GABA(A) receptor/chloride channels and by glycine, a substitute for the egg zona pellucida, which activates sperm glycine receptor/chloride channels. Even at 1 nM (0.41 ng/ml or 0.41 ppb), chlordane and endosulfan, chlorinated cyclodiene blockers of insect neuronal GABA(A) receptor/chloride channels, strongly inhibited the AR initiated by progesterone or glycine. Inhibition of the latter was also seen at 0.1 nM chlordane and endosulfan, but neither cyclodiene inhibited either AR initiator at 0.01 nM. Inhibitory concentrations of these cyclodienes are well within the range detected in human and wildlife tissue and fluids as a result of environmental contamination.
The therapeutic efficacy of orally administered clonazepam has been evaluated in 32 epileptic patients, with substantial improvement in 22. The drug is active in all types of seizures, particularly in myoclonus, petit mal absences, and partial complex epilepsy; it seems the drug of choice in generalized infantile organic epilepsy, although the treatment of these patients is still unsatisfactory. In some patients, the drug seemed less effective after months of therapy. Drowsiness is the main side effect.
The effects of Zn2+ combined with either chlorhexidine or cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC) on caries incidence in partially desalivated rats were investigated. Seven groups of 12 animals each received topical applications for 20 s with a saturated swab (0.2 ml) of the following aqueous solutions twice daily on weekdays (10 a.m. and 3 p.m.) and once daily during weekends (12 a.m.) for 5 wk: deionized water (placebo); 40 mM zinc acetate; 2.2 mM chlorhexidine diacetate; 4.4 mM CPC; 40 mM zinc acetate and 2.2 mM chlorhexidine diacetate; 40 mM zinc acetate and 4.4 mM CPC; and 20 mM NaF (positive control). Coronal caries was scored by the method of Keyes. All treatments except CPC alone resulted in significantly (P less than 0.05, ANOVA) less smooth-surface caries than did the placebo. NaF treatment resulted in significantly less smooth-surface caries than did Zn2+, chlorhexidine, CPC, and Zn(2+)-CPC. The inclusion of zinc ions did not significantly increase the caries-inhibitory efficacy of chlorhexidine (CH). The combination of Zn(2+)-CPC decreased smooth-surface scores significantly more than did CPC alone. Significant differences in sulcal-surface caries were not observed among the groups. Zn(2+)-CPC suppressed the Streptococcus sobrinus counts significantly more than did the separate agents. Animals treated with Zn(2+)-CH harbored the lowest populations of S. sobrinus.
Preclinical studies suggest that medications enhancing the brain gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) system attenuate the rewarding effects of stimulants including nicotine. These preclinical studies have not been followed up in systematic human studies.
This study was conducted to examine the effects of a GABAergic medication, tiagabine, on acute physiological and subjective effects of intravenous (i.v.) nicotine and on tobacco withdrawal symptoms in overnight abstinent smokers. The proposed mechanism of action for tiagabine is selective inhibition of GABA transporter type I, which leads to increases in synaptic GABA levels.
Eight male and four female smokers participated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. In each of three experimental sessions, participants were treated orally with a single 4- or 8-mg dose of tiagabine or placebo. Two hours following the medication treatment, participants received i.v. saline, followed 30 min later by 1.5 mg/70 kg i.v. nicotine.
Tiagabine treatment did not affect the heart rate or blood pressure changes induced by nicotine. There was a significant treatment effect for the subjective responses to nicotine, such that tiagabine, compared to placebo, attenuated the ratings of "good effects" and "drug liking." Tiagabine treatment at 8 mg attenuated the craving for cigarettes and enhanced the cognitive performance in the Classical Stoop Tests, compared to placebo or 4 mg tiagabine condition.
These results suggest that GABA enhancing medication tiagabine may reduce the rewarding effects of nicotine and improve cognitive performance in abstinent smokers. The utility of GABA medications for smoking cessation needs to be examined further in controlled clinical trials.
We semiquantificated the mRNA levels of thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), and orotate phosphoribosyltransferase(OPRT) from the frozen tissue of colorectal cancer, in order to examine the relationships among these enzymes and the efficacy for 5-fluorouracil (FU)-based treatment in terms of the combinations of the expression levels of these enzymes. There were weak and positive relationships among TS mRNA expression and OPRT mRNA expression or DPD mRNA expression, while there was no significant relationship between DPD mRNA expression and OPRT mRNA expression (n = 112). In 39 patients who received 5-FU-based chemotherapy with evaluable lesions, patients with low TS expression (n = 23) showed a higher response rate (52%) as compared to those with high TS expression (13%, p = 0.02). Patients with low TS, low DPD, or high DPD expression tended to show a higher response rate (50%) than those with the other combinations (26%, p = 0.09). In addition, all of the responders with only one favorable factor (n = 4) were associated with low TS or low DPD expression. In conclusion, low TS expression followed by low DPD expression is important to predict the efficacy of 5-FU-based treatment for colorectal cancer. However, it may be of little significance to semiquantify the expression of OPRT.
Stress and depression have been linked to relapse of cocaine abuse. Antagonism of the kappa opioid receptor (KOR) has been reported to attenuate some effects of stressors, and antagonism of the KOR has been reported to have antidepressant-like properties.
Our objective was to determine whether the potent and selective KOR antagonist, (3R)-7-hydroxy-N-{(1S)-1-{[(3R,4R)-4-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-3,4-dimethyl-1-piperidinyl]methyl}-2-methylpropyl}-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-3-isoquinoline-carboxamide (JDTic), can reduce the ability of a stressor (intermittent footshock) to reinstate cocaine-seeking behavior and to have antidepressant-like effects in the forced swim test (FST).
Male Long-Evans hooded rats were trained to lever-press, reinforced with 0.5 mg/kg i.v. infusion of cocaine, according to fixed ratio 1 reinforcement schedules during daily 2-h experimental sessions. After performance had stabilized, lever pressing was extinguished for 12 consecutive sessions, and doses of 0 (vehicle), 3, 10, and 30 mg/kg JDTic were then administered i.g. to separate groups of 12 rats. Twenty four hours later, the rats were given 15 min of intermittent footshock (0.87 mA, 0.5 s activation time, average inter-activation interval of 40 s) or a 17-mg/kg i.p. administration of cocaine prime followed by a 2-h reinstatement test session. JDTic was also evaluated for its ability to block diuresis induced by the KOR agonist, U50,488H (10 mg/kg, s.c.), during 5-h test sessions beginning 1 h after footshock reinstatement tests to verify its KOR antagonist activity. In the FST, male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with either nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI) or JDTic (both at 0.3, 1, 3, or 10 mg/kg, injected s.c. 23 h before), or desipramine (5.6, 10, or 17 mg/kg, injected i.p. 23, 5, and 1 h before) and placed in a cylinder of water, during which the predominance of immobility, swimming, and climbing were scored during 5-s intervals for 5 min.
The 10- and 30-mg/kg doses of JDTic significantly reduced footshock-induced reinstatement of responding previously reinforced by cocaine and significantly attenuated U50,488H-induced diuresis. In contrast, JDTic did not affect cocaine-prime-induced reinstatement. Both nor-BNI and JDTic decreased immobility and increased swimming time in the FST, similar to the antidepressant desipramine.
Depression and stress are two states during cocaine abstinence which users identify as precipitating relapse, and JDTic may have properties which attenuate both.
After unique injection LiCl enhances, in albino rat, catalepsy induced by arecoline and oxotremorine perhaps by adenylcyclase inhibition and/or decrease of acetylcholine synthesis. After repetitive injection of LiCl during 5 days, this phenomenon is not observable, probably owing to increase of acetylcholine synthesis. After unique injection of LiCl enhances catalepsy induced by dextromoramide, probably on account of cholinergic properties of this drug. In contrast catalepsy induced by morphine or pethidine is suppressed. This constatation would depend on opposite influence upon cerebral neuromediators : lithium diminishing cerebral serotonin and striatal acetylcholine levels and morphine increasing them. After repetitive injections these phenomenons are not observable.
Anthracyclines, found to be efficacious in the treatment of a broad spectrum of pediatric malignancies, are cardiotoxic and may lead to heart failure even a long time after successful treatment of cancer. It is thought that subtle abnormalities can progress to the more permanent myocardial disease, resulting in cardiomyopathy which may progress to congestive heart failure. There are some precipitating factors leading to the sudden onset of cardiac symptoms such as increase in afterload or preload. We describe a young patient with congestive heart failure treated with doxorubicin (cumulative mean dose 420 mg/m2) in infancy because of pelvic sarcoma in whom the appearance of symptoms was related to pulmonary embolism. Four years before hospital admission, the patient presented echocardiographic abnormalities such as left ventricular fractional shortening and thickness reduction and he was treated with ACE-inhibitors. The myocardial ischemia, which is present in pulmonary embolism, probably worsened the left ventricular systolic function and caused congestive heart failure.
Secondary hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) was diagnosed in 55 newborns and infants without heart disease. The 17 newborn infants of diabetic mothers, 23 infants given ACTH treatment for infantile spasms, 9 ventilated premature infants or babies with bronchopulmonary dysplasia and 6 infants with different underlying diseases comprising this group underwent 2-dimensional echocardiography. In almost all cases echocardiographic evidence of HCM resolved after removal of the exogenous or endogenous causative factor. Myocardial effects of several substances are known and their pathophysiological mechanisms are discussed. Since HCM may precede systemic disease or may often be the first pointer to a triggering agent, further diagnostic procedures are always indicated. Hence, the diagnosis of primary HCM should be made by exclusion.
Injection of haloperidol during catalepsy modeling decreased the content of NO in rat cerebral cortex. NO precursor L-arginine arrested catalepsy and prevented the decrease in NO content.
The effects of the antioxidants, butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), ethoxyquin (EQ), and sodium L-ascorbate (SA) on two stage chemical carcinogenesis were investigated in male F344 rats initiated with N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG), N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethylnitrosamine (EHEN), N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)-nitrosamine (BBN) or N-methylnitrosourea (MNU). BHA was given in diet at a dose level of 0.5 or 2.0%, BHT at 1.0%, SA at 5.0% and EQ at 0.8% for 29-51 weeks. Complete autopsy was performed at sacrifice and organs were examined histologically for the presence of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions. All of the antioxidants tested exerted a positive influence on the development of BBN- or MNU-initiated bladder carcinogenesis. Similarly, these chemicals tended to enhance the appearance of forestomach tumors although the data gained after BHT administration were not significant. In clear contrast, no effect was observed on glandular stomach carcinogenesis and, with the exception of SA, the antioxidants all showed inhibition of the development of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions in the liver. EQ increased the occurrence of renal adenoma in EHEN-treated rats. Clear differences were observed with respect to the modification of thyroid carcinogenesis after MNU initiation, BHT demonstrating strong promotion activity whereas BHA and SA had no effect. Thus organ specificity, with regard to both direction of modification and to the effects of individual antioxidants was apparent, this intriguing finding offering hope for the development of future experimental approaches for elucidation of the mechanisms underlying chemical carcinogenesis.
Current recommendations that cancer patients receive a maximum cumulative dose of 900 mg/m(2) epirubicin are based on the risk of epirubicin-mediated cardiotoxicity and do not take into account the competing risk of death from cancer. Here, we identify risk factors for cardiotoxicity and overall mortality and determine the cumulative dose of epirubicin that yields a 5% risk for cardiotoxicity for cancer patients from different risk backgrounds.
Data were collected from 1097 consecutive anthracycline-naive patients treated for metastatic breast cancer with epirubicin. Patients who developed congestive heart failure classified as New York Heart Association class 2 or higher were recorded as having cardiotoxicity. Independent Cox multiple regression analyses for cardiotoxicity and for overall mortality were followed by competing risks analysis, with cardiotoxicity as the primary event and death from all other causes as the competing event. All statistical tests were two-sided.
A total of 11.4% of patients developed cardiotoxicity. Risk factors for cardiotoxicity included increased cumulative dose of epirubicin (hazard ratio per every 100 mg/m(2) administered = 1.40, 95% confidence interval = 1.21 to 1.61), patient age, predisposition to cardiac disease, history of mediastinal irradiation, or antihormonal treatment for metastatic disease. Risk factors for death from all other causes (including breast cancer) included lesser dosages of epirubicin, increased tumor burden, prior use of adjuvant chemotherapy, and patient age. The cumulative dosage of epirubicin that carries a 5% risk of cardiotoxicity was lower than previously assumed and was dependent on risks of both cardiotoxicity and overall mortality.
Maximum cumulative dosages of epirubicin are presented that confer a 5% risk of cardiotoxicity for patients with different sets of risk factors.
To investigate the clinical features, electrocardiographic findings, and hospital course in patients admitted with acute chest pain temporally related to cocaine use.
Retrospective data analysis.
A 485-bed county hospital.
One hundred and one consecutive patients with cocaine-related chest pain admitted to the hospital to rule out myocardial infarction.
The quality of the chest pain frequently suggested myocardial ischemia. Dyspnea was common (56%). The onset of chest pain occurred during cocaine use in 21% of patients, within 1 hour of use in 37%, and after 1 hour of use in 42%. Admission electrocardiographic findings were interpreted as normal in 32% of patients; as acute myocardial injury in 8%; as early repolarization variant in 32%; as left ventricular hypertrophy in 16%; and as "other" in 12%. Forty-three percent of patients had ST-segment elevation meeting the electrocardiographic criteria for use of thrombolytic therapy, but such elevation was usually due to the early repolarization variant. The initial total creatine kinase was elevated more than 3.3 mu kat/L (200 U/L) in 43% of patients, and an elevated total creatine kinase was recorded at some time during the hospital course in 47% of patients. The creatine kinase MB fraction was less than 0.02 in all patients. Myocardial infarction was ruled out in all patients. No patient experienced in-hospital cardiovascular complications.
The quality of acute chest pain related to cocaine use is indistinguishable from that experienced in acute myocardial ischemia. Abnormal or normal variant electrocardiographic findings are common in patients with chest pain related to cocaine use, but nevertheless the incidence of acute myocardial infarction is low. The ST-segment and T-wave changes can mimic acute myocardial injury and are most likely normal findings in young black men that can be readily recognized in the emergency department. Most of these patients do not require admission to an intensive care unit.
To unravel the possible association of malondialdehyde (MDA) and fructosamine in anemic H pylori infected patients and to observe the alteration in MDA and fructosamine levels in these patients after treatment for one month.
Fructosamine, MDA and glucose were estimated in 22 anemic H pylori infected patients and 16 healthy controls. Hematological parameters were also evaluated in both the groups using Sysmex-K-100 automated cell counter. The H pylori infected patients were randomly divided into two groups. H pylori infected patients in Group I received both iron supplementation and anti-H pylori therapy, while patients in Group II received only iron supplementation. All the biochemical and hematological parameters were estimated after one month of treatment.
In anemic H pylori infected patients, while MDA (5.41 +/- 2.16 vs 2.26 +/- 0.50; P < 0.05) and fructosamine (2.64 +/- 0.93 vs 1.60 +/- 0.35; P < 0.05) were significantly increased, iron (32.72 +/- 14.93 vs 110.25 +/- 26.58; P < 0.05), hemoglobin (6.9 +/- 2.6 vs 12.66 +/- 0.74; P < 0.05) and ferritin (28.82 +/- 16.27 vs 140.43 +/- 30.72; P < 0.05) levels were significantly decreased compared with the controls. With partial correlation analysis, fructosamine was found to have a significant positive correlation with MDA. In Group I, while MDA level decreased significantly (3.11 +/- 1.73 vs 5.50 +/- 2.46; P < 0.05), there was a significant increase in iron (84.09 +/- 29.51 vs 36.09 +/- 17.81; P < 0.05), hemoglobin (10.40 +/- 1.11 vs 7.42 +/- 1.90; P < 0.05) and ferritin (116.91 +/- 63.34 vs 30.46 +/- 17.81; P < 0.05) levels after one month. There was no significant change in the levels of fructosamine in group I after treatment. Similarly, no significant alterations were noted in the levels of MDA, fructosamine, hemoglobin or ferritin in Group II patients after one month of treatment.
An increased level of fructosamine and MDA was found in anemic H pylori infected patients. Present data supports the premise that lipid peroxides per se do play a role in the glycation of plasma proteins. Furthermore, the findings from this study indicate that treatment for both anemia and H pylori infections is required for lowering the levels of lipid peroxides in these patients.
Catatonic reactions to high-potency neuroleptic drugs have been described in the literature. Our patient developed neuroleptic-induced catatonia (NIC) after abrupt withdrawal of amantadine, a dopaminergic agent that has been implicated in neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) on its discontinuation. This case report adds support to the hypothesis that NIC and NMS are 2 syndromes on a continuum of dopamine blockade, each of which may be treated with or uncovered by amantadine therapy.
In young, adult, and old mice fibrosis was induced by administration of CC1(4) and treated with IFN-alpha; liver fibrosis was evaluated by morphometry of argyrophilic fibers, immune status by the splenocyte proliferative response. minimum immunosuppression and maximum antifibrotic effect were observed in young mice, while adult mice exhibited pronounced immunotoxicity and weak response to interferon therapy.
Two doses of adriamycin (2 mg/kg i.v.) were administered to young adult rats with a 22-day interval and the kidneys were examined 51, 79, and 107 days after the first injection. Light microscopy showed early prominent intraglomerular microcystic spaces and progressive, though not severe, segmental glomerulosclerosis with focal interstitial scarring and round-cell infiltration. The main features of the ultrastructure were widespread fusion of foot processes, focal cytoplasmic rarefaction of podocytes, and non-specific sclerosis of the mesangium without signs of severe degenerative changes or mesangiolysis. The segmental microcystic structures corresponded to agglomerated intrapodocytic vacuoles. The scatter of glomerular polyanion sites visualized by polyethylenimine-phosphotungstic acid resembled that of control animals but the quantitative assessment revealed a significant reduction. CD4-positive cells were the predominant element of the interstitial infiltrates. Most of the infiltrating cells expressed Ia antigens, whereas Ia-positive intraglomerular resident mononuclear cells were depleted. The adriamycin lesion resembles the post-five-sixths nephrectomy ablation nephropathy in the subpopulations of the interstitial infiltrate but differs from it in the reduction of intraglomerular resident macrophages, the absence of destructive mesangial damage, and reduced segmental glomerulosclerosis. The main feature is the prolonged damage of podocytes, especially of their cytoskeletal system.
