Sixty volunteers with insomnia participated in a randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trial. After an initial six nights of placebo, 30 subjects (the abrupt-withdrawal group) received 0.5 mg of triazolam nightly for 7 to 10 nights, after which they received placebo. The other 30 subjects (the tapered-dosage group) received the same initial placebo treatment, then triazolam at 0.5 mg for seven nights, at 0.25 mg for two nights, and at 0.125 mg for two nights, and then placebo. As compared with the initial placebo period, the triazolam period significantly reduced the interval before the onset of sleep (sleep latency), and it prolonged sleep duration, reduced the number of awakenings, and improved the self-rated soundness of sleep in all cohorts. In the abrupt-withdrawal group, plasma levels of triazolam were undetectable the morning after the first night of placebo substitution, and subjects reported prolongation of sleep latency (57 minutes longer than base line), reduction in sleep duration (1.4 hours less than base line), and increased awakenings (1.2 per night above base line). The symptoms of rebound sleep disorder lasted one or possibly two nights, and there was a reversion toward base line on subsequent placebo nights. In the tapered-dosage group, however, plasma triazolam levels fell gradually to zero, and rebound symptoms were decreased or eliminated. Thus, rebound sleep disorder following abrupt discontinuation of triazolam can be attenuated by a regimen of tapering.
Effects of HR-592 on various behaviors were investigated in rats and mice. 1) HR-592 at doses of 10-100 mg/kg, p.o., and chlorpromazine at doses of 2.5-20 mg/kg, p.o., suppressed dose-dependently spontaneous activities of mice. 2) In the mice treated with HR-592, 10 and 30 mg/kg, p.o., and with chlorpromazine, 1.25-5 mg/kg, p.o., the durations of loss of the righting reflex induced by thiopental-Na were extended in a dose-dependent manner. 3) In the mice and rats when HR-592 was administered at doses of 3-100 mg/kg, p.o., catalepsy was induced in a dose-dependent manner. 4) The incidence of catalepsy induced by haloperidol in mice was reduced dose-dependently after HR-592 administration (10-100 mg/kg, p.o.). 5) Dose-dependent suppressions of the slant of screen at which the mice slipped down were observed by HR-592 at 3-100 mg/kg, p.o., and chlorpromazine at 5-20 mg/kg, p.o. 6) The rotarod performance in mice was suppressed dose-dependently by HR-592, 3-100 mg/kg, p.o., and chlorpromazine, 5-20 mg/kg, p.o. 7) HR-592 at doses of 0.3-3 mg/kg, i.p., suppressed dose-dependently the turning behavior induced by methamphetamine in unilateral substantia nigra-lesioned rats. From these results and our previous data, it is considered that HR-592 has pharmacological properties as a major tranquilizer, although its behavioral effect is slightly weaker than that of chlorpromazine. Furthermore, these results imply that HR-592 has anti-cataleptogenic activity and might thereby alleviate the adverse effect of neuroleptics such as haloperidol.
We conducted a prospective, randomized, multicenter, single-blind trial of propranolol as compared with placebo in the prevention of first upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding in patients with cirrhosis of the liver. A total of 230 patients (90 percent with alcoholism and 46 percent with a Child-Pugh grade C classification) with large esophageal varices without previous bleeding were randomly assigned to receive either propranolol (n = 118) or placebo (n = 112), after they had been divided into two groups according to the severity of their liver disease. The end points of the study were bleeding and death. The dose of propranolol was progressively increased to decrease the heart rate by 20 to 25 percent. The final doses were 40 mg of conventional propranolol and 160 and 320 mg of long-acting propranolol daily in 22 percent, 60 percent, and 18 percent of patients, respectively. The mean (+/- SD) follow-up time among survivors without bleeding was 436 +/- 172 days. The cumulative percentages of patients free of bleeding two years after inclusion in the study were 74 percent (95 percent confidence limits, 61 and 83) in the propranolol group and 39 percent (95 percent confidence limits, 15 and 69) in the placebo group (P less than 0.05). Cumulative two-year survival was 72 percent (95 percent confidence limits, 60 and 81) in the propranolol group and 51 percent (95 percent confidence limits, 37 and 64) in the placebo group (P less than 0.05). The advantage of propranolol over placebo was maintained when potentially confounding variables were adjusted with use of the Cox model. Side effects occurred in 17 percent of the patients who received propranolol and led to the stopping of treatment in 11 percent. We conclude that propranolol can decrease the incidence of first bleeding and death during a period of two years in patients with cirrhosis and large varices.
25-Hydroxyvitamin D(3)-24-hydroxylase (24-hydroxylase) is an important inactivating enzyme and its expression is induced by 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25OHD3) and 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1alpha,25-(OH)2D3) through action of heterodimers of vitamin D receptor (VDR) and retinoid X receptor (RXR). RXRs also act as heterodimer partners for retinoic acid receptors (RARs), mediating the action of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA). Prostate stroma plays a crucial role in prostate cancer development and benign prostatic hyperplasia. We demonstrate here that ATRA markedly reduced the expression of 24-hydroxylase mRNA induced by 25OHD3 and 1alpha,25-(OH)2D3 in human prostatic stromal cells P29SN and P32S but not in epithelial cells PrEC or cancer cells LNCaP. By using transfection and RAR-selective ligands, we found that the inhibitory effect of ATRA on 24-hydroxylase expression in stromal cells was mediated by RARalpha but not by RARbeta. Moreover, the ATRA-induced expression of RARbeta was also mediated by RARalpha. The combined treatment of 1alpha,25-(OH)2D3 and RARalpha agonist Am80 at 10 nM exhibited strong growth-inhibitory effect whereas either alone had no effect. Our data suggest that ATRA suppresses 24-hydroxylase expression through RARalpha-dependent signaling pathway and can enhance vitamin D action in suppression of cell growth.
Brain cyclooxygenases (COX), the rate-limiting enzyme in prostaglandin synthesis, is rapidly and transiently induced by convulsions in hippocampal and cortical neurons. Previous studies have explored the protective effect of naproxen (non-selective COX-inhibitor) or rofecoxib (selective COX-2 inhibitor) against chemical kindling in mice. With this background, the present study was designed to explore the possible effect of nimesulide (a preferential COX-2 inhibitor) against pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced kindling epilepsy in mice. To induce kindling, PTZ was injected in a subconvulsive dose (40 mg/kg, i.p.) every other day for 15 days. Nimesulide (2.5 or 5 mg/kg, p.o.) was administered each day 45 min before either PTZ or vehicle challenge. The intensity of kindling was assessed immediately after PTZ administration according to a prevalidated scoring scale. On 16th day i.e. 24 h after the last dose of PTZ, animals were sacrificed and various biochemical parameters were assessed in the whole brain. Compared with normal control group, PTZ-kindled mice had significantly higher levels of malondialdehyde, nitrite, myeloperoxidase but had lower levels of reduced glutathione in the whole brain homogenate. Chronic treatment with nimesulide (2.5 or 5 mg/kg, p.o.) for 15 days showed significant decrease in kindling score and could play a role in controlling the accompanying biochemical alterations due to PTZ. These results suggested that nimesulide, a preferential COX-2 inhibitor offered neuroprotection against PTZ-induced kindling in mice.
Felodipine, a dihydropyridine calcium-channel antagonist, significantly reduces systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) in patients with hypertension and has been associated with beneficial hemodynamic effects in patients with chronic stable angina pectoris or congestive heart failure (CHF). In hypertensive patients, felodipine does not appear to significantly affect glomerular filtration rate, creatinine clearance, glucose tolerance, or plasma lipoprotein concentrations. Studies comparing felodipine with other agents as monotherapy in mild to moderate hypertension have demonstrated felodipine to be at least as efficacious as hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) and HCTZ plus amiloride hydrochloride in combination. Comparisons of felodipine with other agents as adjuncts to beta-blocker or diuretic therapy have shown felodipine to be at least as effective as HCTZ, propranolol hydrochloride, prazosin hydrochloride, and nifedipine. Evaluations of patients with chronic stable angina are limited, and additional studies are needed before felodipine can be recommended for the routine management of angina pectoris. Similarly, additional studies are essential to delineate the role of felodipine, if any, in the management of CHF. In the management of hypertension, felodipine 5-40 mg/d significantly reduces systolic and diastolic BP. Although some patients may be controlled throughout the entire dosing interval when felodipine is administered bid, many patients will require more frequent dosing to obtain adequate BP control. Adverse effects associated with felodipine are similar to those of other dihydropyridine calcium-channel antagonists and include peripheral edema, headache, dizziness, flushing, and fatigue. A potentially clinically important drug interaction was observed when felodipine was administered concomitantly with theophylline aminopropanol; significant decreases in theophylline concentrations were noted. In summary, felodipine appears to be safe and effective for the management of hypertension when used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. The efficacy of felodipine in the management of chronic stable angina pectoris and CHF requires further investigation.
Animal data suggest that a D1 antagonistic component in neuroleptic drugs counteracts development of dopamine supersensitivity and of tolerance to cataleptic effect. This has led to the hypothesis that neuroleptics with D1 antagonistic activity should cause a better suppression of tardive dyskinesia (TD) and less rebound aggravation after withdrawal than pure D2 antagonists. In this study the effect of zuclopenthixol (mixed D1/D2 antagonist) and haloperidol (D2 antagonist) was evaluated in chronic psychotic patients with TD. Fifteen patients completed a randomized crossover study with blind evaluation of TD and parkinsonism. The test medications, haloperidol and zuclopenthixol, caused a significant suppression of TD and a significant increase of parkinsonism. No significant differences between haloperidol and zuclopenthixol were observed. No TD aggravation was seen. The lack of differences between the mixed D1/D2 antagonist and a D2 antagonist suggest that tolerance and DA supersensitivity play no or a minor role for development of TD.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is becoming an increasingly common problem and although oral therapies offer first-line treatment for many men, they are contraindicated or ineffective in substantial groups of patients. Intracavernosal injection (ICI) therapy is the most effective nonsurgical treatment for ED and offers an effective alternative to oral therapy. Sufficient arterial blood supply and a functional veno-occlusive mechanism are prerequisites in the attainment and maintenance of a functional erection. Invicorp (Plethora Solutions, London, UK) is a combination of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) 25 microg and phentolamine mesylate 1 or 2 mg for ICI in the management of moderate to severe ED. The two active components have complementary modes of action; VIP has a potent effect on the veno-occlusive mechanism, but little effect on arterial inflow, whereas phentolamine increases arterial blood flow with no effect on the veno-occlusive mechanism. Clinical studies showed that Invicorp is effective in >or=80% of men with ED, including those who have failed to respond to other therapies and, unlike existing intracavernosal therapies, is associated with a very low incidence of penile pain and virtually negligible risk of priapism. We estimate that there are >5.9 million men in the USA alone for whom oral ED drugs are not a viable treatment option, and for whom Invicorp might offer a safe and effective alternative.
The cataleptic activity of morphine and methadone was markedly potentiated in frontally decorticated rats with no apparent changes in the onset or duration of action. Enhancement of the opioid cataleptic response was not due to changes in the availability of the drugs in the brain. The potentiation of methadone-induced catalepsy in decorticated rats was mimicked in naive rats by intrastriatal (i.s.) application of 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP7), a potent and selective antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Therefore, degeneration of glutamatergic synapses following decortication could be responsible for the changes in behavioral effects caused by opioids. The failure of AP7 to elicit an effect after injection into the n. accumbens fits with the possibility of a selective involvement of the striatum in this phenomenon. That the striatum plays a critical role in the expression of opioid-induced catalepsy was substantiated by the findings that: (1) naloxone, an opioid antagonist, injected i.s., prevents the potentiation of catalepsy induced by methadone and morphine in decorticated animals, (2) oxotremorine, a muscarinic agonist, injected i.s., reverses the enhancement of opioid-catalepsy in decorticated rats, (3) earlier studies by others showed that ablation of the striatum had a facilitatory action on opioid-induced catalepsy. In conclusion, evidence is given that the corticostriatal pathway exerts an inhibitory effect upon narcotic-induced cataleptic behavior. The possibility that this effect is mediated through striatonigral GABAergic output is discussed. The data further suggest that the neuronal mechanisms through which the corticostriatal pathway mediates narcotic catalepsy is operative through activation of NMDA receptors within the striatum.
Aseptic meningitis has been linked to treatment with several nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (e.g., ibuprofen, tolmetin, sulindac), particularly in patients with disturbed immunity. Naproxen, however, has only once been reported to cause meningitis. We report a case of recurrent aseptic meningitis related to prolonged naproxen usage in a 38-year-old woman with longstanding, minimally symptomatic systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Two years after starting naproxen, she experienced three separate episodes of meningitis within a period of 10 months; each episode was preceded by resumption of naproxen administration or an increase in drug dosage. There was no clinical or serologic evidence for the flare-ups of her SLE. Discontinuation of naproxen was followed by prompt recovery once the relationship of the drug to her symptoms was realized. Off the drug, the patient has remained free of meningeal symptoms for more than 18 months. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents should be considered as possible causal agents in evaluating meningitis of obscure etiology.
Pancreatic adenocarcinomas are among the most malignant forms of cancer and, therefore, it is of especial interest to set new strategies aimed at improving the prognostic of this deadly disease. The present study was undertaken to investigate the action of cannabinoids, a new family of potential antitumoral agents, in pancreatic cancer. We show that cannabinoid receptors are expressed in human pancreatic tumor cell lines and tumor biopsies at much higher levels than in normal pancreatic tissue. Studies conducted with MiaPaCa2 and Panc1 cell lines showed that cannabinoid administration (a) induced apoptosis, (b) increased ceramide levels, and (c) up-regulated mRNA levels of the stress protein p8. These effects were prevented by blockade of the CB(2) cannabinoid receptor or by pharmacologic inhibition of ceramide synthesis de novo. Knockdown experiments using selective small interfering RNAs showed the involvement of p8 via its downstream endoplasmic reticulum stress-related targets activating transcription factor 4 (ATF-4) and TRB3 in Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol-induced apoptosis. Cannabinoids also reduced the growth of tumor cells in two animal models of pancreatic cancer. In addition, cannabinoid treatment inhibited the spreading of pancreatic tumor cells. Moreover, cannabinoid administration selectively increased apoptosis and TRB3 expression in pancreatic tumor cells but not in normal tissue. In conclusion, results presented here show that cannabinoids lead to apoptosis of pancreatic tumor cells via a CB(2) receptor and de novo synthesized ceramide-dependent up-regulation of p8 and the endoplasmic reticulum stress-related genes ATF-4 and TRB3. These findings may contribute to set the basis for a new therapeutic approach for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
Two patients developed a disabling amnesic syndrome after seizures associated with oral theophylline treatment. Such seizures are more likely in the elderly, in the presence of pre-existing neurological disease, and when theophylline is given with certain antibiotics and cimetidine. The mechanism of neuronal injury may be by the excessive release of endogenous excitotoxic glutamate.
To observe the changes of serum nitric oxide (NO) level after acute hepatic injury (AHI) in mice and the effect of Yugan capsule (YC) on it.
The mouse AHI model was induced by carbon tetrachloride ( CC14 ) at different time points. After treatment with or without YC, serum nitric oxide ( NO) , anlanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) were detected, and liver histopathologic injury was observed at different time points after AHI, respectively.
Serum NO, ALT and AST in the model group escalated significantly with time going, while they decreased and liver histopathologic injury was improved in the YC groups.
The serum levels of NO, ALT and AST increased,and liver histopathologic injury gradually aggravated with time going after CCl4 injection. Yugan capsule could decrease the levels of ALT, AST and NO.
Amantadine hydrochloride, a dopamine agonist with antiviral and antiparkinsonism properties, is used for the prevention and treatment of influenza A respiratory infections in high-risk populations. The occurrence of amantadine-induced hallucinations and tremors is described in a young, renal transplant patient with declining renal function. Following discontinuation of amantadine, plasma amantadine concentrations were correlated with central nervous system toxicity. In view of the usage of amantadine in renal transplant recipients and the elderly, clinicians must be alert to the possibility of amantadine-induced neurotoxicity in patients with changing renal function.
Previous studies from our laboratory have demonstrated the potential anticarcinogenicity of vanadium, a dietary micronutrient in rat liver, colon, and mammary carcinogenesis models in vivo. In this paper, we have investigated further the antihepatocarcinogenic role of this essential trace element by studying several biomarkers of chemical carcinogenesis with special reference to cell proliferation and oxidative DNA damage. Hepatocarcinogenesis was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats by chronic feeding of 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) at a dose of 0.05% in basal diet daily for 5 days a week. Vanadium in the form of ammonium metavanadate (0.5 ppm equivalent to 4.27 micromol/l) was supplemented ad lib to the rats. Continuous vanadium administration reduced relative liver weight, nodular incidence (79.99%), total number and multiplicity (P < 0.001; 68.17%) along with improvement in hepatocellular architecture when compared to carcinogen control. Vanadium treatment further restored hepatic uridine diphosphate (UDP)-glucuronosyl transferase and UDP-glucose dehydrogenase activities, inhibited lipid peroxidation, and prevented the development of glycogen-storage preneoplastic foci (P < 0.01; 63.29%) in an initiation-promotion model. Long-term vanadium treatment also reduced BrdU-labelling index (P < 0.02) and inhibited cell proliferation during hepatocellular preneoplasia. Finally, short-term vanadium exposure abated the formations of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosines (P < 0.001; 56.27%), length:width of DNA mass (P < 0.01), and the mean frequency of tailed DNA (P < 0.001) in preneoplastic rat liver. The study indicates the potential role of vanadium in suppressing cell proliferation and in preventing early DNA damage in vivo. Vanadium is chemopreventive against the early stages of 2-AAF-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats.
C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency is an unusual cause of acute upper airway angioedema. This case of angioedema is secondary to acquired C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency associated with neoplastic disease and triggered by the use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. It was sufficiently severe to require emergency airway management. A guide to the evaluation and management of angioedema is presented.
Inorganic arsenic, a ubiquitous environmental contaminant, is associated with an increased risk of cancer. There are several hypotheses regarding arsenic-induced carcinogenesis. The mechanism of action remains obscure, although hyper-proliferation of cells is involved. In the present study, the molecular mechanisms underlying the proliferation and malignant transformation of human embryo lung fibroblast (HELF) cells induced by a low concentration of arsenite were investigated. The results reveal that a low concentration of arsenite induces cell proliferation and promotes cell cycle transition from the G(1) to the S phase. Moreover, arsenite activates the JNK1/c-Jun signal pathway, but not JNK2, which up-regulates the expression of cyclin D1/CDK4 and phosphorylates the retinoblastoma (Rb) protein. Blocking of the JNK1/c-Jun signal pathway suppresses the increases of cyclin D1 expression and Rb phosphorylation, which attenuates cell proliferation, reduces the transition from the G1 to the S phase, and thereby inhibits the neoplastic transformation of HELF cells induced by a low concentration of arsenite. Thus, activation of the JNK1/c-Jun pathway up-regulates the expression of cyclin D1, which is involved in the tumorigenesis caused by a low concentration of arsenite.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) induces differentiation and apoptosis of leukemic cells in vitro and in vivo, but the precise mechanisms that mediate such effects are not known. In the present study, we provide evidence that the kinases MAPK kinase 3 (Mkk3) and Mkk6 are activated during treatment of leukemic cell lines with As(2)O(3) to regulate downstream engagement of the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. Using cells with targeted disruption of both the Mkk3 and Mkk6 genes, we show that As(2)O(3)-dependent activation of p38 is defective in the absence of Mkk3 and Mkk6, establishing that these kinases are essential for As(2)O(3)-dependent engagement of the p38 pathway. Pharmacologic inhibition of p38 enhances As(2)O(3)-dependent activation of the c-jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) and subsequent induction of apoptosis of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)- or acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL)-derived cell lines. In addition, in APL blasts, inhibition of p38 enhances myeloid cell differentiation in response to As(2)O(3), as well as suppression of Bcl-2 expression and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. Similarly, induction of As(2)O(3)-dependent apoptosis is enhanced in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) with targeted disruption of both the Mkk3 and Mkk6 genes, establishing a key role for this pathway in the regulation of As(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis. In other studies, we show that the small-molecule p38 inhibitors SD-282 and SCIO-469 potentiate As(2)O(3)-mediated suppression of myeloid leukemic progenitor growth from CML patients, indicating a critical regulatory role for p38 in the induction of antileukemic responses. Altogether, our data indicate that the Mkk3/6-p38 signaling cascade is activated in a negative regulatory feedback manner to control induction of As(2)O(3)-mediated antileukemic effects.
Epidemiological studies suggest that the GH/IGF-I axis may promote human cancers. Animal models in which the GH/IGF-I axis can be controlled may be helpful in elucidating the role of these hormones during mammary cancer progression. Beginning at 3 or 5 wk of age, spontaneous dwarf rats (Gh(dr/dr)), which lack GH and have very low serum IGF-I, were treated with either rat or bovine GH twice daily. Other Gh(dr/dr) rats received vehicle, and wild-type Sprague Dawley rats (Gh(+/+), parent strain to SDR) received vehicle. One week later, all rats were exposed to a single injection of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea. Body weight gain and serum IGF-I levels were similar in Gh(+/+) and GH-treated Gh(dr/dr) rats. Furthermore, mammary tumor incidence, latency, and multiplicity were similar in Gh(+/+) and GH-treated Gh(dr/dr) rats. Vehicle-treated Gh(dr/dr) rats developed no tumors. Once advanced (> or =1 cm(3)) mammary cancers were established in GH-treated Gh(dr/dr) rats, GH treatments were halted and nearly all tumors regressed completely within 2 wk. Tumor regression was associated with loss of phospho-signal transducer and activator of transcription-3, but not alterations in IGF-I, IGF-I receptor, or GH receptor. These results demonstrate that Gh(dr/dr) rats, which are nearly refractory to mammary carcinogenesis, can be made vulnerable by restoring GH and IGF-I. Furthermore, advanced rat mammary cancers are dependent on GH and/or IGF-I for their survival. Therefore, therapeutics that target either GH or IGF-I may be effective at treating even advanced mammary cancers.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether the renoprotective effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) following 5/6 renal mass reduction is due in part to the potentiation of kinins. Three groups of rats with 5/6 renal mass reduction were studied during the 14 weeks following surgery. One group received no therapy (control); the second group was treated from the beginning with the ACEI ramipril (1 mg/kg/day) added to the drinking water, and the last group received ramipril plus a beta2-bradykinin antagonist, HOE 140 (500 microg/kg/day) via osmotic minipumps. Plasma creatinine did not change in any group during the study. Urinary protein excretion rose in the controls from 9.18+/-1.6 to 45.0+/-5.6 mg/24 h at the end of the study. In ramipril group proteinuria was prevented (initial 7.5+/-1.0 and final 8.6+/-0.8 mg/24h). The effect of ramipril was abolished by HOE 140 (initial 11.6+/-2.0 and final 38.9+/-11 mg/ 24 h). The systolic blood pressure of the controls increased from 106+/-2 to 144+/-5 mm Hg at the 14th week. Ramipril abolished the increase in systolic blood pressure. The effect of ramipril was reverted by HOE 140 (initial 108+/-2 and final 140+/-9 mmHg). Control rats had more severe histopathologic changes. Those animals receiving ramipril + HOE 140 displayed less severe glomerular changes, while rats treated only with ramipril had mild alterations. Thus the glomerular injury score was 2.11+/-0.32 for controls, 1.53+/-0.52 for rats treated with ramipril + HOE 140, and 0.06+/-0.04 for rats treated only with ramipril. The glomerular area was 20,886+/-1,410, 19,693+/-2,200 and 14,352+/-3,200 microm2, respectively, for the 3 groups. These results suggest that the protective effect of ACEIs in the development of chronic renal failure is partially mediated by kinins.
To compare the late neuropsychologic toxicities of CNS prophylaxis in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), a transversal assessment was performed in two groups of ALL patients and two control groups. The ALL patients had received one of the following CNS prophylaxes: cranial irradiation, 24 Gy and i.t. MTX 10 mg/m2, 6 doses (RT group, n = 25) or i.t. Ara-C 30 mg/m2 and i.t. MTX 10 mg/m2, 10 doses (ChT group, n = 29). The two control groups were: Siblings (Sb, n = 24) and Solid Tumors (ST, n = 22). Intelligence Quotient (IQ), memory, learning, attention and frontal tasks were studied. Comparative analyses between ChT and RT showed no differences in any of the tests. When RT was compared with ST or Sb, RT showed a 10-point lower mean IQ (p greater than 0.05). The results of ChT versus ST or versus Sb were worse in the ChT group. In many tests the differences were statistically significant. Analyses of the 54 ALL patients compared with the 46 controls showed significant differences in all tests except verbal memory and verbal learning. Neuropsychological sequelae of CNS prophylaxis are discussed, and in particular, the role of cranial radiotherapy and i.t. Ara-C. We conclude that prophylactic CNS therapy may cause cognitive dysfunctions.
A pronounced glutamate release has been related to neuronal death in several structures due to status epilepticus (SE). We investigated the glutamate uptake and release by both cortical and hippocampal synaptosome in pilocarpine model of epilepsy. Animals were submitted to long-lasting SE (12 h) induced by pilocarpine and compared with non-treated animals. Animals presenting SE did not modify the glutamate uptake by synaptosomes. An increase in the glutamate efflux in the absence (1.43-fold) and in the presence of KCl (1.25-fold) was found in hippocampal synaptosomes. Pilocarpine added to the medium did not modify the glutamate release profile, showing that SE is necessary to modify the glutamate release. As the glutamate uptake is not modified, the hippocampal excitotoxicity may be related to impairment only in the mechanism of the glutamate release.
Asthma is a complex pulmonary inflammatory disease characterized by the hyper-responsiveness, remodeling and inflammation of airways. Formaldehyde is a common indoor air pollutant that can cause asthma in people experiencing long-term exposure. The irritant effect and adjuvant effect are the two possible pathways of formaldehyde promoted asthma.
To explore the neural mechanisms and adjuvant effect of formaldehyde, 48 Balb/c mice in six experimental groups were exposed to (a) vehicle control; (b) ovalbumin; (c) formaldehyde (3.0 mg/m(3)); (d) ovalbumin+formaldehyde (3.0 mg/m(3)); (e) ovalbumin+formaldehyde (3.0 mg/m(3))+HC-030031 (transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 antagonist); (f) ovalbumin+formaldehyde (3.0 mg/m(3))+ capsazepine (transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 antagonist). Experiments were conducted after 4 weeks of combined exposure and 1-week challenge with aerosolized ovalbumin. Airway hyper-responsiveness, pulmonary tissue damage, eosinophil infiltration, and increased levels of interleukin-4, interleukin-6, interleukin-1β, immunoglobulin E, substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in lung tissues were found in the ovalbumin+formaldehyde (3.0 mg/m(3)) group compared with the values seen in ovalbumin -only immunized mice. Except for interleukin-1β levels, other changes in the levels of biomarker could be inhibited by HC-030031 and capsazepine.
Formaldehyde might be a key risk factor for the rise in asthma cases. Transient receptor potential ion channels and neuropeptides have important roles in formaldehyde promoted-asthma.
