The use of phenobarbital for childhood epilepsy is controversial because of reported behavioural side-effects; however, whether this research can validly be extrapolated to developing countries is not clear. We undertook a randomised comparison of phenobarbital and phenytoin to assess the acceptability and efficacy of phenobarbital as monotherapy for childhood epilepsy in rural India.
Between August, 1995, and February, 1996, 109 unselected children aged 2-18 years with partial and generalised tonic-clonic epilepsy were identified by population screening. 15 families declined to take part. 94 children were randomly allocated treatment with phenobarbital (1.5 mg/kg daily for 2 weeks; maintenance dose 3.0 mg/kg daily; n = 47) or phenytoin (2.5 mg/kg daily then 5.0 mg/kg daily; n = 47). Children were followed up for 12 months. The primary outcome measure was the frequency of behavioural side-effects; behaviour was assessed by the Conners parent rating scale for children aged 6 years and older, and by the preschool behaviour screening questionnaire (BSQ) for those aged 2-5 years, at 12 months or at withdrawal from treatment. Analysis was by intention to treat.
The mean log-transformed scores on the behaviour rating scales did not differ significantly between the phenobarbital and phenytoin groups (Conners 2.64 [SD 0.71] vs 2.65 [0.89], p = 0.97; n = 32 in each group: BSQ 2.12 [1.31] vs 2.18 [1.02], p = 0.94; n = 4 vs 3). The odds ratio for behavioural problems (phenobarbital vs phenytoin) was 0.51 (95% CI 0.16-1.59). There was no excess in parental reports of side-effects for phenobarbital. We found no difference in efficacy between the study drugs (adjusted hazard ratio for time to first seizure from randomisation 0.97 [0.28-3.30]).
This evidence supports the acceptability of phenobarbital as a first-line drug for childhood epilepsy in rural settings in developing countries.
The acceptability and efficacy of phenobarbital treatment for childhood epilepsy was evaluated in 94 children from rural India with partial and generalized tonic-clonic epilepsy. Children were randomly assigned to receive wither 1.5 mg/kg of phenobarbital daily for 2 weeks, followed by a maintenance dose of 3.0 mg/kg daily, or 2.5 mg/kg daily of phenytoin, followed by a maintenance dose of 5.0 mg/kg daily for a total of 12 months. Behavioral side effects were assessed through use of the Conners parent rating scale for children 6 years of age and above and by the preschool behavioral screening questionnaire for younger children. The mean log-transformed scores on the behavior rating scales did not differ significantly between the phenobarbital and phenytoin groups. The frequency of behavioral problems was 30% in both treatment groups. The odds ratio for behavioral problems in the phenobarbital versus phenytoin groups was 0.51 (95% confidence interval, 0.16-1.59). Behavioral problems were more common among children with cerebral impairments, those under 5 years of age, and girls. Both study drugs were equally effective and 65% of children were seizure-free in the final quarter of treatment. These findings suggest that concerns about phenobarbital-related behavioral side effects may not be valid in developing countries and that this drug is an effective, acceptable anti-epileptic for rural Indian children.
Mibefradil belongs to a new class of calcium antagonists, the tetralol derivatives. It selectively blocks T-type calcium channels in contrast to other calcium antagonists which block only L-type channels. Mibefradil relaxes coronary arteries without suppressing myocardial contractility and causes a dose-related decrease in heart rate. When given orally once daily to patients with hypertension mibefradil produces a dose-related decrease in blood pressure which is sustained for 24 hours and improves exercise performance in patients with stable angina pectoris. In patients with generally mild to moderate hypertension oral mibefradil was superior to nifedipine SR and diltiazem CD, tended to be more effective than nifedipine GITS and had similar efficacy to amlodipine. Mibefradil 50 to 100mg once daily also has antianginal and anti-ischaemic effects. The drug improves the duration of symptom-limited exercise and the time to onset of ischaemia, and reduces the frequency of anginal attacks and consumption of nitroglycerin. Its efficacy is similar to that of diltiazem and tends to be greater than that of amlodipine in patients with stable angina. Mibefradil is generally well tolerated and is associated with a lower incidence of leg oedema than amlodipine and nifedipine. Thus, mibefradil is a calcium antagonist with a predictable cardiovascular profile, which, on the basis of available clinical data, is an effective alternative to other drugs widely used in the treatment of hypertension and stable angina pectoris.
Male F344/NCr rats, 6 wk old, were fed 500 ppm of phenobarbital (PB) or equimolar doses of either 5-ethyl-5-phenylhydantoin (EPH) or 5,5-diethylhydantoin (EEH) in diet for 2 wk and hepatic cytochrome P-450-mediated alkoxyresorufin O-dealkylase and aminopyrine N-demethylase activities were determined. Both PB and EPH greatly increased P-450-mediated enzyme activities in rat liver while EEH was ineffective. To evaluate the hydantoins as tumor promoters, 5-wk-old male F344 rats were given a single i.p. injection of 75 mg N-nitrosodiethylamine/kg body weight. Beginning 2 wk later, they were placed either on normal diet or diet containing 500 ppm of PB or equimolar doses of EPH or EEH for the remaining experimental period. Control groups received an i.p. injection of saline followed by each of the test diets. Animals were sacrificed at either 52 or 78 wk. PB and EPH significantly enhanced the development of hepatocellular foci and hepatocellular adenomas at 52 wk and hepatocellular carcinomas at 78 wk in N-nitrosodiethylamine-initiated rats. Neither the incidence of hepatocellular neoplasms nor the number and size of hepatocellular foci was significantly increased by EEH. At 78 wk, both PB and EPH enhanced the development of thyroid follicular cell neoplasms in N-nitrosodiethylamine-initiated rats while no such enhancement was observed with EEH. Thus, EPH, a long-acting sedative/anticonvulsant, like the structurally similar PB, promoted hepatocellular and thyroid follicular cell carcinogenesis and induced the PB-inducible form(s) of cytochrome P-450 (P-450b) in rats. In contrast, EEH unlike barbital failed to promote hepatocellular and thyroid follicular cell carcinogenesis and also failed to induce PB-inducible form(s) of cytochrome P-450 in rats.
Five transplantable TCC initially induced by the carcinogen FANFT were systematically tested for individual immunogenicity and then for the presence of cross-reacting tumor antigens. The classic amputation challenge technique was used. Three of the 5 tumors were immunogenic, as determined by their ability to reduce the growth of a challenge tumor dose in mice immunized with the same bladder tumor. Prior immunization with one of the immunogenic tumors failed to reduce the incidence or growth of primary bladder tumors induced by the ingestion of 0.1% FANFT in C3H/HeJ mice. The lack of cross-reacting tumor antigens has important implications for the use of allogeneic tumor cells as an antigen source in immunotherapy.
The PAX6 gene is involved in ocular morphogenesis and is expressed in the developing central nervous system and numerous ocular tissues during development. PAX6 mutations have been detected in various ocular anomalies, including aniridia, Peters anomaly, corneal dystrophy, congenital cataracts, and foveal hypoplasia. However, it has not been identified in patients with optic-nerve malformations. Here, we identified novel mutations in eight pedigrees with optic-nerve malformations, including coloboma, morning glory disc anomaly, optic-nerve hypoplasia/aplasia, and persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous. A functional assay demonstrated that each mutation decreased the transcriptional activation potential of PAX6 through the paired DNA-binding domain. PAX6 and PAX2 are each thought to downregulate the expression of the other. Four of the detected mutations affected PAX6-mediated transcriptional repression of the PAX2 promoter in a reporter assay. Because PAX2 gene mutations were detected in papillorenal syndrome, alternation of PAX2 function by PAX6 mutations may affect phenotypic manifestations of optic-nerve malformations.
While the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unknown, there is overwhelming evidence that neuroinflammation plays a critical role in the progressive loss of dopamine (DA) neurons. Because nearly all persons suffering from PD receive l-DOPA, it is surprising that inflammation has not been examined as a potential contributor to the abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) that occur as a consequence of chronic l-DOPA treatment. As an initial test of this hypothesis, we examined the effects of exogenously administered corticosterone (CORT), an endogenous anti-inflammatory agent, on the expression and development of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) in unilateral DA-depleted rats. To do this, male Sprague-Dawley rats received unilateral medial forebrain bundle 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. Three weeks later, l-DOPA primed rats received acute injections of CORT (0-3.75 mg/kg) prior to l-DOPA to assess the expression of LID. A second group of rats was used to examine the development of LID in l-DOPA naïve rats co-treated with CORT and l-DOPA for 2 weeks. AIMs and rotations were recorded. Exogenous CORT dose-dependently attenuated both the expression and development of AIMs without affecting rotations. Real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction of striatal tissue implicated a role for interleukin-1 (IL-1) beta in these effects as its expression was increased on the lesioned side in rats treated with l-DOPA (within the DA-depleted striatum) and attenuated with CORT. In the final experiment, interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) was microinjected into the striatum of l-DOPA-primed rats to assess the impact of IL-1 signaling on LID. Intrastriatal IL-1ra reduced the expression of LID without affecting rotations. These findings indicate a novel role for neuroinflammation in the expression of LID, and may implicate the use of anti-inflammatory agents as a potential adjunctive therapy for the treatment of LID.
Bullous pemphigoid (BP) is a subepidermal blistering disease associated with autoantibodies to the hemidesmosomal 180 kD BP autoantigen (BP180). However, the binding of autoantibodies to BP180 alone is not sufficient for blister formation in this disease and the infiltration of neutrophils into the skin is required. Dapsone and nicotinamide inhibit neutrophil chemotaxis and are used effectively in treating BP. IL-8 is a known chemoattractant for neutrophils and has been implicated in the inflammatory process of both human and experimental murine BP. We have recently shown that antibodies to BP180 mediate a dose and time-dependent release of IL-6 and IL-8 from cultured normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEK). In the present study, we addressed the question whether dapsone or nicotinamide influence this cytokine release. We demonstrate that dapsone, but not nicotinamide, in its pharmacological range, inhibits the IL-8, but not the IL-6 release from NHEK, induced by anti-BP180 IgG, in a dose-dependent fashion as detected by ELISA. IL-8 mRNA levels, as determined by RT-PCR, were the same in cells treated with BP IgG alone compared to cells treated with BP IgG plus dapsone. This observation suggests that dapsone inhibits the BP IgG-induced IL-8 release from cultured NHEK by mechanisms at the post-transcriptional level. Our findings contribute to the understanding how dapsone leads to a reduced influx of neutrophils into BP lesions and, finally, to the cessation of blister formation in this disease.
Very few cases of rheumatoid arthritis combined with pernicious anemia have been reported in the world literature and none in the Chinese literature. A 62-year-old female initially presented with anemia. Pernicious anemia was diagnosed by characteristic blood and bone marrow morphology. Laboratory data showed a deficiency of vitamin B12 and positive anti-gastric parietal cell antibodies. Her anemia improved after vitamin B12 therapy. Painful swelling of multiple joints developed 6 years later. The clinical presentation supported a diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis. We report herein a rare case of rheumatoid arthritis and pernicious anemia in the same ethnic Chinese patient. We also review the literature and discuss a possible association between a non-organ-specific autoimmune disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and an organ-specific autoimmune disease, pernicious anemia.
We investigated the role of bradykinin B receptors in inducing urinary bladder contraction and maintaining bladder compliance in anaesthetized rats following cyclophosphamide-induced bladder inflammation and the influence of dexamethasone treatment on these responses. In the group treated with cyclophosphamide the amplitude of the contraction induced by the selective bradykinin B1 receptor agonist des-Arg9-bradykinin was larger than that in controls and dexamethasone prevented the up-regulation of this response induced by inflammation. The specific binding of [3H]des-Arg10-kallidin to bladder membranes was only detected in cyclophosphamide-treated rats: this binding was prevented by dexamethasone pretreatment. The bladder contraction induced by des-Arg9-bradykinin in cyclophosphamide-treated rats was antagonized by the bradykinin B1 receptor antagonist des-Arg9-D-Arg-[Hyp3,Thi5,D-Tic7,Oic8]bradykinin (des-Arg10-Hoe 140). Cyclophosphamide treatment increased the bladder weight and dexamethasone reversed this effect. Bladder compliance was decreased in the bladder inflammation group and this effect was partially reversed by dexamethasone pretreatment. Neither des-Arg10-Hoe 140 nor the combined administration of des-Arg10Hoe 140 and the selective bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist D-Arg-[Hyp3,Thi5,D-Tic7,Oic8]bradykinin (Hoe 140) affected bladder compliance, thus excluding a role of kinins in the maintenance of bladder tone during inflammation. These results indicate that: (1) dexamethasone pretreatment ameliorates cyclophosphamide-induced bladder inflammation: (2) dexamethasone pretreatment prevents cyclophosphamide-induced up-regulation of bradykinin B receptors; (3) kinins do not contribute to the increased vesical tone during inflammation.
Protein Gene Product 9.5 (PGP9.5) is highly expressed in nervous tissue. Recently PGP9.5 expression has been found to be upregulated in the pulmonary epithelium of smokers and in non-small cell lung cancer, suggesting that it also plays a role in carcinogen-inflicted lung epithelial injury and carcinogenesis. We investigated the expression of PGP9.5 in mice in response to two prominent carcinogens found in tobacco smoke: Naphthalene and 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK). By immunostaining, we found that PGP9.5 protein was highly expressed throughout the airway epithelium in the days immediately following a single injection of naphthalene. In contrast, PGP9.5 was exclusively confined to neurons and neuroendocrine cells in the control and NNK-exposed lungs. Furthermore, we investigated the expression of PGP9.5 mRNA in the lungs by quantitative RT-PCR (qPCR). PGP9.5 mRNA expression was highly upregulated in the days immediately following naphthalene injection and gradually returning to that of control mice 5 days after naphthalene injection. In contrast, exposure to NNK did not result in a significant increase in PGP9.5 mRNA 10 weeks after exposure. No increased expression of two other neuroendocrine markers was found in the non-neuroendocrine epithelial cells after naphthalene exposure. In contrast, immunostaining for the cell cycle regulator p27(Kip1), which has previously been associated with PGP9.5 in lung cancer cells, revealed transient downregulation of p27(Kip1) in naphthalene exposed airways compared to controls, indicating that the rise in PGP9.5 in the airway epithelium is related to downregulation of p27(Kip1). This study is the first to specifically identify the carcinogen naphthalene as an inducer of PGP9.5 expression in non-neuroendocrine epithelium after acute lung injury and further strengthens the accumulating evidence of PGP9.5 as a central player in lung epithelial damage and early carcinogenesis.
ENOX2 (tNOX), a tumor-associated cell surface ubiquinol (NADH) oxidase, functions as an alternative terminal oxidase for plasma membrane electron transport. Ubiquitous in all cancer cell lines studied thus far, ENOX2 expression correlates with the abnormal growth and division associated with the malignant phenotype. ENOX2 has been proposed as the cellular target for various quinone site inhibitors that demonstrate anticancer activity such as the green tea constituent epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCg) and the isoflavone phenoxodiol (PXD). Here we present a possible mechanism that explains how these substances result in apoptosis in cancer cells by ENOX2-mediated alterations of cytosolic amounts of NAD(+) and NADH. When ENOX2 is inhibited, plasma membrane electron transport is diminished, and cytosolic NADH accumulates. We show in HeLa cells that NADH levels modulate the activities of two pivotal enzymes of sphingolipid metabolism: sphingosine kinase 1 (SK1) and neutral sphingomyelinase (nSMase). Their respective products sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) and ceramide (Cer) are key determinants of cell fate. S1P promotes cell survival and Cer promotes apoptosis. Using plasma membranes isolated from cervical adenocarcinoma (HeLa) cells as well as purified proteins of both bacterial and human origin, we demonstrate that NADH inhibits SK1 and stimulates nSMase, while NAD(+) inhibits nSMase and has no effect on SK1. Additionally, intact HeLa cells treated with ENOX2 inhibitors exhibit an increase in Cer and a decrease in S1P. Treatments that stimulate cytosolic NADH production potentiate the antiproliferative effects of ENOX2 inhibitors while those that attenuate NADH production or stimulate plasma membrane electron transport confer a survival advantage.
Menkes disease (MD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a copper deficiency in the brain. It is caused by the defective intestinal absorption of copper resulting from a deficiency of a copper-transporting ATPase, ATP7A. This gives rise to an accumulation of copper in the intestine. The copper deficiency in the brain of MD patients cannot be improved by copper injections, because the administered copper accumulates at the blood-brain barrier and is not transported across to the neurons. To resolve this problem, we investigated the effect of a combination therapy of copper and sodium diethyldithiocarbamate (DEDTC), a lypophilic chelator, in an animal model of MD, the macular mouse. Four-week-old macular mice treated with 50 mug of CuCl2 on the 7th day after birth were used. Experimental mice were given a subcutaneous injection of CuCl2 (4 microg) and an intraperitoneal injection of DEDTC (0.2 mg/g body weight) twice a week for 4 weeks and then sacrificed. Copper concentrations and cytochrome-c oxidase activity in the brains of treated mice were higher than those of control macular mice, which received only copper or saline. The ratios of brain noradrenaline to dopamine and of adrenaline to dopamine were also increased by the treatment, suggesting that the activity of dopamine beta-hydroxylase, a copper-dependent enzyme, was improved by the treatment. Liver and renal function tests showed no abnormalities in the treated mice, although copper concentrations in the kidneys of treated mice were higher than those of control macular mice. These results suggest that DEDTC facilitates the passage of copper across the blood-brain barrier and that the combination therapy of copper and DEDTC may be an effective treatment for the neurological disturbances suffered by patients with MD.
Two non-epileptic patients developed convulsions immediately after induction of anesthesia with propofol. Their vital signs were stable during operation and they recovered from convulsion promptly. Case 1: A 25-year-old man was scheduled for lumbar herniectomy. Anesthesia was induced with propofol 200 mg (2 mg.kg-1). On termination of propofol administration, he developed generalized shivering like movements. Although tracheal intubation was performed with suxamethonium 100 mg, he showed no fasciculations. Vital signs and Spo2 were stable except increase of pulse rate from 70 to 116.min-1 for a few minutes. Case 2: A 75-year-old female was scheduled for cholecystectomy for cholelithiasis. Immediately after induction with propofol 60 mg (1.5 mg.kg-1), she developed generalized tonic-clonic convulsion, and she had her trachea intubated with aid of vecuronium 6 mg. Propofol-related convulsion may occur in non-epileptic patients.
S-Methylmethionine (vitamin U) dose-dependently lowered the increased plasma LDL and normalized the decreased HDL in dietary-induced hyperlipidemic rats.
Thirty-two patients were enrolled in an open-label, dose/schedule ranging clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability ofliposomal amphotericin B (Ambisome) in the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis. All patients received a dose of 2mg/kg daily for the first 4 days, followed by a single repeat dose of 2mg/kg at day 10 in 4 patients (total dose 10mg/kg); repeat doses on days 5, 6, and 10 in 13 patients (total dose 14mg/kg); or daily doses were continued on days 5 through 10 in 15 patients (total dose 20mg/kg). Patients had a mean age of 9 years, ranging between 3 and 26 years. Their mean weight was 25.9kg, ranging between 9.5kg and 75kg. All patients had splenomegaly, 31/32 had hepatomegaly, and 20 patients tested had leishmania documented on splenic aspirate. Six of the 32 patients were treated after relapse following antimony therapy. The duration of illness prior to therapy was a mean of 2 months, ranging between 2 weeks and 23 months. During and after treatment, there were significant reductions in liver and spleen sizes, and significant increases in body weight, hemoglobin levels and white blood cell counts. All patients showed initial cure at the 1 month follow-up. Seven patients relapsed between 2 and 6 months after the start of treatment. There was no dose relationship to the occurrence of relapse. The relapse rate in children 5 years of age or less was 7/15 (47%). Associated causes of relapse were refractory disease (i.e., previous relapses) in 2, severe malnutrition in 1, and concurrent disease (meningococcal meningitis) in 1. In the other 2 cases, no associated event was observed except young age (ages 3 and 5 years). One relapsed patient was treated successfully with 14 days of lipid amphotericin B, and the others were cured by use of antimony for 20 to 30 days. There were no dose related adverse events. The most common event was fever which occurred in 13/32 patients (41%); 3/4 patients in the 10mg dose group, 7/13 in the 14mg dose group, and 3/15 in the 20mg dose group. Three patients had cardiac arrhythmia, one also with myocarditis diagnosed 2 weeks after therapy was discontinued. One patient developed hepatitis after dose 3 and the drug was discontinued. We concluded that liposomal amphotericin B is effective in a daily dose of 2mg/kg given for 5-10 doses as an initial cure, but that relapse occurs in young children, particularly those with documented treatment resistant disease or concurrent malnutrition or infection. Patients should be carefully monitored for these risk factors before and during the months alter therapy, and for the occurrence of arrhythmia, cardio-pulmonary effects or hepatotoxicity. This treatment provides an important advance over previously used antimony therapy and appears to be more effective and well-tolerated than non-lipid amphotericin B.
Lipid preparations of amphotericin B, commonly used to treat fungal infections, have been demonstrated to have reduced nephrotoxicity compared to conventional amphotericin B. However, to our knowledge, a comprehensive comparison of nephrotoxicity induced by different lipid preparations of amphotericin B has not been performed. We conducted a meta-analysis to evaluate nephrotoxicity associated with amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC) and liposomal amphotericin B (L-AmB). We searched the PubMed MEDLINE database and abstracts presented at key scientific meetings, and identified 11 studies reported between 1995 and 2008 that compared nephrotoxicity resulting from the use of these agents. Eight of the 11 studies were included in the meta-analysis. The Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test was used to determine odds ratio (OR) and relative risk (RR), and the Breslow-Day test was used to analyze homogeneity of ORs across different studies. Analysis of all 8 studies (n = 1160) included in the meta-analysis showed an increased probability of nephrotoxicity in patients treated with ABLC versus L-AmB (OR, 1.75; RR, 1.55), but there was a significant lack of homogeneity across these studies (p < 0.001). After excluding the study by Wingard et al, the probability of experiencing nephrotoxicity was more similar between the 2 AmB lipid preparations (OR, 1.31; RR, 1.24; n = 916), particularly when the analysis included only the salvage patient population reported by Hachem et al (OR, 1.12; RR, 1.09; n = 839); the 7 remaining studies were more homogenous by Breslow-Day test (p = 0.054). Our results suggest that nephrotoxicity is generally similar for ABLC and L-AmB in patients receiving antifungal therapy and prophylaxis.
This report describes a cocaine user who presented with polymorphonuclear pleocytosis in cerebrospinal fluid mimicking bacterial meningitis. Thorough investigation of the cerebrospinal fluid did not reveal evidence of bacteria or fungi. Clinical deterioration was observed in spite of empiric treatment with antibiotics. The patient had a favorable outcome after corticosteroid treatment.
A heparin induced thrombocytopenia Type II (HIT) is a dangerous complication of heparin therapy. Bleeding, but above all serious thromboembolic complications, which may result in crippling disabilities or even death, can develop. Twelve heart surgery patients who were diagnosed with a HIT Type II are reported. Seven of the patients were diagnosed post operatively, the other five pre-operatively. Two of these patients underwent heart surgery with r-Hirudin (Behringwerke AG, Marburg, Germany) on cardiopulmonary bypass and two on Orgaran (AKZO Organon, the Netherlands). Of the seven post operative HIT patients, four had had a bypass operation and each had received a mitral or aortic valve replacement. Another patient had received an artificial biventricular support system (Berlin Heart) and was diagnosed with HIT Type II post operatively. Because of his special condition, this patient underwent anticoagulation with Orgaran and heart transplantation with Orgaran on a heart lung machine. Upon suspicion of HIT Type II, heparin therapy was immediately halted and an alternative treatment of Orgaran or r-Hirudin was begun. One patient encountered bleeding of a gastric ulcer on Orgaran therapy. Heart surgery patients, especially patients with an artificial support system, are potentially lethally threatened by serious thromboembolic complications accompanying HIT Type II. Therefore, these patients must be diagnosed as early as possible. Orgaran along with r-Hirudin are effective heparin substitutes in patients with HIT Type II. These medications can be widely administered to heart surgery patients pre-, intra-, and post operatively without complication.
Hepatocellular neoplasms, including neoplastic nodules (NN), are the most commonly induced tumors resulting from chemical carcinogen evaluation. Our objective was to image neoplastic nodules using computed tomography. In a preliminary study using rats with diethylnitrosamine (DEN) induced tumors, lesions smaller than 1.5 cm were difficult to identify by CT. Since NN do not take up excess iron whereas normal liver does accumulate iron, we studied iron as a CT contrast material. Hemochromatosis was induced in 15 control rats by subcutaneous injections of iron dextran. A linear increase in iron-loading dose produces a linear CT liver enhancement (r = 0.97): 68, 80, 84, 94, and 104 HU at 0, one, two, four, and six weeks, respectively. No loss of enhancement was noted ten weeks later. Rat hepatic tissue was chemically analyzed after a similar iron-loading regimen. The iron concentration (microgram/g hepatic tissue) progressively increased during the first four weeks of loading and remained stable for three weeks following iron-loading. Four animals that had been given DEN and iron were examined by CT scanning to detect small NN. Iron-enhanced CT allowed the visualization of small lesions (less than 5 mm). Histopathologic sections confirmed a homogeneous pattern of iron uptake in normal liver with a deficiency of iron in NN. We conclude that CT scanning following iron-loading is a noninvasive method to detect small nodules and may provide a method to study the progression or regression of small liver nodules in rodents.
A decoction of stem bark of Oroxylum indicum Vent. (OI) is taken (2-3 times/day) by the tribal people of Sikkim, India to treat diabetes but scientific validation of its overall potential is lacking. Present study was aimed to assess in vitro antihyperglycemic activity of standardized OI extract using inhibition of α-glucosidase, BSA glycation and enhancement of insulin sensitivity. Antidiabetic and antioxidant modulatory effects of OI extract along with the blood biomarkers of toxic response were studied in streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetic rats. In vitro analysis showed strong antioxidant capacity of OI -and potential to inhibit BSA glycation and α-glucosidase activity which was comparable to standard counterparts. Extract also improved insulin sensitivity in mature 3T3-L1 adipocytes. In vivo effects of OI extract (oral 250 mg/kg b.wt.) on STZ induced type II diabetic rats normalized the antioxidant status (p≤0.01). Analysis of blood biomarkers of toxic response indicated its safety. Lowering of total cholesterol and HDL levels (p≤0.05) and restoration of glycated Hb (p≤0.01) were also found in OI treated diabetic rats. HOMA-IR, QUICKI analysis along with area under the curve analysis showed the capacity of OI extract to enhance the insulin sensitivity significantly (p≤0.01) which was confirmed by increased GLUT-4 translocation in skeletal muscles.
3,2'-Dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) and 3-methyl-2-naphthylamine (MeNA) were each administered to groups of 25 male noninbred Syrian golden hamster weanlings in doses of 100 mg/kg body weight by weekly sc injections for a total of 38 injections over 18--22 months. DMAB produced a high incidence of urinary bladder epithelial neoplasms and intestinal neoplasms. Other neoplasms included squamous papilloma of nonglandular stomach, lymphoma-leukemias, and squamous cell carcinomas of the ear duct and skin. With MeNA, urinary bladder epithelial neoplasms occurred but no intestinal tumors. Also present were soft-tissue sarcomas at the injection site, papilloma of forestomach, and lymphoma-leukemias. Most hamsters in both groups as well as the control group had a chronic form of atypical proliferative enteritis that affected the small or large intestine. The occurrence of intestinal tumors with DMAB could be related to sensitizing effect of increased intestinal mucosal proliferation. Apart from this effect, hamsters displayed a distinct susceptibility to bladder carcinogenesis by these aromatic amines.
The need for experimental migraine models increases as therapeutic options widen. In the present study, we investigated SB-220453 for efficacy in the glyceryltrinitrate (GTN) human experimental migraine model. SB-220453 is a novel benzopyran compound, which in animal models inhibits neurogenic inflammation, blocks propagation of spreading depression and inhibits trigeminal nerve ganglion stimulation-induced carotid vasodilatation. We included 15 patients with migraine without aura in a randomized double-blind crossover study. SB-220453 40 mg or placebo was followed by a 20-min GTN infusion. Headache, scored 0-10, was registered for 12 h, and fulfillment of International Headache Society (IHS) criteria was recorded until 24 h. Four subjects had a hypotensive episode after SB-220453 plus GTN but none after GTN alone. The reaction was unexpected, since animal models and previous human studies had shown no vascular or sympaticolytic activity with SB-220453. The study was terminated prematurely due to this interaction. GTN was consistent in producing headache and migraine that resembled the patients' usual spontaneous migraine. Nine patients had GTN on both study days. Peak headache score showed a trend towards reduction after SB-220453 compared with placebo (median 4 vs. 7, P = 0.15). However, no reduction was seen in the number of subjects experiencing delayed headache (8 vs. 8), number of subjects reporting migraine (6 vs. 8), migraine attacks fulfilling IHS criteria 1.1 or 1.7 (6 vs. 7) or IHS 1.1 alone (4 vs. 5). SB-220453 had no significant pre-emptive anti-migraine activity compared with placebo in this human model of migraine. Interaction between SB-220453 and GTN was discovered. This is important for the future development of the compound and underlines the usefulness of experimental migraine models.
Tartrazine was given to mice in the diet at levels of 0 (control), 0.05%, 0.15%, and 0.45% from 5 weeks of age of the F(0) generation to 9 weeks of age of the F(2) generation, and selected reproductive and neurobehavioral parameters were measured. In the F(1) generation, the development of swimming direction at postnatal day (PND) 7 was accelerated significantly in male offspring in a dose-related manner. Surface righting at PND 7 was affected significantly in female offspring in dose-related manner. Several variables in exploratory behavior showed significant tendencies to be affected in the treatment groups in male offspring at 3 weeks of age. In the F(2) generation, the development of swimming direction at PND 7 was accelerated significantly in the high-dosed group in male offspring. Time taken of olfactory orientation at PND 14 was accelerated significantly in male offspring in a dose-related manner. Several variables in exploratory behavior showed significant tendencies to be affected in the treatment groups in male offspring at 3 weeks of age, and in males at 8 weeks of age. The dose levels of tartrazine in the present study produced a few adverse effects on neurobehavioral parameters throughout generations in mice.
Post-inflammatory pain is a poorly understood phenomenon. G protein-coupled receptors are involved in regulating pain signaling in the context of inflammation. G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRK) modulate signaling through these receptors. We investigated whether GRK6 contributes to post-inflammatory visceral hyperalgesia. Colitis was induced in female mice by 1% dextran sodium sulphate in drinking water for 7 days. Disease score, colon length, and colonic cytokines were determined. On day 49, when animals had recovered from colitis, we induced visceral pain by intracolonic capsaicin instillation. Behavioral responses to capsaicin were monitored for 20 min. Referred hyperalgesia was measured using von Frey hairs. Spinal cord c-Fos was visualized by immunohistochemistry. In contrast to our earlier observations in male GRK6-/- and wild type (WT) mice, we did not detect differences in the course of colitis or in expression of colonic cytokines between female GRK6-/- and WT mice. After recovery from colitis, capsaicin-induced behavioral pain responses and spinal cord c-Fos expression were more pronounced in female GRK6-/- than WT mice. Naive GRK6-/- and WT animals did not differ in pain and c-Fos responses to capsaicin. Capsaicin-induced referred hyperalgesia post-colitis was increased in GRK6-/- compared to WT mice. However, referred hyperalgesia post-colitis was not affected by ablation of GRK6. Furthermore, in vitro IL-1beta sensitized the capsaicin receptor TRPV1 and this process was inhibited by over-expression of GRK6. We describe the novel concept that GRK6 inhibits post-inflammatory visceral hyperalgesia but does not contribute to visceral pain in naive animals. We propose that GRK6 regulates inflammation-induced sensitization of TRPV1.
Depression often co-occurs with amphetamine type stimulant use and can negatively impact drug treatment outcomes. Understanding the temporal relationship between depressive symptoms and methamphetamine use can further inform both treatment and mental health options.
Methamphetamine users aged 18-25 years were enrolled in a 12-month randomized behavioral trial in Thailand. Questionnaires were administered every 3 months and included information on substance use and depressive symptoms. Pattern of methamphetamine use during follow-up was characterized into four groups: early cessation, late cessation, relapse and persistent use. Multinomial logistic regression was used to determine the impact of baseline depressive symptoms (CES-D score and % > or =22) on patterns of methamphetamine use during follow-up. Linear and logistic regression was used to determine the impact of patterns of methamphetamine use on depressive symptoms at the end of the trial.
No association was found between baseline depressive symptoms and subsequent patterns of methamphetamine use. A significant relationship was found between patterns of methamphetamine use and ensuing depressive symptoms, with those achieving cessation experiencing lower levels of depressive symptoms.
Many symptoms of depression may resolve with cessation or reduction in methamphetamine use. Clinical and community-based efforts that facilitate drug users' attempts to stop using drugs should be supported as they may contribute to positive cessation outcomes and help to improve overall mental health.
