Sumatriptan has been used in the treatment of migraine and other vascular headaches since 1993 in the United States. Its side effects include chest pains in 3% to 8% of patients who have known cardiac risk factors. This is a case report of a 45-year-old woman with no history of cardiac risk factors who had a myocardial infarction after her monthly dose of oral sumatriptan.
The patient was examined in the emergency room, evaluated by electrocardiography, and serial evaluations of cardiac enzymes over the next 24 h. She was admitted to the cardiology ward. A cardiac catherization and additional laboratory studies were performed the following day.
The catherization revealed normal heart function, but a 60% to 70% non-flowing stenosis within the first septal perforator. Laboratory indices for cardiac risk were within normal ranges.
Patients without cardiac risk factors may experience myocardial infarction following an oral dose of sumatriptan.
To explore the effects of matrine (MT) on acute intrahepatic cholestasis induced by 17alpha-ethinyl estradiol (EE) in rats.
Acute intrahepatic cholestasis in rats were induced by EE, and the effects of MT on acute intrahepatic cholestasis were explored and compared with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) by serum biochemical determination and bile excretion experiments.
The serum biochemical and bile biochemical results indicated that MT and UDCA had notable hepatoprotective effects by counteracting cholestasis induced by EE. The bile flow and the bile excretion of glycocholic acid (GC, a substrate of bile salt export pump [Bsep]), ketoprofen glucuronide (KPG) and rhodamine 123 (Rh123, a substrate of multidrug resistance protein 1 [MDR1]) decreased by EE, were significantly improved after administration of MT.
MT exhibited potential protection against EE-induced acute intrahepatic cholestasis.
The aim of this study was to correlate long-term vertigo control with reduction in vestibular function after intratympanic (IT) gentamicin therapy for unilateral Ménière's disease. IT gentamicin injections were given as needed to control vertigo attacks. Vertigo frequency and changes in angular vestibulo-ocular reflex (AVOR) gain (measured using magnetic search coils and manual head thrusts) and caloric weakness were assessed before and after treatment. Better vertigo control after treatment was found with >or=60% reduction in quantitative ipsilateral horizontal semicircular canal AVOR gain from pre-treatment values and/or with caloric unilateral weakness (UW) >50%. However, no correlations were found between the continuous variables of vertigo control and either gain or gain recovery, nor between gain and UW because of the large variability in vertigo control in subjects with lesser reductions in these measures.
In endemic areas of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, lamivudine-induced hepatitis B e-antigen (HBeAg) loss is not durable. We developed a scoring system to predict the relapse after lamivudine-induced HBeAg loss.
Of 93 HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B patients receiving lamivudine therapy, we studied the 30 patients who achieved HBeAg loss. Qualitative polymerase chain reaction assays for HBV DNA were performed after HBeAg loss; if results were negative on two consecutive occasions, lamivudine treatment was stopped. Serum HBV DNA levels at the time of HBeAg loss were determined using stored serum by the Cobas Amplicor HBV Monitor Kit.
Cumulative relapse rates were 44%, 55.8% and 59.8%, after 1, 2 and 5 years, respectively. Univariate analysis showed that the risk factors for relapse were age (>/= 30 years), HBV DNA level (>/= 60 IU/mL) at the time of HBeAg loss and liver cirrhosis. Independent risk factors for relapse were age (odds ratio [OR], 4.3; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.2-17.6) and serum HBV DNA level at the time of HBeAg loss (OR, 5.1; 95% CI, 1.3-21.6). We developed a scoring system based on these independent risk factors. No relapse was observed for patients with a risk score of 0. For patients with a risk score of 1, the relapse rates were 41%, 49% and 56% at 1, 2 and 5 years, respectively. All patients with a risk score of 2 relapsed (P = 0.01).
Our new scoring system may be useful for predicting relapses in patients with lamivudine-induced HBeAg loss. Treatment strategies should be individualized according to risk score.
1. The effects of pinacidil (10, 30, 50 microM) on contractility (+dP/dtmax), coronary perfusion pressure (cP), and ECG intervals (PR, QRS, QT) have been studied on constant-flow perfused guinea-pig hearts, driven at four frequencies (2.5, 3, 3.5, 4 Hz). 2. Pinacidil decreased +dP/dtmax, cP and the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner, whereas the PR interval was increased. QRS duration was not modified. All these effects were independent of driving frequency. Pinacidil decreased the interval from Q-wave to T-wave peak (QTpeak) to a greater extent than the QT interval, thus decreasing the QTpeak/QT ratio. This effect, unlike that on QT interval, was more evident at the highest frequency of stimulation. 3. In 4 out of 20 hearts treated with pinacidil sustained ventricular fibrillation (VF) occurred following a short run of premature ventricular beats (R on T phenomenon). 4. In separate experiments, an attempt to induce VF electrically was made at drug concentrations ranging from 10 microM to 100 microM (8 experiments for each concentration). In control conditions and at the lowest concentrations of pinacidil tested (10 microM) VF could never be induced; in the presence of 30 microM pinacidil VF was induced in 5 out of 8 experiments. Drug concentrations higher than 50 microM permitted the induction of VF in every case. 5. Although the concentrations of pinacidil producing ventricular fibrillation are 30-40 times higher than those found in patients under long term treatment with this agent, it is suggested that caution should be used in prescribing this drug, at least in patients suffering from myocardial ischaemia.
Human carboxylesterase 1 (hCE1) is a broad-spectrum bioscavenger that plays important roles in narcotic metabolism, clinical prodrug activation, and the processing of fatty acid and cholesterol derivatives. We determined the 2.4 A crystal structure of hCE1 in complex with tacrine, the first drug approved for treating Alzheimer's disease, and compare this structure to the Torpedo californica acetylcholinesterase (AcChE)-tacrine complex. Tacrine binds in multiple orientations within the catalytic gorge of hCE1, while it stacks in the smaller AcChE active site between aromatic side chains. Our results show that hCE1's promiscuous action on distinct substrates is enhanced by its ability to interact with ligands in multiple orientations at once. Further, we use our structure to identify tacrine derivatives that act as low-micromolar inhibitors of hCE1 and may provide new avenues for treating narcotic abuse and cholesterol-related diseases.
Chronic exposure to inorganic arsenic is known to cause non-melanocytic skin and internal cancers in humans. An estimated 50-70 million people in Bangladesh have been chronically exposed to arsenic from drinking water and are at risk of skin and other cancers. We undertook the first study to examine whether genetic susceptibility, as determined by the codon 751 SNP (A-->C) of the DNA repair gene XPD, influences the risk of arsenic-induced hyperkeratotic skin lesions, precursors of skin cancer, in a case-control study of 29 hyperkeratosis cases and 105 healthy controls from the same community in an area of Bangladesh. As expected, there was a monotonic increase in risk of hyperkeratosis in relation to urinary arsenic measures but the XPD genotype was not independently associated with the risk. However, the increase in hyperkeratosis risk in relation to urinary arsenic measures genotype was borderline significant for urinary total arsenic (P for trend=0.06) and statistically significant for urinary creatinine adjusted arsenic (P for trend=0.01) among subjects with the XPD A allele (AA) but not among subjects with the other XPD genotypes. Among AA carriers, the risk for the highest arsenic exposed group compared with the lowest was more than 7-fold for urinary total arsenic and about 11-fold for urinary creatinine adjusted arsenic. In conclusion, our findings suggest that the DNA repair gene XPD may influence the risk of arsenic-induced premalignant hyperkeratotic skin lesions. Future larger studies are needed to confirm this novel finding and investigate how combinations of different candidate genes and/or other host and environmental factors may influence the risk of arsenic induced skin and other cancers.
In a mouse model of skin repair we found that the class I-IIa histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A accelerated tissue regeneration. Unexpectedly, this effect was suppressed by Sirtinol, a class III histone deacetylase (HDAC) (sirtuin)-selective inhibitor. The role of sirtuins (SIRTs) was then investigated by using resveratrol and a novel SIRT1-2-3 activator, the MC2562 compound we synthesized recently. Both resveratrol and MC2562 were effective in accelerating wound repair. The local administration of natural or synthetic SIRT activators, in fact, significantly accelerated skin regeneration by increasing keratinocyte proliferation. In vitro experiments revealed that the activation of SIRTs stimulated keratinocyte proliferation via endothelial NO synthase phosphorylation and NO production. In this condition, the class I member HDAC2 was found S-nitrosylated on cysteine, a post-transduction modification associated with loss of activity and DNA binding capacity. After deacetylase inhibitor or SIRT activator treatment, ChIP showed, in fact, a significant HDAC2 detachment from the promoter region of insulin growth factor I (IGF-I), fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGF-10), and Epithelial Growth Factor (EGF), which may be the final recipients and effectors of the SIRT-NO-HDAC signaling cascade. Consistently, the effect of SIRT activators was reduced in the presence of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a general inhibitor of NO synthesis. In conclusion, the NO-dependent cross-talk among class III and I histone deacetylases suggests an unprecedented signaling pathway important for skin repair.
The goals of chemoprevention of cancer are to inhibit the initiation or suppress the promotion and progression of preneoplastic lesions to invasive cancer through the use specific natural or synthetic agents. Therefore, a more desirable and aggressive approach is to eliminate aberrant clones by inducing apoptosis rather than merely slowing down their proliferation. The increased understanding of apoptosis pathways has directed attention to components of these pathways as potential targets not only for chemotherapeutic but also for chemopreventive agents. Activation of death receptors triggers an extrinsic apoptotic pathway, which plays a critical role in tumor immunosurveillance. An increasing number of previously identified chemopreventive agents were found to induce apoptosis in a variety of premalignant and malignant cell types in vitro and in a few animal models in vivo. Some chemopreventive agents such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, tritepenoids, and retinoids increase the expression of death receptors. Thus, understanding the modulation of death receptors by chemopreventive agents and their implications in chemoprevention may provide a rational approach for using such agents alone or in combination with other agents to enhance death receptor-mediated apoptosis as a strategy for effective chemoprevention of cancer.
Deficiency in dopaminergic activity has been linked to a depressed state in pharmacological and clinical studies. Current pharmacological treatment for depression primarily involves modulation of serotonergic and noradrenergic systems but not dopaminergic neurotransmission. Available pharmacotherapy for depression has a number of drawbacks as a significant number of people are either refractory or develop tolerance to the antidepressant agents resulting in relapse. Furthermore, the slow onset of action of current therapies often poses a challenge for effective treatment. In our effort to develop novel molecules impacting all three above mentioned monoamine systems, we discovered structurally unique pyran derivatives with various profiles in inhibiting monoamine transporters. One of our lead molecules, D-161 exhibited triple monoamine transporter inhibitory activity with the highest affinity for norepinephrine transporter (NET) followed by its affinity for serotonin transporter (SERT) and dopamine transporter (DAT). D-161 exhibited potent activity in reducing immobility significantly in the rat forced swim test as well as in the mouse tail suspension test. Moreover, results from locomotor activity tests indicated that the reduction of immobility by D-161 was not due to motor activation as no significant motor activation was observed when the rats were subjected to the same doses of drug under the same conditions as in the forced swim test. These results suggest that the novel asymmetric pyran derivative D-161 with unique molecular structure exhibiting triple monoamine transporter inhibitory activity could possess potent antidepressant activity.
Animal models of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity can show residual areas of interstitial fibrosis in the renal cortex. This study investigated the expression of fibronectin, alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SM-actin), macrophages, endothelin,transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and angiotensin II (AII) in the renal cortex of rats, 5 and 30 days after stopping treatment with gentamicin, and the relationships with the histological features and renal function of these animals.
Forty-five female Wistar rats were injected with gentamicin, 40 mg/kg, twice a day for 9 days, and 11 controls were injected with 0.15 M NaCl solution. The animals were killed 5 or 30 days after these injections and the kidneys removed for histological examination, enzyme immunoassay and immunohistochemical studies. The histological and immunohistochemical results were evaluated by scores reflecting the extent of lesion or staining. The percentage of tubulointerstitial lesions was determined by morphometry.
Gentamicin-treated rats presented a transitory increase in plasma creatinine levels. The immunohistochemical studies showed increased fibronectin, alpha-SM-actin, ED-1, endothelin, TGF-beta and AII staining in the renal cortex from rats 5 and 30 days after gentamicin compared to control (p < 0.05). The animals killed on day 30 also presented fibrosis and increased TGF-beta content in the renal cortex (p < 0.001), despite the recovery of renal function. The proportion of damaged areas was 23.17% +/- 5.23 in the renal cortex of these animals.
Macrophages, myofibroblasts, TGF-beta, endothelin and AII may have contributed to the development of renal fibrosis in these rats.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is the most common form of drug-induced immune-mediated thrombocytopenia. HIT may be aggravated by life-threatening arterial and venous thrombosis and, to a lesser extent, hemorrhagic complications. We investigated the incidence of thromboembolic and hemorrhagic complications in critically ill patients with the multiple organ dysfunction syndrome and HIT.
Case-control study.
A 33-bed general intensive care unit in a university-affiliated teaching hospital.
Twenty consecutive patients with laboratory-proven HIT compared with 20 contemporary, consecutive patients without HIT.
Unfractionated heparin or low-molecular-weight heparin were replaced by danaparoid sodium in patients with HIT.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was proven by a positive platelet aggregation test. The HIT group consisted of 14 males and 6 females aged 65.2+/-10.8 years (mean +/- standard deviation) with APACHE II scores of 26.7+/-5.4. Thrombocytopenia less than 100 x 10(9)/l developed within 6.4+/-7.0 days. In 12 patients thrombocytopenia resolved after discontinuation of unfractionated heparin in 8.8+/-6.4 days. Arterial and venous thromboembolic complications occurred more frequently in HIT patients than in non-HIT patients (10/20 (50%) versus 0/20 (0%); chi-square p<0.001). Hemorrhagic complications also occurred more frequently in HIT patients than in non-HIT patients (17/20 (85%) versus 7/20 (35%); chi-square p=0.001).
In critically ill patients with HIT, the incidence of thromboembolic complications and hemorrhagic complications was remarkably high.
Medical treatment of macroprolactinomas with dopamine agonists decreases tumor mass and improves visual defects. We report an unusual complication of a macroprolactinoma responding to bromocriptine: a visual field defect caused by downward herniation of the optic chiasm.
A 64-year-old woman was found to have a 4.5 cm macroprolactinoma with superior displacement of the optic chiasm, bitemporal hemianopia, and serum prolactin concentration (P) of 17,060 micrograms/L. Bromocriptine was initiated at 2.5 mg/day and increased to 7.5 mg/day over 2 months.
After 2 months, visual fields improved significantly and tumor height decreased to 3 cm with resolution of the optic chiasm displacement. P decreased to 1,180 micrograms/L. After 5 months of therapy, visual fields were normal, and P was 8 micrograms/L. After 8 months of therapy, new bilateral visual defects were observed. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed further decrease of the tumor height to 1.5 cm, and inferior and leftward traction of the optic chiasm as the probable mechanism for the new visual field deficit. P was < 1 microgram/L. Bromocriptine was decreased to 5 mg/day to allow reduced traction on the optic chiasm and its blood supply. Over the next 4 months, visual field abnormalities resolved.
We report the development of a visual field abnormally that is explained by chiasmal herniation caused by a shrinking macroprolactinoma. This complication resolved with a decrease in the bromocriptine dose. We suggest that patients undergoing bromocriptine therapy for macroprolactinomas be followed for this potential complication.
Cleft lip with or without cleft palate (CL/P) is the most common inborn craniofacial anomaly. Affected individuals require extensive medical and psychosocial support. Although CL/P has a complex and poorly understood etiology, increasing evidence of folate pathway involvement has been collected. So far, only the MTHFR gene has been extensively investigated as a risk factor for CL/P, while little has been done to test genetic variations in the folate biosynthetic pathways that may influence the infant's susceptibility to these birth defects. To date, this paper presents the first attempt to verify the involvement of four genes belonging to the folate pathway in nonsyndromic cleft onset. We used a case-parent triad design to test for linkage disequilibrium in the case of seven SNPs mapping on four different genes: transcobalamin 1 and 2 (TCN1 and TCN2), methionine synthase (MTR), and MTR reductase (MTRR). Our finding suggests that TCN2 is involved in causing CL/P. Indeed, significant overtransmission of the C allele was observed at the polymorphism c.776C>G (p.Pro259Arg) to the affected offspring (P=0.01). Results obtained with additional TCN2 polymorphisms suggest that c.776C>G may be functionally related to CL/P. However, because conflicting data exist with regard to the effect of the polymorphism in transcobalamin 2 function or in perturbing plasma levels of key molecules in the folate pathway, further investigation is warranted to confirm our data.
It is a challenge to give adequate help to patients who have problems controlling their aggression. Stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors and blockage of 5-HT2A receptors is known to have antiaggressive effects. Risperidone is an antipsychotic drug with a combined effect as a dopamine antagonist and a 5-HT2A receptor antagonist.
Risperidone in dosages from 0.25 to 1 mg daily was administered to 11 patients with restlessness, concentration problems, tics and aggression that was hard to control. The patients were 11 to 47 years of age, most of them were also taking other medications, and all received other kinds of treatment, e.g. psychotherapy. There was no control group.
More than half of the patients gained far better control of their temper. Two of the patients were taken off risperidone treatment after a short period of time because of side effects and no effect on temper.
The observed effect of risperidone on aggression is in concordance with other reports, but in lower dosages than reported elsewhere. Risperidone therefore seems promising as an adjuvant in treating patients with hard controllable aggression, even in very low dosages, though their is a need for systematic studies to assess the effect.
Guanfacine hydrochloride is an alpha-2 adrenergic agonist, which has gained recent attention in the field of child and adolescent psychiatry. This medication has been described as effective in the management of attention-deficit hyperactivity and tic disorders, with minimal side effects.
Presented here are five cases of behavioral activation in children treated with guanfacine.
In each instance the clinical presentation resembled an acute hypomanic or manic episode. The dose of guanfacine was 0.5 mg/day. Later investigation revealed that all of the youngsters had clear risk factors (clinical and/or familial) for bipolar disorder.
It appears as though guanfacine may be capable of precipitating secondary mania in vulnerable children.
The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of daily inhaled beclomethasone (3 x 500 microg) started on day 3 of life, with that of systemic dexamethasone (0.5 mg/kg/day) started between days 11-13 on clinical variables, lung inflammation, and pulmonary microvascular permeability in preterm infants at risk for chronic lung disease (CLD). Following administration of surfactant, preterm neonates with RDS and a birth weight of less than 1,200 g were included in this comparative observational pilot study when still mechanically ventilated and with an oxygen requirement on the third day of life. The patients (gestational age 26.1+/-0.9 weeks, birth weight 826+/-140 g, mean+/-SD) were alternately allocated to prophylactic treatment with inhaled beclomethasone (n = 7), or to early systemic dexamethasone therapy after day 10 of life, if clinically indicated (n = 9). Pulmonary inflammation and lung permeability were assessed by analyzing the levels of interleukin-8, elastase alpha1 proteinase inhibitor, free elastase activity, and albumin in tracheal aspirates on days 10 and 14 of life. The secretory component of IgA served as reference protein. We observed no significant differences in the concentrations of interleukin-8, elastase alpha1 proteinase inhibitor, and albumin between the two groups on day 10 of life. On day 14, 3 (median; range, 1-3) days following initiation of dexamethasone treatment, concentrations of the inflammatory mediators and of albumin were significantly lower in the group on systemic steroid therapy than in the group treated with inhaled steroids (P < 0.01). Additionally, there was a significant difference in oxygen requirements between both groups on day 14. In the group treated with inhaled steroids, concentrations of the inflammatory mediators, albumin, and oxygen requirements did not show a difference between day 10 and 14. We conclude that, in contrast to systemic dexamethasone treatment, a 12-day course of inhaled beclomethasone does not affect lung inflammation and pulmonary microvascular permeability in preterm infants at risk for CLD within the first 2 weeks of life.
The status of negative charge on RBC and glomeruli and its relation to proteinuria of adriamycin nephrosis in rats were studied by electron computerized picture analysis. The results showed that the negative charge (NC) on glomeruli decreased significantly at 48 hrs and 14 days after ADR injection although there was no proteinuria simultaneously. There was a positive relation between the changes of NC on glomeruli and those on RBC (r = 0.77, p less than 0.01), and there was negative relation between either of them and proteinuria respectively (r = -0.5140, p less than 0.05; r = -0.5231, p less than 0.01). The focal fusions of foot processes occurred prior to the onset of proteinuria.
p53 is frequently mutated in tumor cells, and mutant p53 is often highly expressed due to its increased half-life. Thus, targeting mutant p53 for degradation might be explored as a therapeutic strategy to manage tumors that are addicted to mutant p53 for survival. Arsenic trioxide, a drug for patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia, is found to target and degrade a class of proteins with high levels of cysteine residues and vicinal thiol groups, such as promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) and PML-retinoic acid receptor α fusion protein. Interestingly, wild type p53 is accumulated in cells treated with arsenic compounds, presumably due to arsenic-induced oxidative stresses. In this study, we found that wild type p53 is induced by arsenic trioxide in tumor cells, consistent with published studies. In contrast, we found that arsenic compounds degrade both endogenous and ectopically expressed mutant p53 in time- and dose-dependent manners. We also found that arsenic trioxide decreases the stability of mutant p53 protein through a proteasomal pathway, and blockage of mutant p53 nuclear export can alleviate the arsenic-induced mutant p53 degradation. Furthermore, we found that knockdown of endogenous mutant p53 sensitizes, whereas ectopic expression of mutant p53 desensitizes, tumor cells to arsenic treatment. Taken together, we found that mutant p53 is a target of arsenic compounds, which provides an insight into exploring arsenic compound-based therapy for tumors harboring a mutant p53.
Monozygotic male twins with DiGeorge's syndrome had facial dysmorphism, cardiovascular abnormalities, hypocalcemia, and immunodeficiency; however, they showed differences in several aspects of this developmental complex. An early gestational insult, rather than a mutation, may be one cause of this heterogenous disorder. One twin had clinically appreciable hypoparathyroidism and had received calcitriol since early infancy. Despite close monitoring of therapy, he experienced two episodes of unexpected and prolonged hypercalcemia. Following the first episode, he was eucalcemic for nine weeks without therapy, attesting to the prolonged biological effects of calcitriol when used in the treatment of hypoparathyroidism.
Flecainide occasionally produces incessant ventricular tachycardia that is difficult to treat. Reports of uncontrolled clinical studies have suggested a therapeutic role for hypertonic sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3). To test this observation, spontaneous and pacing-induced arrhythmia canine models were designed. In the spontaneous model, flecainide was infused at 0.5 mg/kg/min until ventricular tachycardia occurred spontaneously. In the pacing-induced model, flecainide was infused at 1.0 mg/kg/min load (0.5 mg/kg/min maintenance) stepwise until the QRS was widened 50%, 75%, and 100%, with programmed ventricular stimulation at each step until ventricular arrhythmia was induced. Dogs who developed spontaneous arrhythmia were treated blindly with three doses of either NaHCO3 (3 mEq/kg/dose, with 1 minute between doses) or normal saline. Dogs who were induced in the second model were treated with the same three doses, 10 minutes apart, with programmed stimulation between each dose. Before unblinding in both protocols, dogs were classified as "responders" or "nonresponders" to therapy. In the spontaneous model, of 14 dogs with spontaneous ventricular tachycardia, all 7 dogs treated with NaHCO3 showed response, compared with only 1 of 7 dogs treated with saline (P < .01). Ventricular QRS complexes/min were reduced by NaHCO3 in that protocol. In the induced arrhythmia protocol, of 14 dogs with inducible arrhythmia, 6 of 7 responded to NaHCO3, and 1 of 7 responded to placebo (P < .05). In both protocols, arterial pH and the serum sodium concentration were increased by NaHCO3 but not by normal saline control treatment. QRS interval duration was shortened by NaHCO3 therapy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A randomized, controlled trial was performed to assess the efficacy and safety of vitamin E supplementation for prophylaxis against paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy (PIPN). Thirty-two patients undergoing six courses of paclitaxel-based chemotherapy were randomly assigned to receive either chemotherapy with vitamin E (300 mg twice a day, Group I) or chemotherapy without vitamin E supplementation (Group II). A detailed neurological examination and electrophysiological study was performed during and 3 months after chemotherapy. The severity of PIPN was summarized by means of a modified Peripheral Neuropathy (PNP) score. The incidence of neurotoxicity differed significantly between groups, occurring in 3/16 (18.7%) patients assigned to the vitamin E supplementation group and in 10/16 (62.5%) controls (P=0.03). The relative risk (RR) of developing PIPN was significantly higher in controls than in vitamin E group patients (RR=0.3, 95% confidence interval (CI)=0.1-0.9). Mean PNP scores were 2.25+/-5.1 (range 0-15) for patients in Group I and 11+/-11.63 (range 0-32) for those in Group II (P=0.01). Vitamin E supplementation was well tolerated and showed an excellent safety profile. This study shows that vitamin E effectively and safely protects patients with cancer from the occurrence of paclitaxel-induced peripheral nerve damage. A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial is needed to confirm these results.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role of cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibition in intestinal motility and in the extent of tissue injury of the small intestine and liver with the use of various COX inhibitors. Wistar albino rats were exposed to 90 degrees C water bath for 10s. The intestinal transit index decreased compared to control group and treatment with nimesulide (NIM; 10mg/kg, subcutaneously) or piroxicam (Pir; 5mg/kg, orogastrically) reversed this effect significantly. The intestinal and liver glutathione levels showed a significant decrease in the burn group compared to sham (P<0.001 and P<0.05, respectively). Decrease in intestinal glutathione level was reversed by NIM or Pir treatment (P<0.01 and P<0.01, respectively), whereas all drugs tested were effective in reversing low liver glutathione level. The MPO activity in intestinal segments were significantly high in burned animals compared to sham. All test drugs reversed this effect but ketorolac (Ket; 3mg/kg, orogastrically) was the most effective one. The liver samples characterized by sinusoidal dilatation and pericentral atrophy in burn group were protected by treatment with Ket or Pir (P<0.05). Plasma ALT and AST activities were markedly high in this burn group compared to sham (P<0.0001 and P<0.001, respectively). None of the agents reversed these high enzyme activities. These data suggest that not only COX-2 but also COX-1 inhibition is required for protection against inflammatory changes in liver and small intestine following burn injury.
Inhibition of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) prevents maladaptive cardiac remodelling. Endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) from the bone marrow contribute to endothelial repair and neovascularization, effects that are potentially important during cardiac remodelling. We hypothesized that ACE inhibitors may exert beneficial effects during pressure-induced myocardial hypertrophy by regulating progenitor cell function.
In C57/Bl6 mice, development of cardiac hypertrophy induced by transaortic constriction (TAC) for 5 weeks was reduced by ramipril, 5 mg/kg p.o., independent of blood pressure lowering. Ramipril prevented TAC-induced apoptosis of cardiac myocytes and endothelial cells. On day 1 after TAC, upregulation of Sca-1(pos)/KDR(pos) EPC was observed, which was further increased by ramipril. EPC were persistently elevated in the TAC mice receiving vehicle treatment but not in the ramipril group after 5 weeks. These effects were independent of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha mRNA and protein expression. The ACE inhibitor but not TAC improved the migratory capacity of DiLDL(pos) EPC. Increased cardiac afterload induced upregulation of extracardiac neoangiogenesis. This effect was enhanced by ACE inhibition. Ramipril but not TAC markedly increased cardiac capillary density determined by the ratio of CD31(pos) cells to cardiomyocytes. Bone marrow transplantation studies revealed that TAC increased the percentage of bone marrow-derived GFP(pos) endothelial cells in the myocardium, and ramipril made this effect more pronounced.
ACE inhibition prevents pressure-induced maladaptive cardiac hypertrophy and increases intra- and extracardiac neoangiogenesis associated with the upregulation of EPC and amelioration of EPC migration. The regulation of progenitor cells from the bone marrow identifies a novel effect of ACE inhibitors during cardiac remodelling.
Oral methadone therapy is an effective and increasingly popular treatment for opioid dependency and chronic pain. Although it is not typically considered pro-dysrhythmic, we present the unique case of a 52-year-old HIV-positive woman without underlying cardiac disease who developed QTc prolongation and pulseless Torsades secondary to high dose methadone therapy.
Levetiracetam is an effective anti-epileptic drug in the treatment of partial and generalized seizure. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether levetiracetam regulates AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory synaptic transmission and to determine its site of action in the dentate gyrus (DG), the area of the hippocampus that regulates seizure activities.
Whole-cell patch-clamp method was used to record the AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSC(AMPA) and EPSC(NMDA)) in the presence of specific antagonists, from the granule cells in the DG in brain slice preparations from young Wistar rats (60-120 g).
Levetiracetam (100 microM) inhibited both evoked EPSC(AMPA) and EPSC(NMDA) to an equal extent (80%), altered the paired-pulse ratio (from 1.39 to 1.25), decreased the frequency of asynchronous EPSC and prolonged the inter-event interval of miniature EPSC(AMPA) (from 2.7 to 4.6 s) without changing the amplitude, suggesting a presynaptic action of levetiracetam. The inhibitory effect of levetiracetam on evoked EPSC(AMPA) was blocked by omega-agatoxin TK (100 nM), a selective P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channel blocker, but not by nimodipine (10 microM) or omega-conotoxin (400 nM).
These results suggest that levetiracetam modulated the presynaptic P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channel to reduce glutamate release and inhibited the amplitude of EPSC in DG. This effect is most likely to contribute to the anti-epileptic action of levetiracetam in patients.
One of the formulations of apomorphine, used in clinical practice, contains sodium edetate (EDTA). EDTA is a chelator which indirectly prevents oxidation of apomorphine. A clinical and histologic study in four patients revealed that apomorphine with EDTA caused severe subcutaneous nodules, histologically characterized by an inflammatory infiltrate with a large amount of eosinophils, indicating a cell-mediated allergic reaction. After withdrawal of EDTA, this allergic component completely disappeared, which was accompanied clinically by less extensive nodule formation with a softer consistency. It is therefore recommended that EDTA be excluded from apomorphine formulations.
