We retrospectively analysed neuromuscular toxicity associated with paclitaxel 210 mg m(-2) given by 3-h infusion in 247 patients. The severity correlated significantly with total cumulative dose, but could not be predicted by the pretreatment clinical variables or by pharmacokinetic parameters. The toxicity tended to occur in early treatment cycles.
Propafenone was administered during electrophysiologic testing to determine its efficacy and safety for terminating and preventing reinduction of paroxysmal supraventricular reentrant tachycardia. Four men and 10 women (mean age 50 years, range 28 to 69) were studied. Five patients had Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome with orthodromic atrioventricular (AV) reentrant tachycardia, three had a concealed accessory pathway with AV reentrant tachycardia and six had tachycardia due to reentry within the AV node. In the five patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, propafenone terminated reentrant tachycardia in three (the tachycardia was reinducible in one) and had no effect in two. In the three patients with a concealed accessory pathway, propafenone terminated reentrant tachycardia in all three and prevented reinduction of the tachycardia in two. In the six patients with tachycardia due to reentry within the AV node, propafenone terminated and prevented reinduction of reentrant tachycardia. Propafenone had no effect on blood pressure, heart rate, PA interval, AV node refractoriness or rate of reentrant tachycardia. Propafenone significantly (p less than 0.05) prolonged the AH, HV, QRS and ventriculoatrial intervals and decreased the AV node Wenckebach rate. Of the nine patients receiving long-term oral propafenone therapy, eight had a reduction of at least 90% in reentrant tachycardia during a mean follow-up period of 14.5 months (range 11 to 22); all eight patients had had noninducible reentrant tachycardia after intravenous propafenone. One patient had increased frequency of reentrant tachycardia; this patient had had inducible reentrant tachycardia after intravenous propafenone. In conclusion, intravenously administered propafenone terminated reentrant tachycardia in 85% of patients and prevented reinduction in 71%, with no adverse hemodynamic effects.
Cabergoline (CG) is a dopamine agonist that inhibits secretion of prolactin (PRL) and growth hormone. The purpose of this study was to investigate the PRL-lowering effect and antitumor effect of CG on estradiol-induced rat pituitary tumors in vitro and to elucidate these mechanisms. We compared the effects of CG with those of bromocriptine (BC) in terms of the inhibition of hormone secretion as well as antitumor effects on rat pituitary tumors. Primary cultures of dissociated pituitary tumor cells were used in these studies. A significant inhibition of prolactin (PRL) secretion was observed for both drugs within 12 h after treatment, and the inhibitory effects of CG and BC were antagonized by sulpiride or haloperidol. Inhibitory effect on PRL secretion after 12-h BC or CG pretreatment was more pronounced with CG than BC treatment at all time points. PRL secretion in group pretreated with CG was significantly suppressed at 72 h when compared to that of vehicle. Inhibition of de novo PRL synthesis was better demonstrated in the CG group. These findings suggest that CG has a higher affinity for the D2 receptor of pituitary cells as compared to BC and may preferentially inhibit PRL secretion rather than PRL production. An antitumor effect of CG has been confirmed at a lower dosage than that of BC.
In kidney injury the accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) plays an important role and precedes the development of glomerulosclerosis (GS). There is great interest in agents that may interfere with such accumulation of ECM. Therefore, a rat model of GS was established to investigate the effect of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) on the renal expressions of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1). Eighty Wistar rats were randomly divided into four groups: sham operation group (SHO), GS model group without treatment (GS), GS model group treated with benazepril (GB) and GS model group treated with ATRA (GA), n = 20, respectively. The disease was established in the GS rats by uninephrectomy and adriamycin (5 mg/kg) injection through the tail vein. Serum creatinine (Scr), blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and urine protein (Upro) were measured. Renal abnormality was evaluated at the end of 12 weeks. Immunohistochemical analysis was performed on renal tissue to detect the expression of collagen IV (Col-IV), fibronectin (FN), MMP-2, MMP-9 and TIMP-1 protein. MMP-2 and MMP-9 activity was detected by gelatin zymography. Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR) was used to detect the expression of MMP-2, MMP-9, and TIMP-1 mRNA. In comparison with group GS, group GA and group GB exhibited levels of BUN and 24 h urinary protein and a glomerulosclerosis index (GSI) that were significantly reduced (P < 0.05); the level of Scr in group GA was reduced too (P < 0.05). ATRA and benazepril also significantly down-regulated Col-IV, FN expression and TIMP-1 expression (protein and mRNA) (P < 0.05). In contrast, the expressions of MMP-2, MMP-9 mRNA and protein, and activity in groups GA and GB were enhanced (P < 0.05). However, there were no significant differences in MMP-2, MMP-9 mRNA and protein expression, or activity, between the ATRA and GB groups (P > 0.05). In conclusion, ATRA may protect renal function and step down the progression of GS by reducing the expression of TIMP-1, enhancing the expression and activity of MMP-2 and MMP-9, and regulating the ratio of MMPs/TIMPs to dynamic balance, so as to reduce the accumulation of ECM.
Vascular calcification is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Once thought to be a passive process, vascular calcification is now known to be actively prevented by proteins acting systemically (fetuin-A) or locally (matrix Gla protein). Warfarin is a vitamin K antagonist, widely prescribed to reduce coagulation by inhibiting vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors. Recently, it became clear that vitamin K antagonists also affect vascular calcification by inactivation of matrix Gla protein. Here, we investigated functional cardiovascular characteristics in a mouse model with warfarin-induced media calcification.
DBA/2 mice received diets with variable concentrations of warfarin (0.03, 0.3, and 3 mg/g) with vitamin K1 at variable time intervals (1, 4, and 7 weeks). Von Kossa staining revealed that warfarin treatment induced calcified areas in both medial layer of aorta and heart in a dose- and time-dependent fashion, which could be inhibited by simultaneous vitamin K2 treatment. With ongoing calcification, matrix Gla protein mRNA expression decreased, and inactive matrix Gla protein expression increased. TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling-positive apoptosis increased, and vascular smooth muscle cell number was concomitantly reduced by warfarin treatment. On a functional level, warfarin treatment augmented aortic peak velocity, aortic valve-peak gradient, and carotid pulse-wave velocity.
Warfarin induced significant calcification with resulting functional cardiovascular damage in DBA/2 wild-type mice. The model would enable future researchers to decipher mechanisms of vascular calcification and may guide them in the development of new therapeutic strategies.
Paclitaxel-induced painful peripheral neuropathy is a major dose-limiting factor. Recently, it has been reported that macrophages accumulated in the dorsal root ganglion of paclitaxel-treated rats, and their activation is suggested to contribute to generation and development of the neuropathy. However, the mechanism for macrophage activation is still unknown. In this study, to explore candidate genes involved in the mechanism for macrophage activation in the dorsal root ganglion of paclitaxel-treated rats, we developed model rats for paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain and performed a microarray assay to analyze the changes of gene expressions in the dorsal root ganglion. Among the genes with changed expression levels, we focused on matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3, stromelysin-1) and CD163, a macrophage marker. By reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, the expression levels of MMP-3 and CD163 were markedly up-regulated in paclitaxel-treated dorsal root ganglion. As a result of immunohistochemical study, large ganglion neurons, but neither Schwann cells nor macrophages, predominantly expressed MMP-3. This MMP-3 up-regulation occurred prior to macrophage accumulation in the dorsal root ganglion. In addition, recombinant MMP-3 led to the activation of RAW264 macrophages in vitro. Taken together, the up-regulation of MMP-3 and following macrophage activation caused in the dorsal root ganglion might be a significant event to trigger a series of reactions developing paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathic pain.
Early postnatal steroids and indomethacin in combination have been shown to increase the risk of spontaneous intestinal perforation (SIP) in infants with extremely low birth weight (ELBW), but the mechanism behind this synergistic effect is unknown.
Based on literature in a variety of models suggesting that glucocorticoids and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents diminish complementary isoforms of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), we hypothesized that perturbations in NO metabolism contribute to SIP.
Our results using newborn wild-type (WT) and endothelial NOS-knockout (eNOS KO) mice treated with dexamethasone and/or indomethacin indicate that indomethacin treatment diminishes ileal eNOS abundance; dexamethasone treatment diminishes ileal inducible NOS and neuronal NOS (nNOS); 100% of dexamethasone-treated eNOS KO mice die after 3 days; eNOS KO mice treated for 2 days with dexamethasone develop acute pyloric stenosis in association with reduced expression of pyloric nNOS; and isolated ileum from eNOS KO mice treated for 2 days with dexamethasone exhibit a significant decrease in spontaneous peristalsis, decreased circumference, and decreased capacitance for forced volume before ileal perforation compared with ileum from untreated controls.
Our findings suggest that eNOS and nNOS display functional overlap in the newborn mouse gastrointestinal tract and that simultaneous reduction in the activity of both NOS isoforms may be a risk factor for neonatal ileal perforation. If this holds true in human infants, then it provides a plausible etiologic explanation for the strong temporal association between SIP and the simultaneous treatment of ELBW infants with glucocorticoids and indomethacin.
180 psychotic patients with opiate dependence and abuse (ICD-10) were included in an open label study. The study objectives were to evaluate safety and efficacy of risperidone for a six month follow-up period. The total mean dose was 4.4 (SD: 2.4 mg/daily; range: 0.5-12 mg/daily).
BPRS, CGI and DDS-SV were used to assess efficacy and UKU subscale for neurological side effects and spontaneous reports for safety.
Risperidone treatment improved symptoms, disability of the included patients with a significant reduction in the mean total scores of BPRS, CGI and DDS-SV observed from the first month of treatment onwards. Risperidone also reduced illegal opiate abuse patients from 39% basedate to 18% at month 6. There was a significant reduction (p< 0.0001) in the total UKU subscale for neurological side effects scores from visit 1 onwards for studied sample. Risperidone was well tolerated by the study patients. From 165 elegible patients, just 10 (6.1%) discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions, 94% of the patients did not suffer any adverse event; the most frequent adverse events according spontaneous reports were extrapyramidal effects (3%) and anxiety (1.8%).
Risperidone improved disability, psychotic symptoms and tolerability of these patients. Those results could mean an outstanding breakthrough in the treatment of these type of disorders and, if it is confirmed that risperidone can lead to abstinence, we would be before a new line of treatment for dual pathology.
The primary objective was to assess the safety of esomeprazole 20 or 40 mg once daily in adolescents with clinically diagnosed gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). A secondary aim was to assess changes in GERD symptoms after esomeprazole therapy.
In this multicenter, randomized, double-blind study, adolescents ages 12 to 17 years inclusive received esomeprazole 20 or 40 mg once daily for 8 weeks. Adverse events and changes in clinical parameters (eg, physical examination, laboratory measurements) were evaluated to assess safety. Patients or their parents or guardians scored symptom severity daily, and investigators scored overall GERD symptom severity every 2 weeks using a 4-point scale.
In the 148 adolescents with safety data, treatment-related and non-treatment-related adverse events were reported by 75% and 78% of patients in the esomeprazole 20- and 40-mg groups, respectively. Twenty-two patients (14.9%) experienced adverse events that were considered related to treatment; the most common were headache (8%, 12/148), abdominal pain (3%, 4/148), nausea (2%, 3/148), and diarrhea (2%, 3/148). No serious adverse events or clinically important findings in other safety assessments were observed. At baseline, 68% (100/147) had heartburn, 63% (93/147) had epigastric pain, 57% (84/147) had acid regurgitation, and 15% (22/147) had vomiting symptoms. Symptom scores decreased significantly in both the esomeprazole 20-mg and 40-mg groups by the final study week (P < 0.0001). Investigators rated 63.1% (94/149) of the patients as having moderate or severe symptoms at baseline; at the final visit, this percentage decreased significantly to 9.3% (13/140; P < .0001).
In adolescent patients with GERD, esomeprazole 20 or 40 mg daily for 8 weeks was well tolerated, and GERD-related symptoms were significantly reduced from baseline values in both groups.
NT69L is a neurotensin analog that can be administered peripherally. It blocks amphetamine- and cocaine-induced hyperactivity in rats. It also blocks nicotine-induced locomotor activity and has shown sustained efficacy in a rat model of nicotine-induced sensitization. The present study tested the effect of NT69L on responding for sucrose reinforcement on a continuous reinforcement schedule (CRF) and incrementing (FR1-FR5) discrimination schedule. Male Sprague-Dawley rats, on restricted food intake, were trained to press a lever for sucrose pellets on a CRF and incrementing discrimination schedule of reinforcement. On the following day, the testing session was followed by an extinction session, where lever pressing was not reinforced. Immediately after extinction, a reversal to CRF was implemented to test for relapse. Trained rats were injected with NT69L (1 mg/kg) or saline 30 min before each testing session. Dopamine, tyrosine 3-hydroxylase, and dopamine receptor mRNA levels were determined. NT69L significantly suppressed the lever pressing behavior for sucrose reinforcement on CRF which measures the "hedonic" value of the reward. NT69L also suppressed sucrose self-administration on the incrementing discrimination schedule of reinforcement (FR3-FR5) that is analogous to the motivational incentive. Reversal to CRF was significantly reduced by pretreatment with NT69L. The suppression of sucrose self-administration behavior by pretreatment with NT69L had a pattern similar to that for extinction. The effect of NT69L on dopamine, tyrosine 3-hydroxylase, and dopamine receptor mRNA levels is discussed relative to changes occurring during extinction.
Cardiac septal hypertrophy occurs after in utero ritodrine exposure. To assess the effect of septal hypertrophy on cardiac function we obtained M-mode echocardiograms on day 1 of life in 41 infants exposed to ritodrine and 22 control infants matched for gestational age. Mean duration of ritodrine exposure was 16.2 +/- 13.2 days (range 1 to 49 days). Disproportionate septal hypertrophy (DSH) was defined as an interventricular septal thickness/posterior wall thickness ratio (ST/PW) of greater than 1.3. Infants exposed to ritodrine in utero had DSH and increased right systolic time intervals compared with control values (P less than 0.05). A subgroup, those infants exposed for 2 weeks or longer, had not only DSH but also an absolute increase in septal thickness compared with control infants and infants exposed to ritodrine for less than 2 weeks. ST/PW correlated well with the duration of ritodrine exposure (r = 0.96); the longer the exposure the thicker the septum. Although all echocardiographic changes lasted for less than 3 months, we have no information regarding the effect on the fetus of maternal ritodrine exposure for longer than 7 weeks. Until such information is available, cardiac evaluation is recommended in neonates exposed to ritodrine in utero for longer than 7 weeks.
Two mice of the TM strain, maintained on Purina chow supplemented with refined coin oil plus free fatty acids, in one case, and with refined corn oil without free fatty acids, in the other case, developed primary heart rhabdomyosarcomas. The tumors metastasized to the lungs and the kidney, in the first case, and to the lungs alone in the second case. One mouse of the TM strain, on the diet supplemented with corn oil plus free fatty acids, developed a fibrosarcoma behind the right anterior extremity. Metastases from the tumor were found in the liver, lungs and myocardium. Another mouse of the C57 Bl. strain, injected subcutaneously, in the interscapular region, at the age of 7 days, with a single dose of 30 mug of Delestrogen, developed, at the point of injection, a large rhabdomyosarcoma. At the age of 5333 days, when the animal was killed, metastases from the tumor were found in the intercostal muscles and in the heart. Three mice, one of the TM strain, on a diet supplemented with corn oil and cholesterol, and two of the C57 Br. strain, on a diet supplemented with raw egg yolk (rich in cholesterol) had organized blood clots in the atria (in two mice) and one extending into the ventricle.
We report two patients treated with ciprofloxacin who presented with acute renal failure. On renal biopsy, a necrotizing vasculitis was identified in addition to acute interstitial nephritis. Improvement in renal function resulted with the discontinuation of the antibiotic and the institution of immunosuppressive therapy.
This study examined, for the first time, the involvement of carnitine deficiency in cardiotoxicity, particularly cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced cardiomyopathy, as well as effects of carnitine supplementation with propionyl-L-carnitine (PLC) on cardiotoxicity.
An animal model of carnitine deficiency was developed in rats treated with D-carnitine (DC)-mildronate (MD). Adult male Wistar albino rats were assigned to one of six treatment groups: the first three groups were injected intraperitoneally with normal saline, PLC (250 mg/kg/day), and DC (250 mg/kg/day) combined with MD (200 mg/kg/day), respectively, for 10 successive days. In groups 4-6, the same doses of normal saline, PLC and DC-MD were injected, respectively, during the 5 successive days before and after a single dose of CP (200 mg/kg). On day 6 after CP treatment, 24-hour urine was collected, then animals were sacrificed, and serum as well as hearts were isolated.
CP caused a significant increase in serum creatine phosphokinase isoenzyme (CK-MB), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), urinary carnitine excretion and clearance and intramitochondrial acetyl-CoA/CoA-SH, and a significant decrease in serum free carnitine, total carnitine and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) contents in cardiac tissue. In the carnitine-depleted rats, CP induced dramatic increases in CK-MB and LDH levels, carnitine clearance and intramitochondrial acetyl-CoA/CoA-SH, as well as progressive reduction in total carnitine and ATP in cardiac tissues. Interestingly, PLC supplementation completely reversed the biochemical and histopathological changes induced by CP to the control values.
(1) Carnitine deficiency is a risk factor which is involved in CP-related cardiomyopathy; (2) serum and urinary carnitine levels should be monitored and viewed as indices of CP-induced multiple organ toxicity, and (3) carnitine supplementation, using PLC, prevents the development of CP-induced cardiotoxicity.
Our efforts to study and understand the complex clinical, behavioral, neurochemical and neuroanatomical manifestations of the schizophrenias are plagued by the heterogeneity of findings, and lack of ability to define subtypes within the syndrome. Theoretically, a behavior associated with schizophrenia among a majority of those affected might provide more broadly applicable information about the illness. Cigarette smoking represents such a behavior. Herein we present an overview of evidence linking cigarette smoking and schizophrenia, and describe three cases suggesting that nicotine withdrawal leads to an exacerbation of schizophrenic symptoms.
Platelets have a crucial role in the maintenance of normal haemostasis, and perturbations of this system can lead to pathological thrombus formation and vascular occlusion, resulting in stroke, myocardial infarction and unstable angina. ADP released from damaged vessels and red blood cells induces platelet aggregation through activation of the integrin GPIIb-IIIa and subsequent binding of fibrinogen. ADP is also secreted from platelets on activation, providing positive feedback that potentiates the actions of many platelet activators. ADP mediates platelet aggregation through its action on two G-protein-coupled receptor subtypes. The P2Y1 receptor couples to Gq and mobilizes intracellular calcium ions to mediate platelet shape change and aggregation. The second ADP receptor required for aggregation (variously called P2Y(ADP), P2Y(AC), P2Ycyc or P2T(AC)) is coupled to the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase through Gi. The molecular identity of the Gi-linked receptor is still elusive, even though it is the target of efficacious antithrombotic agents, such as ticlopidine and clopidogrel and AR-C66096 (ref. 9). Here we describe the cloning of this receptor, designated P2Y12, and provide evidence that a patient with a bleeding disorder has a defect in this gene. Cloning of the P2Y12 receptor should facilitate the development of better antiplatelet agents to treat cardiovascular diseases.
To investigate the cholinesterase inhibition and effect of atropine and pralidoxime (PAM) treatment on the survival time in the rat model of aluminium phosphide (AlP) poisoning.
The rats were treated with AlP (10 mg/kg; 5.55 x LD50; ig) and the survival time was noted. The effect of atropine (1 mg/kg, ip) and PAM (5 mg/kg, ip) was noted on the above. Atropine and PAM were administered 5 min after AlP. Plasma cholinesterase levels were measured spectrophotometrically in the control and AlP treated rats 30 min after administration.
Treatment with atropine and PAM increased the survival time by 2.5 fold (1.4 h+/-0.3 h vs 3.4 h+/-2.5 h, P < 0.01) in 9 out of 15 animals and resulted in total survival of the 6 remaining animals. Plasma cholinesterase levels were inhibited by 47 %, (438+/-74) U/L in AlP treated rats as compared to control (840+/-90) U/L (P < 0.01).
This preliminary study concludes that AlP poisoning causes cholinesterase inhibition and responds to treatment with atropine and PAM.
Mutation of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene and the subsequent dysregulation of beta-catenin are well-documented abnormalities in familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), as well as sporadic polyposis. Intriguingly, overexpression of the integrin-linked kinase (ILK) has been shown to modulate beta-catenin subcellular localization and function. However, the significance of this finding for human carcinogenesis remains unclear. Here, we report the increased biochemical activity and expression of ILK protein in polyps from FAP patients. Furthermore, dramatic increases in ILK immunoreactivity were observed in all abnormal crypts from sporadic polyps, when compared with the normal appearing crypts within the same resected specimens. As sulindac and aspirin are the two most important therapeutic/chemopreventative agents demonstrated in colorectal carcinogenesis, in both humans and animals, further investigation revealed that these non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) target ILK and ILK-mediated events in vivo. These include inhibition of, both the biochemical activation of ILK, inhibition of serine 9 GSK3beta phosphorylation and the enhancement of TCF-4 transcriptional activity. In conclusion, ILK protein hyperexpression appears to be an early event in colonic polyposis. Additionally, ILK signaling is shown to undergo modulation by sulindac (and aspirin) for the first time, indicating that it is likely to be one of the targets affected by these agents in vivo.
Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors, such as rapamycin and CCI-779, have shown preclinical potential as therapy for multiple myeloma. By inhibiting expression of cell cycle proteins, these agents induce G1 arrest. However, by also inhibiting an mTOR-dependent serine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1), they may enhance insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) signaling and downstream phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT activation. This may be a particular problem in multiple myeloma where IGF-I-induced activation of AKT is an important antiapoptotic cascade. We, therefore, studied AKT activation in multiple myeloma cells treated with mTOR inhibitors. Rapamycin enhanced basal AKT activity, AKT phosphorylation, and PI3K activity in multiple myeloma cells and prolonged activation of AKT induced by exogenous IGF-I. CCI-779, used in a xenograft model, also resulted in multiple myeloma cell AKT activation in vivo. Blockade of IGF-I receptor function prevented rapamycin's activation of AKT. Furthermore, rapamycin prevented serine phosphorylation of IRS-1, enhanced IRS-1 association with IGF-I receptors, and prevented IRS-1 degradation. Although similarly blocking IRS-1 degradation, proteasome inhibitors did not activate AKT. Thus, mTOR inhibitors activate PI3-K/AKT in multiple myeloma cells; activation depends on basal IGF-R signaling; and enhanced IRS-1/IGF-I receptor interactions secondary to inhibited IRS-1 serine phosphorylation may play a role in activation of the cascade. In cotreatment experiments, rapamycin inhibited myeloma cell apoptosis induced by PS-341. These results provide a caveat for future use of mTOR inhibitors in myeloma patients if they are to be combined with apoptosis-inducing agents.
Colchicine and 3-hydroxy-3-methy-glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors are well known to cause myopathy. Myotoxicity is dose-dependent in both drugs; therefore, the onset of symptoms usually takes months or years. We report the case of a patient with chronic renal failure who had been taking simvastatin for 2 years and developed acute weakness 2 weeks after the start of treatment with colchicines for recurrent gout. The electromyography and elevated muscle enzymes indicated that his symptoms were caused by myopathy. When this patient stopped taking both drugs, his weakness resolved rapidly. Acute myopathy induced by combination therapy with colchicines and simvastatin is rare. In patients with chronic renal failure, co-administration of colchicine with simvastatin may accelerate the onset of myopathy because CYP3A4 (part of cytochrome P450) is crucial in the breakdown of both drugs. When adding colchicine to a medication regimen that includes a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor for patients with renal insufficiency, drugs that are metabolized outside the CYP3A4 system (e.g., fluvastatin and pravastatin) should be selected instead.
Nifedipine is known to reduce blood pressure for both short- and long-term periods. We have shown that nifedipine can be given safely for a short-term period to patients with severe hypertension in an outpatient setting, that its efficacy can be retained with long-term follow-up therapy, and that nifedipine is safe in the presence of cardiomegaly, acting without precipitating a decrease in ejection fraction when used for short-term blood pressure reduction. The acute hypotensive effect of sublingual nifedipine can predict the efficacy of subsequent follow-up therapy with oral nifedipine, so that there is a sustained long-term hypotensive effect.
The potential protective role of alpha-lipoic acid (alpha-LA) in acetaminophen (APAP)-induced hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity was investigated in rats. Pretreatment of rats with alpha-LA (100mg/kg) orally protected markedly against hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity induced by an acute oral toxic dose of APAP (2.5 g/kg) as assessed by biochemical measurements and by histopathological examination. None of alpha-LA pretreated animals died by the acute toxic dose of APAP. Concomitantly, APAP-induced profound elevation of nitric oxide (NO) production and oxidative stress, as evidenced by increasing of lipid peroxidation level, reducing of glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity and depleting of intracellular reduced glutathione (GSH) level in liver and kidney, were suppressed by pretreatment with alpha-LA. Similarly, daily treatment of rats with a smaller dose of alpha-LA (25mg/kg) concurrently with a smaller toxic dose of APAP (750 mg/kg) for 1 week protected against APAP-induced hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. This treatment also completely prevented APAP-induced mortality and markedly inhibited APAP-induced NO overproduction and oxidative stress in hepatic and renal tissues. These results provide evidence that inhibition of NO overproduction and maintenance of intracellular antioxidant status may play a pivotal role in the protective effects of alpha-LA against APAP-induced hepatic and renal damage.
Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is a novel member identified and was reported to express predominantly in pancreas, liver and adipose tissue, and relatively less in other organs, such as the testis. However, the role of FGF21 in the testis has never been addressed. The present study examined FGF21 expression at mRNA level by real-time RT-PCR assay in the testis of fasting and non-fasting mice or mice with type 1 diabetes that was induced with streptozotocin. We also examined the effect of Fgf21 gene deletion or supplementation of the exogenous FGF21 on the testicular apoptotic cell death spontaneously or induced by type 1 diabetes in FGF21 knockout (FGF21-KO) mice. Deletion of Fgf21 gene does not affect testicular cell proliferation, but significantly increases the spontaneous incidence of testicular TUNEL positive cells with increases in the Bax/Bcl2 expression ratio and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) expression. Diabetes induced significant increases in testicular TUNEL positive cells, Bax/Bcl2 expression ratio, AIF expression, CHOP and cleaved caspase-12 expression, and oxidative damage, but did not change the expression of cleaved caspase-3 and caspase-8. Deletion of Fgf21 gene also significantly enhances diabetes-induced TUNEL positive cells along with the increased expression of Bax/Bcl2 ratio, AIF, CHOP, cleaved caspase-12, and oxidative damage, which was significantly prevented by the supplementation of exogenous FGF21. These results suggest that Fgf21 gene may involve in maintaining normal spermatogenesis and also protect the germ cells from diabetes-induced apoptotic cell death probably via the prevention of diabetes-induced oxidative damage.
To determine whether patients with acute myocardial infarction undergoing thrombolysis with streptokinase develop changes in renal function.
Prospective assessment of renal function in 60 consecutive patients admitted with acute myocardial infarction.
Tertiary referral centre and city general hospital.
60 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction. Thirty eight were given streptokinase and 17 tissue plasminogen activator (alteplase) and five no thrombolytic agent (non-streptokinase group).
Proteinuria and creatinine clearance on admission (day 1) and on days 3 and 6; serum urea and creatinine concentrations on days 1 and 7; streptokinase IgG on days 1, 2, and 7.
Significant proteinuria (> 0.15 g/24 h) was found in 31 (82%) of the 38 patients in the streptokinase group (mean 0.47 g/24 h (95% confidence interval 0.35 to 0.6 g/24 h)) in the 24 hours after admission compared with six (27%) out of 22 in the non-streptokinase group (mean 0.17 g/24 h (0.12 to 0.2 g/24 h); P = 0.008). In the streptokinase group this decreased to the normal range by day 3 (mean 0.15 g/24 h (0.1 to 0.22 g/24 h); P = 0.0001 v baseline). Electrophoresis of urine showed the proteinuria to be glomerular in origin. Creatinine clearance and serum creatinine and urea concentrations were similar in both groups. In the streptokinase group detectable streptokinase IgG titres were found in 28 out of 32 (87%) patients. The median titre on admission was 16 (range 0-110); it fell to 3 (range 0-80; P = 0.001) by day 2 and increased to 61 (range 0-7700; P = 0.0002 v baseline) by day 7.
Streptokinase was associated with significant early onset proteinuria of glomerular origin. This started to resolve by day 3 and resulted in no deterioration in overall renal function. The temporal relation to the initial fall in antibody titre suggests that it could be the result of immune complex deposition in the glomeruli.
