Radiofrequency catheter ablation of a right septal accessory pathway was performed in a 66-year-old patient with incessant orthodromic atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia. Intravenous administration of flecainide, ajmaline, verapamil, and d,l-sotalol had been ineffective in controlling the tachycardia. After the ablation procedure, precordial T-wave inversion was observed during sinus rhythm. These repolarization abnormalities persisted and were suggested to represent "cardiac memory." Three days later, atrial fibrillation with a fast ventricular response developed and oral d,l-sotalol, which had been well tolerated previously on a long-term basis, was started again. However, at this time, and in the presence of the persisting repolarization abnormalities, the T waves became deeper and broader within a few hours after the introduction of d,l-sotalol. Marked QT prolongation that was paralleled by the occurrence of repeated episodes of torsade de pointes developed. Serum electrolytes were normal. Direct current cardioversion was necessary due to the degeneration of torsade de pointes into ventricular fibrillation. Further sustained arrhythmia episodes were suppressed by temporary endocardial ventricular pacing. The patient recovered without any sequela. This case demonstrates that repolarization abnormalities after catheter ablation, which may be due, at least in part, to the "cardiac memory," are not always benign but may contribute significantly to proarrhythmia.
To examine retrospectively whether levels of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression can predict tumor downstaging after preoperative chemoradiotherapy in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer.
A total of 183 patients with rectal cancer (cT3-T4 or N+) were enrolled in this study. Preoperative chemoradiotherapy consisted of 50.4 Gy of pelvic radiation with concurrent 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin bolus intravenous chemotherapy in 94 patients or oral capecitabine and leucovorin in 89 patients. EGFR expression in pretreatment paraffin-embedded tumor biopsy specimens was assessed by immunohistochemistry. EGFR expression was determined from the intensity and extent of staining. Tumor downstaging was defined as a reduction of at least one T-stage level.
Tumor downstaging occurred in 97 patients (53%), and the tumors showed a pathologic complete response in 27 patients (15%). Positive EGFR expression was observed in 140 (76%) of 183 patients. EGFR expression levels were low in 113 patients (62%) and high in 70 patients (38%). On logistic regression analysis, the significant predictive factor for increased tumor downstaging was a low level of EGFR expression and preoperative chemotherapy using oral capecitabine (odds ratio, 0.437; p = 0.012 vs. odds ratio, 3.235; p < 0.001, respectively).
A high level of EGFR expression may be a significant predictive molecular marker for decreased tumor downstaging after preoperative chemoradiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer.
A continuing social problem is presented by the large number of individuals who use crack cocaine. Recent research has identified unique pyrolysis products of crack or burned cocaine as anhydroecgonine methylester (AEME) and ecgonidine (ECD) through gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) that allow for the detection of crack use distinct from other cocaine use. However, there have been no large-scale studies to document the presence and prevalence of these substances in sweat. A new sweat-testing appliance called a fastpatch was developed for this study. Through mild heating and a slightly larger collection pad than a standard Pharmchek( trade mark ) sweat patch, this product shows the promise of shorter required wear periods than standard sweat patches, and possibly longer time-periods of detected use. One hundred and eighty subjects wore 360 fastpatch prototypes (one per hand). However, subsequent analysis determined that only one patch per subject was needed to obtain sufficient sweat eluate for GC/MS. Cocaine use was detected in sweat of 92% of subjects through GC/MS, comparing favorably with 91% with EMIT urinalysis. Crack metabolites were detected in 54% of subjects. The predominant analyte detected was AEME. There were no significant differences in detection rates between 15-, 20- and 30-minute wear periods. All wear periods detected both cocaine use in general and crack use successfully. These results suggest that crack use as distinct from other cocaine use can be detected in sweat and that fastpatches are a promising new way to detect drugs of abuse.
To investigate the frequency of recent cocaine use in patients attending an emergency department for acute chest pain, to describe the clinical characteristics of these patients, and to estimate the incidence of acute coronary syndrome in this population.
Observational cohort study using a standard questionnaire that includes items on recent cocaine consumption.
During a 1-year period, 1240 patients aged under 55 years presented with chest pain. Of these, 63 (5%) had cocaine-related chest pain (7% of men and 1.8% of women). These patients were younger (35+/-10 years vs. 39+/-10 years; P=.002), were more frequently male (87% vs. 62%; P< .001), and were more frequently smokers (59% vs. 35%; P< .001). Patients who had used cocaine recently had a higher incidence of acute myocardial infarction (16 vs. 4%; P< .001), especially ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (11.1% vs. 1.6%; P< .01). After adjusting for coronary risk factors, history of cardiovascular disease and previous treatment, the odds ratio for myocardial infarction with recent cocaine consumption was 4.3 (95% confidence interval, 2-9.4).
Cocaine-related chest pain is often encountered in emergency departments, especially in men aged under 55 years. It is associated with a four-fold increase in the risk of acute myocardial infarction. All male patients aged under 55 years with acute chest pain should be asked about cocaine use.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, a potent stimulus of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), is up-regulated in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Here, we show that bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMCs) and purified CD34+ cells from patients with low-grade/early-stage MDS (refractory anemia/refractory anemia with ring sideroblasts [RA/RARS]) have low levels of NF-kappaB activity in nuclear extracts comparable with normal marrow, while patients with RA with excess blasts (RAEB) show significantly increased levels of activity (P = .008). Exogenous TNF-alpha enhanced NF-kappaB nuclear translocation in MDS BMMCs above baseline levels. Treatment with arsenic trioxide (ATO; 2-200 microM) inhibited NF-kappaB activity in normal marrow, primary MDS, and ML1 cells, even in the presence of exogenous TNF-alpha (20 ng/mL), and down-regulated NF-kappaB-dependent antiapoptotic proteins, B-cell leukemia XL (Bcl-XL), Bcl-2, X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP), and Fas-associated death domain (FADD)-like interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme (FLICE) inhibitory protein (FLIP), leading to apoptosis. However, overexpression of FLIP resulted in increased NF-kappaB activity and rendered ML1 cells resistant to ATO-induced apoptosis. These data are consistent with the observed up-regulation of FLIP and resistance to apoptosis with advanced MDS, where ATO as a single agent may show only limited efficacy. However, the data also suggest that combinations of ATO with agents that interfere with other pathways, such as FLIP autoamplification via NF-kappaB, may have considerable therapeutic activity.
Neurogenic inflammation frequently causes acute plasma leakage in airways and life-threatening pulmonary edema. However, limited strategies are available to alleviate neurogenic inflammation. Proopiomelanocortin (POMC) is the precursor of anti-inflammatory melanocortins, which have been proposed of therapeutic potential for various inflammatory diseases. The present study aimed to evaluate whether peripheral POMC expression ameliorated capsaicin-induced acute neurogenic inflammation in rat trachea. Prophylactic POMC expression was achieved by intravenous injection of adenovirus encoding POMC (Ad-POMC), which led to POMC expression in livers and elevated plasma adrenocorticotropin levels for approximately 60 days. After gene delivery for 7 days, neurogenic inflammation was induced in rats by capsaicin injection. The extent of capsaicin-evoked plasma leakage in trachea was alleviated in Ad-POMC-treated rats compared with animals of control groups (P < 0.01). Moreover, the number of endothelial gaps in tracheal venules was also significantly decreased in Ad-POMC-treated animals (P < 0.01). Prophylactic POMC expression, however, did not alter the basal substance P (SP) expression or the capsaicin-induced SP elevation in trachea and circulation. Instead, cell cultures studies revealed that POMC overexpression or application of POMC-derived melanocortins potently inhibited the SP-induced migration of endothelial cells (P < 0.01), thereby possibly contributing to the attenuation of endothelial gap formation and plasma leakage. The present study indicates that the anti-inflammatory POMC gene vector or melanocortins may constitute a therapeutic alternative for neurogenic inflammation.
Cyclosporin A (CsA) has been shown to be useful in the prophylaxis of acute graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD). However, this immunosuppressive agent produces multiple side-effects including nephrotoxicity, hypertension, hypertricosis, gum hyperplasia, infections, and neurotoxicity. We report a retrospective analysis of neurotoxicity in 625 recipients transplanted for thalassemia and given CsA as part of GVHD prophylaxis. Neurotoxicity consisted in mental status changes, tremor, headache (grade 1), visual disturbance and cortical blindness (grade 2) and seizures and coma (grade 3). The overall toxicity was 28.8% and the incidence of convulsions was 10.1%. Neurological findings were reversible after temporary reduction or discontinuation of CsA. Class 3 patients, when prepared with protocol 6 (Bu 14 + Cy 200 and CsA for GVHD) or when they developed acute GVHD, had the highest risk of convulsions. Age, sex, different conditioning regimens, different anticonvulsive prophylaxis, liver damage due to iron-overload and/or to chronic inflammation did not influence the occurrence of CsA-related CNS toxicity. The occurrence of acute GVHD with concomitant use of high-dose corticosteroids is the single significant predisposing factor in the occurrence of convulsions. Grades 1 and 2 of neurotoxicity occurred earlier and were not influenced even by acute GVHD.
The induction of oxidative stress precedes liver injury during experimental obstructive jaundice (OJ). In this sense, different evidences suggest that melatonin (MEL), as antioxidant, may be useful in the protection against apoptosis and necrosis during experimental cholestasis. In addition, we will also assess if MEL-dependent protection is related to a recovery of antioxidant status disturbances induced by OJ. Cholestasis was achieved by double ligature and sectioning of the principal bile duct. MEL was injected intraperitoneally (500 microg/kg/day). Lipid peroxidation was evaluated by the measurement of malondialdehyde (MDA) content in liver. Different parameters related to antioxidant status, such as reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), catalase and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were determined in liver. Liver injury was assessed by alanine amino-transferase (ALT) in serum, histological examination, DNA fragmentation and TUNEL assay. The activation of perisinusoidal stellate cells was evaluated by immunohistochemical measurement of alpha-smooth muscle actin in liver sections. The induction of OJ increased all the parameters related to apoptosis and necrosis in liver. The induction of liver injury was associated with stellate cell activation, as well as an increase in MDA (p < 0.0001) and a reduction in GSH, GPx, catalase and SOD content (p < 0.0001) in liver. MEL reduced hepatic apoptosis and necrosis (p < 0.004) with a significant improvement in all oxidative stress markers. In conclusion, our results showed that MEL recovered the antioxidant status and reduced apoptosis and necrosis induced by experimental cholestasis.
Aminoethylcysteine ketimine decarboxylated dimer (AECK-DD) is a natural sulphur compound present in human plasma and urine and in mammalian brain. Recently, it has been detected in many common dietary vegetables. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the ability of AECK-DD to affect cellular response of U937 human monocytic cells to tert-butyl hydroperoxide-induced oxidative stress. AECK-DD was incorporated into cells, as confirmed by GC-MS analyses, without any cytotoxic effect. A 24 h treatment with 50 and 250 microM AECK-DD resulted in the incorporation of 0.10 +/- 0.01 and 0.47 +/- 0.08ng AECK-DD x 10(6) cells, respectively. U937 cells pretreated with AECK-DD (in the range 4-100 microM) showed an increased resistance to tert-butyl hydroperoxide-induced necrotic death, as revealed by a higher percent of survival measured at all incubation times with respect to control cells. Moreover, the protective effect exhibited by AECK-DD is significantly stronger with respect to that obtained with other common antioxidants (N-acetyl cysteine and trolox) and comparable, although somewhat higher, to that of vitamin E. This effect seems to be due to the ability of AECK-DD to reduce glutathione depletion and to inhibit lipid peroxidation during tert-butyl hydroperoxide treatment. It can be concluded that AECK-DD protects cultured human monocytic cells against tert-butyl hydroperoxide-induced oxidative stress and subsequent cell death, likely through an antioxidant action inside the cell. Due to its presence in both human plasma and urine, AECK-DD may play a role in the modulation of oxidative processes in vivo.
Abnormalities in subcellular localization and interaction between receptors and their signaling molecules occur within the striatum in Parkinson's disease (PD) and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). Synapse-associated proteins (SAPs), for example, PSD-95 and SAP97 organize the molecular architecture of synapses and regulate interactions between receptors and downstream-signaling molecules. Here, we show that expression and subcellular distribution of PSD-95 and SAP97 are altered in the striatum of unilateral 6-OHDA-lesioned rats following repeated vehicle (a model of PD) or L-DOPA administration (a model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia). Furthermore, following dopamine-depletion and development of behavioral deficits in Rotorod performance, indicative of parkinsonism, we observed a dramatic decrease in total striatal levels of PSD-95 and SAP97 (to 25.6 +/- 9.9% and 19.0 +/- 5.0% of control, respectively). The remaining proteins were redistributed from the synapse into vesicular compartments. L-DOPA (6.5mg/kg twice a day, 21 days) induced a rotational response, which became markedly enhanced with repeated treatment (day 1: -15.8+/-7.3 rotations cf day 21: 758.2+/-114.0 rotations). Post L-DOPA treatment, PSD-95 and SAP97 levels increased (367.4 +/- 43.2% and 159.9 +/- 9.5% from control values, respectively), with both being redistributed toward synaptic membranes from vesicular compartments. In situ hybridization showed that changes in total levels of PSD-95, but not SAP97, were accompanied by qualitatively similar changes in mRNA. These data highlight the potential role of abnormalities in the subcellular distribution of SAPs in the pathophysiology of a neurological disease.
Resveratrol (RSV), a natural phenolic compound, has been found to display cardiovascular protective and insulin-sensitizing properties. In this study, the effects of RSV and its combination with insulin on mortality, hemodynamics, insulin signaling, and nitrosative stress were compared in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats with or without acute myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. Under normoxic conditions, cardiac systolic and diastolic functions and insulin-mediated Akt/GLUT4 (glucose transporter 4) activation were impaired in STZ-diabetic rats. The combination of RSV and insulin significantly prevented the above diabetes-associated abnormalities. Notwithstanding that, the diabetic state rendered the animals more susceptible to myocardial I/R injury, and the mortality rate and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)/nitrotyrosine protein expression and superoxide anion production were also further increased in I/R-injured diabetic hearts. In contrast, RSV treatment alone resulted in a lower mortality rate (from 62.5 to 18%) and better cardiac systolic function than its combination with insulin. RSV also inhibited iNOS/nitrotyrosine protein overexpression and superoxide anion overproduction in I/R-injured diabetic myocardium. Hyperglycemia, impairment of insulin signaling, overexpression of iNOS/nitrotyrosine, and superoxide anion overproduction were markedly rescued by the combination treatment, which did not show an improvement in mortality rate (30%) or cardiac performance over RSV treatment alone. These results indicate that insulin and RSV synergistically prevented cardiac dysfunction in diabetes and this may be in parallel with activation of the insulin-mediated Akt/GLUT4 signaling pathway. Although activation of the protective signal (Akt/GLUT4) and suppression of the adverse markers (iNOS, nitrotyrosine, and superoxide anion) were simultaneously observed in insulin and RSV combination treatment, insulin counteracted the advantage of RSV in diabetics with acute heart attack.
Intraplaque hemorrhage increases the risk of plaque rupture and thrombosis. The release of hemoglobin (Hb) from extravasated erythrocytes at the site of hemorrhage leads to iron deposition, which may increase oxidation and inflammation in the atherosclerotic plaque. The haptoglobin (Hp) protein is critical for protection against Hb-induced injury. Two common alleles exist at the Hp locus and the Hp 2 allele has been associated with increased risk of myocardial infarction. We have demonstrated decreased anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory activity for the Hp 2 protein. We tested the hypothesis that the Hp 2-2 genotype is associated with increased oxidative and macrophage accumulation in atherosclerotic plaques.
The murine Hp gene is a type 1 Hp allele. We created a murine type 2 Hp allele and targeted its insertion to the Hp locus by homologous recombination. Atherosclerotic plaques from C57Bl/6 ApoE-/- Hp 2-2 mice were associated with increased iron (P=0.008), lipid peroxidation (4-hydroxynonenal and ceroid) and macrophage accumulation (P=0.03) as compared with plaques from C57Bl/6 ApoE-/- Hp 1-1 mice.
Increased iron, lipid peroxidation and macrophage accumulation in ApoE-/- Hp 2-2 plaques suggests that the Hp genotype plays a critical role in the oxidative and inflammatory response to intraplaque hemorrhage.
Continuous recording of intra-arterial blood pressure in 11 ambulant patients taking postganglionic blocking drugs for the treatment of hypertension has shown an alternating pattern of high pressures at rest and very low pressures associated with exertion during normal daily activities. In 4 patients there was evidence of decreased cerebral or myocardial blood-flow during hypotensive episodes. It is suggested that these agents may predispose towards cerebral and myocardial infarction.
Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) presents a rarely encountered but challenging fluid management problem in the perioperative period. This case is that of a patient with a perforated duodenal ulcer and previously undiagnosed NDI who received standard preoperative and postoperative hydration with normal saline, causing hypernatremia and an inappropriate diuresis. The resulting hypernatremia and hyperosmolality required aggressive hypotonic fluid replacement to return to preoperative values. Though refractory to 1-desamino-8-D-argenine-vasopressin (dDAVP), thiazide diuretics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents have a role in managing selected patients. Early diagnosis with careful fluid and electrolyte management are critical in successful management of these patients in the perioperative period.
Neuron specific enolase (ENO2, γ-enolase) is a biomarker used to help identify neuroendocrine differentiation in tumors. This laboratory has shown that ENO2 might be a biomarker for exposure to cadmium and arsenite. In this study these observations are extended to the urothelial cell, where environmental exposures are strongly linked to urothelial cancer. The UROtsa urothelial cell line and its Cd²⁺- and As³⁺-transformed counterparts were used as the model. Acute exposure of the UROtsa cells to both As³⁺- and Cd²⁺-caused significant increases in ENO2 expression. Treatment with the histone deacetlyase inhibitor was also shown to significantly increase the expression of ENO2 mRNA. The expression of ENO2 was significantly elevated in the Cd²⁺- and As³⁺-transformed UROtsa cells and tumor transplants. In contrast, ENO1, was unaffected by exposure to As³⁺ or Cd²⁺. Immunofluorescence showed ENO2 associated with both the nucleus and cytoplasm and cytoplasmic ENO2 co-localized with ENO1. The findings extend the evidence suggesting a link between As³⁺ and Cd²⁺ exposure and neuroendocrine differentiation in tumors. The results suggest that ENO2 might be a biomarker of human exposure to Cd²⁺ and As³⁺ that operates through histone modification.
Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) comprises a variety of different subforms. Two patients were admitted to our hospital and developed polymorphic VT under treatment with amiodarone. However, each of them turned out to have a very different form of the arrhythmia and therefore required a different therapeutic approach. The clinical decision-making required a distinction between the two forms, and the following therapeutic approach included terminating the administration of amiodarone in the first case and continuing administration in the other case. As the most common forms of polymorphic VT are described, it becomes clear that each different form should be identified because of the important therapeutic implications. In particular, the role of amiodarone can be quite different in the management of these different forms of polymorphic VT.
The respiratory and cardiovascular effects of selective kappa opioid agonists were compared following microinjection (0.1 microliter) into the nucleus ambiguus (NA) and the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) regions of spontaneously breathing and artificially respired pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. In spontaneously breathing animals, the benzomorphan derivative MRZ 2549 (MRZ, 3 X 10(-11) to 16 X 10(-9) mol) elicited dose-related decreases of mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and tidal volume (TV) following NA injection; bremazocine (BREM) decreased MAP, HR, and respiratory rate (RR). Following NTS injection, MRZ (3 X 10(-10) to 16 X 10(-9) mol) lowered MAP and TV, the highest dose also lowering HR and RR; BREM (3 X 10(-9) to 16 X 10(-9) mol) decreased MAP and HR. Naloxone (200 micrograms/kg, i.v.) reversed the respiratory effects of MRZ without consistently altering cardiovascular activity. In ventilated animals, NA injections of MRZ or BREM (3 X 10(-9) to 16 X 10(-9) mol) elicited a dose-related decrease of MAP without altering HR. These responses were not reversed by naloxone. The stereoisomer of BREM (+ BREM) was without effect at similar doses (3 X 10(-9) to 16 X 10(-9) mol). MRZ (16 X 10(-9) mol) elicited a naloxone-reversible tachycardia following NTS injection in ventilated animals; no other cardiovascular responses were observed following NTS administration of BREM (16 X 10(-9) mol) or lower doses of MRZ. Dynorphin (1-13) (6 X 10(-9) to 60 X 10(-9) mol) significantly lowered MAP without altering HR following NA microinjections in ventilated animals; the lower dose decreased MAP following NTS injections.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the last decade neurohormone replacement therapy with levodopa has revolutionised the treatment of Parkinson's disease. At the same time the use of amantadine and dopamine-like ergot drugs has developed, although there is still a place for anticholinergic drugs, not in use for a century. These advances have resulted in the availability of many different drugs to treat Parkinsonism with different pharmacological actions. It is now usually possible to control disability, at least in the initial stages of disease, although sometimes at the expense of frequent and disabling side effects. In most cases these result from the widespread distribution of cholinergic and dopaminergic systems inside and outside the brain and the non-selective action of therapeutic agents on these different systems. Despite the recent division of dopamine receptors into D1 and D2 classes, no selective dopamine-like antiparkinsonian drugs are known. The practical treatment of Parkinsonism depends on accurate knowledge of the side effects as well as therapeutic effects of many different drugs, and requires titration of individually determined dosages in different patients to achieve the optimum response. This is usually determined by dose-limiting side effects as well as by improvement. The possibility that the eventual development of response fluctuation and failure may result from the sustained use of large doses of dopamine-like drugs must be considered, and it is probably wise at present to give low rather than high doses of the agents. No presently available treatment appears to influence the natural progression of Parkinsonism.
A range of studies has indicated that users of 3.4-Methylene-dioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, 'Ecstasy') display cognitive deficits, particularly memory impairment, as compared to non-drug using controls. Yet it is difficult to determine whether these deficits are caused by MDMA or some other confounding factor, such as polydrug use. The present study was designed to establish the direct relation between MDMA and memory impairment under placebo-controlled conditions. Eighteen recreational MDMA users participated in a double blind, placebo controlled, 3-way crossover design. They were treated with placebo, MDMA 75mg and methylphenidate 20mg. Memory tests were conducted between 1.5-2h (intoxication phase) and between 25.5-26h (withdrawal phase) post dosing. Results showed that a single dose of MDMA caused impairment of immediate and delayed recall on a verbal learning task during the intoxication phase. However, there was no residual memory impairment during the withdrawal phase. Subjects reported more fatigue and less vigour, but no symptoms of depression during the withdrawal phase of MDMA treatment. Methylphenidate did not affect memory or mood at any time of testing. A single dose of MDMA produces transient memory impairment.
In the preparation for colonoscopy, it is necessary to drink a great deal of often hypo-osmotic fluid. Therefore, the electrolytes and intra- and extracellular water are disequilibrated. Most of the patients tolerate this without any subjective or objective symptoms. In our case, a young male patient suffered from a severe hyponatriaemia with encephalopathy for more than 48 h through the preparation for an elective ambulant colonoscopy with mannite. Furthermore, he developed a rhabdomyolysis (either through lying on the floor in coma for more than 9 h, through the hyponatriaemia itself or through compensation of the hyponatriaemia) that lasted for ca. 1 week.
This multicenter, open-label, randomized phase 2 study evaluated 2 dose regimens of lenalidomide for relapsed, refractory myeloma. Seventy patients were randomized to receive either 30 mg once-daily or 15 mg twice-daily oral lenalidomide for 21 days of every 28-day cycle. Patients with progressive or stable disease after 2 cycles received dexamethasone. Analysis of the first 70 patients showed increased grade 3/4 myelo-suppression in patients receiving 15 mg twice daily (41% versus 13%, P = .03). An additional 32 patients received 30 mg once daily. Responses were evaluated according to European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) criteria. Overall response rate (complete, partial, or minor) to lenalidomide alone was 25% (24% for once-daily and 29% for twice-daily lenalidomide). Median overall survival in 30-mg once-daily and twice-daily groups was 28 and 27 months, respectively. Median progression-free survival was 7.7 months on once-daily versus 3.9 months on twice-daily lenalidomide (P = .2). Dexamethasone was added in 68 patients and 29% responded. Time to first occurrence of clinically significant grade 3/4 myelosuppression was shorter in the twice-daily group (1.8 vs 5.5 months, P = .05). Significant peripheral neuropathy and deep vein thrombosis each occurred in only 3%. Lenalidomide is active and well tolerated in relapsed, refractory myeloma, with the 30-mg once-daily regimen providing the basis for future studies as monotherapy and with dexamethasone.
In this study, three Chinese patients with ticlopidine-induced aplastic anemia were reported and another 13 patients in the English literature were reviewed. We attempted to find underlying similarities, evaluate the risk factors, and identify appropriate treatment for this complication. All but one of the patients were over 60 years old, and the 6 who died were all older than 65. Therefore, old age may be a risk factor for developing this complication. Agranulocytosis occurred 3-20 weeks after initiation of ticlopidine, so frequent examination of white cell count during treatment is recommended. There seemed to be no direct correlation between the dose or duration used and the severity of bone marrow suppression. Treatment for ticlopidine-induced aplastic anemia with colony-stimulating factors seemed to have little effect. The fact that 5 of the 6 patients who received concurrent calcium channel blockers died, should alert clinicians to be more cautious when using these two drugs simultaneously.
The administration of protamine to patients who received heparin during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) induces hypotension. Protamine inhibits the carboxypeptidase N-mediated degradation of bradykinin, a peptide that causes vasodilation and tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) release. This study tests the primary hypothesis that blocking the bradykinin B(2) receptor would attenuate protamine-related hypotension.
We conducted a prospective, double-blind, randomized study in 16 adult male patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery requiring CPB and taking an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor preoperatively, because ACE inhibition increases bradykinin concentrations during CPB. Subjects were randomized to receive either saline solution (N = 8) or the bradykinin B(2) receptor antagonist HOE 140 (100 mug/kg, N = 8) before the administration of protamine. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) and t-PA activity were measured intraoperatively and before and after protamine administration.
Protamine administration caused a significant increase in bradykinin concentrations in the saline solution group (from 6.0 +/- 1.3 to 10.0 +/- 1.6 fmol/mL, P = .043), as well as the HOE 140 group (from 6.5 +/- 1.8 to 14.3 +/- 4.6 fmol/mL, P = .042). Protamine significantly decreased MAP in the saline solution group (from 69.8 +/- 4.4 mm Hg to a mean individual nadir of 56.1 +/- 2.6 mm Hg, P = .031), but bradykinin receptor antagonism blunted this effect (from 74.3 +/- 3.7 mm Hg to a mean individual nadir of 69.6 +/- 1.2 mm Hg in the HOE 140 group, P = .545). Hence, during protamine infusion, MAP was significantly lower in the saline solution group compared with the HOE 140 group (P = .002). t-PA activity decreased significantly during administration of HOE 140 (from 3.59 +/- 0.31 to 1.67 +/- 0.42 IU/mL, P = .001) but not during saline solution (from 2.12 +/- 0.48 to 1.44 +/- 0.36 IU/mL, P = .214). Similarly, t-PA activity decreased significantly during protamine administration in the HOE 140 group (from 1.67 +/- 0.42 to 0.77 +/- 0.26 IU/mL, P = .038) but not in the saline solution group (from 1.44 +/- 0.36 to 0.99 +/- 0.26 IU/mL, P = .132).
Increased bradykinin contributes to protamine-related hypotension through its B(2) receptor in ACE inhibitor-treated patients.
The ratio of the pre-ejection period to the left ventricular ejection time (PEP:LVET) was measured in two groups of patients with acute myeloblastic leukaemia (AML) receiving the anthracycline antibiotic doxorubicin (DXR). Patients receiving high doses of DXR per course (about 90 mg/m2) showed a significant increase in the PEP:LVET ratio irrespective of the total cumulative dose. At a lower dose per course (less than 50mg/m2) only patients who had a total cumulative dose of over 450 mg/m2 showed significant increases in ratio. ECG changes were seen in both groups of patients but did not correlate significantly with the dosage. These findings, which suggest that DXR cardiotoxicity is schedule dependent, are important in the design of schedules of DXR for treating cancer and in interpreting the changes in systolic time intervals (STIs) observed with different schedules. Measurement of the STI is a simple and convenient method of assessing DXR cardiotoxicity. While a total DXR dose of 550 mg/m2 should not normally be exceeded, by carefully monitoring the STI the recommended total dose may be exceeded safely in selected patients.
A retrospective chart review of 98 patients treated with 100 courses of intravenous vancomycin was undertaken to better define its toxicity. Most of the patients carried diagnoses of Staphylococcus aureus or Staphylococcus epidermidis infection. Auditory toxicity was not seen, and fever and rash occurred in only 1 to 3% of the subjects. Phlebitis was noted in 13% of the cases and required discontinuation of therapy in 2%. Therapy was complicated by neutropenia (polymorphonuclear leukocyte count, less than or equal to 1,000 cells per cm3) in 2% of the patients but was rapidly reversible. Nephrotoxicity was uncommon (5%) and reversible in subjects receiving vancomycin alone, even when the therapy was continued. However, 35% of the patients receiving vancomycin with an aminoglycoside developed significant elevations in serum creatinine. Although this high incidence may have been due to the patient population selected or to the aminoglycoside therapy alone, the possibility of additive toxicity between vancomycin and the aminoglycosides should be considered.
Involuntary movements developed in five women taking oral contraceptives. In one, the sudden onset of a unilateral disturbance suggested a cerebral thrombosis; this case is considered to be a further example of the increased risk of cerebrovascular disease associated with oral contraception. The four other patients suffered a relapse of Sydenham's chorea between one and four months after starting an oral contraceptive regimen. Possibly an underlying vascular mechanism was responsible for these relapses.
Thirty-one adult patients with high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) were enrolled in a prospective randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial evaluating the efficacy of sequential high-dose Ara C/mitoxantrone chemotherapy with or without GM-CSF. GM-CSF or placebo was given subcutaneously once daily at a dose of 250 micrograms/m2 starting 48 h prior to chemotherapy and continued until neutrophil recovery. This design allowed us to investigate the role of GM-CSF as a priming factor for the leukemic clone, as well as its effect on the recovery of normal hematopoiesis. Twenty-eight patients are currently evaluable for response. The patients reached a complete remission (36%), eight patients had persistent MDS (29%), and ten patients died within 6 weeks after the onset of treatment (early death). Infectious complications during cytopenia were the major cause of death (8/10). Median time to complete hematologic recovery (neutrophils > 500/microliter and platelets 20,000/microliter) and time to neutrophil recovery above 1500/microliter was 29 and 35 days, respectively. Median remission duration was 190 days (6.4 months). Analysis of prognostic subgroups showed a low CR rate (25%) and a high early-death rate (44%) in patients > 55 years of age, suggesting that the intensified treatment approach should be limited to younger patients. No data concerning the influence of GM-CSF on response to chemotherapy or duration of neutropenia are presently available.
Nephrotoxicity is the principal dose-limiting factor for cisplatin chemotherapy and is primarily associated with proximal tubular epithelial cells, including disruption of cell adhesions and induction of apoptosis. Cell adhesion and survival is regulated by, amongst other factors, the small GTPase Rap and its activator, the exchange protein directly activated by cAMP (Epac). Epac is particularly enriched in renal tubule epithelium. This study investigates the cytoprotective effects of cAMP-Epac-Rap signalling in a model of cisplatin-induced renal cell injury.
The Epac-selective cAMP analogue 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP was used to activate the Epac-Rap signalling pathway in proximal tubular epithelial cells. Cells were exposed to cisplatin, in the presence or absence of 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP, and nephrotoxicity was determined by monitoring cell-cell junctions and cell apoptosis.
Activation of Epac-Rap signalling preserves cell-cell junctions and protects against cell apoptosis of mouse proximal tubular cells during cisplatin treatment. Activation with the Epac-selective cAMP analogue 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP or receptor-mediated induction of cAMP both induced cytoprotection against cisplatin, whereas a PKA-selective cAMP analogue was not cytoprotective. 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP mediated cytoprotection was blocked by RNAi-mediated silencing of Epac-Rap signalling in these cells. In contrast, 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP did not protect against cisplatin-induced cell death of cancer cells that lacked Epac1 expression.
Our study identifies activation of Epac-Rap signalling as a potential strategy for reducing the nephrotoxicity associated with cisplatin treatments and, as a result, broadens the therapeutic window of this chemotherapeutic agent.
Treatment of cerebrospinal fluid shunt infections commonly involves a combination of intravenous and intraventricular antibiotics. We report a premature infant who developed seizures associated with intraventricular administration of nafcillin and discuss the need for electroencephalographic monitoring of patients receiving intraventricular antibiotics.
