To compare severity of negative mood and physical symptoms between women with different progesterone, allopregnanolone, and pregnanolone plasma concentrations during sequential Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT) with vaginal progesterone suppositories.
A randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover study.
Postmenopausal women (n=36) with climacteric symptoms were treated with 2mg estradiol daily during three 28-day cycles. Vaginal progesterone suppositories with 400, 800 mg/day or placebo were added sequentially for 14 days per cycle. Daily symptom ratings using a validated rating scale were kept. Blood samples for progesterone, allopregnanolone, and pregnanolone radioimmunoassays were collected during each treatment cycle.
Women were divided into three groups (low, medium, and high) based on plasma allopregnanolone concentration during progesterone treatment. The concentration of allopregnanolone in the medium group corresponds to the concentration seen during the mid luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. Within women with medium allopregnanolone concentration significantly more negative mood and physical symptoms were rated during progesterone treatment compared to treatment with unopposed estrogen or placebo. Between women significantly more negative mood symptoms were seen during progesterone treatment cycles with medium allopregnanolone concentration compared to cycles with low concentration. Plasma progesterone, allopregnanolone, and pregnanolone concentrations increased with increasing progesterone dose. Progesterone and allopregnanolone plasma concentrations increased 2h after vaginal administration of progesterone at 400 and 800 mg/day.
Vaginal progesterone in sequential HRT causes negative mood, most likely mediated via allopregnanolone.
Three cases of cutaneous vasculitis, leukocytopenia and arthralgia, presumably caused by the antithyroid drug Propylthio-uracil, are presented. Acute vasculitis of the superficial and deep dermal blood vessels accompanied by vascular thrombus formation were found in biopsy specimens. Direct immunofluorescence studies demonstrated deposits of C3 or IgM and C3 in the walls of vessels in affected and unaffected skin, suggesting immune complex deposition. The skin lesions and leukocytopenia rapidly disappeared on discontinuation of the drug, while the arthralgia continued for weeks or months.
To explore the molecular biological mechanism of Arnebia Root oil (AO) in promoting the recovery of surface of wound by observing basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) mRNA expression in the wound tissue and healing rate of the wound.
Patients in the observed group with their wound treated by AO and those in the control group treated by petrolatum gauze. The wound surface healing rate was estimated and bFGF mRNA expression was observed by RT-PCR.
Endogenous bFGF mRNA expression existed in the wound surface of both groups, but its level in the observed group at any time point was obviously higher than that in the control group respectively, with significant difference in comparison of the gray density between the two groups (P < 0.05). The wound surface healing rate kept abreast with bFGF mRNA expression in wound tissues, so it was significantly higher in the observed group than that in the control group (P < 0.05). GAPDH gene, which was taken as a parameter for internal reference, expressed with a certain amount unchanged in different periods of healing (P > 0.05 ).
AO shows obviously promotive action on bFGF, an important regulatory factor on wound healing, it might complete the recovery process by stimulating the increase of bFGF.
1. The effects of 1,4-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists with different biological half-lives, amlodipine and nifedipine retard on 24 h blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR) and autonomic nerve activity in patients with essential hypertension were compared. 2. Twenty patients (six men and 14 women; mean (+/- SEM) age 63 +/- 2 years) with essential hypertension were enrolled in the present study. Their ambulatory BP and electrocardiograms were monitored for 24 h at intervals of 30 min with a portable recorder after a 4 week drug-free period, after a 4 week treatment period with amlodipine (2.5 or 5 mg once daily) and after a 4 week treatment period with nifedipine retard (10 or 20 mg twice daily). The order of the three periods was randomized. Autonomic nerve activity was evaluated by power spectral analysis of HR variability, using the high frequency (HF) component as an index of parasympathetic activity and the ratio of the low frequency (LF) to the HF component as an index of sympathovagal balance. 3. Amlodipine and nifedipine retard significantly lowered the 24 h BP to a similar extent (amlodipine: -12.7 +/- 2.6/-5.6 +/- 1.4 mmHg, P < 0.01/P < 0.01; nifedipine retard: -15.1 +/- 2.1/-6.9 +/- 1.5 mmHg, P < 0.01/P < 0.01). Amlodipine did not change the 24 h average HR, while nifedipine retard significantly increased it (+3.3 +/- 1.2 b.p.m., P < 0.05). Amlodipine also did not change the HF component or the ratio of the LF to the HF component. However, nifedipine retard significantly decreased the HF component (P < 0.01) and increased the ratio of the LF to the HF component (P < 0.05). 4. These results suggest that nifedipine retard caused a decrease in parasympathetic activity and an increase in sympathetic activity with reflex tachycardia in these patients with essential hypertension, while amlodipine did not produce such effects on the autonomic nervous system.
Modulation of cAMP levels has been linked to insulin secretion in preclinical animal models and in humans. The high expression of PDE-10A in pancreatic islets suggested that inhibition of this enzyme may provide the necessary modulation to elicit increased insulin secretion. Using an HTS approach, we have identified quinoline-based PDE-10A inhibitors as insulin secretagogues in vitro. Optimized compounds were evaluated in vivo where improvements in glucose tolerance and increases in insulin secretion were measured.
Cocaine-associated chest pain is a clinical entity that crosses all socioeconomic groups and hence will be encountered by many physicians. The initial evaluation and treatment of cocaine-induced chest pain are similar to those of patients who have non-cocaine-induced chest pain, but there are several notable exceptions. This article reviews the pathophysiology, evaluation, management, and disposition decisions unique to patients presenting with cocaine-induced chest pain.
The effects of oxytocin (OT) and the OT-analogue F314 were investigated an xenografts of mouse mammary and colon carcinomas (TS/A and C26 tumors) and of rat mammary carcinoma (D-R3230AC). In all cases, proliferation was previously assessed by cell counting in cultured cell lines, whereas tumor growth was checked by serial measures of tumor volume and by evaluation of tumor weight at the end of the experiment. Both cell proliferation and tumor growth were inhibited by OT and F314. These data support previous observations on the inhibitory effect of OT and F314 on the growth of MCF7, T47D and MDA-MB231 human breast cancer cell lines and open new prospects for testing the effect of this hypothalamic hormone and its analogues on the control of breast carcinoma growth.
We report a patient in whom paraplegia developed following transforaminal epidural injection of a corticosteroid and discuss the physiopathology of this complication, based on a literature survey.
A 40-year-old man presented with low-back pain and symptoms of L4 radiculopathy due to degenerative disc herniation resistant to conventional medical treatment. Computed tomography revealed posterolateral L4-L5 disc protrusion. A dosage of 125 mg of hydrocortisone was given by epidural transforaminal L4-L5 left injection under radioscopy guidance. Within minutes following the injection, intense pain developed in both legs, with T12 complete paraplegia. Emergency magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 2 hours later did not reveal spinal cord abnormalities. The patient underwent immediate surgery consisting of excising the protruding disc and extensive L3-L5 laminectomy. MRI performed 3 months later did not reveal medullar abnormalities. Six months later, the patient continued to show slow neurologic improvement, permitting him to walk with crutches and to stop intermittent self-catheterisation.
The occurrence of paraplegia following epidural transforaminal injection of corticosteroids is a rare complication. To our knowledge, only 5 similar cases have been described. Most of the authors proposed that the mechanism of this complication is ischemia of the terminal cone due to accidental suppression of medullary blood supply. Direct lesion of a medullar artery, arterial spasm, or corticosteroid-induced occlusion due to undetected intra-arterial injection could lead to this medullar infarction. Anatomical variations of the path followed by the Adamkievicz artery strongly support this hypothesis.
Intrathecally delivered baclofen has been used as a treatment for severe spasticity since 1984. After a successful intrathecal baclofen trial, a programmable drug delivery system was implanted. Few early complications such as infection or hematoma are observed after this surgery.
To describe an unusual and unknown complication of intrathecal baclofen therapy.
We report 2 cases of complications of intrathecal baclofen therapy, radiculalgy, that appeared early after pump implantation. The clinical symptoms and computed tomography (CT) results are described.
The first patient described pain, which evoked left S1 radiculopathic features. The second had left L5 radiculopathic involvement. The mean pain level was estimated on a 10-point visual analog scale as 7.5 (range 4-9). Lumbar CT scan showed a conflict between the symptomatic root and the catheter and eliminated other causes of the symptoms. Treatment with analgesic drugs was successful in 1 patient. The other presented with proximal disconnection of the catheter, which led to surgical replacement of the catheter. The pain disappeared after this surgery.
Intrathecal baclofen therapy with a subcutaneously implanted progammable pump can be complicated by radiculalgy secondary to a conflict between the catheter and symptomatic root. The diagnosis is made by CT lumbar scan. If medical treatment is not sufficient, surgery could be proposed to replace the catheter.
A rare case of Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease associated with ribavirin and interferon-alpha treatment for chronic hepatitis C infection is presented. The potential role of interferon and/or ribavirin therapy is discussed. Physicians should be aware of the association between interferon-alpha and ribavirin use for hepatitis C infection and the development of Harada's disease. Close monitoring of such patients for ocular side effects is necessary.
The epileptic hippocampus shows differential paired-pulse responses between the dentate gyrus and the CA1 region. However, little data are available to explain this phenomenon. In the present study, we identified the relationship between regional differences of paired-pulse response and voltage gated Cl(-) channel 2 (CLC-2)/vesicular GABA transport (VGAT) expression in a pilocarpine-induced rat model. During epileptogenic periods, paired-pulse inhibitions in the dentate gyrus and the CA1 region were markedly reduced. After recurrent seizure onset, paired-pulse inhibition in the dentate gyrus was markedly enhanced, while that in the CA1 region more reduced. Unlike VGAT, CLC-2 immunoreactivity was markedly reduced in the hippocampus during epileptogenic periods and was re-enhanced only in the dentate gyrus after recurrent seizure onset. Linear regression analysis showed an inverse proportional relationship between alterations in CLC-2 immunoreactivity and changes in normalized population spike amplitude ratio within the CA1 region and the dentate gyrus. Therefore, our findings suggest that the regionally specific alterations in CLC-2 immunoreactivity after SE may determine the properties of paired-pulse responses in the hippocampus of the pilocarpine-induced rat epilepsy model.
The primary mechanism of antihistamine action in the treatment of allergic diseases is believed to be competitive antagonism of histamine binding to cellular receptors (specifically, the H1-receptors), which are present on nerve endings, smooth muscles, and glandular cells. This notion is supported by the fact that structurally unrelated drugs antagonize the H1-receptor and provide clinical benefit. However, H1-receptor antagonism may not be their sole mechanism of action in treating allergic rhinitis. On the basis of in vitro and animal experiments, drugs classified as H1-receptor antagonists have long been recognized to have additional pharmacological properties. Most first-generation H1-antihistamines have anticholinergic, sedative, local anaesthetic, and anti-5-HT effects, which might favourably affect the symptoms of the allergic response but also contribute to side-effects. These additional properties are not uniformly distributed among drugs classified as H1-receptor antagonists. Azatadine, for example, inhibits in vitro IgE-mediated histamine and leukotriene (LT) release from mast cells and basophils. In human challenge models, terfenadine, azatadine, and loratadine reduce IgE-mediated histamine release. Cetirizine reduces eosinophilic infiltration at the site of antigen challenge in the skin, but not the nose. In a nasal antigen challenge model, cetirizine pretreatment did not affect the levels of histamine and prostaglandin D2 recovered in postchallenge lavages, whereas the levels of albumin, N-tosyl-L-arginine methyl ester (TAME) esterase activity, and LTs were reduced. Terfenadine, cetirizine, and loratadine blocked allergen-induced hyperresponsiveness to methacholine. In view of the complexity of the pathophysiology of allergy, a number of H1 antagonists with additional properties are currently under development for allergic diseases. Mizolastine, a new H1-receptor antagonist, has been shown to have additional actions that should help reduce the allergic response. In animal models, mizolastine inhibits antigen-induced eosinophil infiltration into mouse skin and into the nasal cavity of guinea-pigs. Mizolastine also significantly inhibits antigen-induced neutrophil infiltration into the bronchoalveolar lavage fluids of guinea-pigs. In addition, it inhibits arachidonic acid-induced paw oedema in rats without affecting carrageenin-induced rat paw oedema, suggesting an effect on LT generation. In man, mizolastine inhibits early and late antigen-induced soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) levels in skin blisters. It also inhibits anaphylactic release of histamine from rodent mast cells, LTC4 and LTB4 release from mouse bone-marrow-derived mast cells, LTC4 release from rat intestinal mast cells, and 5-lipoxygenase activity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils of guinea-pig intestines and rat basophilic leukaemia cells. It is clear that a number of H1-antihistamines have multiple effects on the allergic inflammatory response. It is equally clear that these antiallergic effects are not uniformly shared among all drugs of this class. The assessment of the clinical significance of these results and research regarding the parts of the molecules responsible for these activities are underway.
Severe psychotic decompensation during clozapine withdrawal has been reported previously. Less attention has been paid to movement disorders following abrupt clozapine withdrawal. This report describes 4 subjects who experienced severe dystonias and dyskinesias upon abrupt clozapine withdrawal.
Current and past medical records of 4 subjects with DSM-IV schizophrenia or schizo-affective disorder were reviewed.
All subjects had a history of neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal symptoms, 1 had a history of severe dystonias, and 1 had neuroleptic malignant syndrome. All had mild orolingual tardive dyskinesia prior to clozapine treatment. All subjects had received clozapine for several months, and 3 of the 4 subjects stopped clozapine abruptly. Two subjects experienced cholinergic rebound symptoms within hours, which resolved quickly. These subjects had severe limb-axial and neck dystonias and dyskinesias 5 to 14 days after clozapine withdrawal. Two subjects were unable to ambulate, and 1 had a lurching gait. Two gagged while eating or drinking. Two subjects were returned to clozapine, 1 was started on low-dose risperidone treatment, and 1 was started on olanzapine treatment. All experienced significant improvements in their mental state and movement disorders.
Severe movement disorders, which may be worse than the movements prior to clozapine treatment, and cholinergic rebound symptoms may occur upon abrupt clozapine withdrawal and must be recognized in addition to the severe psychotic decompensation noted in some patients. Patients, families, and caregivers must be alerted to this possibility. Where possible, a slow clozapine taper, the use of anticholinergic agents, and symptomatic treatment may help minimize these withdrawal symptoms, and reintroduction of clozapine or treatment with the newer atypical agents can help in the clinical management of these symptoms.
Haemorrhagic shock was produced in anaesthetized dogs by bleeding into a blood reservoir system. The blood level of the reservoir was adjusted at a level above the heart, corresponding to a mean arterial blood pressure of 6.7 kPa (50 mm Hg). The dogs were treated with hydrocortisone and the adrenergic alpha-receptor blocking agent phenoxybenzamine during the hypotension period. Hydrocortisone (80-160 mg kg-1) was found to induce vasodilation, which, however, was of a very small magnitude and was of short duration. Phenoxybenzamine given after hydrocortisone caused very pronounced vasodilation. Hydrocortisone (80 mg kg-1) given after phenoxybenzamine also showed a vasodilator activity, which seemed to be greater than that of the same dose of hydrocortisone given alone. Thus, the vasodilator action of hydrocortisone does not seem to be due to an alpha-receptor blockade of the drug. The vasodilator action of phenoxybenzamine given after hydrocortisone was greater than that of even higher doses of the drug given alone. From the present findings and the fact that corticosteroids are known to potentiate the sympathomimetic action of catecholamines, it is suggested that the hydrocortisone-induced potentiation of the vasodilation action of phenoxybenzamine found is related to an increased vascular adrenergic beta-receptor tone.
The magnesium content of blood, heart and striated muscle, liver, spleen, kidney and bone was determined in rats, 15, 30 and 60 minutes, 6 and 24 hours after isoprenaline induced myocardial damage. The magnesium concentration increased significantly in the serum (but not in the red cells) in the first three groups of animals, while the magnesium concentration of heart muscle fell in all groups. There was no evidence of magnesium flux in the other tissues.
A controlled, prospective, double-blind, therapeutic trial of azathioprine was conducted in the initial therapy of polymyositis. Sixteen patients received 60 mg prednisone per day plus either azathioprine (2 mg/kg of body weight per day) or placebo for a period of 3 months. Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels fell to normal slightly sooner in the placebo group, but not significantly so. The azathioprine group did not become significantly stronger (P = 0.58) and did not manifest significantly greater improvement of histopathologic features of muscle (P = 0.80) than the placebo group. Initial CPK elevations were significantly related to the degree of muscle inflammation (P = 0.037), but this was not the case at 3 months (P greater than 0.05). Normalization of the CPK could not be equated with disease control. Type II fiber atrophy, attributed to steroid therapy, was more marked in women than in men (P less than 0.03).
There have been conflicting reports on the safety of combining beta-adrenergic receptor blockers and Ca++-antagonists, especially verapamil, in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. Warnings have been raised against additive negative chronotropic and inotropic effects. This study was designed to compare the efficacy and safety of simultaneous administration of verapamil, 360 mg daily, and atenolol, 100 mg daily, with that of either drug alone. Eighteen patients (mean age 58 years) with chronic stable angina were included in the study. After a two-week run-in period, the patients received either drug alone for six weeks and were then given the combination for another six weeks. Frequent ECG and blood pressure measurements were performed. Radionuclide evaluation of left ventricular ejection fraction was done before and at the end of the combined therapy. Exercise testing using a bicycle ergometer was performed during each treatment period. Only one patient developed sinus bradycardia when on combined therapy (48 bpm). The P-Q time increased with single drug therapy as well as with the combination (p less than 0.01). Maximal exercise time increased more with the combination than with single drug therapy. No serious adverse hemodynamic effects were recorded. LVEF increased by 4.6% (p less than 0.01) with the combined therapy. A decrease in nitroglycerine consumption occurred, beeing most pronounced with the combined therapy and corresponding to a subjective improvement. It is concluded that an additive negative chronotropism occurred but that the combination is safe and offers an effective therapeutic alternative in chronic stable angina.
Two patients with long-term corticosteroid administration sporadically developed limb muscle wasting followed by ophthalmoplegia, and the skeletal muscle pathology revealed ragged-red fibers (RRFs) with abnormal mitochondria, in addition to the findings of corticosteroid myopathy. The oculoskeletal symptoms of the present cases resemble those of chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia, a type of mitochondrial disease. The ocular muscles have more RRFs than limb muscles, and large multiple deletions of mitochondrial DNA was detected in ocular and limb muscles of the two patients by PCR but not by Southern blotting. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanosine (8-OH-dG) and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal were intensely stained in skeletal muscles of these patients particularly in RRFs. High-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection analysis revealed an increase in 8-OH-dG from mitochondrial DNA. These findings may suggest that long-term corticosteroid administration potentially induces oxidative stress-mediated mitochondrial damage, resulting in the development of the oculoskeletal symptoms in some patients.
We have studied the effect of HLA-DRB1 alleles on the clinical presentation of 61 Kuwaiti Arab children with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome. DR7(*0701) was the most prevalent DR allele, found in 41/61 patients (67%) compared with 10/59 healthy controls (17%) (p<0.001). DR3(*0301-0308) allele was the second most common, found in 25% of patients compared with 26% of controls (not significant). There was no significant difference between DRB1*0701(DR7)-positive and DRB1*0701-negative patients in terms of steroid sensitivity, steroid dependency, or steroid resistance. Nevertheless, the former group had a significantly lower mean age of onset (35 months vs 53 months) and a shorter remission period following treatment with cyclophosphamide or chlorambucil (8 months vs 29 months). Our data highlight the role of the DRB 1*0701 allele in predisposing Kuwaiti Arab children with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome to a more prolonged course of the disease.
We tested the hypothesis that altered phosphorylation of Ca2+ regulatory proteins contributes to contractile anomalies in cardiac hypertrophy. Cardiac hypertrophy was induced in rats by chronic s.c. administration of isoproterenol (Iso, 2.4 mg/kg/day) via osmotic minipumps. On day 2 of Iso treatment the expression of atrial natriuretic factor was increased, time of relaxation in isolated papillary muscles shortened and protein expression of phospholamban (PLB) and sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase reduced. In addition, the phosphorylation state of PLB at serine-16 and threonine-17 was decreased from (arbitrary units) 2.3+/-0.3 to 1.1+/-0.2 and from 4.1+/-0.6 to 2.1+/-0.2, respectively. This was not accompanied by altered activity of PLB-phosphorylating protein kinases (protein kinase A or Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II), whereas the activity of types 1 and 2A protein phosphatases (PP1 and -2A respectively) was enhanced from 1.1+/-0.08 to 1.71+/-0.13 nmol/mg/min. Iso treatment did not alter the PP1/PP2A activity ratio and 1 nmol/l okadaic acid, a concentration which completely blocks the catalytic subunit of PP2A, inhibited about 40% of total PP activity in all groups studied. These data indicate that the activity of both PP1 and PP2A were increased. All effects of Iso treatment were abolished by co-administration of propranolol (29.7 mg/kg/day). It is concluded that dephosphorylation of PLB is due to enhanced activity of PP1 and PP2A. We suggest that chronic beta-adrenergic stimulation, which occurs in human cardiac hypertrophy and failure, can lead to increased activity of PPs. This may contribute to altered contractile responses in the hypertrophied heart.
The effects of varying the extracellular concentrations of Na and Ca ([Na]o and [Ca]o) on both, the spontaneous beating and the negative chronotropic action of verapamil, were studied in the isolated rat atria. Basal frequency (BF) evaluated by surface electrogram was 223 +/- 4 beats/min. in control Krebs-Ringer containing 137 mM Na and 1.35 mM Ca (N). It decreased by 16 +/- 3% by lowering [Na]o to 78 mM (LNa), 23 +/- 2% by lowering simultaneously [Na]o to 78 mM and [Ca]o to 0.675 mM (LNa+LCa) and 31 +/- 5% by lowering [Na]o to 78 mM plus increasing [Ca]o to 3.6 mM (LNa+HCa). At normal [Na]o, decrease (0.675 mM) or increase (3.6 mM) of [Ca]o did not modify BF; a reduction of ten times (0.135 mM of normal [Ca]o was effective to reduce BF by 40 +/- 13%. All negative chronotropic effects were BF-dependent. Dose-dependent bradycardia induced by verapamil was potentiated by LNa, LCa, and HCa. Independent but not additive effects of Na and Ca are shown by decreases in the values of [verapamil]o needed to reduce BF by 30% (IC30) with the following order of inhibitory potency: LNa > LCa > HCa > N, resulting LNa+HCa similar to LNa. The [verapamil]o that arrested atrial beating (AC) was also potentiated with the order LNa = LNa+LCa = LNa+HCa = LCa > HCa = N. The results indicate that rat atrial spontaneous beating is more dependent on [Na]o than on [Ca]o in a range of +/- 50% of their normal concentration. Also the enhancement of verapamil effects on atrial beating was more pronounced at LNa than at LCa.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Prolonged topical application of silver sulfadiazine cream can induce argyria and adverse effects of sulphonamides. We report a case of a woman with acute renal failure following repeated applications of topical silver sulfadiazine on pyoderma gangrenosum wounds.
A 61 year-old woman suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, Sjogren's syndrome and scleroderma was treated with corticosteroids (1 mg/kg/day) and topical application of silver sulfadiazine cream (200 g/day) for extensive pyoderma gangrenosum wounds on the legs. Three weeks later, the patient was transferred to intensive care because of pulmonary edema, oligoanuria and disrupted consciousness. Laboratory data revealed leukopenia (1100/mm(3)) with neutropenia and renal failure (serum creatinine 316 micromol/l). Proteinuria was moderate and ultrasonography of the kidneys was normal. Silver concentration in blood was 1818 nmol/l (N < 92 nmol/l) and 1381 nmol/l (N < 9 nmol/l) in urine. Sulfadiazine concentration in blood was undetectable. All the signs regressed after withdrawal of silver sulfadiazine and after several sessions of hemodialysis.
Various causes of renal failure are discussed in our patient. However, direct silver-induced renal toxicity is the most likely and is confirmed by the high concentration of silver in blood and urine and the improvement on withdrawal of the topical cream, without modification in the oral treatment. The absence of red corpuscles and crystals in the urine and undetectable concentrations of sulfadiazine in blood are not in favor of sulphonamide renal toxicity. Furthermore, the autoimmune diseases of our patient were well-controlled. Leukopenia could be secondary to silver sulfadiazine medullar toxicity. This observation confirms that this topical cream should not be used for long periods on extensive wounds.
Subcutaneous administration of pilocarpine to rats that were pretreated with a small dose of lithium chloride results in the evolution of generalized convulsive status epilepticus. The production of status epilepticus is absolutely reproducible, has a very consistent time to onset (22 min), has a duration of several hours, and is extremely severe with a high mortality rate. Experimental results show that this animal model of status epilepticus: (i) requires activation of muscarinic receptors because the initiation of seizures is blocked by atropine; (ii) requires presynaptic cholinergic activity because it is attenuated by hemicholinium-3; (iii) recruits noncholinergic cells because when status epilepticus is established it is not altered by atropine administration; and (iv) is blocked by pretreatment with diazepam and ongoing seizures are terminated by administration of diazepam, similar to certain forms of status epilepticus in humans. The reproducibility, prolonged nature, and involvement of a clearly defined neurochemical system as the triggering mechanism, i.e., cholinergic activation, makes this a potentially valuable animal model of generalized convulsive status epilepticus.
6-Thioguanine (6-TG) is efficacious in patients with Crohn's Disease (CD) failing conventional immunosuppression but there are reports of hepatotoxicity. We report our experience of the safety and efficacy of 6-TG in a series of patients with CD.
A retrospective study of patients with CD who failed thiopurines +/- methotrexate between 2001 and 2006 was performed. Indications for 6-TG were; active disease, to allow infliximab withdrawal, steroid sparing, or fistula closure. Patients underwent regular review and those treated longer than 1 year were advised to have liver magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and liver biopsy.
All 30 patients treated with 6-TG during the period were included. The median dose and duration of 6-TG was 40 mg daily and 21.5 months, respectively. Initial clinical response was achieved in 18/30 (60%). Eleven of 29 (38%) (1 unrelated death) remained in remission at a median 44 months follow-up. Seven of 30 (23%) discontinued 6-TG due to adverse effects; 7/30 (23%) patients developed abnormal liver function tests (LFTs) during treatment, mostly transient and mild. One patient developed a portal hypertensive syndrome resolving on cessation of 6-TG. Of 11 liver biopsies, none showed nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH). The median red blood cell 6-thioguanine nucleotide (6-TGN) level was 807 pmol/10(8).
6-TG has good clinical efficacy for third-line immunosuppression in CD but hepatotoxicity remains a concern. However, previous reports of NRH in 6-TG-treated inflammatory bowel disease patients have not been substantiated by this cohort.
