The use of smokeless tobacco (ST) within the United States has increased greatly in recent years, especially among adolescent boys and young men. Recent national data completed from several large scale studies indicate that 10-12 million Americans use some form of ST. Representing a significant systemic and oral health risk, ST usage can produce a wide range of negative effects on both soft and hard oral tissues. These oral conditions include bad breath, discolored teeth and restorative materials, excessive tooth surface wear (abrasion), decreased ability to taste and smell, gingival (gum) recession, advanced periodontal soft and hard tissue destruction, tooth loss, soft tissue erythema and leukoplakia. Long-term ST usage is directly correlated to an increased risk of cancer of the mouth, larynx, throat and esophagus. Much of the destruction of oral tissues is related to the localization of the tobacco quid; i.e., it is habitually held in only one spot in the mouth. Nicotine from ST can activate the sympathetic nervous system thereby significantly increasing heart rate, blood pressure, cardiac stroke volume and output and coronary blood flow. A common misconception is that ST is a 'safe' alternative to smoking cigarettes. Several recent Surgeon General's Reports list ST as being addictive. It is highly possible that ST users will 'graduate' to cigarettes if they eventually conclude that these products are socially unacceptable, inconvenient or out of vogue. Health professionals, educators, parents and schoolchildren need to be informed about the significant health risks associated with ST use.
Air pollution is associated with a substantial burden on human health; however, the most important pollutants may vary with location. Proper monitoring is necessary to determine the effect of these pollutants on respiratory health.
This study was designed to evaluate the role of outdoor, indoor and personal exposure to combustion-related pollutants NO(2) and O(3) on respiratory health of children in a non-affluent urban area of São Paulo, Brazil.
Levels of NO(2) and O(3) were continuously measured in outdoor and indoor air, as well as personal exposure, for 30 days using passive measurement monitors. Respiratory health was assessed with a Brazilian version of the ISAAC questionnaire.
Complete data were available from 64 children, aged 6-10 years. Respiratory morbidity was high, with 43 (67.2%) reporting having had wheezing at any time, 27 (42.2%) wheezing in the last month, 17 (26.6%) asthma at any time and 21 (32.8%) pneumonia at any time. Correlations between levels of NO(2) and O(3) measured in the three locations evaluated were poor. Levels of NO(2) in indoor air and personal exposure to O(3) were independently associated with asthma (both cases P=.02), pneumonia (O(3), P=.02) and wheezing at any time (both cases P<.01). No associations were seen between outdoor NO(2) and O(3) and respiratory health.
Exposure to higher levels of NO(2) and O(3) was associated with increased risk for asthma and pneumonia in children. Nonetheless, the place where the pollutants are measured influences the results. The measurements taken in indoor and personal exposure were the most accurate.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the dose- and time-dependence of the effect displayed by doxorubicin (DXR) on the electrocardiogram (ECG) and to establish the relationship between structural alterations of the myocardium and ECG changes in rats administered DXR, at a dose of 1.5 or 3.0 mg/kg, every 3 days for a total of three administrations. The most interesting findings consisted of a dose-dependent, but reversible prolongation of the QRS complex, and in a dose-dependent and progressive irreversible increase in QaT and, in particular, in SaT duration. Furthermore, animals treated with the higher DXR dose showed a slight increase in serum K+ concentration and a significant decrease in serum Ca2+ levels. A good correlation was found between the morphologic score indicating the degree of observed tissue damage and SaT prolongation. These results therefore support the usefulness of measuring this ECG parameter for monitoring the development of DXR-induced cardiotoxicity in rats.
272 patients on long-term chloroquine therapy were assessed with respect to ocular toxicity and clinical benefit. A simple scheme for rendering patients ophthalmologically safe is presented, employing the recording of central fields to red targets. Under this it was possible to diagnose a state of premaculopathy, which was reversible on stopping treatment. The incidence of premaculopathy was 41% in 143 patients who otherwise displayed no abnormality of the fundus oculi and who had received a mean total dose of 410 g. of chloroquine phosphate or the hydroxychloroquine sulphate equivalent. Under this joint ophthalmological and rheumatological supervision it was considered that the minor side-effects that may be caused by chloroquine are outweighed by its therapeutic value.
Two severely handicapped patients developed intractable hiccup during phenytoin therapy. In these two patients, serum phenytoin levels revealed 32.6 micrograms/ml and 17.6 micrograms/ml, respectively. Since large doses of phenytoin cause delayed latencies, and depressed or lost of brainstem auditory evoked potentials, it can be speculated that intractable hiccup could occur through dysfunction of brainstem by phenytoin.
Hemachromatosis is a hereditary condition, producing progressive iron overload as a result of the mutation in proteins that regulate intestinal iron absorption. It is a systemic disease with several manifestations including cirrhosis, diabetes mellitus, cardiomyopathy, joint disease and a proportion of asymptomatic patients. When it is diagnosed and treatment with phlebotomies is initiated before any organ damage is developed, the prognosis is very good, with normal survival free of manifestations. This condition is common in European populations. We report the case of a Peruvian patient of European ancestry who is asymptomatic, but has high levels of aminotransferases and elevated iron markers. Genetic testing confirmed the patient's diagnosis of hereditary hemachromatosis.
Pancreatic cancer is a common and lethal malignancy. Pancreatic cancer cells overexpress multiple anti-apoptotic factors and death receptor decoys, and are strongly resistant to radiation and to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)- or gemcitabine (Gem)-based chemotherapy regimens. We have found that low-dose proteasome inhibitor PS-341 and histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) synergistically induce cytotoxicity in a panel of eight diverse pancreatic cancer cell lines. Combining TSA with PS-341 effectively inactivated NFkappaB signaling, downregulated the predominant endogenous anti-apoptotic factor Bcl-XL overexpression, and disrupted MAP kinase pathway. The combined drug regimen effectively inflicted an average of 71.5% apoptotic cell death (55.2-80%) in diverse pancreatic cancer cell lines by activating the intrinsic apoptotic pathway.
The TSA/PS-341 regimen may represent a potential novel therapeutic strategy for pancreatic cancer.
Diabetes mellitus causes derangement of carbohydrate, protein and lipid metabolism which eventually leads to a number of secondary complications. Terminalia bellerica is widely used in Indian medicine to treat various diseases including diabetes. The present study was carried out to isolate and identify the putative antidiabetic compound from the fruit rind of T. bellerica and assess its chemico-biological interaction in experimental diabetic rat models. Bioassay guided fractionation was followed to isolate the active compound, structure was elucidated using (1)H and (13)C NMR, IR, UV and mass spectrometry and the compound was identified as gallic acid (GA). GA isolated from T. bellerica and synthetic GA was administered to streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic male Wistar rats at different doses for 28 days. Plasma glucose level was significantly (p<0.05) reduced in a dose-dependent manner when compared to the control.Histopathological examination of the pancreatic sections showed regeneration of β-cells of islets of GA-treated rats when compared to untreated diabetic rats. In addition, oral administration of GA (20mg/kg bw) significantly decreased serum total cholesterol, triglyceride, LDL-cholesterol, urea, uric acid, creatinine and at the same time markedly increased plasma insulin, C-peptide and glucose tolerance level. Also GA restored the total protein, albumin and body weight of diabetic rats to near normal. Thus our findings indicate that gallic acid present in fruit rind of T. bellerica is the active principle responsible for the regeneration of β-cells and normalizing all the biochemical parameters related to the patho-biochemistry of diabetes mellitus and hence it could be used as a potent antidiabetic agent.
Early relapse in colorectal cancer (CRC) patients is attributed mainly to the higher malignant entity (such as an unfavorable genotype, deeper tumor invasion, lymph node metastasis and advance cancer stage) and poor response to chemotherapy. Several investigations have demonstrated that genetic polymorphisms in drug-targeted genes, metabolizing enzymes, and DNA-repairing enzymes are all strongly correlated with inter-individual differences in the efficacy and toxicity of many treatment regimens. This preliminary study attempts to identify the correlation between genetic polymorphisms and clinicopathological features of CRC, and evaluates the relationship between genetic polymorphisms and chemotherapeutic susceptibility of Taiwanese CRC patients. To our knowledge, this study discusses, for the first time, early cancer relapse and its indication by multiple genes.
Six gene polymorphisms functional in drug-metabolism - GSTP1 Ile105Val, ABCB1 Ile1145Ile, MTHFR Ala222Val, TYMS double (2R) or triple (3R) tandem repeat - and DNA-repair genes - ERCC2 Lys751Gln and XRCC1 Arg399Gln - were assessed in 201 CRC patients using a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment-length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) technique and DNA sequencing. Patients were diagnosed as either high-risk stage II (T2 and 3 N0 M0) or III (any T N1 and 2 M0) and were administered adjuvant chemotherapy regimens that included 5-fluorouracil (5FU) and leucovorin (LV). The correlations between genetic polymorphisms and patient clinicopathological features and relapses were investigated.
In this study, the distributions of GSTP1 (P = 0.003), ABCB1 (P = 0.001), TYMS (P < 0.0001), ERCC2 (P < 0.0001) and XRCC1 (P = 0.006) genotypes in the Asian population, with the exception of MTHFR (P = 0.081), differed significantly from their distributions in a Caucasian population. However, the unfavorable genotype ERCC2 2251A>C (P = 0.006), tumor invasion depth (P = 0.025), lymph node metastasis (P = 0.011) and cancer stage (P = 0.008) were significantly correlated with early relapse. Patients carrying the ERCC2 2251AC or2251CC genotypes had a significantly increased risk of early relapse (OR = 3.294, 95% CI, 1.272-8.532).
We suggest that ERCC2 2251A>C alleles may be genetic predictors of early CRC relapse.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that mediates the biologic and toxic effects of its xenobiotic ligands. In recent years it has become evident that in the absence of ligand the AHR promotes cell cycle progression and that its activation by high-affinity ligands results in interactions with the retinoblastoma protein (RB) that lead to perturbation of the cell cycle, G0/G1 arrest, diminished capacity for DNA replication and inhibition of cell proliferation. Hence, the AHR has diametrically opposed pro-proliferative and anti-proliferative functions that have yet to be reconciled at the molecular level. Work from our own and from other laboratories suggests that the AHR may function as a tumor suppressor gene that becomes silenced in the process of tumor formation. To develop preliminary support for a more thorough examination of this hypothesis we characterized the expression levels of various tumor suppressor genes, transforming growth factor-beta (Tgfb) genes and the Ahr gene in liver tumor samples from mice with a liver-specific RB ablation and their wild-type littermates. In tumors arising in RB-positive livers, Cdkn2d and Tgfb1 were repressed and Cdkn2c, Tgfb2, Tgfb3 and Pai1 were induced, whereas in RB-negative tumors, only Cdkn2c and Tgfb3 were induced. Ahr was significantly repressed in tumors from both sets of mice, supporting the concept that Ahr silencing may be associated with cancer progression.
Bioactivation of low molecular weight compounds in the skin can cause contact sensitization. We have previously shown that the alpha, beta-R-unsaturated oxime R-carvoxime [1, (R)-2-methyl-5-isopropenylcyclohex-2-enone oxime] is bioactivated to two diastereomeric highly reactive and strongly sensitizing alpha, beta-epoxy oxime metabolites. To investigate if this metabolic activation is catalyzed by the major cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes found in human skin, incubations of 1 with a skinlike P450 cocktail in the presence of glutathione were carried out. We identified three glutathione conjugates in the incubation mixture arising from two diasteomeric alpha, beta-epoxy oxime metabolites of 1, thus showing that the metabolic activation of 1 is P450-mediated. A P450 identification study using the individual P450 enzymes present in the skinlike P450 cocktail showed the involvement of P450 1A1 and 1B1 and also to some extent 2B6. P450 1B1 metabolism of 1 was found to be stereoselective as glutathione conjugates from only one of the alpha, beta-epoxyoxime metabolites were identified (metabolite 2). Additionally, 1 was found to be an inducer of P450 1B1 (but not 1A1) in human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDCs) and to some extent in normal human epidermal keratinocytes. A further transcriptional gene expression change observed in moDCs was a 44-fold upregulation of IL-8, a marker often used for assessment of sensitizing potential of contact allergens. The autoinduction of P450 1B1 by 1 may be a key event in the development of contact allergy to 1 and may also explain why only metabolite 2, and not 3, was found to elicit an allergic response in mice sensitized to 1. Our data show that the alpha, beta-unsaturated oxime 1 is bioactivated by human cutaneous P450, thus forming highly allergenic metabolites, and has the potential to induce its own bioactivation pathway, particularly in antigen-presenting cells.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by synovial proliferation and migration which is induced by proinflammatory cytokines or oxidative stress, followed by joint destruction. Edaravone, clinically available free radical scavenger in Japan, is confirmed to be beneficial in the acute stage of cerebral infarction. We aimed to investigate whether edaravone suppressed in vitro proliferation and migration of synovial cells (SC) induced by IL-1beta. SC proliferation and migration induced by IL-1beta were dose-dependently suppressed by edaravone at the clinically available concentration. These data suggest that edaravone has potential effects to suppress SC proliferation and migration, followed by suppression of synovial proliferation in RA. Therefore, edaravone, an antioxidant agent, might be a novel therapeutic agent which develops the new strategy for treatment of RA, and more detailed studies are required to establish the therapeutic effect of edaravone on RA in vivo.
Seasonal allergic rhinitic (SAR) subjects are more physiologically reactive to airborne irritants than non-rhinitic (NR) subjects; however the mechanism underlying this difference is unclear.
We sought to determine whether irritant-induced nasal airflow limitation involves neuropeptide release into nasal lining fluid, and if so, whether such release occurs differentially by rhinitic status.
Eight SAR and 8 NR subjects were exposed to 1.0 ppm chlorine and filtered air in random order during separate visits; exposures were via nasal mask and lasted 15 min. Rhinomanometry was performed before, immediately post-, and 15 min post-exposure. Following a minimum of 2 weeks' time, exposures and symptom reporting were repeated with nasal lavage pre- and post-exposure. Neuropeptides (substance P, cacitonin gene-related protein, vasoactive intestinal peptide, and neuropeptide Y) as well as markers of plasma leakage (albumin and urea) and glandular secretion (lysozyme and 7F10-mucin) were measured using standard methods.
Cl(2) provocation significantly increased nasal airway resistance in SAR but not NR subjects (p<0.05). Neuropeptide levels in nasal lavage fluid, on the other hand, were unaffected, with the exception of a paradoxical increase in vasoactive intestinal peptide in non-rhinitic controls post-Cl(2) provocation.
Irritant-induced nasal airflow limitation is more pronounced among SAR than NR subjects. We could not, however, demonstrate a role for neuropeptide release in the nasal congestive response of SAR subjects.
This paper reports an autopsy case of a 78-year-old male with multiple nodules in the liver developed after long-termed administration of phosphate diethylstilbestrol (PDES) for prostatic cancer. Large part of these nodules were suspected to be well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma with high level of serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) up to 3,400 ng/ml, but a part of them was evaluated to be a borderline between hepatocellular carcinoma and adenoma with mild cellular atypism. The liver other than the nodules showed liver fibrosis associated with liver cell dysplasia and peliosis hepatis-like change. This is a unique autopsy case of hepatocellular carcinoma closely related to diethylstilbestrol (DES) therapy for prostatic cancer.
In an open trial, longer courses of pentavalent antimonials (Sbv) at sub-optimal doses (10 mg/kg body weight), in association with recombinant human interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) (100 micrograms/m2 of body surface area) were administered, by daily intramuscular injections, to 13 patients with diagnoses of cutaneous or mucocutaneous leishmaniasis unresponsive to Sbv. Four patients presented with large skin ulcers, and 9 had mucosal involvement as the main manifestation, the latter affecting the nose (3 cases), nose and septum (2 cases), nose and oral cavity (1 case), and nose, pharynx and larynx (3 cases). Except for one case with severe involvement of the upper respiratory tract, the lesions were fully resolved by the end of therapy (mean duration 40 +/- 12 [SD] d, range 30-60 d) in the 11 patients who completed therapy. The main side effects were headache and fever (7 cases), together with leucopenia and eosinophilia (4 cases). It is concluded that combined administration of low doses of Sbv plus IFN-gamma may provide a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of antimony-resistant cutaneous or mucocutaneous leishmaniasis. The possible mechanisms by which IFN-gamma contributes to resolution of the disease are discussed.
To determine whether retinoic acid (RA)-mediated inhibition of deregulated calpains had any effect on the development of cataract given that accumulating evidence has demonstrated a possible relationship between cataractogenesis and inappropriate activation of calpains.
The authors examined for Ca(2+) influx and expression alteration of calpains in F9 cells with or without RAs, such as all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), and specific stimulant of retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARalpha; Am580) in the presence of oxidative stress, such as mediated by H(2)O(2). They next examined the clinical relevance of RAs by applying these agents to a murine diabetic cataract and observed the development of the disease.
F9 cells constitute a well-established autonomous cell model for investigating retinoid signaling, partially representing the lens epithelial phenotype, as determined by the expression of aquaporin 0, a specific differentiation marker for lens cells. Treatment with ATRA and Am580 significantly decreased the influx of Ca(2+) into the cells, causally resulting in decreased mRNA expression and inhibited activation of calpains. In addition, RARalpha agonists significantly abrogated the upregulation of calpain 2 induced by H(2)O(2), which is a potential etiological contributor to the diabetic cataract, whereas H(2)O(2) had no effect on calpain 1. Importantly, this RA-mediated gene-expression alteration was sufficient for dramatically inhibiting the development of lens opacity in mice with diabetes.
Results showed that a certain type of RA inhibits Ca(2+) elevation and subsequent overactivation of calpains, suggesting the potential feasibility of calpain-targeting therapies mediated by RA for cataract.
Antithrombin III (AT III) deficiency is a rare hereditary disease that predisposes a patient to thromboembolic complications. Anticoagulation is essential for preventing recurrence of thrombi. Concentrated AT III replacement is reserved for acute periods of thromboembolism or moments of increased risk. Hemostatic anomalies are generally considered a contraindication for regional anesthesia, due to the potential risk of spinal hematoma. This paper describes a woman with congenital AT III deficiency and heparin-treated pulmonary embolism whose pregnancy of 29 weeks had to be terminated by cesarean section upon signs of fetal distress. We discuss the pathophysiology and treatment in such cases.
This patient report presents an unusual onlay bone graft failure following local cocaine application. Three months after the bone grafting procedure performed in the anterior maxilla for bone volume augmentation, the bone graft was totally exposed in the oral cavity as a result of the rubbing of cocaine on the gingival tissue that covered the bone graft. A histologic view of the removed bone fragment presented not only an area of necrosis but also ample spaces filled with necrosis material and resorption areas. Dental practitioners need to be aware of this phenomenon because such patients often do not report the use of drugs, particularly cocaine.
Methadone is a widely used therapeutic opioid in narcotic addiction and neuropathic pain syndromes. Oncologists regularly use methadone as a long-lasting analgesic. Recently it has also been proposed as a promising agent in leukemia therapy, especially when conventional therapies are not effective. Nevertheless, numerous reports indicate a negative impact on human cognition with chronic exposure to opiates. Thus, clarification of methadone toxicity is required. In SH-SY5Y cells we found that high concentrations of methadone were required to induce cell death. Methadone-induced cell death seems to be related to necrotic processes rather than typical apoptosis. Cell cultures challenged with methadone presented alterations in mitochondrial outer membrane permeability. A mechanism that involves Bax translocation to the mitochondria was observed, accompanied with cytochrome c release. Furthermore, no participation of known protein regulators of apoptosis such as Bcl-X(L) and p53 was observed. Interestingly, methadone-induced cell death took place by a caspases-independent pathway; perhaps due to its ability to induce a drastic depletion in cellular ATP levels. Therefore, we studied the effect of methadone on isolated rat liver mitochondria. We observed that methadone caused mitochondrial uncoupling, coinciding with the ionophoric properties of methadone, but did not cause swelling of the organelles. Overall, the effects observed for cells in the presence of supratherapeutic doses of methadone may result from a "bioenergetic crisis." A decreased level of cellular energy may predispose cells to necrotic-like cell death.
The effect of iontophoretically applied noradrenaline, angiotensin II and vasopressin on blood flow and sensitivity to heat was investigated in the capsaicin-treated forearms of 52 healthy volunteers. Non-specific effects of a 4-min saline iontophoresis were investigated in another 19 subjects. Pretreatment with phentolamine inhibited vasoconstriction and thermal hyperalgesia to noradrenaline, indicating that alpha-adrenoceptors mediated these responses. The intensity of thermal hyperalgesia differed significantly across the following treatments: saline (heat pain threshold 1.1 degrees C lower than at control sites), angiotensin II (3.4 degrees C), noradrenaline (6.4 degrees C) and vasopressin (9.0 degrees C). Decreases in skin blood flow were significantly greater after the iontophoresis of noradrenaline (65% reduction from baseline) and vasopressin (68%) than after the iontophoresis of angiotensin II (45%). In contrast to the other two drugs, angiotensin II induced thermal hyperalgesia in proportion to the intensity of vasoconstriction. The findings suggest that iontophoretic currents induce minor non-specific thermal hyperalgesia. Angiotensin II appears to increase sensitivity to heat by an ischaemic mechanism, whereas an additional non-vascular influence contributes to thermal hyperalgesia induced by noradrenaline and vasopressin. These mechanisms could contribute to hyperalgesia in chronic inflammatory or neuropathic pain syndromes.
A rodent model of carcinogen-induced mammary tumorigenesis was used to determine the comparative growth inhibitory effects of dietary administration of either 1000 mg/kg of the non-steroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) ibuprofen or 1.5 mmol/kg of the synthetic retinoid N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-retinamide (4-HPR). In addition, the effects of these compounds on gene expression and protein production of the two isoforms of the cyclooxygenase (COX) gene which are responsible for prostaglandin production were examined. Experimental diets were provided to rats beginning at 7 days prior to administration of a single intragastric dose of 15 mg dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) and diets were provided ad libitum until the study was terminated at 16 weeks later. Ibuprofen significantly decreased levels of gene expression of both COX-1 and COX-2 (p < 0.01). Although dietary 4-HPR did significantly diminish levels of COX-1 gene expression (p < 0.01) in rat mammary adenocarcinomas, this synthetic retinoid did not significantly inhibit COX-2 gene expression. COX-1 protein was localized to endothelial cells, infiltrating inflammatory cells, and tumor cells, while COX-2 protein was detected primarily within tumor cells. Although ibuprofen was more effective in inhibiting COX-2 gene expression than 4-HPR, ibuprofen and 4-HPR were equally effective in inhibiting development of carcinogen-induced mammary adenocarcinomas.
Fifty-three critically ill infants and children received midazolam as sedation in a regional intensive care unit. Assessment of the level of sedation was carried out at regular intervals on withdrawal of midazolam. Forty-nine patients were fully alert within 4 h of midazolam being stopped. Four patients took from 6 h to 1 week to become fully alert. Four patients had abnormal behaviour highly suggestive of midazolam withdrawal. The onset of abnormal behaviour was within 12 h of discontinuation of midazolam. The duration of the abnormal behaviour ranged from 3 h to 1 week. One child had a paradoxical reaction to midazolam. The overall incidence of adverse effects to midazolam in the patients studied was 17%. No adverse effects were observed in infants; all adverse effects were observed in children. We have shown that it is possible to prospectively study the toxicity of sedatives in critically ill infants and children.
A scleroderma-like illness developed in a patient treated with L-5 hydroxytryptophan (L-5HTP) and carbidopa for intention myoclonus. The patient had high plasma kynurenine levels that remained high when the L-5HTP-carbidopa combination was discontinued, However, levels rose futher on drug rechallenge, suggesting that the drug unmasked an abnormality in one of the enzymes that catabolize kynurenine. Plasma kynurenine was also determined to be high in seven of 15 patients wth idiopathic scleroderma, but not in eight patients with intention myoclonus treated with L-5HTP and a decarboxylase inhibitor and in whom scleroderma did not develop or in 10 patients with Parkinson's disease treated wth L-dopa and carbidopa. Our data and studies in the literature suggest that two factors may be important in the pathogenesis of some scleroderma-like illness: high plasma serotonin and the abnormality associated with elevated kynurenine.
Nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are major drugs against inflammation and pain. They are well known inhibitors of cyclooxygenases (COXs). However, many studies indicate that they may also act on other targets. Acidosis is observed in inflammatory conditions such as chronic joint inflammation, in tumors and after ischemia, and greatly contributes to pain and hyperalgesia. Administration of NSAIDs reduces low-pH-induced pain. The acid sensitivity of nociceptors is associated with activation of H(+)-gated ion channels. Several of these, cloned recently, correspond to the acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) and others to the vanilloid receptor family. This paper shows (1) that ASIC mRNAs are present in many small sensory neurons along with substance P and isolectin B4 and that, in case of inflammation, ASIC1a appears in some larger Abeta fibers, (2) that NSAIDs prevent the large increase of ASIC expression in sensory neurons induced by inflammation, and (3) that NSAIDs such as aspirin, diclofenac, and flurbiprofen directly inhibit ASIC currents on sensory neurons and when cloned ASICs are heterologously expressed. These results suggest that the combined capacity to block COXs and inhibit both inflammation-induced expression and activity of ASICs present in nociceptors is an important factor in the action of NSAIDs against pain.
The effects of dizocilpine (MK-801), a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, were studied on dopamine-related behaviors induced by reserpine treatments. This study focuses on behavioral syndromes that may used as models for Parkinson's disease, or tardive dyskinesia, and its response after glutamatergic blockage. Reserpine (1 mg/kg), administered once every other day for 4 days, produced increases in orofacial dyskinesia, tongue protrusion and vacuous chewing in mice, which are signs indicative of tardive dyskinesia. Reserpine also produced tremor and catalepsy, which are signs suggestive of Parkinson's disease. MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg), administered 30 min before the observation test, prevented the vacuous chewing movements, tongue protrusions and catalepsy induced by reserpine. However, MK-801 injection produced a significant increase of tremor in reserpine-treated mice. Reserpine (1 mg/kg), administered 90 min before the test and followed by apomophine injection (0.1 mg/kg) 5 min before the test, did not produce oral dyskinesia in mice. On the other hand, reserpine induced increases in tremor and catalepsy compared to control mice. MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) administration attenuated the catalepsy and tremor induced by reserpine. Pretreatment with reserpine (1 mg/kg) 24 h before the observation test produced increases in vacuous chewing movements and tongue protrusion, as well as increases in tremor and catalepsy, whereas MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) injection 90 min before the test reversed the effects of reserpine. These results show that reserpine produces different and abnormal movements, which are related to dose and schedule employed and can be considered as parkinsonian-like and tardive dsykinesia signs. The glutamatergic blockage produced by NMDA can restore these signs, such as vacuous chewing movements, tongue protrusions, catalepsy and tremor according to the employed model.
The amount of lipid peroxidation products (conjugated dienes and trienes and Schiff bases) in cortical neurons of the cerebral hemispheres decreased by 30% at the peak of convulsions observed 10-15 min after intraperitoneal injection of picrotoxin. In neuroglial cells of control animals the intensity of lipid peroxidation in was 1.7-2.0 times lower. Picrotoxin had no effect on this parameter.
