Lithium (Li) treatment for bipolar affective disorders is associated with a variety of renal side effects. The metabolic response of the kidney to chronic Li treatment has rarely been studied. We applied a novel method of (1)H-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)-based metabonomics to integrate metabolic profiling and to identify the changes in the levels of metabolites in the kidney and urine from rats with Li-induced NDI. Metabolic profiles of urine and kidney homogenate [3 different zones (cortex, outer medulla, and inner medulla) or whole kidney] were investigated using high-resolution NMR spectroscopy coupled with pattern recognition methods. The accurate concentrations of metabolites in kidney homogenates and urine were rapidly measured using the target-profiling procedure, and the difference in the levels of metabolites was compared using multivariate analysis, such as principal component analysis and orthogonal partial least squares-discriminant analysis. Major endogenous metabolites for kidney homogenates contained products of glycolysis (glucose, lactate) and amino acids, as well as organic osmolytes (e.g., betaine, myo-inositol, taurine, and glycerophosphocholine). Many metabolites revealed changes in their levels, including decreased levels of organic osmolytes and amino acids in the inner medulla. A number of urinary metabolites were changed in Li-induced NDI, and in particular, elevated urinary levels of acetate, lactate, allantoin, trimethylamine, and creatine could suggest Li-induced renal cell stress or injury. Taken together, metabonomics of kidney tissue and urine based on (1)H-NMR spectroscopy could provide insight into the effects of Li-induced renal effects and cell injury.
To assess the efficacy of Shakuyaku-Kanzo-to, a Japanese herbal medicine, for prophylaxis against paclitaxel-induced myalgia and arthralgia, a comparative study was conducted with 50 patients treated with carboplatin and paclitaxel.
Patients were alternatively assigned to receive either the intervention group (with Shakuyaku-Kanzo-to) or the control group (without Shakuyaku-Kanzo-to). We assessed the grade and the duration of myalgia and arthralgia.
The grades of myalgia and arthralgia in the control group were significantly higher than the grades determined in the intervention group (p = 0.018). The mean duration of myalgia and arthralgia was 2.78 +/- 2.09 days for the intervention group and 5.08 +/- 2.89 days for the control group. The duration was significantly shorter in the intervention group than in the control group (p = 0.002).
This study shows that prophylactic administration of Shakuyaku-Kanzo-to was effective against paclitaxel-induced myalgia and arthralgia.
The correlation between seizure-induced hypermetabolism and subsequent neuronal damage was studied in 10-day-old (P10), 21-day-old (P21), and adult rats subjected to lithium-pilocarpine status epilepticus (SE). Local CMRglc (LCMRglc) values were measured by the [14C]2-deoxyglucose method for a duration of 45 minutes starting at 60 minutes after the onset of SE, and neuronal damage was assessed by cresyl violet staining at 6 days after SE. In P21 and adult rats, LCMRglc values were increased by 275 to 875% in all thalamic, cortical, forebrain, and hypothalamic regions plus the substantia nigra. In addition, at P21 there were also large increases in LCMRglc in brainstem regions. In P10 rats, metabolic increases were mostly located in cortical and forebrain regions plus the substantia nigra but did not affect hypothalamic, thalamic, or brainstem areas. In adult rats, there was an anatomical correlation between hypermetabolism and neuronal damage. At P21, although hypermetabolism occurred in regions with damage, the extent of damage varied considerably with the animals and ranged from an almost negligible to a very extended degree. Finally, in P10 rats, although quite pronounced hypermetabolism occurred, there was no neuronal damage induced by the seizures. Thus, in the present model of epilepsy, the correlation between marked hypermetabolism and neuronal damage can be shown in adult rats. Conversely, immature rats can sustain major metabolic activations that lead either to a variable extent of damage, as seen at P21, or no damage, as recorded at P10.
Metoprolol and butoxamine, beta-adrenoceptor antagonists which act selectively at the beta 1- and beta 2-adrenoceptors, respectively, have been investigated for their actions on the ethanol, indomethacin and cold-restraint stress ulcer models. Oral administration of butoxamine but not metoprolol significantly attenuated gastric mucosal damage in the three types of ulcer model. Intraperitoneal injection of butoxamine reduced indomethacin ulceration but not that of the other two models. The stimulatory effect of butoxamine on the gastric mucosal potential difference and intramucosal mucus level correlated positively with its anti-ulcer action. Only oral administration of butoxamine significantly increased the mucosal prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) level but not after intraperitoneal injection. Oral administration of butoxamine also significantly increased the mucosal PGE2 level in the three types of ulcer model but this drug was only effective in the indomethacin ulcer model after intraperitoneal injection. Gastric acid and pepsin output were not affected by either drug. Metoprolol significantly reduced systemic blood pressure; this could be attributed to a reduction in gastric mucosal blood flow. These results imply that beta 2-adrenoceptors play a significant role in the pathogenesis of gastric ulceration. We suggest that the anti-ulcer effect of butoxamine was in part a result of strengthening of the mucosal barrier but that this was not effected by modification of acid or pepsin secretions in the stomach. Stimulation of PGE2 in the gastric mucosa could contribute in part to the anti-ulcer action of the drug, especially when given by the oral route.
A case of systemic lupus erythematosis (SLE) with renal involvement after the administration of phenylbutazone is described. The patient subsequently developed a lymphocytic lymphoma following two years treatment with azathioprine and prednisone. Although the association between SLE, immunosuppressive therapy and the development of lymphomas is well documented, the increased incidence of malignant disease in uremic patients is less well recognized. The varied factors that may have contributed to the development of the lymphoma in this case are discussed, together with a review of the literature.
Dietary factors, life-style as well as environmental conditions may contribute to the risk of prostate tumor together with genetic susceptibility, that may be an important factor in determining who is more likely to develop prostate malignancy. We have undertaken a case-control study in order to elucidate the association between polymorphisms in some metabolizing genes with the risk of prostate cancer (PCa).
Polymorphisms of three xenobiotic genes (CYP17, GSTP1, PON1) were characterized in 384 patients with untreated PCa and 360 age-matched control patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). All polymorphisms were investigated by PCR/RFLP methods using DNA from lymphocytes.
We found that men with the CYP17/A1A1-A1A2 genotypes, GSTP1/IleVal genotype, PON192/QR and PON55/LM-MM genotypes had a significantly higher risk of PCa compared with the others genotypes.
The three polymorphisms appear to be common genetic traits that are associated with an increased risk for PCa: the analysis of them all in each single case may be a predictable factor, particularly among groups exposed to PCa-related carcinogens.
Adult rats exposed to prenatal alcohol were evaluated for their susceptibility to either hormone- or chemical-inducing tumors. In the first study, rats exposed to prenatal alcohol displayed an increased propensity to beta-estradiol (E2)-induced adenohypophyseal prolactinoma. The susceptibility was manifest as a potentiated increase in anterior pituitary weight as well as in serum prolactin levels after 1 and 3 weeks but not 5 weeks of hormone treatment. Two weeks after withdrawing the E2-implant, the prolactinoma underwent involution and serum prolactin reversed to baseline levels. The high concentrations of serum corticosterone were also reduced but did not return to baseline levels after E2 removal. In the second study, nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBA) was utilized to induce esophageal cancer in adult rats. There were no significant differences in tumor incidence or size between the prenatal alcohol-exposed and the pair-fed cohorts. However, the NMBA-treated prenatal alcohol-exposed rats displayed a marked decrease in thymus: body wt ratio as well as adrenal gland hyperplasia. The results suggest that no single mechanism can account for the variable susceptibility displayed by the prenatal alcohol-exposed rats to chemical carcinogens. Some of the observed changes, however, may be attributable to the long-lasting adverse effects of prenatal alcohol exposure on the well-being of the adult host.
Signaling by Wnt/beta-catenin regulates self-renewal of tissue stem cells in the gut and, when activated in the embryonic bronchiolar epithelium, leads to stem cell expansion. We have used transgenic and cell type-specific knockout strategies to determine roles for beta-catenin-regulated gene expression in normal maintenance and repair of the bronchiolar epithelium. Analysis of TOPGal transgene activity detected beta-catenin signaling in the steady-state and repairing bronchiolar epithelium. However, the broad distribution and phenotype of signaling cells precluded establishment of a clear role for beta-catenin in the normal or repairing state. Necessity of beta-catenin signaling was tested through Cre-mediated deletion of Catnb exons 2-6 in airway epithelial cells. Functional knockout of beta-catenin had no impact on expression of Clara cell differentiation markers, mitotic index, or sensitivity of these cells to the Clara cell-specific toxicant, naphthalene. Repair of the naphthalene-injured airway proceeded with establishment of focal regions of beta-catenin-null epithelium. The size of regenerative epithelial units, mitotic index, and restoration of the ciliated cell population did not vary between wild-type and genetically modified mice. Thus, beta-catenin was not necessary for maintenance or efficient repair of the bronchiolar epithelium.
A 36-year-old female was given terfenadine 120 mg/day for hay fever, and itraconazole 100 mg twice daily for mycosis. Nine days after starting these drugs, she had several episodes of syncope. The ECG showed a long QT interval and torsades de pointes. The drugs were withdrawn and the patient temporarily received an infusion of isoprenaline, after which the QT interval returned to normal and no further episodes of torsades de pointes occurred. No other causes than the two drugs were found to explain these episodes.
To determine pregnancy outcome in patients with short cervix on transvaginal ultrasound between 16 and 24 weeks' gestation treated with McDonald cerclage compared to weekly intramuscular injections of 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17OHP-C).
From November 2003 through December 2006, asymptomatic, singleton pregnancies were screened with transvaginal ultrasound between 16-24 weeks' gestation. Patients with a cervical length (CL) < or =25 mm were offered enrollment. Patients were randomly assigned to treatment with McDonald cerclage or weekly intramuscular injections of 17OHP-C. The primary outcome was spontaneous preterm birth (PTB) prior to 35 weeks' gestation.
Seventy-nine patients met inclusion criteria; 42 were randomly assigned to the cerclage and 37 to 17OHP-C. Spontaneous PTB prior to 35 weeks' gestation occurred in 16/42 (38.1%) of the cerclage group and in 16/37 (43.2%) of the 17OHP-C group (relative risk, 1.14 95% CI, 0.67, 1.93). A post hoc analysis of patients with a prior PTB showed no difference in spontaneous PTB <35 weeks between groups. A similar analysis of patients with a CL< or =15 mm showed a reduction in spontaneous PTB <35 weeks in the cerclage group (relative risk 0.48, 0.24-0.97).
Women with CL < or =25 mm in the second-trimester appear to have similar risks of delivering prior to 35 weeks' gestation when treated with 17OHP-C or McDonald cerclage. However, cerclage may be more effective in preventing spontaneous PTB in women with CL< or =15 mm.
Management of patients presenting with chronic pain is a common problem in primary care. Essentially, the classification of chronic pain falls into 3 broad categories: (1) pain owing to tissue disease or damage (nociceptive pain), (2) pain caused by somatosensory system disease or damage (neuropathic pain), and (3) pain without a known somatic background. Key challenges in developing a targeted holistic approach to treatment include appropriate diagnosis of the cause or causes of pain; identifying the type of pain and assessing the relative importance of its various components; and determining appropriate treatment. In clinical examination, sensory abnormalities are the crucial findings leading to a diagnosis of neuropathic pain, for which pharmacotherapy with antidepressants and anticonvulsants represents the cornerstone of medical treatment. Chronic neuropathic pain is underrecognized and undertreated, yet primary care physicians are uniquely placed on the frontlines of patient management, where they can play a pivotal role in treatment and prevention through diagnosis, therapy, follow-up, and referral. This review provides guidance in understanding and identifying the neuropathic contribution to pain presenting in primary care; assessing its severity through patient history, physical examination, and appropriate diagnostic tests; and establishing a rational treatment plan.
The involvement of chronic inhibition of monoamine transporters (MAT) in the brain with respect to sensitization to cocaine- and local anesthetic-induced seizures was studied in mice. Repeated administration of subconvulsive doses of meprylcaine as well as cocaine, both of which inhibit MAT, but not lidocaine, which does not inhibit MAT, increased seizure activity and produced sensitization to other local anesthetics. The effects of five daily treatments of monoamine transporter inhibitors on lidocaine-induced convulsions were examined 2 or 3 days after the last dose of the inhibitors. Daily treatments of GBR 12935, a specific inhibitor of dopamine uptake, significantly increased the incidence and the intensity of lidocaine-induced convulsions at 20 mg/kg and decreased the threshold of the convulsions. Daily treatments of desipramine and maprotiline, selective norepinephrine uptake inhibitors, markedly increased the incidence and intensity of lidocaine-induced convulsions, and decreased the threshold in a dose-dependent manner at between 5 and 20 mg/kg. Daily treatments of citalopram, a selective serotonin uptake inhibitor, at 10 and 20 mg/kg, produced no significant increase in the incidence or intensity of lidocaine-induced convulsions, but decreased the threshold of the convulsions. These results suggest that the chronic intermittent inhibition of monoamine uptake increases susceptibility to cocaine- and local anesthetic-induced seizures, and the norepinephrine transporter is an integral component of this sensitization.
The effects of ganglioside GT1b or melatonin on damage to brain mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and seizures induced by kainic acid were investigated both in vivo and in vitro. An intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of kainic acid (45 mg/kg) produced broad-spectrum limbic and severe sustained seizures in all of the treated mice. These seizures were completely abolished by an intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of ganglioside GT1b (90 nmol/brain), a potent inhibitor of glutamate receptor mediated activation and translocation of protein kinase C and lipid peroxidation, or an i.p. injection of melatonin (20 mg/kg), a potent scavenger of hydroxyl radicals (*OH). The administration of kainic acid caused damage to mtDNA in brain frontal and central portion of cortex in mice. The damage to mtDNA was abolished by pre-injection of ganglioside GT1b (90 nmol/brain, i.c.v.) or melatonin (20 mg/kg, i.p.). In vitro exposure of kainic acid (0.25, 0.5 or 1.0 mM) inflicted damage to mtDNA in a concentration-dependent manner. The damage to mtDNA induced by 1.0 mM kainic acid was attenuated by the co-treatment with 60 microM ganglioside GT1b or 1.5 mM melatonin. Furthermore, kainic acid (0.5 or 1.0 mM) increased lipid peroxidation in a concentration-dependent manner when incubated with a homogenate prepared from mice brain at 37 degrees C for 20 or 60 min. However, the increased lipid peroxidation was completely abolished by the co-treatment with ganglioside GT1b (60 microM) or melatonin (1.5 mM). These results suggest that reactive oxygen species including hydroxyl radical (*OH) may play a role in the damage to brain mtDNA and seizures induced by kainic acid. We conclude that the preventive effect of melatonin or ganglioside GT1b against kainic acid-induced mtDNA damage or seizures may be due to its scavenging of reactive oxygen species including the *OH.
Tumor suppressor genes on the X chromosome may skew the gender distribution of specific types of cancer. T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive hematological malignancy with an increased incidence in males. In this study, we report the identification of inactivating mutations and deletions in the X-linked plant homeodomain finger 6 (PHF6) gene in 16% of pediatric and 38% of adult primary T-ALL samples. Notably, PHF6 mutations are almost exclusively found in T-ALL samples from male subjects. Mutational loss of PHF6 is importantly associated with leukemias driven by aberrant expression of the homeobox transcription factor oncogenes TLX1 and TLX3. Overall, these results identify PHF6 as a new X-linked tumor suppressor in T-ALL and point to a strong genetic interaction between PHF6 loss and aberrant expression of TLX transcription factors in the pathogenesis of this disease.
A great number of people are suffering from allergic inflammatory disease such as asthma, atopic dermatitis, and sinusitis. Therefore discovery of drugs for the treatment of these diseases is an important subject in human health. Putranjivain A (PJA), member of ellagitannin, is known to possess beneficial effects including anti-cancer and anti-viral activities. The aim of the present study was to elucidate whether PJA modulates the allergic inflammatory reaction and to study its possible mechanisms of action using mast cell-based in vitro and in vivo models. The study was performed in anaphylaxis mouse model and cultured mast cells. PJA inhibited the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines in immunoglobulin E-stimulated mast cells. PJA reduced this expression by inhibiting nuclear factor (NF)-κB and nuclear factor of activated T cell. The oral administration of PJA reduced systemic and cutaneous anaphylaxis, the release of serum histamine, and the expression of the histamine H1 receptor. In addition, PJA attenuated the activation of mast cells. PJA inhibited the release of histamine from various types of mast cells by the suppression of intracellular calcium. The inhibitory activity of PJA on the allergic reaction was similar to that of disodium cromoglycate, a known anti-allergic drug. These results suggest that PJA can facilitate the prevention or treatment of allergic inflammatory diseases mediated by mast cells.
This randomised, placebo-controlled study assessed the effects of midazolam premedication on children's postoperative cognition and physical morbidity. In all, 179 children aged 5-10 years were randomly assigned to receive buccal midazolam (0.2 mg x kg(-1)) or placebo before sevoflurane-nitrous oxide anaesthesia for multiple dental extractions. They performed tests of choice reaction time, attention, psychomotor co-ordination and memory pre-operatively (baseline), before discharge and at 48 h. The reaction time of both groups was significantly slower before discharge compared to baseline, with the midazolam group being significantly slower than placebo. Psychomotor co-ordination was also significantly impaired postoperatively after midazolam. Performance on both tests had recovered to baseline by 48 h. Midazolam was also associated with significant anterograde amnesia, both postoperatively and at 48 h, for information presented in the interval between premedication and surgery. The results show significant short-term impairment of children's cognitive function and amnesia enduring for 48 h after low-dose midazolam premedication.
Spinal anaesthesia has been in use since 1898. During the last decade there has been an increase in the number of reports implicating lidocaine as a possible cause of temporary and permanent neurologic complications after spinal anaesthesia. Follow up of patients who received uncomplicated spinal anaesthesia revealed that some of them developed pain in the lower extremities after an initial full recovery. This painful condition that occurs in the immediate postoperative period was named 'transient neurologic symptoms' (TNS).
To study the frequency of TNS and neurologic complications after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine compared to other local anaesthetics.
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials Register (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library, Issue 4, 2008); MEDLINE (1966 to August 2008); EMBASE (1980 to week 35, 2008); LILACS (August 2008); and handsearched the reference lists of trials and review articles.
We included all randomized and quasi-randomized studies comparing the frequency of TNS and neurologic complications after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine as compared to other local anaesthetics.
Two authors independently evaluated the quality of the relevant studies and extracted the data from the included studies.
Sixteen trials reporting on 1467 patients, 125 of whom developed TNS, were included in the analysis. The use of lidocaine for spinal anaesthesia increased the risk of developing TNS. There was no evidence that this painful condition was associated with any neurologic pathology; the symptoms disappeared spontaneously by the fifth postoperative day. The relative risk (RR) for developing TNS after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine as compared to other local anaesthetics (bupivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, levobupivacaine, ropivacaine, and 2-chloroprocaine) was 7.31 (95% confidence interval (CI) 4.16 to 12.86). Mepivacaine was found to give similar results as lidocaine and was therefor omitted from the overall comparison to diminish the heterogeneity.
The risk of developing TNS after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine was significantly higher than when bupivacaine, prilocaine, or procaine were used. The term 'transient neurological symptoms' implies neurologic pathology. Failing identification of the pathogenesis of TNS, consideration should be given to choosing a neutral descriptive term which does not imply a particular causation. One study about the impact of TNS on patient satisfaction and functional impairment demonstrated that non-TNS patients were more satisfied and had less functional impairment after surgery than TNS patients, but this did not influence their willingness to recommend spinal anaesthesia.
Murine hepatic cytochrome P450 2a5 (Cyp2a5) is induced during hepatotoxicity and hepatitis, however, the specific regulatory mechanisms have not been determined. We compared the influence of acute inflammation elicited in vivo by bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and liver injury caused by the hepatotoxin pyrazole on hepatic Cyp2a5 expression in mice. Pyrazole treatment resulted in statistically significant increases in levels of Cyp2a5 mRNA, protein and catalytic activity by 540, 273 and 711%, respectively (P<0.05). In LPS-treated livers Cyp2a5 expression was significantly reduced compared to controls at the mRNA (46%) protein (35%), and activity (23%) levels (P<0.05). Treatment of mice with recombinant murine interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-6 had no significant effect on Cyp2a5 mRNA and protein levels. Liver injury, as assessed by serum alanine aminotransferase, was greater with pyrazole than with LPS treatment (609 vs 354% of control levels respectively). ER stress, determined by hepatic glucose regulated protein 78 (grp78) levels, was greater with pyrazole (185% of controls) than with LPS (128% of controls). In pyrazole-treated liver, overexpression of immunoreactive grp78 protein revealed that ER stress was localized to pericentral hepatocytes in which Cyp2a5 was induced. Evidence of glycogen loss and membrane damage in these cells was suggestive of oxidative damage. Moreover, vitamin E attenuated Cyp2a5 induction by pyrazole in vivo. These results suggest that induction of Cyp2a5 that has been observed in mouse models of hepatitis and hepatoxicity may be related to oxidative injury to the endoplasmic reticulum of pericentral hepatocytes rather than exposure to pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Mercury dental amalgam has a long history of ostensibly safe use despite its continuous release of mercury vapor. Two key studies known as the Children's Amalgam Trials are widely cited as evidence of safety. However, four recent reanalyses of one of these trials now suggest harm, particularly to boys with common genetic variants. These and other studies suggest that susceptibility to mercury toxicity differs among individuals based on multiple genes, not all of which have been identified. These studies further suggest that the levels of exposure to mercury vapor from dental amalgams may be unsafe for certain subpopulations. Moreover, a simple comparison of typical exposures versus regulatory safety standards suggests that many people receive unsafe exposures. Chronic mercury toxicity is especially insidious because symptoms are variable and nonspecific, diagnostic tests are often misunderstood, and treatments are speculative at best. Throughout the world, efforts are underway to phase down or eliminate the use of mercury dental amalgam.
The authors describe the case of an 8-year-old boy, otherwise healthy, who presented with symptoms consistent with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and was started on a trial of methylphenidate. Within 4 weeks, he experienced a rapid decline in fine motor skills, with dysarthria, intention tremor, motor impersistence, and diffusely increased tone. Symptoms persisted despite cessation of methylphenidate. At that time, a paternal history of Huntington disease was disclosed. Molecular analysis revealed an expansion in CAG repeats to 75 copies, within the range characteristic of juvenile Huntington disease. This report raises the possibility that use of dopaminergic agonists in patients with a family history of Huntington disease may lead to clinical exacerbation of motor symptoms and/or unwitting diagnosis in an unprepared family.
Effects of intraventricular injection of sheep anti-somatostatin gamma-globulin (anti-SSG) on strychnine-induced seizures, strychnine LD50, and pentobarbital LD50 were examined in male rats under light ether anesthesia. Ten microliters of anti-SSG given 2 h earlier significantly decreased the duration of strychnine-induced seizures as compared with that in the control rats pretreated with normal sheep gamma-globulin (NSG). This effect of anti-SSG seemed to be specific, as there was no difference in seizure duration between sheep anti-LHRH gamma-globulin (anti-LHRHG)- and NSG-pretreated rats. Survival rates in anti-SSG-pretreated rats after injection of strychnine and pentobarbital were significantly larger (P less than 0.01 and P less than 0.05, respectively) than those in the control rats receiving NSG. The administration of anti-SSG resulted in 26.7% and 22.9% increases in the LD50 of strychnine and pentobarbital, respectively. These results indicate that endogenous somatostatin in the cerebrospinal fluids and/or the periventricular tissue nodulates the response of the central nervous system to strychnine and pentobarbital in rats.
A case of hereditary angioedema secondary to C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency associated with lupus-like nephritis is reported. The patient was initially treated with both corticosteroids and danazol and subsequently had Guillain-Barré syndrome together with appearance of circulating immune complexes and an increase in total complement and C1q, C3, C4, B, and C1 esterase inhibitor levels. Guillain-Barré syndrome might be secondary to danazol therapy since this drug could increase both circulating immune complex production and complement synthesis, thereby providing additional substrate for the underlying immune complex disease. Normalization of complement might therefore be hazardous in lupus with underlying complement deficiency states.
Overexpression of the centrosome-associated serine/threonine kinase Aurora Kinase A (AURKA) has been demonstrated in both advanced prostate cancer and high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia lesions. The single-nucleotide polymorphism T91A (Phe31Ile) has been implicated in AURKA overexpression and has been suggested as a low-penetrance susceptibility allele in multiple human cancers, including prostate cancer. We studied the transcriptional consequences of the AURKA Ile31 allele in 28 commercial normal prostate tissue RNA samples (median age, 27 years). Significant overexpression of AURKA was demonstrated in homozygous and heterozygous AURKA Ile31 prostate RNA (2.07-fold and 1.93-fold, respectively; P < .05). Expression levels of 1509 genes differentiated between samples homozygous for Phe31 alleles and samples homozygous for Ile31 alleles (P = .05). Gene Ontology classification revealed overrepresentation of cell cycle arrest, ubiquitin cycle, antiapoptosis, and angiogenesis-related genes. When these hypothesis-generating results were subjected to more stringent statistical criteria, overexpression of a novel transcript of the natural killer tumor recognition sequence (NKTR) gene was revealed and validated in homozygous Ile31 samples (2.6-fold; P < .05). In summary, our data suggest an association between the AURKA Ile31 allele and an altered transcriptome in normal non-neoplastic prostates.
Radiograph contrast media (CM) are known to produce myocardial disturbances during cardiac angiography. The most severe electrical disturbance is ventricular fibrillation (VF). Previous studies using prolonged right coronary exposures have demonstrated a higher incidence of VF with dilute low sodium CM than with dilute CM containing more physiologic levels of sodium. In this study the incidence of VF was examined for more conventional concentrations of iopamidol, iohexol and ioxaglate and for sodium supplemented iohexol. The incidence of VF was determined during 25-second injections of contrast media into the canine right coronary artery at a rate of 0.4 mL/sec. Injections of iohexol and iopamidol at concentrations of 160, 240 and 320 mgI/mL produced significantly more VF (P less than .005, Fisher Exact Test) than meglumine/sodium ioxaglate or iohexol supplemented with 20 mM sodium chloride. The time required to produce a 50% incidence of VF with iohexol and iopamidol was significantly related to sodium concentration (r = .92, P less than .01).
Methadone is known to prolong the QT interval and precipitate torsades de pointes. A 54-year-old prescription methadone user with hypokalaemia was referred to Critical Care with acute confusion and respiratory distress. Alcohol withdrawal was the presumed precipitant. The real precipitant only became evident on analysis of a 24-h ECG (Holter monitor) attached to the patient at the time. The patient had suffered prolonged (10 min) ventricular arrhythmias including torsades de pointes and self-terminating ventricular fibrillation. The patient made a full recovery. Risk factors for acquired long QT syndrome and the treatment of torsades de pointes are discussed.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the neuroprotective effect of a water-soluble formulation of coenzyme Q10 (WS-CoQ10) in PC12 cells exposed to cisplatin, a chemotherapeutic agent with a dose-limiting factor due to neurotoxicity. In the cytokinesis-block micronucleus cytome assay (CBMN Cyt), WS-CoQ10 (at concentrations of 0.1, 0.5 and 1.0μgmL(-1)) protected PC12 cells from cisplatin-induced DNA damage (0.1μgmL(-1)), reducing the frequency of micronuclei (MNi) and nuclear buds (NBUDs). WS-CoQ10 did not alter the mRNA expression levels of Tp53 (at a concentration of 1.0μgmL(-1)) and exhibited neuroprotective activity by stimulating cisplatin-inhibited neurite outgrowth in nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells (at a concentration of 0.1μgmL(-1)). In conclusion, WS-CoQ10 protected the PC12 cells from cisplatin-induced DNA damage and neurotoxicity. Moreover, the neuroprotective effects of WS-CoQ10 suggest a possible application in chemotherapeutic protocols.
