(1) Iron-deficiency anaemia during pregnancy increases the risk of low birth weight and preterm birth; (2) In a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial, iron supplementation in pregnant women with haemoglobin levels of at least 13.2 g/100 ml at the beginning of the 2nd trimester was associated with low birth weight and maternal hypertension; (3) In a trial in women with haemoglobin levels of at least 11.5 g/100 ml who took supplemental iron, haemoglobin levels above 14.5 g/100 ml at 28 weeks of gestation were associated with an 8-fold increase in the risk of preterm birth and a 6-fold increase in the risk of low birth weight; (4) An epidemiological study showed a link between high maternal haemoglobin levels and low birth weight; (5) In practice, iron supplements should not be taken by pregnant women whose haemoglobin levels exceed 11 g/100 ml during the 1st and 3rd trimesters and 10.5 g/100 ml during the 2nd trimester.
Commercialized in the U.S.A. a few years ago, the loxapine succinate appears to be interesting among neuroleptic compounds. Used in 28 chronic schizophrenics, 19 of which were neuroleptic resistent patients, the parenteral route proved to be anti-psychotic and sedative in 26 patients. The usual daily dosages were between 100 and 200 mg. The local and general tolerances were good. The side effects were mild and essentially vegetative. The therapeutic efficiency seems to be better at the same dosages with the oral form than with the parenteral form.
Arsenic compounds that are often found in drinking water increase the risk of developmental brain disorders. In this study, we performed live imaging analyses of Neuro-2a cells expressing SCAT3, a caspase-3 cleavage peptide sequence linking two fluorescent proteins; enhanced cyan fluorescence protein (ECFP) and Venus, to determine whether sodium arsenite (NaAsO(2); 0, 1, 5, or 10 μM) affects both neurite outgrowth and/or induces apoptosis with the same doses and in the same cell cultures. We observed that the area ratio of neurite to cell body in SCAT3-expressing cells was significantly reduced by 5 and 10 μM NaAsO(2), but not by 1 μM, although the emission ratio of ECFP to Venus, an endpoint of caspase-3 activity, was not changed. However, cytological assay using apoptotic and necrotic markers resulted in that apoptosis, but not necrosis, was significantly induced in Neuro-2a cells when NaAsO(2) exposure continued after the significant effects of NaAsO(2) on neurite outgrowth were found by live imaging. These results suggested that neurite outgrowth was suppressed by NaAsO(2) prior to NaAsO(2)-induced apoptosis. Next, we examined the effects of NaAsO(2) on cytoskeletal gene expression in Neuro-2a cells. NaAsO(2) increased the mRNA levels of the light and medium subunits of neurofilament and decreased the mRNA levels of tau and tubulin in a dose-dependent manner; no significant effect was found in the mRNA levels of the heavy subunit of neurofilament, microtubule-associated protein 2, or actin. The changes in cytoskeletal gene expression are likely responsible for the inhibitory effects of NaAsO(2) on neurite outgrowth.
Niacin (vitamin B3) flushing--a marker of altered prostaglandin signaling--is indirectly linked to the phospholipid-prostaglandin metabolism. Diminished skin flushing was repeatedly found in schizophrenia, but has not been systematically investigated at different stages of disorder as yet. We compared niacin sensitivity of 32 first-episode and 32 multi-episode patients (mainly on stable medication) with age and gender matched healthy controls. Methylnicotinate was applied in three concentrations onto the inner forearm skin. Flush response was assessed in 3 min intervals over 15 min using optical reflection spectroscopy. Whereas first-episode patients showed significantly diminished flush response as compared to controls, comparable differences were not found between multi-episode patients and controls. Comparison of niacin sensitivity at different stages of schizophrenia support the notion of altered prostaglandin signaling primarily at the onset of disorder. Longitudinal studies have to rule out possible long-term effects of neuroleptic medication.
3-Chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)furanone (MX) is a mutagenic by-product found in chlorinated drinking water. It is a multi-site carcinogen in Wistar rats although the mechanisms of action of the carcinogenesis remain unresolved. We evaluated the ability of MX to promote development of transformation foci in a two-stage cell transformation assay in vitro. C3H 10T1/2 mouse embryonic fibroblasts were exposed to 3-methylcholanthrene (MC, 5 microg/ml) in the initiation phase and to MX (0.5, 1 or 2 microg/ml) or the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA, the positive control, 0.3 microg/ml) during the promotion phase of the assay on dishes. In other experiments, the cells were exposed to MX (0.5, 5 or 10 microg/ml) only in the initiation phase. At the end of the assay (6 weeks from the start of the assay), the transformation foci were counted and scored after fixation and staining of the cells. MC increased the total number of transformation foci per dish and the number of malignant type III foci, and TPA further promoted this phenomenon. When MX was added during the promotion phase in the MC-initiated cells, it promoted the development of the transformation foci in a dose-dependent manner. MX alone (added as an initiator) also slightly increased the development of the foci, including the malignant forms (type II and III), but the effect was not dose-dependent. In contrast to MC-induced foci, TPA did not promote the development of MX-initiated foci, it even decreased their number. The results suggest that MX may also have potential to promote tumor development.
The toxicity of nickel to mammals is well studied, whereas information on nickel effects on fish is scant. Goldfish exposure to 10-50 mg L(-1) of waterborne Ni(2+) for 96 h showed reduced glycogen levels by 27-33% and 37-40% in liver and white muscle, respectively, accompanied by substantial increases in blood glucose levels (by 15-99%). However, indices of oxidative damage to proteins (carbonyl proteins) and lipids (lipid peroxides) were largely unaffected by nickel exposure. In liver, the activities of antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx), were not affected by Ni(2+) treatment, while catalase activity was elevated by 26%. In white muscle, however, substantial increases in SOD (by 38-147%) and GPx (by 2.5-5.5-fold) activities appeared to compensate for decreased catalase activity (by 59-69%) in order to resist Ni-induced oxidative perturbations. Both hepatic and muscular glutathione reductase activities were suppressed by 10-30% and 12-21%, respectively, after goldfish exposure to all Ni(2+) concentrations used. However, the activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase was remarkably enhanced (by 1.6-5.4-fold) in white muscle of Ni-exposed fish, indicating a strong potential increase in NADPH production under Ni exposure. Thus, the exposure of goldfish to 10-50 mg L(-1) of Ni(2+) for 96 h induces glycogenolysis and hyperglycemia, showing some similarities with a hypoxia response, and leads to a substantial activation of defense systems against reactive oxygen species in liver and white muscle in tissue-specific and concentration-dependent manner.
We recently reported that a combination of dietary grape polyphenols resveratrol, quercetin, and catechin (RQC), at low concentrations, was effective at inhibiting metastatic cancer progression. Herein, we investigate the molecular mechanisms of RQC in breast cancer and explore the potential of RQC as a potentiation agent for the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) therapeutic gefitinib. Our in vitro experiments showed RQC induced apoptosis in gefitinib-resistant breast cancer cells via regulation of a myriad of proapoptotic proteins. Because the Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway is often elevated during development of anti-EGFR therapy resistance, the effect of RQC on the mTOR upstream effector Akt and the negative regulator AMP kinase (AMPK) was investigated. RQC was found to reduce Akt activity, induce the activation of AMPK, and inhibit mTOR signaling in breast cancer cells. Combined RQC and gefitinib decreased gefitinib resistant breast cancer cell viability to a greater extent than RQC or gefitinib alone. Moreover, RQC inhibited Akt and mTOR and activated AMPK even in the presence of gefitinib. Our in vivo experiments showed combined RQC and gefitinib was more effective than the individual treatments at inhibiting mammary tumor growth and metastasis in nude mice. Therefore, RQC treatment inhibits breast cancer progression and may potentiate anti-EGFR therapy by inhibition of Akt/mTOR signaling.
The preventive effect of vitamin B6 on etretinate-induced malformations in pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats was studied. The etretinate-induced malformation was produced by intraperitoneal administration of 10 mg/kg etretinate at embryonal day 8.5. Vitamin B6 was administered as intramuscular injections at embryonal day 7.5 and 8.5. Vitamin B6 reduced the number and severity of facial clefts, micrognatia, meningocele, microtia and blood vessel anomalies. It is suggested that vitamin B6 induces suppressive effects on etretinate-induced teratogenesis when administered before or at the same time as the teratogen.
Evidence of stimulus attribute-specificity within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) suggests that different prefrontal subregions may contribute to cocaine addiction in functionally distinct ways. Thus, the present study examined the effects of lidocaine-induced inactivation of two distinct PFC subregions, the prelimbic (PL) or dorsal agranular insular (AId) cortices, on drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviors under cocaine maintenance and reinstatement testing conditions in rats trained to self-administer 1 mg/kg cocaine under a second-order schedule of drug delivery. Throughout maintenance and reinstatement phases, rats were exposed to conditioned light cues and contextual odor or sound cues. Results showed that PL inactivation during maintenance test sessions significantly reduced drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviors, and disrupted patterns of responding in rats exposed to light-sound, but not light-odor, cues. Moreover, lidocaine-induced inactivation of the PL significantly attenuated drug-seeking behavior during cue-induced and cocaine prime-induced reinstatement in rats exposed to light-sound cues only. In contrast, AId inactivation significantly attenuated cue-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior in rats exposed to light-odor cues only. Drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviors in these rats were not disrupted during maintenance and cocaine prime-induced reinstatement testing regardless of the type of contextual cues used. Together, these data suggest that PL and AId subregions play separate yet overlapping roles in regulating cocaine addiction in rats in ways that are dependent on the presence or absence of cocaine and on the types of contextual cues present in the cocaine self-administration environment.
Eight hours following tympanoplasty performed under general anaesthesia (sodium pentothal and trichloroethylene), a 30 year old male complained of muscular weakness and dark coloured urine. Urinalysis revealed myoglobin pigment. A rise in BUN (47mg%), serum creatinine (5.7mg%), creatinine phosphokinase (15,500 U/L) and CPK-MB fraction (4690 U/L) was noticed 36 hrs later. The patient developed acute renal failure, and recovered after haemodialysis. From a history of use of succinylcholine as a muscle relaxant during operation, myoglobinuria appears to be secondary to muscle damage caused by succinylcholine.
3alpha-6alpha-Dihydroxy-7alpha-fluoro-5beta-cholanoate (UPF-680), the 7alpha-fluorine analog of hyodeoxycholic acid (HDCA), was synthesized to improve bioavailability and stability of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA). Acute rat biliary fistula and chronic cholestasis induced by 17alpha-ethynyl-estradiol (17EE) models were used to study and compare the effects of UPF-680 (dose range 0.6-6.0 micromol/kg min) with UDCA on bile flow, biliary bicarbonate (HCO(3)(-)), lipid output, biliary bile acid composition, hepatic enzymes and organic anion pumps. In acute infusion, UPF-680 increased bile flow in a dose-related manner, by up to 40.9%. Biliary HCO(3)(-) output was similarly increased. Changes were observed in phospholipid secretion only at the highest doses. Treatment with UDCA and UPF-680 reversed chronic cholestasis induced by 17EE; in this model, UDCA had no effect on bile flow in contrast to UPF-680, which significantly increased bile flow. With acute administration of UPF-680, the biliary bile acid pool became enriched with unconjugated and conjugated UPF-680 (71.7%) at the expense of endogenous cholic acid and muricholic isomers. With chronic administration of UPF-680 or UDCA, the main biliary bile acids were tauro conjugates, but modification of biliary bile acid pool was greater with UPF-680. UPF-680 increased the mRNA for cytochrome P450 7A1 (CYP7A1) and cytochrome P450 8B (CYP8B). Both UDCA and UPF-680 increased the mRNA for Na(+) taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NCTP). In conclusion, UPF-680 prevented 17EE-induced cholestasis and enriched the biliary bile acid pool with less detergent and cytotoxic bile acids. This novel fluorinated bile acid may have potential in the treatment of cholestatic liver disease.
In an open trial, 35 patients suffering from a variety of dermatologic conditions were treated with thalidomide. The drug was shown to be a valuable addition to the therapeutic armamentarium; however, the occurrence of a peripheral neuropathy will limit its use just as its teratogenic side effects have done for many years.
Ibipinabant (IBI), a potent cannabinoid-1 receptor (CB1R) antagonist, previously in development for the treatment of obesity, causes skeletal and cardiac myopathy in beagle dogs. This toxicity was characterized by increases in muscle-derived enzyme activity in serum and microscopic striated muscle degeneration and accumulation of lipid droplets in myofibers. Additional changes in serum chemistry included decreases in glucose and increases in non-esterified fatty acids and cholesterol, and metabolic acidosis, consistent with disturbances in lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. No evidence of CB1R expression was detected in dog striated muscle as assessed by polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, Western blot analysis, and competitive radioligand binding. Investigative studies utilized metabonomic technology and demonstrated changes in several intermediates and metabolites of fatty acid metabolism including plasma acylcarnitines and urinary ethylmalonate, methylsuccinate, adipate, suberate, hexanoylglycine, sarcosine, dimethylglycine, isovalerylglycine, and 2-hydroxyglutarate. These results indicated that the toxic effect of IBI on striated muscle in beagle dogs is consistent with an inhibition of the mitochondrial flavin-containing enzymes including dimethyl glycine, sarcosine, isovaleryl-CoA, 2-hydroxyglutarate, and multiple acyl-CoA (short, medium, long, and very long chain) dehydrogenases. All of these enzymes converge at the level of electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) and ETF oxidoreductase. Urinary ethylmalonate was shown to be a biomarker of IBI-induced striated muscle toxicity in dogs and could provide the ability to monitor potential IBI-induced toxic myopathy in humans. We propose that IBI-induced toxic myopathy in beagle dogs is not caused by direct antagonism of CB1R and could represent a model of ethylmalonic-adipic aciduria in humans.
Two patients with panic disorder received therapeutic doses of antidepressants. They developed endogenomorphic symptoms of major depression according to DSM-III-R criteria despite remission of their panic attacks. Treatment-emergent depression in panic disorder has been previously associated with high potency benzodiazepines. Whether antidepressant medications may unmask a depressive diathesis or are coincidentally associated with depression is discussed in this report.
Women choose medical over surgical abortion because it is more natural, more private and less painful. Whether their perceptions change during the medical abortion process has not been explored.
A nonprobabilitysample of 43 participants in a clinical trial of abortion using mifepristone completed two open-ended questionnaires about this method, one before taking mifepristone and the second during their follow-up clinic visit 4-8 days after taking misoprostol. Thirty women participated in in-depth interviews 1-6 weeks following their abortion. Researchers analyzed transcripts to identify common themes.
On the first visit to the clinic, women expressed anxiety and uncertainty about the effectiveness of medical abortion, guilt or ambivalence, and a desire to avoid surgery. For most women, emotional distress decreased after their abortion. Control was the overarching theme women expressed regarding the meaning of the procedure: Women stressed the importance of being able to select the type of abortion procedure, to maintain control over their future and to preserve their family's quality of life, given the constraints of time, finances and emotional resources. In in-depth interviews, eight women remained concerned about long-term health effects; 18 said that having an abortion at home was a comfortable experience.
Learning whether women are concerned about personal control may help clinicians identify appropriate candidates for medical abortion. In addition, clinicians could help allay women's anxiety at their first abortion visit by explaining that the uncertainties posed by any medical procedure create similar feelings. Clinicians also should reemphasize at the follow-up visit that there are no long-term health effects related to abortion.
Arsenic pollution is a major public health problem worldwide. Inorganic arsenic (iAs) is usually more harmful than organic ones. iAs pollution increases the risk of human diseases such as peripheral vascular disease and cancer. However, the toxicological effects of iAs in the brain are mostly unclear. Here, we investigated the toxic effects and possible mechanisms of iAs in the cerebrum of mice after exposure to iAs (0.5 and 5 ppm (mg/l) As(2)O(3), via the drinking water), which was the possible human exposed dose via the ingestion in iAs-contaminated areas, for 6 consecutive weeks. iAs dose-dependently caused an increase of LPO production in the plasma and cerebral cortex. iAs also decreased the reduced glutathione levels and the expressions of NQO1 and GPx mRNA in the cerebral cortex. These impairments in the cerebral cortex caused by iAs exposure were significantly correlated with the accumulation of As. Moreover, iAs induced the production of apoptotic cells and activation of caspase-3, up-regulation of Bax and Bak, and down-regulation of Mcl-1 in the cerebral cortex. Exposure to iAs also triggered the expression of ER stress-related genes, including GRP78, GRP94, and CHOP. Meanwhile, an increase of p38 activation and dephosphorylation of ERK1/2 were shown in the cerebral cortex as a result of iAs-exposed mice. These iAs-induced damages and apoptosis-related signals could be significantly reversed by NAC. Taken together, these results suggest that iAs-induced oxidative stress causes cellular apoptosis in the cerebrum, signaling of p38 and ERK1/2, and ER stress may be involved in iAs-induced cerebral toxicity.
Cyclosporin is a powerful stimulator of oxidative stress signaling, leading to TGFbeta production, NO degradation, endothelial dysfunction, hypertension and post-transplant nephropathy. Carvedilol, alpha1-beta-blocker with strong antioxidant activity, may interfere with this chain of events. Therefore, we measured monocyte ecNOS, TGFbeta and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) mRNA level and plasma nitrite/nitrate, 3-nitrotyrosine, an estimate of peroxynitrite, and total plasma antioxidant power in kidney-transplanted patients with post-transplant hypertension, before and after treatment with carvedilol, 25 - 50 mg o.d. orally for 4 months (n = 15). The dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker nifedipine (n = 10) was used as comparator antihypertensive drug. Blood pressure fell to a similar extent with both drugs. Carvedilol increased plasma antioxidant power and HO-1 mRNA and reduced 3-nitrotyrosine and TGFbeta mRNA levels, while the same was not observed with nifedipine. Monocyte ec NOS mRNA levels and plasma nitrite/nitrate were higher in the patients than in a normotensive healthy control group and were unaffected by either treatment. In conclusion, carvedilol reduces the oxidative stress and corrects the altered cellular signaling mediated by oxidative stress in CsA-induced post-transplant hypertension. Therefore, it may prevent long-term complications, such as endothelial dysfunction, fibrogenesis and post-transplant nephropathy by decreasing NO degradation and production of TGFbeta, a key fibrogenic cytokine, and by activating HO-1 production.
The principal side effect of the antimycobacterial agent ethambutol (EMB) is an optic neuropathy with clinical features very similar to a mitochondrial hereditary optic neuropathy (Leber's). The mechanism of EMB-induced optic neuropathy may be EMB's chelation of copper, thereby precluding normal cytochrome c oxidase activity and mitochondrial metabolism in the optic nerve. Before attempting to use therapeutic copper to replenish endogenous stores in an attempt to preclude EMB-induced optic neuropathy, we wished to determine whether EMB is still effective against mycobacteria in the presence of copper. EMB and copper, alone and in combination, were tested against six strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and five strains of Mycobacterium avium using a radiometric broth macrodilution assay. Copper did not effect EMB's antimicrobial actions against either species of mycobacteria. This in vitro study suggests that if copper were given to patients to prevent EMB-induced optic neuropathy, it would not compromise EMB's bacteriostatic properties.
Mercury is a prominent environmental contaminant that causes detrimental effects to human health. Although the liver has been known to be a main target organ, there is limited information on in vivo molecular mechanism of mercury-induced toxicity in the liver. By using transcriptome analysis, phenotypic anchoring and validation of targeted gene expression in zebrafish, mercury-induced hepatotoxicity was investigated and a number of perturbed cellular processes were identified and compared with those captured in the in vitro human cell line studies.
Hepato-transcriptome analysis of mercury-exposed zebrafish revealed that the earliest deregulated genes were associated with electron transport chain, mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation, nuclear receptor signaling and apoptotic pathway, followed by complement system and proteasome pathway, and thereafter DNA damage, hypoxia, Wnt signaling, fatty acid synthesis, gluconeogenesis, cell cycle and motility. Comparative meta-analysis of microarray data between zebrafish liver and human HepG2 cells exposed to mercury identified some common toxicological effects of mercury-induced hepatotoxicity in both models. Histological analyses of liver from mercury-exposed fish revealed morphological changes of liver parenchyma, decreased nucleated cell count, increased lipid vesicles, glycogen and apoptotic bodies, thus providing phenotypic evidence for anchoring of the transcriptome analysis. Validation of targeted gene expression confirmed deregulated gene-pathways from enrichment analysis. Some of these genes responding to low concentrations of mercury may serve as toxicogenomic-based markers for detection and health risk assessment of environmental mercury contaminations.
Mercury-induced hepatotoxicity was triggered by oxidative stresses, intrinsic apoptotic pathway, deregulation of nuclear receptor and kinase activities including Gsk3 that deregulates Wnt signaling pathway, gluconeogenesis, and adipogenesis, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction, endocrine disruption and metabolic disorders. This study provides important mechanistic insights into mercury-induced liver toxicity in a whole-animal physiology context, which will help in understanding the syndromes caused by mercury poisoning. The molecular conservation of mercury-induced hepatotoxicity between zebrafish and human cell line reveals the feasibility of using zebrafish to model molecular toxicity in human for toxicant risk assessments.
