A group of 46 patients with melphalan-resistant multiple myeloma was treated according to the M-2 protocol with melphalan, prednisolone, BCNU, cyclophosphamide, and vincristine. According to the Salmon and Durie classification, four patients had stage II A; 36, stage III A; and six, stage III B disease. Treatment resulted in five patients (11%) entering remission, while 21 (46%) had stable and 20 (43%) had progressive disease. The median survival for all patients was 12.5 months, patients in remission surviving longer (median 46 months) than those with stable disease (median 15.4 months) or progressive disease (median 6.9 months). Compared with other treatment regimens used in melphalan-resistant myeloma, the remission rate is low but the median survival exceeds that reported by most other authors.
The spectrum of the anti-apoptotic potential of heparin is currently under scrutiny in various tissues and under various pathological situations. In this study, the role of a low-molecular-weight heparin derivative (LMWH), certoparin in adriamycin-induced oxidative DNA damage has been evaluated in the cardiac and renal tissues. Two groups of male albino rats of the Wistar strain (140+/-10 g) received a single intravenous injection of adriamycin (7.5mg/kg), and one of them received low-molecular-weight heparin (Certoparin Sodium, 300 microg/day/rat s.c.) treatment, commencing on day 8, continued for a week. The nitrosative stress in ADR cytotoxicity is indicated by the 1.51-fold cardiac and 2.36-fold renal increase in reactive nitrogen species (RNS), while LMWH treatment restores normalcy (p<0.001). The influence of LMWH on the pro-inflammatory and pro-apoptotic cytokine, TNF-alpha was studied. Renal and cardiac levels of TNF-alpha showed a significant rise (p<0.001) in the ADR cytotoxic group, while the TNF-alpha values departed towards control levels in the LMWH treated group (p<0.001). DNA damage indicated by the fragmentation pattern (agarose gel electrophoresis) and the significantly increased comet tail length (p<0.001) observed after alkaline single cell gel electrophoresis confirmed the toxicity induced by ADR on DNA in the untreated group. In the LMWH-treated group, the observation of intact DNA band after agarose gel electrophoresis, and the finding of comet tail length being comparable with that of the control substantiated the protection rendered by the LMWH, certoparin. In short, the results suggest that the low-molecular-weight heparin derivative, certoparin exerts beneficial effects on the nitrosative status, and on the biological macromolecules as DNA and curtails the rise of the pro-apoptotic and pro-inflammatory cytokine, TNF-alpha in the cardiac and renal tissues.
Under modeling of thiopental coma influence of sodium succinate and (or) external warming for the support of normal body temperature (isothermal regimen) on the gas exchange, blood gas content, acid-base status and survival rate was studied in rats. In the absence of therapy hypothermia was developed (-9.4 degrees C), O(2) consumption decreased by a factor 5, oxygenation of arterial blood (pO(2)) did not change while that of venous blood increased, where with arteriovenous oxygen tension gradient decreased by half. Blood tension of carbon dioxide (pCO(2)) increased twice, respiratory and metabolic acidosis was developed. Survival rate under absence of a therapy was 42%, with isolated use of isothermal regimen or succinate therapy alike-50%; with their use in combination drastically increased up to 92%. Succinate increased arteriovenous gradient of pO(2), decreased deficit of buffer bases, increased bicarbonate concentration. At isothermal regimen accumulation of CO(2) in the blood was diminished, its excretion was increased, pH of blood approached normal values. Combined use of both therapy agents increased O(2) consumption and potentiated their positive influence on acid-base status. The implication is that hypothermia restrains effect of succinate in barbiturate coma; prevention of hypothermia in combination with succinate administration is highly effective method of experimental therapy of barbiturate intoxication.
This study compared the characteristics of intravenous (i.v.) and intranasal (i.n.) heroin users seeking methadone treatment, and their response to treatment.
A total of 319 heroin-dependent adults.
Participants were assigned randomly to receive interim methadone treatment or to a waiting list control on a 3 : 2 basis. Analyses were conducted by dividing participants into two groups based on their route of heroin ingestion: i.v. or i.n.
A methadone clinic in Baltimore City, Maryland.
Interim methadone treatment consisted of providing an adequate and stable dose of methadone, but no psychosocial services, to heroin-dependent adults for up to 120 days while they awaited an opening for comprehensive methadone treatment.
Addiction Severity Index, Texas Christian University AIDS Risk Assessment, a questionnaire on treatment entry and a urine drug test were collected at baseline and at entry into a comprehensive treatment program, or at 120 days after baseline assessment, whichever came first.
At baseline, over 60% of participants were i.n. users and had been for an average of over 12 years; i.v. users, compared to i.n. users, were more likely to have ever used cocaine, to have used cocaine in the past 30 days, to have more medical complications and to report more income generated from criminal behavior. Both i.v. and i.n. users reduced their self-reported days of heroin use, cocaine use and days of criminal activity in response to interim methadone treatment.
Despite differences in baseline characteristics, i.n. and i.v. heroin-dependent individuals did not differ in their response to interim methadone treatment.
Many autistic patients with mental retardation have difficulties with explosivity and aggression. They often prove resistant to various pharmacotherapeutic interventions. In this study, 11 male outpatients (mean 18.3 years) were administered risperidone in an open-label fashion. The risperidone was started at 0.5 mg daily, and titrated upwards until maximum clinical benefit occurred. Serial clinical interviews were conducted, and Conners Parent-Teacher Questionnaires (short form) were completed by the caretakers. Substantial clinical improvement was noted almost immediately in each patient, with aggression, self-injury, explosivity, and poor sleep hygiene most improved. The modal dose for optimal response was 0.5 mg bid. Weight gain was a significant side effect (average velocity of 0.47 kg per week), while none of the patients experienced extrapyramidal side effects.
Eleven patients with AIDS or AIDS-related complex who developed muscle-related symptoms whilst taking zidovudine were investigated. The clinical details of a further ten patients who did not undergo muscle biopsy are also outlined. The clinical features, quantitative muscle strength testing, electromyographic findings, serial creatine kinase levels, muscle biopsy appearance on light microscopy and the effects of zidovudine withdrawal and rechallenge are described. The spectrum of muscle disease encountered included four cases of frank myopathy diagnosed using clinical, electrophysiological and histological criteria, four patients with mild weakness and myalgia in whom muscle biopsies were normal, three patients with myalgia only and a mild increase in the interstitial cell infiltrate shown by biopsy. The patients presenting with myopathy showed no improvement on withdrawal of zidovudine but responded to immunosuppressive therapy with steroids and, in one case, thalidomide prescribed incidentally. At present, it is not yet possible to clinically define a specific zidovudine-induced myopathy that is distinct from the other effects of HIV infection on muscle structure and function. Our experience suggests that zidovudine may be implicated as a myotoxin in some patients, particularly those with myalgia and mild weakness. In those patients with severe weakness, and with biopsy findings of necrosis and inflammation, the drug effects may be difficult to separate from the primary effects of HIV.
Hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance are closely associated with hypertension in humans and in animal models. Gender differences have been found in the development of hypertension in fructose-fed rats. The objectives of the present study were, first, to clarify whether androgens are required in the development of hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, and hypertension in fructose-fed rats, and second, to determine if cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2 are also increased in the arteries of these rats. Male rats were gonadectomized or sham-operated and fed a 60% fructose diet beginning at age 7 weeks. Blood pressure was measured by a tail-cuff method, and an oral glucose tolerance test was performed to assess insulin sensitivity after 8 weeks of fructose feeding. Cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA expression was also assessed in the thoracic aortae and mesenteric arteries. Gonadectomy prevented hypertension from developing in the fructose-fed rats, but hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance developed. There was an increase in cyclooxygenase-2 expression in the thoracic aortae and mesenteric arteries of the fructose-fed sham-operated rats while the expression of cyclooxygenase-1 remained unchanged. Gonadectomy prevented the mRNA overexpression of vascular cyclooxygenase-2 in the fructose-fed rats. These results suggest that the presence of androgens is necessary for the development of fructose-induced hypertension. Androgens apparently act as a link between hyperinsulinemia/insulin resistance and hypertension in fructose-hypertensive rats. Furthermore, an increase in the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 is implicated in the development of hypertension. The mechanisms involved require further study.
Although desflurane is commonly used to control surgically induced hypertension, its effects on left ventricular (LV) function have not been investigated in this clinical situation. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the LV function response to desflurane, when used to control intraoperative hypertension.
In 50 patients, scheduled for vascular surgery, anesthesia was induced with sufentanil 0.5 microg/kg, midazolam 0.3 mg/kg and atracurium 0.5 mg/kg. After tracheal intubation, anesthesia was maintained with increments of drugs with controlled ventilation (N2O/O2=60/40%) until the start of surgery. A 5 Mhz transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) probe was inserted after intubation. Pulmonary artery catheter and TEE measurements were obtained after induction (to)(control value), at surgical incision (t1) if it was associated with an increase in systolic arterial pressure (SAP) greater than 140 mmHg (hypertension) and after control of hemodynamic parameters by administration of desflurane (return of systolic arterial pressure to within 20% of the control value) (t2) in a fresh gas flow of 31/ min.
Sixteen patients developed hypertension at surgical incision. SAP was controlled by desflurane in all 16 patients. Afterload assessed by systemic vascular resistance index (SVRI), end-systolic wall-stress (ESWS) and left-ventricular stroke work index (LVSWI) increased with incision until the hypertension returned to post-induction values with mean end-tidal concentration of 5.1+/-0.7% desflurane. No change in heart rate, cardiac index, mean pulmonary arterial pressure, stroke volume, end-diastolic and end-systolic cross-sectional areas, fractional area change and left ventricular circumferential fiber shortening was noted when desflurane was added to restore blood pressure.
This study demonstrates that in patients at risk for cardiac morbidity undergoing vascular surgery, desflurane is effective to control intraoperative hypertension without fear of major cardiac depressant effect.
Elevated levels of zinc2+ and copper2+ are found chelated to the amyloid-beta-peptide (Abeta) in isolated senile plaque cores of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. However, the precise residues involved in Zn2+ ligation are yet to be established. We have used 1H NMR and CD to probe the binding of Zn2+ to Abeta(1-28). Zinc binding to Abeta causes a number of 1H NMR resonances to exhibit intermediate exchange broadening upon Zn2+ addition, signals in slow and fast exchange are also observed. In addition, there is a general loss of signal for all resonances with Zn2+ addition, suggestive of the formation of high molecular weight polymeric species. Perturbations in specific 1H NMR resonances between residues 6 and 14, and analysis of various Abeta analogues in which each of the three His residues have been replaced by alanine, indicates that His6, His13 and His14 residues are implicated in Zn-Abeta binding. Complementary studies with Cd2+ ions cause perturbations to 1H NMR spectra that are strikingly similar to that observed for Zn2+. Binding monitored at Val12 indicates a 1:1 stoichiometry with Abeta for both Zn2+ and Cd2+ ions. Circular Dichroism (CD) studies in the far-UV indicate quite minimal ordering of the main-chain with Zn2+ or Cd2+ addition. Changes in the far-UV are quite different from that obtained with Cu2+ additions indicating that Zn2+ coordination is distinct from that of Cu2+ ions. Taken together, these observations seem to suggest that Zn2+ coordination is dominated by inter-molecular coordination and the formation of polymeric species.
We report 4 cases of corneal ulcers associated with drug abuse. The pathogenesis of these ulcers and management of these patients are also reviewed.
Review of all cases of corneal ulcers associated with drug abuse seen at our institution from July 2006 to December 2006.
Four patients with corneal ulcers associated with crack cocaine use were reviewed. All corneal ulcers were cultured, and the patients were admitted to the hospital for intensive topical antibiotic treatment. Each patient received comprehensive health care, including medical and substance abuse consultations. Streptococcal organisms were found in 3 cases and Capnocytophaga and Brevibacterium casei in 1 patient. The infections responded to antibiotic treatment. Two patients needed a lateral tarsorrhaphy for persistent epithelial defects.
Aerosolized crack cocaine use can be associated with the development of corneal ulcers. Drug abuse provides additional challenges for management. Not only treatment of their infections but also the overall poor health of the patients and increased risk of noncompliance need to be addressed. Comprehensive care may provide the patient the opportunity to discontinue their substance abuse, improve their overall health, and prevent future corneal complications.
Tramadol and meperidine are frequently prescribed medications in the management of oncologic patients. The pharmacologic interaction of these two drugs may induce mental disturbance. This was demonstrated by our case of a 39-year-old woman with gastric mucosa associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma (MALToma), stage III after chemotherapy. She was admitted to our medical ward with the complaint of abdominal pain. Pantoprazole 40 mg and tramadol 150 mg daily were prescribed with intravenous route after hospitalization. Two days later, the patient developed transient visual hallucinations and disorientation after additional injection of meperidine (25 mg). Six hours later, catatonic features appeared. The duty doctor stopped all the medications. Two days later, the catatonic features disappeared. From the clinical course, we suggest that the catatonia was caused by drug interactions between tramadol and meperidine. The pharmacodynamic mechanism might be related to the dopamine and serotonin systems.
An adolescent patient with a history of progressively more severe seasonal depression subsequently developed a refractory manic-depressive psychosis with rapid cycling after the initiation of treatment with trimipramine. A complete remission was obtained after a course of six electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) treatments. This unusual case and its outcome are discussed in terms of apparent drug-induced rapid cycling and the treatment of this condition. It is suggested that ECT can be successfully used as an alternative therapeutic option for patients with intractable rapid-cycling manic-depressive disorder.
Whether a reduction in urinary protein excretion in rats coadministered puromycin aminonucleoside and antioxidants was associated with a reduction in alterations to glomerular epithelial cell (podocyte) ultrastructure was examined. Daily urinary protein excretion was measured in rats that received a single i.v. injection of saline or puromycin aminonucleoside with or without coadministration of antioxidants. The coadministration of alpha-tocopherol/ascorbic acid, dimethyl thiourea, or superoxide dismutase to puromycin aminonucleoside-treated rats reduced proteinuria by approximately 90, 40, and 60%, respectively, over the 18-day period studied. For a second group of rats, daily urinary protein excretion was measured and kidneys were processed for light microscopy and transmission and scanning electron microscopy 4, 5, and 10 days after injection. Transmission electron microscopic morphometric analysis of glomeruli from puromycin aminonucleoside-treated rats coadministered antioxidants revealed significantly reduced foot process effacement on Days, 4, 5, and 10 compared with rats that received puromycin aminonucleoside alone. Thus, at Day 10, puromycin aminonucleoside-treated rats coadministered alpha-tocopherol/ascorbic acid, dimethyl thiourea, or superoxide dismutase contained 90, 74, and 88% (P < 0.01 in all cases) more glomerular epithelial cell filtration slits per unit length of glomerular basement membrane than rats treated with puromycin aminonucleoside alone. In contrast, by scanning electron microscopy, the antioxidants were found to provide no protection against the changes occurring in glomerular epithelial cell bodies and major processes. These results provide further evidence of a role for reactive oxygen species in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis and indicate that the antioxidants provide protection against the changes occurring in glomerular epithelial cell foot processes.
Alclometasone dipropionate cream 0.05% was compared to hydrocortisone butyrate cream 0.1% in the treatment of atopic dermatitis in forty children, 5 to 11 years old. In this double-blind, parallel-group trial, the experimental creams were applied twice daily for 2 weeks, without occlusion, to the study areas. Efficacy was evaluated 1 and 2 weeks after the start of treatment. Both creams were effective treatments for atopic dermatitis; however, alclometasone dipropionate was judged slightly more efficacious. Improvement in erythema, induration, and pruritus averaged 76% for alclometasone dipropionate-treated patients and 70% for hydrocortisone butyrate-treated patients. At the end of treatment, the physician's global evaluation indicated nineteen of twenty patients in the alclometasone dipropionate group had between 51% and 100% improvement in disease signs and symptoms, compared with sixteen of twenty patients treated with hydrocortisone butyrate. Two patients in the alclometasone dipropionate-treated group and one in the hydrocortisone butyrate-treated group reported mild stinging.
To determine adverse events of ribavirin in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, 41 patients (18 with cirrhosis), treated with ribavirin at an initial dose of 600-1200mg day(-1), were analysed retrospectively (six patients were treated twice because adverse effects during the first treatment necessitated cessation of ribavirin). Indications for ribavirin included a contraindication (n = 15) an intolerance (n = 11) or a non-response (n = 15) to interferon (IFN). Ribavirin was combined with IFN 3 million units (MU) three times weekly for 15 patients and with azathioprine for six patients (five of whom were transplant patients). No cirrhotics and only one patient treated with ribavirin + IFN received azathioprine. The mean duration of treatment was 5 months (range 1-18 months). Sixteen of 47 treatments (34%) with ribavirin were stopped: four because of vomiting (8.5%), two for psychiatric disorder, one for dry cough, one for an unrelated cause, and eight (at 1-2 months) because of a fall in the level of haemoglobin (Hb) of 4.6 g dl(-1) (range 2.7-5.9 g dl[-1]); however, according to the rules of international protocol, we would have expected only four treatments (two in patients receiving azathioprine) with Hb < 8.5 g dl(-1) to be stopped. The decrease in Hb level occurred more slowly in patients treated with IFN plus ribavirin than in patients treated with ribavirin alone and was of lower clinical significance in patients with cirrhosis than in patients without cirrhosis. After exclusion of patients receiving azathioprine, there was no significant difference in the fall of Hb level between cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic patients and between patients treated with IFN plus ribavirin and patients treated with ribavirin alone. Interestingly, the platelet count of patients treated with IFN plus ribavirin fell less than in patients treated with IFN alone. The most important and expected adverse event associated with ribavirin was haemolysis. Anaemia < 8.5 g dl(-1), requiring cessation of ribavirin therapy, was present in 9% of patients and was worsened by azathioprine. Abdominal discomfort and dry cough were other, potentially important, clinical adverse events found in our study.
The number of children ages 6 to 21 in the United States receiving special education services under the autism disability category increased 91% between 2005 to 2010 while the number of children receiving special education services overall declined by 5%. The demand for special education services continues to rise in disability categories associated with pervasive developmental disorders. Neurodevelopment can be adversely impacted when gene expression is altered by dietary transcription factors, such as zinc insufficiency or deficiency, or by exposure to toxic substances found in our environment, such as mercury or organophosphate pesticides. Gene expression patterns differ geographically between populations and within populations. Gene variants of paraoxonase-1 are associated with autism in North America, but not in Italy, indicating regional specificity in gene-environment interactions. In the current review, we utilize a novel macroepigenetic approach to compare variations in diet and toxic substance exposure between these two geographical populations to determine the likely factors responsible for the autism epidemic in the United States.
The diverse genetic backgrounds of lupus-prone murine models, which produce both quantitative and qualitative differences in disease expression, may be a valuable resource for studying the influence of environmental exposure on autoimmune disease in sensitive populations. We tested this premise by exposing autoimmune-prone BXSB and the nonautoimmune C57BL/6 mice to the heavy metal mercury. Although both strains express a nonsusceptible H-2 haplotype, exposure to mercury accelerated systemic autoimmunity in both male and female BXSB mice, whereas the C57BL/6 mice were resistant. The subclasses of antichromatin antibodies elicited in BXSB mice by mercury exposure were more consistent with the predominant Th1-type response of idiopathic disease than with the Th2-type response found in mercury-induced autoimmunity (HgIA). The appearance and magnitude of both humoral and cellular features of systemic autoimmunity correlated with the mercury dose. Furthermore, environmentally relevant tissue levels of mercury were associated with exacerbated systemic autoimmunity. These studies demonstrate that xenobiotic exposure can accelerate spontaneous systemic autoimmunity, and they support the possibility that low-level xenobiotic exposure enhances susceptibility to systemic autoimmunity in genetically susceptible individuals.
Despite precise recommendations for prescription and monitoring, tosades de pointes is still observed with bepridil. The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the contribution of bepridil serum assay in therapeutic supervision.
Seventy-five patients over 70 years of age were included. Prolongation of the QT interval was observed in 23 patients.
The potential prognostic factors for increased QT interval as demonstrated by univariate logistic regression were hypokaliemia, bradycardia, renal failure and bepridil serum level. After multivariate logistic regression, the persisting causal factors for increased QT interval were hypokaliemia, bradycardia and bepridil serum level.
Prolongation of the QT interval remains dependent on several variables. Bepridil determination during treatment is insufficient alone.
A novel somatostatin analogue, TT-232 (which inhibits the proliferation of various cell cultures and transplantable mouse tumours), was examined regarding its effect on human melanoma and lymphoma xenografts as a single treatment or in combination with DTIC (dacarbazine) and etoposide. TT-232 inhibited the growth of HT-18 melanoma xenografts, a dose of 5 mg kg(-1) being the most effective. Combination of 1 mg kg(-1) TT-232 with 30 or 60 mg kg(-1) DTIC (administered daily) resulted in a stronger inhibitory effect compared to TT-232 or DTIC as a single modality. Antimetastatic effect of TT-232 treatment combined with DTIC was studied using the B16 mouse melanoma muscle - lung metastasis model. The number of lung metastases of B16 melanoma could be decreased by the daily administration of 1 mg kg(-1) TT-232 or 60 mg kg(-1), but not of 30 mg kg(-1) DTIC. TT-232, combined with 30 or 60 mg kg(-1) DTIC decreased the lung metastasis number significantly lower than the control. Nearly 50% growth inhibition of HT-58 lymphoma was achieved by daily treatment with 1 mg kg(-1) TT-232. 5 mg kg(-1) etoposide, administered daily, resulted in a similar effect. The combination of 1 mg kg(-1) TT-232 and 5 mg kg(-1) etoposide was significantly more effective than TT-232 or etoposide as a single treatment. The very strong tumour growth inhibitory effect of 10 mg kg(-1) etoposide could even be increased by combination with TT-232. These experimental data suggest that TT-232 may be an effective new tool in the combination chemotherapy of malignant tumours like melanoma and lymphoma.
1,3-Butanediol (BD) treatment was previously shown to produce a dose-related increase of the plasma levels of D-beta-hydroxybutyrate (BHB) and to protect brain tissue against hypoxia and ischemia. The purpose of this study was to test whether BD-induced hyperketonemia was associated with changes in brain extracellular and tissue concentrations of BHB. Changes in extracellular levels of BHB were continuously monitored in anesthetized rats before and after intraperitoneal injection of BD (25 mmol/kg), using intracerebral microdialysis coupled to online analysis of BHB in the dialysate. Cortical tissue concentrations of BHB were determined in control and BD-treated rats (25 and 50 mmol/kg, i.p.) after freezing of the brain in situ. Butanediol produced a rapid increase in dialysate levels of BHB, with a linear relationship between dialysate and plasma BHB concentrations (r = 0.81, p < 0.001). In contrast, and although brain tissue levels of BHB were markedly increased after BD treatment, they were not related to the plasma concentration of BHB. Our results suggest that BHB produced from BD did not accumulate in brain and that BD protects against hypoxia or ischemia by increasing brain BHB availability.
The authors report the case of a 31 year old woman at 30 weeks' gestation who developed a non-Q wave postero-lateral myocardial infarction during treatment with salbutamol. There were no complications and delivery took place at term normally. Coronary angiography was performed 3 months post-partum and was normal: the Methergin test was negative. Myocardial ischaemia occurring during treatment with a beta-2 mimetic in pregnancy is rare and hardly ever progresses to myocardial infarction. The usual mechanism of ischaemia is an imbalance of myocardial oxygen demand and supply. Myocardial oxygen consumption is naturally increased during pregnancy and excess intracellular calcium secondary to the beta-1 stimulation occurring with the use of beta-2 mimetic drugs further aggravates matters. This hypothesis raises the question of the value of calcium inhibitors in these forms of myocardial ischaemia.
The study evaluated the adulterants in a specimen of illicit street heroin supplied under strict control by the Pakistan Anti-Narcotic Force. It also examined the effects of Hypericum perforatum L. extracts on the naloxone-induced heroin withdrawal syndrome. The GC-MS analysis of the specimen showed that in addition to heroin (37.8%), the sample also contained caffeine (8.4%), phenobarbitone (12.7%), 6-acetyl codeine (5.3%), 6-acetyl morphine (10.9%) and noscapine (15.8%). Administration of the heroin to rats for 8 days induced physical withdrawal signs of abdominal constriction, diarrhoea and vocalization on touch after naloxone treatment. Aqueous Hypericum perforatum extracts (20 mg/kg twice daily chronically or as a single acute dose 90 min before naloxone) given orally to the heroin dependent rats attenuated abdominal constrictions both acutely and chronically while the hydroethanol and ethanol extracts were only effective in acutely treated animals. Diarrhoea was ameliorated by the hydroethanol and ethanol extracts following acute or chronic heroin treatment while the aqueous extract failed to show any effect. Vocalization on touch during withdrawal was reduced by all the extracts either chronically or acutely with the exception of chronic treatment with hydroethanol extracts. The findings suggest that Hypericum perforatum is capable of reducing the physical signs of opiate withdrawal.
Cocaine addiction in humans is associated with long-term propensity to relapse. Using a rat relapse model, we found that cocaine seeking induced by exposure to cocaine-associated cues progressively increases after withdrawal. This progressive increase is associated with increases in brain-derived nerve growth factor (BDNF) levels within the mesolimbic dopamine system. Based on these findings, we studied whether BDNF infusions into the ventral tegmental area (VTA), the cell body region of mesolimbic dopamine neurons, would potentiate cocaine seeking after withdrawal. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine for 10 d, and cocaine seeking was measured in extinction tests 3, 10, or 30 d after withdrawal. During testing, rats were exposed to contextual cues that had predicted cocaine availability during training, and lever presses resulted in contingent presentations of a discrete tone-light cue that was previously temporally paired with cocaine infusions. BDNF (0-0.75 microg/site) or nerve growth factor (NGF; 0-0.75 microg/site) was infused into the VTA 1-2 hr after the last self-administration session. To examine the role of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway in BDNF effects, U0126 (1 microg/site), an MEK inhibitor, was used. A single intra-VTA infusion of BDNF, but not NGF, induced long-lasting enhancement of cocaine seeking for up to 30 d, an effect reversed by U0126. In contrast, neither BDNF infusions into the substantia nigra, nor acute intra-VTA BDNF infusions 2 hr before testing on day 3 of withdrawal, were effective. These data suggest that BDNF-mediated neuroadaptations in mesolimbic areas are involved in the persistent cocaine seeking induced by exposure to drug cues after withdrawal.
Aggressive treatment with antibiotics in patients infected with Streptococcus pneumoniae induces release of the bacterial virulence factor pneumolysin (PLY). Days after lungs are sterile, this pore-forming toxin can still induce pulmonary permeability edema in patients, characterized by alveolar/capillary barrier dysfunction and impaired alveolar liquid clearance (ALC). ALC is mainly regulated through Na(+) transport by the apically expressed epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) and the basolaterally expressed Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase in type II alveolar epithelial cells. Because no standard treatment is currently available to treat permeability edema, the search for novel therapeutic candidates is of high priority. We detected mRNA expression for the active receptor splice variant SV1 of the hypothalamic polypeptide growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH), as well as for GHRH itself, in human lung microvascular endothelial cells (HL-MVEC). Therefore, we have evaluated the effect of the GHRH agonist JI-34 on PLY-induced barrier and ALC dysfunction. JI-34 blunts PLY-mediated endothelial hyperpermeability in monolayers of HL-MVEC, in a cAMP-dependent manner, by means of reducing the phosphorylation of myosin light chain and vascular endothelial (VE)-cadherin. In human airway epithelial H441 cells, PLY significantly impairs Na(+) uptake, but JI-34 restores it to basal levels by means of increasing cAMP levels. Intratracheal instillation of PLY into C57BL6 mice causes pulmonary alveolar epithelial and endothelial hyperpermeability as well as edema formation, all of which are blunted by JI-34. These findings point toward a protective role of the GHRH signaling pathway in PLY-induced permeability edema.
Current evidences suggest that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs could enhance the antiviral activity of interferon-alpha in chronic HCV infection. In this study, we investigated the effect of indomethacin, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, and interferon-alpha on cytokine production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 12 untreated patients with chronic hepatitis C. We evaluated the effect of incubation with indomethacin, interferon-alpha or both on synthesis of Th1- (interleukin-2, interferon-gamma) and Th2-associated cytokines (interleukin-4, interleukin-10), and of the antiviral protein 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase. Interferon-alpha induced a significant increase in production of interleukin-2. Smaller increases were also seen in the presence of indomethacin, while incubation with both indomethacin and interferon-alpha leads to a synergistic effect. Incubation with indomethacin decreased both interleukin-4 and interleukin-10, whereas interferon-alpha increased these cytokines. The addition of indomethacin to interferon-alpha significantly reversed this interferon-induced increase. Finally, both indomethacin and the association interferon-alpha plus indomethacin determined a significant increase in 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase production compared to both baseline and interferon-alpha alone. In conclusion, indomethacin was able to enhance the antiviral activity of interferon-alpha and to modulate the interferon-induced Th1 and Th2 cytokine response by increasing the Th1-response, fundamental for sustained clearance of HCV, and by decreasing the Th-2 type response, associated with HCV persistence.
To investigate whether the dose of intrathecal baclofen necessary for a sufficient reduction of muscle tone and spasms changes during treatment of severe spasticity.
A group of 27 patients received intrathecal baclofen for 61 (SD 18) months.
Spasticity remained absent or strongly reduced after stopping the intrathecal baclofen infusion in seven patients. The dose of baclofen could be reduced to 40% of that dose which was originally necessary in 10 patients. The dose remained the same or increased slightly in 10 patients. Possible reasons for the continuing reduction of spasticity after terminating long term intrathecal baclofen infusion in some patients could be: lasting morphological changes in spinal cord neurons by second messenger controlled modulation of gene expression, a toxic effect of baclofen on spinal neurons, muscular atrophy, inflammation due to the catheter, or progression of multiple sclerosis.
A higher initial daily dose of intrathecal baclofen might lead to a faster, lasting suppression of spasticity and the development of spastic symptoms might even be prevented by pre-emptive treatment with baclofen in patients with newly acquired lesions of the spinal cord.
Modifying potential of annatto extract (norbixin) on liver carcinogenesis was investigated in male F344/DuCrj rats initially treated with N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN). Two weeks after a single dose of DEN (200 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), rats were given annatto extract at dietary levels of 0, 0.03, 0.1 and 0.3%, or phenobarbital sodium at 0.05% as a positive control for 6 weeks. All animals were subjected to partial hepatectomy at week 3, and were killed at week 8. There were no deaths related to annatto extract ingestion, and the treatment had no effects on body weights, or food and water consumption. Statistically significant increases of absolute and relative liver weights were apparent in the 0.1 and 0.3% groups. However, annatto extract did not significantly increase the quantitative values for glutathione S-transferase placental form positive liver cell foci observed after DEN initiation, in clear contrast to the positive control case. The results thus demonstrate that annatto extract at a dietary level of 0.3% (200 mg/kg/day) lacks modifying potential for liver carcinogenesis in our medium-term bioassay system.
