The objective of this retrospective chart review was to evaluate the safety and feasibility of using the direct thrombin inhibitor bivalirudin as the procedural anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous peripheral intervention (PPI).
Patients with peripheral artery disease are in general a high-risk population that requires safe and reliable anticoagulation with complete thrombin inhibition. Bivalirudin, a direct thrombin inhibitor, has been shown to be as effective as heparin, but with fewer bleeding events in PCI trials, and recent data suggest that bivalirudin may provide the same benefits in PPI.
This was a retrospective chart review of patients who underwent PPI with bivalirudin as the foundation anticoagulant. Bivalirudin was administered as a 0.75 mg per kg bolus, followed by a 1.75 mg per kg per hour infusion for the duration of the procedure. The primary endpoint was procedural success defined as residual stenosis less than or equal to 20%. Ischemic and hemorrhagic events were collected, as well as time-to-sheath removal, ambulation and discharge.
Data were collected for 150 patients. Procedural success was achieved in 98.5%. Ischemic events were low: death (2.0%), myocardial infarction (0.0%), urgent revascularization (0.8%). Major and minor hemorrhage occurred in 4.7% and 2.0% of patients, respectively. Time-to-sheath removal, ambulation and discharge were short.
Bivalirudin provided effective anticoagulation in these generally high-risk patients undergoing PPI. Ischemic and bleeding events were low and comparable to those reported in the literature, suggesting that bivalirudin is safe to use in this population.
The case of a patient who developed a severe hypotensive reaction with a persistent hemianaesthesia following the addition of lithium carbonate to her treatment regimen is described. The patient had been receiving chlorpromazine therapy for the management of hypomania and the addition of lithium carbonate to the chlorpromazine produced a severe hypotensive episode which compromised her neurological functioning. Only three doses of lithium carbonate had actually been taken by the patient. This type of hypotensive response associated with the simultaneous use of chlorpromazine and lithium has not previously been noted in the literature.
Pharmacological induction of epileptiform activity is a complementary method to study the epileptogenic area in drug-resistant epileptic patients. Among the different activation methods, fentanyl derivatives (e.g. alfentanil) provide one of the most efficient tools in triggering epileptiform abnormalities in surgical candidates. In this study, we tested the pro-epileptic effect of different concentrations of alfentanil in hippocampal slices obtained from control and pilocarpine-treated chronic epileptic rats. The pro-convulsant action of alfentanil was also studied in control and pilocarpine-treated epileptic rats implanted with subdural and hippocampal electrodes for electroencephalographic recordings. In 90% of slices from control animals, application of alfentanil (0.1-5 microM) induced a significant enhancement in amplitude and number of population spikes recorded in the hippocampal CA1 region. In contrast, alfentanil produced a significant reduction in the amplitude of population spikes in slices from pilocarpine-treated epileptic rats. These changes were accompanied by a significant increase in the number of population spikes in the form of epileptiform multispike responses of epileptic slices. Naloxone (20 microM) antagonized the effect of alfentanil in both control and epileptic slices, reducing the number of population spikes in slices from epileptic rats. In control rats, alfentanil induced epileptiform abnormalities in the hippocampal and cortical electroencephalographic recordings but only at concentrations higher than 200 microg/kg (e.g. 350 microg/kg). Lower doses of alfentanil (25 microg/kg) elicited epileptiform abnormalities only in chronic epileptic rats. The potent action of a minimal dose of alfentanil in inducing epileptiform activity suggests an enhancement of the pro-convulsant action of mu-receptor opioids in chronic temporal lobe epilepsy.
We investigated the likelihood that bradykinesia coexisted with levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) in 10 dyskinetic Parkinson's disease patients (DPD). Their motor performance was compared to that of 10 age/gender-matched non-dyskinetic patients (NDPD) and 10 healthy controls. Whole-body movement (WBM) and rapid alternating movements (RAM) at the wrist were recorded simultaneously using 6-degree of freedom magnetic motion tracker and forearm rotational sensors, respectively. WBM was recorded prior to, and while subjects performed pronation-supination movements of their dominant hand with maximal rotational excursion, and as fast as possible for 10s. RANGE, VELOCITY and IRREGULARITY of pronation-supination cycles were quantified to assess motor performance. Results show that DPD patients had greater WBM than NDPD and controls during rest and RAM performance, as expected. There were no differences in motor performance between DPD and NDPD groups for RANGE and VELOCITY, despite significantly longer disease duration for the DPD group (15.5+/-6.2 years versus 6.6+/-2.6 years). However, both the NDPD and DPD groups showed significantly lower RANGE and reduced VELOCITY compared to controls, suggesting the presence of bradykinesia. For IRREGULARITY, DPD patients showed increased fluctuations in pronation-supination cycle amplitude compared to NDPD and controls. However, the lack of correlation between WBM magnitude and IRREGULARITY within the DPD group (Spearman's rank order, rho = 0.31, p > 0.05), suggests that LID were not the primary cause of increased IRREGULARITY. In conclusion, our results demonstrated that bradykinesia can coexist with dyskinesias, suggestive of distinct neural circuits. Our results also demonstrated that the occurrence of LID is not inevitably accompanied with worsening of motor performance.
To examine the antitumor efficacy of intratumoral injection of interferon-gamma gene-modified dendritic cells (DC-IFN-gamma) in a B16 melanoma model and to investigate its related immunological mechanisms.
C57BL/6 mice-derived DC were transfected with adenovirus encoding IFN-gamma or beta-galactosidase (DC-LacZ). Secretion of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha by DC was detected by ELISA. Nitric oxide (NO) production was measured by Griess reaction. Cytotoxicity of DC against tumor cell lines and activity of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) were determined by 51Cr-release assay. TRP-2aa180-188-specific CD8+ CTLs in tumor-bearing mice with different treatment were determined by ELISPOT.
DC-IFN-gamma could secrete high levels of IFN-gamma, NO and TNF-alpha. DC-IFN-gamma were cytolytic to B16 melanoma cells in vitro, but DC-LacZ and DC were not. Significant inhibition of tumor growth and prolonged survival were achieved in tumor-bearing mice intratumorally injected with DC-IFN-gamma when compared with those in tumor-bearing mice intratumorally injected with DC, DC-LacZ, fibroblasts, IFN-gamma gene-modified fibroblasts or PBS. After treatment with DC-IFN-gamma, enhanced Th1 and decreased Th2 responses were observed, and B16 melanoma antigen TRP-2aa180-188-specific CD8+ CTLs were induced significantly in the tumor-bearing mice.
Intratumorally injected DC-IFN-gamma can uptake tumor antigens in situ and cross-present tumor antigens to specific CD8+ T cells, hereby eliciting effective antitumor effects in murine model with preestablished B16 melanoma.
Doxorubicin is an effective antineoplastic drug; however, its clinical benefit is limited by its cardiotoxicity. The inhibition of mitochondrial biogenesis is responsible for the pathogenesis of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy. Endothelin-1 is a vasoconstrictive peptide produced from big endothelin-1 by endothelin-converting enzyme-1 (ECE-1) and a multifunctional peptide. Although plasma endothelin-1 levels are elevated in patients treated with doxorubicin, the effect of ECE-1 inhibition on doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy is not understood. Cardiomyopathy was induced by a single IP injection of doxorubicin (15 mg/kg). Five days after treatment, cardiac function, histological change, and mitochondrial biogenesis were assessed. Echocardiography revealed that cardiac systolic function was significantly deteriorated in doxorubicin-treated wild-type (ECE-1(+/+)) mice compared with ECE-1 heterozygous knockout (ECE-1(+/-)) mice. In histological analysis, cardiomyocyte size in ECE-1(+/-) mice was larger, and cardiomyocyte damage was less. In ECE-1(+/+) mice, tissue adenosine triphosphate content and mitochondrial superoxide dismutase were decreased, and reactive oxygen species generation was increased compared with ECE-1(+/-) mice. Cardiac mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid copy number and expressions of key regulators for mitochondrial biogenesis were decreased in ECE-1(+/+) mice. Cardiac cGMP content and serum atrial natriuretic peptide concentration were increased in ECE-1(+/-) mice. In conclusion, the inhibition of ECE-1 attenuated doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy by inhibiting the impairment of cardiac mitochondrial biogenesis. This was mainly induced by decreased endothelin-1 levels and an enhanced atrial natriuretic peptide-cGMP pathway. Thus, the inhibition of ECE-1 may be a new therapeutic strategy for doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
A case is presented in which amiodarone was administered to suppress paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in a patient with an idiopathic cardiomyopathy. Eleven days after initiation of therapy with amiodarone, the patient experienced syncope and was noted to have recurrent episodes of polymorphous ventricular tachycardia. The patient was hospitalized and treated with a bolus as well as continuous infusion of intravenous magnesium sulfate. When the infusion was transiently discontinued, recurrences of polymorphous ventricular tachycardia were noted. The probable proarrhythmic action of amiodarone, although rare, is reviewed along with a discussion of the novel use of intravenous magnesium sulfate therapy.
The nephrotic syndrome is a renal disease characterized by proteinuria, hypoproteinemia, edema and hyperlipidemia. It has been reported that female nephrotic rats are characterized by loss of the oestrus cycle, follicle atresia, low gonadotropin and steroid concentrations; particularly, undetectable estradiol levels. Therefore, to determine the mechanisms involved in the ovarian steroidogenesis impairment, in this present study we evaluated the ovarian expression of the essential steroidogenesis components: cytochrome P450 side cholesterol chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc) and steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR). The experiments were conducted in the rat experimental model of nephrosis induced by puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) and in control groups. The evaluation of the expression of P450scc and StAR mRNA were performed during the acute phase of nephrosis as well as after the exogenous administration of 1 or 4 doses of human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG), or a daily dose of FSH or FSH+hCG for 10 days. In addition, serum hormone concentrations, intra-ovarian steroid content, and the reproductive capacity were determined. The results revealed a decreased expression of mRNA of P450scc enzyme and StAR during nephrosis, and eventhough they increased after gonadotropins treatment, they did not conduce to a normal cycling rat period or fertility recovery. This study demonstrates that the mechanism by which ovarian steroid biosynthesis is altered during acute nephrosis involves damage at the P450scc and StAR mRNA synthesis and processing.
A new modality is necessary to prevent recurrence of superficial bladder cancer after complete transurethral resection (TUR) because of the high recurrence rate even with current prophylaxis protocols. Prostaglandins (PGs) are known to be produced more in transitional cell carcinoma, and etiologically bladder cancer risk is negatively associated with the intake of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which inhibit cyclooxygenase (COX), the rate-limiting enzyme of the PG production. We have shown the chemopreventive effect of piroxicam, an NSAID, on the N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN)-induced rat bladder cancer model. To avoid gastrointestinal side effects of regular NSAIDs, we also showed the chemopreventive effect of nimesulide, a selective inhibitor of the second isoform of COX, COX-2, which does not affect COX-l house-keeping activity in gastrointestinal mucosa on the same model. We also observed induction of COX-2 protein in the rat bladder tumor. In this study, we screened COX-2 protein expression in primary superficial bladder cancer tissues, to elucidate if COX-2 selective inhibitors can be a candidate chemopreventive agent for bladder cancer recurrence. Five and 6 samples of superficial bladder cancer cases with and without recurrence after complete TUR were examined by immunohistochemical analysis. We found more COX-2 protein positive samples in the cases with recurrence than in cases without recurrence. Even though the number of cases examined is small, this result supports our hypothesis that COX-2 contributes to superficial bladder cancer recurrence, thus, selective COX-2 inhibitors can be a candidate chemopreventive agent for the recurrence.
Haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia (OD) is a putative animal model of tardive dyskinesia (TD) whose pathophysiology has been related to free radical generation and oxidative stress. Schizophrenic patients have been reported to eat a diet higher in fat than the general population and dietary fat intake can lead to an increase in oxidative stress in animal models. The objective of this study was to determine whether association of ingestion of a high fat diet with prolonged haloperidol treatment could lead to OD and oxidative stress in the rat brain. Haloperidol decanoate administration (38 mg/kg, IM, which is equivalent to 1 mg/kg/day) monthly for a period of 6 months to rats fed previously with a high fat and normo fat diets (6 months) caused a increase in vacuous chewing (VCM) and duration of facial twitching (FT). Haloperidol caused a reduction in body weight gain and the loss of body weight occurred after 4 months of treatment with haloperidol. The effects on body weight were more accentuated in HF diet group. HF diet ingestion was associated with an increase in TBARS levels in cerebellum and cerebral cortex (regardless of haloperidol treatment). A significant dietxhaloperidol treatment interaction in striatum, subcortical parts and the region containing the substantia nigra was observed for TBARS. In fact, haloperidol caused an increase in TBARS levels of these regions only in rats fed with the HF. These results indicate that a high fat diet caused a transitory increase in haloperidol-induced OD in rats and this in part can be related to the haloperidol-induced oxidative stress in brain structures involved with OD.
To determine whether impulsivity was related to severity of drug use and treatment outcome, 50 cocaine dependent subjects underwent baseline measures of severity of current cocaine use and the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (BIS-11). The hypothesis of the study was that there would be a significant correlation between impulsivity and cocaine use severity. As predicted, there was a significant correlation between BIS-11 total scores and self-reported average daily cocaine use as well as cocaine withdrawal symptoms. A subset of 35 patients underwent a 12-week double-blind placebo controlled trial of buspirone and group therapy. Subjects with high baseline impulsivity remained in the study a significantly shorter period than did subjects with lower baseline impulsivity. This study shows that impulsivity is a significant predictor of cocaine use and treatment retention, and suggests the need for targeting impulsivity in cocaine dependence treatment.
Mucosal leishmaniasis is characterized by an intense inflammatory reaction and tissue damage with few parasites in the lesion. On the basis of previous observations that suggest a possible role of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) in the pathology of this disease, an open-label study was performed to evaluate the efficacy of the treatment with an inhibitor of TNF-alpha (pentoxifylline) associated to antimony therapy in 10 patients with refractory mucosal leishmaniasis. Patients were treated with pentavalent antimony (20 mg per kilogram of body weight per day) plus orally administered pentoxifylline 400 mg 3 times daily for 30 days. Nine of 10 patients fulfilled the criteria for cure: they experienced complete reepithelization of the mucosal tissue 90 days after therapy and displayed no evidence of relapse at 1 year of follow-up. The TNF-alpha levels before therapy (776 +/- 342 pg/mL) fell to 94 +/- 57 pg/mL (P < 0.05) within 60 days after therapy. Our results indicate that pentoxifylline plus antimony therapy should be considered in all patients with mucosal leishmaniasis that is refractory to treatment.
We investigated the effects of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA; 60 microg/day/100 g b.wt.) on the impairment induced by maternal obstructive cholestasis during pregnancy (OCP) in the rat placenta-maternal liver tandem excretory pathway. A blunted catheter was implanted in the common bile duct on day 14 of pregnancy, and the tip was cut on day 21. [(14)C]Glycocholate (GC) was then administered through the umbilical artery of "in situ" perfused placenta (placental transfer test) or through the maternal jugular vein (biliary secretion test), and GC bile output was measured. OCP impaired both GC placental transfer and maternal biliary secretion. UDCA moderately improved the latter but had a more marked beneficial effect on GC placental transfer. Histological examination revealed trophoblast atrophy and structural alterations, e.g., loss of apical membrane microvilli in OCP placentas. Gene expression level was investigated by real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis. OCP reduced both placental lactogen II (a trophoblast-specific gene) mRNA and the functional amount of epithelial tissue, determined by transplacental diffusion of antipyrin. Using a rapid filtration technique, impairment in the ATP-dependent GC transport across trophoblast apical plasma membranes obtained from OCP placentas was found. UDCA partially prevented all these changes. The expression level of organic anion transporters Oatp1, Oatp2, and Oatp4, and multidrug resistance-associated proteins Mrp1, Mrp2, and Mrp3 in whole placenta were not affected or were moderately affected by OCP but greatly enhanced by UDCA. In summary, UDCA partially prevents deleterious effects of OCP on the rat placenta-maternal liver tandem excretory pathway, mainly by preserving trophoblast structure and function.
In the Glycemic Effects in Diabetes Mellitus: Carvedilol-Metoprolol Comparison in Hypertensives (GEMINI) trial, carvedilol added to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers had neutral or beneficial effects on glycemic measures compared with metoprolol tartrate. For the 1235 diabetic hypertensive GEMINI patients, the authors assessed treatment differences by race (white/black/other), age (continuous variable), and sex on hemoglobin A(1c), insulin resistance (homeostasis model assessment-insulin resistance [HOMA-IR]), and blood pressure. Both treatments significantly reduced blood pressure in all subgroups, but the metabolic effects of carvedilol were more beneficial in subgroups of race and sex. Carvedilol did not affect hemoglobin A(1c) but improved HOMA-IR results in all subgroups, significantly in males and "other race" subgroups. Metoprolol significantly increased hemoglobin A(1c) in all subgroups except "other race," with no effect on HOMA-IR findings. Differences vs metoprolol significantly favored carvedilol for hemoglobin A(1c) in white and female subgroups and favored carvedilol for HOMA-IR in black, "other race," and male subgroups. Carvedilol effects were favorable to adjustment of age as a covariate. In hypertensive patients with diabetes, carvedilol may be a more appropriate choice when beta-blockade is indicated.
The patient was a 76-year-old male with disturbance of consciousness due to cerebral infarction. He was found lying in his garden on July 30, 1990 and was immediately hospitalized. Central venous alimentation was started on the same day, because the patient was incapable of oral nutritional intake. Aspiration pneumonia developed on August 3. As Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Candida were detected by sputum cultures on August 20, antibiotics were changed to latamoxef (LMOX), 6 g/day, tobramycin, 180 mg/day, and fluconazole, 200 mg/day, from August 30. Macroscopic hematuria was noted after exchange of the urethral catheter. Hematuria gradually worsened, bladder tamponade occurred, and anemia had exacerbated with Hb decreasing from 13.4 to 8.7 g/dl and Hct from 39.1 to 26% on September 14, when the patient was referred to our department. Corresponding marked increases were observed in PT from 11.5 to 50.1 seconds and in APTT from 33.7 to 107.6 seconds. As the hematuria was suspected to be due to vitamin K deficiency hypoprothrombinemia induced by LMOX, its administration was discontinued on the day of the referral. Hematuria was alleviated from the next day, and PT normalized to 12.1 seconds and APTT to 36.6 seconds 3 days after discontinuation. The administration of vitamin K was started on this day, and hematuria disappeared 7 days after discontinuation of LMOX administration.
Sepsis is associated with bacterial translocation (BT) and changes in colonic paracellular permeability (CPP), but the link between these effects is unknown. The present study aimed to identify whether changes in CPP after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration triggers BT, colonic inflammation, visceral pain, and sickness behavior and to evaluate the role of myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) in colonocyte cytoskeleton contraction. Rats received the MLCK inhibitor ML-7 alone or combined with LPS. CPP was measured for 6 hours after administration. Visceral pain, food intake, BT, electron microscopy of tight junctions of colonocytes, cytokine levels, and Western blotting of phosphorylated MLC from colonic mucosa were assessed in a time range of 0 to 3 hours after treatment. Sepsis increased CPP at 0 to 6 hours after LPS and associated with tight junction morphological changes, increased MLC phosphorylation, and mucosal release of proinflammatory cytokines. Massive BT, visceral hyperalgesia, and reduced food intake were also observed. Addition of ML-7 prevented all LPS-induced effects, except for changes in food intake. In conclusion, LPS-mediated effects on CPP include gut inflammation, BT, and visceral hyperalgesia. Inhibition of MLCK-dependent colonocyte cytoskeleton contraction by ML-7 prevents the LPS-induced alterations of CPP and its subsequent effects.
Vascular disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among transplanted recipients and cyclosporine (CsA) treatment has been consistently implicated in this event. In this study we assessed total blood homocysteine levels (tHcy), ecto-nucleotidase activities and adenine nucleotide/nucleoside levels searching for parameters related to the mechanisms of vascular damage induced by chronic CsA treatment in non-transplanted rats. Thirty male Wistar rats were divided in three groups: control group treated with corn oil, CsA 5mg/kg and CsA 15 mg/kg, administered by daily gastric gavage during 8 weeks. CsA 15 mg/kg treatment increased blood levels of tHcy. Both CsA treatments (5mg/kg and 15 mg/kg) decreased adenine nucleotides hydrolysis by ecto-nucleotidases in serum, which negatively correlated with tHcy levels (r: -0.74, r: -0.63 and r: -0.63, p<0.004, for ATP, ADP and AMP, respectively). CsA 15mg/kg induced a statistically significant increase in ADP and decrease in adenosine (ADO) plasma levels compared to control group. THcy levels were positively correlated with plasma ADP levels and negatively correlated with ADO levels (r: 0.84, p<0.0001 and r: -0.68, p<0.0001, respectively). Rats under CsA 15 mg/kg treatment presented cell injury and inflammatory responses in the endothelium and intima layer of the aorta artery. In conclusion, blood ecto-nucleotidases activity, tHcy, and ADP and ADO levels may be implicated in vascular injury induced by CsA treatment.
Symptomatic visual field constriction thought to be associated with vigabatrin has been reported. The current study investigated the visual fields and visual electrophysiology of eight patients with known vigabatrin-attributed visual field loss, three of whom were reported previously. Six of the patients were no longer receiving vigabatrin.
The central and peripheral fields were examined with the Humphrey Visual Field Analyzer. Full visual electrophysiology, including flash electroretinography (ERG), pattern electroretinography, multifocal ERG using the VERIS system, electro-oculography, and flash and pattern visual evoked potentials, was undertaken.
Seven patients showed marked visual field constriction with some sparing of the temporal visual field. The eighth exhibited concentric constriction. Most electrophysiological responses were usually just within normal limits; two patients had subnormal Arden electro-oculography indices; and one patient showed an abnormally delayed photopic b wave. However, five patients showed delayed 30-Hz flicker b waves, and seven patients showed delayed oscillatory potentials. Multifocal ERG showed abnormalities that sometimes correlated with the visual field appearance and confirmed that the deficit occurs at the retinal level.
Marked visual field constriction appears to be associated with vigabatrin therapy. The field defects and some electrophysiological abnormalities persist when vigabatrin therapy is withdrawn.
The goal of the study was to evaluate the tubular renal function in children and adolescents who are undergoing monotherapy with sodium valproate (VPA), carbamazepine (CBZ), and phenobarbital (PB).
The urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase (NAG), beta-galactosidase (beta-Gal), alanine-amino-peptidase (AAP), and alpha1-microglobulin (alpha1M) was measured in 58 epileptic patients (29 girls and 29 boys), aged 12.6 +/- 3.9 years, who were subdivided into three groups according to their therapy. Fifty healthy sex-and age-matched children served as controls. The measurements were taken before the beginning of therapy and after 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years of therapy.
Before the beginning of therapy, there were no significant differences in NAG, beta-Gal, AAP, and alpha1M values between the control group and the three groups of epileptic children. After 6 months of therapy, patients treated with VPA and CBZ showed a significant increase in the urinary excretion of NAG and beta-Gal compared with baseline data and control values. After 1 and 2 years, these patients showed a persistence of the changes found after 6 months of therapy. In patients treated with PB, we did not find any significant variation in NAG, beta-Gal, AAP, and alpha1M urinary excretion.
Our study demonstrates that in patients treated with VPA and CBZ, an impairment of tubular function can be present, whereas PB does not cause any significant change.
Ras association domain family protein 1A (RASSF1A) is a tumor suppressor gene silenced in cancer. Here we report that RASSF1A is a novel regulator of intestinal inflammation as Rassf1a(+/-) , Rassf1a(-/-) and an intestinal epithelial cell specific knockout mouse (Rassf1a (IEC-KO) ) rapidly became sick following dextran sulphate sodium (DSS) administration, a chemical inducer of colitis. Rassf1a knockout mice displayed clinical symptoms of inflammatory bowel disease including: increased intestinal permeability, enhanced cytokine/chemokine production, elevated nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells (NFκB) activity, elevated colonic cell death and epithelial cell injury. Furthermore, epithelial restitution/repair was inhibited in DSS-treated Rassf1a(-/-) mice with reduction of several makers of proliferation including Yes associated protein (YAP)-driven proliferation. Surprisingly, tyrosine phosphorylation of YAP was detected which coincided with increased nuclear p73 association, Bax-driven epithelial cell death and p53 accumulation resulting in enhanced apoptosis and poor survival of DSS-treated Rassf1a knockout mice. We can inhibit these events and promote the survival of DSS-treated Rassf1a knockout mice with intraperitoneal injection of the c-Abl and c-Abl related protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor, imatinib/gleevec. However, p53 accumulation was not inhibited by imatinib/gleevec in the Rassf1a(-/-) background which revealed the importance of p53-dependent cell death during intestinal inflammation. These observations suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation of YAP (to drive p73 association and up-regulation of pro-apoptotic genes such as Bax) and accumulation of p53 are consequences of inflammation-induced injury in DSS-treated Rassf1a(-/-) mice. Mechanistically, we can detect robust associations of RASSF1A with membrane proximal Toll-like receptor (TLR) components to suggest that RASSF1A may function to interfere and restrict TLR-driven activation of NFκB. Failure to restrict NFκB resulted in the inflammation-induced DNA damage driven tyrosine phosphorylation of YAP, subsequent p53 accumulation and loss of intestinal epithelial homeostasis.
Peripheral neuropathy and central nervous system neurodegeneration may result from the mitochondrial toxicity of some antiretroviral nucleoside analogues. We investigated whether this neuropathology may be antagonized by uridine supplementation in vivo.
Because of the obvious difficulties in obtaining human neural tissues, the mitochondrial neurotoxicity of the nucleoside analogues was studied in mice.
BALB/C mice (7 weeks of age) were fed for 9 weeks with zalcitabine (13 mg/kg per day) or zidovudine (100 mg/kg per day) with or without mitocnol (340 mg/kg per day), a dietary supplement with high uridine bioavailability. Hippocampal and sciatic nerve mitochondria were analyzed.
Zalcitabine and to a lesser extent zidovudine induced a significant peripheral neuropathy and encephalopathy with disrupted mitochondrial ultrastructure, depleted mitochondrial DNA, reduced levels of cytochrome c oxidase activity and diminished expression of mitochondrial DNA-encoded cytochrome c oxidase subunit I. Mitocnol had no intrinsic effects but attenuated or fully normalized all measured disorder of the peripheral and central nervous system.
Zidovudine and zalcitabine induce a mitochondrial disorder in the peripheral and central nervous system, both of which are antagonized by uridine supplementation.
The p53 tumor suppressor protein plays an essential role in cellular integrity and inactivation of the TP53 gene by mutation is the most frequent alteration in human cancer. As loss of p53 function is associated with increased genetic instability, it is important in genotoxicity testing to explore the role of p53 competency. In vitro model systems for genotoxicity testing are sometimes prone to misleading positive results; some of this loss of predictivity may be caused by p53 inactivation in some cell models. To explore whether impaired p53 function plays a role in mutation sensitivity, TK6 cells (p53 competent) and NH32 cells (p53 deficient) were treated with two known genotoxicants, mitomycin C (MMC) and cytosine arabinoside (araC). Chromosomal damage was assessed in the low dose region by an automated micronucleus system and p53 activity was investigated by gene and protein expression analysis. Cell cycle progression studies were also assessed. Low levels of micronucleus and p53 induction were observed in TK6 cells treated with MMC. On the other hand, higher levels of micronucleus and p53 induction were shown in TK6 cells treated with araC and a G1/S arrest was observed after araC treatment. p53 deficient NH32 cells showed an increased sensitivity of micronucleus (MN) induction after araC treatment compared with TK6 cells and less of an active G1/S phase checkpoint. Thus, impaired p53 function sensitizes cells to genotoxicants and plays a central role in the DNA damage response. This data has clear importance for safety assessment of genotoxicity and shows how crucial p53 competence is.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia/thrombosis (HIT/T) is a common cause of life- and limb-threatening thrombosis. The development of antibodies that react with complexes of heparin and platelet factor 4 (PF4) is fundamental to the development of the disease. However, anti-PF4/heparin antibodies are far more common than is HIT/T and there is less understanding of the factors that contribute to thrombosis in only a subset of patients.
Both qualitative and quantitative differences in multiple factors (e.g. antibodies, heparin and platelets) may influence the clinical course of patients who develop anti-PF4/heparin antibodies. We examined the hypothesis that host-specific factors, such as comorbid prothrombotic conditions, would exacerbate the pathologic effects of anti-PF4/heparin antibodies.
A mouse model transgenic for human Fcgamma RIIa and PF4 and null for mouse PF4 was used to study the influence of prothrombotic conditions on the effects of anti-PF4/heparin antibodies in vivo. To simulate a prothrombotic milieu, mice were fed a hypercholesterolemic diet (HD). HD-fed mice had elevated plasma cholesterol, increased platelet reactivity and increased endothelial activation relative to mice fed a standard diet (SD). Age- and sex-matched mice from each diet group were treated with an anti-PF4/heparin antibody and heparin. HD-fed mice developed more severe thrombocytopenia than similarly treated SD-fed mice. Mice with moderate to severe thrombocytopenia had elevated plasma levels of thrombin-antithrombin complexes, indicative of increased thrombin generation in vivo. Platelet-fibrin thrombi were observed in multiple organs of HD-fed mice that developed severe thrombocytopenia.
Host-specific factors, such as prothrombotic changes in platelet reactivity and/or endothelial activation, may influence the development of thrombosis in a subset of patients who develop anti-PF4/heparin antibodies.
The pathophysiologic significance of increased levels of lipoxygenase compounds in psoriatic lesions was assessed in a double-blind randomized clinical study with the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, benoxaprofen. Forty patients with psoriasis vulgaris were treated with 600 mg of oral benoxaprofen daily or a placebo for a period of eight weeks. Benoxaprofen therapy provided excellent treatment results in about 75% of the cases. In the placebo group, only minimal improvement occurred. Most patients receiving benoxaprofen therapy reported side effects including photosensitivity, onycholysis, milia, diarrhea, and edema. In two cases, benoxaprofen was withdrawn before completion of the treatment course because of photosensitivity. Benoxaprofen may affect psoriatic epidermis either directly by the inhibition of epidermal 5-lipoxygenase or indirectly by the inhibition of the accumulation of phagocytes in psoriatic lesions. Despite serious side effects from benoxaprofen therapy, lipoxygenase-inhibiting agents deserve further study in the treatment of psoriasis.
