A 63-year-old man presented with ascites after therapy with amiodarone, 200 mg orally once per day for 22.5 months. A liver biopsy showed grade 3 chronic hepatitis and micronodular cirrhosis. The presence of striking microvesicular steatosis on light microscopy and lysosomal inclusion bodies on electron microscopy suggested amiodarone hepatotoxicity. This is the first reported case of amiodarone-induced hepatic cirrhosis associated with chronic treatment with 200 mg orally once per day for less than 2 years.
To evaluate the influence of an extract of Genista tinctoria L. herba (GT) or methylparaben (MP) on histopathological changes and 2 biomarkers of oxidative stress in rats subchronicly exposed to bisphenol A (BPA).
Adult female Wistar rats were orally exposed for 90 d to BPA (50 mg/kg), BPA+GT (35 mg isoflavones/kg) or BPA+MP (250 mg/kg). Plasma and tissue samples were taken from liver, kidney, thyroid, uterus, ovary, and mammary gland after 30, 60, and 90 d of exposure respectively. Lipid peroxidation and in vivo hydroxyl radical production were evaluated by histological analysis along with malondialdehyde and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid detection.
The severity of histopathological changes in liver and kidneys was lower after GT treatment than after BPA or BPA+MP treatment. A minimal thyroid receptor antagonist effect was only observed after BPA+MP treatment. The abnormal folliculogenesis increased in a time-dependent manner, and the number of corpus luteum decreased. No significant histological alterations were found in the uterus. The mammary gland displayed specific estrogen stimulation changes at all periods. Both MP and GT revealed antioxidant properties reducing lipid peroxidation and BPA-induced hydroxyl radical generation.
GT L. extract ameliorates the toxic effects of BPA and is proved to have antioxidant potential and antitoxic effect. MP has antioxidant properties, but has either no effect or exacerbates the BPA-induced histopathological changes.
PCOS (polycystic ovary syndrome) is a heterogeneous disease characterized by hyperandrogenaemia, hirsutism, oligo- or amenorrhea, insulin resistance and anovulation. The aim of the present study was to evaluate if the balance between the ovarian expression of Bax (proapoptotic protein) and Bcl-2 (antiapoptotic protein) is altered in a PCOS model developed in rats by DHEA (dehydroepiandrosterone) administration. In addition, the ovarian morphology and the circulating progesterone levels were evaluated. Histological studies confirmed the presence of follicular cysts, atretic follicles and the absence of corpora lutea in the ovaries from the PCOS group and a significant decrease in circulating progesterone levels. Immunohistochemical studies showed that the expression of Bcl-2 and Bax were mainly localized in granulosa cells of AFs (antral follicles) in both groups. Bax expression was greater in preantral and AFs from PCOS ovarian sections than in the controls. In contrast, intense Bcl-2 immunostaining was observed in the control AFs, while Bcl-2 protein was either absent in PFs (preantral follicles) or weakly expressed in AFs from PCOS rats. These results were partially confirmed by Western studies. Data revealed that the ovarian level of Bcl-2 protein was lower in PCOS than in the control and that there were no differences in Bax ovarian levels between groups. However, Bax/Bcl-2 ratio was significantly higher in PCOS group than in the control group. In conclusion, an increase in ovarian apoptosis through an imbalance among the Bcl-2 family members may be involved in the transformation of growing follicles in cystic follicles in the ovaries from DHEA-induced PCOS rats.
Male rats showed maternal behaviour within 72 h after the onset of continuous exposure to newborn rat pups. The latency of the behavioural response could be reduced by daily treatment with the dopamine receptor antagonist domperidone (2 X 2.5 mg/rat), which increased serum prolactin concentrations (241.4 +/- 26.5 (S.E.M.) micrograms/l) above those of vehicle-treated males exposed to pups (25.3 +/- 11.7 micrograms/l). Male rats did not respond to exposure to pups by secreting prolactin; keeping endogenous prolactin concentrations at a minimum (2.8 +/- 0.1 micrograms/l) by daily treatment with the dopamine receptor agonist bromocriptine (0.5 mg/rat) did not affect the behavioural response of male rats to newborn pups. Neither exposure to pups nor the modest hyperprolactinaemia induced by daily domperidone treatment affected the display of male sexual behaviour by male rats.
To report a case of seizures in a patient with Alzheimer disease, who was receiving quetiapine for psychoses.
A 75-year-old white man with Alzheimer disease was observed to have seizures while receiving quetiapine 500 mg/d and carbamazepine 200 mg/d. He had been taking quetiapine for 18 months prior to the event. No other toxic, metabolic, or anatomic abnormalities were identified to explain the seizures. After cessation of quetiapine treatment, the patient remained seizure free. An objective causality assessment revealed that the adverse drug reaction was possible.
The patient was taking a relatively high dose of quetiapine. An increased risk of seizures has been associated with Alzheimer disease. Using a relatively high dose of quetiapine may have resulted in seizures in our patient with Alzheimer disease.
As with other antipsychotics, quetiapine should be used cautiously in elderly patients with conditions that can lower the seizure threshold, and special monitoring should be performed for this serious adverse effect.
This work deals with the study of how porphyrinogenic drugs modeling acute porphyrias interfere with the status of carbohydrate-regulating hormones in relation to key glucose enzymes and to porphyria, considering that glucose modulates the development of the disease. Female Wistar rats were treated with 2-allyl-2-isopropylacetamide (AIA) and 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine (DDC) using different doses of AIA (100, 250 and 500mg/kg body weight) and a single dose of DDC (50mg DDC/kg body weight). Rats were sacrificed 16h after AIA/DDC administration. In the group treated with the highest dose of AIA (group H), hepatic 5-aminolevulinic acid synthase (ALA-S) increased more than 300%, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and glycogen phosphorylase (GP) activities were 43% and 46% lower than the controls, respectively, plasmatic insulin levels exceeded normal values by 617%, and plasmatic glucocorticoids (GC) decreased 20%. GC results are related to a decrease in corticosterone (CORT) adrenal production (33%) and a significant reduction in its metabolization by UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) (62%). Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulated adrenal production 3-fold and drugs did not alter this process. Thus, porphyria-inducing drugs AIA and DDC dramatically altered the status of hormones that regulate carbohydrate metabolism increasing insulin levels and reducing GC production, metabolization and plasmatic levels. In this acute porphyria model, gluconeogenic and glycogenolytic blockages caused by PEPCK and GP depressed activities, respectively, would be mainly a consequence of the negative regulatory action of insulin on these enzymes. GC could also contribute to PEPCK blockage both because they were depressed by the treatment and because they are positive effectors on PEPCK. These disturbances in carbohydrates and their regulation, through ALA-S de-repression, would enhance the porphyria state promoted by the drugs on heme synthesis and destruction. This might be the mechanism underlying the "glucose effect" observed in hepatic porphyrias. The statistical correlation study performed showed association between all the variables studied and reinforce these conclusions.
Inactivation of the beta4 subunit of the calcium channel in the mouse neurological mutant lethargic results in a complex neurological disorder that includes absence epilepsy and ataxia. To determine the role of the calcium-channel beta4-subunit gene CACNB4 on chromosome 2q22-23 in related human disorders, we screened for mutations in small pedigrees with familial epilepsy and ataxia. The premature-termination mutation R482X was identified in a patient with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. The R482X protein lacks the 38 C-terminal amino acids containing part of an interaction domain for the alpha1 subunit. The missense mutation C104F was identified both in a German family with generalized epilepsy and praxis-induced seizures and in a French Canadian family with episodic ataxia. These coding mutations were not detected in 255 unaffected control individuals (510 chromosomes), and they may be considered candidate disease mutations. The results of functional tests of the truncated protein R482X in Xenopus laevis oocytes demonstrated a small decrease in the fast time constant for inactivation of the cotransfected alpha1 subunit. Further studies will be required to evaluate the in vivo consequences of these mutations. We also describe eight noncoding single-nucleotide substitutions, two of which are present at polymorphic frequency, and a previously unrecognized first intron of CACNB4 that interrupts exon 1 at codon 21.
A woman with systemic lupus erythematosus developed severe myopathy after a septicemic episode, and her treatment before admission was hydroxychloroquine sulfate and prednisolone. A muscle biopsy revealed no evidence of vasculitis and creatine kinase was normal. She continued taking maintenance prednisolone and with intensive physiotherapy her muscle strength slowly returned. It is possible that the hydroxychloroquine was responsible for the myopathy.
Buprenorphine was approved in France for treating opiate dependence in July 1995 and can be prescribed by general practitioners (GPs). Most studies assessing buprenorphine maintenance treatment (BMT) outcomes have taken place in GP settings. An evaluation of BMT outcomes in patients already followed for their HIV-infection could supply additional information about the changes in addictive practices in a non-GP setting.
We assessed BMT discontinuations and the course of self-reported addictive behaviours and characteristics associated with buprenorphine-injection misuse in 114 HIV-infected patients on BMT who were followed in a hospital-based outpatient department.
The continuous series of follow-up visits at which these 114 patients reported regular buprenorphine prescriptions accounted for 237.5 person-years of observation, i.e. 475 follow-up visits. Of the 114 patients on BMT, 43% continued BMT throughout the follow-up, 40% stopped it, and results for 17% were not available either because they did not answer the self-administered questionnaire (5%) or because they were lost to follow-up (12%). Addictive behaviours declined but buprenorphine injection misuse remained stable. Depression measured by the CESD score (RR=1.04 95%CI [1.01-1.06]), cocaine use (RR=2.48 95%CI [1.31-4.68]) and alcohol consumption exceeding 4 alcohol units (AU) per day (RR=2.29, 95%CI [1.17-4.46]) were independently associated with buprenorphine injection misuse among stabilised BMT patients.
Despite the reduction in drug injection after starting BMT, buprenorphine injection misuse mainly involves patients with characteristics of severe addiction. Better monitoring of the illicit drug use patterns of patients on BMT may suggest new medical strategies for GPs to improve BMT outcomes.
We report a case of post-partum meningitis due to group B-streptococcus developing 24 h after vaginal delivery. Diagnosis was established by latex agglutination of streptococcus B-antigenes and confirmed by cerebrospinal fluid-culture later on. Clinical and haematological signs of meningitis disappeared after treatment with ampicillin. In a review of the literature we found eight other cases of streptococcal post-partum meningitis. In all of these cases, delivery was vaginal and no antibioprophylaxis was given.
We have measured the psychological effects of acebutolol and atenolol in sixteen patients with essential hypertension. The drugs were administered in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind manner, in single daily doses of 100 mg atenolol, 400 mg acebutolol or placebo for periods of 6 weeks, each drug period being separated by a placebo period. At each 2 weekly clinic visit, a questionnaire designed for assessment of state anxiety and state arousal was administered for self-completion. Arousal was significantly reduced by atenolol over the whole 6 weeks of administration. It was not affected by acebutolol. Anxiety was significantly reduced by acebutolol but only at the first of the three 2 weekly assessments on treatment. It was not affected by atenolol. Differences in the psychological effects of these two beta-adrenoceptor blockers are discussed in terms of their lipid solubility and haemodynamic effects.
Dimethylarsine iodide (DMI) was used as a model compound of trivalent dimethylarsenicals [DMA(III)], and the biological effects were extensively investigated in cultured Chinese hamster V79 cells. When the cytotoxic effects of DMA(III) were compared with those of inorganic arsenite and dimethylarsinic acid [DMA(V)], DMA(III) was about 10,000 times more potent than DMA(V), and it was even 10 times more toxic than arsenite. Depletion of cell glutathione (GSH) did not influence the cytotoxic effects of DMA(III), whereas it enhanced the cytotoxicity of arsenite. Chromosome structural aberrations, such as gaps, breaks and pulverizations, and numerical changes, such as aneuploidy, hyper- and hypo-tetraploidy, were induced by DMA(III) in a concentration-dependent manner. Mitotic index increased 9-12h after the addition of DMA(III), and then declined. By contrast, the incidence of multinucleated cells increased conversely with the decrease in mitotic index at and after 24h of exposure. The mitotic cell-specific abnormality of centrosome integrity and multipolar spindles were induced by DMA(III) in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Moreover, DMA(III) caused abnormal cytokinesis (multipolar division) at concentrations that were effective in causing centrosome abnormality, multipolar spindles and aneuploidy. These results showed that DMA(III) was genotoxic on cultured mammalian cells. Results also suggest that DMA(III)-induced multipolar spindles and multipolar division may be associated with the induction of aneuploidy. In addition, the centrosome may be a primary target for cell death via multinucleated cells.
The prevention of cyclophosphamide-induced urotoxicity by disulfiram was studied in mice. A single dose of cyclophosphamide (100-400 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) produced a significant dose-dependent increase in urinary bladder weight within 48 hr of treatment. Disulfiram prevented cyclophosphamide-induced bladder damage in a dose-dependent manner in mice when orally administered simultaneously with antitumour agents, but failed to diminish the acute toxicity, leukocytotoxicity and immunotoxicity of cyclophosphamide. The protective effect of disulfiram on the bladder was critically dependent on administration timing. Oral administration of disulfiram between 60 min. before and 60 min. after the injection of cyclophosphamide was found to be effective. The optimum time was simultaneous administration of both drugs. Diethyldithiocarbamate and carbon disulfide, metabolites of disulfiram, prevented cyclophosphamide-induced bladder damage when administered simultaneously with cyclophosphamide 1 to, 3 or 5 hr afterwards. Disulfiram slightly potentiated the antitumour activity of cyclophosphamide against Sarcoma 180 or EL-4 leukaemia in vivo when administered simultaneously with cyclophosphamide. In contrast, diethyldithiocarbamate or carbon disulfide did not interfere with cyclophosphamide antitumour activity when administered 3 hr after cyclophosphamide. From these preliminary studies, disulfiram appears to be a likely candidate for protection against cyclophosphamide-induced urotoxicity without compromising the therapeutic utility of the alkylating agent.
The nephrotoxic metal cadmium at micromolar concentrations induces apoptosis of rat kidney proximal tubule (PT) cells within 3-6 h of exposure. The underlying cell death pathways remain poorly defined. Using Hoechst 33342/ethidium bromide nuclear staining and 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) cell death assays, 10-50 microM cadmium induced apoptosis of immortalized rat kidney cells derived from the S1-segment of PT at 6 and 24 h, but necrosis at 24 h only. Cadmium (10-50 microM) also caused mitochondrial cytochrome c (cyt. c)- and apoptosis-inducing factor release at 24 h, but not at 6 h, as measured by immunofluorescence imaging and immunoblotting. Caspases-9 and -3 were activated only by 10 microM cadmium for 24 h, and accordingly apoptosis was significantly reduced by the respective inhibitors (z-LEHD-fmk, z-DEVD-fmk; 10 microg/ml) at 24 h, but not at 6 h, without affecting necrosis. At 6 h, 10 microM cadmium increased the activity of the calcium-activated protease calpain, but not at 24 h, and calpain inhibitors (ALLN, PD 150606; 10-30 microM) blocked apoptosis by 10 microM cadmium at 3-6 h. However, PD-150606 also attenuated caspase-3 activity and apoptosis at 24 h, suggesting calpain-dependent caspase activation. Thus cadmium-induced apoptosis of PT cells involves a complex and sensitive interplay of signaling cascades involving mitochondrial proapoptotic factors, calpains and caspases, whose activation is also determined by cadmium concentration and the duration of cadmium exposure.
Racemic fluoxetine is a widely used SSRI antidepressant compound having also anticonvulsant effect. In addition, it was shown that it blocked several types of voltage gated ion channels including neural and cardiac calcium channels. In the present study the effects of enantiomers of fluoxetine (R(-)-fluoxetine and S(+)-fluoxetine) were compared on neuronal and cardiac voltage-gated Ca2+ channels using the whole cell configuration of patch clamp techniques, and the anticonvulsant action of these enantiomers was also evaluated in a mouse epilepsy model. In isolated pyramidal neurons of the dorsal cochlear nucleus of the rat the effect of fluoxetine (S(+), R(-) and racemic) was studied on the Ca2+ channels by measuring peak Ba2+ current during ramp depolarizations. All forms of fluoxetine reduced the Ba2+ current of the pyramidal cells in a concentration-dependent manner, with a Kd value of 22.3+/-3.6 microM for racemic fluoxetine. This value of Kd was higher by one order of magnitude than found in cardiac myocytes with fluoxetine enantiomers (2.4+/-0.1 and 2.8+/-0.2 microM). Difference between the effects of the two enantiomers on neuronal Ba2+ current was observed only at 5 microM concentration: R(-)-fluoxetine inhibited 28+/-3% of the peak current, while S(+)-fluoxetine reduced the current by 18+/-2% (n=13, P<0.05). In voltage clamped canine ventricular cardiomyocytes both enantiomers of fluoxetine caused a reversible concentration-dependent block of the peak Ca2+ current measured at 0 mV. Significant differences between the two enantiomers in this blocking effect was observed at low concentrations only: S(+)-fluoxetine caused a higher degree of block than R(-)-fluoxetine (56.3+/-2.2% versus 49.1+/-2.2% and 95.5+/-0.9% versus 84.5+/-3.1% block with 3 and 10 microM S(+) and R(-)-fluoxetine, respectively, P<0.05, n=5). Studied in current clamp mode, micromolar concentrations of fluoxetine shortened action potential duration of isolated ventricular cells, while higher concentrations also suppressed maximum velocity of depolarization and action potential amplitude. This shortening effect was significantly greater in the case of S(+) than R(-)-fluoxetine at 1 and 3 microM concentrations, whereas no differences in their effects on depolarization were observed. In pentylenetetrazole-induced mouse epilepsy model fluoxetine pretreatment significantly increased the 60 min survival rate, survival duration and seizure latency. These effects were more pronounced with the R(-) than the S(+) enantiomer. The results indicate that fluoxetine exerts much stronger suppressive effect on cardiac than neuronal calcium channels. At micromolar concentrations (between 1 and 10 microM) R(-)-fluoxetine is more effective than the S(+) enantiomer on neuronal, while less effective on cardiac calcium channels. The stronger anticonvulsant effect of the R(-) enantiomer may, at least partially, be explained by these differences. Used as an antidepressant or anticonvulsant drug, less severe cardiac side-effects are anticipated with the R(-) enantiomer.
The aim of this 12-week, double-blind, flexible-dose, placebo-controlled, parallel-arm, multicenter trial was to determine the safety and efficacy of fluvoxamine in a controlled-release (CR) formulation in adult outpatients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).
253 adult outpatients with DSM-IV OCD were randomly assigned to receive 100 to 300 mg of fluvoxamine CR (N = 127) or placebo (N = 126) once daily for 12 weeks. Intent-to-treat analyses of efficacy assessments with the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (YBOCS), Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness scale (CGI-S), and Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement scale (CGI-I) were conducted.
Fluvoxamine CR was significantly (p <.05) superior to placebo in decreasing YBOCS total score beginning at week 2. This early response was sustained at all subsequent visits. At endpoint, there was a mean decrease of 8.5 +/- 0.7 (31.7%) in the YBOCS total score compared with baseline in the fluvoxamine CR treatment group versus a mean decrease of 5.6 +/- 0.7 (21.2%) in the placebo group (p =.001). Fluvoxamine CR was also significantly superior to placebo in lowering the severity of illness (CGI-S, p =.002) and in producing clinical improvement (CGI-I, p <.01). At endpoint, significantly greater percentages of the fluvoxamine CR treatment group were responders (p =.002) and remitters (p =.019) compared with the placebo group.
Over 12 weeks, fluvoxamine CR treatment was associated with a statistically significant and clinically relevant reduction in OCD severity and was found to be safe and well tolerated. The early onset of therapeutic effect, starting from week 2, was of particular interest.
In order to clarify the participation of substance P in the expression of opiate withdrawal, we have investigated the effects induced by the new selective neurokinin-1 antagonist RP 67580 on naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal syndrome in rats. Intracerebroventricular administration of RP 67580 elicited a decrease in 7 of the 13 withdrawal signs evaluated. Mastication, salivation and signs related to the motor component of withdrawal (jumping, rearing and locomotor activity) were particularly reduced. One sign, wet dog shakes, was increased, but it was also enhanced by the inactive enantiomer RP 68651. Our results indicate that blockade of NK1 receptors induces a decrease in the expression of naloxone-precipitated morphine abstinence in rats, and support the participation of substance P in the opiate withdrawal response.
The association between secondhand smoke (SHS) exposure and bladder cancer is inconclusive. Epigenetic alterations in bladder tumors have been linked to primary cigarette smoking and could add to the biological plausibility of an association between SHS exposure and bladder cancer.
SHS exposure is associated with DNA methylation in bladder tumors.
Using an array-based approach, we profiled DNA methylation from never smoking cases of incident bladder cancer. Analyses examined associations between individual loci's methylation with SHS variables (exposure in adulthood, childhood, occupationally, and total exposure). A canonical pathway analysis was used to find pathways significantly associated with each SHS exposure type.
There is a trend toward increased methylation of numerous CpG loci with increasing exposure to adulthood, occupational, and total SHS. Discrete associations between methylation extent of several CpG loci and SHS exposures demonstrated significantly increased methylation of these loci across all types of SHS exposure. CpGs with SHS-related methylation alterations were associated with genes in pathways involved in carcinogenesis, immune modulation, and immune signaling.
Exposures to SHS in adulthood, childhood, occupationally, and in total are each significantly associated with changes in DNA methylation of several CpG loci in bladder tumors, adding biological plausibility to SHS as a risk factor for bladder cancer.
A follow-up study is presented of the clinical aspects and pathogenesis of professional diseases due to the effect of antibiotics. A progressing, stable and regressing course of the disease was singled out. It is shown that in the long-term period the main pathogenetic mechanism was allergic vasculitis caused by penicillin, streptomycin and Candida fungi.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of prenatal methamphetamine (MA) exposure on flurothyl seizures. Adult prenatally MA-exposed male rats had decreased threshold of the first fasciculation and clonic seizure. In adult female rats, prenatal MA exposure decreased the threshold of the first fascicualtion in diestrous females, while there were no changes in proestrous or estrous females. The tonic-clonic seizure threshold was not altered by prenatal MA exposure.
The modification of 3'-((2-cyclopentyl-6,7-dimethyl-1-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-5-yloxy)methyl)biphenyl-4-carboxylic acid (BINA, 1) by incorporating heteroatoms into the structure and replacing the cyclopentyl moiety led to the development of new mGluR2 positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) with optimized potency and superior druglike properties. These analogues are more potent than 1 in vitro and are highly selective for mGluR2 vs other mGluR subtypes. They have significantly improved pharmacokinetic (PK) properties, with excellent oral bioavailability and brain penetration. The benzisothiazol-3-one derivative 14 decreased cocaine self-administration in rats, providing proof-of-concept for the use of mGluR2 PAMs for the treatment of cocaine dependence.
Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) is a metabolic disorder of heme biosynthesis, characterized by reduced uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (UROD) activity and increased urinary excretion of eight and seven carboxyl group porphyrins. Specific factors such as iron, alcohol and halogenated compounds further inhibit enzyme activity by generating reactive oxygen species. Antioxidant vitamin E has frequently been used to counteract oxidative stress in porphyria patients, but a number of studies have failed to detect any significant effect on porphyrin metabolism. Since the use of vitamin E in the treatment of porphyria is a debated question, it seemed of interest to administer high doses to five patients with PCT in order to evaluate the effects on urine porphyrin excretion. The patients had high urinary porphyrin excretion levels, but vitamin E significantly reduced the urinary excretion of eight carboxyl group porphyrins. This result is attributable to the increase in UROD activity caused by the vitamin, which is a known scavenger of the oxygen reactive species that interfere with the activity of the enzyme. In conclusion, this paper shows that vitamin E high doses significantly lowers the urine porphyrin excretion in studied patients affected by PCT.
Idiopathic intracranial hypertension is a rare disorder characterized by elevated intracranial pressure without hydrocephaly or intracranial process. Its mechanism is poorly understood. Most cases of benign intracranial hypertension are presumed to be idiopathic but some of them may be related to some treatment. We report a 26-year-old female with benign intracranial hypertension due to tetracycline, revealed by headaches and gradual visual loss. Standard investigations were unremarkable and favourable outcome after therapeutic lumbar puncture confirmed the diagnosis.
To investigate the effects of simvastatin (SIM)on cardiac hypertrophy and association with calcium channel modulation in rats with myocardial hypertrophy.
Myocardial hypertrophy was induced by abdominal aortic constriction (AAC) in adult SD rats. Following groups were studied (n=8 each): sham group, AAC group, AAC+ verapamil group (10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) per gavage for 4 weeks), AAC +SIM group (10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) per gavage for 4 weeks) AAC + SIM + mevalonic acid (50 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) per gavage for 4 weeks) group. Systolic blood pressure (SBP), echocardiography, heart weight/body weight (HW/BW) and left ventricle weight/body weight (LVW/BW) ratios were measured. The protein and mRNA expressions of L-type calcium channel subunit alpha1 C and T-type calcium channel subunit alpha1 G and alpha1 H were detected by Western blot and RT-PCR respectively.
SBP, HW/BW, LVW/BW, IVS and LVPW thickness, left ventricular weights were significantly increased in AAC rats and these effects could be significantly reduced by verapamil and SIM. The protein and mRNA expressions of alpha1 G and alpha1 H were significantly increased in AAC rats which could also be significantly inhibited by SIM or verapamil. The effects of SIM could be blocked by cotreatment with mevalonic acid. Protein and mRNA expressions of L-type calcium channel alpha1 C were similar among groups.
Similar as verapamil, SIM could prevent AAC induced cardiac hypertrophy, possibly via inhibiting T-type calcium channel subunit alpha1 G and alpha1 H re-expression.
To explore the effects of transplanted BMSCs (bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells) on cardiac function and ventricular remodeling in rats with isoproterenol (ISO) induced heart failure.
Wistar rats (n=50) received ISO (170 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) for 4 days) injection. Four weeks later, rats with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF < 70%, n=26) were randomly assigned to receive intramyocardially BMSCs (2 x 10(7)/ml, 150 microl) injection (n=13) or equal volume culture medium (n=13). Another 10 normal rats served as normal controls. Four weeks after transplantation, heart function was assessed again by echocardiography, left ventricular morphology was evaluated through H&E and Masson's trichome staining. Transplanted cells were observed by fluorescent microscope. RT-PCR and Western blot were performed to examine the myocardial expressions of type I and type III collagens, as well as MMP-2 and MMP-9.
LVEF [(78.51 +/- 6. 78)% vs. (65.40 +/- 12. 33)%] and LVFS [fractional shortening, (42.09 +/- 6. 53)% vs. (32.38 +/- 10. 22)%, all P < 0. 05] were significantly increased and LVDs [left ventricular systolic diameter, (2.91 +/- 0. 54) mm vs. (3.83 +/- 0.69) mm, P < 0.05] was significant decreased in BMSCs treated rats compared with culture medium treated rats. Myocardial fibrosis was also significantly attenuated in BMSCs rats than that in culture medium treated rats. The myocardial expressions of type I and type III collagens, as well as MMP-2 and MMP-9 were significantly decreased in the BMSCs group compared with those in culture medium treated group.
BMSCs transplantation can significantly improve heart function and attenuate LV remodeling in rats with ISO-induced heart failure mediated by reducing myocardial fibrosis and downregulation of myocardial MMP-2 and MMP-9 expressions.
