During the last 30 years a great number of case reports presented severe anaesthetic complications with sudden cardiac arrest in patients with muscular dystrophies, mostly unsuspected at the time of the event. As succinylcholine was involved in the majority of the intractable incidents with lethal outcome the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States recommended a warning of the administration of succinylcholine in young children and adolescents in 1992 and an extensive international discussion on the routine use of succinylcholine in paediatric anaesthesia. Epidemiological studies on this issue are rare. We projected an inquiry about the incidence rate and type of severe anaesthetic complications in an utmost large number of patients and families with Duchenne (DMD) and Becker type (BMD) muscular dystrophy.
With the approval of the ethic committee of the university Witten/Herdecke and informed consent of the participants we investigated all patients and families who were diagnosed, controlled and treated for DMD or BMD as inpatients or outpatients in a "Muscle Centre" since 1983. The questionnaire asked for the number of patients per family, classification of the disease DMD or BMD, number and date of anaesthetics in the patients and eventual complications, anaesthetics and eventual complications in the parents, siblings and relatives and the occurrence of malignant hyperthermia (MH) in the family or relatives. Statistical assessments were done by Fisher's exact test for stratified 2 x 2 tables and Zelen's test for homogeneity of odds ratios.
200 out of 224 questionnaires could be evaluated. The diagnosis was confirmed by molecular genetic and immunohistochemical investigations. In 147 families it turned out to be DMD, in 53 families BMD. The 212 male and 9 female patients in the 200 families were given 444 anaesthetics. Sudden cardiac arrest occurred in 6 patients, all successfully resuscitated. Nine less severe incidents consisted of fever, symptoms of rhabdomyolysis (CK-elevation, dark coloured urine, hyperkalemia) and masseter spasm. The statistical assessment revealed that the occurrence of an event was highly dependent whether the diagnosis of muscular dystrophy was established or not (p < 0.0001, Fisher's exact test). All six cardiac arrests occurred in the 45 families with undiagnosed disease and no event happened in the 134 families with already known DMD/BMD. There was evidence that the number of anaesthetics without prior establishment of the diagnosis decreased after 1992 (p = 0.004, Fisher's exact test).
Our results demonstrate that severe incidents and cardiac arrests occurred only in young children with undiagnosed DMD or BMD who received inhalational agents and succinylcholine. A cardiac arrest in 6 out of 200 families was found much more frequently than in the normal paediatric population (about 1:1000 to 1:3000). The decrease of events after 1992 (warning of the FDA) and disappearance of sudden cardiac arrests in our group of patients might be due to the world wide discussion on routine use of succinylcholine in children or the much earlier establishment of the diagnosis in our population. An early diagnosis of DMD and BMD and the avoidance of the triggering agents succinylcholine and volatile anaesthetics can reduce the risk of severe anaesthetic complications.
To investigate the changes in the gap junction of the hippocampal astrocytes of a rat model of lithium pilocarpine-induced epilepsies.
Lithium chloride and pilocarpine were injected intraperitoneally in SD rats to induce status epilepticus (SE). At 2, 12, 24 h and 3, 7, 15, 30 and 60 days after SE, the rats were sacrificed to observe the pathological changes in the hippocampus using Nissl staining. Immunohistochemistry for GFAP and connexin43 (CX43) were used to evaluate reactive astrogliosis and the changes in the astrocytic gap junctions.
SE induced by lithium and pilocarpine lasted for 6-30 h, and after a seizure-free period of about 30-45 days, the rats developed spontaneous recurrent seizures. Nissl staining showed that the most obvious neuronal damage occurred 12-24 h after seizure onset. Reactive gliosis began to be progressively prominent after 7 days till the end of the observation. GFAP expression increased 7 days after SE induction, intensified at 30 days, and became the most prominent at 60 days. In control rats, CX43 immunostaining was diffuse in the hippocampus; in the epileptic rats, diffuse CX43-positive varicosities appeared in the molecular layer and stratum oriens of the CA1 and CA3 areas 2 after seizure onset, and the number, length and immunostaining intensity of the varicosities increased at 12 h. These changes became the most prominent at 24 h after seizure onset, followed by gradual decrease of the immunoactivity, which was virtually absent till 30 and 60 days.
The hippocampal astrocytic gap junction coupling increases in acute SE to maintain the stability of the extracellular microenvironment. The defects in gap junction coupling of the astrocytes in chronic temporal lobe epilepsy may contribute to the development of spontaneous seizures.
We herein report the optical coherence tomography (OCT) findings in a case of chloroquine-induced macular toxicity, which to our knowledge, has so far not been reported. A 53-year-old lady on chloroquine for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis developed decrease in vision 36 months after initiation of the treatment. Clinical examination revealed evidence of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) disturbances. Humphrey field analyzer (HFA), fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA) and OCT for retinal thickness and volume measurements at the parafoveal region were done. The HFA revealed bilateral superior paracentral scotomas, FFA demonstrated RPE loss and OCT revealed anatomical evidence of loss of ganglion cell layers, causing marked thinning of the macula and parafoveal region. Parafoveal retinal thickness and volume measurements may be early evidence of chloroquine toxicity, and OCT measurements as a part of chloroquine toxicity screening may be useful in early detection of chloroquine maculopathy.
Torsades de pointes is a ventricular tachycardia characterized by the QRS complexes of changing amplitude that appear to twist around an isoelectric line. It usually precipitates in the setting of underlying Q-T interval prolongation, which has both congenital and acquired causes. The common acquired causes of torsades precipitation are medications, electrolyte imbalance, and severe bradycardia. This report presents a case of torsades de pointes that was precipitated by substance abuse in a patient with idiopathic long Q-T syndrome and required several treatment modalities.
Several studies indicate that in utero and perinatal exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) induces adverse reproductive effects, but it remains unclear whether such effects may be transmitted to subsequent generations. We therefore investigated the association between maternal exposure to PCBs and reproductive health in male and female offspring over three generations. Mouse dams were fed 0, 1, 10, and 100 μg/kg/day of a PCB mixture (101 + 118) during pregnancy and lactation. PCB levels were measured in the tissues of both dams and offspring. PCB concentrations at all doses investigated were greater in the offspring than in the dams (p ≤ 0.0001) confirming that the progeny were exposed as a result of maternal exposure. In F1 offspring, exposure to PCBs resulted in reductions in (1) testis weight (p ≤ 0.05) and seminiferous tubule diameter (p ≤ 0.05), (2) sperm viability (p ≤ 0.0001) and developmental capacity (p ≤ 0.05), (3) ovary weight (p ≤ 0.05), (4) oocyte developmental capacity (p ≤ 0.05), and (5) increased follicular atresia (p ≤ 0.0001). In females, adverse effects were observed only in the F1 animals. In contrast, male offspring exhibited reduced sperm viability and altered seminiferous tubule distribution up to the third generation, showing intergenerational transmission. In summary, our data indicate that exposure to PCBs at the time of gonadal sex determination perturbed, significantly, the reproductive physiology of male and female offspring in adulthood. Furthermore, male reproductive deficiencies may be observed in at least two further generations. These findings have significant implications for reproductive health and fertility of animals and humans.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a major safety concern in drug development and clinical drug therapy. However, the underlying mechanism of DILI is little known. It is generally believed that women exhibit worse outcomes from DILI than men. Recently, we found that pretreatment of mice with estradiol attenuated halothane (HAL)-induced liver injury, whereas pretreatment with progesterone exacerbated it in female mice. To investigate the mechanism of sex difference of DILI, we focused on progesterone in this study. We found the exacerbating effect of progesterone in thioacetamide (TA), α-naphthylisothiocyanate, and dicloxacillin-induced liver injury only in female mice. Higher number of myeloperoxidase-positive mononuclear cells infiltrated into the liver and increased levels of Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1 and 2 (CXCL1 and CXCL2) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 in the liver were observed. Interestingly, CXCL1 was slightly increased by progesterone pretreatment alone. Progesterone pretreatment increased the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation in HAL-induced liver injury. Pretreatment with U0126 (ERK inhibitor) significantly suppressed the exacerbating effect of progesterone and the expression of inflammatory mediators. In addition, pretreatment with gadolinium chloride (GdCl(3): inhibitor of Kupffer cells) significantly suppressed the exacerbating effect of progesterone pretreatment and the expression of inflammatory mediators. Moreover, posttreatment of RU486 (progesterone receptor antagonist) 1 h after the HAL or TA administration ameliorated the HAL- or TA-induced liver injury, respectively, in female mice. In conclusion, progesterone exacerbated the immune-mediated hepatotoxic responses in DILI via Kupffer cells and ERK pathway. The inhibition of progesterone receptor and decrease of the immune response may have important therapeutic implications in DILI.
In a multicentre crossover study of 97 patients with mild hypertension, the incidence and severity of adverse effects were observed during the first 14 days of treatment with amlodipine, nifedipine retard or placebo. Amlodipine (5 mg) once daily was equipotent to nifedipine retard (20 mg) twice daily. At these doses, the incidence of adverse effects was significantly greater during treatment with nifedipine retard (41%) than with amlodipine (27%, P < 0.05) or placebo (16%, P < 0.01). In particular, headache and flushing occurred significantly less frequently during the first 14 days of treatment with amlodipine than with nifedipine retard. The lower incidence and reduced severity of vasodilatory side-effects associated with amlodipine resulted in fewer withdrawals during initiation of therapy (2 on amlodipine compared with 7 on nifedipine retard).
The pathophysiology of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) cardiotoxicity is still controversial. The objective of this study was to assess the influence of high-dose leucovorin and infusional 5-FU regimen (HDLV5FU) on cardiac tissues.
We monitored 28 patients (median age 68 years) under HDLV5FU chemotherapy with complete blood counts, cardiac enzymes, C-reactive protein, coagulation tests, Holter electrocardiogram, and conventional echocardiography. Cardiac ultrasonic tissue characterization with integrated backscatter (IBS) analysis was performed in the 16 last enrolled patients.
The magnitude of both anterior and posterior cardiac IBS values significantly decreased at the 48th hour of treatment compared to both 0th hour and day 15 (p < 0.003). Cardiac IBS values on the 15th day were not different from the 0th hour. Clinical cardiotoxicity was not observed and other monitored parameters did not change significantly in any patient (p > 0.5 for all).
Cardiac IBS analysis suggests that 5-FU might cause reversible subclinical myocardial dysfunction.
The objective of this study was to examine the contribution of beta-blockade to antihypertensive treatment regimens including an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor or a calcium antagonist. The effects on BP control, adverse events, and plasma active renin concentration of removing atenolol from standard triple therapy (bendrofluazide and atenolol together with captopril or nifedipine) were assessed in a double-blind, randomised, parallel-group study, of eight weeks' duration in 46 patients from the Glasgow Blood Pressure Clinic. Blood pressures rose in patients randomised to placebo-atenolol compared with those who continued active-atenolol although the difference did not achieve statistical significance. However, the proportion of patients with controlled blood pressure (supine systolic BP < 140 mmHg plus supine diastolic BP < 95 mmHg) fell from 31% to 0% over the study period in patients given placebo-atenolol. There was a trend for BP control to deteriorate most when atenolol was withdrawn from nifedipine treated patients, but the 95% confidence intervals for the difference from captopril-treated patients were wide. Few side-effects were seen and these did not differ quantitatively between the study groups. Plasma active renin concentration was initially higher in captopril-treated patients, and increased on withdrawal of atenolol in both groups. Our findings suggest that beta-blockers make a clinically relevant contribution to treatment regimens including angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or calcium antagonists when given as part of standard triple antihypertensive therapy.
We report a woman with primary amenorrhoea and infertility associated with an isolated deficiency of pituitary follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), but normal luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion. Ovulation was induced by administration of exogenous FSH and resulted in a successful pregnancy. Sequence analysis of the FSH beta-subunit gene indicated that she is homozygous for a two nucleotide frameshift deletion in the coding sequence. Her mother and son are heterozygous for this mutation. This deletion results in an alteration of amino acid codons 61-86 followed by a premature termination codon. The predicted truncated beta-subunit peptide lacks regions which are important for association with the alpha subunit and for binding to and activation of the FSH receptor. Abnormalities of FSH structure or function might be an under recognised but treatable cause of infertility.
Acanthamoeba is an opportunistic protozoan pathogen that can cause blinding keratitis as well as fatal granulomatous encephalitis. One of the distressing aspects in combating Acanthamoeba infections is the prolonged and problematic treatment. For example, current treatment against Acanthamoeba keratitis requires early diagnosis followed by hourly topical application of a mixture of drugs that can last up to a year. The aggressive and prolonged management is due to the ability of Acanthamoeba to rapidly adapt to harsh conditions and switch phenotypes into a resistant cyst form. One possibility of improving the treatment of Acanthamoeba infections is to inhibit the ability of these parasites to switch into the cyst form. The cyst wall is partially made of cellulose. Here, we tested whether a cellulose synthesis inhibitor, 2,6-dichlorobenzonitrile (DCB), can enhance the effects of the antiamoebic drug pentamidine isethionate (PMD). Our findings revealed that DCB can block Acanthamoeba encystment and may improve the antiamoebic effects of PMD. Using in vitro assays, the findings revealed that DCB enhanced the inhibitory effects of PMD on Acanthamoeba binding to and cytotoxicity of the host cells, suggesting the cellulose biosynthesis pathway as a novel target for the improved treatment of Acanthamoeba infections.
To investigate the safety and efficacy of the combination of lenalidomide and prednisone in patients with myelofibrosis (MF).
Forty patients with MF were treated. Therapy consisted of lenalidomide 10 mg/d (5 mg/d if baseline platelet count < 100 x 10(9)/L) on days 1 through 21 of a 28-day cycle for six cycles, in combination with prednisone 30 mg/d orally during cycle 1, 15 mg/d during cycle 2, and 15 mg/d every other day during cycle 3. Lenalidomide therapy was continued indefinitely in patients exhibiting clinical benefit.
The median follow-up was 22 months (range, 6 to 27). Responses were recorded in 12 patients (30%) and are ongoing in 10 (25%). The median time to response was 12 weeks (range, 2 to 32). According to the International Working Group for Myelofibrosis Research and Treatment consensus criteria, three patients (7.5%) had partial response and nine patients (22.5%) had clinical improvement durable for a median of 18 months (range, 3.5 to 24+). Overall response rates were 30% for anemia and 42% for splenomegaly. Moreover, 10 of 11 assessable responders who started therapy with reticulin fibrosis grade 4 experienced reductions to at least a score of 2. All eight JAK2(V617F)-positive responders experienced a reduction of the baseline mutant allele burden, which was greater than 50% in four, including one of whom the mutation became undetectable. Grade 3 to 4 hematologic adverse events included neutropenia (58%), anemia (42%), and thrombocytopenia (13%).
The combination of lenalidomide and prednisone induces durable clinical, molecular, and pathologic responses in MF.
In order to prevent health risk from environmental chemicals, particularly for progeny, we have been performing a risk assessment for various chemicals including therapeutic agents. This paper reports the functional effects of maternal exposure to psychoactive drugs, anticancer drugs, or herbicides on the offspring of rats. Maternal exposure to imipramine in a dose equivalent to the therapeutic dose per unit body weight induced hyperthermic response to chlorpromazine in the male offspring, while normal control rats showed a marked hypothermia. Exposure to ethosuximide resulted in an increase in play fighting behavior in young offspring that was fostered by lactating normal mothers. Single exposures to nimustine or cisplatin, anticancer drugs, at a different gestational stage resulted in an acceleration of growth when exposed at the earlier stage of gestation. Moreover, cisplatin-exposed rats were emotionally unstable, showing a short latent time to the first line-crossing in an open-field during infantile period. The rats exposed to glufosinate ammonium, an herbicide, during the time of neurogenesis in the hippocampus showed a decrease in the wet-dog shakes response to kainic acid at six weeks of age. These results suggest that maternal exposure to chemicals during pregnancy induces a variety of functional abnormalities in the brain of the offspring dependent on the pharmacologic action of chemicals and the stage of gestation even with a single exposure.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors reduce morbidity and mortality in patients with heart failure and are a first-line therapy for chronic heart failure. However, the first-dose may be associated with asymptomatic or symptomatic hypotension. In previous small series with different ACE inhibitors, different blood pressure responses have been reported. We defined hypotension as a fall in mean blood pressure > or = 20 mm Hg and an absolute value of systolic blood pressure < or = 90 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure <60 mm Hg. We studied the evolution of mean, systolic and diastolic blood pressure after initiation of perindopril and captopril treatments in a multicentre, double-blind, randomised, comparative, prospective study. One hundred seventy-six patients, mean age 64.9+/-12.1 years, 116 men, with symptomatic heart failure, NYHA class II-IV, and a left ventricular ejection fraction <40%, were randomised to receive a single dose of captopril 6.25 mg (n = 85) or perindopril 2 mg, (n = 91). Systolic and diastolic blood pressure were recorded with Dinamap every 15 minutes during a baseline period of 2 hours, every 30 minutes from 2 to 7 hours and at 8 hours after the drug administration. Baseline characteristics of both groups were similar (demography, heart failure aetiology, NYHA class and blood pressure). Throughout the study there were 23 asymptomatic episodes of hypotension in the captopril group and 6 in the perindopril group (p = 0.039). One patient in the captopril group had symptomatic episodes. Mean blood pressure falls were significantly higher in the captopril versus perindopril group at 60 minutes (-4.6 mm Hg vs+0.7 mm Hg; p=0.004), 75 minutes (-4.4 mm Hg vs -1.1 mm Hg; p = 0.042), and 180 minutes (-3.4 mm Hg vs +0.0 mm Hg; p= 0.042). When elderly patients (> or =70 years) were considered the same pattern of response was found. In summary, first-dose hypotension is not negligible on initiation of therapy with ACE inhibitors in heart failure patients with low ejection fraction. Perindopril results in significantly less reduction in blood pressure and a lower incidence of symptomatic or asymptomatic hypotensive episodes and allows a safer start of therapy than captopril in heart failure patients.
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of cholinergic stimulation of the nucleus accumbens (NA) on locomotor behavior. Microinjection of the cholinergic agonist, carbachol, into the NA resulted in a dose-dependent increase in spontaneous locomotor activity. Pretreating rats with the nicotinic antagonist, mecamylamine, significantly reduced the carbachol-induced locomotor response, whereas pretreatment with the muscarinic antagonist, atropine, was ineffective. Injection of the dopamine antagonist, haloperidol, prior to stimulation of the NA with carbachol, significantly attenuated the motor stimulant effect of carbachol. Evidence has accumulated to suggest that the increased locomotor response elicited from NA stimulation is mediated by GABAergic efferents from the NA to the substantia innominata (SI). Pretreatment with the GABA agonist, muscimol, into the SI significantly antagonized the locomotor hyperactivity induced by carbachol injection into the NA. Taken together, these data indicate that carbachol produces a motor stimulant effect by activating nicotinic receptors which may modulate the release of dopamine in the NA and inhibit the GABAergic efferents to the SI.
The choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activator, which enhances cholinergic transmission via an augmentation of the enzymatic production of acetylcholine (ACh), is an important factor in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Methanolic extracts from Pueraria thunbergiana exhibited an activation effect (46%) on ChAT in vitro. Via the sequential isolation of Pueraria thunbergiana, the active component was ultimately identified as daidzein (4',7-dihydroxy-isoflavone). In order to investigate the effects of daidzein from Pueraria thunbergiana on scopolamine-induced impairments of learning and memory, we conducted a series of in vivo tests. Administration of daidzein (4.5 mg/kg body weight) to mice was shown significantly to reverse scopolamine-induced amnesia, according to the results of a Y-maze test. Injections of scopolamine into mice resulted in impaired performance on Y-maze tests (a 37% decreases in alternation behavior). By way of contrast, mice treated with daidzein prior to the scopolamine injections were noticeably protected from this performance impairment (an approximately 12%-21% decrease in alternation behavior). These results indicate that daidzein might play a role in acetylcholine biosynthesis as a ChAT activator, and that it also ameliorates scopolamine-induced amnesia.
We recently reported delayed angiographic restenosis in 15 patients who received 7-hexanoyltaxol (QP2)-eluting polymer stents (QuaDS) for the treatment of in-stent restenosis. This study presents the histological findings of atherectomy specimens from a subset of these patients receiving implants.
Between October and December 2001, 5 patients treated with QuaDS-QP2 stents underwent directional coronary atherectomy at 11.2+/-1.0 months for recurrent in-stent restenosis. Restenotic lesion composition was assessed with special stains, immunohistochemistry with quantitative image analysis, and, in one specimen, transmission electron microscopy. Atherectomy specimens contained fibrin interspersed in a smooth muscle cell-rich neointima with proteoglycan matrix. In 2 of 5 specimens, large aggregates of macrophages and T-lymphocytes were noted. These areas of active inflammation demonstrated a relatively high proliferation index by Ki-67 antibody staining, whereas the proliferation index in smooth muscle cell-rich restenotic areas was low.
Restenotic lesions from QuaDS-QP2-eluting stents at 12 months show persistent fibrin deposition with varying degrees of inflammation. These pathological changes, representing delayed healing, are usually observed up to only 3 months in human coronary arteries with stainless steel balloon-expandable stents. The nonreabsorbable polymer alone may have induced chronic inflammation.
A case of toxic leucoencephalopathy induced by 5 FU derivatives is reported. A 46-year-old woman was diagnosed as having breast cancer, and radical mastectomy was performed on May, 1982. After operation, she was given irradiation and 5FU derivative (tegafur or carmofur) 600 mg and Nolvadex 20 mg (tamoxifen citrate) were administered every day. After taking the medication for a month, she began to stagger and developed a tremor in both arms. She was admitted to our hospital on August 16, because she showed evidence of dysarthria and memory disturbance in addition to her initial complaints. Soon after admission, she developed akinetic mutism, and metastasis in the brain stem was suspected. In spite of her severe condition, she was given radiation over the posterior fossa and continued the medication. On September 22, CT disclosed low density area in the centrum semiovale bilaterally. She died of DIC on November 30. An autopsy was performed. The brain weight was 1110 g and the outer surface of the brain was normal. In frontal cut surfaces stained with K.B., bilateral degeneration of the centrum semiovale was apparent. Microscopically, the degree of myelin degeneration was stronger than that of axon, and numerous fatty granular cells were found in the degenerated area. There were no bizarre shaped astrocytes, inclusion body or cellular infiltration. Fibrillary gliosis was scanty. No metastasis was found in the central nervous system or other organs. Based on these pathological findings and clinical history, toxic leucoencephalopathy induced by 5 FU derivatives was suggested.
We investigated the in vitro effect of domperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia on plasma cytokine concentration and blood leukocyte cytokine production in healthy female volunteers. No changes were found in the plasma concentration of interferon (IFN)-gamma, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-4, IL-10, IL-6 and IL-13 during hyperprolactinemia when compared with control values. Using unseparated blood leukocytes, we found that the spontaneous production of IL-6 (4-8 h) and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta 1 (2-4 h) was significantly decreased and that the in vitro stimulated production of IFN-gamma (2-8 h) and TNF (4 h) was significantly increased compared with control. Our data concerning the increased IFN-gamma and TNF producing capacity of unseparated leukocytes during pharmacologically induced hyperprolactinemia strongly support the possibility that the lymphocyte production of these cytokines can be rapidly amplified by prolactin via a priming mechanism.
We report the case of a 48-year-old woman who present a tricuspid, mitral and aortic regurgitation after long term ingestion of ergot alkaloids. Tricuspid and mitral fibrosis associated with retraction of the aortic leaflets are the causes of heart failure. Replacement of the three valves will be necessary. This is one, not the least complication of long-term ergotamine therapy.
Patients with Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type I (APS I) present with multiple endocrine failures due to organ-specific autoimmune disease, thought to be T-cell-mediated. Paradoxically, APS I patients suffer from chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis. The mutated gene has been identified as the Autoimmune regulator (AIRE). Aire is expressed in medullary epithelial cells of the thymus and in antigen presenting cells in the periphery. T cells from Aire deficient mice and men displayed an enhanced proliferative response against Candida antigen in vitro, suggesting that Aire deficient T cells are competent in recognizing Candida albicans. In contrast, monocytes from APS I patients displayed a decreased and delayed internalization of zymosan. Furthermore, Candida antigen activated monocytes from APS I patients show decreased and altered phoshotyrosine kinase activation. In conclusion, Aire deficient APCs have a defect receptor mediated internalization of Candida which affects kinase activation, likely altering the innate Candida immune response.
Optimal screening for ocular toxicity caused by chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine is still controversial. With the multifocal pattern electroretinogram (mfPERG), a new electrophysiological technique has recently become available to detect early changes of ganglion cells. In this study this new technique is applied to a series of 10 patients seen consecutively receiving long-term chloroquine medication.
In 10 patients receiving chloroquine medication, clinical examination, Amsler visual field testing and computerized color vision testing were performed. If toxicity was suspected, automated perimetry was carried out. In addition, in all patients conventional pattern electroretinogram (PERG) and mfPERG testing were performed.
On clinical examination 8 patients showed no chloroquine-associated maculopathy, while 2 patients did. Of these 2, only 1 reported abnormalities when viewing the Amsler chart, while automated perimetry showed typical, ring-like paracentral scotomas in both affected patients and color vision was significantly abnormal. In the normal patients, 4 of 8 had a mild color vision disturbance, which correlated to age-related macular changes. The amplitudes of the PERG and the central (approximately 10 degrees ) responses of the mfPERG were markedly reduced in chloroquine maculopathy, while the latencies were unchanged. The peripheral rings of mfPERG (ranging to 48 degrees ) were not affected by chloroquine toxicity. Both PERG and mfPERG were less affected by age-related macular changes.
The reduction of PERG and central mfPERG responses in chloroquine maculopathy may help with the early detection of toxicity.
ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters comprise a large paralogous protein family and several confer drug resistance. Ivermectin (IVM) is the only drug approved for treatment of onchocerciasis and is a substrate for some ABC transporters. Furthermore, there is accumulating evidence that IVM selects on some ABC transporter genes in Onchocerca volvulus and other parasitic nematodes. The onchocerciasis control programs rely on community based treatment with IVM each year to reduce morbidity and decrease parasite transmission. This appears to be imposing selection pressure on O. volvulus. A half-size ABC transporter cDNA has previously been reported for O. volvulus, however, the full length gene has not been previously characterized and investigated for possible selection by IVM. Genes under selection may be identified by patterns of linkage disequilibrium (LD) and a loss of genetic polymorphism at physically linked loci. Twelve genetic markers spanning the full gene were examined in O. volvulus from non-treated and IVM treated populations in Ghana. Analysis of the genomic organization of the half-size ABC transporter (OvPLP) indicates that it spans approximately 3.8 kb comprising nine exons. Worms from treated people showed a reduction in gene diversity, a loss of genetic polymorphism at several markers, a selection for specific alleles, and a reduction in the number of regions in LD; these effects were more pronounced as treatment increased. These changes suggest that IVM is imposing selection pressure on this gene. The region between transmembrane domains four and five may be a useful marker for IVM selection in O. volvulus.
The extracellular matrix glycoprotein tenascin-C (TNC) has been accepted as a valuable histopathological subepithelial marker for evaluating the severity of asthmatic disease and the therapeutic response to drugs. We found an association between an adult asthma and an SNP encoding TNC fibronectin type III-D (Fn-III-D) domain in a case-control study between a Japanese population including 446 adult asthmatic patients and 658 normal healthy controls. The SNP (44513A/T in exon 17) strongly associates with adult bronchial asthma (chi2 test, P=0.00019, Odds ratio=1.76, 95% confidence interval=1.31-2.36). This coding SNP induces an amino acid substitution (Leu1677Ile) within the Fn-III-D domain of the alternative splicing region. Computer-assisted protein structure modeling suggests that the substituted amino acid locates at the outer edge of the beta-sheet in Fn-III-D domain and causes instability of this beta-sheet. As the TNC fibronectin-III domain has molecular elasticity, the structural change may affect the integrity and stiffness of asthmatic airways. In addition, TNC expression in lung fibroblasts increases with Th2 immune cytokine stimulation. Thus, Leu1677Ile may be valuable marker for evaluating the risk for developing asthma and plays a role in its pathogenesis.
Levodopa-induced motor complications, including dyskinesia and wearing off, are troublesome side effects of treatment and impair quality of life in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. The use of nondopaminergic agents as adjuncts to levodopa are potential options for managing these problems. Here, we asses the ability of the clinically available, selective histamine H(2) antagonist, famotidine (1, 3, and 30 mg/kg) to treat levodopa-induced dyskinesia and wearing off in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-macaque model of PD. Famotidine (3 mg/kg) increased peak activity, enhanced peak anti-parkinsonian action (1 and 3 mg/kg), and extended duration of action (3 mg/kg, by 38%) of a low dose of levodopa (compared to low dose levodopa alone). Enhancement of anti-parkinsonian actions of low dose levodopa by famotidine (3 mg/kg) was associated with only mild, nondisabling dystonia. Famotidine had no effect on the anti-parkinsonian actions of high dose levodopa (compared to high dose levodopa alone). However, famotidine (1, 3, and 30 mg/kg) had a significant effect on chorea, but not dystonia, induced by high dose levodopa (compared to high dose levodopa alone). Famotidine increased high dose levodopa-induced "good quality" on time, i.e., on time not associated with disabling dyskinesia, by up to 28% (compared to high dose levodopa alone). In conclusion, famotidine, a drug currently available for use in the clinic, can enhance the peak-dose anti-parkinsonian actions and extend total duration of action of a low dose of levodopa, without producing disabling dyskinesia. Furthermore, in combination with a higher dose of levodopa, famotidine can reduce peak-dose levodopa-induced chorea and improve the quality of on-time.
