Structural and polymorphic variations in Neuregulin 3 (NRG3), 10q22-23 are associated with a broad spectrum of neurodevelopmental disorders including developmental delay, cognitive impairment, autism, and schizophrenia. NRG3 is a member of the neuregulin family of EGF proteins and a ligand for the ErbB4 receptor tyrosine kinase that plays pleotropic roles in neurodevelopment. Several genes in the NRG-ErbB signaling pathway including NRG1 and ErbB4 have been implicated in genetic predisposition to schizophrenia. Previous fine mapping of the 10q22-23 locus in schizophrenia identified genome-wide significant association between delusion severity and polymorphisms in intron 1 of NRG3 (rs10883866, rs10748842, and rs6584400). The biological mechanisms remain unknown. We identified significant association of these SNPs with increased risk for schizophrenia in 350 families with an affected offspring and confirmed association to patient delusion and positive symptom severity. Molecular cloning and cDNA sequencing in human brain revealed that NRG3 undergoes complex splicing, giving rise to multiple structurally distinct isoforms. RNA expression profiling of these isoforms in the prefrontal cortex of 400 individuals revealed that NRG3 expression is developmentally regulated and pathologically increased in schizophrenia. Moreover, we show that rs10748842 lies within a DNA ultraconserved element and homedomain and strongly predicts brain expression of NRG3 isoforms that contain a unique developmentally regulated 5' exon (P = 1.097E(-12) to 1.445E(-15)). Our observations strengthen the evidence that NRG3 is a schizophrenia susceptibility gene, provide quantitative insight into NRG3 transcription traits in the human brain, and reveal a probable mechanistic basis for disease association.
We present 62 yrs old patient in whom megaloblastic anaemia due to vitamin B12 depletion was caused by Helicobacter pylori infection. An eradication treatment with the vitamin B12 supplementation within 7 days resulted in withdrawal of the abnormalities in the blood smear. The inflammation of gastric mucosa with intestine metaplasia is still observed. According to the letters these changes may persist up to 2-3 years after treatment ending.
Nine episodes of drug associated acute interstitial nephritis, in seven patients, were treated between 1972 and 1980. The drugs implicated were cotrimoxazole (three times), ampicillin, Magnapen (ampicillin and flucloxacillin), penicillin, gentamicin, paracetamol and bendrofluazide. The time from exposure to the onset of symptoms ranged from one to 30 days. Presentation was with acute renal failure, which was non-oliguric in five cases, accompanied by rash (four), fever (four), and loin pain (two). Renal biopsy was carried out in all cases, and showed a characteristic interstitial infiltrate comprising substantial numbers of lymphocytes and plasma cells, with a variable number of neutrophils, eosinophils and histiocytes. Immunofluorescence was negative in all four cases studied in the acute phase, and showed scattered deposits of IgG, IgM, IgA and C3 on the tubular basement membrane in one patient during recovery. Significant proteinuria and an abnormal urine deposit were present in all cases, and seven of nine had radiological evidence of enlarged kidneys. Seven episodes were treated with high doses of methyl prednisolone and in all there was a response with a diuresis or spontaneous fall in serum creatinine within 72 hrs, and recovery of virtually normal renal function. Of two cases who did not initially receive steroids, one improved more slowly and one developed chronic renal impairment.
Dyskinesias associated with involuntary movements and painful muscle contractions are a common and severe complication of standard levodopa (L-DOPA, L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) therapy for Parkinson's disease. Pathologic neuroplasticity leading to hyper-responsive dopamine receptor signaling in the sensorimotor striatum is thought to underlie this currently untreatable condition.
Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was employed to evaluate the molecular changes associated with L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease. With this technique, we determined that thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) was greatly increased in the dopamine-depleted striatum of hemi-parkinsonian rats that developed abnormal movements in response to L-DOPA therapy, relative to the levels measured in the contralateral non-dopamine-depleted striatum, and in the striatum of non-dyskinetic control rats. ProTRH immunostaining suggested that TRH peptide levels were almost absent in the dopamine-depleted striatum of control rats that did not develop dyskinesias, but in the dyskinetic rats, proTRH immunostaining was dramatically up-regulated in the striatum, particularly in the sensorimotor striatum. This up-regulation of TRH peptide affected striatal medium spiny neurons of both the direct and indirect pathways, as well as neurons in striosomes.
TRH is not known to be a key striatal neuromodulator, but intrastriatal injection of TRH in experimental animals can induce abnormal movements, apparently through increasing dopamine release. Our finding of a dramatic and selective up-regulation of TRH expression in the sensorimotor striatum of dyskinetic rat models suggests a TRH-mediated regulatory mechanism that may underlie the pathologic neuroplasticity driving dopamine hyper-responsivity in Parkinson's disease.
Entecavir is a potent inhibitor of both wild-type and lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) with proven clinical efficacy. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study in Japan (ETV-052) evaluating the efficacy and safety of two doses of entecavir in adult patients with lamivudine-refractory chronic hepatitis B infection.
Eighty-four patients with chronic hepatitis B who were refractory to lamivudine therapy were switched from lamivudine to daily oral doses of 0.5 mg entecavir (41 patients) or 1 mg entecavir (43 patients) for 52 weeks.
The proportions of patients achieving the primary end-point (>or=2 log(10) reduction in HBV-DNA from baseline by polymerase chain reaction assay or undetectable HBV-DNA levels [<400 copies/mL] at week 48) were 90% and 93% for entecavir 0.5 mg and 1 mg, respectively, with 33% of patients in each dosing group achieving <400 copies/mL. The mean reduction in HBV-DNA from baseline was 3.58 and 3.75 log(10) copies/mL for entecavir 0.5 mg and 1 mg, respectively. High proportions of patients achieved alanine aminotransferase normalization at week 48 (0.5 mg 86%, 1 mg 78%). Histological improvement was observed in most patients (0.5 mg 52%, 1 mg 60%). Virological breakthrough (increase in HBV-DNA of >or=1 log(10) copies/mL from nadir) was observed in one patient but was not associated with selection of entecavir-associated resistance substitutions. Entecavir was well tolerated, with no patients discontinuing study drug due to adverse events.
These findings indicate that entecavir is safe and effective for the treatment of Japanese adults with lamivudine-refractory chronic hepatitis B.
A convulsive dose of soman induces seizure-related brain damage (SRBD), including cerebral edema (CE) and cell death. In 1993, an American study demonstrated that hypertonic mannitol (Mann) intravenously (i.v.) administered 1 min and 5h post-soman was an effective neuroprotectant in intoxicated rats. Using a similar protocol, we recently failed to reproduce this success in intoxicated mice. In the present study, also performed in mice, the persistence or the amplitude of the osmotic load was increased by reducing the time interval between two injections of Mann or by augmenting the number of injections. Mice were pre-treated with the oxime HI-6 and then intoxicated with a convulsive dose of soman (172 microg/kg). Afterward, they were administered a first i.v. bolus of Mann 20% 1 min post-challenge and a second one either 5, or 2, or 1h after. Additional animals were given either one (1 min post-soman), or two (1 min and 1h post-soman), or three (1 min, 1 and 2h post-soman) series of three injections of Mann at 5 min intervals. Non-intoxicated mice treated with Mann (same protocols as above) and intoxicated mice treated with Mann vehicle (saline) served as controls. At 24h post-intoxication, the survivors were sacrificed and their brains prepared for quantitative histological assessment of cell damage, CE, and ventricle size. Whatever the protocol, Mann had no effect on soman-induced convulsions but did provide considerable antilethal activity. Histologically, Mann did not reduce the cell damage or CE. It even showed a dose-dependent trend toward aggravation of SRBD in some regions and promoted subarachnoid hemorrhages. Conversely, in one of the treatment protocol, it reduced soman-induced enlargement of ventricle size. Although treatment with hypertonic Mann showed some benefit on mortality and ventricle size, it failed to be an effective neuroprotector in soman-intoxicated mice and even increased the detrimental impact of soman at the cerebral level. Therefore, no clear recommendation could be drawn from the present study in view of a possible clinical use of hyperosmolar treatment in the medical management of soman poisoning.
Prolonged neonatal exposure to hyperoxia is associated with high mortality, leukocyte influx in airspaces, and impaired alveolarization. Inhibitors of type 4 phosphodiesterases are potent anti-inflammatory drugs now proposed for lung disorders. The current study was undertaken to determine the effects of the prototypal phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor rolipram on alveolar development and on hyperoxia-induced lung injury.
Rat pups were placed under hyperoxia (FiO2>95%) or room air from birth, and received rolipram or its diluent daily until sacrifice. Mortality rate, weight gain and parameters of lung morphometry were recorded on day 10. Differential cell count and cytokine levels in bronchoalveolar lavage and cytokine mRNA levels in whole lung were recorded on day 6. Rolipram diminished weight gain either under air or hyperoxia. Hyperoxia induced huge mortality rate reaching 70% at day 10, which was prevented by rolipram. Leukocyte influx in bronchoalveolar lavage under hyperoxia was significantly diminished by rolipram. Hyperoxia increased transcript and protein levels of IL-6, MCP1, and osteopontin; rolipram inhibited the increase of these proteins. Alveolarization was impaired by hyperoxia and was not restored by rolipram. Under room air, rolipram-treated pups had significant decrease of Radial Alveolar Count.
Although inhibition of phosphodiesterases 4 prevented mortality and lung inflammation induced by hyperoxia, it had no effect on alveolarization impairment, which might be accounted for by the aggressiveness of the model. The less complex structure of immature lungs of rolipram-treated pups as compared with diluent-treated pups under room air may be explained by the profound effect of PDE4 inhibition on weight gain that interfered with normal alveolarization.
Amiodarone is a valuable agent, used in the management of intractable cardiac arrhythmias. Its widespread use persists despite a list of well recognized side-effects. Skin reactions are common, usually presenting as photosensitivity or less frequently as a blue/grey pigmentation on light-exposed sites. Leucocytoclastic vasculitis following treatment with amiodarone has been reported rarely. We describe a further case and briefly review the unwanted cutaneous manifestations of amiodarone therapy.
To establish an animal model of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletion and investigate the possible role of mtDNA deletion in aminoglycoside antibiotic induced deafness.
Thirty wistar rats (4 months) were randomly divided into group A and B. Doxorubicin (DOX) was subcutaneously injected at doses of 2 mg/kg twice per week for 3 months in group A and then kanamycin (KM) was intraperitoneally injected 500 mg/kg per day for 10 consecutive days. The treatments of group B were identical to group A, except normal saline was substituted for DOX. The thresholds of auditory brainstem response (ABR) were measured before and after the drug administrations. The inner ear membranous labyrinthine tissue was harvested and mtDNA was amplified to identify 4,834 bp deletion by PCR technique.
The elevation of the mean ABR thresholds in group A(67.08 +/- 8.59) dB peSPL was significantly higher than that in group B (12.71 +/- 4.42) dB peSPL after KM administration (P < 0.001). In group A, 9 of the 15 rats demonstrated 4,834 bp mtDNA deletion. However, mtDNA 4,834 bp deletion was negative in group B animals.
DOX can induce mtDNA deletion in the inner ear tissue of the rat. mtDNA deletion in the inner ear may play an important role in the hypersensitivity to aminoglycoside antibiotic ototoxicity.
The present work aimed to evaluate the effects of social separation for 14 days (chronic stress) and of withdrawal from a 14-day treatment with diazepam (acute stress) on the exploratory behaviour of male rats in the elevated plus-maze and on serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) turnover in different brain structures. Social separation had an anxiogenic effect, evidenced by fewer entries into, and less time spent on the open arms of the elevated plus-maze. Separation also selectively increased 5-hydroxytryptamine turnover in the hippocampus and median raphe nucleus. Diazepam withdrawal had a similar anxiogenic effect in grouped animals and increased 5-hydroxytryptamine turnover in the same brain structures. Chronic treatment with imipramine during the 14 days of separation prevented the behavioural and neurochemical changes caused by social separation. It is suggested that the increase in anxiety determined by both acute and chronic stress is mediated by the activation of the median raphe nucleus-hippocampal 5-hydroxytryptamine pathway.
Perchloroethylene (PERC) is commonly used as a dry cleaning solvent and is believed to be a human carcinogen, with occupational exposure resulting in elevated rates of kidney cancer. Living near a dry cleaning facility using PERC has been demonstrated to increase the risk of PERC exposure throughout the building where the dry cleaning is conducted, and in nearby buildings. We designed this study to test the hypothesis that living in an area where there are many PERC dry cleaners increases PERC exposure and the risk of kidney cancer. We matched the diagnosis of kidney cancer from hospitalization discharge data in New York City for the years 1994-2004 by zip code of patient residence to the zip code density of dry cleaners using PERC, as a surrogate for residential exposure. We controlled for age, race, gender, and median household income. We found a significant association between the density of PERC dry cleaning establishments and the rate of hospital discharges that include a diagnosis of kidney cancer among persons 45 years of age and older living in New York City. The rate ratio increased by 10 to 27% for the populations in zip codes with higher density of PERC dry cleaners. Because our exposure assessment is inexact, we are likely underestimating the real association between exposure to PERC and rates of kidney cancer. Our results support the hypothesis that living near a dry cleaning facility using PERC increases the risk of PERC exposure and of developing kidney cancer. To our knowledge, this study is the first to demonstrate an association between residential PERC exposure and cancer risk.
The effect of hexachlorophene (HCP; 2,2'-methylenebis(3,4,6-trichlorophenol), cuprizone (CPZ; bicyclohexone oxaldihydrazone) and triethyl tin (TET; triethyl tin sulphate) in producing vacuoles in the brain of the Sprague-Dawley rat has been quantified by image analysis of the extent of the spongy change in the white matter. The state of the astrocytes was assessed by immunocytochemical staining for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). HCP and TET caused a dose-related spongiosis, but cuprizone had no significant effect on the brain. With chronic HCP treatment, the spongiosis was accompanied by astrocyte hypertrophy and proliferation, and the extent of the gliotic reaction was related to the dose of HCP. The results demonstrate that HCP can produce and maintain astrocyte proliferation in the rat brain. Such an agent was required for use in an investigation of a putative tumour promoter in the rat.
To compare the calculated mean ocular perfusion pressure at the end of 3 weeks' treatment with latanoprost 0.005% once daily or timolol 0.5% twice daily in normal-tension glaucoma patients.
In a three-center, double-masked, randomized, crossover study, 36 patients were allocated to two treatment groups; one received 3 weeks each of placebo, latanoprost, placebo, and timolol, whereas the other group had placebo, timolol, placebo, and latanoprost. Intraocular pressure and resting systemic blood pressure were measured at 9 AM, 12 noon, and 4 PM. Ocular perfusion pressure was calculated for each time period as well as the mean of three values (daytime average). Systemic blood pressure and heart rate were also recorded at 30-minute intervals during the last 24 hours of each treatment period.
The average daytime mean ocular perfusion pressure (mean +/- SEM) following latanoprost treatment was 53.2 +/- 1.4 mm Hg, an increase of 8% from the latanoprost run-in period, compared with 50.9 +/- 1.1 mm Hg following timolol treatment, an increase of 2% from the timolol run-in period (P < .05, ANOVA). Timolol reduced the blood pressure. The difference in mean daytime and nighttime systolic blood pressure measurements as well as nighttime diastolic blood pressure was about 5 mm Hg between the latanoprost and timolol treatments. The daytime and nighttime heart rates were also slower during the timolol treatment.
Because ocular perfusion pressure may be important in some glaucomatous patients, latanoprost appears to affect ocular perfusion pressure more favorably than timolol does in patients with normal-tension glaucoma.
The gene encoding of the 65 kDa isoform of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-synthesizing enzyme, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), GAD65, was targeted in mice by homologous recombination. Viable GAD65 -/- mice were obtained with the expected mendelian frequency and displayed no gross morphological defects. Despite the complete loss of GAD65 mRNA and protein in a homozygous mutant, there was no difference in GABA content in the brains of GAD65 +/+, +/-, and -/- mice. As for the other 67 kDa isoform (GAD67), the levels of mRNA and protein were largely unchanged by the GAD65 mutation. General behavior, including locomotor activity and performance in the Morris water maze task, appeared normal, but seizures were more easily induced by picrotoxin and pentylenetetrazol: the latencies to seizures induced by picrotoxin were shorter and the dose of pentylenetetrazol required for induction of seizures was lower.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic disease of unclear etiology, characterized by an overactive immune system and the production of antibodies that may target normal tissues of many organ systems, including the kidneys. It can arise at any age and occurs mainly in women.
Our aim was to evaluate the potential influence of particulate matter (PM) air pollution on clinical aspects of SLE.
We studied a clinic cohort of SLE patients living on the island of Montreal, followed annually with a structured clinical assessment. We assessed the association between ambient levels of fine PM [median aerodynamic diameter ≤ 2.5 μm (PM2.5)] measured at fixed-site monitoring stations and SLE disease activity measured with the SLE Disease Activity Index, version 2000 (SLEDAI-2K), which includes anti-double-stranded DNA (anti-dsDNA) serum-specific autoantibodies and renal tubule cellular casts in urine, which reflects serious renal inflammation. We used mixed effects regression models that we adjusted for daily ambient temperatures and ozone levels.
We assessed 237 patients (223 women) who together had 1,083 clinic visits from 2000 through 2007 (mean age at time of first visit, 41.2 years). PM2.5 levels were associated with anti-dsDNA and cellular casts. The crude and adjusted odds ratios (reflecting a 10-μg/m3 increase in PM2.5 averaged over the 48 hr prior to clinical assessment) were 1.26 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.96-1.65] and 1.34 (95% CI, 1.02-1.77) for anti-dsDNA antibodies and 1.43 (95% CI, 1.05-1.95) and 1.28 (0.92-1.80) for cellular casts. The total SLEDAI-2K scores were not associated with PM2.5 levels.
We provide novel data that suggest that short-term variations in air pollution may influence disease activity in established autoimmune rheumatic disease in humans. Our results add weight to concerns that pollution may be an important trigger of inflammation and autoimmunity.
It is estimated that up to 45% of patients with depression do not have an adequate response to a first trial of antidepressant therapy with even higher reported rates for the elderly patients. To compare the efficacy and the tolerability of venlafaxine vs. paroxetine in elderly patients suffering from resistant major depression, who did not respond to at least two previous adequate trials of antidepressants. Patients entered an 8-week single-blind study. Patients were rated using the Clinical Global Impression Scale, Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression, and the Geriatric Depression Scale. Assessments were performed at baseline and on days 7, 14, 21, 28, 42 and 56. Side effects were recorded in a systemic manner. Thirty patients were included in the study, (17 women, 13 men; mean age=75.9 years, range: 68-83) and all had completed the 6-week trial. Mean dose of venlafaxine used was 165 mg/day (SD=73.8; range 75-300 mg). Mean dose of paroxetine used was 26 mg/day (SD=15.04; range 10-60 mg). Nine patients treated with venlafaxine (60%) and five patients treated with paroxetine (33%) remitted after 8 weeks of treatment. Four patients treated with venlafaxine and eight patients treated with paroxetine failed to respond. Significant improvement in Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression scores between baseline and endpoint were observed in both groups of patients. The mean Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression change for paroxetine was -12.5 and for venlafaxine -19.1 (P<0.05). The mean Geriatric Depression Scale change for paroxetine was -3.2 and for venlafaxine -6.0 (P<0.3). The mean Clinical Global Impression Scale change was -2.3 for paroxetine and -3.5 for venlafaxine (P<0.05). Venlafaxine was significantly superior to paroxetine on Clinical Global Impression Scale and Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression measures. Side effects were transient and did not differ between treatment groups. Elderly depressed patients resistant to previous treatments had responded to a trial of paroxetine or venlafaxine. Remission rates were higher for venlafaxine and tolerability was acceptable for both compounds.
4-Aminophenol (p-aminophenol, PAP) causes selective necrosis to the pars recta of the proximal tubule in Fischer 344 rats. The basis for this selective toxicity is not known, but PAP can undergo oxidation in a variety of systems to form the 4-aminophenoxy free radical. Oxidation or disproportionation of this radical will form 1,4-benzoquinoneimine which can covalently bind to tissue macromolecules. Recent studies have shown that certain benzoquinol-glutathione conjugates can cause renal necrosis in rats. We have synthesized a putative glutathione conjugate of PAP. The effect on the kidney of this conjugate and the sulphate and N-acetyl conjugates, known metabolites of PAP, have been examined in Fischer 344 rats. 4-Amino-3-S-glutathionylphenol produced a dose-dependent (92-920 mumol kg-1) necrosis of the proximal tubular epithelium and altered renal excretory function. The lesion at the low dose was restricted to the pars recta of the proximal tubule in the medullary rays, while at the higher doses it affected the pars recta region of all nephrons. In contrast, PAP-O-sulphate and N-acetyl-4-aminophenol (paracetamol) caused no histological or functional alteration to the kidney at 920 mumol kg-1. The renal necrosis produced by 4-amino-3-S-glutathionylphenol was very similar to that produced by PAP (367-920 mumol kg-1), both functionally and histologically, except that smaller doses of the glutathione conjugate were required. These studies indicate that glutathione conjugation of PAP generates a metabolite that is more toxic to the kidney than the parent compound. A possible mechanism of toxicity (analogous to that reported for glutathione conjugates of certain quinones) involving oxidation to form a 1,4-benzoquinoneimine thioether that could redox cycle is discussed.
The benefits of 5-year tamoxifen administration for patients with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer undoubtedly outweigh the risk of any adverse effects. Massive hepatic steatosis is an example of its side effects. Here we show risk factors for the development of massive hepatic steatosis and describe a representative clinical course of these patients treated with fibrates for the first time.
Computed tomography (CT) numbers of the liver and spleen were measured and correlated to body mass index (BMI) and pregnanetriol/pregnanediol ratio in urine (P3/P2 ratio).
We enrolled 56 premenopausal women treated with breast conservation treatment. They received oral tamoxifen (40 mg/day for 2 to 3 years) as adjuvant endocrine therapy with systemic chemotherapy.
Serum estradiol level in 48 of 56 patients treated with tamoxifen was less than 10 pg/ml. The ratio of hepatic CT number to splenic CT number<0.9 was related to increased BMI (>23.6 kg/sqm) and reduced P/P2 ratio (<1). Fibrates are potent enough to improve hepatic steatosis in tamoxifen-induced hepatic steatosis.
P3/P2 ratio<1 was related to sufficient blockade of estrogen receptor proven by the development of massive hepatic steatosis. Therefore, we propose that tamoxifen is not a mere antagonist of estrogen, but it may also suppress estrogen synthesis when estrogen receptor is blocked sufficiently. The undetectable level of serum estrogen in tamoxifen-treated premenopausal women may partially explain why tamoxifen was so effective in estrogen receptor-positive early breast cancer.
To explore the mechanisms of the beneficial effects of Dahuang Zhechong Pill (DHZCP), a Chinese patent herbal medicine, in treatment of chronic renal disease, and to investigate the effects of DHZCP on the expressions of renal tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) mRNAs in rats with adriamycin-induced glomerulosclerosis.
Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and diffuse mesangial proliferation were induced in rats by combined procedures, including unilateral nephrectomy, intravenous injection of adriamycin and giving high-fat foods. The rats were randomly divided into untreated group, benazepril-treated group and DHZCP-treated group. Another 6 rats were sham-operated as control group. After 12-week treatment, rats were sacrificed, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method and computerized image analytical technique were used to determine the expressions of TIMP-1 and PAI-1 mRNAs.
Compared with the untreated group, the ratios of TIMP-1/beta-actin and PAI-1/beta-actin of the DHZCP-treated group were decreased, suggesting that DHZCP could down-regulate the expressions of TIMP-1 and PAI-1 mRNAs (P<0.05). Benazepril could significantly inhibit the expression of TIMP-1 mRNA compared with that of the untreated group (P<0.05)
DHZCP can down-regulate the expressions of TIMP-1 and PAI-1 mRNAs in renal tissues of rats with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and diffuse mesangial proliferation, which may be its action mechanism in treating chronic renal disease.
In this study we investigated the putative pathophysiological mechanism, by which angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), and angiotensin II receptor (ATR) type 1 and 2 might contribute to cancer progression and lymph node metastasis in gastric cancer.
Local expression of ACE, AT1R and AT2R was investigated immunohistochemically in non-lesional tissue, primary tumors and lymph node metastases from 45 gastric cancer patients. The distribution of the ACE genotypes was studied in gastric cancer cell lines. In vitro cell proliferation, apoptosis and invasion assays were carried out in the presence of ACE, AT1R and AT2R inhibitors.
ACE and AT2R were significantly upregulated in tumors and metastases, and expressed in the lymph node metastases of 26 (58%) and 40 (89%) gastric cancer patients, respectively. AT1R expression was higher in all tissues of metastatic cancers than in previous investigations. ACE, but not AT1R or AT2R, occasionally exhibited an increased expression in tumor cells directly surrounding lymph follicles. All three possible combinations of the ACE gene insertion/deletion polymorphism were found in gastric cancer cell lines, i.e., the DD- (AGS, MKN28), the II- (MKN45) and the ID-genotype (N87). ACE, AT1R and AT2R inhibition resulted in a significantly increased proliferation and a significant reduction in invasive ability of the N87 and MKN45 cell lines, with N87 exhibiting reduced apoptosis.
Our study provides evidence of the expression of the local angiotensin II system in lymph node metastases, and that ACE-, AT1R- and AT2R-activity promotes tumor cell invasion.
High plasma concentrations of lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)], a covalent low-density lipoprotein-apolipoprotein(a) [apo(a)] complex, are associated with coronary heart disease and stroke. Heritability of Lp(a) levels is high and the major locus determining Lp(a) concentrations is the apo(a) gene. We here demonstrate that a G-->A substitution at the +1 donor splice site of the apo(a) kringle (K) IV type 8 intron occurs with a high frequency ( approximately 6%) in Caucasians but not in Africans and is associated with congenital deficiency of Lp(a) in plasma. This mutation alone accounts for a quarter of all 'null' apo(a) alleles in Caucasians. RT-PCR analysis based on apo(a) illegitimate transcription in lympho- blastoid cells demonstrated that the donor splice site mutation results in an alternative splicing of the K IV type 8 intron and encodes a truncated form of apo(a). Expression of the alternatively spliced cDNA analogue in HepG2 cells showed that the truncated apo(a) form is secreted but is unable to form the covalent Lp(a) complex. Immunoprecipitated plasma apo(a) from homozygotes for the mutation was almost completely fragmented. Taken together, our data indicate that a failure in complex formation followed by fast degradation in plasma of the truncated free apo(a) is one mechanism which underlies the null Lp(a) type associated with the donor splice site mutation.
