Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) is an environmental toxicant and a potent antineoplastic agent. Exposure to arsenic causes renal cancer. Resveratrol is a well-known polyphenolic compound that is reported to reduce As(2)O(3)-induced cardiotoxicity. The present study aimed to investigate the effect of resveratrol on As(2)O(3)-induced nephrotoxicity and arsenic metabolism. Chinese Dragon-Li cats were injected with 1 mg/kg As(2)O(3) on alternate days; resveratrol (3 mg/kg) was administered via the forearm vein 1 h before the As(2)O(3) treatment. On the sixth day, the cats were killed to determine the histological renal damage, renal function, the accumulation of arsenic, and antioxidant activities in the kidney. Urine samples were taken for arsenic speciation. In the resveratrol + As(2)O(3)-treated group, activities of glutathione peroxidase, catalase, and superoxide dismutase, the ratio of reduced glutathione to oxidized glutathione, the total arsenic concentrations, and the percentage of methylated arsenic in urine were significantly increased. The concentrations of renal malondialdehyde, reactive oxygen species, 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine, serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, and renal arsenic accumulation were significantly decreased and reduced renal morphologic injury was observed compared with the As(2)O(3)-treated group. These results demonstrate that resveratrol could significantly scavenge reactive oxygen species, inhibit As(2)O(3)-induced oxidative damage, and significantly attenuate the accumulation of arsenic in renal tissues by facilitating As(2)O(3) metabolism. These data suggest that use of resveratrol as postremission therapy for acute promyelocytic leukemia as well as adjunctive therapy in patients with exposure to arsenic may decrease arsenic nephrotoxicity.
Individual differences in locomotor responses to novelty and psychostimulants, and sensitization following repeated drug exposure, predict increased sensitivity to the reinforcing effects of psychostimulants and are thought to underlie vulnerability to drug addiction. This study tested whether these factors determine another core feature of drug addiction, the propensity for drug-seeking behavior during abstinence in rats with prior cocaine-self-administration experience. Low and high response groups for each of these factors were determined in outbred rats by the median locomotor response to novelty and amphetamine prior to cocaine self-administration (pre-test), and to amphetamine during abstinence (post-test). Cocaine-seeking behavior during abstinence was measured by the level of drug-paired lever responding during extinction, and also during reinstatement induced by cocaine-associated cues, an amphetamine priming injection, and footshock stress. Animals with low and high locomotor responses to novelty and the amphetamine pre-test showed similar levels of cocaine-seeking behavior during extinction and reinstatement testing. Locomotor responses to amphetamine following cocaine self-administration (post-test) also failed to determine amphetamine's ability to reinstate cocaine-seeking behavior. Conversely, high levels of amphetamine-induced reinstatement were associated specifically with escalating cocaine intake during prior self-administration. These animals also developed locomotor sensitization to amphetamine following cocaine self-administration (post-test vs. pre-test), but the capacity to develop locomotor sensitization was not sufficient to determine a propensity for cocaine-seeking behavior. The findings suggest that the relationship between locomotor responses to novelty, amphetamine and behavioral sensitization a,nd the propensity for cocaine-seeking behavior during abstinence is complex, while the level of drug intake during prior self-administration is a primary determinant of this behavior.
The hepatocarcinogenic organochlorine pesticide, mirex, was examined as a tumor promoter in the mouse skin initiation-promotion model. Female CD-1 mice were initiated with 200 nmol 7,12-dimethylbenz[a] anthracene and topically promoted three times weekly for 20 weeks with doses of 25, 50, 100, or 200 nmol mirex. Mirex promoted tumors at all dose levels in a dose-dependent manner. At 20 weeks, mice promoted with 25, 50, 100, and 200 nmol mirex developed an average of 0.2, 4, 10, and 16 tumors per mouse with a 10, 60, 93, and 96% incidence of tumor-bearing mice, respectively. With continued treatment to 34 weeks, mice promoted with 25, 50, and 100 nmol mirex developed an average of 0.7, 7, and 12 tumors per mouse with a 27, 85, and 100% incidence of tumor-bearing mice, respectively. These results demonstrate that mirex is a very effective tumor promoter in mouse skin. The effect of mirex on several biochemical and morphological events associated with tumor promotion was then investigated. Mirex did not stimulate epidermal protein kinase C activity in vitro. Unlike the phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, a single topical application of mirex (200 nmol) did not increase [3H]thymidine incorporation into epidermal DNA up to 108 h after application. Furthermore, multiple applications of 200 nmol mirex (3 times weekly for 4 weeks) resulted in only a very weak proliferative response; mirex increased the number of nucleated epidermal cell layers from 1 to 2 in acetone-treated controls to 2 to 3 while 2 nmol 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate produced 6 to 7 nucleated cell layers. Mirex (200 nmol) did not induce ornithine decarboxylase activity up to 56 h after a single topical application. Collectively, these data indicate that mirex is a novel nonphorbol ester-type tumor promoter in mouse skin.
All trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) syndrome is a life-threatening complication of uncertain pathogenesis that can occur during the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) by ATRA. Since its initial description, however, no large series of ATRA syndrome has been reported in detail. We analyzed cases of ATRA syndrome observed in an ongoing European trial of treatment of newly diagnosed APL. In this trial, patients 65 years of age or less with an initial white blood cell count (WBC) less than 5,000/microL were initially randomized between ATRA followed by chemotherapy (CT) (ATRA-->CT group) or ATRA with CT started on day 3; patients with WBC greater than 5,000/microL received ATRA and CT from day 1; patients aged 66 to 75 received ATRA-->CT. In patients with initial WBC less than 5, 000/microL and allocated to ATRA-->CT, CT was rapidly added if WBC was greater than 6,000, 10,000, 15,000/microL by days 5, 10, and 15 of ATRA treatment. A total of 64 (15%) of the 413 patients included in this trial experienced ATRA syndrome during induction treatment. Clinical signs developed after a median of 7 days (range, 0 to 35 days). In two of them, they were in fact present before the onset of ATRA. In 11 patients, they occurred upon recovery from the phase of aplasia due to the addition of CT. Respiratory distress (89% of the patients), fever (81%), pulmonary infiltrates (81%), weight gain (50%), pleural effusion (47%), renal failure (39%), pericardial effusion (19%), cardiac failure (17%), and hypotension (12%) were the main clinical signs, and 63 of the 64 patients had at least three of them. Thirteen patients required mechanical ventilation and two dialysis. A total of 60 patients received CT in addition to ATRA as per protocol or based on increasing WBC; 58 also received high dose dexamethasone (DXM); ATRA was stopped when clinical signs developed in 30 patients. A total of 55 patients (86%) who experienced ATRA syndrome achieved complete remission (CR), as compared with 94% of patients who had no ATRA syndrome (P = .07) and nine (14%) died of ATRA syndrome (5 cases), sepsis (2 cases), leukemic resistance (1 patient), and central nervous system (CNS) bleeding (1 patient). None of the patients who achieved CR and received ATRA for maintenance had ATRA syndrome recurrence. No significant predictive factors of ATRA syndrome, including pretreatment WBC, could be found. Kaplan Meier estimates of relapse, event-free survival (EFS), and survival at 2 years were 32% +/- 10%, 63% +/- 8%, and 68% +/- 7% in patients who had ATRA syndrome as compared with 15% +/- 3%, 77% +/- 2%, and 80% +/- 2% in patients who had no ATRA syndrome (P = .05, P = .003, and P = .03), respectively. In a stepwise Cox model that also included pretreatment prognostic variables, ATRA syndrome remained predictive for EFS and survival. In conclusion, in this multicenter trial where CT was rapidly added to ATRA in case of high or increasing WBC counts and DXM generally also used at the earliest clinical sign, the incidence of ATRA syndrome was 15%, but ATRA syndrome was responsible for death in only 1.2% of the total number of patients treated. However, occurrence of ATRA syndrome was associated with lower EFS and survival.
Autism/autistic disorder (MIM number 209850) is a complex, largely genetic psychiatric disorder. The authors recently mapped a susceptibility locus for autism to chromosome region 2q24-q33 (MIM number 606053). In the present study, genes across the 2q24-q33 interval were analyzed to identify an autism susceptibility gene in this region.
Mutation screening of positional candidate genes was performed in two stages. The first stage involved identifying, in unrelated subjects showing linkage to 2q24-q33, genetic variants in exons and flanking sequence within candidate genes and comparing the frequency of the variants between autistic and unrelated nonautistic subjects. Two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that showed evidence for divergent distribution between autistic and nonautistic subjects were identified, both within SLC25A12, a gene encoding the mitochondrial aspartate/glutamate carrier (AGC1). In the second stage, the two SNPs in SLC25A12 were further genotyped in 411 autistic families, and linkage and association tests were carried out in the 197 informative families.
Linkage and association were observed between autistic disorder and the two SNPs, rs2056202 and rs2292813, found in SLC25A12. Using either a single affected subject per family or all affected subjects, evidence for excess transmission was found by the Transmission Disequilibrium Test for rs2056202, rs2292813, and a two-locus G*G haplotype. Similar results were observed using TRANSMIT for the analyses. Evidence for linkage was supported by linkage analysis with the two SNPs, with a maximal multipoint nonparametric linkage score of 1.57 and a maximal multipoint heterogeneity lod score of 2.11. Genotype relative risk could be estimated to be between 2.4 and 4.8 for persons homozygous at these loci.
A strong association of autism with SNPs within the SLC25A12 gene was demonstrated. Further studies are needed to confirm this association and to decipher any potential etiological role of AGC1 in autism.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is the most common of all liver diseases. The hepatic disposition [(3)H]palmitate and its low-molecular-weight metabolites in perfused normal and steatotic rat liver were studied using the multiple indicator dilution technique and a physiologically based slow diffusion/bound pharmacokinetic model. The steatotic rat model was established by administration of 17 alpha-ethynylestradiol to female Wistar rats. Serum biochemistry markers and histology of treated and normal animals were assessed and indicated the presence of steatosis in the treatment group. The steatotic group showed a significantly higher alanine aminotransferase-to-aspartate aminotransferase ratio, lower levels of liver fatty acid binding protein and cytochrome P-450, as well as microvesicular steatosis with an enlargement of sinusoidal space. Hepatic extraction for unchanged [(3)H]palmitate and production of low-molecular-weight metabolites were found to be significantly decreased in steatotic animals. Pharmacokinetic analysis suggested that the reduced extraction and sequestration for palmitate and its metabolites was mainly attributed to a reduction in liver fatty acid binding protein in steatosis.
The objective of this study was to investigate left cardiac damage and the cardioprotective effects of resveratrol in old rats with COPD. Rats 22 months old were divided into three groups: control (CTL), smoking and lipopolysaccharides (SM/LPS), and SM/LPS plus resveratrol (SM/LPS-Res). Cardiac function, pathology, oxidative stress, and apoptosis index were measured. Expression of myocardial SIRT1 was studied by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Western blot detection. The heart weight-body weight ratio (LVW/BW) increased in the SM/LPS group compared with the CTL group. Both the LVW/BW and the area of fibrosis in the SM/LPS-Res group decreased compared with those in the SM/LPS group. 8-OHdG expression increased in cardiac tissue of rats in the SM/LPS group, which could be inhibited by resveratrol. Resveratrol significantly increased the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and reduced the cardiac malonyldialdehyde (MDA) level in the SM/LPS-Res group. There was a significant decrease in the extent of cardiomyocyte apoptosis in the SM/LPS-Res group compared with the SM/LPS group. SIRT1 mRNA increased in the SM/LPS-Res group compared with the SM/LPS group. In conclusion, resveratrol attenuated cardiac oxidative damage and left ventricular remodeling and enhanced the decreased expression of SIRT1 in hearts of old rats with emphysema and thus might be a therapeutic modality for cardiac injury complicated in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Vaccinium uliginosum L. (VU) possesses various biological properties, such as antioxidant and protective effects against VU-induced skin photoaging. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of oral administration of a mixture of polyphenols and anthocyanins derived from VU on 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene- (DNCB-) induced atopic dermatitis (AD) in NC/Nga mice. We assessed anti-AD effects in NC/Nga murine model for a period of 9 weeks. Oral administration of the mixture significantly alleviated the AD-like skin symptoms and clinical signs including ear thickness and scratching behaviors. Orally administrated mixture reduced the level of IgE and IgG1, whereas it increased the level of IgG2a in a dose-dependent manner. The calculated IgG1/IgG2a ratio for each mouse revealed that the mixture derived from VU also significantly reduced the Th2/Th1 ratio, IL-4 and IL-13 (as Th2 cytokines), IFN-γ, and IL-12 (as a Th1 cytokine) in spleens. In addition, it significantly decreased gene expression, such as IL-4, IL-5, CCR3, eotaxin-1, IL- 12, IFN-γ, MCP-1, and IL-17, in AD-like lesions and suppressed Th17. Histological analyses revealed that the epidermis thickness and number of inflammatory cells were significantly reduced. In conclusion, oral administration of the mixture in the DNCB-induced AD is confirmed to improve AD disease in mice.
Hyperoxia exposure of premature infants causes obliteration of the immature retinal microvessels, leading to a condition of proliferative vitreoretinal neovascularization termed retinopathy of prematurity (ROP). Previous work has demonstrated that the hyperoxia-induced vascular injury is mediated by dysfunction of endothelial nitric oxide synthase resulting in peroxynitrite formation. This study was undertaken to determine the involvement of the ureahydrolase enzyme arginase in this pathology.
Studies were performed using hyperoxia-treated bovine retinal endothelial cells (BRE) and mice with oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) as experimental models of ROP. Treatment with the specific arginase inhibitor 2(S)-amino-6-boronohexanoic acid (ABH) prevented hyperoxia-induced apoptosis of BRE cells and reduced vaso-obliteration in the OIR model. Furthermore, deletion of the arginase 2 gene protected against hyperoxia-induced vaso-obliteration, enhanced physiological vascular repair, and reduced retinal neovascularization in the OIR model. Additional deletion of one copy of arginase 1 did not improve the vascular pathology. Analyses of peroxynitrite by quantitation of its biomarker nitrotyrosine, superoxide by dihydroethidium imaging and NO formation by diaminofluoroscein imaging showed that the protective actions of arginase 2 deletion were associated with blockade of superoxide and peroxynitrite formation and normalization of NOS activity.
Our data demonstrate the involvement of arginase activity and arginase 2 expression in hyperoxia-induced vascular injury. Arginase 2 deletion prevents hyperoxia-induced retinal vascular injury by preventing NOS uncoupling resulting in decreased reactive oxygen species formation and increased nitric oxide bioavailability.
Macrocyclic lactone (ML) molecules have been used for heartworm control for more than 25 years. However, in recent years, there have been reports of loss of efficacy of ML heartworm preventatives against Dirofilaria immitis in some locations in the United States. Macrocyclic lactone resistance is a common problem in nematode parasites of livestock, and more recently, evidence of ivermectin resistance has been reported in the human filarial nematode Onchocerca volvulus. In this study, four D. immitis sample groups from the United States with different treatment histories were investigated for evidence of ML-driven genetic selection. DNA from individual adult worms and microfilariae was amplified by polymerase chain reaction to investigate a gene encoding a P-glycoprotein, a protein class known to be involved in ML pharmacology. A significant correlation of a GG-GG genotype with ivermectin response phenotype was found. Moreover, a significant loss of heterozygosity was found in a low responder group; loss of heterozygosity is commonly seen in loci when a population has been under selection. Further studies are required to confirm ML resistance in heartworm populations. However, the genetic changes observed in this study may be useful as a marker to monitor for ML resistance in D. immitis.
The efficacy and the toxicity pattern of D-penicillamine were studied in patients with rheumatoid disease followed up between April 1975 and March 1979. The population of patients was divided into an elderly group (greater than or equal to 60 years old, mean = 65 years) and a younger group (less than 60 years old, mean = 41 years). Patients with classic or definite rheumatoid disease not responsive to nonsteroidal drugs were eligible. The mean durations of disease prior to D-penicillamine therapy were five years in the elderly and seven years in the younger group. Overall, the mean follow-up time was 11 months. The average dosages of D-penicillamine were 461 mg/day in the elderly and 520 mg/day in the younger patients. Results indicated that D-penicillamine was efficacious in 75 per cent of the elderly during all time periods after three months, and in 75 per cent of the younger patients after three months until at least two years. Prior gold-salt therapy did not influence efficacy. Toxicity was significantly greater in the elderly for overall skin rash (P less than 0.01), severe skin rash (P less than 0.01), and marked abnormalities in the ability to taste (P less than 0.05). The incidence of hematologic toxicity was not increased in the elderly compared with the younger patients. Toxicity in either group was not influenced by prior gold-salt therapy. It is concluded that D-penicillamine was equally efficacious in both elderly and younger groups, and that the toxicity patterns were similar except for increased tendencies toward rashes and taste abnormalities in the elderly.
Newly diagnosed chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) patients (n = 65) were treated with interferon (IFN)-alpha2b (5 x 106 IU/d s.c.) combined with monthly courses of cytarabine (20 mg/d s.c. for 14 d). Median age of patients enrolled was 45 years. The endpoints of the study were clinical efficacy and toxicity. The survival rates at 3 years and 5 years were 77% and 56%, respectively. The rate of complete haematological response was 60%. Evaluation of cytogenetic response was available in 29/65 patients. A complete cytogenetic response was seen in 3/29 patients (10%). W.H.O. toxicity grade 3-4 occurred in only 22/523 evaluable treatment cycles. Since the study protocol required intermittent or definitive discontinuation of cytarabine in case of moderate leucopenia (white blood cells (WBC) <5 x 109/l), combined cytopenia (WBC < 5 x 109/l, platelets <100 x 109/l), and isolated moderate thrombocytopenia (<100 x 109/l), the drug had to be discontinued temporarily or definitively in 200 cycles and the dose of cytarabine had to be reduced in 35 cycles. Thus, only 25% of the planned dose of cytarabine could be administered. At this dosage it would appear that cytarabine had no effect on survival and did not improve remission rates. We conclude that a clinical benefit for the addition of cytarabine to the treatment of CML with IFN might only be achieved by the administration of a higher cumulative dose of cytarabine, suggesting that lower leucocyte counts of 2-4 x 109/l have to be tolerated.
Fasciculations are a common side effect of the use of succinylcholine for tracheal intubation. Many anesthesia care providers prefer to prevent them due to a possible association between fasciculations and increased intracranial and intraocular pressures. The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of tubocurarine, rocuronium, and cisatracurium in the prevention and reduction of succinylcholine-induced muscle fasciculations. The study was a prospective, randomized, double-blind, clinical drug comparison. We randomly assigned 40 subjects to 1 of 4 pretreatment groups. Fasciculations were graded on a 4-point scale. A Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance, used to analyze data collected from the fasciculation scale, demonstrated there was no statistically significant difference in efficacy between tubocurarine and rocuronium for defasciculation or between cisatracurium and saline for defasciculation. Significant differences were shown between the tubocurarine and cisatracurium groups and between the rocuronium and cisatracurium groups. Rocuronium is equally as efficacious as tubocurarine for defasciculation. Therefore, rocuronium is a valid alternative to tubocurarine for defasciculation. Cisatracurium is inferior to rocuronium and tubocurarine for defasciculation. Therefore, the use of cisatracurium is not recommended for defasciculation.
Trichosanthin (TCS) is a type I ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP) with antitumor activities for various cancers. In this paper, we aimed to investigate whether dexamethasone, an important synthetic member of the glucocorticoid steroids, in combination with TCS can be a potential therapy in treating hepatoma.
Cell viability was investigated using MTT assay, and apoptosis was evaluated with Hoechst 33258 staining. Western blot analysis was used to examine the changes in the expression levels of IkappaB-alpha, NF-kappaB p65 subunit and Cox-2. Additionally, we took advantage of dominant-negative IkappaB (IkappaB-DM) over-expression and chemical inhibitor PDTC to inhibit NF-kappaB activation.
Our results demonstrated that dexamethasone could enhance TCS-induced apoptosis in the hepatoma cell line HepG2, decreasing IC50 values from in excess of 200microg/ml to 50microg/ml. In addition, our results demonstrated that TCS could induce rapid degradation of IkappaB-alpha, nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB and decrease of COX-2 expression in HepG2 cells. Inhibition of NF-kappaB by biological (IkappaB-DM) or chemical inhibitor (PDTC) increased HepG2 cells' sensitivity to TCS, resulting in cell viability rate decreasing and apoptotic rate increasing. Simultaneously, dexamethasone increased the level of IkappaB-alpha protein and effectively inhibited TCS-induced degradation of IkappaB-alpha.
These results suggest that dexamethasone could enhance trichosanthin-induced apoptosis in the HepG2, at least in part, by inhibiting the NF-kappaB signaling pathway and thus strengthening the antitumor effects of TCS, which highlights the possibility of combined drug application of TCS and dexamethasone in the clinical treatment of hepatoma.
The authors assessed the severity of nortriptyline's side-effects in older patients with recurrent major depression during placebo-controlled, double-blind maintenance therapy. Data were from 37 patients completing 2-3 years of maintenance therapy; 29 were on nortriptyline and eight were on placebo. The authors detected a time-by-treatment interaction for dry mouth (greater in nortriptyline-treated patients), but no increased association of nortriptyline with constipation, weight change or orthostatic symptoms. Heart rate was consistently higher in nortriptyline-maintained patients as compared with placebo. The total 'side-effect' score on the Asberg Rating Scale, as well as complaints of physical tiredness, daytime sleepiness and nocturnal sleep disturbance, were related primarily to residual depression rather than treatment with nortriptyline.
Zinc transporters (ZnTs) and plasticity-related genes (PRGs) both play the key roles in the formation of hippocampal mossy fiber sprouting, which is associated with cognitive deficits following developmental seizures. Here, for the first time, we report the timing of expression pattern of ZnT-1, ZnT-3 and PRG-1 in hippocampus and cerebral cortex following developmental seizures. A seizure was induced by inhalant flurothyl daily in neonatal Sprague-Dawley rats from postnatal day 6 (P6). Rats were assigned into the recurrent-seizure group (RS, seizures induced in 6 consecutive days) and the control group. At 1.5 h, 3 h, 6 h, 12 h, 24 h, 48 h, 7 d and 14 d after the last seizures, the mRNA level was detected using RT-PCR method; PRG-1 protein level was examined by Western blotting analysis. At an early period of 12 h and 48 h after the last seizures, both ZnT-1 and ZnT-3 showed significantly down-regulated mRNA level in the cerebral cortex of RS group than those at the corresponding time point in control group. In the long-term time point of 14 d after the last seizure, ZnT-3 mRNA and PRG-1 protein level in hippocampus were up-regulated while the mRNA level of ZnT-1 down-regulated; in addition, there were up-regulated level of both the mRNA and protein level of PRG-1 and down-regulated mRNA level of ZnT-3 in the cerebral cortex of RS group when compared to the control. Taken together, these dates are consistent with an important role for ZnT-1, ZnT-3 and PRG-1 in the pathophysiology of the long-term adverse effects of recurrent neonatal seizure-induced hippocampal mossy fiber sprouting and cognitive deficit.
The effect of sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension on the perfusion of the R3230 adenocarcinoma during local 42 degrees C hyperthermia was studied using a combination of intravital microscopy and laser Doppler flowmetry. Fischer 344 rats were implanted with dorsal skin flap window chambers containing the R3230Ac tumor and allocated to three treatment groups (34 degrees C with nitroprusside, 42 degrees C with nitroprusside, and 42 degrees C with 0.9% saline). After baseline observation at 34 degrees C, tumors were locally heated to 42 degrees C using a water bath and either 0.9% saline or nitroprusside sufficient to reduce blood pressure 20% below pretreatment baseline was infused. Nitroprusside at 34 degrees C decreased tumor vascular conductance 40% with no effect on the diameter of arterioles entering the tumor. The diameter of arterioles entering 42 degrees C heated tumors increased 35% independent of blood pressure change. Saline at 42 degrees C had no effect on tumor vascular conductance; however, nitroprusside at 42 degrees C increased tumor vascular conductance 55%. Local 42 degrees C tumor heating, combined with a moderate reduction in blood pressure with nitroprusside, overrides the vascular steal effect associated with reduced perfusion pressure alone and results in improved tumor perfusion. Observations of the effect of vasodilator substances on normothermic tumor perfusion cannot be extrapolated to situations where moderate hyperthermia is used.
Since labetalol was first reviewed in the Journal (1978), its scope of therapeutic use has expanded and become better defined. Labetalol is an adrenoceptor blocking drug with combined alpha- and beta-blocking properties. These result in a more favourable haemodynamic profile for labetalol compared with 'pure' beta-blockers or pure alpha-blockers, but also contribute to a wider range, but not an overall increased incidence, of adverse effects. The drug is effective and well-tolerated in patients with all grades of hypertension, but is of particular value in special subgroups such as Black patients, the elderly and patients with renal hypertension. While comparative studies are not extensive, available data show that the drug reduces blood pressure to a similar extent, and in a similar proportion of patients, as 'pure' beta-blockers such as propranolol, pure alpha-blockers such as prazosin, calcium antagonists (nifedipine, verapamil), and centrally acting drugs (clonidine and methyldopa). Labetalol is very effective in hypertensive pregnant women and in hypertensive crises, where it provides good control of blood pressure without serious adverse effects, and where few therapeutic options exist. Few controlled studies have investigated the use of labetalol in deliberate induction of hypotension or prevention of hypertension during anaesthesia, and also in patients with ischaemic heart disease. However, available evidence suggests a role for labetalol in these indications and further studies should aid in clarification of its efficacy in these areas. Thus, with its broad scope of therapeutic use in hypertension labetalol remains an important therapeutic option, and the drug may well find an additional place in the treatment of myocardial ischaemia if further evidence confirms encouraging preliminary findings.
Previous studies have identified several host proteins (p53, p107, and p193), which form prominent complexes with SV40 T antigen in transformed cardiomyocytes. Expression of p53 and p107 was monitored during normal and pathologic growth in nontransformed murine myocardium. Both genes were expressed at relatively high levels in embryonic cardiomyocytes. Transcript levels decreased markedly during the process of cardiomyocyte terminal differentiation and were very low or undetectable in adult animals. In contrast, retinoblastoma transcripts were observed at low levels throughout myocardial development. None of the tumor suppressor genes examined were transcriptionally activated during acute myocardial overload or isoproterenol-induced myocardial hypertrophy. The potential role of tumor suppressor gene product expression in myocardial development and pathology is discussed.
A 20-year-old Papua New Guinean male developed neuromuscular paralysis following a bite by a death adder (Acanthophis antarcticus). Ptosis persisted despite otherwise effective anti-venom therapy. The ptosis clinically resembled myasthenia gravis and improved after intravenous edrophonium. The role of anticholinesterase drugs in snake bite management is discussed.
YM114 (KAE-393), (R)-5-[(2,3-dihydro-1-indolyl)carbonyl]-4,5,6,7- tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazole hydrochloride, is a derivative of YM060, a potent 5-HT3 receptor antagonist. We investigated the effects of YM114 on 5-HT3 receptors, both in vitro and in vivo, and on bowel dysfunction induced by restraint stress, 5-HT and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), and compared them with the effect of trimebutine. YM114 dose dependently inhibited the reduction in heart rate induced by 5-HT (30 micrograms/kg i.v.) in rats (ED50 = 0.31 micrograms/kg i.v.), and the potency of YM114 was almost the same as that of the racemate. The S-form of YM114 also inhibited 5-HT-induced bradycardia, but 1350 times less potent than the R-form. YM114 and its S-form inhibited [3H]GR65630 binding to N1E-115 cell membranes in a concentration-dependent manner with Ki values of 0.341 and 616 nM, respectively, showing the isomeric activity ratio (R-/S-form) of YM114 to be much greater (1800). YM114 antagonized 5-HT-induced depolarization of the nodose ganglion (EC50 = 1.39 nM). Trimebutine (1 mg/kg i.v.) failed to inhibit 5-HT-induced bradycardia, implying that it does not possess 5-HT3 receptor antagonistic activity. YM114 significantly and dose dependently prevented restraint stress-, 5-HT- and TRH-induced increases in fecal pellet output, and restraint stress- and 5-HT-induced diarrhea in rats and mice (ED50 = 6.9, 72.5, 154.6, 9.7 and 52.4 micrograms/kg p.o., respectively). Trimebutine significantly prevented stress- and 5-HT-induced diarrhea (ED50 = 29.4 and 87.3 mg/kg p.o., respectively), but only partially affected stress-, 5-HT- and TRH-induced increases in fecal pellet output. Thus, YM114 is a potent and stereoselective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist with much greater protective effects against stress-induced defecation than trimebutine.
