The effects of bisphenol A (BPA) on abalone (Haliotis diversicolor supertexta) embryonic development were investigated by exposing the fertilized eggs to four different concentrations of BPA (0.05, 0.2, 2 and 10 μg mL(-1)). Toxicity endpoints including the embryo development parameters, the physiological features and the expression profile of several reference genes (prohormone convertase 1, PC1; cyclin B, CB; and cyclin-dependent kinase 1, CDK1) were assessed. The results showed that BPA could markedly reduce embryo hatchability, increase developmental malformation, and suppress the metamorphosis behavior of larvae. The possible toxicological mechanisms hidden behind of these effects (i.e. disturbing the embryogenesis) might result from three aspects: (1) BPA disturbance the cellular ionic homeostasis and osmoregulation of abalone embryos by changing the Na+-K+-ATPase and Ca2+-Mg2+-ATPase levels; (2) BPA induced oxidative damage of embryos by significantly altering the peroxidase (POD) activities and the malondialdehyde (MDA) production; and (3) the RT-PCR analysis further demonstrated that BPA perturbed the cellular endocrine regulation and cell cycle progression by down-regulating the PC1 gene, as well as over-expressing the CB and CDK1 genes. This is the first comprehensive study on the developmental toxicity of BPA to the marine abalone at morphological, physiological and molecular levels. The results in this study also indicated that the embryo tests can contribute to the ecological risk assessment of the endocrine disruptors in marine environment.
Gram-negative bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide) induces hepatic damage in mice caused by lipid peroxidation, and administration of antioxidants (coenzyme Q10 and alpha-tocopherol) suppresses this lipid peroxidation, preserves energy metabolism, and enhances the survival of endotoxin-administered mice. Therefore experiments were done to determine whether experimental endotoxemia in mice affected the levels of endogenous antioxidants and whether treatment with antioxidants altered these levels. Endotoxin produced decreases in hepatic endogenous antioxidants with time: reduced coenzyme Q9, alpha-tocopherol, and reduced glutathione were lowered to 29.9%, 27.1%, and 45.4% of the control levels, respectively, 24 hours after administration. Exogenously administered coenzyme Q10 (oxidized) accumulated in the liver and showed a maximal plateau between 8 and 16 hours after injection when 82% of coenzyme Q10 was converted to the reduced form. Coenzyme Q10 administered with endotoxin totally or partially prevented the decreases in these endogenous antioxidants, and furthermore, total coenzyme Q10 and the reduced form, both at levels of approximately 30 mg protein, were consumed during the period of elevated lipid peroxidation, 16 hours after endotoxin injection. These results indicate that coenzyme Q10 acts in vivo as an antioxidant after it has been converted to the reduced form. alpha-Tocopherol administered also showed an 84-fold accumulation in the liver 8 hours after injection, completely preventing any decrease in endogenous reduced coenzyme Q9 and partially preventing reduction of glutathione, which indicated an in vivo antioxidant action of alpha-tocopherol. These results support the assumption that administered coenzyme Q10 or alpha-tocopherol functions cooperatively with endogenous antioxidants to prevent tissue damage caused by lipid peroxidation in endotoxemia.
Caloric restriction depresses the development of several types of tumours, yet the mechanisms involved are poorly understood. In the present experiment we investigated the development of diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced liver tumours in mice treated with caffeine. The latter was found to reduce body growth, possibly due to increased energy expenditure, without reducing food consumption. Newborn mice received an i.p. injection of DEN. At weaning they were either fed lab chow ad libitum, with the same diet containing 0.2% (w/w) of caffeine, or their access to food was restricted to 70% of that consumed by the ad libitum group. Diet caloric restriction starting at weaning in male Swiss mice decreased the rate of development of glucose-6-phosphatase-deficient (G6Pd) preneoplastic foci. At the age of 24 weeks, 10% of the surface of a standardized liver section of ad libitum fed mice was G6Pase negative, compared to only 1% in the restricted mice due to a reduction of the number and size of these preneoplastic foci. The number and size of G6Pd foci decreased to the same extent with the ingestion of a lab chow supplemented with 0.2% of caffeine as with the diet restriction. This finding suggests that restriction slows down hepatic tumour growth by modifying body growth rather than by limited nutrient supply. In parallel, somatomedin-C (Sm-C) and insulin secretion following glucose challenge were decreased in diet restricted mice and those treated with 0.2% caffeine. The serum Sm-C and insulin levels were respectively 480 and 4.6 ng/ml in the restricted mice, 519 and 16.6 ng/ml in the caffeine-fed mice and 664 and 25.7 ng/ml in the ad libitum fed mice. Our results suggest that the decrease of secretion of these two hormones that are known mitogens for hepatocytes in vitro may be responsible at least in part for the reduction in the growth of liver tumours.
Lithospermic acid (LSA) was originally isolated from the roots of Salvia mitiorrhiza, a common herb of oriental medicine. Previous studies demonstrated that LSA has antioxidant effects. In this study, we investigated the in vitro xanthine oxidase (XO) inhibitory activity, and in vivo hypouricemic and anti-inflammatory effects of rats. XO activity was detected by measuring the formation of uric acid or superoxide radicals in the xanthine/xanthine oxidase system. The results showed that LSA inhibited the formation of uric acid and superoxide radicals significantly with an IC50 5.2 and 1.08 microg/ml, respectively, and exhibited competitive inhibition. It was also found that LSA scavenged superoxide radicals directly in the system beta-NADH/PMS and inhibited the production of superoxide in human neutrophils stimulated by PMA and fMLP. LSA was also found to have hypouricemic activity on oxonate-pretreated rats in vivo and have anti-inflammatory effects in a model of gouty arthritis. These results suggested that LSA is a competitive inhibitor of XO, able to directly scavenge superoxide and inhibit superoxide production in vitro, and presents hypouricemic and anti-inflammatory actions in vivo.
To assess whether transdermal nicotine patches combined with low-intensity support can help outpatients in a general hospital stop smoking.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with 12 weeks of follow-up.
Department of Thoracic Medicine in an inner-city public general hospital, London, England.
Two hundred forty-eight outpatients in a general hospital, who smoked at least 10 cigarettes per day (the majority were being treated for smoking-related diseases), referred by clinicians at the hospital.
Brief advice to stop smoking and daily application of transdermal nicotine patches (delivering 15 mg over 16 hours) or placebo, with follow-up appointments at 1, 3, 6, and 12 weeks, with a doubling of the dosage for continuing smokers at week 1.
Sustained abstinence from tobacco from week 3 to week 12 validated with measurement of expired-air carbon monoxide concentration at weeks 3, 6, and 12.
Twenty-nine (23.4%) of 124 subjects assigned to the nicotine group were validated as having abstained from smoking at both weeks 3 and 6, compared with 16 (12.9%) of 124 subjects receiving placebo (P = .008). At week 12, 22 (17.7%) of the subjects in the nicotine group were validated as having abstained at all three points as were 15 (12.1%) of the subjects in the placebo group (P = .058).
Transdermal nicotine patches combined with low-intensity support are effective in helping outpatients in a general hospital stop smoking but do not prevent relapse after 6 weeks.
This study compared the baseline sociodemographic characteristics and HIV risk behaviors of two groups of out-of-treatment injection drug users (IDUs): 366 who concurrently smoked crack (smoking IDUs) and 212 who did not smoke crack (IDUs) in the past 30 days. Temporal trends in recent risk behaviors were also assessed for each drug user group over an 18-month period, January 1992 through June 1994. Baseline data were collected in South Philadelphia before the implementation of a multisite HIV intervention research project funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. For the temporal trend analysis, the sample was grouped into four intake periods based on the date of the baseline interview. The results indicated that although both groups were economically disadvantaged and at high risk of HIV infection and transmission, smoking injectors had fewer economic resources and were at a moderately greater risk because of higher levels of sexual risk behaviors. Analysis of temporal trends revealed few reductions in drug risk behaviors and none in sexual risk behaviors. This study points to the need for examining differences between types of drug users, developing appropriate multidrug treatment programs and assessing the characteristics of communities so that theory-based interventions can be tailored for maximum effectiveness.
Darinaparsin, an organic arsenic, targets essential cell survival pathways. We determined the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated dose of darinaparsin in patients with advanced cancer.
Patients with solid malignancies refractory to conventional therapies were treated with i.v. darinaparsin daily for 5 days every 4 weeks. The starting dose (78 mg/m(2)) escalated to 109, 153, 214, 300, 420, and 588 mg/m(2). A conventional "3 + 3" design was used.
Forty patients (median age, 61.5 years; median number of prior therapies, 5) received therapy; 106 cycles were given (median, 2; range, 1-12). Twenty patients reported no drug-related toxicities. No DLTs were reported at a dose of <420 mg/m(2). At 588 mg/m(2), two of four patients developed DLTs, including grade 3 altered mental status and ataxia. Of four patients treated at the de-escalated dose of 500 mg/m(2), one developed similar toxicities. De-escalating the dose to 420 mg/m(2) (n = 8) resulted in two neurologic DLTs. Further de-escalation to 300 mg/m(2) (n = 3) resulted in no drug-related toxicities. Arsenic plasma levels peaked on treatment day 3, plateaued on day 5, and returned to baseline on day 7. Plasma levels varied within cohorts but increased with increasing doses. The median plasma arsenic half-life was 16.2 hours. Seven (17.5%) patients had stable disease for > or =4 months (median, 6; range, 4-11), including 4 of 17 with colorectal and 2 of 3 with renal cancer.
The recommended dose for phase II trials is 300 mg/m(2) i.v. given daily for 5 days every 4 weeks.
Myasthenia gravis may be observed due to treatment with penicillamine (D-PA). The sulphoxidation capacity was measured in nine Swedish patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who had developed myasthenia gravis toward D-PA. The results show that in eight of nine patients tested, this parameter was markedly reduced. A patient with poor sulphoxidation capacity has a twelve-fold greater risk of developing this rare side effect. The significance of this is discussed.
Lithium remains a first-line treatment for the acute and maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder. Although much has been written about the management of the more common adverse effects of lithium, such as polyuria and tremor, more subtle lithium side effects such as cognitive deficits, loss of creativity, and functional impairments remain understudied. This report summarizes our experience in switching bipolar patients from lithium to divalproex sodium to alleviate such cognitive and functional impairments.
Open, case series design.
We report seven cases where substitution of lithium, either fully or partially, with divalproex sodium was extremely helpful in reducing the cognitive, motivational, or creative deficits attributed to lithium in our bipolar patients.
In this preliminary report, divalproex sodium was a superior alternative to lithium in bipolar patients experiencing cognitive deficits, loss of creativity, and functional impairments.
Chloroquine, an agent used in treatment and prophylaxis of malaria, and also known for its antiinflammatory effects in dermatological, rheumatological, and connective tissue disorders, has been reported to cause toxicity, most commonly in the retina and the cardiovascular system. We describe a 60-year-old woman with longstanding rheumatoid arthritis receiving multidrug treatment, including prolonged administration of chloroquine. She developed complete heart block requiring a permanent pacemaker, congestive heart failure, and progressive myopathy. During hospital investigations for her myopathy, she died of acute pulmonary thromboembolism. Although hypertension and possibly amyloidosis were thought to be the cause of her cardiac disease, cardiac and skeletal muscle changes characteristic of chloroquine toxicity were observed. Chloroquine may be an important unsuspected contributing cause of cardiac dysfunction in patients with rheumatological disease. Endomyocardial biopsy should be considered early in the course of diagnosis and management.
Nephrolithiasis is a well-known complication of indinavir treatment and may result in urological symptoms ranging from renal colic to renal insufficiency.
To obtain further knowledge regarding the incidence and risk factors of urological symptoms associated with indinavir sulfate use.
This study was performed in the ATHENA (AIDS Therapy Evaluation National AIDS Therapy Evaluation Centre) cohort of patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) receiving antiretroviral therapy in the Netherlands. The incidence rate of urological symptoms was assessed in a subcohort of 1219 patients starting HIV protease inhibitor treatment after 1996. Urological symptoms were defined as an initial report of nephrolithiasis, renal colic, flank pain, hematuria, renal insufficiency, or nephropathy. Using multivariate Cox regression analysis, risk factors for urological symptoms during indinavir treatment were subsequently studied among the subset of 644 patients who started indinavir treatment after 1996.
The incidence of urological symptoms was 8.3 per 100 treatment-years for indinavir vs 0.8 per 100 treatment-years for other HIV protease inhibitors. Risk factors for urological symptoms during indinavir treatment were low weight (relative risk [RR], 2.1; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.1-3.9), low lean body mass (RR, 1.7; 95% CI, 1.0-2.9), undetectable HIV-1 RNA when starting indinavir treatment (RR, 3.2; 95% CI, 1.5-6.0), prior treatment change because of intolerance (RR, 2.4; 95% CI, 1.2-5.1), indinavir regimens of 1000 mg or more twice daily (RR, 3.1; 95% CI, 1.3-8.2), and warm environmental temperatures (RR, 3.9; 95% CI, 1.7-8.8). Risk estimates were highest among patients with a low lean body mass.
Increased alertness for urological symptoms is warranted for patients starting indinavir treatment, particularly among those with a low lean body mass, during indinavir regimens of 1000 mg or more twice daily, and in warm weather environments.
After undergoing withdrawal treatment for alcoholism as an in-patient for one year a 49-year-old woman was started on disulfiram, 250 mg daily, her liver function tests being normal. Except for vitamin B1 she received no further medication. Jaundice developed 13 days after onset of treatment and acute liver failure was diagnosed on the 18th day after a total disulfiram dose of 4.5 g (Quick value < 10%; bilirubin 460 mumol/l; GPT 5099 U/l; GOT 4142 U/l), as well as early renal failure (creatinine 300 mumol/l). An acute viral infection, autoimmune hepatitis and a metabolic liver disease were excluded by biochemical, serological and molecular biology tests. All toxicological tests were negative. The patient died 25 days after the onset of disulfiram treatment in hepatic coma due to a fulminant hepatitis with hepatorenal syndrome. Both a liver biopsy and the autopsy showed the signs of an acute hepatic dystrophy without cirrhosis. The temporal relationship between the disulfiram intake and onset of the illness, the exclusion of other causes of the fulminant hepatitis and the liver histology, which was compatible with a chemical-toxic hepatitis, indicate that this was a case of disulfiram-induced hepatitis. The hepatotoxicity of disulfiram is a very rare idiosyncratic reaction which is often fatal. Disulfiram administration must be discontinued at once if there is a rise in liver enzyme activity or jaundice occurs.
The aim of study was to analyze the effect of captopril (C) on blood pressure in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) during 1 year treatment. Patients less then 70 years old with systolic blood pressure (sBP) > or = 100 mm Hg were qualified to the study. Administration of C was started during the first 4 days of AMI (mean 21 +/- 24 h). 50 pts treated with C and control group of 43 pts were finally analyzed. Doses of C were gradually increased from 3.125 t.i.d. on the first day till 25 mg t.i.d. on the 4th day. Significant decrease of sBP after administration of C was observed at 60 and 120 min after the 1st, 2nd and 3rd dose on the first day, and after 30-120 min after first C dose on the 4th day. dBP decreased only at 60-120 min after the 1st dose on first day and at 90 min after the first dose on 4th day. Hypotension after 1st and 2nd dose of C on the first day caused exclusion of 3 pts (6%) from the study. In conclusion, hypotension seems to be quite often encountered during captopril therapy of early phase of AMI. It appears not only after the first but also after the following doses. The initial dose of 3.125 mg seems to be safe and sufficient to assess its hypotensive action.
The occurrence of neurologic abnormalities is described in a series of nine infants with chronic hypertension, in whom antihypertensive therapy decreased BP markedly and for a prolonged period, although to levels often within the normal range. All infants had mean systolic BPs greater than 113 mm Hg and elevated renin values to a mean of 134 +/- 128 ng/mL/h. Antihypertensive therapy, such as captopril, an inhibitor of angiotensin I-converting enzyme, consistently lowered the systolic BP by 20% from baseline per dose. However, the nine infants exhibited a total of 17 episodes of striking decreases in systolic BP of greater than 40% from baseline; the markedly decreased systolic BP values were usually within the normal range for corrected age. Seven of the 17 episodes were characterized by marked decrease in systolic BP, ie, decreased by 57% +/- 10%, and were prolonged, ie, remained at the lower values for 17 +/- 6 hours despite therapeutic interventions. These seven episodes were accompanied by oliguria (urine output less than 1 mL/kg/h) and neurologic abnormalities (ie, seizures). In the remaining ten episodes, the systolic BP decreased by 50% +/- 8%, but the decreases were relatively brief, ie, remained at the lower values for 2.8 +/- 2 hours. These briefer episodes were not accompanied by renal or neurologic signs. These data indicate a particular vulnerability of the cerebral and renal circulation in premature infants with chronic hypertension to decreases in systolic BP to levels that would otherwise be considered in the normal range. The findings suggest that adaptive responses in both cerebral and renal blood flow are altered by chronic hypertension in such infants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Toxic epidermal necrolysis (Lyell syndrome) developed in a 43-year woman treated with carbamazepine, perazine, and sulpiride for recurrent manic bipolar disorder. Five days after withdrawal of all psychotropic medication her psychiatric illness was exacerbated and a syndrome of lethal catatonia developed which was promptly treated with unilateral electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). Rapid remission of lethal catatonia after the first ECT treatment and of her affective disorder within days was achieved. According to clinical observations of the preneuroleptic era, early improvement of lethal catatonia following ECT may have been supported by concurrent high dose corticosteroid therapy for toxic epidermal necrolysis.
This study was designed to assess the efficacy of a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor in prolonging posttreatment survival for dogs with appendicular osteosarcoma after treatment with amputation and doxorubicin chemotherapy.
Survival will be prolonged in dogs receiving BAY 12-9566.
The study included 303 dogs with appendicular osteosarcoma.
Dogs were treated with doxorubicin (30 mg/m2) every 2 weeks for 5 treatments starting 2 weeks after amputation. Dogs were randomly allocated to receive a novel nonpeptidic biphenyl inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs, BAY 12-9566; 4-[4-4-(chlorophenyl)phenyl]-4-oxo-2S-(phenylthiomethyl) butanoic acid) or placebo after doxorubicin chemotherapy.
Median survival for all 303 dogs was 8 months; and 1-year, 2-year, and 3-year survival rates were 35%, 17%, and 9%, respectively. Treatment with BAY 12-9566 did not influence survival. Multivariate analysis revealed that increasing age (P = .004), increasing weight (P = .006), high serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) (P = .012) and high bone ALP (P < .001) were independently associated with shorter median survival times. Additional analyses on available data indicated that as the number of mitotic figures in the biopsy increased (P = .013), and as plasma active MMP-2 concentrations increased (P = .027), the risk of dying increased.
Doxorubicin is an effective adjuvant to amputation in prolonging survival for dogs with appendicular osteosarcoma.
We report on a 41 year old woman, who after 750 mg mefloquine, a newer antimalarial agent, developed a psychosis with dizziness, confusion and delusions. The symptoms were more intensive and remained longer than hitherto reported in the literature. A total of 23 patients are known to have had psychiatric adverse effects under mefloquine. Psychotic episodes are undoubtedly though rarely associated with the intake of mefloquine.
We monitored the emergence of major depression (MDD) during treatment for nicotine dependence among 224 smokers. MDD was assessed on three occasions during the course of treatment with the mood disorders portion of the Structured Clinical Interview for the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (SCID), fourth edition (DSM-IV). Out of 224 participants, 20% had suffered a past episode of MDD, 18% of males and 22% of females. Four percent (n=10) experienced onset of MDD during the course of the study, four males and six females. Only 2 of the 10 cases managed to achieve abstinence at end of treatment. Those who reported large increases in depression symptoms between baseline and end of treatment (Week 10) were less likely to be abstinent at 26-week follow-up. The evidence indicates that those who treat nicotine dependence must be prepared to monitor and respond to the emergence of depression associated with treatment.
A well-documented association exists between the phenothiazines and the tricyclic antidepressants and such alarming side effects as cardiac arrhythmias, ECG changes, and even sudden death. Most disturbing is the fact that major and possibly fatal arrhythmias can occur in young adults without antecedent heart disease who are receiving therapeutic dosages of these psychotropic drugs (especially thioridazine). Further study of the cardiovascular side effects of psychotropic drugs is needed to clarify the association. In the meantime, it is mandatory that physicians individualize treatment programs that include these drugs and carefully monitor patient response.
3-Nitropropionic acid (3-NP), an irreversible inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase enzyme (SDH), induces neurodegeneration similar to that observed in Huntington's disease (HD). Reduction of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle response, locomotor hypoactivity, bilateral striatal lesions as well as brain oxidative stress are major features of HD. The present study was designed to investigate neuroprotective effect of Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb 761) on 3-NP induced neurobehavioral changes and striatal lesions. Rats administered 3-NP (20mg/kg, s.c.) for five consecutive days exhibited PPI deficits and locomotor hypoactivity whereas, pretreatment of animals with EGb 761 (100mg/kg, i.p. for 15 days) ahead of and during the induction of HD by 3-NP (20mg/kg for 5 days starting at day 8) ameliorated 3-NP-induced neurobehavioral deficits. Administration of 3-NP increased the level of striatal malondialdehyde (MDA). This effect was prevented in animals pre-treated with EGb 761. Changes in the level of apoptotic regulatory gene expressions, following 3-NP treatment, were demonstrated as both an up-regulation and a down-regulation of the expression levels of striatal Bax and Bcl-xl genes, respectively. In addition, an up-regulation of the expression level of striatal glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) was also observed. Pre-treatment with EGb 761 caused a down-regulation in striatal GAPDH and Bax together with an up-regulation of striatal Bcl-xl expression level as compared to the 3-NP treated group. Histochemical examination of striatal tissue showed that EGb 761 significantly prevented 3-NP induced inhibition of SDH activity. Histopathological examination further affirmed the neuroprotective effect of EGb 761 against 3-NP toxicity. Taken together, these results suggest that EGb 761 has a neuroprotective role in the current HD paradigm, which may be related to improvement of energy metabolism, antioxidant properties and antiapoptotic effects.
The first clinical studies of paclitaxel as a single agent for the treatment of relapsed or refractory low or intermediate grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) yielded controversial results regarding the response rates observed, mainly related to the dose and schedule of administration used. To obtain additional data concerning the efficacy and toxicity of paclitaxel in intermediate and high grade NHL we initiated a phase II study using a 3-hour infusion of high doses of paclitaxel.
The eligibility criteria included patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive NHL, a performance status < or = 2 (WHO index), a platelet count > or = 100,000/microL, a neutrophil count > or = 2,000/microL, measurable disease, and adequate hepatic function. Patients were excluded if they were infected with HIV, had a left ventricular ejection fraction < 50%, or prior peripheral neuropathy. Paclitaxel was administered as a 3-hour infusion at a dose of 250 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for a maximum of 6 courses.
Of 45 eligible patients, 42 received a total 73 courses of paclitaxel. Forty patients were assessable for response (89%), and 42 for toxicity (93%). Six patients (15%) achieved a partial (n = 4) or a complete remission (n = 2). Responses were observed in intermediate grade (n = 4) as well as in high grade lymphoma (n = 2). The main factor influencing the response to paclitaxel was the median duration of response to previous chemotherapy regimens which was 3 times longer in patients who responded to paclitaxel (16.3 months) than in patients who did not respond to paclitaxel (5.2 months) (p<0.05). The most common serious side effects were related to the hematologic toxicity of paclitaxel, and included grade IV granulocytopenia in 20 cases (48%), grade III/IV thrombocytopenia in 14 cases (33%) and grade III-IV anemia in 13 cases (31%).
Despite frequent manageable hematologic toxicity, paclitaxel is usually well tolerated at a dose of 250 mg/m2 given by a 3-hour infusion. However, the clinical efficiency as a single therapy seems modest in relapsed or refractory aggressive lymphoma.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2)-mediated adaptive processes that protect against radiation-induced micronucleus formation can be induced in cells after a 2-Gy exposure by previously exposing them to either low-dose ionizing radiation (10cGy) or WR1065 (40μM), the active thiol form of amifostine. Although both adaptive processes culminate in elevated levels of SOD2 enzymatic activity, the underlying pathways differ in complexity, with the tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) signaling pathway implicated in the low-dose radiation-induced response, but not in the thiol-induced pathway. The goal of this study was the characterization of the effects of TNFα receptors 1 and 2 (TNFR1, TNFR2) on the adaptive responses induced by low-dose irradiation or thiol exposure using micronucleus formation as an endpoint. BFS-1 wild-type cells with functional TNFR1 and 2 were exposed 24h before a 2-Gy dose of ionizing radiation to either 10cGy or a 40μM dose of WR1065. BFS2C-SH02 cells, defective in TNFR1, and BFS2C-SH22 cells, defective in both TNFR1 and TNFR2 and generated from BFS2C-SH02 cells by transfection with a murine TNFR2-targeting vector and confirmed to be TNFR2 defective by quantitative PCR, were also exposed under similar conditions for comparison. A 10-cGy dose of radiation induced a significant elevation in SOD2 activity in BFS-1 (P<0.001) and BFS2C-SH02 (P=0.005) but not BFS2C-SH22 cells (P=0.433), compared to their respective untreated controls. In contrast, WR1065 significantly induced elevations in SOD2 activity in all three cell lines (P=0.001, P=0.007, P=0.020, respectively). A significant reduction in the frequency of radiation-induced micronuclei was observed in each cell line when exposure to a 2-Gy challenge dose of radiation occurred during the period of maximal elevation in SOD2 activity. However, this adaptive effect was completely inhibited if the cells were transfected 24h before low-dose radiation or thiol exposure with SOD2 siRNA. Under the conditions tested, TNFR1 and 2 inhibition negatively affected the low-dose radiation-induced but not the thiol-induced adaptive responses observed to be mediated by elevations in SOD2 activity.
Estrogen-induced pituitary lesions in rats were studied in time-sequence experiments using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), hormone determinations and light microscopy. The main purpose of the study was to evaluate the usefulness of MRI in comparison with conventional biochemical and histopathological methods for detecting the pituitary lesions as early as possible and to follow their development. Measurements were made at 15 time points, ranging from 1 h to 272 days after s.c. implantation of the estrogen pellet. High-resolution T1 weighted sagittal images with 2 mm slice thickness were made with a 2 Tesla 30 cm small-bore MRI system. Radioimmunoassay (RIA) was used to determine the different pituitary hormones. Conventional histopathology and immunoperoxidase staining methods were used to characterize the pituitary lesions and visualize the hormone-producing pituitary cells respectively. The first histopathological pituitary changes (enlarged acidophilic cells with increased number of vacuoles) were seen at day 2 after initiation of the estrogen treatment, while at day 4 the first immunohistochemical changes (increased number of prolactin-positive cells) were encountered. Significantly increased prolactin levels in blood plasma occurred from day 9 onwards. Also at day 9, changes of the pituitary gland were first visible on MR images, showing rounding of the anterior edge of the gland. Gradual enlargement of the pituitary caused by hyperplasia of hypertrophic prolactin-positive cells could be followed by MRI, and later on pituitary tumors were recognized, their images being heterogeneous due to great differences in signal intensity ranging from hypo- or iso- to hyperintense. Signal intensities of hemorrhagic tumor areas varies widely due to variation in the blood flow maintained in these areas. In was concluded that MRI is a powerful tool for detecting enlargement and tumors of the pituitary gland in rats. This method allows the development of such lesions to be followed in one and the same animal, thereby reducing the need of interim kills and thus the number of animals to be used.
Glioblastoma is one of the most challenging forms of cancer to treat. Here we describe a computational platform that integrates the analysis of copy number variations and somatic mutations and unravels the landscape of in-frame gene fusions in glioblastoma. We found mutations with loss of heterozygosity in LZTR1, encoding an adaptor of CUL3-containing E3 ligase complexes. Mutations and deletions disrupt LZTR1 function, which restrains the self renewal and growth of glioma spheres that retain stem cell features. Loss-of-function mutations in CTNND2 target a neural-specific gene and are associated with the transformation of glioma cells along the very aggressive mesenchymal phenotype. We also report recurrent translocations that fuse the coding sequence of EGFR to several partners, with EGFR-SEPT14 being the most frequent functional gene fusion in human glioblastoma. EGFR-SEPT14 fusions activate STAT3 signaling and confer mitogen independence and sensitivity to EGFR inhibition. These results provide insights into the pathogenesis of glioblastoma and highlight new targets for therapeutic intervention.
In 34 girls who were treated with large doses of ethinylestradiol because of expected excessive tall stature, antithrombin activity in the blood was followed before, during, and after treatment. All girls showed lower levels of antithrombin during treatment than before or after estrogen administration; the mean concentration during treatment was at or below the lower limit of control values (-2 SD). In three girls, the antithrombin levels were so low that the medication was withdrawn. There was no difference between the mean levels of antithrombin activity in the three groups treated with 0.25, 0.50, or 1.0 mg of ethinylestradiol. Deficiency of antithrombin is known to be associated with an increased risk of thrombosis. Therefore, antithrombin concentrations in blood should be determined before and during treatment with large doses of estrogens.
