Proteinuria and the nephrotic syndrome are well known to occur as complications of penicillamine therapy, but reports of penicillamine-induced pemphigus have been relatively few. This is the report of a case in which both complications occurred simultaneously.
There are several dental complications associated with cocaine abuse, including adverse reactions to dental anesthetics, post-operative bleeding, and cellulitis, which can lead to necrosis of orbital, nasal, and palatal bones. Following is a report of the initial treatment rendered to a patient who had destroyed most of her hard palate over a ten-year period of cocaine abuse. There are no classic socio-economic or educational profiles for abusers of cocaine. Drug abuse victims may present as patients in any dental office. Though there are certain classic physiological and psychological symptoms of their condition, they may not display symptoms at all.
Pseudohypoparathyroidism type Ia (PSP) is a disorder characterized by Albright's osteodystrophy, secondary hyperparathyroidism, lowered Gs activity, and resistance of the urinary cAMP excretion to exogenous PTH. The patients had raised basal serum levels of TSH and/or excessive TSH response to TRH. Here we have described a 38-bp deletion at the exon 1/intron 1 boundary of one Gs alpha allele in two mothers with pseudo-PSP and in six offsprings with PSP of a kindred with Albright's osteodystrophy. The deletion eliminates the splice donor site of exon 1. The pseudo-PSP patients presented decreased Gs activity, but normal urinary cAMP responses to PTH and normal TSH levels and responses to TRH. As monitored during 22 yr, they had normal serum levels of calcium and PTH. The findings demonstrate the same inherited functional defect of Gs alpha in two female patients with pseudo-PSP and in six of their offspring with PSP. The pathogenesis of clinical hypoparathyroidism remains to be clarified.
We investigated the role of glutathione S-transferases Mu 1 (GSTM1) in acetaminophen (APAP)-induced hepatotoxicity using Gstm1-null mice. A single oral administration of APAP resulted in a marked increase in plasma alanine aminotransferase accompanied by hepatocyte necrosis 24 hr after administration in wild-type mice, but its magnitude was unexpectedly attenuated in Gstm1-null mice. Therefore, it is suggested that Gstm1-null mice are resistant to APAP-induced hepatotoxicity. To examine the mechanism of this resistance in Gstm1-null mice, we measured phosphorylation of c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), which mediates the signal of APAP-induced hepatocyte necrosis, by Western blot analysis 2 and 6 hr after APAP administration. A marked increase in phosphorylated JNK was observed in wild-type mice, but the increase was markedly suppressed in Gstm1-null mice. Therefore, it is suggested that suppressed phosphorylation of JNK may be a main mechanism of the resistance to APAP-induced hepatotoxicity in Gstm1-null mice, although other possibilities of the mechanism cannot be eliminated. Additionally, phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3β and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4, which are upstream kinases of JNK in APAP-induced hepatotoxicity, were also suppressed in Gstm1-null mice. A decrease in liver total glutathione 2 hr after APAP administration, which is an indicator for exposure to N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine, the reactive metabolite of APAP, were similar in wild-type and Gstm1-null mice. In conclusion, Gstm1-null mice are considered to be resistant to APAP-induced hepatotoxicity perhaps by the suppression of JNK phosphorylation. This study indicates the novel role of GSTM1 as a factor mediating the cellular signal for APAP-induced hepatotoxicity.
A case of imipramine-induced orgasmic inhibition in a woman is reported. Desipramine, the metabolite of imipramine, did not produce this reaction. The ability of imipramine to block the CNS neuronal reuptake of serotonin (a property not shared by desipramine) is considered the probable pathophysiologic mechanism in the failure to achieve orgasm.
Twenty-one children with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome and minimal changes on renal biopsy were followed during all the disease. The average of follow-up was 37 months, with a range from 12 to 124 months. Recurrent proteinuria was the most important feature during the follow-up; 14 out of the patients showed frequent relapses, but only 2 patients showed major complication (peritonitis, septicemia) during relapses. Frequent relapses appeared most frequently in patients who began the disease before their fourth birthday, showed allergic history, had hypertension and red blood cells in urine, or had recurrent infections and finally, in those where proteinuria reappeared soon after prednisone therapy was ended. Prednisone alone was successful to induce remission, but it did not prevent frequent relapses. The association clorambucil-prednisone allowed lengthening of the period of remission and possibly for this reason the rate of relapses fell during the first 37 months of the follow-up. There are no signs which permit to predict the length of the disease and the frequent relapses can occur even after many years from the beginning of the disease. Special care of these patients avoids major complications.
Sodium valproate (VPA) is a major antiepileptic drug that is widely used for the treatment of epilepsy as well as other neuropsychiatric diseases. The present study was conducted to evaluate the ovarian toxicity of VPA using cultured rat ovarian follicles. Secondary follicles were isolated from the ovaries of 14-day-old female rats and cultured for 48 hr with VPA (0, 0.2, 1.0, and 5.0 mM). At 0, 24, and 48 hr of VPA treatment, follicular diameters were measured. After the culture, viability of follicles and expression of aromatase in the follicles were assessed, and progesterone, androstenedione, testosterone, and estradiol levels in culture media were measured. At all concentrations of VPA, follicular development was suppressed, and androstenedione, testosterone, estradiol, and combined levels of all steroid hormones tended to decrease in association with suppression of aromatase expression in granulosa cells. Additionally, the suppression of follicular development was associated with decreased viability of follicles and an increased progesterone level at 5.0 mM of VPA. The decrease in the combined levels of all steroid hormones implies that VPA suppresses the synthetic pathway from cholesterol to estradiol including de novo synthesis of cholesterol. In conclusion, VPA induces ovarian toxicity via suppression of development and abnormal steroid hormone synthesis in cultured rat ovarian follicles.
Ischemic stroke is thought to have a polygenic basis, but identification of stroke susceptibility genes and quantification of associated risks have been hampered by conflicting results from underpowered case-control studies. We performed a meta-analysis of all candidate gene association studies in ischemic stroke. Electronic databases were searched up until January 2003 for all case-control and nested case-control studies in English-language journals relating to the investigation of any candidate gene for ischemic stroke in humans. Cases were required to have neuroimaging evidence of the diagnosis. To maintain genetic homogeneity, only studies in white adults were included. Studies that evaluated quantitative traits or intermediate phenotypes were excluded. Data from 120 case-control studies were included. Pooled odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) from random- and fixed-effects models were calculated. Of 32 genes studied, 15 polymorphisms were identified for which at least 3 studies had been conducted. Statistically significant associations with ischemic stroke were identified for factor V Leiden Arg506Gln (OR, 1.33; 95% CI, 1.12-1.58), methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase C677T (OR, 1.24; 95% CI, 1.08-1.42), prothrombin G20210A (OR, 1.44; 95% CI, 1.11-1.86), and angiotensin-converting enzyme insertion/deletion (OR, 1.21; 95% CI, 1.08-1.35). These were also the most investigated candidate genes, including 4588, 3387, 3028, and 2990 cases, respectively. No statistically significant association with ischemic stroke was detected for the 3 next most investigated genes (factor XIII, apolipoprotein E, and human platelet antigen type 1). There is a genetic component to common stroke. No single gene with major effect was identified; rather, common variants in several genes, each exerting a modest effect, contribute to the risk of stroke. These findings have important implications for the design of future genetic studies and for predictive genetic testing for stroke and other multifactorial diseases.
We previously found that genetic polymorphism in cytochrome P450 2A6 (CYP2A6) is one of the potential determinants of tobacco-related lung cancer risk. It has been reported that the plasma concentration of cotinine, a major metabolite of nicotine, in carriers of wild-type alleles of CYP2A6 is considerably higher than that in carriers of null or reduced-function alleles of CYP2A6, raising the possibility that cotinine plays an important role in the development of lung cancer. As a novel mechanism of lung tumorigenesis mediated by CYP2A6, we investigated the effects of cotinine on the suppression of apoptosis and promotion of lung tumor growth. In human lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells, cotinine inhibited doxorubicin-induced cell death by suppressing caspase-mediated apoptosis. Enhanced phosphorylation of Akt, a key factor responsible for cell survival and inhibition of apoptosis, was detected after cotinine treatment. These data suggest that cotinine suppresses caspase-mediated apoptosis induced by doxorubicin through activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway. Furthermore, we clarified that cotinine significantly facilitated tumor growth in the Lewis lung cancer model and accelerated development of lung adenomas induced by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone in A/J mice. We herein propose that cotinine induces tumor promotion by inhibiting apoptosis and enhancing cellular proliferation, thus underlining the importance of CYP2A6 in tobacco-related lung tumorigenesis.
We reviewed the incidence, clinical features, and management of all clozapine-related seizures in 5,629 patients monitored by the Clozaril Patient Management System, during the first 6 months after marketing. Seventy-one patients had generalized tonic-clonic seizures yielding a frequency of 1.3%. One patient had myoclonic seizures prior to generalization. Seizures tended to occur at low doses (< 300 mg/d) during the titration phase, and at high doses (> or = 600 mg/d) during the maintenance phase. Patients with a history of seizures or epilepsy were more likely to have seizures soon after initiation of therapy, on low doses. Twenty-nine of 37 patients (78%) who had seizures and were rechallenged with clozapine were able to continue the medication with dose reduction and more-gradual dose titration, or with the addition of an antiepileptic medication.
A strategy of gene therapy using IL-4 or IL-13 xenogeneic transfected cells encapsulated into permeable hollow fibres (HF) was used to treat CIA. Hydrogel-based hollow fibres were obtained from AN-69 copolymer, already known for its biocompatibility and tolerance in rodents. Permeability to IL-4 and lack of cell leakage from the fibres were ascertained in vitro and in vivo. Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) fibroblasts transfected with mouse IL-4 gene were encapsulated in HF (6.25 x 105 cells/HF). IL-4 was detected in vitro in the culture supernatant of filled fibres for at least 19 days. IL-4 or IL-13 transfected CHO cells encapsulated in HF were implanted in the peritoneum of mice on days 11-13 after immunization with type II collagen. Control mice were treated with fibre containing CHO cells transfected with beta-galactosidase (betagal) gene; a positive control group consisted of mice treated by subcutaneous injection of 106 cells on days 10 and 25. Mice were monitored for signs of arthritis by observers unaware of the status of animals. Results of these experiments indicate that severity of the articular disease was significantly reduced in the groups of mice treated with CHO/IL-4 or CHO/IL-13 cells encapsulated in HF, compared with control groups receiving CHO/betagal cells encapsulated in HF. Histological analysis confirmed these data and extended them to a better inhibitory effect of encapsulated cells compared with free cells on inflammatory and destructive joint disease. Moreover, such long-term treatment with HF was well tolerated; macroscopic and histological aspects of peritoneal cavity were moderately inflammatory. Thus, our results may have important implications for clinical use of gene transfected cells as therapeutic agents in the treatment of autoimmune diseases.
Multidrug resistance (MDR) is a major obstacle in effective chemotherapy for cancer patients. The expression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in cancer cells is highly correlated with resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs. (-)-Antofine, a phenanthroindolizidine alkaloid derived from Cynanchum paniculatum, inhibits the growth of various human cancer cells. In this study, we further explored the potential of (-)-antofine to overcome the resistance induced by anti-cancer drugs. To this end, we established the paclitaxel-resistant human lung cancer cell line A549-PA by gradually exposing A549 cells to increasing concentrations of paclitaxel. As a result, the A549-PA cells acquired resistance against paclitaxel treatment and had an IC50 that was more than 200 times that of the parental A549 cells. (-)-Antofine, however, effectively suppressed the growth of both the parental and drug-resistant cells. Additional studies revealed that the anti-proliferative activity of (-)-antofine in A549-PA cells is accompanied by a down-regulation of P-gp mRNA and protein expression. The effect of reversing the multidrug resistance of A549-PA cells via (-)-antofine treatment was demonstrated an increase in intracellular rhodamine-123 accumulation, measured using FACS analysis. These findings suggest an additional chemotherapeutic value of (-)-antofine, that is, regulation of cancer cell drug resistance, in addition to its antitumor effect.
To assess whether patients taking aspirin were more likely to experience bleeding complications after transrectal ultrasound (TRUS)-guided prostate biopsy.
Three hundred and eighty-seven patients taking aspirin who underwent prostate biopsy over a 3.5 year period and 731 patients not taking aspirin over a 2 year period returned a questionnaire assessing the incidence and severity of bleeding complications.
Patients taking aspirin had a significantly higher cumulative incidence of haematuria and rectal bleeding, but not of haemospermia. They also had a longer mean duration of bleeding, but no increase in bleeding severity. Severe bleeding was very uncommon in both groups and no patients required intervention for bleeding complications.
Aspirin exacerbates minor bleeding complications in patients undergoing TRUS guided biopsy of the prostate, but in this large group of aspirin-taking patients no dangerous bleeding complications were encountered. It may be that the risks associated with aspirin cessation outweigh the risks of haemorrhagic complications.
It has been shown that ureter ligation increases the biliary excretion of acetaminophen (AA) conjugates, mainly as the sulfate in rats. This study was conducted to examine the effect of nephrotoxicants-that induce renal damage without liver injury on the biliary and urinary excretion of AA metabolites. Renal damage was produced in male S.D. rats, 1 day after dosing with 200 mg/kg p.o. of hexachloro-1,3-butadiene (HCBD), or 3 day after the dosage of 7.5 mg/kg iv of cisplatin (CIS). Renal damage without liver injury was confirmed by measuring serum enzymes, creatinine and BUN levels. AA and its metabolites were measured for 3 hr by HPLC in rats injected iv with 150 mg/kg of AA. The excreted amounts of AA-glucuronide (AA-G), AA-sulfate (AA-S) and AA-glutathione into bile were reduced to 57, 18 and 73% of control rats, respectively, by HCBD. HCBD pretreatment also altered the urinary excretion of AA-G, AA-S and AA-mercapturate to 75, 14 and 118% of controls. CIS drastically reduced the urinary excretion of AA metabolites, whereas this compound significantly enhanced the biliary excretion of AA-S. However, CIS did not cause an increase in the percentage of the dose excreted as AA-G in bile. Both HCBD and CIS caused marked elevations in the blood concentrations of AA-G and AA-S. These findings suggest that: 1) not all renal malfunction results in increased biliary excretion of AA metabolites to compensate for the lack of renal elimination, and 2) the selective reduction in biliary and urinary excretion of AA-S by HCBD appears to occur by mechanism(s) other than through alteration of AA and its metabolites.
A 26-year-old male with nephrotic syndrome (NS) due to alpha-mercaptopropionyl glycine (MPG) is described. In March, 1988, he was diagnosed as having familial cystinuria after receiving urolithiasis treatment since December, 1985. Massive proteinuria and slight pedal edema were noted. Nephrotic syndrome was suggested and renal biopsy was performed. The renal pathological finding demonstrated membranous glomerulonephritis (MN) at stage I. This case was defined as NS clinically associated with MPG, and glucocorticoid intake was initiated. The response to the glucocorticoids was fairly good with no clinical problems after discontinuation of MPG, and the cystinuria was maintained with alkaline medication. The patient's parents and younger brother were suggested and confirmed to have cystinuria based on urinary aminogram analysis, but displayed no symptoms. We present a rare case of NS due to MPG therapy in a patient with familial cystinuria. However, the mechanism of onset remains unclear.
We investigated the effect of pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PALP) on tobramycin (TOB)-induced nephrotoxicity in rats. Paper electrophoretic analysis showed that in the mixture of TOB and PALP, the spot corresponding to TOB alone almost disappeared and the spot associated with TOB overlapped with that associated with PALP, although the spots of TOB alone and PALP alone were observed as single spots on the cathode and anode sides, respectively. The overlapping of both compounds indicated that TOB could directly interact with PALP in vitro. In the assay of TOB binding to renal brush border membranes (BBMs), PALP significantly inhibited the binding of TOB to BBMs by interacting with TOB outside of BBMs vesicles. Intrarenal TOB levels in rats receiving TOB and PALP were lower than those in rats given TOB alone. Combination with PALP markedly suppressed the urinary protein content, urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase activity and blood urea nitrogen content elevated by TOB, and also reduced the degree of TOB-induced renal tubular cell necrosis. These results indicate that PALP protects the rat kidneys from TOB-induced nephrotoxicity and that the protective effect of PALP may be due to the reduced intrarenal TOB concentration and less binding to TOB to BBMs induced by the interaction of PALP with TOB.
Epidemiologic studies show that patients chronically consuming nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) for arthritis exhibit a reduced incidence of prostate cancer. In addition, some NSAIDs show anticancer activity in vitro. NSAIDs exert their anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting cyclooxygenase (COX) activity; however, evidence suggests that COX-independent mechanisms mediate decreased prostate cancer cell survival. Hence, we examined the effect of selected aryl propionic acid NSAIDs and structurally related compounds on the decreased survival of prostate cancer cell lines PC-3, DU-145, and LNCaP by induction of the p75(NTR) protein. p75(NTR) has been shown to function as a tumor suppressor in the prostate by virtue of its intracellular death domain that can initiate apoptosis and inhibit growth. The most efficacious compounds for induction of p75(NTR) and decreased survival, in rank-order, were R-flurbiprofen, ibuprofen, oxaprozin, fenoprofen, naproxen, and ketoprofen. Because R-flurbiprofen and ibuprofen exhibited the greatest efficacy, we examined their dose-dependent specificity of induction for p75(NTR) relative to other members of the death receptor family. Whereas treatment with R-flurbiprofen or ibuprofen resulted in a massive induction of p75(NTR) protein levels, the expression of Fas, p55(TNFR), DR3, DR4, DR5, and DR6 remained largely unchanged. Moreover, transfection of either cell line before R-flurbiprofen or ibuprofen treatment with a dominant negative form of p75(NTR) to antagonize p75(NTR) activity or p75(NTR) small interfering RNA to prevent p75(NTR) protein expression rescued both cell lines from decreased survival. Hence, R-flurbiprofen and ibuprofen selectively induce p75(NTR)-dependent decreased survival of prostate cancer cells independently of COX inhibition.
The efficacy, safety, and tolerability of carbamazepine in the treatment of agitation and aggression associated with dementia were assessed.
In a 6-week, randomized, multisite, parallel-group study of 51 nursing home patients with agitation and dementia, individualized doses of carbamazepine were compared with placebo. Except for a physician monitor and a pharmacist, all participants were blind to treatment. The primary outcome measures were the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) and Clinical Global Impression (CGI) global improvement rating. Secondary measures included measures of behavior, aggression, cognition, functional status, staff time, safety, and tolerability. Intent-to-treat analysis was performed.
The modal carbamazepine dose at 6 weeks was 300 mg/day, and a mean serum level of 5.3 micrograms/ml was achieved. The study was terminated after a planned interim analysis showed that carbamazepine provided more benefit than did placebo. Over 6 weeks the mean total BPRS score decreased 7.7 points for the carbamazepine group and 0.9 for the placebo group, and the weekly scores showed a gradual divergence between the two groups. CGI ratings showed global improvement in 77% of the patients taking carbamazepine and 21% of those taking placebo. Secondary analyses confirmed that the positive changes were due to decreased agitation and aggression. The drug was generally well tolerated, and no change in cognition or functional status occurred. The perception of staff time needed to manage agitation showed a decrease for carbamazepine but not placebo.
This controlled study showed significant short-term efficacy of carbamazepine for agitation with generally good safety and tolerability.
This study was designed to determine the minimum paroxetine dose effective for treating panic disorder.
Of 425 patients with DSM-III-R panic disorder with or without agoraphobia who underwent a 2-week drug-free screening period, 278 patients were randomly assigned to double-blind treatment with a 10-week course of placebo or paroxetine at a dose of 10, 20, or 40 mg/day.
At 40 mg/day, paroxetine was superior to placebo across the majority of outcome measures. Despite a mean of 9.5 to 11.6 full panic attacks during the screening period, 86.0% of the patients taking 40 mg of paroxetine, 65.2% of those taking 20 mg, 67.4% of those taking 10 mg, and 50.0% of the placebo-treated patients were free of full panic attacks during the 2 weeks ending at week 10. The 40-mg paroxetine group experienced significantly greater global improvement than the placebo group and significantly greater improvement in frequency of full and limited-symptom panic attacks, intensity of full panic attacks, phobic fear, anxiety, and depressive symptoms, usually evident by week 4. All doses of paroxetine were well tolerated, and adverse effects were consistent with those associated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
Paroxetine is an effective and well-tolerated short-term treatment of panic disorder. The minimum dose demonstrated to be significantly superior to placebo was 40 mg/day, although some patients did respond at lower doses.
Protracted opiate withdrawal can extend for months of disrupted hormonal circadian rhythms. We examined rodent behaviors and these circadian disturbances in hormone and peptide levels as well as brain clock gene expression during 60 days of protracted withdrawal. Our behavioral tests included open field, elevated plus maze, and sucrose preference tests at 36 h, 10, 30, and 60 days after stopping chronic morphine. At these four assessment points, we collected samples every 4 h for 24 h to examine circadian rhythms in blood hormone and peptide levels and brain expression of rPER1, rPER2, and rPER3 clock genes. Decreased locomotor activity and elevated adrenocorticotropic hormone and melatonin levels persisted for 2 months after morphine withdrawal, but corticosterone was elevated only at 36 h and 10 days after withdrawal. Orexin levels were high at 36 h after withdrawal, but then reversed during protracted withdrawal to abnormally low levels. Beta-endorphin (β-EP) levels showed no differences from normal. However, circadian rhythms were blunted for all of these hormones. Corticosterone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, and orexin blunting persisted at least for 60 days. The blunted circadian rhythm of β-EP and melatonin recovered by day 60, but the peak phase of β-EP was delayed about 8 h. Blunted circadian rhythms and reduced expression of rPER1, rPER2, and rPER3 persisted at least for 60 days in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens core, central nucleus of the amygdala, Hippocampus, and ventral tegmental area. Circadian rhythms of rPER1 in the nucleus accumbens shell and basolateral nucleus of the amygdala and of rPER2 in the central nucleus of the amygdala were reversed. Disrupted circadian rhythms of rPER1, rPER 2, and rPER3 expression in reward-related brain circuits and blunted circadian rhythms in peripheral hormones and peptides may play a role in protracted opiate withdrawal and contribute to relapse.
Metatropic dysplasia is a clinical heterogeneous skeletal dysplasia characterized by short extremities, a short trunk with progressive kyphoscoliosis, and craniofacial abnormalities that include a prominent forehead, midface hypoplasia, and a squared-off jaw. Dominant mutations in the gene encoding TRPV4, a calcium permeable ion channel, were identified all 10 of a series of metatropic dysplasia cases, ranging in severity from mild to perinatal lethal. These data demonstrate that the lethal form of the disorder is dominantly inherited and suggest locus homogeneity in the disease. Electrophysiological studies demonstrated that the mutations activate the channel, indicating that the mechanism of disease may result from increased calcium in chondrocytes. Histological studies in two cases of lethal metatropic dysplasia revealed markedly disrupted endochondral ossification, with reduced numbers of hypertrophic chondrocytes and presence of islands of cartilage within the zone of primary mineralization. These data suggest that altered chondrocyte differentiation in the growth plate leads to the clinical findings in metatropic dysplasia.
The most important cytotoxic drugs for the treatment of ovarian cancer, platinum compounds and paclitaxel, are known to induce neurotoxicity, which is dose limiting when higher paclitaxel doses are used or platinum-pretreated patients are treated. The absolute dose of paclitaxel per course has been demonstrated to be an important risk factor for the development of neurotoxicity. The role of cumulative dose, treatment duration and infusion schedule as additional risk factors are still in debate, and are therefore evaluated in this study. This study evaluates paclitaxel induced neurotoxicity in 38 patients, most of whom had already received platinum treatment, receiving either 135 or 175 mg/m2 as 3-h or 24-h infusion. Patients were compared with an age-matched control group. A detailed questionnaire and neurophysiological measurements including vibration perception threshold were used. Overall, the majority of patients (76%) developed some degree of neurotoxicity, but symptoms were usually mild or moderate with no grade 3/4 neurotoxicity observed. Age has been demonstrated to be an important risk factor for the development of neurotoxicity. Furthermore, the higher dose per course showed a significant impact on neurotoxicity, while the different infusion schedules were of minor importance. Vibration threshold perception, 2-point discrimination, a walking-the-line test, and reports of paresthesias were shown to be the most sensitive and useful parameters for neurotoxicity evaluation. Neurotoxicity is a common adverse event during paclitaxel chemotherapy in platinum-pretreated patients. A clinically useful test panel composed of a detailed history and the above three easily performed neurophysiological evaluations should be incorporated into future studies evaluating new drugs, treatment modifications, new combinations, and potential modulators of chemotherapy-induced neurotoxicity.
We present 6 cases illustrating some of the gynaecological complications associated with tamoxifen treatment of women with breast cancer. The first 2 represent cases of myometrial hypertrophy secondary to tamoxifen use, a postmenopausal woman and a premenopausal women with recurrent carcinoma of the breast. The third is a case of probable ovulation induction in a perimenopausal women with recurrent breast cancer who was commenced on tamoxifen 20 mg daily. The other 3 cases illustrate some of the endometrial effects associated with tamoxifen therapy in women with a history of breast cancer, namely cystic glandular hyperplasia, endometrial polyps and endometrial cancer.
Pigmented hypertrichotic dermatosis with insulin-dependent diabetes (PHID) syndrome is a recently described autosomal recessive disorder associated with predominantly antibody negative, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. In order to identify the genetic basis of PHID and study its relationship with glucose metabolism, we performed homozygosity mapping in five unrelated families followed by candidate gene sequencing. Five loss-of-function mutations were identified in the SLC29A3 gene which encodes a member of a highly conserved protein family that transports nucleosides, nucleobases and nucleoside analogue drugs, hENT3. We show that PHID is allelic with a related syndrome without diabetes mellitus, H syndrome. The interaction of SLC29A3 with insulin signaling pathways was then studied using an established model in Drosophila melanogaster. Ubiquitous knockdown of the Drosophila ortholog of hENT3, dENT1 is lethal under stringent conditions; whereas milder knockdown induced scutellar bristle phenotypes similar to those previously reported in the knockdown of the Drosophila ortholog of the Islet gene. A cellular growth assay showed a reduction of cell size/number which could be rescued or enhanced by manipulation of the Drosophila insulin receptor and its downstream signaling effectors, dPI3K and dAkt. In summary, inactivating mutations in SLC29A3 cause a syndromic form of insulin-dependent diabetes in humans and in Drosophila profoundly affect cell size/number through interactions with the insulin signaling pathway. These data suggest that further investigation of the role of SLC29A3 in glucose metabolism is a priority for diabetes research.
