Bupropion is an antidepressant and smoking cessation aid. Limited toxicological information exists for intentional and unintentional bupropion-only exposures. A retrospective review of all bupropion-only exposures reported to the Toxic Exposure Surveillance System from 1998 through 1999 was conducted. Data for the three bupropion products, Wellbutrin, Wellbutrin SR, and Zyban, included demographics, reason for exposure, clinical effects, therapy, and medical outcome. A total of 7,348 bupropion-only exposures were reported: 56% female and 61% unintentional. The majority of exposures involved Wellbutrin SR; however, Wellbutrin exposures involved a higher percentage of intentional overdoses and serious clinical effects. Clinical effects related to bupropion were noted in 2,247 (31%) exposures; 8% of all children <6-years-old compared to 46% of all teenagers. Seizures developed in 15% of all intentional exposures. Cardiovascular disturbances were extremely uncommon after overdose. The majority of unintentional bupropion-only exposures result in minimal or no clinical toxicity; however, a significant number of intentional overdoses result in seizures.
Folates provide one-carbon units for nucleotide synthesis and methylation reactions. A common polymorphism (677C-->T) in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) encodes an enzyme with reduced activity. Response to the antifolate methotrexate (MTX) may be modified in 677TT individuals because MTHFR converts nonmethylated folates, used for thymidine and purine synthesis, to 5-methyltetrahydrofolate, used in homocysteine remethylation to methionine. To study potential interactions between MTHFR activity and MTX, we examined the impact of decreased and increased MTHFR expression on MTX response in mice.
Mthfr-deficient (Mthfr and Mthfr) and wild-type (Mthfr) mice were injected with MTX or saline and assessed for hematological parameters (hematocrit, hemoglobin, red, and white blood cell numbers), plasma homocysteine, nephrotoxicity, hepatotoxicity, and splenic 2'-deoxyuridine 5'-triphosphate/2'-deoxythymidine 5'-triphosphate ratios. MTHFR-overexpressing transgenic mice (MTHFR-Tg) were generated, metabolites and folate distributions were measured, and response to MTX was assessed.
MTX-treated Mthfr and Mthfr mice displayed hyperhomocysteinemia and decreased hematocrit, hemoglobin, and red blood cell numbers compared with wild-type animals. Mthfr mice also showed increased nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity. MTHFR-Tg mice were generated and confirmed to have increased levels of MTHFR with altered distributions of folate and thiols in a tissue-specific manner. After MTX treatment, MTHFR-Tg mice exhibited the same decreases in hematological parameters as Mthfr-deficient mice, and significantly decreased thymidine synthesis (higher 2'-deoxyuridine 5'-triphosphate/2'-deoxythymidine 5'-triphosphate ratios) compared with wild-type mice, but they were protected from MTX-induced hyperhomocysteinemia.
Underexpression and overexpression of Mthfr/MTHFR increase MTX-induced myelosuppression but have distinct effects on plasma homocysteine and nephrotoxicity. Pharmacogenetic analysis of polymorphisms in folate-dependent enzymes may be useful in optimization of MTX therapy.
Injectable contraceptive methods are safe, highly efficacious, and commonly used worldwide. Depo-Provera (depot-medroxyprogesterone acetate) is the most commonly used injectable in the United States. It is a convenient, discrete, and low-maintenance method, and is ideal for patients with contraindications to estrogen use and certain medical conditions. In addition, there are many noncontraceptive benefits to Depo-Provera use. Side effects with this method including irregular bleeding, breast tenderness, weight gain, and the impact on bone mineral density should be taken into consideration when prescribing the method. Other injectables such as Mesigyna and norethindrone enanthate are widely used outside the United States.
Stressful events during gestation have important effects on the later physical and mental health of the offspring. In the study described here, the pilocarpine-induced seizure model was used to test the hypothesis that prenatal stress affects seizure susceptibility in infant rats. Prenatal stress consisted of daily restraint of the dam under normal room conditions (for 120minutes, twice daily) during the first, second, and third weeks of gestation. The pups were then compared with pups born to unstressed dams. Both second- and third-week-gestation stress significantly reduced pilocarpine-induced seizures in 19-day-old rat offspring, as compared with nonstressed control offspring. Mid- and late-gestation stress increased the rate and time of tonic-clonic seizures. Mortality rate 2 and 24hours after pilocarpine administration increased significantly in all stressed rats. Stress induced a significant rise in circulating corticosterone levels (2- to 8-fold, P<0.001) in the offspring. Female offspring differed little from male offspring with respect to blood corticosterone levels and epileptic behaviors. These findings indicate that prenatal stress, particularly during the second and third weeks of pregnancy, may play an important role in increasing seizure vulnerability in the unborn offspring. Female rats are more resistant to stress than males probably because of the lower susceptibility of their hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
The alpha6 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit is involved in nicotine-stimulated dopamine release in the striatum. It is expressed in brain regions and coexpressed with nAChR subtypes implicated in nicotine dependence behaviors; hence, this subunit may play a role in nicotine dependence. Using the alpha6-selective antagonist alpha-conotoxin H9A;L15A (MII[H9A;L15A]), we determined the role of alpha6* nAChRs in the pharmacological and behavioral effects of nicotine. We measured effects of pretreatment with MII[H9A;L15A] on analgesia, locomotion, and body temperature after a single injection of nicotine. Effects of MII[H9A;L15A] on nicotine reward were measured using the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm. We further measured physical (somatic signs and hyperalgesia) and affective [anxiety-related behavior and conditioned place aversion (CPA)] nicotine withdrawal behaviors after extended nicotine exposure. Results showed that MII[H9A;L15A] did not block acute nicotine effects on the behaviors measured. Conversely, MII[H9A:l15A] blocked the expression of nicotine CPP, as well as withdrawal-associated CPA and anxiety-related behavior in the elevated plus maze, but not withdrawal-induced somatic signs or hyperalgesia. These results suggest a role for the alpha6 nAChR subunit in nicotine reward and affective nicotine withdrawal but not acute nicotine-induced or physical withdrawal behaviors.
The present study investigated aspects of sleep quality in ecstasy and cannabis users. Two-hundred and twenty seven participants (117 ecstasy/polydrug users, 53 cannabis users and 57 drug naive participants) took part. The participants completed measures of daytime sleepiness, and indicators of sleep quality. The results demonstrated that ecstasy/polydrug users viewed themselves as being more evening types and having poorer sleep quality than cannabis users and drug naive participants. They were also more likely to have missed a night's sleep. The reported differences in sleep type may reflect ecstasy-related serotonergic dysfunction resulting in problems with shifting circadian rhythms.
Oleanolic acid is a naturally derived triterpene used clinically in the treatment of hepatitis in China, but its poor solubility often leads to poor bioavailability. In the present study, oleanolic acid nanosuspensions were prepared by the nanoprecipitation method and then systematically characterized. The average particle size of the obtained nanosuspensions was 284.9 nm, with a polydispersity index of 0.216. Transmission electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy showed that the drug existed as spherical or near-spherical nanoparticles in the nanosuspensions. Differential scanning calorimetry and X-ray diffraction studies indicated that oleanolic acid was present in an amorphous state in the lyophilized nanosuspensions. At 25 degrees C, the saturation solubility of oleanolic acid was increased by about 6 times after nanoation (25.72 microg mL(-1) vs 4.37 microg mL(-1)). In the in-vitro drug release experiments, the lyophilized nanosuspensions showed a faster drug dissolution rate than that of the coarse drug powder (approx. 90% vs 15% during the first 20 min), and nearly 95% of the oleanolic acid was released by 120 min. As evidenced by the lower serum alanine aminotransferase activity and liver malondialdehyde content, pre-treatment with oleanolic acid nanosuspensions significantly enhanced the hepatoprotective effect of oleanolic acid against carbon tetrachloride-induced liver injury.
Twenty-five patients have completed a mean of 53 months of treatment with methotrexate (MTX) as part of a prospective study of the long-term safety and efficacy of the drug. Since the time of the last report (at a mean of 29 months), the mean dosage of MTX has increased from 12.4 mg/week to 14.6 mg/week, whereas the mean prednisone dosage has decreased from a baseline of 7.1 mg/day to 1.9 mg/day. A significant improvement from baseline in all clinical parameters tested was maintained, and response to therapy did not vary significantly between the assessment at 29 months and that at 53 months. Toxic reactions were as common during months 30-53 as during the first 29 months of the study, with patterns of toxic reactions remaining consistent within each patient. Radiologic evidence of disease progression was not seen before 24 months of MTX treatment, but after this time, it was observed in some patients. We conclude that many clinical features of long-term MTX therapy are distinctly different from what might have been expected after the short-term trials.
There is an increasing body of evidence that the central nervous system is affected by cholestatic liver disorders. Cholestasis has been shown to result in a decreased seizure propensity which is believed to be mediated by an increased opioidergic tone and nitric oxide (NO) signaling pathway. In this study, we used a reversible chemically-induced cholestasis model in mice to investigate the changes in seizure susceptibility. The cholestasis was induced by intragastric administration of alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) (100 mg/kg) or vehicle (corn oil). The threshold to generalized clonic seizures induced by timed intravenous infusion of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) was used as an index of seizure propensity. The role of opioid receptors and NO pathway in the changes of seizure threshold, and the responsiveness to the anticonvulsant effect of opioid agonist, morphine, during and after the resolution of cholestasis was studied in this reversible paradigm of cholestatic disease. A significant increase in cholestasis-related biochemical markers as well as in clonic seizure threshold was observed; it was maximal at day 3 after cholestasis induction and slowly decreased to normal thereafter. Seizure threshold rise was inhibited by chronic administration of the opioid antagonist naltrexone or acute administration of N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), an inhibitor of NO production. Co-administration of subeffective doses of L-NAME and naltrexone showed an additive effect. Injection of an anticonvulsant dose of morphine on day 7 after cholestasis induction did not increase seizure threshold, suggestive of a downregulation of receptors even after cholestasis resolution. These data shows that ANIT-induced cholestasis leads to a reversible increased resistance to PTZ-induced seizures through an opioid/NO-mediated pathway, and is probably accompanied by downregulation of opioid receptors.
Acute interstitial nephritis is an uncommon but important cause of acute renal failure. Proton pump inhibitors are now thought to be the most common class of drugs implicated in drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis. This is the first reported case of rabeprazole-induced acute interstitial nephritis.
Carbamyl phosphate synthetase I (CPS I; EC6,3,4,16) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by hyperammonemia. We studied the molecular bases of CPS I deficiency in a newborn Japanese girl with consanguineous parents. Northern and Western blots revealed a marked decrease in CPS I mRNA and enzyme protein but with a size similar to that of the control, respectively. Sequencing of the patient's cDNA revealed a nine-nucleotide deletion at position 832-840. Sequencing analysis of the genomic DNA revealed a G to C transversion at position 840, the last nucleotide of an exon in the splice donor site. This substitution altered the consensus sequence of the splice donor site and the newly cryptical donor site in the exon caused the 9-bp in-frame deletion. This report seems to be the first complete definition of CPS I deficiency, at the molecular level.
Bortezomib, a potent 26S proteasome inhibitor, is approved for the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) and clinical trials are under way to evaluate its efficacy in other malignant diseases. However, cytotoxic effects of bortezomib on immune-competent cells have also been observed. In this study, we show that bortezomib downregulates cell surface expression of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) on primary human interleukin (IL)-2-activated natural killer (NK) cells. Pharmacological inhibition of the transcription factor, NF-kappaB also profoundly decreased TRAIL expression, suggesting that NF-kappaB is involved in the regulation of TRAIL expression in activated human NK cells. Furthermore, perforin-independent killing of the human MM cell lines RPMI8226 and U266 by NK cells was markedly suppressed following bortezomib treatment. In addition, blocking cell surface-bound TRAIL with a TRAIL antibody impaired NK cell-mediated lysis of the TRAIL-sensitive MM cell line, RPMI8226. In conclusion, the proteasome is likely to be involved in the regulation of TRAIL expression in primary human IL-2-activated NK cells. Proteasome inhibition by bortezomib disrupts TRAIL expression and TRAIL dependent and/or independent pathway-mediated killing of myeloma cells, suggesting that bortezomib may potentially hamper NK-dependent immunosurveillance against tumors in patients treated with this drug.
1. The effect of high and low dose angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition and the contribution of bradykinin potentiation in this treatment on left and right ventricle weights and wall volume was investigated in immature spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). 2. Male SHR were treated from 7 to 11 weeks of age with perindopril (an ACE inhibitor) at a low dose of 0.1 mg/kg per day or a high dose of 1 mg/kg per day. Half the animals were also treated with a bradykinin receptor antagonist, HOE 140 (500 micrograms/kg per day). 3. After 4 weeks of treatment, hearts were arrested in diastole and perfusion fixed. The right and left ventricle plus septum were weighed, cut into 1 mm slices and volume was determined using the Cavalieri principle. 4. Low dose perindopril treatment did not significantly affect blood pressure in the SHR. High dose perindopril treatment maintained blood pressure at a level similar to Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. 5. Growth of the right ventricle was not influenced by ACE inhibition. However, high dose treatment significantly lowered the left ventricle plus septum volume:bodyweight ratio (LV + S VOL:BWT) compared with control SHR (2.85 +/- 0.02 vs 3.36 +/- 0.08 mm3/g, respectively) to a level similar to the normotensive WKY rats (2.80 +/- 0.11 mm3/g). Similarly, low dose treatment significantly lowered the LV + S VOL:BWT ratio (2.89 +/- 0.09 mm3/g). HOE 140 treatment did not reverse the effect of ACE inhibition. Similar effects were observed on left ventricular weights. 6. ACE inhibition, independent of its blood pressure lowering effect, prevents the development of left ventricular hypertrophy in the SHR but does not influence growth of the right ventricle. This effect of ACE inhibition does not appear to be mediated by bradykinin potentiation.
Oxidative stress is currently suggested as a mechanism underlying diabetes and diabetic-related complications. Oxidative stress results from an imbalance between radical-generating and radical-scavenging systems. Many secondary plant metabolites have been reported to possess antioxidant activity. This study was designed to evaluate the potential antioxidative activity of the ethanolic extract from Aloe vera leaf gel in the plasma and pancreas of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Glibenclamide was used as a standard reference drug. Oral administration of ethanolic extract at a concentration of 300 mg kg(-1) body weight for 21 days resulted in a significant reduction in fasting blood glucose, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, hydroperoxides and alpha-tocopherol and significant improvement in ascorbic acid, reduced glutathione and insulin in the plasma of diabetic rats. Similarly, the treatment also resulted in a significant reduction in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, hydroperoxides, superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase and significant improvement in reduced glutathione in the pancreas of STZ-induced diabetic rats when compared with untreated diabetic rats. The ethanolic extract appeared to be more effective than glibenclamide in controlling oxidative stress. Thus, this study confirms the ethnopharmacological use of Aloe vera in ameliorating the oxidative stress found in diabetes.
1. There are two functionally different isoforms of the insulin receptor in humans and rats. We hypothesized that a change in their relative proportion could be of relevance to insulin resistance in hypertension. 2. A reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction technique was established for the detection of mRNA for the exon 11+ and exon 11- isoforms and the proportion of each was determined in 3, 6, 9 and 12 week old spontaneously hypertensive rats and Wistar-Kyoto rats, as well as adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH)-induced hypertensive rats and controls. 3. The proportion of the exon 11+ form (approximately 95%) and exon 11- form (approximately 5%) was similar in the liver of all rats studied. 4. We conclude that there is no change in insulin receptor isoform expression in the liver in the models of hypertension studied.
Plasma renin activity has been measured daily in 36 patients suffering from self poisoning with acetaminophen. In 3 developing porto-systemic encephalopathy terminal renal failure developed with high plasma renin activity. In 2 who developed acute renal failure without porto-systemic encephalopathy, plasma renin activity was noted to rise before serum creatinine and to return to initial levels after 3 or 4 days while renal failure persisted. Six other patients with similar hepatic damage showed comparable rises in renin without developing renal failure. Our findings are consistent with but do not establish a pathogenetic role for renin in acetaminophen-induced acute renal failure. It is suggested that other factors may act with renin to bring about renal failure.
Administration of ethinyl estradiol (EE), a widely used component of oral contraceptives, has been associated with impairment of bile flow and the capacity to excrete organic anions in man and experimental animals. alpha-Asarone (2,4,5-trimethoxypropenylbenzene) and 2-methoxy-4-(2-propenyl) phenoxyacetic acid (MPPA) have shown hypolipidemic effects. In addition to these effects, we decided to evaluate the properties of these compounds on EE-induced cholestasis. Wistar male rats were injected subcutaneously with 10 mg/kg of EE for 5 days; simultaneously, alpha-asarone or MPPA were also administered and appropriate controls were performed. alpha-asarone and MPPA decreased plasma and bile cholesterol. EE diminished triglycerides total, low-density lipoprotein, high-density lipoprotein and bile cholesterol. MPPA further decreased these lipid parameters. Alkaline phosphatase (an enzyme marker of cholestasis) was increased after administration of EE, but this effect was prevented significantly by alpha-asarone or MPPA administration. Bile flow was importantly decreased by EE and increased by alpha-asarone alone. Furthermore, alpha-asarone or MPPA preserved the normal bile flow in EE-treated rats. EE inhibited the activity of the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, while both alpha-asarone and MPPA preserved this enzyme activity. Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase is involved in Na(+)-coupled uptake of bile acids into hepatocytes and, therefore, ultimately is the driving force for the generation of bile flow. Therefore, the anticholestatic effects of alpha-asarone and MPPA, described herein by the first time, may be due to its ability to preserve ATPase activity. This enzyme is negatively regulated by membrane cholesterol, thus the hypolipidemic effects of the compounds tested may be responsible for Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity and bile flow maintenance.
Upregulation of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an inducible enzyme that is actively involved in inflammation and wound healing, has been found in cirrhotic livers. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of selective inhibition of COX-2 on the development of liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension in rats.
Liver cirrhosis was induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) in Sprague-Dawley rats. Rofecoxib, a highly selective COX-2 inhibitor, was orally administered to rats at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day. Portal pressure was measured at 8 weeks post CCl(4) administration with the catheterization method followed by the harvesting of liver samples. Liver histopathology was analyzed with hematoxylin and eosin and Masson's trichrome staining. The activated, alpha smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) positive hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and the protein levels of collagen types I, III, IV, as well as laminin and two fibrogenic mediators, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) in the livers, were detected with immunohistochemical staining and western blot methods, respectively. The level of hepatic thromboxane B(2) (TXB(2)), a potent vasoconstrictive substance derived from COX, was measured with enzyme immunoassay.
Oral administration of rofecoxib decreased portal pressure in rats that were treated with CCl(4) for 8 weeks. This was associated with a marked reduction in collagen accumulation and TXB(2) level in the rat livers. In addition, rofecoxib administration was found to reduce the number of activated HSCs and to downregulate hepatic protein levels of three detected types of collagen, laminin, VEGF and CTGF in CCl(4)-treated rats.
COX-2 is involved in the fibrogenesis of livers and the formation of portal hypertension in CCl(4)-treated rats. Selective inhibition of COX-2 by rofecoxib reduces portal hypertension and this is associated with antifibrotic activity as well as a reduction of COX-2-derived vasoactive substance.
Neurotoxicity has been associated on rare occasions with methotrexate therapy. We now report the case of a 71-year-old man with erythrodermic cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who developed symptoms of dysarthria and inco-ordination within 1 month of the initiation of oral methotrexate; discontinuation of the therapy then resulted in a gradual resolution of the problems.
Fourteen 1-methyl-2,4-diamino-6-(N-methyl-substituted benzylamino) quinazolinium iodides (II) were synthesized by treatment of 2,4-diamino-6-substituted benzylaminoquinazolines with methyl iodide. Three compounds (II4,7,10) were shown to produce 100% suppression on Plasmodium berghei in mice at oral dose of 20 mg/kg and II4 was found to inhibit twice as much as methotrexate on L1210 Leukemia cells in culture.
"Ecstasy" (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine or MDMA) is a widely abused recreational drug, reported to produce neurotoxic effects, both in laboratory animals and in humans. MDMA metabolites can be major contributors for MDMA neurotoxicity. This work studied the neurotoxicity of MDMA and its catechol metabolites, α-methyldopamine (α-MeDA) and N-methyl-α-methyldopamine (N-Me-α-MeDA) in human dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells differentiated with retinoic acid and 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate. Differentiation led to SH-SY5Y neurons with higher ability to accumulate dopamine and higher resistance towards dopamine neurotoxicity. MDMA catechol metabolites were neurotoxic to SH-SY5Y neurons, leading to caspase 3-independent cell death in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. MDMA did not show a concentration- and time-dependent death. Pre-treatment with the antioxidant and glutathione precursor, N-acetylcysteine (NAC), resulted in strong protection against the MDMA metabolites' neurotoxicity. Neither the superoxide radical scavenger, tiron, nor the inhibitor of the dopamine (DA) transporter, GBR 12909, prevented the metabolites' toxicity. Cells exposed to α-MeDA showed an increase in intracellular glutathione (GSH) levels, which, at the 48 h time-point, was not dependent in the activity increase of γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase (γ-GCS), revealing a possible transient effect. Importantly, pre-treatment with buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of γ-GCS, prevented α-MeDA induced increase in GSH levels, but did not augment this metabolite cytotoxicity. Even so, BSO pre-treatment abolished NAC protective effects against α-MeDA neurotoxicity, which were, at least partially, due to GSH de novo synthesis. Inversely, pre-treatment of cells with BSO augmented N-Me-α-MeDA-induced neurotoxicity, but only slightly affected NAC neuroprotection. In conclusion, MDMA catechol metabolites promote differential toxic effects to differentiated dopaminergic human SH-SY5Y cells.
Doxazosin is reported to increase the incidence of congestive heart failure. The benefits of doxazosin, for controlling morning blood pressure as well as its effect on the left ventricular structure and function, are herein examined.
In this study, 223 morning hypertensive patients were randomized into either the doxazosin group, with a once-daily bedtime dose of doxazosin, or the control group, who continued their current medication. Atenolol was added to the doxazosin group when needed. The effect of doxazosin was evaluated by measurement of echocardiographic parameters and B-type natriuretic peptide.
The left ventricular wall thickness decreased, but the left ventricular diastolic diameter in the doxazosin group increased from the baseline. The changes in the left ventricular mass index were similar between the groups, whereas the relative wall thickness in the doxazosin group decreased more than that in the control group. The left ventricular diastolic function could deteriorate in the doxazosin group. In the doxazosin group, an increase in the left ventricular diameter was only seen in the patient who did not take diuretics throughout the study. The office and home blood pressure in the doxazosin group decreased more than that in the control group, whereas the B-type natriuretic peptide increased in the doxazosin group. Three cases of congestive heart failure were observed in the doxazosin group, but none in the control group.
Although a bedtime dose of doxazosin can significantly lower the blood pressure, it can also increase left ventricular diameter, thus increasing the risk of congestive heart failure. However, the prior use of diuretics can prevent the unfavorable effects of doxazosin on the left ventricular structure.
Spasm of muscle in association with suxamethonium is not uncommon. As an accepted early sign of malignant hyperpyrexia (MH), patients have been referred for MH screening who have shown only this abnormality. Case histories of 277 probands have been analysed and grouped according to final diagnosis, depending on results of muscle biopsy and in vitro screening. When muscle spasm is induced with suxamethonium, malignant hyperpyrexia must be considered a probable diagnosis.
To compare the effects of vitamin D analogs versus calcitriol on serum levels of Ca, P and parathyroid hormone (PTH). A compound better than calcitriol should increase the Ca x P product less than calcitriol for an equivalent decrease in PTH levels.
Biological activity of 4 vitamin D analogs, 1,25-(OH)(2)-16ene- D(3) (RO(1)), 1,25-(OH)(2)-16ene-23yne-D(3) (RO(2)), 1,25-(OH)(2)-26,27-hexafluoro-16ene-23yne-D(3) (RO(3)) and 1,25-(OH)(2)-16ene-23yne-26,27-hexafluoro-19nor-D(3) (RO(4)) was tested vs. calcitriol in parathyroidectomized rats. In a second set of experiments, the effects of RO(2), RO(4) and calcitriol were studied in 5/6 nephrectomized rats with secondary hyperparathyroidism.
In parathyroidectomized rats, all analogs (250 pmol/day) led calcemia to rise after 7 days. In uremic rats, all treatments reduced PTH levels. RO(4) revealed toxicity. RO(2) was as effective as calcitriol in suppressing PTH in a dose dependent manner. Mean plasma ionized calcium did not change from baseline to day 14 and day 28 on RO(2) (250 or 500 pmol/day) whereas it increased significantly on RO(2) (1,000 pmol/day) and calcitriol (125 or 250 pmol/day). Increasing the dose of calcitriol led Ca x P to rise more dramatically than increasing the dose of RO(2), which appears to have a wider therapeutic window than calcitriol.
1,25-(OH)(2)-16ene-23yne-D(3) (RO(2)) may represent a novel candidate for the treatment of renal osteodystrophy in humans.
Cucurbitacins are a class of natural compounds known for their numerous potential pharmacological effects. The purpose of this work was to compare the cytotoxicity of three cucurbitacins I, D, E on the chondrosarcoma SW 1353 cancer cell line and to investigate their biotransformation in man. Cucurbitacins I and D showed a very strong cytotoxicity, which was higher than that of cytochalasin D, used as a drug reference. Almost 100% of the cells were apoptotic as observed by DNA fragmentation (TUNEL assay) after 12 h with cucurbitacins I and D (1 μM) and cucurbitacin E (10 μM). In terms of IC(50) values, cucurbitacins I and E presented a higher toxicity compared to that of cucurbitacin D (MTT assay). Cucurbitacin E was readily hydrolyzed by human hepatic microsomes, leading to cucurbitacin I (K(m) 22 μM, V(max) 571 nmol/mg proteins/min). On the other hand, the three cucurbitacins were hydroxylated at a very low extent, but they were sulfated and glucuronidated. In terms of V(max)/K(m), the cucurbitacin E was the best substrate of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases. This study shows that cucurbitacins I, D and E present a potent cytotoxic activity toward the chondrosarcoma SW 1353 cell line and are metabolized as sulfate and glucuronide conjugates.
The optimal treatment regimen for eradication of Helicobacter pylori in patients with duodenal ulcer has yet to be determined. Based on a search of MEDLINE, no studies have been performed comparing a proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapy regimen with a ranitidine bismuth citrate (RBC)-based dual therapy regimen, both containing clarithromycin.
This study was undertaken to compare the efficacy of lansoprazole (LAN)-based triple therapy with that of RBC-based dual therapy in H pylori-infected patients with duodenal ulcer.
Patients were randomized to receive either 1 week of triple therapy with LAN 30 mg BID, clarithromycin 500 mg BID, and tinidazole 500 mg BID, followed by 3 weeks of LAN 30 mg BID, or 2 weeks of dual therapy with RBC 400 mg BID plus clarithromycin 500 mg BID, followed by 2 weeks of RBC 400 mg BID. Eradication of H pylori was defined as negative results on both the urease quick test and histologic examination > or =4 weeks after the end of treatment. Duodenal healing and recurrence rates were assessed endoscopically at 8 weeks and 6 months. A per-protocol (PP) analysis was conducted for each efficacy end point. Also conducted were an intent-to-treat (ITT) analysis in which patients with missing data were considered failures, and an observed analysis (OBS), which included patients with an evaluable result after treatment, regardless of compliance.
One hundred eighty-five patients (126 men, 59 women; age range, 18-76 years; mean age, 43 years) were enrolled and randomized to treatment. In the LAN and RBC groups, respectively, H. pylori eradication rates were 92.6%, 93.1%, and 72.8% versus 78.6%, 77.9%, and 64.5% in the PP (P = 0.02), OBS (P = 0.01), and ITT analyses. The corresponding duodenal ulcer healing rates were 98.6%, 98.7%, and 83.7% versus 90.8%, 91.5%, and 81.7%; these differences were not statistically significant. Side effects were mild, occurring in 20.7% of LAN patients and 17.2% of RBC patients. Ulcer recurred in 2 RBC patients. No difference was observed between treatments in terms of the occurrence of gastritis or improvement of symptoms.
Based on the results of the PP and OBS analyses, LAN-based triple therapy was superior to RBC-based dual therapy for the eradication of H. pylori in patients with duodenal ulcer.
Extrapyramidal effects of phenothiazines and related compounds are well documented and may be dose related. Impaired drug metabolism can occur in chronic liver disease. A case is reported of extra pyramidal signs occurring in a patient with alcoholic liver disease given the antiemetic Ancoloxin in therapeutic dosage.
Treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) with nonselective alpha1 antagonists such as terazosin, doxazosin, and prazosin results in blood pressure reduction due to vasodilation.
Using claims data from a large Medigap plan, we examined the effect of initiating nonselective alpha1-antagonist therapy on the incidence of hypotension-related adverse events likely to be associated with vascular alpha-adrenoreceptor antagonism in patients with BPH.
Medical and prescription claims data were obtained from the MEDSTAT Group for 53,824 men with a diagnosis code for BPH during the study period (January 1995-December 1997). We examined the rate of possible hypotension-related adverse events (diagnosis codes for hypotension, syncope, dizziness, fractures, and other injuries) per 10,000 person-days for men who began therapy with alpha1 antagonists and for a random sample of nonusers, stratified by prior use of other antihypertensive agents.
After adjusting for baseline differences in event rates, those who initiated alpha1-antagonist therapy (n = 1564) had a significantly greater increase in hypotension-related adverse-event rates in the 4 months after initiation (vs the 4 months before initiation) than randomly selected nonusers (n = 8641) (increase of 1.82 vs decrease of 0.02 events per 10,000 person-days among those not taking antihypertensive agents; increase of 0.94 vs 0.69 events per 10,000 person-days among those taking other antihypertensive agents; P < 0.01). This increase began earlier and lasted longer among patients taking other antihypertensive agents. Those who discontinued their alpha1 antagonist had a higher rate of hypotensive events at baseline than those who did not (5.09 vs 3.19 events per 10,000 person-days among those using other antihypertensive agents; 3.62 vs 2.27 events per 10,000 person-days among those not using other antihypertensive agents; P < 0.05).
Initiation of nonselective alpha1-antagonist therapy for the treatment of BPH increases the risk of a cluster of clinical events consistent with vascular alpha-adrenoreceptor antagonism. This effect is seen during a 4-month period around the initiation date. Prior initiation of other antihypertensive medication increases this effect. Urologists should consult with a patient's primary care physician about use of other antihypertensive agents before initiating nonselective alpha1-antagonist therapy for BPH.
