To report a case of giant cobblestone-like papillae that appeared during oral isotretinoin therapy.
Case report.
A 14-year-old boy presented with bilateral eye itching for 1 week. Bilateral upper palpebral conjunctival cobblestone-like papillae, superficial punctate keratitis, and shield ulcer in the left cornea were seen. At the time, he was treated with oral isotretinoin for 6 months.
Following cessation of isotretinoin, the ulcer and SPK healed, and the papillae disappeared completely after an 8-week course.
Giant cobblestone-like papillae and corneal shield ulcer may be considered as a probable isotretinoin-induced ocular adverse event.
Renal physiology is a partially cyclooxygenase (COX)-dependent system. Kidneys express both COX-1 and COX-2 enzymes. In this study, we tried to investigate the effects of diclofenac sodium (D), with or without furosemide (F), on plasma renin activity (PRA), serum and urine electrolytes, creatinine clearance, and COX-1 and COX-2 expression in the renal cortex.
Forty-two Wistar-albino rats were divided into four groups (G). G1, G2, G3, and G4 were treated with placebo, F (20 mg/kg), F (20 mg/kg) plus D (2.5 mg/kg), and D (2.5 mg/kg), respectively, and followed for seven days. Urinary osmolality and volume, and levels of serum and urinary creatinine, sodium, and potassium were measured. Renal COX-1 and COX-2 expression were examined by the immunohistochemical method.
Compared with G1, body weights were significantly reduced in G3 and G4 (P < 0.05 for all). Serum sodium in G2 decreased significantly compared with G1, G3, and G4. Serum potassium in G2 decreased significantly compared with G1 and G3. Urine volume in G2 increased significantly compared with G1, G3, and G4. Urine osmolality in G2 and G4 decreased significantly compared with G1 and G3. Urine Na in G2 increased significantly compared with G4. Although urine K was lowest in G4, there were no statistically significant differences between the groups. Creatinine clearance decreased in G4 compared with the other groups. PRA was similar in all groups. Renal cortical COX-2 expression was lowest in G1. COX-1 expression in cortical collecting tubules was significantly reduced in G3 and G4 compared with G1 and G2 (P < 0.05 for all). Although creatinine clearance in G4 was significantly lower than in G3, COX-1 and COX-2 expression were no different in G3 and G4.
Acute renal failure was caused by D. F prevented development of renal failure in rats treated with a combination of D and F. The diuretic effect of F was neutralized by D. Whereas COX-1 expression was reduced by D and by the combination of D and F in G3 and G4, renal COX-2 immunoreactivity was increased by F and D and the combination of both. Although creatinine clearance was lower in rats that were given D alone compared with the combination of F and D, COX-1 and COX-2 expression were similar in these groups.
Renal pathophysiology is elicited by activation of angiotensin II type 1 (AT(1)) receptors at all stages of renovascular disease. Angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) that specifically block the AT(1) receptor offer the potential to prevent or delay progression to end-stage renal disease independently of reductions in blood pressure. Proteinuria--an early and sensitive marker for progressive renal dysfunction--is reduced by ARB use in patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy and microalbuminuria or macroalbuminuria. Retrospective analysis of data available from early trials has confirmed this finding and has shown that albuminuria reduction is associated with lessening of cardiovascular risk. The ARB telmisartan is equivalent to enalapril in preventing glomerular filtration rate decline, and equivalent to valsartan in reducing proteinuria. Telmisartan is more effective than conventional therapy in lowering the risk of transition to overt nephropathy in hypertensive and normotensive patients. An additive effect has been seen in smaller studies when telmisartan has been added to lisinopril therapy, and high-dose telmisartan reduces albuminuria better than low-dose telmisartan. Similar data were obtained with other ARBs such as candesartan, losartan, valsartan, or irbesartan. These data support the proposition that blockade of the renin-angiotensin system beyond that required for maximum blood pressure reduction provides optimum renal protection.
Regression of cardiovascular structural changes is a main goal of antihypertensive treatment. Nitrendipine is a calcium antagonist of the dihydropiridine group that may be given once daily. In different animal models of experimental hypertension, nitrendipine was shown to reduce blood pressure (BP) and left ventricular (LV) mass, to prevent early mortality, and to limit the development of vascular lesions. It has also been proposed that nitrendipine is able to preserve tissue integrity and increase life span in malignant hypertension, because it prevents a deleterious calcium overload in the heart and arterial vessels. In humans, the effect of nitrendipine on LV mass has been evaluated in a limited number of studies with conflicting results. It has been shown that nitrendipine is able to increase the compliance of large arteries; its effect on vascular structural changes has never been reported. In this study, nitrendipine (20 mg o.d.) was given to 10 hypertensive patients. BP, (ambulatory BP monitoring) heart rate (HR), LV mass and function (TM echo, 2D guided), forearm minimal vascular resistance (min VR = BP/max blood flow--venous occlusion plethysmography--taken as an index of vascular STC), plasma renin activity (PRA), plasma catecholamines (NE and E), and aldosterone (ALD) were measured during placebo, after 2 and 6 months of treatment. BP was significantly reduced and HR was slightly increased. After 6 months of treatment a significant reduction of LV mass index (p less than 0.001) and of min VR (p less than 0.002) was observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Fissure-in-ano and acutely thrombosed external hemorrhoids are common, benign anal conditions, usually characterized by severe anal pain. Internal anal sphincter hypertonia appears to play a role in the etiology of this pain. Nitric oxide has recently been identified as the "novel biologic messenger" that mediates the anorectal inhibitory reflex in humans. This report documents a therapeutic role for nitroglycerin, a nitric oxide donor, in the treatment of acutely thrombosed external hemorrhoids and anal fissure.
Five patients with thrombosed external hemorrhoids and fifteen patients with anal fissure or ulcer were identified. A treatment regimen that included 0.5 percent nitroglycerin ointment applied topically to the anus was instituted. After one week of therapy, all patients were re-examined and questioned regarding pain relief and side effects of treatment. Fissure patients were followed for eight weeks or until healing occurred.
All patients reported dramatic relief of anal pain following application of nitroglycerin. Pain relief lasted from two to six hours. Complete healing of fissures occurred within two weeks in ten patients and within one month in two patients. One patient, whose fissure had not healed completely within two weeks requested surgical sphincterotomy. Two patients remained with persistent anal ulcers despite two months of therapy. Both, however, were pain-free. Side effects were limited to transient headache in 7 of 20 patients.
Topically applied nitroglycerin ointment appears to have a therapeutic role in the treatment of thrombosed external hemorrhoids and anal fissure.
We previously reported that chronic vagal nerve stimulation markedly improved long-term survival after chronic heart failure (CHF) in rats through cardioprotective effects of acetylcholine, independent of the heart rate-slowing mechanism. However, such an approach is invasive and its safety is unknown in clinical settings. To develop an alternative therapy with a clinically available drug, we examined the chronic effect of oral donepezil, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor against Alzheimer's disease, on cardiac remodeling and survival with a murine model of volume-overloaded CHF.
Four weeks after surgery of aortocaval shunt, CHF mice were randomized into untreated and donepezil-treated groups. Donepezil was orally given at a dosage of 5 mgxkg(-1)xday(-1). After 4 weeks of treatment, we evaluated in situ left ventricular (LV) pressure, ex vivo LV pressure-volume relationships, and LV expression of brain natriuretic peptides (BNP). We also observed survival for 50 days. When compared with the untreated group, the donepezil-treated group had significantly low LV end-diastolic pressure, high LV contractility, and low LV expression of BNP. Donepezil significantly reduced the heart weight and markedly improved the survival rate during the 50-day treatment period (54% versus 81%, P < .05).
Oral donepezil improves survival of CHF mice through prevention of pumping failure and cardiac remodeling.
The short-term cardiac side effects of 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC, zalcitabine) were studied in rats in order to understand the biochemical events contributing to the development of ddC-induced cardiomyopathy. In developing animals, ddC treatment provoked a surprisingly rapid appearance of cardiac malfunctions characterized by prolonged RR, PR, and QT intervals and J point depression. The energy metabolism in the heart was compromised, characterized by a decreased creatine phosphate/creatine ratio (from 2.05 normal value to 0.75) and a decreased free ATP/ADP ratio (from 332 normal value to 121). The activity of respiratory complexes (NADH: cytochrome c oxidoreductase and cytochrome oxidase) also decreased significantly. Southern blot and polymerase chain reaction analysis did not show deletions or a decrease in the quantity of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deriving from ddC-treated rat hearts, indicating that under our experimental conditions, ddC-induced heart abnormalities were not the direct consequence of mtDNA-related damage. The ddC treatment of rats significantly increased the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in heart and skeletal muscle as determined by the oxidation of non-fluorescent dihydrorhodamine123 to fluorescent rhodamine123 and the oxidation of cellular proteins determined from protein carbonyl content. An activation of the nuclear poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase (EC 2.4.2.30) and an increase in the mono-ADP-ribosylation of glucose-regulated protein and desmin were observed in the cardiac tissue from ddC-treated animals. A decrease in the quantity of heat shock protein (HSP)70s was also detected, while the level of HSP25 and HSP60 remained unchanged. Surprisingly, ddC treatment induced a skeletal muscle-specific decrease in the quantity of three proteins, one of which was identified by N-terminal sequencing as myoglobin, and another by tandem mass spectrometer sequencing as triosephosphate isomerase (EC 5.3.1.1). These data show that the short term cardiotoxicity of ddC is partially based on ROS-mediated signalling through poly- and mono-ADP-ribosylation reactions and depression of HSP70 levels, whose processes represent a new mtDNA independent mechanism for ddC-induced cell damage.
Fifty-seven patients with refractory acute leukemia were treated with high-dose cytosine arabinoside to establish the maximum tolerated dose and duration and to determine the antileukemic activity. The maximum tolerated regimen was found to be 3 g/sq m every 12 hr for 6 days. At this dose, nonhematologic toxicity was limited to conjunctivitis in approximately half of the patients, and liver toxicity (transient elevations in transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, or bilirubin) was frequently observed, but neither was dose-limiting. Extending the duration of treatment to 8 days resulted in excessive diarrhea and skin toxicity (painful erythema with bullae), while increasing the dose to 4.5 g/sq m q. 12 hr for 6 days resulted in severe cerebellar toxicity. Myelosuppression was severe, but was not related to the intensity of treatment; granulocyte recovery occurred a median of 28 days (range 22-40 days) after initiating therapy, and platelet recovery occurred after a median of 25 days (range 16-41 days). Antileukemic activity was evaluable in the 46 patients who survived at least 3 wk. Complete remissions were obtained in 1 of 6 patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) in accelerated phase and 1 of 3 acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients. A more detailed analysis of response was possible for the 37 evaluable patients with acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia: 70% of these patients responded, with 51% complete remissions. The median unmaintained response was 4 mo (range 2-26+ mo). The complete response rate was higher in patients who received at least 12 doses of high-dose cytosine arabinoside compared to shorter regimens [17/28 (61%) versus 2/9 (22%), p less than 0.05]. Resistance to cytosine arabinoside in conventional doses was documented in 11 patients, 5 of whom responded (2 complete remissions) to high-dose regimens. We conclude that high-dose cytosine arabinoside in the maximally tolerated regimen of 3 g/sq m every 12 hr for 6 days has substantial antileukemic activity in patients refractory to standard therapy. Durable unmaintained remissions can be achieved, even in patients who fail to respond to cytosine arabinoside in conventional doses.
Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI (MPS VI; Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome) is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by mutations in the N-acetylgalactosamine-4-sulfatase (arylsulfatase B, ARSB) gene. ARSB is a lysosomal enzyme involved in the degradation of the glycosaminoglycans (GAG) dermatan and chondroitin sulfate. ARSB mutations reduce enzyme function and GAG degradation, causing lysosomal storage and urinary excretion of these partially degraded substrates. Disease onset and rate of progression is variable, producing a spectrum of clinical presentation. In this study, 105 MPS VI patients-representing about 10% of the world MPS VI population-were studied for molecular genetic and biochemical parameters. Direct sequencing of patient genomic DNA was used to identify ARSB mutations. In total, 83 different disease-causing mutations were found, 62 of which were previously unknown. The novel sequence changes included: 38 missense mutations, five nonsense mutations, 11 deletions, one insertion, seven splice-site mutations, and four polymorphisms. ARSB mutant protein and residual activity were determined on fibroblast extracts for each patient. The identification of many novel mutations unique to individuals/their families highlighted the genetic heterogeneity of the disorder and provided an appropriate cohort to study the MPS VI phenotypic spectrum. This mutation analysis has identified a clear correlation between genotype and urinary GAG that can be used to predict clinical outcome.
The association of ankle ulcer development with hydroxyurea therapy in patients with myeloproliferative disorders has been reported in two small case series and two patient reports. It is thought that hydroxyurea, an antineoplastic agent with selective cytotoxicity for cells that divide most actively (such as those of the skin), causes these ulcerations through impairment of normal wound healing in areas of common trauma. Treatment modalities reported include discontinuation of medication, debridement, and topical antibiotics. We report the successful split-thickness skin grafting of a hydroxyurea-related ankle ulceration after preoperative discontinuation of hydroxyurea treatment in a patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia who had previously failed grafting while taking this medication. It is hoped that heightened awareness of the link between hydroxyurea and chronic, debilitating ankle ulcerations in patients with myeloproliferative disorders, as well as familiarity with reported treatments, will promote early diagnosis and aggressive management of these unique and relatively uncommon lesions.
Quinine is widely used in the treatment of nocturnal leg cramps in the elderly, despite the limited evidence of efficacy. The potential toxicity in an overdose is well known and associated with severe ocular complications. We report a 32-year-old woman with quinine induced permanent bilateral visual loss after ingesting 8.4-12.6 grams of quinine over a period of three weeks. We discuss the use of quinine as an over-the-counter drug.
Caffeine is the most widely used behaviourally active substance. Excessive caffeine consumption, mostly in the form of coffee and tea, is a well-recognized cause of headache or migraine, and withdrawal can cause headache. Nevertheless, caffeine abuse headache is not listed as a separate category in the International Headache Society classification, 1988. We report our experience with children and adolescents with daily or near-daily headache and excessive consumption of caffeine in the form of cola drinks. Over a period of 5 years we have encountered, in a tertiary headache clinic in a general hospital, 36 children and adolescents (17 girls and 19 boys) with daily or near-daily headache related to excessive caffeine intake in the form of cola drinks. The mean age of the subjects was 9.2 years (range 6-18) and mean headache duration was 1.8 years (range 0.6-5). All were heavy cola drinks consumers; at least 1.5 L of cola drinks per day (192.88 mg of caffeine daily), and an average of 11 (range 10.5-21) L of cola drinks a week, which amounts to 1414.5 mg of caffeine (range 1350.1-2700.3). Patients were encouraged to achieve gradual withdrawal from cola drinks, which led to complete cessation of all headaches in 33 subjects, whereas one boy and two adolescent girls continued to suffer from migraine without aura not frequent enough to justify prophylactic medication. Children and adolescents with high daily caffeine consumption in the form of cola drinks may suffer from caffeine-induced daily headache. Gradual withdrawal can be achieved without withdrawal headache and with complete disappearance of the induced chronic daily headache.
In the present study the role of amygdala in the antidepressant action of imipramine is discussed. An animal model of depression is induced, in rats, by systemic injection of low doses of apomorphine. Systemic administration of imipramine prevents, as already reported, apomorphine-induced sedation. The same effect is observed following intra-amygdaloid imipramine administration. On the contrary, local injection of imipramine in frontal cortex or caudate nucleus does not affect apomorphine-induced sedation.
The nonselective adenosine receptor antagonist caffeine is used clinically to treat apnea in preterm infants. The brain developmental stage of preterm infants is usually at a period of rapid brain growth, referred as brain growth spurt, which occurs during early postnatal life in rats and is highly sensitive to central nervous system (CNS) acting drugs.
The aim of this work was to study whether caffeine treatment during brain growth spurt produces long-term effects on the adenosine receptor-regulated behaviors including nociception, anxiety, learning, and memory.
Neonatal male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were administered either deionized water or caffeine (15-20 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) through gavage (0.05 ml/10 g) over postnatal days (PN) 2-6. The hot-plate test, elevated plus-maze, dark-light transition test, and step-through inhibitory avoidance learning task were examined in juvenile rats. Furthermore, the responses to adenosine A(1) receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA)-induced hypothermia and A(2A) receptor agonist CGS21680-induced locomotor depression were also compared.
Caffeine-treated rats showed hyperalgesia in hot-plate test, less anxiety than controls in the elevated plus-maze and dark-light transition, and impairment in step-through avoidance learning test. Moreover, the responses to CPA-induced hypothermia and CGS21680-induced locomotor depression were enhanced in caffeine-treated rats.
These results indicate that caffeine exposure during brain growth spurt alters the adenosine receptor-regulated behaviors and the responsiveness to adenosine agonists, suggesting the risk of adenosine receptor-related behavioral dysfunction may exist in preterm newborns treated for apnea with caffeine.
Fischer and Lewis rat strains often serve as animal vulnerability models for drug abuse and addiction. When these strains respond for drugs of abuse, several measures, including total drug intake, response rate and progressive-ratio breakpoints, have been reported to be strain-dependent, a result suggesting genetic differences in drug reactivity and vulnerability. The present study extends these strain comparisons to a previously untested measure--demand analysis. In Experiment 1, four Fischer and four Lewis rats earned their daily food ration by lever pressing under a fixed-ratio schedule, the size of which was increased every three sessions from 3 to 1,000 in logarithmic steps. Consumption was plotted as a function of ratio size, and modeled by the exponential-demand equation (Hursh & Silberberg, 2008). Experiment 2 replicated Experiment 1 except that different rats were used, and cocaine reinforced lever pressing. A between-experiment comparison showed a commodity-by-strain interaction: Fischer rats defended consumption with greater vigor when cocaine served as the reinforcer than did Lewis rats; for food, this relation was reversed. However, for both strains, defense of consumption of food exceeded that of cocaine.
Chronic use of ergot alkaloids has been recognized as a rare cause of lower extremity ischemia. Most patients with ergot toxicity present with symptoms of lower extremity claudication. Herein we present a woman with bilateral lower extremity rest pain and a history of chronic ergot use for migraine headaches. Arteriography demonstrated extensive pruning of the distal arterial tree along with bilateral external iliac artery dissections - a finding that is not often associated with young, normotensive patients with chronic ergot toxicity. This patient was treated with endovascular stenting of the dissections along with cessation of ergot. Her symptoms improved markedly, and follow-up arteriography 6 weeks later demonstrated resolution of the iliac dissections along with restoration of nearly normal lower extremity runoff vessels. Discontinuation of ergot-containing products and cessation of tobacco and caffeine use is the cornerstone of therapy in chronic ergot toxicity. The association of ergot toxicity and iliac dissection has not been previously described. Endovascular or surgical interventions may be considered in patients with ergot toxicity for specific indications or those whose symptoms progress despite conservative management.
We have created two knock-in mouse models to study the mechanisms that regulate p27 in normal cells and cause misregulation of p27 in tumors: p27(S10A), in which Ser10 is mutated to Ala; and p27(CK-), in which point mutations abrogate the ability of p27 to bind cyclins and CDKs. These two mutant alleles identify steps in a pathway that controls the proteasomal degradation of p27 uniquely in quiescent cells: Dephosphorylation of p27 on Ser10 inhibits p27 nuclear export and promotes its assembly into cyclin-CDK complexes, which is, in turn, necessary for p27 turnover. We further show that Ras-dependent lung tumorigenesis is associated with increased phosphorylation on Ser10 and cytoplasmic mislocalization of p27. Indeed, we find that p27(S10A) is refractory to Ras-induced cytoplasmic translocation and that p27(S10A) mice are tumor resistant. Thus, phosphorylation of p27 on Ser10 is an important event in the regulation of the tumor suppressor function of p27.
A 44-year-old, previously healthy man with a diagnosis of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL, diffuse large B-cell type, stage IIA) was treated with combination chemotherapy including vincristine (VCR). After receiving a cumulative dose of VCR, he experienced rapid and marked weakening which progressed to quadriplegia and bulbar palsy. Prior to this therapy, the patient had no neurological problems, and his siblings were asymptomatic. Physical examination identified pes cavus (hollow foot), and electrodiagnostic studies showed markedly slower nerve conduction velocity of myelinated fibers, with abundant "onion bulb" formations. Chromosomal analysis detected 17p11.2-12 duplication, thus yielding a diagnosis of Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) 1A. CMT disease is a familial neuromuscular disorder, and the incidence is approximately 1 in 2,500. We concluded that if CMT disease is diagnosed, vincristine should be avoided due to the potential severity of neurotoxicity to small doses.
This study was designed to (1) assess the effects of cocaine on Fas-associated protein with death domain (FADD) system and its role in the activation of apoptotic vs nonapoptotic events and (2) ascertain whether animals selectively bred for their differential propensity to drug-seeking show differences in FADD levels or response to cocaine. Acute cocaine, through D(2) dopamine receptors, induced a dose-response increase in FADD protein in the cortex, with opposite effects over pFADD (Ser191/194), and no induction of apoptotic cell death (poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage). FADD was increased by cocaine in cytosol (approximately 142%), membranes (approximately 23%) and nucleus (approximately 54%). The modulation of the FADD system showed tolerance of the acute effect over time, as well as a compensatory response on withdrawal that mirrored the acute effect--ie a transient FADD decrease on day 3 of withdrawal, both at mRNA and protein levels. In a second experiment, possible FADD differences were investigated in rats selectively bred for differential responsiveness to novelty, propensity for drug-seeking and cocaine sensitization. High-responders (HR), who were more prone to drug abuse, exhibited higher FADD and lower pFADD levels than low-responder (LR) rats. However, HR and LR rats showed similar rates of cocaine-induced apoptosis, and exhibited a parallel impact of cocaine over FADD within each phenotype. Thus, FADD is a signaling protein modulated by cocaine, regulating apoptosis/proliferative mechanisms in relation to its FADD/pFADD content. Interestingly, animals selectively bred for differential propensity to substance abuse show basal differences in the expression of this protein, suggesting FADD may also be a molecular correlate for the HR/LR phenotype.
The effectiveness of tetrabenazine in controlling choreic movement in Huntington's chorea has been confirmed in a long-term study. Side effects noted included postural hypotension, dysphagia and pneumonia. Careful supervision of patients taking this effective agent is urged.
A simple and reproducible large animal model of dilated cardiomyopathy has yet to be developed. This study was performed to establish a canine model of dilated cardiomyopathy.
Six closed-chest pure-bred beagles weighing 8 to 12 kg (10 +/- 1.9 kg) underwent intracoronary infusion of doxorubicin (Adriamycin). Low-dose (0.7 mg/kg) doxorubicin was infused into the left main coronary artery through a 5F Judkins catheter. Infusions were repeated weekly for 5 weeks. We evaluated the effects on cardiac hemodynamics, chamber size, the neuroendocrine system, and cardiac ultrastructure before and 1 and 3 months after five intracoronary infusions of doxorubicin.
Three months after treatment, fractional shortening (mean +/- standard error of the mean) had decreased from 36.5% +/- 0.8% to 21.7% +/- 1.4% (p = 0.0003), and left ventricular ejection fraction had decreased from 71.0% +/- 3.3% to 36.3% +/- 5.5% (p = 0.001). The left ventricular diastolic dimension had increased from 27.8 +/- 0.9 to 35.5 +/- 0.6 mm (p = 0.003), and the left ventricular end-diastolic volume had increased from 27.5 +/- 1.8 to 38.3 +/- 1.9 ml (p = 0.015). Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure had increased from 8.5 +/- 0.9 to 14.5 +/- 1.1 mm Hg (p = 0.01), and the stroke volume had decreased from 16.7 +/- 0.9 to 11.5 +/- 0.4 ml (p = 0.001). During the same period, the plasma norepinephrine concentration also increased from 114 +/- 27.4 to 423 +/- 88.9 pg/ml (p = 0.024), and plasma atrial natriuretic peptide levels increased from 33.8 +/- 7.0 to 76.5 +/- 14.8 pg/ml (p = 0.012). Histologic changes such as myofiber atrophy and cytoplasmic vacuolation, accompanied with interstitial fibrosis, were found predominantly in the left ventricle.
Repeated intracoronary infusions of doxorubicin represent a simple and reliable technique to produce dilated cardiomyopathy in the dog. This model can be used to evaluate the effects of new therapies, especially surgical treatments such as dynamic cardiomyoplasty and reduction ventriculoplasty, on dilated cardiomyopathy.
The use of contrast agents during coronary intervention can result in nephropathy, particularly in patients with renal dysfunction. We aimed to determine whether the use of iso-osmolar iodixanol is less nephrotoxic than that of low-osmolar iopromide when patients are adequately prehydrated and have received N-acetylcysteine.
We conducted a randomized, double-blind, multicentre study of patients with impaired renal function undergoing a coronary interventional procedure. Primary end-point was the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) on day 2, defined as an increase in serum creatinine concentration of > or =44 micromol/L (0.5 mg/dL) or by a relative increase of > or =25% from baseline. Secondary end-points included peak increase in serum creatinine between baseline and day 7.
Of 191 patients recruited, 15% (95% CI: 8-22) of the patients receiving iopromide and 12% (95% CI: 5-19) of the patients receiving iodixanol developed CIN (95% CI of the difference: 13 to -7, P = 0.56). When including peak serum creatinine on day 7, CIN developed in 23% of patients receiving iopromide and in 27% of patients receiving iodixanol (95% CI of the difference: 8 to -16, P = 0.48). The peak increase in serum creatinine concentration at day 7 was similar in both groups (patients receiving iopromide, 18.4 +/- 24.4 micromol/L, vs patients receiving iodixanol, 21.9 +/- 24.2 micromol/L; P = 0.33).
There remains a high incidence of CIN despite prehydration and routine use of N-acetylcysteine in patients with pre-existing renal dysfunction undergoing coronary interventional procedures. Although our study is underpowered, iodixanol was not associated with a statistically significant lower incidence of CIN when compared with iopromide.
To determine the cellular mechanism of action of the intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering steroid tetrahydrocortisol (THF).
Tetrahydrocortisol was evaluated for glucocorticoid antagonist activity using in vitro and in vivo assays. Systemically administered THF was evaluated for its ability to inhibit dexamethasone-induced body weight loss and systemic hypertension in rats. In vitro receptor antagonism was tested using the supernatant fraction of IM9 cells as the source of soluble glucocorticoid receptor in 3H-dexamethasone displacement binding assays. In addition, six different primary human trabecular meshwork (TM) cell lines were cultured for 0 to 14 days in the absence or presence of dexamethasone (10(-7) M) and/or THF (10(-6) to 10(-8) M). The effects of these steroids on the TM cytoskeleton were determined by epifluorescent microscopy and by transmission electron microscopy.
Tetrahydrocortisol was unable to inhibit the dexamethasone (DEX)-induced systemic hypertension and decrease in body mass in rats and was unable to displace 3H-DEX from the soluble human glucocorticoid receptor. However, THF inhibited the DEX-induced formation of cross-linked actin networks in cultured human TM cells in a progressive and dose-dependent manner (IC50 = 5.7 x 10(-7) M). Dexamethasone caused changes in the TM cell microtubules that were reversed partially by concomitant treatment with THF. Tetrahydrocortisol alone appeared to increase microfilament bundling in TM cells.
Tetrahydrocortisol was not a glucocorticoid antagonist at the level of the classical glucocorticoid receptor and did not appear to antagonize systemically mediated glucocorticoid activity in the rat. Tetrahydrocortisol inhibited DEX-induced changes in the TM microfilaments and microtubules. These results may explain partially the IOP lowering activity of THF because glucocorticoid-mediated changes in the TM cytoskeleton have been proposed to be involved in the generation of ocular hypertension.
This prospective cohort study investigated orofacial pain occurring as a manifestation of vincristine neurotoxicity. Forty cancer patients (28 to 63 years of age) receiving vincristine were given baseline interviews and orofacial examinations, which were repeated weekly for 7 weeks of treatment. Twenty-two patients (55%) had neurotoxicity manifesting as orofacial pain. Onset was usually 3 days after vincristine administration; mean duration was 2 days. Twenty patients (50%) were affected in the first week: nine (22%) with severe and five (12%) with moderate pain. Symptoms were mild and infrequent in subsequent weeks. Eighteen control patients receiving chemotherapy without vincristine had no comparable orofacial symptoms. Multiple sites in the distribution of the trigeminal and glossopharyngeal nerves were affected: primarily the temporomandibular joint, mandible, throat, ears, and mandibular teeth. The frequency of orofacial pain increased with younger age. Pain was significantly associated with smaller body surface area (p less than 0.05), indicating a dose-related toxicity, and with sociodemographic variables including smoking (p less than 0.05).
A report is given on the excretion of the renal enzymes alaninaminopeptidasis (AAP), N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidasis (NAG), beta-glucoronidasis (GBC) and alpha-galactosidasis (GAC) in urine after administration of Gentamycin, Cephalotin, Dextran, Carbencillin or combinations of these medicaments. Moreover the effective level of Gentamycin in the urine was measured after isolated administration of Gentamycin. A rhythmic excretion of ciliated-border and lysomal enzymes was observed. Gentamycin was also rhythmically excreted with the urine. It is assumed that this reflects cyclic changes in the cells of the renal tubule. Under long-term administration of Gentamycin or Dextran the excretion of enzymes already reduced during therapy. This was interpreted as an adaptation of the kidney to the medicament. On the other hand there are combinations of medicaments whose effect on the epithelium of the renal tubule is potentiated.
Amphetamines are popular drugs of abuse, particularly among youngsters and at dance scenes. Cardiotoxicity (manifested as cardiomyopathy, acute myocardial infarction/necrosis, heart failure, or arrhythmia) after the recreational (mis)use of amphetamine and its synthetic derivatives has been documented but is rather rare. Amphetamine-related cardiac fatalities are even more rare. We present 6 cases of young persons who died unexpected after the chronic abuse of amphetamines. Death was not attributed to a lethal intoxication but to an acute myocardial necrosis, a right ventricle rupture, a cardiomyopathy, or an arrhythmia. Two of the deceased persons presented prior to their death to the emergency department, but their complaints were not considered (probably due to their young age) to be of cardiac origin. One case was a sport-related fatality where medical screening failed to identify the underlying cardiac pathology or the amphetamine abuse, and 1 case was a so-called idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy where substance abuse was not considered by the treating physician. We think that amphetamine-associated cardiotoxicity is a rare but probably genuine entity that should be considered both in forensic and clinical/emergency medicine because of its potential medicolegal implications.
Selective neuronal loss following status epilepticus (SE) was first described just under 100 years ago. The acute pathology following SE was shown to be 'ischemic cell change' and was assumed to arise through hypoxia/ischemia. Recently, erythropoietin (Epo) has been shown to have potent anti-apoptosis activity in central nervous system neurons in animal models of ischaemic injury.
In this report, in order to determine Epo preconditioning on hippocampus neuronal apoptosis, we examined caspase-3 expression following SE caused by Li-pilocarpine in rats.
Animals were classified into three groups: EP group (pilocarpine group), rhEpo-pilocarpine group and control group. Four hours after preconditioning with Epo intraperitoneally, pilocarpine hydrochloride was administered intraperitoneally and observed for behavioral manifestations of SE. The animals were sacrificed at one hour after SE onset.
At the above-mentioned time point, animals were deeply anesthetized and were perfused through the left ventricle. Detection of hippocampus neuronal apoptosis was performed with caspase-3 immunohistochemical technique on three groups. To further confirm which cell population upregulates caspase-3, brain sections were stained for NeuN (green) and caspase-3 (red).
ANOVA and Fisher's post hoc test was used.
Quatification of hippocampus neurons revealed that the number of caspase-3-positive cells in the CA1/CA3 area and dentate gyrus(DG) of three groups had a significant difference. In comparison with control group, there was an increase by 74% and 534%, 42% and 272% in the CA1/CA3 area and DG of EP group and rhEpo-treated group respectively. There was a decrease by 18% and 26% in the CA1/CA3 area and DG of rhEpo-treated group compared with those in EP group. In addition, colocalization of caspase-3 with NeuN was shown.
Systemic rhEpo therapy reduced caspase-3 expression in SE induced by Li-pilocarpine.
In order to evaluate a short-term carcinogenicity testing system using CB6F1 -Tg rasH2 (rasH2-Tg) mice carrying a human prototype c-Ha-ras gene, 26-week studies were conducted in 12 different facilities as a part of an International Life Science Institute Health and Environmental Science Institute (ILSI HESI) international collaborative project. In each study N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) was administered to a separate group of rasH2-Tg mice by single intraperitoneal injection (75 mg/kg) as a positive control. We herein have summarized the mortality, body weight change, and neoplastic and nonneoplastic lesions detected in these positive control groups as representative historical positive control data. Also, we performed an interlaboratory comparison of the response of rasH2-Tg mice to MNU based on the data of 11 positive control groups from these studies. Although the body weight of rasH2-Tg mice showed lower values than that of non-Tgmice during the experimental period, body weight gain in the rasH2-Tg mice was similar to that in non-Tg mice. The mortality of rasH2-Tg mice during the study period was very low, the same as for the non-Tg mice. Incidences of spontaneous alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas and splenic hemangiomas/hemangiosarcomas were also low in the rasH2-Tg mice. Nonneoplastic lesions detected in the rasH2-Tg mice were similar to those in non-Tg mice, excluding the incidence of myopathy. There were interlaboratory differences in mortality and incidence of some lesions in the MNU-treated groups. However, the causes of death were common among the 11 laboratories and almost all the MNU-treated rasH2-Tg mice developed forestomach squamous cell papillomas/carcinomas or malignant lymphomas. This suggests that there is no appreciable difference in the response of the rasH2-Tg mouse to MNU used as a positive control. Therefore, it is concluded that MNU would be an adequate positive control compound in this testing system.
