The use of dobutamine stress echocardiography for the evaluation of coronary artery disease is rapidly expanding. New applications of the technique are being investigated in a wide variety of patients including those with advanced coronary artery disease. Despite its widespread use, the safety of dobutamine stress echocardiography has not been sufficiently documented.
A consecutive series of 1118 patients undergoing dobutamine stress echocardiography for evaluation of known or suspected coronary artery disease form the basis of this report. Dobutamine stress testing was performed for evaluation of chest pain, risk assessment before noncardiac surgery, after recent myocardial infarction, or as a part of ongoing research protocols. Over the study period, the maximal dose of dobutamine used was increased from 30 to 50 micrograms/kg per minute, and atropine was used in 420 (37%) patients. There were no occurrences of death, myocardial infarction, or episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia as a result of dobutamine stress testing. The major reasons for test termination were achievement of target heart rate in 583 patients (52.1%), maximum dose in 255 (22.8%), and angina pectoris in 142 (13%). The test was terminated in 36 (3%) patients because of noncardiac side effects including nausea, anxiety, headache, tremor, and urgency. Angina pectoris occurred in 216 (19.3%) patients. Sublingual nitroglycerin, a short-acting beta-blocker, or both types of medication were administered in 80 of these patients for relief of angina pectoris. None required intravenous nitroglycerin. A total of 736 (65%) patients had stable sinus rhythm throughout the test. The most common arrhythmias were frequent premature ventricular complexes (six or more per minute) in 172 patients (15%), and frequent premature atrial complexes in 86 (8%). There were 40 patients with nonsustained ventricular tachycardia. None had symptoms associated with the tachycardia, and only one received specific pharmacological treatment to prevent recurrence of the arrhythmia after the test was terminated. The patients who were evaluated after recent myocardial infarction and those who received atropine did not have a higher frequency of ventricular tachycardia compared with those without recent infarction and those not receiving atropine.
Dobutamine stress echocardiography was safely performed using supplemental atropine and an aggressive dosing protocol. Noncardiac side effects were usually minor. Arrhythmias were well tolerated and rarely required treatment. In this study, serious complications from myocardial ischemia did not occur. Symptomatic ischemia was effectively treated with test termination, sublingual nitroglycerin, or short-acting beta-blockers.
Recently, valvular regurgitation has been observed in patients who have taken fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine with or without phentermine. This study describes the clinical, echocardiographic, and pathologic findings of anorexigen-associated valvular heart disease and the surgical interventions required to treat it.
We reviewed clinical information on 14 patients with severe anorexigen-associated valvular disease who underwent cardiac operations.
Thirteen women (mean age 44.2 +/- 5.3 years) received fenfluramine, 58.5 +/- 22.3 mg/day, and phentermine, 32.1 +/- 11.4 mg/day, for an average of 12.1 +/- 7.3 months before presentation. One woman received dexfenfluramine, 30 mg/day for 13 months, and phentermine, 60 mg/day, concomitantly for 6 months. Presenting symptoms included dyspnea (12 cases), palpitations (3), and atypical chest pain (3). Six patients had heart failure, and 4 had a new murmur. Echocardiography demonstrated severe mitral valve regurgitation in all patients. Seven also had aortic regurgitation, and 4 had significant tricuspid regurgitation. Four patients had successful mitral valve repair, 1 with concomitant aortic valve repair. Ten additional patients eventually required mitral valve replacement, 5 with concomitant aortic valve replacement. Excised valves demonstrated a glistening white appearance with plaque-like encasement of leaflets and chordae. Focal surface proliferation and fibrosis with a "stuck-on" appearance was consistently found.
Anorexigen use may lead to severe multivalvular regurgitation with characteristic echocardiographic and pathologic findings. Recognition of drug-induced valvulopathy is important because of widespread use of these medications and the uncertain natural history of the disease. Early surgical experience suggests that valve repair is possible in these young patients.
Peripheral neuropathy is a common, dose-limiting side effect of vincristine, a frontline therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Combination chemotherapy that reduces the neurotoxicity without compromising the efficacy of vincristine would improve patient outcomes. We performed in vitro studies using a combination of microtubule-binding antimitotics, noscapine and vincristine. In cell cultures containing neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes, vincristine caused demyelination as shown by transmission electron microscopy. A combination of vincristine and noscapine protected against demyelination. Human acute lymphoblastic and acute myelogenous leukemia cell lines CCRF-CEM and HL-60, respectively, were used to determine the antiproliferative effect of this novel drug combination. Vincristine and noscapine decreased cell proliferation with IC(50) concentrations of 1 nM and 20 microM, respectively. Analysis of dose-effect relationships using isobolograms and combination indices demonstrated that noscapine acts synergistically with vincristine. Thus, noscapine is a promising candidate for use with vincristine to decrease neurotoxicity and enhance antineoplastic effectiveness.
A worsening of migraine headaches has been associated with estrogens, given for birth control and menopausal syndrome. It is suggested in this case history report that the same may be true in the male migrainous patient, in whom estrogens are rarely used. 1 week following surgery for prostatic carcinoma a 75-year-old white man who was started on stilbestrol 5 mg daily began to experience severe bifrontal, throbbing headaches with nausea and occasional vomiting. The headaches lasted 4-6 hours and appeared 3 or 4 times weekly. Fortification spectra in both visual fields and language disturbances occurred during the headache period. Stilbestrol was discontinued 4 months later, and the headaches improved. After 1 week without headaches, stilbestrol was begun again and similar headaches promptly recurred. Stilbestro was again discontinued, and the headaches immediately improved. 1 month later the patient was free from headache and has since remained so. Between the periods of headache, neurological examination was normal. The patient had a history of moderate common migraine, but following estrogen medication his symptoms became those of a severe clsssic migraine. The case raises the possiblity that the relation between estrogens and migraines is not limited to a fall in estrogen blood levels; steady or rising levels of estrogens possibly produce a similar effect.
The cardiovascular profile of the angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist, GR138950, and the influence of potential compensatory homeostatic mechanisms on this profile, were investigated in renal artery ligated hypertensive (RALH) rats. GR138950 caused a marked reduction in blood pressure associated with immediate tachycardia in conscious RALH rats. The antihypertensive action of GR138950 appeared biphasic; an immediate fall in blood pressure, which plateaued within 1 h, and which was followed by a further slow decline that reached maximum between 5-7 h after administration. The tachycardia caused by GR138950 was attenuated by atenolol and was abolished by combined pretreatment with atenolol and atropine methyl nitrate. However, the antihypertensive profile of GR138950 was unchanged by these pretreatments. The resting blood pressure and the antihypertensive effect of GR138950, in RALH rats, were unaffected by the vasopressin V1 receptor antagonist, [beta-mercapto-beta,beta-cyclopentamethylene propionyl(1)-O-Me-Tyr2,Arg8]-vasopressin. Thus, vasopressinergic mechanisms are not involved in either maintaining blood pressure in RALH rats, or in compensating for the fall in blood pressure caused by GR138950. In anaesthetized RALH rats, GR138950 caused a marked fall in blood pressure that was accompanied by an increase in heart rate along with sustained increases in renal and splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity. In summary, the biphasic fall in blood pressure evoked by GR138950 in RALH rats can not be explained on the basis of changes in autonomic control of the heart, alteration of vasopressin-mediated vasoconstrictor mechanisms or overall suppression of central sympathetic outflow. Rather, increased vasoconstrictor tone might serve to oppose the initial fall in blood pressure.
Huntington's disease is an autosomal dominant, inherited disorder that results in progressive degeneration of the basal ganglia (especially the neostriatal caudate nucleus and putamen) and other forebrain structures and is associated with a clinical profile of movement, cognitive and psychiatric impairments for which there is at present no effective therapy. Neuropathological, neurochemical and behavioral features of the disease can all be reproduced in experimental animals by local injection of excitotoxic or metabolic toxins into the neostriatum. All these features of the disease can be alleviated, at least in rats, by transplantation of embryonic striatal tissue into the degenerated striatum, which was the basis for commencing the first clinical trials of striatal transplantation in Huntington's patients. However, although rat striatal xenografts may temporarily reduce apomorphine-induced dyskinesias in monkeys, there has been no demonstration that allograft techniques that work well in rats translate effectively to the much larger differentiated striatum of primates. Here we demonstrate good survival, differentiation and integration of striatal allografts in the primate neostriatum, and recovery in a test of skilled motor performance. Long-term graft survival in primates indicates probable success for clinical transplants in Huntington's disease; in addition, our data suggest that graft placement has a direct influence on the pattern and extent of functional recovery.
We reported that the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) including the null allele of the C4B gene and the extended haplotype B44-C30-DR4 is associated with autism. We report now that the third hypervariable region (HVR-3) of certain DR beta 1 alleles have very strong association with autism. The HVR-3 of DR beta 1* 0401 or the shared HVR-3 alleles DR beta 1* 0404 and DR beta 1* 0404 and DR *0101, was expressed on extended haplotypes in 23 of 50 (46%) autistic subjects as compared to only 6 of 79 (7.5%) normal subjects. Another HVR-3 sequence, the DR beta 1* 0701 allele, was carried on extended haplotypes in 16 (32.0%) of the autistic subjects as compared to 8 (10.1%) of the normal subjects.
The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy and toxicity of the liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin, TLC D-99 (Myocet, Elan Pharmaceuticals, Princeton, NJ), and conventional doxorubicin in first-line treatment of metastatic breast carcinoma (MBC).
Two hundred twenty-four patients with MBC and no prior therapy for metastatic disease were randomized to receive either TLC D-99 (75 mg/m(2)) or doxorubicin (75 mg/m(2)) every 3 weeks, in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The primary efficacy endpoint was response rate. Responses were assessed using World Health Organization criteria and were required to be of at least 6 weeks' duration. The primary safety endpoint was cardiotoxicity. Cardiac function was monitored by multiple-gated radionuclide cardioangiography scan, and the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was scored at a central laboratory. Patients were removed from study if LVEF declined 20 or more EF units from baseline to a final value of greater than or equal to 50%, or by 10 or more units to a final value of less than 50%, or onset of clinical congestive heart failure (CHF).
Median age was 54 years in both treatment groups. All relevant prognostic factors were balanced, with the exception that there were significantly more progesterone receptor positive patients in the doxorubicin-treated group. Protocol-defined cardiotoxicity was observed in 13% of TLC D-99 patients (including 2 cases of CHF) compared to 29% of doxorubicin patients (including 9 cases of CHF). Median cumulative doxorubicin dose at onset of cardiotoxicity was 785 mg/m(2) for TLC D-99 versus 570 mg/m(2) for doxorubicin (P = 0.0001; hazard ratio, 3.56). The overall response rate was 26% in both treatment groups. The median TTP was 2.9 months on TLC D-99 versus 3.1 months on doxorubicin. Median survival was 16 versus 20 months with a nonsignificant trend in favor of doxorubicin (P = 0.09). Clinical toxicities, commonly associated with doxorubicin, appeared less common with TLC D-99, although the difference was not statistically significant. There was only one report of palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (Grade 2) with this liposomal formulation of doxorubicin.
Single-agent TLC D-99 produces less cardiotoxicity than doxorubicin, while providing comparable antitumor activity.
In a double-blind investigation in 21 patients undergoing minor plastic surgery the effects of 4 mg lorazepam or a mixture of 20 mg papaveretum/400 mug hyoscine given intramuscularly as premedicants were studied. Lorazepam produced superior preoperative and post-operative anterograde amnesia, with respect to both incidence and duration. There was no difference in the pre-operative anxiolytic and soporofic effects of the two regimens and post-operatively, analgesic requirements and the incidence of vomitting and restlessness were the same in both groups of patients.
To determine ototoxicity of topical mitomycin C when placed in the middle ear at varying concentrations.
Despite meticulous surgical technique and diligent postoperative care, some patients develop excessive scar and granulation tissue in the middle ear or mastoid cavity. Poor wound healing may result in infection, tympanic membrane perforation, or conductive hearing loss, which may necessitate further surgery. Use of topical mitomycin C in the ear may be beneficial in reducing scar and granulation tissue formation. This phase of the study was developed to determine the safety of topical mitomycin C in the rat model relative to ototoxicity.
Twelve Sprague-Dawley rats were evaluated with auditory brainstem response testing before and after treatments. Topical mitomycin C was injected in the middle ear of the right ear of eight animals. Varying concentrations of 0.125 to 0.5 mg/ml were used. Saline was injected in the left ear of each animal to serve as a control. Four separate animals were evaluated with placement of topical mitomycin C on Gelfoam into the middle ear. In two animals, Gelfoam was placed in the middle ear for 1 minute and then removed. In two animals, Gelfoam was placed in the middle ear and left in place. Auditory brainstem response testing was performed at 4 weeks and at 8 weeks.
Using a high concentration of mitomycin C (>0.25 mg/ml) resulted in ototoxicity, with an increase in the auditory brainstem response threshold at 4 weeks and at 8 weeks. At low concentrations (<0.20 mg/ml), no change in auditory brainstem response threshold was noted. Animals treated with Gelfoam soaked in mitomycin C showed no change in auditory brainstem response threshold.
The results of this study indicate that topical mitomycin C on Gelfoam applied in the middle ear appears safe when low concentrations are used, even in the rat, which has a higher susceptibility to gentamycin toxicity than humans. Higher concentrations may lead to ototoxicity based on changes in Wave V on auditory brainstem response. This treatment may prove to be an important option for patients suffering from chronic granulation tissue or scar tissue in the external or middle ear.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) is an effective treatment for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), but is less effective against other leukemias. Although the response of APL cells to As(2)O(3) has been linked to degradation of the PML/RARalpha fusion oncoprotein, there is evidence that PML/RARalpha expression is not the only mediator of arsenic sensitivity. Indeed, we found that exogenous expression of PML/RARalpha did not sensitize a non-APL leukemic line to As(2)O(3). To evaluate possible other determinants of sensitivity of leukemic cells to As(2)O(3), we derived two arsenic-resistant NB4 subclones. Despite being approximately 10-fold more resistant to arsenic than their parental cell line, PML/RARalpha protein was still degraded by As(2)O(3) in these cells, providing further evidence that loss of expression of the oncoprotein does not confer arsenic sensitivity. Both arsenic-resistant clones contained high glutathione (GSH) levels, however, and we found that GSH depletion coupled with As(2)O(3) treatment dramatically inhibited their growth. Annexin V-staining and TUNEL analysis confirmed a synergistic induction of apoptosis. In addition, these cells failed to accumulate ROS in response to arsenic treatment, in contrast to their arsenic-sensitive parental cells, unless cotreated with buthionine sulfoximine. While other malignant cells did not show a good correlation between arsenic sensitivity and GSH content, GSH depletion nevertheless sensitized all cell lines examined, regardless of their initial response to arsenic alone. These findings suggest that PML/RARalpha expression is not a determinant of arsenic sensitivity, and further support the coupling of GSH depletion and arsenic treatment as a novel treatment for human malignancies that are unresponsive to arsenic alone.
Presented is a case study of a seventy five year old man who experienced psychosis and depression related to the onset and termination of amiodarone therapy. The study looks at the pharmacology of amiodarone and the mechanisms that may have led to the emergence of these symptoms. It also raises the issue of making a careful assessment of a patient's life event history in that life events that may not be classically regarded as significant life events may be important in the precipitation of mental illness.
Indomethacin is one of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs that are commonly used clinically and often cause gastric mucosal injury as a side effect. Generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and activation of apoptotic signaling are involved in the pathogenesis of indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury. Thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1) is a small redox-active protein with anti-oxidative activity and redox-regulating functions. The aim of this study was to investigate the protective effect of Trx-1 against indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury. Trx-1 transgenic mice displayed less gastric mucosal damage than wild type (WT) C57BL/6 mice after intraperitoneal administration of indomethacin. Administration of recombinant human Trx-1 (rhTrx-1) or transfection of the Trx-1 gene reduced indomethacin-induced cytotoxicity in rat gastric epithelial RGM-1 cells. Pretreatment with rhTrx-1 suppressed indomethacininduced ROS production and downregulation of phosphorylated Akt in RGM-1 cells. Survivin, a member of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins family, was downregulated by indomethacin, which was suppressed in Trx-1 transgenic mice or by administration of rhTrx-1 in RGM-1 cells. Trx-1 inhibits indomethacin-induced apoptotic signaling and gastric ulcer formation, suggesting that it may have a preventive and therapeutic potential against indomethacin-induced gastric injury.
Catechol and indole metabolism in rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM or C1) was studied in response to changes in blood pressure across different rat strains. Sprague-Dawley, Wistar Kyoto normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats were anesthetized with urethane and had a 250 mu carbon paste in vivo electrochemical electrode implanted in RVLM area. Two electrochemical peaks were detected in this region. The first was at 0.12 V and the second at 0.28 V. To identify the electrochemical peaks, inhibitors of monoamine metabolism were administrated. alpha-Methylparatyrosine (tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor), fusaric acid (dopamine-beta-hydroxylase inhibitor), pargyline (monoamine oxidase inhibitor) and LY 134046 (phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase inhibitor) showed that the first peak measured in the RVLM is likely to have multiple components including epinephrine, norepinephrine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. The second peak most likely represents 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid. Phenylephrine or nitroprusside was infused to increase or decrease the blood pressure. Phenylephrine-induced hypertension reduced the catechol peak and increased the indole peak. By contrast, nitroprusside-induced hypotension produced reciprocal results. Hypotension led to an increase in the catechol peak and a reduction in the indole peak. The same pattern was observed in all three rat strains. We conclude that catechol and serotonin metabolism in RVLM changes in close relation to changes in blood pressure.
We have investigated the role of spinal extracellular signaling-regulated kinase-1 and -2 (ERK1/2) in a model of visceral pain and hyperalgesia induced by intracolonic instillation of irritants in adult mice. Instillation of either capsaicin or mustard oil induced a significant activation of lumbosacral spinal ERK1/2, measured by immunoblot, with a peak 2.4-fold increase over control levels between 45 and 90 min post-treatment. Intracolonic saline did not produce significant activation of lumbosacral spinal ERK1/2, and none of the treatments evoked ERK1/2 activation in thoracic or cervical spinal cord. These studies suggested a preferential nuclear localization, which was explored by subcellular fractionation. Both mustard oil and capsaicin produced a redistribution of phosphorylated ERK1/2 from cytosol into the nucleus that was statistically significant at 45 min after treatment. Spinal ERK1/2 activation with capsaicin treatment correlated with the development of prolonged referred hyperalgesia. The upstream inhibitor of ERK phosphorylation, U0126 (100-400 microg/kg, i.v., 10 min pre-capsaicin), dose-dependently inhibited referred hyperalgesia 3-6 h after capsaicin. Treatment with U0126 did not affect spontaneous pain behavior or colon inflammation. Our data show that ERK activation plays a specific role in maintaining prolonged referred (secondary) hyperalgesia in visceral pain. The time course and subcellular localization of the effects observed suggest that ERK is involved in transcriptional events underlying the maintenance of secondary hyperalgesia.
Phosphoinositide-3-kinase catalytic alpha polypeptide (PIK3CA) encodes the p110α subunit of the mitogenic signaling protein phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). PIK3CA mutations in the helical binding domain and the catalytic subunit of the protein have been associated with tumorigenesis and treatment resistance in various malignancies. Characteristics of patients with PIK3CA-mutant lung adenocarcinomas have not been reported. We examined epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), Kirsten rate sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS), v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (BRAF), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), PIK3CA, v-akt murine thymoma vial oncogene homolog 1 (AKT1), v-ras neuroblastoma viral oncogene homolog (NRAS), dual specificity mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MEK1), and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) in patients with adenocarcinoma of the lung to identify driver mutations. Clinical data were obtained from the medical records of individuals with mutations in PIK3CA. Twenty-three of 1,125 (2%, 95% CI: 1-3) patients had a mutation in PIK3CA, 12 in exon 9 (10 E545K and 2 E542K), and 11 in exon 20 (3 H1047L and 8 H1047R). The patients (57% women) had a median age of 66 at diagnosis (range: 34-78). Eight patients (35%) were never smokers. Sixteen of 23 (70%, 95% CI: 49-86) had coexisting mutations in other oncogenes-10 KRAS, 1 MEK1, 1 BRAF, 1 ALK rearrangement, and 3 EGFR exon 19 deletions. We conclude that PIK3CA mutations occur in lung adenocarcinomas, usually concurrently with EGFR, KRAS, and ALK. The impact of PIK3CA mutations on the efficacy of targeted therapies such as erlotinib and crizotinib is unknown. Given the high frequency of overlapping mutations, comprehensive genotyping should be carried out on tumor specimens from patients enrolling in clinical trials of PI3K and other targeted therapies.
A case of cortical blindness after cerebral angiography is presented. Serial computerized tomography scans of the brain revealed persistence of contrast medium in occipital visual areas as well as areas that may have been associated with "focal seizures" that occurred after angiography. This case supports the concept that cortical blindness may be secondary to the direct effect of contrast medium on the brain. The persistence of contrast material was in part due to decreased renal function.
The mechanisms of estrogen insensitivity or estrogen resistance in ovarian cancer cells are not known. Studies on regulation of the estrogen receptor (ER) gene have suggested a role for epigenetics in silencing ER expression.
Cells from insensitive ovarian cancer cells, SKOV3 and HEY, were cultured with and without the DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitor, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (AzaC) and the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, trichostatin (TSA). ERbeta promoter methylation was examined using bisulfite sequencing. RNA was collected for oligonucleotide array studies.
Cell type-specific ERbeta promoter methylation was found as well as relative hypomethylation of the ERbeta promoter in SKOV3 compared to HEY cells. Preferential demethylation of specific CpGs by different treatments was found. AzaC and TSA resulted in significant tumor growth inhibition and alterations in expression of numerous genes.
The ERbeta promoter is differentially methylated in ovarian cancer cells. Moreover, AzaC and TSA can inhibit ovarian cancer cell growth.
Atropine-induced locomotor stimulation was investigated in the developing rat pretreated with 6-hydroxydopa at birth. The locomotor stimulation by atropine was first observed on day 20 and gradually increased with age. The treatment with 6-hydroxydopa potentiated atropine-induced locomotor stimulation on days later than day 20 and inhibited a pilocarpine-induced catalepsy on day 30. This suggests that central cholinergic neurons, probably in the neostriatum, reach functional maturity between 15 and 20 days, and that the pretreatment with 6-hydroxydopa induced muscarinic hyposensitivity in the developing rat.
To enhance the efficacy of chemotherapy for medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), we evaluated the effect of combining radioimmunotherapy (RAIT) with 90Y-anticarcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) monoclonal antibody MN-14 and chemotherapy in nude mice bearing human MTC xenografts. A preliminary study evaluated doxorubicin, dacarbazine (DTIC), cyclophosphamide, and vincristine, singly and in combination, for their effect on the growth of MTC xenografts (TT) in nude mice. Given individually, DTIC yielded the most effective tumor growth inhibition, delaying the mean time to doubling from 1 week for untreated tumor-bearing mice to 7.5 weeks. Administering either the 4 drugs in combination or a 2-drug combination comprised of doxorubicin and DTIC significantly improved the efficacy compared with any single drug alone, increasing the mean doubling time to 10-12 weeks.
Drug doses were selected to conform to the doses of each drug given clinically. For the combined modality therapy, administration of 90Y-labeled anti-CEA monoclonal antibody MN-14 to nude mice bearing established TT tumors was followed by various chemotherapy regimens initiated 24 hours after RAIT. Chemotherapy protocols combined with RAIT included doxorubicin or DTIC alone and in combination, and the doxorubicin, DTIC, cyclophosphamide, and vincristine 4-drug protocol. Tumor volumes were measured weekly, and toxicity was evaluated by measuring blood counts and body weight.
Combinations of RAIT and chemotherapy with DTIC or RAIT and chemotherapy with the drug combinations were found to augment the antitumor effects of RAIT or chemotherapy alone, without a significant increase in toxicity. The mean tumor volume doubling times were increased up to 100% compared with the results of chemotherapy alone. No significant differences in tumor growth were observed between the RAIT plus DTIC protocol and the RAIT plus two- or four-drug protocols.
The superiority of the combined modality treatment argues for the integration of RAIT into chemotherapeutic regimens for MTC treatment. Clinical trials are needed to assess these principles in MTC patients.
Peginterferon alfa-2a/ribavirin treatment resulted in fewer incidences of depression and flu-like symptoms than that of standard interferon/ribavirin, whereas peginterferon alfa-2b/ribavirin and standard interferon/ribavirin treatment resulted in similar incidences of these adverse events (AEs).
To assess the efficacy and safety of peginterferon alfa-2a/ribavirin in genotype 1-infected patients treated for up to 12 weeks with peginterferon alfa-2b/ribavirin but not achieving early virologic response (EVR) (non-EVR) or nontolerant (NT) because of depression, fatigue, flu-like symptoms, or injection-site reactions.
Nontolerants were treated for an additional 36 weeks and non-EVRs for an additional 60 weeks with peginterferon alfa-2a (180 microg/week)/ribavirin (1000/1200 mg/day). Patients with detectable HCV RNA after 12 weeks were discontinued.
Of 25 NTs, 23 (92%) were HCV-RNA negative after 12 weeks on peginterferon alfa-2a/ribavirin and 14 (56%) achieved sustained virologic response. Of 32 non-EVRs to peginterferon alfa-2b/ribavirin, four (13%) achieved EVR with peginterferon alfa-2a/ribavirin and one (3%) achieved sustained virologic response. Four non-EVRs and 0 NTs were withdrawn for AEs; 26 (81%) and 24 (96%), respectively, completed peginterferon alfa-2a/ribavirin treatment or were withdrawn for insufficient response at week 12. In NTs, depression, fatigue, flu-like symptoms, and injection-site reactions declined during treatment.
Most patients who did not tolerate peginterferon alfa-2b/ribavirin because of AEs, and who completed the full 36-week course of peginterferon alfa-2a/ribavirin treatment, achieved sustained virologic response.
Fast responses to extracellular ATP are mediated by the activation of P2X receptors. Native and cloned P2X receptors are permeable to monovalent cations such as Na+ and K+ as well as divalent cations such as Ca2+. However, altered P2X receptor expression has not been definitively determined under pathological conditions, particularly in epilepsy. Here we show that, in the seizure-sensitive (SS) gerbil hippocampus, a recognized genetic epilepsy model, the expressions of both P2X2 and P2X4 receptors are markedly decreased as compared with that in the seizure-resistant (SR) gerbil. These alterations are closely related to changes in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) concentrations induced by vigabatrin (VGB) or 3-mercaptopropionic acid (3-MPA) treatment. Furthermore, the regulation of both P2X receptor expression in the gerbil hippocampus was mediated by the GABA(A) receptor, not GABA(B). These results suggest that the GABA(A) receptor-mediated modulation of P2X receptor expression may play an important role in the regulation of neuronal excitability.
Quinine is still frequently used by practitioners for the treatment of nocturnal leg cramps, despite the lack of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval. We report the 15th case of quinine-induced hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) in the medical literature. The likely mechanism by which quinine induces HUS is via quinine-dependent antibodies to blood cellular constituents. These antibodies likely cause endothelial damage and the resultant nephropathy, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and thrombocytopenia that define HUS. Although there is no set guideline for the treatment of quinine-induced HUS, most authorities consider plasmapheresis as the standard of care, especially in severe cases. Our patient required the longest known treatment duration (16 plasmapheresis treatments over a 37-day period) for disease resolution. The prognosis of quinine-induced HUS is excellent, with no deaths reported in the literature.
Pretreatment with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, a tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor, was found to increase the intensity of catalepsy induced by haloperidol, chlorpromazine and molindone. The drug probably decreases the synthesis of dopamine and makes less dopamine available for release and to compete with the neuroleptic for the postsynaptic striatal dopamine receptor sites with resultant potentiation of the neuroleptic-induced catalepsy.
Deferoxamine (DFO) is a chelating agent used widely for the treatment of transfusional hemochromatosis. DFO-related ocular toxicity has been previously reported several times, and many institutions have adopted an ophthalmic screening protocol for patients treated with DFO despite little information regarding the rate of ocular toxicity. Our study aimed to determine the incidence of DFO toxicity at a major pediatric hospital that uses regular ophthalmic screening for all DFO-treated patients.
A retrospective case series of all patients treated with DFO for transfusional hemochromatosis at The Hospital for Sick Children (Toronto, Ontario, Canada) between 1995 and 2005 inclusive.
A total of 84 patients received regular DFO treatment for transfusional hemochromatosis related to long-term hypertransfusion. A total of 421 ophthalmic screening examinations were performed (average, 5.0 examinations per patient). DFO-related ocular toxicity was found only in one patient (1.2%). This patient had central blurriness and retinal pigmentary changes shown by examination and decreased central responses shown by electroretinography, but these changes were all found to be completely reversible after a change from intravenous to subcutaneous therapy at a reduced dose.
In this large pediatric center, DFO-related ocular toxicity has been a rare and mild finding. Regular ophthalmic screening should be carried out for patients receiving high-dose subcutaneous or intravenous therapy, because early detection of retinal toxicity may lead to optimization of the DFO dose and thus prevention of long-term visual sequelae.
