The aim of this study was to compare the clinical outcome between patients continuing and discontinuing lamivudine therapy after the biochemical breakthrough of hepatitis B virus tyrosine-methionine-aspartate-aspartate (YMDD) mutant.
YMDD mutants were detected in 51 chronic hepatitis B patients who experienced a flare-up of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) during lamivudine treatment. Twenty-seven of them discontinued lamivudine therapy (group A), and 24 continued therapy (group B) after biochemical breakthrough. The follow-up period was 12 months in both the groups.
There was no significant difference between groups A and B in the incidence and severity of ALT peaks and hepatic decompensation within the first 3 months after biochemical breakthrough. After the fourth month of biochemical breakthrough, however, group A experienced acute exacerbation more frequently [20/26 (77%) vs. 7/23 (30%); P=0.002] and higher ALT peaks than group B. The same result was found when the patients were divided into naïve and retreated or cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic groups. Hepatic decompensation at the onset of biochemical breakthrough was associated with higher mortality (OR=70, 95% CI=6.06-807.75).
Patients who discontinued lamivudine therapy increased the frequency of flare-ups and higher ALT peaks than those who continued therapy after 4 months post-breakthrough.
Sodium valproate was administered to Jcl:ICR mice in order to evaluate its teratogenicity. A single dose of 600 mg/kg of sodium valproate was injected intraperitoneally on gestational day 6, 7, 8 or 9. On day 18 of gestation, dams were laparotomized, and live fetuses were inspected for the presence of external and internal abnormalities. Exencephaly and urogenital abnormalities showed the highest frequency in the group treated on day 8, being recognized in about 60% and 10% of live fetuses, respectively. Cardiovascular abnormalities were found in the highest frequency in the group treated on day 7 (in about 30% of live fetuses). Incidence of tail abnormality was found to increase with delay in day of drug administration. Other abnormalities observed were cleft palate and digital malformation. Our study showed that a constellation of major abnormalities similar to the congenital valproate syndrome suspected in humans could be produced in the Jcl:ICR mouse fetus.
Reactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication is a well-known complication in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. The aims of this study were to determine the incidence of HBV reactivation in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients undergoing transarterial chemo-lipiodolization, and to clarify factors contributing to HBV reactivation.
From April 2001 to September 2002, 146 HBsAg positive patients newly diagnosed as HCC were enrolled in the study. Among these, 83 patients underwent transarterial chemo-lipiodolization using epirubicin and/or cisplatin, and 63 received other treatments.
In total, HBV reactivation occurred in 30 (20.5%) patients (28 with chemo-lipiodolization and 2 with other treatments), and of the 30 patients, 19 (13.0%) (18 with chemo-lipiodolization and 1 with other treatments) developed hepatitis. Chemo-lipiodolization was significantly correlated with a higher incidence of hepatitis attributed to HBV reactivation than other treatments (21.7% vs. 1.6%, P<0.001), irrespective of HBeAg or HBV DNA. Among 83 patients undergoing chemo-lipiodolization, HBV reactivation occurred in 28 (33.7%) patients, and HBeAg seropositivity was the only independent predictor of HBV reactivation (P=0.013). Three (10.7%) of them died of hepatic decompensation resulting from HBV reactivation.
Transarterial chemo-lipiodolization can reactivate HBV, and HBeAg-positive HCC patients receiving chemo-lipiodolization should be closely monitored for HBV reactivation.
One of the mechanisms by which Li evokes polyuria is thought to be impairment of arginine vasopressin (AVP)-sensitive adenylate cyclase (AdC) in cells of the renal collecting duct. To investigate how AdC is influenced by chronic administration of Li, we created nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) in rats and microdissected the medullary collecting tubule from both control and NDI rats. In the NDI group, the 10(-6) M AVP-stimulated cAMP contents failed to increase completely, and the levels were significantly lower than that of the control group (10.4 +/- 1.4 vs. 48.4 +/- 4.7 fmol/mm, P less than 0.001). Pretreatment with pertussis toxin (PT), an inhibitor of inhibitory G protein (Gi), did not affect the basal cAMP levels in both groups, although it increased AVP-stimulated cAMP production in the NDI group in a dose- and time-dependent manner. AVP-stimulated cAMP production with over 100 ng/ml PT in the NDI group reached the levels observed in the control group. Incubation with cholera toxin, an agonist of stimulatory G protein (Gs), increased the cAMP content in the two groups to almost equal levels. To exclude the possibility that prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is involved in the cellular mechanism of Li-induced NDI, the effect of indomethacin (Indo) on PT action was examined. However, Indo (10(-5) M) did not influence either the basal or AVP-dependent cAMP contents. From these results it is suggested that Li impairs AVP-sensitive AdC not through inhibition of Gs but through activation of Gi and that PGE2 may not be involved in the cellular pathogenesis of NDI at least in the rat at the step of cAMP formation.
Tamoxifen is the anti-estrogen the most widely used in breast cancer. The duration of its prescription, as adjuvant treatment, tends to increase (5 years, and even more) and now it is used in chemoprevention. A slight increase of thromboembolic complications was noted in some studies. This article evaluates the frequency of thromboembolic accidents (TEA) in 441 postmenopausal patients treated by an association of conservative radiosurgery, tamoxifen +/- chemotherapy, for a breast carcinoma T0, T1T2 < 4 cm. Nineteen patients (4.3%), all in remission, presented a TEA, between 1 and 44 months after the beginning of the tamoxifen treatment. We observed seven pulmonary embolisms (PE), 11 deep venous thromboses (DVT) and an acute arterial ischemia. Two patients aged 74 and 80 years died, the others had a favourable evolution under anticoagulant treatment. Among these 19 patients, six presented known risks factors (phlebitis, cardiovascular disorders) and ten had a "favouring circumstance" aggravating the risk of TEA (surgical operation, severe infection, fracture). Their median age was 65 years (61 for all the 441 patients). We noted eight cases of breast lobular cancer (42%) among these 19 patients (11% for all the patients). Among postmenopausal patients, the indication of tamoxifen must be evaluated according to the benefits expected in those with high risk factors of TEA (history of heart failure, obesity, spread varix, age > 65 years). In case of DVT and/or PE, this treatment seems contra-indicated. In case of "favouring circumstances", a hypocoagulant or systematic anticoagulant treatment must be proposed. In case of combined chemotherapy, it is better to start tamoxifen at the end of the treatment. These simple prophylactic measures should allow to reduce significantly the risk of TEA in postmenopausal patients with adjuvant anti-estrogenotherapy.
According to the case records found in literature of the last ten years, a combined therapy with ionizing radiation dose and systematic application of cytostatic drugs leaded much earlier to nephropathy, if the kidney was situated directly within the ray path, than radiotherapy alone. Hitherto no systematic experimentations on animals have been made in order to investigate the interaction of radiotherapy and cytostatic drugs in the sound kidney. The authors have submitted 240 white female Wistar rats to ablation of the right kidney and to extracorporal irradiation of the left kidney with increasing doses of 10 to 50 Gy. One half of these animals received additionally an intravenous injection of 6 mg adriamycin per kg of body weight. Another group of 24 animals was only treated with adriamycin, 24 animals were only operated, and 24 animals were not treated and served as control group. The laboratory examinations of blood and urine as well as the light-microscopic investigation of the treated kidneys showed already after 10 Gy modifications of the renal parenchyma which have to be imputed to irradiation. A threshold dose cannot be deducted from this assay. All morphologically demonstrable cell lesions were progressive. Adriamycin had a nephrotoxic influence on the parenchyma of the sound kidney which showed a compensatory hypertrophy. Combined treatment with ionizing radiation and adriamycin of the sound kidney of the rat showing a compensatory hypertrophy had a synergistic effect on the renal parenchyma and leaded to progressive nephropathy.
We investigated whether endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) transplantation could reduce established liver fibrosis and promote hepatic regeneration by isolating rat EPCs from bone marrow cells.
Recipient rats were injected intraperitoneally with carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) twice weekly for 6 weeks before initial administration of EPCs. CCl(4) was then readministered twice weekly for 4 more weeks, and EPC transplantation was carried out for these same 4 weeks.
At 7 days in culture, the cells expressed Thy-1, CD31, CD133, Flt-1, Flk-1, and Tie-2, suggesting an immature endothelial lineage. Immunohistochemical analyses showed fluorescent-labeled, transplantation EPCs were incorporated into the portal tracts and fibrous septa. Single and multiple EPC transplantation rats had reduced liver fibrosis, with decreased alpha2-(I)-procollagen, fibronectin, transforming growth factor-beta, and alpha-smooth muscle actin-positive cells. Film in situ zymographic analysis revealed strong gelatinolytic activity in the periportal area, in accordance with EPC location. Real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis of multiple EPC-transplantation livers showed significantly increased messenger RNA levels of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, -9 and -13, whereas tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 expression was significantly reduced. Expression of hepatocyte growth factor, transforming growth factor-alpha, epidermal growth factor, and vascular endothelial growth factor was increased in multiple EPC-transplantation livers, while hepatocyte proliferation increased. Transaminase, total bilirubin, total protein, and albumin levels were maintained in EPC-transplantation rats, significantly improving survival rates.
We conclude that single or repeated EPC transplantation halts established liver fibrosis in rats by suppressing activated hepatic stellate cells, increasing matrix metalloproteinase activity, and regulating hepatocyte proliferation.
The present study was designed to investigate the involvement of the renal nerve in glucocorticoid hypertension and to assess the role of the renin-angiotensin system in dexamethasone-induced hypertension. The elevated blood pressure in dexamethasone treated rats showing a significant increase in plasma renin concentration (PRC) and activity (PRA) was attenuated dose-dependently by the angiotensin I converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition. Bilateral renal denervation caused a partial decrease in the elevated blood pressure, abolished the increased PRC and PRA, and reduced the dose-dependent decrease in blood pressure with ACE inhibition in dexamethasone treated rats. Although the reduction in body weight and increases in urine volume, urinary sodium excretion and hematocrit were clearly seen following dexamethasone administration, dexamethasone-treated renal denervated rats showed the same degree of change in any of the variables as dexamethasone-treated sham-operated rats. Thus, our results indicate that the stimulation of the renin-angiotensin system through the activation of the renal nerve may be partially responsible for the dexamethasone-induced high blood pressure and, therefore, bilateral renal denervation reduces, partially but significantly, the elevated blood pressure, suggesting that the attenuation of oversecretion of renin contributes to the lowering of the blood pressure.
The frequency and severity of side effects, above all, phlebitis, associated with an intravenous use of cephapirin (CEPR) or cephalothin (CET) was compared in 69 patients with infections. Two grams of each drug were administered intravenously twice a day with a 21-G vein needle in one of the two arms of the patients. CEPR was administered to 32 patients, and CET to 37 patients respectively. After treatment, the status of the veins was checked, and laboratory findings and other side effects were evaluated daily. Each drug appeared to be equally efficacious in the treatment of infections. The administration of CEPR was associated with a slightly lower rate of phlebitis and other side effects, but the difference between the 2 drugs was not significant (0.05 less than P less than 0.10). Phlebitis was observed in 1 patient (3.1%) of CEPR group and in 3 patients (8.1%) of CET group. Side effects, including phlebitis, were observed in 4 patients (12.5%) of CEPR group and in 12 patients (32.4%) of CET group. In CET group, drug exanthema (3 cases), drug fever (3 cases), and abnormalities in liver function (4 cases) were observed. These findings, together with the results of other reports, suggest that CEPR is a safe and useful drug in the treatment of infection as compared with CET.
Vinorelbin is an important tumouricidal substance. The (cardio-)vascular side effects are not well known. We report on four patients in highly palliative situations who were treated with vinorelbine for non-small cell lung cancer. Case one presented with myocardial infarction eleven days after onset of therapy. The second and third cases had to be admitted immediately after the beginning of vinorelbine treatment because of hypertension and angina pectoris. The fourth case suffered from angina abdominalis. A critical review of the literature showed 17 cardiac ischaemias with seven myocardial infarctions, three of them with lethal outcome.
Plasma von Willebrand factor (vWF) was evaluated as a potential biomarker of acute arterial damage in rats after a vasotoxic dose of the dopaminergic vasodilator, fenoldopam (FP). Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given FP or isotonic saline by subcutaneous injection, and plasma vWF was measured at 2, 6, and 24 hours after challenge. Mean plasma vWF values increased in FP-treated rats compared to controls at 2 hours (167 vs 122%; p < 0.05) and 6 hours postdose (172 vs 130%; p < 0.01) but were comparable to control values after 24 hours. Mesenteric arterial lesions were observed microscopically in all FP-treated rats 24 hours postdose but were not present in rats at 1, 2, 4, 6, or 8 hours after FP challenge. Further, plasma vWF concentrations increased in saline-treated rats after only the minimal perturbation of repeated venipuncture. These results indicate an early, minimal, and transient release of vWF that precedes the onset of morphologically evident vascular damage. The minimal increases in plasma vWF concentrations were of limited predictive value, may be more reflective of an acute-phase reactant response, and were not considered a reliable biomarker of acute FP-induced arterial damage in the rat.
The effect of a hypotensive state on atrial natriuretic polypeptide (ANP) receptors of the kidney treated by indapamide was investigated in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). SHRs aged 12 weeks were injected intraperitoneally with indapamide (10mg/kg/day) for 10 days and an ANP radiolabeled receptor assay (RRA) was done on the 11th day. The systolic blood pressure of SHRs injected with indapamide (IDP group) was statistically lower than that of SHRs injected with 2% gum Arabic solution (control group). Concerning the RRA of ANP in the SHR kidney, high affinity and low capacity binding sites were observed in the IDP group (Kd = 0.220 +/- 0.059 nM, Bmax = 6.10 +/- 2.36 fmol/100 micrograms) compared with the control group (Kd = 0.401 +/- 0.147 nM, Bmax = 9.96 +/- 2.50 fmol/100 micrograms). These finding suggested that the hypotensive state induced by treatment with indapamide may change the ANP receptor in kidneys of a SHR.
The role of prostanoids in nociception is well established. The headache-eliciting effects of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) and its possible mechanisms have previously not been systematically studied in man. We hypothesized that infusion of PGE(2) might induce headache and vasodilation of cranial vessels. PGE(2) (0.40 microg kg(-1) min(-1)) or saline was infused for 25 min into 11 healthy subjects in a cross-over, double-blind study. Headache intensity was scored on a verbal rating scale from 0 to 10. In addition, we recorded mean flow in the middle cerebral artery (V(MCA)) by transcranial Doppler and diameter of the superficial temporal artery (STA) by high-resolution ultrasonography. All 11 subjects reported headache on the PGE(2) day and no subjects reported headache on the placebo day (P = 0.001). During the immediate phase (0-30 min) (P = 0.005) and the postinfusion phase (30-90 min) (P = 0.005), the area under the curve for headache score was significantly larger on the PGE(2) day compared with the placebo day. PGE(2) caused dilatation of the STA (23.5%; 95% CI 14.0, 37.8) and the MCA (8.3%; 95% CI 4.0, 12.6). We suggest that PGE(2) induces headache by activation and sensitization of cranial perivascular sensory afferents.
Propofol injection pain is a well-known problem in pediatric anesthesia. Premixture of lidocaine with propofol although effective does not abolish injection pain in all children. Promising results have been reported with pretreatment of the vein with ketamine. The purpose of this prospective, double-blind randomized, clinical trial with active control was to evaluate the efficacy of premixing propofol with ketamine in the prevention of injection pain in children.
After ethics committee and parental approval and children's assent, 116 children, aged 1-12 years, were randomly allocated to receive an IV induction dose of admixture of racemic ketamine 0.5 mg x ml(-1) (ketamine group) or lidocaine 1 mg x ml(-1) in propofol 10 mg x ml(-1) (lidocaine group). The outcome measures were signs and symptoms of injection pain (primary outcome: the incidence of injection pain), hemodynamic and respiratory parameters, and adverse effects during anesthesia induction (secondary outcomes).
Patients' characteristics were similar in the two groups. Fewer children (13/58) in the lidocaine group than in the ketamine group (26/58) (mean difference 23%, 95% CI for difference 6-40%, P = 0.018) developed pain on injection of propofol. There were no differences in hemodynamic parameters between the two groups. One child in the lidocaine group developed laryngospasm, but no other adverse events were recorded.
Injection pain was twice as common with ketamine-propofol admixture than with lidocaine-propofol admixture.
Neurotoxicity of cytarabine (AraC) is believed to be related to renal insufficiency. We examined the plasma pharmacokinetics of AraC and its deamination product uracil arabinoside (AraU) in four patients with AML and concomitant severe renal insufficiency after treatment with AraC. Additionally, in one of these patients the concentration of intracellular AraCTP, the active metabolite of AraC, was analysed. Patients 2 and 3 were treated with AraC 1.0 g/m(2) infused for 3 h at 12-h intervals on days 1-4. Patient 1 received the same schedule of AraC with 0.5 g/m(2) and patient 4 with 0.25 g/m(2) AraC. Plasma concentrations of AraC, AraU and the intracellular concentration of AraCTP were analysed at different time points using HPLC. AraC pharmacokinetics in patients with severe renal insufficiency was comparable to patients with normal renal function. Peak plasma levels as well as intracellular AraCTP kinetics were also not significantly influenced by renal dysfunction. As expected from the high dose AraC pharmacokinetic parameters, the AraU serum levels accumulated during treatment. Under the conditions of renal impairment, AraU half-life was about 75 h and the AUC was about 12-fold higher than for patients with normal renal function. AraU could be the pathophysiologic cause for the known correlation between the incidence of neurotoxicity and renal insufficiency in high-dose AraC. To avoid AraU accumulation, intermittent hemodialysis during high-dose AraC treatment could be a suitable method considering the low protein-binding and low distribution volume of AraU.
Malignant gliomas are a debilitating class of brain tumors that are resistant to radiation and chemotherapeutic drugs, contributing to the poor prognosis associated with these tumors. Over-expression of transcription factors such as NFkappaB and AP-1 contribute to the enhanced glioma survival, radioresistance, and chemoresistance. Curcumin, which may inhibit these pathways, was therefore investigated for a potential therapeutic role in glioma. The effect of curcumin on glioma survival was investigated in human (T98G, U87MG, and T67) and rat (C6) glioma cell lines. The ability of curcumin to overcome glioma cell radioresistance and chemoresistance was also explored. Curcumin reduced cell survival in a p53- and caspase-independent manner, an effect correlated with the inhibition of AP-1 and NFkappaB signaling pathways via prevention of constitutive JNK and Akt activation. Curcumin-sensitized glioma cells to several clinically utilized chemotherapeutic agents (cisplatin, etoposide, camptothecin, and doxorubicin) and radiation, effects correlated with reduced expression of bcl-2 and IAP family members as well as DNA repair enzymes (MGMT, DNA-PK, Ku70, Ku80, and ERCC-1). These findings support a role for curcumin as an adjunct to traditional chemotherapy and radiation in the treatment of brain cancer.
The data of 466 subjects suffering from neurologic disorders which are suggested to be caused by neurotoxic agents in their environment retrospectively was evaluated and documented. Among these cases there were 151 subjects with symptoms of Multiple Chemical Sensitivity Disorder (MCSD). The relationship between the neurological health impairments and neurotoxic agents in the environment of these patients was characterised using five different categories (probable = A, possible = B, uncertain = C, unclarified = D, not probable = E). From the 466 patients 320 subjects (69%) could be assigned to the categories A and B, respectively. Within theses 320 cases with chronic neurotoxic health impairments 136 subjects (79 females and 57 males) showed signs of MCSD. Age and gender of cases as well as duration and character of exposure to neurotoxic substances retrospectively were assessed from the explicit files of the patients, which had been made anonymous for this purpose. Frequency of characteristic symptoms of neurotoxicity were analysed. Results are given for patients with neurotoxic health impairments with MCSD (n = 136) and without MCSD (n = 184). Neurotoxic substances which were used as indoor wood preservatives (mainly Pentachlorophenol and/or Lindane) were found to be the causative agents in 63% of the cases with neurotoxic health impairments and MCSD. Other important neurotoxic substances to which the patients were mainly exposed were organic solvents (25%), formaldehyde (15%), dental materials (15%), pyrethroides (13%), and other biocides (19%) (multiple exposures were possible). The time of exposure was calculated as being > or = 10 years for 55% of the patients with MCSD and for 50% of the group with neurotoxic health impairments but without MCSD. Out of the 184 cases with neurotoxic health impairments but without MCSD there were 22%, and out of the 136 cases with MCSD there were 39% who showed all symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome. 53% of the cases with MCSD had an allergic disposition compared to only 20% of the cases without MCSD. This work is not a controlled epidemiological study but a retrospective documentation and evaluation of data related to environmental medicine. With the present documentation in this purely descriptive manner the proof of a causal relationship was not possible or intended. But because corresponding epidemiological studies are lacking, this documentation can give important information on characteristic features of Multiple Chemical Sensitivity Disorder and chronic neurotoxic health impairments. Such information is essential for planning and carrying out epidemiological studies urgently needed in this field.
Achieving a prolonged neuroprotective state following transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) is likely to effectively reduce the brain damage and neurological dysfunction associated with recurrent stroke. HPC is a phenomenon in which advanced exposure to mild hypoxia reduces the stroke volume produced by a subsequent TIA. However, this neuroprotection is not long-lasting, with the effects reaching a peak after 3 days. Therefore, in this study, we investigated the use of multiple episodes of hypoxic exposure at different time intervals to induce longer-term protection in a mouse stroke model. C57BL/6 mice were subjected to different hypoxic preconditioning protocols: a single episode of HPC or five identical episodes at intervals of 3 days (E3d HPC) or 6 days (E6d HPC). Three days after the last hypoxic exposure, temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was induced. The effects of these HPC protocols on hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) regulated gene mRNA expression were measured by quantitative PCR. Changes in extracellular adenosine concentrations, known to exert neuroprotective effects, were also measured using in vivo microdialysis and high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). Neuroprotection was provided by E6d HPC but not E3d HPC. HIF-regulated target gene expression increased significantly following all HPC protocols. However, E3d HPC significantly decreased extracellular adenosine and reduced cerebral blood flow in the ischemic region with upregulated expression of the adenosine transporter, equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 (ENT1). An ENT1 inhibitor, propentofylline increased the cerebral blood flow and re-established neuroprotection in E3d HPC. Adenosine receptor specific antagonists showed that adenosine mainly through A1 receptor mediates HPC induced neuroprotection. Our data indicate that cooperation of HIF-regulated genes and extracellular adenosine is necessary for HPC-induced neuroprotection.
Hypersensitivity reactions are a feared complication of hemodialysis considering their potential for a serious and eventually fatal course. This association could reflect a number of different exposures, including concomitant medications. Like this, systemic steroid-induced hypersensitivity reactions do occur, althought their incidence is extremely rare. A few reactions related to metylprednisolone have been reported in renal transplantation. The diagnosis could be confirmed by the patient history and performing skin testing, oral or parenteral challenge or by the evidence of specific IgE. We report on a 39-year-old woman undergoing dialysis therapy in whom severe bronchospasm was induced by corticosteroids. She has a positive systemic reaction on the oral steroid challenge test. A successful desensitization regimen for safe administration was achieved. The recognition of high-risk subjects and alternative therapeutic approach are critical, mainly in the management of patients while receiving corticosteroids or a renal allograft.
A progressive bilateral sciatic neuropathy appeared in a 52-year-old man as an unusual complication of pentazocine-induced muscle fibrosis. Surgical neurolysis showed that the sciatic nerves were firmly compressed by large fibrous bands involving the entire gluteal musculature.
The inflammatory actions of xylene, an aromatic irritant and sensitizing agent, were described to be predominantly neurogenic in the rat, but the mechanism and the role of the Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) capsaicin receptor localized on a subpopulation of sensory nerves has not been elucidated. This paper characterizes the involvement of capsaicin-sensitive afferents and the TRPV1 receptor in nociceptive and acute inflammatory effects of xylene in the mouse. Topical application of xylene on the paw induced a short, intensive nocifensive behaviour characterized by paw liftings and shakings, which was more intensive in Balb/c than in C57Bl/6 mice. Genetic deletion of the TRPV1 receptor as well as destroying capsaicin-sensitive nerve terminals with resiniferatoxin (RTX) pretreatment markedly reduced, but did not abolish nocifensive behaviours. In respect to the xylene-induced plasma protein extravasation detected by Evans blue leakage, significant difference was neither observed between the Balb/c and C57Bl/6 strains, nor the ear and the dorsal paw skin. These inflammatory responses were diminished in the RTX pretreated group, but not in the TRPV1 gene-deleted one. Injection of the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine 15min prior to xylene smearing significantly reduced plasma protein extravasation at both sites. These results demonstrate that xylene-induced acute nocifensive behaviour is mediated by capsaicin-sensitive afferents via TRPV1 receptor activation in mice. Neurogenic inflammatory components play an important role in xylene-induced plasma protein extravasation, but independently of the TRPV1 ion channel. Reactive oxygen or carbonyl species participate in this process presumably via stimulation of the TRPA1 channel.
There is consensus that ischemia/reperfusion injury associated with preeclampsia (PE) promotes both placental damage and the release of factors leading to maternal endothelium dysfunction, a hallmark of this potentially life-threatening syndrome. These factors include plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) and soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1). The goal of this study was to further characterize placental factors involved in the pathophysiology of PE. Thus, DNA microarray gene profiling was utilized to identify mRNA differentially regulated in placentas from women with severe PE compared to both preterm (PC) and term control (TC) groups. Microarray studies detected an upregulation of mRNA for ceruloplasmin, a copper-containing iron transport protein with antioxidant ferroxidase properties, in PE compared to PC and TC placentas, respectively. Quantitative real-time PCR confirmed these results by demonstrating significant increases in ceruloplasmin mRNA in PE vs PC and TC placentas. Supporting previous reports, the expression of sFlt-1 and PAI-1 were also upregulated in PE placentas. Immunohistochemistry localized ceruloplasmin to the intervillous space in PE and PC placentas, whereas stronger syncytial staining was noted in PE. Western blotting confirmed a significant increase in ceruloplasmin levels in placental tissue in PE compared to PC groups. PCR identified the presence of mRNA for ceruloplasmin in primary cultures of syncytiotrophoblasts, but not villous-derived fibroblasts, suggesting that syncytium is the site of ceruloplasmin synthesis in placenta. Hypoxic treatment (1% O(2)) of syncytiotrophoblasts enhanced levels of ceruloplasmin mRNA approximately 25-fold, a significantly greater upregulation than that noted for PAI-1 and sFlt-1, suggesting that enhanced ceruloplasmin expression is a sensitive marker of syncytial hypoxia. We suggest that syncytial ceruloplasmin and its associated ferroxidase activity, induced by the hypoxia accompanying severe PE, is important in an endogenous cellular program to mitigate the damaging effects of subsequent reperfusion injury at this site.
Neutrophils are key innate immune effector cells that are essential to fighting bacterial and fungal pathogens. Here we report that mice carrying a hematopoietic lineage-specific deletion of Jagn1 (encoding Jagunal homolog 1) cannot mount an efficient neutrophil-dependent immune response to the human fungal pathogen Candida albicans. Global glycobiome analysis identified marked alterations in the glycosylation of proteins involved in cell adhesion and cytotoxicity in Jagn1-deficient neutrophils. Functional analysis confirmed marked defects in neutrophil migration in response to Candida albicans infection and impaired formation of cytotoxic granules, as well as defective myeloperoxidase release and killing of Candida albicans. Treatment with granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) protected mutant mice from increased weight loss and accelerated mortality after Candida albicans challenge. Notably, GM-CSF also restored the defective fungicidal activity of bone marrow cells from humans with JAGN1 mutations. These data directly identify Jagn1 (JAGN1 in humans) as a new regulator of neutrophil function in microbial pathogenesis and uncover a potential treatment option for humans.
The analysis of individuals with severe congenital neutropenia (SCN) may shed light on the delicate balance of factors controlling the differentiation, maintenance and decay of neutrophils. We identify 9 distinct homozygous mutations in the JAGN1 gene encoding Jagunal homolog 1 in 14 individuals with SCN. JAGN1-mutant granulocytes are characterized by ultrastructural defects, a paucity of granules, aberrant N-glycosylation of multiple proteins and increased incidence of apoptosis. JAGN1 participates in the secretory pathway and is required for granulocyte colony-stimulating factor receptor-mediated signaling. JAGN1 emerges as a factor that is necessary in the differentiation and survival of neutrophils.
We conducted a joint (pooled) analysis of three genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) in individuals of Chinese ancestry (5,337 ESCC cases and 5,787 controls) with 9,654 ESCC cases and 10,058 controls for follow-up. In a logistic regression model adjusted for age, sex, study and two eigenvectors, two new loci achieved genome-wide significance, marked by rs7447927 at 5q31.2 (per-allele odds ratio (OR) = 0.85, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.82-0.88; P = 7.72 × 10(-20)) and rs1642764 at 17p13.1 (per-allele OR = 0.88, 95% CI = 0.85-0.91; P = 3.10 × 10(-13)). rs7447927 is a synonymous SNP in TMEM173, and rs1642764 is an intronic SNP in ATP1B2, near TP53. Furthermore, a locus in the HLA class II region at 6p21.32 (rs35597309) achieved genome-wide significance in the two populations at highest risk for ESSC (OR = 1.33, 95% CI = 1.22-1.46; P = 1.99 × 10(-10)). Our joint analysis identifies new ESCC susceptibility loci overall as well as a new locus unique to the population in the Taihang Mountain region at high risk of ESCC.
Toluene diisocyanate (TDI) is the most important cause of occupational asthma, but the genetic mechanism of TDI-induced asthma is still unknown.
The objective of the study was to identify susceptibility alleles associated with the TDI-induced asthma phenotype.
We conducted a genome-wide association study in 84 patients with TDI-induced asthma and 263 unexposed healthy normal controls using Affymetrix 500K SNPchip. We also investigated the relationships between genetic polymorphisms and transcript levels in Epstein-Barr virus-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines from patients with TDI-induced asthma enrolled in this study.
Genetic polymorphisms of CTNNA3 (catenin alpha 3, alpha-T catenin) were significantly associated with the TDI-induced asthma phenotype (5.84 x 10(-6) for rs10762058, 1.41 x 10(-5) for rs7088181, 2.03 x 10(-5) for rs4378283). Carriers with the minor haplotype, HT2 [GG], of two genetic polymorphisms (rs10762058 and rs7088181) showed significantly lower PC(20) methacholine level (P=0.041) and lower mRNA expression of CTNNA3 than non-carriers (P=0.040). A genetic polymorphism in the 3' downstream region of CTNNA3 (rs1786929), as identified by DNA direct sequencing, was significantly associated with the TDI-induced asthma phenotype (P=0.015 in recessive analysis model) and the prevalence of serum-specific IgG to cytokeratin 19 (P=0.031).
These findings suggested that multiple genetic polymorphisms of CTNNA3 may be determinants of susceptibility to TDI-induced asthma.
Intracavernosal self-injection of smooth muscle relaxants, primarily papaverine admixed with phentolamine, have been used to treat impotence in over 300 patients. The program is effective in a large fraction of this group. Selection of patients, adjustment of dose, methods for monitoring, clinical efficacy, and complications are discussed.
We examined the neuroprotective efficacy of eugenol against N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-, oxygen-glucose deprivation-, and xanthine/xanthine oxidase-induced neurotoxicity in primary murine cortical cultures. Eugenol (100-300 microM) attenuated NMDA (300 microM)-induced acute neurotoxicity by 20-60%. At the same concentration range, eugenol also inhibited NMDA (300 microM)-induced elevation in neuronal 45Ca2+ uptake by 10-30%. In the oxygen-glucose deprivation (50 min) neurotoxicity, eugenol (100-300 microM) prevented acute neuronal swelling and reduced neuronal death by 45-60% in a concentration-dependent fashion. Oxidative neuronal injury induced by xanthine/xanthine oxidase was also significantly reduced (75-90%) by eugenol (100- 300 microM) addition. These results suggest that eugenol may play a protective role against ischemic injury by modulating both NMDA receptor and superoxide radical.
Creating spontaneous yet genetically tractable human tumors from normal cells presents a fundamental challenge. Here we combined retroviral and transposon insertional mutagenesis to enable cancer gene discovery starting with human primary cells. We used lentiviruses to seed gain- and loss-of-function gene disruption elements, which were further deployed by Sleeping Beauty transposons throughout the genome of human bone explant mesenchymal cells. De novo tumors generated rapidly in this context were high-grade myxofibrosarcomas. Tumor insertion sites were enriched in recurrent somatic copy-number aberration regions from multiple cancer types and could be used to pinpoint new driver genes that sustain somatic alterations in patients. We identified HDLBP, which encodes the RNA-binding protein vigilin, as a candidate tumor suppressor deleted at 2q37.3 in greater than one out of ten tumors across multiple tissues of origin. Hybrid viral-transposon systems may accelerate the functional annotation of cancer genomes by enabling insertional mutagenesis screens in higher eukaryotes that are not amenable to germline transgenesis.
Cardiotoxicity of the anthracycline antineoplastic drugs is well known, especially the chronic effects, manifested mainly as congestive heart failure. Fewer reports have been published about the acute cardiotoxicity of these medications, and risk factors associated with their use. Two cases of malignant arrhythmias leading to sudden death associated with severe hypokalemia are reported. These cases suggest a synergistic effect between anthracyclines and electrolyte disorders resulting in the acute cardiotoxicity of these drugs. The administration of these antineoplastic drugs should include regular and systematic control of serum electrolytes and correction of hypokalemia during treatment.
