The ETV6-RUNX1 fusion gene, found in 25% of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cases, is acquired in utero but requires additional somatic mutations for overt leukemia. We used exome and low-coverage whole-genome sequencing to characterize secondary events associated with leukemic transformation. RAG-mediated deletions emerge as the dominant mutational process, characterized by recombination signal sequence motifs near breakpoints, incorporation of non-templated sequence at junctions, ∼30-fold enrichment at promoters and enhancers of genes actively transcribed in B cell development and an unexpectedly high ratio of recurrent to non-recurrent structural variants. Single-cell tracking shows that this mechanism is active throughout leukemic evolution, with evidence of localized clustering and reiterated deletions. Integration of data on point mutations and rearrangements identifies ATF7IP and MGA as two new tumor-suppressor genes in ALL. Thus, a remarkably parsimonious mutational process transforms ETV6-RUNX1-positive lymphoblasts, targeting the promoters, enhancers and first exons of genes that normally regulate B cell differentiation.
Peripheral T cell lymphomas (PTCLs) are a heterogeneous and poorly understood group of non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Here we combined whole-exome sequencing of 12 tumor-normal DNA pairs, RNA sequencing analysis and targeted deep sequencing to identify new genetic alterations in PTCL transformation. These analyses identified highly recurrent epigenetic factor mutations in TET2, DNMT3A and IDH2 as well as a new highly prevalent RHOA mutation encoding a p.Gly17Val alteration present in 22 of 35 (67%) angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma (AITL) samples and in 8 of 44 (18%) PTCL, not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS) samples. Mechanistically, the RHOA Gly17Val protein interferes with RHOA signaling in biochemical and cellular assays, an effect potentially mediated by the sequestration of activated guanine-exchange factor (GEF) proteins. In addition, we describe new and recurrent, albeit less frequent, genetic defects including mutations in FYN, ATM, B2M and CD58 implicating SRC signaling, impaired DNA damage response and escape from immune surveillance mechanisms in the pathogenesis of PTCL.
Angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma (AITL) is a distinct subtype of peripheral T cell lymphoma characterized by generalized lymphadenopathy and frequent autoimmune-like manifestations. Although frequent mutations in TET2, IDH2 and DNMT3A, which are common to various hematologic malignancies, have been identified in AITL, the molecular pathogenesis specific to this lymphoma subtype is unknown. Here we report somatic RHOA mutations encoding a p.Gly17Val alteration in 68% of AITL samples. Remarkably, all cases with the mutation encoding p.Gly17Val also had TET2 mutations. The RHOA mutation encoding p.Gly17Val was specifically identified in tumor cells, whereas TET2 mutations were found in both tumor cells and non-tumor hematopoietic cells. RHOA encodes a small GTPase that regulates diverse biological processes. We demonstrated that the Gly17Val RHOA mutant did not bind GTP and also inhibited wild-type RHOA function. Our findings suggest that impaired RHOA function in cooperation with preceding loss of TET2 function contributes to AITL-specific pathogenesis.
Oral contraceptives (OCs) and surgery are both recognized risk factors for thromboembolism. Observation of a postoperative deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in a 21-year-old OC user prompted the authors to define the risk of OC use in surgical patients through a review of the literature. The patient had no other relevant risk factors except a moderate smoking habit. Surgery increases risk of thromboembolism because of the postoperative hypercoagulation state with declines in AT III, elevation of fibrinogen and products of degradation of fibrin, decline of plasminogen, and elevation of antiplasmin. The risks are greater in the immobile postsurgical phase and are increased as well by direct vascular lesions during surgery. Estimates of rates of deep venous thrombosis are very variable according to different authors because of the difficulties of diagnosis, heterogeneity of risk factors encountered, and variety of prophylactic methods employed. The most thrombogenic surgery is believed to be that on the legs; 1 literature review produced a range of estimates from 45-70% without prophylaxis and with 2% involving fatal pulmonary emboli. Another study estimated the risk of deep venous thrombosis at 2% for young subjects in good health undergoing minor surgery lasting less than 30 minutes and at 10-40% for subjects over 40 undergoing moderately serious general surgical procedures. No ideal method of prevention has been found that is well accepted by patients, nurses, and physicians. OC use entails multiple physiopathologic modifications including among others alterations of the vascular walls with endothelial proliferation and/or thickening of the media, increased blood viscosity, hyperaggregability of platelets, and increases in certain coagulation factors. Synthetic estrogens play the major role in modifications but progestins diminish venous tone and increase stasis. Large epidemiologic studies in the US and Great Britain found a significantly increased thromboembolic risk in OC users beginning in the 1st month of use and persisting until 3-4 weeks after termination of treatment. Most authors believe that OC use increases the postsurgical risk of thromboembolism by a factor of about 3. More selective choice of OC users, reduced estrogen doses, and better surveillance of users appear to have diminished the risk of thromboembolic disease with OC use. But unfortunately there are no sure predictors of thromboembolic disease. All authors recognize the reversibility of modifications caused by OCs on hemostasis by 4 weeks after termination. If therefore is recommended that OC use be interrupted 1 cycle before surgery.
Intraoperative bleeding is one of the major problems in endoscopic surgery of sinuses. In the case of the expanded process, still more numerous interventions are performed with general anesthesia. The objective of research is to compare intraoperative hemorrhage and the visibility of the operative field during normotension and hypotension anesthesia caused by nitroglycerin and captopril when performing endoscopic operations of accessory nasal sinuses. Fifty-two patients of physical health state 1-2 according to ASA were examined: for 32 the controlled hypotension (Group H) was applied, 20 patients underwent operations in normotension (Group N). All patients on the eve of the operation were premedicated with diazepam; Group H patients on the day of operation received 6.25 mg of captopril. Anesthesia was carried out with fentanyl and halothane steam in the 50:50% mixture of oxygen and laughing gas. In Group H arterial blood pressure was lowered by nitroglycerin infusion. The average arterial blood pressure was maintained in GroupH within the limits of 50-60 mmHg. Hypotension was coordinated with the rising of the head-bed of the operating table at 5 degrees. Hemorrhage was measured by collecting blood with the pump graded with the precision of 25 ml. The visibility of the operative field was evaluated subjectively every 15 minutes according to the scale of 5 points proposed by Fromm. In both groups the average arterial blood pressure values as well as the values of the frequency of heart contractions differed statistically significantly. In the hypotensive group, hemorrhage during operation was less, on the average, (208 ml) than in Group N (349.2 ml). The visibility of the operative field was by one point, on the average, better than in Group H. No anesthetic complications were observed during investigation. In summary, it is possible to state that the controlled arterial hypotension caused by captopril and nitroglycerin reduced significantly intraoperative hemorrhage and improved the visibility of the operative field in endoscopic rhinosurgery.
We defined the contribution of histamine and leukotrienes to allergen-induced airway obstruction in asthmatics; 12 subjects with allergic asthma underwent identical allergen bronchoprovocations on four occasions. At a control session, all subjects displayed early (EAR) and late asthmatic (LAR) reactions. The mean (+/- SE) drop in FEV1 during EAR (0-2 h) and LAR (2-12 h) was 29 +/- 2% and 28 +/- 4%, respectively. Thereafter, the influence of 1 wk randomized pretreatment with the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast (Accolate) (80 mg twice daily), the antihistamine loratadine (10 mg twice daily), and the combination of both antagonists was assessed. Expressed as AUC FEV1 in percent of the control reaction, zafirlukast reduced the response during EAR and LAR by 62 +/- 11% and 55 +/- 12%, respectively (p < 0.05 versus control). Loratadine inhibited EAR and LAR by 25 +/- 14% and 40 +/- 16%, respectively (p < 0.05 versus control). Zafirlukast was significantly more effective than loratadine during EAR but not during LAR. The combination of zafirlukast and loratadine reduced the AUC FEV1 during EAR and LAR further, by 75 +/- 8% and 74 +/- 14%, respectively (p < 0.05 versus control). The combination was significantly (p < 0.05) more effective than either drug alone during the LAR. The findings indicate that leukotrienes and histamine together mediate the major part of both the EAR and the LAR following exposure of asthmatics to allergen. Combination of leukotriene antagonism and antihistamines may represent a new strategy for treatment of airway obstruction in asthma.
The use of intrathecal opioids for labor analgesia continues to gain popularity, but there are limited data to guide this use. Previously, the authors established the ED50 for 60 min of labor analgesia from intrathecal sufentanil using an up-down sequential allocation study design. The current study first establishes an ED50 for intrathecal fentanyl using this same study design to establish an intrathecal potency ratio for fentanyl and sufentanil and then uses this ratio to compare the efficacy, duration of analgesia, and side effects from comparable doses of intrathecal fentanyl and sufentanil.
Seventy-five healthy nulliparous women requesting labor analgesia were enrolled in this two-part study. In phase I, 20 women received varying doses of fentanyl to establish an ED50 for 60 min of labor analgesia. In phase II, 55 women were randomized to receive either 36 microg intrathecal fentanyl or 8 microg sufentanil (2 times the ED50s) via a combined spinal-epidural technique and by double-blinded design. Pain relief, side effects, block height, maternal hemodynamics, and fetal heart rate were assessed throughout the study. The duration of spinal analgesia was considered to be the time from injection of study drug to the time of the patient's first request for additional analgesia.
The ED50 of intrathecal fentanyl for 60 min of labor analgesia was found to be 18.2 microg, and therefore, the potency ratio of intrathecal sufentanil to intrathecal fentanyl at the ED50 level is 4.4:1. The duration of spinal analgesia was significantly longer from 8 microg intrathecal sufentanil than from 36 microg intrathecal fentanyl (104 +/- 34 vs. 79 +/- 34 min, P = 0.009). Otherwise, patient demographics, maternal hemodynamics, duration of labor, mode of delivery, motor block, subjective leg weakness, pruritus, nausea, pinprick sensory levels, visual analog scale pain scores, fetal bradycardia, and Apgar scores were similar between groups.
The relative potency of intrathecal sufentanil to fentanyl for labor analgesia is 4.4:1. When using intrathecal opioids alone for early labor analgesia, 8 microg sufentanil produces labor analgesia lasting approximately 25 min longer than from 36 microg fentanyl, without a statistically significant increase in side effects. However, when making a choice between fentanyl and sufentanil, one must consider other important factors, such as the higher cost of sufentanil and the greater risk of dosing error due to the higher potency of sufentanil compared with fentanyl.
The utility of intravenous prochlorperazine (PCZ) in the treatment of nausea, vomiting, and headache may be limited by the akathisia that occurs frequently with the recommended 2-min infusion rate. We tested the hypothesis that decreasing the rate of PCZ infusion to 15 min reduces the incidence of akathisia at 1 hour. This double-blinded, randomized, controlled trial was conducted in the Emergency Department of an academic tertiary-care medical center with an annual census of 95,000 emergency patient visits. We enrolled a convenience sample of adult patients who received 10 mg i.v. PCZ for the treatment of nausea, vomiting, or headache. Subjects were randomized to receive either a 2-min infusion of PCZ (10 mg) followed by a 15-min infusion of saline, or a 2-min infusion of saline followed by a 15-min infusion of prochlorperazine. The incidence of akathisia at 1 hour was measured by using explicit diagnostic criteria. One hundred sixty patients were randomly enrolled into two groups, which were comparable with respect to age, gender, weight, and complaint. Akathisia developed in 31 of 84 patients (36.9%) who received the 2-min infusion of PCZ and in 18 of 76 patients (23.7%) who received the 15-min infusion of PCZ (p = 0.07), a 36% (95% CI, -5% to 61%) relative reduction. The delta from pre-infusion to postinfusion scores between the two groups was not significant (p = 0.19). We conclude that slowing the rate of PCZ infusion does not decrease akathisia.
Craniopharyngiomas are epithelial tumors that typically arise in the suprasellar region of the brain. Patients experience substantial clinical sequelae from both extension of the tumors and therapeutic interventions that damage the optic chiasm, the pituitary stalk and the hypothalamic area. Using whole-exome sequencing, we identified mutations in CTNNB1 (β-catenin) in nearly all adamantinomatous craniopharyngiomas examined (11/12, 92%) and recurrent mutations in BRAF (resulting in p.Val600Glu) in all papillary craniopharyngiomas (3/3, 100%). Targeted genotyping revealed BRAF p.Val600Glu in 95% of papillary craniopharyngiomas (36 of 39 tumors) and mutation of CTNNB1 in 96% of adamantinomatous craniopharyngiomas (51 of 53 tumors). The CTNNB1 and BRAF mutations were clonal in each tumor subtype, and we detected no other recurrent mutations or genomic aberrations in either subtype. Adamantinomatous and papillary craniopharyngiomas harbor mutations that are mutually exclusive and clonal. These findings have important implications for the diagnosis and treatment of these neoplasms.
Drosophila bang-sensitive (bs) mutants exhibit a stereotypic seizure and paralysis following exposure to mechanical shock. In a physiological preparation, seizures and failures corresponding to the defective behavior are observed in response to high frequency stimulation. The amplitude of the stimulus necessary to produce bs behavior, or seizure threshold, varies with bs mutant and its gene dosage. In many respects, the bs defects are similar to those observed in mammalian seizure disorders. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) were administered by feeding to easily shocked(2) (eas(2)), a representative bs mutant. The mean recovery times of treated flies were examined in comparison to control cultures. Some of the drugs administered, including carbamazeprine, ethosuximide, and vigabactrin, had little or no effect on the bs behavior of eas(2). Gabapentin, however, showed a reduction in mean recovery time with chronic drug exposure. Phenytoin also had a significant effect on the bs behavior of treated flies. There was a reduction of both mean recovery time and the percentage of flies that displayed bang-sensitive behavior with both acute and chronic treatment. The adult giant fiber preparation was used to examine the effects of phenytoin physiologically. Treated eas(2) flies showed changes in their response to normal stimulation as well as alterations in seizure threshold in response to high frequency stimulation. Gabapentin was also effective against two other bs mutants, bangsenseless(1) and slamdance(iso7.8), at strain-specific concentrations, while phenytoin also reduced bang-sensitive behaviors in bangsenseless(1) in a dose dependent manner. AEDs, therefore, can be used to dissect aspects of bs behavior and this model may be useful in understanding the underlying basis of seizure disorders.
There are few repeated dose-controlled trials of N-methyl-d-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonists in patients with neuropathic pain. The authors sought to evaluate two low-affinity N-methyl-d-aspartate antagonists using a novel two-stage design.
The authors studied patients with painful diabetic neuropathy (DN) and postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) in two crossover trials: (1) efficacy trial (dextromethorphan vs. memantine vs. active placebo [lorazepam]) and (2) dose-response trial of the preferred active drug in responders from the first study (0% vs. 25% vs. 50% vs. 100% of each patient's maximally tolerated dose). Pain intensity was measured on a 20-point scale.
Nineteen of 23 DN patients and 17 of 21 PHN patients completed the efficacy trial. Median doses for DN and PHN were 400 and 400 mg/day dextromethorphan, 55 and 35 mg/day memantine, and 1.8 and 1.2 mg/day lorazepam. In the efficacy trial, among patients with DN, dextromethorphan reduced pain intensity by a mean of 33% from baseline, memantine reduced pain intensity by a mean of 17%, and lorazepam reduced pain intensity by a mean of 16%; the proportions of subjects achieving greater than moderate pain relief were 68% with dextromethorphan, 47% with memantine, and 37% with lorazepam. Mean reductions in pain intensity in patients with PHN were 6% with dextromethorphan, 2% with memantine, and 0% with lorazepam. No comparison with placebo reached statistical significance in the efficacy trial. In the 10 DN subjects who responded to dextromethorphan, there was a significant dose-response effect on pain intensity (P = 0.035), with the highest dose significantly better than that of lorazepam (P = 0.03).
Dextromethorphan is effective in a dose-related fashion in selected patients with DN. This was not true of PHN, suggesting a difference in pain mechanisms. Selective approaches to pain-relevant N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors are warranted.
To characterize the impact of Mannheimia haemolytica infection on feed intake and weight gain in feedlot heifers and to evaluate the clinical efficacy of isoflupredone acetate administered in combination with oxytetracycline.
96 weanling heifers in a research feedlot facility.
Bronchopneumonia was induced by intrabronchial infusion of M haemolytica. Control heifers underwent a sham procedure. Infected heifers were treated with oxytetracycline alone or in combination with isoflupredone acetate (OXY-ISO) or with nothing. Clinical variables were recorded daily for 7 days following disease induction, and feedlot performance indices were measured over a 12-week period.
Infection caused a reduction in dry-matter intake and average daily gain (ADG) in heifers that received no treatment. Oxytetracycline treatment alone did not prevent reductions in feed intake and ADG during the first week after infection was induced, whereas OXY-ISO treatment did prevent these reductions. Treatment with OXY-ISO also resulted in faster clinical improvement. No significant differences were evident between the oxytetracycline and OXY-ISO groups with respect to dry-matter intake or ADG throughout the study period.
Isoflupredone acetate appeared to be a useful clinical adjunct to treatment with oxytetracycline in cattle with acute M haemolytica bronchopneumonia.
The antipsychotic agent, remoxipride [(S)-(-)-3-bromo-N-[(1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl]-2,6-dimethoxybenz amide] has been associated with acquired aplastic anemia. We have examined the ability of remoxipride, three pyrrolidine ring metabolites and five aromatic ring metabolites of the parent compound to induce apoptosis in HL60 cells and human bone marrow progenitor (HBMP) cells. Cells were treated for 0-24 h with each compound (0-200 microM). Apoptosis was assessed by fluorescence microscopy in Hoechst 33342- and propidium iodide stained cell samples. Results were confirmed by determination of internucleosomal DNA fragmentation using gel electrophoresis for HL60 cell samples and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase assay in HBMP cells. The catechol and hydroquinone metabolites, NCQ436 and NCQ344, induced apoptosis in HL60 and HBMP cells in a time- and concentration dependent manner, while the phenols, NCR181, FLA873, and FLA797, and the derivatives formed by oxidation of the pyrrolidine ring, FLA838, NCM001, and NCL118, had no effect. No necrosis was observed in cells treated with NCQ436 but NCQ344 had a biphasic effect in both cell types, inducing apoptosis at lower concentrations and necrosis at higher concentrations. These data show that the catechol and hydroquinone metabolites of remoxipride have direct toxic effects in HL60 and HBMP cells, leading to apoptosis, while the phenol metabolites were inactive. Similarly, benzene-derived catechol and hydroquinone, but not phenol, induce apoptosis in HBMP cells [Moran et al., Mol. Pharmacol., 50 (1996) 610-615]. We propose that remoxipride and benzene may induce aplastic anemia via production of similar reactive metabolites and that the ability of NCQ436 and NCQ344 to induce apoptosis in HBMP cells may contribute to the mechanism underlying acquired aplastic anemia that has been associated with remoxipride.
To report the ocular hypertensive response to high-dose systemic corticosteroid in a pediatric patient.
Observational case report.
A 9-year-old patient with leukemia received oral prednisolone at a dosage of 2.3 mg/kg/d for 5 weeks, followed by a 4-month break and then a 4-week course of oral dexamethasone at 10 mg/d. Detailed ocular examination was performed for both eyes before and regularly throughout the two courses of treatment.
The intraocular pressure in both eyes rose to almost 40 mm Hg after only 8 days of oral corticosteroid. On stopping systemic corticosteroid, the intraocular pressure rapidly returned to baseline level within 2 days. A similar intraocular pressure profile was recorded for both eyes during the course of oral dexamethasone. The patient remained largely asymptomatic throughout.
Systemic corticosteroid may give rise to significant but asymptomatic ocular hypertension in pediatric patients.
Studies in rats indicate that the metabolic activation of acetylhydrazine, a metabolite of isoniazid, is a critical determinant of the hepatotoxicity of isoniazid. As demonstrated in that model, the formation of 14CO2 after the administration of 14C-acetylisoniazid reflects the activity of the toxic pathway. A similar approach in man should make it possible to demonstrate the presence and to assess the quantitative importance of this toxifying pathway, and thus to evaluate its role in the pathogenesis of isoniazid hepatitis. We gave 300 mg isoniazid together with 10 microCi 14C-acetylisoniazid (12 mg) to 17 healthy subjects and determined the time course of the plasma concentrations of isoniazid, acetylisoniazid, acetylhydrazine, and diacetylhydrazine and of the exhalation of 14CO2. The time course of 14CO2 in breath closely paralleled the plasma concentration-time curve of acetylhydrazine but not those of acetylisoniazid or diacetylhydrazine, indicating that the 14CO2 originated directly from the metabolism of acetylhydrazine. The cumulative exhalation of 14CO2 increased with decreasing rate of acetylation of isoniazid, such that slow acetylators generated more 14CO2 than rapid acetylators. Simulation studies demonstrated that even if the data are corrected for the different formation of acetylisoniazid from isoniazid in slow and rapid acetylators, the slow acetylators still generated more 14CO2. The data therefore indicate that a substantial fraction of the acetylhydrazine formed from isoniazid passes through a pathway that has been shown in animals to generate highly reactive and hepatotoxic intermediates.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We present the case of a 23-year-old woman with membranous nephropathy who developed acute hepatic failure after being administered chlorambucil for a month.
Proximal spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neuromuscular disorder for which there is no available therapy. SMA is caused by loss or mutation of the survival motor neuron 1 gene, SMN1, with retention of a nearly identical copy gene, SMN2. In contrast to SMN1, most SMN2 transcripts lack exon 7. This alternatively spliced transcript, Delta7-SMN, encodes a truncated protein that is rapidly degraded. Inhibiting this degradation may be of therapeutic value for the treatment of SMA. Recently aminoglycosides, which decrease translational fidelity to promote readthrough of termination codons, were shown to increase SMN levels in patient cell lines. Amid uncertainty concerning the role of SMN's C-terminus, the potential of translational readthrough as a therapeutic mechanism for SMA is unclear. Here, we used stable cell lines to demonstrate the SMN C-terminus modulates protein stability in a sequence-independent manner that is reproducible by translational readthrough. Geneticin (G418) was then identified as a potent inducer of the Delta7-SMN target sequence in vitro through a novel quantitative assay amenable to high throughput screens. Subsequent treatment of patient cell lines demonstrated that G418 increases SMN levels and is a potential lead compound. Furthermore, treatment of SMA mice with G418 increased both SMN protein and mouse motor function. Chronic administration, however, was associated with toxicity that may have prevented the detection of a survival benefit. Collectively, these results substantiate a sequence independent role of SMN's C-terminus in protein stability and provide the first in vivo evidence supporting translational readthrough as a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of SMA.
1. Prazosin decreases blood pressure in normotensive, renal hypertensive and spontaneous hypertensive rats. The effect is greatest in the last-named. 2. In spontaneously hypertensive rats the decrease in pressure is associated with a decrease in heart rate. 3. In hypertensive patients prazosin decreases blood pressure by decreasing total peripheral resistance with minor effects on cardiac output. 4. Prazosin is effective in the long-term therapy of hypertensive patients, alone and in combination with a diuretic. The effect on blood pressure is the same in the supine and standing position.
Women who were to be operated upon for prolapse of the uterus were treated preoperatively with estrogens for atrophic vaginal mucosa and examined postoperatively by the 125I-fibrinogen uptake test and phlebography. Among 11 women who received 50 micrograms of ethinyl estradiol daily for three weeks, fibrin deposits were found in six. Of eight women receiving 200 micrograms daily for 12 days, such deposits developed in four. Corresponding figures for the control group were 18 of 157, p < 0.001. Estrogens, therefore, should not be given preoperatively, and those patients treated with preparations containing estrogens should have such therapy discontinued preoperatively.
This study determines whether or not fibrin deposits occur more frequently in patients who had gynecologic surgical procedures for prolapse of uterus and treated with estrogens than in those in a control group. 11 women were given 50 ug of ethinyl estradiol daily for 3 weeks while 8 women were given 200 ug ethinyl estradiol daily for 12 days. The remaining 157 women who received no hormonal treatment served as controls. The women were examined postoperatively by the Iodine fibrinogen uptake test and phlebography according to the method of Nylander. The chi-square test with Yate's correction was used for data analysis. Fibrin deposits were found in 6 of the 11 women who received 50 ug ethinyl estradiol for 3 weeks and in 4 of 8 women receiving 200 ug for 12 days. Corresponding figures for the control group were 18 of 157, p 0.001. Estrogens should not prescribed to patients preoperatively. Estrogen therapy should be discontinued in patients who are about to be operated.
Genetic polydactyly/arhinencephaly mouse embryo, Pdn/Pdn, exhibits suppression of Gli3 gene expression. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a teratogen that causes neural tube defects (NTD) in mice. We investigated gender-dependent differences in the incidence of NTD induced by OTA in the Pdn/Pdn mouse. After administering 2 mg/kg OTA to Pdn/+ female mice, mated with Pdn/+ males, on day 7.5 of gestation, we examined the genotypes, sex and NTD of fetuses on day 18. Non-treated Pdn/Pdn had a 15.8% risk of NTD, and all NTD fetuses were female. When Pdn/Pdn embryos were exposed to OTA, the incidence of NTD increased to 16 (51.6%) of 31 Pdn/Pdn fetuses, and 10 (71.4%) of 14 male Pdn/Pdn fetuses exhibited NTD. From these results, it was speculated that NTD in OTA-treated male Pdn/Pdn were due to the synergistic effect between depressed Gli3 and altered sex-correlated gene expression from OTA treatment. After treatment with OTA, the embryos were recovered on day 9 and gene expressions, which were correlated with Gli3, telencephalic morphogenesis, formation of gonadal anlage, and gender-dependent differentiation were investigated. From real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis results, it was suggested that the manifestation of NTD in the male OTA-treated Pdn/Pdn might be due to the complicated altered gene expressions among Gli3, Wnt7b, Wnt8b, Fez1, Barx1, Lim1, Dmrt1, Igf1, Fog2, Dax1 and Sox9, and in particular, upregulation and gender-dependent difference in Barx1 and gender-dependent difference in Sox9 gene expressions might be noteworthy findings.
Flare and hyperalgesia after intradermal capsaicin injection in human skin. J. Neurophysiol. 80: 2801-2810, 1998. We investigated the neurovascular mechanisms that determine the flare response to intradermal capsaicin injection in humans and delineated the associated areas of mechanical and heat hyperalgesia. The flare response was monitored both visually and with infrared telethermography. The areas of mechanical and heat hyperalgesia were determined psychophysically. Thermography detected very large areas of flare. As an early event underlying the flare and before onset of the area of rubor of the skin, thermography detected the appearance of multifocal spots of increased temperature caused by dilatation of cutaneous arterioles. Repetition of capsaicin injection days apart into the same forearm induced multifocal spots of temperature elevation identical to the ones obtained in the first session, indicating dilatation of the same arterioles. Reactive hyperemia also consisted in the appearance of multifocal spots of increased temperature, which were identical to the ones reacting during the flare response, suggesting participation of the same arterioles in both events. Strips of local anesthetic placed to block cutaneous nerves prevented the spread of both the thermographic flare and associated hyperalgesia. It is inferred that the cutaneous nerve fibers responsible for the thermographic flare branch, or have coupled axons, over a long distance. The large area of flare coincided with the area of mechanical and heat hyperalgesia. Equivalence of the areas of flare and mechanical and heat hyperalgesia induced by intradermal capsaicin injection suggests that all three phenomena are the consequence of neural factors that operate peripherally.
Drugs belonging to the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug group (NSAID) are not only used as anti-inflammatory and analgesic agents, but also exhibit chemopreventive and chemosuppressive effects on various cancer cell lines. They exert their anticancer effects by inhibiting both at the protein level and/or at the transcription level. Cu(II) complexes of these NSAIDs show better anti-cancer effects than the bare drugs. Considering the above aspects, it is of interest to see if Cu(II) complexes of these drugs can exert their effects directly at the DNA level. In this study, we have used UV-Vis spectroscopy to characterize the complexation between Cu(II) and two NSAIDs belonging to the oxicam group viz. piroxicam and meloxicam, both of which exhibit anticancer properties. For the first time, this study shows that, Cu(II)-NSAID complexes can directly bind with the DNA backbone, and the binding constants and the stoichiometry or the binding site sizes have been determined. Thermodynamic parameters from van't Hoff plots showed that the interaction of these Cu(II)-NSAID complexes with ctDNA is an entropically driven phenomenon. Circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy showed that the binding of these Cu(II)-NSAIDs with ctDNA result in DNA backbone distortions which is similar for both Cu(II)-piroxicam and Cu(II)-meloxicam complexes. Competitive binding with a standard intercalator like ethidium bromide (EtBr) followed by CD as well as fluorescence measurements indicate that the Cu(II)-NSAID complexes could intercalate in the DNA.
The purpose of this study was to determine the best tolerated and efficacious dose of vinorelbine given once or twice in 3-week cycles in combination with methotrexate and fluorouracil (VMF).
Vinorelbine 40 mg/m(2) was given as follows: 20 mg/m(2) on days 1 and 8 (group 1); 30 mg/m(2) on day 1 and 10 mg/m(2) on day 8 (group 2); or 40 mg/m(2) on day 1 (not exeeding 60 mg/m(2)) (group 3). The methotrexate dose was 40 mg/m(2) on day 1 and the fluorouracil dose 600 mg/m(2) on days 1 and 8. Thirty patients with evaluable metastases were randomly allocated to the groups (first step). The second step was to exclude the worst tolerated regimen and then to expand the study to 60 patients. Thus, group 1 had 26 patients, group 2 had 24 patients and group 3 had 10 patients.
World Health Organization (WHO) grade 3 hematological toxicity occurred in 23%, 36% and 50% of patients and grade 4 in 39%, 32% and 50% of patients in groups 1, 2 and 3, respectively; grade 3 infections were observed in 15%, 9% and 10% of patients in groups 1, 2 and 3, and grade 4 infections in 5% and 10% of patients in groups 2 and 3, respectively. Nonhematological toxicity included a mild to moderate neurotoxicity manifesting as constipation, abdominal colics and myalgia in the majority of patients. One patient in group 3 had serious convulsions after vinorelbine administration; she also developed neutropenic sepsis; all symptoms were reversible. No patient died from side-effects. The objective response rates were 50%, 55% and 44% for groups 1, 2 and 3, respectively. Median time to progression was 7, 10 and 8 months and median survival time was 26, 23 and 16 months in groups 1, 2 and 3, respectively.
VMF regimens where the vinorelbine dose (40 mg/m(2)) is divided (20 + 20 mg/m(2) and 30 + 10 mg/m(2)) between days 1 and 8 of a 3-week cycle are equally well tolerated and the efficacy is comparable to other modern first line regimens used in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.
Modafinil is prescribed for numerous medical conditions, but the drug's mechanism of action is unclear. Here, we examined the interaction of modafinil with receptors and transporters in vitro and compared pharmacological effects of the drug with those produced by indirect dopamine (DA) agonists 1-[2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy]ethyl]-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine (GBR12909) and (+)-methamphetamine (METH). Modafinil was screened at various receptors and transporters using binding assays. Transporter-mediated uptake and release were examined in rat brain synaptosomes. Effects of modafinil on motor activity and neurochemistry were determined in rats undergoing in vivo microdialysis in nucleus accumbens. Of the receptors and transporters assayed, modafinil displayed measurable potency only at DA transporters (DAT), inhibiting [(3)H]DA uptake, with an IC(50) value of 4.0 microM. Accordingly, modafinil pretreatment (10 microM) antagonized METH-induced release of the DAT substrate [(3)H]1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium. Intravenous modafinil (20 and 60 mg/kg) produced dose-dependent increases in motor activity and extracellular DA, without affecting serotonin (5-HT). Analogous results were observed for GBR12909 (1 and 3 mg/kg), whereas METH (0.3 and 1 mg/kg) increased DA and 5-HT. Locomotor effects of all drugs were positively correlated with dialysate DA (P < 0.001). Interestingly, modafinil pretreatment reduced METH-induced ambulation and DA release. Our data show that modafinil interacts with DAT sites in rat brain, a property shared with agonist medications under investigation for treating cocaine dependence. Nondopaminergic mechanisms may also contribute to the pharmacology of modafinil. Finally, the results suggest that modafinil should be tested as an adjunct for treating METH addiction.
Alx4 and Cart1 are closely related members of the family of transcription factors that contain the paired-type homeodomain. In contrast to other types of homeodomains, the paired-type homeodomain has been shown to mediate high-affinity sequence-specific DNA binding to palindromic elements as either homodimers or as heterodimers with other family members. Alx4 and Cart1 are co-expressed at several sites during development, including the craniofacial mesenchyme, the mesenchymal derivatives of neural crest cells in the first branchial arch and the limb bud mesenchyme. Because of the molecular similarity and overlapping expression pattern, we have analyzed the functional and genetic relationships between Alx4 and Cart1. The two proteins have similar DNA-binding activity in vitro and can form DNA-binding heterodimers; furthermore, they activate transcription of reporter genes that contain high-affinity DNA-binding sites in cell culture in a similar manner. Therefore, at least by these criteria, the two proteins are functionally redundant. Analysis of double mutant animals reveals several genetic interactions. First, mutation of Cart1 exacerbates Alx4-dependent polydactyly in a manner that is dependent on gene dosage. Second, there are complex genetic interactions in the craniofacial region that reveal a role for both genes in the fusion of the nasal cartilages and proper patterning of the mandible, as well as other craniofacial structures. Third, double mutant mice show a split sternum that is not detected in mice with any other genotype. Interpreted in the context of the biochemical characterization, the genetic analysis suggests that Alx4 and Cart1 are indeed functionally redundant, and reveal both unique and redundant functions for these genes in development.
Antipsychotic-induced akathisia leads to poor compliance with medication and is still a source of concern in the treatment with antipsychotic drugs. Regarding clinical characteristics, the distinguishing features of akathisia in comparison with other extrapyramidal syndromes are prominent subjective symptoms. The purpose of the present study was to examine the subjective cognitive dysfunction associated with antipsychotic-induced akathisia.
Sixty-seven outpatients with schizophrenia receiving stable doses of risperidone or haloperidol were evaluated for akathisia and other extrapyramidal side effects. Subjective cognitive dysfunction was comprehensively assessed using the Frankfurt Complaint Questionnaire (FCQ). The severity of subjective cognitive deficits was compared between the groups with and without akathisia using analysis of covariance with relevant variables as covariates.
The akathisia group (n = 25) scored significantly higher on the total FCQ score than the non-akathisia group (n = 42) (P < 0.05). In phenomenological subscale scores, the akathisia group had significantly higher scores on various subscales, i.e. 'anxiety', 'disorder of selective attention', 'deterioration of discrimination', 'perceptual disorder' and 'disorder of coping responses' than the non-akathisia group (P < 0.05).
These results suggest that akathisia is significantly associated with a variety of subjective cognitive-perceptual deficits. Early therapeutic interventions for akathisia should be performed considering its significant association with the subjective cognitive dysfunction and the impairment of coping responses.
Anti-CEA antibodies were used for radio-immunotherapy in an established LS174T colonic xenograft in nude mice. A single IV dose of either 131I-PK4S (polyclonal) or -A5B7 (monoclonal) antibody produced tumour regression, and significantly delayed subsequent tumour growth. Administration of a clearing second antibody, 24 hr post 131I-PK4S and at 5 times the dose, significantly reduced the therapeutic effect of radio-antibody alone. Tumours of mice given non-specific antibody or unlabelled anti-CEA antibody grew like those of untreated controls. In an attempt to enhance therapy without increasing dose, radiosensitizers normally employed with external beam radiation were used in combination therapy. When the hypoxic cell radiosensitizer misonidazole was combined with 131I-A5B7, it significantly prolonged tumour-growth inhibition over radio-antibody alone. Conversely, the therapeutic effect of either radio-antibody was significantly reduced when used in combination with the halogenated pyrimidine radiosensitizer 5-iododeoxyuridine. Neither sensitizer alone affected tumour growth.
We previously reported that neonatal exposure to 17α-ethynylestradiol (EE) led to delayed adverse effects in which age-related anovulation after sexual maturation was accelerated. To identify early indicators of these adverse effects, female Wistar Hannover GALAS rats received a single EE injection (0, 0.02, 0.2, 2, 20, or 200 μg/kg) within 24 hr of birth. Histopathological changes in ovarian and uterine development were investigated from postnatal day (PND) 14 to 10 weeks of age. Immunohistochemical expression of estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) in the uterus, serum levels of sex-related hormones and gene expression in the hypothalamus were examined. Although neonatal exposure to EE did not affect body growth or ovarian development, serum FSH tended to decrease at doses ≥ 2 μg/kg, and Kiss1 mRNA level in the whole hypothalamus was significantly decreased in all EE-treated groups at PND14.The number of uterine glands at PND21 was suppressed at doses ≥ 20 μg/kg, and ERα expression in the uterine epithelium at estrus stage decreased in a dose-dependent manner at 10 weeks of age. These results demonstrated that the various identified changes that occurred before the appearance of delayed adverse effects could be candidate early indicators.
