In 3 different models of opioid epileptogenesis we have utilized opioid receptor antagonists to differentiate the nature and role of opioid receptor subtypes involved in opioid agonist-induced epileptoid responses in rats. Selective mu-opioid receptor agonism can initiate epileptoid responses in non-dependent rats. Delta-opioid agonism is important in sustaining mu-initiated epileptoid responses. A role for mu-opioid receptor stimulation in delta-opioid initiated epileptoid responses remains yet to be clarified. Delta-opioid antagonism does not precipitate classic autonomic and behavioral signs of withdrawal in morphine-dependent rats but blocks epileptoid responses in naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal without affecting autonomic and behavioral components of an ongoing withdrawal reaction.
We performed a meta-analysis of 2 genome-wide association studies of coronary artery disease comprising 1,515 cases and 5,019 controls followed by replication studies in 15,460 cases and 11,472 controls, all of Chinese Han ancestry. We identify four new loci for coronary artery disease that reached the threshold of genome-wide significance (P < 5 × 10(-8)). These loci mapped in or near TTC32-WDR35, GUCY1A3, C6orf10-BTNL2 and ATP2B1. We also replicated four loci previously identified in European populations (in or near PHACTR1, TCF21, CDKN2A-CDKN2B and C12orf51). These findings provide new insights into pathways contributing to the susceptibility for coronary artery disease in the Chinese Han population.
To investigate the value of fast multiparametric protocol magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based thrombolysis in hyperacute cerebral infarction.
Seventy-seven patients with acute ischemic stroke were examined by multiparametric protocol MRI and among them, 12 patients with hyperacute cerebral infarction were treated by recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) and followed up periodically by MRI.
The 12 patients selected by FMPMRI to receive thrombolysis demonstrated clinical improvement, with 90 day modified Rankin scale scores (mRs) < or = 2 and life quality Barthel index (BI) of 80-100. The only complication involved one patient (8.3%) who developed an asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhage 3 weeks after receiving thrombolytics.
Multiparametric protocols have significant clinical potential for the treatment of hyperacute stroke patients who are candidates for receiving intravenous thrombolytic therapy. Our data suggest that patients suffering from hyperacute ischemic cerebral infarction that are strong candidates for intravenous thrombolytic therapy can be identified by multiparametric protocol MRI, especially to those whose time windows were undefined or beyond 3 hours after symptom onset.
Genital hyperesthesia is more recognized in women but may affect men. We report both a female and a male patient in whom caffeine intake was associated with genital hyperesthesia.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors reduce blood pressure and attenuate cardiac and vascular remodeling in hypertension. However, the kinetics of remodeling after discontinuation of the long-term use of these drugs are unknown. Our objective was to investigate the temporal changes occurring in blood pressure and vascular structure of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Captopril treatment was started in the pre-hypertensive state. Rats (4 weeks) were assigned to three groups: SHR-Cap (N = 51) treated with captopril (1 g/L) in drinking water from the 4th to the 14th week; SHR-C (N = 48) untreated SHR; Wistar (N = 47) control rats. Subgroups of animals were studied at 2, 4, and 8 weeks after discontinuation of captopril. Direct blood pressure was recorded in freely moving animals after femoral artery catheterism. The animals were then killed to determine left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and the aorta fixed at the same pressure measured in vivo. Captopril prevented hypertension (105 + or - 3 vs 136 + or - 5 mmHg), LVH (2.17 + or - 0.05 vs 2.97 + or - 0.14 mg/g body weight) and the increase in cross-sectional area to luminal area ratio of the aorta (0.21 + or - 0.01 vs 0.26 + or - 0.02 microm(2)) (SHR-Cap vs SHR-C). However, these parameters increased progressively after discontinuation of captopril (22nd week: 141 + or - 2 mmHg, 2.50 + or - 0.06 mg/g, 0.27 + or - 0.02 microm(2)). Prevention of the development of hypertension in SHR by using captopril during the prehypertensive period prevents the development of cardiac and vascular remodeling. Recovery of these processes follows the kinetic of hypertension development after discontinuation of captopril.
Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) syndrome reflects a serious hypersensitivity reaction to drugs, characterized by skin rash, fever, lymph node enlargement, and internal organ involvement. So far, numerous drugs such as sulfonamides, phenobarbital, sulfasalazine, carbamazepine, and phenytoin have been reported to cause the DRESS syndrome. We report a case in a 29-yr-old female patient who had been on celecoxib and anti-tuberculosis drugs for one month to treat knee joint pain and pulmonary tuberculosis. Our patient's clinical manifestations included fever, lymphadenopathy, rash, hypereosinophilia, and visceral involvement (hepatitis and pneumonitis). During the corticosteroid administration for DRESS syndrome, swallowing difficulty with profound muscle weakness had developed. Our patient was diagnosed as DRESS syndrome with eosinophilic polymyositis by a histopathologic study. After complete resolution of all symptoms, patch tests were positive for both celecoxib and ethambutol. Although further investigations might be needed to confirm the causality, celecoxib and ethambutol can be added to the list of drugs as having the possibility of DRESS syndrome.
Toward development of smoking cessation aids superior to bupropion (2), we describe synthesis of 2-(substituted phenyl)-3,5,5-trimethylmorpholine analogues 5a-5h and their effects on inhibition of dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin uptake, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) function, acute actions of nicotine, and nicotine-conditioned place preference (CPP). Several analogues encompassing aryl substitutions, N-alkylation, and alkyl extensions of the morpholine ring 3-methyl group provided analogues more potent in vitro than (S,S)-hydroxybupropion (4a) as inhibitors of dopamine or norepinephrine uptake and antagonists of nAChR function. All of the new (S,S)-5 analogues had better potency than (S,S)-4a as blockers of acute nicotine analgesia in the tail-flick test. Two analogues with highest potency at α3β4*-nAChR and among the most potent transporter inhibitors have better potency than (S,S)-4a in blocking nicotine-CPP. Collectively, these findings illuminate mechanisms of action of 2 analogues and identify deshydroxybupropion analogues 5a-5h as possibly superior candidates as aids to smoking cessation.
The effects of hydralazine (3 mg/kg) and the angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor captopril (SQ 14,225) (100 mg/kg) on mean arterial blood pressure, plasma renin activity, urinary volume and urinary Na+,K+, and aldosterone concentrations were examined in spontaneously hypertensive rats of the Okamoto and Aoki strain (SHR) after oral daily dosing for 2 weeks, 3 or 6 months. Captopril caused progressive cumulative reductions in blood pressure resulting in normalization of pressure after 6 months of dosing. Hydralazine also significantly reduced blood pressure but not to the level of normotensive rats of the Wistar-Kyoto strain (WKY). Reductions in heart size paralleled the changes in blood pressure, normalization of cardiac hypertrophy occurring after captopril but not hydralazine. Plasma renin activity increased approximately 2-3 fold after hydralazine and 15-fold after captopril. Neither hydralazine nor captopril had any consistent effects on 24-hr urine volume, urinary Na+,K+ or aldosterone excretion. These results indicate that chronic inhibition of ACE with captopril induces normalization of blood pressure in SHR, a normal-renin model of hypertension.
Blood samples from 24 patients who received recombinant human tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) for angiographically documented acute pulmonary embolism were examined to identify and quantify fibrinolysis. Before and after the intravenous administration of 50 mg rt-PA over a 2 hr period, levels of total fibrinogen, fibrin(ogen) degradation products (FDP), and cross-linked fibrin degradation products (XDP) were measured in each patient. Elevated levels of XDP were found in all patients before treatment (mean 2.0 micrograms/ml, normal less than 0.2 microgram/ml), and these increased 12-fold with treatment. Fibrinogen levels fell 30% and FDP levels increased 24-fold for the entire group of patients. Over this 2 hr period, 10 of 24 patients (responders) demonstrated 25% or greater improvement in the extent of pulmonary artery thrombus as quantified by Urokinase Pulmonary Embolism Trial score, and these patients were found to have a significantly lower XDP/FDP ratio after rt-PA (p less than .04) than those patients who failed to respond. These data suggest that the intravenous administration of pharmacologic doses of rt-PA in patients with pulmonary embolism produces both fibrinolysis and fibrinogenolysis, successful thrombolysis in these patients is associated with a preponderance of fibrinogenolysis over fibrinolysis, the XDP/FDP ratio is a useful indicator of fibrinolytic specificity, and in patients with acute pulmonary embolism the endogenous fibrinolytic pathways are activated, albeit ineffectively, as indicated by the increased circulating XDP levels seen in all 24 patients before the administration of rt-PA.
The effect of tilorone hydrochloride on experimental infections of mice with West Nile, Langat and Dengue type 2 viruses were studied. The drug significantly reduced the mortality after intraperitoneal inoculation of West Nile virus, but failed to affect intracerebral infection with Langat or Dengue viruses. Tilorone partially reversed cyclophosphan-enhanced mortality after extraneural inoculation of West Nile and Langat viruses. The possible modes of action of tilorone, interferon-inducing ability and stimulation of humoral immunity, are discussed.
Midazolam hydrochloride is an ultra-short acting benzodiazepine recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration for anesthesia induction and preoperative sedation. Frequently, midazolam is also used as an injection or infusion for the treatment of agitation in ventilator-dependent patients. A 53-year-old man underwent a gastrojejunostomy and was later intubated following the development of pseudomonal pneumonia. Midazolam was initiated in an effort to resolve his agitation and the patient continued to receive frequent bolus injections, averaging 22 mg/d over 21 days. Approximately eight hours after midazolam was abruptly discontinued, the patient became increasingly anxious and developed somatic complaints felt to be consistent with benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome. Symptoms rapidly abated upon the reintroduction of midazolam and the drug was ultimately tapered over a period of four days and discontinued without further incident. Implications derived from the association of long-term midazolam therapy with benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome are discussed.
Previous studies revealed microstructural abnormalities in prefrontal white matter and corpus callosum of long-term abstinent chronic methamphetamine abusers. In view of the importance of the early abstinence period in treatment retention, we compared 23 methamphetamine-dependent subjects abstinent from methamphetamine for 7-13 days with 18 healthy comparison subjects. As certain metabolic changes in the brain first manifest after early abstinence from methamphetamine, it is also possible that microstructural white-matter abnormalities are not yet present during early abstinence.
Using diffusion tensor imaging at 1.5 T, fractional anisotropy (FA) was measured in prefrontal white matter at four inferior-superior levels parallel to the anterior commissure-posterior commissure (AC-PC) plane. We also sampled FA in the corpus callosum at the midline and at eight bilateral, fiber-tract sites in other regions implicated in effects of methamphetamine.
The methamphetamine group exhibited lower FA in right prefrontal white matter above the AC-PC plane (11.9% lower; p = 0.007), in midline genu corpus callosum (3.9%; p = 0.019), in left and right midcaudal superior corona radiata (11.0% in both hemispheres, p's = 0.020 and 0.016, respectively), and in right perforant fibers (7.3%; p = 0.025). FA in left midcaudal superior corona radiata was correlated with depressive and generalized psychiatric symptoms within the methamphetamine group.
The findings support the idea that methamphetamine abuse produces microstructural abnormalities in white matter underlying and interconnecting prefrontal cortices and hippocampal formation. These effects are already present during the first weeks of abstinence from methamphetamine and are linked to psychiatric symptoms assessed during this period.
Protein gene product 9.5 (PGP9.5) is a neurospecific peptide that removes ubiquitin from ubiquitinated proteins and prevents them being targeted for degradation by proteosomes. Its expression is a potential marker of non-small lung cancer, invasive colorectal cancer and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Gallbladder (GB) cancer is the most common malignant tumor of the biliary tract and is usually associated with gallstone disease, a late diagnosis, unsatisfactory treatment and a poor prognosis. To understand the role of PGP9.5 in GB cancer, we examined the methylation status of its promoter and its expression in surgical biopsy samples. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumors and non-neoplastic GB tissues (22 carcinomas, eight adenomas, 26 normal epithelia) were collected from patients who had undergone surgical resection. The methylation status of the promoter region of the PGP9.5 gene was determined by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction, and the expression of PGP9.5 was examined by immunohistochemistry using tissue microarrays. PGP9.5 promoter was methylated in 84.6% (22/26) of normal GB epithelium, 37.5% (3/8) of adenomas and 27.2% (6/22) of carcinomas. Most tumors with an unmethylated promoter exhibited positive staining for PGP9.5 in epithelial and neoplastic cells, but no PGP9.5 expression was observed in normal epithelia or in tumor tissues with a methylated promoter. No correlation was found between promoter hypomethylation of PGP9.5 and clinicopathological findings (i.e. age, sex, histological type or grade, N-status, invasion depth or tumor stage) whereas PGP9.5 hypomethylation was found to be inversely correlated with the presence of a gallstone (P = 0.015). These results suggest that PGP9.5 promoter hypomethylation could be a reliable marker for GB cancer and that DNA hypomethylation might play an important role in re-expression of the PGP9.5 gene in GB cancer.
We evaluated an oral theophylline loading-dose procedure that was designed to rapidly achieve and sustain theophylline serum concentrations of approximately 10 to 12 micrograms/mL. Ten healthy adults were given an oral loading dose of approximately 6 mg/kg of aminophylline, (Aminophyllin) (ie, 4.8 mg/kg of theophylline). Two hours later, each subject was given approximately 6 mg/kg of a sustained-release theophylline tablet (Theo-Dur). Serum samples were collected at 1/2, 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12 hours, then assayed for theophylline concentration. The mean theophylline concentration (+/- SD) one hour after the initial loading dose was 10.5 +/- 2.3 micrograms/mL. Subsequent theophylline concentrations demonstrated minimal fluctuation, with means ranging from 10.7 +/- 1.6 to 13.6 +/- 2.8 micrograms/mL. Four of the subjects reported headache; none vomited or experienced severe nausea. We conclude that this method of oral theophylline loading can be effective in achieving prompt and sustained therapeutic theophylline levels without significant side effects and that this may provide a valuable therapeutic alternative in those asthmatic patients who do not clearly require intravenous aminophylline therapy.
Acute renal failure developed in a patient after she received cimetidine therapy. A renal biopsy specimen showed acute interstitial nephritis. Withdrawal of cimetidine therapy led to improvement of renal function. Rechallenge with cimetidine occurred during prednisone therapy. Renal function continued to improve, but worsened when the treatment with these steroids was discontinued.
The neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) has long been implicated as a participant in the neurotoxicity caused by methamphetamine (METH), yet, its mechanism of action in this regard is not fully understood. Treatment of mice with the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) inhibitor alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (AMPT) lowers striatal cytoplasmic DA content by 55% and completely protects against METH-induced damage to DA nerve terminals. Reserpine, by disrupting vesicle amine storage, depletes striatal DA by more than 95% and accentuates METH-induced neurotoxicity. l-DOPA reverses the protective effect of AMPT against METH and enhances neurotoxicity in animals with intact TH. Inhibition of MAO-A by clorgyline increases pre-synaptic DA content and enhances METH striatal neurotoxicity. In all conditions of altered pre-synaptic DA homeostasis, increases or decreases in METH neurotoxicity paralleled changes in striatal microglial activation. Mice treated with AMPT, l-DOPA, or clorgyline + METH developed hyperthermia to the same extent as animals treated with METH alone, whereas mice treated with reserpine + METH were hypothermic, suggesting that the effects of alterations in cytoplasmic DA on METH neurotoxicity were not strictly mediated by changes in core body temperature. Taken together, the present data reinforce the notion that METH-induced release of DA from the newly synthesized pool of transmitter into the extracellular space plays an essential role in drug-induced striatal neurotoxicity and microglial activation. Subtle alterations in intracellular DA content can lead to significant enhancement of METH neurotoxicity. Our results also suggest that reactants derived from METH-induced oxidation of released DA may serve as neuronal signals that lead to microglial activation early in the neurotoxic process associated with METH.
The purpose of the study was to investigate whether carvedilol has an antiproliferative effect alone and whether carvedilol provides an additive, synergistic or antagonistic effect on imatinib mesylate-induced cytotoxicity in both C6 glioma monolayer and spheroid culture. The C6 rat glioma chemoresistant experimental brain tumour cell line, that is notoriously difficult to treat with combination chemotherapy, was used both in monolayer and spheroid cultures. We treated C6 glioma cells with carvedilol alone and a combination of carvedilol and imatinib mesylate at a concentration of 10 microM. Following treatment, we evaluated cell proliferation index, bromodeoxyuridine labelling index (BrDU-LI), cell cycle distributions, apoptotic cell percentages, cAMP levels and three dimensional cell morphology at monolayer cultures. In addition BrDU-LI, volume and morphology of spheroids were also assessed. Carvedilol and imatinib mesylate alone reduced cell number, BrDU-LI, cAMP levels and spheroid volume. Carvedilol and imatinib mesylate arrested cells at G0/G1 phase in a time-dependent manner and time-independent manner, respectively. Carvedilol increased apoptosis rate only at the 24th h, but imatinib mesylate did for all time intervals. Interestingly carvedilol, drug with well-known protective effect on mitochondria, induced severe mitochondria damage, and imatinib mesylate induced autophagy confirmed only by transmission electron microscopy. These results suggest that carvedilol showed antitumour activity against rat C6 glioma cells and a combination of carvedilol with imatinib mesylate resulted in enhanced in vitro antitumour activity.
A double-blind cross-over study is reported which compares the antipsychotic properties and the side effects of depot flupenthixol with fluphenazine decanoate in chronic schizophrenic inpatients. Special emphasis was laid on examining changes in the target symptoms of apathy/anergia and depression in which flupenthixol has been claimed to be particulary effective. No significant differences were found between treatments on schizophrenic symptoms, or as regards the extrapyramidal side effects produced by equipotent doses of the two drugs. Reasons for the essentially negative results are discussed against a background review of earlier optimistic studies of flupenthixol.
Changes in tissue protein synthesis in hypertension have usually been measured in vitro in heart from acutely hypertensive rats without consideration of changes in atrial or pulmonary tissue or changes occurring in long-standing hypertension. The objective of the study was to investigate the in vivo changes in cardiopulmonary protein synthesis in three different rat models of chronic hypertension. Hypertension in aortic constriction, the Goldblatt model, and the bromoethylamine model were induced in rats for 30 days. At the end of the experimental period, in vivo rates of protein synthesis were measured with a flooding dose of [3H]phenylalanine (a method which effectively considers precursor pools). Concomitant measurements included quantification of contractile protein and RNA and DNA contents. Indices of protein breakdown were also assessed by selective measurement of protease activities. At the end of 30 days, aortic constriction induced marked increases in protein contents of the left ventricle, septum, left atria, and lungs. Accompanying changes included concomitant increases in RNA and DNA contents. Left ventricular myofibrillary, sarcoplasmic, and stromal protein contents increased in the aortic constriction model. Less marked changes occurred in the Goldblatt model, though the left atria were not significantly affected. In contrast, the bromoethylamine model had no effect on the protein or RNA contents of any region. In all cardiac regions of all three models, fractional rates of protein synthesis were not significantly affected. However, protein synthesis increased in the lungs of both the Goldblatt and bromoethylamine models at 30 days. Protease activities were decreased in the left ventricles of all three models at 30 days, with lysosomal protease activities declining in the aortic constriction model and cytoplasmic protease activities declining in the other two models. The failure of chronic hypertension to increase ventricular synthesis rates may represent inherent limitations in the time frame for measuring protein synthesis in vivo. However, at earlier time points (i.e., 10 days), the aortic constriction model was characterized by marked increases in left ventricular and atrial protein contents, RNA contents, and fractional rates of protein synthesis. This was consistent with the supposition that, in acute phases of hypertrophy, rates of protein synthesis increase, whereas in established hypertrophy, synthesis rates remain unchanged or decrease. The applicability of the aortic constriction model was investigated by examining the effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril (5 mg/kg/day). After 30 days treatment, lisinopril impeded the increase in left ventricular mixed and myofibrillar proteins. This effect was accompanied by an apparent increase in protein synthesis. In conclusion, although all three chronic models are able to induce hypertension, varying degrees of hypertrophy develop, which are more pronounced in the aortic constriction model. Accompanying changes include hypertrophy in the atria, reduced rates of ventricular proteolytic activity, and altered rates of protein metabolism in the lungs.
Both lipid-modifying therapy and antioxidant vitamins are thought to have benefit in patients with coronary disease. We studied simvastatin-niacin and antioxidant-vitamin therapy, alone and together, for cardiovascular protection in patients with coronary disease and low plasma levels of HDL.
In a three-year, double-blind trial, 160 patients with coronary disease, low HDL cholesterol levels and normal LDL cholesterol levels were randomly assigned to receive one of four regimens: simvastatin plus niacin, vitamins, simvastatin-niacin plus antioxidants; or placebos. The end points were arteriographic evidence of a change in coronary stenosis and the occurrence of a first cardiovascular event (death, myocardial infarction, stroke, or revascularization).
The mean levels of LDL and HDL cholesterol were unaltered in the antioxidant group and the placebo group; these levels changed substantially (by -42 percent and +26 percent, respectively) in the simvastatin-niacin group. The protective increase in HDL2 with simvastatin plus niacin was attenuated by concurrent therapy with antioxidants. The average stenosis progressed by 3.9 percent with placebos, 1.8 percent with antioxidants (P=0.16 for the comparison with the placebo group), and 0.7 percent with simvastatin-niacin plus antioxidants (P=0.004) and regressed by 0.4 percent with simvastatin-niacin alone (P<0.001). The frequency of the clinical end point was 24 percent with placebos; 3 percent with simvastatin-niacin alone; 21 percent in the antioxidant-therapy group; and 14 percent in the simvastatin-niacin-plus-antioxidants group.
Simvastatin plus niacin provides marked clinical and angiographically measurable benefits in patients with coronary disease and low HDL levels. The use of antioxidant vitamins in this setting must be questioned.
Case reports suggest a link between methamphetamine abuse and acute myocardial infarction (AMI), but no epidemiologic studies have examined this link. Our objective was to test the hypothesis that young adults who abuse amphetamines are at higher risk for AMI.
In this study of 3,148,165 discharges from Texas hospitals in a quality indicators database during 2000-2003, among persons aged 18-44 years we identified 11,011 AMIs, defined according to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality's AMI mortality inpatient quality indicator.
In a multiple logistic regression analysis - while controlling for cocaine abuse, alcohol abuse, tobacco use, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, lipid disorders, obesity, congenital defects, and coagulation defects - amphetamine abuse was significantly associated with AMI (adjusted odds ratio=1.61; 95% CI=1.24-2.04, p=0.0004). The rate of AMIs among amphetamine abusers increased significantly from 2000 to 2003. The population attributable risk suggests that amphetamine abuse is responsible for 0.2% of AMIs in the state of Texas. The geographical distribution of amphetamine abuse varied by region, with the prevalence being highest in the North Texas and Panhandle regions of Texas.
This modest, though statistically robust, association suggests that amphetamine abuse may play a role in AMI.
The reduction of spasticity after administration of intrathecal fentanyl, 35 micrograms, and intrathecal lidocaine, 50 mg, was compared with preinjection spasticity levels in ten subjects with central nervous system disease or injury. Spasticity was objectively assessed by an electronic instrument that simultaneously measures degrees of extension and force during passive knee extension. Duration of spasticity relief and adverse effects were recorded. Both drugs equally reduced spasticity and increased the range of motion. There were no supraspinal side effects from the fentanyl, whereas three subjects became hypotensive after receiving lidocaine. The reduction of spasticity with intrathecal fentanyl lasted at least 3 h. The authors postulate that fentanyl reduced spasticity by an effect on spinal pathways. Intrathecal fentanyl should be considered as an alternative to lidocaine for diagnostic blocks in patients with spasticity.
The aim of this study was to determine the lowest effective bolus dose of oxytocin to produce adequate uterine tone (UT) during elective Caesarean delivery (CD).
Seventy-five pregnant patients undergoing elective CD under spinal anaesthesia were randomized to receive oxytocin (0.5, 1, 3, 5 units) or placebo. UT was assessed by a blinded obstetrician as either adequate or inadequate, and using a verbal numerical scale score (0-10; 0, no UT; 10, optimal UT) at 2, 3, 6, and 9 min after oxytocin administration. Minimum effective doses of oxytocin were analysed (ED(50) and ED(95)) using logistic regression. Oxytocin-related side-effects (including hypotension) were recorded.
There were no significant differences in the prevalence of adequate UT among the study groups at 2 min (73%, 100%, 93%, 100%, and 93% for 0, 0.5, 1, 3, and 5 units oxytocin, respectively). The high prevalence of adequate UT after placebo and low-dose oxytocin precluded determination of the ED(50) and ED(95). UT scores were significantly lower in patients receiving 0 unit oxytocin at 2 and 3 min compared with 3 and 5 units oxytocin (P<0.05, respectively). The prevalence of hypotension was significantly higher after 5 units oxytocin vs 0 unit at 1 min (47% vs 7%; P=0.04).
The routine use of 5 units oxytocin during elective CD can no longer be recommended, as adequate UT can occur with lower doses of oxytocin (0.5-3 units).
We compare intravenous midazolam and droperidol for the onset of sedation of acutely agitated patients in the emergency department (ED).
This was a double-blind, randomized, clinical trial set in the ED of a university teaching hospital. Subjects were adults, acutely agitated because of mental illness, intoxication, or both, who received midazolam or droperidol, 5 mg intravenously, every 5 minutes until sedated. We analyzed time to sedation using survival analysis, median times to sedation, and proportions sedated at 5 and 10 minutes.
Seventy-four patients received midazolam; 79 patients, droperidol. Survival analysis showed no difference in time to sedation (hazard ratio 0.86; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.61 to 1.23), P=.42. Median time to sedation was 6.5 minutes for midazolam (median dose 5 mg) and 8 minutes for droperidol (median dose 10 mg), P=.075 (effect size 1.5 minutes; 95% CI 0 to 4 minutes). At 5 minutes, 33 of 74 (44.6%) patients from the midazolam group were adequately sedated compared with 13 of 79 (16.5%) patients from the droperidol group, a difference of 28.1% (95% CI 12.9% to 43.4%; P<.001). By 10 minutes, 41 of 74 (55.4%) from the midazolam group were sedated compared to 42 of 79 (53.2%) from droperidol, a difference of 2.2% (95% CI -14.9% to 19.3%; P=.91). Eleven adverse events occurred in the midazolam group and 10 in the droperidol group. Three patients required active airway management (3 patients with assisted ventilation and 1 patient intubated); all received midazolam.
There is no difference in onset of adequate sedation of agitated patients using midazolam or droperidol. Patients sedated with midazolam may have an increased need for active airway management.
Nine patients with Parkinsonism were studied before and after treatment with piribedil, a dopamine-receptor stimulator. Piribedil appeared to have a slight anti-Parkinsonism effect upon bradykinesia, and possibly upon tremor, but did not improve rigidity. The chief toxic effects were drowsiness and confusion, and two patients experienced nausea. Changes in homovanillic acid in the cerebrospinal fluid indicated that the drug reduced the turnover of endogenous dopamine. In spite of this definite neuropharmacological action, no clear-cut associated clinical benefit was demonstrated. The significance of these findings is discussed.
The role of phosphodiesterase inhibitor, pentoxifylline, in the prevention of cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis was evaluated in a rat model. Hemorrhagic cystitis was induced in rats by an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of a single dose of cyclophosphamide (150 mg/kg). Pentoxifylline (150 mg/kg/day/ip) was administered for 10 days followed by cyclophosphamide. Hemorrhagic cystitis was well characterized macroscopically, microscopically, and biochemically. Cyclophosphamide induced bladder injury including acute severe inflammation, vascular congestion, severe edema, hemorrhage, inflammatory cell infiltration in the lamina propria, and epithelial denudation; as well as it notably elevated serum inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-6, and interleukin-1β), bladder content of malondialdehyde and total nitrate, accompanied with depletion of bladder antioxidant enzymes activities (glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione-S-transferase, and catalase). Prior administration of pentoxifylline improved all biochemical and histologic alterations induced by the cytotoxic drug cyclophosphamide. In conclusion, pentoxifylline has proven uroprotective efficacy in the cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis model, possibly through modulating the release of inflammatory cytokines and nitric oxide and restoring the oxidant/antioxidant balance.
A 50-year-old man presented with a history of transient chest pain and palpitations. The 12-lead ECG at rest showed normal sinus rhythm. A slight ST segment elevation was observed in leads V1 to V3. During hospitalization, atrial fibrillation developed, and oral pilsicainide was administered. Thirty minutes after the drug was given, the ECG showed marked ST segment elevation in leads V1 to V3, and T wave alternans became visible in leads V2 and V3. Self-terminating ventricular tachycardia was initiated following frequent ventricular premature complexes, which showed a left bundle branch block pattern. The coronary angiogram was normal, but in the provocation test of vasospastic angina, acetylcholine administration into the left coronary artery resulted in complete occlusion of the left anterior descending and circumflex arteries. Marked ST segment elevation developed in leads I, aVL, and V3 to V6 concomitant with visible QT/T alternans in leads V4 and V5, and ventricular tachyarrhythmia was initiated. Brugada syndrome and vasospastic angina coexisted in this patient, and T wave alternans can be used as a predictor of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in such patients.
Tumour necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL/Apo2L) is a death protein that preferentially kills tumour cells while sparing normal cells. TRAIL has four exclusive receptors, two of which (TRAIL-R1, TRAIL-R2) are death receptors. Both TRAIL/Apo2L and agonistic antibodies to the TRAIL death receptors are currently being explored for cancer therapy. Although the activity of TRAIL/Apo2L in a variety of haematological malignancies has been examined, the activity of anti-TRAIL receptor agonistic antibodies in primary and cultured lymphoma cells has not. Using two fully human selective agonistic monoclonal antibodies to the TRAIL death receptors TRAIL-R1 (HGS-ETR1) and TRAIL-R2 (HGS-ETR2) this study demonstrated that both monoclonal antibodies activated caspase-8 and induced cell death in five of nine human lymphoma cell lines, and induced >10% cell death in 67% and 70%, respectively, of 27 primary lymphoma cells, and >20% cell death in at least one-thirds of the samples. HGS-ETR1 and HGS-ETR2 demonstrated comparable activity in the fresh tumour samples, which was independent of TRAIL receptor surface expression, Bax, cFLIP, or procaspase-8 expression, or exposure to prior therapy. Furthermore, both antibodies enhanced the killing effect of doxorubicin and bortezomib. Our data demonstrate that HGS-ETR1 and HGS-ETR2 monoclonal antibodies can induce cell death in a variety of cultured and primary lymphoma cells, and may have therapeutic value in lymphoma.
Dipyridamole stress testing may be used in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease and risk assessment of patients who are unable to exercise. Although dipyridamole perfusion imaging has a good safety record, serious side-effects may rarely occur. We present a case in which dipyridamole induced high-grade atrioventricular (AV) block that responded promptly to intravenous aminophylline but not to atropine.
