To describe a case of propylthiouracil-induced vasculitis manifesting with pericarditis.
We present the first case report of a woman with hyperthyroidism treated with propylthiouracil in whom a syndrome of pericarditis, fever, and glomerulonephritis developed. Serologic testing and immunologic studies were done, and a pericardial biopsy was performed.
A 25-year-old woman with Graves' disease had a febrile illness and evidence of pericarditis, which was confirmed by biopsy. Serologic evaluation revealed the presence of perinuclear-staining antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (pANCA) against myeloperoxidase (MPO). Propylthiouracil therapy was withdrawn, and she was treated with a 1-month course of prednisone, which alleviated her symptoms. A literature review revealed no prior reports of pericarditis in anti-MPO pANCA-positive vasculitis associated with propylthio- uracil therapy.
Pericarditis may be the initial manifestation of drug-induced vasculitis attributable to propylthio- uracil therapy.
Early and accurate diagnosis and prognosis of patients with fulminant liver failure is of critical importance for optimum management. We investigated the role of transjugular liver biopsy in the management of patients with fulminant liver failure and assessed its value in comparison with the recently proposed King's College criteria. Sixty-one patients with fulminant liver failure, ages 2 to 82 yr, were retrospectively analyzed. The main outcome measures were survival vs. death or progression to orthotopic liver transplantation. Transjugular liver biopsy was successful in 60 of 61 patients, with a mean core tissue length of 2.1 cm. There were eight minor complications, all of which were managed conservatively. Biopsy specimens were evaluated for degree of fibrosis, percentage of hepatocellular necrosis and presence of bile duct proliferation, hepatocellular mitotic figures and binucleate hepatocytes for each of the 54 specimens available for analysis. In 34 of 54 patients (63%), the presumed clinical diagnosis was confirmed by transjugular liver biopsy. In 11 patients the procedure served to clarify clinical uncertainty, whereas in 9 of 54 (16.7%) the diagnosis was altered after transjugular liver biopsy. The percentage of necrosis was the only histological parameter that appeared to have significant discriminatory prognostic value, with only 2 of 19 survivors having greater than 70% necrosis. Twenty-one of these biopsy specimens were reviewed by two pathologists, and their degree of correlation for the various features was assessed. Almost perfect concordance was found between the two pathologists on the percentage of hepatocellular necrosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The role of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in the pathogenesis of glomerular injury appears to be complex. To investigate the role of individual MMPs, we examined the course of Adriamycin-induced albuminuria and glomerulosclerosis in mice lacking either a gelatinase (MMP-9) or a collagenase (MMP-13).
Adriamycin was administered to MMP-9 or MMP-13 knockout (KO) mice. Glomerular injury was assessed by the quantification of albuminuria, the glomerular injury score and type IV collagen immunostaining.
Treatment of mice with Adriamycin (18 mg/kg i.v.) resulted in marked albuminuria and glomerulosclerosis reaching a peak at 4-8 weeks. The albuminuria and glomerulosclerosis were significantly (p < 0.05) attenuated in both the MMP-9 KO and MMP-13 KO mice compared to controls. In contrast, treatment of wild-type mice with the broad-spectrum MMP inhibitor doxycycline did not have a beneficial effect on the albuminuria and glomerulosclerosis.
These results support a role for both gelatinase (MMP-9) and collagenase (MMP-13) in the pathogenesis of glomerular injury in the Adriamycin-induced glomerulosclerosis model. MMP inhibitors with high specificity towards MMP-9 and/or MMP-13 may be potential future candidates to provide more effective therapies to inhibit the development of glomerulosclerosis.
Previous studies have demonstrated methamphetamine (METH)-induced toxicity to dopaminergic and serotonergic axons in rat striatum. Although several studies have identified the nature of reactive astrogliosis in this lesion model, the response of microglia has not been examined in detail. In this investigation, we characterized the temporal relationship of reactive microgliosis to neuropathological alterations of dopaminergic axons in striatum following exposure to methamphetamine. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered a neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine and survived 12 h, or 1, 2, 4, and 6 days after treatment. Immunohistochemical methods were used to evaluate reactive changes in microglia throughout the brain of methamphetamine-treated rats, with a particular focus upon striatum. Pronounced morphological changes, indicative of reactive microgliosis, were evident in the brains of all methamphetamine-treated animals and were absent in saline-treated control animals. These included hyperplastic changes in cell morphology that substantially increased the size and staining intensity of reactive microglia. Quantitative analysis of reactive microglial changes in striatum demonstrated that these changes were most robust within the ventrolateral region and were maximal 2 days after methamphetamine administration. Analysis of tissue also revealed that microglial activation preceded the appearance of pathological changes in striatal dopamine fibers. Reactive microgliosis was also observed in extra-striatal regions (somatosensory and piriform cortices, and periaqueductal gray). These data demonstrate a consistent, robust, and selective activation of microglia in response to methamphetamine administration that, at least in striatum, precedes the appearance of morphological indicators of axon pathology. These observations raise the possibility that activated microglia may contribute to methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity.
We have previously shown that treating streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, an animal model of type 1 diabetes, with Ilepatril (an inhibitor of neutral endopeptidase and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)) improves vascular and neural function. In this study we sought to determine the individual effect of inhibition of neutral endopeptidase and ACE on diabetes-induced vascular and neural dysfunction. After 4 weeks of untreated diabetes, rats were treated for 12 weeks with Ilepatril, Enalapril (ACE inhibitor) or Candoxatril (neutral endopeptidase inhibitor) followed by analysis of neural and vascular function. Diabetes caused slowing of motor and sensory nerve conduction, thermal hypoalgesia, reduction in intraepidermal nerve fiber density in the hindpaw and impairment in vascular relaxation to acetylcholine and calcitonin gene-related peptide in epineural arterioles of the sciatic nerve and to atrial natriuretic peptide and calcitonin gene-related peptide in renal arteries. Inhibition of neutral endopeptidase or ACE improved neural function; however, dual inhibition of neutral endopeptidase and ACE with Ilepatril tended to have the greatest efficacy. Ilepatril and Candoxatril treatment of diabetic rats was more efficacious in improving vascular responsiveness in epineurial arterioles than treatment with Enalapril. Ilepatril, Enalapril or Candoxatril treatment of diabetic rats were all efficacious in renal arteries. These studies suggest that combination therapy may be the most effective approach for treatment of diabetic neural and vascular complications.
Resveratrol may be a powerful way of protecting the brain against a wide variety of stress and injury. Recently, it has been proposed that resveratrol not only reduces brain injury but also promotes recovery after stroke. But the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Here, we tested the hypothesis that resveratrol promotes angiogenesis in cerebral endothelial cells and dissected the signaling pathways involved. Treatment of cerebral endothelial cells with resveratrol promoted proliferation, migration, and tube formation in Matrigel assays. Consistent with these pro-angiogenic responses, resveratrol altered endothelial morphology resulting in cytoskeletal rearrangements of β-catenin and VE-cadherin. These effects of resveratrol were accompanied by activation of phosphoinositide 3 kinase (PI3-K)/Akt and Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK)/ERK signaling pathways that led to endothelial nitric oxide synthase upregulation and increased nitric oxide (NO) levels. Subsequently, elevated NO signaling increased vascular endothelial growth factor and matrix metalloproteinase levels. Sequential blockade of these signaling steps prevented resveratrol-induced angiogenesis in cerebral endothelial cells. These findings provide a mechanistic basis for the potential use of resveratrol as a candidate therapy to promote angiogenesis and neurovascular recovery after stroke.
Inorganic mercury (Hg) in genetically susceptible mouse strains induces a T cell-dependent, systemic autoimmune condition (HgIA) characterized by immunostimulation, anti-nuclear antibodies (ANA) and systemic immune-complex (IC) deposits. The exact phenotypic expression of HgIA in different strains depends on H-2 and non-H-2 genes. Fc receptors (FcRs) are important in the development of many autoimmune diseases. In this study, the effect of targeted mutations for activating and inhibiting FcRs in the BALB/c model of HgIA was examined. Hg-treated BALB/c mice without mutation (wild-type, wt) showed heavy IC deposits in the renal glomerular mesangium, as well as in renal and splenic vessel walls. The renal mesangial IC deposits were severely reduced in Hg-treated BALB/c mice without the gamma-chain (lack of the activating receptors FcgammaRI, FcgammaRIII and FcinRI), but unchanged in mice lacking the inhibitory FcgammaRIIB. The Hg-induced vessel wall IC deposits present in wt mice were abolished and reduced in the FcRgamma and FcgammaRIIB strains, respectively. Hg-treated BALB/c wt mice and mice without the gamma-chain showed an increase in serum IgE, while the increase in IgG1 was attenuated in the latter strain. In contrast, absence of the inhibiting FcgammaRIIB augmented the Hg-induced increase of both serum IgG1 and IgE. In conclusion, FcRs are important mainly for the induction of systmeic IC deposits in the HgIA model, but also affects serum IgG1 and IgE levels.
To compare the long-term psychosocial and motor effects on children exposed in utero to nifedipine or ritodrine for the management of preterm labour.
Randomised controlled trial.
Multicentre study in two university and one primary hospital in the Netherlands.
In the original trial, 185 women were randomised to either nifedipine (n = 95) or ritodrine (n = 90). Of the 185 liveborn children, 171 survived (92%), and of these 102 (61%) were followed up at age 9-12 years.
Age-specific questionnaires were administered to the parent and teacher. Additional data were obtained from medical records.
Questionnaires were used to assess the child's behavioural-emotional problems, quality of life (QoL), motor functioning, parenting distress and the child's education.
Of the 171 eligible families, 102 (61%) agreed to participate and completed the questionnaires. Response was equal in the ritodrine group (n = 54 of 83 surviving children, 65%) compared with the nifedipine group (n= 48 of 88 surviving children, 55%). After controlling for differing perinatal characteristics at birth, no significant differences between the groups were detected with respect to long-term behaviour-emotional outcome, QoL, education, motor functioning or parenting distress. Psychosocial outcome was slightly better in the nifedipine group.
The results do not support any differential postnatal effect of the tocolytic agents ritodrine or nifedipine on the child's long-term psychosocial and motor functioning. The slightly better outcome of children randomised in the nifedipine group is most likely due to more favourable perinatal outcomes in this group. These results merit further investigation in a larger group of survivors.
Review of experimental work indicates that renal papillary necrosis (RPN) is more readily induced by mixtures of analgesics which include phenacetin or paracetamol, than by either of the latter drugs alone. In an experiment in which moderate doses of analgesics were given to rats over a long period, it was shown that aspirin had a greater nephrotoxic effect than either phenacetin or paracetamol although less than in combination with either. In a study of the evolution of aspirin-induced damage, the earliest changes were shown to occur in the interstitial cells. There was also loss of medullary mucopolysaccharides. Occlusive lesions were demonstrated in the vasa recta. Using partial papillectomy, it was shown that the development of analgesic-induced cortical lesions did not depend on the presence of papillary necrosis. It was suggested that the early papillary changes might be due to ischemia, medullary blood flow being reduced as a result of aspirin's action as an inhibitor of prostagladin synthesis. The lesions in the vasa recta might cause ischemia at a late stage, leading to total RPN.
The type-1 insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF-1R) is over-expressed by endometrial carcinoma, level of IGF-1R has been correlated with tumor progression, and high IGF-1R expression has been found to be an important prognostic factor. In the study, we used lentivirus-mediated shRNA targeting IGF-1R to silence its expression, then assessed the effect of down-regulation of this receptor on cell growth and chemosensitivity to cisplatin. Lentivirus-mediate shRNA was designed and transfected to the endometrial carcinoma HEC-1B cell. The IGF-1R mRNA and related protein expression, cell proliferation ability, cell apoptosis, and cell cycle change were detected. Cell proliferation inhibition rates, cell apoptosis, and level of cleaved caspase-9 were measured in various concentrations of cisplatin. The mRNA and protein level of IGF-1R, and the phosphorylated protein p-Akt, p-Erk were all suppressed after transfection. Cell proliferation was inhibited in successive five days after transfection, the highest inhibition rate was 43.28 ± 3.55% on day 5. After transfection, 24.96 ± 1.05% cells were in G(2)/M phase, and cell apoptotic rate increased from 10.66 ± 0.08 to 19.92 ± 1.34%. In various concentrations of cisplatin, transfected cells proliferation was significantly inhibited which made the IC50 value drop from 21.85 uM to 10.58 uM. Incubation with different concentrations of cisplatin for 48 h, cells apoptotic rate increased to 41.92 ± 2.5, 31.13 ± 2.76, 22.21 ± 4.63%, respectively, which was accompanied with increased cleaved caspase-9 expression. Lentivirus-mediated shRNA targeting IGF-1R has the potential to develop as a clinical treatment method in advanced and chemoresistant endometrial carcinoma.
Lutein is an important eye-protective nutrient. This study investigates the protective effects and mechanisms of lutein on lipopolysaccharides (LPS)-induced uveitis in mice.
Lutein, suspended in drinking water at a final concentration of 12.5 and 25 mg/mL, was administered to mice at 0.1 mL/10 g body weight for five consecutive days. Control and model group received drinking water only. Uveitis was induced by injecting LPS (100 mg per mouse) into the footpad in the model and lutein groups on day 5 after the last drug administration. Eyes of the mice were collected 24 hours after the LPS injection for the detection of indicators using commercial kits and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.
LPS-induced uveitis was confirmed by significant pathological damage and increased the nitric oxide level in eye tissue of BALB/C mice 24 hours after the footpad injection. The elevated nitric oxide level was significantly reduced by oral administration of lutein (125 and 500 mg/kg/d for five days) before LPS injection. Moreover, lutein decreased the malondialdehyde content, increased the oxygen radical absorbance capacity level, glutathione, the vitamin C contents and total superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activities. Lutein further increased expressions of copper-zinc SOD, manganese SOD and GPx mRNA. Conclusion The antioxidant properties of lutein contribute to the protection against LPS-induced uveitis, partially through the intervention of inflammation process.
Several oxime containing molecules, characterized by a SAHA-like structure, were explored to select a potentially new biasing binding element for the zinc in HDAC catalytic site. All compounds were evaluated for their in vitro inhibitory activity against the 11 human HDACs isoforms. After identification of a "hit" molecule, a programmed variation at the cap group and at the linker was carried out in order to increase HDAC inhibition and/or paralogue selectivity. Some of the new derivatives showed increased activity against a number of HDAC isoforms, even if their overall activity range is still far from the inhibition values reported for SAHA. Moreover, different from what was reported for their hydroxamic acid analogues the new α-oxime amide derivatives do not select between class I and class II HDACs; rather they target specific isoforms in each class. These somehow contradictory results were finally rationalized by a computational assisted SAR, which gave us the chance to understand how the oxime derivatives interact with the catalytic site and justify the observed activity profile.
This study reports the synthesis, chromatographic separation, and pharmacological evaluation of the two enantiomers of the neuropeptide S receptor (NPSR) antagonist (9R/S)-3-oxo-1,1-diphenyl-tetrahydro-oxazolo[3,4-a]pyrazine-7-carboxylic acid 4-fluoro-benzylamide (SHA 68). The (9R)-3-oxo-1,1-diphenyl-tetrahydro-oxazolo[3,4-a]pyrazine-7-carboxylic acid 4-fluoro-benzylamide (compound 10) and (9S)-3-oxo-1,1-diphenyl-tetrahydro-oxazolo[3,4-a]pyrazine-7-carboxylic acid 4-fluoro-benzylamide (compound 10a) were synthesized and their purity assessed by chiral chromatography. The absolute configuration of the enantiomer 10 has been assigned from the crystal structure of the corresponding (S)-phenyl ethyl amine derivative 8. Calcium mobilization studies performed on cells expressing the recombinant NPSR demonstrated that compound 10 is the active enantiomer while the contribution of 10a to the NPSR antagonist properties of the racemic mixture is negligible.
Adenomatous colonic polyps constitute a precursor for colorectal cancer. Antibodies to these precancerous lesions might identify specific early tumor antigens. Adnab-9 is a murine monoclonal antibody raised against membranes of colonic adenomas. Adnab-9 binding in colonic washings (effluent) correlates with the presence of colorectal cancer. Immunohistochemical staining with Adnab-9 shows cytoplasmic reactivity in scattered cells in 4 of 31 adenomatous tissue sections, 0 of 14 sections of colorectal cancer cells, and 1 of 8 normal-appearing colonic mucosa specimens examined. Adnab-9 recognized a dominant M(r) 87,000 protein species in tissue extracts in the membrane-bound fraction of effluent by Western blotting. Adnab-9 binding by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in adenomatous extracts is higher than cancer or normal tissue, is membrane-bound, and is absent from established colorectal cancer cell lines. This distribution and nature of immunostaining suggest that Adnab-9 recognizes a determinant associated with the membrane component of a subpopulation of adenoma cells which may have a role in early colorectal neoplasia.
There is recent evidence that deprenyl may have anticonvulsant action in a rat kindling model of epilepsy as well as in a maximal electroshock model. We therefore investigated the effect of deprenyl on the brain sensitivity threshold to pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced maximal seizures in Lewis rats, in a model that provides pharmacodynamic information free of pharmacokinetic interference. The novel finding of this investigation was the anticonvulsant effect of deprenyl following repetitive administration whereas a single deprenyl dose did not affect the PTZ concentrations required to induce maximal seizures. The data suggests that the mechanism of this effect is not associated with the dopaminergic activity of deprenyl since pretreatment with both bromocriptine (a dopamine D2 agonist) and haloperidol (dopamine antagonist) did not affect the seizure threshold, whereas levodopa caused a proconvulsant effect. It was also concluded that the mechanism is not related to changes in acetylcholine levels since prolonged pretreatment with deprenyl did not attenuate the brain sensitivity to pilocarpine-induced seizures. The fact that long term administration of deprenyl was needed to produce its anticonvulsant effect may indicate that the anticonvulsant effect of deprenyl may be due to changes in levels of certain endogenous compounds or down or up-regulation of relevant receptor/effector units.
Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) is activated by a variety of stimulations, such as endogenous ligands and low pH, and is believed to play a role in pain transmission. TRPV1 antagonists have been reported to be effective in several animal pain models; however, some compounds induce hyperthermia in animals and humans. We discovered the novel TRPV1 antagonist (R)-N-(1-methyl-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-7-quinolyl)-2-[(2-methylpyrrolidin-1-yl)methyl]biphenyl-4-carboxamide (AS1928370) in our laboratory. AS1928370 bound to the resiniferatoxin-binding site on TRPV1 and inhibited capsaicin-mediated inward currents with an IC₅₀ value of 32.5 nM. Although AS1928370 inhibited the capsaicin-induced Ca²(+) flux in human and rat TRPV1-expressing cells, the inhibitory effect on proton-induced Ca²(+) flux was extremely small. In addition, AS1928370 showed no inhibitory effects on transient receptor potential vanilloid 4, transient receptor potential ankyrin 1, and transient receptor potential melastatin 8 in concentrations up to 10 μM. AS1928370 improved capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia in an L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation model in rats with respective ED₅₀ values of 0.17 and 0.26 mg/kg p.o. Furthermore, AS1928370 alleviated inflammatory pain in a complete Freund's adjuvant model at 10 mg/kg p.o. AS1928370 had no effect on rectal body temperature up to 10 mg/kg p.o., although a significant hypothermic effect was noted at 30 mg/kg p.o. In addition, AS1928370 showed no significant effect on motor coordination. These results suggest that blockage of the TRPV1 receptor without affecting the proton-mediated TRPV1 activation is a promising approach to treating neuropathic pain because of the potential wide safety margin against hyperthermic effects. As such, compounds such as ASP1928370 may have potential as new analgesic agents for treating neuropathic pain.
From 17 observations of depressive illness occuring to parkinsonians treated with L. Dopa alone or associated with an inhibitor of peripheral decarboxylase, several types of depressive illness can be distinguished according to their date of appearance, their evolution with or without tricyclic anti-depressant drugs tertiary amine. According to the characteristics of these depressive illness, to the related locomotive state and to various monoamingeric hypothesises that are suggested both in the genesis of affective disorders and the mechanism of action of two biochemically related depressive aspects, a distinction already considered by other authors for endogeneous depressions.
To study behavioral character and changes of neuronal activity in the basal ganglia of rat model of levodopa-induced dyskinesia, unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rat model of Parkinson disease (PD) was treated with levodopa/benserazide twice daily for 4 weeks and the behavior observed on the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 7th, 9th, 10th, 14th, 21st and 28th day. The animals were sacrificed and immunohistochemical technique was used to measure the changes of Fos expression in the caudate putamen (CPU), globus pallidus (GP) and sensorimotor area of cerebral cortex 2 h after the last treatment. The results showed that pulsatile treatment with a subthreshold dose of levodopa gradually induced abnormal involuntary movement (AIM), including stereotypy (limb dyskinesia, axial dystonia and masticatory dyskinesia) towards the side contralateral to the dopamine-denervated striatum and increased contraversive rotation. The motor pattern of each subtype was highly stereotypic across individual rats, and the proportion of each subtype was not consistent among individual rats. Fos positive nuclei in the CPU and GP were increased by levodopa acute administration, and more remarkably in the CPU, but not in the cerebral cortex. After repeated levodopa treatment. Fos positive nuclei were reduced remarkably in the CPU, but were increased in the GP and cerebral cortex. It was concluded that the neural mechanisms underlying levodopa induced AIM in rat model of PD was very similar to those seen in levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) in PD patients and MPTP-lesioned monkeys, and increased striatopallidal neuronal activity might be involved in occurrence of LID.
The effect of EP 91073, EP 51389, EP 70555 and EP 51216, peptide analogues of the growth hormone releasing peptide hexarelin, on penile erection induced by EP 80661 or EP 60761 injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, was studied in male rats. Of the above peptides only EP 91073 (0.2-1 microg) was found capable of reducing penile erection induced by EP 80661 or EP 60761, when given into the paraventricular nucleus. Despite its ability to prevent EP peptide-induced penile erection, EP 91073 (1 microg) was unable to prevent penile erection induced by the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine (50 ng), oxytocin (30 ng) and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (50 ng), when given into the paraventricular nucleus 10 min prior to the above substances. The EP 91073-induced prevention of penile erection occurred with a reduction in the increase in nitric oxide production that occurs in the paraventricular nucleus concomitant to penile erection induced by EP 80661 and EP 60761, as measured by intracerebral vertical microdialysis. The present results are in line with the hypothesis that EP 80661 and EP 60761 induce penile erection by activating specific receptors in the paraventricular nucleus, located possibly in oxytocinergic neurons mediating penile erection, and show that EP 91073 acts as an antagonist of these EP peptide receptors mediating penile erection.
In the last two years the authors have noted the cases of five patients with pulmonary tuberculosis to which intermittent treatment with Rifampicin was administered (twice weekly, 600-900 mg/day), in association with Ethambutol. Between 2 and 6 months after the treatment was started, 24-72 hours after the last administration of Rifampicin acute renal failure developed in all five cases. Two of the patients also had signs of liver failure (increased serum transaminase, lowered pseudo-cholinesterase, increased BSP retention), and in one of them there was also a hematological syndrome consisting in hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia. Four of the patients benefited from application of diuretics, hydroelectrolytic re-equilibration and/or hemodialysis. One of the subjects died 12 hours after being hospitalized, with acute pulmonary oedema, refractory to treatment. From the histopathological viewpoint glomerular lesions were found in the kidney (non-uniform thickening of the basal membranes by PAS-positive deposits). In two of the patients various immunological tests have been carried out (Coombs test, lymphocyte-migration inhibition, serum and urine immunelectrophoresis) that, by their alterations, provide some elements indicating the immunological origin of the phenomena.
In the present study, we explored the consequences of epilepsy on the neurobehavioral development of the offspring in a rat model of spontaneous epilepsy, the lithium-pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy not dependent on genetic factors and in animals not receiving any antiepileptic treatment. Status epilepticus was induced by lithium-pilocarpine in female rats. After the occurrence of spontaneous seizures the rats were mated and the neurobehavioral development of the offspring was explored. Rat pups were cross-fostered early after birth. We hence obtained pups born from or raised by epileptic or non-epileptic dams. On the dams, we performed a follow-up of maternal care during pregnancy. On the pups, we performed a follow-up of classical parameters of development such as body weight and eyelid opening, and subjected the pups to various tests representative of neurobehavioral maturation extending from postnatal day 4 (PD4) to PD30 (righting reflex, suspension time, negative geotaxis, open field, locomotor coordination and eight arm maze). Altogether our data show that rat pups born from or raised by epileptic dams develop as well as control pups raised by control dams. Intriguingly, pups born from lithium-pilocarpine exposed dams and raised by control mothers tend to have better scores than the two other groups in all tests. This indicates that the exposure to seizures during pregnancy is not harmful for the development of the fetus.
Acrylamide (AC) is a known industrial neurotoxic chemical that has been recently found in carbohydrate-rich foods cooked at high temperatures. Repeated AC administration produces a pronounced neuropathy characterized by flaccid paralysis and ataxia and represents a well-established animal model of progressive axonal loss. AC also elicits prominent morphologic alterations (e.g., eccentrically placed nuclei, infolding of the nuclear membrane, accumulations of dense bodies, and clusters of smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) associated with numerous microtubules) in cerebellar Purkinje cells that may contribute to the pronounced ataxia in these animals. Here, we examined the neuroprotective action of FK506 (tacrolimus) in male and female rats given daily intraperitoneal injections of AC (30 mg/kg) for 4 weeks. Daily subcutaneous injections of FK506 (2 mg/kg/day) dramatically reduced the behavioral signs of neuropathy (i.e., paralysis and ataxia), markedly protected against axonal loss (by 82% and 73% in the tibial nerves of male and female rats, respectively), and reduced the pathologic changes in Purkinje cells. In a separate study, subcutaneous injections of FK506 (2 or 10 mg/kg) for 2 weeks markedly increased heat shock protein-70 (Hsp-70) immunostaining in sensory neurons, motor neurons, Purkinje cells, and other regions of the brain (in particular, the amygdala) from nonintoxicated and AC-intoxicated rats compared to controls. In contrast, AC-intoxicated animals not given FK506 demonstrated reduced Hsp-70 staining. Thus, the ability of FK506 to increase Hsp-70 expression may underlie its neuroprotective action. We suggest that compounds capable of eliciting a heat shock response may be useful for the treatment of human neuropathies.
The authors report the cases of 2 patients who died from cirrhosis after receiving perhexiline maleate, a drug widely used in Europe for the treatment of angina pectoris. Perhexiline maleate had been ingested for 24 and 28 mo, respectively. Manifestations of cirrhosis included jaundice, hepatic encephalopathy, ascites, and portal hypertension. Associated manifestations of intolerance to perhexiline maleate included peripheral neuropathy in 1 patient and marked weight loss in both. Histologic lesions resembled those observed in patients with alcoholic liver disease. Ultrastructural lesions included numerous enlarged lysosomes containing myeloid figures. Histochemical stains demonstrated increased phospholipid content of the hepatocytes. These findings are consistent with the view that prolonged administration of perhexiline maleate may induce both histologic lesions resembling those of alcoholic liver disease and ultrastructural and histochemical lesions resembling those of phospholipidosis.
The neurobiological bases of increased vulnerability to substance abuse remain obscure. We report here that rats that were selectively bred for greater drug-seeking behavior exhibited higher levels of FGF2 gene expression. We then asked whether a single FGF2 administration (20 ng/g, s.c.) on postnatal day 2 (PND2) can have a lifelong impact on drug-taking behavior, spatial and appetitive learning and the dopaminergic system. Indeed, early life FGF2 enhanced the acquisition of cocaine self-administration in adulthood. However, early life FGF2 did not alter spatial or operant learning in adulthood. Furthermore, early life FGF2 did not alter gene expression in the dopaminergic system in adulthood. These results suggest that elevated levels of FGF2 may lead to increased drug-taking behavior without altering learning. Thus, FGF2 may be an antecedent of vulnerability for drug-taking behavior and may provide clues to novel therapeutic approaches for the treatment of addiction.
Membranous glomerulopathy is a well-recognized extrahepatic manifestation of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. The authors report two cases of HBV-related nephrotic syndrome treated with lamivudine. A 46-year-old Chinese man had a hepatitis B e antigen seroconversion along with improvement in his nephrotic syndrome after lamivudine therapy. Two years after treatment was discontinued, a reactivation of HBV was successfully treated again with lamivudine. A 44-year-old Chinese woman, who was intolerant of interferon, was treated with lamivudine for 15 months without a virological response. However, two years after completing lamivudine, her nephrotic syndrome resolved. Implications for the treatment of HBV-related glomerulopathy and a review of the literature are presented.
We describe a 9-year-old girl who was noted to have eosinophilic myocarditis in her native heart after it was explanted during cardiac transplantation. On the basis of absence of evidence for primary or secondary eosinophilia, we suggest that the prolonged use of dobutamine prior to transplantation might have induced the eosinophilic myocarditis.
