The recreational use of cocaine is on the increase. The emergency nurse ought to be familiar with some of the cardiovascular consequences of cocaine use. In particular, the tendency of cocaine to produce chest pain ought to be in the mind of the emergency nurse when faced with a young victim of chest pain who is otherwise at low risk. The mechanism of chest pain related to cocaine use is discussed and treatment dilemmas are discussed. Finally, moral issues relating to the testing of potential cocaine users will be addressed.
Doxorubicin (Dox) is an antineoplastic agent that can cause cardiomyopathy in humans and experimental animals. As an inducer of reactive oxygen species and a DNA damaging agent, Dox causes elevated expression of p21(WAF1/Cip1/Sdi1) (p21) gene. Elevated levels of p21 mRNA and p21 protein have been detected in the myocardium of mice following Dox treatment. With chronic treatment of Dox, wild type (WT) animals develop cardiomyopathy evidenced by elongated nuclei, mitochondrial swelling, myofilamental disarray, reduced cardiac output, reduced ejection fraction, reduced left ventricular contractility, and elevated expression of ANF gene. In contrast, p21 knockout (p21KO) mice did not show significant changes in the same parameters in response to Dox treatment. In an effort to understand the mechanism of the resistance against Dox induced cardiomyopathy, we measured levels of antioxidant enzymes and found that p21KO mice did not contain elevated basal or inducible levels of glutathione peroxidase and catalase. Measurements of 6 circulating cytokines indicated elevation of IL-6, IL-12, IFNγ and TNFα in Dox treated WT mice but not p21KO mice. Dox induced elevation of IL-6 mRNA was detected in the myocardium of WT mice but not p21KO mice. While the mechanism of the resistance against Dox induced cardiomyopathy remains unclear, lack of inflammatory response may contribute to the observed cardiac protection in p21KO mice.
Measures of hand tremor and body sway were recorded from 6 alcohol-dependent (AD) and 16 cocaine-dependent (CD) patients after 1, 3, and 12 weeks of verified abstinence. The same measures were recorded from 15 nonpatient control subjects after comparable intervals. Hand tremor was transduced via an accelerometer. Body sway was transduced by a force-sensitive platform. Analyses revealed different patterns of motoric dysfunction in the AD and CD groups. AD patients exhibited enhanced hand tremor during a pointing task and enhanced body sway. Both of these abnormalities remitted with continued abstinence. CD patients exhibited enhanced and unchanging levels of resting tremor across the first 12 weeks of abstinence, but they had normal levels of body sway and action tremor. These results are interpreted as reflecting a subclinical cerebellar dysfunction in recovering AD patients, and a subclinical extrapyramidal dysfunction in the CD counterparts.
Cocaine abuse can cause cardiovascular damage leading to hypertension, myocardial ischaemia and infarction. This might be partly due to the effects of cocaine on the microcirculation about which little is known, although its effects on the macrovessels are well documented. Accordingly, we used in vivo videomicroscopy to study the vasoconstrictive effect of cocaine on arterioles of different diameter. They were classified into three orders (A2, A3, A4) according to their position in the microvascular network and their diameter. Since calcium antagonists have been reported to exert a protective effect against the cardiovascular disorders induced by cocaine, we tested the hypothesis that this protective action occurs in the microcirculation. We found that intra-arterial administration of the calcium antagonist Nitrendipine greatly inhibited the vasoconstriction induced by cocaine in all three arteriole orders. The degree of inhibition ranged from 44 to 56%. Combined administration of benzodiazepine and an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor has also been reported to protect rats against cocaine-induced hypertension and to increase survival rates after a toxic dose of cocaine. Since the mechanisms of this protection are not yet clear, we also studied the effect of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor Enalaprilat on cocaine-induced vasoconstriction. Intra-arterial administration of Enalaprilat inhibited this vasoconstriction slightly but significantly in arteriole orders 2 and 3 by 27 and 24% respectively, but not in order 4. We concluded that Nitrendipine is a powerful inhibitor of cocaine-induced vasoconstriction in the microcirculation. The small but significant inhibition found with Enalaprilat for the larger arterioles suggests that the local angiotensin II level may affect the response to cocaine. However, since the Enalaprilat-induced inhibition was very limited, we conclude that mechanisms other than those occurring in the peripheral microcirculation account for the protection afforded by Enalaprilat against the harmful effects of cocaine.
Rates of preterm birth have been rising over the past several decades. Factors contributing to this trend remain largely unclear, and exposure to environmental contaminants may play a role.
We investigated the relationship between phthalate exposure and preterm birth.
Within a large Mexican birth cohort study, we compared third-trimester urinary phthalate metabolite concentrations in 30 women who delivered preterm (< 37 weeks of gestation) with those of 30 controls (> or = 37 weeks of gestation).
Concentrations of most of the metabolites were similar to those reported among U.S. females, although in the present study mono-n-butyl phthalate (MBP) concentrations were higher and monobenzyl phthalate (MBzP) concentrations lower. In a crude comparison before correcting for urinary dilution, geometric mean urinary concentrations were higher for the phthalate metabolites MBP, MBzP, mono(3-carboxylpropyl) phthalate, and four metabolites of di(2-ethyl-hexyl) phthalate among women who subsequently delivered preterm. These differences remained, but were somewhat lessened, after correction by specific gravity or creatinine. In multivariate logistic regression analysis adjusted for potential confounders, elevated odds of having phthalate metabolite concentrations above the median level were found.
We found that phthalate exposure is prevalent among this group of pregnant women in Mexico and that some phthalates may be associated with preterm birth.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that autism (a neurodevelopmental disorder of unknown etiology) is associated with altered phospholipid-related signal transduction using the niacin skin flush test. This is the first reported use of this test in this disorder. The response to topical aqueous methyl nicotinate solution was recorded at 5-min intervals over 20 min in eight patients with autism and in 16 age- and sex-matched normal individuals with no history of this or any other major neuropsychiatric disorder. There was no significant difference between the mean volumetric niacin response (VNR) (+/- S.E.M.) in the patients with autism, 27.0 (+/- 2.2) mol s l(-1), and the mean VNR of 27.6 (+/- 2.4) mol s l(-1) in the control group (P>.8). Therefore, there appears to be no evidence of altered phosopholipid-related signal transduction in autism as assessed by this test. Furthermore, since the VNR is reduced in a related disorder, schizophrenia, these results suggest fatty acid abnormalities in autism are likely to differ from those in schizophrenia.
Imipenem-cilastatin is a broad spectrum antibiotic that is generally used for antibiotic-resistant hospital-acquired infections. Imipenem has been reported to cause CNS toxicity including seizures in 1.5-10% of patients. The authors present a case in which imipenem, inappropriately utilized for surgical prophylaxis in excessive doses (1 gram every six hours) and for a prolonged period of time (24 days), induced a tonic-clonic generalized seizure in a patient with no history of seizure activity. The identification of this ADR lead to a number of clinical and administrative actions within our institution. Drug-induced seizures have occurred and will continue to occur as healthcare professionals exceed recommended dosing guidelines to treat critically ill patients. As pharmacists, it is extremely important to use therapeutic drug monitoring and pharmaceutical care principles to assist physicians in individualizing drug regimens for our patients to prevent these ADRs from occurring, thereby significantly effecting patients' outcomes.
By the year 2000, droperidol had become a standard drug for the treatment of behavioural emergencies in both psychiatric and medical settings. In 2001, the US FDA issued a 'black box' warning, citing cases of QT prolongation and/or torsades de pointes. As a result, the use of droperidol has been sharply circumscribed. The authors will review the literature on antipsychotic medications in general, focusing on droperidol in particular, with regard to QT interval prolongation, dysrhythmia, and sudden death. In addition, the mechanism of drug-induced QT interval prolongation will be discussed. The authors will then review their extensive experience with droperidol. The authors conclude that, while in theory droperidol may prolong the QT interval to an extent similar to thioridazine, its long history of clinical use has shown no pattern of sudden deaths analogous to those that provoked the FDA warning. Although the numbers presented by the FDA initially appear alarming, after further evaluation it is clear that more definitive studies should have been carried out. Droperidol is safe, extremely effective, and now underused as a treatment for severely agitated or violent patients.
Although proton pump inhibitors (PPI) are usually safe and effective therapeutic agents, serious adverse effects can occur. The aim of the present study was to report and analyse the clinical features of 15 patients with acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) and acute renal failure from PPI that were referred to renal services in Auckland over a period of 3 years.
The clinical presentation, therapeutic drugs, demographic details and renal outcome of the patients were considered. The population at risk and total PPI exposure were able to be defined. The diagnosis of AIN was made by renal biopsy in 12 cases. In all patients, the time-course of drug exposure and improvement of renal function on withdrawal suggested PPI were causal.
The median patient age was 78 years. The mean baseline serum creatinine level was 83 micromol/L, peak level 392 micromol/L, and recovery level 139 micromol/L. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein were elevated at the time of diagnosis in the 11 and 12 patients, respectively, where this information was collected (ESR mean 85 mm/h, and C-reactive protein mean 81 mg/L). AIN occurred at 8 per 100 000 patient years (95% confidence level 2.6-18.7 per 100 000 patient years). Although four patients presented with an acute systemic allergic reaction, 11 were asymptomatic with an insidious development of renal failure.
PPI are now the most commonly identified cause of AIN in the Auckland area. Recovery occurs after withdrawal of the drug but is often incomplete. Early diagnosis may be facilitated by clinician awareness of the insidious onset of renal failure, and an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein.
A fatal case of massive intracerebral hemorrhage in a 20-year-old woman after first-time amphetamine abuse is described along with a review of the literature.
Butachlor is a systemic herbicide widely applied on rice, tea, wheat, beans and other crops; however, it concurrently exerts toxic effects on beneficial organisms like earthworms, aquatic invertebrates and other non-target animals including humans. Owing to the associated risk to humans, this chloroacetanilide class of herbicide was investigated with the aim to assess its potential for the (i) interaction with DNA, (ii) mitochondria membrane damage and DNA strand breaks and (iii) cell cycle arrest and necrosis in butachlor treated human peripheral blood mononuclear (PBMN) cells. Fluorescence quenching data revealed the binding constant (Ka=1.2×10(4)M(-1)) and binding capacity (n=1.02) of butachlor with ctDNA. The oxidative potential of butachlor was ascertained based on its capacity of inducing reactive oxygen species (ROS) and substantial amounts of promutagenic 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG) adducts in DNA. Also, the discernible butachlor dose-dependent reduction in fluorescence intensity of a cationic dye rhodamine (Rh-123) and increased fluorescence intensity of 2',7'-dichlorodihydro fluorescein diacetate (DCFH-DA) in treated cells signifies decreased mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm) due to intracellular ROS generation. The comet data revealed significantly greater Olive tail moment (OTM) values in butachlor treated PBMN cells vs untreated and DMSO controls. Treatment of cultured PBMN cells for 24h resulted in significantly increased number of binucleated micronucleated (BNMN) cells with a dose dependent reduction in the nuclear division index (NDI). The flow cytometry analysis of annexin V(-)/7-AAD(+) stained cells demonstrated substantial reduction in live population due to complete loss of cell membrane integrity. Overall the data suggested the formation of butachlor-DNA complex, as an initiating event in butachlor-induced DNA damage. The results elucidated the oxidative role of butachlor in intracellular ROS production, and consequent mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative DNA damage, and chromosomal breakage, which eventually triggers necrosis in human PBMN cells.
The occurrence of tremor in patients receiving lithium is well known, but the management of this side effect is a significant problem both for patients and physicians. Although some reports have suggested that beta-blockers may be useful in treating lithium-induced tremor (LT), these agents have different side effects which limit the possibility of their use. Vitamin B6 has been reported to be effective in treatment of patients suffering from different kinds of neuroleptic-induced movement disorders including parkinsonism and tardive dyskinesia.
This report presents the results of a preliminary four-week open-label clinical trial of five patients who suffered from LT and who were treated with vitamin B6 (900-1200 mg/d). The severity of tremor was assessed using the tremor subscale from the Simpson-Angus Scale (SAS) and Subjective Clinical Improvement Impression scale (SCII).
After the addition of vitamin B6 to their treatment, according to the SAS scores four patients showed an impressive improvement until total disappearance of tremor. The subjective scale, on which the patients' scored their impression of clinical improvement, showed similar results. None of the patients suffered from any side effects attributable to vitamin B6.
The results suggest that vitamin B6 may alleviate LT, double-blind controlled trials are needed to establish this effect.
Between November 2007 and March 2008, 18 children died from a rapidly progressive central nervous system disease of unexplained origin in a community involved in the recycling of used lead-acid batteries (ULAB) in the suburbs of Dakar, Senegal. We investigated the cause of these deaths.
Because autopsies were not possible, the investigation centered on clinical and laboratory assessments performed on 32 siblings of deceased children and 23 mothers and on 18 children and 8 adults living in the same area, complemented by environmental health investigations.
All 81 individuals investigated were poisoned with lead, some of them severely. The blood lead level of the 50 children tested ranged from 39.8 to 613.9 microg/dL with a mean of 129.5 microg/dL. Seventeen children showed severe neurologic features of toxicity. Homes and soil in surrounding areas were heavily contaminated with lead (indoors, up to 14,000 mg/kg; outdoors, up to 302,000 mg/kg) as a result of informal ULAB recycling.
Our investigations revealed a mass lead intoxication that occurred through inhalation and ingestion of soil and dust heavily contaminated with lead as a result of informal and unsafe ULAB recycling. Circumstantial evidence suggested that most or all of the 18 deaths were due to encephalopathy resulting from severe lead intoxication. Findings also suggest that most habitants of the contaminated area, estimated at 950, are also likely to be poisoned. This highlights the severe health risks posed by informal ULAB recycling, in particular in developing countries, and emphasizes the need to strengthen national and international efforts to address this global public health problem.
Rats with unilateral dopamine-denervating lesions sustained a 3-week treatment with a daily l-DOPA dose that is in the therapeutic range for Parkinson's disease. In most of the treated animals, chronic l-DOPA administration gradually induced abnormal involuntary movements affecting cranial, trunk, and limb muscles on the side of the body contralateral to the lesion. This effect was paralleled by an induction of FosB-like immunoreactive proteins in striatal subregions somatotopically related to the types of movements that had been elicited by l-DOPA. The induced proteins showed both regional and cellular colocalization with prodynorphin mRNA. Intrastriatal infusion of fosB antisense inhibited the development of dyskinetic movements that were related to the striatal subregion targeted and produced a local specific downregulation of prodynorphin mRNA. These data provide compelling evidence of a causal role for striatal fosB induction in the development of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in the rat and of a positive regulation of prodynorphin gene expression by FosB-related transcription factors.
A growing number of studies indicate the importance of the lysyl oxidase family in the promotion of epithelial neoplasms towards their more aggressive forms. However, the role of individual family members in carcinoma progression has yet to be ascertained. In this study, we analyzed LOXL2 expression in malignantly transformed MCF-7 and normal MCF-10A mammary epithelial cell line clones stably transduced with LOXL2 in vitro, and in normal and cancerous breast tissue samples in vivo. We found LOXL2 to be catalytically active in both MCF-7 and MCF-10 clones. LOXL2 overexpression promoted a more mesenchymal morphology in both cell types, but LOXL2-induced increase in migratory ability could only be established in MCF-7 clones. We demonstrated altered localization of the LOXL2 protein in breast cancer tissue compared to normal mammary tissue, and altered localization and processing of LOXL2 protein in breast cancer cell lines compared to normal cell lines, which may allow LOXL2 to interact with different intra and extracellular components during tumor progression. Results support the role of LOXL2 in selectively promoting a metastatic phenotype in breast tumor cells. Additional data suggest epigenetic molecular mechanisms in tumor specific regulation of LOXL2 expression that could be explored as a molecular target in the prevention of breast cancer progression.
Individuals previously exposed to lead remain at risk because of endogenous release of lead stored in their skeletal compartments. However, it is not known if long-term cumulative lead exposure is a risk factor for tooth loss.
We examined the association of bone lead concentrations with loss of natural teeth.
We examined 333 men enrolled in the Veterans Affairs Normative Aging Study. We used a validated K-shell X-ray fluorescence (KXRF) method to measure lead concentrations in the tibial midshaft and patella. A dentist recorded the number of teeth remaining, and tooth loss was categorized as 0, 1-8 or > or = 9 missing teeth. We used proportional odds models to estimate the association of bone lead biomarkers with tooth loss, adjusting for age, smoking, diabetes, and other putative confounders.
Participants with > or = 9 missing teeth had significantly higher bone lead concentrations than those who had not experienced tooth loss. In multivariable-adjusted analyses, men in the highest tertile of tibia lead (> 23 microg/g) and patella lead (> 36 microg/g) had approximately three times the odds of having experienced an elevated degree of tooth loss (> or = 9 vs. 0-8 missing teeth or > or = 1 vs. 0 missing teeth) as those in the lowest tertile [prevalence odds ratio (OR) = 3.03; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.60-5.76 and OR = 2.41; 95% CI, 1.30-4.49, respectively]. Associations between bone lead biomarkers and tooth loss were similar in magnitude to the increased odds observed in participants who were current smokers.
Long-term cumulative lead exposure is associated with increased odds of tooth loss.
Tangier disease is an inherited disorder that results in a deficiency in circulating levels of HDL. Although the disease is known to be caused by mutations in the ABCA1 gene, the mechanism by which lesions in the ABCA1 ATPase effect this outcome is not known. The inability of ABCA1 knockout mice (ABCA1-/-) to load cholesterol and phospholipids onto apoA1 led to a proposal that ABCA1 mediates the transbilayer externalization of phospholipids, an activity integral not only to the formation of HDL particles but also to another, distinct process: the recognition and clearance of apoptotic cells by macrophages. Expression of phosphatidylserine (PS) on the surface of both macrophages and their apoptotic targets is required for efficient engulfment of the apoptotic cells, and it has been proposed that ABCA1 is required for transbilayer externalization of PS to the surface of both cell types. To determine whether ABCA1 is responsible for any of the catalytic activities known to control transbilayer phospholipid movements, these activities were measured in cells from ABCA1-/- mice and from Tangier individuals as well as ABCA1-expressing HeLa cells. Phospholipid movements in either normal or apoptotic lymphocytes or in macrophages were not inhibited when cells from knockout and wildtype mice or immortalized cells from Tangier individuals vs normal individuals were compared. Exposure of PS on the surface of normal thymocytes, apoptotic thymocytes and elicited peritoneal macrophages from wildtype and knockout mice or B lymphocytes from normal and Tangier individuals, as measured by annexin V binding, was also unchanged. No evidence was found of ABCA1-stimulated active PS export, and spontaneous PS movement to the outer leaflet in the presence or absence of apoA1 was unaffected by the presence or absence of ABCA1. Normal or Tangier B lymphocytes and macrophages were also identical in their ability to serve as targets or phagocytes, respectively, in apoptotic cell clearance assays. No evidence was found to support the suggestion that ABCA1 is involved in transport to the macrophage cell surface of annexins I and II, known to enhance phagocytosis of apoptotic cells. These results show that mutations in ABCA1 do not measurably reduce the rate of transbilayer movements of phospholipids in either the engulfing macrophage or the apoptotic target, thus discounting catalysis of transbilayer movements of phospholipids as the mechanism by which ABCA1 facilitates loading of phospholipids and cholesterol onto apoA1.
Prior studies revealed associations of environmental lead exposure with risks of hypertension and elevated blood pressure.
We examined the effect of blood lead levels on blood pressure and the incidence of pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH) in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy.
One thousand seventeen pregnant women were enrolled in two French municipalities between 2003 and 2005 for the EDEN (Etude des Déterminants pré et post natals du développement et de la santé de l' Enfant) cohort study. Blood lead concentrations were measured by atomic absorption spectrometry in mothers between 24 and 28 weeks of gestation.
PIH was diagnosed in 106 subjects (10.9%). Age, parity, weight gain, alcohol, smoking habits, and calcium supplementation were comparable between hypertensive and nonhypertensive women. Lead levels were significantly higher in PIH cases (mean +/- SD, 2.2 +/- 1.4 microg/dL) than in normotensive patients (1.9 +/- 1.2 microg/dL; p = 0.02). Adjustment for potential confounder effects slightly attenuated but did not eliminate the significant association between blood lead levels and the risk of PIH (adjusted odds ratio of PIH = 3.3; 95% confidence interval, 1.1-9.7). We also observed geographic differences in lead exposure and in the incidence of PIH and found significant correlations between blood lead levels and unadjusted as well as adjusted systolic and diastolic blood pressures after 24 weeks of gestation.
These findings confirm the relationship between blood lead levels at mid-pregnancy and blood pressure and suggest that environmental lead exposure may play an etiologic role in PIH.
The efficacy and safety of nalbuphine hydrochloride as an IV analgesic used in combination with pretreatment and supplemental doses of diazepam with and without N2O were assessed in 15 patients scheduled to undergo aortocoronary bypass (n = 11) or valve replacement surgery (n = 4). The loading infusion of 3.0 mg/kg nalbuphine given in 20 min 5 min after conclusion of IV injection of 0.4 mg/kg/5 min diazepam caused no significant changes in systolic or diastolic systemic and pulmonary arterial blood pressures or in heart rate, cardiac index, stroke index, systemic and pulmonary vascular resistance, or right and left ventricular stroke work index. After the initial 1-hr loading infusion of 6.66 +/- 0.89 mg/kg nalbuphine (mean +/- SE), additional nalbuphine infusion maintenance doses of 4.73 +/- 0.77, 1.87 +/- 0.31, 2.16 +/- 0.23, 1.65 +/- 0.22, and 2.35 +/- 0.44 were used in the subsequent hourly periods to maintain a pain-free state throughout surgery. Hemodynamic changes during the three most stressful periods, tracheal intubation, skin incision, and sternotomy, were not statistically significant. Normal plasma catecholamine and cortisol levels indicate that these patients experienced neither stress nor pain during the maintenance of anesthesia. Nalbuphine caused no significant histamine release. All patients had uncomplicated maintenance of and emergence from anesthesia.
We report a 70-year-old woman with chronic hepatitis C associated with autoimmune hepatitis (AIH)-like serological manifestations, in whom elimination of hepatitis C virus (HCV) was observed after corticosteroid treatment. The patient was infected with HCV, genotype Ib, but had several laboratory findings, such as markedly elevated serum gamma-globulin and IgG, characteristic of AIH, as well as a high titer of an anti-nuclear antibody. An ultrasound (US)-guided liver biopsy disclosed chronic active hepatitis F3. Corticosteroid worsened her liver function test results and raised amounts of HCV-RNA in the serum. Withdrawal of the corticosteroid led to prompt normalization of transaminase levels and the disappearance of serum HCV-RNA, determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). For 4 years, up to the time of this study, her transaminase values have been normal and HCV viremia was not detected by repeated RT-PCR. We believe this to be the first reported case in which eradication of HCV was achieved by corticosteroid therapy alone, without the introduction of interferon.
Novel derivatives of N-decylaminoethylvancomycin (2), containing appended hydrophilic groups were synthesized and their antibacterial activity and ADME properties were evaluated. The compounds were prepared by reacting amines with the C-terminus (C-) of 2 using PyBOP mediated amide formation, or with the resorcinol-like (R-) position of 2 using a Mannich aminomethylation reaction. These analogs retained the antibacterial activity of 2 against methicillin-resistant staphylococci and vancomycin-resistant enterococci. Compounds with a negatively charged auxiliary group also exhibited improved ADME properties relative to 2. In particular, R-phosphonomethylaminomethyl derivative 21 displayed good in vitro antibacterial activity, high urinary recovery and low distribution to liver and kidney tissues. Based on these results, 21 was advanced into development as TD-6424, and is currently in human clinical trials. The generic name telavancin has recently been approved for compound 21.
Pyrethroids are neurotoxic insecticides used in a variety of indoor and outdoor applications. Previous research characterized the acute dose-effect functions for 11 pyrethroids administered orally in corn oil (1 mL/kg) based on assessment of motor activity.
We used a mixture of these 11 pyrethroids and the same testing paradigm used in single-compound assays to test the hypothesis that cumulative neurotoxic effects of pyrethroid mixtures can be predicted using the default dose-addition theory.
Mixing ratios of the 11 pyrethroids in the tested mixture were based on the ED30 (effective dose that produces a 30% decrease in response) of the individual chemical (i.e., the mixture comprised equipotent amounts of each pyrethroid). The highest concentration of each individual chemical in the mixture was less than the threshold for inducing behavioral effects. Adult male rats received acute oral exposure to corn oil (control) or dilutions of the stock mixture solution. The mixture of 11 pyrethroids was administered either simultaneously (2 hr before testing) or after a sequence based on times of peak effect for the individual chemicals (4, 2, and 1 hr before testing). A threshold additivity model was fit to the single-chemical data to predict the theoretical dose-effect relationship for the mixture under the assumption of dose additivity.
When subthreshold doses of individual chemicals were combined in the mixtures, we found significant dose-related decreases in motor activity. Further, we found no departure from the predicted dose-additive curve regardless of the mixture dosing protocol used.
In this article we present the first in vivo evidence on pyrethroid cumulative effects supporting the default assumption of dose addition.
Alliin, a compound derived from garlic, demonstrated dose-dependent inhibition of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2)-induced human endothelial cell (EC) tube formation and angiogenesis in the chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) model. Additionally, alliin demonstrated potent inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-induced angiogenesis in the CAM model. The antioxidant vitamins C and E significantly (P < 0.001) enhanced the inhibitory efficacy of alliin on FGF2-induced EC tube formation and angiogenesis. Alliin significantly increased (P < 0.01) nitric oxide (NO) release into the CAM fluid, which was further enhanced by vitamins C and E. The NO synthesis inhibitor nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) reversed the anti-angiogenesis efficacy of alliin in the CAM model. Vitamins C and E significantly enhanced the anticancer efficacy of alliin in inhibiting colon and fibrosarcoma tumor growth. Alliin significantly inhibited both FGF2 and VEGF secretion from human fibrosarcoma cells in a concentration-dependent manner. Additionally, alliin up-regulated the p53 production in FGF2-stimulated EC. These data indicated a synergistic effect of antioxidants on the anti-angiogenesis and anticancer efficacy of alliin. These data also suggest the implication of cellular NO and p53 as mediators of anti-angiogenesis and anticancer effects of alliin.
The causes of the current obesity pandemic have not been fully elucidated. Implication of environmental endocrine disruptors such as bisphenol A (BPA) on adipose tissue development has been poorly investigated.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of perinatal exposure to BPA on early adipose storage at weaning.
Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats had access to drinking water containing 1 mg/L BPA from day 6 of gestation through the end of lactation. Pups were weaned on postnatal day (PND) 21. At that time, we investigated perigonadal adipose tissue of pups (weight, histology, gene expression). For the remaining animals, we recorded body weight and food intake for animals on either standard chow or a high-fat diet.
Gestational exposure to BPA did not alter the sex ratio or litter size at birth. On PND1, the weight of male and female BPA-exposed pups was increased. On PND21, body weight was increased only in females, in which parametrial white adipose tissue (pWAT) weight was increased about 3-fold. This excess of pWAT was associated with adipocyte hypertrophy and overexpression of lipogenic genes such as C/EBP-alpha (CAAT enhancer binding protein alpha), PPAR-gamma (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma), SREBP-1C (sterol regulatory element binding protein-1C), LPL (lipoprotein lipase), FAS (fatty acid synthase), and SCD-1 (stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1). In addition, gene expression of SREBP-1C, FAS, and ACC (acetyl-CoA carboxylase) was also increased in liver from BPA-exposed females at PND21, without a change in circulating lipids and glucose. After weaning, perinatal BPA exposure predisposed to overweight in a sex- and diet-dependent manner. We observed no change in food intake due to perinatal BPA exposure in rats on either standard chow or a high-fat diet.
Perinatal exposure to a low dose of BPA increased adipogenesis in females at weaning. Adult body weight may be programmed during early life, leading to changes dependent on the sex and the nutritional status. Although further studies are required to understand the mechanisms of BPA action in early life, these results are particularly important with regard to the increasing prevalence of childhood obesity and the context-dependent action of endocrine disruptors.
Effects of prolonged in vivo infusion of either saline (control) or isoproterenol (beta adrenoceptor desensitization) on acute cardiovascular responses to (+) (beta agonist)-, (-) (alpha agonist)- and (+/-)-dobutamine were studied in pithed rats. Each form of dobutamine resulted in comparable dose-dependent increases in maximum left ventricular dP/dt (LVdP/dtmax) in control animals. Effects of (+)-dobutamine were blocked by propranolol whereas those of l-dobutamine were sensitive to prazosin; both alpha and beta antagonists were required to block the inotropic effects of the racemic mixture. Contractile responses to (+)- and (+/-)-dobutamine were accompanied by tachycardia (characteristic of beta adrenoceptor stimulation) whereas (-)-dobutamine enhanced LVdP/dtmax without altering heart rate (characteristic of alpha adrenoceptor stimulation). Isoproterenol infusion resulted in a pronounced desensitization to the inotropic effects (LVdP/dtmax) of (+/-)- and (+)-dobutamine. Ed30 values for (+/-)- and (+)-dobutamine were increased by approximately 15- and 50-fold, respectively, and maximal responses to both drugs were severely attenuated. Prazosin further blunted remaining inotropic responses to (+/-)-dobutamine and propranolol resulted in a complete block. Responses to (+)-dobutamine were only sensitive to propranolol. Attenuation of heart rate responses paralleled those observed for LVdP/dtmax. By contrast, the inotropic effects of (-)-dobutamine in either control or desensitized rats were both qualitatively and quantitatively comparable; responses were blocked by the alpha-1 antagonist, prazosin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We reviewed the experience with infective endocarditis at some major US Army Medical Centers. One hundred patients were studied, comparing 82 patients who had native valve endocarditis (NVE) with 18 patients who had prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE). Among patients with PVE, four had porcine valves and 14 had synthetic. None of the patients with NVE had received anticoagulants; 14 of 18 patients with PVE had received anticoagulants. The major causes of death were central nervous system hemorrhage, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled infection, and embolic phenomena. The principal cause of death in patients with PVE was CNS hemorrhage. Of the patients with PVE, 36% had symptomatic cerebral hemorrhage while receiving anticoagulants and 80% of them died.
Sulfur mustard (SM) is an old chemical warfare agent causing blisters (vesicant). Skin toxicity is thought to be partly caused by SM induced DNA damage. SM and the hemi mustard 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES) are bi- and monofunctional DNA alkylating agents, respectively. Both chemicals react especially with N7 guanine. The most abundant adducts are 7-hydroxyethylthioethylguanine for SM (61%) and 7-ethyl thioethylguanine for CEES. Thus, DNA alkylation should serve as a biomarker of SM exposure. A specific monoclonal antibody (2F8) was previously developed to detect SM and CEES adducts at N7 position by means of immunoslotblot (ISB) technique (van der Schans et al. (2004) [16]). Nitrogen mustards (HN-1, HN-2, HN-3) are alkylating agents with structural similarities, which can form DNA adducts with N7 guanine. The aim of the presented work was to modify the van der Schans protocol for use in a field laboratory and to test the cross reactivity of the 2F8 antibody against nitrogen mustards. Briefly, human keratinocytes were exposed to SM and CEES (0-300μM, 60min) or HN-1, HN-2, HN-3 (120min). After exposure, cells were scraped and DNA was isolated and normalized. 1μg DNA was transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane using a slotblot technique. After incubation with 2F8 antibody, the DNA adducts were visualized with chromogen staining (3,3'-diaminobenzidine (DAB), SeramunGrün). Blots were photographed and signal intensity was quantified. In general, DAB was superior to SeramunGrün stain. A staining was seen from 30nM to 300μM of SM or CEES, respectively. However, statistically significant DNA adducts were detected after CEES and SM exposure above 30μM which is below the vesicant threshold. No signal was observed after HN-1, HN-2, HN-3 exposure. The total hands-on time to complete the assay was about 36h. Further studies are necessary to validate SM or CEES exposure in blister roofs of exposed patients.
