Efficacies of pre-treatment with lidocaine, remifentanil and metoclopramide in the reduction of pain and withdrawal movements induced by rocuronium injection were evaluated. Forty-four adult patients, American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) Physical Status I-II, undergoing elective surgery were randomly assigned to four groups. Each patient received intravenously either 10 mg metoclopramide, 50 mg lidocaine, 1 microg/kg remifentanil or 3 ml of 0.9% sodium chloride (control group); followed by occlusion with a tourniquet on the forearm. After 10 s, occlusion stopped and a priming dose of 0.06 mg/kg rocuronium was injected. The patient's response to rocuronium was graded using a four-point scale in a double-blind manner. All groups had significantly lower incidences of pain compared with the control group. After loss of consciousness with sodium thiopental, 0.6 mg/kg rocuronium was administered for intubation and withdrawal movements were assessed. The number of patients in whom withdrawal movements were lowest was in the lidocaine-treated group. Although there was no difference among the study drugs in the prevention of rocuronium-induced pain, lidocaine and remifentanil seemed to be clinically more effective than metoclopramide.
We investigated the protective effect of Cuscutae semen (CS) on acute liver injury induced by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) in Sprague-Dawley rats. CS is an important traditional herbal medicine widely used as a tonic and aphrodisiac to nourish the liver and kidney and to treat impotence and seminal emission. Rats were given a single intraperitoneal injection of DMN (40 mg/kg), and were then treated with CS daily by oral gavage for 4 d. Immunohistochemical studies for alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) were performed, along with hydroxyproline and biological assay. Liver injury caused by DMN-injection was significantly inhibited in the CS-treated group compared to the silymarin-treated group. The results of blood biological assay were significantly protected by CS in serum total protein (T-protein), T-bilirubin (T-bili), D-bilirubin (D-bili), GOT, GPT, and ALP. The hydroxyproline content and amount of active alpha-SMA and PCNA were significantly decreased in the CS-treated group than in the silymarin-treated group. CS exhibited an in vivo hepatoprotective effect and anti-fibrogenic effects against DMN-induced acute liver injury and inhibited the formation of hydroxyproline, which suggests that CS may be useful in preventing fibrogenesis after liver injury.
To determine clinical and economic consequences of alternative vaccination strategies for preventing hepatitis B virus infection (HBV).
Decision analysis was used to evaluate costs, outcomes, and cost-effectiveness of three HBV management strategies ("no vaccination," "universal vaccination," and "screen and vaccinate") in four populations (newborns, 10-year-old adolescents, a high-risk adult population, and the general adult U.S. population). Information on HBV incidence and prevalence, clinical course, and management of acute illness and chronic sequelae was obtained from the literature and a panel of experts. Actual payments (costs) were obtained from Blue Cross/Blue Shield and local pharmacies. Incremental cost-effectiveness was calculated from the perspective of the payer of medical care and subjected to sensitivity analysis.
Vaccination (with or without screening) prevents more disease at somewhat increased cost than no vaccination for the neonatal, adolescent, and adult populations. Vaccination (with or without screening) is a dominant strategy in adult high-risk populations (lower cost and greater benefit than no vaccination). Optimal cost-effectiveness, with nonmonetary benefits not discounted, results if all pregnant women are screened for active HBV infection, and HBV vaccine and hepatitis B immune globulin are administered to babies born to mothers with positive screening tests. Then HBV vaccine is administered to all children at age 10 and again 10 years later (incremental cost-per-year-of-life-saved relative to the "no vaccination" strategy is $375). A strategy of universal newborn vaccination alone leads to an incremental cost-per-year-of-life saved of $3332. If adolescents are vaccinated at age 10, incremental cost-per-year-of-life saved is $13,938; for the general adult population, the incremental cost-per-year-of-life saved of universal vaccination is $54,524. Discounting benefits will increase cost-per-year-of-life saved 7 to 12 times for all strategies.
HBV vaccine is most cost-effective when a strategy of screening newborns is combined with routine administration to 10-year-old children. The means to achieve substantial improvements in the health of the public in a cost-effective fashion are now available and should be pursued aggressively.
Seventeen non-treatment seeking cocaine-dependent individuals participated in three-week longitudinal inpatient studies of cognitive changes during drug use and abstinence. Protocols included three days drug-free baseline, three days cocaine self-administration, and two weeks complete abstinence. A repeatable cognitive battery showed attention and delayed verbal recognition memory but not working memory to be impaired in cocaine users compared to age- and sex-matched normative values. Attention was significantly poorer during the first and second week of abstinence compared to days on which cocaine was used suggesting that certain cocaine-induced impairments may be acutely normalized by cocaine use, but resurface during abstinence.
Furocoumarins are phototoxic and photomutagenic natural plant constituents found in many medicinal plants and food items. Because plants contain mixtures of several furocoumarins, there is a need for a comparative risk assessment of a large number of furocoumarins. Little is known about the photomutagenicity of the structurally related family of coumarins, which are also abundant in many plant species. In this study, we analyzed the photomutagenic potency of the linear furocoumarins 5-methoxypsoralen (5-MOP) and 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP), the angular furocoumarin angelicin, and the coumarin limettin. Above certain concentrations, all test compounds were more or less phototoxic in the presence of UVA doses between 50 and 200 mJ/cm(2), 5-MOP being the most phototoxic compound. At nonphototoxic concentrations, linear correlations were found between concentration and mutagenicity at a UVA dose of 125 mJ/cm(2) for all test compounds including limettin. For 5-MOP, strictly linear correlations were also found for the relationships of mutagenicity vs concentration at various UVA doses or vs UVA dose at given concentrations, respectively. These data indicate that the photomutagenicity of 5-MOP is proportional to the UVA dose x concentration product for noncytotoxic combinations of both factors. They also suggest that the slope of the concentration-photomutagenicity correlation at a given UVA dose may provide a basis for comparison between individual compounds. Applying this concept, in vitro photomutagenicity equivalency factors at 125 mJ/cm(2) were as follows: 1.0 (5-MOP, reference compound), 0.25 (8-MOP), and 0.02 (angelicin and limettin, respectively). These findings provide a new concept for the description of the relative photomutagenic potency of coumarins and furocoumarins and indicate that, in V79 cells, 8-MOP is less photomutagenic and limettin and angelicin are much less photomutagenic than 5-MOP.
Estrogen-like effects of the heavy metal cadmium have been reported in both in vitro and in vivo studies. Yet, the molecular mechanisms involved in the hormonal activity of cadmium ions have not been fully elucidated. There are extensive data on cross-talk between aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and estrogen receptor (ER). Recently, 17β-estradiol (E(2)) was found to modulate the expression of AhR and AhR-regulated genes in rat uterus (Kretzschmar et al. in Mol Cell Endocrinol 321:253-257, 2010). Thus, we hypothesized that cadmium may also affect AhR signaling and examined whether cadmium or E(2) modulate AhR-associated genes via the ER in rat uterus. Ovariectomized Wistar rats received E(2) (0.5 mg/kg bw) or cadmium chloride (0.05 and 2 mg/kg bw i.p.) alone and in combination with the pure anti-estrogen ZK191703. We also co-treated a group with E(2) and cadmium 2 mg/kg bw to assess how they act in concert. Uterus wet weight, uterus epithelial height, complement C3 mRNA, and progesterone receptor (PR) protein expression served as estrogen response parameters, and expression of Mt1a mRNA was analyzed as a cadmium responsive gene. The expression of AhR protein and AhR-associated gene expression, i.e., Ahr, Arnt1, Arnt2, Cyp1a1, and Gsta2, were analyzed to examine effects on AhR-mediated signaling pathways in the uterus of all groups. Both, E(2) and cadmium induced C3 and PR expression, and this was antagonized by ZK191703. Mt1a expression was clearly induced by cadmium but slightly reduced by E(2) compared to controls. Uterine Ahr, Arnt1, Arnt2, and Cyp1a1 expression was modulated by E(2) via the ER since down-regulation by E(2) was reversed by anti-estrogen. Cadmium apparently also modulated Cyp1a1 expression via the ER. Furthermore, cadmium-induced AhR was antagonized by E(2,) and anti-estrogen-induced Gsta2 expression was antagonized by cadmium. Together our findings provide evidence for cross-talk of ER and AhR in the rat uterus.
Although acute interstitial nephritis has been documented during therapy with many antibiotics of the penicillin class, it has not previously been reported in association with carbenicillin therapy. We report here the case of a patient who developed the characteristic clinical features of this form of injury while receiving prolonged large doses of carbenicillin. Histologic examination confirmed the presence of a striking interstitial nephritis. Carbenicillin should be considered a potential cause of renal damage in patients who develop rash, eosinophilia, and microscopic hematuria in association with deterioration of renal function.
From 1977 to 1981, the intravenous use of a pentazocine/tripelennamine combination (T's and Blues) has become a major drug abuse problem in the city of St. Louis, Missouri, U.S.A. There has been a continuous increase in the involvement of these drugs in (a) sudden and violent deaths (62 homicides, 7 fatal intoxications), (b) emergency room visits (137 in 1980), (c) admissions to drug treatment programs (7.7% in 1978 up to 64% in 1981), and (d) police laboratory cases (100 in 1977 - 78 up to 700 in 1981). Initial popularity of the drugs was related to the decline in the quality of street heroin (2.5% in 1977 reduced to 0.5% by 1979) and the lack of strict legal controls. Serious adverse reactions include clonic-tonic seizures and pulmonary foreign body granulomatosis. Ethanol and diazepam were present in 53% and 10% of T's and Blues medical examiner's cases, respectively (n = 70). Addicts are usually black males, 20 - 30 years old, from impoverished areas of the city. The drugs are available to the illicit trade through theft or diversion from legitimate sources.
Adriamycin (ADR) is a potent antitumor antibiotic drug known to cause severe cardiac toxicity. Although ADR generates free radicals, the role of these radicals in the development of cardiac toxicity is still not well understood. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of glutathione (GSH) supplementation or depletion on ADR-induced cardiotoxicity in male Wistar rats. Cardiac toxicity was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of ADR (20 mg kg(-1)) and manifested by an increase in heart rate, blood pressure elevation, and increased serum creatine kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). The extent of lipoprotein oxidation, lipid peroxide measured as malondialdhye (MDA), total homocysteine (tHcy), lipid profile, and atherogenic index were markedly elevated, whereas cardiac GSH content was dramatically decreased in ADR rats. Pre- and co-treatment of ADR rats with GSH (5 mm kg(-1)) (ADR +GSH) markedly reduced the levels of CK, LDH, lipoprotein oxidation susceptibility, cardiac MDA, tHcy and atherogenic index, and elevated GSH levels in cardiac tissues. In contrast, GSH depletion through administration of l-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO) (15 mm kg(-1)) before and after ADR injection (ADR +BSO) greatly exacerbated ADR cardiotoxicity compared to the control and ADR groups. Finally, there were also severe cardiac histopathological changes in ADR and ADR +BSO groups, which were nearly restored by GSH treatment. These results suggest that GSH inhibits ADR cardiotoxicity and might serve as a novel combination with ADR to limit free radical-mediated organ injury.
Semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidases (SSAO) are copper-containing enzymes that oxidatively deaminate primary amines to produce hydrogen peroxide, ammonium, and specific aldehydes. Vascular adhesion protein-1 (VAP-1) is a cell surface and soluble molecule that possesses SSAO activity. VAP-1 protein, SSAO activity, and SSAO reaction products are elevated in the serum of patients with diabetes, congestive heart failure, and specific inflammatory liver diseases. By expressing human VAP-1/SSAO on mouse endothelial cells and subsequently in the serum, and by chronically treating the transgenic mice for 15 months with a high-fat diet and a physiological substrate for SSAO, methylamine, the in vivo roles of SSAO were assessed. The VAP-1 transgene increased the mouse body mass index and subcutaneous abdominal fat pad weights in a manner independent of food consumption. The transgene together with increased SSAO substrate availability enhanced glucose uptake in an SSAO-dependent manner. The increased SSAO activity also led to diabetes-like complications, including advanced glycation end product formation, elevated blood pressure, altered atherosclerosis progression, and nephropathy. These findings suggest that, although manipulation of VAP-1/SSAO has potential to serve as a therapeutic treatment in insulin-resistant conditions, care must be taken to fully understand its impact on obesity and vascular damage.
Heme oxygenase (HO)-1 is an oxidative stress-response enzyme which catalyzes the degradation of heme into bilirubin, ferric ion, and carbon monoxide (CO). Induction of HO-1 was reported to have antitumor activity; the inhibitory mechanism, however, is still unclear. In the present study, we found that treatment with [Ru(CO)3Cl2]2 (RuCO), a CO-releasing compound, reduced the growth of human MCF7 and MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells. Analysis of growth-related proteins showed that treatment with RuCO down-regulated cyclinD1, CDK4, and hTERT protein expressions. Interestingly, RuCO treatment resulted in opposite effects on wild-type and mutant p53 proteins. These results were similar to those of cells treated with geldanamycin (a heat shock protein (HSP)90 inhibitor), suggesting that RuCO might affect HSP90 activity. Moreover, RuCO induced mutant p53 protein destabilization accompanied by promotion of ubiquitination and proteasome degradation. The induction of HO-1 by cobalt protoporphyrin IX (CoPP) showed consistent results, while the addition of tin protoporphyrin IX (SnPP), an HO-1 enzymatic inhibitor, diminished the RuCO-mediated effect. RuCO induction of HO-1 expression was reduced by a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor (SB203580). Additionally, treatment with a chemopreventive compound, curcumin, induced HO-1 expression accompanied with reduction of HSP90 client protein expression. The induction of HO-1 by curcumin inhibited 12-O-tetradecanoyl-13-acetate (TPA)-elicited matrix metalloproteinase-9 expression and tumor invasion. In conclusion, we provide novel evidence underlying HO-1's antitumor mechanism. CO, a byproduct of HO-1, suppresses HSP90 protein activity, and the induction of HO-1 may possess potential as a cancer therapeutic.
The abuse of herbal products containing synthetic cannabinoids has become an issue of public concern. The purpose of this paper was to evaluate the acute cytotoxicity of synthetic cannabinoids on mouse brain neuronal cells. Cytotoxicity induced by synthetic cannabinoid (CP-55,940, CP-47,497, CP-47,497-C8, HU-210, JWH-018, JWH-210, AM-2201, and MAM-2201) was examined using forebrain neuronal cultures. These synthetic cannabinoids induced cytotoxicity in the forebrain cultures in a concentration-dependent manner. The cytotoxicity was suppressed by preincubation with the selective CB1 receptor antagonist AM251, but not with the selective CB2 receptor antagonist AM630. Furthermore, annexin-V-positive cells were found among the treated forebrain cells. Synthetic cannabinoid treatment induced the activation of caspase-3, and preincubation with a caspase-3 inhibitor significantly suppressed the cytotoxicity. These synthetic cannabinoids induced apoptosis through a caspase-3-dependent mechanism in the forebrain cultures. Our results indicate that the cytotoxicity of synthetic cannabinoids towards primary neuronal cells is mediated by the CB1 receptor, but not by the CB2 receptor, and further suggest that caspase cascades may play an important role in the apoptosis induced by these synthetic cannabinoids. In conclusion, excessive synthetic cannabinoid abuse may present a serious acute health concern due to neuronal damage or deficits in the brain.
Environmental toxins induce a novel CYP2E1/leptin signaling axis in liver. This in turn activates a poorly characterized innate immune response that contributes to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) progression. To identify the relevant subsets of T-lymphocytes in CYP2E1-dependent, environment-linked NASH, we utilized a model of diet induced obese (DIO) mice that are chronically exposed to bromodichloromethane. Mice deficient in CYP2E1, leptin (ob/ob mice), or both T and B cells (Pfp/Rag2 double knockout (KO) mice) were used to delineate the role of each of these factors in metabolic oxidative stress-induced T cell activation. Results revealed that elevated levels of lipid peroxidation, tyrosyl radical formation, mitochondrial tyrosine nitration and hepatic leptin as a consequence of metabolic oxidative stress caused increased levels of hepatic CD57, a marker of peripheral blood lymphocytes including NKT cells. CD8+CD57+ cytotoxic T cells but not CD4+CD57+ cells were significantly decreased in mice lacking CYP2E1 and leptin. There was a significant increase in the levels of T cell cytokines IL-2, IL-1β, and IFN-γ in bromodichloromethane exposed DIO mice but not in mice that lacked CYP2E1, leptin or T and B cells. Apoptosis as evidenced by TUNEL assay and levels of cleaved caspase-3 was significantly lower in leptin and Pfp/Rag2 KO mice and highly correlated with protection from NASH. The results described above suggest that higher levels of oxidative stress-induced leptin mediated CD8+CD57+ T cells play an important role in the development of NASH. It also provides a novel insight of immune dysregulation and may be a key biomarker in NASH.
Component fractions of 99mTc(NaBH4)-HEDP mixtures, isolated by anion exchange high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), have been evaluated as myocardial infarct imaging agents in two animal models. Results from both the isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction model, and the heat-induced myocardial necrosis model, show that the several HPLC isolated components exhibit significantly different abnormal/normal heart uptake ratios. In addition, the HPLC isolated component of shortest chromatographic retention time exhibits a higher abnormal/normal heart uptake ratio than does 99mTc(Sn)-PyP, the current agent of choice for clinical myocardial infarct imaging.
A histological method utilizing the optical dissector principle has been developed for determining the absolute numbers of rat hepatocytes in the liver after treatment with phenobarbital (PB). The optical dissector is a technique derived from the "new stereology" used to measure the number of features, in this case hepatocyte nuclear profiles, that are present in a reference volume of tissue. The method has been applied to distinguish between the hepatomegaly that commonly occurs in rodents after treatment with chemicals, due to an increase in the number of cells caused by cell division (hyperplasia), rather than the size of cells (hypertrophy). In the case of PB treatment, the hepatomegaly was found to be partly due to hypertrophy and partly to hyperplasia after 2 weeks of treatment. While the increase in the absolute number of hepatocytes was not significant after 2 weeks, after 12 weeks of treatment with PB the number of hepatocytes was significantly increased, compared to the controls at that time point. PCNA labeling index measurements of liver hepatocytes confirmed that there was a significant increase in the growth fraction of hepatocytes during PB treatment. The induction of hyperplasia can be associated with an increased risk of eventual liver tumor formation, and the distinction of hyperplasia from hypertrophy, using a purely histological method, for the determination of increases in absolute hepatocyte cell numbers, will be useful in assessing whether treatment-related sustained hyperplasia is occurring in the liver, although this methodology could be applied to any organ.
Three patients are reported who, following the initiation of carbamazepine therapy for seizure control, either experienced the onset of Tourette's syndrome or a worsening of their tics and vocalizations. Blood levels of carbamazepine were within the therapeutic range, and no patient showed clinical signs of intoxication. Tics and vocalizations did not resolve following discontinuation of carbamazepine therapy. Carbamazepine may trigger the onset of Tourette's syndrome in susceptible patients.
The antiepileptic drugs, phenobarbitone and carbamazepine are well known to cause cognitive impairment on chronic use. The increase in free radical generation has been implicated as one of the important mechanisms of cognitive impairment by antiepileptic drugs. Curcumin has shown antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and neuro-protective properties. Therefore, the present study was carried out to investigate the effect of chronic curcumin administration on phenobarbitone- and carbamazepine-induced cognitive impairment and oxidative stress in rats. Pharmacokinetic interactions of curcumin with phenobarbitone and carbamazepine were also studied. Vehicle/drugs were administered daily for 21days to male Wistar rats. Passive avoidance paradigm and elevated plus maze test were used to assess cognitive function. At the end of study period, serum phenobarbitone and carbamazepine, whole brain malondialdehyde and reduced glutathione levels were estimated. The administration of phenobarbitone and carbamazepine for 21days caused a significant impairment of learning and memory as well as an increased oxidative stress. Concomitant curcumin administration prevented the cognitive impairment and decreased the increased oxidative stress induced by these antiepileptic drugs. Curcumin co-administration did not cause any significant alteration in the serum concentrations of both phenobarbitone as well as carbamazepine. These results show that curcumin has beneficial effect in mitigating the deterioration of cognitive functions and oxidative damage in rats treated with phenobarbitone and carbamazepine without significantly altering their serum concentrations. The findings suggest that curcumin can be considered as a potential safe and effective adjuvant to phenobarbitone and carbamazepine therapy in preventing cognitive impairment associated with these drugs.
Dextromethorphan (DM), the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-hydroxy-N-methylmorphinan, is the main ingredient in a number of widely available, over-the-counter antitussives. Initial studies (Bornstein 1968) showed that it possessed no respiratory suppressant effects and no addiction liability. Subsequently, however, several articles reporting abuse of this drug have appeared in the literature. The drug is known to cause a variety of acute toxic effects, ranging from nausea, restlessness, insomnia, ataxia, slurred speech and nystagmus to mood changes, perceptual alterations, inattention, disorientation and aggressive behavior (Rammer et al 1988; Katona and Watson 1986; Isbell and Fraser 1953; Devlin et al 1985; McCarthy 1971; Dodds and Revai 1967; Degkwitz 1964; Hildebrand et al 1989). There have also been two reported fatalities from DM overdoses (Fleming 1986). However, there are no reports describing the effects of chronic abuse. This report describes a case of cognitive deterioration resulting from prolonged use of DM.
We identified triamterence in 181 renal calculi (o.4% of 50.000 calculi submitted for analysis). Triamterene formed the nucleus of the stone or was deposited with calcium oxalate or uric acid. One third of these stones were mainly or entirely triamterene, though a similar proportion had only minor amounts. A recommended dose of triamterene-hydrochlorothiazide sufficed to produce triamterene deposition in renal calculi. We estimate the annual incidence of the complication to be one per 1,500 users of triamterene-hydrochlorothiazide. Triamterene lithiasis develops particularly in persons who have had a renal stone, and they should not receive this drug.
A case of acute necrotic myopathy due to epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) is described and compared with similar cases in the literature. This myopathy has only been noted after prolonged administration of the drug. The pathogenesis of this necrotic myopathy remains unclear, but our finds did not support a muscular vasculitis or an autoimmune reaction. Systematic preventive measures in patients with prolonged EACA therapy are proposed.
To evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of oxcarbazepine (1,200 mg/day) vs placebo as prophylactic therapy for patients with migraine headaches.
This multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial consisted of a 4-week single-blind baseline phase and a 15-week double-blind phase consisting of a 6-week titration period, an 8-week maintenance period, and a 1-week down-titration period, after which patients could enter a 13-week open-label extension phase. During the 6-week titration period, oxcarbazepine was initiated at 150 mg/day and increased by 150 mg/day every 5 days to a maximum tolerated dose of 1,200 mg/day. The primary outcome measure was change from baseline in the number of migraine attacks during the last 28-day period of the double-blind phase.
Eighty-five patients were randomized to receive oxcarbazepine and 85 to receive placebo. There was no difference between the oxcarbazepine (-1.30) and placebo groups in mean change in number of migraine attacks from baseline during the last 28 days of double-blind phase (-1.74; p = 0.2274). Adverse events were reported for 68 oxcarbazepine-treated patients (80%) and 55 placebo-treated patients (65%). The majority of adverse events were mild or moderate in severity. The most common adverse events (>or=15% of patients) in the oxcarbazepine-treated group were fatigue (20.0%), dizziness (17.6%), and nausea (16.5%); no adverse event occurred in more than 15% of the placebo-treated patients.
Overall, oxcarbazepine was safe and well tolerated; however, oxcarbazepine did not show efficacy in the prophylactic treatment of migraine headaches.
Dizziness, together with hypotension and faintness, are well-known adverse drug reactions of salbutamol that have been related to its cardiovascular effects. However, we could find no published reference to vertigo in patients taking salmeterol, in the absence of cardiovascular alterations. We present the case of a woman who experienced four independent episodes of vertigo lasting 36 h each, following four inhalations of salmeterol several months apart. The close temporal relationship between the inhalation of salmeterol and the onset of symptoms, as well as the positive re-exposures, reinforce this alleged association.
There is evidence that prefrontal lobe GABA levels are low in cocaine-dependent (CD) individuals, and treatment with GABA agonists decreases cocaine self-administration.
The aim of the study is to measure changes in GABA levels in CD subjects at baseline and after 8 weeks of treatment with pramipexole, venlafaxine, or placebo.
CD subjects enrolled in a treatment trial for cocaine dependence were recruited for this proton (1H) magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) study. GABA levels in the prefrontal lobe were measured before and after treatment.
Mean percentage changes in GABA levels were as follows: pramipexole +17.0+/-28.0%, venlafaxine +13.0+/-11.0%, and placebo -2.1+/-19.5%. Pramipexole-treated subjects had significantly increased brain GABA levels compared to placebo (p=0.031). Venlafaxine treatment was nonsignificantly associated with increased GABA levels compared to placebo (p=0.16). The overall statistical model for the effect of drug treatment vs placebo on brain GABA levels, including adjustment for baseline levels, was highly significant (p=0.002). Despite significant changes in GABA levels, there were no significant differences in the number of urine samples positive for cocaine metabolites.
This study demonstrates that 1H MRS can measure changes in GABA levels following pharmacologic treatment. The increase in GABA levels, although significant, is modest compared to other MRS studies of depression or epilepsy associated with clinical improvements. The failure to see larger increases in GABA levels and an associated reduction in cocaine consumption may reflect the relatively low doses of medication used.
Superoxide dismutases (SOD) mimetics have been shown to be protective against cell injury caused by reactive oxygen species. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of the manganese (III) tetrakis(N-methyl-2-pyridyl)porphyrin (MnTMPyP) on CYP2E1-dependent toxicity. The synergistic toxicity of iron and arachidonic acid has been associated with oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation in HepG2 cells that overexpress CYP2E1. Iron plus arachidonic acid caused loss of viability, increased lipid peroxidation and reactive oxygen species generation, and mitochondrial membrane injury in these cells. MnTMPyP partially protected against the decrease in cell viability, the enhanced lipid peroxidation and oxygen radical production, and the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. The effect of MnTMPyP on arachidonic acid (absence of iron) toxicity was also evaluated. Arachidonic acid also caused toxicity, lipid peroxidation and reduction of the mitochondrial membrane potential. However, in this model, all of these alterations were actually enhanced by MnTMPyP. MnTMPyP also enhanced toxicity in CYP2E1-expressing HepG2 cells depleted of reduced glutathione (GSH). MnCl(2) had little or no effect on the toxicity by arachidonic acid, and MnTMPyP itself did not peroxidize arachidonic acid. MnTMPyP, an SOD mimetic that also scavenges hydrogen peroxide and peroxynitrite, thus showed an antioxidant and protective effect against iron plus arachidonic acid toxicity, but a pro-oxidant and cytotoxic effect against arachidonic acid toxicity in CYP2E1-expressing cells. These different actions may relate to the ability of MnTMPyP to either scavenge or produce free radicals in cells depending upon the prevailing MnTMPyP oxidation-reduction pathways. MnTMPyP and related manganese porphyrin compounds may have potential clinical utility against diseases associated with the overproduction of reactive oxygen species such as ethanol-induced liver injury but it is clear that further investigation of all the pathways of manganese porphyrin oxidation-reduction are necessary.
Investigations with in vitro and animal models suggest an interaction between amiodarone and beta-blockers. The objective of this work was to explore if an interaction with beta-blocker treatment plays a role in the decrease of cardiac arrhythmic deaths with amiodarone in patients recovered from an acute myocardial infarction.
A pooled database from 2 similar randomized clinical trials, the European Amiodarone Myocardial Infarction Trial (EMIAT) and the Canadian Amiodarone Myocardial Infarction Trial (CAMIAT), was used. Four groups of post-myocardial infarction patients were defined: beta-blockers and amiodarone used, beta-blockers used alone, amiodarone used alone, and neither used. All analyses were done on an intention-to-treat basis. Unadjusted and adjusted relative risks for all-cause mortality, cardiac death, arrhythmic cardiac death, nonarrhythmic cardiac death, arrhythmic death, or resuscitated cardiac arrest were lower for patients receiving beta-blockers and amiodarone than for those without beta-blockers, with or without amiodarone. The interaction was statistically significant for cardiac death and arrhythmic death or resuscitated cardiac arrest (P=0.05 and 0.03, respectively). Findings were consistent across subgroups.
These findings are based on a post hoc analysis. However, they confirm prior results from in vitro and animal experiments suggesting an interaction between beta-blockers and amiodarone. In practice, not only is the adjunct of amiodarone to beta-blockers not hazardous, but beta-blocker therapy should be continued if possible in patients in whom amiodarone is indicated.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD or SOD2) is a key antioxidant enzyme and was assigned several roles in tumor biology. Working on medulloblastoma cell line DAOY, we identified two spots as Mn-SODs. Because of the proposed pivotal role of this enzyme in oncobiology, we decided to completely sequence the proteins and to determine PTMs. Proteins extracted from DAOY cells were run on 2-DE, multienzyme digestions were carried out and peptides were analyzed by MALDI-TOF/TOF, Qq-TOF and the ion trap using both the CID and ETD principles. Both protein expression forms were completely sequenced and revealed identical protein sequences. Histidines His30 and His31 were oxidized in one protein, whereas tryptophan oxidation (Trp-186) was observed in both. Histidine oxidation was not only indicated by the mass shift of the peptide but also by specific spectra of 2-oxo-histidine and a previously described intermediate (His+14). Complete sequencing of the two Mn-SOD expression forms unambiguously characterizes this enzyme from a tumor cell line providing evidence that can be used for generation of antibodies and allowing conformational studies. The findings of different PTMs in the same gel represent Mn-SOD oxidative states, while oxidative modification of His30 and 31 may even reflect decreased Mn-SOD activity.
