This study demonstrates the effective protection by compounds of atypical 1,4-dihydropyridine (DHP) series cerebrocrast, glutapyrone and tauropyrone against neuro- and cardiotoxicity caused by the model compound azidothymidine, a well-known mitochondria-compromising anti-HIV drug. In previous in vitro experiments, we have demonstrated distinct effects of these DHP compounds to influence mitochondrial functioning. In the present in vivo experiments, DHP compounds were administered intraperitoneally in mice daily for 2 weeks, per se and in combinations with azidothymidine at doses: azidothymidine 50 mg/kg; cerebrocrast 0.1 mg/kg; glutapyrone 1 mg/kg; and tauropyrone 1 mg/kg. At the end of the experiment, mice were killed, heart and brain tissues were removed and examined ex vivo histopathologically and immunohistochemically. NF-kappaBp65 and caspase-3 were used as the markers indicating inflammatory and apoptotic events, respectively. Cerebrocrast (dicyclic structure) was the most potent DHP, which effectively reduced azidothymidine-induced overexpression of NF-kappaBp65 and caspase-3 in mouse myocardium and brain cortex. Glutapyrone per se increased the number of caspase-3-positive cells in the brain, whereas it reduced NF-kappaBp65 and caspase-3 expression in cardiac tissue caused by azidothymidine. Tauropyrone showed dual action: per se it increased caspase-3 in the brain and NF-kappaBp65 expression in the heart, but it considerably reduced these activations in azidothymidine-treated mice. This study provides the first demonstration of a distinct pharmacological action for atypical DHP compounds in cardiac and brain tissues. The dicyclic structure of cerebrocrast is considered beneficial for neuro- and cardioprotection at least in part via mitochondrial targeting and consequent regulation of inflammatory and apoptotic processes.
In one study of 10 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension, equivalent total daily doses (13 +/- 2 mg) of isradipine given twice daily and a modified-release formulation of isradipine (isradipine MR) given once daily were found to control adequately 24 h ambulatory blood pressure compared with placebo (P less than .001 for each v placebo). In another study of 22 patients with essential hypertension, 5 and 10 mg isradipine MR once daily has been shown to reduce the average 24 h blood pressure by 11 +/- 1/6 +/- 1 mm Hg (P less than .001) and 13 +/- 2/9 +/- 1 mm Hg (P less than .001), respectively, compared with placebo. There was no loss of efficacy with isradipine MR during the 24 h observation period with either dose. In conclusion, low-dose isradipine MR once daily is an effective first-line treatment in essential hypertension.
Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) signaling involves both tumor-suppression and oncogenesis. TGF-beta activates the TGF-beta type I receptor (TbetaRI) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), which differentially phosphorylate the mediator Smad3 to become COOH-terminally phosphorylated Smad3 (pSmad3C) and linker-phosphorylated Smad3 (pSmad3L). TbetaRI-dependent pSmad3C transmits a tumor-suppressive TGF-beta signal, while JNK-dependent pSmad3L promotes carcinogenesis in human chronic liver disorders. The aim of this study is to elucidate how SP600125, a JNK inhibitor, affected rat hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development, while focusing on the domain-specific phosphorylation of Smad3. The rats received subcutaneous injections of either SP600125 or vehicle 11 times weekly together with 100 ppm N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) administration for 56 days and were sacrificed in order to evaluate HCC development 28 days after the last DEN administration. The number of tumor nodules greater than 3 mm in diameter and the liver weight/body weight ratio were significantly lower in the SP600125-treated rats than those in the vehicle-treated rats (7.9 +/- 0.8 versus 17.7 +/- 0.9: P < 0.001; 6.3 +/- 1.2 versus 7.1 +/- 0.2%: P < 0.05). SP600125 significantly prolonged the median survival time in rats with DEN-induced HCC (113 versus 97 days: log-rank P = 0.0018). JNK/pSmad3L/c-Myc was enhanced in the rat hepatocytes exposed to DEN. However, TbetaRI/pSmad3C/p21(WAF1) was impaired as DEN-induced HCC developed and progressed. The specific inhibition of JNK activity by SP600125 suppressed pSmad3L/c-Myc in the damaged hepatocytes and enhanced pSmad3C/p21(WAF1), acting as a tumor suppressor in normal hepatocytes.
Administration of SP600125 to DEN-treated rats shifted hepatocytic Smad3-mediated signal from oncogenesis to tumor suppression, thus suggesting that JNK could be a therapeutic target of human HCC development and progression.
Respiratory sensitization can be caused by a variety of substances at workplaces, and the health and economic burden linked to allergic respiratory diseases continues to increase. Although the main factors that affect the onset of the symptoms are the types and intensity of allergen exposure, there is a wide range of interindividual variation in susceptibility to occupational/environmental sensitizers. A number of gene variants have been reported to be associated with various occupational allergic respiratory diseases. Examples of genes include, but are not limited to, genes involved in immune/inflammatory regulation, antioxidant defenses, and fibrotic processes. Most of these variants act in combination with other genes and environmental factors to modify disease progression, severity, or resolution after exposure to allergens. Therefore, understanding the role of genetic variability and the interaction between genetic and environmental/occupational factors provides new insights into disease etiology and may lead to the development of novel preventive and therapeutic strategies. This paper will focus on the current state of knowledge regarding genetic influences on allergic respiratory diseases, with specific emphasis on diisocyanate-induced asthma and chronic beryllium disease.
Capecitabine (Xeloda) is a systemic prodrug of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), which is administered in an oral formulation. Hand-foot syndrome (HFS) has proven to be a chronic dose-limiting toxicity of capecitabine, leading to significant morbidity in patients receiving this agent. The purpose of this review is to define the pathophysiology, risk factors, incidence and management of capecitabine-induced HFS.
Literature for this review article was collected from the following databases: PubMed, CINAHL, and the proceedings of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) confined to the years 1995-2006. The following key terms were used in the search: hand-foot syndrome, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, capecitabine, Xeloda, colorectal cancer, and metastatic breast cancer.
HFS associated with capecitabine is a serious dose-limiting toxicity. Incidence of grade 3/4 toxicity is of extreme significance, and introduces the need for dose reductions and/or interruptions in capecitabine therapy. Drug-related therapies studied include topical emollients and creams, systemic and topical corticosteroids, nicotine patch, vitamin E, pyridoxine, and COX-2 inhibitors. However, due to the lack of randomized, controlled trials with these therapies, the current mainstay of treatment for the management of this toxicity is interruption of therapy and, if necessary, dose reduction.
Treatment interruption or dose reduction remain the only methods shown to effectively manage HFS, but supportive measures to reduce pain and discomfort and prevent secondary infection are very important. Many other prophylactic and treatment strategies have been investigated, with pyridoxine and COX-2 inhibitors being the most promising in case reports and retrospective studies; therefore, prospective, randomized, controlled trials are needed to prove their efficacy.
It has been shown that mice and rats treated with antimuscarinic drugs, scopolamine or atropine, after fasting for 48 h develop convulsions soon after refeeding. The present study was performed to evaluate whether mice also develop convulsions after being deprived of food for 1-24 h. The effect of day-night fasting on the development of convulsions was also determined in 12-h deprived animals. Mice were deprived of food for periods of 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, and 48 h. Animals fasted for 12 h during the day or night were deprived of food at 08:00 or 20:00 h, respectively. At the time of testing, animals were treated with intraperitoneal (i.p.) saline or 3 mg/kg scopolamine. Twenty minutes later, they were given food and allowed to eat ad lib. All animals were observed for 30 min for the incidence and onset of convulsions. Fasted animals treated with scopolamine developed clonic convulsions after food intake. Incidence of convulsions was significant in 2-, 3-, 12-, 18-, 24-, and 48-h deprived animals. Convulsions observed after deprivation of food for 12 h during the day or at night were almost similar in both regimens. Our results indicate that food deprivation itself, rather than its duration, seems to be the principal factor in the development of these convulsions.
To evaluate the use of zidovudine prophylaxis in HIV-exposed health-care workers (HCW) in Italy and to determine its short-term toxicity.
Longitudinal, open study with retrospective and prospective collection of data.
All Italian clinical centres that care for HIV-infected patients and are licensed by the Ministry of Health to dispense zidovudine and 30 hospitals participating in the Italian Multicentre Study on Occupational Risk of HIV Infection.
HCW and other individuals who accepted zidovudine prophylaxis after accidental exposure to HIV.
Data were collected for 224 HIV-exposed individuals until 30 June 1991. An increase in zidovudine prophylaxis was observed. All but 10 subjects received 1000-1250 mg zidovudine per day. Anaemia (five cases), neutropenia (one case) and an increase in serum alanine aminotransferase levels (two cases) were the only haematochemical side-effects observed; none of the subjects ceased prophylaxis because of side-effects. More than 50% of subjects had constitutional reactions; as a result, prophylaxis was stopped by 29 patients. These adverse effects began within 10 days of prophylaxis; all resolved after prophylaxis was stopped. No HIV-antibody seroconversions were observed after a mean follow-up of 8 months.
Zidovudine prophylaxis has become a feature of the management of occupational exposures to HIV in health-care settings; short-term toxicity is mild, dose-related and reversible. Further studies are needed to assess the risk of long-term sequelae.
We report a 28-year-old patient with an acute myocardial infarction, without previous symptomatology of ischemic heart disease, 5 hours after a delivery. We discuss the role of methylergometrine, used for avoid the bleeding postpartum, in its etiopathology and its specific therapy.
The utility of intravenous prochlorperazine as an antiemetic agent and abortive therapy for headache may be limited by the frequent occurrence of akathisia, the distressing effects of which have been shown to disrupt patient care. We tested the hypothesis that adjuvant diphenhydramine reduces the incidence of akathisia induced by prochlorperazine.
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted in the emergency department of an academic tertiary care medical center with an annual census of 95,000 emergency patient visits. We enrolled a convenience sample of 100 adult patients who received 10 mg of intravenous prochlorperazine for the treatment of nausea/vomiting or headache. Subjects were randomly assigned to receive a 2-minute infusion of prochlorperazine with either 50 mg of diphenhydramine or placebo. The incidence of akathisia at 1 hour was measured by using explicit diagnostic criteria. To measure the influence of treatment on sedation, the subjects noted, on a 100-mm visual analog scale, their degree of sedation before and after treatment.
Akathisia developed in 18 (36%) of 50 subjects in the control group and in 7 (14%) of 50 subjects in the diphenhydramine group, a 61% relative reduction. The addition of adjunct diphenhydramine resulted in an absolute reduction of 22% in the incidence of akathisia (95% confidence interval [CI] 6% to 38%; P = .01). The odds ratio for akathisia with the use of adjuvant diphenhydramine was 0.39 (95% CI 0.18 to 0.85). Mean sedation scores increased 12 mm after infusion of prochlorperazine alone (95% CI 3 to 21 mm) compared with a 33-mm increase after infusion of prochlorperazine with adjuvant diphenhydramine (95% CI 24 to 42 mm). The 12-mm difference between the groups was statistically significant (95% CI 9 to 34 mm, P < .001).
Adjuvant diphenhydramine reduces the incidence of akathisia induced by prochlorperazine and is associated with an increase in sedation.
We report here in the interim analysis of an ongoing randomized clinical trial designed to test whether androgen priming enhances tumor chemosensitivity in men with stage D prostate cancer refractory to orchiectomy. All patients are continuously treated with aminoglutethimide and hydrocortisone, to lower adrenal androgen secretion, and are given cyclic chemotherapy. Patients in the stimulation arm receive also the synthetic androgen, fluoxymesterone, for 3 days before and on the day of chemotherapy. Of 57 patients entered to date, 41 have received adequate treatment to be evaluable. Response to therapy (objective remissions + stabilizations of disease) occurred in 17 of 18 evaluable patients (94%) randomized to the stimulation arm, and in 16 of 23 evaluable patients (70%) in the control group (p less than 0.025). Duration of response was not significantly different in the two groups (median: 9 months in the stimulation and 12 months in the control arm). With 30% of the total of 57 patients still alive, survival is not significantly different in the stimulation (median: 13 months) and control arm (median: 16 months). As expected, patients who responded to treatment lived significantly longer than those who failed to benefit. Two episodes of reversible spinal cord compression occurred during androgen administration. (The risk of this serious side effect may be reduced by performing a screening myelogram to rule out subclinical spinal metastasis). Our preliminary data suggest that androgen priming may enhance the tumoricidal effect of cytotoxic drugs in advanced prostate cancer. The lack of improvement in duration of response and survival may be explained by the large fraction of hormone-independent cells probably present in patients with tumors refractory to orchiectomy.
The possibility that panic disorder might be due to abnormal activity of endogenous ligands of the benzodiazepine receptor was investigated with the use of the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil. Physiological and subjective psychological responses to this selective antagonist were measured in 10 patients with panic disorder and in 10 control subjects, by using a placebo-controlled crossover study design. Subjective anxiety responses after flumazenil infusion were significantly higher in the patient group with panic disorder than in the controls, and eight patients with panic disorder but no controls had panic attacks. This anxiogenic effect of flumazenil in the patients argues against the presence of endogenous anxiogenic (inverse agonist) ligands. Possible explanations include the differential production of an anxiolytic endogenous ligand or an altered benzodiazepine receptor "set-point." Such an abnormality may contribute to the pathogenesis of panic disorder.
Improgan, a nonopioid antinociceptive agent, activates descending, pain-relieving mechanisms in the brain stem, but the receptor for this compound has not been identified. Because cannabinoids also activate nonopioid analgesia by a brain stem action, experiments were performed to assess the significance of cannabinoid mechanisms in improgan antinociception. The cannabinoid CB(1) antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chloro phenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (SR141716A) induced dose-dependent inhibition of improgan antinociception on the tail-flick test after i.c.v. administration in rats. The same treatments yielded comparable inhibition of cannabinoid [R-(+)-(2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(4-mor pholinyl)methyl]pyrol[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl)(1-naphthalenyl)methanone monomethanesulfonate, WIN 55,212-2] analgesia. Inhibition of improgan and WIN 55,212-2 antinociception by SR141716A was also observed in Swiss-Webster mice. Radioligand binding studies showed no appreciable affinity of improgan on rat brain, mouse brain, and human recombinant CB(1) receptors, ruling out a direct action at these sites. To test the hypothesis that CB(1) receptors indirectly participate in improgan signaling, the effects of improgan were assessed in mice with a null mutation of the CB(1) gene with and without SR141716A pretreatment. Surprisingly, improgan induced complete antinociception in both CB(1) (-/-) and wild-type control [CB(1) (+/+)] mice. Furthermore, SR141716A inhibited improgan antinociception in CB(1) (+/+) mice, but not in CB(1) (-/-) mice. Taken together, the results show that SR141716A reduces improgan antinociception, but neither cannabinoids nor CB(1) receptors seem to play an obligatory role in improgan signaling. Present and previous studies suggest that Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol may act at both CB(1) and other receptors to relieve pain, but no evidence was found indicating that improgan uses either of these mechanisms. SR141716A will facilitate the study of improgan-like analgesics.
The authors report the occurrence of the nephrotic syndrome in association with the use of lithium carbonate in a 41-year-old man, review other reports of this adverse effect, and discuss implications for the clinician.
Some patients with acute hereditary porphyrias have seizures and require anticonvulsant therapy, but many anticonvulsants induce exacerbations of the hepatic porphyrias. Recently, several new anticonvulsants have become available. Among these are gabapentin, vigabatrin, felbamate, lamotrigine, and tiagabine. Little is known about their potential for induction of porphyric attacks. We used a cell culture model of primary chicken embryo liver cells, which maintain intact heme synthesis and regulation, to study the effects of these new anticonvulsants on porphyrin accumulation. Treatment of the cells with deferoxamine (250 microM) led to a partial block in heme synthesis, simulating the conditions encountered in human beings with porphyria. Concomitant exposure of these cells to phenobarbital (2 mM) strongly induced accumulation of porphyrins, serving as a positive control in this model. Cells were treated for 20 hours with increasing doses (3.2 to 1,000 microM) of the newer anticonvulsants, with or without deferoxamine. For most of these anticonvulsants 5 to 100 microM is representative of the concentrations achieved in humans with therapeutic doses. Porphyrins were measured spectrofluorometrically as uro-, copro-, and protoporphyrins. Results were confirmed by high-pressure liquid chromatography. Neither vigabatrin nor gabapentin treatment, with or without deferoxamine, led to any increase in porphyrin accumulation. Similar doses of felbamate (with deferoxamine) led to a marked increase in (mainly proto-) porphyrin levels, qualitatively and quantitatively almost identical to the accumulation produced by phenobarbital. Lamotrigine or tiagabine (with deferoxamine) caused similar porphyrin accumulation. Tiagabine treatment up to 100 microM (with deferoxamine) also resulted in very high levels of predominantly proto-porphyrin. In contrast to the other anticonvulsants tested, tiagabine without deferoxamine led to mild porphyrin accumulation. In the presence of deferoxamine, phenobarbital, felbamate, lamotrigine, or tiagabine, but not gabapentin or vigabatrin, increased levels of the mRNA of ALA synthase, the first and rate-controlling enzyme of porphyrin synthesis. Such enzyme induction is a sine qua non for acute porphyric attacks. We conclude that neither vigabatrin nor gabapentin is porphyrogenic, whereas felbamate, lamotrigine, and, especially, tiagabine lead to much accumulation of porphyrins. The latter three anticonvulsants, therefore, may precipitate or exacerbate acute porphyric attacks in humans. We recommend use of vigabatrin or gabapentin, but not felbamate, lamotrigine, or tiagabine, in patients with acute porphyria and seizures.
Nonconvulsive status epilepticus can be confused with psychiatric disorders. Inappropriate drug treatment can represent a precipitating factor. We describe two patients with idiopathic generalized epilepsy in whom nonconvulsive status epilepticus, aggravated by carbamazepine, was misdiagnosed as psychiatric disorder. A 14-year-old girl experienced a tonic-clonic seizure at age 12 years preceded by monthly episodes of confusion with awkward behavior since age 9 years. She was treated with carbamazepine, and the episodes of confusion became more frequent, leading to a diagnosis of dissociative disorder. An electroencephalogram during one of these episodes revealed nonconvulsive status epilepticus. Substitution of carbamazepine with valproic acid controlled the episodes of status epilepticus. A 23-year-old woman presented at age 16 years with a tonic-clonic seizure. Since early adolescence, she had had episodes of depressive mood, worsening of school performances, and facial tics. Carbamazepine treatment caused worsening of the depressive episodes and facial tics. An electroencephalogram during a typical episode revealed nonconvulsive status epilepticus. Carbamazepine substitution with valproate led to seizure freedom and behavioral improvement. Nonconvulsive status epilepticus should be suspected and searched for in patients with epileptic seizures and ictal or fluctuating behavioral disorders.
A 50-year-old man developed myoglobinuric renal failure after taking pyrazinamide. Both serum and urine myoglobin levels were elevated and tubulo-interstitial nephropathy was demonstrated on renal biopsy. After pyrazinamide was discontinued, the myoglobin concentrations were normalized and his renal function ameliorated. The rhabdomyolysis was considered to be caused by pyrazinamide. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of rhabdomyolysis associated with pyrazinamide.
In October 1990 a DES (Diethylstilbestrol) clinic was established at the National Maternity Hospital, Dublin. We describe the results of the first six months of the clinic. During this time, 172 inquiries were received; 95 women were seen at the clinic, 16 were deemed to be DES--exposed and eight were classified as possibly DES exposed. Classical cervicovaginal signs of DES exposure were noted in 15 women, a further eight women showed cervical epithelial abnormalities at colposcopy, the history of in utero DES exposure was confirmed in eight cases. No cases of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or vaginal clear-cell adenocarcinoma were detected. Pregnancy related problems possibly attributable to DES exposure were documented in six women.
We previously reported significant differences in force control (FC) function between schizophrenics treated with typical antipsychotic drugs (APD) and those treated with clozapine. Clozapine treatment was associated with an attenuation of the capacity for fine motor control. We now report that a test-retest study with 41 treatment-refractory patients confirms our earlier finding; the FC deficit is due primarily to clozapine treatment. An additional comparison was made with 10 patients who were administered the FC test repeatedly through the initial clozapine titration interval of 6-8 weeks. The results suggest that two distinct clozapine effects can be distinguished, an initial transient stage characterized by 'drowsiness' and a subsequent stage with dose-dependent emerging myoclonic features.
Epidemiological studies indicate that exposure to environmental pollutants during early human development can have deleterious effects on cognitive development. The interaction between environmental pollutants is suggested as one reason for the observed defective neurological development in children from the Faeroe Islands as compared to children from the Seychelles. We have previously seen in mice that polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) can interact together with methyl mercury (MeHg), as well as PCB together with polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE 99) to exacerbate developmental neurotoxic effects when present during a critical period of neonatal brain development. PBDEs are a new class of global environmental contaminants. The present study shows that neonatal coexposure to PBDE 99 (0.8 mg/kg body weight) and MeHg (0.4 or 4.0 mg/kg body weight) can exacerbate developmental neurotoxic effects. These effects are manifested as disrupted spontaneous behavior, reduced habituation, and impaired learning/memory abilities. This is seen in the low dose range, where the sole compounds do no give rise to developmental neurotoxic effects. The effects seen are more than just additive. Furthermore, a significant effect of interaction was seen on the cholinergic nicotinic receptors in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. This suggests that a mechanism for the observed cognitive defects is via the cholinergic system. Furthermore, PBDE can interact with MeHg causing developmental neurotoxic effects similar to those we previously have observed between PCB 153 + MeHg and PCB 52 + PBDE 99. This is of vital importance, as the levels of PBDEs are increasing in mother's milk and in the environment generally.
The Multicenter Isradipine/Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study (MIDAS) is a randomized, double-blind, active-control trial to compare the effectiveness of two treatment regimens for the control of hypertension in reducing the rate of progression of early extracranial carotid artery atherosclerosis in hypertensive patients. The two double-blind treatment regimens are 2.5 or 5 mg isradipine twice daily and 12.5 mg or 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide twice daily. Patients whose blood pressure is not controlled with either of these regimens will receive, in addition to the highest tolerated dose of the blinded drug, 2.5 to 10 mg open-label enalapril twice daily. The MIDAS study has enrolled 883 patients to treatment with either isradipine or hydrochlorothiazide. Inclusion criteria included men and women over the age of 40 years, the presence of an atherosclerotic lesion in the extracranial carotid artery demonstrated on B-mode ultrasound scanning (maximum thickness between 1.3 and 3.5 mm), an average sitting diastolic blood pressure between 90 and 115 mm Hg, and low-density lipoprotein levels between 130 and 189 mg/dL. An assessment of each patient's blood pressure and any side effects is made every three months; a B-mode ultrasound examination of the carotid arteries was performed at baseline and every six months thereafter; an electrocardiogram was carried out at baseline and once a year thereafter; and a brief quality-of-life assessment was made at baseline and every year thereafter.
We describe a case of multiple myeloma associated with myelofibrosis. This patient had hepatosplenomegaly, moderate anemia with anisocytosis and nucleated red blood cells, and Bence-Jones protein (kappa) in the urine. A bone marrow biopsy showed extensive marrow fibrosis and proliferation of numerous immature plasma cells containing kappa light chain in the cytoplasm. Melphalan-prednisolone therapy not only facilitated the disappearance of the immature plasma cells but also resulted in an improvement of myelofibrosis in the bone marrow. The immature plasma cell proliferation and marrow fibrosis in the bone marrow were seen again after interruption of chemotherapy. Therefore, this myelofibrosis may be secondary to the coexistent multiple myeloma.
In monkeys rendered parkinsonian with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), expression of the dopamine D3 receptor was decreased. However, levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID), similar to the debilitating and pharmacoresistant involuntary movements elicited after long-term treatment with levodopa in patients with Parkinson disease (PD), was associated with overexpression of this receptor. Administration of a D3 receptor-selective partial agonist strongly attenuated levodopa-induced dyskinesia, but left unaffected the therapeutic effect of levodopa. In contrast, attenuation of dyskinesia by D3 receptor antagonists was accompanied by the reappearance of PD-like symptoms. These results indicated that the D3 receptor participated in both dyskinesia and the therapeutic action of levodopa, and that partial agonists may normalize D3 receptor function and correct side effects of levodopa therapy in patients with PD.
In rodents, serotonin (5-HT) antagonists counteract behavioral and biochemical effects of neuroleptic drugs. Therefore, we have studied the effect of different 5-HT drugs and one anticholinergic drug in acute dystonia in five cebus monkeys chronically treated with haloperidol. Acute dystonia induced by subcutaneous injections of haloperidol was slightly reduced by the 5-HT antagonist methysergide (4.0 mg/kg), while mianserin, ketanserin, and ritanserin (R 55 667; a new selective and potent 5-HT receptor blocker) had no effect. This was contrasted by the marked antidystonic effect of the anticholinergic drug biperiden (0.05-1.0 mg/kg). The 5-HT agonist citalopram, a specific 5-HT uptake inhibitor, had no significant effect. It is concluded that 5-HT antagonists have no useful effect in neuroleptic-induced dystonia.
Cartap is a widely used insecticide which belongs to a member of nereistoxin derivatives and acts on nicotinic acetylcholine receptor site. Its effects on aquatic species are of grave concern. To explore the potential developmental toxicity of cartap, zebrafish embryos were continually exposed, from 0.5 to 144h post-fertilization, to a range of concentrations of 25-1000microg/l. Results of the experiment indicated that cartap concentrations of 100microg/l and above negatively affected embryo survival and hatching success. Morphological analysis uncovered a large suite of abnormalities such as less melanin pigmentation, wavy notochord, crooked trunk, fuzzy somites, neurogenesis defects and vasculature defects. The most sensitive organ was proved to be the notochord which displayed defects at concentrations as low as 25microg/l. Both sensitivity towards exposure and localization of the defect were stage specific. To elucidate mechanisms concerning notochord, pigmentation, and hatching defects, enzyme assay, RT Q-PCR, and different exposure strategies were performed. For embryos with hatching failure, chorion was verified not to be digested, while removing cartap from exposure at early pre-hatching stage could significantly increase the hatching success. However, cartap was proved, via vitro assay, to have no effect on proteolytic activity of hatching enzyme. These findings implied that the secretion of hatching enzyme might be blocked. We also revealed that cartap inhibited the activity of melanogenic enzyme tyrosinase and matrix enzyme lysyl oxidase and induced expression of their genes. These suggested that cartap could impaired melanin pigmentation of zebrafish embryos through inhibiting tyrosinase activity, while inhibition of lysyl oxidase activity was responsible for notochord undulation, which subsequently caused somite defect, and at least partially responsible for defects in vasculature and neurogenesis.
Between 8-20 percent of adult asthmatics experience bronchospasm following ingestion of aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Termed aspirin-induced asthma, this reaction is potentially fatal. Asthmatics with chronic rhinitis or a history of nasal polyps are at greater risk. The reaction rarely occurs in children. Patients initially present with an acute episode of vague malaise, sneezing, nasal obstruction, rhinorrhoea, and often a productive cough. Persistent rhinitis and nasal polyps may then develop. Asthma and aspirin sensitivity may appear in the following months. Within 20 minutes to 3 hours of taking a NSAID, aspirin-sensitive asthmatics can develop symptoms such as bronchospasm, rhinorrhoea, dyspnoea, cough, or urticaria-angiodema. NSAIDs (systemic or topical) should be used with caution in asthmatics and avoided in asthmatics with nasal polyps. Asthmatics should be told to seek medical help if symptoms worsen on initiation of a NSAID.
Oxidative stress may contribute to the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy (DN), although the precise regulatory mechanism is still unclear. Recent reports have shown that chemical molecular chaperone 4-phenylbutyric acid (4-PBA) can suppress oxidative stress by attenuating endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. We therefore hypothesized that 4-PBA could provide renoprotection through the suppression of oxidative stress in DN rats. Male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into three groups: a normal control (NC) group, a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced DN model group, and a DN plus 4-PBA (1g/kg) treatment group. At the end of 4, 8, and 12 weeks, hydroxyproline content, NADPH oxidase activity and the expression of phosphorylation of inositol-requiring enzyme-1alpha (p-IRE1alpha), p47phox, nitrotyrosine (NT) and NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) in the kidneys of all rats were determined; malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in serum and urine were also detected; renal nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) activity in all of the rats was examined at the end of 12 weeks. Compared with the NC group, the DN rats showed a significant increase in hydroxyproline content, NADPH oxidase activity, NF-kappaB activity, the expression of p-IRE1alpha, p47phox, NT and Nrf2 in renal tissue; markedly, MDA levels were higher and SOD activity was lower in serum and urine of DN rats than in NC rats for the indicated time. These alterations were inhibited by the administration of 4-PBA. These findings first demonstrated that treatment with 4-PBA significantly inhibits the process and development of diabetic nephropathy in rats through the regulation of ER stress-oxidative activation.
