Gefitinib (Iressa, ZD1839), an inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase, has shown potent anti-tumor effects and improved symptoms and quality-of-life of a subset of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, a large portion of the patients showed no effect to this agent. To establish a method to predict the response of NSCLC patients to gefitinib, we used a genome-wide cDNA microarray to analyze 33 biopsy samples of advanced NSCLC from patients who had been treated with an identical protocol of second to seventh line gefitinib monotherapy. We identified 51 genes whose expression differed significantly between seven responders and 10 non-responders to the drug. We selected the 12 genes that showed the most significant differences to establish a numerical scoring system (GRS, gefitinib response score), for predicting response to gefitinib treatment. The GRS system clearly separated the two groups without any overlap, and accurately predicted responses to the drug in 16 additional NSCLC cases. The system was further validated by the semi-quantitative RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and ELISA for serological test. Moreover, we proved that the anti-apoptotic activity of amphiregulin, a protein that was significantly over-expressed in non-responders but undetectable in responders, leads to resistance of NSCLC cells to gefitinib in vitro. Our results suggested that sensitivity of a given NSCLC to gefitinib can be predicted according to expression levels of a defined set of genes that may biologically affect drug sensitivity and survival of lung cancer cells. Our scoring system might eventually lead to achievement of personalized therapy for NSCLC patients.
Overdose with acetaminophen (APAP) results in acute liver failure in humans and experimental animals. Complement comprises more than 30 proteins that can participate in tissue injury and/or repair, but the role of complement activation in APAP-induced hepatotoxicity has not been evaluated. Treatment of male, C57BL6J mice with APAP (200-400 mg/kg) resulted in liver injury as evidenced by increased activity of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) in plasma and hepatocellular necrosis. Plasma concentration of the complement component C3 was significantly reduced 6 h after treatment with APAP, indicating complement activation, and C3b (detected by immunostaining) accumulated in the centrilobular areas of liver lobules. Pretreatment with cobra venom factor (CVF; 15 U/mouse) to deplete complement components abolished APAP-mediated C3b accumulation, and this was accompanied by reductions in plasma ALT activity, hepatocellular necrosis, hepatic neutrophil accumulation, and expression of inflammatory genes (interleukin-6, interleukin-10, and plasminogen activation inhibitor-1) at 24 h after APAP treatment. Loss of hepatocellular GSH was similar in APAP-treated mice pretreated with either saline or CVF, suggesting that CVF pretreatment did not affect APAP bioactivation. Mice with a genetic deficiency in C3 had reduced ALT activity 6 and 12 h after APAP administration compared with wild-type animals. These results reveal a key role for complement activation in hepatic inflammation and progression of injury during the pathogenesis of APAP-induced hepatotoxicity.
The integrin alphavbeta6 promotes proliferation of specialized epithelia and acts as a receptor for the activation of latent TGFbeta1. We studied alphavbeta6 expression in experimental and human liver fibrosis and the potential of its pharmacological inhibition for treatment of hepatic fibrosis.
alphavbeta6 expression was studied by quantitative PCR and immunohistochemistry in rats with cirrhosis due to bile duct ligation (BDL), administration of thioacetamide (TAA), in Mdr2(Abcb4)(-/-) mice with spontaneous biliary fibrosis, and in livers of patients with chronic hepatitis C (n=79) and end-stage liver disease due to various etiologies (n=18). The effect of a selective alphavbeta6 inhibitor was evaluated in Mdr2(Abcb4)(-/-) mice with ongoing fibrogenesis.
Integrin beta6 mRNA increased with fibrosis stage in hepatitis C and was upregulated between 25- and 100-fold in TAA- and BDL-induced cirrhosis, in Mdr2(Abcb4)(-/-) mice and in human end-stage liver disease. alphavbeta6 protein was absent in normal livers and expressed de novo on (activated) bile duct epithelia and transitional hepatocytes. A single dose of the alphavbeta6 inhibitor injected into Mdr2(Abcb4)(-/-) mice significantly induced profibrolytic matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-8 and -9 after 3 h, with a corresponding increase in extracellular matrix-degrading activities. In parallel profibrogenic transcripts (procollagen alpha1(I), TGFbeta2, and MMP-2) showed a trend of downregulation.
(1) Integrin alphavbeta6 is induced de novo in rodent and human liver fibrosis, where it is expressed on activated bile duct epithelia and (transitional) hepatocytes during fibrosis progression. (2) In vivo a single dose of a small molecule alphavbeta6 inhibitor induced antifibrogenic and profibrolytic genes and activities, suggesting alphavbeta6 is a unique target for treatment of liver fibrosis.
Laryngo-onycho-cutaneous (LOC or Shabbir) syndrome (OMIM 245660) is an autosomal recessive epithelial disorder confined to the Punjabi Muslim population. The condition is characterized by cutaneous erosions, nail dystrophy and exuberant vascular granulation tissue in certain epithelia, especially conjunctiva and larynx. Genome-wide homozygosity mapping localized the gene to a 2 Mb region on chromosome 18q11.2 with an LOD score of 19.8 at theta=0. This region includes the laminin alpha3 gene (LAMA3), in which loss-of-expression mutations cause the lethal skin blistering disorder Herlitz junctional epidermolysis bullosa. Detailed investigation showed that this gene possesses a further 38 exons (76 exons in total) spanning 318 kb of genomic DNA, and encodes three distinct proteins, designated laminin alpha3a, alpha3b1 and alpha3b2. The causative mutation in 15 families was a frameshift mutation 151insG predicting a stop codon 7 bp downstream in an exon that is specific to laminin alpha3a. This protein is secreted only by the basal keratinocytes of stratified epithelia, implying that LOC is caused by dysfunction of keratinocyte-mesenchymal communication. Surprisingly, the 151insG mutation does not result in nonsense-mediated mRNA decay due to rescue of the transcript by an alternative translation start site 6 exons downstream. The resultant N-terminal deletion of laminin alpha3a was confirmed by immunoprecipitation of secreted proteins from LOC keratinocytes. These studies show that the laminin alpha3a N-terminal domain is a key regulator of the granulation tissue response, with important implications not only in LOC but in a range of other clinical conditions associated with abnormal wound healing.
An autopsy case of fatal subacute hepatic failure after administration of troglitazone is described. The liver dysfunction developed about five months after the patient, a sixty-three-year-old woman, had been initially treated with troglitazone. The patient developed hepatic failure and died despite various hepatic auxiliary treatments such as plasmapheresis. Autopsy findings revealed focal liver cell necrosis, cholestasis and steatosis with infiltration of lymphocytes and neutrophils and lack of regenerative activity. The causative mechanism of liver dysfunction may be metabolite aberration, as a result of accumulation of hepatotoxic metabolite(s), in a category of idiosyncratic liver injury. It is proposed to monitor liver function strictly and periodically for the diabetic patients prescribed troglitazone.
Libby, MT is the site of a closed vermiculite mine that produced ore contaminated with asbestos-like amphiboles. Worldwide distribution of the material and the long latency period for manifestation of asbestos-related diseases (ARDs) has created a significant health threat for many years to come. The composition of the Libby material [termed the Libby amphibole (LA)] differs from other well-studied types of asbestos in that it is a mixture of several amphibole fibers. The purpose of this study was to determine the fibrotic effects of LA exposure in a mouse model and to compare these effects to those of a well-characterized amphibole fiber, crocidolite asbestos. We exposed C57Bl/6 mice to LA or crocidolite and analyzed lung RNA, protein, and morphology at 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months post instillation. Our results indicate that both forms of amphibole studied induced increased collagen types I and III mRNA expression and collagen protein deposition in exposed murine lungs compared to the PBS-instilled control lungs, and that these collagen increases were the most significant at 1 month after exposure. However, crocidolite-exposed mice demonstrated greater increases in collagen deposition than those exposed to LA, indicating that the fibrotic effects of LA exposure, although not as severe as those of crocidolite in this model system, were still able to induce collagen deposition.
The purpose of this study was to examine the predictors of heart rate and blood pressure changes following cocaine administration. Sixty-two smoked cocaine users received a single 0.4 mg/kg dose of smoked cocaine. Male sex, African American race, higher body weight and current marijuana use predicted a greater cardiovascular response to cocaine. In contrast, higher baseline blood pressure, heart rate, amount and frequency of current cocaine use and presence of current cocaine snorting predicted a diminished cardiovascular response to cocaine. Whether these predictors of the cardiovascular response to smoked cocaine in the laboratory also predict cardiovascular complications from long-term cocaine use needs to be studied further.
To evaluate the efficacy of chemoendocrine therapy for the initial treatment of stage D2 prostate cancer, we conducted a prospective randomized study which compared combined androgen blockade alone to that combined with UFT. Twenty-one patients received LH-RH agonist and flutamide (Group-A), and 23 patients received LH-RH agonist, flutamide and UFT (Group-B). The overall response rate and the PSA response rate of Group-A was 71.4% and 100% respectively, against 65.2% and 90%, respectively in Group-B. The median follow-up period was 24 months. The 2-year progression-free survival rate of Group-A was 7.4% and that of Group-B was 15.9%. The response rate and progression-free survival rate did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. Liver dysfunction due to flutamide was common in both groups, and a total of 4 patients did not continue the treatment because of this adverse effect. We conclude that in patients with stage D2 prostate cancer, treatment with combined androgen blockade and UFT is not superior to treatment with combined androgen blockade alone.
We report a case of colchicine-induced myopathy related to short-term, customary administration of colchicine. A 49-year-old male was admitted because of muscle weakness and myalgia that had developed 10 days previously. He had received renal transplantation 5 years previously and took cyclosporine as an immunosuppressant. Two weeks before admission, gout was developed and he took colchicine (1.2 mg b.i.d) by himself for three days. Colchicine-induced myopathy was clinically suspected, and colchicine intake was stopped immediately. After that, clinical symptoms gradually improved and serum muscle enzyme returned to normal. In this case, mild renal dysfunction and drug interaction between cyclosporine and colchicine wee suggested to be the precipitating factors of colchicine-induced myopathy.
We investigated the effectiveness of intravesically administered drugs on the tumor incidence and tumor size in a FANFT-induced animal model for bladder cancer. In the first experiment 106 C3H/He mice were divided into a control and three treatment groups. Therapy consisted of either cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II) (DDP), mitomycin C, or thio-tepa. There was a reduction in the tumor incidence in all treated groups; this was statistically significant for those receiving mitomycin C (p less than 0.04) and DDP (p less than 0.001). No significant difference in the mean or median tumor weight (an index of tumor volume) between the treated and control groups was found. In a second experiment intravesical combination chemotherapy was compared to single-agent therapy. Animals received either doxorubicin hydrochloride (Adriamycin), mitomycin C, thio-tepa, mitomycin C + doxorubicin, or mitomycin C + thio-tepa. Although there was no significant difference in tumor incidence among the groups with the exception of mice receiving thio-tepa, animals receiving sequential combination chemotherapy had lower mean and median bladder weights suggesting an improved therapeutic effect.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a multifunctional cytokine which contributes to inflammation and tissue injury in several diseases. Thus, inhibition of IL-6 production may be a useful strategy for treatment of patients with diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). A synthetic nonpsychoactive cannabinoid, ajulemic acid (AjA), prevents joint damage in experimental arthritis. Results of experiments presented here indicate that addition of AjA (3-30 microM) to human monocyte derived macrophages in vitro reduces steady state levels of IL-6 mRNA and the subsequent secretion of IL-6 from LPS stimulated cells. Although AjA binds to and activates PPARgamma, its anti IL-6 effects are PPARgamma independent. These studies provide evidence to support the view that AjA may prove to be an effective, safe antiinflammatory agent.
Anxiety is a common disorder in humans that exists in many forms, and animal models of human anxiety are typically employed for the discovery of anxiolytic drugs with human therapeutic potential.
Ideally, animal models of anxiety are validated for the detection of both anxiogenic and anxiolytic effects, but most animal models can effectively only measure anxiolytic-like effects. As control animals typically spend small amounts of time in the aversive portion of an apparatus, decreases in time spent in this portion are difficult to detect.
We have modified an existing test of murine anxiety, the mirrored chamber, and have validated this test using several anxiolytic and anxiogenic drugs. In addition, nine mouse strains were compared on the elevated plus maze and modified mirrored chamber.
Increasing doses of ethanol, diazepam, and pentobarbital produced an anxiolytic-like profile while pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), D-amphetamine, and methyl-6, 7-dimethoxyl-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (DMCM) appeared anxiogenic. This modified test also dissociated drug effects on anxiety from those on activity for d-amphetamine and diazepam. The inbred mouse strains tested produced a similar range of scores for time spent on the open arms of the elevated plus maze and voluntary reentry time in the mirrored chamber, with an overall genetic correlation of 0.68.
Since control animals reliably reentered the more aversive portion of the apparatus for 25% of the total time available, the modified mirrored chamber may be able to detect anxiogenic states produced by various stressors and drug withdrawal. Further, the strain differences detected suggest that the modified mirrored chamber will be a valuable tool in the discovery of the genetic bases of anxiety states and disorders.
The combined effects of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) or a polybrominated biphenyl (PBB) with mirex, kepone, or photomirex were investigated in rats. Groups of 10 animals were fed diets containing the organohalogens alone or in various combinations for 28 d. Body weight gain and food consumption were not affected by any treatment. Liver weight was increased in the group fed Aroclor 1260/photomirex and in all groups receiving PBB. Hepatic microsomal enzyme activities were elevated in the groups treated with halogenated biphenyls alone; this effect was not potentiated in the presence of mirex-related compounds. Serum biochemical parameters were, for the most part, normal. Hematology tests revealed no abnormalities. Histological changes occurred in the liver, thyroid, and kidney of rats treated with the organohalogens alone or in combination. Liver alterations consisted of central lobular cytoplasmic enlargement, exaggerated periportal perinuclear halos, and increased nuclear hyperchromicity and anisokaryosis. Fatty degeneration was observed in all treated groups. Thyroid changes were characterized by a generalized reduction in follicular size and colloid density with collapse of the follicles. Kidneys suffered mild eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusions in the proximal convoluted tubule and focal lymphoid aggregates. Histological changes due to PCBs and PBB were aggravated by mirex and related compounds. The degree of damage appeared to be additive rather than potentiative. Mirex and photomirex levels in livers of rats concomitantly exposed to halogenated biphenyls were four to six times higher than those in rats fed mirex-related compounds alone. However, the toxic response in this organ was not potentiated as a result of the increased accumulation. It was concluded that mirex-related compounds at the dose levels studied did not potentiate the effects produced by halogenated biphenyls and vice versa.
The effects of intravenous LNC-834, a new antiarrhythmic agent, and quinidine sulfate were evaluated and compared in 24-h infarction, programmed electrical stimulation (PES), and ventricular fibrillation threshold (VFT) canine models of cardiac arrhythmias. In the 24-h infarction model (24 h after myocardial infarction), animals averaged 85% arrhythmic beats before treatment. LNC-834 gave greater suppression of these spontaneous arrhythmias (97%) and had a longer duration of action (150 min) than did quinidine (70% and 85 min, respectively) at 10 mg of base/kg, although plasma levels were comparable (1.82 +/- 0.19 and 1.50 +/- 0.27 micrograms/ml of plasma for LNC-834 and quinidine, respectively). At 10 mg of base/kg, LNC-834 and quinidine increased effective refractory periods by 9 and 7%, respectively. In the PES model, LNC-834 (3 mg of base/kg) suppressed ventricular tachycardia (VT) in 33% (2/6) of the dogs tested: none of the six quinidine-treated animals displayed suppression of VT at cumulative doses of 0.3 to 30 mg of base/kg. In PES dogs, inducible and noninducible, mortality was less with LNC-834 treatment than with quinidine [9% (1/11) and 36% (4/11), respectively]. Neither LNC-834 nor quinidine elevated VFT in naive, anesthetized dogs. Although no treatment significantly affected the intrinsic heart rate in VFT dogs, both LNC-834 and quinidine produced significant hypotension; however, LNC-834 caused less hypotension than did quinidine at equal doses. This study demonstrates that LNC-834 may be a useful antiarrhythmic agent with efficacy comparable to and hemodynamic advantages over quinidine.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained arrhythmia seen in clinical practice. It affects approximately 6% of persons over 65 years of age and is independently associated with a 4- to 5-fold higher risk of ischaemic stroke and a 2-fold higher risk of death. Randomized controlled trials have shown that treatment with adjusted-dose oral vitamin K antagonists (primarily warfarin with a target international normalized ratio [INR] of 2.0-3.0) reduces the relative risk of ischaemic stroke by two-thirds (an approximately 3% reduction in annual absolute risk), but is associated with a 0.2% excess annual absolute risk of intracranial haemorrhage (ICH). However, in 'real world' studies, the risk reductions in ischaemic stroke with warfarin have been significantly lower (25-50% relative risk reduction) than in selected trial samples. Moreover, more than 90% of patients enrolled in the sentinel trials were White/European. This raises the question of whether the beneficial results of warfarin can be extrapolated to persons of colour. Important differences in stroke risk profile and responsiveness to warfarin exist across racial/ethnic groups, such that one cannot assume a priori that there is a net benefit of warfarin therapy for AF patients of all racial/ethnic groups.Among patients with ischaemic stroke, AF is more likely to be implicated as the cause of stroke in the White population than in other racial/ethnic groups. Furthermore, AF may be a stronger predictor of ischaemic stroke among the White population than in Black or Hispanic/Latino populations. Approximately one-third of strokes in AF patients are noncardioembolic. Warfarin has been shown to be ineffective in preventing recurrent noncardioembolic strokes. Many persons of colour with AF have other risk factors that predispose them to noncardioembolic stroke, which may partially explain why warfarin has been reported to be less efficacious in preventing strokes in non-White patients with AF, even after adjustment for co-morbidities and anticoagulation monitoring. Notably, the background incidence of ICH is higher in Black, Hispanic and Asian patients than in White patients. Any greater than expected increases in bleeding secondary to anticoagulation may potentially offset any benefit gained from cardioembolic stroke reduction, although this has not been fully resolved.Finally, there are racial/ethnic differences in the prevalence of certain polymorphisms in genes that influence warfarin pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (e.g. cytochrome P450 2C9 and vitamin K epoxide reductase). The Asian population generally appear to require the lowest daily dose of warfarin to maintain a given INR target, with the White population requiring an intermediate daily dose and the Black population requiring the highest daily dose. These differences must be taken into account when administering warfarin in order to minimize the risk of under- or over-anticoagulation.In summary, warfarin is highly effective in preventing ischaemic strokes in White patients with AF at a modestly higher risk of ICH. Whether the same net clinical benefit extends to persons of colour is unproven. Given the rapidly changing demographic nationally and internationally, additional research is needed to resolve this important question.
Several epidemiological studies have demonstrated that vitamin E is a chemopreventative agent for prostate cancer. alpha-Tocopheryl succinate (VES), a derivative of vitamin E, effectively modulates prostate cancer cell growth. However, little is known about the mechanisms regarding this action. Here we show that VES causes human prostate cancer cell LNCaP arrest at G1 phase. This effect is accomplished through VES significantly decreasing expression of the cell cycle regulatory proteins cyclin D1, D3, and E, cdk2 and 4, but not cdk6. Furthermore, VES reduces cdk4 kinase activity, Rb phosphorylation, and cyclin E mRNA expression. Recently there is increasing interest in the protective effect of the VES and selenium combination on prostate cancer. Here we show that VES and selenium work through different mechanisms to exert their inhibitory effects on prostate cancer cells. Taken together, our studies suggest that VES-mediated prostate cancer cell G1/S arrest is a consequence of the regulation of multiple molecules of the cell cycle regulatory machinery.
The combination of lamivudine and hepatitis B immunoglobulins (HBIg) to prevent recurrence of HBV hepatitis has significantly improved the survival of patients transplanted for HBV-related end-stage liver disease. Generally, HBIg are administered intravenously. We evaluated the efficacy, tolerability, and cost savings of long-term intramuscular HBIg and lamivudine in 28 patients (23 men and 5 women), who received liver transplants for acute or chronic HBV-related liver disease. Twelve patients started lamivudine before and 16 at the time of liver transplantation. HBIg were administered intravenously during the first week (50 to 70,000 IU) and intramuscularly thereafter (1200 IU every 3 to 6 weeks) to maintain an HbsAb titer >100 IU/L. Mean follow-up was 20 +/- 13 months. Only one patient experienced HBV recurrence (9 months after transplantation). This patient had failed to follow the scheduled prophylaxis. Cumulative survival at 3 years was 83%. Intramuscular HBIg were well tolerated in all cases. Cost analysis comparing intramuscular vs intravenous HBIg administration showed that 39,490 Euros were saved per patient per year. These preliminary results show that low-dose intramuscular HBIg and lamivudine are efficacious and cost-effective for long-term prophylaxis of hepatitis B recurrence after liver transplantation.
The neuropeptide S (NPS)-NPS receptor 1 (NPSR1) pathway has recently been implicated in the pathogenesis of asthma. The purpose of this study was to identify downstream gene targets regulated by NPSR1 upon NPS stimulation. A total of 104 genes were found significantly up-regulated and 42 down-regulated by microarray analysis 6 h after NPS administration. By Gene Ontology enrichment analysis, the categories 'cell proliferation', 'morphogenesis' and 'immune response' were among the most altered. A TMM microarray database comparison suggested a common co-regulated pathway, which includes JUN/FOS oncogene homologs, early growth response genes, nuclear receptor subfamily 4 members and dual specificity phosphatases. The expression of four up-regulated genes, matrix metallopeptidase 10 (MMP10), INHBA (activin A), interleukin 8 (IL8) and EPH receptor A2 (EPHA2), exhibited a significant NPS dose-response relationship as confirmed by quantitative reverse-transcriptase-PCR and for MMP10 by immunoassay. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed that MMP10 and TIMP metallopeptidase inhibitor 3 (TIMP3) were both strongly expressed in bronchial epithelium, and macrophages and eosinophils expressed MMP10 in asthmatic sputum samples. Because remodeling of airway epithelium is a feature of chronic asthma, the up-regulation of MMP10 and TIMP3 by NPS-NPSR1 signaling may be of relevance in the pathogenesis of asthma.
Patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) have impaired endothelial function. Simvastatin therapy has been demonstrated to significantly improve endothelial function in these patients. Although withdrawal of statins is a frequent problem in clinical practice, the effects after discontinuation of statins treatment on endothelial function in patients with CAD are largely unknown.
This study investigated the effects after withdrawal of simvastatin on brachial artery endothelial function in patients with CAD and the underlying mechanisms.
We recruited 30 patients with established CAD. They were treated with 20 mg simvastatin for 4 weeks. Endothelial dependent flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) was assessed in the brachial artery using high-resolution ultrasound at baseline, 4 weeks during simvastatin treatment, and 1 week after termination of therapy. 20 healthy subjects were also studied as a control group. Furthermore, we investigated underlying mechanisms on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) confluent monolayers at passages 2-3. HUVECs were exposed to simvastatin. After 24 h cells were repeatedly washed to remove the drugs, and the conditioned mediums were collected at the indicated time points. The nitric oxide (NO) production and levels of eNOS mRNA after 24 h of withdrawal of statins were examined.
(1) Abrupt discontinuation of simvastatin treatment leads to a rebound of serum total cholesterol (21.3%) and LDL cholesterol (18.2%) in patients within 1 week, but they were still lower than the baseline values (P<0.05 for each parameter). (2) A significant decreased of FMD (-59.3%) was observed in patients after discontinuation of simvastatin in 1 week, and furthermore, the FMD was even lower than the baseline levels (4.6% vs. 5.6%, P<0.05). The reduction of FMD was not correlated with the change of LDL cholesterol (r=-0.343, P=0.081). In contrast to the unchanged LDL cholesterol level, abrupt discontinuation of therapy caused a rapid and significant decrease in FMD from 10.6% to 5.2% in healthy subjects at day 1, but it returned to baseline levels within 1 week. (3) In HUVECs, a maximum decrease of nitrite levels (-80%) was observed at 6 h after stopping simvastatin treatment, which was below the control levels. 24 h after stopping 10(-5) mmol/L and 10(-6) mmol/L simvastatin treatment, eNOS mRNA expression decreased to -71% and -42% (P<0.05), respectively.
Abrupt withdrawal of simvastatin treatment not only acutely and completely abrogates its beneficial effects on endothelial function in patients with CAD, but also induced further vascular injury compared with pretreatment status, independent of cholesterol levels. The underlying mechanism of these negative effects may be related to the suppression of endothelial NO production, which are dose-dependent.
Taurine has been shown to protect against lung injury induced by various oxidants including ozone, nitrogen dioxide, amiodarone, and paraquat and to protect against bleomycin-induced lung injury in combination with niacin. In this study, Spraque-Dawley rats were treated with 5% taurine in the drinking water for 10 days prior to bleomycin instillation. Fibrosis in the rats pretreated with taurine (BT) was absent, along with fewer inflammatory infiltrates compared to the untreated rats (BW). A significant decrease in the number of PMNs and a decrease in hydroxyproline levels were found in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in the BT group compared to the BW group. By immunohistochemical staining, inducible nitric oxide synthase was evident in the lungs of bleomycin-treated rats, and minimal when rats were treated with taurine. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) as measured by immunohistochemical staining, was present in lungs of both taurine-treated and untreated rats, but was more abundant in the BW group compared to the BT group. In addition, decreased ICAM presentation was detected by EM immunogold staining in the BT group compared to the BW group. These data demonstrate that rats pretreated with 5% taurine in their drinking water prior to bleomycin instillation are protected from fibrosis, inflammatory infiltrates, as well as nitric oxide and TNF-alpha production, which are hallmarks of bleomycin lung injury.
The present study was designed to investigate the ameliorative potential and possible mechanism of hydroalcoholic extract of flowers of P. granatum in glycerol-induced acute renal failure (ARF) in rats.
The rats were subjected to rhabdomyolytic ARF by single intramuscular injection of hypertonic glycerol (50% v/v; 8 ml/kg) and the animals were sacrificed after 24 hours of glycerol injection. The plasma creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine clearance, and histopathological studies were performed to assess the degree of renal injury.
Pretreatment with hydroalcoholic extract of flowers of P. granatum (125 and 250 mg/kg p.o. twice daily for 3 days) significantly attenuated hypertonic glycerol-induced renal dysfunction in a dose-dependent manner. BADGE (Bisphenol-A-diglycidyl ether) (30 mg/kg), a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-γ antagonist, and N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine-methyl ester (L-NAME) (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg), nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, were employed to explore the mechanism of renoprotective effects of Punica granatum. Administration of BADGE (30 mg/kg) and L-NAME (40 mg/kg) abolished the beneficial effects of P. granatum in glycerol-induced renal dysfunction.
Hydroalcoholic extract of flowers of P. granatum has ameliorative potential in attenuating myoglobinuric renal failure and its renoprotective effects involve activation of PPAR-γ and nitric oxide-dependent signaling pathway.
Clinical and laboratory evidence suggests that the fulminant liver failure sometimes associated with the inhalation anesthetic halothane may be an immune-mediated toxicity. Most importantly, the vast majority of patients with a clinical diagnosis of halothane hepatitis have serum antibodies, which react with one or more specific liver microsomal proteins that have been covalently altered by the trifluoroacetyl chloride metabolite of halothane. The serum antibodies are specific to halothane hepatitis patients and are not seen in sera of patients with other types of liver pathology. In this study, a 57-kD trifluoroacetylated liver microsomal neoantigen associated with halothane hepatitis and native 57-kD protein were purified from liver microsomes of halothane-treated and -untreated rats, respectively. When the purified trifluoroacetylated 57-kD and native 57-kD proteins were used as test antigens in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, serum antibodies from halothane hepatitis patients (n = 40) reacted with both of these proteins to a significantly greater extent than did serum antibodies from control patients (n = 32). On the basis of its apparent monomeric molecular mass, isoelectric point and NH2-terminal amino acid and tryptic peptide sequences, the 57-kD protein has been identified as rat liver protein disulfide isomerase. Antibodies raised against rat liver protein disulfide isomerase also reacted with a protein of approximately 58-kD in human liver microsomes. The results of this investigation suggest that trifluoroacetylated protein disulfide isomerase is one of the immunogens associated with halothane hepatitis. In certain patients it might lead either to specific antibodies or, possibly, to specific T cells, which could be responsible for halothane hepatitis.
The ability of endogenous carboxylesterase (CaE) to protect against the lethal effects of a variety of organophosphorus (OP) compounds was examined in rats. The in vivo protection provided by endogenous CaE was measured by the difference in the LD50 values of OP compounds in control rats and rats whose CaE activity had been inhibited by sc injection with 2 mg/kg of 2-(O-cresyl)-4H-1,3,2-benzodioxaphosphorin-2-oxide. Endogenous CaE provided significant protection against the in vivo toxicity of soman, sarin, tabun, and paraoxon, but not against dichlorvos, diisopropyl fluorophosphate, or ethoxymethyl-S-[2-(diisopropylamino)ethyl] thiophosphonate (VX). The relationship between the in vivo CaE protection against OP compounds and their relative reactivities with CaE and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) was evaluated by measuring the in vitro bimolecular rate constants (ki) for inhibition of plasma CaE and brain AChE. Except for VX, ki values for CaE inhibition varied less than 10-fold while ki values for AChE inhibition varied 10(5)-fold. The degree of in vivo inhibition of CaE by equitoxic doses of the OP compounds increased as the CaE/AChE ki ratio increased. However, the protective ratio of the LD50 values in control vs CaE-inhibited rats decreased as the CaE/AChE ki ratio increased. This inverse relationship between in vivo CaE protection and relative in vitro reactivity for CaE suggested that CaE detoxication is more important for highly toxic OP compounds (i.e., compounds with high AChE ki values and low LD50 values) than for less toxic compounds.
Effects of the tyrphostin adaphostin and bortezomib were examined in Bcr/Abl+ leukemia cell resistant to imatinib mesylate secondary to Bcr/Abl point mutations. Adaphostin was equally effective in inducing mitochondrial damage, caspase activation, JNK activation, and Raf-1, phospho-Stat3 and -Stat5 inactivation in mutant and wild-type cells, but differentially down-regulated phospho-Bcr/Abl. Adaphostin and bortezomib synergistically induced apoptosis in wild-type and mutant cells, including T315I mutants. Notably, adaphostin+/-bortezomib potently induced ROS and lethality in mutant cells, effects attenuated by the antioxidant NAC. These findings indicate that adaphostin+/-bortezomib circumvent imatinib resistance due to Bcr/Abl point mutations most likely through ROS generation.
