We have evaluated the preventive effects of an aqueous Aegle marmelos leaf extract (AMLEt) in isoprenaline (isoproterenol)-induced myocardial infarction in rats. Rats were pretreated with AMLEt (50, 100 or 200 mg kg(-1)) for 35 days. After the treatment period, isoprenaline (200 mg kg(-1)) was administered subcutaneously to rats at an interval of 24 h for two days. The activity of creatine kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) was significantly increased in serum and significantly decreased in heart of isoprenaline-treated rats. Pretreatment with AMLEt decreased the activity of CK and LDH in serum and increased them in the heart. The activity of sodium-potassium dependent adenosine triphosphatase (Na(+)K(+)ATPase) was significantly decreased while the activity of calcium dependent adenosine triphosphatase (Ca(2+)ATPase) was simultaneously increased in the heart and aorta. AMLEt pretreatment increased the activity of Na(+)K(+) ATPase and decreased the activity of Ca(2+)ATPase in the heart and aorta simultaneously. The levels of cholesterol and triglycerides increased, while the levels of phospholipids decreased in the heart and aorta of isoprenaline-treated rats. In AMLEt-pretreated rats the levels of cholesterol and triglycerides decreased whereas phospholipids increased in heart and aorta. All the deranged biochemical parameters were restored with 200 mg kg(-1) AMLEt. Similarly alpha-tocopherol (60 mg kg(-1))-pretreatment to isoprenaline-treated rats exhibited a significant effect on all the parameters studied. The results from this study may have clinical relevance.
Orlistat is an anti-obesity agent that increases the fecal fat excretion, which promotes colon carcinogenesis. Therefore, the present study was designed to verify the effects of Orlistat on the formation of rat colonic aberrant crypt foci (ACF) and cell proliferation evaluated by the PCNA method. Male Wistar rats received either a standard diet or a high fat diet (HFD), supplemented or not with Orlistat (200mg/kg chow) and two doses of the carcinogen dimethyl-hydrazine (25mg/Kg). After 30 days, Orlistat was associated to a significant increase in the number of colonic ACFs and cell proliferation in DMH-treated animals, independently of the HFD.
Myalgia/arthralgia is a crucial side effect of paclitaxel, and may become the major dose-limiting side effect. However, this is a situation where there is little effective preventive treatment. L-Glutamine was reported as a neuroprotective agent for vincristine-induced neurotoxicity. In Japan, there have been reports on steroid and Shakuyaku-Kanzou-to (a herbal medicine) for paclitaxel-induced myalgia/arthralgia. This study aimed to compare the effect of L-Glutamine and Shakuyaku-Kanzou-to, and to discuss the validity of these agents for the paclitaxel-induced myalgia/arthralgia. Our results suggested that Shakuyaku-Kanzou-to showed no remarkable effects against paclitaxel-induced myalgia/arthralgia as had been reported before; however, both L-Glutamine and Shakuyaku-Kanzou-to decreased the duration of grade 2 toxicity (CALGB Expanded Common Toxicity Criteria) in comparison with those who were not treated. L-Glutamine and Shakuyaku-Kanzou-to might therefore a preventive effect against moderate or severer myalgia/arthralgia during paclitaxel-treated chemotherapy. Further trials are needed to confirm the value of these drugs.
The leaf extract of E. neriifolia significantly reduced apomorphine-induced stereotypy in mice at all doses (100, 200, 400 mg/kg body weight) in mice and rats and was devoid of catalepsic effect thereby, suggesting specific dopaminergic receptor modulating activity. The extract (400 mg/kg) potentiated pentobarbitone-induced hypnosis. It showed protection against maximal electro-shock-induced convulsion at 400 mg/kg. E. neriifolia leaf extract had anxiolytic action at 400 mg/kg by increasing the percentage of time spent in open arm in elevated plus-maze. The extract did not reverse scopolamine-induced amnesia on elevated plus-maze. It increased transfer latency at 200 and 400 mg/kg and also in combination with scopolamine. These results indicated anti-anxiety, anti-psychotic and anti-convulsant activity of E. neriifolia leaf extract in mice and rats. Phytochemical study showed the presence of steroidal saponin, reducing sugar, tannins, flavonoids in the crude leaf extract
Nitrosamine has been identified as a carcinogen for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Here, we investigated if a nitrosamine metabolizing gene, cytochrome P450 2A6 (CYP2A6) played an important role in NPC development. Relationships between the disease and the CYP2A6 were studied in 74 NPC patients and 137 age-matched healthy controls by using PCR-RFLP assay to distinguish between a wide type allele, *1A, and two mutant alleles, *1B and *4C. Overall, a significant association between CYP2A6 polymorphism and NPC development was observed (P<0.05). Individual with mutant alleles had an increased risk for NPC when compared to those with *1A/*1A (OR=2.37, 95% CI=1.27-4.46). In addition, males who carried mutant alleles of CYP2A6 had a fivefold increased risk for NPC when compared with those who carried *1A/*1A genotype (OR=5.02, 95% CI=1.82-14.14). It is thus suggested that CYP2A6 polymorphism may play a crucial role in NPC susceptibility and it may be used as a risk marker for NPC.
Administration of simvastatin (80 mg/kg, po. evening dose) and gemfibrozil (600 mg/kg, po twice) for 30 days produced significant decrease in the level of reduced glutathione, superoxide dismutase, catalase and increase in the level of lipid peroxidation and various serum parameters (creatine phosphokinase, lactate dehydrogenase, serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase, creatinine, urea and blood urea nitrogen). This suggested involvement of oxidative stress in rhabdomyolysis. Increase in the level of reduced glutathione, superoxide dismutase, catalase and decrease in the level of lipid peroxidation and serum parameters after administration of antioxidant CoQ10 (10 mg/kg.ip) proved the protective effect of CoQ10 in rhabdomyolysis.
The significance of antioxidant therapy in heart failure has not been fully examined. This study evaluated whether vitamin C has beneficial effects on renal function or augments the renal effects of furosemide in patients with heart failure.
There were 2 protocols. In protocol 1, plasma level of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and renal function were assessed before and after intravenous infusion of vitamin C or placebo in 8 patients with moderate congestive heart failure (CHF) treated with enalapril. In protocol 2, a randomized crossover study was performed in patients with moderate CHF treated with either an ACE inhibitor (enalapril) (n = 10) or an angiotensin II receptor antagonist (losartan) (n = 9) and in asymptomatic patients with impaired left ventricular function treated with enalapril (n = 8). TBARS and renal function were assessed before and after intravenous infusion of furosemide alone, coinfusion of furosemide with placebo and vitamin C, or coinfusion of furosemide with vitamin C and a kallikrein inhibitor (nafamostat mesilate).
In protocol 1, although vitamin C reduced TBARS, it did not affect renal function. In protocol 2, TBARS was higher in patients with moderate CHF than in asymptomatic patients. Vitamin C augmented natriuretic effect of furosemide (from 179 +/- 98 to 192 +/- 104 micromol/min, P <.01) only in patients with moderate CHF treated with enalapril but not in the other 2 groups. Nafamostat mesilate prevented this augmentation.
In patients with CHF treated with enalapril, counteraction of the increased oxidative stress by vitamin C may contribute to the augmented natriuretic effect of furosemide through the renal kinin-nitric oxide pathway.
Deficiency of 11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase causes hypertension and hypokalemia. To test whether hypertensive patients who develop hypokalemia when treated with diuretics have low levels of activity of this enzyme as a metabolic predisposition to the development of hypokalemia, we measured urinary cortisone, cortisol, tetrahydrocortisol, tetrahydrocortisone, and creatinine in 42 hypertensive patients who either did or did not become hypokalemic on hydrochlorothiazide. The mean ratios of cortisone to cortisol, tetrahydrocortisone to tetrahydrocortisol, tetrahydrocortisol to cortisol, and cortisol to creatinine did not differ between the two groups. We conclude that hypertensives who develop hypokalemia on diuretics do not have low activity of this enzyme. They also do not appear to have low ring A reduction or higher cortisol secretion rates compared with hypertensives who do not develop hypokalemia. We failed to find a metabolic predisposition to the development of hypokalemia by diuretic treatment.
We examined the role of two regimens of combination inhaler therapy on amount of reversibility of chronic lung complications in mustard gas exposed patients. In a phase III, prospective, randomized clinical trial, 105 participants received either combination form of fluticasone propionate and salmetrol, 500/100 microg daily (group 1; n = 52) or beclomethasone, 1000 microg daily, and salbutamol inhaler, 800 microg daily (group 2; n = 53) for 12 wk. Pulmonary function test (PFT) indices and respiratory symptoms (including dyspnea, night awakening due to dyspnea and cough) were assessed at baseline and in each visit. Thirty-six patients in group 1 and 30 patients in group 2 completed study course. Both medication regimes increased pretreatment forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC), FEV1/FVC%, and peak expiratory force (PEF) by the end of 12 wk. It seems that these improvements are more constant in group 1 than in group 2. Reversibility, that is, 10% increase of FEV1 in the second month was seen for 27% of patients in the group 1 and for 7% in the group 2. VAS scores have decreased in two groups during treatment period (p = .003) and after follow-up period it remained sustained in group 1 alone. Inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta 2-agonists are effective in treatment of patients with chronic bronchiolitis following exposure to sulfur mustard. However, a medium dose of fluticasone/salmeterol has the same effect on the airways reversibility, rather than a very high dose of beclomethasone with only the short-acting beta-agonist.
Pyknodysostosis is a rare autosomal recessive osteosclerosing skeletal disorder caused by mutations in the CTSK gene situated at 1q21 that codes for cathepsin K - a lysosomal cysteine protease. Mutations in this gene affect the metabolism of skeletal system. This causes problems in bone resorption and remodelling and craniofacial abnormalities. In this article we report a case of 12 year old female from Punjab with pyknodysostosis having hepatosplenomegaly and simian crease.
Methoxychlor (MXC) is a non-steroidal pesticide that is known to possess estrogenic activity, and therefore may be potentially hazardous to the development and/or reproduction. The present study assessed the effects of perinatal exposure to MXC on reproductive function after maturation in both male and female rats. Pregnant rats were fed a phytoestrogen-free diet containing different doses of MXC (24, 240, and 1200 ppm) from day 15 of gestation to day 10 after parturition, and reproductive functions of offspring were examined after maturation. In males, MXC exposure during the perinatal period decreased serum LH and FSH, but not testosterone levels, but it did not affect copulatory behavior. In females, MXC exposure prolonged the days exhibiting cornified vaginal smears during the estrous cycle. In addition, both the lordosis reflex and preovulatory LH surge on the presumptive proestrous evening were suppressed in MXC-exposed females. These results suggest that perinatal exposure to MXC exerts permanent effects on several aspects of the reproductive function in both male and female rats.
Insomnia is a common symptom, not only in the adult population but also in many astronauts. Hypnotics, such as temazepam (a benzodiazepine) and zolpidem (an imidazopyridine), are often taken to relieve insomnia. Temazepam has been shown clinically to have hemodynamic side effects, particularly in the elderly; however, the mechanism is not clear. Zolpidem does not cause hemodynamic side effects. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the use of different hypnotics during spaceflight might contribute significantly to the high incidence of postflight orthostatic hypotension, and to compare the findings in astronauts with clinical research. Astronauts were separated into three groups: control (n = 40), temazepam (15 or 30 mg; n = 9), and zolpidem (5 or 10 mg; n = 8). In this study, temazepam and zolpidem were only taken the night before landing. The systolic and diastolic blood pressures and heart rates of the astronauts were measured during stand tests before spaceflight and on landing day. On landing day, systolic pressure decreased significantly and heart rate increased significantly in the temazepam group, but not in the control group or in the zolpidem group. Temazepam may aggravate orthostatic hypotension after spaceflight when astronauts are hemodynamically compromised. Temazepam should not be the initial choice as a sleeping aid for astronauts. These results in astronauts may help to explain the hemodynamic side effects in the elderly who are also compromised. Zolpidem may be a better choice as a sleeping aid in these populations.
Effects of antioxidants, resveratrol, quercetin, and N-acetylcysteine (NAC) on the functions of cultured rat hepatic stellate cells and Kupffer cells were studied. These compounds dose-dependently suppressed serum-dependent proliferation of stellate cells as determined by [3H]thymidine and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine uptake. Expression of smooth muscle alpha-actin was suppressed by a high dose of resveratrol and quercetin. These phenolic compounds also suppressed inositol phosphate metabolism, tyrosine phosphorylation, and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activation in platelet-derived growth factor/BB-stimulated stellate cells. Moreover, the phenolic compounds selectively reduced the level of cell cycle protein cyclin D1 in stellate cells. Thus, resveratrol and quercetin might inhibit stellate cell activation by perturbing signal transduction pathway and cell cycle protein expression, whereas mechanism of potent antiproliferative effect of NAC remains to be elucidated. On the other hand, kinetic analysis showed that production of nitric oxide (NO) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) by lipopolysaccharide-stimulated Kupffer cells was strongly inhibited by resveratrol and quercetin but not by NAC. Although expression of messenger RNAs for inducible NO synthase and TNF-alpha was not affected by the phenolic compounds, cellular levels of inducible NO synthase and TNF-alpha secretion were suppressed significantly, indicating the posttranscriptional process of generating these proteins might be affected predominantly by these phenolic compounds. Thus, NAC and these phenolic compounds may have therapeutic potential against liver injury by regulating functions of hepatic stellate cells and Kupffer cells.
The transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) induces a battery of cytoprotective genes after oxidative stress. Nrf2 aids in liver regeneration by altering insulin signaling; however, whether Nrf2 participates in hepatic glucose homeostasis is unknown. Compared with wild-type mice, mice lacking Nrf2 (Nrf2-null) have lower basal serum insulin and prolonged hyperglycemia in response to an intraperitoneal glucose challenge. In the present study, blood glucose, serum insulin, urine flow rate, and hepatic expression of glucose-related genes were quantified in male diabetic wild-type and Nrf2-null mice. Type 1 diabetes was induced with a single intraperitoneal dose (200 mg/kg) of streptozotocin (STZ). Histopathology and serum insulin levels confirmed depleted pancreatic beta-cells in STZ-treated mice of both genotypes. Five days after STZ, Nrf2-null mice had higher blood glucose levels than wild-type mice. Nine days after STZ, polyuria occurred in both genotypes with more urine output from Nrf2-null mice (11-fold) than wild-type mice (7-fold). Moreover, STZ-treated Nrf2-null mice had higher levels of serum beta-hydroxybutyrate, triglycerides, and fatty acids 10 days after STZ compared with wild-type mice. STZ reduced hepatic glycogen in both genotypes, with less observed in Nrf2-null mice. Increased urine output and blood glucose in STZ-treated Nrf2-null mice corresponded with enhanced gluconeogenesis (glucose-6-phosphatase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase)- and reduced glycolysis (pyruvate kinase)-related mRNA expression in their livers. Furthermore, the Nrf2 activator oltipraz lowered blood glucose in wild-type but not Nrf2-null mice administered STZ. Collectively, these data indicate that the absence of Nrf2 worsens hyperglycemia in type I diabetic mice and Nrf2 may represent a therapeutic target for reducing circulating glucose levels.
The aim of the study was to evaluate feasibility of emergence of nitrate withdrawal syndrome consequently to discontinuation of short-term nitrate administration for coronary heart disease. 12 males with stable effort angina functional class III were subjected to 24-h Holter ECG monitoring. In a randomized cross-over trial each patient received for 3 days isosorbide dinitrate (10-30 mg 4 times a day) followed by 3-day course of placebo. The monitoring was performed on day 3 of the drug or placebo administration and on the first day of their withdrawal. Isosorbide dinitrate discontinuation had no negative effects on the patients' condition though significantly increased the number and duration of episodes of asymptomatic myocardial ischemia. 4 patients developed episodes of asymptomatic myocardial ischemia at rest which were not observed in placebo application. It is believed that much caution should be used in planning interrupted regimes of nitrates therapy in patients with severe angina pectoris.
Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE)-guided cardioversion has been utilized as a feasible alternative to conventional anticoagulation strategies in the management of patients with atrial fibrillation. As such, the use of intravenous sedation protocols using relatively short-acting anesthetics, such as propofol, have gained popularity in the outpatient and inpatient settings for such procedures. The authors report a case of cardiac arrest and electromechanical dissociation associated with the use of intravenous propofol during TEE before direct current cardioversion for atrial fibrillation.
The standard of care for anaplastic gliomas is surgery followed by radiotherapy. The NOA-04 phase III trial compared efficacy and safety of radiotherapy followed by chemotherapy at progression with the reverse sequence in patients with newly diagnosed anaplastic gliomas.
Patients (N = 318) were randomly assigned 2:1:1 (A:B1:B2) to receive conventional radiotherapy (arm A); procarbazine, lomustine (CCNU), and vincristine (PCV; arm B1); or temozolomide (arm B2) at diagnosis. At occurrence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression, patients in arm A were treated with PCV or temozolomide (1:1 random assignment), whereas patients in arms B1 or B2 received radiotherapy. The primary end point was time to treatment failure (TTF), defined as progression after radiotherapy and one chemotherapy in either sequence.
Patient characteristics in the intention-to-treat population (n = 274) were balanced between arms. All histologic diagnoses were centrally confirmed. Median TTF (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.2; 95% CI, 0.8 to 1.8), progression-free survival (PFS; HR = 1.0; 95% CI, 0.7 to 1.3, and overall survival (HR = 1.2; 95% CI, 0.8 to 1.9) were similar for arms A and B1/B2. Extent of resection was an important prognosticator. Anaplastic oligodendrogliomas and oligoastrocytomas share the same, better prognosis than anaplastic astrocytomas. Hypermethylation of the O(6)-methylguanine DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter (HR = 0.59; 95% CI, 0.36 to 1.0), mutations of the isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH1) gene (HR = 0.48; 95% CI, 0.29 to 0.77), and oligodendroglial histology (HR = 0.33; 95% CI, 0.2 to 0.55) reduced the risk of progression. Hypermethylation of the MGMT promoter was associated with prolonged PFS in the chemotherapy and radiotherapy arm.
Initial radiotherapy or chemotherapy achieved comparable results in patients with anaplastic gliomas. IDH1 mutations are a novel positive prognostic factor in anaplastic gliomas, with a favorable impact stronger than that of 1p/19q codeletion or MGMT promoter methylation.
Acute intermittent porphyria has hitherto been recognised as an autosomal dominant inborn error of haem metabolism characterised by a depressed activity of the enzyme uroporphyrinogen I synthase (URO.S). A case of non-hereditary acute porphyria, similar to acute intermittent porphyria, following treatment of epilepsy with carbamazepine is reported. Subsequent measurements of erythrocyte URO.S activity in a group of epileptic patients treated with various combinations of anticonvulsant drugs suggest that carbamazepine exerts a direct suppressant effect on URO.S in addition to its indirect enzyme-inducing properties.
Inbred Swiss mice were fed hexachlorocyclohexane (BHC) at 500 ppm dose level in diet for 2, 4, 6 and 8 months. Later BHC was discontinued for 4 months and subsequently the animals were refed BHC for 1 month. Glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) and fructose-1,6-diphosphatase (FDPase) activity was studied at different time intervals accompanied with changes in glycogen distribution and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proliferation in hepatocytes. G6Pase and FDPase showed a decline in activities on BHC feeding. The activities of these enzymes showed recovery on BHC discontinuation. The changes were progressive with duration of exposure. After 6 months exposure the biochemical changes became more resistant to recovery. Maximal changes occurred in 8 month-exposure and the changes were irreversible. Glycogen accumulation and depletion followed a definite pattern. After two months of BHC feeding, increase in parenchymal glycogen storage zones was observed. In the later stage of hepatocarcinogenesis and specially in tumors, glycogen was depleted considerably. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) proliferation was recorded around the 3rd and 4th month. The correlation between glycogen accumulation, SER proliferation, G6Pase and FDPase activity is discussed.
Intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (IV PCA) meperidine hydrochloride can be used with a reasonable margin of safety.
A retrospective review was performed of 355 medical records of patients receiving IV PCA meperidine treatment. Four groups of patients were defined, based on daily meperidine dose and the presence or absence of central nervous system excitation adverse effects. Use of more than 600 mg/d of meperidine hydrochloride was considered a high dose.
University tertiary care hospital.
Postoperative patients from general, orthopedic, neurosurgical, gynecological, and urologic procedures receiving IV PCA.
If patients were judged to have consumed significant amounts of meperidine, the analgesic regimen was modified to (1) discontinue meperidine therapy, (2) substitute hydromorphone hydrochloride, or (3) decrease the use of meperidine by adding oral methadone hydrochloride or transdermal fentanyl citrate to the regimen.
Patients who received less than 10 mg/kg per day of IV PCA meperidine hydrochloride therapy were unlikely to experience central nervous system excitatory adverse effects and maintain adequate analgesia.
The mean meperidine hydrochloride consumption for those patients classified as high dose, asymptomatic was 13.3 mg/kg per day (95% confidence interval, 12.1-14.4 mg/kg per day). This differed statistically significantly (P<.05) from the mean meperidine hydrochloride dose in patients classified as high dose, symptomatic, which was 16.9 mg/kg per day (95% confidence interval, 14.7-19.2 mg/kg per day). The duration of meperidine use did not differ among the 4 patient groups. The incidence of a central nervous system toxic reaction associated with IV PCA meperidine therapy was 2%.
We recommend 10 mg/kg per day as a maximum safe meperidine hydrochloride dose by an IV PCA device for no longer than 3 days. Daily patient evaluation is mandatory. Care must also be taken when using this dose to ensure the absence of renal dysfunction or enhanced hepatic metabolism of meperidine.
As a result of their ability to induce translational readthrough of stop codons, the aminoglycoside antibiotics are currently being tested for efficacy in the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients carrying a nonsense mutation in the dystrophin gene. We have undertaken a systematic analysis of aminoglycoside-induced readthrough of each stop codon in human tissue culture cells using a dual luciferase reporter system. Significant differences in the efficiency of aminoglycoside-induced readthrough were observed, with UGA showing greater translational readthrough than UAG or UAA. Additionally, the nucleotide in the position immediately downstream from the stop codon had a significant impact on the efficiency of aminoglycoside-induced readthrough in the order C > U > A > or = G. Our studies show that the efficiency of stop codon readthrough in the presence of aminoglycosides is inversely proportional to the efficiency of translational termination in the absence of these compounds. Using the same assay, we analyzed a 33-base pair fragment of the mouse dystrophin gene containing the mdx premature stop codon mutation UAA (A), which is also the most efficient translational terminator. The additional flanking sequences from the dystrophin gene do not significantly change the relatively low-level aminoglycoside-induced stop codon readthrough of this stop codon. The implications of these results for drug efficacy in the treatment of individual patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy or other genetic diseases caused by nonsense mutations are discussed.
1. Conscious, Long Evans rats, chronically instrumented for the measurement of regional haemodynamics, were used to assess responses to 3 min infusions of the potassium channel opener, BRL 38227 (1 and 10 micrograms kg-1 min-1) or adrenaline (0.05 and 0.5 microgram kg-1 min-1) in the absence and in the presence of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 3 mg kg-1 h-1), an inhibitor of nitric oxide biosynthesis. 2. In the absence of L-NAME, the low dose of BRL 38227 caused slight hypotension and tachycardia, accompanied by small increases in mesenteric and hindquarters blood flow only. However, there were increases in renal, mesenteric and hindquarters vascular conductances. L-NAME had no effect on any of these responses. 3. The high dose of BRL 38227 caused substantial hypotension and tachycardia. Renal and hindquarters flows did not change significantly, but there was a marked increase in mesenteric flow. There were only modest increases in renal and hindquarters vascular conductances but a substantial mesenteric vasodilatation. In the presence of L-NAME, there was a slight reduction of the latter but no other changes in the responses to BRL 38227. 4. In the absence of L-NAME, the low dose of adrenaline caused slight hypotension but a marked tachycardia. There were no changes in renal or mesenteric blood flow but a clear-cut increase in hindquarters flow. Renal and mesenteric vascular conductances showed only small rises, in contrast to the substantial hindquarters vasodilatation. In the presence of L-NAME, there was significant attenuation of the tachycardia and of the increases in hindquarters flow and vascular conductance in response to adrenaline.5. The high dose of adrenaline caused marked hypotension and tachycardia. Renal flow did not change, but there was a fall in mesenteric and a marked rise in hindquarters flow. Renal vascular conductance showed a slight increase but mesenteric vascular conductance did not change significantly, whereas there was a substantial hindquarters vasodilatation. In the presence of L-NAME, adrenaline caused an increase in blood pressure but no significant change in heart rate; the renal vasodilatation was abolished, there was a mesenteric vasoconstriction, and the hindquarters vasodilatation was markedly reduced. L-NAME also attenuated the tachycardia induced by adrenaline in animals with no cardiac baroreflexes.6. The present results indicate that L-NAME-sensitive mechanisms are involved in the vasodilator and tachycardic effects of adrenaline. The relative lack of effect of L-NAME on responses to BRL 38227 indicates that the changes in the responses to adrenaline were not non-specific or due to changes in haemodynamic status caused by L-NAME. The results raise the possibility that the 'hypertensinogenic' properties of endogenous adrenaline could be amplified when nitric oxide biosynthesis is impaired.
Cyclophosphamide, an alkylating agent widely used in cancer chemotherapy, causes fatal cardiotoxicity. In this study, lupeol, a pentacyclic triterpene isolated from Crataeva nurvala stem bark, and its ester, lupeol linoleate, were investigated for their possible hypocholesterolaemic effects against cyclophosphamide-induced lipidaemic instabilities. Male albino Wistar rats were categorized into 6 groups. Group I served as control. Rats in groups II, V and VI were injected intraperitoneally with a single dose of cyclophosphamide (200 mg kg(-1)) dissolved in saline. Cyclophosphamide-treated groups V and VI respectively received lupeol and lupeol linoleate (50 mg kg(-1)), dissolved in olive oil, for 10 days by oral gavage. Groups III and IV served as drug controls and were administered lupeol and lupeol linoleate, respectively. Cyclophosphamide administration induced abnormal changes in serum lipoproteins and lipid fractions in both serum and cardiac tissue. The activity of lipid metabolizing enzymes was distorted significantly in the cyclophosphamide-treated rats. The cyclophosphamide-treated rats also showed extensive intermuscular haemorrhage in histology. Lupeol and its ester reversed the above alterations induced by cyclophosphamide. This study encapsulates the early lipaemic abnormalities in the heart tissue of cyclophosphamide-treated rats. Treatment with lupeol linoleate was more effective than lupeol in rendering protection to the cardiac tissue challenged by cyclophosphamide.
To demonstrate the efficacy of a 10-day, single daily dose, enteral methadone weaning protocol for the prevention of opioid withdrawal symptoms in pediatric patients after prolonged fentanyl exposure.
Prospective, observational study.
Twenty-four-bed medical-surgical intensive care unit within a 222-bed pediatric teaching hospital.
Twenty-nine children, aged 1 day to 19.8 yrs, who received methadone to prevent opioid withdrawal after prolonged continuous fentanyl infusion exposure.
Institution of a standardized methadone weaning protocol.
All 29 patients had received a continuous fentanyl infusion; duration of exposure was 14.5 +/- 9.2 days, cumulative fentanyl dose was 1.93 +/- 1.53 mg/kg, and peak fentanyl infusion was 9.6 +/- 4.3 microg/kg per hr. Twenty-five (86%) of 29 patients successfully completed the methadone wean in 10 days. Withdrawal complications that required a weaning delay were seen in three patients, and one patient expired before completion. Sixteen patients were discharged to complete their weaning schedule at home without incident.
Opioid withdrawal symptoms in pediatric intensive care unit patients after prolonged fentanyl exposure can be avoided by using an enteral, 10-day, single daily dose methadone weaning protocol.
Periorbital angio-oedema may present as an isolated manifestation of aspirin intolerance and can be very alarming to the patient. This case describes a 38-year-old gentleman with such localized clinical features. Once considered an unusual phenomenon, review of the literature has revealed an increased frequency, possibly as a result of previous poor documentation. Clinical manifestations of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) intolerance, in particular periorbital angio-oedema and its associated symptoms, with proposed aetiology and pathogenesis, are discussed.
With the wide use of this drug and other NSAIDs for the relief of painful and inflammatory dental and facial conditions, such localized manifestation of aspirin intolerance may present to the general dental practitioner and other dental specialties. Patients' medical history may reveal sensitivity to these groups of drugs, and in such cases, should be avoided and suitable alternatives provided.
