We describe 3 patients who presented to the emergency department (ED) with stroke, deep venous thrombosis, or pulmonary embolism and renal failure after undergoing cardiac surgery 7 to 17 days earlier. Their onset of thrombosis after previous heparin exposure was temporally plausible for complications of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, an immune-mediated thrombotic disorder triggered by heparin. The patients had normal platelet counts at presentation, yet each had circulating heparin-induced thrombocytopenia antibodies that were ultimately confirmed. Two patients had heparin reexposure in the ED, 1 of whom developed thrombocytopenia with new thrombosis and died. Alternative parenteral anticoagulation prevented further thrombosis in 2 patients. Because heparin use can be catastrophic in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, physicians should be vigilant in suspecting heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in patients with thrombosis after recent hospitalization or heparin exposure. Alternative anticoagulants are available for these at-risk patients.
We report a case of severe citrate toxicity during volunteer donor apheresis platelet collection. The donor was a 40-year-old female, first-time apheresis platelet donor. Past medical history was remarkable for hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and depression. Reported medications included bumetanide, pravastatin, and paroxetine. Thirty minutes from the start of the procedure, the donor noted tingling around the mouth, hands, and feet. She then very rapidly developed acute onset of severe facial and extremity tetany. Empirical treatment with intravenous calcium gluconate was initiated, and muscle contractions slowly subsided over approximately 10 to 15 minutes. The events are consistent with a severe reaction to calcium chelation by sodium citrate anticoagulant resulting in symptomatic systemic hypocalcemia. Upon additional retrospective analysis, it was noted that bumetanide is a loop diuretic that may cause significant hypocalcemia. We conclude that careful screening for medications and underlying conditions predisposing to hypocalcemia is recommended to help prevent severe reactions due to citrate toxicity. Laboratory measurement of pre-procedure serum calcium levels in selected donors may identify cases requiring heightened vigilance. The case also illustrates the importance of maintaining preparedness for managing rare but serious reactions in volunteer apheresis blood donors.
Differential expression of apoptotic genes has been demonstrated in selenite-induced cataract. Acetyl-l-carnitine (ALCAR) has been shown to prevent selenite cataractogenesis by maintaining lenticular antioxidant enzyme and redox system components at near normal levels and also by inhibiting lenticular calpain activity. The aim of the present experiment was to investigate the possibility that ALCAR also prevents selenite-induced cataractogenesis by regulating the expression of antioxidant (catalase) and apoptotic [caspase-3, early growth response protein-1 (EGR-1) and cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COX-I)] genes. The experiment was conducted on 9-day-old Wistar rat pups, which were divided into normal, cataract-untreated and cataract-treated groups. Putative changes in gene expression in whole lenses removed from the rats were determined by measuring mRNA transcript levels of the four genes by RT-PCR analysis, using glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) as an internal control. The expression of lenticular caspase-3 and EGR-1 genes appeared to be upregulated, as inferred by detecting increased mRNA transcript levels, while that of COX-I and catalase genes appeared to be downregulated (lowered mRNA transcript levels) in the lenses of cataract-untreated rats. However, in rats treated with ALCAR, the lenticular mRNA transcript levels were maintained at near normal (control) levels. These results suggest that ALCAR may prevent selenite-induced cataractogenesis by preventing abnormal expression of lenticular genes governing apoptosis.
Fifty cases of clinically proven or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) underwent dipyridamole-technetium-99m CPI (DP-99mTc. CPI) myocardial tomography imaging and coronary angiography. All cases with angiographically proven CAD had positive DP-99 mTc. CPI. The sensitivity was 100%. Six of 13 cases with normal coronary arteriogram showed false positive results (3 cases of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and 3 cases of chest pain with unknown causes). Therefore, the specificity was 53.8% (7/13). The positive predictive accuracy of DP-99m Tc. CPI myocardial imaging was 88.0%. However, We do not consider it justified to apply this statistics to general population as our patients were highly selected. One hundred and twelve myocardial segments of left ventricle were shown to be infarcted or ischemic by either radionuclear imaging or ECG. In 108 segments with abnormal images, only 10 in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy had normal coronary artery supply. Therefore, the reliability of DP-99 mTc. CPI myocardial imaging to display infarcted or ischemic segments was 91.0% (102/112). The ability for 99mTc. CPI imaging to differentiate between infarcted and ischemic lesions was somewhat indefinite, especially in case of localized infarction. The reason of this shortcoming was discussed. Ninety segments were shown to be infarcted or ischemic by ECG, 4 of which had no corresponding coronary artery stenosis. However, in 12 of the 22 segments with normal ECG pattern the corresponding coronary arteries were either occluded or stenosed, resulting in 54.5% (12/22) false negativity. Most of these false negatives were found in posterior and septal walls. Angina pectoris after dipyridamole infusion occurred in 4 of our 50 patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
As a traditional Chinese medicine, dragon's blood (DB) is widely used in treating various pains for thousands of years due to its potent anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects. In the present study, we observed that intragastric administration of DB at dosages of 0.14, 0.56, and 1.12 g/kg potently inhibited paw edema, hyperalgesia, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein expression, or preprotachykinin-A mRNA expression in carrageenan-inflamed or sciatic nerve-injured (chronic constriction injury) rats, respectively. A short-term (15 s or 10 min) pre-exposure of cultured rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons to DB (0.3, 3, and 30 µg/ml) or its component cochinchinenin B (CB; 0.1, 1, and 10 µM) blocked capsaicin-evoked increases in both the intracellular calcium ion concentration and the substance P release. Moreover, a long-term (180 min) exposure of cultured rat DRG neurons to DB or CB significantly attenuated bradykinin-induced substance P release. These findings indicate that DB exerts anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects by blocking the synthesis and release of substance P through inhibition of COX-2 protein induction and intracellular calcium ion concentration. Therefore, DB may serve as a promising potent therapeutic agent for treatment of chronic pain, and its effective component CB might partly contribute to anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects.
To show the nature and magnitude of EKG anomalies subsequent to 5-fluorouracil (5FU) administration and determine whether the onset is dependent on a pre-existing cardiovascular pathological condition. 1,350 patients were treated by 5FU between 1995 and 2000. EKG were recorded in all patients before each administration of 5FU. All cases of 5FU related cardiotoxicity were analyzed and recorded by the Lyon Pharmacovigilance Center. Clinical symptoms included chest pain in 10 patients with an infarct-like pattern in 2 (including one death), and heart failure in one. Three patients suffered from anginal pain without EKG changes and two had electrocardiographic changes without clinical symptoms. Coronary disorders resolved completely on cessation of 5FU therapy, except in one patient who died two months later of heart infarct. The patient with heart failure required specific treatment. Based on both the clinical and electrocardiographic changes, the causative role of 5FU is highly likely. The incidence of cardiotoxicity was 1.2% among these patients, which is close to previous data from the literature. These 16 case reports confirm the cardiotoxic potential of 5FU and argue for the need of a careful cardiac monitoring of 5FU treated cancer patients. The mechanism of 5FU cardiotoxicity is not elucidated. Coronary spasm is the most commonly suspected hypothesis, but further studies are warranted to seek for toxic inflammatory lesions of the myocardium (apoptosis, necrosis, fibrosis).
In recent years, numerous veterinary practitioners have reported anecdotal episodes in which anthelmintic treatment did not appear to deliver the expected efficacy against equine pinworms (Oxyuris equi). Anthelmintic resistance has not been demonstrated formally in equine pinworms, so a clinical study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of paste formulations of pyrantel pamoate or ivermectin against naturally acquired infections with O. equi. Twenty-one horses (>4 months to 15 years of age) with patent, naturally acquired pinworm infections were blocked by source of origin and allocated randomly to one of three treatment groups: horses (n=7) assigned to Group 1 were treated orally with pyrantel pamoate paste at a dosage of 13.2 mg/kg (2x label dosage), Group 2 horses (n=7) were untreated controls, and horses (n=7) assigned to Group 3 were treated orally with ivermectin paste at a dosage of 200 microg/kg. Fourteen days after treatment, horses were euthanatized, necropsied, and large intestinal contents were processed for recovery of adult pinworms. In addition, duplicate 1% aliquots of intestinal contents from the cecum, ventral colon, dorsal colon, and small colon were collected, preserved, and examined for recovery and enumeration of fourth-stage larval O. equi. Anthelmintic efficacy against pinworms was evaluated by comparing the post-treatment worm counts of Groups 1 and 3 to those of control animals. Mean numbers of O. equi adults recovered postmortem were significantly decreased by both pyrantel pamoate (P=0.0366) and ivermectin (P=0.0137) treatment, with respective efficacies of 91.2% and 96.0%. In addition, both products demonstrated >99% efficacy against fourth-stage O. equi larvae. The current study demonstrated acceptable adulticidal and larvicidal efficacy of both pyrantel pamoate and ivermectin paste formulations against O. equi and did not support the existence of macrocyclic lactone or pyrimidine resistance in the pinworm populations evaluated.
Nicotine has a therapeutic benefit in treating Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the present study we show that nicotine decreases accumulation of beta-amyloid (Abeta) in the cortex and hippocampus of APP (V717I) transgenic mice. Nicotine prevents activation of NF-kappaB and c-Myc by inhibiting the activation of MAP kinases (MAPKs). As a result, the activity of inducible NOS and the production of NO are down-regulated. RNA interference experiments show that the above nicotine-mediated process requires alpha7 nAChR. Nicotine decreases Abeta via the activation of alpha7nAChRs through MAPK, NF-kappaB, and c-myc pathways. Nicotine also inhibits apoptosis and cell cycle progression in this mouse line. The dissected signaling pathway of nicotine-mediated neuroprotection in the present study provides a mechanistic basis for the potential development of drug targets for treating AD.
Dose-limiting toxicity of many newer chemotherapeutic agents is peripheral neuropathy. Prior attempts to reduce this side effect have been unsuccessful. We report on the possible successful reduction of peripheral neuropathy with glutamine administration after high-dose paclitaxel.
Patients entered a high-dose chemotherapy protocol in which the first high-dose cycle was paclitaxel at 825 mg/m(2) given over 24 h. The first cohort of patients did not receive glutamine, and the second cohort of patients received glutamine at 10 g orally three times a day for 4 days starting 24 h after completion of paclitaxel. Neurological assessment was performed at baseline, and at least 2 weeks after paclitaxel, and consisted of a complete neurological exam and nerve conduction studies.
There were paired pre- and post-paclitaxel evaluations on 33 patients who did not receive glutamine and 12 patients who did. The median interval between pre- and post-exams was 32 days. For patients who received glutamine, there was a statistically significant reduction in the severity of peripheral neuropathy as measured by development of moderate to severe dysesthesias and numbness in the fingers and toes (P < 0.05). The degree and incidence of motor weakness was reduced (56 versus 25%; P = 0.04) as well as deterioration in gait (85 versus 45%; P = 0.016) and interference with activities of daily living (85 versus 27%; P = 0.001). Moderate to severe paresthesias in the fingers and toes were also reduced (55 versus 42% and 64 versus 50%, respectively), although this value was not statistically significant. All of these toxicities were reversible over time.
Glutamine may reduce the severity of peripheral neuropathy associated with high-dose paclitaxel; however, results from randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials will be needed to fully assess its impact, if any. Trials are currently ongoing to assess its efficacy for standard-dose paclitaxel in breast cancer and other tumors for which peripheral neuropathy is the dose-limiting toxicity.
This study assessed glomerular endothelin (ET)-1, ET-3, and ET-receptor A and B mRNA levels in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis. During the nephrotic stage, 8 days after PAN injection, ET-1 and ETB receptor mRNA were elevated by 2.8 +/- 0.8-fold (P < 0.01) and 2.4 +/- 0.9-fold (P < 0.01), respectively, as compared with controls. These mRNA levels decreased to control levels by Day 20, when the nephrosis was in remission. In contrast, glomerular ETA receptor mRNA levels did not change in PAN nephrosis or control rats during the experimental period. ET-3 mRNA was not detected in the glomeruli of PAN nephrosis or control rats. Additionally, plasma ET concentration and glomerular ET production were measured in PAN nephrosis and control rats by radio-immunoassay. Eight days after PAN injection, ET-1 levels in plasma and glomeruli were not significantly altered in rats with PAN-induced nephrosis (glomeruli, 104.68 +/- 16.46 pg/mg of protein versus 98.24 +/- 13.68 pg/mg of protein; plasma, 2.68 +/- 1.10 versus 2.52 +/- 0.98 pg/mL). The administration of methylprednisolone to PAN rats resulted in the rapid disappearance of proteinuria and partially attenuated the increased ET-1 and ETB receptor gene expression in the glomeruli. These data indicate that glomerular ET-1 and ETB receptor expression in PAN nephrosis in increased at the mRNA level and that methylprednisolone treatment results in an attenuated increase.
Xanthophyll (lutein) is one of the most potent known antioxidants. It has been shown that dietary intake of xanthophyll helps to prevent age-related macular degeneration and the development of cataracts. It may also reduce the risk of developing various types of cancer. Here we showed that xanthophyll efficiently scavenged the stable free radical 1,1-diphenyl-2-picryl-hydrazyl (DPPH) with an IC50 of 0.5mM and effectively countered the cytotoxic effect of tert-butylhydroperoxide (tBuOOH) on various leukemic cell lines. In contrast, oxidized xanthophyll did not have these effects. We then examined whether dietary intake of xanthophyll inhibited leukemic tumor growth in mice injected subcutaneously with the leukemic cell line L1210. After one month, treatment with 13mg/kg xanthophyll had inhibited tumor growth by about 20%. Xanthophyll also enhanced the anti-leukemic activity of adriamycin in the L1210 mouse model as it extended the duration of adriamycin-induced suppression of tumor growth. Moreover, the two agents together reduced tumor volume by about 50% whereas treatment with adriamycin alone only stalled growth for a few days. Oxidized xanthophyll did not have any anti-leukemic effects on its own or in combination with adriamycin. Thus, the radical scavenging activity of the food supplement xanthophyll prevents oxidative stress, inhibits leukemic tumor growth, and enhances the anti-leukemic activities of a common chemotherapeutic agent in a synergistic manner.
A study was carried out to determine the involvement of dopaminergic system in opioid-induced cardiovascular responses in the dogs. The study population consisted of 32 mongrel dogs of either sexes. The results show that morphine given in small dose (2 mg/kg I.V.) causes significant fall in blood pressure. The results also show that there is involvement of dopaminergic system in opioid-induced vasomotor responses in dogs. Partial blockade of the parenterally induced hypotensive response of morphine by haloperidol given centrally induced hypotensive responses of morphine by haloperidol given centrally in doses, which are too low to be effective by the peripheral route, strongly favours the involvement of central dopaminergic system in the morphine-induced hypotensive responses. The results also show that the hypotensive response of morphine was almost completely blocked after naloxone pretreatment by central route.
P-glycoprotein is an efflux pump for many drugs including doxorubicin and paclitaxel. This study evaluated the coadministration of these drugs with the P-glycoprotein inhibitor valspodar (PSC 833) with the aim of determining: (a) maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) of doxorubicin followed by paclitaxel (DP); (b) the MTD of DP combined with PSC 833 (DPV), without and with filgrastim (G-CSF); and (c) the pharmacokinetic interactions of PSC 833 with doxorubicin and paclitaxel.
For the first cycle, patients received doxorubicin as a 15-min infusion followed by paclitaxel as a 1-h infusion. For the second cycle, patients received reduced doses of DP with PSC 833 at 5 mg/kg p.o., four times a day for 12 doses.
Thirty-three patients with various refractory malignancies were enrolled and assessable. The MTD of DP without PSC 833 was 35 mg/m(2) doxorubicin and 150 mg/m(2) paclitaxel. The MTD of DPV without G-CSF was 12.5 mg/m(2) doxorubicin and 70 mg/m(2) paclitaxel. The dose-limiting toxicity for both DP and DPV was neutropenia without thrombocytopenia. With G-CSF, the MTD for DPV was 20 mg/m(2) doxorubicin and 90 mg/m(2) paclitaxel. No grade 4 nonhematological toxicities were observed. Five partial and two minor tumor remissions were observed. Paired pharmacokinetics with and without PSC 833 revealed substantial drug interactions with both doxorubicin and paclitaxel.
PSC 833 can be administered safely with doxorubicin and paclitaxel. The pharmacokinetic profiles of these drugs are significantly affected by PSC 833, requiring approximately 60% dose reductions for equivalent degrees of myelosuppression.
The objective of this article was to show the role of cytokines in the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis due to sulfur mustard gas inhalation. Eighteen veterans with mustard gas-induced pulmonary fibrosis and 18 normal patients were used as controls. Bronchoalveolar larvage (BAL) and analyses of BAL fluids for cellular and cytokine levels were performed. There was a significant difference in granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) level in the BAL fluid of patients and the controls (p < 0.0001). Granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating pulmonary fibrosis (GM-CSF) BAL levels were significantly increased in patients with pulmonary fibrosis (PF) in comparison with controls (p < 0.0001). Patients with PF have highly significant increases in IL-8 level compared to controls (87.94 +/- 59.63 vs. 8.66 +/- 6.97 g/mL(1); p < 0.0001) as well. IL-8 and G-CSF levels in BAL fluid correlate only with the percentage and the absolute number of neutrophils of the BAL fluid in patients with PF (p = 0.02/p = 0.01; p = 0.01/p = 0.01; respectively). A significant correlation was found between GM-CSF BAL fluid level and the percentage and the absolute number of the BAL fluid eosinophils (p = 0.04 and p = 0.03). Neutrophils alveolitis, the presence of eosinophils, and higher concentrations of interleukin-8, G-CSF, and GM-CSF in BAL fluid are associated with the development of fibrosis in sulfur mustard victims.
The initial presentation of macroprolactinoma with visual field impairment, especially in males, is well recognized. Successful treatment with dopamine agonist therapy is characterized by a reduction in hyperprolactinaemia and often rapid and progressive resolution of the visual impairment. A small proportion of patients may subsequently develop a secondary deterioration in both their visual fields and visual acuities despite normalization of prolactin levels and tumour shrinkage. When pituitary apoplexy can be excluded this may result from traction on the optic chiasm which is pulled down into the now partially empty sella. We report a series of seven patients in whom chiasmal traction is believed to be the cause of their secondary deterioration in visual acuity occurring after dopamine agonist therapy for macroprolactinoma. The clinical history of two patients both of whom had rapid resolution of field defect with bromocriptine therapy but subsequently developed a recurrence of their bitemporal hemianopia is detailed. In both patients MRI scanning showed not only tumour involution but also marked optic chiasm herniation into the pituitary fossa. Surgical treatment was considered too risky; but on reduction of bromocriptine dosage the field defect improved in both cases; there was a modest elevation of prolactin and a degree of tumour re-expansion. The latter is believed to have released tethering of the optic chiasm and/or its vascular supply and thus obviated the need for surgery. Regular monitoring of visual fields in patients with macroprolactinoma receiving medical treatment is therefore important. Early recognition of secondary field loss due to chiasmal herniation enables correction of the visual field loss by manipulation of the medical therapy.
The cholesterol embolization is a rare complication of atherosclerosis. A direct implication of the treatment with anticoagulants in the etiology of the disease has been questioned, and now such therapy is considered more as an adjuvant factor with angiographic procedures than as a cause. A 60-year-old patient with an ischemic cardiomyopathy presented cholesterol embolization syndrome, confirmed by cutaneous biopsy histologic examination during treatment with heparin. Spontaneous evolution was favourable and only limited amputation of the lower limbs were required. The authors think that cholesterol emboli have a direct relationship to the treatment with heparin in this case, there being no other causes to justify its appearance.
Dinitropyrenes are mutagenic environmental pollutants. Of these compounds, 1,6-dinitropyrene is a potent tumorigen while 1,3-dinitropyrene appears to be weakly or non-tumorigenic. Two-electron reduction of dinitropyrenes yields nitro-nitrosopyrenes, which have been shown previously to be the major aerobic metabolites of these compounds in vitro. Further reduction of nitrosopyrenes is required for their activation to a DNA-reactive N-hydroxylamines. In this work, 1-nitro-3-nitrosopyrene was synthesized and the electrochemical and enzyme-catalyzed reduction of 1-nitro-3-nitrosopyrene has been compared with that of 1-nitro-6-nitrosopyrene. As determined by cyclic voltammetry, the reduction potentials of 1-nitro-3-nitrosopyrene, 1-nitro-6-nitrosopyrene and their parent dinitropyrenes were similar, although 1-nitro-3-nitrosopyrene did have a slightly more negative cathodic peak potential than the other three compounds. The NADPH-mediated reduction of 1-nitro-6-nitrosopyrene to intermediates which reduce succinoylated cytochrome c was faster than that of 1-nitro-3-nitrosopyrene. In the presence of rat liver microsomes or cytosol, the reduction of 1-nitro-6-nitrosopyrene was faster than that of 1-nitro-3-nitrosopyrene. These differences in the rates of nitro-nitrosopyrene reduction may be one factor contributing to the lower tumorigenic potential of 1,3-dinitropyrene relative to 1,6-dinitropyrene.
Aquaporin-1 (AQP1) water channels are expressed in the plasma membrane of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. We found reduced osmotic water permeability in freshly isolated DRG neurons from AQP1(-/-) versus AQP1(+/+) mice. Behavioral studies showed greatly reduced thermal inflammatory pain perception in AQP1(-/-) mice evoked by bradykinin, prostaglandin E(2), and capsaicin as well as reduced cold pain perception. Patch clamp of freshly isolated DRG neurons showed reduced action potential firing in response to current injections. Single action potentials after pulse current injections showed reduced maximum inward current, suggesting impaired Na(v)1.8 Na(+) function. Whole-cell Na(v)1.8 Na(+) currents in Na(v)1.8-expressing ND7-23 cells showed slowed frequency-dependent inactivation after AQP1 transfection. Immunoprecipitation studies showed AQP1- Na(v)1.8 Na(+) interaction, which was verified in live cells by single-particle tracking of quantum dot-labeled AQP1. Our results implicate the involvement of AQP1 in DRG neurons for the perception of inflammatory thermal pain and cold pain, whose molecular basis is accounted for, in part, by reduced Na(v)1.8-dependent membrane Na(+) current. AQP1 is, thus, a novel target for pain management.
Coke oven emissions are known as human carcinogen, which is a complex mixture of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanism of action of coke oven emissions induced carcinogenesis and to identify biomarkers of early biological effects in a human bronchial epithelial cell line with CYP1A1 activity (HBE-CYP1A1). Particulate matter was collected in the oven area on glass filter, extracted and analyzed by GC/MS. DNA breaks and oxidative damage were evaluated by alkaline and endonucleases (FPG, hOGG1 and ENDO III)-modified comet assays. Cytotoxicity and chromosomal damage were assessed by the cytokinesis-block micronucleus cytome (CBMN-Cyt) assay. The cells were treated with organic extract of coke oven emissions (OE-COE) representing 5, 10, 20, 40μg/mL extract for 24h. We found that there was a dose-effect relationship between the OE-COE and the direct DNA damage presented by tail length, tail intensity and Olive tail moment in the comet assay. The presence of lesion-specific endonucleases in the assays increased DNA migration after OE-COE treatment when compared to those without enzymes, which indicated that OE-COE produced oxidative damage at the level of pyrimidine and purine bases. The dose-dependent increase of micronuclei, nucleoplasmic bridges and nuclear buds in exposed cells was significant, indicating chromosomal and genomic damage induced by OE-COE. Based on the cytotoxic biomarkers in CBMN-Cyt assay, OE-COE may inhibit nuclear division, interfere with apoptosis, or induce cell necrosis. This study indicates that OE-COE exposure can induce DNA breaks/oxidative damage and genomic instability in HBE-CYP1A1 cells. The FPG-comet assay appears more specific for detecting oxidative DNA damage induced by complex mixtures of genotoxic substances.
Selective COX-2 inhibitors increase the risk of myocardial infarction and stroke that is attributed to their ability to inhibit prostacyclin (PGI2), lipoxins, resolvins, and endothelial nitric oxide (eNO) but not platelet COX-1 derived thromboxane A2 (TXA2). In contrast, aspirin blocks both COX-1 and COX-2 enzymes that, in turn, increases intracellular concentrations of dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid (DGLA), arachidonic acid (AA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and reduced formation of eicosanoids. On the other hand, such an increase is much less with specific COX-2 inhibitors since they do not block the formation of eicosanoids through COX-1 pathway. DGLA, AA and EPA form precursors to PGE1, PGI2, and PGI3 respectively, which are potent vasodilators and platelet anti-aggregators, and thus aid in the prevention of thrombus formation. EPA has anti-arrhythmic action, and EPA, DHA (docosahexaenoic acid), DGLA, and PGE1 have anti-inflammatory actions as well. EPA, DHA, and AA augment eNO formation that has anti-atherosclerotic action. Hence, combining EFAs with COX-2 inhibitors will prevent thrombotic cardiovascular events.
The mechanisms underlying cognitive and neurobehavioral abnormalities associated with childhood exposure to manganese (Mn) are not well understood but may be influenced by neuroinflammatory activation of microglia and astrocytes that results in nitrosative stress due to expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS/NOS2). We therefore postulated that gene deletion of NOS2 would protect against the neurotoxic effects of Mn in vivo and in vitro. Juvenile NOS2 knockout (NOS2(-/-)) mice were orally exposed to 50 mg/kg of MnCl₂ by intragastric gavage from days 21 to 34 postnatal. Results indicate that NOS2(-/-) mice exposed to Mn were protected against neurobehavioral alterations, despite histopathological activation of astrocytes and microglia in Mn-treated mice in both genotypes. NOS2(-/-) mice had decreased Mn-induced formation of 3-nitrotyrosine protein adducts within neurons in the basal ganglia that correlated with protection against Mn-induced neurobehavioral defects. Primary striatal astrocytes from wildtype mice caused apoptosis in cocultured striatal neurons following treatment with MnCl₂ and tumor necrosis factor-α, whereas NOS2(-/-) astrocytes failed to cause any increase in markers of apoptosis in striatal neurons. Additionally, scavenging nitric oxide (NO) with 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (PTIO) prevented the ability of Mn- and cytokine-treated wildtype astrocytes to cause apoptosis in cocultured striatal neurons. These data demonstrate that NO plays a crucial role in Mn-induced neurological dysfunction in juvenile mice and that NOS2 expression in activated glia is an important mediator of neuroinflammatory injury during Mn exposure.
Arsenic has been associated with a multitude of human health problems; however, its impact on host resistance to infection has not been extensively researched. In vertebrates, the innate immune response is vital for potentiating the adaptive immune response. Therefore, dampening of the innate immune response results in an immunocompromised host. In this present study, effects of low concentrations of arsenic on zebrafish resistance to infection are evaluated. Exposure to 2 and 10 ppb arsenic, both considered safe levels in drinking water, resulted in a greater than 50-fold increase in viral load and at least a 17-fold increase in bacterial load in embryos. To determine the cause of this amplified pathogen load, important components of the innate immune system were analyzed. Presence of arsenic dampened the overall innate immune health of the fish as evidenced by reductions in respiratory burst activity. Viral infection, after arsenic exposure, showed decreases of up to 13- and 1.5-fold changes in interferon and Mx mRNA expression, respectively. Bacterial infection, post arsenic exposure, demonstrated at least 2.5- and 4-fold declines in interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha mRNA levels, respectively. Maximum expression of these essential cytokines was also delayed upon arsenic exposure. Our data indicate that arsenic exposure, at concentrations deemed safe in drinking water, suppresses the overall innate immune function in zebrafish and present the zebrafish as a unique model for studying immunotoxicity of environmental toxicants. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing the effects of such low levels of arsenic on host resistance to infection.
Aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)) is a mycotoxin produced by some strains of Aspergillus and is a recognized pulmonary and hepatic carcinogen. The most widely accepted mechanism of AFB(1) carcinogenicity involves bioactivation to AFB(1)-8,9-exo-epoxide and binding to DNA to form AFB(1)-N(7)-guanine. Another potential cause of DNA damage is AFB(1)-mediated stimulation of reactive oxygen species formation, leading to oxidation of DNA bases. The objective of this study was to determine the ability of AFB(1) to cause oxidative DNA damage in lung cell types of the A/J mouse. The formation of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) in freshly isolated mouse lung alveolar macrophages, alveolar type II cells, and nonciliated bronchial epithelial (Clara) cells was assessed by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. An approximately 3-fold increase in 8-OHdG formation occurred in both alveolar macrophage and Clara cell preparations isolated from A/J mice 2 h following treatment with a single tumorigenic dose of 50 mg/kg AFB(1) ip (n = 3, p < 0.05). Prior treatment with 300 kU/kg polyethylene glycol-conjugated catalase prevented the AFB(1)-induced increase in 8-OHdG levels in all mouse lung cell preparations (n = 3, p < 0.05). These results support the possibility that oxidative DNA damage in mouse lung cells contributes to AFB(1) carcinogenicity.
The aim of this study was to demonstrate that tacrolimus (FK506) has a hepatoprotective effect by reducing ischemia-reperfusion-induced apoptosis and necrosis, both of which lead to post-surgical liver dysfunction. An ischemia-reperfusion model and primary cultured rat hepatocytes subjected to hypoxic and reoxygenation phases, mimicking the surgical process, were used. c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1/stress-activated protein kinase 1 (JNK1/SAPK1) activation leads to caspase 3 activation, a trigger of apoptosis. The activation status of JNK1/SAPK1 was evaluated by immunoprecipitation or Western-blotting experiments. Apoptosis was assessed by measuring caspase activation and by TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick-end labeling) reaction. Necrosis was assessed histologically. Tacrolimus improved the survival rate of rats subjected to ischemia-reperfusion. After FK506 pretreatment, the liver necrosis rate was reduced, and ischemia-reperfusion-induced JNK1/SAPK1 activation and apoptosis were significantly decreased. In hypoxia-reoxygenation-subjected hepatocytes, tacrolimus reduced JNK1/SAPK1 and caspase 3 activation. In the liver, tacrolimus prevented ischemia-reperfusion-induced apoptosis and necrosis.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a major cause of death worldwide. Here, we provide evidence that the ligand-dependent nuclear receptor co-regulator Trim24 (also known as Tif1alpha) functions in mice as a liver-specific tumor suppressor. In Trim24-null mice, hepatocytes fail to execute proper cell cycle withdrawal during the neonatal-to-adult transition and continue to cycle in adult livers, becoming prone to a continuum of cellular alterations that progress toward metastatic HCC. Using pharmacological approaches, we show that inhibition of retinoic acid signaling markedly reduces hepatocyte proliferation in Trim24-/- mice. We further show that deletion of a single retinoic acid receptor alpha (Rara) allele in a Trim24-null background suppresses HCC development and restores wild-type expression of retinoic acid-responsive genes in the liver, thus demonstrating that in this genetic background Rara expresses an oncogenic activity correlating with a dysregulation of the retinoic acid signaling pathway. Our results not only provide genetic evidence that Trim24 and Rara co-regulate hepatocarcinogenesis in an antagonistic manner but also suggest that aberrant activation of Rara is deleterious to liver homeostasis.
The term 'cocaine-induced pseudovasculitis' was coined to encompass a constellation of clinical and laboratory findings which mimics a systemic vasculitis but lacks confirmatory evidence of vasculitis on biopsy. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies reacting with human neutrophil elastase (HNE) have been reported to distinguish the cocaine-related syndrome from a true autoimmune vasculitis. Published cases of retiform purpura related to cocaine use are rare and an etiologic role for levamisole, a common adulterant of cocaine, has been postulated. We describe two female patients aged 39 and 49 years with cocaine-related retiform purpura, mainly affecting the legs. The initial clinical and serological profile in case 1 led to a suspicion of anti-phospholipid syndrome and in case 2 to Wegener's granulomatosis with an unexplained associated neutropenia. Skin biopsies revealed a mixed pattern of leukocytoclastic vasculitis and microvascular thrombosis in case 1 and pure microvascular thrombosis in case 2. Identification of anti-HNE antibodies in both patients linked their disease to cocaine. The mixed vasculopathic pattern in case 1 and the associated neutropenia in case 2, both known adverse effects of levamisole, point to this as the true etiologic agent. Urine toxicology shortly after a binge of cocaine use in each case was positive for levamisole.
