Previous reports have described hepatotoxicity associated with ketoconazole therapy. There is also concern that therapy with fluconazole might cause the same side effect as ketoconazole. We describe two patients who developed unexplained liver test abnormalities after beginning fluconazole therapy. To determine whether fluconazole might have been responsible, liver biopsies were performed. Specimens from both patients demonstrated an absence of hepatocyte necrosis, which, if present, would have necessitated discontinuation of fluconazole therapy. A critical review of other case reports of fluconazole-associated hepatitis also failed to produce a consistent picture. Our experience indicates that a liver biopsy may be useful in selected patients to exclude clinically relevant hepatotoxicity due to fluconazole therapy and to allow its continued use.
The superiority of renin-angiotensin system (RAS) blockade in providing renoprotection has been attributed to class-specific blood pressure "(BP)-independent" mechanisms. However, the conventional BP measurement methodology on which such conclusions are based is inherently limited for an accurate assessment of the fluctuating ambient BP profiles. The present studies were undertaken to rigorously examine the relationship of renoprotection to the antihypertensive effects of RAS blockade using chronic BP radiotelemetry in the 5/6 renal ablation model.
Rats with 5/6 renal ablation received either no treatment, the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor benazepril at a dose of 25, 50, and 100 mg/L; or the angiotensin receptor antagonist losartan at a dose of 50, 120, and 180 mg/L of drinking H2O; and were followed for seven weeks.
Glomerulosclerosis (GS) at sacrifice (approximately 7 weeks) demonstrated a close correlation with the average systolic BP in untreated (r = 0.76, N = 20), benazepril-treated (r = 0.80, N = 33), losartan-treated (r = 0.83, N = 32), or all animals combined (r = 0.81, N = 85, P < 0.0001 for all correlations). The slope of the relationship between GS and BP (percentage of increase in GS/mm Hg increase in BP) in untreated rats (0.7 +/- 0.14) was not significantly altered by either benazepril (0.96 +/- 0.13) or losartan (0.60 +/- 0.08), indicating that RAS blockade, by either agent, resulted in renoprotection that was proportionate to the achieved BP reductions.
These data demonstrate that RAS blockade provides renoprotection in the rat remnant kidney model of progressive GS, primarily through "BP-dependent" and not "BP-independent" mechanisms.
Orlistat (Xenicaltrade mark), a US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug for bodyweight loss, has recently been demonstrated to exhibit antitumor properties towards prostate cancer cells by virtue of its ability to block the lipogenic activity of fatty acid synthase (FAS). FAS (oncogenic antigen-519) is up-regulated in about 50% of breast cancers, is an indicator of poor prognosis, and has recently been functionally associated with the Her2/neu (erbB-2) oncogene.
We assessed the antitumoral effects of orlistat against the human breast cancer cell line SK-Br3, an in vitro paradigm of FAS and Her2/neu overexpression in breast cancer.
Cell cycle analyses revealed that micromolar concentrations of orlistat induced, in a time- and dose-dependent manner, significant changes in the distribution of cell populations including a complete loss of G2-M phase, S-phase accumulation and a concomitant increase in the emerging sub-G1 (apoptotic) cells. Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) cleavage, an early event required for cells committed to apoptosis, was more predominant in orlistat-treated G1 phase cells. When we characterized signaling molecules participating in the cellular events following orlistat-induced inhibition of FAS activity and preceded inhibition of breast cancer cell proliferation, a dramatic down-regulation of Her2/neu-coded p185(Her2/neu) oncoprotein was found in orlistat-treated SK-Br3 cells (>90% reduction). Interestingly, a significant accumulation of the DNA-binding protein PEA3, a member of the Ets transcription factor family that specifically targets a PEA3-binding motif present on the Her2/neu gene promoter and down-regulates its activity, was observed in orlistat-treated SK-Br3 cells. When a Luciferase reporter gene driven by the Her2/neu promoter was transiently transfected in SK-Br3 cells, orlistat exposure was found to dramatically repress the promoter activity of Her2/neu gene, whereas a Her2/neu promoter bearing a mutated binding DNA sequence was not subject to negative regulation by orlistat, thus demonstrating that the intact PEA3 binding site on the Her2/neu promoter is required for the orlistat-induced transcriptional repression of Her2/neu overexpression. RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated silencing of FAS gene expression similarly repressed Her2/neu gene expression in a PEA3-dependent manner, thus ruling out a role for non-FAS orlistat-mediated effects. When the combination of orlistat and the anti-Her2/neu antibody trastuzumab (Herceptintrade mark) in either concurrent (orlistat + trastuzumab) or sequential (orlistat --> trastuzumab; trastuzumab --> orlistat) schedules was tested for synergism, addition or antagonism using the combination index (CI) method of Chou-Talalay, co-exposure of orlistat and trastuzumab demonstrated strong synergistic effects (CI10-90 = 0.110-0.847), whereas sequential exposure to orlistat followed by trastuzumab (CI10-90 = 0.380-1.210) and trastuzumab followed by orlistat (CI10-90 = 0.605-1.278) mainly showed additive or antagonistic interactions. Indeed, orlistat-induced FAS inhibition synergistically promoted apoptotic cell death when concurrently combined with trastuzumab as determined by an ELISA for histone-associated DNA fragments. Importantly, the degree of FAS expression in a panel of human breast cancer cell lines was predictive of sensitivity to orlistat-induced anti-proliferative effects as determined by a MTT-based characterization of metabolically viable breast cancer cells. Moreover, hypersensitivity to orlistat-induced cytotoxicity was observed in MCF-7 breast cancer cells engineered to overexpress Her2/neu (MCF-7/Her2-18 cells), which exhibit a significant up-regulation of FAS expression and activity.
These findings reveal that the development of more potent and/or bioavailable orlistat's variants targeting the lipogenic activity of FAS may open a novel therapeutic avenue for treating Her2/neu-overexpressing breast carcinomas.
A patient had QT prolongation and syncope after starting sulpiride therapy. The present experiments were performed to clarify the causal link among the sulpiride administration, QT prolongation, and the onset of torsade de pointes. Two in vivo models were used: halothane-anesthetized dogs and chronic atrioventricular (AV) block dogs. In the halothane-anesthetized animals (n = 6), sulpiride (2 and 20 mg/kg intravenously) decreased total peripheral resistance and increased heart rate, cardiac output, and ventricular contractility concomitantly. A transient attenuation of these effects occurred soon after the high-dose administration. No significant change was detected in left ventricle preload and depolarization, but repolarization and effective refractory period were significantly prolonged after high-dose administration. The extent of changes was greater in repolarization than in refractoriness, indicating prolongation of the final repolarization phase (electrically vulnerable period). In the chronic AV block animals (n = 4), onset of torsades de pointes with marked QT prolongation was demonstrated after the administration of 60 and 120 mg/kg orally of sulpiride. These results suggest that the QT prolongation and the change in the final repolarization phase with increased sympathetic tone may be the mechanisms responsible for the arrhythmogenic effect of sulpiride. Thus, caution should be paid with the use of sulpiride in patients at risk for elevated plasma concentrations and having preexisting susceptibility to QT prolongation.
Pain is a common patient complaint during dermal filler injections. The primary objective of this study was to compare a new formulation of Juvéderm((R)) injectable gel with lidocaine (denoted as JUV + L) to commercially-available Juvéderm((R)) injectable gel without lidocaine (denoted as JUV) with respect to procedural pain scores in subjects desiring nasolabial fold (NLF) correction.
Subjects received randomized treatment with the lidocaine filler in one NLF and the filler without lidocaine in the other NLF. Investigators determined the appropriate formulation (Ultra or Ultra Plus) and volume of material to inject but were blinded as to which syringe contained lidocaine. Subjects rated procedural pain (pain during injection) using an 11-point scale within 30 min after receiving treatment in both NLFs and compared procedural pain between right and left NLFs using a 5-point scale. NLF severity was rated by both subjects and investigators before and 2 weeks after treatment.
The mean difference on the procedural pain scale was 3.4 (P < 0.0001), and 93% of subjects found JUV + L to be less or slightly less painful than JUV. Improvement in NLF severity was comparable for both products. Common treatment site reactions (CTRs) of pain and tenderness were considerably less frequent for JUV + L than JUV while all other CTRs showed no statistically significant differences.
The dermal filler formulated with lidocaine is effective in reducing procedural pain during correction of facial wrinkles and folds while maintaining a similar safety and effectiveness profile to the filler without lidocaine.
Topotecan pharmacokinetics at higher infusion rates (4 mg/m2 over 30 minutes) have not been studied. The authors report a pharmacokinetics and safety study of this dose in advanced cancer patients. Sixteen patients were given a 4-mg/m2 topotecan infusion intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes weekly for 3 weeks, repeated every 28 days. Pharmacokinetics were determined after the first dose. Plasma concentrations of total topotecan were measured to derive CL, V(ss), C(max), t(max), t(1/2), AUC(0-t), and AUC(0-infinity). Plasma total topotecan concentrations decreased biexponentially, with a mean CL value of 20.6 L/h, V(ss) value of 101 L, and t(1/2) value of 5.0 h. Nine significant adverse events (all hematologic) were topotecan related. Grade 3 or less adverse events included anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and fatigue. Pharmacokinetics of the 4-mg/m2 infusion of topotecan over 30 minutes are comparable to findings from studies of lower and higher doses. Toxicities are similar to previous reports.
The Pro/Pro polymorphism of p53 codon 72 has been reported to be related to bladder and lung cancer, but its relationship with skin cancer is unclear. We assessed the hypothesis that there is a relationship between the p53 codon 72, Pro/Pro polymorphism, cumulative arsenic exposure, and the risk of skin cancer in a hospital-based case-control study in southwestern Taiwan. From 1996 to 1999, 93 newly-diagnosed skin cancer patients at the National Cheng-Kung University (NCKU) Hospital and 71 community controls matched on residence were recruited in southwestern Taiwan. The genotype of p53 codon 72 (Arg/Arg, Arg/Pro, or Pro/Pro) was determined for all subjects by polymerase chain reaction-restricted fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). A questionnaire was administered to each subject for collection of demographic information, personal habits, disease history, diet information, and other relevant questions. The Pro/Pro (homozygous) genotype was more frequent in skin cancer patients (cases, 20%; controls, 12%; P = 0.37). Subjects with the susceptible genotype Pro/Pro and heterozygous (intermediate) genotype Pro/Arg had 2.18 and 0.99 times risk of skin cancer than the wild type Arg/Arg (95% confidence interval, 0.74-4.38; 95% confidence interval, 0.44-2.21), respectively. Compared with subjects with 18.5 < BMI < 23, subjects with BMI > 18.5 had 5.78 times risk of skin cancer (95% confidence interval, 1.06 to 31.36) after adjusting for other risk factors. There was no interaction between BMI and genotype, but the sample size was small. The risk of skin cancer did not significantly vary by tumor cell-type. The risk of skin cancer is increased in individuals with the Pro/Pro genotype. Larger, confirmatory studies are needed to clarify the role of constitutional polymorphisms in p53 and skin cancer risk.
We have investigated dopamine (DA) receptor agonist high- and low-affinity states in female rat estradiol-induced prolactin (PRL)-secreting pituitary tumors and intact pituitary tissue. Estradiol treatment increased the anterior pituitary weight 9-fold and plasma prolactin levels 74-fold and these measures are correlated (R = 0.745, n = 73, p less than 0.001). Competition for [3H]-spiperone binding to the DA receptor by apomorphine was compared in normal and adenomatous pituitary tissue. The inhibition constants (Ki) and the proportions of the two apomorphine sites are unchanged in tumors compared to intact pituitary tissue. Guanosine 5'-[beta-gamma-imino]triphosphate (Gpp(NH)p) causes complete conversion of the high into low affinity dopaminergic agonist site in normal pituitary and in tumors. These results suggest that rats with primary estradiol-induced pituitary tumors have normal and functional DA receptors.
Rhesus monkeys with a history of drinking methadone but currently drug-free and control monkeys with no drug history were injected with methamphetamine hydrochloride (2 to 5 milligrams per kilogram of body weight). In six of seven monkeys which had consumed methadone the lowest dose immediately elicited pronounced oral dyskinesias virtually identical to those of human tardive dyskinesia. The control monkeys did not exhibit oral dyskinesias even after prolonged treatment with the highest dose. The clincial implications may be related to the functioning of brain dopaminergic systems.
The muscarinic receptor affinity of 27 psychotropic and 5 anticholinergic substances was examined in 2 in-vivo and 2 in-vitro models. A highly significant correlation was obtained between the effect of all compounds examined on the atropine sensitive binding of 3H-PrBCM and the effect in the conventional guinea-pig ileum preparation. Antagonism of oxotremorine induced tremors in mice by anticholinergics and neuroleptics was also significantly correlated to the corresponding data obtained in the in-vitro tests. Due to very low potency in the physostigmine induced mortality test in mice too few ED50 values were obtained to perform statistical comparisons. It is concluded, that the conventional guinea-pig ileum model and the 3h-prBCM binding model are equally predictive as tests for antimuscarinic properties. When in-vivo anticholinergic data for neuroleptics are used it must be considered that a possible dopamine receptor blockade may diminish the antimuscarinic effect of the substance.
Chronic inflammation is an underlying risk factor of colon cancer, and NF-κB plays a critical role in the development of inflammation-associated colon cancer in an AOM/DSS mouse model. The aim of this study was to determine whether the standardized ethanol extract obtained from the aerial parts of Artemisia princeps Pampanini cv. Sajabal (EAPP) is effective at preventing inflammation-associated colon cancer, and if so, to identify the signaling pathways involved. In the present study, protective efficacy of EAPP on tumor formation and the infiltrations of monocytes and macrophages in colons of an AOM/DSS mouse model were evaluated. It was found that colitis and tumor burdens showed statistically meaningful improvements after EAPP administration. Furthermore, these improvements were accompanied by a reduction in NF-κB activity and in the levels of NF-κB-dependent pro-survival proteins, that is, survivin, cFLIP, XIAP, and Bcl-2. In vitro, EAPP significantly reduced NF-κB activation and the levels of IL-1β and IL-8 mRNA and pro-survival proteins in HT-29 and HCT-116 colon cancer cells. Furthermore, EAPP caused caspase-dependent apoptosis. Based on these results, the authors suggest EAPP suppresses inflammatory responses and induces apoptosis partly via NF-κB inactivation, and that EAPP could be useful for the prevention of colitis-associated tumorigenesis.
Hallucinations as a symptom of central neurotoxicity are a known but poorly described side effect of ifosfamide. Most cases of ifosfamide-induced hallucinations have been reported with other mental status changes.
The authors interviewed six persons with ifosfamide-induced hallucinations in the presence of a clear sensorium. All patients were receiving high-dose ifosfamide as part of their bone marrow transplant procedure.
Hallucinations occurred only when the patient's eyes were closed and, in all but one case, were reported as disturbing or frightening. Underreporting of these hallucinations by patients is likely.
Hallucinations may be the sole or first manifestation of neurotoxicity. The incidence may be dose and infusion-time related. The clinician should be alerted for possible ifosfamide-induced hallucinations, which may occur without other signs of neurotoxicity. "Eyes-closed" hallucinatory experiences appear to be an unusual feature of this presentation. Patients anxious about this experience respond well to support and education about this occurrence. Optimal pharmacologic management of disturbed patients is unclear. If agitation becomes marked, high-potency neuroleptics (i.e., haloperidol) may be effective.
Metabolic syndrome is associated with accelerated macrovascular and microvascular coronary disease, cardiomyopathy, and elevated inflammatory status. To determine whether metabolic syndrome-associated elevation of the inflammatory cytokine interleukin-18 (IL-18) in serum and cardiac tissue, and its potential sequelae could be attenuated pharmacologically, we studied fructose-fed rats. The fructose-fed rats exhibited increases in systolic blood pressure (SBP), body weight, heart weight, left ventricular weight, and blood insulin. Serum IL-18 levels in these rats were also elevated significantly. These changes were significantly different compared to those in control rats. Perivascular fibrosis around coronary arterioles was evident in the fructose-fed rats, accompanied by a paralleled increase in IL-18 by immunohistochemical analysis and real time polymerase chain reaction. Felodipine attenuated the increased levels in serum IL-18 and cardiac IL-18 mRNA as well as coronary perivascular fibrosis. Thus, augmented IL-18 in serum and cardiac tissue in metabolic syndrome may contribute to the coronary perivascular fibrosis; felodipine administration can attenuate the inflammatory and fibrosis process.
A 25-year-old man received methadone hydrochloride maintenance therapy for heroin addiction. Choreic movements involving the upper limbs, torso, and speech mechanisms developed. Discontinuation of methadone resulted in complete alleviation of the abnormal movements with no recurrence during the subsequent eight months. To our knowledge, this is the first recorded instance of a movement disorder induced by an opiate. The mechanisms by which drugs may after neurotransmitter relationships in the brain and produce symptoms of this type are discussed.
The authors report the case of a 70 year old male patient, who was treated with amiodarone for 9 months (200 mg/d-5 days/7) for alcohol-induced hypokinetic cardiomyopathy, complicated by ventricular dysrhythmia and hospitalized for jaundice, pruritus, and deterioration of his general condition. Alkaline phosphatases were elevated significantly (7 times the upper limit for normal) with a moderate rise in serum transaminases twice the upper limit for normal). Ultrasound of the liver and biliary tract was normal. There were no serum markers for hepatitis B virus. No anti-tissue antibodies were found. A liver biopsy revealed portal and septal fibrosis, and polymorphous inflammatory infiltration with a majority of polymorphonuclear neutrophils and Mallory bodies. Intracellular and intralysosomal phospholipid inclusions were observed with electron microscopy. Clinical and laboratory test value outcome was favorable two weeks after cessation of administration of amiodarone.
Recent reports have demonstrated that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic compounds attenuate the reinforcing effects of cocaine in rats. Baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor agonist, appears to be particularly effective in this respect, suggesting that GABA(B) receptor activation is critically involved in mediating anti-cocaine effects. Amphetamine, like cocaine, is a psychomotor stimulant with high abuse potential in humans.
The purpose of the present investigation was to determine whether baclofen may attenuate the reinforcing effects of d-amphetamine (dAMPH) in rats. Dose-response curves were generated to examine the effect of three doses of baclofen (1.8, 3.2 or 5.6 mg/kg, IP) on dAMPH intravenous self-administration (IVSA). Separate groups were trained to self-administer two doses of dAMPH (0.1 mg/kg or 0.2 mg/kg per injection) under either a fixed-ratio (FR) or progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement. Microdialysis was performed in an additional group of rats to examine the effect of baclofen on dAMPH-induced increases in dopamine (DA) efflux in the nucleus accumbens (NAc).
Pretreatment with baclofen produced dose-dependent reductions in responding for dAMPH under both the FR and PR schedules, and attenuated dAMPH-induced increases in DA levels in the NAc.
These results add to previous findings showing that baclofen attenuates the reinforcing effects of psychostimulant drugs, and suggest that further investigation into the effects of GABA(B) receptor agonists on drug self-administration is warranted.
Soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) is a target enzyme for endogenous nitric oxide (NO), and it converts GTP to cyclic GMP (guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate) as part of a cascade that results in physiological processes such as smooth muscle relaxation, neurotransmission, and inhibition of platelet aggregation. Here we examine a representative of the novel class sCG activators, A-778935 ((+/-)-cis-3-[2-(2,2-dimethyl-propylsulfanyl)-pyridin-3-yl]-N-(3-hydroxy-cyclohexyl)-acrylamide). A-778935 activated sGC synergistically with sodium nitroprusside (SNP) over a wide range of concentration, inducing up to 420-fold activation. A specific inhibitor of sGC, ODQ (1H-[1,2,4]-oxadiazolo[4,3-alpha]quinoxalin-1-one), did not block basal sGC activity, but competitively inhibited the activation by A-778935. A-778935, with or without SNP, did not activate heme-deficient sGC, indicating that the activation of sGC by A-778935 is fully heme-dependent. A-778935 increased intracellular cGMP level dose-dependently in smooth muscle cells. In the presence of 1 microM SNP, a lower concentration of A-778935 increased cGMP than A-778935 alone, and the cGMP concentration reached the same level at 100 microM of A-778935. A-778935 relaxed cavernosum tissue strips in a dose-dependent manner; and in the presence of 1 microM SNP, A-778935 relaxed the strips more potently, shifting the dose-response curve to the left. This novel activator of sGC may have potential efficacy for the treatment of a variety of disorders associated with reduced NO signaling.
Ifosfamide is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system to its active form, ifosforamide mustard. A potential side effect is neurotoxicity, often manifesting as confusion, hallucination, or seizure. Aprepitant, a neurokinin-1 inhibitor, is recommended for highly and moderately emetogenic chemotherapy regimens and may interfere with the metabolism of ifosfamide as it inhibits CYP3A4. The objective of the study is to identify if an increase in the incidence of neurotoxicity may be associated with the use of aprepitant with concomitant ifosfamide.
A retrospective study of inpatients with sarcoma who received a two or four-day regimen of MAI (mesna, doxorubicin, and ifosfamide) between January 1, 2004 and December 31, 2006 was conducted. Data collection focused on characterizing neurotoxicity of patients receiving ifosfamide with or without aprepitant. Correlation between serum creatinine, albumin, liver function tests, age, gender, and total doses of ifosfamide was examined.
A total of 45 patients received ifosfamide of which 23 (51%) were male and 24 (53%) received aprepitant. All baseline characteristics were similar for those who received aprepitant versus those who did not. No significant differences were noted between patients with or without neurotoxicity for age, gender, or liver enzymes. Eight patients (18%) of 45 developed neurotoxicity of which six (75%) of those patients also received aprepitant. A trend of increased occurrence of neurotoxicity was noted with aprepitant administration (6 vs. 2 patients respectively, p = 0.176), although a statistical difference was not observed. A relative risk of 2.6 (95% CI, 0.47-26.6) was associated with the addition of aprepitant.
An increased risk was identified for ifosfamide-induced neurotoxicity associated with aprepitant use; however, the observed difference was not statistically significant. The necessity of aprepitant given in association with ifosfamide may need to be reconsidered due to this risk.
To assess the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy in cancer patients with underlying renal insufficiency receiving the iso-osmolar intravenous contrast agent iodixanol for diagnostic computed tomography (CT) examinations.
Institutional review board approval was obtained with waiver of informed consent. Our study was a retrospective evaluation comparing the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy in consecutive patients with underlying renal insufficiency undergoing diagnostic CT examinations receiving iodixanol from November 2003 to June 2005 with a comparison group of patients with normal baseline renal function over the same period. Renal insufficiency was considered a serum creatinine level more than 1.2 mg/dL in females and more than 1.5 mg/dL in males. Contrast nephropathy was considered an absolute elevation of 0.5 mg/dL or 25% elevation in serum creatinine level.
In the group of patients receiving iodixanol with underlying renal insufficiency (189 patients), 9.0% developed contrast nephropathy (P = 0.015) with 4.8% of patients developing irreversible renal damage (P = 0.03). This compared with 4.9% of patients receiving iodixanol (185 patients) and 3.1% of patients receiving iohexol (194 patients) with normal baseline renal function developing contrast nephropathy (P = 0.38) with 3.2% of the iodixanol patients and 1.0% of the iohexol patients developing irreversible renal damage (P = 0.13).
The risk of contrast-induced nephropathy is significantly higher in patients with underlying renal insufficiency receiving iodixanol than that for patients with normal baseline renal function, but this should not serve as an absolute contraindication for these patients to receive intravenous iodinated contrast for diagnostic CT examinations particularly in patients with life-threatening clinical questions in which contrasted CT may provide valuable information.
Histologic pictures have been conflicting in previous cases of quinidine-associated hepatitis. We report a case of reversible granulomatous hepatitis from quinidine hypersensitivity, with granuloma induction occurring within three days after readministration of quinidine. Fever, urticaria, and mild thrombocytopenia were associated clinical findings. Both light and electron microscopic study results are reported.
Millet is an important cereal food and exhibits multiple biological activities, including immunodulatory, antioxidant, antifungal and anti-hyperglycemia effects. Herein, we describe a novel 35kDa protein with anti-cancer properties, named FMBP, which was extracted and purified from foxtail millet bran by cell-based screening. FMBP is highly homologous to peroxidase as revealed by mass spectrometry and gene sequencing analysis. Furthermore, in vivo anti-tumor results implicated that the novel protein FMBP had the ability to suppress xenografted tumor growth in nude mice. Mechanistically, FMBP is able to suppress colon cancer cell growth through induction of G1 phase arrest and also causes a loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential which results in caspase-dependent apoptosis in colon cancer cells. Notably, FMBP has much lower toxicity in normal colon epithelial cells. Taken together, FMBP has targeted anti-colon cancer effects and may serve as a therapeutic agent against colon cancer.
Alcohol and caffeine consumption during pregnancy are risk factors for fetal outcome. Their combined effects on the early development of the central nervous system were investigated in the rat. Neuralation was severely affected, resulting in a wide spectrum of developmental defects.
We investigated a series of bortezomib-treated patients and correlated the course of bortezomib-induced peripheral neurotoxicity with the presence or absence of peripheral neuropathy at baseline. Forty-eight patients were examined with the total neuropathy score reduced version (TNSr), visual analogue score (VAS) for pain, and nerve conduction studies at baseline and after two and four cycles of chemotherapy. Twenty-three patients had a baseline TNSr = 0-2, and 25 patients had a baseline TNSr >2 (median = 6, range 3-13). The course of bortezomib-induced peripheral neurotoxicity was generally more severe in those patients with the highest baseline TNSr. However, among those subjects with a normal baseline TNSr, two patients developed a clinically relevant peripheral neuropathy with a marked increase in TNSr as early as after two cycles of bortezomib treatment (TNSr = 10 and 15, respectively), while after four cycles, three other patients with normal baseline TNSr had a TNSr of 11, 12, and 13. VAS reporting confirmed that painful neuropathy is frequent after bortezomib administration. Our results indicate that the course of bortezomib-induced peripheral neurotoxicity can be severe in subjects with normal neurological examination at baseline, and therefore, careful monitoring during treatment is suggested in these patients.
Dose-limiting peripheral neuropathy (PN) is frequently reported with the use of thalidomide and bortezomib, novel proteasome inhibitors. While these two agents have significant activity in multiple myeloma (MM), the combination and the associated PN have not been fully examined in untreated patients. The objective of this study was to report the baseline prevalence and occurrence of PN in newly diagnosed MM patients treated with bortezomib and thalidomide. Twenty-seven patients (11 men and 16 women) with previously untreated MM were prospectively monitored for PN. Total neuropathy score reduced (TNSr) was calculated at baseline and after every two cycles of bortezomib treatment. The median cumulative dose of bortezomib was 35.6 mg/m(2) (median 8 cycles) and of thalidomide was 16.8 g. Only three subjects showed mild PN at baseline (whole group median TNSr 0). At the end of treatment, PN developed in 26 patients (median TNSr 8). PN was of mild to moderate severity (TNSr grade 1 = 11, grade 2 = 10, grade 3 = 5, and grade 4 = 0). Nerve conduction studies showed axonal physiology in all except three subjects in whom demyelinating physiology was noted. The median TNSr was 17 in the demyelinating group and 9 in the axonal group. There was no significant correlation of TNSr with cumulative bortezomib or thalidomide dose. At follow-up, 80% of patients had become asymptomatic after discontinuation of the chemotherapy. We conclude that bortezomib and thalidomide combination chemotherapy induces a reversible length-dependent sensory>motor, predominantly axonal, large-fiber>small-fiber polyneuropathy. In a subset, a more severe demyelinating polyneuropathy may develop.
Three patients developed anterior substernal chest pain in association with ischemic electrocardiographic changes temporally related to continuous infusions of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Two patients developed myocardial infarctions and one died. Cardiac toxicity of 5-FU may be more likely when the drug is given by continuous infusion in the presence of preexisting cardiac disease. The pattern of cardiac toxicity suggests cardiac ischemia most likely secondary to coronary artery vasospasm. Patients should not receive 5-FU by infusion if they have significant underlying coronary artery disease or if they develop anterior substernal chest pain while receiving the drug.
Women who have had a spontaneous preterm delivery are at greatly increased risk for preterm delivery in subsequent pregnancies. The results of several small trials have suggested that 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17P) may reduce the risk of preterm delivery.
We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial involving pregnant women with a documented history of spontaneous preterm delivery. Women were enrolled at 19 clinical centers at 16 to 20 weeks of gestation and randomly assigned by a central data center, in a 2:1 ratio, to receive either weekly injections of 250 mg of 17P or weekly injections of an inert oil placebo; injections were continued until delivery or to 36 weeks of gestation. The primary outcome was preterm delivery before 37 weeks of gestation. Analysis was performed according to the intention-to-treat principle.
Base-line characteristics of the 310 women in the progesterone group and the 153 women in the placebo group were similar. Treatment with 17P significantly reduced the risk of delivery at less than 37 weeks of gestation (incidence, 36.3 percent in the progesterone group vs. 54.9 percent in the placebo group; relative risk, 0.66 [95 percent confidence interval, 0.54 to 0.81]), delivery at less than 35 weeks of gestation (incidence, 20.6 percent vs. 30.7 percent; relative risk, 0.67 [95 percent confidence interval, 0.48 to 0.93]), and delivery at less than 32 weeks of gestation (11.4 percent vs. 19.6 percent; relative risk, 0.58 [95 percent confidence interval, 0.37 to 0.91]). Infants of women treated with 17P had significantly lower rates of necrotizing enterocolitis, intraventricular hemorrhage, and need for supplemental oxygen.
Weekly injections of 17P resulted in a substantial reduction in the rate of recurrent preterm delivery among women who were at particularly high risk for preterm delivery and reduced the likelihood of several complications in their infants.
