Brain metastases are an alarming complication of advanced melanoma, frequently contributing to patient demise. The authors performed a retrospective analysis to determine whether the treatment of metastatic melanoma with biochemotherapy would result in similar outcomes if brain metastases were first controlled with aggressive, central nervous system (CNS)-directed treatment.
Seventy melanoma patients were treated with biochemotherapy for metastatic melanoma between 1999 and 2005. Of these, 20 patients had recently diagnosed brain metastases, whereas 50 did not. Brain metastases (if present) were treated with stereotactic radiosurgery >or=28 days prior to systemic therapy. All patients were treated with biochemotherapy consisting of either dacarbazine or temozolomide in combination with a 96-hour continuous intravenous infusion of interleukin-2 and subcutaneous interferon-alpha-2B. The primary endpoint was survival from the time of the initial diagnosis of metastatic disease.
Median survival from the time of the diagnosis of metastatic melanoma was 15.8 months for patients with brain metastases and 11.1 months for those without CNS involvement (P = .26 by the log-rank test; P = .075 by the Gehan Wilcoxon test). Dacarbazine-based and temozolomide-based regimens appeared similar with regard to their effect on overall survival and CNS disease progression. A plateau in further brain recurrences was observed in patients who survived for > 20 months.
Data from the current study suggest that the outcome of biochemotherapy is comparable in patients with and those without brain metastases, if brain metastases are controlled with multidisciplinary treatment. Prolonged survival can be achieved in approximately 15% of patients, regardless of whether or not brain metastases are present.
Cornelia de Lange Syndrome (CdLS) is a multi-organ system birth defects disorder linked, in at least half of cases, to heterozygous mutations in the NIPBL gene. In animals and fungi, orthologs of NIPBL regulate cohesin, a complex of proteins that is essential for chromosome cohesion and is also implicated in DNA repair and transcriptional regulation. Mice heterozygous for a gene-trap mutation in Nipbl were produced and exhibited defects characteristic of CdLS, including small size, craniofacial anomalies, microbrachycephaly, heart defects, hearing abnormalities, delayed bone maturation, reduced body fat, behavioral disturbances, and high mortality (75-80%) during the first weeks of life. These phenotypes arose despite a decrease in Nipbl transcript levels of only approximately 30%, implying extreme sensitivity of development to small changes in Nipbl activity. Gene expression profiling demonstrated that Nipbl deficiency leads to modest but significant transcriptional dysregulation of many genes. Expression changes at the protocadherin beta (Pcdhb) locus, as well as at other loci, support the view that NIPBL influences long-range chromosomal regulatory interactions. In addition, evidence is presented that reduced expression of genes involved in adipogenic differentiation may underlie the low amounts of body fat observed both in Nipbl+/- mice and in individuals with CdLS.
While methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) has been demonstrated to be an effective treatment for opiate dependence, its impact on the treatment outcome of other illicit drug abuse is not as clear. Using the initial urine drug screen (UDS) and follow-up UDS at 1, 6, 12, and 24 months, 167 patients consecutively admitted to MMT were evaluated for opiate, sedative (predominantly benzodiazepine), and stimulant (predominantly cocaine) use. Retention for the opiate only group was 97.32 days longer on average than for patients using opiates along with stimulants, sedatives, or both stimulants and sedatives. Patients abusing opiates only had the greatest decrease in drug use; however, MMT was also associated with decreases in cocaine and sedative use over the 24 month follow-up period. There was no evidence that patients "switched" their drugs of abuse with time in treatment. The negative impact of non-opiate drug use on outcome in MMT and its implications for treatment planning are discussed.
O,O,S-Trimethyl phosphorothioate (OOS-TMP), an impurity present in widely used organophosphorus insecticides, has been shown to induce pneumotoxicity after oral administration. To date very little is known about the pathogenesis of the injury. Protease-anti-protease imbalance has been proposed as a mechanism of various lung injuries; thus, the effect of OOS-TMP on alpha 1-protease inhibitor capacity, pulmonary alveolar macrophage (PAM) esterases, cytotoxic activity and on specific esterase inhibitors in the bronchopulmonary lavage fluid and serum were measured. OOS-TMP (20 mg/kg) administered orally to rats produced a 27% increase in PAM esterase activity 6 h after treatment. The activity then declined to 63% of control value on day 3 and had not recovered to any significant extent on day 7. The cytotoxic activity of PAM was significantly increased at 6 h and 24 h following treatment. Chymotrypsin inhibitory capacity (CIC) of the lavage fluid was decreased by 45% at 6 h but recovered rapidly and reached control levels by 24 h. Trypsin inhibitory capacity (TIC) of serum was affected to a lesser extent such that no change was detected after 6, 12 or 24 h. These data, early elevation of PAM esterase levels with a concomitant increase in cytotoxic activity and decreased TIC and CIC in bronchopulmonary lavage fluid, support the view that pathogenesis of OOS-TMP produced lung injury could be due to increased protease levels.
The effects of 3 types of vasoactive agents, hydralazine, nifedipine and amrinone, were evaluated in 7 patients with primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH). Hemodynamic values were measured before and after drug administration in every patient. All drugs increased cardiac output and reduced both systemic and pulmonary resistance in the patients studied. Only nifedipine significantly reduced pulmonary artery (PA) pressure (6 +/- 5 mm Hg). In addition, it decreased pulmonary resistance to a greater degree than systemic resistance in 2 of the 7 patients, suggesting that nifedipine can cause selective pulmonary vasodilation in some patients. Hydralazine appeared to increase cardiac output and stroke volume by reducing systemic resistance. There was no evidence of direct pulmonary vasodilating effects; it decreased systemic resistance more than pulmonary resistance in every case. The increase in cardiac output from amrinone was secondary to a decrease in systemic arterial pressure with reflex tachycardia; stroke volume was unchanged. Amrinone had little pulmonary effect in all but 1 patient, in whom it substantially reduced PA pressure and pulmonary resistance. The mechanism of action of these 3 drugs in PPH differs. Nifedipine holds the most promise as an effective pulmonary vasodilator. A study of the effects of long-term administration of nifedipine in PPH is warranted.
Kawasaki disease is a febrile disease of children complicated with vasculitis of the coronary arteries and potential aneurysm formation. It has been recognized worldwide and appears to be increasing in frequency. Studies have found that Kawasaki disease is associated with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I B antigens. The MHC-class-I-chain-related gene A (MICA) is located near HLA-B. It has a triplet repeat microsatellite polymorphism in the transmembrane region. We investigated the microsatellite polymorphism in children with Kawasaki disease and controls. Seventy children (46 boys), age at diagnosis 1.68 +/- 1.69 years, with Kawasaki who were treated with aspirin as well as intravenous gamma-globulin were enrolled. Control subjects consisted of 154 children (87 boys), age 2.81 +/- 2.12 years. Phenotype frequency of allele A4 in patients with aneurysm formation was significantly lower than in patients without aneurysms [relative risk (RR) = 0.06, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.01-0.48, p = 0.00469, pc = 0.0232] and showed a similar tendency when compared with controls. Gene frequency of allele A4 was also significantly lower in patients who developed aneurysms than in patients who did not (RR = 0.07, 95% CI = 0.01-0.57, p = 0.0057, pc = 0.0282). Gene frequency of allele A5 showed a tendency to be higher in patients who developed aneurysms than in controls (RR = 2.35, 95% CI = 0.98-5.63, p = 0.0486, pc = 0. 220). Allele A5.1 tended to be negatively associated with Kawasaki disease (RR = 0.57, 95% CI = 0.35-0.93, p = 0.022, pc = 0.105). Our study showed that allele A4 was negatively associated with coronary aneurysm formation in Kawasaki disease. This suggests that allele A4 protects the children with Kawasaki disease from developing coronary aneurysms after aspirin and gamma globulin therapy.
The involvement of adenosine receptor agonists in benzodiazepine withdrawal signs was evaluated as the seizure susceptibility of mice. The concomitant administration of subthreshold dose of pentetrazole (55.0 or 60.0 mg/kg, s.c.) with flumazenil (10.0 mg/kg, i.p.) in mice chronically treated with temazepam or diazepam induced the appearance of withdrawal signs: clonic seizures, tonic convulsions and death episodes. The administration of the selective A1 (CPA-N6-cyclopentyladenosine), A2A (CGS 21680-2-p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine hydrochloride) and the non-selective A1/A2A (NECA-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine) adenosine receptor agonists (i.p.) evoked the significant attenuation of benzodiazepine withdrawal signs, and these effects were more expressed in temazepam- than in diazepam-dependent mice. CPA has shown the most apparent and dose-dependent attenuating effect. The results confirm that adenosine A1 and A2A receptors are involved in benzodiazepine withdrawal signs, and adenosine A1 receptor plays a predominant role in this phenomenon.
Recreational drug use peaks in the developmental stage of adolescence, and exposure to drugs during adolescence may predict drug dependence in adulthood. Nevertheless, adolescent drug vulnerability is not widely studied in animal models of drug intake, and very few studies have investigated sex differences in drug-related behavior during adolescence.
We compared patterns of intravenous (i.v.) amphetamine self-administration among adolescent vs adult, male vs female Sprague-Dawley rats on a fixed ratio (FR) followed by a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement.
After surgical implantation of i.v. catheters, adolescent [postnatal day (P) 35-52] and adult (P90-106) male and female rats were allowed to acquire lever-pressing behavior reinforced by either 0.025 or 0.05 mg/kg/0.1-ml amphetamine infusions over 14 daily 2-h sessions on an FR1 schedule (n = 9-12 per age-, sex-, and dose-group). Subsequently, responding maintained by 0.0125 or 0.05 mg/kg per infusion amphetamine in 4-h sessions on a PR schedule was tested.
Adolescent rats acquired amphetamine self-administration faster than adults, reached a higher number of infusions, and took more amphetamine than their adult counterparts during the acquisition phase, although age differences varied by dose. In PR testing, young adult males earned fewer infusions than older adult males, whereas young adult females earned more infusions than their older adult counterparts, and more than age-matched males.
These results suggest that i.v. amphetamine self-administration in rats is a useful model to investigate the potential neurochemical and endocrine bases for age and sex differences in vulnerability to behavioral reinforcement by amphetamine.
A 65-year-old man with advanced renal cell carcinoma was admitted due to continuing chest pain at rest. Two weeks before his admission, sorafenib had been started. He was diagnosed with non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction by laboratory data and electrocardiogram. Enhanced heart magnetic resonance imaging also showed subendocardial infarction. However, there was no stenosis in coronary arteries on angiography. Coronary artery spasm was induced by a provocative test. Cessation of sorafenib and administration of Ca-channel blocker and nitrates ameliorated his symptoms, but relapse occurred after resumption of sorafenib. Addition of oral nicorandil reduced his symptoms and maintained stable angina status. We report the first case of sorafenib-induced coronary artery spasm. Sorafenib is a multikinase inhibitor that targets signaling pathways necessary for cellular proliferation and survival. On the other hand, the Rho/ROCK pathway has an important role in the pathogenesis of coronary artery spasm. Our report may show an adverse effect on the Rho/ROCK pathway by sorafenib use.
To determine whether resveratrol provides vasculoprotection in trauma-hemorrhaged animals and whether the effects are mediated via estrogen receptor-dependent hemeoxygenase-1.
Prospective, multiexperimental, randomized, controlled studies.
University research laboratory.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 300-350 g.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent trauma hemorrhage (mean arterial pressure 40 mm Hg for 90 min, then resuscitation). Resveratrol (30 mg/kg) with or without an estrogen receptor antagonist (ICI 182,780), a hemeoxygenase enzyme inhibitor (chromium-mesoporphyrin), or vehicle was injected during resuscitation. At 24 hrs after trauma hemorrhage with resuscitation or sham operation, the animals were euthanized for further evaluation.
Acetylcholine-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation decreased, whereas nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-stimulated superoxide radical production in the aorta and aortic p22phox, p47phox, gp91phox, NOX1, and NOX4 mRNA concentrations increased in trauma-hemorrhaged rats vs. sham rats. All altered parameters were normalized in resveratrol-treated trauma-hemorrhaged rats. Furthermore, there was a significant increase in hemeoxygenase-1 after trauma hemorrhage, and resveratrol treatment further increased hemeoxygenase-1 expression in trauma-hemorrhaged rats. However, administration of ICI 182,780 or chromium-mesoporphyrin abolished the resveratrol-induced prevention of shock-induced oxidative stress and endothelial damage. In the resveratrol-treated rats subjected to trauma hemorrhage, there were significant improvements in plasma aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase levels, and mortality rate, and there was lesser damage in histology.
Resveratrol treatment prevented the overproduction of superoxide radical/NADPH oxidase expression and restored the trauma-hemorrhage-impaired endothelium-dependent relaxation via estrogen receptor-dependent stimulation of hemeoxygenase-1 expression.
Previous studies have indicated that the activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), an enzyme involved in DNA plasticity-related phenomena, is an early event occurring in glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in vitro, and that inhibitors of PARP, including benzamide, are protective against both glutamate- and methamphetamine (METH)-induced neurotoxicity in vitro. To evaluate a central neuroprotective potential of benzamide in vivo, the present study examined the effect of benzamide on the nigrostriatal dopamine toxicity (i.e., long-lasting striatal dopamine depletion) induced by METH in the C57B1/6N mouse. Intraperitoneal injection of METH at 2-h intervals (4 injections of 5 mg/kg, 4 injections of 10 mg/kg, or 2 injections of 20 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced the levels of striatal dopamine in male C57B1/6N mice by up to 53% at 7 days post-treatment. Administration of benzamide (2 injections of 160 mg/kg spaced by a 4 interval) during the different METH treatment protocols partially and significantly attenuated the METH-induced dopamine depletions. Benzamide (160 mg/kg i.p.) by itself had no acute effect on striatal dopamine metabolism and did not reduce body temperature. The concentrations of benzamide measured in the striatum at different times following this same dose of drug were in a range (0.09-0.64 mM) reported in in vitro studies to be both neuroprotective and effective in inhibiting PARP activity. These results indicate a neuroprotective potential of benzamide in vivo and suggest a role of PARP in METH neurotoxicity.
The acquisition of a passive avoidance conditioned response was disrupted in the rat by electroconvulsive shock (ECS) and scopolamine administration. D,L-pyroglutamic acid (D,L-PCA) 500 and 1000 mg/kg, administered as arginine salt 120 min before the retest, prevented both the ECS and scopolamine-induced amnesia. Arginine alone was ineffective. Scopolamine brought about a 52 and 39% decrease, respectively, in cortical and hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) levels, measured by means of a gas-chromatographic method. D,L-PCA 500 and 1000 mg/kg also prevented the decrease in brain ACh level. When the two isomers were studied separately, D-PCA was more effective than L-PCA and antagonized scopolamine-induced amnesia at the doses of 250 and 500 mg/kg. In conclusion, D,L-PCA is active on cortical and hippocampal cholinergic mechanisms and, like other 2-oxopyrrolidone derivatives, shows cognition-enhancing properties.
Thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) is a key selenoprotein antioxidant enzyme and a potential target for anti-cancer drugs. One potent inhibitor of TrxR is the gold (I) compound auranofin, which can trigger mitochondrial-dependent apoptosis pathways. The exact mechanism of apoptosis induction by auranofin is not yet clear, but there are indications that mitochondrial oxidative stress is a central event. We assessed the redox state of the peroxiredoxins (Prxs) in Jurkat T-lymphoma cells treated with auranofin, and found that mitochondrial Prx3 was considerably more sensitive to oxidation than the cytosolic Prx1 and 2, indicating selective mitochondrial stress. Prx3 oxidation was detected at apoptotic doses of auranofin in several cell types, and occurred before other mitochondrial events including cytochrome c release and mitochondrial depolarisation. Auranofin was also able to sensitise U937 cells to TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis. Auranofin-induced apoptosis was effectively blocked by the overexpression of Bcl-2, and Bax/Bak deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts were also resistant to apoptosis, indicating a central role for the pro-apoptotic proteins of this family in auranofin-triggered apoptosis. Auranofin exposure inhibited the proliferation of apoptosis-resistant cells, and at higher doses of auranofin could cause cell death through necrosis. We conclude that auranofin induces apoptosis in cells through a Bax/Bak-dependent mechanism associated with selective disruption of mitochondrial redox homeostasis in conjunction with oxidation of Prx3.
A transplantable transitional cell murine bladder tumor induced by N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-thiazolyl] formamide (FANFT) was characterized by tumor growth, survival time and response to chemotherapy drugs, cis-dichloro-trans-dihydroxy-bis-iso-propylamine platinum IV (CHIP), cis- diaminedichloro platinum II (DDP), cyclophosphamide (CTX) and methotrexate (MTX). Nontreated tumor-bearing mice were observed to survive 43 +/- 7 days (mean +/- SEM) with an average tumor burden of 8.45 +/- 0.65 g (mean +/- SEM) of solid tumor tissue. Lung metastasis was observed in 3 animals after 42-49 days post implantation. Microscopically, the primary tumor and the lung metastasis were structurally similar. In response to chemotherapy, tumor growth was significantly retarded (p less than 0.005) in the DDP-treated group, and survival was significantly increased in the CTX-treated group (p less than 0.001). Lung metastasis was observed in all treatment and control groups. This model has specific reproducible characteristics which make it a useful murine tumor model to study locally invasive bladder cancer.
Chelatable zinc is important in brain function, and its homeostasis is maintained to prevent cytotoxic overload. However, certain pathologic events result in intracellular zinc accumulation in lysosomes and mitochondria. Abnormal lysosomes and mitochondria are common features of the human lysosomal storage disorder known as mucolipidosis IV (MLIV). MLIV is caused by the loss of TRPML1 ion channel function. MLIV cells develop large hyperacidic lysosomes, membranous vacuoles, mitochondrial fragmentation, and autophagic dysfunction. Here, we observed that RNA interference of mucolipin-1 gene (TRPML1) in HEK-293 cells mimics the MLIV cell phenotype consisting of large lysosomes and membranous vacuoles that accumulate chelatable zinc. To show that abnormal chelatable zinc levels are indeed correlated with MLIV pathology, we quantified its concentration in cultured MLIV patient fibroblast and control cells with a spectrofluorometer using N-(6-methoxy-8-quinolyl)-p-toluene sulfonamide fluorochrome. We found a significant increase of chelatable zinc levels in MLIV cells but not in control cells. Furthermore, we quantified various metal isotopes in whole brain tissue of TRPML1(-/-) null mice and wild-type littermates using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry and observed that the zinc-66 isotope is markedly elevated in the brain of TRPML1(-/-) mice when compared with controls. In conclusion, we show for the first time that the loss of TRPML1 function results in intracellular chelatable zinc dyshomeostasis. We propose that chelatable zinc accumulation in large lysosomes and membranous vacuoles may contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease and progressive cell degeneration in MLIV patients.
Acute cytogenetic effects of benzene in LE rat bone marrow cells in vivo were studied. Chromosome aberrations (CA) induced by benzene consisted mainly of gaps and breaks. Cells with exchanges were rarely observed. The incidence of benzene-induced CA was at its maximum level 12 h after the p.o. or i.p. administration of benzene, dependent on the dose of benzene administered, and higher in male rats than in female rats. However, the sex difference was not observed in the repeated inhalation experiment. Chromosome damage was higher with the p.o. than the i.p. administration. LE rats were more sensitive than Wistar and SD rats to the clastogenic action of benzene. Phenobarbital and Sudan III are well known as inducers of drug-metabolizing enzymes. The peak percentage of benzene-induced CA in the rats pretreated with phenobarbital was observed 6 h after the benzene injection, and it occurred at a higher level than in the rats given only benzene. On the other hand, Sudan III pretreatment suppressed benzene-induced CA at all periods after the benzene injection. SKF-525A (a cytochrome P-450 inhibitor) and cyclohexene oxide (an epoxide hydrase inhibitor) pretreatment also suppressed benzene-induced CA.
A patient who developed paraplegia following the intrathecal instillation of methotrexate is discribed. The ten previously reported cases of this unusual complication are reviewed. The following factors appear to predispose to the development of this complication: abnormal cerebrospinal dynamics related to the presence of central nervous system leukemia, and epidural cerebrospinal leakage; elevated cerebrospinal fluid methothexate concentration related to abnormal cerebrospinal fluid dynamics and to inappropriately high methotrexate doses based on body surface area calculations in older children and adults; the presence of neurotoxic preservatives in commercially available methotrexate preparations and diluents; and the use of methotrexate diluents of unphysiologic pH, ionic content and osmolarity. The role of methotrexate contaminants, local folate deficiency, and cranial irradiation in the pathogenesis of intrathecal methotrexate toxicity is unclear. The incidence of neurotoxicity may be reduced by employing lower doses of methotrexate in the presence of central nervous system leukemia, in older children and adults, and in the presence of epidural leakage. Only preservative-free methotrexate in Elliott's B Solution at a concentration of not more than 1 mg/ml should be used for intrathecal administration. Periodic monitoring of cerebruspinal fluid methotrexate levels may be predictive of the development of serious neurotoxicity.
Malignant mesothelioma is associated with asbestos exposure and remains resistant to all therapeutic intervention. Previous studies have suggested an enhancing role for platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) in mesothelial tumorigenicity, although the mechanism by which PDGF facilitates tumorigenicity is unknown. Here, we evaluate the contribution of PDGF-A expression to mesothelial tumorigenicity using ectopic modulation of PDGF-A expression. We find, in accordance with other reports, that the receptor for PDGF-A, although expressed at high levels in normal human mesothelial cells, is not easily detectable in mesothelioma. Further, we show that PDGF-A overexpression is responsible for autocrine downregulation of its receptor. Our data indicate, surprisingly, that for mesothelioma cells in vitro, high-level activation of a PDGF-A-PDGF receptor loop is antiproliferative whereas abrogation of PDGF-A expression stimulates growth. These data suggest that PDGF-A does not contribute to tumorigenicity by autocrine stimulation of proliferation. In contrast, increased PDGF-A expression in vivo increases tumor incidence and growth rate and decreases the latency period to tumor formation whereas abrogation of PDGF-A expression decreases tumor incidence and increases latency. Thus, the tumorigenic effect of PDGF-A must act through paracrine mechanisms relevant at early stages of tumor initiation.
The cardiac sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase gene (ATP2A2) encodes the following two different protein isoforms: SERCA2a (muscle-specific) and SERCA2b (ubiquitous). We have investigated whether this isoform specificity is required for normal cardiac function. Gene targeting in mice successfully disrupted the splicing mechanism responsible for generating the SERCA2a isoform. Homozygous SERCA2a(-/-) mice displayed a complete loss of SERCA2a mRNA and protein resulting in a switch to the SERCA2b isoform. The expression of SERCA2b mRNA and protein in hearts of SERCA2a(-/-) mice corresponded to only 50% of wild-type SERCA2 levels. Cardiac phospholamban mRNA levels were unaltered in SERCA2a(-/-) mice, but total phospholamban protein levels increased 2-fold. The transgenic phenotype was characterized by a approximately 20% increase in embryonic and neonatal mortality (early phenotype), with histopathologic evidence of major cardiac malformations. Adult SERCA2a(-/-) animals (adult phenotype) showed a reduced spontaneous nocturnal activity and developed a mild compensatory concentric cardiac hypertrophy with impaired cardiac contractility and relaxation, but preserved beta-adrenergic response. Ca(2+) uptake levels in SERCA2a(-/-) cardiac homogenates were reduced by approximately 50%. In isolated cells, relaxation and Ca(2+) removal by the SR were significantly reduced. Comparison of our data with those obtained in mice expressing similar cardiac levels of SERCA2a instead of SERCA2b indicate the importance of the muscle-specific SERCA2a isoform for normal cardiac development and for the cardiac contraction-relaxation cycle.
To report a case of acute dystonic reaction to methotrimeprazine in a patient with untreated hypoparathyroidism, emphasizing the potential increased sensitivity of hypocalcemic patients to the extrapyramidal adverse effects of antipsychotic drugs.
An 80-year-old man who had untreated hypoparathyroidism and chronic hypocalcemia developed an acute dystonic reaction 20 minutes after ingestion of methotrimeprazine 25 mg. His medical history included an ill-defined psychiatric disorder for which he had been treated with methotrimeprazine several years earlier. The patient denied having any other diseases or taking any other medications. After 4 days, the disorientation, psychomotor restlessness, dystonic grimacing, protrusion of the tongue, and speech difficulties disappeared, despite a remaining low serum calcium concentration.
A possible mechanism, by which striatal calmodulin-mediated adenylate cyclase activation is inhibited by the combined effects of phenothiazines and hypocalcemia, is discussed.
In this patient, it is not possible to ascertain whether the dystonic reaction was due to hypocalcemia, phenothiazine administration, or both. However, it is suggested that patients with hypocalcemia may be sensitive to the extrapyramidal adverse effects of antipsychotics. In addition, acute unexpected dystonic reactions to a small dose of antipsychotics warrants measurement of the patient's serum calcium concentration.
Intracorporeal papaverine self-injection is a new therapy for erectile dysfunction. Although reports of side effects are few, complications, such as priapism and fibrosis, have been described. We report a case of papaverine-induced obliteration of the corpus cavernosum with resulting inability to place a penile prosthesis.
To report a case of propylthiouracil-induced hepatic damage.
A 64-year-old white woman with hyperthyroidism received propylthiouracil 250 mg/d for 1 year. She developed hepatitis after 1 year of therapy. Alcohol and drug abuse were ruled out and all serologic tests for hepatitis A, B, and C were negative. Cytomegalovirus and Epstein-Barr virus infection were also ruled out. Antinuclear antibody, antimitochondrial antibody, and antismooth muscle antibody were negative. The clinical picture was similar to that of viral hepatitis characterized by nausea, vomiting, and jaundice. Histologic examination of a liver biopsy specimen showed chronic active hepatitis. The patient developed cirrhosis during follow-up.
Propylthiouracil is widely used in the treatment of hyperthyroidism. Despite its widespread use, there have been only a few reported cases of propylthiouracil-induced hepatotoxicity. The precise mechanism of the injury is unknown, although immunologic factors are suggested.
Hepatic damage induced by propylthiouracil is a rare complication. However, the danger of permanent hepatic damage should be kept in mind. The best way of preventing propylthiouracil hepatotoxicity is careful screening of patients considered for treatment.
Naproxen sodium was administered to cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) by oral gavage at daily doses of 44, 88, or 176 mg/kg for 2 wk (2 monkeys/gender) or of 44 mg/kg for 13 wk (4 monkeys/gender). Body weight loss occurred in at least one monkey in all naproxen sodium-dosed groups in the 2-wk (up to 16% loss) and 13-wk (up to 22% loss) studies. Increases in plasma naproxen concentrations were dose proportional between 44 and 88 mg/kg but were less than dose proportional between 88 and 176 mg/kg. Up to 2-fold increases in creatinine and/or serum urea nitrogen values as well as higher renal weights occurred in monkeys receiving 176 mg/kg for 2 wk or 44 mg/kg for 13 wk. Microscopically, renal changes were observed in all naproxen sodium-dosed groups. Renal findings after 2 wk of exposure included increased interstitial ground substance, tubular dilatation, and tubulointerstitial nephritis; in the 13-wk study, cortical tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis were also observed. These studies identify the kidney as the target organ of naproxen sodium in cynomolgus monkeys.
While previous studies have demonstrated that sequential radionuclide angiocardiography allows identification of patients at risk for development of congestive heart failure and prediction of the appropriate time for safe discontinuation of doxorubicin, these studies were based predominantly on patients with normal baseline left ventricular performance. This study addresses the use of doxorubicin in patients with abnormal left ventricular ejection fraction (less than 55%) prior to drug administration. Of 337 patients referred for evaluation of left ventricular performance prior to doxorubicin therapy during a 36-month period, 45 (13%) had abnormal baseline left ventricular performance determined by first-pass radionuclide angiocardiography. Sixteen patients had antecedent cardiovascular disease, and 16 patients had received thoracic radiation, while only four patients had both. Left ventricular ejection fraction in each of these subgroups was comparable. In 7 of 16 patients who only had a baseline determination of left ventricular function, doxorubicin was not administered because of a significant concern for the potential risk of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. In the group of 29 patients followed sequentially over 3 to 15 months (mean, 6 months), there was no significant difference between baseline and final left ventricular ejection fraction (48 +/- 5 vs 47 +/- 9%, p = NS). Only in the 12 patients who received greater than or equal to 350 mg/m2 cumulative dose was there a small but significant fall in left ventricular ejection fraction (48 +/- 4 vs 43 +/- 8%, p less than 0.05). Only one patient developed congestive heart failure. This study demonstrates that doxorubicin can be administered safely to patients with abnormal baseline left ventricular performance using serial radionuclide studies as a means of monitoring therapy. Guidelines for doxorubicin therapy in these patients have been developed.
