Acute, severe colitis and hepatitis developed in a 55-year-old man on two occasions in relation to administration of methyldopa. He also had fever, skin rash, and eosinophilia, suggesting drug allergy. All symptoms and signs remitted after he stopped taking the drug. It appears that this agent is capable of producing acute colitis as well as the previously recognized hepatitis.
Proptosis and double vision were the presenting signs in a case of chronic orbital inflammation generated by osteolytic destruction of the sinuorbital barriers due to intranasal abuse of cocaine. The pathophysiologic background and reports from the literature dealing with orbital involvement in this condition are discussed.
The authors report a case of macrocytic anemia due to folate deficiency occurring suddenly after the administration of trimethoprime-sulfamethoxazole and completely cured by folic acid. This type of complication occurs particularly often in patients who already have a relative folate deficiency. In our case only moderate alcoholism was found. Thus individual predisposition due to enzyme abnormality must be considered. Prophylactic administration of folic acid in patients receiving this drug association is thus advisable.
Although beta-adrenoceptor (beta-AR) blockers are used for the treatment of ischemic heart disease, the mechanisms of their beneficial actions have not been fully elucidated. In view of the role of sarcoplasmic reticular (SR) abnormalities in cardiac dysfunction due to ischemia-reperfusion (I/R), we examined the effects of beta-AR blockers on the I/R-induced changes in SR Ca(2+) uptake and release, as well as the protein contents and gene expression of ryanodine receptor, SR Ca(2+)-pump, phospholamban, and calsequestrin. I/R in isolated rat hearts was induced by stopping the perfusion for 30 min and then reperfusing the ischemic hearts for 60 min. Hearts were treated with or without 10 microM atenolol, a beta(1)-specific blocker, or 10 microM propranolol, a nonspecific beta-blocker, 10 min before inducing ischemia as well as during the reperfusion period. I/R depressed cardiac performance, SR Ca(2+) uptake, and Ca(2+) release activities, protein contents, as well as Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase and cAMP-dependent protein kinase-mediated phosphorylations, significantly. The mRNA levels for SR Ca(2+) pump, ryanodine receptors, phospholamban, and calsequestrin were also reduced by I/R. All these changes due to I/R were partially prevented by beta-AR blocker treatment. The results indicate that the beneficial effects of beta-AR blockers on cardiac performance in the I/R hearts may be related to the prevention of changes in SR Ca(2+) uptake and release activities, protein contents, as well as Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase and cAMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylations of SR proteins. On the other hand, the protection of I/R-induced alterations in mRNA levels for SR proteins by beta-AR blockers suggests cardiac SR gene expression as a molecular site of their cardioprotective action.
Historic data has suggested a relationship between aspirin ingestion and the subsequent occurrence of renal papillary necrosis. In most case reports, analgesic mixtures containing aspirin, phenacetin, and caffeine were taken. This resulted in the term "analgesic nephropathy." In clinical studies, phenacetin has been the major common denominator, whereas experimental data in rats implicate aspirin as the major nephrotoxin. Except with massive doses, attempts at producing nephrotoxicity in laboratory animals with phenacetin have failed; however, a high proportion of rats fed aspirin alone have developed renal papillary necrosis. Acute reversible effects of aspirin on renal function in patients with active lupus nephritis have been demonstrated. Data are presented in 46 patients who took aspirin continuously for 10 or more years (mean total dosage 35 kg) in whom there was no evidence of significant renal dysfunction. These data suggest that, while aspirin may cause minor histologic or functional renal abnormalities, it is unlikely that long-term salicylate consumption causes serious renal disease.
Many nursing women returning to a full-time job and desiring to continue to breast feed are using oxytocin nasal sprays to facilitate breast emptying during the work day. Very few complications have been reported from its use, and the preparation has been assumed to be innocuous. However, we encountered a nursing mother whose life appears to have been jeopardized by the excessive and unmonitored application of such a spray. The patient was hospitalized for a viral illness and given a large quantity of intravenous fluid. In association with excessive self-administration of an oxytocin nasal spray, she developed severe water intoxication, with hyponatremic encephalopathy and convulsions. During the same hospitalization the patient subsequently developed a Guillain-Barré type of peripheral polyneuritis. The syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone has been reported to accompany the neurologic manifestations of the Guillain-Barré syndrome and may have been the cause of the convulsions. However, the temporal associations in this case strongly favor the unmonitored use of the oxytocin nasal spray as etiologic.
The high consumption of soy isoflavones in Asian diets has been correlated to a lower incidence of clinically important cases of prostate cancer. This study characterized the effects of a soy-derived isoflavone concentrate (ISF) on growth and gene expression profiles in the LNCaP, an androgen-sensitive human prostate cancer cell line. ISF caused a dose-dependent decrease in viability (P < 0.05) and DNA synthesis (P < 0.01), as well as an accumulation of cells in G(2)/M, and G(0)/G(1) phases of the cell cycle compared with controls. Using Affymetrix oligonucleotide DNA microarrays (U133A), we determined that ISF upregulated 80 genes and downregulated 33 genes (P < 0.05) involving androgen-regulated genes and pathways controlling cell cycle, metabolism, and intracellular trafficking. Changes in the expression of the genes of interest, identified by microarrays, were validated by Western immunoblot, Northern blot, and luciferase reporter assays. Prostate-specific antigen, homeobox protein NKX3, and cyclin B mRNA were significantly reduced, whereas mRNA was significantly upregulated for p21(CIP1), a major cell cycle inhibitory protein, and fatty acid and cholesterol synthesis pathway genes. ISF also significantly increased cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27(KIP1) and FOXO3A/FKHRL1, a forkhead transcription factor. A differential pattern of androgen-regulated genes was apparent with genes involved in prostate cancer progression being downregulated by ISF, whereas metabolism genes were upregulated. In summary, we found that ISF inhibits the growth of LNCaP cells through the modulation of cell cycle progression and the differential expression of androgen-regulated genes. Thus, ISF treatment serves to identify new therapeutic targets designed to prevent proliferation of malignant prostate cells.
Long-term treatment with levodopa in Parkinson's disease results in the development of motor fluctuations, including reduced duration of antiparkinsonian action and involuntary movements, i.e., levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Cannabinoid receptors are concentrated in the basal ganglia, and stimulation of cannabinoid receptors can increase gamma-aminobutyric acid transmission in the lateral segment of globus pallidus and reduce glutamate release in the striatum. We thus tested the hypothesis that the cannabinoid receptor agonist nabilone (0.01, 0.03, and 0.10 mg/kg) would alleviate levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) -lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. Coadministration of nabilone (0.1 mg/kg) with levodopa was associated with significantly less total dyskinesia (dyskinesia score, 12; range, 6-17; primate dyskinesia rating scale) than levodopa alone (22; range, 14-23; P < 0.05). This effect was more marked during the onset period (0-20 minutes post levodopa). There was no reduction in the antiparkinsonian action of levodopa. Furthermore, the intermediate dose of nabilone used (0.03 mg/kg) increased the duration of antiparkinsonian action of levodopa by 76%. Thus, cannabinoid receptor agonists may be useful in the treatment of motor complications in Parkinson's disease.
Polyneuropathy occurring during therapy with D-penicillamine is reported in a 63 year-old women with chronic rheumatoid arthritis. 6 weeks after recommending therapy with 500 mg D-penicillamine/day the patient developed bilateral oculomotor palsy and axonal peripheral neuropathy. The development of clinical symptoms was accompanied by the observation of high levels of antinuclear antibodies and antibodies against native DNA. The appearance of polyneuropathy after repeated administration of penicillamine, the regression of symptoms and the rapid decrease in antinuclear antibodies after discontinuation of the drug plus the absence of signs of a malignant form of rheumatoid arthritis show a remarkable correlation.
Expression of the sodium iodide symporter (NIS) gene in tumor cells may provide a novel mechanism for treating cancer. The NIS mediates the normal physiological transport of iodide across the thyroid cell membrane. This mechanism of iodide uptake has been used to both diagnose and treat thyroid cancer. Tissue expression of the NIS is largely limited to the thyroid; therefore, expression of the NIS gene in cancer cells would allow for specific iodine uptake, radioisotope accumulation, and treatment. In this study, we directly compared the human and rat NIS (rNIS) for their ability to concentrate radioisotope into human and rodent cancer cells. Perchlorate-sensitive (125)I uptake in multiple cell lines was demonstrated following transduction with retroviral vectors expressing either the human or rNIS gene. Surprisingly, iodine uptake was consistently higher with the rNIS gene, up to 5-fold greater, when compared to the human gene, even within a variety of human tumor cell lines. This iodine uptake allowed for cell killing following (131)I treatment in NIS-transduced cells when assayed by in vitro clonogenic assays. These results demonstrate that the rNIS gene provides superior iodine uptake ability, and may be preferable for use in designing anticancer gene therapy approaches.
Depression is a frequent side effect of interferon therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC). The aim of this study was to identify baseline and on-treatment predictors of depression in CHC patients receiving peginterferon and ribavirin.
In total, 201 prior nonresponders with advanced fibrosis were treated with peginterferon alfa-2a and ribavirin for 24 wk in the Hepatitis C Antiviral Long-term Treatment against Cirrhosis trial. Of these, 74 continued on antiviral therapy through week 48. Mood states were assessed with the Beck Depression Inventory II and the Composite International Diagnostic Interview. Plasma cortisol and whole blood serotonin levels were measured in 101 subjects at weeks 0, 4, 24, 48, and 72.
The incidence of interferon-induced depression was 23% and 42% at weeks 24 and 48, respectively. Although 22% of patients had baseline depression, the absence of a week 20 virological response was the only independent predictor of interferon-induced depression at week 24 (P = 0.0009). Plasma cortisol levels did not change during treatment nor correlate with depression. In contrast, whole blood serotonin/platelet levels significantly decreased during treatment, but did not correlate with interferon-induced depression through week 24 (P = 0.35), nor through week 48 (P = 0.51).
Depression during peginterferon and ribavirin therapy was associated with a lower antiviral response. The significant reduction in whole blood serotonin levels over time suggest that further studies of the serotonergic pathway are warranted to identify the mediators of interferon-induced depression.
We report a case of postoperative reparalysis in the recovery room, following nebulized epinephrine. The patient was pharmacologically reversed with edrophonium after paralysis with rocuronium.
A 12-yr-old girl developed postoperative reparalysis following the intraoperative administration of rocuronium. A total of 0.92 mg.kg-1 rocuronium was administered. After surgery, pharmacological reversal was achieved with 20 mg edrophonium with 0.15 mg atropine sulfate iv 35 min after the last administration of rocuronium. Muscular relaxation was monitored using an ulnar peripheral nerve stimulator (PNS). After reversal, a full train-of-four and sustained tetanus at 50 Hz were present. In the recovery room, following nebulized epinephrine, the patient became apneic. The patient was paralyzed and an ulnar PNS demonstrated only one faint twitch. The paralysis was reversed with 1.5 mg neostigmine with 0.3 mg glycopyrrolate.
Postoperative reparalysis following rocuronium may be a cause of postoperative respiratory distress. The definitive diagnosis is made using PNS and observing the response to pharmacological reversal. Nebulized epinephrine may have a previously undescribed role in the development of postoperative reparalysis.
Previous investigators have reported the occurrence of both allergic and non-allergic systemic complications due to exposure to formaldehyde gas. However, little is known about the pathogenic link between formaldehyde-induced clinical symptoms and patch test results, or about the long-term effects of formaldehyde exposure. In the present study, a questionnaire was administered to 143 medical students, and 60 of them were tested by patch test for formaldehyde at the beginning and end of a human anatomy laboratory course. Another group of 76 students who had finished the course 2-4 years previously were administered another questionnaire, and the patch test was carried out on 58 of them. The frequencies of skin irritation, eye soreness, lacrimation, eye fatigue, rhinorrhea, throat irritation, general fatigue and mood swings increased after repeated exposure. Two (3.3%) of 60 students became positive to 1% formaldehyde at the end of the anatomy course (one male with allergic hand dermatitis due to direct contact with formaldehyde, and one female with an atopic background with unbearable physical symptoms) while the remaining 58 showed a negative reaction throughout the study period. The vast majority of students complained of various non-allergic, physical symptoms, and recovered from such symptoms without subsequent complications. No progression to multiple chemical sensitivity was found. Students with an episode of atopic dermatitis and allergic rhinitis were susceptible to formaldehyde exposure, and developed mucocutaneous symptoms, probably due to the impaired barrier function and remodeling of the skin and mucosa.
We examined the effects of early epileptiform activity on development of visuocortical receptive fields in the rabbit. Aqueous penicillin was injected twice a day into a cannula implanted over the monocular area of one visual cortex. Drug administration was begun on postnatal day 8-9 and continued until postnatal day 24-30. Concomitant with the penicillin injections a mixture of penicillin and penicillinase was similarly applied to the monocular area of the contralateral control cortex. Interictal discharges were routinely observed only from the penicillin-treated or epileptic cortex. Single-unit recordings made on postnatal day 25-31 revealed that in the neuronal population adjacent to the cortical penicillin focus percentages of receptive field types were severely altered relative to control cortex percentages. Epileptic cortex showed an abnormally high percentage of no response type cells together with an abnormally low percentage of complex and oriented-directional type cells. These abnormalities were greater closer to the penicillin focus than further from it. Epileptic visual cortex receptive field percentages are compared with those for the neonatal rabbit and the rabbit subjected to early monocular deprivation. One interpretation of our results is that development of complex and oriented-directional type cells is impeded by epileptogenic disruption of organized geniculostriate activity.
We present a case of a psychiatric patient treated with Amitriptyline who developed Stokes-Adams attacks with EKG manifestations of prolonged Q-T and "torsade de pointes".
Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) and beta-blockers have contributed to longer life expectancies for patients with congestive heart failure. However, whether the use of ARBs is helpful for introducing carvedilol (beta-blocker) is unclear when patients with symptomatic congestive heart failure are admitted to the hospital.
In this retrospective study, 27 patients with symptomatic congestive heart failure were given carvedilol upon admission. Five patients received carvedilol monotherapy (group A), and 22 were treated with a combination of carvedilol and ARBs (group B).
There was no difference in medication between the groups except for ARBs. In addition, there were no significant differences in the decrease in plasma brain natriuretic peptide, or the improvement of left ventricular ejection fraction upon carvedilol treatment between the groups. Although there was no significant difference in the maintenance dose of carvedilol between the groups, the gross dose of carvedilol in group B was significantly lower than that in group A. In addition, the improvement of left ventricular ejection fraction in group B was positively correlated with the maintenance dose of carvedilol in patients who had wild-type beta1-adrenergic receptor at amino acid 389 (arginine/arginine genotype).
These results suggest that ARBs are helpful for introducing carvedilol in patients with the wild-type beta1-adrenergic receptor gene, and that treatment with combined treatment with ARB or analysis of the beta1-adrenergic receptor genotype may offer advantages to control congestive heart failure in the short-term.
The efficacy of antihypertensive agents can vary in patients. Four to 8 weeks may be required before antihypertensive agents become fully effective. Predicting the efficacy can help agent selection and dose setting. This study determined whether nitroglycerin-induced vasodilation of brachial arteries can predict the antihypertensive action of angiotensin II receptor antagonist.
Untreated uncomplicated patients with essential hypertension, who gave informed consent, were studied (n = 20, mean age 55 years). Before antihypertensive treatment, nitroglycerin-induced vasodilation of the brachial arteries was measured using a novel method of 15 MHz high-frequency high-frame-rate ultrasound imaging (Hitachi EUB8000). Diameter of the brachial artery at the end-systolic phase was measured before and after 0.3 mg nitroglycerin sublingual spray and percentage vasodilation (%D-N) was calculated. The reduction of mean blood pressure after nitroglycerin (%BP-N) was calculated. Valsartan monotherapy (40-80 mg/day)was administered for 3-6 months (mean 132 days). Reduction of mean blood pressure after valsartan monotherapy (%BP-V) was calculated.
Valsartan decreased systolic blood pressure from 138 +/- 13 to 130 +/- 17 mmHg, and diastolic blood pressure from 83 +/- 11 to 78 +/- 11 mmHg (p < 0.05). %D-N was correlated closely with %BP-V (r = - 0.70, p < 0.001). %BP-N had no correlation with %BP-V (r = 0.13, p = 0.58).
Direct vasodilatory action of nitroglycerin on vascular smooth muscle cells may predict the chronic antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonist.
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is an aggressive, asbestos-related malignancy of the thoracic pleura. Although, platinum-based agents are the first line of therapy, there is an urgent need for second-line therapies to treat the drug-resistant MPM. Cell cycle as well as apoptosis pathways are frequently altered in MPM and thus remain attractive targets for intervention strategies. Curcumin, the major component in the spice turmeric, alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutics has been under investigation for a number of cancers. In this study, we investigated the biological and molecular responses of MPM cells to curcumin treatments and the mechanisms involved. Flow-cytometric analyses coupled with western immunoblotting and gene-array analyses were conducted to determine mechanisms of curcumin-dependent growth suppression of human (H2373, H2452, H2461, and H226) and murine (AB12) MPM cells. Curcumin inhibited MPM cell growth in a dose- and time-dependent manner while pretreatment of MPM cells with curcumin enhanced cisplatin efficacy. Curcumin activated the stress-activated p38 kinase, caspases 9 and 3, caused elevated levels of proapoptotic proteins Bax, stimulated PARP cleavage, and apoptosis. In addition, curcumin treatments stimulated expression of novel transducers of cell growth suppression such as CARP-1, XAF1, and SULF1 proteins. Oral administration of curcumin inhibited growth of murine MPM cell-derived tumors in vivo in part by stimulating apoptosis. Thus, curcumin targets cell cycle and promotes apoptosis to suppress MPM growth in vitro and in vivo. Our studies provide a proof-of-principle rationale for further in-depth analysis of MPM growth suppression mechanisms and their future exploitation in effective management of resistant MPM.
Several studies have shown that genetic factors influence sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures in the mouse. We used recombinant inbred (RI) strains derived from the Long-Sleep (LS) and Short-Sleep (SS) mouse lines to assess the possibility that polymorphisms associated with one or more of the nicotinic receptors cosegregate with differential sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. Restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) associated with the alpha2, alpha3, alpha4, alpha5, and alpha6 nicotinic receptors were identified in the LS and SS mouse lines, but the RI strains were polymorphic for only the alpha4 and alpha6 RFLPs. The RI strains were tested for sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. Strain and gender effects on seizure sensitivity were obtained as assessed by ED(50) values and latency to seizure. Those RI strains with the LS-like alpha4 RFLP were, on average, more sensitive to nicotine-induced seizures than were those RI strains with SS-like alpha4 RFLP. The alpha6 nicotine receptor may also play a role in modulating nicotine-induced seizures, but this effect is markedly influenced by gender. Females of the RI strains with the LS-like alpha6 RFLP were more sensitive to nicotine than were females of the strains with the SS-like alpha6 RFLP. Similar trends were seen in the males, but these trends were not significant. Thus, these strain differences may be due to polymorphisms associated with both the alpha4 and alpha6 nicotinic receptors, but gender also plays an important role in regulating sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizure.
Although systemic androgen deprivation prolongs life in advanced prostate cancer, remissions are temporary because patients almost uniformly progress to a state of a castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) as indicated by recurring PSA. This complex process of progression does not seem to be stochastic as the timing and phenotype are highly predictable, including the observation that most androgen-regulated genes are reactivated despite castrate levels of serum androgens. Recent evidence indicates that intraprostatic levels of androgens remain moderately high following systemic androgen deprivation therapy, whereas the androgen receptor (AR) remains functional, and silencing the AR expression following castration suppresses tumor growth and blocks the expression of genes known to be regulated by androgens. From these observations, we hypothesized that CRPC progression is not independent of androgen-driven activity and that androgens may be synthesized de novo in CRPC tumors leading to AR activation. Using the LNCaP xenograft model, we showed that tumor androgens increase during CRPC progression in correlation to PSA up-regulation. We show here that all enzymes necessary for androgen synthesis are expressed in prostate cancer tumors and some seem to be up-regulated during CRPC progression. Using an ex vivo radiotracing assays coupled to high-performance liquid chromatography-radiometric/mass spectrometry detection, we show that tumor explants isolated from CRPC progression are capable of de novo conversion of [(14)C]acetic acid to dihydrotestosterone and uptake of [(3)H]progesterone allows detection of the production of six other steroids upstream of dihydrotestosterone. This evidence suggests that de novo androgen synthesis may be a driving mechanism leading to CRPC progression following castration.
A case of branch retinal vein occlusion associated with fluoxetine-induced secondary hypertension is described. Although an infrequent complication of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor therapy, it is important that ophthalmologists are aware that these agents can cause hypertension because this class of drugs is widely prescribed.
This study aimed to compare the safety and effect on intraocular pressure (IOP) of latanoprost given every evening versus pilocarpine/timolol maleate fixed combination (PTFC) given twice daily in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) or ocular hypertension (OH).
Following a 6-week, medicine-free period, qualified patients were randomized for Period 1 to either placebo administered every morning and latanoprost every evening or to PTFC administered twice daily. After 8 weeks of treatment, IOP was measured at 08.00, 10.00, 16.00 and 18.00 hours. Patients were then switched to the opposite treatment and underwent a second diurnal evaluation at the end of Period 2.
Thirty-two patients completed this study. They demonstrated diurnal baseline IOP of 24.1 +/- 2.4 mmHg. Mean diurnal pressure was 16.8 +/- 2.1 mmHg on PTFC and 16.9 +/- 2.5 mmHg on latanoprost (p = 0.60). No statistical difference between treatments was observed at any individual time-point except at 10.00 hours, when the PTFC group demonstrated an IOP of 15.9 +/- 2.3 mmHg and latanoprost 16.8 +/- 2.7 mmHg (p = 0.02). There were no statistical differences between groups in unsolicited systemic or ocular adverse events (p > 0.05). However, the PTFC group showed a narrower pupil diameter (2.3 mm) than the latanoprost group (3.7 mm). Additionally, a solicited symptom survey demonstrated mild blurred vision, stinging and ocular pain with PTFC (p < 0.001).
Both PTFC and latanoprost are efficacious in reducing diurnal IOP in POAG or OH. However, PTFC may be more effective in the late morning and may have a greater incidence of mild ocular side-effects.
The presence or absence of suppressor cells in leprosy patients was investigated by measuring peripheral blood lepromin-induced suppression of the Con A response. Significant suppressor activity was measured in 15 of 15 untreated or recently treated patients with lepromatous leprosy and 3 of 5 patients with borderline lepromatous leprosy. In addition, in patients with lepromatous leprosy, suppressor cell activity was found in 10 of 14 patients that had been under treatment for more than 1 year but in only 2 of 27 patients who had active or thalidomide controlled erythema nodosum leprosum. Suppression was observed in only 5 of 29 tuberculoid leprosy patients, 1 of 6 patient contacts, and 0 of 11 normal controls. The differences between the lepromatous or borderline lepromatous group as compared with the tuberculoid group were statistically significant (P less than 0.001). Our findings confirm the presence of lepromin-triggered suppressor cells in the peripheral blood of patients with lepromatous leprosy. These suppressor cells may contribute to the selective unresponsiveness of lepromatous patients to the antigens of Mycobacterium leprae.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) results from development of an antibody to a complex of heparin and platelet factor 4 (PF4) resulting in thrombocytopenia and a prothrombotic state with serious clinical consequences. The diagnosis depends on a combination of both the clinical presentation and laboratory detection of an appropriate antibody.
To determine the frequency, clinical characteristics and laboratory correlates of HIT in a tertiary care hospital.
A retrospective review of all case of HIT over a thirty month period in a tertiary care hospital was conducted.
HIT was diagnosed in 136 patients including 114/28,091 (0.48%) of those receiving only unfractionated heparin, 22/6,559 (0.33%) of those that received both unfractionated and low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) and in 2/2498 (0.08%) of those receiving only LMWH (P=0.02 compared to those receiving only unfractionated heparin). HIT occurred in 62/16,939 patients (0.39%) of patients receiving subcutaneous (SC) heparin or LMWH compared to 69/11,152 (0.62%) of patients receiving intravenous (IV) therapy (P=0.003). Of all patients with exposure to heparin products, 41/34,650 (0.1%) developed symptomatic thrombosis. The optical density (OD) of the ELISA was significantly higher in patients with HIT and thrombosis (1.2 +/- 0.8) compared to those without thrombosis (0.9 +/- 0.6, P=0.03).
HIT develops in approximately 0.4% of all patients exposed to heparin at a tertiary care hospital but is significantly less frequent in those treated with LMWH only than in those who receive unfractionated heparin. A higher antibody titer is associated with the development of thrombosis. The occurrence of HIT could be decreased by reducing exposure to unfractionated heparin, and the diagnosis could be improved by reporting the OD of the ELISA test result.
A patient is reported in whom an intravenous bolus injection of 50 mg lignocaine produced extreme sinus bradycardia (rate 14 to 20/min). Only 2 patients with such a response to a similarly small dose have been previously reported, but these reports indicate clearly that careful electrocardiographic monitoring is advisable when lignocaine is administered.
In this pilot randomized, double-blind, cross-over study, the effectiveness and safety of hydromorphone administration by continuous subcutaneous (s.c.) infusion (mode A) and by continuous basal rate s.c. infusion + PCA (mode B) were compared in 8 cancer patients. Patients experimented with each infusion mode during 48 h. Statistical analysis was performed on data collected in 7 patients during 36 h from 22:00 h on day 1 to 10:00 h on day 3 and from 22:00 h on day 3 to 10:00 h on day 5. Mean hydromorphone dose +/- S.D. was 56.6 +/- 30.1 and 40.4 +/- 24.5 mg/36 h for modes A and B, respectively. There was no statistically significant difference observed in mean pain intensity, but the absence of significant difference may be related to the small sample size and high individual variability. Both methods provided adequate overall pain control in most patients. However, a large interindividual variation was detected. Indeed, some patients reported in the subjective questionnaire that they felt marked discomfort during hydromorphone administration with mode B. Only 2 patients chose mode B at the end of the study, but it was interesting to note that those 2 patients were the youngest of the group. This study demonstrated the effectiveness and safety of both modes of hydromorphone administration. The data suggest that it may be possible to identify particular cancer patients which can really benefit from an association of a basal rate infusion and PCA for opiate administration.
Hypercalcemia causes acute pancreatitis in humans, a phenomenon reproduced experimentally in cats and guinea pigs. Because the rat is the most frequently used animal for the study of experimental pancreatitis, the present studies were performed to evaluate the effects of hypercalcemia in the rat. In in vitro studies, pancreatic lobules were prepared from fasted Wistar rats (200-250 g) and incubated in HEPES bicarbonate-buffered medium (pH 7.4) containing 0, 0.6, 1.2, 2.5, 5, and 10 mM CaCl2 with or without carbachol 10(-6) M. Amylase was measured in the medium after 30 min to 3 h, and expressed as percent of total amylase. In in vivo studies, fasted male Wistar rats (300-400 g) received calcium (CaCl2; 0.6 mmol/kgh) into the tail vein for 12 h. Control animals received NaCl 0.9% infusion. Histologic slides (H&E-stained) were evaluated in a blinded fashion. Pancreatic lobules showed a higher basal amylase output when incubated in higher calcium medium. The largest, significant difference (2.6-fold) was between 0.6 and 5 mM medium CaCl2 (p < 0.05). Carbachol-stimulated amylase release was again higher with increasing medium calcium with the most pronounced difference (1.3-fold) between 0.6 and 2.5 mM CaCl2 (p < 0.05). In vivo calcium-treated animals showed accumulation of zymogen granules in the cytoplasm, cytoplasmic vacuolization, focal acinar cell depolarization, acinar necrosis, and edema. Calcium causes amylase release from rat pancreatic lobules in vitro. Higher medium calcium levels both significantly increase amylase release from unstimulated and carbachol stimulated lobules. Twelve-hour in vivo calcium infusion leads to accumulation of zymogen granules in acinar cells and acinar injury.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
