Atherosclerosis is considered an important cause of morbidity and mortality in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Endothelial dysfunction represents an important factor in the onset of atherosclerosis.
To assess endothelial function and the risk factors for atherosclerosis in adolescents with SLE.
Thirty-five adolescents with SLE aged between 10-18 years and 27 age- and sex-matched controls.
Endothelial function was assessed using a high-resolution ultrasound device (Philips ATL, HDI-3000 model) with a linear array transducer (4.0-7.0 MHz). Measures of diameter and flow were performed at rest, during reactive hyperemia and after glyceryl trinitrate. Total cholesterol and fractions, triglycerides, creatinine, fasting glucose, anticardiolipin antibodies, lupus anticoagulant and plasma homocysteine, as well as, cumulative oral corticoid dose were considered in order to establish the risk factors for atherosclerosis.
No significant difference was found between the two groups regarding endothelial function. Although dilation at 90" after cuff deflation had been smaller in patients than in controls, the difference was not statistically significant. Patients had higher levels of total cholesterol (p = 0.02), VLDL (p = 0.01), triglycerides (p = 0.01), and homocysteine (p < .001) compared with controls. Sixty eight percent of our patients showed hyperhomocysteinemia, yet, we did not find any correlation between these values and flow-mediated dilation.
According to our results, adolescents with SLE do not present alterations in endothelial function as assessed by ultrasound. However, these patients did demonstrate risk factors such as dyslipidemia and hyperhomocysteinemia for the development of atherosclerosis.
Clinically significant steroid myopathy (SM) occurred in 23 (10.6%) of 216 adult patients with primary brain tumors who received 2 or more continuous weeks of daily dexamethasone therapy. SM occurred over a wide range of peak and cumulative doses of dexamethasone as well as a wide range of periods of continuous treatment. This was not an entirely random event, however, as two-thirds of the patients developed their weakness during the 9th through the 12th week of continuous dexamethasone treatment. The risk of developing SM was significantly lower in patients taking phenytoin than in patients who were not taking anticonvulsants. The only other patient or treatment factor associated with SM was a possible direct correlation with the appearance of a cushingoid body habitus. In this retrospective review, the occurrence of SM had a significant negative impact on the quality of life of all affected individuals. As expected, patients who tolerated a reduction in their steroid dose improved, while other patients suffered the combined effects of tumor progression and worsening myopathy. Substituting a nonfluorinated glucocorticoid for dexamethasone is probably advisable if neuro-oncology patients affected by SM cannot be weaned from the steroids.
Burst-promoting activity (BPA) was measured in the sera from 31 children with aplastic anaemia (AA). BPA levels were elevated in most of the children with AA (65.2%), the mean value (137.7 +/- 18.4%) being significantly higher than that in normal children (69.6 +/- 9.4%), in children in the recovery period and in children with non-aplastic anaemia. There was a negative relationship between the BPA level in children with AA and the peripheral haemoglobin concentration. The BPA level was higher in those whose duration of illness was shorter than 1 year. In three cases of AA caused by chloramphenicol and benzene hexachloride and one case of congenital pure red cell AA, the BPA level was not elevated. Eleven patients received fetal liver cell suspensions intravenously (FLI). After FLI the BPA level in their sera was significantly reduced. According to these results, it appears that the elevation of BPA level is a special phenomenon of AA. The measurement of BPA in serum is helpful for differentiation between AA and other kinds of anaemia. The elevation of the BPA level in serum is a biological compensation for the haematopoietic disorder, and the measurement of BPA in the serum of patients with AA may be helpful in evaluating the haematopoietic condition.
To better define high-risk populations for colorectal cancer screening, we used anti-adenoma antibody Adnab-9, comparing colonic effluent and tissue field effects from 45 high-risk and 11 control patients. We included Adnab-9 binding at the tissue level to elucidate the impact of a field effect of carcinogenesis contributing to the outcome of the effluent binding test. In high-risk patients, 64% of the left-sided effluent samples were positive (P < 0.002); 67% showed a field effect (P < 0.006); 82% of combined tests were positive (P < 0.001), as compared to 9%, 18%, and 27% respectively, of controls. Adnab-9 binding correlates with increased colorectal cancer risk associated with a field effect of carcinogenesis.
Many studies have reported significant associations between exposure to PM(2.5) and hospital admissions, but all have focused on the effects of short-term exposure. In addition all these studies have relied on a limited number of PM(2.5) monitors in their study regions, which introduces exposure error, and excludes rural and suburban populations from locations in which monitors are not available, reducing generalizability and potentially creating selection bias.
Using our novel prediction models for exposure combining land use regression with physical measurements (satellite aerosol optical depth) we investigated both the long and short term effects of PM(2.5) exposures on hospital admissions across New-England for all residents aged 65 and older. We performed separate Poisson regression analysis for each admission type: all respiratory, cardiovascular disease (CVD), stroke and diabetes. Daily admission counts in each zip code were regressed against long and short-term PM(2.5) exposure, temperature, socio-economic data and a spline of time to control for seasonal trends in baseline risk.
We observed associations between both short-term and long-term exposure to PM(2.5) and hospitalization for all of the outcomes examined. In example, for respiratory diseases, for every 10-µg/m(3) increase in short-term PM(2.5) exposure there is a 0.70 percent increase in admissions (CI = 0.35 to 0.52) while concurrently for every 10-µg/m(3) increase in long-term PM(2.5) exposure there is a 4.22 percent increase in admissions (CI = 1.06 to 4.75).
As with mortality studies, chronic exposure to particles is associated with substantially larger increases in hospital admissions than acute exposure and both can be detected simultaneously using our exposure models.
It is known that different autoimmune diseases often share the same susceptibility genes. In this study we aimed to investigate if loci found associated with common autoimmune diseases in recent genome-wide association studies also could be susceptibility loci for autoimmune Addison's disease (primary adrenal insufficiency).
A total of 139 tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 11 candidate genes (IL2, IL21, IL2RA, CLEC2D, CD69, ERBB3, PTPN11, SH2B3, CLEC16A, CIITA, and PTPN2) were genotyped in a case/control study design consisting of Norwegian Addison's disease patients (n = 332) and Norwegian healthy control individuals (n = 1029). Five SNPs were subsequently selected for analysis in a United Kingdom sample set consisting of Addison's disease patients (n = 210) and controls (n = 191).
Polymorphisms in CLEC16A and CIITA remained significantly associated with Addison's disease in the Norwegian sample set at the 0.05 level, even after correction for multiple testing. CLEC16A and CIITA are both located at 16p13, but linkage disequilibrium patterns and logistical regression analyses suggest that SNPs in these two genes are independently associated with Addison's disease. We were not able to confirm these associations in the United Kingdom material, however, this may well be due to the limited sample size and lack of statistical power.
Two alleles at 16p13 are independently associated with the risk of Addison's disease in the Norwegian population, suggesting this chromosomal region to harbor common autoimmunity gene(s), CLEC16A and CIITA being possible independent candidates.
Our objective was to assess the activity of cyclosporin A (CsA) used as a chemomodulator of carboplatin in refractory ovarian and fallopian tube cancer patients. Fifty-one patients (47 epithelial ovarian, 1 ovarian mixed mesodermal tumor, and 3 fallopian tube carcinomas) were enrolled in a prospective Phase II trial of CsA and carboplatin. CsA was infused as a loading dose of 10 mg/kg over 5 h, followed by carboplatin infused over 30 min at an AUC of 6 mg/ml x min, then a 24-h continuous infusion of 11.6 mg/kg CsA. The patients received this protocol as second- to sixth-line therapy and had received between 1 and 3 prior platinum-based regimens. Eight patients received more than six cycles every 28 days, 34 patients received three to six cycles; and 9 patients received only one or two cycles. Thirty-eight patients were evaluable for objective response, and in an additional nine patients, CA-125 was the only marker of response. Four patients had no marker of disease. Of evaluable patients, 74% were platinum resistant. There were nine objective responses (one complete and eight partial responses) for an overall response rate in evaluable patients of 24%, with a median duration of response of 7 months (range, 3-38+ months). No responses were seen in patients who had received only one or two cycles of therapy. Among the strictly defined platinum-resistant patients, there was an overall 14% response rate, including one partial response seen after five prior regimens of chemotherapy including paclitaxel, and one ongoing complete response for 38+ months. Among the rest of the patients (those who were potentially platinum sensitive), there was an overall 50+ response rate; four of five responses were seen in patients with a platinum-free interval of <24 months, with only one response seen in a patient with a platinum-free interval of >24 months. Of evaluable patients, 34% had stable disease for a duration of 3-19 months. The most common grade 3 or 4 toxicity, thrombocytopenia, was seen in 22% of the patients. Hypertension, which responded to medications, was seen in 18% of the patients during the CsA infusion. We concluded that this CsA/carboplatin regimen is active in potentially platinum-sensitive patients and compares well with the expected response rate of 30% in patients with a platinum-free interval <24 months who are retreated with platinum. Moreover, this regimen had modest but real activity in platinum-resistant patients.
Our objective was to determine the maximum tolerated dose of cyclosporin A (CsA) delivered as a loading dose (LD) and continuous i.v. infusion (CI) in combination with carboplatin in patients with refractory gynecologic cancers. Twenty-nine heavily pretreated patients (25 ovarian epithelial, 2 cervical, and 2 endometrial carcinomas) received 113 cycles of CsA and carboplatin from September 1989 to September 1991. Twenty-four of these 29 carcinomas were strictly defined to be platinum resistant. CsA was administered as a LD escalated from 6 to 10 mg/kg followed by a 24-h CI from 2.5 to 14.5 mg/kg/day. Carboplatin was targeted to an area under the time versus concentration curve (AUC) of 6 mg/ml x min and was not dose escalated. Whole-blood CsA concentrations (fluorescence polarization immunoassay) at the maximum tolerated dose (10 mg/kg LD, 14.5 mg/kg/day CI) ranged from 2.4 to 3.0 microgram/ml over 12 h. Estimated median carboplatin AUC, based on calculated carboplatin clearance, was 7.9 mg/ml x min. The dose-limiting toxicity of the combination of CsA and carboplatin was grade 4 thrombocytopenia. Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 35% of the patients, which could be explained by the effects of carboplatin (AUC of 6 mg/ml x min) alone. Overall, neutropenia occurred in 24% of the patients and anemia in 17% of the patients. Grade 3 or 4 nausea or vomiting was noted in 10 and 14% of the patients, respectively. Grade 3 hypertension during CsA administration occurred in 14% of the patients. No grade 3 or 4 nephrotoxicity was seen in this trial. Three objective responses were noted: one complete response (11 months) and one partial response (5 months), both in potentially platinum-sensitive patients with platinum-free intervals of only 9 months each. One platinum-resistant patient had a partial response for 21 months. Five additional patients experienced >75% reduction of CA-125 or a return to a normal CA-125 titer. We concluded that whole-blood CsA concentrations of >3.0 microgram/ml (as seen when CsA is used as a modulator of multidrug resistance) were not achievable in this combination with carboplatin in this population of heavily pretreated gynecologic cancer patients. However, because CsA is used in this trial as a chemosensitizer in platinum-sensitive tumors and as a chemomodulator of platinum resistance, we targeted a CsA concentration of >1.0 microgram/ml, which was achieved. The CsA dose recommended for a Phase II trial of this combination is 10 mg/kg LD and 11.6 mg/kg/day CI, which results in blood CsA concentrations ranging from 1.2 to 1.3 microgram/ml over 12 h. Responses in this population of refractory gynecologic cancer patients are unusual, and these encouraging results form the basis for a Phase II trial of this combination.
Numerous epidemiological studies have shown an association between pesticide exposure and an increased risk of developing Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we provide evidence that the insecticide dieldrin causes specific oxidative damage in the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system. We report that exposure of mice to low levels of dieldrin for 30 days resulted in alterations in dopamine-handling as evidenced by a decrease in dopamine metabolites, DOPAC (31.7% decrease) and HVA (29.2% decrease) and significantly increased cysteinyl-catechol levels in the striatum. Furthermore, dieldrin resulted in a 53% decrease in total glutathione, an increase in the redox potential of glutathione, and a 90% increase in protein carbonyls. Alpha-synuclein protein expression was also significantly increased in the striatum (25% increase). Finally, dieldrin caused a significant decrease in striatal expression of the dopamine transporter as measured by (3)H-WIN 35,428 binding and (3)H-dopamine uptake. These alterations occurred in the absence of dopamine neuron loss in the substantia nigra pars compacta. These effects represent the ability of low doses of dieldrin to increase the vulnerability of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons by inducing oxidative stress and suggest that pesticide exposure may act as a promoter of PD.
The antiarrhythmic activity of flestolol, an ultra-short acting beta-adrenergic blocker lacking appreciable local anesthetic activity, was examined in several different canine ventricular arrhythmia models. Flestolol, at steady state infusions of 1-1,000 micrograms/kg per min, was generally ineffective in reversing either ouabain-induced or delayed ischemia-induced (24 h Harris dog) ventricular tachycardia. However, flestolol (1, 10 and 100 micrograms/kg per min) produced a dose-dependent decrease in l-norepinephrine (5 micrograms/kg i.v.)-induced ventricular tachycardia in the 5-6 day old Harris dog; the effect of 100 micrograms/kg per min flestolol, 94% suppression of norepinephrine-induced ventricular tachycardia, was completely reversed 60 min after termination of flestolol infusion. In pentobarbital-anesthetized open-chest dogs with pretreatment heart rates greater than or equal to 145 beats/min, flestolol (10 micrograms/kg per min) reduced the incidence of ventricular fibrillation resulting from abrupt coronary artery occlusion compared to placebo-treated controls (15% or 2/13 vs. 70% or 7/10, respectively). These results demonstrate that flestolol has an antiarrhythmic profile consistent with its lack of local anesthetic activity and its ultra-short duration of beta-blockade.
We describe a case of severe cholestatic hepatitis following administration of ticlopidine. A 57-year-old man without known liver disease developed jaundice approximately 3 weeks after initiation of ticlopidine for secondary prevention of stroke. Hyperbilirubinemia and abnormal liver function test values resolved 5 months after withdrawal of ticlopidine. The diagnosis of ticlopidine-induced cholestasis was made after thorough investigations had excluded other causes of jaundice. He was not retreated with ticlopidine. This case may serve to illustrate the possibility of ticlopidine hepatotoxicity, which has rarely been reported. Furthermore, to the best of our knowledge, ticlopidine-induced cholestatic hepatitis accompanied by autoantibody has not been previously reported. This case suggests that regular assessment of liver function should be performed in the initial 3 months of ticlopidine treatment due to the potential risk of adverse effects. In patients with abnormal biochemical test results, autoantibodies should be assessed.
Four groups of inbred male WF rats were castrated and received sc implantations of diethylstilbestrol [(DES) CAS: 56-53-1; alpha,alpha'-diethyl-4,4'-stilbenediol] at 40 days of age. Group I was given no further treatment; groups II and IV were treated with antiestrogen (AntiE) clomiphene citrate simultaneously with DES treatment. At 50-55 days of age, groups III and IV were given drinking water containing N-nitrosobutylurea [(NBU) CAS: 869-01-2; 1-butyl-1-nitrosourea] for 30 days. Castrated male rats or rats castrated and treated with NBU alone developed neither hepatic tumors (HT) nor pituitary tumors (PT). When AntiE was administered, incidences of HT and PT, size and the total number of HT, and mean pituitary weight were significantly reduced in rats given DES alone and in rats given DES with NBU. AntiE treatment changed the distribution in the histologic classification of hepatocellular lesions: Neoplastic nodules, instead of hepatocellular carcinomas, were predominant. The results indicate that AntiE was effective in the inhibition of hepatic and pituitary tumorigenesis associated with DES treatment. Our previous study has shown that prolactin was not involved in this hepatic tumorigenesis. Therefore, these studies provide evidence that the carcinogenic effect of DES on the liver cell is direct and that HT are regulated in development and growth by AntiE treatment.
Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species have been implicated in ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. Metalloporphyrins (MP) are stable catalytic antioxidants that can scavenge superoxide, hydrogen peroxide, peroxynitrite and lipid peroxyl radicals. Studies were conducted with three manganese-porphyrin (MnP) complexes with varying superoxide dimutase (SOD) and catalase catalytic activity to determine if the MnP attenuates I/R injury in isolated perfused mouse livers. The release of the hepatocellular enzymes alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) was maximal at 1 min reperfusion, decreased rapidly and increased gradually by 90 min. Manganese tetrakis-(N-ethyl-2 pyridyl) porphyrin (MnTE-2-PyP) decreased ALT, AST, LDH at 1-90 min reperfusion, while manganese tetrakis-(N-methyl-2 pyridyl) porphyrin (MnTM-2-PyP) and manganese tetrakis-(ethoxycarbonyl) porphyrin (MnTECP) decreased ALT and LDH from 5 to 90 min reperfusion. The release of thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances (TBARS) was diminished by MnTE-2-PyP and MnTM-2-PyP at 90 min. The extent of protein nitration (nitrotyrosine, NT) was decreased in all three MnPs treated livers. These results demonstrate that MnP complexes can attenuate hepatic I/R injury and may have therapeutic implications in disease states involving oxidants.
It was well known that propylthiouracil (PTU) could induce ANCA-associated vasculitis (AAV) and clinical evident vasculitis could resolve after cessation of PTU with or without immunosuppressive therapy. However, the treatment strategy for patients with PTU-induced AAV remained inconclusive and their long-term outcomes were lacking. The aim of our study was to summarize these data.
Fifteen patients with PTU-induced AAV, receiving immunosuppressive agents for <12 months and following over 24 months, were selected in the current study. The clinical and pathological data, including treatment protocols and outcomes, were retrospectively investigated.
All the patients were followed for a mean of 55.0 (25-98) months. PTU was discontinued upon diagnosis of PTU-induced AAV. Immunosuppressive therapy was administrated only for patients with vital organ involvements, such as lung and kidney, and lasted only 7.9 +/- 3.3 (0.27-12) months. No relapse of vasculitis occurred during follow-up, even after withdrawal of immunosuppressive therapy. Twelve (80%) patients remained in complete remission and one patient remained in partial remission at the latest follow-up. Two patients were treatment resistant due to late referral and late withdrawal of PTU, both of them progressed to end-stage renal disease. For uncontrolled hyperthyroidism on presentation, six patients switched to methimazole and none of them experienced relapse of vasculitis.
The long-term outcomes of patients with PTU-induced AAV were relatively good. PTU should be discontinued immediately after diagnosis. Immunosuppressive therapy may be only used in patients with vital organ involvements, and a long-term maintenance therapy may not be necessary.
Tumor cell growth is influenced by the cellular microenvironment including the presence of immune cells and blood vessels. Currently, no transplantable gastric cancer syngeneic animal models exist; therefore, we set out to establish a mouse gastric carcinoma cell line, which was named mouse gastric carcinoma cell line 3I (MGCC3I), from forestomach carcinoma developed in benzo[a]pyrene-treated ICR mice. MGCC3I cells showed epithelial-like morphology, multinuclear giant cell formation, and retained an intestinal phenotype, which are similar to human gastric cancer carcinoma cells. The expression of gastric cancer markers MUC1, MUC2, and MUC5AC, and oncogenes c-myc, c-met, cyclin E1, and cancer stem cell marker CD44 was determined in MGCC3I cells. MGCC3I cells formed poorly differentiated stomach tumors following orthotopic implantation into the stomachs of syngeneic ICR mice. Histone deacetylase inhibitors are recognized as a new class of anticancer drugs. The immunological therapeutic effects of the histone deacetylase inhibitors sodium butyrate and valproic acid were evaluated in this new animal tumor model. Sodium butyrate inhibited MGCC3I stomach tumor formation in animal models. Increased tumor infiltration by CD8 T cells and neutrophils was observed in mice treated with sodium butyrate or valproic acid. Depletion of CD8 T cells significantly attenuated tumor regression mediated by histone deacetylase inhibitors, which is correlated with enhancement of the MHC class I pathway in MGCC3I cells. Taken together, we have successfully established an orthotopic transplantable gastric tumor animal model and demonstrated its usefulness in revealing the role of CD8 T cells in the therapeutic effects of sodium butyrate.
The etiology and pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease are still not fully understood. However, evidence from both animal models and clinical observations suggests luminal bacteria as the most probable inducer of this disease. The intestinal bacterial microbiota may be modified by dietary addition of viable probiotic bacteria, thereby constituting an alternative approach to disease prevention and treatment. The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the effects of two probiotic regiments; Lactobacillus GG and a mixture of Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactobacillus acidophilus, and Bifidobacterium lactis (YO-MIX Y 109 FRO 1000) in both normal and trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid colitis-induced rats. Colon morphology and damage were evaluated histologically; colonic tissues were used for mRNA analysis, using real-time PCR. Administration of both probiotics reduced the expression of proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha and IL-6 and increased the expression of mucin 2 in compared with colitis group and reduced the inflammatory response. These results provide additional support for the positive effect of probiotics in the gut and may shed light on the mechanism by which probiotic bacteria exert their action in an animal model.
This study examined the neural correlates of cue-induced anger in cocaine-dependent men in an initial investigation of possible neurobiological explanations for the putative association between cocaine addiction and violence. We used positron emission tomography (PET) to localize alterations in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during mental imagery of a personal anger-associated scene and of an emotionally neutral scene in ten cocaine-dependent men. Compared to the emotionally neutral imagery control condition, anger was associated with marked decreases in rCBF in multiple areas of the frontal cortex (particularly the right inferior frontal gyrus), left posterior insula, left fusiform gyrus, and midbrain. Conversely, this same inferior frontal area was activated by anger imagery in nicotine-dependent men. Anger was also associated with increases in rCBF in the right fusiform gyrus, right and left middle occipital gyri, left post-central gyrus, left medial frontal gyrus, left cuneus, and in the left anterior cingulate gyrus. The study showed that cue-induced anger in cocaine-dependent men was associated with decreased activity in frontal cortical areas involved in response monitoring and inhibition. The lack of this association in nicotine-dependent men suggests a possible deficit in anger regulation associated with cocaine dependence and a possible link between cocaine dependence, violence, and relapse.
We report two cases of acute rhabdomyolysis due to severe hypokalemia. The first case appears to be caused by a chronic dietary potassium deficiency, responsible also for the elevation of blood pressure and the impairment of myocardial contractility. The administration of hydrochlorothiazide, albeit associated with captopril, could have decompensated the potassium balance, thus precipitating the acute rhabdomyolysis. More commonly the second case is due to acute potassium losses induced by a trivial enteritis in a hypertensive patient who was taking thiazide diuretics for a long period of time. We emphasize that chronic dietary potassium deficiency may represent a predisposing variable to acute rhabdomyolysis, which is generally precipitated by the superimposition of other potassium lowering factors.
In mice, the sex difference in susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis results from the tumor promoting activity of testosterone and from the inhibition of tumor promotion by ovarian hormones. We investigated the role of growth hormone in the sex-dependent regulation of susceptibility, because sex hormones are known to regulate the temporal pattern of growth hormone secretion and subsequent sex differences in liver gene expression. We found that in both males and females, wild-type mice developed significantly more tumors than growth hormone-deficient, C57BL/6J-lit/lit (B6-lit/lit) mutant mice following perinatal treatment with the carcinogen N,N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN). B6 wild-type males developed 36-59-fold more liver tumors per animal than age matched B6-lit/lit males and wild-type females developed 11-fold more tumors than B6-lit/lit females. We bred the little mutation onto the more susceptible C57BR/cdJ (BR) and C3H/HeJ (C3H) strains to assess the effect of growth hormone deficiency on hepatocarcinogenesis on additional genetic backgrounds. Growth hormone deficiency suppressed liver tumor development to <1% in males of each strain and in BR strain females. In B6 and C3H females, growth hormone deficiency caused 2-4-fold reductions in the volume fraction of the liver occupied by preneoplastic lesions. Furthermore, in contrast to wild-type strains, neither gonadectomy nor strain background significantly affected susceptibility in lit/lit mice, as mean liver tumor multiplicities ranged from 0 to 0.24 +/- 0.44 and the volume fraction of preneoplastic lesions ranged from 0.21 +/- 0.22 to 0.61 +/- 1.9%. These results demonstrate that both strain and sex hormonal effects on susceptibility to liver carcinogenesis are dependent on wild-type levels of growth hormone.
Fatal hepatic failure associated with valproic acid therapy is a rare side effect occurring in 1:5000-10,000 of the patients exposed to this antiepileptic drug. Its relevance arises from its fatal outcome and the high number of patients who are treated with this drug (one million worldwide in 1988). 112 cases were published up to 1988. Most of the affected patients were young (less than 10 years old), male, and mentally retarded. Many were under antiepileptic polytherapy. The children of this age group constituted only 23% of the patients treated with valproic acid but 73% of all fatalities. 90% of the patients developed hepatic failure in the first 5 months of therapy. Low doses or therapeutic serum levels of valproic acid do not prevent this dramatic event. Specific therapy is not known. In addition to the case report we review the literature and make recommendations for monitoring therapy with valproic acid.
The case of a young man in hypertensive emergency following the ingestion of 840 mg of pseudoephedrine is reported. The hypertension, which peaked at 200/160 mm Hg and was associated with severe headache and diaphoresis, responded expeditiously to two initial intravenous doses of labetalol. No rebound was observed following the administration of an additional dose in the intensive care unit, after which an uneventful one-day hospitalization ensued. The toxicity of pseudoephedrine is briefly reviewed along with the pharmacology and use of labetalol. On the basis of previous experimental studies and the present report, labetalol is suggested as a promising agent in the treatment of hyperadrenergic-induced hypertensive emergencies.
Studies were undertaken to investigate the role of the CNS in withdrawal hypertension caused by abrupt cessation of long-term clonidine treatment. The studies were conducted on male wistar rats receiving clonidine, 100 micrograms/kg subcutaneously twice daily for seven days. Withdrawal hypertension occurred 16 to 18 hours following the last injection of clonidine. Pressor responses to posterior hypothalamic stimulation were significantly potentiated in the rats undergoing clonidine withdrawal, and the depressor response to a single injection of 10 micrograms of clonidine into the lateral cerebral ventricle was significantly attenuated in these animals. Studies on pithed rats demonstrated that destruction of the CNS eliminated the withdrawal hypertension. These data suggest that alpha-adrenoreceptors in the nucleus tractus solitarius play an important role in the normal maintenance of blood pressure, and a decrease in sensitivity of these receptors could result in the development of a hypertensive state.
Though, oxidative stress has been implicated in silica nanoparticles induced toxicity both in vitro and in vivo, but no similarities exist regarding dose-response relationship. This discrepancy may, partly, be due to associated impurities of trace metals that may present in varying amounts. Here, cytotoxicity and oxidative stress parameters of two sizes (10 nm and 80 nm) of pure silica nanoparticles was determined in human lung epithelial cells (A549 cells). Both sizes of silica nanoparticles induced dose-dependent cytotoxicity as measured by MTT [3-(4,5-dimethyl thiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide] and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assays. Silica nanoparticles were also found to induce oxidative stress in dose-dependent manner indicated by induction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, and membrane lipid peroxidation (LPO). However, both sizes of silica nanoparticles had little effect on intracellular glutathione (GSH) level and the activities of glutathione metabolizing enzymes; glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx). Buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine (BSO) plus silica nanoparticles did not result in significant GSH depletion than that caused by BSO alone nor N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) afforded significant protection from ROS and LPO induced by silica nanoparticles. The rather unaltered level of GSH is also supported by finding no appreciable alteration in the level of GR and GPx. Our data suggest that the silica nanoparticles exert toxicity in A549 cells through the oxidant generation (ROS and LPO) rather than the depletion of GSH.
The isoprenoid pathway and its metabolites--digoxin, dolichol, and ubiquinone--were assessed in autism. The isoprenoid pathway and digoxin status was also studied for comparison in individuals of differing hemispheric dominance to determine the role of cerebral dominance in the genesis of autism. There was an upregulation of the isoprenoid pathway as evidenced by elevated HMG CoA reductase activity in autism. Digoxin, an endogenous Na+-K+ ATPase inhibitor secreted by the hypothalamus, was found to be elevated and RBC membrane Na+-K+ ATPase activity was found to be reduced in autism. Membrane Na+-K+ ATPase inhibition can result in increased intracellular Ca2+ and reduced magnesium levels. Hypothalamic digoxin can modulate conscious and subliminal perception and its dysfunction may lead to autism. Digoxin can also preferentially upregulate tryptophan transport over tyrosine resulting in increased levels of depolarizing tryptophan catabolites--serotonin, quinolinic acid (NMDA agonist), strychnine (blocks glycinergic inhibitory transmission), and nicotine (promotes dopamine release) and decreased levels of hyperpolarizing tyrosine catabolites--dopamine, noradrenaline, and morphine--contributing to membrane Na+-K+ ATPase inhibition. Increased nicotine levels can produce increased dopaminergic transmission in the presence of low dopamine levels. NMDA excitotoxicity could result from hypomagnesemia induced by membrane Na+-K+ ATPase inhibition and quinolinic acid, an NMDA agonist acting on the NMDA receptor. Hypomagnesemia and increased dolichol level can affect glycoconjugate metabolism and membranogenesis leading on to disordered synaptic connectivity in the limbic allocortex and defective presentation of viral antigens and neuronal antigens contributing to autoimmunity and viral persistence important in the pathogenesis. Membrane Na+-K+ ATPase inhibition can produce immune activation, a component of autoimmunity. Mitochondrial dysfunction consequent to altered calcium/magnesium ratios and reduced ubiquinone levels can result in increased free radical generation and reduced free radical scavenging and defective apoptosis leading to abnormal synaptogenesis. Autism can thus be considered a syndrome of hypothalamic digoxin hypersecretion consequent to an upregulated isoprenoid pathway. The biochemical patterns including hyperdigoxinemia observed in autism correlated with those obtained in right hemispheric chemical dominance. Right hemispheric chemical dominance is a predisposing factor for autism.
To estimate the frequency of contrast nephropathy after computed tomography angiography (CTA) to rule out pulmonary embolism (PE) in the emergency department (ED) setting.
We prospectively followed patients undergoing CTA for PE, while in the ED, for 45 days. Patients who refused follow-up or were receiving hemodialysis were excluded. Severe renal failure was defined as an increase in creatinine > or = 3.0 mg dL(-1) or a need for hemodialysis within the follow-up period. Patients were also followed for laboratory-defined contrast nephropathy, defined as an increase in creatinine of > 0.5 mg dL(-1) or > 25%, within seven days following CTA.
A total of 1224 patients were followed, and 354 [29%, 95% confidence interval (CI): 26-32%] patients had paired (preCTA and post-CTA) creatinine measurements. None developed renal failure (0/1224; 0%, CI: 0-0.3%). 44 patients developed laboratory-defined contrast nephropathy, corresponding to an overall frequency of 4% (44/1224; CI: 3-5%) and 12% (44/354; 95% CI: 9-16%) among those with paired creatinine measurements.
Following CTA for PE, the incidence of severe renal failure was very low, but the incidence of laboratory-defined contrast nephropathy (4% overall and 12% of those with paired measurements) was higher than expected.
Urinary excretion of albumin and transferrin was determined by means of sensitive immunochemical methods in 40 manic-depressive patients prior to and following 6 months of daily or alternate-day lithium carbonate treatment. The median dose of lithium carbonate was 700 mg in the daily treatment group and 1200 mg in the alternate-day group, the corresponding median 12-h serum lithium concentration being 0.6 mmol l-1 and 0.7 mmol l-1, respectively. Urinary excretion of albumin and transferrin was significantly elevated in the lithium-treated patients as compared to a control group (Mann-Whitney). The change in urinary albumin:creatinine and transferrin:creatinine ratios between allocation and 6 months of treatment did not correlate significantly with the lithium dosing schedule (multiple linear regression), but did correlate with total lithium carbonate dose. In conclusion, the study provides no evidence of any difference in glomerular function (permeability) in the daily and alternate-day lithium dosing schedules, and lends no support to the hypothesis that alternate-day treatment diminishes the effect of lithium on renal function.
