Agmatine, an endogenous ligand, interacts both with the alpha2-adrenoceptors and with the imidazoline binding sites. The effect of intrathecally administered agmatine on carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia was investigated by means of a paw-withdrawal test in rats. The effect of agmatine on morphine-induced anti-hyperalgesia was also studied. Intrathecal agmatine in doses larger than 250 microg caused a decrease in the pain threshold, with vocalization and agitation lasting for several hours in all animals. Agmatine alone at 1-100 microg did not give rise to any change in the thermal withdrawal threshold in the contralateral non-inflamed paw. Agmatine pretreatment was found to dose-dependently attenuate the thermal hyperalgesia induced by intraplantar carrageenan. The effect of 100 microg agmatine was completely lost by 60 min, whereas the effect of 50 microg was of similar magnitude but exhibited a longer duration. Agmatine posttreatment had a slighter effect. Agmatine pretreatment (100 microg) together with 1 microg morphine (subeffective dose) has significantly higher anti-hyperalgesic effect then the individual compounds by themselves. These are the first data demonstrating the behavioral and anti-hyperalgesic effects of intrathecal agmatine. The results reveal important interactions between intrathecal agmatine and opioids in thermal hyperalgesia.
Adult rats with genetic absence epilepsy (GAERS) were shown to be hyperresponsive to convulsions induced by picrotoxin compared to nonepileptic controls (NERs). In contrast, young GAERS aged 22-26 days were less responsive than NERs to picrotoxin-induced convulsions. Around 30 days of age, when spontaneous spike-wave discharges develop in GAERS, the sensitivity of both strains did no longer differ. After 40 days of age, GAERS appeared definitely more prone than NERs to convulse in response to picrotoxin injection. A developmental imbalance in excitation/inhibition may parallel the occurrence of SWDs.
CD 1 female mice were treated with Doxorubicin (5 mg/Kg i.v.) once a week for 8 weeks or with Isoproterenol (20 mg/Kg s.c.) once a week for 5 weeks. Other mice were treated with the chelating agent ICRF-187 (100 mg/Kg i.p.) 30 min. before Doxorubicin or Isoproterenol administration. The animals were sacrificed 4 weeks after the last administration and their cardiac morphology was evaluated by means of light microscopy. ICRF-187 significantly lessened the extent and the severity of the cardiac lesions by Doxorubicin (-68%, P less than 0.01 in left atrium; -69%, P less than 0.01 in ventricles) and the extent of those induced by Isoproterenol (-56%, P less than 0.05). These data confirm that ICRF-187 has good activity on Doxorubicin-induced myocardiopathy and provide new information about the "in vivo" effects of the compound on the cardiotoxicity caused by Isoproterenol. Moreover, they seem to confirm that a common event, probably the involvement of metal ions, plays a role in the morphologically different myocardiopathies induced by Doxorubicin or Isoproterenol.
The non-selective alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonists, 2,3-benzodiazepine derivatives CFM-1 (3,5-dihydro-7,8-dimethoxy-1-phenyl-4H-2,3-benzodiazepin-4-one) and CFM-2 (1-(4'-aminophenyl)-3,5-dihydro-7,8-dimethoxy-4H-2,3-benzodiazepin -4-one), following intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration, were studied against audiogenic seizures in genetically epilepsy-prone rats (GEPRs) or pentylenetetrazole induced kindling in rats. After acute i.p. administration the ED50 values of CFM-1 against the clonic and tonic phases of the audiogenic seizures 30 min after pretreatment were 40 (16-100) and 13 (8-25) micromol kg(-1), respectively. The animals used for chronic study were treated i.p. daily (at 10 h) for 4 weeks with CFM-1 (20 or 50 micromol kg(-1)). Chronic treatment for 2 weeks with CFM-1 gave ED50 values against clonic and tonic seizures of 39 (22-69) and 16 (8-25) micromol kg(-1), respectively, whereas chronic treatment for 4 weeks gave ED50 values against clonic and tonic seizures of 42 (18-98) and 17 (7-41.3) micromol kg(-1), respectively. The duration of anticonvulsant activity observed between 0.5 and 4 h following administration of CFM-1 was similar for acute and chronic treatment. Two groups of Sprague-Dawley rats received CMF (20 or 50 micromol kg(-1)) 30 min before a subconvulsant dose of pentylentetrazole (25 mg kg(-1) i.p.) which is able to increase seizure severity in control animals (i.e., chemical kindling). Pretreatment with CFM-2 delayed the progression of seizure rank during repeated administration of pentylentetrazole. At the end of the period of repeated pentylentetrazole treatment (6 weeks) the mean seizure score was 0 in vehicle treated controls, 4.3 in animals treated with vehicle + pentylentetrazole, 2.2 in rats treated chronically with CFM-2 (20 micromol kg(-1) i.p.) + pentylentetrazole and 1.0 in rats treated repeatedly with CFM-2 (50 micromol kg(-1) i.p.) + pentylenetetrazole. CFM-2 was also able to antagonize the long-term increase in sensitivity of the convulsant effects of GABA function inhibitors in pentylentetrazole-kindled animals. Thus, the administration of a challenge dose of pentylentetrazole (15 mg kg(-1) i.p.) or picrotoxin (1.5 mg kg(-1) i.p.) 15 or 30 days after the end of the repeated treatment showed that animals treated with CFM-2 were significantly protected against seizures induced by pentylentetrazole or picrotoxin. The data suggest that, following repeated treatment, tolerance to the novel AMPA receptor antagonists does not develop (CFM-1 in genetically epilepsy-prone rats and CFM-2 in the pentylentetrazole kindling model of epilepsy). Thirteen minutes after drug injection on days 1, 14 and 28 of chronic treatment the motor impairment induced by these compounds was studied with a rotarod apparatus. The TD50 values for CFM-1 or CFM-2-induced impairment of locomotor performance were similar following acute and repeated treatment. The data also suggest that some novel 2,3-benzodiazepines may have clinical potential for some types of epilepsy.
Although antioxidants are used to treat an overdose of the analgaesic/antipyretic drug APAP (acetaminophen), roles of antioxidant enzymes in APAP-induced hepatotoxicity remain controversial. Our objective was to determine impacts of knockout of SOD1 (superoxide dismutase; Cu,Zn-SOD) alone or in combination with selenium-dependent GPX1 (glutathione peroxidase-1) on APAP-induced hepatotoxicity. All SOD1-null (SOD1-/-) and SOD1- and GPX1-double-knockout mice survived an intraperitoneal injection of 600 mg of APAP per kg of body mass, whereas 75% of WT (wild-type) and GPX1-null mice died within 20 h. Survival time of SOD1-/- mice injected with 1200 mg of APAP per kg of body mass was longer than that of the WT mice (934 compared with 315 min, P<0.05). The APAP-treated SOD1-/- mice had less (P<0.05) plasma ALT (alanine aminotransferase) activity increase and attenuated (P<0.05) hepatic glutathione depletion than the WT mice. The protection conferred by SOD1 deletion was associated with a block of the APAP-mediated hepatic protein nitration and a 50% reduction (P<0.05) in activity of a key APAP metabolism enzyme CYP2E1 (cytochrome P450 2E1) in liver. The SOD1 deletion also caused moderate shifts in the APAP metabolism profiles. In conclusion, deletion of SOD1 alone or in combination with GPX1 greatly enhanced mouse resistance to APAP overdose. Our results suggest a possible pro-oxidant role for the physiological level of SOD1 activity in APAP-mediated hepatotoxicity.
Endogenous production of nitric oxide is vital for the decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance that normally occurs after birth. The precursor of nitric oxide is arginine, a urea-cycle intermediate. We hypothesized that low concentrations of arginine would correlate with the presence of persistent pulmonary hypertension in newborns and that the supply of this precursor would be affected by a functional polymorphism (the substitution of asparagine for threonine at position 1405 [T1405N]) in carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase, which controls the rate-limiting step of the urea cycle.
Plasma concentrations of amino acids and genotypes of the carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase variants were determined in 65 near-term neonates with respiratory distress. Plasma nitric oxide metabolites were measured in a subgroup of 10 patients. The results in infants with pulmonary hypertension, as assessed by echocardiography, were compared with those in infants without pulmonary hypertension. The frequencies of the carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase genotypes in the study population were assessed for Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium.
As compared with infants without pulmonary hypertension, infants with pulmonary hypertension had lower mean (+/-SD) plasma concentrations of arginine (20.2+/-8.8 vs. 39.8+/-17.0 micromol per liter, P<0.001) and nitric oxide metabolites (18.8+/-12.7 vs. 47.2+/-11.2 micromol per liter, P=0.05). As compared with the general population, the infants in the study had a significantly skewed distribution of the genotypes for the carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase variants at position 1405 (P<0.005). None of the infants with pulmonary hypertension were homozygous for the T1405N polymorphism.
Infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension have low plasma concentrations of arginine and nitric oxide metabolites. The simultaneous presence of diminished concentrations of precursors and breakdown products suggests that inadequate production of nitric oxide is involved in the pathogenesis of neonatal pulmonary hypertension. Our preliminary observations suggest that the genetically predetermined capacity of the urea cycle--in particular, the efficiency of carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase--may contribute to the availability of precursors for nitric oxide synthesis.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) has been suggested to play an important role in the development of drug dependence and withdrawal. Based on the recent finding that CRF receptor antagonists inhibit the stress-induced relapse to opiate dependence and attenuate anxiety-like responses related to cocaine withdrawal, the present experiment was performed to examine the possible effect of different CRF receptor antagonists on reactivation of cocaine-conditioned place preference induced by cocaine and stress in rats. The results show that a single injection of cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) could reactivate cocaine-conditioned place preference following a 28-day extinction, and pretreatment with i.c.v. 10 microg alpha-helical CRF, a nonspecific CRF receptor antagonist, significantly attenuated this reactivation of conditioned place preference. However, pretreatment with i.p. 1 or 10 mg/kg CP-154,526 (butyl-[2,5-dimethyl-7-(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)-7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl]-ethylamine), a specific CRF receptor subtype 1 antagonist, and i.c.v. 1 or 10 microg AS-30 ([D-Phe(11),His(12)]Svg-(11-40)), a specific CRF receptor subtype 2 antagonist, failed to show the same effects. In addition, a single footshock stress also elicited the reactivation of cocaine-conditioned place preference following a 28-day extinction and pretreatment with alpha-helical CRF (10 microg, i.c.v.) and CP-154,526 (1 or 10 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly blocked this effect. In contrast, pretreatment with AS-30 at a dose of 1 or 10 microg (i.c.v.) did not affect the stress-induced reactivation of cocaine-conditioned place preference. The present study demonstrated that CRF receptor type 1, but not CRF receptor type 2, mediates the stress-induced reactivation of cocaine-conditioned place preference. These findings suggest that CRF receptor subtype 1 antagonists might be of some value in the treatment and prevention of stress-induced relapse to drug dependence long after detoxification.
Acyclovir is a new and well tolerated anti-viral agent whose role in the treatment of herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) is still being evaluated. Although relapse of adenosine arabinoside treated HSE has been documented, this paper describes the recurrence of encephalitis after treatment with the recommended course of Acyclovir. A more extended course of Acyclovir produced a rapid and sustained improvement with minimal residual neurological deficit. We emphasise the need for more prolonged treatment and an awareness of the possibility of relapse when using Acyclovir for HSE.
Early developmental exposure to caffeine in rats results in decreased susceptibility to certain chemically-induced seizures in the adult. To determine whether this effect first appears in adulthood or is present during preceding developmental stages, we exposed neonatal rats to caffeine and determined seizure thresholds in animals 28, 42 and 70-90 days of age. Rats were unhandled or received either vehicle (water) or caffeine (15-20 mg/kg/day) by gavage (0.05 ml/10 g) over postnatal days 2-6. At 28, 42, or 70-90 days of age, rats were infused intravenously with picrotoxin (PIC), bicuculline (BIC), pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), caffeine (CAFF), strychnine (STR), or kainic acid (KA). Seizure thresholds for each compound were analyzed as a function of neonatal treatment, sex, and age. At 28 days, neonatally caffeine-exposed rats had a higher seizure threshold only for PTZ (P < 0.03). At 42 days, neonatally caffeine-exposed rats had higher seizure thresholds for PIC (P < 0.0007) and PTZ (P < 0.0001) than did controls. These results at 28 and 42 days are compared with previously reported data that demonstrated that in adulthood, rats neonatally exposed to caffeine have higher thresholds for seizure induction with CAFF, PTZ, and KA. Thus, early developmental exposure to caffeine results in decreases in seizure susceptibility that are agent specific and may result in a delay in the decrease in seizure threshold that occurs for many agents between late juvenile ages and adulthood.
Sexual dysfunction is a symptom of major depression, as well as a common complication of treatment with many classes of antidepressants. Nonetheless, the various forms of sexual dysfunction continue to be underreported in clinical practice, despite the availability of validated scales such as the Changes in Sexual Functioning Questionnaire (CSFQ). The current study was designed to evaluate the validity of obtaining CSFQ data using interactive voice response (IVR) technology.
Sexually active, healthy male volunteers (N = 99; mean age of 31 years) were randomly assigned to 3 weeks of double-blind, parallel-group treatment with paroxetine (20 mg/day); CP-448,187 (3 mg/day); or placebo. Patients completed both paper-and-pencil and IVR versions of the 14-item CSFQ at baseline and on treatment days 8, 15, and 21. Additional IVR assessments were obtained at days 2, 4, and 6, permitting assessment of changes between office visits. This study was conducted between March and May 2001.
The overall correlation between the paper and IVR CSFQ total score was r = 0.96 (p < .0001). Similarly, high correlations were found between paper and IVR assessment methods on the individual CSFQ subscales: pleasure (r = 0.88), frequency (r = 0.88), interest (r = 0.93), arousal (r = 0.89), and orgasm (r = 0.92; p < .0001 for all comparisons). Both assessment methods were able to detect a statistically significant between-group difference in sexual functioning by day 8, which remained significant throughout the remainder of the study. Both assessment methods found SSRI-related sexual dysfunction to include significant effects on all CSFQ domains. Assessments using IVR collected from subjects at home on days 2, 4, and 6 identified onset of sexual dysfunction by day 4, before it was detected during scheduled office visits.
Interactive voice response assessment of sexual dysfunction on the CSFQ was found to be highly correlated with previously validated paper-and-pencil assessment. Interactive voice response provides a valid, easy-to-administer alternative method for obtaining systematic data on the impact of antidepressant treatment on sexual functioning. More frequent assessment by IVR enables more precise evaluation of symptom onset.
We describe the case of 25-year-old man, with acute myeloid leukaemia, who presented with a myopericarditis syndrome 17 days post consolidation chemotherapy with high dose cytarabine and idarubicin. Transthoracic echocardiography showed marked transient increased left ventricular wall thickness associated with normal systolic contraction. In conjunction, pulsed tissue Doppler analysis revealed low early diastolic annular velocities, consistent with diastolic dysfunction. Endomyocardial biopsy showed severe interstitial myocardial oedema in the absence of a cellular infiltrate or myofibre damage. We believe this is the first case of subacute anthracycline toxicity described with the pathological findings of isolated myocardial oedema.
Patients with normal left ventricular systolic function are considered to be at a relatively low risk for cardiac events. There are scarce data regarding association of ischemia on stress imaging techniques with outcome in these patients.
We sought to assess the prognostic significance of dobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia for patients with normal left ventricular systolic function.
We studied 528 patients with normal baseline left ventricular systolic function who underwent high-dose dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography and were followed up for 4.7 +/- 2.1 years for occurrence of death and hard cardiac events (cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction).
Ischemia (new wall-motion abnormalities) was detected in 127 patients (24%). Follow-up events were death in 69 patients (13%) and hard cardiac events in 55 patients (10%). The annual hard cardiac event rate was 5% for patients with ischemia and 1.1% for patients without. In a multivariate analysis model, ischemia was the only independent predictor of hard cardiac events (risk ratio [RR] 4.3, 95% confidence intervals [CI] 2.5-7.4). Predictors of all causes of mortality were advanced age (RR 1.08, CI 1.05-1.11), higher resting rate pressure product (RR 1.11, CI 1.02-1.22), and ischemia (RR 2.1, CI 1.2-3.6).
Dobutamine-induced wall-motion abnormalities are independently associated with increased risk of all-cause mortality and hard cardiac events in patients with normal baseline left ventricular function.
The acute cardiovascular effects of oral felodipine (0.05 mg/kg and 0.1 mg/kg) were studied using radionuclide methods in 14 hypertensive patients. Eight were previously untreated and 6 had been treated with atenolol 100mg daily for a least 1 month. The maximal effects were observed 60 minutes after the first oral dose and no greater effect was observed with the higher dose. Felodipine caused a reduction in systemic vascular resistance, with a fall in blood pressure and an increase in cardiac output and left ventricular ejection fraction. Those responses were presumably mediated by the reduction in afterload, as they were not modified by pretreatment with atenolol. There were no changes in venous capacitance and the overall pattern of response was similar to that noted with hydralazine. Thus, in hypertensive subjects felodipine acts as a potent arteriolar vasodilator. The results suggest the drug may be an effective means of controlling hypertension, particularly when given in combination with other antihypertensive therapy.
Chronic adriamycin (ADR) intoxication was produced in three groups of beagle dogs by weekly intravenous injections (1 mg/kg body weight) for 20 weeks (cumulative dose 400 mg/sq m). Group A (6 dogs) received ADR only; Group B (6 dogs) were given ADR and weekly doses of vitamin E (17 mg/kg body weight) as alpha-tocopherol acetate; and Group C (6 dogs) received ADR and weekly doses of vitamin E as did Group B and selenium (0.06 mg/kg body weight as selenite). Each of the 18 dogs developed ADR-induced cardiomyopathy (CMY), and death occurred in 11 dogs during Weeks 17-20. Mortality was lowest in Group B (2 of 6), but no differences between groups were seen either in survival time of the dogs that died or in severity of CMY. Cardiomyopathy was more severe in dogs that died than in survivors. Congestive heart failure with transudation was present in 4 of 11 dogs that died. Cardiac histopathology was characterized by vacuolar degeneration of myocytes. Myocardial damage was most severe in the left ventricle and the ventricular septum, intermediate in the right ventricle and the left atrium, and least in the right atrium. Ultrastructural study showed that an early alteration in damaged myocytes was distention of sarcoplasmic reticulum to form sarcoplasmic vacuoles. Occasional damaged fibers had myofibrillar lysis and focal proliferation of sarcoplasmic reticulum. This study demonstrates that the dog offers a suitable model for studies of chronic ADR cardiotoxicity in man. The lack of cardioprotection from vitamin E and selenium supplementation fails to support the proposed role of lipoperoxidative damage in the development of chronic ADR-induced CMY.
Based on a case history the therapeutic value of an iv-chelate therapy in arteriosclerosis is discussed. Ethylenediaminetetraacetate (EDTA) is used as a standard regime in the treatment of poisoning with heavy metals. The usefulness of EDTA in arteriosclerosis is doubtful: some authors suppose, that Ca-deposits are removed from arteriosclerotic lesions. This concept has not yet been proven by in-vivo experiments. Severe side effects such as hypocalcemia may cause the death of a patient under treatment. Therefore no real indications exist for treatment of arteriosclerosis with EDTA.
While aspirin's secondary prevention benefit is clear, prior reports indicate that 19-83% of eligible patients may not use aspirin chronically.
We investigated intolerance and bleeding while on aspirin and aspirin discontinuation using 5337 post-acute coronary syndrome patients considered appropriate for chronic antiplatelet therapy who were randomly assigned to aspirin in SYMPHONY and 2nd SYMPHONY and followed for 94 (64,157) days. Multivariable logistic regression models tested associations between baseline characteristics and aspirin discontinuation and bleeding.
Nearly 18% of patients discontinued study aspirin; 48% subsequently used open-label aspirin and 5% other antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapy. Black race, recurrent ischemia, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lighter weight, shorter time to treatment and use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, diuretics, and digitalis were independently associated with early discontinuation. Early discontinuation was less likely in Eastern Europe, Latin America and Asia. Although major or minor bleeding was common (12.6%), only 1.0% of aspirin-treated patients were reported to discontinue due to bleeding. Gastrointestinal (10.5%) and puncture site (7.6%) were the most common bleeding locations. Bleeding risk was associated with lower estimated creatinine clearance, shorter time to treatment, smoking, Killip class >II, higher systolic blood pressure, and use of aspirin or heparin prior to starting study aspirin.
Despite early initiation and close follow-up, more than 9% of aspirin-treated patients discontinued therapy early and remained off treatment. Addressing the factors associated with both bleeding and discontinuation during chronic therapy is necessary to improve adherence to this inexpensive, life-saving therapy.
To determine the effect of age on the response to anti-arrhythmic drugs.
Randomized controlled trial comparing particular drugs.
Multi-institutional (The Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial, CAST).
2,371 patients, age less than 80, with ventricular arrhythmias after a recent myocardial infarction. Subjects classified by age as less than or equal to 55, 56-65, and 66-79 years.
Upwardly titrated doses of encainide, flecainide or moricizine. After identification of a tolerated and effective dose of one of the drugs, participants were randomized to that drug and dose versus its placebo for up to 10 months.
Efficacy of drug (suppression of ventricular premature depolarizations and/or non-sustained ventricular tachycardia), side effects and mortality.
Older patients had more previous MIs, congestive heart failure (CHF), hypertension, NSVT, repolarization abnormalities, digitalis use, and diuretic use. They had less pathologic Q-waves or electrocardiographic injury pattern, and their left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was lower. First dose VPD suppression with the first drug averaged 53% and is not associated with age (P = 0.29). Adverse events including death are more frequent in older patients taking study drugs (P less than 0.001). This trend is consistent in all three study drugs and at varying LVEFs. History of prior MI, low LVEF, VPD (in log scale), and digitalis therapy also correlates with adverse events (all P less than 0.05). Following adjustment for these factors, older age is an independent predictor of adverse events (relative risk 1.30 per decade of age, P less than 0.001).
Older age increases the susceptibility to adverse cardiac events from a class of relatively toxic antiarrhythmic agents.
Sixty Sprague-Dawley rats were fed diets containing 0, 10, 100, 1,000, and 10,000 ppm of methoxychlor for 16 weeks under ad libitum- and restricted-feeding regimens. Methoxychlor at 10,000 ppm was lethal to some rats, reduced food consumption and growth, and increased liver weight relative to body weight. Methoxychlor at 1,000 ppm reduced food consumption and growth of rats fed ad libitum but did not reduce growth of restricted-fed rats. Reduced hepatic storage of vitamin A was detectable when methoxychlor was fed at levels of 100 ppm or higher.
Sequential, dose-dense epirubicin plus docetaxel was evaluated as primary systemic therapy for women with inoperable, locally advanced breast cancer (LABC) or inflammatory breast cancer (IBC). Patients (LABC n=27; IBC n=7) received 3 cycles of epirubicin 120 mg/m2 every 2 weeks followed by 3 cycles of docetaxel 100 mg/m2 every 2 weeks, with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. Grade 3-4 toxicities were observed in 21 of 195 cycles (10.8%). Grade 3 anemia and leukopenia each occurred in 1% of cycles. Following chemotherapy, all patients underwent surgery. Eight patients (23.5%) had a clinical complete response and 15 (44.1%) had a partial response. In patients with IBC, median skin thickness decreased from 5.85 mm (range: 3.1-6.2 mm) to 4 mm (range: 2.7-5.1 mm) (p<0.005). Sequential, dose-dense epirubicin plus docetaxel achieved a high response rate among patients with LABC or IBC with only moderate toxicity.
Losartan reduces blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension, but the long-term central hemodynamic effects at rest and during exercise are not known.
After 8 months of losartan treatment (50 to 100 mg daily, mean 82 mg), intra-arterial pressure was reduced from 165/102 mm Hg to 145/91 mm Hg at rest and from 193/104 mm Hg to 179/96 mm Hg during 100 W exercise in 28 patients with essential hypertension. Cardiac index and heart rate remained unchanged, but total peripheral resistance index was reduced 12% to 15%. Stroke index was unchanged at rest but increased 7% to 9% during exercise. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure was reduced 10% to 13%. Left ventricular mass was reduced 27% in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (n = 18).
Losartan lowers blood pressure by reducing total peripheral resistance at rest and during exercise but cardiac pump function is unchanged or slightly improved. In patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, losartan induces a sizeable reduction in left ventricular mass.
Evidence indicates that venlafaxine hydrochloride extended release (ER) effectively ameliorates anxiety symptoms.
To evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of flexible-dose venlafaxine ER compared with placebo in the short-term treatment of generalized social anxiety disorder and, secondarily, to compare paroxetine with venlafaxine ER and paroxetine with placebo.
Adult outpatients with DSM-IV generalized social anxiety disorder for 6 months or longer were randomly assigned to receive venlafaxine hydrochloride ER (75-225 mg/d), paroxetine (20-50 mg/d), or placebo for 12 weeks or less at 26 centers in the United States. The primary outcome measure was the total Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale score. Secondary measures included response (Clinical Global Impression-Improvement score, 1 or 2) rates and Clinical Global Impression-Severity of Illness and Social Phobia Inventory scores.
Of 440 patients treated, 413 (93.9%) were included in the last-observation-carried-forward efficacy analysis; of the 429 patients in the safety population, 318 (74.1%) completed the study. Mean daily doses were 201.7 mg (SD, 38.1 mg) of venlafaxine hydrochloride ER and 46.0 mg (SD, 7.9 mg) of paroxetine. Venlafaxine ER treatment was significantly superior to placebo at weeks 1 through 12 on the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale and Social Phobia Inventory and at week 2 and weeks 6 through 12 for Clinical Global Impression-Severity of Illness and responder status, and was significantly superior to paroxetine treatment at weeks 1 and 2 for the Social Phobia Inventory (P < .05 for all). Paroxetine treatment was significantly superior to placebo at weeks 3 through 12 on the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale, the Clinical Global Impression-Severity of Illness scale, and the Social Phobia Inventory, and at weeks 4 through 12 for response (P < .05 for all). Week 12 response rates were significantly greater for the venlafaxine ER and paroxetine groups (58.6% and 62.5%, respectively) vs the placebo group (36.1%) (P < .001 for both).
Venlafaxine ER is effective in the short-term treatment of generalized social anxiety disorder, with efficacy and tolerability comparable to paroxetine.
Bone marrow cells can differentiate into hepatocytes in a suitable microenvironment. This study was undertaken to investigate the effects of transplanted bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) on liver fibrosis in mice.
BMSCs were harvested and cultured from male BALB/c mice, then transplanted into female syngenic BALB/c mice via the portal vein. After partial hepatectomy, diethylnitrosamine (DEN) was administered to induce liver fibrosis. Controls received BMSCs and non-supplemented drinking water, the model group received DEN with their water, and the experimental group received BMSCs and DEN. Mice were killed after 3 months, and ALT, AST, hyaluronic acid (HA), and laminin (LN) in serum and hydroxyproline (Hyp) in the liver were assessed. Alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) in the liver was assessed by immunohistochemistry. Bone marrow-derived hepatocytes were identified by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) in liver sections.
BMSCs were shown to differentiate into hepatocyte-like phenotypes after hepatocyte growth factor treatment in vitro. Serum ALT, AST, HA, and LN were markedly reduced by transplanted BMSCs. Liver Hyp content and alpha-SMA staining in mice receiving BMSCs were lower than in the model group, consistent with altered liver pathology. FISH analysis revealed the presence of donor-derived hepatocytes in the injured liver after cross-gender mouse BMSC transplantation. After three months, about 10% of cells in the injured liver were bone marrow-derived.
BMSCs transplanted via the portal vein can convert into hepatocytes to repair liver injury induced by DEN, restore liver function, and reduce liver fibrosis.
Hyperthyroid patients in the postabsorptive state have elevated levels of blood glycerol and ketone bodies (KB): this is believed to be due to increased lipolysis and ketogenesis. These increased glycerol and KB levels return toward normal after oral propranolol administration. In order to investigate the mechanism of action of propranolol in hyperthyroid patients, we compared the effects of the oral administration of propranolol with those of timolol, propylthiouracil (PTU), and a placebo. The placebo had no effect. The free thyroxine index, immunoreactive insulin level and glucagon level were not modified by propranolol, timolol, or PTU. Propranolol decreased the pulse rate (P less than 0.01) and the levels of serum triiodothyronine (T3; P less than 0.05), blood glycerol (P less than 0.01), and KB (P less than 0.01). Like propranolol, timolol decreased the pulse rate (P less than 0.01) but had no effect on the T3, glycerol, or KB levels. Propylthiouracil did not modify the pulse rate, but like propranolol, it decreased the T3 (P less than 0.05), glycerol (P less than 0.01) and KB (P less than 0.01) levels. These results suggest that the metabolic actions of propranolol are not caused by its hemodynamic effects nor its beta-blocking properties but are mediated by the decrease of the T3 level.
Acute, drug-induced hepatocellular cholestasis (either pure or cholestatic hepatitis) is a common manifestation of drug-induced hepatic injury. The drugs most frequently responsible are hormonal steroids and psychopharmacological agents (in particular phenothiazines and some antidepressants). Cholestasis usually subsides without sequelae in less than six months. Acute, drug-induced ductular cholestasis is uncommon and can resemble biliary tract obstruction. Complete recovery occurs promptly after the withdrawal of the causative drug in most cases. The pathogenetic mechanism may be immunoallergic. Prolonged ductular or ductal cholestasis can follow drug-induced acute hepatitis despite prompt withdrawal of the offending drug. This syndrome, observed mainly with chlorpromazine and uncommonly with twenty other drugs, is characterized by the progressive disappearance of small bile ducts and by manifestations mimicking primary biliary cirrhosis. However, its prognosis appears to be better than that of primary biliary cirrhosis, the condition being reversible in the majority of cases or even subsiding completely. The mechanism is still unknown, but several features suggest some form of autoimmunity. Extrahepatic cholestasis related to sclerosing cholangitis is a frequent and long-term complication of intra-arterial infusion of floxuridine in patients treated for hepatic metastases from colorectal carcinoma. Although it may be reversible, floxuridine-induced sclerosing cholangitis has a poor prognosis and can lead to death in a few patients. The mechanism is probably related to the vascular supply of the common hepatic duct and its relationship to the perfusion territory of floxuridine.
The nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug sulindac displays chemopreventive activity in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). Sulindac metabolites induce apoptosis in colon tumor cells, in part, by a polyamine-dependent mechanism that can be suppressed with exogenous putrescine. To determine the relevance of this mechanism in animals, we treated Apc(Min/+) mice, a model of human FAP, with sulindac alone or in combination with dietary putrescine. Sulindac increased steady-state RNA levels and enzymatic activity of the polyamine catabolic enzyme spermidine/spermine N(1)-acetyltransferase and intestinal levels of monoacetylspermidine, spermidine, and spermine in the small intestine of mice. Sulindac also decreased the activity of the biosynthetic enzyme ornithine decarboxylase but not adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (AMD). Dietary putrescine increased intestinal putrescine contents, whereas the combination of dietary putrescine and sulindac yielded the highest levels of intestinal putrescine and correlated with a statistically significant reduction in AMD enzyme activity. Dietary putrescine did not statistically significantly increase tumorigenesis, although it significantly increased the grade of adenoma dysplasia (P < 0.05). The effectiveness of sulindac to suppress intestinal carcinogenesis was partially abrogated by dietary putrescine. These data suggest that sulindac exerts at least some of its anticarcinogenic effects in mice via a polyamine-dependent mechanism. Because high concentrations of putrescine can be found in certain dietary components, it may be advantageous to restrict dietary putrescine consumption in patients undergoing treatment with sulindac.
This study investigates gene therapy with human tissue kallikrein as a treatment for fructose-induced hypertension in rats. Hypertension was induced by addition of 10% fructose to drinking water. Fructose-fed rats also had increased serum insulin and triglycerides, decreased urine osmolarity, increased urine volume and endothelin-1, and increased aortic endothelin-1, endothelin-A receptor, and angiotensin II receptor type 1 mRNA levels. Fructose-induced hypertensive and control rats were injected intravenously with a construct containing the human tissue kallikrein cDNA. Two weeks after injection of hypertensive rats, systolic blood pressure and serum insulin levels normalized, urine osmolarity increased, urine endothelin-1 levels decreased, and aortic endothelin-1, endothelin-A receptor, and angiotensin II receptor type 1 mRNA levels decreased. In contrast, injection of the human tissue kallikrein cDNA had minimal effect on blood pressure or insulin levels in control rats. These results suggest that gene therapy with human tissue kallikrein may have potential as a treatment for hypertension and associated insulin resistance. Moreover, our data suggest that the beneficial effects of human tissue kallikrein on these parameters are associated with changes in endothelin-1, endothelin-A receptor, and angiotensin II receptor type 1 expression.
Transcutaneous oxygen tension (TCPO2) is a useful noninvasive technique for monitoring arterial oxygen tension under stable circulatory conditions. This study was undertaken to determine if TCPO2 is also reliable during sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension under general anesthesia. Arterial blood gases and TCPO2 were measured prior to inducing hypotension (baseline), at 20-min intervals during hypotension, and when systemic arterial pressure had returned to within 10% of the control (pre-hypotension) value. With induced hypotension, PaO2 and TCPO2 decreased significantly (P less than 0.05), and were well correlated by linear regression (r greater than 0.85); however, regressions were strongly dependent on the individual patient. The mean regression line for all patients as a group was given by TCPO2 = 0.69 PaO2 + 20.7 mmHg (r = 0.93, P less than 0.01); significantly different regressions were obtained for each patient (P less than 0.0001). Comparing changes in TCPO2 versus those in PaO2 (relative change from baseline values) did not substantially reduce the variability among patients. It is concluded that TCPO2 reliably reflects changes in arterial oxygen tension during controlled hypotension under general anesthesia, but that a separate calibration of TCPO2 vs. PaO2, obtained prior to inducing hypotension, may be required for each individual patient.
Marked gastric distention was-observed in rats 20 h after they underwent partial hepatectomy under isoflurane anesthesia and received buprenorphine (0.3 mg/kg of body weight) after surgery. Hardwood bedding comprised the bulk of the gastric contents. A study was undertaken to determine the cause of the pica behavior (consumption of non-nutritive substances) and resultant gastric distention. Ten-week-old male Sprague Dawley rats were randomly assigned to one of six groups. Group-1 rats (n = 11) underwent laparotomy under isoflurane anesthesia, with buprenorphine (0.3 mg/kg) administered after surgery. Group-2 rats (n = 12) underwent laparotomy under isoflurane anesthesia with buprenorphine (0.05 mg/kg) administered after surgery. Group-3 rats (n = 24) underwent laparotomy under isoflurane anesthesia, with saline administered after surgery. Isoflurane was administered at the same rate, concentration, and duration for all groups that underwent laparotomy (groups 1 to 3). Buprenorphine or saline was administered subcutaneously as a single injection when anesthesia was discontinued (groups 1 to 3). Group-4 rats (n = 6) received buprenorphine (0.3 mg/kg) only. Group-5 rats (n = 6) received buprenorphine (0.05 mg/kg) only. Group-6 rats (n = 12) received saline only. Rats not undergoing laparotomy (groups 4 to 6) received buprenorphine or saline 18 to 20 h before euthanasia. Rats were housed individually in filter-topped polycarbonate cages containing hardwood bedding. A purified, pelleted diet and water were offered ad libitum. Food and water consumption were measured over the posttreatment period. Eighteen to 20 h after treatment, rats were euthanized, each stomach and its contents were weighed, contents were examined grossly, and wet and dry gastric content weights were recorded. All weights were significantly (P < 0.05) increased in rats receiving buprenorphine administered after surgery (groups 1 and 2), compared with rats of the control group (group 3). Weights of the stomach and contents, wet gastric contents, and dry gastric contents were significantly (P < 0.05) increased in rats receiving 0.3 mg of buprenorphine/kg only (group 4), compared with values for their controls (group 6). Hardwood bedding comprised the bulk of the gastric contents in all groups receiving buprenorphine. Stomachs of rats not receiving buprenorphine contained the purified diet with little or no hardwood bedding. These results indicate that a single injection of buprenorphine at a dosage of 0.05 or 0.3 mg/kg resulted in rats ingesting hardwood bedding, leading to gastric distention. It was concluded that pica behavior associated with administration of buprenorphine should be considered when evaluating experimental data from rats housed on contact bedding.
