Hepcidin is an important and recently discovered regulator of iron homeostasis. Acute iron intoxication is one of the leading causes of overdose mortality in children. It is difficult to estimate the degree of iron intoxication since iron serum levels do not correlate with the actual clinical severity. In the current study we aimed to investigate whether serum hepcidin levels are elevated in acute iron intoxication. Rats were divided into two iron dose groups and one control group. Each group was further subdivided into four time groups following the administration of iron. Levels of hepcidin, iron and liver enzymes were measured, and animals were followed for signs of toxicity. Serum hepcidin levels were significantly higher in the group treated with toxic doses of iron (p=0.005). No significant difference in serum iron levels was found between the groups. In acute iron intoxication serum hepcidin levels increase significantly and remain elevated for at least 6h. We postulate that beyond the first hour after iron administration, serum hepcidin levels provide a better estimate of the amount of iron intake than do serum iron levels.
Recent studies have shown that gamma-aminobutyric acidB (GABAB) receptor antagonists suppress absence seizures in animal models. (+)-5,5-Dimethyl-2-morpholineacetic acid, hydrochloride (SCH 50911) is a new GABAB antagonist that is structurally dissimilar to previously studied GABAB antagonists such as 3-aminopropyl-diethoxymethyl-phosphinic acid (CGP 35348), 3-aminopropyl-n-butyl-phosphinic acid (CGP 36742) or 3-aminopropyl-cyclohexylmethyl-phosphinic acid (CGP 46381). In this study we measured the antiabsence effects of SCH 50911 in three animal models: the lethargic (lh/lh) mutant mouse, which has spontaneous absence seizures; and two rat models in which absence seizures were induced by administration of either gamma-hydroxybutyrate or pentylenetetrazole. SCH 50911 abolished seizures in all three models in a dose-dependent fashion (ID100 = 8-170 mumol/kg). In each model SCH 50911 was more potent (ID50 = 2-22 mumol/kg) than the following antiabsence compounds: the GABAB antagonist CGP 35348 (ID50 = 210-890 mumol/kg); ethosuximide (ID50 < or = 142-1240 mumol/kg); trimethadione (ID50 = 520-1100 mumol/kg); and valproic acid (ID50 = 900-2360 mumol/kg). SCH 50911 was equipotent with the GABAB antagonist CGP 46381 (ID50 = 20 mumol/kg) in the lh/lh mouse model. These findings suggest that antiabsence activity may be a defining feature of GABAB receptor antagonists and provide a rationale for pursuing clinical trials of GABAB receptor antagonists in human patients with absence seizures.
We studied the epicardial activation sequence during torsade de pointes in canine hearts with quinidine-induced long QT interval. Following a toxic dose of quinidine sulfate (30 mg/kg), polymorphic ventricular tachycardia was induced by extrastimuli. In nine dogs, 22 episodes of nonsustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and six episodes of monomorphic ventricular tachycardia were induced. Of 22 episodes of nonsustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, 12 episodes showed typical torsion of the spikes of the QRS complex around the isoelectric line (torsade de pointes). Isochronal maps were made from 38 simultaneously recorded bipolar electrograms and showed that each change in QRS morphology was associated with a change in the earliest epicardial activation site and/or a change of epicardial activation sequence. During episodes of torsade de pointes, the earliest epicardial activation site migrated gradually from one site to another site. The transitional QRS complexes had their earliest epicardial activation sites between the new and old site of the earliest epicardial activation. The changes in the earliest epicardial activation site during polymorphic ventricular tachycardia without torsade de pointes pattern was not as great as that noted during torsade de pointes. This study suggests that in a noninfarcted canine model torsade de pointes is produced by alteration in the earliest site of activation rather than by competition from two or more competing foci.
Advanced glycation end products and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) have been implicated in the development of diabetic complications such as cataract. The diverse metabolic effects of protocatechualdehyde (PCA, 3, 4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde) include the inhibition of aldose reductase and oxidation, two processes that are involved in the development of complications in diabetic patients. Here, the potential therapeutic effects of PCA in the treatment of diabetic complications were studied by determining this compound's ability to inhibit the formation of advanced glycation end products-bovine serum albumin (BSA) and the expression of receptor for advanced glycation end products and TGF-beta1 in human lens epithelial cells cultured under diabetic conditions. In addition, the ability of PCA to suppress lens opacification in streptozotocin-diabetic rats was analyzed. PCA significantly reduced advanced glycation end products-BSA formation in vitro and was more effective than aminoguanidine. In human lens epithelial cells, PCA significantly inhibited the induction of receptor for advanced glycation end products protein and mRNA expression by the receptor for advanced glycation end products-specific ligand S100b. Moreover, PCA inhibited high glucose- or S100b-induced TGF-beta1 protein and mRNA expression as well as nuclear accumulation of phosphorylated Smad2/3. In streptozotocin-induced diabetic cataract in rats, oral administration of PCA (25 mg/kg body weight) for 8 weeks significantly ameliorated the development of lens opacity (cataract) with effect on glycemic control. These results suggest that PCA is of therapeutic interest with respect to the prevention of diabetic complications such as diabetic cataract.
Quinidine therapy is one of the most common causes of the acquired long QT syndrome and torsade de pointes. In reviewing clinical data in 24 patients with the quinidine-associated long QT syndrome, 20 of whom had torsade de pointes, we have delineated several heretofore unreported or underemphasized features. (1) This adverse drug reaction occurred either in patients who were being treated for frequent nonsustained ventricular arrhythmias or for atrial fibrillation or flutter. (2) In patients being treated for atrial fibrillation, torsade de pointes occurred only after conversion to sinus rhythm. (3) Although most patients developed the syndrome within days of starting quinidine, four had torsade de pointes during long-term quinidine therapy, usually in association with hypokalemia. (4) Because of the large experience with this entity at our institution, we have been able to estimate the risk as at least 1.5% per year. (5) Twenty of the 24 patients had at least one major, easily identifiable, associated risk factor including serum potassium below 3.5 mEq/L (four); serum potassium between 3.5 and 3.9 mEq/L (nine); high-grade atrioventricular block (four); and marked underlying, (unrecognized) QT prolongation (two). Plasma quinidine concentrations were low, being at or below the lower limit of the therapeutic range in half of patients. The ECG features typically included absence of marked QRS widening, marked QT prolongation (by definition), and a stereotypic series of cycle length changes just prior to the onset of torsade de pointes. Torsade de pointes started after the T wave of a markedly prolonged QT interval that followed a cycle that had been markedly prolonged (usually by a post ectopic pause).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Azo dyes are of environmental concern due to their degradation products, widespread use, and low-removal rate during conventional treatment. Their toxic properties are related to the nature and position of the substituents with respect to the aromatic rings and amino nitrogen atom. The dyes Disperse Red 1 and Disperse Red 13 were tested for Salmonella mutagenicity, cell viability by annexin V, and propidium iodide in HepG2 and by aquatic toxicity assays using daphnids. Both dyes tested positive in the Salmonella assay, and the suggestion was made that these compounds induce mainly frame-shift mutations and that the enzymes nitroreductase and O-acetyltransferase play an important role in the observed effect. In addition, it was shown that the presence of the chlorine substituent in Disperse Red 13 decreased the mutagenicity about 14 times when compared with Disperse Red 1, which shows the same structure as Disperse Red 13, but without the chlorine substituent. The presence of this substituent did not cause cytotoxicity in HepG2 cells, but toxicity to the water flea Daphnia similis increased in the presence of the chlorine substituent. These data suggest that the insertion of a chlorine substituent could be an alternative in the design of dyes with low-mutagenic potency, although the ecotoxicity should be carefully evaluated.
Purple glove syndrome (PGS) is a rare complication of intravenous phenytoin use that typically presents with pain, edema, and discoloration at the injection site that spreads to the distal limb. Several risk factors have been associated with the development of PGS; however, the etiology remains unknown. We present a case of PGS and briefly review the current understanding of this syndrome.
Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) has been shown to prevent gastric mucosal lesions induced by reserpine and ethanol. Here, we aimed to investigate the effects of i.c.v. GLP-1 on stress-induced gastric mucosal lesions and the mechanisms which may mediate these effects.
Rats were equipped with intravenous and i.c.v. cannulas under ether anesthesia. To induce cold-restraint stress, rats were kept individually in wire cages, specifically prepared according to their sizes, at 7-9 degrees C for 5 hours. They were then decapitated, and their stomachs were removed and scored for mucosal damage. GLP-1 (1, 10, 100, 1000 ng/10 microl; i.c.v.) was injected 5 min before cold-restraint stress induction. Rats were pretreated with exendin-(9-39) (2.5 ng/10 microl; i.c.v. and 250 ng/kg; intraperitoneal [i.p.]), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-(8-37) (10 microg/kg; i.p.), N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (3 mg/kg; i.v.), indomethacin (5 mg/kg; i.p.) and atropine (1 mg/kg; i.p.) to investigate mechanisms which may mediate the gastroprotective effect of GLP-1.
GLP-1 (1000 ng/10 microl; i.c.v.) significantly prevented gastric mucosal lesions induced by cold-restraint stress (p<0.01). Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.), but not i.p., injection of exendin-(9-39) significantly blocked the gastroprotective effect of the peptide (p<0.05). Pretreatment with CGRP-(8-37), L-NAME and indomethacin also prevented the gastroprotective effect of i.c.v. GLP-1 (p<0.05, p<0.05 and p<0.01, respectively), while pretreatment with atropine did not prevent the gastroprotective effect of the peptide.
We conclude that i.c.v GLP-1 inhibits the gastric mucosal damage induced by cold-restraint stress via the activation of its specific receptors, and CGRP, nitric oxide and prostaglandins, but not cholinergic muscarinic receptors, mediate this effect.
STAT5 proteins are components of the common growth hormone and interleukin 2 family of cytokines' signaling pathway. Mutations in the STAT5b gene, described in 2 patients, lead to growth hormone insensitivity that resembles Laron syndrome. Clinical immunodeficiency was also present, although immunologic defects have not been well characterized thus far. Here we describe a 16-year-old girl who suffered generalized eczema and recurrent infections of the skin and respiratory tract since birth. She also suffered severe chronic lung disease and multiple episodes of herpetic keratitis. Clinical features of congenital growth hormone deficiency were observed, such as persistently low growth rate, severely delayed bone age, and postnatal growth failure resulting from growth hormone resistance. This combined phenotype of growth hormone insensitivity and immunodeficiency was attributable to a homozygous C-->T transition that resulted in a nonsense mutation at codon 152 in exon 5 of the STAT5b gene. This novel mutation determined a complete absence of protein expression. The main immunologic findings were moderate T-cell lymphopenia (1274/mm3), normal CD4/CD8 ratio, and very low numbers of natural killer (18/mm3) and gammadelta T (5/mm3) cells. T cells presented a chronically hyperactivated phenotype. In vitro T-cell proliferation and interleukin 2 signaling were impaired. CD4+ and CD25+ regulatory T cells were significantly diminished, and they probably contributed to the signs of homeostatic mechanism deregulation found in this patient. This new case, in accordance with 2 previously reported cases, definitely demonstrates the significant role of the STAT5b protein in mediating growth hormone actions. Furthermore, the main immunologic findings bring about an explanation for the clinical immunodeficiency features and reveal for the first time the relevant role of STAT5b as a key protein for T-cell functions in humans.
The objectives of this study were to find a minimal dose of 17alpha-ethinyl estradiol (EE) that is detrimental to the developing penis and fertility and to compare estrogenic effects between EE and diethylstilbestrol (DES). Neonatal rats received EE at 10 ng (1 microg/kg), 100 ng, 1 microg, or 10 microg per pup on alternate days from postnatal days 1 to 11 (dose-response study) or received EE or DES at 100 ng per pup daily from postnatal days 1 to 6 (comparative study). Effects of EE were dose dependent, with > or = 100-ng dose inducing significant (p < 0.05) reductions in penile length, weight, and diameter. Additionally, the penis was malformed, characterized by underdeveloped os penis and accumulation of fat cells. Fertility was 0% in the > or = 1-microg groups, in contrast to 60% in the 100-ng group and 100% in the 10-ng and control groups. Animals treated with > or = 10 ng had significant reductions in the weight of bulbospongious muscle, testis, seminal vesicle, epididymal fat pad, and in epididymal sperm numbers. A comparison of EE and DES effects showed similar reductions in penile weight and length and the weight of bulbospongiosus muscle, testis, seminal vesicle, epididymis, and epididymal fat pad in both adolescent and adult rats. While 5/6 control males sired, only 1/6 in the EE group and 0/6 in the DES group sired. Hence, neonatal exposure to EE at 10 ng (environmentally relevant dose) adversely affects male reproductive organs. A dose ten times higher than this leads to permanently mal-developed penis and infertility. Furthermore, EE and DES exposures show similar level of toxicity to male reproductive organs.
A medication error caused a near fatal cardiac arrest in a previously healthy patient undergoing elective surgery. Inadvertent epinephrine injection induced ventricular dysrhythmias, hypertension, hypotension and pulmonary oedema. The case was investigated using critical-incident technique and was reviewed by the Risk Management Team of the Department of Anaesthesia. The purpose of this report is to present the recommendations resulting from the investigation. These include: improved resident training in intravenous drug management, the use of anaesthetic drug ampoules with distinct labels, and the development of a standardized colour code system for labels on anaesthetic drug ampoules. Furthermore, it is recommended that all anaesthetic drug errors be reported to the Canadian agencies responsible for drug packaging in order to identify patterns in anaesthetic drug errors, and to facilitate the implementation of effective drug identification systems.
Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS syndrome) is a rare and severe drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome characterized by haematological abnormalities (hypereosinophilia and/or mononucleosis) and multiorgan involvement. Renal failure has been rarely described. We report the case of a 77-year-old female with sulphasalazine-induced DRESS syndrome who improved rapidly on corticosteroid treatment. After prednisone withdrawal, the patient developed renal failure that necessitated a session of haemodialysis. A kidney biopsy showed acute tubulointerstitial nephritis with an intense lymphocytic infiltrate and tubular necrosis. Kidney function normalized after a further 2 weeks of corticosteroid treatment. This is the first histologically proven case of acute tubulointerstitial nephritis in the setting of sulphasalazine-induced DRESS syndrome.
This Phase I study was designed to determine a safe combination dose of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and arsenic trioxide (ATO) to treat 5-FU-resistant relapsed/refractory colorectal cancer patients. We studied the effect of ATO in the downregulation of thymidylate synthase (TS) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and in tumor biopsies.
ATO was administered for 5 consecutive days during the first week and twice during weeks 2 to 3 and once on week 4. 5-FU/leucovorin (LV) was administered on days 8, 15, and 22. A modified accelerated titration design was used. 5-FU was dose escalated first followed by a planned dose increase for ATO.
No dose-limiting toxicities were seen in seven patients who received 0.15 mg/kg ATO; grade 3 toxicities were as follows: neutropenia 1, diarrhea 1, and bowel obstruction 1. In patients receiving 0.20 mg/kg ATO, grade 3 toxicities were QTc prolongation 1, fatigue 4, alkaline phosphatase elevation 2, diarrhea 2, and peripheral edema 1. TS gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cell decreased in all patients. Eight tumors were biopsied, four showed TS downregulation, three showed upregulations, and one did not change. Estimated median progression-free survival and overall survival were 3.1 and 13.9 months, respectively. In patients who showed TS increase or no change versus TS reduction, estimated median progression-free survival was 2.6 versus 7.9 months (P = 0.188) and overall survival was 8.6 versus 11.7 months (P = 0.44), respectively.
Thus, we determined 0.20 mg/kg ATO, 2,600 mg/m(2) 5-FU, and 500 mg/m(2) leucovorin (LV) to be the recommended phase II dose.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGlu(1) receptor) has been suggested to play an important role in pain transmission. In this study, the effects of a newly-synthesized mGlu(1) receptor antagonist, (R)-N-cycloheptyl-6-({[(tetrahydro-2-furyl)methyl]amino}methyl)thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-ylamine (YM-230888), were examined in a variety of rodent chronic pain models in order to characterize the potential analgesic profile of mGlu(1) receptor blockade. YM-230888 bound an allosteric site of mGlu(1) receptor with a K(i) value of 13+/-2.5 nM and inhibited mGlu(1)-mediated inositol phosphate production in rat cerebellar granule cells with an IC(50) value of 13+/-2.4 nM. It showed selectivity for mGlu(1) versus mGlu(2)-mGlu(7) subtypes and ionotropic glutamate receptors. YM-230888 recovered mechanical allodynia with an ED(50) value of 8.4 mg/kg p.o. in L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation models. It also showed antinociceptive response at doses of 10 and 30 mg/kg p.o. in streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia models. In addition, it significantly reduced pain parameters at a dose of 30 mg/kg p.o. in complete Freund's adjuvant-induced arthritic pain models. Although YM-230888 showed no significant effect on rotarod performance time at doses of 10 or 30 mg/kg p.o., it significantly decreased it at a dose of 100 mg/kg p.o. On the other hand, YM-230888 showed no significant sedative effect in locomotor activity measurement up to 100 mg/kg p.o. These results suggest that the blockade of mGlu(1) receptors is an attractive target for analgesics. YM-230888 has potential as a new analgesic agent for the treatment of various chronic pain conditions. In addition, YM-230888 may be a useful tool for the investigation of mGlu(1) receptors.
A child was evaluated for growth failure at the University of California, San Diego. On two occasions the patient had renal bicarbonate wasting, acidosis, and growth failure associated with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMZ) administration. On both occasions, the acidosis resolved and the growth rate normalized following a period without receiving TMP/SMZ. Renal tubular acidosis and growth failure may occur as a result of TMP/SMZ therapy in children.
The enzyme CoA-independent transacylase (CoA-IT) has been proposed to mediate the movement of arachidonate between specific phospholipid subclasses, and we have shown that two inhibitors of CoA-IT (SK&F 98625 and SK&F 45905) block this movement. In this report, we use these inhibitors to further characterize the role of CoA-IT in the production of lipid mediators. SK&F 98625 (diethyl 7-(3,4,5-triphenyl-2-oxo-2,3-dihydro-imidazol-1-yl)heptane- phosphonate) and SK&F 45905 [2(-)[3-(4-chloro-3-trifluoromethylphenyl)ureido]-4-trifluoromethyl phenoxy]-4,5-dichlorobenzenesulfonic acid) inhibited CoA-IT activity (IC50 values of 9 microM and 6 microM, respectively). Neither compound had any effect on cyclooxygenase, 14-kDa PLA2 or acetyltransferase activities at concentrations below 20 microM. However, SK&F 45905 inhibited 85-kDa PLA2 activity (IC50 = 3 microM), and both compounds inhibited 5-lipoxygenase activity (IC50 values of 2-4 microM). In ionophore-stimulated neurotrophils, SK&F 98625 and SK&F 45905 blocked the liberation of arachidonic acid from phospholipids, which suggests that the movement of arachidonate into specific phospholipid pools is a prerequisite for release. Both compounds also inhibited the production of platelet-activating factor in ionophore-stimulated neutrophils and antigen-stimulated mast cells. This inhibition of platelet-activating factor and arachidonic acid release was not mimicked by an inhibitor of 5-lipoxygenase, zileuton, which indicates that the primary mode of action of SK&F 98625 and SK&F 45905 is via inhibition of CoA-IT. SK&F 98625 and SK&F 45905 were able to decrease prostaglandin production in several inflammatory cells and to block signs of inflammation in ears of phorbol ester-challenged mice. Taken together, these results show that blockade of CoA-IT, which leads to inhibition of arachidonate remodelling between phospholipids, results in the attenuation of platelet-activating factor production, arachidonic acid release and the formation of eicosanoid products.
Fetal exposure to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) is associated with increased neonatal morbidity and mortality. Long-term follow-up of three patients with fetal ACEI exposure revealed impaired renal function in two, severe hypertension and proteinuria in one and isolated polycythaemia in all three. Careful long-term follow-up of children with ACEI fetopathy is recommended.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are persistent toxic pollutants occurring as complex mixtures in the environment. Humans are known genetically to have > 60-fold differences in hepatic cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) levels and > 12-fold differences in aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) affinity, both of which could affect PCB pharmacokinetics. Thus, we compared Ahr(b1)_Cyp1a2(+/+) high-affinity AHR wild-type, Ahr(d)_Cyp1a2(+/+) poor affinity AHR wild-type, Ahr(b1)_Cyp1a2(-/-) knockout, and Ahr(d)_Cyp1a2(-/-) knockout mouse lines. We chose a mixture of three coplanar and five noncoplanar PCBs to reproduce that seen in human tissues, breast milk, and the food supply. The mixture was given by gavage to the mother on gestational day 10.5 (GD10.5) and postnatal day 5 (PND5); tissues were collected from pups and mothers at GD11.5, GD18.5, PND6, PND13, and PND28. Ahr(b1)_Cyp1a2(-/-) pups showed lower weight at birth and slower rate of growth postnatally. Absence of CYP1A2 resulted in significant splenic atrophy at PND13 and PND28. Presence of high-affinity AHR enhanced thymic atrophy and liver hypertrophy in the pups. Concentrations of each congener were analyzed at all time points: maximal noncoplanar congener levels in maternal tissues were observed from GD18 until PND6, whereas the highest levels in pups were found between PND6 and PND28. Coplanar PCB concentrations were generally higher in Ahr(d)-containing pup tissues; these findings are consistent with earlier studies demonstrating the crucial importance of AHR-mediated inducible CYP1 in the gastrointestinal tract as a means of detoxication of oral planar polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
Analgesia, following operation, was provided by the extradural administration of morphine or bupivacaine in 24 patients, in a double-blind, randomized, cross-over study. Observations were made of vital signs, peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR), quality and duration of pain relief and the occurrence of adverse effects. Vital signs were little affected by morphine, but hypotension requiring active treatment occurred in three patients following the administration of bupivacaine. The PEFR was improved about equally by each drug, and the improvement was significant compared with control values (P less than 0.001). Pain relief as judged by the linear analogue scale was significantly better following bupivacaine than after morphine (P less than 0.001), but the pain score system, while showing effective pain relief in most patients with both drugs, did not demonstrate a significant difference between them. The duration of effect of morphine was significantly longer (P less than 0.05) than that of bupivacaine. Adverse effects, other than bupivacaine-induced hypotension, were not serious.
Paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy is a sensory neuropathy that affects thousands of cancer patients each year as paclitaxel is commonly used to treat breast, non-small cell lung and ovarian cancer. To begin to define the type and location of sensory neurons most impacted by paclitaxel, we examined rat trigeminal ganglion, thoracic and lumbar dorsal root ganglion (DRG) 10 days following intravenous infusion of clinically relevant doses of paclitaxel. To define the population of cells injured by paclitaxel, we examined the expression of activating transcription factor-3 (ATF3), a marker of cell injury; to define the hypertrophy of satellite cells, we quantified the expression of the intermediate filament protein glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP); and to define the activation of macrophages, we examined the expression of the lysosomal protein CD68. Intravenous infusion of paclitaxel induced a significant increase of ATF3 in mainly but not exclusively large and medium sensory neurons in all sensory ganglia. An increase in both GFAP immunofluorescence in satellite cells and the number of activated macrophages occurred in lumbar>thoracic>trigeminal ganglia of paclitaxel-treated rats. This differential expression of cellular markers suggests that the largest sensory cell bodies with the longest axons are the most at risk of being injured by paclitaxel (size and length dependent pathology). These results provide a pathological basis for the anatomical distribution of paclitaxel-induced symptoms in patients receiving therapeutic regimens of paclitaxel.
In the case of an emergency coronary procedure where the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy is especially high, there are few reliable methods to attenuate renal injury. We examined the efficacy of sodium bicarbonate for the prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients undergoing an emergency coronary procedure. We enrolled 59 patients who were scheduled to undergo an emergency coronary angiography or intervention. These patients were randomized to receive a 154-mEq/L infusion of sodium bicarbonate (n = 30) or sodium chloride (n = 29), as a bolus of 3 ml/kg/hour for 1 hour before the administration of contrast, followed by an infusion of 1 ml/kg/hour for 6 hours during and after the procedure. In the sodium bicarbonate group, serum creatinine concentration remained unchanged within 2 days of contrast administration (1.31 +/- 0.52 to 1.31 +/- 0.59 mg/dl), whereas it increased in the sodium chloride group (1.32 +/- 0.65 to 1.52 +/- 0.92 mg/dl, p = 0.01). The incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy (an increase >0.5 mg/dl or >25% in serum creatinine concentration within 2 days of contrast) was significantly lower in the sodium bicarbonate group than in the sodium chloride group (7% vs 35%, p = 0.01, risk ratio 0.19, 95% confidence interval 0.046 to 0.80). In conclusion, hydration with sodium bicarbonate is more effective than with sodium chloride for the prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients undergoing an emergency coronary procedure.
High-dose methotrexate has been used as a therapeutic strategy in osteosarcoma for 20 years. Cerebral neurotoxicity is frequent.
A 21-year-old patient with non-metastatic osteosarcoma was given high-dose methotrexate prior to surgery. He developed subacute encephalitis and arachnoiditis after intravenous injection of methotrexate.
Although pharmacokinetic monitoring and leucovorin rescue is helpful in controlling systemic toxicity, cerebral toxicity with acute, subacute or delayed reactions may occur, depending on the administration route and use of the folate antagonist. Generally, acute arachnoiditis and subacute encephalitis are reversible and occur respectively after intrathecal methotrexate and intravenous high-dose methotrexate, while the chronic delayed leukoencephalopathy usually begins several months after a combination regime using intrathecal methotrexate, intravenous methotrexate and cerebral irradiation.
This study was designed to compare the emergence characteristics of sevoflurane with halothane anaesthesia in paediatric patients having no surgical intervention. We randomized 32 ASA I or II paediatric outpatients scheduled for magnetic resonance imaging scans to receive either halothane or sevoflurane anaesthesia. The primary outcome measure was the percentage of patients with emergence agitation, as defined by two different criteria. Time to discharge from the postanaesthesia care unit (PACU) and the secondary recovery unit (SRU) were compared. Sevoflurane patients had a greater incidence of emergence delirium when a high threshold for agitation was defined (33% vs. 0%, P = 0.010) and a lower threshold for agitation was applied (80% vs. 12%, P<0.0001). Discharge times from the PACU and the SRU were not different. We conclude that there is an increased incidence of emergence agitation with sevoflurane anaesthesia compared to halothane independent of any painful stimulus.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized pathologically by progressive neurodegeneration of the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system. Currently, the cause of the disease is unknown, except for a small percentage of familial cases (<10% of total). The rat rotenone model reproduces many of the pathological features of the human disease, including apomorphine-responsive behavioral deficits, DA depletion, loss of striatal DA terminals and nigral dopaminergic neurons, and alpha-synuclein/polyubiquitin-positive cytoplasmic inclusions reminiscent of Lewy bodies. Therefore, this model is well-suited to examine potential neuroprotective agents. Melatonin is produced mainly by the pineal gland and is known primarily for regulating circadian rhythms. It also has potent free radical scavenging and antiinflammatory properties. Melatonin has been reported to be neuroprotective in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) models of PD. However, there are conflicting reports suggesting that melatonin does not provide neuroprotection in these models. Melatonin elicits significant functional changes in the nigrostriatal DA system that may affect 6-OHDA and MPTP entry into cells. Therefore, rotenone is an ideal model for assessing protection, because it does not rely on the dopamine transporter uptake to exert neurotoxicity. In this study, the neuroprotective potential of melatonin in the rotenone PD model was assessed. Melatonin potentiated striatal catecholamine depletion, striatal terminal loss, and nigral DA cell loss. Indeed, melatonin alone elicited alterations in striatal catecholamine content. Our findings indicate that melatonin is not neuroprotective in the rotenone model of PD and may exacerbate neurodegeneration.
Clozapine, an atypical antipsychotic drug, is widely used in refractory schizophrenia. At New Hampshire Hospital, 7 of the first 35 patients treated (20%) had convulsions. Patterns were tonic-clonic (5), complex partial (2), and myoclonic (3). Seizures were dose-related and may be anticholinergic in etiology. EEG changes are frequent with clozapine, particularly as dosage is increased. Twenty-six of 35 patients (74%) had EEG abnormalities at some time during clozapine treatment. EEG is a sensitive means of detecting clinical toxicity. When EEG abnormalities (slowing, dysrhythmia, or paroxysmal discharges) are detected, immediately lowering the dose by at least 25-50 mg per day and adjusting weekly until EEG returns to baseline can reduce the incidence of seizures.
Local and volatile anesthetics are widely used for surgery. It is not known whether anesthetics impinge on the orchestrated events in spontaneous resolution of acute inflammation. Here we investigated whether a commonly used local anesthetic (lidocaine) and a widely used inhaled anesthetic (isoflurane) impact the active process of resolution of inflammation.
Using murine peritonitis induced by zymosan and a systems approach, we report that lidocaine delayed and blocked key events in resolution of inflammation. Lidocaine inhibited both PMN apoptosis and macrophage uptake of apoptotic PMN, events that contributed to impaired PMN removal from exudates and thereby delayed the onset of resolution of acute inflammation and return to homeostasis. Lidocaine did not alter the levels of specific lipid mediators, including pro-inflammatory leukotriene B(4), prostaglandin E(2) and anti-inflammatory lipoxin A(4), in the cell-free peritoneal lavages. Addition of a lipoxin A(4) stable analog, partially rescued lidocaine-delayed resolution of inflammation. To identify protein components underlying lidocaine's actions in resolution, systematic proteomics was carried out using nanospray-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Lidocaine selectively up-regulated pro-inflammatory proteins including S100A8/9 and CRAMP/LL-37, and down-regulated anti-inflammatory and some pro-resolution peptides and proteins including IL-4, IL-13, TGF-â and Galectin-1. In contrast, the volatile anesthetic isoflurane promoted resolution in this system, diminishing the amplitude of PMN infiltration and shortening the resolution interval (Ri) approximately 50%. In addition, isoflurane down-regulated a panel of pro-inflammatory chemokines and cytokines, as well as proteins known to be active in cell migration and chemotaxis (i.e., CRAMP and cofilin-1). The distinct impact of lidocaine and isoflurane on selective molecules may underlie their opposite actions in resolution of inflammation, namely lidocaine delayed the onset of resolution (T(max)), while isoflurane shortened resolution interval (Ri).
Taken together, both local and volatile anesthetics impact endogenous resolution program(s), altering specific resolution indices and selective cellular/molecular components in inflammation-resolution. Isoflurane enhances whereas lidocaine impairs timely resolution of acute inflammation.
Control of blood pressure in severe pregnancy-induced hypertension has often relied on agents with an unpredictable onset and duration of action. Because intravenous nitroglycerin is a potent, rapidly acting agent with a hemodynamic half-life measured in minutes, we evaluated its cardiovascular effects with and without volume expansion in six patients with severe pregnancy-induced hypertension. Nitroglycerin alone reduced mean arterial pressure by 27.5% without any significant changes in heart rate, central venous pressure, or stroke volume. The pulmonary capillary wedge pressure fell from 9 +/- 3 to 4 +/- 2 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) while the cardiac index decreased from 3.51 +/- 0.67 to 2.87 +/- 0.76 L/min X m2. Oxygen delivery fell significantly (p less than 0.05), from 617 +/- 78 to 491 +/- 106 ml/min X m2. While volume expansion alone had no effect on mean arterial pressure, the combination of blood volume expansion and nitroglycerin resulted in a marked resistance to the hypotensive effect of nitroglycerin. Cardiac index, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, and oxygen utilization were not significantly different from baseline values when volume expansion preceded nitroglycerin. We conclude that the ease with which nitroglycerin reduces blood pressure is dependent on the individual patient's volume status. Although volume expansion allows one to maintain cardiac index, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, and oxygen utilization when used in combination with nitroglycerin, this benefit may be offset by a concomitant reduction in hypotensive capability.
The association between the clinical use of nitroglycerin (NTG) and headache has led to the examination of NTG as a model trigger for migraine and related headache disorders, both in humans and laboratory animals. In this study in mice, we hypothesized that NTG could trigger behavioural and physiological responses that resemble a common manifestation of migraine in humans. We report that animals exhibit a dose-dependent and prolonged NTG-induced thermal and mechanical allodynia, starting 30-60 min after intraperitoneal injection of NTG at 5-10 mg/kg. NTG administration also induced Fos expression, an anatomical marker of neuronal activity in neurons of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis and cervical spinal cord dorsal horn, suggesting that enhanced nociceptive processing within the spinal cord contributes to the increased nociceptive behaviour. Moreover, sumatriptan, a drug with relative specificity for migraine, alleviated the NTG-induced allodynia. We also tested whether NTG reduces the threshold for cortical spreading depression (CSD), an event considered to be the physiological substrate of the migraine aura. We found that the threshold of CSD was unaffected by NTG, suggesting that NTG stimulates migraine mechanisms that are independent of the regulation of cortical excitability.
The PITX3 gene, which codes for a homeobox bicoidlike transcription factor is responsible for dominant cataract and anterior segment mesenchymal dysgenesis in humans. In the current study, a family with autosomal dominant posterior polar cataract (PPC) and a PITX3 mutation that cosegregates with the disease was examined. Also studied were two siblings who were homozygous for the PITX3 mutation who had microphthalmia and significant neurologic impairment.
A genome-wide screen, linkage analysis in the PITX3 chromosomal region 10q25, haplotype analysis, and sequencing of the PITX3 gene were performed on 28 affected and 14 unaffected member of a three-generation Lebanese family.
Genome-wide linkage analysis showed a lod score of 3.56 at theta = 0.00 on chromosome 10 at area q25. Analysis of the haplotypes and phenotypes confined the disease locus to a region on 10q25 between the markers D10S1239 and D10S1268. A candidate gene, PITX3, maps to that region. Sequencing of the PITX3 gene revealed a heterozygous G deletion mutation in 25 of the 42 family members. In addition, two siblings from a consanguineous marriage were found to be homozygous for the deletion.
This is the first report of homozygous PITX3 mutations in humans. The phenotype in these individuals highlights the role of PITX3 in ocular and central nervous system (CNS) development.
