To describe a patient with morphine-induced myoclonus treated with a continuous infusion of midazolam and continued morphine dose escalation.
Single case report.
Delivery, monitoring, and titration of morphine and midazolam in the patient's home by a homecare agency.
The use of high dosages of morphine (i.e., 500 mg/h) produced myoclonic spasms in this patient, which in turn resulted in increasing pain. To allow for continuation of effective analgesia and to control the myoclonic spasms, an infusion of midazolam was initiated and titrated. The midazolam infusion allowed for continuation of the morphine dosage and also permitted further dosage escalation. As morphine dosages were further escalated, it was also necessary to increase the midazolam infusion to control additional myoclonic spasms.
Use of a concomitant midazolam infusion with high doses of morphine appears to be safe and is an effective means of controlling morphine-induced myoclonus. If further dosage increase of morphine are necessary in this setting, increases in the midazolam infusion also may be required.
Praziquantel has been used for the treatment of liver fluke infection, but an oxidative/nitrative stress may occur after a short-term treatment and participate in side effects. In an attempt to reduce the adverse effects, we administered curcumin, an anti-inflammatory agent, to Opisthorchis viverrini-infected hamsters treated with praziquantel. At 12h after treatment, curcumin decreased eosinophil infiltration and increased mononuclear cell infiltration in parallel with nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and heme oxygenase-1 expression at the transcriptional and protein levels. Curcumin also enhanced the expression of genes involved in the Nrf2-regulated stress pathway (Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1, NAD(P)H:quinine oxidoreductase 1, glutamate cysteine ligase, and activating transcription factor 3, peroxiredoxin 3, peroxiredoxin 6, manganese superoxide dismutase, and catalase), leading to increased ferric antioxidant capacity in the plasma. In contrast, curcumin decreased the level of oxidative and nitrative stress markers such as urinary 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine, plasma levels of malondialdehyde and nitrate/nitrite, and activity of plasma alanine transaminase, a liver injury marker. This correlated with the suppression of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) and related molecules (cyclooxygenase-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase) and pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and TNF-α). In conclusion, curcumin may be an effective chemopreventive agent against oxidative and nitrative stress derived from praziquantel treatment during O. viverrini infection via induction of Nrf2 and suppression of NF-κB-mediated pathways. Nrf2 may also be a novel therapeutic target for not only parasitic diseases but other types of inflammation-mediated diseases.
Estrogens, which have been associated with several types of human and animal cancers, can induce tumor angiogenesis in the pituitary of Fischer 344 rats. The mechanistic details of tumor angiogenesis induction, during estrogen carcinogenesis, are still unknown. To elucidate the role of estrogen in the regulation of tumor angiogenesis in the pituitary of female rats, the density of blood vessels was analysed using factor VIII related antigen (FVIIIRAg) immunohistochemistry and the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor/vascular permeability factor (VEGF/VPF) was examined by Western blot and immunohistochemical analysis. The expression of VEGF receptor (VEGFR-2/Flk-1/KDR) was also examined by immunohistochemistry. The results demonstrated that 17beta-estradiol (E2) induces neovascularization, as well as the growth and enlargement of blood vessels after 7 days of exposure. The high tumor angiogenic potential was associated with an elevated VEGF/VPF protein expression in the E2 exposed pituitary of ovariectomized (OVEX) rats. VEGF/VPF and FVIIIRAg immunohistochemistry and endothelial specific lectin (UEA1) binding studies, indicate that the elevation of VEGF protein expression initially occurred in both blood vessels and non-endothelial cells. After 15 days of E2 exposure, VEGF/VPF protein expression, in the non-endothelial cell population, sharply declined and was restricted to the blood vessels. The function of non-endothelial-derived VEGF is not clear. Furthermore, immunohistochemical studies demonstrated that VEGFR-2 (flk-1/KDR), expression was elevated significantly in the endothelial cells of microblood vessels after 7 days of E2 exposure. These findings suggest that over expression of VEGF and its receptor (VEGFR-2) may play an important role in the initial step of the regulation of estrogen induced tumor angiogenesis in the rat pituitary.
This comprehensive study investigated both the role of antidepressant drugs in the treatment of affective disorders of later life and their safety with careful clinical and pharmacological monitoring. A 7-week double-blind comparison was made of the efficacy and safety of nortriptyline (a tricyclic), phenelzine (a monoamine oxidase inhibitor), and placebo. The results indicated a response rate of approximately 60% for both nortriptyline and phenelzine versus a 13% response rate for placebo. Anticholinergic side effects were more frequently reported in the nortriptyline group. Orthostatic symptoms were reported with similar frequency in both drug groups. Overall, both drugs were well tolerated.
To evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of intracavernosal alprostadil (prostaglandin E1, PGE1) in patients with erectile dysfunction (ED) and assess the feasibility of self-injection treatment.
The study included 848 men (aged 18-75 years) with ED of > or =4 months' duration. The initial home-use dose of alprostadil, defined as a dose producing an erection satisfactory for intercourse and lasting for > or =20 min, was determined for each patient in the investigator's clinic and in the patient's home. This dose-finding phase was followed by a 6-month, self-injection, home-maintenance phase. The efficacy and adverse effects were documented.
An initial home-use dose was determined for 93% of the patients and in most (86%) it was < or = 20 microg. During the 6-month study period, 88% of injections assessed by the patients resulted in satisfactory sexual activity (intercourse or masturbation) and 90% of injections assessed by partners resulted in satisfactory intercourse. Penile pain occurred in 44% of patients, but this incidence decreased with time. In 52% of patients with pain it was mild and only 3% of patients discontinued the study because of pain. Prolonged erection and priapism occurred in 8% and 0.9% of patients, respectively. Penile fibrosis occurred in 4% of patients. Drug-related systemic medical events occurred in 5% of patients and none of these were serious. Haemodynamic events occurred in <1% of patients and were not considered to be clinically relevant.
Intracavernosal alprostadil is an effective and safe therapy for ED, provided that the individual dose is established by titration, patients are trained in the self-injection technique and supervised periodically.
Anticholinesterase action of ciguatoxin has been reported. A study of the pharmacology of the action of the toxin on the respiratory system suggests that additional properties may be involved in the respiratory failure-the usual cause of death in ciguatera poisoning.
The calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs) cyclosporine A (CsA) and tacrolimus (Tac) help prevent allograft rejection but are associated with nephrotoxicity. Cytochrome P450 2C8 (CYP2C8) and CYP2J2 are polymorphic enzymes expressed in the kidney that metabolize arachidonic acid (AA) to epoxyeicosatrienoic acids, promoting kidney homeostasis. This study examined the association between CNI-induced nephrotoxicity in liver transplant patients and CYP2C8 and CYP2J2 polymorphisms.
Liver transplantation patients receiving CNIs for at least 3 years were genotyped for CYP2C8*3, CYP2C8*4, CYP2C8 Haplotypes B and C, and CYP2J2*7 and evaluated for nephrotoxicity (serum creatinine > or = 1.6 mg/dl) 3-year post-transplantation. CYP2C8 proteins were also engineered in E. coli and their activity towards AA and inhibition by CNIs was investigated in vitro.
The risk of kidney disease post-transplantation was positively associated with CYP2C8*3 genotype. Odds ratios for all participants carrying at least one CYP2C8*3 allele were significant [odds ratio=2.38 (1.19-4.78)]. Stratification by CNI indicated a significant association between CYP2C8*3 and nephrotoxicity among patients receiving Tac but not CsA. The risk of renal dysfunction was not significantly influenced by CYP2C8*4, CYP2J2*7, or CYP2C8 haplotype B genotypes although inheritance of haplotype C seems to be protective. In vitro, the gene products of CYP2C8*3 and CYP2C8*4 were deficient in AA epoxidation, retaining 26 and 18% of wild-type activity, respectively. Circulating plasma concentrations of CsA and Tac inhibited CYP2C8 wild-type in vitro epoxidation of AA by 17 and 35%, respectively.
Inheritance of CYP2C8*3 is associated with a higher risk of developing renal toxicity in patients treated chronically with CNIs, and especially Tac, possibly by reducing formation of kidney protecting vasodilatory epoxyeicosatrienoic acids.
Severe neurotoxicity due to 5-fluorouracil (FUra) has previously been described in a patient with familial pyrimidinemia. We now report the biochemical basis for both the pyrimidinemia and neurotoxicity in a patient we have recently studied. After administration of a "test" dose of FUra (25 mg/m2, 600 microCi[6-3H]FUra by intravenous bolus) to a patient who had previously developed neurotoxicity after FUra, a markedly prolonged elimination half-life (159 min) was observed with no evidence of FUra catabolites in plasma or cerebrospinal fluid and with 89.7% of the administered dose being excreted into the urine as unchanged FUra. Using a sensitive assay for dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, we demonstrated complete deficiency of enzyme activity in the patient and partial deficiency of enzyme activity in her father and children consistent with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Patients who are deficient in this enzyme are likely to develop severe toxicity after FUra administration.
Hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) negative chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is frequently caused by a mutation (G1896A) in the hepatitis B virus (HBV) precore (PC) reading frame that creates a stop codon, causing premature termination of the PC protein. During lamivudine treatment, drug resistance develops at a similar rate in HBeAg positive and HBeAg negative CHB. Lamivudine-resistant HBV mutants have been shown to replicate inefficiently in vitro in the absence of PC mutations, but it is unknown whether the presence of PC mutations affects replication efficiency or antiviral sensitivity. This study utilized the recombinant HBV baculovirus system to address these issues. HBV baculoviruses encoding the G1896A PC stop codon mutation were generated in wild-type (WT) and lamivudine-resistant (rtM204I and rtL180M + rtM204V) backgrounds, resulting in a panel of 6 related recombinant baculoviruses. In vitro assays were performed to compare the sensitivities of the PC mutant viruses with lamivudine and adefovir and to compare relative replication yields. The PC mutation did not significantly affect sensitivities to either adefovir or lamivudine. WT HBV and PC mutant HBV showed similar replication yields, whereas the replication yields of the lamivudine-resistant mutants were greatly reduced in HBeAg positive HBVs, confirming previous observations. However, the presence of the PC mutation was found to compensate for the replication deficiency in each of the lamivudine-resistant mutants, increasing the replication yields of each virus. In conclusion, the PC stop codon mutation appears to increase the replication efficacy of lamivudine-resistant virus but does not affect in vitro drug sensitivity.
To investigate the distribution of IgG subclass of anti-myeloperoxidase (MPO) antibodies, a kind of antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA), in sera from patients with propylthiouracil (PIU)-induced vasculitis.
Serum samples were collected from 12 patients with PIU-induced MPO ANCA positive vasculitis, both sera of active and remission phases were collected from 10 of which, and only serum of active phase was collected from 2 of which. Anti-MPO IgG subclasses were detected by antigen-specific ELISA. The distribution of anti-MPO IgG subclasses in PIU-induced vasculitis was compared with that in primary vasculitis.
Anti-MPO IgG3 subclass was not detected in the sera from both active and remission phases of PIU-induced vasculitis. In the active phase the following anti-MPO IgG subclasses were found: IgG1 (12/12, 100%), IgG2 (1/12, 66.7%), and IgG4 (7/12, 58.3%). In the remission phase, the following anti-MPO IgG subclasses were found: IgG1 (9/10, 90%), IgG2 (4/10, 40%), and IgG4 (2/10, 20%). The titer of anti-MPO IgG4 subclass remained high in the remission phase in primary vasculitis; however, it decreased significantly after the cessation of PIU use in PIU-induced vasculitis.
The distribution of anti-MPO IgG subclasses in the sera of the patients with PIU-induced vasculitis is different from that of the patients with primary vasculitis. The higher titer pf MPO-ANCA in the sera of the patients with PIU-induced vasculitis may be associated with the repeated PIU stimulation.
Doxorubicin (Dox) is effective in curative and adjuvant chemotherapy of malignant tumors. Cardiotoxicity is the chief toxic effect that limits the clinical use of Dox. We studied the effects of tetrandrine (Tet) on doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in rats and its protective activity.
Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into the following 4 groups: a control group (received only saline), Dox group (received only Dox), Tet/Dox group (received Tet plus Dox), and Tet group (received only Tet). Rats were injected intravenously with 2 mg/kg Dox once a week for 7 weeks and 50 mg/kg Tet was administered intraperitoneally weekly for 7 weeks. Measurements of cardiac contractile parameters including LSVP +dP/dt max and -dP/dt max, and assessment of electrocardiograms were carried out. Mitochondrial oxidation and phosphorylation state 3 (S3) and state 4 (S4) respiration were measured. Respiration control rate (RCR) and the ADP/O ratio were calculated. Cardiac ultrastructure was examined by electron microscopy.
Dox induced significant cardiotoxicity in this rat model. The values of LSVP, +dP/dt max, and -dP/dt max in the Tet/Dox group increased as compared to the Dox group (P <0.05). The cardiac contraction and relaxation improved on Tet administration. Tet inhibited the prolonged QT interval on the electrocardiogram in Dox-treated rats. Compared to the Dox group, the values of S3, RCR, and ADP/O increased by more than 28%, 48%, and 27%, respectively, in the Tet/Dox group. Significant cardiac morphological protection was observed in the Tet/Dox-treated rats.
Tet can improve the reduced cardiac function caused by Dox treatment and prevent Dox-induced mitochondrial impairment in rat cardiotoxicity.
The effects on motor behavior of a new potential dopamine stabilizer: 2-amino-6-(N,N-di-n-propylamino)thiazolo[4,5-f]indan (GMC1111) were investigated in common marmosets with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions within the median forebrain bundle (12 unilateral, 6 bilateral). GMC1111 was administered orally or subcutaneously (s.c.) to unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned monkeys, either alone or together with s.c. injections of apomorphine (0.2 mg/kg) and the effect on rotational behavior was examined. GMC1111 (0.03-3.0 mg/kg) alone, orally or s.c., did not induce rotational behavior. When apomorphine and GMC1111 were injected simultaneously, rotations were nearly abolished in three monkeys with a baseline apomorphine-induced rotation rate below 13/min, whereas GMC1111 did not modify the rotations in three high-rotating animals (>17/min). Oral administration of GMC1111 (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg) abolished the apomorphine-induced rotations in another six unilaterally dopamine-denervated monkeys, indicating a good oral bioavailability. A low dose of GMC1111 (0.3 mg/kg) administered s.c. to marmosets with bilateral nigrostriatal lesions produced a reduction of Parkinson symptoms of approximately the same degree as with levodopa/benserazide (15/3.75 mg/kg), while higher doses of GMC1111 were less effective. When levodopa/benserazide was administered together with various doses of GMC1111 (0.3-3.0 mg/kg), the levodopa-induced peak-dose dyskinesias were reduced with the highest dose of GMC1111 (3 mg/kg). Taken together, GMC1111 modifies dopaminergic activity in a normalizing direction. Parkinson symptoms, as well as levodopa-induced dyskinesias are both reduced. This suggests the arrival of another member of the new dopamine stabilizer family.
Stereological structural alterations of the heart and kidney were studied in four groups (n=5) of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) treated for 30 days: (i) control, (ii) NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester [L-NAME; nitric oxide (NO) synthesis inhibitor] alone, (iii) enalapril alone and (iv) L-NAME plus enalapril. Blood pressure (BP) was elevated significantly in NO-deficient SHRs (rats receiving L-NAME) or significantly lower in enalapril-treated SHRs. Co-administration of L-NAME and enalapril caused a 20% decrease in BP compared with untreated SHRs. NO-deficient SHRs had a decrease in body mass, but this loss of body mass was prevented efficiently in the enalapril-treated group. Enalapril treatment decreased the left ventricular (LV) mass index in SHRs, even in animals with NO synthesis blocked. NO deficiency in SHRs caused a larger decrease in the number of LV cardiomyocyte nuclei, which had a negative correlation with both LV mass index and BP. The volume-weighted glomerular volume (VWGV) separated the SHRs into two groupings: (i) control and NO-deficient SHRs, and (ii) enalapril- and L-NAME plus enalapril-treated SHRs. There was a significant difference between these two groupings, with VWGV being more than 15% smaller in the latter compared with the former grouping. The present findings reinforce the evidence that enalapril efficiently treats genetic hypertension, and demonstrate that this effect is observed even when NO synthesis is inhibited. Enalapril administration also decreases cardiac and renal structural damage caused by genetic hypertension, as well as by the interaction between genetic hypertension and NO deficiency.
1,4-Dioxane (CAS No. 123-91-1) is used primarily as a solvent or as a solvent stabilizer. It can cause lung, liver, and kidney damage at sufficiently high exposure levels. Two physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models of 1,4-dioxane and its major metabolite, hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (HEAA), were published in 1990. These models have uncertainties and deficiencies that could be addressed and the model strengthened for use in a contemporary cancer risk assessment for 1,4-dioxane. Studies were performed to fill data gaps and reduce uncertainties pertaining to the pharmacokinetics of 1,4-dioxane and HEAA in rats, mice, and humans. Three types of studies were performed: partition coefficient measurements, blood time course in mice, and in vitro pharmacokinetics using rat, mouse, and human hepatocytes. Updated PBPK models were developed based on these new data and previously available data. The optimized rate of metabolism for the mouse was significantly higher than the value previously estimated. The optimized rat kinetic parameters were similar to those in the 1990 models. Only two human studies were identified. Model predictions were consistent with one study, but did not fit the second as well. In addition, a rat nasal exposure was completed. The results confirmed water directly contacts rat nasal tissues during drinking water under bioassay conditions. Consistent with previous PBPK models, nasal tissues were not specifically included in the model. Use of these models will reduce the uncertainty in future 1,4-dioxane risk assessments.
In an attempt to maximize the quality of life of advanced prostate cancer patients on prolonged total androgen ablation and to minimize side effects, we have devised a strategy of 'sequential androgen blockade'. Animal studies have demonstrated that the combination of the 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride and the antiandrogen flutamide was as effective as a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analog and flutamide in inhibiting the growth of the prostate. In a pilot trial, 10 potent patients with clinical stage C and D1 prostate cancer were given the combination of finasteride (5 mg b.i.d.) and flutamide (125-250 mg t.i.d.). Eight of ten men remained potent. At 3 months the mean prostate-specific antigen level of all patients was 3.8 ng/ml (34 ng/ml prior to therapy). In all patients serum testosterone increased and those with the highest increase demonstrated gynecomastia. The combination was easily tolerable and side effects were few. This treatment regime appears to offer the benefits of total androgen blockade, is less expensive and has fewer side effects. Further trials are warranted.
The study was to investigate the protective effect of antioxidants against methimazole (MMI) induced hypothyroidism in rats. Male Wistar rats were fed MMI, MMI plus vitamin C, MMI plus vitamin E and MMI plus turmeric extract (TE) supplemented diet. At the end of the experiments, thyroid weights, thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3) and cholesterol levels were determined. It was observed that MMI treated rats showed increase in thyroid weights, very low levels of circulating T4, T3 and increased levels of total cholesterol as compared to controls (P< 0.001). However, rats which received Vit. C, Vit. E or TE along with MMI showed reduced weights (38-55% less) in thyroid glands (P < 0.01), less suppressed T4 and T3 levels (2-6% and 7-35% respectively) and less increase in total cholesterol levels (19-52%) which are statistically significant. The data suggest the positive effect of antioxidants on thyroid gland which could be due to direct involvement of antioxidants on thyroid gland.
The effect of both administration and withdrawal of doxazosin on patients with essential hypertension was evaluated by twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure (BP) monitoring. Six hypertensive men were treated with doxazosin starting at 1 mg/day, and the dosage was titrated at weekly intervals up to a maximum of 8 mg/day. The twenty-four-hour BP profile was monitored noninvasively before treatment, in the fourth week of treatment, and on days 2 and 7 after the discontinuation of doxazosin. The average twenty-four-hour systolic and diastolic BPs (SBP and DBP) were lowered by doxazosin treatment and returned to the pretreatment levels within two days of doxazosin withdrawal. Doxazosin treatment produced a significant decrease in the daytime SBP and DBP but not in the nighttime BP values. The daytime BP decrease was no longer detected on days 2 and 7 after drug withdrawal. The twenty-four-hour pulse rate was not influenced by either doxazosin administration or discontinuation. The plasma norepinephrine concentration and plasma renin activity were increased by doxazosin treatment and were decreased by drug withdrawal. There was no rebound hypertension following doxazosin withdrawal. Thus, the present study using twenty-four-hour BP monitoring showed that doxazosin treatment reduced the daytime BP in patients with essential hypertension and that this reduction was abolished within two days after doxazosin discontinuation.
Phenobarbital and primidone frequently have adverse effects on mental functions. Therefore, an attempt was made to taper barbiturates in 85 patients out of a resident population with epilepsy and intellectual disability who were selected according to clinical criteria. The objectives were to reduce the use of barbiturates, to improve the patients' cognitive and psychological state, and to reduce polypharmacy while avoiding seizure exacerbation. Four months after complete withdrawal changes in seizure frequency were assessed as well as changes in cognitive abilities, psychological state and behaviour (using the clinical global impression scale). In 13 patients the tapering failed due to complications (seizure increase in 11 patients). In 72 patients the barbiturate was completely withdrawn (mean duration of tapering: 393 days). Cognitive improvement was achieved in 17 patients (23.6%), 5 patients (6.9%) deteriorated. Seizure frequency remained unchanged in 33 patients (45.8%), in another 15 patients (20.8%) the seizure frequency decreased. Reduction in polypharmacy was obtained in 61 patients (84.7%). In an overall judgement (clinical global impression scale) of cognitive abilities AND seizure control, 25 patients (34.7%) were improved. 31 patients (43.1%) remained unchanged while 12 patients deteriorated (4 patients: impossible to judge). For statistical analysis three outcome groups were defined: the improved group (N=25), the unchanged group (N=31), and the deteriorated/failed group (N=25) consisting of the 12 deteriorated patients plus the 13 patients in whom tapering failed. Stepwise logistic regression revealed a history of an attempt to withdraw phenobarbital/primidone (p=0.017; OR 3.8), age (p=0.012) and seizure frequency (marginally significant: p=0.097) as outcome predictors. Older age was associated with better outcome. A high seizure frequency before tapering was related to good outcome, while seizure freedom and a history of failed withdrawal were associated with deterioration/failure. Outcome did not depend on duration of barbiturate therapy, dosage or serum concentration, co-medication, reduction rate, degree of intellectual disability, or epilepsy syndrome. In summary, the number of barbiturate medications has been considerably reduced, but the principal aim of the project, to relieve patients from assumed barbiturate side effects, has been achieved only in one out of four patients.
In our earlier genome-wide association study on Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) and its severe variant, toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), we found that in Japanese patients with these severe ocular surface complications there was an association with prostaglandin E receptor 3 (EP3) gene (PTGER3) polymorphisms. We also reported that EP3 is dominantly expressed in the ocular surface-, especially the conjunctival epithelium, and suggested that EP3 in the conjunctival epithelium may down-regulate ocular surface inflammation. In the current study we investigated the expression of EP3 protein in the conjunctiva of patients with various ocular surface diseases such as SJS/TEN, chemical eye burns, Mooren's ulcers, and ocular cicatricial pemphigoid (OCP).
Conjunctival tissues were obtained from patients undergoing surgical reconstruction of the ocular surface due to SJS/TEN, chemical eye burns, and OCP, and from patients with Mooren's ulcers treated by resection of the inflammatory conjunctiva. The controls were nearly normal human conjunctival tissues acquired at surgery for conjunctivochalasis. We performed immunohistological analysis of the EP3 protein and evaluated the immunohistological staining of EP3 protein in the conjunctival epithelium of patients with ocular surface diseases. EP3 was expressed in the conjunctival epithelium of patients with chemical eye burns and Mooren's ulcer and in normal human conjunctival epithelium. However, it was markedly down-regulated in the conjunctival epithelium of SJS/TEN and OCP patients.
We posit an association between the down-regulation of EP3 in conjunctival epithelium and the pathogenesis and pathology of SJS/TEN and OCP, and suggest a common mechanism(s) in the pathology of these diseases. The examination of EP3 protein expression in conjunctival epithelium may aid in the differential diagnosis of various ocular surface diseases.
Benzene is a heavily used industrial chemical, a petroleum byproduct, an additive in unleaded gas, and a ubiquitous environmental pollutant. Benzene is also a genotoxin, hematotoxin, and carcinogen. Chronic exposure causes aplastic anemia in humans and animals and is associated with increased incidence of leukemia in humans and lymphomas and certain solid tumors in rodents. Bioactivation of benzene is required for toxicity. In the liver, the major site of benzene metabolism, benzene is converted by a cytochrome P-450-mediated pathway to phenol, the major metabolite, and the secondary metabolites, hydroquinone and catechol. The target organ of benzene toxicity, the hematopoietically active bone marrow, metabolizes benzene to a very limited extent. Phenol is metabolized in the marrow cells by a peroxidase-mediated pathway to hydroquinone and catechol, and ultimately to quinones, the putative toxic metabolites. Benzene and its metabolites appear to be nonmutagenic, but they cause myeloclastogenic effects such as micronuclei, chromosome aberrations, and sister chromatid exchange. It is unknown whether these genomic changes, or the ability of the quinone metabolites to form adducts with DNA, are involved in benzene carcinogenicity. Benzene, through its active metabolites, appears to exert its hematological effects on the bone marrow stromal microenvironment by preventing stromal cells from supporting hemopoiesis of the various progenitor cells. Recent advances in our understanding of the mechanisms by which benzene exerts its genotoxic, hematotoxic, and carcinogenic effects are detailed in this review.
Oxidative stress and hyperhomocysteinaemia are risk factors for cardiovascular diseases. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of rosiglitazone and metformin on cardiovascular disease risk factors such as insulin resistance, oxidative stress and homocysteine levels in lean patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
Fifty lean patients (BMI <25 kg/m2) with PCOS and 35 healthy subjects were included this study. Serum homocysteine, sex steroids, fasting insulin, fasting glucose and lipid levels were measured. Total antioxidant status (TAS; combines concentrations of individual antioxidants) and malonyldialdehyde concentration (MDA) were determined. Insulin resistance was evaluated by using the homeostasis model insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR), quantitative insulin sensitivity check index (QUICKI), Area under the curve insulin (AUCI) and the insulin sensitivity index (ISI). Patients were divided into two groups. One group was treated with metformin (n = 25) and the other received rosiglitazone (n = 25) for 12 weeks. All measurements were repeated at the end of 12 weeks.
Compared with healthy women, those with PCOS had significantly elevated serum MDA, homocysteine, HOMA-IR, AUCI and lipoprotein a levels, and significantly decreased serum TAS, QUICKI and ISI. Serum free testosterone levels showed a significant positive correlation with MDA, AUCI and HOMA-IR, and a negative correlation with TAS, ISI and QUICKI in PCOS patients. HOMA-IR and AUCI significantly decreased, while QUICKI and ISI significantly increased after treatment in both groups. Serum TAS level increased and serum MDA level decreased after the rosiglitazone treatment, but these parameters did not change after the metformin treatment. Serum homocysteine and lipid levels did not change in either group, while serum androgen levels and LH/FSH ratio significantly decreased after the treatment period in only the rosiglitazone-treated group.
Elevated insulin resistance, oxidative stress and plasma homocysteine levels and changes in serum lipid profile (risk factors for cardiovascular disease) were observed in lean PCOS patients. Rosiglitazone seemed to decrease elevated oxidative stress when compared with metformin treatment in lean PCOS patients.
Temozolomide (SCHS2.365), an oral alkylating agent which penetrates the blood-brain barrier, evolved as an alternative to dacarbazine. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of temozolomide in terms of overall survival, progression-free survival, clinical benefit and health related quality of life in symptomatic patients with relapsing malignant glioma and a poor performance status. Eleven patients were enrolled in the study. The median age was 44.6 years. Patients were treated with temozolomide per os at a dose of 150-200 mg/m2 daily for 5 consecutive days. Each cycle was repeated every 28 days. The median number of courses given per patient was 3.5. Nine patients were assessable for response. All patients were evaluable for toxicity. Based on radiographic findings 4 patients had stable disease (2 patients after a total of 16 cycles, and 2 patients after a total of 10 cycles). Four patients had progressive disease after 2 to 4 cycles. Of these 3 patients demonstrated a clinical benefit and one patient died after 3 cycles of treatment. Six patients had a significant clinical benefit even after 2 cycles of treatment with improvement of their neurological and performance status. Hematologic toxicity Gr II-III occurred in 3/9 patients. Nonhematologic toxicity consisted of Gr I nausea, and vomiting. In conclusion temozolomide appears to be a useful alternative for patients with relapsing malignant glioma after radiation and surgery and a poor performance status with little or no toxicity and considerable clinical benefit.
Anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) use is common among young males, including adolescents. There have been several anecdotal reports of severe cardiovascular events in self-reported young users of AAS, including acute myocardial infarction, sudden cardiac death, and cardiomyopathy. We present an additional case of a young male weight lifter who presented with dyspnea and chest pain attributable to dilated cardiomyopathy (DC), his only known risk factor being the recent use of AAS. The possible role of AAS in the development of DC is discussed.
The in vivo chicken embryo model (CEM) demonstrated that gallic acid (GA) induced dysvascularization and hypoxia. Inflammatory edema, Zenker's necrosis, hemolysis, and liposis of cervical muscles were the common symptoms. Levels of the gene hif-1α, HIF-1α, TNF-α, IL-6, and NFκB in cervical muscles were all significantly upregulated, while the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was downregulated in a dose-responsive manner. Consequently, the cervical muscle inflammation and hemolysis could have been stimulated en route to the tissue TNF-α-canonical and the atypical pathways. We hypothesized that GA could deplete the dissolved oxygen (DO) at the expense of semiquinone and quinone formation, favoring the reactive oxygen species (ROS) production to induce RBC disruption and Fe(2+) ion release. To explore this, the in vitro polyphenolics-erythrocyte model (PEM) was established. PEM revealed that the DO was rapidly depleted, leading to the release of a huge amount of Fe (II) ions and hydrogen peroxide (HPO) in a two-phase kinetic pattern. The kinetic coefficients for Fe (II) ion release ranged from 0.347 h(-1) to 0.774 h(-1); and those for Fe (III) ion production were from 6.66 × 10(-3) h(-1) to 8.93 × 10(-3) h(-1). For phase I HPO production, they ranged from 0.236 h(-1) to 0.774 h(-1) and for phase II HPO production from 0.764 h(-1) to 2.560 h(-1) at GA within 6 μM to 14 μM. Thus, evidence obtained from PEM could strongly support the phenomena of CEM. To conclude, GA tends to elicit hypoxia-related inflammation and hemolysis in chicken cervical muscles through its extremely high prooxidant activity.
The close homolog of L1 (CHL1), located on human chromosome 3p26.1, is a newly identified member of the L1 family of cell adhesion molecules which play important roles in cell migration, axonal growth, and synaptic remodeling. A positive association has been reported between a missense polymorphism in CHL1 gene and schizophrenia in the Japanese population [Sakurai, K., Migita, O., Toru, M., Arinami, T., 2002. An association between a missense polymorphism in the close homologue of L1 (CHL1, CALL) gene and schizophrenia. Mol. Psychiatry 7, 412-415]. An association between a missense polymorphism in the close homologue of L1 (CHL1, CALL) gene and schizophrenia. In order to test this finding, we genotyped four SNPs in the gene in the Han Chinese population using a sample of 560 cases and 576 controls. Analysis of allele frequencies in both samples also showed strong association between SNP rs2272522 (the same marker studied by K. Sakurai) and the disease (X2=31.591, P<0.000001, OR=1.745, 95% CI=1.435-2.121). Our results confirm the positive association between CHL1 gene and schizophrenia and indicate that CHL1 may be involved in the etiology of schizophrenia.
N-methyl-D aspartate (NMDA) antagonists, such as MK-801, and the dopamine indirect agonist amphetamine are pharmacological models used for the evaluation of putative new treatments for schizophrenia. Since the psychotomimetic effects of NMDA antagonists have recently been linked to their ability to increase glutamate release and since the glutamate release inhibitor riluzole prevented NMDA antagonist neurotoxicity, we evaluated the effect of riluzole on hyperlocomotion induced by MK-801 (0.25 mg/kg) and amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg). Mice pretreated with riluzole (3 mg/kg) did not influence baseline or MK-801-induced behavior, but 10 mg/kg produced moderate hypolocomotion alone and somewhat prolonged MK-801-induced hyperlocomotion. Pretreatment with riluzole 10 mg/kg, but not 3 mg/kg, had a moderately depressant effect both on spontaneous and amphetamine-induced locomotion. Taken together, these results suggest that riluzole would not be particularly effective as a treatment for schizophrenia and the neurotoxic and behavioral effect of NMDA antagonists do not clearly correlate.
The results of treating 59 patients with advanced carcinoma of the cervix with Adriamycin and methotrexate are given. Five combinations of the two cytotoxic drugs have been evaluated, differing only with regard to the methotrexate. One particular regimen has been shown to be effective with a relatively high remission rate coupled with a low rate of side effects.
