The thiazolidinediones, such as rosiglitazone, increase peripheral insulin sensitivity and their use is proposed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. However, the mechanisms underlying the potential beneficial effects of rosiglitazone in Alzheimer's disease remain unclear. In previous studies, we observed that Tg2576 Alzheimer mice develop peripheral insulin resistance with age and have much higher serum corticosterone levels than wild-type mice when fasted overnight. We further showed that both of these defects can be ameliorated by rosiglitazone administration. Here, we report that during behavioral testing which involves repetitive overnight fasting, Tg2576 mice administered rosiglitazone exhibited better spatial learning and memory abilities and had lower serum corticosterone levels than untreated Tg2576 mice. When untreated Tg2576 mice were administered metyrapone, a drug that blocks glucocorticoid production, their spatial learning and memory abilities and serum corticosterone levels were similar to those of rosiglitazone-treated mice. We further report here that rosiglitazone attenuated reductions in insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) mRNA and activity, and reduced amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta)42 levels without affecting amyloid deposition, in the brains of Tg2576 mice. These results demonstrate that rosiglitazone attenuates learning and memory deficits in Tg2576 mice and suggest that the effects of the drug on learning and memory, brain IDE levels, and brain Abeta42 levels in the mice may be due to its glucocorticoid-lowering actions.
Wood combustion is a significant source of ambient particulate matter (PM) in many regions of the world. Exposure occurs through inhalation or ingestion after deposition of wood smoke particulate matter (WSPM) on crops and food. We investigated effects of ambient PM and WSPM by intragastric or intratracheal exposure in terms of oxidative stress, inflammation, genotoxicity, and DNA repair after 24 h in liver and lung tissue of rats. Rats were exposed to WSPM from high or low oxygen combustion and ambient PM collected in areas with and without many operating wood stoves or carbon black (CB) at the dose of 0.64 mg/kg body weight. The levels of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine, 1,N(6)-etheno-2'-deoxyadenosine, and 1-N(2)-etheno-2'-deoxyguanosine (εdG) were significantly increased with 23% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.1-45%), 54% (95% CI:18-90%), and 73% (95% CI: 31-134%) in the liver of rats exposed orally to CB, respectively. Rats orally exposed to PM from the wood stove area and low oxygen combustion WSPM (LOWS) had 35% (95% CI: 0.1-71%) and 45% (95% CI: 10-82%) increased levels of εdG in the liver, respectively. No significant differences were observed for bulky DNA adducts. Increased gene expression of proinflammatory cytokines, heme oxygenase-1, and oxoguanine DNA glycosylase 1 was observed in the liver following intragastric exposure and in the lung following instillation in particular of LOWS. Exposure to LOWS also increased the proportion of neutrophils in BAL fluid. These results indicate that WSPM and CB exert the strongest effect in terms of oxidative stress-induced response, inflammation, and genotoxicity in the organ closest to the port of entry.
Previously, we reported the anti oxidative and anti viral effects of plastoquinones (compounds 1, 2) extracted from the seaweed Sargassum micracanthum (Kuetzing) Endlicher and a new chromene compound (compound 3), which was converted from the plastoquinones. Recently, we have also demonstrated the antiulcer effects of these compounds and assessed the effects using a rat model of acute gastric lesion and fundus strips isolated from rats. In hydrochloric acid/ethanol rat ulcer tests: 1) oral administrations of compounds 1, 2, and 3 1--10, 3--30 and 10--30 mg/kg, respectively, and omeprazole 3--30 mg/kg showed dose-dependent antiulcer effects: 2) the antiulcer effects after intraduodenal administration of the respective compounds at the dose of 30 mg/kg were found to be significant: and 3) a decrease in the hexosamine level of the gastric mucosa was slightly improved by oral administration of compounds 1, 2, and 3 30 mg/kg. In indomethacin-induced gastric ulcer tests, the antiulcer effects of compounds 1, 2, and 3 10 mg/kg (p.o.) were not significant. Compounds 1, 2, and 3 showed slight contracting effects on the fundus isolated from rats and these effects were inhibited by pretreatment with AH6809, an inhibitor of prostaglandin DP, EP(1), and EP(2) receptors. These results suggest that the protection of the mucosa via endogenous prostaglandins might be related to the antiulcer effects of compounds 1, 2, and 3.
The use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can be associated with severe adverse digestive effects. In clinical settings, proton pump inhibitors have proven to be effective in preventing and healing NSAID-induced gastroduodenal lesions. The present study investigates the mechanisms of protection afforded by pantoprazole against gastric injury induced by different NSAIDs in rats. Animals were orally treated with indomethacin (100 micromol/kg), diclofenac (60 micromol/kg), piroxicam (150 micromol/kg) or ketoprofen (150 micromol/kg). Thirty minutes before NSAIDs, animals received pantoprazole 6 or 60 micromol/kg orally. Four hours after NSAIDs, the following parameters were assessed: histomorphometric evaluation of gastric mucosal damage; gastric mucosal levels of myeloperoxidase (MPO), malondialdehyde (MDA), reduced glutathione as an index of non-proteic sulfhydryl compounds (GSH), and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2); mucosal cyclooxygenase-1 and -2 (COX-1, COX-2) mRNA expression by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Separate experiments were carried out to assay the effects of pantoprazole on gastric acid secretion in pylorus-ligated rats. The in vitro influence of pantoprazole (1-10 microM) on the oxidation of low density lipoproteins (LDLs) induced by copper sulphate was also examined. All NSAIDs elicited mucosal necrotic lesions associated with neutrophil infiltration and reduction of PGE2 levels. Increments of MPO and MDA contents, as well as a decrease in GSH levels, were detected in the gastric mucosa of indomethacin-, piroxicam- or ketoprofen-treated animals. Indomethacin enhanced mucosal COX-2 expression, while not affecting COX-1. At the oral dose of 6 micromol/kg pantoprazole did not affect NSAID-induced mucosal damage, whereas at 60 micromol/kg it markedly reduced injuries provoked by all test NSAIDs. Pantoprazole 60 micromol/kg also reversed the effects of NSAIDs on MPO, MDA, and GSH mucosal contents, without interfering with the decrease in PGE2 levels or indomethacin-induced COX-2 expression. However, at both doses, pantoprazole inhibited acid secretion in pylorus-ligated rats. Furthermore, pantoprazole concentration dependently reduced the in vitro oxidation of LDLs. Our results suggest that besides inhibiting acid secretion, the protection afforded by pantoprazole against NSAID-induced gastric damage depends on a reduction in mucosal oxidative injury, which may also account for an increment of sulfhydryl radical mucosal bioavailability. It is also suggested that pantoprazole does not influence the down-regulation of gastric prostaglandin production associated with NSAID treatment.
Although cisplatin has been used for decades to treat human cancer, some toxic side effects and resistance are observed. It has been suggested that gold(III) complexes, containing metal centers isoelectronic and isostructural to cisplatin, are promising anticancer drugs. Gold(III) dithiocarbamate complexes were shown to exhibit in vitro cytotoxicity, comparable with and even greater than cisplatin; however, the involved mechanism of action remained unknown. Because we previously reported that copper(II) dithiocarbamates are potent proteasome inhibitors, we hypothesized that gold(III) dithiocarbamate complexes could suppress tumor growth via direct inhibition of the proteasome activity. Here, for the first time, we report that a synthetic gold(III) dithiocarbamate (compound 2) potently inhibits the activity of a purified rabbit 20S proteasome and 26S proteasome in intact highly metastatic MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells, resulting in the accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins and the proteasome target protein p27 and induction of apoptosis. The compound 2-mediated proteasome inhibition and apoptosis induction were completely blocked by addition of a reducing agent DTT or N-acetyl-L-cysteine, showing that process of oxidation is required for proteasome inhibition by compound 2. Treatment of MDA-MB-231 breast tumor-bearing nude mice with compound 2 resulted in significant inhibition of tumor growth, associated with proteasome inhibition and massive apoptosis induction in vivo. Our findings reveal the proteasome as a primary target for gold(III) dithiocarbamates and support the idea for their potential use as anticancer therapeutics.
Treatment of C57B1/6 mice with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) reduced striatal dopamine and cortical noradrenaline levels by 77-83% and 43-46%, respectively, at 7 days post-treatment. Co-treatments with five different inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), including benzamide, significantly prevented the MPTP-induced catecholamine depletions. Benzamide was present in the striatum, 30 min after single i.p. injection, at low millimolar concentrations known to selectively inhibit PARP in vitro. The protective activities of benzamide and its derivatives paralleled their in vitro efficacies and potencies both as neuroprotective agents and as inhibitors of PARP, while the activity of 1,5-dihydroxyisoquinoline, a structurally-unrelated compound, did not. In naive animals, the PARP inhibitors by themselves did not alter striatal dopamine levels at 7 days post-treatment. However, in acute studies, 1,5-dihydroxyisoquinoline and nicotinamide caused marked alterations in striatal dopamine metabolite levels; on the contrary, benzamide and its amino-derivatives showed little or no effect on dopamine metabolism. These results indicate that, although these compounds might act at other sites in addition to PARP, PARP inhibitors possess neuroprotective potential in vivo and suggest a role for PARP in MPTP neurotoxicity.
BNIP3 is a hypoxia-induced protein involved in cell death and survival but its role in human tumors is unclear. This study investigated the role of BNIP3 in prostate cancer.
The expression of BNIP3, the androgen receptor (AR), hypoxia inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha, HIF-2alpha and the hypoxia regulated gene GLUT1 were assessed in tissue microarrays constructed from 149 radical prostatectomy specimens. Statistics compared expression of these factors between each other, conventional clinicopathological parameters and PSA recurrence. Since an association between BNIP3 and AR and the HIFs was observed, the influence of hypoxia, dihydrotestosterone and the AR blocker, Casodex, was also investigated in prostate cell lines.
BNIP3 was expressed in the nucleus and cytoplasm. Eight of 149 (5.5%) tumors showed no expression, 44/149 (29.5%) cases showed exclusively cytoplasmic expression, 17/149 (11.5%) cases showed exclusively nuclear expression and 80/149 (53.5%) cases showed both cytoplasmic and nuclear expression. There was a significant correlation between cytoplasmic BNIP3 expression and Gleason score (P=0.005), age (P=0.02), AR (P=0.001), and GLUT1 (P=0.006). There was a significant correlation between nuclear BNIP3 expression and HIF-1alpha expression (P=0.006) and HIF-2alpha expression (P=0.013) but no correlation between BNIP3 and pre-operative PSA, tumor volume, margin positivity or capsular invasion (all P>0.05). There was an increase in BNIP3 expression under conditions of hypoxia (0.1% 0(2)) but not with dihydrotestosterone stimulation or with Casodex treatment.
These findings suggest that BNIP3 is directly regulated by hypoxia but that there may be a hormonal independent mechanism coordinating the expression of BNIP3 in prostate tumors.
To present a case of ototoxicity induced by furosemide and once-daily gentamicin therapy.
A 60-year-old white woman presented to the hospital with community-acquired pneumonia and urinary tract infection. The antibiotic regimen included gentamicin and, after 5 doses, the patient reported profound bilateral hearing loss. A Pure Tone Audiogram suggested moderate to moderately severe sensorineural hearing loss bilaterally. The only risk factors present included her age, elevated temperature, and the use of furosemide.
Several risk factors may predispose a patient to developing aminoglycoside ototoxicity: the 1555 chromosomal mutation, preexisting disorders of hearing and balance, hypovolemia, bacteremia, liver and renal dysfunction, and the simultaneous administration of other ototoxic medications. The cumulative dose and duration of aminoglycoside therapy are more important than serum concentrations. Administration of an aminoglycoside followed by furosemide may increase the risk of ototoxicity. The aminoglycoside interacts with the cell membranes in the inner ear, increasing their permeability. This theoretically allows the loop diuretic to penetrate into the cells in higher concentrations, causing more severe damage.
Auditory toxicity occurred after only 5 days of gentamicin therapy and 1 dose of furosemide. An aminoglycoside followed by furosemide may increase the risk for ototoxicity. Clinicians need to be aware of the synergistic potential of ototoxic medications.
Acute renal failure following roentgenologic procedures employing intravenous administration of contrast media was observed in seven diabetic patients over an 18-month period. All had long-standing diabetes mellitus complicated by retinopathy and cardiovascular disease; six had mild impairment in renal function before x-ray studies. The renal failure occurred within 48 hours of the procedure and was of the oliguric type in six of the patients. Renal function returned toward the prestudy levels within four weeks. None of the patients required dialysis. Combined analysis of our data and those of 31 cases reported in the literature suggest that certain factors in diabetic patients make them prone to develop dye-induced acute renal failure: These include old age; long duration of diabetes; preëxisting impaired renal function; the presence of diabetic complications such as retinopathy, neuropathy, and cardiovascular disease; and dehydration. All diabetic patients should be monitored closely after a radio-contrast study to detect the development of acute renal failure so that appropriate management can be instituted early in the course of the disease.
To explore reasons for discrepancies between findings from case reports and those from a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials regarding the association between beta-adrenergic blockers and depression.
Systematic review.
PubMed/MEDLINE database.
We reviewed 24 published case reports showing an association between beta-blockers and depression and eight randomized controlled trials included in a meta-analysis of the adverse effects of these drugs. We abstracted the beta-blocker taken, patients' age and sex, diagnoses, history of depression, type of depressive symptoms reported, and method and timing of the assessment of depression. Naranjo criteria were used to evaluate the strength of evidence from each case report for a possible association between beta-blockers and depression. Twelve case reports had a Naranjo score of 5 or more (suggesting a likely causal relationship), nine of which involved propranolol. In all nine, depression began soon after treatment, and in four, the patient had a history of depression. Three randomized controlled trials assessed propranolol. Depression rates in the control groups of these studies differed substantially from each other (0-40%, p<0.0001). In only one randomized controlled trial did investigators assess depression systematically; they evaluated depression after 1 year of treatment and eliminated patients who had previously been prescribed an antidepressant.
A criterion standard to assess the true relationship between beta-blockers and depression is lacking. Factors such as the lack of systematic assessment of depression, the timing of assessments, and the selection of patients may have reduced the ability of researchers in the randomized controlled trials to detect depression as an adverse effect. Evidence from case reports should be carefully considered when relevant randomized controlled trials have not been adequately designed to detect adverse effects.
A 70-year-old man presenting with a chief complaint of tongue swelling had been diagnosed with prostate cancer 1 year earlier. He had been on an oral angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE) inhibitor for hypertension for 20 years. Two months before the first of 4 episodes of tongue swelling within a period of 40 days, he had been prescribed oral estramustine phosphate (EMP) for the prostate cancer. He was admitted to our hospital for the evaluation after massive swelling of the tongue and epiglottis which necessitated tracheotomy. Food allergies, allergic reactions to environmental factors, and hereditary angioneurotic edema were excluded. Massive swelling of the tongue and epiglottis disappeared completely after EMP was discontinued. We concluded that angioedema was induced by EMP used concurrently with the ACE inhibitor.
Disulfiram (DSF), a member of the dithiocarbamate family capable of binding copper and an inhibitor of aldehyde dehydrogenase, is currently being used clinically for the treatment of alcoholism. Recent studies have suggested that DSF may have antitumor and chemosensitizing activities, although the detailed molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Copper has been shown to be essential for tumor angiogenesis processes. Consistently, high serum and tissue levels of copper have been found in many types of human cancers, including breast, prostate, and brain, supporting the idea that copper could be used as a potential tumor-specific target. Here we report that the DSF-copper complex potently inhibits the proteasomal activity in cultured breast cancer MDA-MB-231 and MCF10DCIS.com cells, but not normal, immortalized MCF-10A cells, before induction of apoptotic cancer cell death. Furthermore, MDA-MB-231 cells that contain copper at concentrations similar to those found in patients, when treated with just DSF, undergo proteasome inhibition and apoptosis. In addition, when administered to mice bearing MDA-MB-231 tumor xenografts, DSF significantly inhibited the tumor growth (by 74%), associated with in vivo proteasome inhibition (as measured by decreased levels of tumor tissue proteasome activity and accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins and natural proteasome substrates p27 and Bax) and apoptosis induction (as shown by caspase activation and apoptotic nuclei formation). Our study shows that inhibition of the proteasomal activity can be achieved by targeting tumor cellular copper with the nontoxic compound DSF, resulting in selective apoptosis induction within tumor cells.
Chronic cigarette smoking induces pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) by largely unknown mechanisms. Renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is known to function in the development of PAH. Losartan, a specific angiotensin II receptor antagonist, is a well-known antihypertensive drug with a potential role in regulating angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE2), a recently found regulator of RAS. To determine the effect of losartan on smoke-induced PAH and its possible mechanism, rats were daily exposed to cigarette smoke for 6months in the absence and in the presence of losartan. Elevated right ventricular systolic pressure (RVSP), thickened wall of pulmonary arteries with apparent medial hypertrophy along with increased angiotensin II (Ang II) and decreased ACE2 levels were observed in smoke-exposed-only rats. Losartan administration ameliorated pulmonary vascular remodeling, inhibited the smoke-induced RVSP and Ang II elevation and partially reversed the ACE2 decrease in rat lungs. In cultured primary pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs) from 3- and 6-month smoke-exposed rats, ACE2 levels were significantly lower than in those from the control rats. Moreover, PASMCs from 6-month exposed rats proliferated more rapidly than those from 3-month exposed or control rats, and cells grew even more rapidly in the presence of DX600, an ACE2 inhibitor. Consistent with the in vivo study, in vitro losartan pretreatment also inhibited cigarette smoke extract (CSE)-induced cell proliferation and ACE2 reduction in rat PASMCs. The results suggest that losartan may be therapeutically useful in the chronic smoking-induced pulmonary vascular remodeling and PAH and ACE2 may be involved as part of its mechanism. Our study might provide insight into the development of new therapeutic interventions for PAH smokers.
A 75-year-old man developed a biopsy-proven, drug-induced intrahepatic cholestasis after use of amoxycillin trihydrate combined with the beta-lactam inhibitor potassium clavulanate (Augmentin). Cholestatic liver injury is an uncommonly recognized, probably immunologically based adverse reaction to therapy with penicillin and its derivatives.
Oxidative stress damage plays a vital role in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) pathogenesis. The nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)/antioxidant response element (ARE) signaling pathway can be activated by pharmacological and dietary means to attenuate cellular oxidative stress. Resveratrol, a plant-derived polyphenolic compound, has antioxidant property. Recent studies have demonstrated that resveratrol has protective effects against cerebral I/R injury. However, little is known about its mechanism. Hence, this study identified the neuroprotective effect of resveratrol pretreatment and elucidate the Nrf2/ARE signaling mechanism after focal cerebral I/R injury in rats. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to sham-operated group, ischemia/reperfusion physiological saline-treated group, and ischemia/reperfusion resveratrol-pretreatmented (15 and 30 mg/kg) groups. Rats were pretreatmented with resveratrol or physiological saline of corresponding volume administered intraperitoneally for 7 days before surgery and 30 min before middle cerebral artery occlusion. At 24 h after reperfusion, neurological score, infarct volume, and brain water content were assessed. Oxidative stress was evaluated by malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity. Pathological changes of brain tissue were observed by HE staining. RT-PCR and Western blot analysed the expression of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). TUNEL staining detected apoptotic cells. The protein expression of Caspase-3 were studied by immunohistochemistry. Resveratrol pretreatment significantly ameliorated neurological scores, reduced infarct volume and brain water content, decreased MDA levels, restored the SOD activity, upregulated the protein and mRNA expression of Nrf2 and HO-1, downregulated the protein expression of caspase-3. TUNEL-positive cells significantly decreased compared with the physiological saline-treated group. HE staining also showed that resveratrol significantly improved neuronal injury. These results showed that resveratrol pretreatment had neuroprotective effects on cerebral I/R injury. This neuroprotective effect is likely exerted by upregulated expression of transcription factor Nrf2 and HO-1 to ameliorate oxidative damage, decreased the protein expression of caspase-3. Our finding is important for understanding the neuroprotective mechanism of resveratrol and promoting its clinical therapeutic utility.
Beta blockers are often considered to be less effective for blood pressure control in elderly patients with essential hypertension than calcium antagonists. We therefore compared the efficacy and tolerability of the new beta blocker bisoprolol with those of nifedipine. Fifty-nine patients over 60 years of age with essential hypertension (supine diastolic blood pressure, DBP: 95-115 mmHg) took part in a randomized double-blind study. After 14 days on placebo the patients received either 10 mg bisoprolol o.d. or 20 mg nifedipine SR b.i.d. for 4 weeks. The doses were doubled in patients whose DBP remained greater than 90 mmHg, for a further 4 week period. Blood pressure was measured about 24 hours after bisoprolol and about 12 hours after nifedipine administration. Fifty-six patients were available for efficacy analysis. After 4 weeks there was a distinct decrease of SBP and DBP in both groups (bisoprolol: -22 +/- 16; -15 +/- 9 mmHg; nifedipine: -24 +/- 17; -17 +/- 7 mmHg) with no significant difference between the treatments. DBP was normalized in 22/28 (79%) patients on bisoprolol and in 24/28 (86%) patients on nifedipine (bisoprolol vs nifedipine: NS). There were 7/29 bisoprolol and 14/30 nifedipine patients who experienced at least one side-effect. Overall the tolerability of bisoprolol was considered to be better than that of nifedipine (P = 0.043). In conclusion, bisoprolol 10-20 mg o.d. proved to be as equally effective as nifedipine SR 20-40 mg b.i.d. for the treatment of essential hypertension in the elderly.
In order to verify the anti-ischaemic effect of a new beta-blocking agent, bisoprolol, a double blind parallel groups trial was carried out in comparison with verapamil. 26 patients with a history of spontaneous and/or effort angina were studied. After a two-week treatment with placebo, they were randomized in two groups. One group was treated for 4 weeks with bisoprolol 10 mg o.d. and for the following 4 weeks with bisoprolol 20 mg o.d. The other group received verapamil 80 mg t.i.d. for the first 4 weeks and 120 mg t.i.d. for the remaining 4 weeks. Throughout the study isosorbide dinitrate 20 mg b.i.d. was administered and sublingual nitroglycerin was allowed when necessary. 21 patients completed the study. Both bisoprolol and verapamil significantly reduced the number of angina episodes and nitroglycerin tablets consumption, as well as ischaemic episodes recorded on Holter ECG. The total number and severity of ectopic ventricular beats were reduced too. On multistage treadmill exercise test, both drugs increased effort time and time to ST depression = 1 mm, and reduced ST depression and double-product. The effect of bisoprolol on double product was greater than that of verapamil because of the better control of heart rate. The relationship ST/double product suggested that beta-blockers act essentially through the reduction of myocardial oxygen consumption and verapamil possibly with an additive effect on coronary circulation. Radionuclide ventriculography showed no deterioration of rest ventricular function with both drugs. In conclusion, bisoprolol and verapamil showed a satisfactory anti-ischaemic effect, with good tolerability.
The histiocytoses are a heterogeneous group of disorders characterised by an excessive number of histiocytes. In most cases the pathophysiology is unclear and treatment is nonspecific. Faisalabad histiocytosis (FHC) (MIM 602782) has been classed as an autosomal recessively inherited form of histiocytosis with similarities to Rosai-Dorfman disease (RDD) (also known as sinus histiocytosis with massive lymphadenopathy (SHML)). To elucidate the molecular basis of FHC, we performed autozygosity mapping studies in a large consanguineous family and identified a novel locus at chromosome 10q22.1. Mutation analysis of candidate genes within the target interval identified biallelic germline mutations in SLC29A3 in the FHC kindred and in two families reported to have familial RDD. Analysis of SLC29A3 expression during mouse embryogenesis revealed widespread expression by e14.5 with prominent expression in the central nervous system, eye, inner ear, and epithelial tissues including the gastrointestinal tract. SLC29A3 encodes an intracellular equilibrative nucleoside transporter (hENT3) with affinity for adenosine. Recently germline mutations in SLC29A3 were also described in two rare autosomal recessive disorders with overlapping phenotypes: (a) H syndrome (MIM 612391) that is characterised by cutaneous hyperpigmentation and hypertrichosis, hepatomegaly, heart anomalies, hearing loss, and hypogonadism; and (b) PHID (pigmented hypertrichosis with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus) syndrome. Our findings suggest that a variety of clinical diagnoses (H and PHID syndromes, FHC, and familial RDD) can be included in a new diagnostic category of SLC29A3 spectrum disorder.
Valproic acid (VA), an anticonvulsant which increases GABAergic transmission was given to patients suffering from recurrent panic attacks. Ten consecutive outpatients were included in this study. After a seven day placebo washout period, patients were given a dose of 500 mg/day, which was gradually increased to a maximum of 2250 mg/day. A significant improvement was found in the symptomatology of patients as measured on the Clinical Global Impression Scale for panic severity (p less than 0.001), the Hamilton Psychiatric Rating Scale for Anxiety (p less than 0.001) and the panic factor of the SCL-90 (p less than 0.05). These findings support the hypothesis that VA is useful in the treatment of panic disorders. Further research should be carried out to assess its efficacy and safety.
Controversy exists as to whether high frequency oscillation (HFO) increases the risk of intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) compared with conventional mechanical ventilation (CMV). We compared the risk of intracranial hemorrhage after phenylephrine-induced hypertension, combined with a hypovolemic, hypotensive insult followed by rapid volume replacement in two groups of newborn beagle puppies (one group on a piston pump HFO and the other on CMV). A total of 12 beagle puppies (6 on HFO and 6 on CMV) survived the protocol. Arterial blood gas analysis and arterial blood pressures through the study were of the same magnitude in both groups. The length of time for which the puppies remained hypertensive and hypotensive also did not vary significantly between the groups. Intraventricular hemorrhages were observed in two of six CMV puppies and two of six HFO puppies. One animal in each group had a white matter hemorrhage. Subarachnoid hemorrhages were seen in 4 animals on CMV and 3 on HFO. This study indicated that HFO does not increase the risk of any kind of intracranial hemorrhage, including IVH, in beagle puppies.
Whether Mao-Bushi-Saishin-To (MBST), one of the formulas of classical Chinese medicine, is effective on 48-h passive cutaneous anaphylaxis (PCA) in rats and which substance in the formula is responsible for its inhibitory action were examined.
In the studies on PCA, MBST (hot water extract of the whole herbal formula), extracts of Ephedra herb (Mao), l-ephedrine and other reference drugs were orally administered immediately or at various times before or 5 min after the antigen challenge. In the experiments on anaphylactic histamine release from rat peritoneal mast cells, l-ephedrine and d-pseudoephedrine were added at 10(-4)-10(-7) g/ml at 30, 10, 3 or 0 min before antigen provocation.
The time course study indicated that MBST produced a prompt and long lasting inhibition of PCA. Among the constituents of Mao, l-ephedrine exerted this prompt inhibitory activity, but d-pseudoephedrine did not. Neither pseudoephedrine nor l-ephedrine prevented the anaphylactic histamine release from isolated peritoneal mast cells.
It is strongly emphasised that the rapid suppression of PCA by orally administered l-ephedrine must be exerted by a mechanism distinct from that of suppression produced following gastrointestinal absorption of the drug, because the time required for the inhibition was extraordinarily short. However, direct inhibition of anaphylactic histamine release from isolated mast cells was excluded in this inhibition of PCA.
To determine whether pharmacogenetic tests such as N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) and cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) genotyping are useful in identifying patients prone to antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity in a cosmopolite population.
In a prospective study we genotyped 89 patients treated with isoniazid (INH) for latent tuberculosis. INH-induced hepatitis (INH-H) or elevated liver enzymes including hepatitis (INH-ELE) was diagnosed based on the clinical diagnostic scale (CDS) designed for routine clinical practice. NAT2 genotypes were assessed by fluorescence resonance energy transfer probe after PCR analysis, and CYP2E1 genotypes were determined by PCR with restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis.
Twenty-six patients (29%) had INH-ELE, while eight (9%) presented with INH-H leading to INH treatment interruption. We report no significant influence of NAT2 polymorphism, but we did find a significant association between the CYP2E1 *1A/*1A genotype and INH-ELE (OR: 3.4; 95% CI:1.1-12; p = 0.02) and a non significant trend for INH-H (OR: 5.9; 95% CI: 0.69-270; p = 0.13) compared with other CYP2E1 genotypes. This test for predicting INH-ELE had a positive predictive value (PPV) of 39% (95% CI: 26-54%) and a negative predictive value (NPV) of 84% (95% CI: 69-94%).
The genotyping of CYP2E1 polymorphisms may be a useful predictive tool in the common setting of a highly heterogeneous population for predicting isoniazid-induced hepatic toxicity. Larger prospective randomized trials are needed to confirm these results.
The mechanism of cocaine-related sudden death is unknown. To test whether cocaine potentiated changes in sinus cycle length, conduction in the atrioventricular node (AH interval) and ventricular effective refractory period induced by infused norepinephrine and ansae subclaviae stimulation, the dose-response curves of sinus cycle length, AH interval and ventricular effective refractory period to infused norepinephrine (0.01 to 0.20 micrograms/kg body weight per min) and the frequency-response curves to ansae subclaviae stimulation (1 to 4 Hz, 2 to 3 mA, 4 ms pulses) were determined before and after intravenous injection of cocaine (5 mg/kg) in 15 anesthetized open chest dogs. Cocaine potentiated shortening of sinus cycle length, AH interval and ventricular effective refractory period induced by norepinephrine infusion and shifted dose-response curves of these variables to the left in eight dogs (supersensitivity). Cocaine did not affect frequency-response curves of sinus cycle length and AH interval to ansae subclaviae stimulation. Ansae subclaviae stimulation shortened the ventricular effective refractory period more after cocaine injection, but frequency-response curves were not shifted to the left in seven dogs (no supersensitivity). Cocaine did not enhance electrical induction of ventricular tachyarrhythmias in 15 dogs without acute myocardial infarction. Acute myocardial infarction was produced by coronary artery ligation in another group of 21 dogs. Of 10 dogs with acute myocardial infarction, spontaneous or electrically induced ventricular tachycardia developed in 1 dog without drugs, in 3 dogs given norepinephrine and in 7 dogs given norepinephrine and cocaine (p less than 0.03 versus without drugs).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The short-term effects of sublingual nifedipine (20 mg) on cardiac output and its distribution at rest and during exercise were evaluated by measurement of iliofemoral blood flow and cardiac output in 10 men with stable angina pectoris controlled by metoprolol. At rest, nifedipine significantly decreased iliofemoral vascular resistance from 294 +/- 36 to 165 +/- 29 dynes.s.cm-5.10(2) (p less than 0.01) and significantly increased iliofemoral blood flow from 0.34 +/- 0.04 to 0.57 +/- 0.11 liters/min (p less than 0.05). Systemic vascular resistance was reduced from 19 +/- 1 to 13 +/- 1 dynes.s.cm-5.10(2) (p less than 0.001) and cardiac output increased significantly from 4.7 +/- 0.3 to 5.8 +/- 0.5 liters/min (p less than 0.05). Mean arterial pressure decreased significantly and heart rate increased significantly. During maximal upright bicycle exercise during nifedipine therapy, iliofemoral vascular resistance and leg blood flow were unchanged compared with control (23 +/- 2 versus 21 +/- 3 dynes.s.cm-5.10(2) and 4.7 +/- 0.5 versus 4.4 +/- 0.6 liters/min), cardiac output remained significantly increased (12.8 +/- 0.8 to 15.2 +/- 1.2 liters/min, p less than 0.05) and systemic vascular resistance remained significantly reduced (8 +/- 1 to 5 +/- 1 dynes.s.cm-5.10(2); p less than 0.001). The proportion of cardiac output distributed to the working lower limbs was significantly reduced at all exercise levels. In summary, nifedipine caused a redistribution of cardiac output by vasodilating nonexercising vascular beds without altering the locally mediated vasodilation in exercising muscle. In patients with coronary artery disease given nifedipine therapy, an increase in exercise tolerance is due to relief of myocardial ischemia rather than to increased peripheral oxygen delivery.
