Pharmacological induction of proteotoxic stress is rapidly emerging as a promising strategy for cancer cell-directed chemotherapeutic intervention. Here, we describe the identification of a novel drug-like heat shock response inducer for the therapeutic induction of proteotoxic stress targeting malignant human melanoma cells. Screening a focused library of compounds containing redox-directed electrophilic pharmacophores employing the Stress & Toxicity PathwayFinder(TM) PCR Array technology as a discovery tool, a drug-like triphenylmethane-derivative (aurin; 4-[bis(p-hydroxyphenyl)methylene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-one) was identified as an experimental cell stress modulator that causes (i) heat shock factor transcriptional activation, (ii) up-regulation of heat shock response gene expression (HSPA6, HSPA1A, DNAJB4, HMOX1), (iii) early unfolded protein response signaling (phospho-PERK, phospho-eIF2α, CHOP (CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein homologous protein)), (iv) proteasome impairment with increased protein-ubiquitination, and (v) oxidative stress with glutathione depletion. Fluorescence polarization-based experiments revealed that aurin displays activity as a geldanamycin-competitive Hsp90α-antagonist, a finding further substantiated by molecular docking and ATPase inhibition analysis. Aurin exposure caused caspase-dependent cell death in a panel of human malignant melanoma cells (A375, G361, LOX-IMVI) but not in non-malignant human skin cells (Hs27 fibroblasts, HaCaT keratinocytes, primary melanocytes) undergoing the aurin-induced heat shock response without impairment of viability. Aurin-induced melanoma cell apoptosis depends on Noxa up-regulation as confirmed by siRNA rescue experiments demonstrating that siPMAIP1-based target down-regulation suppresses aurin-induced cell death. Taken together, our data suggest feasibility of apoptotic elimination of malignant melanoma cells using the quinone methide-derived heat shock response inducer aurin.
Consumption of beverages that contain fructose favors the increasing prevalence of metabolic syndrome alterations in humans, including non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Although the only effective treatment for NAFLD is caloric restriction and weight loss, existing data show that atorvastatin, a hydroxymethyl-glutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitor, can be used safely in patients with NAFLD and improves hepatic histology. To gain further insight into the molecular mechanisms of atorvastatin's therapeutic effect on NAFLD, we used an experimental model that mimics human consumption of fructose-sweetened beverages. Control, fructose (10% w/v solution) and fructose+atorvastatin (30 mg/kg/day) Sprague-Dawley rats were sacrificed after 14 days. Plasma and liver tissue samples were obtained to determine plasma analytes, liver histology, and the expression of liver proteins that are related to fatty acid synthesis and catabolism, and inflammatory processes. Fructose supplementation induced hypertriglyceridemia and hyperleptinemia, hepatic steatosis and necroinflammation, increased the expression of genes related to fatty acid synthesis and decreased fatty acid β-oxidation activity. Atorvastatin treatment completely abolished histological signs of necroinflammation, reducing the hepatic expression of metallothionein-1 and nuclear factor kappa B binding. Furthermore, atorvastatin reduced plasma (x 0.74) and liver triglyceride (x 0.62) concentrations, decreased the liver expression of carbohydrate response element binding protein transcription factor (x 0.45) and its target genes, and increased the hepatic activity of the fatty acid β-oxidation system (x 1.15). These effects may be related to the fact that atorvastatin decreased the expression of fructokinase (x 0.6) in livers of fructose-supplemented rats, reducing the metabolic burden on the liver that is imposed by continuous fructose ingestion.
A case of Haemophilus parainfluenzae bacterial endocarditis is described. This is the first reported case of endocarditis caused by ampicillin resistant H parainfluenzae. Resistance was not mediated by a beta lactamase. Ampicillin therapy had not controlled the infection, but a four-week course of chloramphenicol was curative. Several general therapeutic points are discussed.
Large subcutaneous doses (2 mg/21 days) of estradiol valerate (EV) given over several months will induce a prolactin and growth hormone-secreting pituitary tumor in female rats. The medial basal hypothalami (MBHs) of such EV-treated animals were examined at different time intervals with light and electron microscopes to determine whether EV affects the MBH and to relate any observed effects to the process of tumorigenesis. The MBHs of extensively treated rats exhibited profound glial and neuronal changes. The filament content of astrocytes was greatly increased and large dense pleomorphic inclusions filled both astrocytic perikarya and processes. Degenerating neuronal elements have been observed in the neuropil of extensively treated animals. Dark cells identified as M cells were seen to engage in phagocytosis and were loaded with dense inclusions. Some neurons in MBH contained large quantities of lipofuscin that was different in appearance from that of normal females of the same age. The glial reaction developed gradually. At earlier stages of EV treatment there were fewer reactive glia and these contained fewer inclusions. Myelin figures often occurred in these early inclusions. Reactive glia in EV-treated rats did not appear in the preoptic area, dorsomedial nucleus or lateral hypothalamus but were found in ventromedial nucleus. Retired breeders and starvation-stressed rats resembled normal controls. These pathological changes in MBH may result from a direct effect of EV on the hypothalamus. It is possible that, in addition to its effects on the hypophysis, EV suppresses or injures hypophysiotropic cells in MBH, thus releasing pituitary chromophobes from inhibitory hypothalamic influences. This could result in hypersecretion and neoplasia.
Chromium has been recognized as an essential trace element that plays an important role in carbohydrate metabolism. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in its action are not clear. This study was undertaken to understand the mechanism of chromium action in experimental diabetes. Streptozotocin-induced diabetic animals were administered chromium as chromium picolinate (CrP) at a daily dose of 1 mg/kg body weight for a period of 4 weeks. It was observed that chromium complexed with picolinate was effective in lowering plasma glucose levels as well as was able to alleviate polyphagia, polydipsia, and weight loss in diabetic animals. Administration of chromium was also found to normalize glycogen content in liver of diabetic animals to near control levels. The reduction in plasma glucose levels by chromium was accompanied by increase in activity of glycolytic enzymes (e.g., glucokinase, phosphofructokinase, and pyruvate kinase) and by suppression in activity of gluconeogenic enzymes (e.g., glucose-6-phosphatase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase) in liver. Hepatic glucose uptake was found to be increased by chromium supplementation as demonstrated by decrease in Km and increase in Vmax values in diabetic animals. Chromium levels were lower in the liver of diabetic rats when compared with that of control rats. A negative correlation was observed between plasma glucose and chromium concentration in patients with diabetes. The data suggests that chromium supplementation as CrP is beneficial in correcting hyperglycemia, implying that the modulation of the glucose metabolism by chromium may be therapeutically beneficial in the treatment of diabetes.
Thirty-six patients received allogeneic (34) or syngeneic (two) bone marrow transplants as treatment for severe aplastic anaemia or acute leukaemia. Nineteen of the allogeneic recipients received methotrexate (MTX) and 15 received cyclosporin A (CyA) as the predominant immunosuppressive agent to minimize graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) post transplant. In the first 100 d post transplant renal dysfunction was much less frequent in the MTX recipients than in the CyA recipients who exhibited three distinct syndromes of nephrotoxicity: most commonly. CyA recipients developed asymptomatic azotaemia, proteinuria, urinary casts, impaired urinary concentrating ability and hypertension. Secondly, two CyA recipients developed acute reversible renal failure precipitated by systemic bacterial infection which required dialysis and in which the kidney was the sole target organ; thirdly, two recipients of HLA-genotypically non-identical grafts developed a rapidly progressive fatal syndrome with multiple organ involvement including lung, brain and kidney which clinically and histologically resembled thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura.
Forty-six separate renal tumours developed in 36/80 Wistar male rats given a single i.v. dose of streptozotocin (25 mg/kg body wt) to induce diabetes mellitus. Fourteen of the tumours were epithelial in type, 8 were wholly mesenchymal and 24 were largely mesenchymal but also contained epithelial elements. The purely epithelial tumours correspond to the renal adenomas and adenocarcinomas seen in man. The mesenchymal tumours were composed either of undifferentiated spindle cells or of a mixutre of poorly differentiated mesenchyme and epithelial glands. Microscopically, the mixed tumours resembled the nephroblastomas seen in man; both elements appeared to be malignant, but in the absence of metastases this remains unproven. The management of the diabetic state did not influence the incidence of tumours, but insulin appeared to enhance tumour growth.
1 A study was carried out to investigate the possible contribution of prostaglandins in captopril-induced hypotension. 2 Healthy volunteers and patients with essential hypertension were given single oral doses of 25 mg and 50 mg captopril respectively before and after cyclo-oxygenase inhibition with indomethacin. 3 The acute hypotensive effect of captopril was not associated with changes in heart rate. As expected, captopril led to an increase in plasma renin activity, decrease in plasma angiotensin II, and decrease in plasma aldosterone concentration. 4 After acute indomethacin pretreatment the acute hypotensive effect of captopril was significantly blunted in volunteers and in the 14 hypertensive patients. Changes in plasma renin activity and angiotensin II were significantly lower from a lower baseline. 5 Prostaglandins may therefore be mediators of the initial captopril effect. The blunting effect of indomethacin should be taken into account under clinical conditions.
To determine whether infants exposed to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) having the interleukin 4 (IL-4) or interleukin 13 (IL-13) gene polymorphisms were at increased risk of wheezing.
A birth cohort of 758 infants was evaluated annually by a questionnaire, physical examination, and skin prick testing. DNA samples from 560 children were genotyped for IL-4 C-589T and IL-13 C-1112T. The relationship of ETS exposure and genotype with the outcome of wheezing was analyzed.
At the time of evaluation, mean age was 13.4 +/- 2.2 months. The prevalence of sensitization was 29%, and wheezing without a cold was 26.2%. The interaction of ETS exposure and the CT/TT genotypes for IL-4 C-589T showed a significant association with wheezing (odds ratio: 10.84; 95% confidence interval: 1.12-104.64, P = .04) in African-American infants.
In African-American infants with a family history of atopy, the interaction of ETS and IL-4 C-589T demonstrated a 10-fold risk associated with wheezing without a cold.
To investigate the progression of cellular injury in a model of hippocampal epileptogenesis, we used two histochemical methods reported to specifically label injured neurons, the Dark Neuron stain and Fluoro-Jade. Pilocarpine was administered systemically (380mg/kg i.p.) to induce status epilepticus. The duration of status epilepticus was controlled to last 1h by stopping it with diazepam (4mg/kg i.p.). The progression of cellular damage was quantified at six specific time points following the initial pilocarpine-induced insult: 3h, 6h, 12h, 24h, one week, and three weeks. To assess, in parallel, neuronal loss in specific hippocampal regions throughout epileptogenesis, the neuronal nuclear protein NeuN was used as a specific marker of neurons. Results revealed a different time-dependent progression of Dark Neuron and Fluoro-Jade labelling following status epilepticus. A significantly greater proportion of silver-impregnated cells labelled by the Dark Neuron stain was quantified in the stratum radiatum and stratum pyramidale of CA1 at the early time point of 3h compared with the proportion of Fluoro-Jade labelling in adjacent sections. In contrast, the maximal staining with Fluoro-Jade appeared at a later stage during epileptogenesis (between 24h and one week), with a significantly greater proportion of neurons labelled compared to the Dark Neuron stain in the stratum radiatum of CA1, stratum pyramidale of CA1, stratum radiatum of CA3 and the polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus. Neurons from control animals were not significantly labelled by either of the two staining methods. Interestingly, the increase in Fluoro-Jade labelling corresponded in time to neuron loss. The two stains therefore appear to highlight separate processes of neuronal damage. This finding indicates that distinct cellular events take place at different stages of epileptogenesis, which may differ considerably from the permanent changes observed in chronically epileptic tissue.
Three families are described in which each of the mothers took trimethadione during pregnancy. From a comparison of siblings in each family and of others exposed to trimethadione in utero, a specific phenotype is delineated. Features included in the fetal trimethadione syndrome are developmental delay, speech difficulty, V-shaped eyebrows, epicanthus, low-set ears with anteriorly folded helix, palatal anomaly, and irregular teeth. Additional anomalies in some of the patients include intrauterine growth retardation, short stature, microcephaly, cardiac anomaly, ocular anomaly, hypospadias, inguinal hernia, and simian creases.
Here we report a case of levothyroxine-induced liver dysfunction. T4 (levothyroxine) has been more commonly used for the treatment of hypothyroidism than T3 active hormone (triiodothyronine), because with the former drug a stabler plasma concentration is obtained after oral administration. Although there are few reports on levothyroxine-induced liver dysfunction, we treated a primary hypothyroid patient with high serum aminotransferase after administration of levothyroxine. Liver dysfunction was improved after cessation of the drug administration. Antibody to T4 was found in the serum of the patient after this event. From clinical course and laboratory data of the patient, the episode of liver damage was considered to be induced by levothyroxine. We then administrated triiodothyronine, and it did not induce liver dysfunction. Changing levothyroxine to triiodothyronine resulted in a successful clinical course in this case, as re-administration of the doubtful drug is strictly limited.
In a prior Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) Phase II trial of patients with advanced, previously untreated mesothelioma, dihydro-5-azacytidine (DHAC) demonstrated a 17% response rate, including 1 complete response, with only mild myelosuppression. This Phase II study (CALGB 9031) was conducted to determine the effectiveness of and toxicities that would result from adding cisplatin to DHAC administered to the same patient population.
Thirty-six patients were treated with concurrent DHAC at 1500 mg/m2/day for 5 days by continuous infusion and cisplatin 15 mg/m2 daily for 5 days. Therapy was repeated every 3 weeks. Cisplatin was to be increased to 20 mg/m2 daily in subsequent cycles if toxicity was minimal. Therapy was continued until disease progression or excessive toxicity mandated discontinuation.
Overall, 5 objective responses were observed in 29 evaluated patients (objective response rate, 17%). The median duration of response was 6.6 months. Median survival was 6.4 months, with a median time to clinical failure of 2.7 months. The major toxicity noted was significant chest/pericardial pain, as was observed with DHAC alone. There were 2 early deaths of unknown cause on Days 9 and 17 of therapy, respectively. Significant leukopenia was observed in 29% of patients, but there were no neutropenic fevers.
The addition of cisplatin to DHAC did not increase the response rate over that observed with DHAC alone in patients with mesothelioma; however, it did increase toxicity, especially leukopenia. This combination is not recommended for further studies involving mesothelioma patients.
Overexpression of antiapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family is observed in approximately 80% of B-cell lymphomas, contributing to intrinsic and acquired drug resistance. Nullifying the antiapoptotic influence of these proteins can potentially overcome this resistance, and may complement conventional chemotherapy. ABT-737 is a BH3-only mimetic and potent inhibitor of the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family members Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), and Bcl-w. In vitro, ABT-737 exhibited concentration-dependent cytotoxicity against a broad panel of lymphoma cell lines including mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). ABT-737 showed synergism when combined with the proteasome inhibitors bortezomib or carfilzomib in select lymphoma cell lines and induced potent mitochondrial membrane depolarization and apoptosis when combined with either. ABT-737 plus bortezomib also induced significant apoptosis in primary samples of MCL, DLBCL, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) but no significant cytotoxic effect was observed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy donors. In severe combined immunodeficient beige mouse models of MCL, the addition of ABT-737 to bortezomib enhanced efficacy compared with either drug alone and with the control. Collectively, these data suggest that ABT-737 alone or in combination with a proteasome inhibitor represents a novel and potentially important platform for the treatment of B-cell malignancies.
In susceptible mice, the heavy metal ion mercury is able to induce a strong immune activation, which resembles a T helper 2 (Th2) type of immune response and is characterized by a polyclonal B cell activation, formation of high levels of IgG1 and IgE antibodies, production of autoantibodies of different specificities and development of renal IgG deposits. In the present study, we analysed the in vivo effects of mercury in nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice, which is believed to develop a spontaneous Th1 cell-mediated autoimmune diabetes similar to type 1 diabetes in humans. Three weeks of treatment with mercury induced a strong Th2 like immune/autoimmune response in NOD mice. This response was characterized by an intensive increase in splenic IgG1 antibody secreting cells, a marked elevation in serum IgE levels, a substantial increase in splenic IL-4 mRNA, but a significant decrease in splenic IFN-gamma mRNA. Mercury-induced IgG1 antibodies were mainly against ssDNA, TNP and thyroglobulin, but not against nucleolar antigen. Moreover, mercury-injected NOD mice developed high titres of IgG1 deposits in the kidney glomeruli. We further tested if the generated Th2 response could interfere with the development of insulitis and diabetes in NOD mice. We found that three weeks of treatment with mercury was also able to significantly suppress the development of insulitis and postpone the onset of diabetes in these mice. Thus, mercury-induced immune activation can counter-regulate the Th1 cell-mediated autoimmune responses and confer a partial protection against autoimmune diabetes in NOD mice.
Four women with Parkinson's disease undergoing prolonged levodopa therapy had daily episodes of dystonic posturing, affecting one lower extremity, several years after initiation of treatment. The dystonia occurred only in the early morning, on awakening and before the first dose of levodopa, when the patients were in the akinetic-rigid state with no dyskinesias. It further interfered with gait, slowly subsided within one to two hours, and did not recur until next morning. This abnormal involuntary posture was unaffected by manipulations of daily levodopa dosage and schedule, completely disappeared after withdrawal of drug therapy, and recurred following its readministration. Additional adverse reactions including dyskinesias, "on-off" phenomena, and declining efficacy of levodopa were present in all patients. Early-morning dystonia may represent another late side effect secondary to long-term levodopa administration in parkinsonism.
First used as a sedative, thalidomide was taken out the market because of its teratogenicity. Despite other side effects, especially neuropathies, this drug is now again prescribed in various autoimmune and neoplasic diseases. Recently, venous or arterial thrombotic events have been described after the introduction of thalidomide.
In this report, we describe two new venous thrombosis cases occurring during a treatment with thalidomide. The first case is a 37-year-old man treated for a discoid lupus, who developed three deep-vein thrombosis and a massive pulmonary embolism, with recurrent thrombosis even with an efficient anticoagulation therapy until the final stop of thalidomide. The second one is a 66-year-old woman treated with thalidomide for a multiple myeloma and a melanoma in therapeutic escape, who developed a deep-vein thrombosis two months after the beginning of her treatment. Published reports suggest that most thrombotic events appeared under three months after the introduction of the treatment and that thalidomide could have acted as a precipitating or as a starting factor in a patient population already at risk of thrombosis. Those complications should be particularly severe, but the mechanism underlying thrombosis with thalidomide is unknown.
A complete coagulation check-up is advised before beginning a treatment with thalidomide.
Antileukotriene drugs are new therapeutic agents that have recently been approved for the treatment of asthma. Several cases of eosinophilic conditions including Churg-Strauss syndrome have been reported to be associated with zafirlukast, a cysteinyl leukotriene type 1 receptor antagonist. So far no other leukotriene modifier has been associated with the syndrome. The case history is presented of a man with allergic rhinitis and asthma who had received intermittent pulse therapy with oral corticosteroids. Pulmonary eosinophilia developed while he was receiving treatment with montelukast, a chemically distinct cysteinyl leukotriene type 1 receptor antagonist. After discontinuation of montelukast therapy and administration of systemic corticosteroids the patient's symptoms reversed rapidly and there was prompt resolution of the pulmonary infiltrates. We believe that cysteinyl leukotriene type 1 receptor antagonists are safe and effective drugs for most patients with asthma but caution is needed for those with more severe disease who require systemic corticosteroids, especially if they show characteristics of the atypical allergic diathesis seen in the prodromal phase of Churg-Strauss syndrome.
Considerable evidence implicates the involvement of mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases. 6OHDA is a mitochondrial complex I inhibitor which is frequently used to model Parkinson's disease-like cell loss. We investigated the cell death pathways triggered by 6OHDA in PC12 and P19 cells with a view to shedding light on the molecular basis of Parkinson's disease. We found that 6OHDA triggered mostly necrosis and less than 5% apoptosis in PC12 cells, whereas 6OHDA-induced death in P19 cells was apoptotic. While desipramine, a dopamine uptake blocker, attenuated 6OHDA-induced apoptosis in PC12 cells, this compound had no effect on the large scale necrotic death. Furthermore, desipramine failed to reduce apoptosis in 6OHDA-treated P19 cells, suggesting that the mechanism of 6OHDA toxicity does not require uptake via the dopamine transporter. As cell death triggered by 6OHDA was not blocked by free radical scavengers or NMDA receptor antagonists, a non-specific extracellular mechanism may be involved.
The tocolytic agent ritodrine acts on the β2-adrenoceptor and is an effective treatment option for preterm labor. However, several adverse effects of ritodrine therapy, including liver damage, have been noted. To elucidate the underlying mechanisms of ritodrine-induced adverse effects, development of sensitive biomarkers of these adverse events is necessary. Here, we report the development and analysis of an animal model of ritodrine-induced liver damage. Female mice received daily ritodrine injections for 2 weeks; liver samples were then collected and subjected to DNA microarray analysis. Ritodrine significantly altered the expression of genes related to steroid and lipid metabolism, as well as the metabolism of ritodrine itself. Importantly, expression of the acute-phase reactant serum amyloid A (SAA) significantly increased after ritodrine injection, with values indicating the largest fold-change. This large increase in blood SAA levels serves as a more sensitive biomarker than conventional liver enzymes, such as aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase. The increase in SAA expression is specific to ritodrine-induced liver damage, because SAA expression was not induced by other hepatotoxic drugs such as acetaminophen, valproic acid, or metformin. Our in vitro studies showed that cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) accumulation was not a primary cause of the ritodrine-induced SAA increase. Instead, SAA expression was enhanced by indirect phosphorylation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3) mediated by interleukin-6. Therefore, our study provides a method for sensitive and early detection of hepatic injury, and may thus help preclude serious liver damage due to ritodrine use in preterm labor.
In 1980-1985 680 preadolescent tall girls were treated with pharmacological doses of oestrogen to reduce final height. Indications for the therapy were predicted final height greater than +2.5 SD (180.75 cm), idiopathic scoliosis, and psychosocial problems. Until 1976 141 girls were given diethyl stilboestrol 5 mg daily. By advice of Prader this was then replaced by ethinyl oestradiol and a progestin was given on days 5-10 each month. The mean duration of therapy was close to 2 years. The observed short-term unwanted effects were due to the pharmacological actions of the drugs, (11 girls had galactorrhoea at the end of therapy; no pituitary prolactinoma was observed) or events happening by chance.
Excision Repair Cross-Complementing Group 1 (ERCC1) is an important DNA repair gene, playing critical role in nucleotide excision repair pathway and having a significant influence on genomic instability. Some studies support that ERCC1 might be a potential predictive and prognostic marker in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). ERCC1 has also been shown to be a promising biomarker in NSCLC treated with a cisplatin-based regimen. Therefore, the determination of ERCC1 expression at DNA, mRNA and protein level in different stages of NSCLC is still an important topic in the cancer. Ninety-one formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor samples histopathologically diagnosed as NSCLC were examined in this study. ERCC1 expression at protein level were scored by immunohistochemistry. The gene amplification and mRNA expression levels for ERCC1 were determined by real-time quantitative PCR. There was complete concordance among the three methods in 39 tumor samples (42.9%). A strong correlation was found between DNA amplification and mRNA expression (r=0.662) while there was no correlation between mRNA and protein assessment for ERCC1 expression (r=-0.013). ERCC1 expression at mRNA and DNA level (63.1 and 84.2%, respectively) in tumors at stage III was higher than at the other stages. In contrast, the protein expression at stage II and III (56.6 and 52.6%, respectively) of NSCLC was lower than that of tumors with stage I NSCLC. These results show that the mechanism by which ERCC1 expression might play a role in tumor behavior. This study was also confirmed that the appropriate validation and qualification in methods used for ERCC1 status were needed before its clinical application and implementation.
To further characterize the capacity of lovastatin to prevent hippocampal neuronal loss after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) METHOD: Adult male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: (A) control rats, received neither pilocarpine nor lovastatin (n=5); (B) control rats, received just lovastatin (n=5); (C) rats that received just pilocarpine (n=5); (D) rats that received pilocarpine and lovastatin (n=5). After pilocarpine injection (350 mg/kg, i.p.), only rats that displayed continuous, convulsive seizure activity were included in our study. Seizure activity was monitored behaviorally and terminated with an injection of diazepam (10 mg/kg, i.p.) after 4 h of convulsive SE. The rats treated with lovastatin received two doses of 20 mg/kg via an oesophagic probe immediately and 24 hours after SE induction. Seven days after pilocarpine-induced SE, all the animals were perfused and their brains were processed for histological analysis through Nissl method.
The cell counts in the Nissl-stained sections performed within the hippocampal formation showed a significant cell loss in rats that received pilocarpine and presented SE (CA1=26.8 +/- 13.67; CA3=38.1 +/- 7.2; hilus=43.8 +/- 3.95) when compared with control group animals (Group A: CA1=53.2 +/- 9.63; CA3=63.5 +/- 13.35; hilus=59.08 +/- 10.24; Group B: CA1=74.3 +/- 8.16; CA3=70.1 +/- 3.83; hilus=70.6 +/- 5.10). The average neuronal cell number of CA1 subfield of rats that present SE and received lovastatin (44.4 +/- 17.88) was statically significant increased when compared with animals that just presented SE.
Lovastatin exert a neuroprotective role in the attenuation of brain damage after SE.
A 53-year-old man with multiple myeloma and plasma cell luekemia developed severe, acute bilateral optic neuroretinitis 8 days after chemotherapy with BCNU, procarbazine, cyclophosphamide, and prednisolone. He showed some return of function over the following 6 weeks before his death. Both BCNU and procarbazine are known to cross the blood--brain barrier. Procarbazine is known to interfere with neurological function. BCNU has been reported to transiently interfere with vision and, although this patient had highly morbid disease, the onset of optic neuroretinitis 8 days after combination therapy with these 2 drugs raises the possibility that one or both in combination may have been the cause of the optic neuropathy.
Measurement of plasma prolactin levels in elderly subjects demonstrated the presence of a hyperprolactinemia with loss of normal circadian rhythm, regressing after bromocriptine treatment. The administration of bromocriptine to elderly subjects in a normal state of health provokes marked changes in the E.E.G. spectrum (slowing of delta activity, increase in alpha and decrease in beta rhythms). These findings show that there is an alteration in central dopaminergic systems during aging.
