This study aims to investigate the protection of procyanidins and lycopene from the renal damage induced by mercuric chloride.
Rats were treated with either procyanidins or lycopene 2h before HgCl(2) subcutaneously injection, once daily treatment for 2 successive days.
In comparison with HgCl(2) group, markers of renal function such as blood urea nitrogen in serum and urinary protein were decreased to (18.45±11.63) mmol/L and (15.93±9.36) mmol/L, (4.54±0.78) g/(g·Cr) and (4.40±1.12) g/(g·Cr). N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, lactate dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphatase in urine were depressed to (125.49±11.68) U/(g·Cr), (103.73±21.79) U/(g·Cr), (101.99±12.28) U/(g·Cr), and (113.19±23.74) U/(g·Cr), (71.14±21.80) U/(g·Cr), (73.64±21.51) U/(g·Cr) in procyanidins and lycopene groups. Indicators of oxidative stress, for example, Glutathion was reduced to (45.58±9.89) μmol/(g·pro) and (45.33±5.90) μmol/(g·pro), and antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, glutathione-peroxidase were enhanced to (43.07±10.97) U/(mg·pro) and (39.94±6.04) U/(mg·pro), (83.85±18.48) U/(mg·pro), and (85.62±12.68) U/(mg·pro). Malondialdehyde was lowered to (0.95±0.12) (μmol/g·pro) and (1.03±0.12) μmol/(g·pro) in procyanidins and lycopene groups. ROS generation was decreased by 27.63% and 16.40% and apoptosis was also decreased in procyanidins and lycopene groups respectively. Pathological changes were much better as well.
Procyanidins and Lycopene play some protective role against mercury kidney damage.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the neuroprotective effects of resveratrol (RES) on 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced Parkinson's disease (PD) in rats. PD is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder in which the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is strongly implicated. RES, a polyphenolic antioxidant compound enriched in grapes, has been shown to have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory actions and thus was tested for its beneficial effects using 6-OHDA-induced PD rat model. Male Wistar rats were pretreated with RES (20mg/kg body weight i.p.) once daily for 15 days and subjected to unilateral intrastriatal injection of 6-OHDA (10 microg in 0.1% ascorbic acid in normal saline). Three weeks after 6-OHDA infusion, rats were tested for neurobehavioral activity and were killed after 4 weeks of 6-OHDA infusion for the estimation of lipid peroxidation, glutathione content, and activity of antioxidant enzymes (glutathione peroxidase [GPx], glutathione reductase [GR], catalase [CAT], and superoxide dismutase [SOD]. RES was found to be successful in upregulating the antioxidant status and lowering the dopamine loss. Conversely, the elevated level of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), protein carbonyl (PC), and activity of phospholipase A2 in 6-OHDA group was attenuated significantly in RES-pretreated group when compared with 6-OHDA-lesioned group. These results were supported by the immunohistochemical findings in the substantia nigra that has shown the protection of neurons by RES from deleterious effects of 6-OHDA. Thus, RES may be used to reduce the deterioration caused by free radicals thereby preventing subsequent behavioral, biochemical, and histopathological changes that occur during PD.
In a prospective, randomized, double-blind study, we compared cefotaxime with nafcillin plus tobramycin in the treatment of serious bacterial infections. Of 195 patients with suspected or proven infections who were not neutropenic, definite bacterial infections were identified in 81; 34 of 38 patients given cefotaxime and 26 of 43 given nafcillin plus tobramycin (p less than 0.01) responded to treatment. The difference in response rates occurred primarily in patients with rapidly fatal underlying disease or with an infection outside the urinary tract. A logistic regression analysis showed that treatment with cefotaxime was still associated with a higher response rate after adjusting for several potential confounding factors. Among patients treated for 3 days or more, our criteria for nephrotoxicity were met in 2 of 68 (2.9%) given cefotaxime and 16 of 57 (28.1%) given nafcillin plus tobramycin (p less than 0.001). Prolongation of the prothrombin time and enterococcal colonization did not occur more frequently with cefotaxime. We conclude that cefotaxime may be more effective and less toxic than nafcillin plus tobramycin for patients with serious bacterial infections.
The sodium channel is a primary target for treating central nervous system disorders such as epilepsy. In this study the anticonvulsant effect of BmK IT2, a sodium channel-specific neurotoxin, was evaluated in different animal models of epilepsy.
Experiments were performed on freely moving rats made epileptic by administration of either pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) or pilocarpine. BmK IT2 (0.05-0.5 microg in 2 microl) was microinjected into the CA1 area and its effects on PTZ-induced widespread, seizure-like behaviour and cortex epileptiform EEG, as well as on pilocarpine-induced seizure-like behaviour and c-Fos expression were studied.
Intrahippocampal application of BmK IT2 dose-dependently inhibited PTZ-induced seizure-like behaviour, and reduced the numbers and duration of the high amplitude and frequency discharges (HAFDs) of the epileptiform EEG component induced by PTZ. Similarly, in the pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) model, BmK IT2 significantly prolonged the latency to onset of the SE, reduced the severity of SE and suppressed hippocampal c-Fos expression during SE.
BmK IT2 showed anticonvulsant activity as it inhibited the widespread seizures induced by PTZ and pilocarpine-induced SE in rats. This activity might be due to the modulation of sodium channels in the hippocampus. Hence, BmK IT2 could be used as a novel tool to explore the molecular and pathological mechanisms of epilepsy with regard to the involvement of sodium channels.
Our purpose was to evaluate the efficacy of antiarrhythmic drugs (AADs) in recurrent ventricular fibrillation (VF) associated with inferolateral early repolarization pattern on the electrocardiogram.
Although an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator is the treatment of choice, additional AADs may be necessary to prevent frequent episodes of VF and reduce implantable cardioverter-defibrillator shock burden or as a lifesaving therapy in electrical storms.
From a multicenter cohort of 122 patients (90 male subjects, age 37 +/- 12 years) with idiopathic VF and early repolarization abnormality in the inferolateral leads, we selected all patients with more than 3 episodes of VF (multiple) including those with electrical storms (> or =3 VF in 24 h). The choice of AAD was decided by individual physicians. Follow-up data were obtained for all patients using monitoring with implantable defibrillator. Successful oral AAD was defined as elimination of all recurrences of VF with a minimal follow-up period of 12 months.
Multiple episodes of VF were observed in 33 (27%) patients. Electrical storms (34 +/- 47 episodes) occurred in 16 and were unresponsive to beta-blockers (11 of 11), lidocaine/mexiletine (9 of 9), and verapamil (3 of 3), while amiodarone was partially effective (3 of 10). In contrast, isoproterenol infusion immediately suppressed electrical storms in 7 of 7 patients. Over a follow-up of 69 +/- 58 months, oral AADs were poorly effective in preventing recurrent VF: beta-blockers (2 of 16), verapamil (0 of 4), mexiletine (0 of 4), amiodarone (1 of 7), and class 1C AADs (2 of 9). Quinidine was successful in 9 of 9 patients, decreasing recurrent VF from 33 +/- 35 episodes to nil for 25 +/- 18 months. In addition, quinidine restored a normal electrocardiogram.
Multiple recurrences of VF occurred in 27% of patients with early repolarization abnormality and may be life threatening. Isoproterenol in acute cases and quinidine in chronic cases are effective AADs.
Peptide YY (PYY)(3-36), a neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y2 receptor agonist, is a powerful inhibitor of intestinal secretion. Based on this anti-secretory effect, NPY Y2 receptor agonists may be useful as novel anti-diarrheal agents, but anti-diarrheal efficacy has yet to be determined. We therefore examined the anti-diarrheal efficacy of PYY(3-36) and a selective Y2 receptor agonist, N-acetyl-[Leu28, Leu31]-NPY(24-36), in experimental mouse models of diarrhea. Intraperitoneal administration of PYY(3-36) (0.01-1mg/kg) and N-acetyl-[Leu28, Leu31]-NPY(24-36) (10mg/kg) significantly inhibited diarrhea (increase in wet fecal weight and diarrhea score) induced by dimethyl-prostaglandin E2, 5-hydroxytryptamine, and castor oil. Anti-diarrheal activities of PYY(3-36) and N-acetyl-[Leu28, Leu31]-NPY(24-36) were comparable to the effects of loperamide (1mg/kg), a widely used anti-diarrheal drug. To clarify the anti-diarrheal mechanisms of NPY Y2 receptor agonists, we investigated the effects of PYY(3-36) and N-acetyl-[Leu28, Leu31]-NPY(24-36) on intestinal fluid secretion and colonic transit. PYY(3-36) (1mg/kg) and N-acetyl-[Leu28, Leu31]-NPY(24-36) (10mg/kg) significantly reduced dimethyl-prostaglandin E2-induced intestinal fluid accumulation in conscious mice, suggesting that NPY Y2 receptor agonists inhibit diarrhea, at least in part, by reducing intestinal secretion. In addition, PYY(3-36) (0.01-1mg/kg) and N-acetyl-[Leu28, Leu31]-NPY(24-36) (10mg/kg) potently inhibited normal fecal output, suggesting that NPY Y2 receptor activation inhibits colonic motor function and NPY Y2 receptor agonists inhibit diarrhea partly by slowing colonic transit. These results indicate that NPY Y2 receptor agonists inhibit diarrhea in mice by not only reducing intestinal fluid secretion, but also slowing colonic transit, and illustrate the therapeutic potential of NPY Y2 receptor agonists as effective treatments for diarrhea.
Atherosclerosis is a disease of the arteries in which fatty plaques develop on the inner arterial wall, which eventually obstructs blood flow. Identified risk factors for atherosclerosis include genetics, diet, lifestyle, smoking, circulating lipid and cholesterol levels, and molecular and circulating signals of chronic vascular inflammation. The link between flavonoids and atherosclerosis is based partly on the evidence that some flavonoids possess antioxidant properties and have been shown to be potent inhibitors of LDL oxidation in vitro. Hypercholesterolemia, a significant cardiovascular risk factor is prevalent in the American population. Grape seed proanthocyanidin extracts are known to exhibit a broad spectrum of chemopreventive and cardioprotective properties against oxidative stress. A recent study has shown that a combination of IH636 grape seed proanthocyanidin extract (GSPE) and a niacin-bound chromium (NBC) can decrease total cholesterol, LDL and oxidized LDL levels in hypercholesterolemic human subjects. In this study, we assessed the efficacy of GSPE supplementation in hamsters, singly and in combination with NBC, since these animals have a similar lipid profile to hypercholesterolemic humans when fed a hypercholesterolemic diet of 0.2% cholesterol and 10% coconut oil (HCD). After 10 weeks of feeding HCD, these animals developed foam cells, which is a biomarker of early stages of atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis (% of aorta covered with foam cells) was reduced by approximately 50% and 63% following supplementation of these animals with 50 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg of GSPE, respectively, in conjunction with a HCD, while approximately 32% reduction was observed following supplementation of GSPE plus NBC. A range of 7-9 animals was used in each study group. GSPE alone and in combination with NBC exerted a pronounced effect on the cholesterol, and triglyceride levels, as well as oxidative lipid damage as demonstrated by the formation of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). This data demonstrates that GSPE and NBC may provide significant health benefits by dramatically ameliorating the incidence of atherosclerosis as demonstrated by reducing the formation of foam cells.
Class 1a anti-arrhythmic drugs are often used for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF), but it is not well known that myasthenia gravis (MG)-like symptoms can be generated by their anti-cholinergic effects. We had a patient with MG who developed symptomatic MG aggravation after AF treatment with disopyramide. Symptomatic MG aggravation was followed by Takotsubo-shaped cardiomyopathy, QT prolongation, and torsades de pointes. We suggest that the anti-cholinergic effects of disopyramide can induce MG crisis and should therefore be carefully considered when disopyramide is used to treat AF in patients with MG.
The preservative methyldibromo glutaronitrile (MDBGN) has caused an epidemic of contact allergy in Europe. However, most data concerning contact allergy comes from hospital departments of dermatology. As a part of the primary health care sector, Danish dermatologists in private practice provide the front line of care for patients with skin diseases. Data from this source may therefore better reflect trends in the general population than material from hospital departments of dermatology. In this study, the frequency of MDBGN allergy and the characteristics of patients seen by dermatologists in private practice were studied. In 1 year, 2146 patients were patch tested by the participating dermatologists from 4 clinics in various parts of Denmark. 5% (110) had positive patch tests to MDBGN, with no difference between the sexes. After adjustment was made for other background variables, multivariate analysis using logistic regression showed a significant association between hand eczema and MDBGN allergy (OR 2.5, P < 0.001). In 53 cases (52.4%), the patch test reaction to MDBGN was judged to be of current relevance. Creams and lotions accounted for 31% of the identified causative products and liquid soaps for 23%. It is concluded that contact allergy to MDBGN is frequent among patients seen by dermatologists in private practice. This is consistent with results from hospital departments of dermatology in Europe and indicates a general trend and ongoing epidemic in the general population. The significant relationship between hand eczema and MDBGN allergy is of concern, and the finding that wash-off products, especially liquid soaps, play a significant role in MDBGN allergy calls for a revision of the safety assessment of MDBGN in wash-off products.
The occurrence of hypocalcemia in a term infant after the first few days of life is known to result from excessive dietary phosphate, hypomagnesemia, neonatal hypoparathyroidism, hypovitaminosis D, and maternal hyperparathyroidism. Less well recognized is the possibility that maternal ingestion of antacids may cause late neonatal hypocalcemia. Our observations suggest that taking large doses of calcium carbonate during pregnancy may be a potential cause of neonatal hypocalcemia.
Rosacea represents a chronic inflammatory dermatosis of uncertain pathophysiology. There are several associated risk factors and the need for long-term treatment is well recognized. This diverse disease is frequently difficult to manage and has a significant impact on quality of life. There are several topical and oral treatments available, of which azelaic acid 15% gel (Finacea) is the first new treatment for rosacea in more than a decade. Azelaic acid per se has multiple modes of action in rosacea, but an anti-inflammatory effect achieved by reducing reactive oxygen species appears to be the main pharmacological action. Clinical studies have shown that azelaic acid 15% gel is an effective and safe first-line topical therapeutic option in patients with mild-to-moderate papulopustular rosacea. Significant continuous improvement in the number of inflammatory lesions and in erythema has been shown over a period of 15 weeks. Adverse effects associated with azelaic acid 15% gel are mostly mild or transient and do not usually necessitate discontinuation of therapy.
Dysregulation of apoptosis is an important component of multistage hepatocarcinogenesis. Members of the bcl-2 protein family are important in the regulation of apoptosis and their expression is altered in several cancers. The objectives of the present study were to determine whether the expression of members of the bcl-2 protein family are altered in mouse liver during acute treatment with non-genotoxic carcinogens and throughout non-genotoxic hepatocarcinogenesis. Acute treatment of B6C3F1 mice with phenobarbital resulted in increased levels of bcl-2 and decreased levels of bax protein, while acute treatment with WY-14,643 resulted in increased bcl-2 and BAG-1 protein in the liver. Following chronic treatment, altered hepatic foci and adenomas were classified as: small-cell, heterogeneous basophilic lesions (spontaneous or tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin-induced); large-cell, homogeneous basophilic lesions (WY-14,643-induced); acidophilic lesions (phenobarbital- or chlordane-induced). Of the small-cell heterogeneous basophilic lesions, 86% of foci (31/36) and 85% of adenomas (35/41) exhibited increased bcl-2 protein levels compared with surrounding normal hepatocytes, whereas only 12.5% of foci (4/36) and 12% of adenomas (5/41) exhibited increased bcl-X(L) levels. Of the large-cell, homogenous, basophilic lesions, 100% of foci (3/3) and 90% of adenomas (9/10) expressed bcl-2 protein, whereas 100% of foci (3/3) and 80% of adenomas (8/10) exhibited increased bcl-X(L) protein levels compared with surrounding normal hepatocytes. Of the acidophilic lesions, the majority of foci (28/32, 88%) and adenomas (47/50, 94%) expressed increased bcl-X(L), whereas increased bcl-2 was observed in only 12.5% of acidophilic preneoplastic foci (4/32) and 14% of acidophilic adenomas (7/50). Of the carcinomas analyzed, 81% expressed increased bcl-2 (54/67), 78% expressed increased bcl-X(L) (52/67) and 69% expressed increased levels of both bcl-2 and bcl-X(L) (46/67). Collectively, only 8% of preneoplastic foci, 3% of adenomas and 1.5% of carcinomas did not express either bcl-2 or bcl-X(L). These results suggest that regulation of apoptotic proteins is altered during non-genotoxic carcinogenesis in mouse liver. Furthermore, there were both chemical- and lesion-specific aspects of expression of apoptotic proteins during hepatocarcinogenesis in mice.
Mutations in the RYR1 gene are linked to malignant hyperthermia (MH), central core disease and multi-minicore disease. We screened by DHPLC the RYR1 gene in 24 subjects for mutations, and characterized functional alterations caused by some RYR1 variants. Three novel sequence variants and twenty novel polymorphisms were identified. Immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines from patients with RYR1 variants and from controls were stimulated with 4-chloro-m-cresol (4-CmC) and the rate of extracellular acidification was recorded. We demonstrate that the increased acidification rate of lymphoblastoid cells in response to 4-CmC is mainly due to RYR1 activation. Cells expressing RYR1 variants in the N-terminal and in the central region of the protein (p.Arg530His, p.Arg2163Pro, p.Asn2342Ser, p.Glu2371Gly and p.Arg2454His) displayed higher activity compared with controls; this could account for the MH-susceptible phenotype. Cell lines harboring RYR1(Cys4664Arg) were significantly less activated by 4-CmC. This result indicates that the p.Cys4664Arg variant causes a leaky channel and depletion of intracellular stores. The functional changes detected corroborate the variants analyzed as disease-causing alterations and the acidification rate measurements as a means to monitor Ca(2+)-induced metabolic changes in cells harboring mutant RYR1 channels.
A 68-year-old man who was treated for febrile angina with gentamicin, doxycycline, phenoxymethylpenicillin K, and minocycline developed a generalized pustular exanthema favoring the predilected areas (hands, feet). Apart from a subepidermal pustule, the most noteworthy histological finding was a pronounced leukocytoclastic vasculitis. After disappearance of the skin lesions an intradermal test using cilligen (penicilloyl-polylysin) was conducted. The test gave a strongly positive early reaction, and 48 h after this an acute pustular outbreak developed analogous to the original manifestation. Doxycycline tested late, produced no exacerbation even though it was positive in the intradermal test. This pustular allergical drug rash can be classified as a vasculitis leucocytoclastica allergica which, as we know, appears in various clinical forms. It does not form a new disease entity. Terms used so far, such as "pustular necrotizing angiitis", "generalized pustular drug rash", "acute generalized pustular bacterid", "pustulosis acuta generalisata", only partially correspond to the actual pathoetiology.
Two patients who developed reversible renal failure during intermittent rifampicin therapy are described. Both had febrile reactions to rifampicin. The first was also found to have uraemia associated with swelling of the glomerular endothelial cells. The second developed tubular necrosis unassociated with haemolysis or shock. The pathogenesis of the renal lesion in these two patients, as revealed by light microscopy, immunofluorescence studies and electron microscopy, is discussed.
The case is reported of an 18 year old patient who developed a peripheral neuropathy after being given 1.5 g ornidazole daily for 6 days and 2 g daily for 16 days (total dose: 41 g). Bilateral radial paralysis was noted clinically, whilst electrical investigations showed diffuse motor and sensitive anomalies. Three months after the drug had been stopped, all symptoms and signs had disappeared. The pathogenesis of this complication is discussed. The part played by ornidazole is suggested but cannot be proved because of the multiple disorders presented by the patient.
Estrogen therapy used in combination with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment improves SSRI efficacy for the treatment of mood disorders. Desensitization of serotonin 1A (5-HT(1A)) receptors, which takes one to two weeks to develop in animals, is necessary for SSRI therapeutic efficacy. Estradiol modifies 5-HT(1A) receptor signaling and induces a partial desensitization in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the rat within two days, but the mechanisms underlying this effect are currently unknown. The purpose of this study was to identify the estrogen receptor necessary for estradiol-induced 5-HT(1A) receptor desensitization. We previously showed that estrogen receptor β is not necessary for 5-HT(1A) receptor desensitization and that selective activation of estrogen receptor GPR30 mimics the effects of estradiol in rat PVN. Here, we used a recombinant adenovirus containing GPR30 siRNAs to decrease GPR30 expression in the PVN. Reduction of GPR30 prevented estradiol-induced desensitization of 5-HT(1A) receptor as measured by hormonal responses to the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist, (+)8-OH-DPAT. To determine the possible mechanisms underlying these effects, we investigated protein and mRNA levels of 5-HT(1A) receptor signaling components including 5-HT(1A) receptor, Gαz, and RGSz1. We found that two days of estradiol increased protein and mRNA expression of RGSz1, and decreased 5-HT(1A) receptor protein but increased 5-HT(1A) mRNA; GPR30 knockdown prevented the estradiol-induced changes in 5-HT(1A) receptor protein in the PVN. Taken together, these data demonstrate that GPR30 is necessary for estradiol-induced changes in the 5-HT(1A) receptor signaling pathway and desensitization of 5-HT(1A) receptor signaling.
This case report describes an unrecognized adverse effect of an ACE inhibitor (enalapril): attack of acute abdominal pain. This symptom was observed 3 times over a period of 5 years in a 43 year old woman, occurring 24 h after she was taking the ACE inhibitor, and disappearing 3 to 5 days after the withdrawal of enalapril.
We present the case of a female patient in whom acute hepatitis developed after 180 days of ketoconazole administration (200 mg/day). A prompt renewed hepatic injury after an unintentional rechallenge 6 months later provided definitive evidence for a causative relationship between ketoconazole and acute liver disease. The clinical and biochemical parameters of the case are reported. Histological examination revealed the picture of acute hepatitis with possible transition to chronicity. A prominent accumulation of perisinusoidal lipocytes (Ito cells) was observed.
We examined the role of a striatal lesion in the development of L-DOPA-induced abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) using the double lesion rat model of striatonigral degeneration (SND), the underlying neuropathological substrate of parkinsonism associated with multiple system atrophy (MSA-P), in comparison to a Parkinson's disease (PD) rat model. L-DOPA administration reliably induced AIMs in SND and PD rats in a dose-dependent fashion. AIMs occurred significantly earlier in SND compared to PD rats. There was a mild, but significant, transient increase of orolingual AIMs during the first week of low-dose L-DOPA treatment in SND. Whereas L-DOPA significantly improved contralateral forelimb akinesia in PD rats, there was no beneficial effect in SND rats. Striatal FosB/Delta FosB up-regulation in SND and PD rats correlated with the severity of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. Pulsatile L-DOPA administration in the double lesion SND rat model replicates salient features of the human disease MSA-P, including loss of the anti-akinetic L-DOPA response and induction of dyskinesias with transient orolingual predominance.
Data from 75 participants in a longitudinal study of methamphetamine (MA) abuse were used to differentiate the cognitive performance of those who remained abstinent, relapsed, or continued to use during treatment. Participants were divided into three groups: continuous abstinence, initial abstinence but relapse, and continuous use. Groups did not differ on age, education, gender or ethnicity. Participants in the longitudinal study completed a battery of cognitive tests within 7 days of their last use of MA, then were re-tested monthly for up to 6 months (average time for this analysis was 92 days). For episodic memory, the relapse groups performance was worse than the abstinent and significantly worse than that of the continued use group who had the best performance on all measures. Relapse to methamphetamine use may affect episodic memory differently than it affects the other cognitive functions measured.
Cocaine use causes an initial increase in dopamine and serotonin neurotransmission that is largely responsible for the pleasurable and reinforcing effects of the drug. Dysregulation of these neurotransmitters during withdrawal plays an important role in craving. Recent research has focused on the use of dopamine and serotonin antagonists early in recovery to reduce cocaine craving in both schizophrenic and non-schizophrenic cocaine dependent patients. This 2-week, double blind, placebo-controlled study compared risperidone vs. placebo in reducing cue-elicited cocaine craving. Thirty-four subjects with cocaine dependence were randomized to either risperidone or a placebo and underwent a weekly cue-exposure procedure. Although both groups had a reduction in craving over time, there were no significant differences among those treated with risperidone (n=19) compared to those taking a placebo (n=16) on the four craving dimensions. The results do not support the hypothesis that risperidone reduces cocaine craving among non-schizophrenic cocaine-dependent individuals.
Investigations of epigenetic drugs have shown that radiotherapy can be successfully combined with histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDAC-Is) for the treatment of head-and-neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Whether the reversal of epigenetic silencing by demethylating agents with or without HDAC-Is can also act as radiosensitizing remains unclear. This study therefore aimed to investigate whether 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC) alone or in combination with the HDAC-Is trichostatin A, LBH589, or MGCD0103 could radiosensitize HNSCC tumor cell lines.
Histone acetylation status and expression of epigenetically silenced genes at the DNA, RNA, and protein levels were assessed as measures of drug effectiveness in six HNSCC cell lines. Based on their colony-forming capacity, colony assays were performed in four of six cell lines to evaluate the radiosensitizing potential of DAC with or without HDAC-Is. Additional assays of cell survival, apoptosis, cell proliferation, and DNA damage were performed.
Radiosensitization was observed in two HNSCC cell lines treated with noncytotoxic doses of DAC with or without HDAC-Is before irradiation. The radiosensitizing doses induced histone hyperacetylation and reversal of gene silencing to variable extents and increased radiation-induced cell-cycle arrest.
A role for low-dose DAC with or without HDAC-Is as radiosensitizers in HNSCC seems promising and is supportive of future clinical use, especially for combinations of DAC with LBH589 or MGCD0103, although the mechanisms by which they work will require further study.
In order to raise the awareness of the potential side effects that can be induced by minocycline, we report three adolescent girls who experienced serious adverse reactions to this therapy, which was prescribed for acne vulgaris.
The authors had observed that on intraoperative discontinuation of sodium nitroprusside being administered to induce hypotension, mean arterial pressure increased to above the pre-hypotension level. Twelve patients who recieved hypotensive anesthesia for surgical correction of cerebral aneurysms were studied to evaluate the role of the renin-angiotensin system in this phenomenon. In the awake state, mean arterial pressure was 100 +/- 2 torr and plasma renin activity 3.0 +/- 0.1 ng/ml/hr. Thirty minutes after the establishment of stable halothane-nitrous oxide anesthesia, mean arterial pressure decreased to 85 +/- 1 torr and plasma renin activity increased to 4.4 +/- 0.1 ng/ml/hr. No appreciable change in either occurred over the next two hours of operation. During sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension, mean arterial pressure decreased to 49 +/- 2 torr and plasma renin activity increased to 15.2 +/- 0.2 ng/ml/hr. Thirty minutes after discontinuation of sodium nitroprusside administration, mean arterial pressure increased to 112 +/- 2 torr, which was not only higher than the prehypotension level, but also significantly higher than that recorded in the awake state. Plasma renin activity at that time was 10.9 +/- 0.1 ng/ml/hr. As the half-life of plasma renin is 15 min, the data suggest that the persistently increased plasma renin activity is probably responsible for the increase of arterial pressure following sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension.
Patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) have multiorgan dysfunction as well as altered pharmacokinetic parameters. Hence they are susceptible to adverse drug reactions (ADRs). The objective of the study is to assess the characteristics of ADRs among inpatients in the medical ICU and to compare the same with patients who have not experienced ADRs.
Prospective, observational study for a period of 1 year in medical ICU of a tertiary care hospital. Relevant data of patients with ADRS were analysed. Characteristics of patients with and without ADRs were compared.
Of 728 patients admitted in medical ICU, 222 (28.4%) had ADRs. Multiple ADRs (38.7%) implicated by the same drug and serious ADRs (37%) were noticed. Renal/electrolyte system (21%) was most commonly involved. Clinical spectrum included acute renal failure (ARF, 11.4%), hepatic injuries (5.4%), haematological dysfunction (4.2%), seizures (3.3%), upper gastrointestinal bleed (3.3%) and cutaneous ADRs (3.3%). Antimicrobials (27%) were the commonly implicated drug class. The most commonly implicated drug was furosemide (6.8%). Infrequently reported ADRs included azithromycin-induced erythema multiforme, leflunamide-induced erythema multiforme and vasculitis, ceftazidime-induced seizures and ceftriaxone-induced hepatitis. Co-morbidity, polypharmacy and duration of stay were significantly higher in patients with ADRs compared to those who have not experienced ADRs. Three patients died.
High incidence of serious and multiple ADRs noticed. A wide clinical spectrum of ADRs and infrequently reported ADRs to newer drugs were also observed.
Dose-dense (dd) doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC) followed by paclitaxel (P) is superior to every 3-weekly AC followed by P. Given the demonstrated cardiac safety for trastuzumab (T) with conventionally scheduled AC followed by P, we tested the safety of dd AC followed by P with T. The primary end point was cardiac safety, and the secondary end points were time to recurrence and overall survival.
Patients with HER-2/neu immunohistochemistry (IHC) 3+ or fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH)-amplified breast cancer and baseline left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of >or= 55% were enrolled, regardless of tumor size or nodal status. Treatment consisted of AC (60/600 mg/m(2)) x 4 followed by P (175 mg/m(2)) x 4 every 2-weekly with pegfilgrastim (6 mg on day 2) + T x1 year. LVEF by radionuclide scan was obtained at baseline, at months 2, 6, 9, and 18.
From January 2005 to November 2005, 70 patients were enrolled. The median age was 49 years (range, 27 to 72 years); median LVEF at baseline was 68% (range, 55% to 81%). At month 2 in 70 of 70 patients, the median LVEF was 67% (range, 58% to 79%); at month 6 in 67 of 70 patients, it was 66% (range, 52% to 75%); at month 9 in 68 of 70 patients, it was 65% (range, 50% to 75%); and at month 18 in 48 of 70 patients, it was 66% (range, 57% to 75%). As of December 1, 2007, the median follow-up was 28 months (range, 25 to 35 months). One patient (1%) experienced congestive heart failure (CHF). There were no cardiac deaths.
Dose-dense AC followed by P/T followed by T is feasible and is not likely to increase the incidence of cardiac events compared to established regimens.
Postoperative bleeding and hematoma are unwanted complications, especially for face lifts, where the rate of hematoma is reported to be high. The authors investigated the rate of complications. As expected, the major adverse event was postoperative bleeding, requiring surgical evacuation of hematoma in 5.6 percent of cases. Plastic surgeons in Europe are currently under pressure to use low-molecular-weight heparin in every face lift patient because of the guidelines of the European Consensus Conference for Prophylaxis of Thromboembolism.
Over a period of 1.5 years, a total of 126 patients took part in a retrospective, controlled trial on postoperative bleeding, with two comparative groups. Thirty-seven patients had received low-molecular-weight heparin; in 89 patients, no heparin thrombosis prophylaxis was used. The standard for each of the 126 rhytidectomy patients operated on was as follows: one surgeon, use of compression stockings, analgosedation, and mobilization of the patient on the day of operation.
The authors observed a 16.2 percent rate of postoperative bleeding in the low-molecular-weight heparin-group, compared with 1.1 percent in the group where no low-molecular-weight heparin was used. This was highly significant, especially when the Fisher's exact test was applied (p < 0.003). In 89 patients, when using compression stockings, analgosedation, and mobilization of the patient on the day of operation, the authors observed had no symptomatic thrombosis or pulmonary embolism if not using low-molecular-weight heparin.
The authors conclude that the rate of postoperative bleeding in face lifts under the use of low-molecular-weight heparin is higher than generally expected. As no symptomatic thrombosis or embolism without using low-molecular-weight heparin occurred, it seems that the use of low-molecular-weight heparin in face lifts is not categorically necessary in low-risk patients.
We report the case of a patient who developed jaundice, encephalopathy, a marked increase in serum aminotransferase activity and a decrease in prothrombin and proaccelerin levels, after 6 weeks' treatment with carbimazole and propranolol for hyperthyroidism. The patient ultimately underwent orthotopic liver transplantation. This case strongly suggests that carbimazole may occasionally induce fulminant hepatitis and that careful monitoring of liver enzymes may be useful during the treatment of hyperthyroidism with this drug.
