The factors that influence the progression of renal failure in analgesic-associated nephropathy (AAN) still remain to be clarified. In this study, the actual analgesic intake (N-acetyl-p-aminophenol, NAPAP, i.e. acetaminophen in urine) and progression of renal failure (1/crea method) in 127 outpatients with various renal diseases were investigated over a period of 7-150 months. AAN was diagnosed in 57 of the 127 patients (44%). The NAPAP test was positive in 21% of the 57 AAN patients and in 3% of the 70 control patients with other renal diseases (p = 0.0001). The AAN patients presented with more advanced renal insufficiency, lost more weight, and had more severe hypertension as well as a higher mortality rate than the control patients (univariate analysis). Progression of renal insufficiency, as measured by regression analysis of the reciprocal of serum creatinine versus time and expressed as clearance loss per year, was more rapid in the AAN patients who were found positive for NAPAP (6.9 +/- 5.5 ml/min/year) than in the AAN patients who were found negative (4.1 +/- 11.0 ml/min/year) or in control patients with other renal diseases (5.1 +/- 14.9 ml/min/year). Multivariate analysis showed the more rapid clearance loss to be the most discriminating factor between the AAN patients who continued analgesic abuse of phenacetin-or acetaminophen-containing drugs and AAN patients who stopped. We therefore conclude that continued analgesic abuse promotes renal insufficiency in AAN. The progression of renal failure in AAN patients who stopped abusing analgesics, however, cannot be explained within the parameters investigated, i.e. urinary tract infection, hypertension, hyperalimentation, or papillary necrosis.
The long-term antihypertensive efficacy of a combination of ketanserin (20 mg), an S2 antagonist with alpha 1 blocking activity, and chlorthalidone (25 mg), given o.d., was evaluated in fifteen patients with primary hypertension of mild to moderate degree, aged 45-65 years, up to a 12-month observation period. Systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure, and heart rate (HR) were measured by an automatic recorder (Sentron Bard Biomedical) twice at rest after 5 min in a supine position and after 2 and 5 min in an upright position, 24 h after the last antihypertensive dose. Thirteen patients completed the study whilst two were lost to the follow-up. A significant reduction was observed in both SBP and DBP at rest. In particular, SBP was reduced from 167 +/- 17 mmHg to 152 +/- 21 mmHg (p less than 0.01) after 1 month of therapy and was kept constant at this level throughout the observation period. DBP was also reduced from the first control [99 +/- 7 vs. 90 +/- 9 mmHg (p less than 0.01)] without any increase during the follow-up. HR was unchanged throughout the study. Four patients had dizziness and orthostatic hypotension after the first dose of the drug combination but were able to continue the study without further adverse reactions. These data support the conclusion that long-term treatment with the combination of a small dose of ketanserin and chlorthalidone is able to reduce systolic and diastolic blood pressure, without remarkable untoward side-effects.
It is often assumed that beta-blockers, e.g. metoprolol (METO), induce erectile dysfunction (ED) in men. However, cardiovascular diseases can also induce ED and there is also the possibility that psychological factors, such as fear of the disease and side effects of the prescribed drug, may also induce ED. Thus, it is often assumed that beta-blockers induce ED in a large percentage of men, but this statement is not well validated and the role of the pharmacologic effect of METO per se on the occurrence of ED is largely unknown. To get an answer we selected 114 men (age 57 +/- 4.7 years) without ED but with newly diagnosed arterial hypertension, and who could be treated with METO.
METO (100 mg/day) was given as a retard formulation. The hypertensive men were randomized into 3 groups. In group 1 patients were fully informed (they knew that the drug was METO and that it might induce ED). In group 2 patients were partially informed (they knew that the drug was METO, but were not informed that it might induce ED). In group 3 patients were not informed either about the drug used or about the possible occurrence of ED. The first phase of the study lasted 60 days. After 60 days the incidence of ED was 32% in group 1, 13% in group 2, and 8% in group 3 (p < 0.01). All patients with ED entered the second, cross-over, double-blind phase of the study. METO was continued at unchanged dosage, and tadalafil (20 mg) and a placebo were given to treat ED.
Both treatments were equally effective.
Prejudice about the possible occurrence, i.e. the Hawthorne effect, of ED with METO facilitates the occurrence of this side effect in hypertensive men. Since the etiology of this ED is largely psychological, it is not surprising that placebo is as effective as tadalafil in reversing this side effect.
The effects of direct administration of TRH, TSH, LHRH, LH, ACTH, GH, FSH and prolactin into cerebral ventricle system on metabolic, respiratory, cardiovascular and behavioral responses were assessed in unanesthetized rats, Intraventricular administration of TRH, TSH, LHRH or LH caused hypothermia, decreased metabolism and/or cutaneous vasodilation at room temperature (22 degrees C). Intraventricular administration of FSH, ACTH or prolactin caused hyperthermia, increased metabolism and/or cutaneous vasoconstriction. Intraventricular administration of GH caused an insignificant change in thermoregulatory responses. There was no change in respiratory evaporative heat loss in response to either of the drugs tested. In addition, intraventricular administration of TRH, LHRH or LH caused tachycardia, hypertension and a reduction in the epinephrine-induced reflex bradycardia. In contrast, intraventricular administration of prolactin caused bradycardia, hypotension and an enhancement in the epinephrine-induced reflex bradycardia in conscious rats. There was no change in cardiovascular function in response to intraventricular administration of TSH, FSH, ACTH or GH. Furthermore, following intraventricular administration of TRH, but not TSH, LHRH, LH, FSH, GH, ACTH or prolactin three main categories of behavior were provoked: activity of normal type--forward locomotion stimulation, head and body rearing; stereotype activity--increased grooming and head swaying; and abnormal type behavior--tail elevation and piloerection in rats. The data indicate that most of the anterior pituitary hormones and their releasing hormones act through a central mechanism to influence physiological and/or behavioral functions.
To evaluate if enalapril treatment can influence skeletal muscle metabolism and histology we investigated 26 patients with congestive heart failure and 20 normal subjects. The patients were treated with enalapril for 3 months in addition to diuretics and digitalis. Biopsies from the lateral vastus muscle were taken before and after treatment. Citrate synthetase, 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase and phosphorylase activities were significantly decreased in the patients compared with controls. The number of capillaries per fibre and the number of capillaries surrounding each fibre were significantly decreased among patients. After 3 months of enalapril treatment functional class improved significantly. The lactate dehydrogenase activity increased whereas the oxidative enzymes did not change significantly. The type I, II and II A fibre areas increased significantly after enalapril treatment. We conclude that patients with chronic heart failure have decreased activity of oxidative enzymes and of phosphorylase in skeletal muscle. They also have decreased capillarization in skeletal muscle. These changes were not influenced by enalapril treatment. The increase in muscle fibre area seen after enalapril treatment could be due to increased physical activity. The cause of increased muscle lactate dehydrogenase activity after enalapril treatment needs further investigation.
The present study investigated the effect of fenofibrate, an agonist of PPAR-alpha, in nicotine- and sodium arsenite-induced vascular endothelial dysfunction (VED) in rats. Nicotine (2 mg/kg/day, i.p., 4 weeks) and sodium arsenite (1.5 mg/kg/day, i.p., 2 weeks) were administered to produce VED in rats. The scanning electron microscopy study in thoracic aorta revealed that administration of nicotine or sodium arsenite impaired the integrity of vascular endothelium. Further, administration of nicotine or sodium arsenite significantly decreased serum and aortic concentrations of nitrite/nitrate and subsequently reduced acetylcholine-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation. Moreover, nicotine or sodium arsenite produced oxidative stress by increasing serum thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and aortic superoxide generation. However, treatment with fenofibrate (30 mg/kg/day, p.o.) or atorvastatin (30 mg/kg/day p.o., a standard agent) significantly prevented nicotine- and sodium arsenite-induced VED and oxidative stress by improving the integrity of vascular endothelium, increasing the concentrations of serum and aortic nitrite/nitrate, enhancing the acetylcholine-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation and decreasing serum TBARS and aortic superoxide anion generation. Conversely, co-administration of L-NAME (25 mg/kg/day, i.p.), an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, markedly attenuated these vascular protective effects of fenofibrate. The administration of nicotine or sodium arsenite altered the lipid profile by increasing serum cholesterol and triglycerides and consequently decreasing high-density lipoprotein levels, which were significantly prevented by treatment with fenofibrate or atorvastatin. It may be concluded that fenofibrate improves the integrity and function of vascular endothelium, and the vascular protecting potential of fenofibrate in preventing the development of nicotine- and sodium arsenite-induced VED may be attributed to its additional properties (other than lipid lowering effect) such as activation of eNOS and generation of NO and consequent reduction in oxidative stress.
The extent of nigrostriatal denervation is presumed to play a role in the genesis of levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Yet some parkinsonian patients who have been treated over a long period do not develop dyskinesia, raising the possibility that the pattern of denervation is as important as the extent of lesioning as a risk factor. Here we study the extent and pattern of nigrostriatal denervation in a homogeneous population of parkinsonian macaque monkeys chronically treated with levodopa. Based on the characteristics of the lesioning, non-dyskinetic animals could not be differentiated from those with dyskinesia. Indeed, the number of tyrosine-hydroxylase (TH)-immunopositive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) binding and TH immunostaining, as well as the overall TH striatal content measured by Western blotting were identical. Moreover, the patterns of lesioning assessed by a detailed analysis of the TH- and DAT-immunopositive striatal fibers were comparable in all functional quadrants and at all rostro-caudal levels considered. These data indicate that neither the extent nor the pattern of nigrostriatal lesioning are sufficient to explain the occurrence of levodopa-induced dyskinesia.
Psychiatric events during travel abroad account for a large percentage of medical repatriations arranged by insurance companies. Several risk factors have been proposed for such events, one of these being use of mefloquine. We investigated the risk of psychiatric events during use of mefloquine.
We performed a nationwide case control study using medical records from 4 large alarm centers in the Netherlands. Cases were patients contacting the alarm centers because of psychiatric events, according to International Code Primary Care code P (all psychiatric symptoms) or International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Edition, codes 290-319 (all psychiatric syndromes). To every case we matched up to 6 controls by alarm center, calendar time, and continent of travel. All controls had contacted the alarm centers because of nonpsychiatric medical reasons. Shortly after the anticipated day of return, cases and controls received a questionnaire regarding travel characteristics, gender, age, marital status, education, weight, height, general health, history of psychiatric diseases, use of medicines, smoking status, alcohol intake, coffee intake, and use of malaria prophylaxis. Dates of travel for the source population were between September 1, 1997, and June 1, 2000.
The study population consisted of 111 cases and 453 controls. The risk of psychiatric events during the use of mefloquine was 3.5 (95% CI = 1.4 to 8.7). In females, the risk was strongly increased, with an odds ratio of 47.1 (95% CI = 3.8 to 578.6). Stratification for history of psychiatric diseases showed that the risk of psychiatric events during use of mefloquine in cases without a history of psychiatric diseases was 3.8 (95% CI = 1.4 to 10.1), whereas the risk in cases with a history of psychiatric diseases was 8.0 (95% CI = 1.8 to 35.8).
The use of mefloquine is associated with an increased risk of psychiatric events in females and in patients with a history of psychiatric diseases.
We studied 15 children with complex partial seizures in whom one or more seizure type was exacerbated during treatment with carbamazepine. The most common seizure type that was exacerbated was generalized atypical absence (11 patients). Four patients had more frequent and severe generalized convulsive seizures. Monitoring with video-electroencephalographic telemetry suggested that the electroencephalogram can be used to predict the risk of seizure exacerbation with carbamazepine. A bilaterally synchronous spike-and-wave discharge of 2.5 to 3 cycles per second is predictive of increased atypical absence seizures with carbamazepine, whereas generalized bursts of spikes and slow waves of 1 to 2 cycles per second suggest a risk of increased generalized convulsive seizures. Carbamazepine should be used with caution in children with a mixed seizure disorder, particularly those with a generalized bilaterally synchronous discharge of 2.5 to 3 cycles per second on the electroencephalogram. The drug should be considered a possible precipitating factor in any child with an increased frequency of generalized convulsive or generalized absence seizures concomitant with administration of this anticonvulsant agent.
Cinnamaldehyde (CA) has been reported to inhibit in vitro aggregation in human and rabbit platelets; however, little is known about the antithrombotic activities of CA in vivo.
We tested the effects of CA on collagen- or thrombin-induced aggregation of rat platelets in vitro. Hemorrhage and coagulation times of mice treated with CA by the tail-cutting or slide method were measured. We also tested the life-saving effects of CA on experimental models of thrombosis in mice and rats. The anti-platelet effects of CA were examined in rats.
CA inhibited collagen- and thrombin-induced platelet aggregation in vitro in a concentration-dependent manner. In mice, CA administration (250, 500 mg/kg orally and 50, 100 mg/kg i.p.) markedly prolonged hemorrhage and coagulation times and effectively reduced the mortality rate of collagen-epinephrine-induced acute pulmonary thromboembolism. In an arteriovenous shunt thrombosis rat model, the CA administration (250, 500 mg/kg orally and 50, 100 mg/kg i.p.) for 10 days dose-dependently decreased thrombus weight. Administration of CA also significantly inhibited collagen-induced platelet aggregation in the rat platelet-rich plasma (PRP).
The results demonstrate that CA may be a promising antithrombotic agent, and its antithrombotic activity may be due to anti-platelet aggregation activity in vitro and in vivo.
Synchronization of neuronal activity evident in the local field potential (LFP) recorded in the subthalamic region of patients with Parkinson's disease occurs at low frequencies (< 30 Hz) and, in some patients following treatment with levodopa, at high frequencies between 65 and 85 Hz. Here we investigate the functional relationship between these different activities by determining whether spontaneous fluctuations in their strength are correlated across time. To this end, we analysed recordings of LFPs from macroelectrodes inserted in the subthalamic area of 16 patients with Parkinson's disease, after treatment with anti-parkinsonian medication. Time-evolving autospectra of LFPs with significant 65-85 Hz peaks (from 21 sides) were computed and correlations between frequency components determined over time. LFP activity in the 5-32 Hz band was significantly negatively correlated with that in the 65-85 Hz band in data averaged across all 21 sides, as well as in 15 (71%) of the individual records. Negative correlations were relatively selective for interactions between these frequency bands and occurred over time epochs of as little as 40 s. They occurred about 50 min after levodopa and were recorded concurrently with contralateral levodopa-induced dyskinesias in all but four cases. Positive correlations were not seen between activities in the 5-32 Hz and 65-85 Hz bands. The spontaneous negative correlations suggest a reciprocal relationship between population synchrony in the high- and low-frequency ranges, and raise the possibility that spontaneous fluctuations in the balance between these activities may contribute to levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
Chronic daily headache appears in migraine patients due to chronic consumption of analgesics-ergotamine. This entity was considered intractable without hospital admission. Our aim was to study the response of this headache to an outpatient treatment protocol. The therapeutic protocol included: 1. Oral information to the patient about the role of analgesics in the chronification of the headache; 2. Abrupt withdrawal of analgesics-ergotamine; 3. Administration of naproxen as symptomatic medication, and 4. Prophylactic treatment. After 2.5 months of treatment we evaluated both the frequency and the intensity of pain episodes as well as analgesic consumption. Thirty patients (8.6% of the outpatient consultations) suffered from chronic daily headache secondary to chronic analgesic abuse. Twenty five were females and 5 were males, their mean age +/- SD being 43 +/- 11 years. The mean +/- SD number of units of analgesics-ergotamine taken per week was 28 +/- 12. Three patients exclusively abused analgesics, the remainder either ergotamine, caffeine and various analgesics (18) or caffeine or several analgesics not containing ergotamine (9). In 29 patients the response was positive. Twenty (67%) showed an excellent improvement (> 75%) in frequency and intensity and completely gave up analgesics. The remaining nine (30%) improved moderately (50-75%). Only 3 patients in this group carried on taking analgesics. One patient showed no improvement. Our work confirms the epidemiological magnitude of chronic daily headache and shows that this is a treatable entity on an outpatient basis combining the abrupt withdrawal of analgesics-ergotamine, and their replacement by naproxen, with prophylactic treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To determine the relative efficacy, tolerability and risk of precipitating mania of moclobemide and imipramine in the treatment of bipolar depression.
A randomized, double-blind, parallel group, multicentre study of moclobemide (MCB) (450-750 mg daily) and imipramine (IMI) (150-250 mg daily) in 21 centres in nine countries; 156 patients (65 males, 91 females) aged 18-65 with bipolar depression (17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD) score chi16) participated. Clinical status was assessed using standardized rating scales before treatment and at 1,2,3,4,6 and 8 weeks. The data were analysed on an intention to treat basis with the last observation carried forward.
In the MCB group, the mean HAMD fell from 23.0 to 13.1, in the IMI group it fell from 22.5 to 9.5; the mean score on the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) fell from 29.5 to 16.3 on MCB and from 29.2 to 11.6 on IMI. There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups on any efficacy measures. Anticholinergic side-effects were three times more common with IMI than MCB and weight gain was also greater on IMI. Two patients (3.7%) on MCB and six patients (11%) on IMI were withdrawn because of manic symptoms, with manic symptoms occurring earlier on IMI, although these differences did not reach statistical significance.
No differences in efficacy were detected between MCB and IMI in the treatment of bipolar depression. The data suggests that MCB is less likely than IMI to precipitate mania.
An animal model of central distal axonopathy following chronic administration of phenytoin is described. Male C57/BL6J mice received diphenylhydantoin (DPH) in the daily diet (liquid diet 'Stardit', supplemented with vitamins) over a period of 8 weeks. Control and experimental animals were pair-fed. Twelve mice of both groups were perfused via the left ventricle with glutaraldehyde. Representative samples of the cerebral cortex (area 3), cerebellum (vermis and deep cerebellar nuclei), thalamus, hypothalamus, and liver were embedded in araldite. Semi-thin sections and electron microscopy of the cerebellar vermis revealed marked dystrophic changes in the Purkinje cell axons. The presynaptic segments of Purkinje cell axons in the deep cerebellar nuclei showed massive enlargement and swelling due to accumulation of spherical particles and tubular structures in the axoplasm. These structures represent a proliferation of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum. Identical changes were found in hepatocytes of treated animals. Because phenytoin induces hepatic microsomal enzymes, we suggest that phenytoin-related Purkinje cell damage may be produced by an induction of Purkinje cell microsomes with proliferation of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum which causes a swelling and enlargement of presynaptic segments of Purkinje cell axons in deep cerebellar nuclei. Chronic phenytoin administration to mice is a new model of phenytoin-induced encephalopathy and of distal axonopathy of cerebellar neurons.
Bladder cancer is one of the most common cancers worldwide, with transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) being the predominant form. Here we report a genomic analysis of TCC by both whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing of 99 individuals with TCC. Beyond confirming recurrent mutations in genes previously identified as being mutated in TCC, we identified additional altered genes and pathways that were implicated in TCC. Notably, we discovered frequent alterations in STAG2 and ESPL1, two genes involved in the sister chromatid cohesion and segregation (SCCS) process. Furthermore, we also detected a recurrent fusion involving FGFR3 and TACC3, another component of SCCS, by transcriptome sequencing of 42 DNA-sequenced tumors. Overall, 32 of the 99 tumors (32%) harbored genetic alterations in the SCCS process. Our analysis provides evidence that genetic alterations affecting the SCCS process may be involved in bladder tumorigenesis and identifies a new therapeutic possibility for bladder cancer.
Urothelial bladder cancer (UBC) is heterogeneous at the clinical, pathological and genetic levels. Tumor invasiveness (T) and grade (G) are the main factors associated with outcome and determine patient management. A discovery exome sequencing screen (n = 17), followed by a prevalence screen (n = 60), identified new genes mutated in this tumor coding for proteins involved in chromatin modification (MLL2, ASXL2 and BPTF), cell division (STAG2, SMC1A and SMC1B) and DNA repair (ATM, ERCC2 and FANCA). STAG2, a subunit of cohesin, was significantly and commonly mutated or lost in UBC, mainly in tumors of low stage or grade, and its loss was associated with improved outcome. Loss of expression was often observed in chromosomally stable tumors, and STAG2 knockdown in bladder cancer cells did not increase aneuploidy. STAG2 reintroduction in non-expressing cells led to reduced colony formation. Our findings indicate that STAG2 is a new UBC tumor suppressor acting through mechanisms that are different from its role in preventing aneuploidy.
Esophageal adenocarcinoma is a cancer with rising incidence and poor survival. Most such cancers arise in a specialized intestinal metaplastic epithelium, which is diagnostic of Barrett's esophagus. In a genome-wide association study, we compared esophageal adenocarcinoma cases (n = 2,390) and individuals with precancerous Barrett's esophagus (n = 3,175) with 10,120 controls in 2 phases. For the combined case group, we identified three new associations. The first is at 19p13 (rs10419226: P = 3.6 × 10(-10)) in CRTC1 (encoding CREB-regulated transcription coactivator), whose aberrant activation has been associated with oncogenic activity. A second is at 9q22 (rs11789015: P = 1.0 × 10(-9)) in BARX1, which encodes a transcription factor important in esophageal specification. A third is at 3p14 (rs2687201: P = 5.5 × 10(-9)) near the transcription factor FOXP1, which regulates esophageal development. We also refine a previously reported association with Barrett's esophagus near the putative tumor suppressor gene FOXF1 at 16q24 and extend our findings to now include esophageal adenocarcinoma.
Antihistamines are effective for treatment of seasonal nasal allergy. Recently, prophylactic treatment with antihistamines in patients with pollinosis was reported to be more effective when started before the pollen season. The administration with antihistamines from 2 to 6 weeks before onset of the pollen season is recommended for management of allergic rhinitis in Japan. To determine the reason for the effectiveness of prophylactic treatment with antihistamines, the effects of repeated pre-treatment with antihistamines before provocation with toluene 2,4-diisocyanate (TDI) on their nasal allergy-like behavior and up-regulations of histamine H(1) receptors (H1R) and interleukin (IL)-4 mRNAs in their nasal mucosa were examined. Provocation with TDI induced sneezing and up-regulations of H1R and IL-4 mRNAs in the nasal mucosa of TDI-sensitized rats. Repeated pre-treatments with antihistamines including epinastine, olopatadine, or d-chlorpheniramine for 1 to 5 weeks before provocation with TDI suppressed TDI-induced sneezing and the up-regulations of H1R and IL-4 mRNAs in the nasal mucosa more than their administrations once or for 3 days before TDI provocation. Our data indicate that repeated pre-treatment with antihistamines before provocation with TDI is more effective than their single treatment in reducing nasal allergy-like behavior by causing additional suppression of up-regulations of H1R and IL-4 mRNAs in the nasal mucosa.
To conduct a post-marketing observational cohort study to assess the safety of mibefradil in the community, using Prescription-Event Monitoring (PEM).
Data were collected and analyzed on patients prescribed mibefradil by 1,996 General Practitioners (GPs) throughout England. Incidence densities were calculated for all reported events and selected events were followed-up by means of further questionnaires.
The study was terminated early due to the voluntary withdrawal of mibefradil from the market because of potential drug interactions. A cohort of 3,085 patients was recruited, with a mean age of 64.5 years. The major indication for use was hypertension (55% of the cohort), the indication was not specified in 33% of patients. 80% of GPs expressing an opinion rated mibefradil as effective. The major reason for stopping was withdrawal from the market (2,342 patients). The commonest reported adverse events and reasons for stopping were malaise/lassitude, dizziness, edema and headache. Seven clinically serious reports of bradycardia/collapse were considered to be possible adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to mibefradil. All were in the elderly (> 65 years), 6 were considered to be a result of possible drug interactions. In total, 11 possible drug interactions occurred. Nine (8 reports of bradycardia and 1 of syncope) involved beta-blockers. Another, a report of collapse and severe bradycardia, occurred in a patient who had started a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker within 24 hours of stopping mibefradil and the other was a report of palpitations and dyspnea in a patient on concomitant digoxin and sotalol. None of the 53 deaths occurring during the study was attributed to mibefradil.
Mibefradil was only available on the UK market for 6 months before it was withdrawn from the market because of potential drug interactions. With respect to the reasons leading to its withdrawal, in this cohort of 3,085 patients, 11 possible drug interactions were detected (6 clinically significant) involving beta-blockers, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker and digoxin and/or sotalol. PEM can contribute to the understanding of ADRs caused by drug interactions occurring in real-life settings.
Thiazides have been used in patients with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) to decrease urine volume, but the mechanism by which it produces the paradoxic antidiuretic effect remains unclear. Previous studies have reported that downregulation of aquaporin-2 (AQP2) is important for the development of lithium-induced (Li-induced) polyuria and that hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) increases renal papillary osmolality and Na(+) concentration in Brattleboro rats. For elucidating the molecular basis of the antidiuretic action of HCTZ in diabetes insipidus, whether administration of HCTZ may affect the expression of AQP2 and major renal Na(+) transporters in Li-induced NDI rats was investigated, using semiquantitative immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. After feeding male Sprague-Dawley rats Li chloride-containing rat diet for 4 wk, HCTZ or vehicle was infused subcutaneously via osmotic minipump. Urine output was significantly decreased by HCTZ treatment, whereas it was not changed in vehicle-treated rats. Urine osmolality was also higher in HCTZ-treated rats than in vehicle-treated rats. Semiquantitative immunoblotting using whole-kidney homogenates revealed that HCTZ treatment caused a significant partial recovery in AQP2 abundance from Li-induced downregulation. AQP2 immunohistochemistry showed compatible findings with the immunoblot results in both cortex and medulla. The abundances of thiazide-sensitive NaCl co-transporter and alpha-epithelial sodium channel were increased by HCTZ treatment. Notably, HCTZ treatment induced a shift in molecular weight of gamma-epithelial sodium channel from 85 to 70 kD, consistent with previously demonstrated aldosterone stimulation. The upregulation of AQP2 and distal renal Na(+) transporters in response to HCTZ treatment may account for the antidiuretic action of HCTZ in NDI.
The efficacy and safety of nisoldipine CC and lisinopril were compared in 278 patients with mild to moderate systemic hypertension in a double-blind, placebo run-in trial. Patients were randomized to nisoldipine CC or lisinopril for 8 weeks to achieve a trough sitting diastolic blood pressure (BP) < or = 90 mmHg. Responders were maintained on their optimal dose for a further 8 weeks. Nonresponders were switched to combination therapy and treated for 8 weeks. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM) was carried out during placebo and monotherapy. The responder rate of 73.8% with nisoldipine CC after 8 weeks was greater than 56.1% with lisinopril (p = 0.007). The responder rate with combination therapy was 61%. ABPM showed that both nisoldipine CC and lisinopril produced constant blood pressure lowering effects over the 24-hour period and maintained circadian rhythm. Adverse effects were more frequent with nisoldipine CC (headache and peripheral edema) than with lisinopril (cough) monotherapy. Nisoldipine CC monotherapy was at least as effective as lisinopril monotherapy in the management of mild to moderate hypertension. Both agents were well tolerated. Combination therapy with nisoldipine CC and lisinopril was effective and well tolerated in patients with blood pressure not controlled by monotherapy alone.
Cardiac inflammation and generation of oxidative stress are known to contribute to doxorubicin (Dox)-induced cardiomyopathy. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are a part of the innate immune system and are involved in cardiac stress reactions. Since TLR4 might play a relevant role in cardiac inflammatory signalling, we investigated whether or not TLR4 is involved in Dox-induced cardiotoxicity.
Five days after a single injection of Dox (20 mg/kg; i.p.), left ventricular pressure-volume loops were measured in wild-type and TLR4-deficient mice (TLR4-/-) Dox-treated and control mice. Analyses of possible pathophysiological mechanisms were performed in left ventricular tissue and isolated myocytes, respectively. Dox injection resulted in an impairment of left ventricular function and neurohumoral activation, indexed by increased ET-1 expression. This was further associated with an increase in cardiac oxidative stress, inflammation and apoptosis, as indicated by an up-regulation of cardiac lipid peroxidation, TNF-alpha expression and enhanced content of TUNEL-positive cells. In contrast, TLR4-/- Dox mice showed improved left ventricular function with reduced oxidative and inflammatory stress response including reduced cardiac apoptosis. These results were found to be associated with an increase of GATA-4 expression.
TLR4 deficiency improves left ventricular function and attenuates pathophysiological key mechanisms in Dox-induced cardiomyopathy.
Feeding a Western high-fat diet (HFD) to C57BL/6 mice induces obesity, associated with a chronic inflammatory state, lipid transport, and metabolic derangements, and organ system effects that particularly prominent in the kidneys. Here, we report that RLIP76 homozygous knock-out (RLIP76(-/-)) mice are highly resistant to obesity as well as these other features of metabolic syndrome caused by HFD. The normal increase in pro-inflammatory and fibrotic markers associated with HFD induced obesity in wild-type C57B mice was broadly and nearly completely abrogated in RLIP76(-/-) mice. This is a particularly striking finding because chemical markers of oxidative stress including lipid hydroperoxides and alkenals were significantly higher in RLIP76(-/-) mice. Whereas HFD caused marked suppression of AMPK in wild-type C57B mice, RLIP76(-/-) mice had baseline activation of AMP-activated protein kinase, which was not further affected by HFD. The baseline renal function was reduced in RLIP76(-/-) mice as compared with wild-type, but was unaffected by HFD, in marked contrast to severe renal impairment and glomerulopathy in the wild-type mice given HFD. Our findings confirm a fundamental role of RLIP76 in regulating the function of obesity-promoting pro-inflammatory cytokines, and provide a novel mechanism for targeted therapy of obesity and metabolic syndrome.
We investigated the role of polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN) proteinases, elastase, and gelatinase B in rat models of acute lung injury. Three groups of rats were studied 6 hours after unilateral instillation of hydrochloric acid (HCl; 0.1 N), lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (4 microg), or saline. The results demonstrated that HCl-induced lung injury, as compared with LPS-induced lung injury, was associated with an increase in permeability (wet/dry weight ratio and proteins in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid). In contrast, there was similar PMN recruitment (in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and myeloperoxidase activity in lung homogenates) and similar proteinase exocytosis (residual alveolar PMN content of elastase and gelatinase B) in both types of lung injury. In situ zymography, evaluating interstitial protease/inhibitor balance, demonstrated a decrease in gelatinolytic activity in both HCl- and LPS-injured lungs compared with normal lung. The increase in interleukin 6 concentration in lung homogenates, which is observed after both injuries compared with saline-instilled animals, could be involved in up-regulation of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-1, shown by immunocytochemistry to participate in antiproteinase excess. Neither inhibition of alveolar neutrophil influx using a leukocyte elastase inhibitor (EPI-hNE-4) nor inhibition of gelatinase activities by recombinant adenovirus for the human tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase 1 gene transfer decreased lung edema in HCl-induced injury. These data suggest that PMN proteinases do not contribute to HCl-induced acute lung injury in rats.
To evaluate the effects of medications used in the treatment of adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) on blood pressure and pulse.
Subjects were those with DSM-III-R-/DSM-IV-diagnosed ADHD enrolled in placebo-controlled studies of 5 different medications for ADHD. Cardiovascular data from these studies of both stimulants (methylphenidate, amphetamine compounds, pemoline) and nonstimulants (bupropion, desipramine) were reanalyzed for baseline-to-endpoint active-treatment or placebo effects on blood pressure and heart rate.
There were 125 subjects with a mean +/- SD age of 39 +/- 9 years. In general, active drug treatment for ADHD compared to baseline was associated with several statistically significant changes in systolic blood pressure (bupropion: +5.9 mm Hg, p < .05 by paired t test; amphetamine: +5.4 mm Hg, p < .05), diastolic blood pressure (desipramine: +7.1 mm Hg, p < .05), and heart rate (bupropion: +6.9 mm Hg, p < .05; amphetamine: +7.3 mm Hg, p < .05; methylphenidate: +4.5 mm Hg, p < .05). New-onset cases of systolic or diastolic hypertension (blood pressure > or = 140/90) were recorded in 8% (7/89) of placebo-treated subjects and 10% (9/89) of subjects receiving active medication, regardless of the class (stimulant, nonstimulant).
Both stimulant and nonstimulant catecholaminergic medications used in adults with ADHD are associated with minor, but statistically significant, changes in heart rate and blood pressure that were often observed in those receiving placebo. Given the minor pressor and chronotropic effect of these medications, adults with ADHD should have their blood pressure and heart rate checked at baseline and periodically during treatment.
Disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis (DSAP) is an autosomal dominantly inherited epidermal keratinization disorder whose etiology remains unclear. We performed exome sequencing in one unaffected and two affected individuals from a DSAP family. The mevalonate kinase gene (MVK) emerged as the only candidate gene located in previously defined linkage regions after filtering against existing SNP databases, eight HapMap exomes and 1000 Genomes Project data and taking into consideration the functional implications of the mutations. Sanger sequencing in 57 individuals with familial DSAP and 25 individuals with sporadic DSAP identified MVK mutations in 33% and 16% of these individuals (cases), respectively. All 14 MVK mutations identified in our study were absent in 676 individuals without DSAP. Our functional studies in cultured primary keratinocytes suggest that MVK has a role in regulating calcium-induced keratinocyte differentiation and could protect keratinocytes from apoptosis induced by type A ultraviolet radiation. Our results should help advance the understanding of DSAP pathogenesis.
Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy has been associated with several mutations in the gene encoding human cardiac troponin I (HCTnI). A missense mutation in the inhibitory region of TnI replaces an arginine residue at position 145 with a glycine and cosegregates with the disease. Results from several assays indicate that the inhibitory function of HCTnI(R145G) is significantly reduced. When HCTnI(R145G) was incorporated into whole troponin, Tn(R145G) (HCTnT small middle dotHCTnI(R145G) small middle dotHCTnC), only partial inhibition of the actin-tropomyosin-myosin ATPase activity was observed in the absence of Ca(2+) compared with wild type Tn (HCTnT small middle dotHCTnI small middle dotHCTnC). Maximal activation of actin-tropomyosin-myosin ATPase in the presence of Ca(2+) was also decreased in Tn(R145G) when compared with Tn. Using skinned cardiac muscle fibers, we determined that in comparison with the wild type complex 1) the complex containing HCTnI(R145G) only inhibited 84% of Ca(2+)-unregulated force, 2) the recovery of Ca(2+)-activated force was decreased, and 3) there was a significant increase in the Ca(2+) sensitivity of force development. Computer modeling of troponin C and I variables predicts that the primary defect in TnI caused by these mutations would lead to diastolic dysfunction. These results suggest that severe diastolic dysfunction and somewhat decreased contractility would be prominent clinical features and that hypertrophy could arise as a compensatory mechanism.
