Dermo-epidermal blistering is an uncommon presentation of adverse drug reactions. Several drugs are associated to such eruptions, but review of current knowledge does not list antiretroviral drugs. A 37-year-old Caucasian HIV-positive woman presented with a 6-week history of diffuse annular blistering affecting the trunk and limbs. Lesions appeared both on erythematous and normal-appearing skin. The patient was in treatment with antiretroviral (lamivudine + didanosine + nelfinavir) for 2 years. A history of previous adverse reactions to betalactams, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and a nevirapine-induced hepatitis was also referred. Histopathology showed a dermo-epidermal blister; direct immunofluorescence was positive for IgG, C3c at the basement membrane zone; enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was positive for BP180 antigen. Oral prednisone 1 mg/kg daily for 20 days led to poor improvement. Discontinuation of the antiretrovirals was followed by a rapid healing. Blisters reappeared at first re-introduction essay 1 month later. Awareness of iatrogenic dermo-epidermal blistering is necessary to suspect the diagnosis and avoid long-term immunosuppressant treatment. Complete spontaneous recovery after withdrawal of the responsible drug and relapse at rechallenge are the main criteria for the diagnosis. Factors related to the state of the HIV infection, and/or immunodeficiency may have contributed in precipitating the reaction in the present authors' case.
To assess the efficacy of oxcarbazepine in the treatment of cocaine addiction and its influence on impulsivity and craving in cocaine addicts.
A prospective, observational and clinical study was conducted in patients diagnosed with cocaine abuse/dependence (DSM IV criteria), monitoring supervised treatment with oxcarbazepine for 12 weeks.
30 patients (aged 18 or over) voluntarily undergoing treatment at an Addictive Behaviors Unit (UCA). Patients were selected randomly after providing explicit authorization and informed consent.
Abstinence rate increased, reaching 100% of participants that remained in compliance throughout the 12-week period (60% of those who started the treatment). Negative results in the urine test for cocaine detection also increased, reaching 90.9% of those in treatment at week 8. Treatment with oxcarbazepine was seen to produce a statistically significant reduction in craving and impulsivity after 4, 8 and 12 weeks, with respect to baseline measures at the start of treatment. The craving index correlates with reduction in cocaine use.
Oxcarbazepine is effective in reducing impulsivity and craving in relation to cocaine. Thus, we recommend high initial doses of oxcarbazepine in patients with high impulsivity prior to treatment.
Levetiracetam is a pyrrolidine derivate that is approved for the treatment of seizures. It has a favourable pharmacokinetic profile, no clearly established pharmacological interactions, good tolerability and offers the possibility of rapid treatment. We describe a case of pancytopenia and multiple infections observed in the context of levetiracetam treatment. A 65-year-old woman who underwent surgical removal of a meningioma developed progressive pancytopenia complicated by pneumonia and multiple liver abscesses after starting levetiracetam therapy. Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy confirmed the diagnosis. A gradual spontaneous recovery of normal haematopoiesis followed discontinuation of levetiracetam.
Antiarrhythmic drugs may induce congestive heart failure in patients with malignant ventricular arrhythmias and depressed left ventricular (LV) function. Whether Doppler echocardiography can detect drug-induced depression in LV function was assessed. Continuous-wave Doppler measurements of ascending aortic blood flow velocity were obtained in 16 patients while not receiving antiarrhythmic drugs on 2 consecutive days to assess day-to-day variability, as well as while receiving maximally tolerated oral doses of mexiletine (11 patients) and propafenone (9 patients). While receiving propafenone, a drug with moderate negative inotropic activity, peak flow velocity declined by 9 +/- 8% (p less than 0.05), the flow velocity integral (termed stroke distance, representing stroke volume) declined by 8 +/- 11% (p less than 0.10), the rate-corrected stroke distance declined by 9 +/- 8% (p less than 0.02) and the minute distance, representing cardiac output, declined by 10 +/- 12% (p less than 0.05). In contrast, while receiving mexiletine, a drug with minimal negative inotropic activity, none of these parameters changed significantly. Five of 9 patients (56%) treated with propafenone showed a decline in rate-corrected stroke distance exceeding the 95% confidence limit of day-to-day variability, which was +/- 13 percent. Two of these 5 patients developed clinical signs of congestive heart failure. Continuous-wave Doppler echocardiography can detect antiarrhythmic drug-induced LV dysfunction and may be used to anticipate the development of significant clinically overt congestive heart failure.
The stereoisomers of some N-[(1-alkyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl]-5- sulfaoylbenzamides (3-8) and -2,3-dihydrobenzofuran-7-carboxamides (9-18) were prepared to compare their dopamine D2 receptor binding affinities (in vitro) and inhibitory effects on apomorphine-induced hyperactivity (in vivo). In the 1-ethyl substituted compounds of the two series, the stereoisomers with S absolute configuration at the 2-position of the pyrrolidine moiety (S enantiomer 3 and 2S diastereomers 9 and 10) were more potent in both of the above activities than those with R absolute configuration (R enantiomer 4 and 2R diastereomers 11 and 12, respectively), whereas the R enantiomer (8) was more potent than the S enantiomer (7) in the 1-n-hexyl-substituted-benzamides and the 2R diastereomers (15, 16, and 18) were more potent than the 2S diastereomers (13, 14, and 17) in the 1-n-butyl- and 1-n-hexyl-2,3-dihydrobenzofuran-7-carboxamides. It was found that the stereospecificity of the compound activities altered from the S configuration to the R configuration as the 1-alkyl side chain became longer in the two series. How these stereoisomers meet the configurational requirements to interact with the dopamine D2 receptors is also discussed.
Neuronal injury in manganism is accompanied by activation of astroglia within the basal ganglia that is thought to increase production of inflammatory mediators such as nitric oxide (NO). The present studies postulated that astroglial-derived NO mediates neuronal apoptosis induced by manganese (Mn) and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells differentiated with nerve growth factor (NGF) were co-cultured with primary astrocytes and exposed to Mn and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) plus interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Mn enhanced cytokine-induced expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2, EC 1.14.13.39) and production of NO in astrocytes that correlated with apoptosis in co-cultured neurons, as determined by caspase activity, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL), and nuclear morphology. Apoptosis in PC12 neurons required the presence of astrocytes and was blocked by overexpression of a phosphorylation-deficient mutant of IkappaBalpha (S32/36A) in astrocytes that prevented induction of NOS2. Pharmacologic inhibition of NOS2 with (+/-)-2-amino-5,6-dihydro-6-methyl-4H-1,3-thiazine (AMT) significantly reduced neuronal apoptosis, and the addition of low concentrations of the NO donor, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), to neurons cultured without astrocytes was sufficient to recover the apoptotic phenotype following exposure to Mn and TNF-alpha/IFN-gamma. It is concluded that Mn- and cytokine-dependent apoptosis in PC12 neurons requires astroglial-derived NO and NF-kappaB-dependent expression of NOS2.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) in the Indian population is associated with poor nutritional status, low socioeconomic conditions, bidi smoking and consumption of smokeless tobacco products, besides alcohol drinking and cigarette smoking. To determine the impact of these risk factors on molecular pathogenesis of ESCC, we determined global gene expression profiles of 7 paired samples of ESCC and histologically confirmed nonmalignant esophageal tissues using 19.1K cDNA microarrays. The most salient finding was identification of 19 differentially expressed genes encoding zinc binding or modulating proteins associated with transcriptional regulation, ubiquitin-protein degradation and maintenance of zinc homeostasis. Validation of differential expression of a subset of genes by real-time quantitative RT-PCR (real-time QRT-PCR) in clinical specimens of ESCC, esophageal dysplasia and histologically nonmalignant esophageal tissues and immunohistochemical analysis using tissue microarrays confirmed the microarray data and demonstrated upregulation of zinc finger proteins, cellular modulator of immune recognition (c-MIR), snail homolog 2 (SLUG), zinc transporter, ZnT7 and downregulation of zinc metabolizing protein, metallothionein MT1G. We also observed upregulation of mitogen activated protein kinase kinase kinase 3 (MAP3K3/MEKK3), a kinase anchor protein 13 (AKAP13) and transglutaminase2 (TG2). Interestingly, we found upregulation of ZnT7 transcripts in ESCC cells (TE13) grown in zinc deficient condition. In conclusion, our data suggest deregulation of genes associated with zinc homeostasis in ESCC.
To determine whether warfarin-treated patients with an international normalized ratio less than 1.7 who receive intravenous tissue plasminogen activator for acute ischemic stroke are at increased risk for symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage.
Retrospective study.
Academic hospital.
Consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke who are treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator.
Symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage.
One hundred seven patients were included (mean age, 69.2 years; 43.9% men; median National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score, 14; median onset-to-treatment time, 140 minutes; baseline warfarin use, 12.1%). The median international normalized ratio was 1.04 (range, 0.82-1.61). The overall rate of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage was 6.5%, but it was nearly 10-fold higher among patients taking warfarin compared with those not taking warfarin at baseline (30.8% vs 3.2%, respectively; P = .004). Baseline warfarin use remained strongly associated with symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (P = .004) after adjusting for relevant covariates, including age, atrial fibrillation, National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score, and international normalized ratio.
Despite an international normalized ratio less than 1.7, warfarin-treated patients are more likely than those not taking warfarin to experience symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage following treatment with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator. Larger studies in this subgroup are warranted.
To assess the efficacy of adding ketamine to morphine nurse- or patient-controlled analgesia (NCA/PCA) infusions in treating mucositis pain in children.
Mucositis pain can be very difficult to control in some patients despite the use of parenteral opioids. In our institution, we have started adding low-dose ketamine to the morphine NCA/PCA in these children in an effort to improve analgesic efficacy.
The records of all children receiving a morphine/ketamine PCA or NCA for mucositis pain in our institution from 1999 to 2007 were reviewed. At the time of treatment, details of the analgesic management and consumption, pain scores and side effects were prospectively recorded and then entered on to an electronic database. Ketamine was added at a concentration of 20 or 40 microg x kg(-1) per ml with our standard morphine NCA/PCA infusions and protocols being used.
In 28 patients, there was no difference between average morphine consumption in the 24 h pre and post the addition of ketamine (33.1 (+/-10.7) vs 35.2 (+/-14.3) microg x kg(-1) per hour, P = 0.45) but in those with recorded pain scores (n = 16), the median percentage of pain scores > or =4 was 48% (13-100%) preketamine versus 33% (0-82%) postketamine (P = 0.01). In all patients, there was no change in the rates of nausea and vomiting and pruritus pre and post the addition of ketamine and no other significant side effects were reported. No difference was seen between those who had 20 or 40 microg x kg(-1) per ml of ketamine added.
The addition of ketamine to a morphine NCA/PCA improves analgesic efficacy in children with mucositis pain with no increase in the incidence of side effects.
Diabetes mellitus in rats is characterized by excessive activity of several matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), notably collagenase(s) and gelatinase(s), in skin, gingiva, and other tissues. A number of tetracyclines (TCs), both antimicrobial compounds as well as chemically modified non-antimicrobial TC analogues (CMTs) are known to possess potent inhibitory activity against these enzymes. Three conventional antimicrobial TCs and six CMTs were used in this study. In vitro, doxycycline was shown to possess higher inhibitory capacity (i.e. lower IC(max)) against diabetic rat skin collagenase than either minocycline or tetracycline HCl. Addition of excess zinc partially reversed the proteinase inhibition by TCs. In vivo, using rats made diabetic with streptozotocin (STZ), oral administration of various TCs led to decreased weight loss and substantial reductions in the activity of both skin collagenase and skin gelatinase (primarily MMP-9, 92 kDa) without affecting blood glucose. Using an in vitro spectrophotometric technique, the Zn(++) reactivity of several CMTs was assessed and found to be positively related to the potency of these compounds as MMP inhibitors. One particular CMT (CMT-5, pyrazole analogue), which is neither antimicrobial nor capable of binding metal cations, did not inhibit the MMPs. TCs have potential utility in management of diabetic complications mediated by excessive activity of MMPs.
Behavioral and autonomic signs of the morphine withdrawal syndrome were measured in dependent rats injected with the opiate antagonist naloxone. The purpose of this study was to determine whether spinal cholinergic pathways play a role in the expression of spinally mediated withdrawal symptoms. Intrathecal (i.t.) administration of 1 microgram carbachol or 5 micrograms neostigmine resulted in increases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 32 and 45 mm Hg, respectively, in conscious, freely moving rats. The pressor response to carbachol began almost immediately after injection, but that to neostigmine was delayed in onset. Both responses were completely abolished following i.v. injection of 2 mg/kg atropine. However, in spinal-transected (C-1), ventilated rats, i.t. injection of carbachol or neostigmine resulted in only small, transient increases in MAP. Intraarterial (i.a.) injection of 0.5 mg/kg naloxone to morphine-dependent rats resulted in an immediate increase in MAP (to 33 mm Hg) that lasted at least 1 hr. This was accompanied by classical behavioral signs of withdrawal. Pretreatment of dependent rats with i.t. injection of atropine or hemicholinium-3 (HC-3) significantly reduced the pressor and several behavioral responses elicited by naloxone. In contrast, when morphine-dependent, spinal-transected rats were pretreated with i.t. injection of cholinergic antagonists, i.a. injection of naloxone resulted in an enhanced MAP response. Finally, in intact dependent rats, i.t. injection of naloxone (6 micrograms) produced a 14 mm Hg increase in MAP that was significantly augmented (21 mm Hg) following i.t. pretreatment with HC-3.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Tetracyclines such as chlortetracycline and doxycycline with antimicrobial activity were reported to possess cytostatic and cytotoxic activity against mammalian tumor cells, often at high doses. Non-antimicrobial chemically modified tetracyclines (CMTs), with limited systemic toxicity but with significant tumor cell toxicity and antimetastatic activity, are attractive for long term treatment for cancer. We recently reported one such CMT, 6-deoxy,6-demethyl 4-dedimethylamino tetracycline (CMT-3) is a potent anti-tumor and anti-metastatic drug. Here we report on the anti-cell proliferation and anti-invasive activity of five nitro derivatives of CMT-3 (CMT-3N). All the five CMT-3Ns (CMT-302, CMT-303, CMT-306, CMT-308 and CMT-316) inhibited in vitro cell proliferation of prostate cancer cells. The 50% growth inhibition concentration (IC(50)) of CMT-3Ns was similar to that of CMT-3. Although CMT-3 was by far the most potent anti-cell proliferation drug, all CMT-3Ns except CMT-303 and CMT-308 had similar anti-cell proliferation activity (IC(50): 2.5 -5.7 microg/ml). IC(50)s for CMT-303 and CMT-308 were approximately 8.1 and -12.4 microg/ml, respectively. Activity against tumor cell invasion was tested in vitro using the Matrigel invasion assay. All CMT-3Ns had similar anti- invasive activity. While cytotoxic activity of CMT-3 was strongly associated with cell death-effector caspase activation, mitochondrial permeablization and apoptosis, the CMT-3Ns weakly induced apoptosis and did not activate Caspase-3. However, the CMT-3Ns were able to induce mitochondrial permeabilization. This dichotomous mechanism of cytotoxic activity of CMTs may have significance in their selection for clinical application.
Whether thalidomide induces a sensory ganglionopathy or a length-dependent axonal neuropathy is disputed. Moreover no agreement exists concerning the effects of thalidomide dosage on the clinical and electrophysiological findings.
We examined the effect of age, gender disease duration, total cumulative dose on the clinical and electrophysiologic parameters.
Fifteen patients who had previously received 100 mg/day of thalidomide for the treatment of multiple myeloma were evaluated retrospectively. Clinical findings and nerve conductions studies were evaluated using a modified total neuropathy scoring system.
Sensory symptoms (p = 0.033, r = 0.552) and objective sensory findings (p = 0.002, r = 0.730) worsened with higher thalidomide doses. There was no effect of age, gender and disease duration, neither on clinical symptoms and objective findings, nor on electrophysiologic data. Twelve patients (80%) developed the electrophysiological findings of neuropathy. Six (40%) had pure sensory and 4 (26.6%) had sensori-motor peripheral neuropathy, while 4 (26.6%) had carpal tunnel syndrome. Sural sensory nerve action potential (SNAP) amplitudes were more prominently reduced compared to SNAPs obtained from the upper extremities. Sural SNAP amplitude showed a tendency toward reduction as the total cumulative dose, although it is not statistically significant (respectively; p = 0.187). Significantly reduced ulnar peroneal and tibial compound muscle action potential amplitudes, slow motor nerve conduction velocities of the ulnar and peroneal nerves were found in the study group compared to reference norms (p < 0.05).
Our results suggest that thalidomide produces a dose dependent peripheral neuropathy, mainly localized to the peripheral nerves in a length dependent manner. The patient must be monitored closely to prevent irreversible consequences.
Cutaneous wound healing is a complex process involving interactions of various cell types. Skin, in addition to certain other organs, is dependent on estrogen; and estrogen-deficiency is associated with impaired wound healing. Wound healing involves the action of collagenolytic matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). We investigated the expression and localization of collagenolytic MMPs -8 and -13 by collagenase activity assay, Western immunoblot analysis, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical staining as well as type I collagen by hydroxyproline content analysis and immunohistochemical staining in cutaneous wounds from aged Sham and ovarioectomized (OVX) rats. After wounding, OVX rats were treated with either placebo, chemically modified tetracycline-8 (CMT-8) or estrogen. We found that MMP-8 and MMP-13 mRNA were expressed in wound epithelium of all samples examined as evidenced by in situ hybridization. Type I collagen, which was abundant in all groups examined, was decreased in OVX rats, but was increased by both CMT-8 and estrogen treatments to the level of Sham group. Hydroxyproline analysis revealed similar results. Western blot data showed that all forms of MMP-8 and MMP-13 were clearly reduced in the CMT-8 treated group compared to OVX. Analysis of collagenolytic activity confirmed the decreased collagenolysis in skin wound extracts from CMT-treated rats when compared with skin wound extracts from OVX rats. Our results show for the first time that MMP-8 mRNA and protein are expressed in rat wound epithelium. We further show that CMT-8 and estrogen have a beneficial effect on skin wound healing in OVX rats by increasing the collagen content and reducing the MMP-mediated collagenolysis.
Tetracyclines (TCs) and their non-antimicrobial analogs (CMTs) have therapeutic potential to inhibit tissue destructive disease processes, such as cancer invasion and metastasis, by inhibiting certain matrix metalloproteinases. Enhanced matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2; gelatinase A) activity has been correlated to cancer invasiveness, and membrane type MMP (MT1-MMP) expressed by tumor cells is involved in localizing and activating pro-MMP-2, a pathway believed to mediate cancer induced tissue breakdown. CMT-3 (6-demethyl, 6-deoxy, 4-dedimethylamino TC) has been shown to experimentally suppress prostate cancer, colon adenocarcinoma and melanoma invasiveness in cell culture and to inhibit tumor growth and metastasis in vivo and was used in the current in vitro study. Confluent MT1-MMP transfected COS-1 cells were harvested, washed thoroughly, subjected to N(2) cavitation and cell membrane enriched fractions were isolated by sequential centrifugations. This MT1-MMP preparation exhibited (i) pro-MMP-2 activating activity as shown by molecular weight shift of this gelatinase from 72 kDa to 62 kDa using gelatin zymography, and (ii) the ability to degrade both [(3)H-methyl] gelatin and casein at 37 degrees C. Adding CMT-3 at final concentrations of 5--20microM inhibited MT1-MMP gelatinolytic and caseinolytic activity, blocked MT1-MMP activation of pro-MMP-2, and decreased invasiveness (using the Matrigel system) of HT-1080 fibrosarcoma cells. The inhibition of MT1-MMP by CMT-3 may partially explain the inhibition of cancer cell -mediated tissue breakdown and invasiveness by this non-antimicrobial tetracycline analog.
Hydroxymethylglutaryl-Coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) Reductase inhibitors are a group of drugs widely used for hypercholesterolemia. They are known to originate side-effects on muscles but with a very low incidence of myopathy.
We present two cases of myopathy induced by HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. They are two women, who were on 20 mg daily of lovastatin and 30 mg daily of simvastatin and consulted due to weakness, myalgia and a rise in blood levels of muscle enzymes. Both of them recovered completely a few weeks after withdrawal of the drugs.
Usage of this group of drugs is wide. Their side effects are rare but it is important to remember their capacity to induce a myopathy, usually reversible upon withdrawal of the drug.
5-Hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), formed by acid-catalyzed dehydration and in the Maillard reaction from reducing sugars, is found at high levels in numerous foods. It was shown to initiate colon aberrant crypt foci in rats and skin papillomas and hepatocellular adenomas in mice. HMF is inactive in in vitro genotoxicity tests using standard activating systems but is activated to a mutagen by sulfotransferases. The product, 5-sulfoxymethylfurfural (SMF), is a stronger carcinogen than HMF. SMF has not been detected in the biotransfomation experiments conducted on HMF in humans and animals in vivo up to date. Here, we report pharmacokinetic properties of HMF and SMF in FVB/N mice. Sensitive assays for the quantification of HMF and SMF by LC-MS/MS multiple reaction monitoring were devised. SMF, intravenously injected (4.4 micromol/kg body mass), showed first-order elimination kinetics in blood plasma (t(1/2) = 7.9 min). HMF, injected intravenously (793 micromol/kg body mass), demonstrated biphasic kinetics in plasma (t(1/2) = 1.7 and 28 min for the initial and terminal elimination phases, respectively); the volume of distribution of the central compartment corresponded approximately to the total body water. The maximum SMF plasma level was observed at the first sampling time, 2.5 min after HMF administration. On the basis of these kinetic data, it was estimated that between 452 and 551 ppm of the initial HMF dose was converted to SMF and reached the circulation. It is likely that additional SMF reacted with cellular structures at the site of generation and thus is ignored in this balance. Our work supports the hypothesis that HMF-related carcinogenicity may be mediated by its reactive metabolite SMF.
Flutamide, an oral nonsteroidal, antiandrogenic, anilid compound which inhibits the uptake and binding of androgens to nuclear receptors in the prostate, is used with or without LH-RH analogues for treatment of patients with metastatic carcinoma of the prostate. Clinically significant hepatotoxicities such as toxic hepatitis, cholestatic hepatitis, hepatic failure, and even death have rarely been reported in the English literature, but no case has been reported in Korea. A 75-year-old man with metastatic carcinoma of the prostate had taken flutamide (750 mg/day) for 7 months and suddenly developed jaundice and general weakness. The findings of blood chemistries were compatible with cholestatic hepatitis, but ultrasonography, viral marker and auto-antibody studies did not reveal any attributable causes. Histologic examination of a sono-guided liver biopsy only disclosed centrilobular cholestasis, nuclear glycogenosis and mild sinusoidal lymphocytic infiltration. Discontinuation of flutamide resulted in an almost full recovery of the patient's liver function in 2 months. We, herein, report a case of flutamide-induced acute choestatic hepatitis with a brief review of the literature.
The sodium-hydrogen exchanger isoform-1 (NHE-1) plays an important role in the myocardial response to ischemia-reperfusion; inhibition of this exchanger protects against ischemic injury, including reduction in infarct size. Herein we describe a novel, potent, and highly selective NHE-1 inhibitor, zoniporide (CP-597,396; [1-(quinolin-5-yl)-5-cyclopropyl-1H-pyrazole-4-carbonyl] guanidine). Zoniporide inhibits human NHE-1 with an IC(50) of 14 nM, has >150-fold selectivity vs. other NHE isoforms, and potently inhibits ex vivo NHE-1-dependent swelling of human platelets. This compound is well tolerated in preclinical animal models, exhibits moderate plasma protein binding, has a t(1/2) of 1.5 h in monkeys, and has one major active metabolite. In both in vitro and in vivo rabbit models of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury, zoniporide markedly reduced infarct size without adversely affecting hemodynamics or cardiac function. In the isolated heart (Langendorff), zoniporide elicited a concentration-dependent reduction in infarct size (EC(50) = 0.25 nM). At 50 nM it reduced infarct size by 83%. This compound was 2.5-20-fold more potent than either eniporide or cariporide (EC(50)s of 0.69 and 5.11 nM, respectively), and reduced infarct size to a greater extent than eniporide. In open chest, anesthetized rabbits, zoniporide also elicited a dose-dependent reduction in infarct size (ED(50) = 0.45 mg/kg/h) and inhibited NHE-1-mediated platelet swelling (93% inhibition at 4 mg/kg/h). Furthermore, zoniporide attenuated postischemic cardiac contractile dysfunction in conscious primates, and reduced both the incidence and duration of ischemia-reperfusion-induced ventricular fibrillation in rats. Zoniporide represents a novel class of potent and selective human NHE-1 inhibitors with potential utility for providing cardioprotection in a clinical setting.
We investigated the effects of pegylated IFN-alpha2b (PEG-IFN-alpha2b) alone and PEG-IFN-alpha2b plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in vitro on the proliferation of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cell lines. After the transplantation of RCC cells into nude mice, we administered IFN (PEG-IFN-alpha2b or IFN-alpha2b) alone, 5-FU alone, or IFN (PEG-IFN-alpha2b or IFN-alpha2b) plus 5-FU; and investigated tumor volume, tumor weight, the numbers of apoptotic cells and artery-like blood vessels, relative mRNA expression levels of enzymes which relate to 5-FU metabolism, angiogenesis factor, and type I interferon receptor. RCC cells in vitro were generally and relatively resistant to the anti-proliferative effects of PEG-IFN-alpha2b, but the addition of 5-FU augmented IFN-induced anti-proliferative effects with the induction of apoptosis. PEG-IFN-alpha2b in vivo presented stronger anti-tumor effects than IFN-alpha2b, and its combination with 5-FU augmented the effects. The significant anti-tumor effect of the combination treatment was the increase in apoptotic cell number, but there were no significant differences in the suppression of angiogenesis, expression of IFN receptor, and the actions of metabolic enzymes of 5-FU. In conclusion, PEG-IFN-alpha2b presents stronger anti-tumor effects than non-pegylated IFN, and the effects are augmented in the combination with 5-FU. Our findings suggest the clinical usefulness of PEG-IFN-alpha2b in the treatment of RCC.
It has recently been found that the new class of transcripts, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), are pervasively transcribed in the genome. LncRNAs are a large family of non-coding RNAs and regulate many protein-coding genes. Growing evidence indicates that lncRNAs may play an important functional role in cancer biology. Emerging data have shown that lncRNAs are closely related to the occurrence and development of lung cancer. However, the function and mechanism of lncRNAs in lung cancer remain elusive. Here, we investigated the role of a novel lncRNA in transformed human bronchial epithelial cells induced by benzo(a)pyrene. After establishing the transformed cell model using the BEAS-2B cell line in vitro, we found that expression of lncRNA-DQ786227 was high and changed during the transformation of BEAS-2B cells. Silencing of lncRNA-DQ786227 expression in malignant transformed BEAS-2B cells led to inhibition of cell proliferation and colony formation, and increased apoptosis. LncRNA-DQ786227 dramatically promoted the ability of BEAS-2B-T cells to form colonies in vitro and develop tumors in nude mice. These findings revealed that lncRNA-DQ786227 acts as an oncogene in malignantly transformed BEAS-2B cells induced by benzo(a)pyrene. The identification of lncRNA could provide new insight into the molecular mechanisms of chemical carcinogenesis.
Markers at the pericentriolar material 1 gene (PCM1) have shown genetic association with schizophrenia in both a University College London (UCL) and a USA-based case-control sample. In this paper we report a statistically significant replication of the PCM1 association in a large Scottish case-control sample from Aberdeen. Resequencing of the genomic DNA from research volunteers who had inherited haplotypes associated with schizophrenia showed a threonine to isoleucine missense mutation in exon 24 which was likely to change the structure and function of PCM1 (rs370429). This mutation was found only as a heterozygote in 98 schizophrenic research subjects and controls out of 2246 case and control research subjects. Among the 98 carriers of rs370429, 67 were affected with schizophrenia. The same alleles and haplotypes were associated with schizophrenia in both the London and Aberdeen samples. Another potential aetiological base pair change in PCM1 was rs445422, which altered a splice site signal. A further mutation, rs208747, was shown by electrophoretic mobility shift assays to create or destroy a promoter transcription factor site. Five further non-synonymous changes in exons were also found. Genotyping of the new variants discovered in the UCL case-control sample strengthened the evidence for allelic and haplotypic association (P=0.02-0.0002). Given the number and identity of the haplotypes associated with schizophrenia, further aetiological base pair changes must exist within and around the PCM1 gene. PCM1 protein has been shown to interact directly with the disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) protein, Bardet-Biedl syndrome 4, and Huntingtin-associated protein 1, and is important in neuronal cell growth. In a separate study we found that clozapine but not haloperidol downregulated PCM1 expression in the mouse brain. We hypothesize that mutant PCM1 may be responsible for causing a subtype of schizophrenia through abnormal cell division and abnormal regeneration in dividing cells in the central nervous system. This is supported by our previous finding of orbitofrontal volumetric deficits in PCM1-associated schizophrenia patients as opposed to temporal pole deficits in non-PCM1-associated schizophrenia patients. Caution needs to be exercised in interpreting the actual biological effects of the mutations we have found without further cell biology. However, the DNA changes we have found deserve widespread genotyping in multiple case-control populations.
