The effect of antihypertensive drug treatment on aortic DNA synthesis was examined in rats with two-kidney, one clip renal hypertension and in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). In two-kidney, one clip hypertensive rats, hypertension developed over a 2-week period. Four days after clipping the renal artery, during the onset of hypertension, there was an increase in aortic DNA synthesis. Aortic DNA synthesis was also increased 3 weeks later, when hypertension had been established. Captopril, hydralazine, and verapamil were each able to prevent the increase in aortic DNA synthesis and the rise in blood pressure when given throughout the first 5 days of the developing phase of hypertension, or when given to rats with established hypertension. Drug treatment of sham-operated rats had no significant effect on DNA synthesis, although blood pressure was decreased. There were no differences in blood pressure or aortic DNA synthesis in 4-week-old SHR, as compared with age-matched Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) controls or normal Wistar rats. At 17 weeks of age, when hypertension was established, aortic DNA synthesis was significantly enhanced in the SHR. Captopril or hydralazine treatment was able to reduce blood pressure and DNA synthesis to levels seen in the WKY. At 21 weeks of age, DNA synthesis in the SHR had declined to the same levels as in the WKY. Captopril, hydralazine, and verapamil may have a common ability to reduce intracellular calcium and therefore inhibit DNA synthesis. In support of this, ouabain treatment, which increases intracellular calcium by inhibiting the Na+-K+ pump, produced a significant increase in the rate of DNA synthesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To investigate the effect of simultaneous bolus injection of 2% lidocaine 2 ml on preventing the pain on propofol injection, 80 patients were randomly assigned to one of four study groups; Group I received simultaneous bolus injection of 2% lidocaine 2 ml with infusion of propofol; Group II received bolus injection of saline 2 ml, 10 s before the start of infusion of propofol-lidocaine mixture; Groups III and IV received bolus injections of lidocaine and saline, separately 10 s before starting propofol infusion. Incidence of propofol-induced pain was significantly more frequent (P < 0.001) in Group IV (70%) than in the other groups (20% each). Number of patients who were satisfied with this anesthetic induction and requested for the same induction method in the next anesthesia was significantly larger in the groups receiving lidocaine (P < 0.05). Simultaneous bolus injection of lidocaine with propofol showed a similar clinical efficacy compared with both preadministration and premixing of lidocaine in preventing the propofol-induced pain.
Between August 1983 and December 1987, 23 patients received a 30-minute intraoperative, intraarterial infusion of streptokinase (seven patients) or urokinase (16 patients) because of residual thrombus or persistent ischemia or both after thromboembolectomy. Ages ranged from 21 to 77 years (mean, 58 years). In 15 patients intraoperative lytic therapy was part of the initial operation, whereas in eight patients intraoperative lytic therapy was performed during a secondary operation to treat thrombosis of a recently placed graft. Seven patients in the latter group had hypercoagulable conditions (five had heparin-induced thrombosis; one had protein C deficiency; one had polycythemia with thrombocytosis). Improvement after intraoperative lytic therapy was seen on angiography performed after infusion in 13 of 17 (76%) patients in whom angiography was performed both before and after intraoperative lytic therapy. Grafts in 12 of these patients remained patent without additional intervention, and in one graft thrombus formed again. In contrast, among four patients without angiographic evidence of improvement, thrombus formed again in four grafts (p less than 0.004). Intraoperative lytic therapy was considered successful in 74% of instances (17/23), including four of seven patients with hypercoagulable states. Three of six patients whose grafts failed had major amputations, whereas there were no amputations after successful infusions. Twelve patients were heparinized after intraoperative lytic therapy. Ten patients in this group were considered treatment successes, and two were considered treatment failures. Three of 11 patients not heparinized after intraoperative lytic therapy were considered treatment failures. Four hematomas occurred in the former group and none in the latter (p less than 0.03). No hematomas occurred in the heparin-induced thrombosis group in spite of anticoagulation with sodium warfarin (Coumadin). Only one hematoma occurred within 6 hours of intraoperative lytic therapy, and thus it was attributable to the infusion. We conclude that intraoperative lytic therapy is an effective adjunct to manage residual thrombus or persistent ischemia or both after lower extremity revascularization. Postinfusion angiography is of prognostic value. Heparinization after intraoperative lytic therapy seems beneficial but significantly increases the risk of bleeding complications.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) is a member of the steroid hormone receptor super family involved in the control of cellular lipid utilization. This makes PPARalpha a candidate gene for type 2 diabetes and dyslipidemia. The aim of this study was to investigate whether genetic variation in the human PPARalpha gene can influence the risk of type 2 diabetes and dyslipidemia among French Canadians. We therefore first determined the genomic structure of human PPARalpha, and then designed intronic primers to sequence the coding region and the exon-intron boundaries of the gene in 12 patients with type 2 diabetes and in 2 nondiabetic subjects. Sequence analysis revealed the presence of a L162V missense mutation in exon 5 of one diabetic patient. Leucine 162 is contained within the DNA binding domain of the human PPARalpha gene, and is conserved among humans, mice, rats, and guinea pigs. We subsequently screened a sample of 121 patients newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes and their age and sex-matched nondiabetic controls, recruited from the Saguenay-Lac-St-Jean region of Northeastern Quebec, for the presence of the L162V mutation by a PCR-RFLP based method. There was no difference in L162 homozygote or V162 carrier frequencies between diabetics and nondiabetics. However, whether diabetic or not, carriers of the V162 allele had higher plasma apolipoprotein B levels compared to noncarriers (P 5 0.05). To further this association, we screened another sample of 193 nondiabetic subjects recruited in the greater Quebec City area. Carriers of the V162 allele compared with homozygotes of the L162 allele had significantly higher concentrations of plasma total and LDL-apolipoprotein B as well as LDL cholesterol (P </= 0.02). These results suggest an association between the PPARalpha V162 allele and the atherogenic/hyperapolipoprotein B dyslipidemia.
The industrial contaminant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is associated with inflammatory disorders in women and other mammals. The current studies were performed to investigate the effect of TCDD on RANTES expression in an in-vitro model of endometriosis. The biochemical effects of dioxins are mediated by binding to aryl hydrocarbon receptors (AhR). This study showed that both normal and endometriotic endometrial stromal cells express AhR protein, which was observed to be down-regulated by 40-60% after exposure to TCDD. Treatment with TCDD for 24 h increased the luciferase activity of the RANTES promoter by 2.5 +/- 1.0-fold in stromal cells derived from normal endometrium and endometriotic implants. When AhR were over-expressed in these cells, luciferase activity increased 6.1 +/- 1.4-fold, and RANTES protein secretion increased from undetectable to 31 +/- 10 pg/100,000 cells. TCDD failed to activate a RANTES construct with a mutated dioxin response element. Other AhR ligands had similar effects to TCDD on RANTES transcription and secretion. Control transfections using tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB response element reporters indicated that these pathways are not activated by TCDD in endometrial stromal cells. This study has demonstrated that functional AhR are present in endometrial and endometriotic stromal cells and that TCDD up-regulates the expression of RANTES, providing a possible mechanistic link between dioxin exposure and chemokine expression in endometriosis.
Of 163 patients with intertrochanteric hip fractures 87 received 2 g dicloxacillin and 240 mg of gentamicin preoperatively, and 76 patients had no antibiotic prophylaxis. Preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis was not shown to have any significant effect on wound infections. However, 16 reversible and 1 irreversible cases of kidney toxicity were found among patients receiving antibiotic prophylaxis, whereas there were only four cases of reversible kidney damage among the patients not receiving antibiotics.
The importation of medications is strongly discouraged in the United States. However, with the cost of prescription medications on the rise, an increasing number of patients are seeking alternative ways of obtaining drugs. Although medication errors involving imported drugs have been described in the literature, there is little available information on the prevalence of such problems.
A 74-year-old woman who had been taking warfarin therapy for >2 years presented to the emergency department with new-onset headache. She was found to have a small subdural hematoma on computed tomography and a prothrombin time >120 seconds. Warfarin was stopped and anticoagulation was corrected with fresh frozen plasma. At follow-up testing, the international normalized ratio (INR) continued to be >2 despite vitamin K therapy and the patient's insistence that she had discontinued warfarin. Further evaluation by a hematologist detected warfarin in the blood. Subsequent inspection of her medications revealed unmarked white tablets labeled "phenytoin" that had been dispensed by a pharmacy in another country. The INR normalized after these tablets were discarded and a new prescription for phenytoin was started.
Application of the Naranjo scale to this case suggested a high likelihood of an adverse drug reaction (ADR). Potential causes of the ADR included the placement of warfarin in a bottle mislabeled "phenytoin" and contamination of phenytoin with warfarin.
Obtaining medications from pharmacies in or by mail order from other countries means that patients miss the opportunity to ask questions and receive counseling from a pharmacist. Physicians and pharmacists should inspect patients' medications to ensure product legitimacy and confirm that the indications, dispensing, and labeling are accurate.
Previous reports have suggested that infusions of lidocaine (lignocaine) cause a high incidence of phlebitis. We investigated the possibility of reducing this high incidence by the addition of small amounts of heparin or hydrocortisone (or both) to the infusate of lidocaine. One hundred patients with acute myocardial infarction who were to receive a 48-hour prophylactic infusion of lidocaine (2.25 mg/min) were randomized to have one of the following added to their infusate in double-blind fashion: (1) placebo; (2) heparin (4,000 units/24 hr); (3) hydrocortisone (20 mg/24 hr); or (4) heparin and hydrocortisone. After 48 hours the incidence of phlebitis was 94 percent in the control group but only 41 percent in the group receiving heparin and hydrocortisone (p less than 0.005). Had the infusion been stopped after 24 hours, the incidence of phlebitis would have been 56 percent in the group receiving placebo, but only 19 percent in the drug-treated groups (p less than 0.01). We conclude that infusion of lidocaine causes a high incidence of phlebitis which can be markedly reduced by adding heparin or hydrocortisone (or both) to the infusate and limiting the duration of the infusion in a given vein to 24 hours.
Left ventricular hypertrophy is considered a risk for cardiac failure. In an attempt to understand the molecular basis of antioxidant changes during ventricular hypertrophy, we have used isoproterenol treated rats. Our studies showed that administration of high doses of isoproterenol induced oxidative and nitrosative stress, expressed as decreased level of thiols (SH), decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and increased nitrates level in the rat heart. The results obtained are considered an outcome of oxidative stress conditions imposed by isoproterenol autooxidation.
Pudendal nerve block may be indicated during instrumental delivery in situations where peridural anesthesia is unavailable. We report three cases of neonatal lidocaine intoxication following maternal pudendal block during delivery. Clinical features were hypotonia, pupillary mydriasis fixed to light, apnea, cyanosis and seizures. Two neonates required mechanical ventilation. Lidocaine was found in the serum of two babies. In all three cases, recovery was complete. The pharmacokinetics of lidocaine in a highly vascularized perineum during labor increase the risk of neonatal intoxication. A possible intoxication by local anesthetics should be considered in neonates presenting an acute distress in the delivery room.
In a model of uncontrolled hemorrhagic hypotension (UCHH) in rats, we examined whether blood loss or blood chemistry were affected by (1) deliberate, controlled hypotension induced with labetalol (L) or sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and (2) intravenous (iv) fluid therapy. Two hours of UCHH was induced by resecting the distal 25% of the tail. L or SNP was infused with the aim of decreasing MAP to 50 mmHg. In the groups receiving iv fluid, 3 ml of 0.9% saline was given for each 1 ml of blood loss. L decreased blood loss (2.8+/-2.0 and 3.0+/-1.9 ml, respectively, in the groups not receiving and receiving iv fluid) compared to the groups not given hypotensive drugs (6.3+/-4.1 and 13.5+/-6.6 ml). SNP did not decrease blood loss (5.7+/-4.7 and 11.0+/-6.2 ml), increased serum potassium (5.0+/-0.6 and 5.8+/-0.4 mEq l(-1)), and with accompanying iv fluid administration decreased hematocrit, worsened acidosis, and increased mortality. In this model of 2 h of UCHH in rats, hypotension to MAP of 50 mmHg with L but not with SNP decreased blood loss.
Benign intracranial hypertension is due to an increased intracranial pressure of unknown cause. The initial symptoms, complications and associations with medical conditions are discussed.
A 6-year-old girl developed symptoms of benign intracranial hypertension following reduction of oral corticosteroid therapy. Laboratory studies and head-computed tomographic scan were normal. Examination of the optic discs showed bilateral papilledema and the cerebrospinal fluid pressure was increased. The patient was given prednisone therapy 1 mg/kg daily initially, associated with acetazolamide, and removal of 25 mL of cerebrospinal fluid. All the symptoms resolved and the treatment was gradually decreased. The child developed no further visual failure.
Benign intracranial hypertension with the risk of permanent visual loss is a complication underrecognized in children. All patients receiving large doses of the corticosteroids who complain of headache or blurring vision, particularly following a reduction of corticosteroid dosage, should have an ophtalmoscopic examination to exclude this complication.
A major dose-limiting side effect of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) chemotherapies, such as the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), is a small-fiber painful peripheral neuropathy, mediated by its mitochondrial toxicity. Co-morbid conditions may also contribute to this dose-limiting effect of HIV/AIDS treatment. Alcohol abuse, which alone also produces painful neuropathy, is one of the most important co-morbid risk factors for peripheral neuropathy in patients with HIV/AIDS. Despite the prevalence of this problem and its serious impact on the quality of life and continued therapy in HIV/AIDS patients, the mechanisms by which alcohol abuse exacerbates highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART)-induced neuropathic pain has not been demonstrated. In this study, performed in rats, we investigated the cellular mechanism by which consumed alcohol impacts antiretroviral-induced neuropathic pain. NRTI 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC; 50 mg/kg) neuropathy was mitochondrial-dependent and PKCε-independent, and alcohol-induced painful neuropathy was PKCε-dependent and mitochondrial-independent. At low doses, ddC (5 mg/kg) and alcohol (6.5% ethanol diet for 1 week), which alone do not affect nociception, together produce profound mechanical hyperalgesia. This hyperalgesia is mitochondrial-dependent but PKCε-independent. These experiments, which provide the first model for studying the impact of co-morbidity in painful neuropathy, support the clinical impression that alcohol consumption enhances HIV/AIDS therapy neuropathy, and provide evidence for a role of mitochondrial mechanisms underlying this interaction.
Reported QTc prolongation associated with cardiac arrhythmia in a small number of children undergoing cisapride therapy and lack of pharmacokinetic correlation provided the impetus for this prospective study. The authors evaluated the relation between cisapride plasma concentrations, the electrocardiographic QT interval, and cardiac rhythm in infants undergoing routine 8-hour polysomnography.
A total of 211 infants were enrolled: 84 (17 born prematurely) undergoing cisapride therapy for at least 4 days for suspected gastroesophageal reflux and 127 controls (10 born prematurely), aged between 1 week and 13.5 months. Infants underwent continuous bipolar limb lead I recording during routine 8-hour polysomnography. QT intervals and heart rate were measured at hourly intervals. The morning after polysomnography, 12-lead electrocardiography was performed (1 hour after cisapride administration). Cisapride plasma concentrations were determined immediately before and 1 to 2 hours after administration. Serum electrolyte concentrations were measured.
The administered cisapride dose ranged from 0.35 to 1.55 (mean, 0.81, median 0.79) mg. kg-1. d-1. Cisapride plasma concentrations were significantly higher in infants younger than 3 months of age. Cisapride-treated infants younger than 3 months of age had longer QTc intervals compared with age-matched controls. Heart rate was similar for cisapride-treated and control infants. No arrhythmia or atrioventricular conduction abnormalities were observed.
At comparable doses of cisapride and comparable plasma concentrations, the QTc was significantly higher in infants younger than 3 months of age. This confirms age-dependent cisapride pharmacokinetics in the first 10 to 12 weeks strongly correlated with changes in body weight and may also suggest an altered ability of infants younger than 3 months of age to metabolize cisapride. The clinical significance and risk of the increased QTc interval is unclear. Cisapride should be judiciously prescribed in infants younger than the age of 3 months and electrocardiography should be performed before and during therapy.
Visual field defect because of antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment has been widely reported during the clinical application of vigabatrin. But other gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic and non-GABA-ergic AEDs could also affect the visual field with different mechanisms of action. Here we report a case of a 22-year-old female patient, who suffered from bilateral concentric visual field defect during the long-term therapy with valproic-acid (VPA). A VPA-related metabolic dysfunction was found through blood and urine examination. Reduced B-waves were shown by electroretinography and a bilateral concentric visual field defect was confirmed by both manual and automated perimetry. In conclusion, the concentric visual field defect related to VPA treatment is rare but possible.
Tolerance develops to the cardiovascular and subjective effects of intravenous cocaine during single self-administration sessions, but diminishes within 3 h after the session ends. To examine whether a similar pattern of tolerance occurs to smoked cocaine, seven adult 'crack' cocaine users completed a protocol investigating changes in behavior during the repeated self-administration of smoked cocaine. During sessions, participants could self-administer up to 6 doses of smoked cocaine (50 mg per dose), one every 14 min. Both two- and three-day binge conditions were tested. During the two-day binge, a 2.5 h cocaine self-administration session began at 1200 h and again at 1600 h on two consecutive days, while during the three-day binge, self-administration sessions occurred at 1200 h and 1600 h on three consecutive days. The first one or two cocaine doses in each session increased cardiovascular and subjective effects ratings; subsequent cocaine inhalations during the session did not increase these measures further, suggesting the development of acute tolerance to these effects. Ratings of 'I want cocaine' decreased slightly across three days of repeated smoked cocaine self-administration, while anxiety scores increased slightly across three days, suggesting that some effects of smoked cocaine may persist beyond a binge.
Obesity is a major risk factor in the development of chronic renal failure. Rimonabant, a cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, improves body weight and metabolic disorders; however, its effect on mortality and chronic renal failure associated with obesity is unknown. Obese Zucker rats received either rimonabant or vehicle for 12 months and were compared to a pair-fed but untreated group of obese rats. Mortality in the obese rats was significantly reduced by rimonabant along with a sustained decrease in body weight, transient reduction in food intake, and an increase in plasma adiponectin. This was associated with significant reduction in plasma total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio, triglycerides, glucose, norepinephrine, plasminogen activator inhibitor 1, and preservation of pancreatic weight and beta-cell mass index. The cannabinoid antagonist attenuated the increase in proteinuria, urinary N-acetylglucosaminidase excretion, plasma creatinine, and urea nitrogen levels while improving creatinine clearance. Renal hypertrophy along with glomerular and tubulointerstitial lesions were reduced by rimonabant. Although the drug did not modify hemodynamics, it normalized the pressor response to angiotensin II. Our study suggests that in a rat model of chronic renal failure due to obesity, rimonabant preserves renal function and increases survival.
Fenbendazole is a broad-spectrum anthelmintic drug widely used to prevent or treat nematode infections in laboratory rodent colonies. Potential interactions between fenbendazole and hepatotoxicants such as acetaminophen are unknown, and this was investigated in this study. Mice were fed a control diet or a diet containing fenbendazole (8-12 mg/kg/day) for 7 days prior to treatment with acetaminophen (300 mg/kg) or phosphate buffered saline. In mice fed a control diet, acetaminophen administration resulted in centrilobular hepatic necrosis and increases in serum transaminases, which were evident within 12 h. Acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity was markedly increased in mice fed the fenbendazole-containing diet, as measured histologically and by significant increases in serum transaminase levels. Moreover, in mice fed the fenbendazole-containing diet, but not the control diet, 63% mortality was observed within 24 h of acetaminophen administration. Fenbendazole by itself had no effect on liver histology or serum transaminases. To determine if exaggerated hepatotoxicity was due to alterations in acetaminophen metabolism, we analyzed sera for the presence of free acetaminophen and acetaminophen-glucuronide. We found that there were no differences in acetaminophen turnover. We also measured cytochrome P450 (cyp) 2e1, cyp3a, and cyp1a2 activity. Whereas fenbendazole had no effect on the activity of cyp2e1 or cyp3a, cyp1a2 was suppressed. A prolonged suppression of hepatic glutathione (GSH) was also observed in acetaminophen-treated mice fed the fenbendazole-containing diet when compared with the control diet. These data demonstrate that fenbendazole exacerbates the hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen, an effect that is related to persistent GSH depletion. These findings are novel and suggest a potential drug-drug interaction that should be considered in experimental protocols evaluating mechanisms of hepatotoxicity in rodent colonies treated with fenbendazole.
Cigarette smoking is a major risk factor in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) with chronic airway inflammation as a key feature. Blockade of serotonin receptor 2A (5-HTR(2A)) with ketanserin has been found to improve lung function in COPD patients. Furthermore, ketanserin has been shown to possess anti-inflammatory properties in vivo. In this study, we investigated the antioxidative and anti-inflammatory properties of ketanserin and its underlying mechanism of action on cigarette smoke-induced interleukin (IL)-8 release in vitro. Primary normal human bronchial epithelial cells and human bronchial epithelial cell line (BEAS-2B) were treated with or without ketanserin prior to exposure to cigarette smoke medium (CSM). Exposure to CSM caused elevation of both mRNA and release of IL-8 with increased phosphorylation of p38 and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2). Consistently, CSM-induced IL-8 release was blocked by SB203580, U0126, or MEK1 small interfering RNA (siRNA) but not SP600125. On the other hand, CSM caused a dose-dependent decrease in the ratio of reduced glutathione to oxidized glutathione (rGSH/GSSG) together with an increased translocation of Nrf2 to the nucleus demonstrated by Western blot analysis. Knock down of Nrf2 by siRNA completely blocked CSM-induced IL-8 release. Ketanserin suppressed CSM-induced IL-8 release by inhibiting p38, ERK1/2 MAPK, and Nrf2 signaling pathways and partially inhibited CSM-induced reduction of rGSH/GSSG ratio. Our data demonstrated the novel antioxidative and anti-inflammatory role of ketanserin via the Nrf2 signaling pathway in CSM-exposed human bronchial epithelial cells. This may open up new perspectives in the development of novel therapeutic targets in the treatment of cigarette smoke-related COPD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the selective degeneration of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). A combination of genetic and environmental factors contributes to such a specific loss. Among the five PD-linked genes identified so far, parkin, a protein-ubiquitin E3 ligase, appears to be the most prevalent genetic factor in PD. Although a variety of substrates have been identified for parkin, none of them is selectively expressed in nigral DA neurons. It remains unclear how accumulation of these substrates in the absence of functional parkin may cause the selective death of DA neurons in SNpc. Here, we show that overexpression of parkin protected human DA neuroblastoma cell line (SH-SY5Y) against apoptosis induced by DA or 6-OHDA, but not by H(2)O(2) or rotenone. Parkin significantly attenuated dopamine-induced activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and caspase-3. It also decreased the level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and protein carbonyls in the cell. Inhibiting DA uptake through dopamine transporter or treating the cell with antioxidants significantly reduced oxidative stress and dopamine toxicity. Furthermore, PD-linked mutations of parkin significantly abrogated the protective effect of wild-type parkin, as well as its ability to suppress ROS and protein carbonylation. These results suggest that parkin protects against dopamine toxicity by decreasing oxidative stress and ensuing activation of apoptotic programs such as the JNK/caspase pathway. This protective function of parkin, which is greatly attenuated by its PD-linked mutations, may be uniquely important for the survival of DA neurons, as they are constantly threatened by oxyradicals produced during dopamine oxidation.
Cardiac oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis of hypertrophy, cardiomyopathy and heart failure. Systemic deletion of the gene encoding adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL), the enzyme that catalyzes the rate-limiting step of triglyceride lipolysis, results in a phenotype characterized by severe steatotic cardiac dysfunction. The objective of the present study was to investigate a potential role of oxidative stress in cardiac ATGL deficiency. Hearts of mice with global ATGL knockout were compared to those of mice with cardiomyocyte-restricted overexpression of ATGL and to those of wildtype littermates. Our results demonstrate that oxidative stress, measured as lucigenin chemiluminescence, was increased ~6-fold in ATGL-deficient hearts. In parallel, cytosolic NADPH oxidase subunits p67phox and p47phox were upregulated 4-5-fold at the protein level. Moreover, a prominent upregulation of different inflammatory markers (tumor necrosis factor α, monocyte chemotactant protein-1, interleukin 6, and galectin-3) was observed in those hearts. Both the oxidative and inflammatory responses were abolished upon cardiomyocyte-restricted overexpression of ATGL. Investigating the effect of oxidative and inflammatory stress on nitric oxide/cGMP signal transduction we observed a ~2.5-fold upregulation of soluble guanylate cyclase activity and a ~2-fold increase in cardiac tetrahydrobiopterin levels. Systemic treatment of ATGL-deficient mice with the superoxide dismutase mimetic Mn(III)tetrakis (4-benzoic acid) porphyrin did not ameliorate but rather aggravated cardiac oxidative stress. Our data suggest that oxidative and inflammatory stress seems involved in lipotoxic heart disease. Upregulation of soluble guanylate cyclase and cardiac tetrahydrobiopterin might be regarded as counterregulatory mechanisms in cardiac ATGL deficiency.
Identification of aberrant microRNA (miRNA) expression during chemical carcinogen-induced cell transformation will lead to a better understanding of the substantial role of miRNAs in cancer development. To explore whether aberrant miRNAs expression can be used as biomarkers of chemical exposure in risk assessment of chemical carcinogenesis, we analyzed miRNA expression profiles of human bronchial epithelial cells expressing an oncogenic allele of H-Ras (HBER) at different stages of transformation induced by benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) by miRNA array. It revealed 12 miRNAs differentially expressed in HBER cells at both pretransformed and transformed stages. Differentially expressed miRNAs were confirmed in transformed cells and examined in 50 pairs of primary human non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tissues using real-time PCR. Among these miRNAs, downregulation of miR-638 was found in 68% (34/50) of NSCLC tissues. However, the expression of miR-638 in HBER cells increased upon treatment of BaP in a dose-dependent manner. The expression of miR-638 was also examined in peripheral lymphocytes from 86 polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs)-exposed (PE) workers. We found that the average expression level of miR-638 in peripheral lymphocytes from 86 PE workers increased by 72% compared with control group. The levels of miR-638 were correlated with the concentration of urinary 1-hydroxypyrene (1-OHP) and external levels of PAHs. Overexpression of miR-638 aggravated cell DNA damage induced by BaP, which might be mediated by suppression of breast cancer 1 (BRCA1), one of the target genes of miR-638. In summary, we suggest that miR-638 is involved in the BaP-induced carcinogenesis by targeting BRCA1.
Reports regarding the effects of chronic drug use on human cognition and comparisons of different drug user groups have been inconsistent. Methodological flaws may account for some inconsistencies. To determine the effects of chronic drug use on cognition, drug users (n=192) were tested 17.1+/-0.3 days (mean+/-S.E.) and 99.4+/-1.7 days on average after their last use of drugs before beginning treatment. Drug users were categorized as stimulant, alcohol, or polydrug users. Their performance on tests of academic achievement, verbal memory, and abstraction was compared to performance of community-dwelling controls (n=137). The groups were matched on selected demographic and psychiatric characteristics. Historical records of achievement test scores were used to attempt to control for premorbid intellectual ability. Drug users showed impairments on each of the achievement tests (P<.001), as well as poorer total recall (P<.01) and abstraction ability (P<.05). Stimulant users performed worse on several tests relative to the other drug use groups. Only one of six tests demonstrated improvements following about 3 months of abstinence. Thus, chronic drug use is associated with cognitive impairments that do not improve substantially even after several months of abstinence.
Recent reports of major and minor neurologic sequelae after spinal anesthesia have generated concern regarding the safety of some currently used intrathecal agents. The role of glucose, if any, in neurotoxic injury associated with spinal anesthesia is not known. The current experiments sought to determine whether the presence of 7.5% glucose alters the neurotoxicity of intrathecally administered 5% lidocaine.
Two experiments were performed. First, 48 rats were implanted with an intrathecal catheter and randomly divided into eight equal groups. Each animal received a single intrathecal infusion of 5% lidocaine (groups P1-P4) or 5% lidocaine with 7.5% glucose (G1-G4) for 0.5, 1, 2, or 4 h at a rate of 1 microliter/min. Sensory function was assessed using the tail-flick test; a deficit was defined as a complete lack of response to the heat stimulus at the proximal, mid or distal portion of the tail persisting 4 days after the infusion. In the second experiment, 60 rats were randomly divided into two groups to receive a 1-h intrathecal infusion of 5% lidocaine or 5% lidocaine with 7.5% glucose. Animals were evaluated for increase in the latency of the tail-flick reflex 4 days after infusion.
In the first experiment, the two lidocaine solutions produced similar dose-dependent loss of sensory function. In the second experiment, the two solutions induced similar alterations in tail-flick latency.
The presence of 7.5% glucose does not affect the potential of intrathecally administered 5% lidocaine to induce sensory impairment. These findings provide further support for the hypothesis that recent injuries after spinal anesthesia resulted from a direct neurotoxic effect of the local anesthetic.
Hepatotoxicity as a result of valproic acid therapy is well documented. Elevation in aminotransferase activities is rarely associated with symptoms. It sometimes manifests as acute liver failure. Here, we report a 8-year-old girl who was referred for unresolving jaundice and itching for 3 months. Past history revealed afebrile convulsion 5 months previously and beginning of valproic acid treatment. Valproic acid was discontinued after the development of jaundice. Physical examination revealed ichterus, xanthomas on extensor surfaces of extremities, and hepatomegaly without any sign of chronic liver disease. Total and direct bilirubin levels were 20.2 and 12.9 mg/dL, respectively. Enzyme activities indicating cholestasis were increased together with blood cholesterol. Tests for infectious and autoimmune, metabolic, and genetic disorders were not informative. Liver biopsy revealed portal inflammation, severe bile duct loss, and cholestasis. The patient was considered to have valproic acid-associated vanishing bile duct syndrome, which has not been reported previously.
Doxorubicin (DXR), an anticancer drug, is limited in its use due to severe cardiotoxic effects. These effects are partly caused by disturbed myocardial energy metabolism. We analyzed the effects of therapeutically relevant but nontoxic DXR concentrations for their effects on metabolic fluxes, cell respiration, and intracellular ATP. (13)C isotope labeling studies using [U-(13)C(6)]glucose, [1,2-(13)C(2)]glucose, and [U-(13)C(5)]glutamine were carried out on HL-1 cardiomyocytes exposed to 0.01 and 0.02 μM DXR and compared with the untreated control. Metabolic fluxes were calculated by integrating production and uptake rates of extracellular metabolites (glucose, lactate, pyruvate, and amino acids) as well as (13)C-labeling in secreted lactate derived from the respective (13)C-labeled substrates into a metabolic network model. The investigated DXR concentrations (0.01 and 0.02 μM) had no effect on cell viability and beating of the HL-1 cardiomyocytes. Glycolytic fluxes were significantly reduced in treated cells at tested DXR concentrations. Oxidative metabolism was significantly increased (higher glucose oxidation, oxidative decarboxylation, TCA cycle rates, and respiration) suggesting a more efficient use of glucose carbon. These changes were accompanied by decrease of intracellular ATP. We conclude that DXR in nanomolar range significantly changes central carbon metabolism in HL-1 cardiomyocytes, which results in a higher coupling of glycolysis and TCA cycle. The myocytes probably try to compensate for decreased intracellular ATP, which in turn may be the result of a loss of NADH electrons via either formation of reactive oxygen species or electron shunting.
The effects of a Palicourea marcgravii leaf extract on some dopamine-related behaviors were studied in rats. The extract given subcutaneously decreased both spontaneous locomotion and rearing frequencies of rats observed in open-field studies and increased their periods of immobility. The extract was also able to produce a rightward displacement of the apomorphine dose-response curve for stereotyped behavior and decrease the maximum response possible. Although the extract (1.87 g/kg subcutaneously) was unable to produce true catalepsy by itself, it potentiated that induced by haloperidol. These results with the extract can be interpreted to be due to a direct blocking action for the extract on a mesostriatal dopamine receptor or to an indirect effect on dopamine pathways through central cholinergic activation.
