Nephronophthisis (NPHP), a rare recessive cystic kidney disease, is the most frequent genetic cause of chronic renal failure in children and young adults. Mutations in nine genes (NPHP1-9) have been identified. NPHP can be associated with retinal degeneration (Senior-Løken syndrome), brainstem and cerebellar anomalies (Joubert syndrome), or liver fibrosis.
To identify a causative gene for the subset of patients with associated liver fibrosis, the authors performed a genome wide linkage search in a consanguineous family with three affected patients using 50K SNP microarrays and homozygosity mapping.
The authors obtained a significant maximum parametric LOD (logarithm of odds) score of Z(max) = 3.72 on chromosome 8q22 and identified a homozygous missense mutation in the gene MKS3/TMEM67. When examining a worldwide cohort of 62 independent patients with NPHP and associated liver fibrosis we identified altogether four novel mutations (p.W290L, p.C615R, p.G821S, and p.G821R) in five of them. Mutations of MKS3/TMEM67, found recently in Meckel-Gruber syndrome (MKS) type 3 and Joubert syndrome (JBTS) type 6, are predominantly truncating mutations. In contrast, the mutations detected here in patients with NPHP and associated liver fibrosis are exclusively missense mutations. This suggests that they may represent hypomorphic alleles, leading to a milder phenotype compared with the more severe MKS or JBTS phenotype. Additionally, mutation analysis for MKS3/TMEM67 in 120 patients with JBTS yielded seven different (four novel) mutations in five patients, four of whom also presented with congenital liver fibrosis.
Hypomorphic MKS3/TMEM67 mutations cause NPHP with liver fibrosis (NPHP11). This is the first report of MKS3 mutations in patients with no vermian agenesis and without neurological signs. Thus NPHP, JBTS, and MKS represent allelic disorders.
Extrapyramidal syndrome (EPS) is most commonly affected by typical antipsychotic drugs that have a high affinity with the D2 receptor. Recently, many research groups have reported on the positive relationship between the genetic variations in the DRD2 gene and the therapeutic response in schizophrenia patients as a result of the role of variations in the receptor in modulating receptor expression. In this study, we evaluate the role DRD2 plays in chlorpromazine-induced EPS in schizophrenic patients.
We identified seven SNP(single nucleotide polymorphism) (-141Cins>del, TaqIB, TaqID, Ser311Cys, rs6275, rs6277 and TaqIA) in the DRD2 gene in 146 schizophrenic inpatients (59 with EPS and 87 without EPS according to the Simpson-Angus Scale) treated with chlorpromazine after 8 weeks. The alleles of all loci were determined by PCR (polymerase chain reaction).
Polymorphisms TaqID, Ser311Cys and rs6277 were not polymorphic in the population recruited in the present study. No statistical significance was found in the allele distribution of -141Cins>del, TaqIB, rs6275 and TaqIA or in the estimated haplotypes (constituted by TaqIB, rs6275 and TaqIA) in linkage disequilibrium between the two groups.
Our results did not lend strong support to the view that the genetic variation of the DRD2 gene plays a major role in the individually variable adverse effect induced by chlorpromazine, at least in Chinese patients with schizophrenia. Our results confirmed a previous study on the relationship between DRD2 and EPS in Caucasians.
Exogenous insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) has been reported to improve experimental ischemic acute renal failure. We investigated a possible beneficial role of IGF-1 in a model of radiocontrast nephropathy induced by indomethacin, nitro-L-arginine ester and iothalamate. Multiple injections of recombinant human IGF-1 (or its vehicle) at 150 microg/100 g body weight/day were given for 24 h starting 1 h after radiocontrast, or initiated 1 day after the insults and continued for 48 h. IGF-1 prevented neither the fall in creatinine clearance nor medullary thick ascending limb necrosis observed at 24 h. Similarly IGF-1, given for 2 days after renal failure had been established, did not accelerate functional recovery at 72 h, did not ameliorate catabolism and did not alter the morphological evolution of intrarenal damage. In conclusion, IGF-1 had no beneficial effects in this model of radiocontrast nephropathy.
Thrombotic complications of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) can be devastating if not recognized and treated promptly. We describe an unusual case of rapid-onset HIT resulting in massive-bilateral pulmonary emboli in a 70 year-old man who developed chest pain during elective percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The diagnosis was made the following day after persistent chest pain and laboratory work demonstrating a new thrombocytopenia, a mildly elevated troponin, and positive DIC panel led to confirmatory imaging tests. HIT-related thrombosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of chest pain in patients undergoing PCI.
To describe the follow-up of patients with orbital Wegener granulomatosis after antithymocyte globulin treatment.
Patients with ocular/orbital Wegener granulomatosis refractory to standard treatment were selected for immunotherapy with rabbit antithymocyte globulin intravenously. The specific ocular/orbital symptoms were monitored in patients with a vision-threatening form of Wegener granulomatosis or a life-threatening form with ocular symptoms.
One patient had a complete remission, two patients had remissions but still needed additional treatment, and one patient remained refractory.
In selected patients, antithymocyte globulin immunotherapy may present an alternative when vision or life is threatened by orbital Wegener granulomatosis.
In 2 clinical cases of bilateral optic disk oedema, the optic disk oedema was part of a so-called benign, or rather idiopathic, intracranial hypertension. Aetiological investigations were unable to detect any intracranial or systemic anomaly, except the fact that both patients had been on a long-term treatment. The first, a 35-year-old man, was taking Roaccutane (isotretinoin) for acne, for at least 5 years, Supradyne (containing vitamin A) minimum 1 pill per day. The second patient, aged 16 years, had also been treated for acne with Roaccutane and Mynocine (minocyclin) for several months. Minocyclin and vitamin A, contained in these substances, are likely to have induced the idiopathic intracranial hypertension, and consequently the optic disk oedema. Indeed, discontinuing the treatment and rachicentesis led to a significant resolution of symptoms. A good history of the clinical cases thus remains a key-element in the process of diagnosis-making and should be strictly conducted in cases with bilateral optic disk oedema, particularly when seen in young patients.
Halothane (Fluothane) is a halogenic volatile anaesthetic used in therapeutic since 1956. His adverse effects are generally moderate with the exception of hepatitis that is usually severe and sometimes fatal. In our study, we analyze 8 cases of halothane-induced hepatitis, notified in the Centre National de Pharmacovigilance between 1994 and 1999 and validate according to B. Bégaud and collaborators method of imputability. It concerns 5 women and 3 men, aged between 26 and 65 years. The injury was cytolytic in 6 cases and cholestatic in the 2 others. It was fulminant in 3 cases of which 2 leaded to death. These injuries are usually graves, with an unforeseeable appearance and a hypothetical mechanism. In our opinion, a liver function control is necessary at the time of utilization of this drug.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of cetuximab (C225), an antibody that inhibits epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) activity, with cisplatin and to explore associations between EGFR protein expression with patient demographics or clinical outcome.
Women with advanced, persistent, or recurrent carcinoma of the cervix were eligible. The women received cisplatin at 30mg/m(2) on days 1 and 8 with a loading dose of cetuximab at 400mg/m(2) followed by 250mg/m(2) on days 1, 8, and 15 in a 21day cycle. Adverse events were assessed with CTCAE v 3.0. Primary measure of efficacy was tumor response by RECIST. The study was stratified by prior chemotherapy (CT). EGFR protein expression in pre-treatment tumor was analyzed by immunohistochemistry.
Between September 2004 and March 2008, 76 patients were enrolled. Of these, 69 were eligible and evaluable; 44 (64%) received prior chemotherapy. There were 4 responses in each group, prior chemotherapy and no chemotherapy, 9% and 16%, respectively. Grade 4 toxicities included anemia (1), allergy (1), metabolic (1), and vascular (1). The most common grade 3 toxicities were metabolic (15), dermatologic (8), fatigue (6), and gastrointestinal (6). EGFR protein was expressed in 47/48 (98%) of tumors analyzed with a median cellular expression of 81%. Exploratory analyses revealed a trend between the percentage of cells expressing EGFR protein and PFS (hazard ratio=1.76, 95% confidence interval=0.96-3.21).
The combination of cetuximab with cisplatin was adequately tolerated but did not indicate additional benefit beyond cisplatin therapy.
A Phase I study of intravenous (IV) bolus 4'-0-tetrahydropyranyladriamycin (Pirarubicin) was done in 55 patients in good performance status with refractory tumors. Twenty-six had minimal prior therapy (good risk), 23 had extensive prior therapy (poor risk), and six had renal and/or hepatic dysfunction. A total of 167 courses at doses of 15 to 70 mg/m2 were evaluable. Maximum tolerated dose in good-risk patients was 70 mg/m2, and in poor-risk patients, 60 mg/m2. The dose-limiting toxic effect was transient noncumulative granulocytopenia. Granulocyte nadir was on day 14 (range, 4-22). Less frequent toxic effects included thrombocytopenia, anemia, nausea, mild alopecia, phlebitis, and mucositis. Myelosuppression was more in patients with hepatic dysfunction. Pharmacokinetic analyses in 21 patients revealed Pirarubicin plasma T 1/2 alpha (+/- SE) of 2.5 +/- 0.85 minutes, T beta 1/2 of 25.6 +/- 6.5 minutes, and T 1/2 gamma of 23.6 +/- 7.6 hours. The area under the curve was 537 +/- 149 ng/ml x hours, volume of distribution (Vd) 3504 +/- 644 l/m2, and total clearance (ClT) was 204 + 39.3 l/hour/m2. Adriamycinol, doxorubicin, adriamycinone, and tetrahydropyranyladriamycinol were the metabolites detected in plasma and the amount of doxorubicin was less than or equal to 10% of the total metabolites. Urinary excretion of Pirarubicin in the first 24 hours was less than or equal to 10%. Activity was noted in mesothelioma, leiomyosarcoma, and basal cell carcinoma. The recommended starting dose for Phase II trials is 60 mg/m2 IV bolus every 3 weeks.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of an angiotensin-converting enzyne inhibitor (ACEI, quinapril) or angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB, candesartan) on atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) activity in rats with hypertension induced by nitric oxide (NO) inhibition. ACEI and ARB have a number of pharmacologic effects, including blood pressure reduction, myocardial preservation, and an unknown effect in the circulation. The changes in ANP in NO inhibitor-induced hypertensive rats were evaluated in order to elucidate the interaction between ANP and NO in the regulation of blood pressure. Thirty-six rats were divided into 4 groups and administered the experimental agents for 8 weeks: group CONTROL was given regular food (n=9), group N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) was administered L-NNA (25 mg. kg(-1). day(-1), n=9), group ACEI was administered L-NNA and quinapril (10 mg. kg(-1). day(-1), n=9), and group ARB was administered L-NNA and candesartan (10 mg. kg(-1). day(-1), n=9). Blood pressure, plasma ANP, atrial ANP, ANP mRNA, and ANP granules were measured. A significant elevation in blood pressure was observed in group L-NNA. However, there were no increases in plasma ANP (L-NNA: 138.8+/-64.4, CONTROL: 86.7+/-36.4), ANP mRNA (L-NNA: 2.2+/-1.0, CONTROL: 1.7+/-0.5) or ANP granules (L-NNA: 61.1+/-10.2, CONTROL: 64.5+/-8.5). No increase in blood pressure was seen in groups ACEI and ARB. However, plasma ANP (ACEI: 1,392.3+/-1,034.4, ARB: 1,142.8+/-667.3), ANP mRNA (ACEI: 52.8+/-29.1, ARB: 42.9+/-21.2), and ANP granules (ACEI: 122.5+/-23.4, ARB: 136.3+/-33.2) increased significantly. NO inhibitor-induced hypertension caused no changes in ANP concentrations. However, the ACEI and ARB had a direct effect on the induction of ANP secretion. The findings suggest that ANP secretion is directly effected by ACEI and ARB, which seems to play a key role in lowering blood pressure, relieving heart failure symptoms, and preserving the myocardium.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a major safety concern in drug development and clinical drug therapy. However, the underlying mechanism of DILI is little known. It is difficult to predict DILI in humans due to the lack of experimental animal models. Diclofenac, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug rarely causes severe liver injury in human, but there is some evidence for immunoallergic idiosyncratic reactions. In this study, the mechanism of diclofenac-induced liver injury in mice was investigated. First, we established the dosing condition for liver injury in normal mice. Plasma ALT and AST levels were significantly increased in diclofenac-administered (80 mg/kg, i.p.) mice in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Among several interleukins (ILs) and chemokines, mRNA expression of helper T (Th) 17 cell-mediated factors, such as retinoid orphan receptor (ROR)-γt, and signal transducers and activators of transcription factor (STAT) 3 in the liver, and the plasma IL-17 level were significantly increased. Neutralization of IL-17 tended to suppress the hepatotoxicity of diclofenac, suggesting that IL-17 was partly involved. Gadolinium chloride (GdCl₃) administration demonstrated that Kupffer cells are not likely to be involved in diclofenac hepatotoxicity. Hepatic expressions of IL-1β mRNA and plasma IL-1β were significantly increased soon after the diclofenac administration. Then, the results of an in vivo neutralization study of IL-1β suggested that IL-1β was involved early in the time of pathogenesis of the diclofenac-induced liver injury. In conclusion, we firstly developed a diclofenac-induced acute liver injury model in normal mice, and the involvement of IL-17 and IL-1β was clarified.
A 10-year-old boy had a severe lifelong hemorrhagic disorder that had necessitated more than 50 hospitalizations. Laboratory examination showed prolonged bleeding, clotting, partial thromboplastin, prothrombin, and thrombin times. These findings were due to a potent inhibitor of the thrombin-fibrinogen reaction. This inhibitor was similar to heparin in that it acted immediately and did not interfere with the coagulant activities of certain venoms. It differed from heparin in not being adsorbed to barium citrate or neutralized by protamine sulfate. The inhibitory effect was found in the alpha1-globulin fraction. It was identified immunologically and functionally as a double-banded alpha1-antitrypsin of a previously unreported phenotype. The inhibitory effects were depressed by trypsin and heterologous anti-alpha1-antitrypsin.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have recently been considered as potential pharmacological targets in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders and particularly in parkinsonism. Within the basal ganglia, receptors of group I (mGluR1 and mGluR5) are widely expressed; the present study was thus aimed at blocking these receptors in a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model of Parkinson's disease in the rat. Considering the prominent expression of mGluR5, we have used the selective mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP) to target these receptors. In rats trained to quickly depress a lever after a visual cue, bilateral lesions of the dopaminergic nerve terminals in the striatum produced severe akinetic deficits, which were expressed by increases in delayed responses and reaction times. Acute MPEP injection (1.5, 3, and 6 mg/kg, i.p.) had no effect, whereas chronic administration, ineffective in a control group, significantly reversed the akinetic deficits. Alleviation of these deficits was seen after 1 week of treatment, and the preoperative performance was fully recovered after a 3 week treatment of MPEP at all doses. Chronic MPEP also induced ipsilateral rotation in the unilateral 6-OHDA circling model. However, no effect was seen of MPEP (1.5, 3, or 6 mg/kg, i.p.) on haloperidol-induced catalepsy (1 mg/kg, i.p.). Altogether, these results suggest a specific role of mGluRs in the regulation of extrapyramidal motor functions and a potential therapeutic value for mGluR5 antagonists in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Hyperlipoproteinemias are the most frequent metabolic disorders occurring in old age. Because of their capacity to initiate, increase, or accelerate the process of atherogenesis, it is necessary that such disturbances of metabolism be properly treated. One of the most effective drugs which is finding wide application in the medical treatment of hyperlipoproteinemia is clofibrate of which the active substance is clofibrinic acid (Regadrin). The results of an extensive long-time study of clofibrate by World Health Organization workers had led to a world wide discussion of the effects and side effects of this drug. The current state of clofibrate therapy can be summarized as follows: 1. Clofibrate affects above all the metabolism of triglycerides, but has also an effect upon that of cholesterol. 2. A number of epidemiological studies have shown that clofibrate is capable of reducing coronary morbidity and mortality. 3. Increased incidence of cholelithiasis can be among the side effects of clofibrate therapy. 4. Preferred indications of clofibrate therapy are hypertriglyceridemias in type IIb, type III, type IV, and type V hyperlipoproteinemia (in combination with other pharmaceuticals) and refractory hypercholesterolemias in type IIa and type IIb hyperlipoproteinemia.
Immunomodulatory and protective properties have been identified for the keratinocyte growth factor (KGF). For hepatocytes, pro-proliferative and anti-apoptotic effects of this growth factor have been reported in vitro. This study was designed to characterize a putative role of KGF in observed histomorphological changes in both, human and experimental liver fibrosis.
Liver fibrosis and cirrhosis was induced in rats by repetitive exposure to phenobarbitone and increasing doses of carbon tetrachloride. Human samples were obtained from patients undergoing surgery for partial hepatectomy or transplantation. Organ samples were scored for inflammation and morphological changes. Expression of KGF and its receptor (KGFR) mRNA was quantified by real-time RT-PCR. Protein expression and receptor phosphorylation was determined by Western blot analysis. In-situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry were utilized to determine distribution of KGF and KGFR in the liver.
Expression of KGF was significantly increased in damaged liver tissue in correlation to the degree of fibrosis, whereas expression of the receptor was up-regulated in early stages of liver fibrosis and down-regulated in cirrhotic organs. Protein expression of this growth factor and its receptor correlated with the alterations in mRNA. KGF expression was restricted to mesenchymal cells, whereas expression of KGFR was detected on hepatocytes only.
The expression of KGF and KGFR is differentially and significantly regulated in damaged liver tissue. This growth factor might therefore not only contribute to morphological alterations but also regeneration of liver parenchyma most likely mediated by indirect mechanisms of action.
There is a concern about cardiac rhythm disorders related to QTc interval prolongation induced by methadone. A cross-sectional study was designed to evaluate the prevalence of long QTc (LQTc) interval in patients in methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) and risk factors for LQTc.
The study population included 109 subjects (74 males, median age 43 years). Socio-demographic and toxicological variables were recorded, as well as concomitant use of drugs related with QT prolongation, history of heart diseases, and corrected QT interval by heart rate (QTc) in the ECG. Plasma concentrations of (R)-methadone and (S)-methadone enantiomers were determined in 69 subjects.
Ten patients (9.2%) presented a QTc above 440 ms but a QTc above 500 ms was observed in only 2 (1.8%). Patients with QTc above 440 ms compared with the remaining subjects were older (median [25th-75th percentile range]: 49 [39-56] years vs. 37 [33-43]; Wilcoxon's W=217.5, p=0.002) and took a higher daily dose of methadone (median [25th-75th percentile range]: 120 [66-228] mg/day vs. 60 [40-110] mg/day; W=298.5, p=0.037). Methadone dose correlated with QTc interval (Pearson's r(2)=0.291, p=0.002). Patients with and without long QTc showed no differences in plasma concentrations of (R)-methadone and (S)-methadone enantiomers.
The prevalence of LQTc was 9.2%. An association between LQTc and methadone doses was observed but the relationship with plasma concentrations of methadone enantiomers is unclear.
This investigation was intended to determine the morphologic changes of mitomycin C. It is part of a series of experiments designed to evaluate the cytologic and histologic effects of topical chemotherapeutic agents using the FANFT experimental model system in mice. The results for mitomycin C are very similar to those previously reported for thio-tepa. The indicate that these chemicals produce few, if any, drug-specific light microscopic alterations. Rather, mitomycin C and thio-tepa apparently act as toxic substances, causing increased exfoliation, degeneration, and necrosis of urothelial cells. The implications of these findings and suggestions for future investigations are discussed.
The present study was designed to evaluate whether long-term resveratrol administration has beneficial effects on the metabolic control and oxidative stress in diabetic rats.
Male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: normal control, diabetic control, normal treated with resveratrol, and diabetic treated with resveratrol. Diabetes was induced by injection of streptozotocin (50 mg/kg; i.p.), fifteen minutes after the administration of nicotinamide (110 mg/kg; i.p.) in 12 h fasted rats.
Four-month oral resveratrol administration (5 mg/kg/day) significantly attenuated the elevated levels of the blood glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, total protein, albumin, urea, creatinine, and 8-isoprostane in diabetic rats. Moreover, resveratrol administration to diabetic rats improved the reduced levels of glutathione, total antioxidant capacity, and the antioxidant enzymes activities (superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and catalase). No significant differences were observed in the activities of plasma aminotransferases (ALT and AST) and insulin levels between diabetic rats treated with resveratrol and diabetic controls.
The results suggest that chronic resveratrol administration is safe and effective, and may be considered as a beneficial therapeutic compound in diabetes.
Intravenous amphotericin B (AMB) administration in animals causes renal vasoconstriction, ischemia, and oliguria that may result in irreversible renal injury; the mechanism of AMB nephrotoxicity may be similar in human beings. Adenosine is excreted in urine by the ischemic kidney. We hypothesized that adenosine excretion and oliguria would be a marker for patients who later would manifest AMB-associated renal insufficiency and that pre-AMB saline administration (which ameliorates AMB nephrotoxicity) would negate the change in adenosine excretion and urine output.
Twenty hospitalized patients being treated at the direction of their attending physician and who were receiving AMB (15 to 75 mg intravenously) had urine collected for 1 hour before and for 2 hours during AMB infusion. Eleven patients received normal saline solution (500 ml intravenously) before the AMB infusion; the other nine formed the comparator group. An aliquot of each urine collection was precipitated with perchloric acid to remove protein and cellular elements and centrifuged, and the supernatant was assayed for adenosine by using high-pressure liquid chromatography.
Infusion of AMB was associated with a decrease in mean urine output both in patients who received saline solution (245 before versus 149 ml/hr during AMB infusion, p = 0.04) and in patients in comparator group (139 versus 89 ml/hr, p = 0.027). The mean urinary adenosine excretion was unchanged in the saline-loaded group (0.1354 before versus 0.1255 mmol/hr during drug infusion, p = 0.25) and was decreased in the comparator group (0.2276 versus 0.1127 mmol/hr, p = 0.01). Development of renal insufficiency did not correlate with the change in urine output or adenosine excretion.
AMB infusion in human beings results in decreased urine output and decreased adenosine excretion. The latter effect is prevented by a pre-AMB saline load. The changes in urine output and adenosine excretion are not predictive of the development of renal insufficiency.
Salbutamol (Albuterol) and diuretics are commonly prescribed together in patients with airflow obstruction and are associated with electrocardiographic effects. We have now investigated whether the use of potassium-sparing drugs might prevent the ECG sequelae of such combined therapy. Ten healthy subjects received seven days of randomized treatments with: placebo, bendrofluazide (5 mg), bendrofluazide plus triamterene 50 mg (conventional dose), or triamterene 200 mg (high dose), and bendrofluazide plus spironolactone (100 mg). Potassium and ECG responses to inhaled salbutamol, 2 mg, were measured after each treatment period. The T-wave flattening in response to bendrofluazide and salbutamol (0.24[CI, 0.19 to 0.29]mV) was attenuated by the addition of triamterene, 200 mg (0.33[CI, 0.28 to 0.37]mV; p less than 0.05) and spironolactone 100 mg (0.42[CI, 0.37 to 0.47]mV; p less than 0.01), but not by triamterene 50 mg (0.25[CI, 0.20 to 0.30]mV). Spironolactone and high dose triamterene also diminished the frequency of U waves and ST depression. The ECG effects mirrored hypokalemic responses which were also blunted by high dose (p less than 0.01) but not low dose triamterene, as well as by spironolactone (p less than 0.001). Thus, the use of high dose triamterene and spironolactone protected against the hypokalemic and ECG sequelae of combined beta-agonist/diuretic therapy, whereas a conventional dose of triamterene had no effect. These findings may be important in the prevention of a potentially dangerous interaction in susceptible patients taking this combination of drugs.
Postnatal glucocorticoid therapy in premature infants diminishes chronic lung disease, but it also increases the risk of hypertension in adulthood. Since glucocorticoid excess leads to overproduction of free radicals and endothelial dysfunction, this study tested the hypothesis that adverse effects on cardiovascular function of postnatal glucocorticoids are secondary to oxidative stress. Therefore, combined postnatal treatment of glucocorticoids with antioxidants may diminish unwanted effects.
Male rat pups received a course of dexamethasone (Dex), or Dex with vitamins C and E (DexCE), on postnatal days 1-6 (P1-6). Controls received vehicle (Ctrl) or vehicle with vitamins (CtrlCE). At P21, femoral vascular reactivity was determined via wire myography. Dex, but not DexCE or CtrlCE, increased mortality relative to Ctrl (81.3 versus 96.9 versus 90.6 versus 100% survival, respectively; P<0.05). Constrictor responses to phenylephrine (PE) and thromboxane were enhanced in Dex relative to Ctrl (84.7+/-4.8 versus 67.5+/-5.7 and 132.7+/-4.9 versus 107.0+/-4.9% Kmax, respectively; P<0.05); effects that were diminished in DexCE (58.3+/-7.5 and 121.1+/-4.3% Kmax, respectively; P<0.05). Endothelium-dependent dilatation was depressed in Dex relative to Ctrl (115.3+/-11.9 versus 216.9+/-18.9, AUC; P<0.05); however, this effect was not restored in DexCE (68.3+/-8.3, AUC). Relative to Ctrl, CtrlCE alone diminished PE-induced constriction (43.4+/-3.7% Kmax) and the endothelium-dependent dilatation (74.7+/-8.7 AUC; P<0.05).
Treatment of newborn rats with dexamethasone has detrimental effects on survival and peripheral vasoconstrictor function. Coadministration of dexamethasone with antioxidant vitamins improves survival and partially restores vascular dysfunction. Antioxidant vitamins alone affect peripheral vascular function.
The nel-like1 (NELL1) gene maps to chromosome 11p15, which frequently undergoes loss of heterozygosity in esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC). NELL1 promoter hypermethylation was examined by real-time methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction in 259 human esophageal tissues. Hypermethylation of this promoter showed highly discriminative receiver-operator characteristic curve profiles, clearly distinguishing esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and EAC from normal esophagus (NE) (P<0.001). NELL1 normalized methylation values were significantly higher in Barrett's metaplasia (BE), dysplastic Barrett's (D) and EAC than in NE (P<0.0000001). NELL1 hypermethylation frequency was zero in NE but increased early during neoplastic progression, to 41.7% in BE from patients with Barrett's alone, 52.5% in D and 47.8% in EAC. There was a significant correlation between NELL1 hypermethylation and BE segment length. Three (11.5%) of 26 ESCCs exhibited NELL1 hypermethylation. Survival correlated inversely with NELL1 hypermethylation in patients with stages I-II (P=0.0264) but not in stages III-IV (P=0.68) EAC. Treatment of KYSE220 ESCC and BIC EAC cells with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine reduced NELL1 methylation and increased NELL1 mRNA expression. NELL1 mRNA levels in EACs with an unmethylated NELL1 promoter were significantly higher than those in EACs with a methylated promoter (P=0.02). Promoter hypermethylation of NELL1 is a common, tissue-specific event in human EAC, occurs early during Barrett's-associated esophageal neoplastic progression, and is a potential biomarker of poor prognosis in early-stage EAC.
We report a case of ciprofloxacin-induced acute non-oliguric renal failure that developed in a patient with chronic glomerulonephritis. Withdrawal of the drug led to normalization of renal function within 31 days without further specific therapy. Thus, clinicians should be aware of this rare but severe entity.
The aquaporins are molecular water channels that mediate transcellular water transport across water-permeable epithelia. To investigate the cause of the concentrating defect in the nephrotic syndrome, immunoblotting using membrane fractions from inner medulla was utilized to assess the level of expression of four aquaporin water channels in vehicle-treated versus puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-treated rats. Scanning electron microscopy demonstrating loss of glomerular foot processes and measurements of urinary protein excretion confirmed the efficacy of the PAN treatment. In rats receiving PAN, there was an increase in plasma vasopressin, without a change in plasma sodium concentration. Inner medullary tissue hypertonicity was sustained in PAN-treated rats while the urinary osmolality was low, pointing to defective osmotic equilibration across the collecting ducts in PAN-nephrosis. Among collecting duct aquaporins, there was an 87% decrease in aquaporin-2 expression and a 70% decrease in aquaporin-3 expression in the inner medulla, whereas aquaporin-4 expression was unaltered. Transmission electron microscopy of the inner medullary collecting ducts of PAN-treated rats showed normal-appearing cells. Thus, PAN-nephrosis is associated with an extensive downregulation of collecting duct water channel expression despite increased circulating vasopressin, providing an explanation for the concentrating defect associated with the nephrotic syndrome.
