We report a case of dobutamine stress echocardiography-induced Takotsubo syndrome in a 76-year-old hypertensive patient with clinical complaints of chest pain in an elective visit to the cardiologist. Dobutamine-stress-echocardiography was requested to rule out chest pain of coronary origin. During the test, at peak exercise, echocardiogram showed apical akinesia and electrocardiogram showed ST-segment elevation in D1, AVL, and V2. The patient was hospitalized and underwent coronary angiography, which showed normal coronary arteries and left ventricular apical ballooning. During follow-up, the patient's condition remained stable, with regression of the manifestations 21 days after the initial presentation.
To quantify the variability in thermal pain perception of rats with chemically induced brain injury following subcutaneous lithium and pilocarpine administration, 9 female Wistar rats were subjected to a nociceptive (hotplate) paradigm. At approximately 200 days of age, subjects were injected subcutaneously with 3 mEq/kg of lithium chloride followed 4 hr. later by 30 mg/kg of the cholinergic agonist pilocarpine to generate lesions that mimic human temporal lobe (limbic) epilepsy. Over 2 trials 4 of 9 subjects exhibited thermal latencies that exceeded 60 sec. while the remaining subjects obtained mean latencies of 13.40 sec. before demonstrating the criterion nociceptive response. These findings suggest that the multifocal neuronal necrosis subsequent to single peripheral injections of lithium and pilocarpine, followed by the neuroleptic, acepromazine, may significantly augment pain thresholds in certain rats within experimentally epileptic populations.
In this 2-year, randomized study, we compared the efficacy and tolerability of tibolone 2.5 mg (n = 75), tibolone 1.25 mg (n = 76) and estradiol 2 mg plus norethindrone acetate 1 mg (E2/NETA: n = 74) for preventing bone loss in postmenopausal women. Bone mineral density (BMD), measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, and bone remodeling markers were assessed every 6 months. Side-effects were assessed quarterly. After 24 months, the mean increase (+/- SD) in lumbar spine BMD from baseline was 3.6% +/- 2.9%, 1.9% +/- 3.5% and 6.8% +/- 4.5% in the tibolone 2.5 mg, tibolone 1.25 mg and E2/NETA groups, respectively. All pairwise differences were significant. The proportion of responders (women with a change from baseline in lumbar spine BMD of > or = -2% after 2 years) was 95.7%, 89.0% and 98.5% with tibolone 2.5 mg, tibolone 1.25 mg and E2/NETA, respectively. Similar results were obtained for femoral BMD, although the difference between tibolone 2.5 mg and E2/NETA was not significant at 24 months. Decreases in bone remodeling markers were similar in the three groups. Vaginal bleeding was more common in the E2/ NETA group (33.8%) than with tibolone 2.5 mg (12.0%) or tibolone 1.25 mg (9.2%), as was breast pain (23.0%, 2.7% and 2.6%, respectively). Each treatment effectively prevented bone loss. Overall, tolerability of tibolone was better than with E2/NETA, because of less frequent vaginal bleeding and breast pain. This may promote long-term adherence.
The impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) state is characterized by insulin resistance. Disturbances in fatty acid (FA) metabolism may underlie this reduced insulin sensitivity. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the prediabetic state is accompanied by changes in the expression of genes involved in FA handling during fasting and in insulin-mediated conditions and to study the impact of weight loss.
Seven IGT men and 5 men with normal glucose tolerance (NGT), comparable in terms of age and BMI, participated in the study. The 5 IGT men followed a 12-week weight loss program. Muscle biopsies were taken and the expression of 6 genes was investigated.
Subjects had a reduction of 15.5 ± 4.3 kg in body weight. Baseline gene expression was not different between NGT and IGT men. After a hyperinsulinemic clamp, there was an overall upregulation of PGC1α, SREBP-1c, SREBP-2, and ACC-2. The upregulation of SREBP-2 was more pronounced in IGT men (p = 0.049). Weight loss significantly increased insulin sensitivity by 71%, which was not reflected in altered gene expression profiles.
SREBP-2 shows altered insulin responsiveness in IGT men compared with NGT men, while there were no differences in basal gene expression.
Self-injurious behavior (SIB) is a debilitating characteristic that is prevalent across a broad spectrum of neurodevelopmental disorders. In most of these disorders, some individuals exhibit SIB, whereas others do not. However, the neurobiological mechanisms that confer vulnerability are virtually unexplored. We examined innate characteristics that contribute to vulnerability or resistance for SIB in an animal model of the behavioral pathology. Eighteen outbred Long-Evans rats were screened for behavioral responsiveness to the mild stress of a novel environment. The rats were then categorized as high responders (HR; those rats that had the highest locomotor counts) or low responders (LR; those rats that had lower locomotor counts) by median split. All the rats were then given daily injections of the indirect monoamine agonist pemoline (150 mg/kg/day) for 10 days, and self-injury was evaluated. All 9 HR rats and 5 of the 9 LR rats exhibited self-injury. The HR rats spent more time self-injuring, injured more body sites, and caused larger areas of tissue damage than the LR rats did. Furthermore, the behavioral responsiveness to novelty stress was significantly correlated with each of these measures of self-injury. The HR rats did not exhibit substantially enhanced responses on other measures of psychostimulant action (stereotypy, grooming, locomotion, rearing). Accordingly, vulnerability to develop pemoline-induced SIB is positively correlated with, and can be predicted based upon, a behavioral measure of innate stress responsiveness. These findings suggest that characteristics that are common in developmental disorders may help predispose afflicted individuals to self-injure. The findings also extend the variety of behavioral pathologies (e.g. drug addiction) for which the HR/LR model predicts vulnerability.
The effects of N-acetylcysteine, a sulfhydryl group donor, on nitroglycerin-induced headache and dilation of temporal and radial arteries were investigated in 11 healthy volunteers. Nitroglycerin, 0.06 microgram/kg/min, was infused for 20 minutes immediately after and 120 minutes after pretreatment with N-acetylcysteine (100 mg/kg) or placebo. Arterial diameters were measured with high frequency ultrasound, and pain was scored by use of a previously evaluated 10-point scale. Plasma levels of free (n = 2) and total (n = 11) N-acetylcysteine were determined. N-Acetylcysteine potentiated the headache response (median headache score, 3 versus 1), and the headache retained its vascular characteristics. Temporal artery dilation was also potentiated by N-acetylcysteine, 139% +/- 3% versus 127% +/- 3% of baseline, whereas the radial artery was unaffected. The potentiation was most pronounced after the first nitroglycerin infusion (12% versus 4.5% compared with placebo). A prolonged dilation of the temporal artery was observed only after the first nitroglycerin infusion, when high levels of N-acetylcysteine were present.
Heparin, a commonly used anticoagulant agent, is frequently used in patients undergoing hemodialysis. As with most medications, heparin has a significant side effect profile. Two of its most important side effects, major bleeding and hyperkalemia, may be devastating without immediate diagnosis and treatment. Major bleeding such as gastrointestinal, genitourinary or intracranial bleeding is occasionally encountered and rarely neglected. However, heparin-induced cardiac tamponade is rarely encountered and may be easily overlooked. Another side effect, heparin-induced hyperkalemia, an unusual but well-described side effect, is frequently forgotten until life-threatening arrhythmia has occurred. We report a case involving a 40-year-old male patient with uremia, who had received heparin for 10 days for deep vein thrombosis in the left lower extremity. Hemopericardium with cardiac tamponade and life-threatening hyperkalemia were both noted in this patient.
Survivors of acute myocardial infarction with frequent or repetitive ventricular premature depolarisations (VPDs) have higher mortality 1-2 years after the event than those without VPDs. Although there is no therapy of proven efficacy for such patients, previous studies of amiodarone have been encouraging. CAMIAT was a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial designed to assess the effect of amiodarone on the risk of resuscitated ventricular fibrillation or arrhythmic death among survivors of myocardial infarction with frequent or repetitive VPDs (> or = 10 VPDs per h or > or = 1 run of ventricular tachycardia).
Patients from 36 Canadian hospitals were randomly assigned amiodarone or placebo; a loading dose of 10 mg/kg daily for 2 weeks, a maintenance dose of 300-400 mg daily for 3.5 months, 200-300 mg daily for 4 months, and 200 mg for 5-7 days per week for 16 months. Patients were followed up for 2 years. The primary outcome was the composite of resuscitated ventricular fibrillation or arrhythmic death.
We recruited 1202 patients (606 in the amiodarone group and 596 in the placebo group). The mean follow-up was 1.79 years (SD 0.44). In the efficacy analysis, resuscitated ventricular fibrillation or arrhythmic death occurred in 39 (6.9%) [corrected] patients in the placebo group and in 25 (4.5%) [corrected] in the amiodarone group (relative-risk reduction 48.5% [95% CI 4.5 to 72.2], p = 0.016). In the intention-to-treat analysis, primary outcome events occurred in 24 (6.9%) patients in the placebo group and in 15 (4.5%) in the amiodarone group (38.2% [95% CI -2.1 to 62.6], p = 0.029). The absolute-risk reductions were greatest among patients with congestive heart failure or a history of myocardial infarction.
Amiodarone reduces the incidence of ventricular fibrillation or arrhythmic death among survivors of acute myocardial infarction with frequent or repetitive VPDs. Treatment decisions for individual survivors should require an assessment of their baseline risk factors and judgments based on the synthesis of our findings with those of related trials.
Chronic hepatitis B virus infection is among the most common causes of chronic liver disease in children. The aim of this study was to document prospectively our experiences related to lamivudine and high-dose interferon-alpha2a combination in naïve, e antigen positive, chronic hepatitis B virus infection treatment in children. Thirty-three children diagnosed as naïve, immunoactive chronic hepatitis B were treated with lamivudine (3 mg/kg/day) and interferon-alpha2a (10 MU/m2, thrice weekly). Initially, lamivudine was initiated three months before interferon-alpha for induction, and after June 2002, both drugs were started simultaneously. After interferon-alpha was stopped, lamivudine alone was continued for six months. HBeAg seroconversion with the normalization of serum ALT was achieved at the end of treatment and at the end of follow-up for 20/33 patients. Initial mean alanine aminotransferase, 142.9 IU/L, decreased to a mean value of 31.4. End-treatment response and sustained response rates were 66.7% (14/21) and 50% (6/12), respectively, in patients that underwent lamivudine induction before interferon-alpha and in patients that began to receive the two drugs simultaneously (p=0.4). Flu-like syndrome and anorexia were the most common complaints. As our conclusions, we propose that interferon-alpha2a plus lamivudine combination therapy is highly successful and safe in children suffering from chronic hepatitis B. Lamivudine induction before interferon does not seem to be necessary.
We endeavored to use a basic and well-controlled experimental system to characterize the extent and time sequence of sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA) involvement in the development of cardiac hypertrophy, including transcription, protein expression, Ca(2+) transport, and cytoplasmic Ca(2+) signaling. To this end, hypertrophy of neonatal rat cardiac myocytes in culture was obtained after adrenergic activation with phenylephrine (PE). Micrographic assessment of myocyte size, rise of [(14)C]phenylalanine incorporation and total protein expression, and increased transcription of atrial natriuretic factor demonstrated unambiguously the occurrence of hypertrophy. An early and prominent feature of hypertrophy was a reduction of the SERCA2 transcript, as determined by RT-PCR with reference to a stable marker such as glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. Reduction of Ca(2+)-ATPase protein levels and Ca(2+) transport activity to approximately 50% of control values followed with some delay, evidently as a consequence of a primary effect on transcription. Cytosolic Ca(2+) signaling kinetics, measured with a Ca(2+)-sensitive dye after electrical stimuli, were significantly altered in hypertrophic myocytes. However, the effect of PE hypertrophy on cytosolic Ca(2+) signaling kinetics was less prominent than observed in myocytes subjected to drastic SERCA2 downregulation with small interfering RNA or inhibition with thapsigargin (10 nM). We conclude that SERCA2 undergoes significant downregulation after hypertrophic stimuli, possibly due to lack of SERCA gene involvement by the hypertrophy transcriptional program. The consequence of SERCA2 downregulation on Ca(2+) signaling is partially compensated by alternate Ca(2+) transport mechanisms. These alterations may contribute to a gradual onset of functional failure in long-term hypertrophy.
Ventricular arrhythmias are a major cause of death after myocardial infarction, especially in patients with poor left-ventricular function. Previous attempts to identify and suppress arrhythmias with various antiarrhythmic drugs failed to reduce or actually increase mortality. Amiodarone is a powerful antiarrhythmic drug with several potentially beneficial actions, and has shown benefit in several small-scale studies. We postulated that this drug might reduce mortality in patients at high risk of death after myocardial infarction because of impaired ventricular function, irrespective of whether they had ventricular arrhythmias.
The European Myocardial Infarct Amiodarone Trial (EMIAT) was a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial to assess whether amiodarone reduced all-cause mortality (primary endpoint) and cardiac mortality and arrhythmic death (secondary endpoints) in survivors of myocardial infarction with a left-ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 40% or less. Intention-to-treat and on-treatment analyses were done.
EMIAT enrolled 1486 patients (743 in the amiodarone group, 743 in the placebo group). Median follow-up was 21 months. All-cause mortality (103 deaths in the amiodarone group, 102 in the placebo group) and cardiac mortality did not differ between the two groups. However, in the amiodarone group, there was a 35% risk reduction (95% CI 0-58, p = 0.05) in arrhythmic deaths.
Our findings do not support the systematic prophylactic use of amiodarone in all patients with depressed left-ventricular function after myocardial infarction. However, the lack of proarrhythmia and the reduction in arrhythmic death support the use of amiodarone in patients for whom antiarrhythmic therapy is indicated.
Pressor responsiveness to angiotensin II (AII) and phenylephrine (PE) was examined before and after 5 days of ACTH (1 mg, i.m., daily) or hydrocortisone (200 mg, orally, daily) in six normotensive men. Pulse pressure was higher prior to PE than AII infusion, presumably due to feeding. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was increased by both ACTH and hydrocortisone treatment, but more by ACTH. There were no significant changes in AII pressor responsiveness with either ACTH or hydrocortisone. ACTH increased pressor responsiveness to PE at 1.35 and 2 micrograms/kg per min, and hydrocortisone at 0.6-2 micrograms/kg per min, with falls in pulse rate at 0.3-0.9 micrograms/kg per min. Changes in pressor responsiveness do not explain ACTH hypertension.
In this study, we attempted to identify echocardiographic findings that can be used as early predictors of left ventricular dysfunction due to anthracyclines in 26 pediatric oncology patients. Retrospective review identified six patients (group 1 mean anthracycline dose = 337 +/- 123 mg/m2) who developed clinical evidence of cardiomyopathy and 20 consecutive patients followed prospectively (group 2 mean anthracycline dose = 298 +/- 102 mg/m2) who did not. All of the patients had serial m-mode echocardiography before and at approximately every 50 mg/m2 of anthracycline treatment depending on the dosage schedule. The following measurements were recorded: left ventricular dimensions and wall thickness, indices of left ventricular function, including systolic time intervals, shortening fraction, and ejection fraction. Using digitized echocardiography, the following parameters were recorded: peak and normalized systolic and diastolic velocities of the left ventricular chamber, posterior and septal wall velocities, and percent of posterior wall thickening. Variations from established normal longitudinal bounds and actual changes from pre-anthracycline values were compared for the two groups throughout the course of therapy. At 70 mg/m2 of anthracycline, group 1 showed significant deterioration in shortening fraction (mean change = 8.8 versus 2.5, p = .03), left ventricular velocity in diastole (2.9 versus 0.21, p = .04), left ventricular normalized velocity in systole (.65 versus 0.03, p = .02), and left ventricular normalized velocity in diastole (1.15 versus 0.002, p = .04) compared to group 2. These values were mostly compensated by 125 mg/m2, but they slowly deteriorated again at higher doses of anthracycline, leading to the appearance of clinical evidence of cardiomyopathy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The baroreflex control of heart rate was investigated on 10 informed human subjects during light halothane anesthesia (0.3-0.5%, inspired concentration). The relationship of systolic pressure (SP) to the succeeding pulse interval (PI) was evaluated on a beat-to-beat basis during the entire course of sodium nitroprusside (SNP) depressor test. The initial slope of SP-PI plot (dPI/dSP) was used as an index of the sensitivity of baroreflex control of heart rate. Following an injection of SNP (4-6 micrograms/kg), dPI/dt was related directly to dPI/dSP, whereas the latter was inversely correlated with dSP/dt. The recovery of PI lagged behind that of SP, and there was a hysteresislike loop on the SP-PI plot. The time lag of PI recovery and the loop of SP-PI plot were markedly decreased by propranolol treatment and significantly increased by atropine. The slopes of SP-PI plot were significantly decreased by atropine but relatively unaffected by propranolol. These results indicate that SNP-induced hypotension in man during halothane anesthesia is associated with a withdrawal of parasympathetic inhibition and an enhancement of sympathetic activity. The autonomic control of heart rate in response to rapid changes in arterial pressure induced by SNP is dominated by parasympathetic influence; the more persistent sympathetic activity only becomes evident when the parasympathetic influence subsides quickly as the arterial pressure stays relatively constant at a new level. The slope of SP-PI plot (dPI/dSP) and the ratio of dPI/dt to dSP/dt during the decreasing pressure phase of SNP test can be used as indices for the sensitivity of baroreflex control of heart rate.
To locate the cerebellar-activated descending sympathetic pathways in the dog the fastigial nucleus (FN) was electrically stimulated in chloralose-anesthetized dogs while recording from sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Physiological interventions included lesions in the dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) of the spinal cord, myelotomy, arterial pressure changes, bilateral occlusion of the carotid arteries, and administration of clonidine. Multiunit activity at the T2 on T3 white ramus communicans was recorded on-line during rest and FN stimulation. Descending sympathetic activity (averaging 3.5 m/s) in the DLF was increased in response to FN stimulation but was significantly reduced by ipsilateral and eliminated by bilateral FN lesions. When testing for the effects of baroreceptor reflexes on the sympathetic pathway phenylephrine-induced hypertension decreased, but moderate hemorrhage increased the amount of preganglionic activity at rest and during FN stimulation. During hypertension and simultaneous carotid artery occlusion the amount of sympathetic activity that could be evoked was comparable to that evoked during normotensive states. Clonidine (IV) reduced the FN sympathoexcitation, but direct stimulation of the DLF indicated that clonidine had sympathoinhibitory activity at both medullary and spinal sites. In summary, rostral FN primarily excited ipsilateral descending sympathetic pathways in DLF, and this sympathoexcitation was partially inhibited by baroreceptor intervention.
The purpose of this study was to identify gene polymorphisms of interleukin-18 (IL-18) -607A/C and -137G/C specific to patients with oral cancer susceptibility and clinicopathological status.
A total of 1,126 participants, including 559 healthy people and 567 patients with oral cancer, were recruited for this study. Allelic discrimination of -607A/C (rs1946518) and -137G/C (rs187238) polymorphisms of the IL-18 gene was assessed by a real-time PCR with the TaqMan assay. There was no significant association between IL-18 -607A/C polymorphism and oral cancer risk. However, among alcohol consumers, people with A/A homozygotes of IL-18 -607A/C polymorphism had a 2.38-fold (95% CI=1.17-4.86; p=0.01) increased risk of developing oral cancer compared with those with C/C homozygotes. The participants with G/C heterozygotes of IL-18 -137 polymorphism had a 1.64-fold (95% CI: 1.08-2.48; p=0.02) increased risk of developing oral cancer compared with those with G/G wild type homozygotes. Both sets of statistics were determined after adjusting for confounding factors. Among people who had exposure to oral cancer-related environmental risk factors such as areca, alcohol, and tobacco consumption, the adjusted odd ratios and 95% confidence intervals were increased to a 2.02-fold (95% CI=1.01-4.04; p=0.04), 4.04 (95% CI=1.65-9.87; p=0.002) and a 1.66-fold (95% CI=1.00-2.84; p=0.05) risk of developing oral cancer. However, patients with G/C alleles of IL-18 -137 were correlated with a lower clinical stage (AOR=0.59; 95% CI=0.39-0.89; p=0.01), smaller tumor size (AOR=0.56; 95% CI=0.35-0.87; p=0.01), and non-lymph node metastasis (AOR=0.51; 95% CI=0.32-0.80; p=0.003).
IL-18 -137 G/C gene polymorphism may be a factor that increases the susceptibility to oral cancer, as well as a protective factor for oral cancer progression. The interactions of gene to oral cancer-related environmental risk factors have a synergetic effect that can further enhance oral cancer development.
The current prospective study sought to trace the incidence and severity of oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy (OXLIPN) and to determine its clinical and electrophysiological pattern.
Twenty-five adult patients scheduled to be treated with 12 courses of the oxaliplatin-based regimen, FOLFOX-4, for metastatic colon cancer participated in this study. Patients were clinically and electrophysiologically monitored at baseline and followed-up during chemotherapy. The severity of OXLIPN was summarized by means of a modified Total Neuropathy Score (TNS).
Evidence of OXLIPN was disclosed in 16 of the 25 patients (64%). The mean TNS values for patients manifesting some grade of OXLIPN were 13.9 +/- 5.8 (range 7-28). All longitudinal comparisons concerning the motor conduction parameters failed to reach significance. By contrast, comparisons of the median changes at baseline and each of the follow-up studies revealed significant decrease in all sensory action potentials examined.
Our results indicate that the majority of patients treated with the FOLFOX-4 regimen would manifest an axonal, predominately sensory peripheral neuropathy, of mild to moderate severity.
To investigate the effect of anti-cytokine-based therapy in the course of diabetic cardiomyopathy, we performed a study using an anti-TNF-alpha monoclonal antibody treatment (mab) in Sprague male Dawley (SD) rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetic cardiomyopathy. Five days after streptozotocin injection, rats were treated with the anti-TNF-alpha mAb C432A for 6 weeks.At the end of the study, left ventricular (LV) function was determined by a pressure-catheter. Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, vascular adhesion molecule (VCAM)-1, beta2-lymphocyte-integrins(+) (CD18(+), CD11a(+), CD11b(+)), ED1/CD68(+) and cytokine (TNF-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta)- expressing infiltrates, total collagen content and stainings of collagen I and III were quantified by digital image analysis. LV phosphorylated and total ERK protein levels were determined by Western Blot. TNFalpha-antagonism reduced ICAM-1- and VCAM-1 expression and leukocyte infiltration to levels of non-diabetics and decreased macrophage residence by 3.3-fold compared with untreated diabetics. In addition, anti-TNF-alpha mAb-treatment decreased diabetes-induced cardiac TNF-alpha and IL-1beta expression by 2.0-fold and 1.8- fold, respectively, and reduced the ratio of phosphorylated to total ERK by 2.7-fold. The reduction in intramyocardial inflammation was associated with a 5.4-fold and 3.6-fold reduction in cardiac collagen I and III content, respectively. This was reflected by a normalization of cardiac total collagen content to levels of non-diabetics and associated with an improved LV function. TNFalpha-antagonism attenuates the development of experimental diabetic cardiomyopathy associated with a reduction of intramyocardial inflammation and cardiac fibrosis.
Since metabolic neural activity is accompanied by heat release, measurement of local brain temperature offers a method for assessing alterations in neural activity. This approach, continuous monitoring of local brain (ventral tegmental area, ventral striatum, and hippocampus) and body (temporal muscle) temperature, was used to study intravenous cocaine self-administration in trained rats. The first self-administration of a session was preceded by a strong temperature increase that continued after the drug infusion. After peaking at the time of the second self-administration, temperature plateaued (+0.7 degrees C) with biphasic fluctuations (+/-0.10-0.15 degrees C) around each subsequent self-administration. Temperature gradually increased before and for 30-50 s after the lever-press, but then abruptly decreased to a minimum at 180-240 s, when it began to increase to reach another peak immediately after the next lever-press. Doubling the dose of injected cocaine significantly potentiated the post-cocaine temperature decrease and increased time to the next lever-press. In contrast to drug-reinforced lever-presses, temperatures phasically increased after non-reinforced lever-presses and at the end of a session when the lever was blocked and the rat was hyperactive, trying to reach the inaccessible lever. While temperature changes in each recording location were generally correlative, the initial temperature elevation was stronger in all brain structures than in muscle and ventral striatum was the structure that showed the most pronounced and consistent temperature fluctuations. These data suggest a generalized brain activation associated with cocaine-seeking and cocaine-taking behavior with its phasic fluctuations around individual drug self-injections. While the initial component of brain activation preceding the first lever-press for cocaine is internally determined and closely related to behavioral search, subsequent biphasic fluctuations in neural activity associated with repeated drug intakes appear to be drug-mediated. Cocaine-induced potentiation of monoamine transmission is a possible factor for gradual increases in neural activity that drive cocaine seeking, while a rapid, brain concentration-dependent action on Na(+) transport (local anesthetic action) is the most probable factor determining an abrupt, transient cessation of neural activation associated with cocaine reward.
Environmental, dietary, and gastrointestinal factors may contribute to autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Propionic acid (PPA) is a short chain fatty acid, a metabolic end-product of enteric bacteria in the gut, and a common food preservative. Recent evidence indicates that PPA can cause behavioral abnormalities and a neuroinflammatory response in rats. Social behavior was examined in similarly-treated pairs of adult male Long-Evans rats placed in an open field following intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of PPA (4 microl of 0.26 M solution) or control compounds. Behavior was analyzed using both the EthoVision behavior tracking system and by blind scoring of videotapes of social behaviors. Compared to controls, rats treated with PPA displayed social behavior impairments as indicated by significantly greater mean distance apart, reduced time spent in close proximity, reduced playful interaction, and altered responses to playful initiations. Treatment with another short chain fatty acid, sodium acetate, produced similar impairments, but treatment with the alcohol analog of PPA, 1-propanol, did not produce impairments. Immunohistochemical analysis of brain tissue taken from rats treated with PPA revealed reactive astrogliosis, indicating a neuroinflammatory response. These findings suggest that PPA can change both brain and behavior in the laboratory rat in a manner that is consistent with symptoms of human ASD.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have been shown to reduce morbidity and mortality in patients with heart failure. The angiotensin type-1 blocking and cardioprotective properties of perindopril and enalapril were studied in a rat model of dilated cardiomyopathy after autoimmune myocarditis. Enalapril at 20 mg/kg showed the same angiotensin type-1 blocking action as perindopril at 2 mg/kg in rats with heart failure. Twenty-eight days after immunization, surviving Lewis rats (90/120 = 75%) were divided into six groups and administered perindopril at 0.02, 0.2 and 2 mg/kg per day (Groups P0.02, P0.2 and P2), enalapril at 2 and 20 mg/kg per day (Groups E2 and E20) or vehicle alone (Group V, all groups n = 15). After oral administration for 1 month, four of 15 (27%) rats in Group V, and two (13%) in Groups P0.02 and E2 died. None of the animals in Groups P0.2, P2 and E20, or normal rats (Group N) died. Although both angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors improved ventricular function in a dose-dependent manner, the left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and area of myocardial fibrosis were lower, and +/- dP/dt was higher in Group P2 (4.9 +/- 0.6 mmHg, 7.5 +/- 1.4% and +2651 +/- 254/-2622 +/- 189 mmHg/s, respectively) than in Group V (16.7 +/- 1.3, 36 +/- 2.6 and +2659 +/- 176/-2516 +/- 205, respectively) and Group E20 (7.5 +/- 2.5, 15.6 +/- 2.0 and +2018 +/- 110/-2097 +/- 102, respectively). Although the expression levels of transforming growth factor-beta1 and collagen-III mRNA in Group V (36.3 +/- 5.7 and 157.6 +/- 12.7%) were significantly higher than those in Group N (19.6 +/- 3.0 and 65.2 +/- 1.5%, both p < 0.01), they were reduced in Group P2 (21.4 +/- 5.9 and 75.2 +/- 9.3%, both p < 0.01). These results suggest that although enalapril can block increases in blood pressure caused by circulating angiotensin type-1, perindopril at 2 mg/kg may confer greater protection than enalapril at 20 mg/kg against injury from the renin-angiotensin system in heart failure.
We investigated the contribution of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) in maintaining blood pressure during administration of carvedilol in rats with dilated cardiomyopathy, and examined whether SNS hyperactivity induced by high-dose carvedilol is related to severity of heart failure. The hypotensive effect of carvedilol in rats with heart failure (Group F) was not significantly different to that in rats without (Group N). However, enhancement of the plasma norepinephrine concentration during carvedilol administration in Group F was higher than in Group N. The constitutive plasma NE concentration in Group F (562 +/- 146 pg/ml) was significantly higher than in Group N (203 +/- 55 pg/ml) and there was a significant positive correlation between the heart weight to body weight ratio and the plasma norepinephrine concentration. Values for the maximal effect of the norepinephrine hypertensive effect during norepinephrine intravenous infusion (Emax) decreased, and plasma norepinephrine concentrations at half-maximal effect of the norepinephrine hypertensive effect (EC50) increased in Group F compared with Group N (20.8 +/- 6.1 and 28.6 +/- 2.2 mmHg, and 4.5 +/- 1.9 and 1.5 +/- 0.2 ng/ml, respectively). These results suggested that the number of receptors (Emax) and sensitivity (EC50) to the norepinephrine hypertensive effect decreased in Group F. Changes in these parameters in Group F corresponded with the results of a beta-adrenergic receptor binding assay using I-125 iodocyanopindolol (Bmax = 32 +/- 4 in Group F and 53 +/- 2 fmol/mg protein in Group N). These results showed that the SNS (presynaptic) activity increased and the SNS receptor sensitivity in the blood pressure regulation system decreased in heart failure. Therefore, high-dose carvedilol treatment should be used with caution to avoid worsening heart failure.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis was diagnosed in a 50-year-old man undergoing a repeat heart operation after heparinization led to microemboli and an eventual left transmetatarsal amputation. A third heart operation was aborted when anticoagulation with low molecular weight heparin produced intraoperative thrombi. The patient was referred to Toronto where ancrod (Arvin) was used to lower plasma fibrinogen level, allowing successful repair of a ventricular septal defect using cardiopulmonary bypass support. The patient made an uneventful recovery.
