We retrospectively evaluated 443 breast cancer patients treated with high-dose cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and BCNU (STAMP-I) with autologous stem cell support to characterize the cardiac toxicity of this regimen. Patients had stage II-III (n = 243) or stage IV (n = 200) breast cancer. We observed an overall 5.1% incidence of cardiac complications, both clinical and subclinical, in the whole group: 4.9% in stage II-III and 5.5% in stage IV patients. Clinical cardiomyopathy (CMP) was observed in 1.6% of stage II-III patients (1 case of fatal grade 5 toxicity and 3 cases of grade 3 CMP) and in 3.5% of patients with stage IV disease (1 case of grade 4 and 6 cases of grade 3). The incidence of cardiac toxicity did not differ significantly between the groups. Prior radiation therapy to the mediastinum or left chest wall (P = .001) and advanced age (P = .01) were independent predictors of an increased risk of the appearance of this complication. No pharmacodynamic correlation was observed between any of the 3 drugs and cardiac toxicity.
A myogenic phenotype was induced in cultures of human mesothelial cells treated for 72 h with atrazine, a triazine derivative. Immunoreactivity for both myosin and myoglobin was detected in a large number of these cells, irrespective of their polygonal or spindle morphology, whereas no expression of desmin was observed. These findings support the embryological identity of mesothelium and mesoderm, the former being, in the post-embryonic stage, potentially capable of differentiation along the same lineages which the latter normally displays during embryogenesis. In the light of this concept it can be assumed that primary malignancies arising from the mesothelium have the competence to express the pluripotent nature of embryonic mesoderm, and hence the term mesodermoma is appropriate for this group of tumours, including mesotheliomas in a classical sense. A postulated mechanism for the phenotypic change of mesothelial cells is also outlined, involving atrazine conversion to 5-aza-chloro-cytidine, a probable DNA hypomethylating and gene activating agent, like its analogue 5-azacytidine.
5-Fluorouracil plus folinic acid and paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) are effective salvage therapies for metastatic breast cancer patients. Paclitaxel and 5-fluorouracil have additive cytotoxicity in MCF-7 cell lines. We performed a phase II trial of paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 over 3 hours on day I followed by folinic acid 300 mg over 1 hour before 5-fluorouracil 350 mg/m2 on days 1 to 3 every 28 days (TFL) in women with metastatic breast cancer. Analysis is reported on 37 patients with a minimum of 6 months follow-up who received a total of 192 cycles of TFL: nine cycles (5%) were associated with grade 3/4 neutropenia requiring hospitalization; seven (4%) cycles in two patients required granulocyte colony-stimulating factor due to neutropenia; no patient required platelet transfusions. Grade 3/4 nonhematologic toxicities were uncommon. Among the 34 patients evaluable for response, there were three complete responses (9%) and 18 partial responses (53%) for an overall response rate of 62%. Of the 19 evaluable patients with prior doxorubicin exposure, 11 (58%) responded compared with nine of 15 (60%) without prior doxorubicin. Plasma paclitaxel concentrations were measured at the completion of paclitaxel infusion and at 24 hours in 19 patients. TFL is an active, well-tolerated regimen in metastatic breast cancer.
Organic matter extracts were obtained from particulates recovered from 10,000-m3 air samples collected in Sicily (Italy). The overall concentrations of acenaphthene, benzo(a)pyrene, phenanthrene, anthracene, fluoranthene, and pyrene were 526 ng/m3 air in a highly polluted urban area and 48 ng/m3 in a rural area affected by motor vehicle traffic pollution. After metabolic activation, both samples were mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium his(-) strains of the TA and YG series, with potencies in TA100 of 140.7 and 11.8 revertants/m3 air, respectively. The samples, resuspended in tricaprylin, were instilled intratracheally in Sprague-Dawley rats for 5 consecutive days, accounting for a cumulative dose in each animal of the organic fractions extracted from 400 m3 air, which corresponds approximately to the volume of air inhaled by a man in 1 month. Treatment with the rural area sample and, at higher levels, with the urban area sample resulted in the formation of adducts to lung DNA, as assessed both by synchronous fluorescence spectrophotometry and by 32P postlabeling, which showed the appearance of up to six individual adducts emerging from diffuse diagonal radioactive zones. The adducts were more efficiently detected by extraction with butanol than by digestion with nuclease P1. DNA binding of air particulate extracts was followed by alterations of early damage biomarkers only in the rats treated with the urban area sample. Repair of DNA damage in lung cells was inferred from a significant stimulation of the nuclear enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase compared with that in sham-exposed rats. Among the cells recovered by bronchoalveolar lavage, an increase in polymorphonucleate leukocytes and cells of the ciliated respiratory epithelium was accompanied by a relative decrease in pulmonary alveolar macrophages. The frequency of micronuclei was significantly enhanced both in epithelial cells and alveolar macrophages, and binucleated macrophages were also more frequent in treated rats. The thiol N-acetylcysteine, one of the most promising cancer chemopreventive agents, was administered with drinking water to a group of animals receiving the air particulate polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon fraction from the urban area. N-acetylcysteine prevented or considerably attenuated the alterations of all monitored parameters. These findings provide evidence that, even under outstandingly high exposure conditions, it is possible to protect the respiratory tract from DNA-binding and DNA-damaging air particulate carcinogens.
The aim of the study was to investigate the association between methylenetetrahydrofolate (MTHFR) genotypes and levels of homocysteine (Hcy), folate, vitamin B12 and lipids as well as the association between apolipoprotein E (apo E) genotypes and levels of lipids in a Croatian healthy control group and a group of patients with > 70% carotid stenosis (CS). The study included 98 Croats, 38 patients with > 70% carotid stenosis and 60 age- and sex-matched controls. The MTHFR and apo E genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP), Hcy by enzyme immunoassay, vitamins by immunochemiluminiscence, and lipids by spectrophotometric method. There was no difference between control subjects and CS patients in the distribution of C677T MTHFR genotypes (p=0. 786) and alleles (p=0.904), however, differences in the frequencies of apo E genotypes (p=0.012) and alleles (p=0.029) were statistically significant. The odds ratio for apo E 3/4 genotype was 3.93 (95% CI 1.23-12.61). Hyperhomocysteinemia (> or =15 micromol/L) was found in 11% of CS patients and 5% of control subjects. Total cholesterol, triglycerides, vitamin B12 and folate were statistically different in "all MTHFR genotypes" (p<0.001, p<0.01, p=0.044 and p=0.036, respectively), and in TC/TT (p<0.001, p=0.003, p=0.030 and p=0.032, respectively) groups. The levels of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglycerides in the apo E 3/3, and total cholesterol in the apo E 3/4 group yielded statistical difference. An association was found of apo E 3/4 genotype but not of MTHFR genotypes with the risk of CS. MTHFR and apo E affect blood lipid levels, which was statistically confirmed. An association was also recorded between hyperhomocysteinemia and patients with CS. Vitamin status in CS showed a statistically verified association with TC/TT MTHFR genotype. In the group of patients with TC/TT MTHFR genotype, lower vitamin B12 and higher folate values were recorded. The results of multiple logistic analysis showed that there was no statistical significance of Hcy levels (OR 2.403, p=0.334) or conventional vascular risk factors such as smoking habit (OR 0.505, p=0.149), age (OR 1.048, p=0.087) or sex (OR 2.037, p=0.112) in predicting CS.
Basaloid skin tumors, including basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and basaloid follicular hamartoma, are associated with aberrant Hedgehog (Hh) signaling and, in the case of BCC, an expanding set of genetic variants including keratin 5 (encoded by KRT5), an intermediate filament-forming protein. We here show that genetic ablation of keratin 17 (Krt17) protein, which is induced in basaloid skin tumors and co-polymerizes with Krt5 in vivo, delays basaloid follicular hamartoma tumor initiation and growth in mice with constitutive Hh signaling in epidermis. This delay is preceded by a reduced inflammation and a polarization of inflammatory cytokines from a Th1- and Th17-dominated profile to a Th2-dominated profile. Absence of Krt17 also attenuates hyperplasia and inflammation in models of acute dermatitis. Re-expression of Krt17 in Gli2(tg); Krt17(-/-) keratinocytes induces select Th1 chemokines that have established roles in BCC. Our findings establish an immunomodulatory role for Krt17 in Hh driven basaloid skin tumors that could impact additional tumor settings, psoriasis and wound repair.
Severe exfoliative dermatitis and liver dysfunction developed in a 5-year-old girl 3 weeks after initiation of phenobarbital therapy. Liver function improved gradually after discontinuation of phenobarbital. During the convalescent stage an initially mild renal dysfunction was exacerbated by episodes of post-transfusion haemolysis. Liver biopsy revealed moderate parenchymal damage with subacute cellular infiltration. Renal biopsy demonstrated the cardinal findings of interstitial nephritis, excluding the possibility of acute tubular necrosis caused by haemolysis. Serial lymphocyte transformation studies and skin patch tests gave positive results for phenobarbital, supporting the view that these were unusual complications of phenobarbital hypersensitivity.
A double-blind investigation was done on 44 patients with noninvasive bladder tumors (stage Ta) given randomized intravesical treatment with doxorubicin with or without urokinase. The bladder tumors were not removed before treatment in any patient. No significant difference in response was detected between the 2 types of treatment. Of the patients 86 per cent responded to treatment, including 52 per cent who achieved complete remission. At 12 and 42 months after termination of treatment 42 and 35 per cent of the patients, respectively, remained free of recurrent tumor.
We report a case in which a 42-yr-old man suffered a unilateral convulsion immediately after i.v. injection of propofol, and was discovered subsequently to have an old contralateral cerebral infarct. This complication and the current information on the relationship between propofol and abnormal neurological activity are discussed.
beta-Catenin is a central component of both the cadherin-catenin cell adhesion complex and the Wnt signaling pathway. We have investigated the role of beta-catenin during brain morphogenesis, by specifically inactivating the beta-catenin gene in the region of Wnt1 expression. To achieve this, mice with a conditional ('floxed') allele of beta-catenin with required exons flanked by loxP recombination sequences were intercrossed with transgenic mice that expressed Cre recombinase under control of Wnt1 regulatory sequences. beta-Catenin gene deletion resulted in dramatic brain malformation and failure of craniofacial development. Absence of part of the midbrain and all of the cerebellum is reminiscent of the conventional Wnt1 knockout (Wnt1(-/-)), suggesting that Wnt1 acts through beta-catenin in controlling midbrain-hindbrain development. The craniofacial phenotype, not observed in embryos that lack Wnt1, indicates a role for beta-catenin in the fate of neural crest cells. Analysis of neural tube explants shows that (beta-catenin is efficiently deleted in migrating neural crest cell precursors. This, together with an increased apoptosis in cells migrating to the cranial ganglia and in areas of prechondrogenic condensations, suggests that removal of beta-catenin affects neural crest cell survival and/or differentiation. Our results demonstrate the pivotal role of beta-catenin in morphogenetic processes during brain and craniofacial development.
We described two cases with papilledema within the first months of amiodarone treatment. The particular aspects of these cases are, on one hand the development of the optic neuropathy before any toxic change of the cornea and on the other hand the daily and weekly doses prescribed in both cases. We reviewed the meta-analysis studies on the subject and the different pathogenic mechanisms described until now.
Multiple inotropic agents may be required to improve hypotension associated with beta-blocker toxicity. This study compared combined amrinone and glucagon therapy to glucagon alone and saline control for the treatment of propranolol-induced cardiovascular depression in a canine model. Six animals were pretreated with 10 mg/kg of propranolol intravenously (i.v.), which resulted in significant depression in heart rate (HR), cardiac output (CO), mean arterial pressure (MAP), and maximal left ventricular change in pressure over time (dP/dt max) (P < .0001). Each canine received i.v. amrinone (4 mg/kg) plus glucagon (20 micrograms/kg) therapy during a 2-minute period after propranolol infusion was completed. Cardiovascular parameters were monitored at 1, 6, 11, 21, and 31 minutes after treatment was rendered. Results were compared with those of a previous study, consisting of six animals that received glucagon therapy alone (20 mg/kg) and six controls (normal saline only) in an identical protocol. The addition of i.v. amrinone to glucagon therapy did not increase significantly, HR, CO, stroke volume, or dP/dt max compared with glucagon alone. Total systemic peripheral resistance was reduced significantly during 31 minutes of observation after the administration of combined therapy compared with the control; glucagon alone also reduced systemic peripheral resistance at 1 and 6 minutes. At all time periods except 1 minute of observation there was a significant reduction in MAP when comparing combined therapy with that of glucagon therapy alone. In this model, the addition of amrinone to glucagon therapy seems to have a detrimental effect on the ability of glucagon to increase MAP resulting from propranolol toxicity.
We studied the temporal patterns of chorea and plasma levodopa profiles in 30 patients with Parkinson's disease whose motor fluctuations were difficult to characterize and treat on the basis of observation alone. We were able to determine whether chorea was associated with high levodopa concentrations or low levodopa concentrations or both. We found the following patterns of levodopa-associated chorea: chorea due to inadequate levodopa levels, chorea due to biphasic levodopa absorption, chorea associated with either rapid or slow levodopa absorption, and chorea due to long-duration levodopa absorption mimicking a sustained-release preparation. Seven patients benefited after their dosing schedules were rearranged as a result of information gained from monitoring. We conclude that any patient with levodopa-associated chorea who cannot be regulated on the basis of observation alone should be studied with simultaneous plasma levodopa measurements and clinical monitoring to detect an unusual plasma levodopa pattern that may be improved by adjustment of dosing schedule.
Panax notoginseng (Burk) F.H. Chen (Araliaceae) is a well-known and commonly used traditional Chinese herb for treatment of various diseases, such as hemostasis, edema and odynolysis.
Our aim was to investigate the mechanisms of anti-hyperglycemic and anti-obese effects of Panax notoginseng saponins (PNS) in KK-Ay mice, and explore the components in PNS for such effects.
KK-Ay mice received daily intraperitoneal injections of PNS 200mg/kg or vehicle for 30 days while ginsenoside Re 14 mg/kg, Rd 15 mg/kg, Rg1 40 mg/kg, Rb1 60 mg/kg and notoginsenoside R1 6 mg/kg for 12 days. Fasting blood glucose levels (FBGL), glucose tolerance (GT), serum insulin, leptin levels, body weight changes, food intake, adipose tissues and blood fat levels were measured at different time points.
The PNS group had significantly lower FBGL, improved GT and smaller body weight incremental percentage after the 30-day treatment. Additionally, Rb1 exhibited significant reduction of FBGL on day 12, and Re also exhibited a decreasing trend after the 12-day treatment.
PNS possess anti-hyperglycemic and anti-obese activities by improving insulin- and leptin sensitivity, and Rb1 is responsible for the anti-hyperglycemic effect among the five saponins in KK-Ay mice.
This paper describes a rapid and systematic method of using open trials to identify medications that may be useful for the treatment of cocaine dependence. Results of these open trials can be used to prioritize medications for inclusion in subsequent double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. Preliminary results are presented from the evaluation of propranolol, nefazodone, and the combination of phentermine and fenfluramine (phen/fen). Each medication was evaluated in an open trial, and results were compared to results obtained from a group that received a multivitamin. Outcome measures included treatment retention, urine toxicology screens, self-reported cocaine use, and changes on the Addiction Severity Index (ASI). Treatment retention was significantly better in the propranolol group than in the multivitamin group. Concurrent alcohol abuse was associated with increased rates of attrition in the multivitamin group, and the phen/fen group, but not in the propranolol group. Neither the nefazodone nor the phen/fen groups showed any outcome advantages over the multivitamin group. We conclude that propranolol may enhance retention among cocaine-dependent patients, especially among those who also abuse alcohol. These results encourage a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of propranolol.
Muscle biopsy specimens were obtained from 48 human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients suffering from various neuromuscular symptoms. Microscopic examination by conventional and electron microscopy revealed a characteristic structural myopathy associated with mitochondrial changes in 13 patients, all of whom had received long-term zidovudine therapy. The mean cumulative dose they had received (498 +/- 145 gm) was significantly higher than that of the other 14 zidovudine recipients of the study. They suffered from a progressive, usually painful, proximal myopathy with pronounced wasting, normal-to-moderately elevated creatine kinase levels, and a myopathic electromyographic pattern. The condition usually improved after withdrawal of the drug. Assay of mitochondrial enzymes, including succinate-cytochrome c reductase, cytochrome c oxidase, and citrate synthase, showed a decline in respiratory chain capacity. Southern blot analysis of mitochondrial DNA showed no abnormality. It is likely that mitochondrial dysfunction, probably resulting from drug-induced inhibition of the mitochondrial DNA polymerase, is implicated in the pathogenesis of this complication of zidovudine therapy.
Obesity-associated hypertension is difficult to treat and puts patients at a substantially increased risk of cardiovascular events. Irbesartan has previously been shown to effectively lower blood pressure (BP) in high-risk groups including patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus or nephropathy, and may therefore also be suitable for the treatment of obesity-associated hypertension. In this study we aimed to: (a) assess the efficacy and tolerability of irbesartan alone and in combination with hydrochlorothiazide in patients with obesity-associated mild-to-moderate hypertension; and (b) investigate patient-associated determinants of poor BP control in this patient group.
This was a 3-month, prospective, open-label, multicentre, phase IV study in 72 479 hypertensive patients in 6989 general practices across Germany. Main outcome measures were BP reduction (primary parameter of effectiveness) and BP response rates after 3 months, as well as adverse events (AEs). Independent predictors of poor control were identified in a multivariate proportional odds model.
All of the patients were Caucasian, 50.5% were females, mean age was 62.1 +/- 11.1 years, mean bodyweight was 88.6 +/- 15.4kg, and mean body mass index (BMI) was 30.7 +/- 4.8 kg/m(2). Almost all the patients were overweight or obese (92.3%). From a baseline value of 162/94mm Hg, systolic and diastolic BP were reduced by a mean of -23/-12mm Hg after 3 months. 66.1% of the patients were responders (reduction of diastolic BP >/=10mm Hg), and 48.0% achieved BP normalisation (i.e. <140/90mm Hg). 79% of patients met their individual treatment goals as defined by the treating physician (mean 135/80mm Hg). AEs were reported in only 322 patients (0.4%). Factors requiring special attention in patients not achieving BP control were age (>55 years), high BMI category (>25 kg/m(2)), and increased waist circumference.
Treatment with irbesartan (+/- hydrochlorothiazide) appeared to be effective and well tolerated in the study population of patients with obesity- associated hypertension. Easily recognisable characteristics allow physicians to identify patients whose BP is likely to be difficult to control.
Different pathophysiological mechanisms may underly orthostatic hypotension (OH) observed in neurological degenerative disorders. The present study investigates the responses to the pharmacological activation of sympathetic pathways induced by yohimbine (0.2 mg/kg orally) through measurements of plasma catecholamine levels in parkinsonian patients with (n = 9) or without OH (n = 11), in patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA) plus OH (n = 9), and in controls (n = 6). Basal norepinephrine plasma levels in parkinsonian patients with OH (71 +/- 11 pg/ml) were significantly lower (p < 0.05) than in parkinsonian patients without OH (280 +/- 25 pg/ml) or in controls (259 +/- 48 pg/ml). In patients with MSA plus OH, basal catecholamine plasma levels were in the normal range (344 +/- 54 pg/ml). Yohimbine significantly increased norepinephrine (p < 0.05) but not epinephrine plasma levels in all groups. However, the increment obtained in parkinsonian patients with OH (+53 +/- 18 pg/ml) remained significantly lower (p < 0.05) than in parkinsonian patients without OH or in controls (+638 +/- 140 and +457 +/- 103 pg/ml, respectively) as well as in MSA plus OH (+633 +/- 142 pg/ml). Yohimbine failed to modify the blood pressure and heart rate at the dose used. The results suggest that the yohimbine test is useful to elucidate the site of the dysfunction of the efferent sympathetic pathways in these two conditions. In Parkinson disease with OH, the lesion is both central and postganglionnic, whereas in MSA it is only centrally located.
Nitrates are the basic medication of patients suffering from coronary heart disease. Frequently they are combined with calcium-antagonists or beta-receptor-blocking agents. The dose of 20 mg non-retarded dinitrates or mononitrates three times a day have the same effect as retarded nitrates once a day but of a higher dose (60-120 mg). The meaning of this drug has increased because of new results on the mechanism of action: nitric oxide is able to substitute the missing EDRF in the injured intima and leads to dilatation of the stenosis. This mechanism is the basis for the antianginal effect. Already minimal doses (0.025 mg nitroglycerine i.v. 1.25 mg isosorbide dinitrate oral) are effective independent of the dilatation of peripheral venous and arterial vessels. The antiaggregatory effect decrease thrombus formation in patients with unstable angina and the risk of infarction and produce a kind of rinsing effect in the stenosis. The size of infarction becomes smaller, the expansion of the ventricle is less and the prognosis improved. Concerning the calcium-antagonists dihydropiridine-preparations, verapamil and diltiazem have to be separated. Arterial vasodilatation of nifedipine may increase heart rate during exercise and rarely coronary steel phaenonemen. In contrast verapamil (3 x 120 mg) and gallopamil (3 x 50 mg) have strong antianginal effects and reduce the ischemic reaction during exercise about 50%. Heart rate is reduced during physical exercise, similar to the beta-receptor-blocking agents. AV-blocks are rare. Obstipation is more frequent with verapamil than with gallopamil. Verapamil decreases the infarct size and improves the prognosis after infarction in patients without left ventricular failure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Aluminum (Al), a known neurotoxin, has been implicated in Alzheimer's Disease (AD), Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), Parkinsonism Dementia Complex, etc., and it causes extensive damage to the nervous system, including the impairment of learning and memory. However, to date, the mechanism of Al neurotoxicity has not been fully elucidated. Neuronal apoptosis has become a focus of interest, as it has been reported to play a key role in the impairment of learning and memory processes (Thompson, Science 267:1456, 1995). The Bcl-2 gene acts as an important effector for inhibiting apoptosis. In the present study we observe neuronal apoptosis in association with learning and memory impairment, as well as regional brain alterations in Bcl-2 expression in rats chronically exposed to Al. The chronic Al-intoxicated model was established by i.p. injection of AlCl3 in adult Sprague Dawley rats for 3 successive days, with one-day intervals, for 60 days. After exposure, the step-down test was performed to examine the behavioral reaction of the rats. Neuronal apoptosis and Bcl-2 protein expression in different regions of rat brain were then assessed by an immunohistochemical method. In the step-down test, the latency of Al-exposed rats was significantly lower than that of controls. Also, the number of performance errors in 5 minutes of exposure was significantly higher than that of controls. Neuronal apoptosis was extensive in the brain of Al-exposed groups, and the expressions of Bcl-2 protein in frontal cortex, cerebellum and hippocampus of Al-exposed rats was stronger. In conclusion, chronic Al-exposure in rats is associated with neuronal apoptosis in brain, and impaired learning and memory. Augmented Bcl-2 protein expression may be a stimulated compensatory mechanism.
In some studies, nano-copper particles have been found to be acutely toxic to exposed mice, with the liver and kidney being the target tissues. However, the characteristics of subacute toxicity from repeated nano-copper exposure in rats and the molecular mechanism of its hepatotoxicity at the genomic level remain unclear. We investigated the mechanisms of nano-copper-induced hepatotoxicity, which were identified from hepatic gene expression profiles that were phenotypically anchored to conventional toxicological outcomes, and identified biomarkers of nanotoxicity caused by nano-copper. Male Wistar rats were administered nano-copper or micro-copper at different doses for five days. Subsequently, we examined conventional toxicological parameters including body weight, clinical chemistry, and histopathology, and also used microarrays to identify gene expression changes in rat liver. High dose nano-copper induced increases in alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, triglyceride, total bilirubin, total bile acid levels, and a decrease in body weight. Histopathological studies of the liver indicated scattered, dotted hepatocytic necrosis in all rats in the high dose nano-copper group. Identified genes from the group receiving the high dose were functionally categorized, and results showed that genes related to oxidoreductase activity, metabolism, and signal transduction were involved in the development of the observed phenotypes. The results also suggest that altered gene expression patterns induced by exposure to a low, subtoxic dose of nano-copper may reveal signs of cell stress or subtle cell injury indicative of overt toxicity at higher doses. Results in this study provide new insights into the toxicology of nano-copper particles and illustrate how toxicogenomic approaches are providing an unprecedented amount of mechanistic information on molecular responses to nano-copper, as well as how they are likely to impact hazard and risk assessment. Gene expression changes are likely to be more sensitive indicators of potential adverse effects than traditional measurements of toxicity.
Twenty patients undergoing intracranial aneurysm clipping were anesthetized with doses of thiopental sufficient to produce electroencephalographic burst suppression, nitrous oxide, oxygen, and morphine sulfate. Diuresis was induced with a combination of furosemide and mannitol. The cardiovascular effects of this anesthetic technique were studied. The central venous, pulmonary artery, pulmonary artery wedge, and systemic arterial blood pressures and the cardiac output were determined. The cardiac index and the systemic and pulmonary vascular resistance were calculated. The systemic blood pressure remained unchanged throughout the procedure except during the period of induced hypotension. The cardiac index decreased on the average from 3.3 during the control period to 2.15 litres/minute/m2 after the induction of anesthesia and diuresis (P less than 0.05). During sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension, there was a further decrease in the cardiac index to 1.81 litres/minute/m2 (P less than 0.05). Changes in the cardiac index were associated with a significant decrease in the central venous and pulmonary artery wedge pressures from 2.5 to 0.1 and 5.9 to 0.2 torr, respectively) and an increased systemic vascular resistance. Cardiovascular performance recovered quickly after termination of the induced hypotension and remained stable in the postoperative period. This anesthetic technique seems to be useful in the surgical repair of intracranial aneurysms.
In 61 out-patients with essential hypertension, grade I or II, propranolol was administered alone in increasing doses (3 x 40 mg/d or 3 x 80 mg/d) or, if there was insufficient response, with a double or triple combination consisting additionally of spironolactone (50 mg/d)-thiabutazide (5 mg/d) and dihydralazine (3 x 25 mg/d). This treatment schedule achieved normal pressures in 51 patients, in 22 on 40 mg, in 7 on 80 mg propranolol, in 16 after the addition of the diuretic, and in 6 with the triple combination. Four patients had to be excluded from the study because they developed either marked bradycardia or anxiety states or paraesthesias after propranolol (3 x 40 mg/d). On chronic beta-adrenergic blockade the serum potassium level increased slightly, but remained within normal limits. The initial value of plasma-renin activity was highest in the group of those who responded to the propranolol treatment.
We identified a new point mutation in the CYP19 gene responsible for aromatase (P450arom) deficiency in a 46,XY male infant with unremarkable clinical findings at birth. This boy is homozygote for a 1-bp (C) deletion in exon 5 of the aromatase gene causing a frame-shift mutation. The frame-shift results in a prematurely terminated protein that is inactive due to the absence of the functional regions of the enzyme. Aromatase deficiency was suspected prenatally because of the severe virilization of the mother during the early pregnancy, and the diagnosis was confirmed shortly after birth. Four weeks after birth, the baby boy showed extremely low levels of serum estrogens, but had a normal level of serum free testosterone; in comparison with the high serum concentration of androstenedione at birth, a striking decrease occurred by 4 weeks postnatally. We previously reported elevated basal and stimulated FSH levels in a female infant with aromatase deficiency in the first year of life. In contrast, in the male infant, basal FSH and peak FSH levels after standard GnRH stimulation tests were normal. This finding suggests that the contribution of estrogen to the hypothalamic-pituitary gonadotropin-gonadal feedback mechanism is different in boys and girls during infancy and early childhood. In normal girls, serum estradiol concentrations strongly correlate with circulating inhibin levels, and thus, low inhibin levels may contribute to the striking elevation of FSH in young girls with aromatase deficiency. In contrast, estradiol levels are physiologically about a 7-fold lower in boys than in girls, and serum inhibin levels remain elevated even though levels of FSH, LH, and testosterone are decreased.
