The cardiovascular effects of catecholamines intrathecally (i.t.) injected at the T12-L1 level were analyzed in pentobarbital anesthetized rats. Volumes of injection were not greater than 3 microliters. Noradrenaline in doses ranging from 0.03 to 0.3 micrograms (i.t.) did not alter the mean blood pressure (MBP) while higher doses (1, 3 and 10 micrograms, i.t.) caused a dose-dependent increase in MBP. Adrenaline induced hypotensive effects at low doses (0.03-0.3 micrograms i.t.) and pressor effects at high doses (3 and 10 micrograms, i.t.). Neither adrenaline nor noradrenaline modified the heart rate. The pressor responses to both catecholamines were antagonized by the alpha 1-adrenoceptor blocker prazosin (0.05-1 microgram, i.t.) and by the selective alpha 1A-adrenoceptor antagonist 5-methyl urapidil (10 and 15 micrograms, i.t.). In contrast, these pressor effects were not modified by the alpha 1B-adrenoceptor antagonist chloroethylclonidine (90 micrograms i.t.). In animals pretreated with 1 microgram prazosin (i.t.), low doses of noradrenaline (0.03 and 0.1 microgram, i.t.) caused a hypotensive effect. Prazosin (1 microgram i.t.) failed to alter the hypotension caused by 0.1 microgram adrenaline. The hypotensive response induced by either 0.1 microgram noradrenaline (in the presence of prazosin) or 0.1 microgram adrenaline was blocked by the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (1 mg/kg, i.v.), by the GABA-A antagonists bicuculline (3.2 micrograms, i.t.) and picrotoxin (2.7 micrograms, i.t.), and by the GABA-B antagonist 2-hydroxy saclofen (30 micrograms, i.t.). The glycine-receptor antagonist strychnine (25 micrograms, i.t.) did not modify the hypotension induced by either noradrenaline (in the presence of prazosin) or adrenaline. These findings suggest that in the low thoracolumbar spinal cord of pentobarbital-anesthetized rats, noradrenaline and adrenaline have excitatory as well as inhibitory effects on the control of the BP. The pressor responses of high doses of i.t. injected catecholamines could be mediated by the activation of spinal alpha 1A-adrenoceptors, although the participation of alpha 1B-adrenoceptors cannot be rule out entirely. The hypotensive responses induced by low doses of i.t. injected catecholamines seem to involve the activation of spinal alpha 2A-adrenoceptors and the stimulation of an inhibitory GABAergic neuron in the spinal cord.
Tumor suppressor CCAAT enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPalpha) is a transcription factor involved in cell cycle control and cellular differentiation. In a recent study, microarray expression profiling on head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) samples identified significant C/EBPalpha down-regulation, correlating with poor prognosis. However, the mechanisms of C/EBPalpha down-regulation remained elusive. C/EBPalpha has been previously found to provide an antiproliferative role in lung cancer, and our laboratory showed that its down-regulation involves epigenetic mechanisms. This prompted us to investigate the involvement of epigenetics in down-regulating C/EBPalpha in HNSCC. Here, we show that C/EBPalpha is down-regulated in HNSCC by loss of heterozygosity and DNA methylation, but not by gene mutation. We found a consistently methylated upstream regulatory region (-1,399 bp to -1,253 bp in relation to the transcription start site) in 68% of the HNSCC tumor samples, and DNA demethylation using 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine treatment was able to significantly restore C/EBPalpha mRNA expression in the HNSCC cell lines we tested. In addition, C/EBPalpha overexpression in a HNSCC cell line (SCC22B) revealed its ability to provide tumor suppressor activity in HNSCC in vitro and in vivo. In conclusion, we showed for the first time not only that C/EBPalpha has tumor suppressor activity in HNSCC, but also that it is down-regulated by DNA promoter methylation.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) remains a major therapeutic challenge despite advances in neonatal resuscitation and intensive care. The high mortality and morbidity in CDH has been attributed to pulmonary hypoplasia and persistent pulmonary hypertension (PH). Bone morphogenetic protein receptor 2 (BMPR2) plays a key role in pulmonary vasculogenesis during the late stages of fetal lung development. BMPR2 is essential for control of endothelial and smooth muscle cell proliferation. Dysfunction of BMPR2 and downstream signaling have been shown to disturb the crucial balance of proliferation of smooth muscle cells contributing to the pathogenesis of human and experimental PH. We designed this study to investigate the hypothesis that BMPR2 signaling is disrupted in nitrofen-induced CDH.
Pregnant rats were treated with nitrofen or vehicle on gestational day 9 (D9). Fetuses were sacrificed on D21 and divided into CDH and control. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, and confocal-immunofluorescence were performed to determine pulmonary gene expression levels and protein expression of BMPR2 and related proteins.
Pulmonary Bmpr2 gene expression levels were significantly decreased in nitrofen-induced CDH compared to controls. Western blotting and confocal microscopy revealed decreased pulmonary BMPR2 protein expression and increased activation of p38(MAPK) in CDH compared to controls.
The observed disruption of the BMPR2 signaling pathway may lead to extensive vascular remodeling and contribute to PH in the nitrofen-induced CDH model. BMPR2 may therefore represent a potential target for the treatment of PH in CDH.
Birt-Hogg-Dubé (BHD) syndrome is a rare inherited genodermatosis characterized by hair follicle hamartomas, kidney tumors, and spontaneous pneumothorax. Recombination mapping in BHD families delineated the susceptibility locus to 700 kb on chromosome 17p11.2. Protein-truncating mutations were identified in a novel candidate gene in a panel of BHD families, with a 44% frequency of insertion/deletion mutations within a hypermutable C(8) tract. Tissue expression of the 3.8 kb transcript was widespread, including kidney, lung, and skin. The full-length BHD sequence predicted a novel protein, folliculin, that was highly conserved across species. Discovery of disease-causing mutations in BHD, a novel kidney cancer gene associated with renal oncocytoma or chromophobe renal cancer, will contribute to understanding the role of folliculin in pathways common to skin, lung, and kidney development.
Aldosterone is implicated in cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis. We tested the role of the mineralocorticoid receptor in a model of angiotensin II-induced cardiac injury. We administered spironolactone (SPIRO; 20 mg. kg(-1). d(-1)), valsartan (VAL; 10 mg. kg(-1). d(-1)), or vehicle to rats double transgenic for the human renin and angiotensinogen genes (dTGR). We investigated basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), platelet-derived growth factor, transforming growth factor-beta(1), and the transcription factors AP-1 and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB. We used immunohistochemistry, electrophoretic mobility shift assays, and TaqMan RT-PCR. Untreated dTGR developed hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy, vasculopathy, and fibrosis with a 50% mortality rates at 7 weeks. SPIRO and VAL prevented death and reversed cardiac hypertrophy, while only VAL normalized blood pressure. Both drugs prevented vasculopathy. bFGF was markedly upregulated in dTGR, whereas platelet-derived growth factor-B and transforming growth factor-beta(1) were little changed. VAL and SPIRO suppressed this upregulation. Both AP-1 and NF-kappaB were activated in dTGR compared with controls. VAL and SPIRO reduced both transcription factors and reduced bFGF, collagen I, fibronectin, and laminin in the interstitium. These findings show that aldosterone promotes hypertrophy, cardiac remodeling, and fibrosis, independent of blood pressure. The effects involve AP-1, NF-kappaB, and bFGF. Mineralocorticoid receptor blockade downregulates these effectors and reduces angiotensin II-induced cardiac damage.
From April 2001 to December 2002, a group of 514 patients (178 men, 336 women, average age 42.8 years) suffering from chronic eczema were tested by means of epicutaneous tests for contact hypersensitivity to selected auxiliary substances of dermatological external and cosmetic preparations. In 194 patients, the principal diagnosis was atopic eczema. Of the preservatives, the most frequently sensitizing agents were Thiomersal in 13.6%, phenylmercuric acetate in 7.8%, formaldehyde in 5.6%, Bronopol in 5.1%, chlorohexidine in 3.3%, dibromodicyanobutane/phenoxyethanol in 2.9%, chloroacetamide in 2.1%, Kathon CG and parabenes in 1.9%, imidazolidinyl urea and diazolidinyl urea in 1.4%, glutaraldehyde in 1.2%, DMDM-hydantoin in 1.0%, dichlorophen in 0.8%, sorbic acid, phenoxyethanol and triclosan in 0.6%, benzalkonium chloride, Quaternium-15 and chlorocresol in 0.4% and chloroquinaldol in 0.2% of the group of patients. Of antioxidizing agents, it was dodecyl gallate in 2.3%, butylhydroxyanisol in 1.2%, propyl gallate in 0.6%, butylhydroxytoluen in 0.4% of the group o patients and of emulsifiers, alcohols lanae in 5.1%, triethanolamine in 1.6% and propylene glycol in 0.4% of the group of patients. A complete list of contained substances in drug information sheets of both pharmaceutical and cosmetic preparations seems necessary particularly for patients suffering from eczema. The results of the test can serve as feed-back information for the manufacturers of both pharmaceutical and cosmetic preparations.
Twelve cardiac electrophysiology centers conducted an open label prospective trial of bethanidine sulfate, an oral bretylium analog, for the prevention of ventricular tachyarrhythmias during programmed electrical stimulation. The study group included 56 patients (44 men, 12 women; mean age 60 years; 55 with structural heart disease). Sixteen patients had both ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation, 30 had ventricular tachycardia alone and 10 had ventricular fibrillation alone. Programmed stimulation on no antiarrhythmic drugs induced sustained ventricular tachycardia in 46 patients, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in 4 patients and ventricular fibrillation in 6 patients. During programmed ventricular stimulation after 59 trials of 20 to 30 mg/kg body weight of oral bethanidine (acute dosing in 40 patients, and divided dosing over 24 hours in 19 patients), no ventricular tachyarrhythmias were inducible in 6 patients (11%), sustained ventricular tachycardia was converted to nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in 3 patients (5%), ventricular tachyarrhythmias remained inducible in 39 patients (70%) and spontaneous ventricular tachyarrhythmias occurred more frequently in 4 patients (7%). Side effects prevented repeat testing in four patients. The 10 patients presenting with only ventricular fibrillation appeared to have a higher response rate: no ventricular tachyarrhythmias were inducible in 2 patients and sustained ventricular tachycardia was converted to nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in 2 patients. Despite protriptyline administration in 54 of 59 bethanidine trials, symptomatic hypotension occurred in 30 trials (51%). In conclusion, the efficacy of bethanidine for preventing ventricular tachyarrhythmias as assessed by programmed stimulation is low. Patients presenting with only ventricular fibrillation may have a more favorable response to bethanidine sulfate. Symptomatic hypotension occurs frequently despite concomitant use of protriptyline.
Retinoids play a key role in fetal lung development. It has been suggested that the maternal-fetal retinol transport is disrupted by trophoblastic apoptosis. The mechanism underlying nitrofen-induced apoptosis in placenta is not fully understood. Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) is expressed in the fetal part of the maternal-fetal interface. NGAL is part of the immune barrier and serves primarily as a transport protein transferring biologically hazardous molecules in a safe and controlled way. It has been shown that over-activation of NGAL induces apoptosis. We hypothesized that increased placental NGAL expression induces trophoblastic apoptosis in the nitrofen model of CDH.
Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or nitrofen on day 9 of gestation (D9). Placenta harvested on D21 and divided into two groups: control and nitrofen with CDH. Immunohistochemistry was performed to evaluate trophoblasts (by cytokeratin expression), NGAL expression, and apoptotic trophoblastic cells (using TUNEL assay). Total RNA was extracted from each placenta and the relative mRNA expression levels of NGAL were analyzed using RT-PCR.
Immunohistochemistry showed NGAL immunoreactivity both in control and CDH in the fetal part of the fetal-maternal interface of placenta. Markedly increased NGAL expression was detected in CDH group compared to controls. Relative mRNA expression levels of NGAL gene were significantly increased in the CDH group compared to control in the placenta (5.924 ± 0.93 vs. 1.895 ± 0.54, p < 0.001). Markedly increased numbers of apoptotic trophoblastic cells were seen in the maternal-fetal interface in the CDH group compared to controls.
NGAL activation may lead to increased trophoblastic apoptosis in the maternal-fetal interface in the nitrofen model of CDH. These changes may therefore cause disturbance in maternal-fetal retinol transport affecting fetal lung morphogenesis.
Zinc deficiency is detrimental to organisms, highlighting its role as an essential micronutrient contributing to numerous biological processes. To investigate the underlying molecular events invoked by zinc depletion we performed a temporal analysis of transcriptome changes observed within the zebrafish gill. This tissue represents a model system for studying ion absorption across polarised epithelial cells as it provides a major pathway for fish to acquire zinc directly from water whilst sharing a conserved zinc transporting system with mammals.
Zebrafish were treated with either zinc-depleted (water = 2.61 μg L-1; diet = 26 mg kg-1) or zinc-adequate (water = 16.3 μg L-1; diet = 233 mg kg-1) conditions for two weeks. Gill samples were collected at five time points and transcriptome changes analysed in quintuplicate using a 16K oligonucleotide array. Of the genes represented the expression of a total of 333 transcripts showed differential regulation by zinc depletion (having a fold-change greater than 1.8 and an adjusted P-value less than 0.1, controlling for a 10% False Discovery Rate). Down-regulation was dominant at most time points and distinct sets of genes were regulated at different stages. Annotation enrichment analysis revealed that 'Developmental Process' was the most significantly overrepresented Biological Process GO term (P = 0.0006), involving 26% of all regulated genes. There was also significant bias for annotations relating to development, cell cycle, cell differentiation, gene regulation, butanoate metabolism, lysine degradation, protein tyrosin phosphatases, nucleobase, nucleoside and nucleotide metabolism, and cellular metabolic processes. Within these groupings genes associated with diabetes, bone/cartilage development, and ionocyte proliferation were especially notable. Network analysis of the temporal expression profile indicated that transcription factors foxl1, wt1, nr5a1, nr6a1, and especially, hnf4a may be key coordinators of the homeostatic response to zinc depletion.
The study revealed the complex regulatory pathways that allow the organism to subtly respond to the low-zinc condition. Many of the processes affected reflected a fundamental restructuring of the gill epithelium through reactivation of developmental programs leading to stem cell differentiation. The specific regulation of genes known to be involved in development of diabetes provides new molecular links between zinc deficiency and this disease. The present study demonstrates the importance of including the time-dimension in microarray studies.
Segmental epidural analgesia (T10-T12) was performed in 418 parturients, using a 4-6 ml dose of 0.5% bupivacaine, with or without adrenaline. Seventy per cent of parturients were primiparas and 30% had histories, or signs, of possible uteroplacental insufficiency. Our aim was to relieve pain during the long passive opening phase, so that mothers would be rested and active at the beginning of the second phase, but also to avoid abolishing the bearing-down reflex, the absence of which causes an increased frequency of instrumental delivery. The analgesia during the opening phase was of good quality in 89% of primiparas, and 84% of multiparas. The onset of analgesia was rapid (3-5 min) and the duration was on average 2 1/2 h. The incidence of foetal heart rate changes, during the 30 min after epidural, was 5%. The second phase was less than 30 min in about 90% of cases. About 90% of parturients delivered spontaneously, and the frequency of instrument delivery was only 7.4%. Caesarean section was required in 3.7%. Slight, but rapidly correctable, hypotension occurred in 16.5%, and in two cases the hypotension led to more serious complications. This stresses the importance of the availability and competence of both the anaesthetic and obstetric teams. There were no maternal or neonatal mortalities, and the Apgar scores compared well with the figures for the normal material in our obstetric unit.
Our aim was to study the role of oxidant and nitric oxide (NO)-derived damage in human breast carcinomas by studying the expression of nitrotyrosine in tumor tissue. To elucidate whether nitrotyrosine levels associate with NO synthesis and have an effect on antioxidative enzyme response or angiogenesis, we also studied the expression of all three nitric oxide synthases (NOS), manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), catalase and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the tumors. A large set of breast cancer samples in microarray blocks were stained with antibodies to nitrotyrosine, iNOS, eNOS, nNOS, MnSOD, catalase and VEGF. Nitrotyrosine expression was seen in 56% of the cases. There was a close relationship between the expression of nitrotyrosine and all three NOS isoforms (for all p<0.0005), catalase (p<0.0005) and MnSOD (p=0.043), in addition enlarged tumor size was in association with high nitrotyrosine (p=0.046), eNOS (p=0.005) and VEGF (p=0.046) levels. Our findings suggest that NO-derived oxidative damage takes place and its level associates to NOS synthesis in human breast cancer. The current results also imply the attempt of cells to hedge against effects of NO by increasing their MnSOD and catalase expression.
We have previously shown that co-treatment of angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1R) blocker (ARB) or angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor seem to reduce peptic ulcer among patients taking low dose aspirin. It is reported that a series of renin-angiotensin system (RAS) gene polymorphisms significantly influence the rate of the gene transcription.
The aim of this study was to examine the genotypes of RAS genes related to the risk of peptic ulcer and ulcer bleeding among patients taking low dose aspirin.
Patients taking 100 mg of aspirin who were planning to undergo endoscopy for surveillance or who had history of recent upper GI ulcer bleeding were included. ACE (Ins/Del), angiotensinogen (AGT; G-217A, A-20C, A-6G, T174 M, M235T), and AT1R (T-713G, C-521T, A1166C) genotypes were determined by PCR or PCR-RFLP.
Four hundred twenty-five patients were enrolled including 68 patients with peptic ulcer and 20 patients with ulcer bleeding. Co-treatment of ARB was significantly associated with peptic ulcer and ulcer bleeding. AGT-20 CC (adjusted OR 4.94, 95% CI 1.21-20.2) was significantly associated with ulcer bleeding. The CC genotype of AT1R-521 was significantly associated with peptic ulcer only in the subgroup taking neither ACE inhibitor nor ARB.
Co-treatment of ARB reduces peptic ulcer and bleeding among patients taking low dose aspirin. RAS may play an important role in the development of upper GI mucosal injury induced by low dose aspirin.
Pseudocholinesterase deficiency is usually identified when an anesthetized patient has prolonged paralysis after receiving neuromuscular blocking agents dependent on pseudocholinesterase enzymes for hydrolysis. This rare complication, most frequently associated with succinylcholine, can occur with the use of mivacurium, one of the newer nondepolarizing muscle relaxants also hydrolyzed by pseudocholinesterase. Prolonged paralysis has occurred 3 times in the past 2 years at this pediatric hospital after administration of mivacurium. The following case study describes causality and interventions for a patient with prolonged paralysis after receiving mivacurium.
The molecular mechanisms leading to male infertility in vitamin A deficient (VAD) rodents have never been fully elucidated. Here, we report an interaction between BMP4 and retinoid signaling pathways in germ cells that may help clarify the biochemical basis of VAD. Adult germ cells, in particular spermatogonia, expressed BMP4 at both the mRNA and protein levels. BMP4 expression was significantly up-regulated in the testes of VAD mice and was down-regulated in freshly isolated germ cells and VAD testes by retinol, but not retinoic acid. The retinoid-responsive gene, RARbeta, was not induced in germ cells following retinoid treatment. Examination of BMP4 promoter usage in spermatogonia and the VAD testis revealed that germ cells utilize the recently characterized BMP4 intron 2 promoter, in addition to the classical 1A and 1B promoters. The observed decrease in BMP4 in response to retinol was mediated by the 1A and intron 2 promoters of the BMP4 gene. Our results reflect a direct requirement for retinoids by germ cells for the resumption of spermatogenesis in VAD animals via mechanisms that involve the suppression of BMP4 expression.
Human neural tube defects (NTDs) are among the most common congenital defects. They have a highly heterogeneous etiology, and, in addition to those seen in association with genetic syndromes, there are also NTDs induced by pharmaceutical compounds in utero, such as the widely used anti-epileptic drug valproic acid (VPA). Although familial studies have suggested a genetic contribution to VPA-induced NTDs, this trait has not been adequately studied, nor have the responsible genetic factors been identified. We generated a series of mouse crosses and backcrosses using the highly inbred SWV/Fnn and C57BL/6J strains, in order to identify possible chromosomal loci contributing to VPA sensitivity. When exposed to a high dose of sodium VPA (600 mg/kg) via maternal intraperitoneal injection on gestational day E8.5, the fetuses manifested exencephaly in a strain-dependent manner. Our data show an autosomal recessive trait, plus a gender-related effect or an overall X-Chromosome (Chr) effect, as being primarily responsible for determining sensitivity to VPA-induced exencephaly. Genome scanning and further linkage analysis of 131 exencephalic backcross fetuses identified a major locus linked to D7Mit285 (p < 2 x 10(-6)), exceeding the threshold for significant linkage. These results suggest a major chromosomal locus associated with the sensitivity to VPA-induced exencephaly in mice.
The goal of The Jackson Laboratory Neuroscience Mutagenesis Facility is to generate mouse models of human neurological disease. We describe three new models obtained from a three-generation screen for recessive mutations. Homozygous mutant mice from lines nmf2 and nmf5 exhibit hind limb paralysis and juvenile lethality. Homozygous nmf58 mice exhibit a less severe movement disorder that includes sustained dystonic postures. The mutations were mapped to the distal region of mouse Chromosome (Chr) 15. Failure to complement a mutant allele of a positional candidate gene, Scn8a, demonstrated that the mutations are new alleles of Scn8a. Missense mutations of evolutionarily conserved residues of the sodium channel were identified in the three lines, with the predicted amino acid substitutions N1370T, I1392F, and L1404H. These residues are located within the pore loop of domain 3 of sodium channel Na(v)1.6. The lethal phenotypes suggest that the new alleles encode proteins with partial or complete loss of function. Several human disorders are caused by mutation in the pore loop of domain 3 of paralogous sodium channel genes. Line nmf5 contains a second, independent mutation in the rd13 locus that causes a reduction in cell number in the outer nuclear layer of the retina. rd13 was mapped to the distal 4 Mb of Chr 15. No coding or splice site mutations were detected in Pde1b, a candidate gene for rd13. The generation of three independent Scn8a mutations among 1100 tested G3 families demonstrates that the Scn8a locus is highly susceptible to ENU mutagenesis. The new alleles of Scn8a will be valuable for analysis of sodium channel physiology and disease.
It has been reported that antiarrhythmic drugs possessing the property of potassium channel blockade were most effective in preventing halothane-epinephrine induced arrhythmias. Recent attention has focused on ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels because of their contribution to the cardiovascular actions of volatile anesthetics. The present study was designed to evaluate whether K(ATP) channels or transient outward potassium channels (Ito) were involved in the mechanism of halothane-epinephrine arrhythmias in rat. Rats were anesthetized with halothane (1.5%), and the lungs were mechanically ventilated. The arrhythmogenic thresholds of epinephrine during halothane anesthesia were determined in 74 rats receiving saline or one of tested agents. The arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine (ADE) was significantly increased by a K(ATP) channel opener, JTV506 (P < 0.01), and had a tendency to be increased by other K(ATP) channel openers, cromakalim, nicorandil, KRN2391 and Y 26763, but were not affected by a K(ATP) channel blocker, glibenclamide. The Ito blocker, 4-aminopyridine, also significantly increased the ADE. Epinephrine produced second-degree or complete atrioventricular block in 4 out of 7 rats receiving glibenclamide. These results suggest that Ito but not K(ATP) channels might be involved in the mechanism in producing halothane-epinephrine arrhythmias.
This paper describes the clinical features of six children who developed the haemolytic-uraemic syndrome after treatment with metronidazole. These children were older and were more likely to have undergone recent bowel surgery than are other children with this condition. While the involvement of metronidazole in the aetiology of the haemolytic-uraemic syndrome is not established firmly, the action of this drug in sensitizing tissues to oxidation injury and the reported evidence of oxidation changes in the haemolytic-uraemic syndrome suggest a possible link between metronidazole treatment and some cases of the haemolytic-uraemic syndrome.
To investigate the add-on effect of solifenacin for Japanese men with remaining overactive bladder (OAB) symptoms after tamsulosin monotherapy for lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) suggestive of benign prostatic obstruction (BPO) in real-life clinical practice.
Patients aged ≥ 50 having remaining OAB symptoms (≥ 3 of OAB symptom score (OABSS) with ≥2 of urgency score) after at least 4 weeks treatment by 0.2 mg of tamsulosin for BPO/LUTS received 2.5 or 5.0 mg of solifenacin for 12 weeks. The International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), QOL index and OABSS, maximum flow rate (Qmax) and postvoid residual urine volume (PVR) were determined.
A total of 48 patients (mean age 72.5 years) completed the study. There were significant improvement in IPSS (15.1 to 11.2) and QOL index (4.2 to 3.0) by add-on of solifenacin. Although the IPSS storage symptom score was significantly improved, there were no changes observed in the IPSS voiding symptom score. The OABSS showed significant improvement (8.0 to 4.8). No changes were observed in Qmax and PVR.
Under the supervision of an experienced urologist, the additional administration of solifenacin to patients with BPO/LUTS treated with tamsulosin, is effective in controlling remaining OAB symptoms.
The authors previously showed that cyclopropane-epinephrine-induced bigeminal arrhythmias can best be explained by a re-entrant mechanism. They have now obtained evidence for reentry in bigeminal arrhythmias during infusions of epinephrine (.5-3 mug/kg/min) in dogs anesthetized with .8 per cent halothane. Both a critical level of blood pressure and a critical increase in heart rate were necessary for arrhythmias to be induced in any given animal. Artificial elevation of the blood pressure during infusion of a subthreshold dose of epinephrine could induce bigeminy, and the arrhythmia could be aborted by a sudden reduction of blood pressure. The heart rate accelerated approximately 40 beats/min prior to the onset of bigeminy, and atrial pacing at similarly increased rates during subthreshold infusion of epinephrine could induce bigeminy. Stimulation of the peripheral end of the cut right cervical vagus reduced heart rate and converted bigeminy to sinus rhythm. Bradycardia was not the sole mechanism of the vagal effect since conversion to sinus rhythm could also be achieved with more rapid stimulation of the vagus when the heart rate was maintained constant by atrial pacing. Under these conditions further acceleration of the heart rate could reinstate a bigeminal arrhythmia that was again sensitive to further increases in the frequency of vagal stimulation, and it is concluded that the vagus acts on the spread of the re-entrant impulse. This is best shown with cyclopropane anesthesia, because AV-nodal block occurs more easily with halothane. In addition, very brief periods of increased heart rate caused prolonged periods of bigeminy, which indicates that changes in heart rate may alter the electrophysiology of the halothane-sensitized myocardium to promote bigeminal arrhythmias by a re-entry mechanism.
The effect of potassium cyanide on mitochondria DNA (mtDNA) in mouse brain was investigated in vivo and in vitro. When potassium cyanide (0, 0.1, 1.0 or 2.0 mM) was incubated with a crude mitochondria fraction prepared from mouse brain at 37 degrees C for 60 min, the damage of mtDNA was observed in a concentration-dependent manner. However, the mtDNA damage was prevented by a co-treatment with melatonin (1.5 mM), a scavenger of hydroxyl radicals (*OH). Furthermore, a subcutaneous injection of potassium cyanide (7mg/kg) caused both brain mtDNA damage and severe seizures in mouse. The damage of mtDNA and seizures induced by potassium cyanide were abolished by the pre-injection of melatonin (20 mg/kg). Hydrogen peroxide (1.5 mM) inflicted damage to brain mtDNA in the presence of Fe(2+) (3.0 microM). The damage was abolished by the co-treatment with melatonin. Furthermore, when cyanide (0, 0.1 or 1.0 mM) was incubated with the crude mitochondria fraction prepared from mouse brain, the lipid peroxidation was significantly increased in a concentration-dependent manner. The increased lipid peroxidation was completely inhibited by the co-treatment with melatonin (1.0 mM). These results suggest that reactive oxygen species including the *OH may play a cardinal role for mtDNA damage induced by potassium cyanide. Hence, the present study concluded that melatonin protects against DNA damage induced by the *OH produced by cyanide or hydrogen peroxide.
A clinical and an animal study were performed to examine adverse effects when ratio 3 and ratio 1.5 contrast media are injected directly into the heart. In a randomized double-blind clinical trial of 50 patients undergoing cardiac angiography, the safety and efficacy of Hexabrix (ratio 3) and Renografin-76 (ratio 1.5) were compared. Cardiac output increased more significantly in the Renografin-76 group, and there was a significant difference in AV 02 indicating less vasodilatation with Hexabrix. There was dramatically less prolongation in the QT interval for the Hexabrix group. Ventricular fibrillation threshold studies of dogs examined the adverse electrophysiologic effects on the heart. One-ml doses of Hexabrix and Renografin-76 were injected in the left coronary artery and compared. Renografin-76 significantly reduced threshold, whereas Hexabrix was much less toxic. Ratio 3 agents are less hazardous in terms of total adverse effects and are particularly indicated for certain risk groups.
To evaluate the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of nicardipine infusion in controlling the elevated blood pressure after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).
Nicardipine infusion was initiated if the individual pre-specified systolic blood pressure (SBP) level goal, mandated by the admitting neurosurgeon, was not met. Systolic and diastolic BPs were measured on admission, hourly during the infusion and 12 h before and after the infusion.
Twenty-eight patients with SAH required 50 nicardipine infusions in order to achieve a mean SBP goal of 152 mmHg. The 3,112 extracted BP measurements showed that mean infusion SBP was significantly lower than admission and pre-infusion SBP (mean 146.5 vs. 177.1 and 155.6 mmHg, P < 0.001, respectively) and significantly higher than post-infusion SBP (146.5 vs. 142.6 mmHg, P = 0.002). Five infusions were stopped prematurely, because of hypotension (n = 3), emergent surgery (n = 1), and failure to reach the SBP goal (n = 1). Rebleeding was not observed in any patient. Nicardipine achieved SBP control in 59.9% of hourly infusion measurements, with a trend for higher proportion of success with higher SBP goals.
In this study, nicardipine infusion was a safe and moderately effective treatment for BP control in patients with SAH. Although SBP during nicardipine infusion was higher than the pre-specified goal in a significant percentage of hourly observations, this may be due to the drug administration protocol and other factors such as analgesia and sedation.
Tamoxifen has been shown to induce apoptosis in multiple myeloma cell lines and primary myeloma cells. Daily tamoxifen was given to 12 consecutive multiple myeloma patients who either relapsed following autologous stem cell transplantation (11) or had progressive disease on conventional chemotherapy (1). Methotrexate was also given biweekly to enhance the antiangiogenetic effect. Two patients achieved complete remission lasting 8 and 18 months. Two additional patients had stable disease (SD) for 7 and 11 months. All responders were men and the earliest signs of response were seen after approximately 6-8 weeks of treatment. The regimen was very well tolerated. Speculations about a possible mechanism of action of tamoxifen in multiple myeloma are discussed.
A great number of people are suffering from allergic inflammatory disease such as asthma, atopic dermatitis, and sinusitis. Therefore discovery of drugs for the treatment of these diseases is an important subject in human health. In this study, we investigated anti-allergic inflammatory effect of galangin and underlying mechanisms of action using in vitro and in vivo models. Galangin inhibited histamine release by the reduction of intracellular calcium in phorbol 12-mystate 13-acetate plus calcium ionophore A23187-stimulated human mast cells (HMC-1). Galangin decreased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1β, and IL-8. The inhibitory effect of galangin on theses pro-inflammatory cytokines was related with c-Jun N-terminal kinases, and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, nuclear factor-κB, and caspase-1. Furthermore, galangin attenuated IgE-mediated passive cutaneous anaphylaxis and the expression of histamine receptor 1 at the inflamed tissue. The inhibitory effects of galangin were more potent than cromolyn, a known anti-allergic drug. Our results showed that galangin down-regulates mast cell-derived allergic inflammatory reactions by blocking histamine release and expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. In light of in vitro and in vivo anti-allergic inflammatory effects, galangin could be a beneficial anti-allergic inflammatory agent.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the protective effects and molecular mechanisms of scoparone on d-galactosamine (D-GalN)/lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) in mice. FHF was induced in mice by intraperitoneal injection of D-GalN (800 mg/kg)/LPS (40 μg/kg). Mice were treated intraperitoneally with scoparone 1h before D-GalN/LPS treatment. Treatment with d-GalN/LPS markedly increased mortality, serum aminotransferase activity, and tolllike receptor 4 (TLR4) protein expression, and these increases were attenuated by scoparone. Treatment with d-GalN/LPS markedly increased myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 protein expression, phosphorylation of p38, extracellular signal-regulated kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase, nuclear protein expression of nuclear factor κB and phosphorylated c-Jun, and levels of serum tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 and these increases were attenuated by scoparone. In addition, increased levels of toll-receptor-associated activator of interferon protein expression, phosphorylation of interferon (IFN) regulatory factor 3, and serum IFN-β level in D-GalN/LPS-treated mice were attenuated by scoparone. Our results suggest that scoparone attenuates d-GalN/LPSinduced liver damage by inhibition of the TLR-mediated inflammatory pathway.
