The goal of this study was to assess mitochondrial function and ROS production in an experimental model of cocaine-induced cardiac dysfunction. We hypothesized that cocaine abuse may lead to altered mitochondrial function that in turn may cause left ventricular dysfunction. Seven days of cocaine administration to rats led to an increased oxygen consumption detected in cardiac fibers, specifically through complex I and complex III. ROS levels were increased, specifically in interfibrillar mitochondria. In parallel there was a decrease in ATP synthesis, whereas no difference was observed in subsarcolemmal mitochondria. This uncoupling effect on oxidative phosphorylation was not detectable after short-term exposure to cocaine, suggesting that these mitochondrial abnormalities were a late rather than a primary event in the pathological response to cocaine. MitoQ, a mitochondrial-targeted antioxidant, was shown to completely prevent these mitochondrial abnormalities as well as cardiac dysfunction characterized here by a diastolic dysfunction studied with a conductance catheter to obtain pressure-volume data. Taken together, these results extend previous studies and demonstrate that cocaine-induced cardiac dysfunction may be due to a mitochondrial defect.
Hydrogen sulfide (H₂S) is a toxic gaseous substance, and accidental exposure to high concentrations of H₂S has been reported to be lethal to humans. Inhaled and absorbed H₂S is partially dissolved within the circulation and causes toxic effects on lymphocytes. However, the mechanisms involved in H₂S toxicity have not been well documented. In this study, we examined the cellular uptake and injury of sulfide-exposed human T lymphocytes (Jurkat). Cells were exposed to a H₂S donor, sodium hydroxysulfide (NaHS), at pH 6.0, 7.0, or 8.0 for 1 h at 37 °C in a sealed conical tube to avoid the loss of dissolved H₂S gas. Cytotoxicity and cellular sulfide concentrations increased dramatically as the pH of the NaHS solution decreased. Sulfide enhanced the cleavage of caspase-3 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase and induced early cellular apoptosis. A pan-caspase inhibitor reduced sulfide-induced apoptosis. These results indicate that sulfide induces pH-dependent and caspase-dependent apoptosis. We also found that blebbing of the plasma membrane occurred in sulfide-exposed cells. Both ROCK-1 and ROCK-2 (Rho kinases) were activated by sulfide, and sulfide-induced cell blebbing was suppressed by a ROCK inhibitor, suggesting that a Rho pathway is involved in sulfide-induced blebbing in lymphocytes.
Seizure duration in unilateral electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) was recorded by means of EEG in an intraindividual comparison of etomidate (dissolved in a soy-bean oil emulsion) 0.3 mg/kg and Althesin (alphaxalone 9 mg and alphadolone 3 mg/ml) 0.6 mg/kg with methohexitone 1 mg/kg body weight. The patients were intubated and alveolar CO2- and O2-concentrations kept constant at 3% (3 kPa) and 92% (92 kPa) respectively. Seizure duration was the same when either etomidate or methohexitone were used, whereas Althesin significantly shortened seizure duration in comparison with methohexitone. Local pain on injection and a subsequent superficial thrombophlebitis occurred frequently with methohexitone. This did not occur with etomidate or Althesin.
Primary chemotherapy provides an ideal opportunity to correlate potential non-invasive surrogate markers of angiogenesis with tumor microvessel density (MVD) and response.
Patients with newly diagnosed stages II or III breast cancer were treated with sequential doxorubicin 75 mg/M2 q2 wks x 3 and docetaxel 40 mg/M2 weekly x 6; treatment order was randomly assigned. Potential serologic and imaging markers of angiogenesis were obtained pre-treatment, at crossover and completion of chemotherapy. Non-invasive biomarkers were correlated with MVD and pathologic response.
From June 1999 to October 2002, 70 patients were entered. Median pretreatment tumor diameter was 6.0 cm with clinically involved axillary nodes in 33 (47%) patients; 20% had inflammatory disease. Clinical response rate was 91%, including 46% clinical complete responses. Pathologic complete response (pCR) was confirmed in 9 (12.8%) patients. Baseline MVD did not correlate with clinical or pathologic response. Serologic markers were obtained in all patients; basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) was lower at baseline and increased during treatment in patients with a pCR but did not correlate with MVD. Color Doppler ultrasound (CDUS) was completed in 47 patients; no parameter reliably correlated with MVD or response. Positron emission tomography (PET) with [F-18]-fluoro-deoxyglucose, [O-15]-water and [C-11]-carbon monoxide were completed in 19 patients; uptake of all tracers decreased during treatment in virtually all patients.
Sequential doxorubicin and docetaxel is generally well tolerated and highly active. Serum angiogenic factors and imaging parameters frequently varied throughout treatment but did not correlate with MVD or consistently predict response.
Eosinophilic meningitis has been defined as meningitis in which a total cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sample is found to have more than 10 eosinophils per millimeter or is composed of greater than 10% eosinophils. The differential diagnosis is broad and the clinical presentation, lacking an internalized CSF diversion system, is often nonspecific. With respect to patients with shunt systems, a positive correlation exists between CSF eosinophilia and eventual shunt failure requiring revision. In this paper the authors present the highest reported level of CSF eosinophilia in conjunction with a rifampin and minocycline-impregnated ventriculostomy catheter recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
The mechanism of the effect of M-cholinoblockers on the heart rate was analysed. It is suggested on the basis of this analysis that tachycardia induced in reats by muscarinic antagonists was caused by blockade of ther central M1-cholinoceptors which is accompanied with increase in the tone of the sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system.
The serine-threonine kinase, Akt, plays an important role in the cell survival signaling pathway. A proline-rich Akt substrate, PRAS40, has been characterized, and an increase in phospho-PRAS40 (pPRAS40) is neuroprotective after transient focal cerebral ischemia. However, the involvement of PRAS40 in the cell death/survival pathway after spinal cord injury (SCI) is unclear. Liposome-mediated PRAS40 transfection was performed to study whether overexpression of pPRAS40 is neuroprotective. We further examined the expression of pPRAS40 after SCI by immunohistochemistry and Western blot using copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) transgenic (Tg) rats and wild-type (Wt) littermates. We then examined the relationship between PRAS40 and Akt by injection of LY294002, a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway inhibitor, or Akt inhibitor IV, a compound that inhibits Akt activation after SCI. Our data demonstrated that increased pPRAS40 resulted in survival of more motor neurons compared with control complementary DNA transfection. Phosphorylated PRAS40 increased in the Wt rats after SCI, whereas there was a greater and prolonged increase in the SOD1 Tg rats. Coimmunoprecipitation showed that binding of pPRAS40 with 14-3-3 increased 1 day after SCI in the Wt rats, whereas there was a significant increase in the Tg rats. The inhibitor studies showed that phospho-Akt and pPRAS40 were decreased after injection of LY294002 or Akt inhibitor IV. We conclude that an increase in pPRAS40 by transfection after SCI results in survival of motor neurons, and overexpression of SOD1 in the Tg rats results in an increase in endogenous pPRAS40 and a decrease in motor neuron death through the PI3K/Akt pathway.
Recently, we found that profound anorexia observed in a catabolic model induced by chronic glucocorticoid (dexamethasone, Dex) injection could be associated with strong hyperleptinemia. To investigate the implication of leptin in this catabolic stress response, we used a model whereby leptin secretion was inhibited using troglitazone (Trg) concomitantly with a Dex-induced-stress injection.
Adult rats (3 months, n=12) were stressed with a Dex injection (1.5 mg/kg/day ip, 5 days) and either treated (DXTG+, n=6) or not (DXTG-, n=6) with Trg (60 mg/kg/day sc, 5 days). These DXTG+ and DXTG- groups were compared with an untreated ad libitum group and a pair-fed group receiving saline ip instead of the Dex injection. The effects of troglitazone treatment on leptin gene expression in adipose tissue, blood glucose, insulin, and on hepatic parameters under stress conditions were determined.
Trg treatment specifically diminished leptinemia (30%, DXTG+ vs DXTG-, p<0.05). Insulinemia and glycemia remained unchanged, as did leptin gene expression; food intake improved, but hepatic capacities did not show any alteration.
Trg is a useful agent in exploring certain potential effects of leptin on metabolic and immune disorders occurring during aggression.
Functions of the kidney of mammals are immature during the neonatal period, and the neonatal kidney could be susceptible to chemicals, including drugs and environmental toxicants. Among these chemicals, cyclooxygenase (COX)-inducing chemicals should be given attentions as the potential kidney toxicants during the period, and we hypothesized that lithium chloride (LiCl) has such toxicity. Neonatal mice of C57BL/J strain were intraperitoneally injected with LiCl (2 mmol/kg body weight) daily until 21 days of age, and examined on 7 days and 21 days of age. Neonatal treatment of LiCl caused a significant increase in COX-2 mRNA and a decrease in mRNAs of aquaporins on day 7 of age. Osmolarity of urine from LiCl-treated neonates was significantly lower than that of control neonate. Most of the LiCl-treated neonates died during the second week of age. Histological examination revealed renal cysts on day 7 and hydronephrosis on day 21. in the surviving neonates. The present results showed that the kidney of mouse neonates is vulnerable to lithium, and suggested the possibility that COX-2 upregulation is responsible for the severe renal toxicity including hydronephrosis.
A 4-week repeated dose oral toxicity study of phenobarbital (PB) sodium was conducted in F344 rats of both sexes at PB doses of 0.8, 8, and 80 mg/kg/day to fully elucidate its general toxicity including hematological changes. Both sexes in the 80 mg/kg/day group showed staggering gait, lacrimation, and/or sedation, which were more evident in the early stage of treatment. The body weight gain and food consumption were greater in these animals than in controls. Hematology revealed a significant reduction in the hematocrit (Ht), hemoglobin concentration (Hb), and erythrocyte count (RBC) in both sexes at 80 mg/kg/day, which was accompanied by a decrease in the cell mean Hb (CHCM) in mature erythrocytes with an increase in unsaturated iron binding capacity. Female rats also showed reduction in the CHCM in reticulocytes, content of hemoglobin per reticulocyte, and transferrin saturation. PB prolonged the activated partial thromboplastin time and inversely increased the platelet count with no evidence of platelet activation. Well-known toxic effects of PB on the liver and thyroid were observed in a dose-dependent manner, along with altered lipid, glucose, and electrolyte metabolism. The serum levels of PB increased dose-dependently, when examined in females received 8 and 80 mg/kg/day on day 1 and 28; there were no difference in C(max) and AUC(0-24) values between day 1 and day 28. These results indicated that PB has the potential to elicit multiple organ toxicity including an effect on the hematopoietic system. The hematological analysis provided evidence for hypochromic anemia, plausibly caused by the impairment of iron utility.
Combined spinal-epidural is an alternative technique to epidural analgesia for labour, but its benefits are not clearly identified.
A prospective, blinded, randomized study was undertaken involving 113 women attending a university hospital obstetric department. Analgesia was initiated with intrathecal bupivacaine 0.25% 1 mL + sufentanil 5 microg in the combined spinal-epidural group (n = 54), and with bupivacaine 0.125% + epinephrine 2.5 microg mL(-1) + sufentanil 7.5 microg in the epidural group (n = 59). In both cases this was followed by patient-controlled epidural analgesia with bupivacaine 0.125% (+ sufentanil 0.25 microg mL(-1)). Duration of labour, quality of analgesia and side-effects were compared between groups.
In the combined spinal-epidural group, the onset of analgesia was faster (5 vs. 15 min, P < 0.001), the consumption of bupivacaine was lower (7.5 vs. 11.3 mg h(-1), P = 0.003) and there was less unilateral analgesia (14.8% vs. 40.7%, P = 0.002) than in the epidural group. The characteristics of labour were similar in both groups. However, in the combined spinal-epidural group, there was a higher incidence of posterior presentation (25.9% vs. 10%, P = 0.03), pruritus (P < 0.001), hypotension (P = 0.002), somnolence (P = 0.01), nausea (P = 0.02) and one case of meningitis.
The combined spinal-epidural technique provided more effective analgesia during labour than epidural analgesia alone but offered no other advantage. It induced more adverse effects and this should be considered before routinely using the combined spinal-epidural technique.
The use of magnetic drug targeting (MDT) to selectively deliver chemotherapeutic drugs to tumor cells is a widely investigated approach; however, the notion of targeting tumor endothelial cells by this method is a fairly new concept. Positively-charged (cationic) liposomes have an extraordinarily high affinity for tumor vessels, but heterogeneous targeting is frequently observed. In order to improve on the overall efficiency of targeting tumor vessels, we investigated the use of an externally applied magnetic field together with magnetic cationic liposomes (MCLs) for cancer treatment. We examined the antitumor effect of the chemotherapeutic agent vinblastine loaded in MCLs, using a murine model of melanoma. Two hours following i.v. administration of MCLs, we observed significant tumor vascular uptake with use of an external magnet (15.9 +/- 6.3%) compared to no magnet (5 +/- 1.3%). The administration of vinblastine-loaded MCLs with the magnet produced a significant antitumor effect, reducing the presence of tumor nodules in preferential sites of metastasis compared to untreated and free drug control groups. CD31 immunostaining revealed a decrease in the general length of tumor blood vessels, altered vascular morphology and interruptions in the tumor vascular lining for the vinblastine-loaded MCL groups. Drug-loaded MCLs with magnetic fields may represent a promising combination approach for cancer treatment.
Nifedipine has recently been reported to reduce pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance during rest and exercise in adult patients with hypoxic pulmonary hypertension from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. To determine whether nifedipine reduces pulmonary vascular resistance in patients with cor pulmonale from cystic fibrosis (CF), we studied 2 patients with severe CF lung disease during rest and exercise while breathing room air or receiving low-flow oxygen therapy. Nifedipine markedly lowered pulmonary vascular resistance and improved cardiac index and pulmonary pressure-flow relationships during all treatment conditions. Nifedipine did not substantially change arterial PO2, except for a slight decrease during exercise while receiving low-flow oxygen. Nifedipine, however, markedly increased oxygen delivery during rest and exercise. Both patients noted improved exercise tolerance with chronic nifedipine therapy. Nifedipine may be a useful adjuvant to supplemental oxygen in the treatment of patients with CF and cor pulmonale.
Clonidine has cardiac and systemic effects that can modify the potentially lethal cardiovascular effects of local anaesthetics. We evaluated the effects of clonidine pre-treatment on cardiotoxicity induced by an infusion of bupivacaine or ropivacaine and the success rate of resuscitation in anaesthetized rats.
Thirty-two Sprague-Dawley rats (250-300 g) were anaesthetized with thiopental and ketamine. Lung ventilation was maintained mechanically, and the electrocardiograph and invasive blood pressure were recorded continuously. Two separate groups of rats were treated with intravenous clonidine 5 microg kg(-1) (n = 16) or saline (n = 16) in a randomized fashion. Fifteen minutes later, each group was randomly subdivided into two equal groups and an infusion of bupivacaine or ropivacaine, 3 mg kg(-1) min(-1), was given until cardiac arrest (asystole) occurred. The times when the cardiotoxic events (25%, 50% and 75% reduction of arterial pressure and heart rate, first dysrhythmia and asystole, respectively), induced by the local anaesthetic, occurred and the resuscitation outcome scores were recorded.
Clonidine reduced heart rate and arterial pressure (P < 0.01). Clonidine did not alter cardiotoxicity or the success rate of resuscitation in bupivacaine-treated rats. In the ropivacaine group, clonidine increased the 25%, 50% and 75% reduction times of arterial pressure and the 50% and 75% reduction times of heart rate, times to first dysrhythmia and asystole (P < 0.05). Clonidine also increased the success rate of resuscitation in ropivacaine-treated rats (P < 0.05).
Although pre-treatment with clonidine protects the effects of ropivacaine cardiotoxicity and increases the success rate of resuscitation, it does not affect bupivacaine toxicity.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) accumulate in the environment and in humans. PBDEs are developmental neurotoxicants, disturb the endocrine system and induce tumors in rodents. However, underlying mechanisms of PBDE toxicity are still insufficiently understood. Some reports demonstrated activation but also inhibition of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) by PBDEs based on expression of its target gene cyp1A1. In the present study, we used different PBDE congeners (BDE47, 99, 153 and 209) and analyzed their effects on AhR signaling in various cell lines and zebrafish embryos. Furthermore, we performed microarray experiments in rat hepatoma cells to compare changes in gene expression induced by either BDE47 or the AhR agonist 2,3,7,8-tetrabromo-dibenzofuran (TBDF). PBDEs did not activate but rather inhibited AhR signaling and specifically induced malformations in zebrafish embryos, which differ from those provoked by AhR agonists. Furthermore, BDE47 and TBDF differentially regulated global gene expression in hepatoma cells. Hence, PBDEs and AhR agonists trigger different toxicity and target gene expression. Several novel target genes of BDE47 and TBDF were identified and verified by RT-PCR. TBDF induced expression of the transcriptional regulators Sim2 and RevErbbeta whereas BDE47 specifically deregulated expression of two subunits of the cytochrome c oxidase complex, cox6a2 and cox4i2, which might be linked to its toxicity.
We evaluated the association between polymorphisms of cytochrome P450 2A6 (CYP2A6)/excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1)/X-ray repair cross-complementing group 1(XRCC1) and treatment outcomes of metastatic gastric cancer (MGC) patients treated with S-1/cisplatin.
Among MGC patients (n=108), who received S-1 (40 mg m(-2) b.i.d., days 1-14) and cisplatin (60 mg m(-2), day 1) every 3 weeks, we analysed the wild-type allele (W) and variants (V) of CYP2A6 (*4, *7, *9, *10), and the polymorphisms of ERCC1 (rs11615, rs3212986) and XRCC1 (rs25487).
Patients having fewer CYP2A6 variants had better response rates (W/W vs W/V other than *1/*4 vs V/V or *1/*4=66.7 vs 58.3 vs 32.3%; P=0.008), time to progression (TTP) (7.2 vs 6.1 vs 3.5 months, P=0.021), and overall survival (23.2 vs 15.4 vs 12.0 months, P=0.004). ERCC1 19442C>A (rs3212986) was also associated with response rate (C/C, 46.7% vs C/A, 55.3% vs A/A, 87.5%) (P=0.048) and TTP (4.4 vs 7.6 vs 7.9 months) (P=0.012). Patients carrying both risk genotypes of CYP2A6 (V/V or 1/*4) and ERCC1 19442C>A (C/C) vs those carrying none showed an adjusted odds ratio of 0.113 (P=0.004) for response, and adjusted hazard ratios of 3.748 (P=0.0001) for TTP and 2.961 (P=0.006) for death.
Polymorphisms of CYP2A6 and ERCC1 19442C>A correlated with the efficacy of S-1/cisplatin.
The amphetamine derivative 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) produces long-term toxicity to serotonin (5-HT) neurones in rats, which is exacerbated when combined with the mitochondrial inhibitor malonate. Moreover, MDMA, which does not produce dopamine depletion in the rat, potentiates malonate-induced striatal dopamine toxicity. Because the malonate/MDMA combination acutely causes a synergistic increase of 5-HT and dopamine release, in this study we sought to determine whether pharmacological blockade of MDMA- and/or malonate-induced dopamine release prevents neurotoxicity. Fluoxetine, given 30 min prior to the malonate/MDMA combination, afforded complete protection against 5-HT depletion and reversed MDMA-induced exacerbation of dopamine toxicity found in the malonate/MDMA treated rats. Protection afforded by fluoxetine was not related to changes in MDMA-induced hyperthermia. Similarly, potentiation of malonate-induced dopamine toxicity caused by MDMA was not observed in p-chlorophenylalanine-5-HT depleted rats. Finally, the dopamine transporter inhibitor GBR 12909 completely prevented dopamine neurotoxicity caused by the malonate/MDMA combination and reversed the exacerbating toxic effects of malonate on MDMA-induced 5-HT depletion without significantly altering the hyperthermic response. Overall, these results suggest that the synergic release of dopamine caused by the malonate/MDMA combination plays an important role in the long-term toxic effects. A possible mechanism of neurotoxicity and protection is proposed.
Osteopontin has been implicated in numerous physiopathological events. Osteopontin expression in normal and fibrotic liver and liver fibrogenesis in osteopontin-deficient mice were studied.
Fibrosis was induced in mice and rats by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) treatment or bile duct ligation. The liver was used for conventional histology, osteopontin immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, or protein and RNA extraction. In mice, necrotic areas and fibrosis were evaluated by quantitative image analysis.
In normal liver, osteopontin mRNA expression was very low. After CCl4 treatment or bile duct ligation, osteopontin mRNA expression was increased. Osteopontin was expressed by biliary epithelial cells in normal and fibrotic liver. Soon after the beginning of the CCl4 treatment, osteopontin was also present in inflammatory cells of the necrotic areas. In osteopontin-deficient mice, necrotic areas after a single dose of CCl4, and fibrosis after chronic CCl4 treatment were significantly increased as compared with wild-type treated mice.
Our results show that osteopontin expression increases during liver fibrogenesis. Furthermore, osteopontin-deficient mice were more susceptible to CCl4 treatment, displaying more necrosis during the initial steps (probably due to a deficiency in nitric oxide production) and more fibrosis thereafter. The increase in osteopontin expression observed during liver fibrogenesis may play a protective role.
Flame retardants such as polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE) and tetrabromobisphenol A are used as flame retardants and detected in the environmental, wildlife species and human tissues. Exposure to PBDEs during the neonatal development of the brain has been shown to affect behavior and learning and memory in adult mice, while neonatal exposure to TBBPA (another brominated flame retardant) did not affect behavioral variables in the adult. In this study, we hypothesized that the effects of these compounds could be reflected by changes in biochemical substrates and cholinergic receptors and have examined the levels of four proteins involved in maturation of the brain, neuronal growth and synaptogenesis and the densities of both muscarinic and nicotinic cholinergic receptors. We measured the levels of radioactivity in the brain after administration of (14)C-labelled TBBPA at different time points and saw that levels of TBBA peaked earlier and decreased faster than the earlier reported levels of PBDE 99. The protein analysis in the neonatal brain showed changes in the levels of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), growth associated protein-43 (GAP-43) and synaptophysin following neonatal exposure to PBDE 99 (21 μmol/kg body weight), but not following exposure TBBPA. Furthermore, neonatal exposure to PBDE 99 and TBBPA caused a decrease in binding sites of the nicotinic ligand cytisine in frontal cortex. These results confirm earlier reported data that PBDE 99 can act as a developmental neurotoxicant, possibly due to its different uptake and retention in the brain compared to TBBPA. In addition, the changes in protein levels are interesting leads in the search for mechanisms behind the developmental neonatal neurotoxicity of PBDEs in general and PBDE 99 in particular, since also other compounds inducing similar adult behavioral disturbances as PBDE 99, affect these proteins during the period of rapid brain development.
An episode of torsades de pointes, an unusual ventricular tachyarrhythmia, developed in a 59-year-old coronary patient who was treated with 100 mg. four times a day mexiletine orally. The PR, QRS, and QT intervals were normal. The ventricular arrhythmias resembled in part, the patient's previous ventricular premature complexes, but there were some relevant morphological differences. The plasma electrolytes were within normal limits. Mexiletine, which is chemically and electrophysiologically similar to lidocaine, probably caused this arrhythmia. Although mexiletine is a useful antiarrhythmic drug, it should be added to the list of drugs associated with atypical ventricular tachycardia.
To report a case of cerebral ischemia in a patient receiving oral isotretinoin for severe acne.
A 30-year-old right-handed man was admitted for left facial paralysis and dysarthria. He had received oral isotretinoin 45 mg/day for 3 months for treatment of severe acne. A cerebral computed tomography scan showed hypodensity in the right middle cerebral territory corresponding to cerebral ischemia. The patient reported having experienced a similar episode 7 years before, after 3 months' treatment with oral isotretinoin. No risk factors were identified. Isotretinoin was discontinued on admission and the disorders resolved.
Our patient did not present thrombotic risk factors and was not being treated with any drug other than isotretinoin; however, he developed 2 episodes of cerebral ischemia following 2 episodes of oral isotretinoin treatment. According to the Naranjo probability scale, the relationship of cerebral ischemia to administration of isotretinoin was probable. Other reports of thrombotic accidents, as well as some cases of hemorrhage in patients receiving isotretinoin, have been published. This drug seems to act on the coagulation process by a still unexplained mechanism.
Given that isotretinoin is a treatment prescribed most frequently for adolescents and young adults and that cerebral ischemia can produce serious handicaps, an evaluation of vascular risk should be made prior to treatment with this drug.
Hydrodynamics of the eyes was evaluated in 29 patients in the period of one to one and a half years after completion of prednisone therapy. Open angle glaucoma was observed in 2 patients, in 3--only a raised intraocular pressure (21-25 mm Hg) in the period of exacerbation of the infiltrative changes in the tissues of the orbit.
Delirium is a neurobehavioral syndrome caused by the transient disruption of normal neuronal activity secondary to systemic disturbances.
The authors investigated the effects of postoperative sedation on the development of delirium in patients undergoing cardiac-valve procedures.
Patients underwent elective cardiac surgery with a standardized intraoperative anesthesia protocol, followed by random assignment to one of three postoperative sedation protocols: dexmedetomidine, propofol, or midazolam.
The incidence of delirium for patients receiving dexmedetomidine was 3%, for those receiving propofol was 50%, and for patients receiving midazolam, 50%. Patients who developed postoperative delirium experienced significantly longer intensive-care stays and longer total hospitalization.
The findings of this open-label, randomized clinical investigation suggest that postoperative sedation with dexmedetomidine was associated with significantly lower rates of postoperative delirium and lower care costs.
Aminoglycoside (AG) antibiotics are associated with several side effects, including a reversible nephrotoxicity and a permanent ototoxicity. Oxidative stress is thought to contribute to the pathophysiology of both conditions. We studied the possible protective effect of the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) in gentamicin-induced hearing loss in hemodialysis patients. This study includes 53 hemodialysis patients scheduled to receive gentamicin for dialysis catheter-related bacteremia that were randomized to receive the antibiotic with or without NAC. Hearing function was assessed by the standard technique of pure-tone audiograms over a range of frequencies. Audiometric evaluations were performed at baseline, 1 week and at 6 weeks after the completion of gentamicin therapy. A total of 40 patients completed the study protocol with a mean duration of therapy of almost 15 days. At both 1 and 6 weeks after the completion of antibiotic therapy, there were significantly more patients exhibiting ototoxicity in the control group compared with the group receiving NAC. Additionally, significantly more patients in the control group had bilateral ototoxicity. The greatest otoprotective effect of NAC was noticed in the high audiometric tone frequencies. Taken together, our study suggests that NAC treatment may ameliorate gentamicin-induced ototoxicity in hemodialysis patients.
Major clinical features and global measures were systematically evaluated and compared in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and Parkinson's disease (PD). In addition to gaze palsy and early postural instability in PSP, absence of levodopa-induced dyskinesia, frontalis muscle overactivity, primitive reflexes, visuospatial impairment, and substantial frontal behavioral disturbances differentiated almost all patients with this disorder from PD. For PSP, behavioral changes related to severity of general disability, thereby challenging previous models of relationships between behavior, motor, and cognitive disturbance for this disorder.
Three adults are described who developed life-threatening hypotension following intravenous codeine phosphate. It is recommended that codeine phosphate should not be given intravenously to adults.
