We have previously demonstrated that epigenetic silencing of occludin, a tight junction-associated membrane protein, results in the acquisition of apoptotic resistance to various apoptogenic stimuli, causally contributing to the enhanced tumorigenicity of cancer cells. However, it remains to be examined whether occludin expression in transformed cells has an alternative impact that is important for cancer progression. Here we show that forced expression of occludin induces anoikis and promotes oxidative stress-induced premature senescence in breast carcinoma cells, which is accompanied by upregulation of negative cell cycle regulators such as p16(INK4A), p21(Waf1/Cip1) and p27(Kip1) but not p53. The senescent phenotype is reversed by specific inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase. Endogenous reexpression of occludin mediated by a synergistic effect with a demethylator and histone deacetylase inhibitor or retinoids that stimulate retinoic acid receptor alpha is also sufficient for provoking the senescent phenotype. In addition, tumors that developed from occludin-expressing cells in mice showed a feature of cellular senescence that has not been described as a consequence of occludin signaling. These findings suggest that the loss of occludin expression is at least partially involved in the senescence-escape program during mammary tumorigenesis.
Numerous liver diseases are associated with extensive oxidative tissue damage. It is well established that Wnt/β-catenin signaling directs multiple hepatocellular processes, including development, proliferation, regeneration, nutrient homeostasis, and carcinogenesis. It remains unexplored whether Wnt/β-catenin signaling provides hepatocyte protection against hepatotoxin-induced apoptosis. Conditional, liver-specific β-catenin knockdown (KD) mice and their wild-type littermates were challenged by feeding with a hepatotoxin 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine (DDC) diet to induce chronic oxidative liver injury. Following the DDC diet, mice with β-catenin-deficient hepatocytes demonstrate increased liver injury, indicating an important role of β-catenin signaling for liver protection against oxidative stress. This finding was further confirmed in AML12 hepatocytes with β-catenin signaling manipulation in vitro using paraquat, a known oxidative stress inducer. Immunofluorescence staining revealed an intense nuclear FoxO3 staining in β-catenin-deficient livers, suggesting active FoxO3 signaling in response to DDC-induced liver injury when compared with wild-type controls. Consistently, FoxO3 target genes p27 and Bim were significantly induced in β-catenin KD livers. Conversely, SGK1, a β-catenin target gene, was significantly impaired in β-catenin KD hepatocytes that failed to inactivate FoxO3. Furthermore, shRNA-mediated deletion of FoxO3 increased hepatocyte resistance to oxidative stress-induced apoptosis, confirming a proapoptotic role of FoxO3 in the stressed liver. Our findings suggest that Wnt/β-catenin signaling is required for hepatocyte protection against oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. The inhibition of FoxO through its phosphorylation by β-catenin-induced SGK1 expression reduces the apoptotic function of FoxO3, resulting in increased hepatocyte survival. These findings have relevance for future therapies directed at hepatocyte protection, regeneration, and anti-cancer treatment.
Due to increasing drug resistance, artemisinin-based combination chemotherapy (ACT) has become the first-line treatment of falciparum malaria in many endemic countries. However, irreversible ototoxicity associated with artemether/lumefantrine (AL) has been reported recently and suggested to be a serious limitation in the use of ACT. The aim of the study was to compare ototoxicity, tolerability, and efficacy of ACT with that of quinine and atovaquone/proguanil in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
Ninety-seven patients in south-west Ethiopia with slide-confirmed malaria were randomly assigned to receive either artemether/lumefantrine or quinine or atovaquone/proguanil and followed-up for 90 days. Comprehensive audiovestibular testing by pure tone audiometry (PTA), transitory evoked (TE) and distortion product (DP) otoacoustic emissions (OAE) and brain stem evoked response audiometry (BERA) was done before enrolment and after seven, 28 and 90 days.
PTA and DP-OAE levels revealed transient significant cochlear hearing loss in patients treated with quinine but not in those treated with artemether/lumefantrine or atovaquone/proguanil. TE-OAE could be elicited in all examinations, except for three patients in the Q group on day 7, who suffered a transient hearing loss greater than 30 dB. There was no evidence of drug-induced brain stem lesions by BERA measurements.
There was no detrimental effect of a standard oral regimen of artemether/lumefantrine on peripheral hearing or brainstem auditory pathways in patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria. In contrast, transient hearing loss is common after quinine therapy and due to temporary outer hair cell dysfunction.
Effects of oxotremorine on the deficit of place learning in the Morris water maze task induced by baclofen and scopolamine were examined to determine the involvement of brain cholinergic systems in the deficit of learning induced by baclofen. Rats were given 4 training trials per day with the submerged platform at a fixed location in the maze for 4 days. On day 4, rats were required to swim in the pool without the platform after the 4th training trial (probe test). Baclofen as well as scopolamine dose-dependently increased the escape latency in the training trials. In the probe test, baclofen as well as scopolamine dose-dependently reduced the duration in the quadrant where the platform had been originally located. Increased latency in the training trials and reduced duration in the probe test induced by scopolamine were dose-dependently attenuated by oxotremorine. Increased latency and reduced duration in the baclofen-treated rats were improved by oxotremorine as well as 2-hydroxysaclofen. Baclofen but not scopolamine induced motor incoordination in the rotarod test. Oxotremorine failed to improve motor incoordination induced by baclofen. These results suggest that cholinergic systems may be involved in the deficit of place learning induced by baclofen, and that the ameliorative effects of oxotremorine may not be due to improvement of motor incoordination.
tob is a member of antiproliferative family genes. Mice lacking tob are prone to spontaneous formation of tumors. The occurrence rate of diethylnitrosamine-induced liver tumors is higher in tob(-/-) mice than in wild-type mice. tob(-/-)p53(-/-) mice show accelerated tumor formation in comparison with single null mice. Expression of cyclin D1 mRNA is increased in the absence of Tob and is reduced by Tob. Tob acts as a transcriptional corepressor and suppresses the cyclin D1 promoter activity through an interaction with histone deacetylase. Levels of tob mRNA are often decreased in human cancers, implicating tob in cancer development.
A 55-year-old woman with advanced ovarian cancer and severe pain developed hypoactive delirium after an increase in her opioid dosage. Myoclonus and delirium improved dramatically with the intravenous injection of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine, and this improvement was maintained during the administration of donepezil, an oral medication with similar pharmacodynamic properties. Evidence for a disorder of cholinergic neurotransmission in opioid-induced delirium is discussed, as is the rationale for treatment with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and other cholinomimetic agents.
Dose-intensity of chemotherapy is important in the treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is commonly used to maintain it. We reviewed all newly diagnosed HL patients who were treated at our institution between 1996 and 2005. Fifty-nine patients received adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) chemotherapy with no dose reductions, treatment delays, and without G-CSF, regardless of absolute neutrophil count (ANC). The median ANC on all ABVD treatment days (n = 658) was 0.925 x 10(9)/l, and was <0.5 x 10(9)/l on 26% of treatment days. Median normalised ABVD dose-intensity was 99.1% (range, 93-100%) and median cycle duration was 28.2 d. Incidence of bleomycin lung toxicity was 1.6%, 0.44% treatments were complicated by febrile neutropenia, and no secondary malignancies have occurred (median follow-up 48 months; range, 11-130 months). Five-year event-free (EFS) and overall survival (OS) were 92.9% and 97.4% respectively. Furthermore, the 5-year EFS and OS (87.4% and 94.1% respectively) for advanced stage patients compared favourably with a similar ABVD patient group who received routine prophylactic G-CSF (n = 23) with EFS 80.0% and OS 91.3% (P = 0.46 and 0.67 respectively). Our experience suggests that ABVD may be safely and effectively administered at >99% dose-intensity without G-CSF support, regardless of the ANC.
The prodrug fosphenytoin (FOS) was recently introduced as an alternative to phenytoin (PTN) and has since become a first line therapy for status epilepticus. Unlike PTN, FOS generally has been considered to be safe from cardiac toxicity. To better characterize cardiac toxicity associated with FOS administration, we performed a review of the Food and Drug Administration's Adverse Event Reporting System databank for reports of possible FOS toxicity from 1997-2002. There were 29 applicable reports of adverse cardiac events likely related to FOS infusion, including 10 cardiac deaths. Among survivors, there were four cases of high-grade atrioventricular block, and five cases of transient sinus arrest. Our data suggest that FOS may produce more cardiac toxicity than previously thought. Clinicians should consider administering intravenous FOS in a monitored setting for selected high-risk patients.
6-Mercaptopurine (6-MP) and azathioprine (AZA) have been used in patients with Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) for reducing the dose of steroids and maintaining remission. However, some patients treated with 6-MP/AZA develop bone marrow suppression, one of the most serious side effects. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of low-dose AZA (0.6-1.2 mg/kg per day) for maintaining remission in patients with UC. We also investigated the relationship between bone marrow suppression and thiopurine methyltransferase ( TPMT) mutation in the Japanese population.
Study 1. To investigate the frequency of TPMT mutation, findings for 82 patients among 141 patients with UC or CD who were treated with AZA or 6-MP were analyzed retrospectively. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods were used to analyze allele mutations of the TPMT gene. Study 2. A multicenter prospective trial was performed. The subjects were 22 patients with UC with presence of remission for 3 months or more. They were treated with 50 mg/day of AZA, and we evaluated the remission rate at 6 months, adverse side effects, and changes in prednisone doses after the initiation of AZA.
Study 1. Seventy-four (91%) of the 82 patients analyzed had no TPMT mutation, 7 (8%) had one mutant allele, and 1 (1%) had two mutant alleles. Of the total of 141 patients, 4 (44%) of the 9 patients who were treated with 50 mg/day of 6-MP or 100 mg/day of AZA developed bone marrow suppression, although no mutation of TPMT was seen in any of these patients. On the other hand, 8 (6%) of the 132 patients who were treated with 30 mg/day of 6-MP or 50 mg/day of AZA developed bone marrow suppression. Seven of 8 patients (88%) who developed bone marrow suppression with a low dose of AZA had a mutant TPMT allele. Study 2. In the 17 patients who could continue taking low-dose AZA for 6 months, 15 (88%) maintained remission. Of 8 patients treated with low-dose prednisone (5-10 mg/day), 3 patients (38%) could discontinue oral prednisone and 4 (50%) could reduce its dose. Six of the 22 patients (27%) had some adverse side effects. These side effects were ameliorated, or disappeared spontaneously, or disappeared with the discontinuation of AZA.
A dose of 50 mg/day of AZA is effective and safe for maintenance of remission in the Japanese population. Investigation of the TPMT allele may be useful for predicting the appearance of bone marrow suppression, when low-dose 6-MP or AZA is given.
The pharmacokinetics and therapeutic efficacy of imipenem, ceftazidime, and ceftriaxone were compared with those of ampicillin and chloramphenicol in rabbits with experimental meningitis due to an ampicillin- and chloramphenicol-resistant strain of Haemophilus influenzae type b. The mean bacterial colony counts in cerebrospinal fluid were reduced by 49% (-1.85 log10 CFU/ml), 92% (-3.37 log10 CFU/ml), and 92% (-4.30 log10 CFU/ml) after a single dose of imipenem, ceftazidime, and ceftriaxone, respectively. The median peak cerebrospinal fluid bactericidal titers against this multiply resistant strain of H. influenzae were 1:4 for thienamycin, 1:16 for ceftazidime, and 1:256 for ceftriaxone. By contrast, no bactericidal activity was observed in cerebrospinal fluid and the mean concentrations of H. influenzae were either unchanged or slightly increased in animals treated with ampicillin or chloramphenicol.
The prion protein (PrP) binds copper and under some conditions copper can facilitate its folding into a more protease resistant form. Hence, copper levels may influence the infectivity of the scrapie form of prion protein (PrPSc). To determine the feasibility of copper-targeted therapy for prion disease, we treated mice with a copper chelator, D-(-)-penicillamine (D-PEN), starting immediately following intraperitoneal scrapie inoculation. D-PEN delayed the onset of prion disease in the mice by about 11 days (p = 0.002), and reduced copper levels in brain by 29% (p < 0.01) and in blood by 22% (p = 0.03) compared with control animals. Levels of other metals were not significantly altered in the blood or brain. Modest correlation was observed between incubation period and levels of copper in brain (p = 0.08) or blood (p = 0.04), indicating that copper levels are only one of many factors that influence the rate of progression of prion disease. In vitro, copper dose-dependently enhanced the proteinase K resistance of the prion protein, and this effect was counteracted in a dose-dependent manner by co-incubation with D-PEN. Overall, these findings indicate that copper levels can influence the conformational state of PrP, thereby enhancing its infectivity, and this effect can be attenuated by chelator-based therapy.
Although the preoperative use of alpha-receptor antagonist drugs is generally accepted for patients with phaeochromocytoma, evidence on the most appropriate treatment and its timing is scarce. In this retrospective study, the effectiveness of the preoperative preparation of fourteen patients who required surgical excision of a phaeochromocytoma was examined in the light of their operative stability. A simple score was developed of blood pressure stability by scoring the need for additional antihypertensive agents intraoperatively before, and blood pressure support after, tumour removal. A higher score indicated greater instability. Twelve patients received phenoxybenzamine and their stability was superior to the two patients treated with labetalol and with prazosin. There was no correlation between the duration of treatment with phenoxybenzamine and the operative stability (r = 0.18 P = 0.55 Spearman). The five patients who were treated with phenoxybenzamine for longer than 10 days did not have better perioperative blood pressure stability than the five patients who had treatment for less than a week. Predictive factors for intra-operative blood pressure stability were also sought. The degree of postural hypotension after treatment with phenoxybenzamine did not predict operative stability (r = -0.31, P = 0.33 Spearman). However, the peak total catecholamine level found during surgery correlated quite well with more operative instability (r = 0.65, P = 0.031, Spearman), suggesting that patients with phaeochromocytomas with high production of catecholamines are more likely to show cardiovascular instability.
This study was designed to explore whether a well-known nongenotoxic liver carcinogen, clofibrate, would induce rare resistant hepatocytes similar to those seen during initiation of hepatocarcinogenesis with many genotoxic carcinogens. Male young adult F344 rats were exposed to a control diet containing 0.5% (w/w) clofibrate for 3, 6, or 10 months. After 1 month on a diet free of clofibrate, the animals were assayed for resistant hepatocytes by a standardized selection procedure using 2-acetylaminofluorene as the inhibitor and partial hepatectomy as a strong stimulus for cell proliferation. No resistant hepatocytes were found in the animals exposed to clofibrate for 3 months or in any of a series of control animals. However, animals on the clofibrate for 6 and 10 months contained resistant hepatocytes that were clonally expanded to produce hepatocyte nodules. These nodules were indistinguishable on gross and microscopic examination from hepatocyte nodules seen in animals in which nodules are induced with one of many different genotoxic carcinogens. Also, like those nodules, the nodules seen in the animals exposed to clofibrate stained positively for glutathione S-transferase 1-1 and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and negatively for ATPase. The evidence from this study indicates that the nongenotoxic carcinogen, clofibrate, induces early cellular changes in the liver that are very similar to those induced by many different genotoxic carcinogens. These changes are manifest as a resistance phenotype in a few scattered hepatocytes that now can be clonally expanded selectively to form hepatocyte nodules. However, the resistant hepatocytes are induced by clofibrate much more slowly. Whether this basic similarity pertains to the later steps in the hepatocarcinogenic process remains to be studied.
Extensive pre-clinical investigations have shown that the tricyclic compound ReN1869 ((R)-1-(3-(10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5-ylidene)-1-propyl)-3-piperidine carboxylic acid, CAS 170149-99-2) is a potent H1-antagonist with pronounced antinociceptive properties. In this human phase-I trial the effect of different acute and multiple doses of ReN1869 on capsaicin induced neurogenic inflammation and hyperalgesia was investigated. Twenty-one healthy male subjects were enrolled in this randomised, double-blind, three-period, crossover trial design--consisting of acute and one week b.i.d. oral administration of 25 and 50 mg doses of ReN1869 and matching placebo--separated by 3 week washout periods. Capsaicin solution (1%) (INCI: Capsicum frutescens--containing capsaicinoides from Capsicum annuum annuum, CAS 84603-55-4) was applied in an occlusive mode for 30 min on the skin of the back in all three acute and subchronic medication periods to induce neurogenic inflammation. When the nociceptive laser pulses were applied to the capsaicin pre-treated skin, ReN1869 exerted a highly significant reduction of the pain response--as predominantly detected by suppression of the (central) P2-component in the laser-induced somatosensory evoked potentials (LSEPs) from Vertex-EEG. The primary efficacy endpoint, the N1/P2 peak to peak amplitude, was significantly reduced with the administration of ReN1869--primarily by a suppression of the P2-component of the LSEP. This suppression was dose-dependent and was more pronounced after a one week treatment (subchronic mode) with ReN1869 than after the first dose (acute mode). In contrast to the (central) P2-component there was no significant effect on the (peripheral) N1-component of the LSEPs taken from capsaicin-treated skin. As ReN1869 had no significant effect when the laser pulses were applied to normal skin, and the compound's effect was mainly restricted to the (central) P2-component, when LSEPs were taken from capsaicin treated skin, it can be concluded that ReN1869 exerts its positive effect to reduce capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia by a primarily central mechanism.
Heparin has an apoptotic effect beside its anticoagulant, anti-inflammatory, antihypertensive, and antiproliferative effects. In this study, the authors detected the percentages of apoptotic lymphoblasts and the expressions of apoptotic Fas protein and antiapoptotic Bcl-2 protein with flow cytometry in vitro after the incubation of lymphoblasts with heparin. Eleven newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) children were included in the study. Lymphoblasts were incubated in all different levels of heparin concentrations (0, 10, and 20 U/mL) and the percentages of apoptotic lymphoblasts and the percentages of Fas protein and Bcl-2 proteins were simultaneously measured by flow cytometry at 0, 1, and 2 h. At 0, 1, and 2 h, apoptosis was determined when heparin was added in 10- and 20-U/mL concentrations (p <.05). The apoptotic effect of heparin on lymphoblasts was higher at the first hour than at 0 and 2 h in 10- and 20-U/mL heparin concentrations (p <.01). The highest apoptosis was detected in the 20-U/mL heparin concentration at the first hour. The expression levels of Fas protein on lymphoblasts were higher at the first hour than at 0 and 2 h in 10- and 20-U/mL heparin concentrations (p <.001). The highest expression of Fas protein was observed in the 20-U/mL heparin concentration at the first hour. The expression levels of Bcl-2 protein on lymphoblasts were lower at the first hour than at 0 and 2 h in 10- and 20-U/mL heparin concentrations (p <.001). The lowest expression of Bcl-2 protein was detected in the 20-U/mL heparin concentration at the first hour. Increased concentrations of heparin had an increasing effect on the percentages of apoptotic lymphoblasts. The expression percentages of Fas protein on lymphoblasts also increased, whereas the expression percentages of Bcl-2 protein on lymphoblasts decreased (p <.05). These results suggest that low-dose heparin may cause significant apoptosis of lymphoblasts in newly diagnosed ALL patients.
The effect of lithium carbonate on promotion of N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)-nitrosamine-induced bladder tumors in rats was studied. Lithium carbonate acted as promoter in bladder carcinogenesis resulting in a 6-fold increase in the tumor occurrence as compared to controls. The experiments with sequential injection of the agent showed its promoting effect to be most apparent within 3-6 months following exposure to the carcinogen.
We have identified a novel germline mutation in the PTEN tumour suppressor gene. The mutation was identified in a patient with a glioma, and turned out to be a heterozygous germline mutation of PTEN (Arg234Gln), without loss of heterozygosity in tumour DNA. The biological consequences of this germline mutation were investigated by means of transfection studies of the mutant PTEN molecule compared to wild-type PTEN. In contrast to the wild-type molecule, the mutant PTEN protein is not capable of inducing apoptosis, induces increased cell proliferation and leads to high constitutive PKB/Akt activation, which cannot be increased anymore by stimulation with insulin. The reported patient, in addition to glioma, had suffered from benign meningioma in the past but did not show any clinical signs of Cowden disease or other hereditary diseases typically associated with PTEN germline mutations. The functional consequences of the mutation in transfection studies are consistent with high proliferative activity. Together, these findings suggest that the Arg234Gln missense mutation in PTEN has oncogenic properties and predisposes to brain tumours of multiple lineages.
Only about half of patients with a poor-prognosis non-seminomatous germ-cell tumours can achieve a cure. The aim of this phase II study was to assess the efficacy and toxicity of a dose-dense alternating chemotherapy regimen in this subset of patients. High volume non-seminomatous germ-cell tumours was defined as follows: at least two sites of non pulmonary metastases, an extragonadal primary tumour, a serum human chorionic gonadotropin level higher than 10 000 mIU x ml(-1), or a alpha-foetoprotein level higher than 2000 mIU ml(-1). Patients who fulfilled these criteria were treated with the so-called BOP-CISCA-POMB-ACE regimen (bleomycin, vincristine, and cisplatin; cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin; cisplatin, vincristine, methotrexate, and bleomycin; etoposide, dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide) plus granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. A total of 58 patients were enrolled. Patients were retrospectively classified according to the International Germ-Cell Cancer Consensus Group classification; 38 patients (66%) had poor-prognosis disease and 19 patients (33%) had intermediate-prognosis. Patients received a median of 2.5 courses (range 0.25 to five courses) of the BOP-CISCA-POMB-ACE regimen. Forty-two patients (72.4%) had a complete response to therapy. With a median follow-up time of 31 months, the 3-year progression-free survival rate was 71% (95% confidence interval, 60 to 84%) and the 3-year overall survival rate was 73% (95% confidence interval: 62 to 86%). The 3-year PFS rates were 83% (95% confidence interval: 68 to 100%) in the intermediate-prognosis group and 65% (95% confidence interval: 51 to 82%) in the poor-prognosis group. Early side effects included mainly grade 4 haematologic toxicity (neutropaenia in 79% of patients, thrombocytopaenia in 69%, anaemia in 22%), grade 4 stomatitis (19%), and four early deaths (7% of patients), at least partially related to toxicity. The dose-dense BOP-CISCA-POMB-ACE regimen is highly active in patients with non-seminomatous germ-cell tumours classified as intermediate-prognosis or poor-prognosis according to the International Germ-Cell Cancer Consensus Group. Because outcomes with this regimen compare favourably with outcome after standard therapy, dose-dense chemotherapy should be further investigated in this subset of patients.
There is no information comparing the ability to reverse the cardiotoxic effects associated with incremental overdosage of bupivacaine (BUP) to levobupivacaine (LBUP), ropivacaine (ROP), or lidocaine (LIDO). Open-chest dogs were randomized to receive incremental escalating infusions of BUP, LBUP, ROP, and LIDO to the point of cardiovascular collapse (mean arterial pressure [MAP] < or = 45 mm Hg). Hypotension and arrhythmias were treated with epinephrine, open-chest massage, and advanced cardiac life support protocols, respectively. Outcomes were defined as the following: successful (stable rhythm and MAP > or = 55 mm Hg for 20 min), successful with continued therapy (stable rhythm and MAP <55 mm Hg after 20 min), or death. Continued therapy was required in 86% of LIDO dogs compared with only 10%-30% of the other dogs (P < 0.002). Mortality from BUP, LBUP, ROP, and LIDO was 50%, 30%, 10%, and 0%, respectively. Myocardial depression was primarily responsible for the profound hypotension, as the occurrence of lethal arrhythmias preceding resuscitation was not different among local anesthetics. Epinephrine-induced ventricular fibrillation occurred more frequently in BUP-intoxicated dogs than in dogs given LIDO or ROP (P < 0.05). The unbound plasma concentrations at collapse were larger for ROP, 19.8 microg/mL (10-39 microg/mL), compared with BUP, 5.7 microg/mL (3-11 microg/mL); whereas the concentrations of LBUP, 9.4 microg/mL (5-18 microg/mL) and BUP were not significantly different from each other.
There were consistent differences among the local anesthetics, the sum of which suggests that larger doses and blood concentrations of ropivacaine (ROP) and lidocaine will be tolerated as compared with bupivacaine (BUP) and levobupivacaine (LBUP). Lidocaine intoxication results in myocardial depression from which resuscitation is consistently successful but will require continuing drug support. After BUP, LBUP, or ROP, resuscitation is not always successful, and the administration of epinephrine may lead to severe arrhythmias. The unbound plasma concentrations at collapse were larger for ROP compared with BUP, whereas the concentrations of LBUP and BUP were not significantly different from each other. Furthermore, larger plasma concentrations of ROP than BUP are present after resuscitation, suggesting a wider margin of safety when large volumes and large concentrations are used to establish upper or lower extremity nerve blocks for surgical anesthesia and during long-term infusions for pain management.
Brachydactyly mental retardation syndrome (BDMR) is associated with a deletion involving chromosome 2q37. BDMR presents with a range of features, including intellectual disabilities, developmental delays, behavioral abnormalities, sleep disturbance, craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities (including brachydactyly type E), and autism spectrum disorder. To date, only large deletions of 2q37 have been reported, making delineation of a critical region and subsequent identification of candidate genes difficult. We present clinical and molecular analysis of six individuals with overlapping deletions involving 2q37.3 that refine the critical region, reducing the candidate genes from >20 to a single gene, histone deacetylase 4 (HDAC4). Driven by the distinct hand and foot anomalies and similar cognitive features, we identified other cases with clinical findings consistent with BDMR but without a 2q37 deletion, and sequencing of HDAC4 identified de novo mutations, including one intragenic deletion probably disrupting normal splicing and one intragenic insertion that results in a frameshift and premature stop codon. HDAC4 is a histone deacetylase that regulates genes important in bone, muscle, neurological, and cardiac development. Reportedly, Hdac4(-/-) mice have severe bone malformations resulting from premature ossification of developing bones. Data presented here show that deletion or mutation of HDAC4 results in reduced expression of RAI1, which causes Smith-Magenis syndrome when haploinsufficient, providing a link to the overlapping findings in these disorders. Considering the known molecular function of HDAC4 and the mouse knockout phenotype, taken together with deletion or mutation of HDAC4 in multiple subjects with BDMR, we conclude that haploinsufficiency of HDAC4 results in brachydactyly mental retardation syndrome.
Schizophrenia (SZ) is a severe psychiatric illness that affects approximately 1% of the population and has a strong genetic underpinning. Recently, genome-wide analysis of copy-number variation (CNV) has implicated rare and de novo events as important in SZ. Here, we report a genome-wide analysis of 245 SZ cases and 490 controls, all of Ashkenazi Jewish descent. Because many studies have found an excess burden of large, rare deletions in cases, we limited our analysis to deletions over 500 kb in size. We observed seven large, rare deletions in cases, with 57% of these being de novo. We focused on one 836 kb de novo deletion at chromosome 3q29 that falls within a 1.3-1.6 Mb deletion previously identified in children with intellectual disability (ID) and autism, because increasing evidence suggests an overlap of specific rare copy-number variants (CNVs) between autism and SZ. By combining our data with prior CNV studies of SZ and analysis of the data of the Genetic Association Information Network (GAIN), we identified six 3q29 deletions among 7545 schizophrenic subjects and one among 39,748 controls, resulting in a statistically significant association with SZ (p = 0.02) and an odds ratio estimate of 17 (95% confidence interval: 1.36-1198.4). Moreover, this 3q29 deletion region contains two linkage peaks from prior SZ family studies, and the minimal deletion interval implicates 20 annotated genes, including PAK2 and DLG1, both paralogous to X-linked ID genes and now strong candidates for SZ susceptibility.
The analgesic effects of morphine (CAS 57-27-2) in clinical use are well described. Sedation is discussed as a relevant side-effect, mostly based on data recorded in normal subjects without pain. The aim of this study was to quantify and to evaluate electrophysiologically the analgesic and sedative effects of morphine for the first time using an experimental pain model.
Analgesic and sedative effects of a low dose of morphine sulfate (CAS 6211-15-0; 10 mg i.v.) were determined using a standard phasic pain model (intracutaneously administered electrical pulses) in a placebo-controlled design with seven healthy subjects. Five blocks (1 block = 80 stimuli) of painful stimuli were applied, covering a period of 3 h. Analgesia was assessed by subjective pain ratings and by pain-related brain potentials. Sedation was determined by the power spectra of the spontaneous EEG, by auditory evoked potentials (AEP), reaction times and mood scales.
In all subjects the pain related variables were suppressed maximally 2 h after morphine administration (p < 0.01 versus placebo), indicated by a decrease of the pain ratings by about 45% and of the pain related brain potentials by about 50%. Interestingly, no effect on any sedation variable was found (p > 0.05).
The lack of sedative effects in the presence of marked analgesia was surprising in comparison with results of previous studies. It is concluded that the experimental pain increased the arousal level thus counteracting morphine-induced sedation. This may explain why other studies found relevant sedation after morphine application in the absence of pain. This underlines that sedative effects of analgesic drugs should be evaluated in the presence of pain. In relation to other analgesics (meperidine, pentacozine, nortilidine, flupirtine and tramadol) evaluated by exactly the same experimental protocol, morphine exhibited a potent analgesia with the smallest sedative effects of all.
To evaluate the impact of tamoxifen on subjective and psychosexual well-being in breast cancer patients in relation to type of prior chemotherapy and menopausal status. Longitudinal interview study in breast cancer patients during and after adjuvant tamoxifen use. Menopausal status was defined by last menstrual period and serum oestradiol and FSH levels. Gynaecology outpatient clinic, Tertiary Referral Hospital, January 1995 to September 1999. Breast cancer patients <56 years of age, participating in a randomised trial comparing adjuvant high-dose (n=45) and standard-dose (n=53) chemotherapy, followed by radiotherapy and tamoxifen. Relative incidence and correlation of subjective and psychosexual symptoms during and after tamoxifen. During tamoxifen the most frequent complaints were hot flushes (85%), disturbed sleep (55%), vaginal dryness and/or dyspareunia (47%), decreased sexual desire (44%) and musculo-skeletal symptoms (43%). Disturbed sleep correlated with hot flushes (P<0.0005) and concentration problems (P<0.05). Decreased sexual interest correlated with vaginal dryness (P<0.0005) and/or dyspareunia (P<0.0005). In the high-dose group more patients became postmenopausal (95% vs 33%) and more patients reported symptoms than in the standard-dose group (P<0.05). After discontinuation of tamoxifen, symptoms decreased significantly. However, hot flushes, disturbed sleep and vaginal dryness persisted more often in patients who remained postmenopausal after high-dose chemotherapy (P<0.05). Overall, during tamoxifen patients reported many symptoms. More patients become postmenopausal after high-dose chemotherapy, and they remain often symptomatic after tamoxifen.
The patient was a 55-year-old female. On the diagnosis of the right acoustic tumor, a subtotal extirpation was performed. Heparinized solution was administered, and on postoperative day 7, an occlusion of the left common femoral artery was confirmed. A continuous administration of heparin was initiated after a thrombectomy. On the following day, the platelet count decreased. Following confirmation of the recurrence of thromboembolism, we again performed a thrombectomy. Considering the possibility of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), we terminated the administration of heparin, and treatment with danaparoid and argatroban was initiated. Two days later, she redeveloped thromboembolism. After the administration of danaparoid was terminated, the platelet count improved.
A 55-year-old woman developed cirrhosis with portal hypertension while taking methyldopa. No other cause for the cirrhosis was evident. In view of the known hepatotoxic effects of methyldopa, a causal relationship is implied. Possible mechanisms of drug toxicity include both immunologic reactions and direct hepatocellular damage by the drug or its metabolites.
Recently, submicroscopic deletions of the 5q14.3 region have been described in patients with severe mental retardation (MR), stereotypic movements, epilepsy and cerebral malformations. Further delineation of a critical region of overlap in these patients pointed to MEF2C as the responsible gene. This finding was further reinforced by the identification of a nonsense mutation in a patient with a similar phenotype. In brain, MEF2C is essential for early neurogenesis, neuronal migration and differentiation. Here we present two additional patients with severe MR, autism spectrum disorder and epilepsy, carrying a very small deletion encompassing the MEF2C gene. This finding strengthens the role of this gene in severe MR, and enables further delineation of the clinical phenotype.
