Quercetin is a food component that may ameliorate the diabetic symptoms. We examined hepatic gene expression of BALB/c mice with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes to elucidate the mechanism of the protective effect of dietary quercetin on diabetes-associated liver injury. We fed normal and STZ-induced diabetic mice with diets containing quercetin for 2 wk and compared the patterns of hepatic gene expression in these groups of mice using a DNA microarray. Diets containing 0.1 or 0.5% quercetin lowered the STZ-induced increase in blood glucose levels and improved plasma insulin levels. A cluster analysis of the hepatic gene expressions showed that 0.5% quercetin diet suppressed STZ-induced alteration of gene expression. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that the quercetin diets had greatest suppressive effect on the STZ-induced elevation of expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21(WAF1/Cip1) (Cdkn1a). Quercetin also suppressed STZ-induced expression of Cdkn1a in the pancreas. Dietary quercetin might improve liver and pancreas functions by enabling the recovery of cell proliferation through the inhibition of Cdkn1a expression. Unexpectedly, in healthy control mice the 0.5 and 1% quercetin diets reduced the expression of ubiquitin C (Ubc), which has heat-shock element (HSE) in the promoter region, in the liver.
The association between renal hypoplasia and pulmonary hypoplasia in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) has become recently appreciated. However, the underlying mechanisms responsible for this association are still unknown. Renin-angiotensin system (RAS) plays an important role in renal and somatic growth, angiogenesis and reproduction. We hypothesized that abnormal expression of RAS components may be responsible for renal hypoplasia in CDH. We therefore designed this study to examine the gene expression of main components of RAS in the kidney of nitrofen-induced CDH in the rat. Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or 100 mg of nitrofen on day 9.5 of gestation. Foetuses were recovered at term and divided into three groups: control (n=8), nitrofen without CDH (n=8) and CDH (n=8). Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was performed to evaluate the relative amount of angiotensinogen (AGT), angiotensin II type 1 receptor with 1a and 1b subtypes (AT(1a)R and AT(1b)R), angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AT(2)R), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) and renin expression in the kidney. AT(1a)R, AT(1b)R, AT(2)R, AGT and renin levels were significantly decreased in the kidney of CDH rats compared with controls. We did not find a significant difference in ACE between CDH animals and controls. Our data show that the downregulation of RAS may play an important role in the pathogenesis of renal hypoplasia in the nitrofen-induced CDH.
The pharmacokinetics and bacteriological efficacy of nafcillin (NFPC), vancomycin (VCM), amikacin (AMK) and rifampicin (RFP) alone and in VCM combinations were evaluated in the experimental rabbit meningitis caused by methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). The mean concentrations of NFPC, VCM, AMK and RFP in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with MSSA meningitis exceeded the minimal bactericidal concentrations of MSSA during 8 hours therapy period. The mean CSF penetration rates of the 4 drugs during therapy were from 1% to 26% which are comparable to those observed in humans with meningitis. The median CSF bactericidal titers of RFP, VCM plus RFP, AMK, VCM plus AMK regimens were larger than 1:8 during therapy of MSSA meningitis study. In experimental MRSA meningitis, RFP and VCM plus RFP achieved titers greater than 1: 16 during therapy and at 24 hours. No statistically significant reduction in the CSF bacterial colony count was obtained with any of the antibiotic regimens in MSSA meningitis. By contrast, in 8 hours MRSA meningitis model, significant reductions in the number of MRSA were observed in animals treated for 8 hours with VCM plus RFP (P less than 0.01), RFP (P less than 0.05), and NFPC plus RFP (P less than 0.01).
SR2508 sensitises certain hypoxic tumor cells in vitro and in vivo to the cytotoxic action of radiation and alkylating agents. The mechanism of sensitisation may derive in part from depletion of glutathione (GSH) and possibly inhibition of GSH-dependent enzymes in target cells. We treated 46 evaluable patients with cyclophosphamide 750-1000 mg m-2 followed by SR2508 at eight dose levels ranging from 2.5 to 15.0 g m-2. Each patient received SR2508 as a single agent initially, followed a week later by the combination of cyclophosphamide and SR2508. Initially, myelosuppression was the major toxicity; potentiation of cyclophosphamide-induced leukopenia by SR2508 required a dose reduction of cyclophosphamide to 750 mg m-2 at SR2508 doses above 7.2 g m-2. At doses above 9.4 g m-2 an acute syndrome of muscle pains and painful paresthesias of the extremities lasting 12-24 h was observed to occur with increasing severity. This side-effect was intolerable in two of three patients treated at 15.0 g m-2. The only other reproducible side-effect was nausea and vomiting which was controllable with antiemetics. Plasma and urine SR2508 concentrations were measured by HPLC in 45 patients. Plasma elimination curves fit a 2-compartment model. The mean terminal half-life at each dose level ranged from 5.1-5.8 h. The mean area under the plasma concentration-time curve was linearly related to dose, and mean total body clearance ranged from 46.6-94.0 ml-1 min-1 m-2; renal clearance accounted for 65.7-79.3%. Pretreatment with cyclophosphamide did not influence the kinetics of SR2508 in individual patients. Examination of the glutathione content of peripheral mononuclear cells and tumour samples showed that depletion to below 50% of control occurred in the majority of patients. GSH transferase inhibition occurred with a similar time-course, but to a lesser extent. These data suggest that the further evaluation of this regimen should be conducted with SR2508 administration preceding that of cyclophosphamide and that its evaluation in cyclophosphamide-sensitive tumours is warranted.
The soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) metabolizes vasodilatory epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs) to their di-hydroxy derivatives. We hypothesized that the metabolism of EETs by the sEH contributes to angiotensin II-induced hypertension and tested the effects of a water-soluble sEH inhibitor, 12-(3-adamantan-1-yl-ureido) dodecanoic acid (AUDA) on blood pressure. AUDA (130 microg/mL in drinking water) did not affect blood pressure in normotensive animals but markedly lowered it in mice with angiotensin II-induced hypertension (1 mg/kg per day). The effect of AUDA was accompanied by an increase in urinary salt and water excretion. Intravenous application of AUDA (8 mg/kg) acutely lowered blood pressure and heart rate in animals with angiotensin II-induced hypertension but failed to affect blood pressure in animals with phenylephrine-induced hypertension (29 mg/kg per day). AUDA (0.1 micromol/L) selectively lowered vascular resistance in an isolated perfused kidney preparation from angiotensin II-pretreated mice but not from control mice. In the perfused hind limb and in isolated carotid arteries from angiotensin II-treated mice, AUDA was without effect. The omega-hydroxylase inhibitor N-methylsulfonyl-12,12-dibromododec-11-enamide, which attenuates formation of the potent vasoconstrictor 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid, decreased tone in carotid arteries from angiotensin II-treated but not from control mice. These data demonstrate that the decrease in blood pressure observed after sEH inhibition in angiotensin II-induced hypertension can be attributed to an initial reduction in heart rate followed by pressure diuresis resulting from increased perfusion of the kidney. Direct vasodilatation of resistance arteries in skeletal muscles does not appear to contribute to the antihypertensive effects of sEH inhibition in mice.
Although there is good evidence that D-penicillamine can induce polymyositis, the exact pathogenic mechanism remains unclear. We report two patients with psoriatic arthritis and primary biliary cirrhosis respectively, who developed polymyositis while receiving D-penicillamine treatment for their primary diseases. Whether D-penicillamine treatment was the sole cause of polymyositis or acted as a trigger for the development of a secondary autoimmune disease is discussed.
We have previously described diminished uterine progesterone response and increased uterine sensitivity to inflammation in adult female mice with a history of developmental exposure to TCDD (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin). Since parturition in mammals is an inflammatory process mediated in part by a decline in progesterone action, toxicant-mediated disruption of progesterone receptor (PR) expression at the maternal-fetal interface would likely impact the timing of birth. Therefore, in the current study, we examined pregnancy outcomes in adult female mice with a similar in utero exposure to TCDD. We also examined the impact of in utero TCDD exposure of male mice on pregnancy outcomes in unexposed females since the placenta, a largely paternally derived organ, plays a major role in the timing of normal parturition via inflammatory signaling. Our studies indicate that developmental exposure of either parent to TCDD is associated with preterm birth in a subsequent adult pregnancy due to altered PR expression and placental inflammation.
Maternal smoking is one of the risk factors for preterm birth and for the development of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). In this study, we tested the hypothesis that prenatal exposure of rats to benzo[a]pyrene (BP), a component of cigarette smoke, will result in increased susceptibility of newborns to oxygen-mediated lung injury and alveolar simplification, and that cytochrome P450 (CYP)1A and 1B1 enzymes and oxidative stress mechanistically contribute to this phenomenon. Timed pregnant Fisher 344 rats were administered BP (25 mg/kg) or the vehicle corn oil (CO) on gestational days 18, 19 and 20, and newborn rats were either maintained in room air or exposed to hyperoxia (85% O2) for 7 or 14 days. Hyperoxic newborn rats prenatally exposed to the vehicle CO showed lung injury and alveolar simplification, and inflammation, and these effects were potentiated in rats that were prenatally exposed to BP. Prenatal exposure to BP, followed by hyperoxia, also resulted in significant modulation of hepatic and pulmonary cytochrome P450 (CYP)1A and 1B1 enzymes at PND 7-14. These rats displayed significant oxidative stress in lungs at postnatal day (PND) 14, as evidenced by increased levels of the F2-isoprostane 8-iso-PGF2α. Furthermore, these animals showed BP-derived DNA adducts and oxidative DNA adducts in the lung. In conclusion, our results show increased susceptibility of newborns to oxygen-mediated lung injury and alveolar simplification following maternal exposure to BP, and our results suggest that modulation of CYP1A/1B1 enzymes, increases in oxidative stress, and BP-DNA adducts contributed to this phenomenon.
In six patients with Cushing's syndrome and three with steroid myopathy, the clinical, functional, biochemical and structural characteristics of myopathy are described. Proximal muscle weakness occurred in all the patients, preferentially affected the lower limbs and was accompanied by muscle wasting in all but one patient. Force measurements confirmed quadriceps weakness in every patient. Vastus lateralis muscle biopsies showed light microscopic abnormalities in two of three patients with steroid myopathy and one of five patients with Cushing's syndrome. Type II fibre atrophy was the commonest abnormality. Reduced type II mean fibre areas occurred in all the patients with steroid myopathy and were common in Cushing's syndrome patients. Type I mean fibre areas were also reduced in two of the former group and one of the latter group and two further patients in this group had areas at the lower end of the normal range. Abnormalities in electron microscopy, mitochondrial function tests and chemical content of skeletal muscle were frequent and are described and discussed. A plasma creatine kinase activity (CK) at the lower end of the normal range, a myopathic electromyogram (EMG) and a raised 24-h urinary 3-methylhistidine/creatinine ratio on a creatine free diet were other characteristic findings in both groups of patients.
Although oxytocin, a uterotonic agent, may cause short-term vasodilation that results in severe hypotension, it is still routinely given as an intravenous bolus injection during surgical suction curettage. Two reported cases of ventricular tachycardia after oxytocin bolus in patients with long QT interval syndrome led us to assess the effect of oxytocin on QT interval.
Thirty-eight healthy women scheduled for a surgical suction curettage with general anesthesia were enrolled. General anesthesia was induced by propofol and maintained by either propofol (n = 18) or sevoflurane (n = 20). Electrocardiographic recordings were obtained before and at 1, 2, 3, and 5 minutes after a 10-U intravenous bolus of oxytocin.
Intravenous oxytocin induced a pronounced QTc interval prolongation of 41 +/- 21 ms ( P < .0001), which was maximal 1 minute after administration. The QTc interval returned to control values 3 minutes after oxytocin bolus. Oxytocin bolus also induced an increase in heart rate of 19 +/- 10 beats/min and a significant decrease in systolic arterial pressure of 11 +/- 9 mm Hg (both P < .0001). The drug used to maintain anesthesia was not an independent factor of QT interval prolongation in ANOVA analysis.
Oxytocin intravenous bolus induced a large and transient QTc interval prolongation, suggesting that it may lead to proarrhythmia in circumstances favoring QTc interval increase.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), a leading cause of infertility, affects approximately 10% of women of reproductive age. The etiology and pathophysiology of PCOS are poorly understood. PCOS is multifaceted and includes reproductive abnormalities and components of the metabolic syndrome such as insulin resistance, obesity, dyslipidemia, and hypertension. Exposure to excess testosterone (T) during the prenatal period may predispose individuals to PCOS phenotype. The goal of this study was to determine whether hypertension and dyslipidemia occur in a well-characterized model of PCOS produced by prenatal treatment of sheep with T. Radiotelemetry was used to measure blood pressure over a 24-h period in conscious, undisturbed animals. To normalize circulating estradiol levels across treatment, control (n = 4) and prenatal T-treated (100 mg T propionate im twice weekly from days 30 to 90 of fetal life, n = 4) 2-yr-old females were ovariectomized, instrumented with a radiotelemetry transmitter, and clamped with early follicular phase levels of estrogen using an implant. Six days later, a 24-h recording period commenced. Prenatal T-treated sheep were hypertensive compared with control sheep, and heart rate tended to be higher. T-treated sheep had hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, hypernatremia, and hyperchloremia, and both total and LDL cholesterol tended to be higher. Plasma aldosterone and epinephrine were significantly lower in T-treated sheep, whereas norepinephrine was unchanged. This first-ever use of radiotelemetric blood pressure recordings in sheep demonstrates that mild hypertension, a risk factor reported in some women with PCOS, is also a feature of the sheep model of PCOS produced by prenatal T treatment.
Bloom's syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by genomic instability and a predisposition to many cancers. Mutations of the BLM gene (encoding a BLM helicase) may form a structure of the etiology of this disease. As a global pollutant, mercury poses a major threat to human health. The current study was conducted to elucidate the effects of Hg(2+) on the structure and activity of BLM642-1290 recombinant helicase, and to further explore the molecular mechanisms of mercury toxicity to the DNA helicase.
The effects of Hg(2+) on biological activity and structure of BLM642-1290 recombinant helicase were determined by fluorescence polarized, ultraviolet spectroscopic, and free-phosphorus assay technologies, respectively.
The helicase activity, the DNA-binding activity, and the ATPase activity of BLM642-1290 recombinant helicase were inhibited by Hg(2+) treatment. The LMCT (ligand-to-metal charge transition) peaks of the helicase were enhanced with the increase of the Hg(2+) level. The LMCT peaks of the same concentration of helicase gradually increased over time.
The biological activity of BLM642-1290 recombinant helicase is inhibited by Hg(2+) treatment. The conformation of the helicase is significantly altered by Hg(2+). There exist two binding sites between Hg(2+) and the helicase, which are located in the amino acid residues 1063-1066 and 940-944 of the helicase, respectively.
Paraquat, a herbicide that generates reactive oxygen species, has been used to probe the oxidative defense systems of lung. In this study, we investigated the effects of paraquat in the retina. There was no significant decline in electroretinogram (ERG) a- or b-wave amplitudes after intravitreous injection of 1 mul of 0.5 mM paraquat in C57BL/6 mice, but loss of ERG function occurred after injection of 0.75 or 1 mM paraquat. Histology in paraquat-injected eyes showed condensation of chromatin and thinning of the inner and outer nuclear layers indicating cell death, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated duTP-biotinide end labeling demonstrated that one mechanism of cell death was apoptosis. Fluorescence in the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium after intraocular injection of paraquat followed by perfusion with hydroethidine indicated high levels of superoxide radicals, and oxidative damage was demonstrated by staining for acrolein and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for carbonyl adducts. Paraquat-induced damage to the outer nuclear layer was greater in BALB/c mice than in C57BL/6 mice, suggesting strain differences in the oxidative defense system of photoreceptors and/or other modifier genes. Intravitreous injection of paraquat provides a new model of oxidative damage-induced retinal degeneration that is likely to be useful for testing new antioxidant treatments.
We investigated the influence of apomorphine, amphetamine, amantadine, dimethylaminoadamantane, nomifensine, ergometrine and beta-phenylethylamine on cataleptogenic and antinociceptive action of analgesics in rats. Nomifensine, apomorphine, beta-phenylethylamine, amantadine and ergometrine antagonized the catalepsy induced by morphine and codeine. Catalepsy induced by fentanyl was depressed only by nomifensine and apomorphine. Amphetamine only slightly antagonized the analgesic-induced catalepsy and the effects were not dose-dependent. Dimethylaminoadamantane did not antagonize catalepsy at all. Antinociceptive action of morphine and codeine was antagonized by apomorphine and amphetamine. Ergometrine counteracted the action of morphine, and beta-phenylethylamine decreased the action of pentazocine. The results suggest that: 1. There are differences in the mechanism of cataleptogenic action of the opiates (morphine and codeine) and fentanyl; 2. Catalepsy after analgesia differs from the catalepsy produced by neuroleptics in respect of interaction with such drugs as amphetamine, apomorphine or dimethylaminoadamantane. Analgesic-induced catalepsy seems to depend on the presynaptic inhibition of dopaminergic neurotransmission; 3. Stimulation of the central dopaminergic system in rat brain either does not change or weakly antagonizes the action of analgesics in the hot plate test.
This study explored interactions between prenatal exposure to maternal smoking and polymorphisms in metabolic genes in the risk of childhood acute leukemia (AL).
The data were generated by the ESCALE study, which included 764 AL cases and 1,681 controls in 2003-2004. The data on maternal smoking during pregnancy were obtained by standardized telephone interview of the cases' and controls' mothers. The genotypes CYP1A1*2A/2B (rs4646903), CYP2E1*5 (rs2031920, rs3813867), NQO1*2 (rs1800566), NAT2*5 (rs1801280), and EPHX1 exon 3 (rs1051740) and exon 4 (rs2234922) were obtained using a high-throughput platform and imputation for untyped polymorphisms. The analyses were restricted to the 493 cases (433 cases of lymphoblastic (ALL) and 51 of myeloblastic (AML) leukemia) and 441 controls with at least 2 grandparents born in Europe, who were genotyped with individual call rates greater than 95%. Odds ratios were estimated by logistic regression in case-control analyses and, for gene-gene and gene-environment interactions, by case-only analyses.
ALL and AML were not associated with either maternal smoking during pregnancy or candidate polymorphisms in CYP1A1, CYP2E1, EPHX1, and NQO1. Carrying two NAT2*5 alleles was significantly associated with ALL (OR = 1.8 [1.3-2.5]). The analyses also suggested an interaction between three genes involved in benzene metabolism CYP2E1, NQO1, and EPHX1. There was no interaction between maternal smoking and any of the polymorphisms under study.
The ESCALE study did not evidence the interaction between CYP1A1*2A/2B and maternal smoking suggested previously. The association with NAT2*5 and the gene-gene interactions need to be replicated.
Here we report the first cloned N-ethyl-nitrosourea (ENU)-derived mouse model of diabetes. GENA348 was identified through free-fed plasma glucose measurement, being more than 2 SDs above the population mean of a cohort of >1,201 male ENU mutant mice. The underlying gene was mapped to the maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY2) homology region of mouse chromosome 11 (logarithm of odds 6.0). Positional candidate gene analyses revealed an A to T transversion mutation in exon 9 of the glucokinase gene, resulting in an isoleucine to phenylalanine change at amino acid 366 (I366F). Heterozygous mutants have 67% of the enzyme activity of wild-type littermates (P < 0.0012). Homozygous mutants have less enzyme activity (14% of wild-type activity) and are even less glucose tolerant. The GENA348 allele is novel because no mouse or human diabetes studies have described a mutation in the corresponding amino acid position. It is also the first glucokinase missense mutation reported in mice and is homozygous viable, unlike the global knockout mutations. This work demonstrates that ENU mutagenesis screens can be used to generate models of complex phenotypes, such as type 2 diabetes, that are directly relevant to human disease.
A new case of painful legs and moving toes syndrome is reported in a patient with a neuropathy due to high-doses of cytosine arabinoside (Ara C). A few cases of this complication have been reported. The neuropathy was sensory, axonal, and incompletely regressive. Carbamazepine had a dramatic effect on pain and involuntary movements.
A case is described of sudden death occurring after the use of a noradrenaline-containing local anaesthetic. Autopsy revealed a massive subarachnoid haemorrhage following a ruptured cerebral aneurysm. The noradrenaline in the local anaesthetic is thought to be an important factor in the cause of the rupture. It is recommended that preparations containing 1:25,000 noradrenaline not be used.
Inactivating mutations in the retinoid isomerase (RPE65) or lecithin:retinol acyltransferase (LRAT) genes cause Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA), a severe visual impairment in humans. Both enzymes participate in the retinoid (visual) cycle, the enzymatic pathway that continuously generates 11-cis-retinal, the chromophore of visual pigments in rod and cone photoreceptor cells needed for vision. We investigated human RPE65-LCA patients and mice with visual cycle abnormalities to determine the impact of chronic chromophore deprivation on cones. Young patients with RPE65 mutations showed foveal cone loss along with shortened inner and outer segments of remaining cones; cone cell loss also was dramatic in young mice lacking Rpe65 or Lrat gene function. To selectively evaluate cone pathophysiology, we eliminated the rod contribution to electroretinographic (ERG) responses by generating double knockout mice lacking Lrat or Rpe65 together with an inactivated rod-specific G protein transducin gene (Gnat1-/-). Cone ERG responses were absent in Gnat1-/-Lrat-/- mice which also showed progressive degeneration of cones. Cone ERG responses in Gnat1-/-Rpe65-/- mice were markedly reduced and declined over weeks. Treatment of these mice with the artificial chromophore pro-drug, 9-cis-retinyl acetate, partially protected inferior retinal cones as evidenced by improved ERGs and retinal histochemistry. Gnat1-/- mice chronically treated with retinylamine, a selective inhibitor of RPE65, also showed a decline in the number of cones that was ameliorated by 9-cis-retinyl acetate. These results suggest that chronic lack of chromophore leads to progressive loss of cones in mice and humans. Therapy for LCA patients should be geared toward early adequate delivery of chromophore to cone photoreceptors.
Loss-of-function mutations protective against human disease provide in vivo validation of therapeutic targets, but none have yet been described for type 2 diabetes (T2D). Through sequencing or genotyping of ~150,000 individuals across 5 ancestry groups, we identified 12 rare protein-truncating variants in SLC30A8, which encodes an islet zinc transporter (ZnT8) and harbors a common variant (p.Trp325Arg) associated with T2D risk and glucose and proinsulin levels. Collectively, carriers of protein-truncating variants had 65% reduced T2D risk (P = 1.7 × 10(-6)), and non-diabetic Icelandic carriers of a frameshift variant (p.Lys34Serfs*50) demonstrated reduced glucose levels (-0.17 s.d., P = 4.6 × 10(-4)). The two most common protein-truncating variants (p.Arg138* and p.Lys34Serfs*50) individually associate with T2D protection and encode unstable ZnT8 proteins. Previous functional study of SLC30A8 suggested that reduced zinc transport increases T2D risk, and phenotypic heterogeneity was observed in mouse Slc30a8 knockouts. In contrast, loss-of-function mutations in humans provide strong evidence that SLC30A8 haploinsufficiency protects against T2D, suggesting ZnT8 inhibition as a therapeutic strategy in T2D prevention.
In an experimental model of cancer pain, the hyperalgesia that occurs with osteolytic tumor growth is associated with the sensitization of nociceptors. We examined functional and molecular changes in small-diameter dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons to determine cellular mechanisms underlying this sensitization. The occurrence of a Ca2+ transient in response to either KCl (25 mM) or capsaicin (500 nM) increased in small neurons isolated from murine L3-L6 DRGs ipsilateral to fibrosarcoma cell tumors. The increased responses were associated with increased mRNA levels for the Ca2+ channel subunit alpha2delta1 and TRPV1 receptor. Pretreatment with gabapentin, an inhibitor of the alpha2delta1 subunit, blocked the increased response to KCl in vitro and the mechanical hyperalgesia in tumor-bearing mice in vivo. Similar increases in neuronal responsiveness occurred when DRG neurons from naive mice and fibrosarcoma cells were cocultured for 48 h. The CC chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) may contribute to the tumor cell-induced sensitization because CCL2 immunoreactivity was present in tumors, high levels of CCL2 peptide were present in microperfusates from tumors, and treatment of DRG neurons in vitro with CCL2 increased the amount of mRNA for the alpha2delta1 subunit. Together, our data provide strong evidence that the chemical mediator CCL2 is released from tumor cells and evokes phenotypic changes in sensory neurons, including increases in voltage-gated Ca2+ channels that likely underlie the mechanical hyperalgesia in the fibrosarcoma cancer model. More broadly, this study provides a novel in vitro model to resolve the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which tumor cells drive functional changes in nociceptors.
The molecular mechanisms underlying angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma (AITL), a common type of mature T cell lymphoma of poor prognosis, are largely unknown. Here we report a frequent somatic mutation in RHOA (encoding p.Gly17Val) using exome and transcriptome sequencing of samples from individuals with AITL. Further examination of the RHOA mutation encoding p.Gly17Val in 239 lymphoma samples showed that the mutation was specific to T cell lymphoma and was absent from B cell lymphoma. We demonstrate that the RHOA mutation encoding p.Gly17Val, which was found in 53.3% (24 of 45) of the AITL cases examined, is oncogenic in nature using multiple molecular assays. Molecular modeling and docking simulations provided a structural basis for the loss of GTPase activity in the RHOA Gly17Val mutant. Our experimental data and modeling results suggest that the RHOA mutation encoding p.Gly17Val is a driver mutation in AITL. On the basis of these data and through integrated pathway analysis, we build a comprehensive signaling network for AITL oncogenesis.
To compare analgesic efficacy and pain caused by administration of lidocaine/prilocaine cream (EMLA(R)) versus xylocaine 1% local infiltration for punch biopsy and electrocoagulation of genital warts in men.
Open randomised comparative parallel-group study.
Department of Dermatovenereology, University Hospital Rotterdam/Dijkzigt, the Netherlands.
63 males with warts on the genital mucosa and/or perianal area.
EMLA(R) cream (2.5-5 g) was applied during 13-45 minutes before surgery. Xylocaine 1% (0.1-4 ml) was infiltrated 0.5-4 minutes before surgery. Pain during administration and surgery was assessed by the patient on a verbal rating scale and on a visual analogue scale.
EMLA(R) application was painless in all patients (n = 31) whereas xylocaine infiltration was slightly painful in 17/29 patients and moderately painful in 10/29 patients. EMLA(R) analgesia was satisfactory for 94% of biopsies and 62% of electrocoagulations. Xylocaine infiltration was satisfactory in all procedures.
EMLA(R) application on the male genital mucosa is painless but it has a lower analgesic efficacy than xylocaine infiltration. However EMLA is a useful anaesthetic for taking biopsies in this area and may be used as premedication for local infiltration.
Adding ketamine to morphine for patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) may be useful. However, data on this drug combination have been collected on small sample sizes. In order to evaluate the safety of the combination morphine- ketamine, we conducted a prospective study on a large patient population.
Patient-controlled analgesia was performed with 1026 patients using morphine and ketamine in a dose ratio of 1:1. All patients were treated in the ward. Prospectively collected data included incidence of complications and side-effects, verbal pain scores at rest and during mobilization (0 = no pain to 4 = very strong pain), consumption of morphine and ketamine and patient satisfaction (0 = very un-satisfied to 3 = very satisfied).
The study included 462 women and 564 men who underwent, on average, 71.8 h (+/-56.1) of PCA. There were 698 orthopaedic, 160 abdominal, 96 thoracic, 20 vascular, 16 plastic, 15 neurosurgical, 11 urologic and 10 other surgical procedures. No complication was observed. Incidence of side-effects was: 1.2% respiratory depression, 23.5% nausea, 6.2% vivid dreams and/or hallucinations, 21.4% sedation and 10.3% pruritus. Reasons for discontinuing the PCA were side-effects (7.0%) and other (0.5%). Mean pain scores over the whole period were 0.44 (+/-0.54) at rest and 1.36 (+/-0.62) during mobilization. Mean satisfaction score was 2.52 (+/-0.69).
Patient-controlled analgesia with morphine and ketamine is safe. It produces side-effects which, however, are infrequently a reason for discontinuing the regimen. It is also associated with low pain scores and high patient satisfaction.
Cholesterol conversion to and biliary excretion of bile acids represents the principal pathway of cholesterol catabolism in mammals. Cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase (Ch-7 alpha-H) is the first and the rate limiting step in bile acid production. Recently, Ch-7 alpha-H enzymatic activity has been shown to be normal in rats with established puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis (NS). To our knowledge, the gene expression of Ch-7 alpha-H in NS has not been investigated. We measured hepatic Ch-7 alpha-H mRNA and protein (by Northern and Western blot analyses) in rats at baseline and longitudinally during the course of induction and chronic phase of puromycin (PAN) induced NS. Groups of placebo-treated (controls) and diet-induced hypercholesterolemic (DHC) rats were included for comparison. The NS and DHC animals exhibited severe hypercholesterolemia of similar magnitude. Hepatic Ch-7 alpha-H transcript and protein remained virtually unchanged throughout the study period in the NS group. In contrast, Ch-7 alpha-H gene expression was markedly up-regulated in the DHC group. These observations suggest that hepatic Ch-7 alpha-H gene expression may be inappropriately low for the degree of the associated hypercholesterolemia in the NS group. It should be noted, however, that hepatic tissue cholesterol concentration was normal in the NS group and greatly increased in the DHC group. This can account for the disparity in Ch-7 alpha-H mRNA levels between the two groups since intracellular rather than extracellular cholesterol modulates Ch-7 alpha-H gene expression. In conclusion, the present study revealed that hepatic Ch-7 alpha-H gene expression remains unchanged during the course of PAN-induced NS in rats. It thus appears that generation and maintenance of hypercholesterolemia in this model of NS does not involve significant alteration of Ch-7 alpha-H gene expression.
