The use of local low dose thrombolysis is gradually increasing. Most experience is with streptokinase, although newer agents such as recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rTPA) may offer more effective lysis with reduced complications. We have reviewed the experience documented in 19 prospective series published between 1974 and 1988 in an attempt to define the incidence of stroke, major haemorrhage and minor haemorrhage. The overall risk of stroke was 1.0 per cent of patients (14 cases). Major haemorrhage occurred in 5.1 per cent of patients (71 cases) and minor haemorrhage occurred in 14.8 per cent (92 out of 620 cases). There was little difference between the two thrombolytic agents, although the experience with lower doses of rTPA suggests it may offer a reduced risk of haemorrhagic complications. It is essential that all studies concerning thrombolysis should give their exclusion and inclusion criteria in full to allow an accurate appraisal of haemorrhagic complications, with the hope of improved patient selection and reduced morbidity in the future.
Epimedii herba is one of the most frequently used herbs in formulas prescribed for the treatment of osteoporosis in China. The main active flavonoid glucoside extracted from Epimedium pubescens is Icariin, which has been reported to enhance bone healing and reduce osteoporosis occurrence. However, the detailed molecular mechanisms remain unclear. In this present study, we examine the molecular mechanisms of icariin by using primary osteoblast cell cultures obtained from adult mice. The osteoblast cells were harvested from 8-month old female Imprinting Control Region (ICR) mice. The effects of icariin stimulation on the proliferation, differentiation and maturation of osteoblasts were examined. The production of nitric oxide (NO) and caspase-3 were analyzed, along with the gene expressions of bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), SMAD4, Cbfa1/Runx2, OPG, and RANKL. The viability of the osteoblasts reached its maximum at 10(-8)M icariin. At this concentration, icariin increased the proliferation and matrix mineralization of osteoblasts and promoted NO synthesis. With icariin treatment, the BMP-2, SMAD4, Cbfa1/Runx2, and OPG gene expressions were up-regulated; the RANKL gene expression was however down-regulated. Concurrent treatment involving the BMP antagonist (Noggin) or the NOS inhibitor (L-NAME) diminished the icariin-induced cell proliferation, ALP activity, NO production, as well as the BMP-2, SMAD4, Cbfa1/Runx2, OPG, RANKL gene expressions. In this study, we demonstrate that in vitro icariin is a bone anabolic agent that may exert its osteogenic effects through the induction of BMP-2 and NO synthesis, subsequently regulating Cbfa1/Runx2, OPG, and RANKL gene expressions. This effect may contribute to its action on the induction of osteoblasts proliferation and differentiation, resulting in bone formation.
Propylthiouracil is a drug used in the treatment of hyperthyroidism for more than 60 years. Adverse side effects are seen in 1-5% of patients. Renal complications of the drug including glomerulonephritis and vasculitis are rarely seen. Cases of propylthiouracil-induced rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis and vasculitis are reported in association with antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies. Here we report a case of positive antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN) associated with propylthiouracil treatment.
Rap1GAP which regulates the GTP-GDP form switch of Rap1 is a member of the GTPase-activating protein (GAP) family and has recently received substantial attention. Rap1GAP is thought of as a putative tumor suppressor gene and plays an important role in human tumor progression including pancreatic cancer, thyroid cancer and melanoma. In the current study, we found that the expression of Rap1GAP was lower in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients compared to non-malignant blood disease patients. The expression of Rap1GAP was also low in HL-60, NB4, U937 and SHI-1 myeloid leukemia cell lines. Upregulated Rap1GAP in NB4 and HL-60 cells promoted cell differentiation induced by ATRA or TPA compared to the empty vector control cells. Furthermore, Rap1GAP-transfected cells also showed a higher rate of apoptosis in response to arsenic trioxide compared to the control counterpart cells. In addition, we found that increased expression of Rap1GAP promoted leukemia cell invasion may be due to matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9). In conclusion, these results demonstrated that Rap1GAP promoted leukemia cell differentiation and apoptosis, but increased leukemia cell invasion in vitro.
The authors' goal was to study the relationship between subjective experience during treatment with olanzapine or risperidone and dopamine D(2) receptor occupancy in stabilized patients with schizophrenia.
Subjective experience, psychopathology, and extrapyramidal symptoms were assessed, and D(2) receptor occupancy was determined with [(123)I]iodobenzamide single photon emission computed tomography, in 22 patients whose schizophrenia was stabilized by olanzapine or risperidone.
Subjective experience, depression, and negative symptoms were related to dopamine D(2) receptor occupancy, but extrapyramidal symptoms were not.
These results provide preliminary evidence that negative subjective experience is related to high D(2) receptor occupancy. Longitudinal study is required because this relationship may have implications for dosing strategies.
The role of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX) in the pathophysiology of the organ injury/dysfunction caused by endotoxin is not known. Here, we investigate the effects of treatment with 5-LOX inhibitor zileuton in rats and targeted disruption of the 5-LOX gene in mice (5-LOX(-/-)) on multiple organ injury/dysfunction caused by severe endotoxemia. We also investigate the expression of beta2-integrins CD11a/CD18 and CD11b/CD18 on rat leukocytes by flow cytometry. Zileuton [3 mg/kg intravenously (i.v.)] or vehicle (10% dimethyl sulfoxide) was administered to rats 15 min prior to lipopolysaccharide (LPS; Escherichia coli, 6 mg/kg i.v.) or vehicle (saline). 5-LOX(-/-) mice and wild-type littermate controls were treated with LPS (E. coli, 20 mg/kg intraperitoneally) or vehicle (saline). Endotoxemia for 6 h in rats or 16 h in mice resulted in liver injury/dysfunction (increase in the serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin), renal dysfunction (creatinine), and pancreatic injury (lipase, amylase). Absence of functional 5-LOX (zileuton treatment or targeted disruption of the 5-LOX gene) reduced the multiple organ injury/dysfunction caused by endotoxemia. Polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration (myeloperoxidase activity) in the lung and ileum as well as pulmonary injury (histology) were markedly reduced in 5-LOX(-/-) mice. Zileuton also reduced the LPS-induced expression of CD11b/CD18 on rat leukocytes. We propose that endogenous 5-LOX metabolites enhance the degree of multiple organ injury/dysfunction caused by severe endotoxemia by promoting the expression of the adhesion molecule CD11b/CD18 and that inhibitors of 5-LOX may be useful in the therapy of the organ injury/dysfunction associated with endotoxic shock.
Clients admitted to treatment centers for stimulant addiction were categorized as either regular users of cocaine or of methamphetamine based on an algorithm involving 5 specific criteria. A subsample consisting of 90 regular users of cocaine and nonusers of methamphetamine, and 39 regular users of methamphetamine and nonusers of cocaine, was selected for comparison. Analyses showed that, when compared with cocaine users, the methamphetamine users exhibited a shorter period of time from 1st use to regular use (period of initial use) and from 1st use to treatment entry (period of pretreatment use). Relative to cocaine use, the use of methamphetamine appears to induce a faster rate of progression toward regular use and subsequent need for treatment.
This study examined the developmental toxicity of the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) 11H-benzo(b)fluorene (BBF) and 4-azapyrene (AP) in comparison to the known teratogen retene. Developmental toxicity assays were performed in zebrafish embryos exposed for 120 h. BBF and retene induced a similar dioxin-like phenotype, whereas AP showed distinct effects, particularly craniofacial malformations. Microarray analysis revealed that for BBF and retene, drug metabolism pathways were induced, which were confirmed by subsequent studies of cyp1a gene expression. For AP, microarray analysis revealed the regulation of genes involved in retinoid metabolism and hematological functions. Studies with a panel of CALUX(®) bioassays to screen for endocrine disrupting activity of the compounds also revealed novel antagonistic effects of BBF and retene on androgen and progesterone receptors. Classification analysis revealed distinct gene expression profiles for both individual and combined PAH exposure. This study highlights the potential health risk of non priority PAHs.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is a newly emerging, highly transmissible and fatal disease caused by a previously unknown coronavirus (SARS-CoV). Existing in non-identified animal reservoirs, SARS-CoV continues to represent a threat to humans because there is no effective specific antiviral therapy for coronavirus infections.
Starting from the observation that cyclopentenone cyclooxygenase (COX) metabolites are active against several RNA viruses, we investigated the effect of the COX inhibitor indomethacin on coronavirus replication.
Work involving infectious SARS-CoV was performed in biosafety level 3 facilities. SARS-CoV was grown in monkey VERO cells and human lung epithelial A549 cells, while canine coronavirus (CCoV) was grown in A72 canine cells. Antiviral activity was analysed by determining infective virus titres by TCID50, viral RNA synthesis by Northern blot analysis and real-time RT-PCR, and viral protein synthesis by SDS-PAGE analysis after 35S-methionine-labelling. Antiviral efficacy in vivo was determined by evaluating virus titres in CCoV-infected dogs treated orally with 1 mg/kg body weight indomethacin (INDO).
Unexpectedly, we found that INDO has a potent direct antiviral activity against the coronaviruses SARS-CoV and CCoV. INDO does not affect coronavirus binding or entry into host cells, but acts by blocking viral RNA synthesis at cytoprotective doses. This effect is independent of cyclooxygenase inhibition. INDO's potent antiviral activity (>1,000-fold reduction in virus yield) was confirmed in vivo in CCoV-infected dogs.
The results identify INDO as a potent inhibitor of coronavirus replication and suggest that, having both anti-inflammatory and antiviral activity, INDO could be beneficial in SARS therapy.
The central alpha-adrenoceptors responsible for mediating the clonidine-induced central hypotension in anaesthetized cats and sedation in mice have been characterized according to their sensitivities to the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine and its two diastereomeric congeners rauwolscine and corynanthine. Yohimbine and rauwolscine (1-10 microgram/kg) dose-dependently antagonized the central hypotensive response to clonidine (1 microgram/kg) applied 15 min later. Greater amounts of corynanthine (30-100 micrograms/kg) had to be administered to diminish the central depressor effect of clonidine. In these studies the drugs were infused via the left vertebral artery. The prolongation of the hexobarbitone-induced loss of the righting reflex in mice by clonidine (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) was inhibited by previous treatment with yohimbine and rauwolscine (0.04-5 mg/kg, i.p.) in a dose-dependent manner, but not by corynanthine. Binding experiments with rat isolated cerebral membranes demonstrated the higher affinity of yohimbine and rauwolscine for the [3H] clonidine- than for the [3H]prazosin-specific binding sites. The reverse was found for corynanthine. The relative potencies of yohimbine, rauwolscine and corynanthine in inhibiting these central effects of clonidine are comparable to their order of efficacies in blocking peripheral alpha 2-adrenoceptors. Accordingly, clonidine-induced central hypotension and sedation are mediated by alpha 2-adrenoceptors.
Atypical antipsychotic medications have generally been found to be more effective than conventional antipsychotics in the treatment of negative symptoms. Whether the benefits derived from the atypical agents are the result of improvements in primary versus secondary negative symptoms is unclear. The authors examined the effects of olanzapine on primary and secondary negative symptoms for patients with severe negative symptoms who did or did not have the deficit syndrome.
Thirty-nine outpatients with schizophrenia and severe negative symptoms were assessed for the presence of the deficit syndrome and entered into a 12-week, open-label study of olanzapine. Positive and negative symptoms, extrapyramidal side effects, quality of life, and level of functioning of the patients were assessed at baseline and endpoint.
All 39 patients completed the 12-week protocol; 13 of the patients had deficit negative symptoms, and 26 had nondeficit negative symptoms. Patients who had nondeficit negative symptoms demonstrated improvements in positive and negative symptoms, level of functioning, and extrapyramidal side effects over baseline. In contrast, patients meeting criteria for the deficit syndrome improved significantly over baseline only in extrapyramidal side effects.
The results of this study suggest that olanzapine is efficacious for secondary negative symptoms in schizophrenia but fail to support the contention that olanzapine has a direct beneficial effect on primary negative symptoms.
To compare the impact of various dosage forms of melatonin and placebo on jet lag symptoms, 320 volunteers who had flights over 6 to 8 time zones were recruited for a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. The volunteers received either melatonin 0.5-mg fast-release (FR) formulation, melatonin 5-mg FR formulation, melatonin 2-mg controlled-release (CR) formulation, or placebo. The study medication was taken once daily at bedtime during 4 days after an eastward flight. The volunteers completed the Profile of Mood States (POMS), sleep log, and symptoms questionnaires once daily and the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale (KSS) three times daily prior to departure and during the 4 days of medication intake postflight. A total of 234 (73.1%) participants were compliant and completed the study. The FR melatonin formulations were more effective than the slow-release formulation. The 5-mg FR formulation significantly improved the self-rated sleep quality (p < .05), shortened sleep latency (p < .05), and reduced fatigue and daytime sleepiness (p < .05) after intercontinental flight. The lower physiological dose of 0.5 mg was almost as effective as the pharmacological dose of 5.0 mg. Only the hypnotic properties of melatonin, sleep quality and sleep latency, were significantly greater with the 5.0-mg dose.
Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is a common complication of thalidomide treatment. There is little information to guide clinicians in selecting effective preventive treatments and physician practice varies. We sought to determine whether prophylactic anticoagulation with warfarin prevents DVT related to thalidomide treatment.
We reviewed the records of 131 patients receiving thalidomide for a variety of indications. Fifty-five patients were prescribed warfarin with the intent of preventing DVT. Thirty-seven patients received warfarin at a dose of 1-2 mg per day (low dose) and 18 received a dose intended to raise the INR to 2-3 (high dose).
Twenty-one of the 131 patients developed venous thrombosis during thalidomide treatment. Eighteen of the 76 patients (23.7%) who were not prescribed prophylactic anticoagulation developed DVT compared to 3 of the 55 patients (5.5%) who were prescribed any dose of prophylactic warfarin (P = 0.010). Only 1 of the 37 patients who received low-dose warfarin developed DVT (P = 0.011). Bleeding complications occurred in 4 patients, all of whom were receiving high-dose warfarin.
Prophylactic anticoagulation with warfarin reduces the risk of thrombosis during thalidomide treatment. Low-dose warfarin may be as effective as higher dose treatment and may result in fewer bleeding complications.
Congenital hypothyroidism with goiter was observed to segregate as a simple autosomal recessive trait in Toy Fox Terriers (TFTs). Neonatal affected pups exhibited inactivity, abnormal hair coat, stenotic ear canals, and delayed eye opening. Palpable ventrolateral cervical swellings were evident by 1 week of age. Serum thyroid hormone and thyroid-stimulating hormone concentrations were low and high, respectively. Histologic examination of the cervical masses disclosed cuboidal to columnar follicular epithelial cell hyperplasia with widely varying follicular size, shape, and amount of colloid. Oral thyroid hormone replacement therapy restored near-normal growth and development. At 8 weeks of age, radioiodine uptake and perchlorate discharge testing indicated an iodine organification defect. Biochemical analysis of thyroid tissue from affected dogs demonstrated enzymatic iodine oxidation deficiency and lack of sodium dodecyl sulfate-resistant thyroglobulin dimers, suggesting thyroid peroxidase deficiency. A nonsense mutation in the thyroid peroxidase gene of affected dogs was discovered and demonstrated to segregate with the disease. A DNA-based carrier test was developed and currently is used by TFT breeders to prevent this disorder.
In the case presented, enalapril is implicated as the causative agent of a major depressive episode. Previous depressive episodes associated with propranolol and atenolol may well have been seen as indicators that this patient was susceptible to any therapeutic agent that possessed central nervous system effects.
The human Zip4 gene (Slc39a4) is mutated in the rare recessive genetic disorder of zinc metabolism acrodermatitis enteropathica, but the physiological functions of Zip4 are not well understood. Herein we demonstrate that homozygous Zip4-knockout mouse embryos die during early morphogenesis and heterozygous offspring are significantly underrepresented. At mid-gestation, an array of developmental defects including exencephalia, anophthalmia and severe growth retardation were noted in heterozygous embryos, and at weaning, many (63/280) heterozygous offspring were hydrocephalic, growth retarded and missing one or both eyes. Maternal dietary zinc deficiency during pregnancy exacerbated these effects, whereas zinc excess ameliorated these effects and protected embryonic development of heterozygotes but failed to rescue homozygous embryos. Heterozygous Zip4 embryos were not underrepresented in litters from wild-type mothers, but were approximately 10 times more likely to develop abnormally than were their wild-type littermates during zinc deficiency. Thus, both embryonic and maternal Zip4 gene expressions are critical for proper zinc homeostasis. These studies suggest that heterozygous mutations in the acrodermatitis gene Zip4 may be associated with a wider range of developmental defects than was previously appreciated, particularly when dietary zinc is limiting.
A 57-yr-old woman with multiple myeloma received an autologous tandem transplant at a 4-month interval. She was conditioned twice with 225 mg/m2 melphalan. After the second transplant, interstitial pneumonitis (IP) ensued. The clinical course was life threatening and mechanical ventilation was required for 32 d. All attempts to identify an infectious agent failed. A presumptive diagnosis of idiopathic IP, possibly related to melphalan toxicity, was made. High-dose methylprednisolone administration led to rapid and durable improvement. Melphalan was employed for conditioning in the tandem setting with an interval of only 3-4 months between two courses or a dose elevation to 225 instead of 200 mg/m2, may have induced IP which responded favorably to methylprednisolone.
Age, number of cardiac risk factors, inferior infarction and bradyarrhythmias predicted underlying coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with cocaine associated myocardial infarction. We sought to validate these criteria through a meta-analysis of published case reports. Cocaine associated myocardial infarctions reported in the English language literature were retrospectively identified. Data abstracted included patient demographics; cardiac risk factors, history of myocardial infarctions, last use of cocaine and complications during hospital course, and the presence or absence of CAD. Patients with CAD (> 50% stenosis on cardiac catheterization or autopsy) were compared to patients without CAD (normal coronaries of cardiac catheterization). In all cases of incomplete information, the authors were contacted for missing results. We identified 66 patients with cocaine associated myocardial infarction in whom the presence or absence of CAD was known: 41% had CAD. Of the 27 patients with CAD, 14 (52%) had 1 vessel disease, 7 (26%) had 2 vessel and 6 (22%) had 3 vessel disease. CAD was associated with the presence of 2 or more cardiac risk factors (18% vs 0%, p = 0.03), however the sensitivity for detection of CAD was only 18%. Bradyarrhythmias were uncommon but only occurred in patients with CAD (8% vs 0%, p = 0.17), however the sensitivity for detection of CAD was only 8%. Patients with and without CAD did not differ in terms of the other criteria (age > 40 y and infarct location) previously found associated with a higher likelihood of CAD. In this meta-analysis of published case reports, patients with cocaine associated myocardial infarction and 2 or more traditional cardiac risk factors were more likely to have underlying CAD, but only 18% of patients with underlying CAD would be detected through this screening criteria. Larger prospective trials are needed to better determine criteria predictive of underlying CAD in patients with cocaine associated myocardial infarction.
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a strong risk factor for type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Conditions associated with hyperandrogenism are often associated with glucose intolerance and other features of MetS in young women. As the prevalence of MetS increases with age and is probably multifactorial, it is reasonable to hypothesize that age-related changes in androgens and other hormones might contribute to the development of MetS in older persons. However, this hypothesis has never been tested in older women. We hypothesized that high levels of testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA-S), and cortisol and low levels of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and IGF-I would be associated with MetS in a representative cohort of older Italian women independently of confounders (including inflammatory markers). After exclusion of participants on hormone replacement therapy and those with a history of bilateral oophorectomy, 512 women (>/=65 yr) had complete data on testosterone, cortisol, DHEA-S, SHBG, fasting insulin, total and free IGF-I, IL-6, and C-reactive protein (CRP). MetS was defined according to ATP-III criteria. Insulin resistance was calculated according to HOMA. MetS was found in 145 women (28.3%). Participants with vs. those without MetS had higher age-adjusted levels of bioavailable testosterone (P < 0.001), IL-6 (P < 0.001), CRP (P < 0.001), and HOMA (P < 0.001) and lower levels of SHBG (P < 0.001). After adjustment for potential confounders, participants with decreased SHBG had an increased risk of MetS (P < 0.0001) vs. those with low SHBG. In a further model including all hormones and confounders, log SHBG was the only independent factor associated with MetS (OR: 0.44, 95% CI 0.21-0.91, P = 0.027). In older women, SHBG is negatively associated with MetS independently of confounders, including inflammatory markers and insulin resistance. Further studies are needed to support the notion that raising SHBG is a potential therapeutic target for prevention and treatment of MetS.
Foals (79), born in 2004 on three thoroughbred horse farms (C, M, and S) in central Kentucky, were fed pyrantel tartrate daily, beginning at about 3 months of age. In addition, other parasiticides [fenbendazole (FBZ), ivermectin (IVM) alone or with praziquantel (PRAZ), oxibendazole (OBZ), pyrantel pamoate (PRT), and moxidectin (MOX)] were given periodically. All treatments were administered by farm personnel. Over a 14-month period, from May 2004 to July 2005, collections (n=989) of feces were made from the foals for determination of presence of internal parasite eggs/oocysts by qualitative and/or quantitative methods. Conclusions on drug activity are based necessarily on considering the combined effect of pyrantel tartrate and the other compounds. For small strongyles, this was related to which specific additional compound was given. Based on the percentage of foals with strongyle-egg-positive feces and/or the level of eggs per gram of feces (EPG) counts for the foals after treatment, drug activity on small strongyles was highest to lowest for MOX, IVM and IVM/PRAZ, FBZ, OBZ, PRT, and FBZ (2x for 5 days). The macrocyclic lactones (MOX and IVM) were highly superior to the other compounds. Some of the strongyle counts were high (over 2,000), especially on one farm (S), during periods when foals received only pyrantel tartrate, but a few days after administration of therapeutic dose rates of the drugs IVM or MOX, they were negative or very low. Ascarid eggs were present in feces of three foals after treatment with a combination of IVM and PRAZ. The qualitative method was more efficient than the quantitative method in detection of ascarid and strongyle eggs in the feces. Prevalence of eggs of ascarids (Parascaris equorum) was low (0, 4, and 31%), of strongyles high (80, 100, and 100%), of Strongyloides westeri very low (only one infected foal), and oocysts of Eimeria leuckarti medium to high (36, 41, and 85%) for the three farms, C, M, and S, respectively. It is uncertain whether the low ascarid prevalence was from activity of pyrantel tartrate and/or the other drugs or to a limited source of infective eggs.
Proteinuria may cause a worsening of accompanying renal disease or even lead to glomerulosclerosis. There is no data about the effect of carvedilol on patients with proteinuric (>0.5 g/day) glomerulonephritis. This study aimed to compare the effects of carvedilol with ramipril and losartan in patients with proteinuric glomerulonephritis.
Twenty-one glomerulonephritis patients were followed for 12 months. Patients were divided into three groups. All patients were treated with losartan 50 mg once daily for two weeks. After two weeks (baseline), patients were given additional medications: 50 mg losartan, 5 mg ramipril, and 25 mg carvedilol were given additionally to the patients in groups 1, 2, and 3 respectively.
Baseline mean proteinuria values of patients in groups 1, 2 and 3 were 1.6 +/- 1.1 g/day, 2.1 +/- 1.3 g/day, and 1.4 +/- 1.2 g/day, respectively. These values decreased to 0.5 +/- 0.7 g/day, 0.6 +/- 0.7 g/day, and 0.9 +/- 0.9 g/day, respectively, at the end of the 12th month. These results were statistically significant only in group 1 (p = 0.04). The rational variation of proteinuria between the first and 12th month of losartan, ramipril, and carvedilol were -61%, -62%, and -27%, respectively. The decreases in blood pressures between baseline and the first, sixth, and twelfth-month measurements were significant in all groups.
Thee results showed that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) and angiotensin receptor blockers (AT1ras) provide marked decreases in proteinuria, making their use indisputable in patients with glomerulonephritis. Carvedilol was not found to be as effective as ACEIs and AT1ras in decreasing proteinuria and preserving renal function.
Dacarbazine (DTIC) is the first-line chemotherapy for metastatic malignant melanoma without cerebral metastasis. Its clinical and hematological safety is usually good. Hypersensitivity in hepatic failure patients is the most serious side effect described.
This was a retrospective study of the prevalence of hypersensitivity in patients treated with DTIC for metastatic melanoma between 11/01/2002 and 10/31/2003. Hypersensitivity was diagnosed in the event of fever, hypereosinophilia (> 500/mm3) with or without liver dysfunction (> twice pre-therapeutic values). Clinical data, DTIC administration modalities, number of courses and clinical and laboratory safety data were recorded.
Twenty patients were included, 11 women and 9 men of median age 58.6 years (22-82 years) with multiple metastases in all cases. DTIC was the first-line treatment for 19 patients, being administered for 4 days to 10 patients and for 1 day to the other 10 patients, depending on their overall health status. Five hypersensitivity-like manifestations were observed, all in the 4-day treatment group. In 3 patients, fever and hypereosinophilia were seen without liver dysfunction at D3 of the second course of treatment. In 2 patients, treatment was stopped after the second course because of disease progression. In the third patient, 4 courses were given with recurrence of symptoms, although the latter were controlled during the fifth course with corticosteroids and antihistamines given 15 minutes before the start of treatment. Two patients experienced severe forms of hypersensitivity with fever, hypereosinophilia, liver dysfunction (cytolysis and cholestasis) and delayed medullar aplasia, after the first and second course respectively. In one patient, bone marrow examination showed a block at the promyelocytic stage consistent with a toxic etiology. Treatment with DTIC was stopped, and all signs regressed with symptomatic treatment.
Hypersensitivity with DTIC seems to be frequent, being observed in 20% of our patients, with early onset (after the first or second course) and absence of dose-dependence. We describe for the first time two cases of medullar aplasia occurring in association with DTIC hypersensitivity. During phase I studies, the hematologic toxicity of DTIC was moderate, rarely affecting red cells, and was observed with higher doses than those used in metastatic malignant melanoma. We suggest that this aplasia forms part of the signs of hypersensitivity because of the bone marrow morphology, the existence of anemia and concomitant resolution with all the others signs of hypersensitivity.
Laboratory monitoring (NFS, liver enzymes) is thus justified, particularly after the first and second courses of DTIC. In case of fever and hypereosinophilia without liver dysfunction, DTIC may be continued together with symptomatic treatment. In the event of hepatic dysfunction, and of course severe hematological disorders, potentially fatal complications can occur and treatment must be stopped.
The aim of the research was histological assessment of the influence of MK-801 (NMDA receptor antagonist) and dexamethasone on the liver. The experiment was carried out on adult Albino-Swiss mouse males. MK-801 was administered in the dose of 0.3 mg/kg/24 h for 8 days, dexamethasone--in the toxic dose of 120 mg/kg/24 h. Liver slices stained with hematoxylin and eosin were examined with light microscope. The performed experiments revealed that MK-801 can cause morphological changes of the liver in the shape of increased transparence of hepatocyte cytoplasm and narrowing of the liver sinusoids. MK-801 intensifies liver damage induced by toxic doses of dexamethasone leading to focal necrosis of hepatocytes.
