The use of 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA, mesalazine) in Crohn's disease is usually well tolerated. Nevertheless, the occasional occurrence of nephrotoxic side effects has been described in several case reports. We present the case of a 34-year-old female in whom chronic use of 5-ASA may have caused renal damage which manifested with tubular acidosis, severe weight loss, shortness of breath and fatigue. For 17 years the patient has suffered from Crohn's disease. She received sulfasalazine (3 g/day) for 12 years and was treated with resin-coated mesalazine (3 g/day) for the last 72 months. Onset of weight loss of 10 kg over a 6-month period, accompanied by progressive shortness of breath and fatigue, lead to a diagnosis of metabolic acidosis and renal bicarbonate loss due to damage to the tubular epithelium. Kidney biopsy demonstrated acute interstitial nephritis which may be related to 5-ASA.
A patient was seen on the palliative care service at our institution who developed serotonin syndrome and mutism associated with methadone use. Serotonin syndrome is often described as a clinical triad of mental status changes, autonomic hyperactivity, and neuromuscular abnormalities, but not all of these findings are consistently present in all patients with the disorder. The incidence of the serotonin syndrome is thought to mirror the increasing number of proserotonergic agents being used in clinical practice. In 2002, the Toxic Exposure Surveillance System, which receives case descriptions from office-based practices, inpatient settings, and emergency departments, reported 26,733 incidences of exposure to selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) that caused significant toxic effects in 7349 persons and resulted in 93 deaths. Serotonin syndrome is not an idiopathic drug reaction; it is a predictable consequence of excess serotonergic agonism of central nervous system (CNS) receptors and peripheral serotonergic receptors. The myriad of symptoms with which serotonin syndrome may present is compounded by the fact that more than 85% of physicians are unaware of serotonin syndrome as a clinical diagnosis. Other SSRIs such as fluoxetine and fluvoxamine have been shown to increase methadone plasma concentrations in dependent patients. Although the exact mechanism is unknown, there are several pathways via which a significant interaction could occur. This would include the effects methadone has on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) in addition to the impact of methadone on the cytochrome P450 enzyme system. The mainstay of treatment of serotonin syndrome is withdrawal of the offending agent and supportive care. These actions resulted in resolution of our patient's symptoms. Serotonin syndrome is becoming more common, and with the utilization of polypharmacy on many palliative care services should be considered as unifying differential diagnosis in the appropriate setting.
The demethylating 5-aza-2'deoxycytidine (DAC) and the histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi) suberoyl anilide bishydroxamide (SAHA) possess potent antitumorigenic properties in myeloid disorders. However, the transcriptome alterations mediated by these drugs are poorly understood. We analyzed the transcriptional effects of DAC and SAHA in the AML cell line KG-1. Microarray analyses revealed 76 genes expressed in normal CD34+ cells, absent in KG-1 cells but whose expression was induced after drug treatment. A total of 39 of these genes harbored CpG islands in their promoters. We examined the expression level of these genes in 120 AML patient samples representing diverse karyotpyes. Gas2l1, tfIIs, ehd3, enolase 2, mx1, dral, astml and pxdn were diminished across all AML karyotypes examined. Ehd3 was methylated in 63% of AML patients examined. This methylation was lost upon complete remission, and not observed in normal CD34+ cells. CD34+ cells expressed ehd3 at approximately 10-fold higher levels than AML samples. Another highlighted gene, alpha-catenin, is located at q31 of chromosome 5. Analyses of 29 5q- AML/myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) samples revealed marked decreases in expression of alpha-catenin, compared to non-5q- MDS samples (6.6+/-9-fold). However, no methylation was detected, suggesting indirect effects of these drugs on the expression of alpha-catenin.
Forty-eight patients with a variety of advanced solid tumors were treated with a combination of adriamycin 50 mg/m2, and cis-diamminedichloroplatinum 50 mg/m2, every 2 to 4 weeks. Fifteen patients responded with a greater than 50% regression of measurable tumor; six with lung cancer; one, carcinoma of the breast; one, ovary; one, cervix; one, prostate; one, testis; one, maxillary sinus; and one, salivary gland, plus one patient with chemodectoma and one with adenocarcinoma of unknown primary. Responses lasted 1 to 18 months, with a median of 6 months. An additional six patients, including two with adenocarcinoma of the lung three with carcinoma of the cervix, and one with embryonal cell testicular carcinoma improved (25-50% regression of the tumor). Toxicity encountered included myelosuppression, azotemia, alopecia, nausea, vomitting, and stomatitis. Severe hematologic toxicity occurred only in those with compromised marrow function or with concurrent active hepatitis. Major potentiation of toxicity by the combination does not appear to have occurred.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is an exceptionally drug-resistant tumor with a 5-year survival rate <5%. From an initial drug screen, we identified bortezomib as having robust activity in ESCC lines. Mechanistically, bortezomib induced a G2-M-phase cell cycle arrest and p53-independent apoptosis associated with caspase cleavage and Noxa induction. Bortezomib also showed excellent activity in organotypic culture and in vivo models of ESCC. Biochemically, bortezomib treatment activated the p38 and c-Jun NH2-termnial kinase stress-activated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways and induced phospho-H2AX activity. Although H2AX is known to cooperate with c-Jun NH2-termnial kinase to induce apoptosis following UV irradiation, knockdown of H2AX did not abrogate bortezomib-induced apoptosis. Instead, blockade of p38 MAPK signaling, using either small interfering RNA or a pharmacologic inhibitor, reversed bortezomib-induced apoptosis and the up-regulation of Noxa. Radiation therapy is known to activate the p38 MAPK pathway and is a mainstay of ESCC treatment strategies. In a final series of studies, we showed that the coadministration of bortezomib with irradiation led to enhanced p38 MAPK activity and a significant reduction in colony formation. We therefore suggest that p38 MAPK pathway activation is an excellent potential therapeutic strategy in ESCC. It is further suggested that bortezomib could be added to existing ESCC therapeutic regimens.
Skeletal effects of moexipril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), a thiazide diuretic, were studied in ovariectomized (OVX) spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Moexipril (10 mg/kg per day), HCTZ (10 mg/kg per day), alone or in combination, as well as 17 alpha-estradiol (30 micrograms/kg per day) were given to OVX SHR immediately after surgery and studied for short- and long-term effects (14 and 56 days respectively). All drugs were given orally. Histomorphometric data on the secondary spongiosa of proximal tibial metaphyses (cancellous bone) and tibiofibular junctions of tibial shafts (cortical bone) were analyzed. Ovariectomy induced cancellous bone loss in SHR by inducing negative bone balance. Estrogen prevented ovariectomy-induced cancellous bone loss in the SHR by reducing bone turnover and partially suppressing the coupling of bone formation to resorption on the endocortical surface. HCTZ reduced blood pressure after 1 week of treatment, yet this effect was no lower than that seen in controls after 3 weeks of treatment. Two weeks of HCTZ transiently prevented ovariectomy-induced increases in bone turnover rate and eroded surface. This delayed ovariectomy induced trabecular bone loss in the proximal tibial metaphysis, but had no effect on the tibial shaft. Like HCTZ, moexipril also reduced blood pressure after the first week of treatment but it had no apparent effect on either the proximal tibial metaphysis or the tibial shaft. A combination of moexipril and HCTZ exhibited a much more potent hypotensive effect and had the same effect on bone mass and dynamic end-points as HCTZ alone. Our data indicate that (1) HCTZ treatment has some transient beneficial effects on both antihypertension and osteoprotection in hypertensive osteopenic rats, (2) the combination of moexipril with HCTZ improved the antihypertensive effect but did not potentiate or hamper the osteoprotective effect of HCTZ, and (3) the skeletal effect of estrogen is not impacted by the hypertensive state. These findings are relevant for the use of ACE inhibitor and thiazide diuretics, alone or in combination, in antihypertensive therapy in postmenopausal women.
During heart failure (HF) decompensation, an intense activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system occurs; however, the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) cannot block it completely. Otherwise, the addition of angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) can be useful when the inotropic dependence occurs. We evaluated the efficacy of the ARB-ACEI association on dobutamine withdrawal in advanced decompensated HF.
To assess the efficacy of association angiotensin receptor blocker--angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor to withdraw the intravenous inotropic support in decompensated severe heart failure.
In a case-control study (N = 24), we selected patients admitted at the hospital due to HF that had been using dobutamine for more than 15 days, with one or more unsuccessful drug withdrawal attempts; optimized dose of ACEI and ejection fraction (EF) < 0.45. Then, the patients additionally received ARB (n=12) or not (control, n=12). The outcome was the successful dobutamine withdrawal, evaluated by logistic regression, with a p < 0.05.
The EF was 0.25 and the age was 53 years, with a dobutamine dose of 10.7 microg/kg x min. The successful drug withdrawal was observed in 8 patients from the ARB group (67.7%) and in 2 patients from the control group (16.7%). The odds ratio (OR) was 10.0 (95%CI: 1.4 to 69.3; p = 0.02). The worsening in renal function was similar (ARB group: 42% vs. control group: 67%; p=0.129).
In this pilot study, the ARB-ACEI association was associated with successful dobutamine withdrawal in advanced decompensated heart failure. The worsening in renal function was similar in both groups. Further studies are necessary to clarify the issue.
Niu-Huang-Jie-Du Pian (NHJD) is a widely used traditional Chinese medicine containing realgar (As4S4). Realgar has been included in many traditional medicines, but is often taken as arsenite for risk assessment. To evaluate true risk of realgar and realgar-containing NHJD, their toxicity was compared with common arsenicals. In cultured cells, the LC50 for NHJD (1200 μM) and realgar (2000 μM) was much higher than arsenite(35 μM), arsenic trioxide (280 μM), and arsenate (400 μM). Acute toxicity in mice showed more severe liver and kidney injury after arsenite or arsenate, but was mild after realgar and NHJD, corresponding to cellular and tissue arsenic accumulation. The expressions of arsenic-sensitive stress gene metallothionein-1 were increased 3-7-folds after arsenite or arsenate, but were unaltered after NHJD and realgar. Thus, realgar and NHJD are much less toxic than arsenite and arsenate. The use of total arsenic to evaluate the safety of realgar and realgar-containing NHJD is inappropriate.
The systolic pressure variation (SPV), which is the difference between the maximal and minimal values of the systolic blood pressure (SBP) after one positive-pressure breath, was studied in ventilated dogs subjected to hypotension. Mean arterial pressure was decreased to 50 mm Hg for 30 minutes either by hemorrhage (HEM, n = 7) or by continuous infusion of sodium nitroprusside (SNP, n = 7). During HEM-induced hypotension the cardiac output was significantly lower and systemic vascular resistance higher compared with that in the SNP group. The systemic, central venous, pulmonary capillary wedge pressures, and heart rates, were similar in the two groups. Analysis of the respiratory changes in the arterial pressure waveform enabled differentiation between the two groups. The SPV during hypotension was 15.7 +/- 6.7 mm Hg in the HEM group, compared with 9.1 +/- 2.0 mm Hg in the SNP group (P less than 0.02). The delta down, which is the measure of decrease of SBP after a mechanical breath, was 20.3 +/- 8.4 and 10.1 +/- 3.8 mm Hg in the HEM and SNP groups, respectively, during hypotension (P less than 0.02). It is concluded that increases in the SPV and the delta down are characteristic of a hypotensive state due to a predominant decrease in preload. They are thus more important during absolute hypovolemia than during deliberate hypotension.
One hundred and forty-six patients with advanced malignant disease were treated with 6 different dosage schedules of ifosfamide (IFX). Mesna was used as urothelial protector. With mesna, urothelial toxicity was moderate, and single doses of up to 7 g/m2 could be administered without intolerable urotoxicity. Leukopenia was the dose-limiting factor in this study. Unexpected pulmonary edema occurred in 3 patients. Therapeutic results were disappointing. A malignancy identified in this study that warrants further investigation with IFX and mesna, is malignant mesothelioma.
Fluoxetine-induced hepatotoxicity is generally considered of minimal clinical importance and is not well recognized. Asymptomatic increases in liver enzyme values have been observed in 0.5% of patients who take long-term fluoxetine therapy. This report details 2 cases of acute hepatitis believed to be caused by fluoxetine. Three cases of acute hepatitis caused by fluoxetine have been reported previously. The mechanism of fluoxetine-induced hepatotoxicity is unknown. Although routine monitoring of liver function may not be cost-effective, physicians should be alert to the possibility of fluoxetine-associated hepatitis and consider early discontinuation of the drug if this condition is suspected.
Podocyte depletion is a major mechanism driving glomerulosclerosis. Progression is the process by which progressive glomerulosclerosis leads to end stage kidney disease (ESKD). In order to determine mechanisms contributing to persistent podocyte loss, we used a human diphtheria toxin transgenic rat model. After initial diphtheria toxin-induced podocyte injury (over 30% loss in 4 weeks), glomeruli became destabilized, resulting in continued autonomous podocyte loss causing global podocyte depletion (ESKD) by 13 weeks. This was monitored by urine mRNA analysis and by quantitating podocytes in glomeruli. Similar patterns of podocyte depletion were found in the puromycin aminonucleoside and 5/6 nephrectomy rat models of progressive end-stage disease. Angiotensin II blockade (combined enalapril and losartan) restabilized the glomeruli, and prevented continuous podocyte loss and progression to ESKD. Discontinuing angiotensin II blockade resulted in recurrent glomerular destabilization, podocyte loss, and progression to ESKD. Reduction in blood pressure alone did not reduce proteinuria or prevent podocyte loss from destabilized glomeruli. The protective effect of angiotensin II blockade was entirely accounted for by reduced podocyte loss. Thus, an initiating event resulting in a critical degree of podocyte depletion can destabilize glomeruli and initiate a superimposed angiotensin II-dependent podocyte loss process that accelerates progression resulting in eventual global podocyte depletion and ESKD. These events can be monitored noninvasively in real-time through urine mRNA assays.
Ribonucleotide reductase (RR) is the rate-limiting enzyme of de novo DNA synthesis and has been shown to be upregulated linked with proliferation and malignant transformation. It was therefore identified as an excellent target for antitumor therapy. In the present study we investigated the biochemical and cytotoxic effects of didox, an inhibitor of RR, as a single agent and in combination with BCNU, an alkylating anticancer drug, in 9L rat gliosarcoma cells and DAOY human medulloblastoma cells.
The effect of didox on the intracellular concentrations of deoxynucleosidetriphosphates (dNTPs) was studied in 9L cells. Pool sizes were determined by HPLC. In addition, the cytotoxic effects of didox and BCNU as single drugs and in equimolar combination were tested in 9L and in DAOY cells. Combination effects were determined according to the equation of Chou and Talalay. The expression of DNA repair-related genes was determined after exposure of 9L cells to BCNU, didox and a combination of the two compounds, using a cDNA array.
Incubation of 9L cells with 30 microM didox for 24 h significantly decreased the intracellular concentrations of the DNA precursors dCTP (61% of control) and dGTP (17% of control), and significantly increased the concentration of dATP (155% of control). This dNTP imbalance compromised DNA synthesis and repair and might therefore have been, at least in part, responsible for the highly synergistic cytotoxic effects seen when BCNU was used simultaneously with didox in 9L and in DAOY cells. With almost all combinations tested, highly synergistic effects were seen, as indicated by combination indices of <1 according to the equation of Chou and Talalay. In 9L cells, BCNU upregulated the expression of DNA repair-associated genes, whereas coincubation of the cells with didox reduced overexpression of some of these repair-related genes.
A combination of BCNU and didox was proven to act in a synergistic manner in two cell lines, 9L rat gliosarcoma and DAOY human medulloblastoma cells. Further in vivo tests using these two compounds systemically and/or locally at the tumor site might be warranted.
Using a double-antibody immunoaffinity assay (Luminex) and ELISA technology, we measured concentrations of certain neurotrophins, neuropeptides, and cytokines in pooled samples (one to three subjects per sample) eluted from archived neonatal blood of children with later-diagnosed autism, Down syndrome, very preterm birth, or term control infants. We also measured analytes in blood from healthy adult controls. Case or control status for infant subjects was ascertained by retrospective review of service agency medical records. We observed inhibitory substances in eluates from archived bloodspots, especially marked for measurement of BDNF. Concentrations in control subjects differed by age: BDNF rose markedly with age, while NT-3 and NT-4/5 concentrations were lower in adults than in newborn infants. IL-8 concentrations were higher in newborn infants, preterm and term, than in adults. Considered by diagnostic group, total protein was higher in Down syndrome than in either autism or control subjects. In infants with Down syndrome, concentrations of IL-8 levels were higher than in controls, whether or not corrected for total protein; NT-3 and CGRP were lower and VIP higher. In samples from autistic subjects, NT-3 levels were significantly lower than controls and an increase in VIP approached statistical significance. Concentrations of NT-4/5 and CGRP were correlated in infants with autism but not in Down syndrome or controls. Some of these results differ from earlier findings using a single-antibody recycling immunoaffinity chromatography (RIC) system. We discuss interrelationships of VIP, NT-3 and IL-8 and their potential relevance to features of the neuropathology of autism or Down syndrome.
A group of doctors in Boston warn that the protease inhibitor Viracept may cause an irregular heart beat, known as bradycardia, in people with HIV. Bradycardia occurred in a 45-year-old male patient who was Viracept in combination with other anti-HIV drugs. The symptoms ceased after switching to another drug combination.
Charts of 16 patients on ticarcillin-clavulanic acid were examined. Eight patients were found to have hypokalemia, yet not all were screened routinely for potassium imbalance. Some physicians prescribing ticarcillin-clavulanic acid seem unaware of the drug's side effect.
The early research found that the spiderlings of black widow spider (Latrodectus tredecimguttatus) exhibited obvious toxicity to animals. The present work performed a systematical analysis of the aqueous extract of newborn black widow spiderlings. The extract was shown to contain 69.42% of proteins varying in molecular weights and isoelectric points. Abdominal injection of the extract into mice and cockroaches caused obvious poisoning symptoms as well as death, with LD50 being 5.30 mg/kg in mice and 16.74 µg/g in Periplaneta americana. Electrophysiological experiments indicated that the extract at a concentration of 10 µg/mL could completely block the neuromuscular transmission in isolated mouse nerve-hemidiaphragm preparations within 21 ± 1.5 min, and 100 µg/mL extract could inhibit a certain percentage of voltage-activated Na⁺, K⁺, and Ca²⁺ channel currents in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. These results demonstrate that the spiderlings are rich in neurotoxic components, which play important roles in the spiderling toxicity.
Male Wistar rats exposed to a systemic organophosphorus insecticide, phorate [O,O-diethyl S-[(ethylthio) methyl] phosphorothioate] at varying oral doses of 0.046, 0.092 or 0.184mg phorate/kg bw for 14days, exhibited substantial oxidative stress, cellular DNA damage and activation of apoptosis-related p53, caspase 3 and 9 genes. The histopathological changes including the pyknotic nuclei, inflammatory leukocyte infiltrations, renal necrosis, and cardiac myofiber degeneration were observed in the liver, kidney and heart tissues. Biochemical analysis of catalase and glutathione revealed significantly lesser activities of antioxidative enzymes and lipid peroxidation in tissues of phorate exposed rats. Furthermore, generation of intracellular reactive oxygen species and reduced mitochondrial membrane potential in bone marrow cells confirmed phorate-induced oxidative stress. Significant DNA damage was measured through comet assay in terms of the Olive tail moment in bone marrow cells of treated animals as compared to control. Cell cycle analysis also demonstrated the G(2)/M arrest and appearance of a distinctive SubG(1) peak, which signified induction of apoptosis. Up-regulation of tumor suppressor p53 and caspase 3 and 9 genes, determined by quantitative real-time PCR and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, elucidated the activation of intrinsic apoptotic pathways in response to cellular stress. Overall, the results suggest that phorate induces genetic alterations and cellular toxicity, which can adversely affect the normal cellular functioning in rats.
Atherosclerosis is an important cardiovascular disease, becoming a major and increasing health problem in developed countries. However, the possible underlying mechanisms were not completely clear. In 2009, our research group first discovered that hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) as a novel gastrotransmitter played an important anti-atherosclerotic role. The study was designed to examine the regulatory effect of hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) on endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) in apolipoprotein E knockout (apoE(-/-)) mice fed a Western type diet.
C57BL/6 mice and homozygous apoE(-/-) mice were fed a Western type diet. C57BL/6 mice were injected intraperitoneally with normal saline (5 ml/kg per day) as control group. The apoE(-/-) mice were treated with the same dose of normal saline as the apoE(-/-) group, injected intraperitoneally with sodium hydrosulfide (NaHS, an H(2)S donor, 56 µmol/kg per day) as the apoE(-/-) + NaHS group and injected intraperitoneally with DL-propargylglycine (PPG, a cystathionine-γ-lyase inhibitor, 50 mg/kg, per day) as the apoE(-/-) + PPG group. After 10 weeks, the mice were sacrificed and the plasma lipids were detected. Sections of aortic root from these animals were examined for atherosclerotic lesions by HE and oil red O staining. The aortic ultrastructure and microstructure were analyzed with the help of light and electronic microscope. Glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78), caspase-12, copper-andzinc-containing superoxide dismutase (Cu/ZnSOD) and Mn-containing superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) protein expression in aortic tissues were detected with immunohistochemistry. The level of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) were measured by using a commercial assay kit.
Compared with control mice, apoE(-/-) mice showed increased plasma levels of total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG) and low density lipoprotein (LDL), decreased high density lipoprotein (HDL), increased aortic plaque size, destroyed ultra-structure of aortic tissue, and increased expression of GRP78 and caspase-12 proteins. Compared with apoE(-/-) mice, H(2)S donor-treated apoE(-/-) mice showed a decreased plasma LDL level, lessened plaque necrosis and attenuated aortic ultra-structural disorder. H(2)S donor-treatment induced GRP78 expression but suppressed caspase-12 expression in aortic lesions. However, compared with apoE(-/-) mice, PPG treated apoE(-/-) mice showed enlarged plaque size, more severe ultrastructural disorder of the aortic tissue and reduced GRP78 staining in aortic lesions. The plasma lipids and the staining of caspase-12 in apoE(-/-) + PPG rats did not significantly differ from those in the apoE-/-mice. Consistently, H(2)S induced SOD expression, accompanied by a reduced level of ROS.
H(2)S plays a regulatory role in aortic ERS and reduces atherosclerotic lesions in apoE(-/-) mice fed with a Western type diet.
Sulphasalazine, one of the 5-amino-salicylates, is widely used for the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases and arthritis. Among the reported adverse effects are blood dyscrasias and hepatic failure. Peripheral neuropathy has been reported as a rare adverse drug reaction to sulphasalazine. Most reported patients developed symptoms several weeks after onset of treatment. We describe a patient with an axonal polyneuropathy that occurred after two years of treatment with sulphasalazine.
Recent studies have identified several polymorphisms in the human insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) gene. The most prevalent IRS-1 variant, a Gly-->Arg change at the codon 972, has been reported to be increased in prevalence among patients with type 2 diabetes. Carriers of the Arg(972) substitution are characterized by lower fasting insulin and C-peptide levels compared with non-carriers, suggesting that the Arg(972) IRS-1 variant may contribute to impairment of insulin secretion. In this study, we stably overexpressed both wild-type IRS-1 (RIN-WT) and Arg(972) IRS-1 variant (RIN-Arg(972)) in RIN beta cells to investigate directly whether the polymorphism in codon 972 of IRS-1 impairs insulin secretion. The Arg(972) IRS-1 variant did not affect expression or function of endogenous IRS-2. RIN-WT showed a marked increase in both glucose- and insulin-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-1 compared with control RIN cells. The Arg(972) IRS-1 variant did not alter the extent of either glucose- or insulin-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of recombinant IRS-1. However, RIN-Arg(972) showed a significant decrease in binding of the p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) with IRS-1, compared with RIN-WT. Compared with control RIN cells, insulin content was reduced to the same extent in RIN-WT or RIN-Arg(972) at both the protein and mRNA levels. Both glucose- and sulfonylurea-induced insulin secretion was increased in RIN-WT compared with control RIN cells. By contrast, RIN cells expressing Arg(972) IRS-1 exhibited a marked decrease in both glucose- and sulfonylurea-stimulated insulin secretion compared with RIN-WT. These data suggest that the insulin signaling pathway involving the IRS-1/PI 3-kinase may play an important role in the insulin secretory process in pancreatic beta cells. More importantly, the results suggest that the common Arg(972) IRS-1 polymorphism may impair glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, thus contributing to the relative insulin deficiency observed in carriers of this variant.
Diazoxide given for hypertensive crises caused severe complications in two patients. Hypotension, anginal syndrome, cerebral ischemia, and right hemiplegia developed in one patient, and myocardial infarction in the other.
The 2,6-dimethylanilide of quinuclidine-3-carboxylic acid hydrochloride (EO-122), a new structural analog of lidocaine, has been shown to possess potent antiarrhythmic activity in experimentally induced arrhythmias in animals. Restoration of normal sinus rhythm and suppression of ouabain-induced arrhythmia in cats and dogs, and of coronary occlusion-induced arrhythmia in dogs, followed a single IV injection of 1--3 mg/kg, with an onset of 2 minutes and a duration of 20--240 minutes. Occlusion-induced arrhythmia was likewise suppressed after an oral dose of 10--20 mg/kg, with an onset of 11--65 minutes and a duration of 25--120 minutes. Under similar conditions, lidocaine was either totally ineffective or of ultra-short duration. The bioavailability of EO0122 by the oral route exceeded 80% of the oral dose. Therapeutic blood concentrations were in the range 0.5--7 microgram/ml. At about 5 microgram/ml there was a slight depression of cardiac function in the anesthetized cat, but not in the conscious dog. In cats, complete A-V block occurred at concentrations of 60--70 microgram/ml. The IV LD50 in mice was 22 mg/kg, and in rabbits 8.5 mg/kg. No overt signs of neurotoxicity could be observed at any dose of EO-122. The pharmacokinetic profile of the drug fits a two-compartment open model, with t1/2 congruent to 150 min and Vd (SS) congruent to 1.5 l/kg.
A prospective study was undertaken to assess the type and frequency of adverse side-effects following the use of intravenous phenytoin in children. Twenty-two children received a total of 100 doses over a 10-month period. Six patients (27%) experienced one or more side-effects, including extravasation of the drug, hypotension and cardiac arrhythmia. No patient developed skin necrosis, including the 'purple glove syndrome'. Recovery from all adverse side-effects was spontaneous and complete. It is possible that some or all of these side-effects may have been caused by an excessive rate of infusion of phenytoin or the saline 'flush' following administration of the drug. The overall frequency of side-effects was perhaps less than expected.
Farming and pesticide use have previously been linked to non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and multiple myeloma (MM). We evaluated agricultural use of specific insecticides, fungicides, and fumigants and risk of NHL and NHL-subtypes (including CLL and MM) in a U.S.-based prospective cohort of farmers and commercial pesticide applicators. A total of 523 cases occurred among 54,306 pesticide applicators from enrollment (1993-97) through December 31, 2011 in Iowa, and December 31, 2010 in North Carolina. Information on pesticide use, other agricultural exposures and other factors was obtained from questionnaires at enrollment and at follow-up approximately five years later (1999-2005). Information from questionnaires, monitoring, and the literature were used to create lifetime-days and intensity-weighted lifetime days of pesticide use, taking into account exposure-modifying factors. Poisson and polytomous models were used to calculate relative risks (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) to evaluate associations between 26 pesticides and NHL and five NHL-subtypes, while adjusting for potential confounding factors. For total NHL, statistically significant positive exposure-response trends were seen with lindane and DDT. Terbufos was associated with total NHL in ever/never comparisons only. In subtype analyses, terbufos and DDT were associated with small cell lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia/marginal cell lymphoma, lindane and diazinon with follicular lymphoma, and permethrin with MM. However, tests of homogeneity did not show significant differences in exposure-response among NHL-subtypes for any pesticide. Because 26 pesticides were evaluated for their association with NHL and its subtypes, some chance finding could have occurred. Our results showed pesticides from different chemical and functional classes were associated with an excess risk of NHL and NHL subtypes, but not all members of any single class of pesticides were associated with an elevated risk of NHL or NHL subtypes. These findings are among the first to suggest links between DDT, lindane, permethrin, diazinon and terbufos with NHL subtypes.
