The authors investigated, in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded study, the efficacy and safety of lornoxicam on pain after abdominal hysterectomy and on tramadol consumption in patients. Fifty patients were randomized to receive either oral placebo or lornoxicam 8 mg one hour before surgery. Anesthesia was induced with propofol and maintained with sevoflurane in 50 percent N2O/O2 with a fresh gas flow of 2 L/min (50 percent N2O in O2) and fentanyl (2 microg/kg). All patients received patient-controlled analgesia with tramadol with loading dose of 50 mg; incremental dose of 20 mg; lock out interval of 10 minute; and four-hour limit 300 mg. The incremental dose was increased to 30 mg if analgesia was inadequate after one hour. Patients were studied at one, two, four, eight, 12, and 24 hours for visual analogue (VAS) pain scores, heart rate, mean arterial pressure, periferic oxygen saturation, sedation, tramadol consumption, and length of hospitalization. VAS scores at one hour were significantly lower in the lornoxicam group (p < 0.001). The tramadol consumption at one, two, four, eight, and 12 hours was significantly lower in the lornoxicam group when compared with the placebo group (p < 0.001, p = 0.008, p = 0.029, p = 0.034, p = 0.042, respectively). Sedation scores were similar at all the measured times in the groups. Length of hospitalization was significantly shorter in lornoxicam group (4.8 +/- 0.4 day) than placebo group (5.2 +/- 0.5 day) (p = 0.005). There was difference in the incidence of nausea between the groups (p = 0.047). The number of patients and the doses of antiemetics given during the first 24 hours after surgery in lornoxicam group were less than those in placebo group (p = 0.003, p = 0.034, respectively). In conclusion, a single oral dose of lornoxicam given preoperatively enhanced the analgesic effect of tramadol, decreasing tramadol consumption and side effects, and shortened the length of hospitalization.
Prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) was used for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in 149 men with erectile dysfunction over a period of 20 months (February 1987-October 1988). The intracavernous application of PGE1 in varying doses resulted in an erection sufficient for sexual intercourse in 79% of cases. In order to differentiate between vascular and non-vascular impotence, 5 micrograms PGE1 were found to be a sufficiently high and safe dose for the first intracavernous injection. Local discomfort, ranging from mild to severe pain after injection, was recorded in 40% of patients. A significant difference in severe side effects was found between arterial, venous and non-vasculogenic impotence, the highest incidence of local pain occurring in non-vasculogenic patients. The most striking result was the occurrence of 4 cases of priapism, all in the non-vascular group, 1 of these occurring after the injection of only 5 micrograms PGE1.
Gene-directed enzyme prodrug therapy (GDEPT) is a promising approach to local management of cancer through targeted chemotherapy. Killing localized tumors by GDEPT in a manner that induces strong antitumor cellular immune responses might improve local management and allow benefit in disseminated cancer. Here we evaluated the combination of nitroreductase (NTR)/CB1954 GDEPT with high-level expression of heat shock protein 70 (HSP70, a stress protein that can shuttle cytosolic peptides into antigen-presenting cells) for induction of antitumor immunity using adenovirus gene delivery in an aggressive and nonimmunogenic BALB/c syngeneic 4T1 breast cancer model. The mechanism of cell death and spectrum of stress proteins induced are likely to be important determinants of the resulting immune responses. We showed that NTR/CB1954 treatment of 4T1 cells gave both apoptotic and nonapoptotic killing. In vivo killing of 4T1 cells expressing NTR gave weak antitumor immunity and very limited induction of stress proteins including HSP70. High-level coexpression of HSP70 during NTR/CB1954-mediated killing of 4T1 cells in vivo gave much greater protection from tumor challenge (67% long-term survivors compared to 17%) and induced 4T1-specific cytotoxic T-cell responses. The enhancement of antitumor responses resulting from HSP70 coexpression was similar to that conferred by coexpression of GM-CSF.
We investigated whether mutations in the genes that code for the different subunits of the amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) might result in cystic fibrosis (CF)-like disease. In a small fraction of the patients, the disease could be potentially explained by an ENaC mutation by a Mendelian mechanism, such as p.V114I and p.F61L in SCNN1A. More importantly, a more than three-fold significant increase in incidence of several rare ENaC polymorphisms was found in the patient group (30% vs. 9% in controls), indicating an involvement of ENaC in some patients by a polygenetic mechanism. Specifically, a significantly higher number of patients carried c.-55+5G>C or p.W493R in SCNN1A in the heterozygous state, with odds ratios (ORs) of 13.5 and 2.7, respectively.The p.W493R-SCNN1A polymorphism was even found to result in a four-fold more active ENaC channel when heterologously expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. About 1 in 975 individuals in the general population will be heterozygous for the hyperactive p.W493R-SCNN1A mutation and a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene that results in very low amounts (0-10%) functional CFTR. These ENaC/CFTR genotypes may play a hitherto unrecognized role in lung diseases.
A 21-year-old man with a five-year history of recreational intravenous cocaine abuse developed chest pain within one minute and cardiopulmonary arrest within one hour following an injection. He died and, on autopsy, was found to have severe coronary obstructive lesions, as a result of chronic intimal proliferation, and acute platelet thrombosis. Secondary chronic and acute myocardial ischemic lesions also were observed. Cocaine-induced coronary artery spasm may have occurred and produced focal endothelial injury and platelet aggregation; this pathogenetic mechanism may have accounted for both the chronic and the acute coronary obstructive lesions. In addition, lymphocytic myocarditis was present and may have been related to the long-term cocaine abuse.
The effect of bilateral section of the corticostriatal projections or of selective bilateral ablation of the frontal cortex on behavioral and biochemical parameters related to striatal function were investigated in the rat. Either lesion almost completely prevented the cataleptogenic action of haloperidol: this effect was observed as soon as 3 days and lasted for at least 3 months after surgery, paralleling a reduction in striatal glutamate uptake. Also, such lesions enhanced the apomorphine-induced stereotyped behavior (as measured 21 days after surgery). In the striatum, dopamine, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, acetylcholine and substance P levels as well as choline acetyltransferase and glutamic acid decarboxylase activities were unaffected 10 or 21 days after either type of lesion. In the substantia nigra, substance P levels were unchanged 10 days following suction of the frontal cortex, but glutamic acid decarboxylase was reduced at 21 days postsurgery. Cortical lesions only partially prevented the reduction in striatal acetylcholine concentrations and did not affect the increase in striatal dihydroxyphenylacetic acid caused by haloperidol. Finally, lesions of the corticostriatal pathways failed to affect the apomorphine-induced increase in striatal acetylcholine levels, reduction of the potassium (20 mM) evoked [3H]acetylcholine release in striatal slices preloaded with [3H]choline and decrease of striatal dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations. These findings indicate that the frontal cortex influences extrapyramidal function by a mechanism which--in behavioral terms--is antagonistic to dopamine-mediated events. As indicated by the biochemical data, this mechanism does not involve changes in striatal dopaminergic and cholinergic neuron activity. This mechanism may utilize: (1) corticostriatal glutamatergic neurons as suggested by the reduction in striatal glutamate uptake following lesions; and (2) GABAergic pathways as suggested by the reduction of nigral glutamic acid decarboxylase activity as well as by the finding that GABA receptor agonists reinstate haloperidol-induced catalepsy.
Two siblings (case 1 and case 2) with homozygous C1q deficiency are described. Both presented with a photosensitive rash, and during follow-up case one developed SLE with nephrotic range proteinuria. Case 2 had microscopic hematuria with a past history of macroscopic hematuria. Renal biopsies revealed mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis in case 1 and IgA nephropathy in case 2, a new finding in association with C1q deficiency. Since the classical pathway of complement plays a role in the development of antibody responses, the family was also evaluated for the immune response to hepatitis B vaccine. Antibody response to hepatitis B vaccine was normal in both affected members and the rest of the family. The A-, B- and C- chain genes of C1q were amplified by PCR and directly sequenced. A homozygous C to T point mutation was identified in genomic DNA isolated from the patients at codon 186 in the A chain that resulted in a premature stop codon. This mutation was present in both parents and both unaffected sibs in the heterozygous state. This mutation was identical to that previously described in a Slovakian family with C1q deficiency. Because of this finding, a series of 92 genomic DNA samples was screened from ethnically distinct patient groups with SLE to test the hypothesis that this mutation of C1q may be a widespread disease susceptibility gene. No further examples of this mutation were found.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) causes extensive cystitis, which is ameliorated with concomitant treatment with mesna. We investigated the protective mechanisms of mesna in the expression of uroplakin (UP), a strong mucosal barrier against toxic materials, in CP-induced rat cystitis. A total of 54 SD female rats received a single intraperitoneal injection of 200 mg of CP/kg. Six CP-treated, 6 CP + mesna (120 mg/kg)-treated rats, and 6 negative controls were sequentially sacrificed at 12, 24, and 72 h post-CP injection. The bladders were harvested. The levels of UPIa, Ib, II, and III mRNA on real-time PCR, the UPII and III expressions on immunoblotting, and the UPII expression on immunolocalization study in the harvested bladder were maximally suppressed within 12-24 h, whereas partially or completely recovered at 24-72 h post-CP injection. In addition, the responses in UPs after a CP insult were heterogeneous (i.e., markedly suppressed in UPII and lesser destructive in UPIII). Even though the mesna-treated rats also showed transient and small reductions in the mRNA levels of all UPs, mesna clearly preserved the UP expressions of mRNA and protein in CP-induced urinary bladder mucosa. In conclusion, this study suggests that CP transiently reduces the expression of UPs and mesna protects the urinary bladder mucosa through the preservation of UPs protein.
We report a young lady with acute left middle cerebral artery infarction after acute intake of amphetamine. This is the first case report of amphetamine-induced ischemic stroke with serial angiography and transcranial color-coded Doppler studies. The temporal sequence of stenosis of at least 3 weeks with subsequent complete resolution by 3 months and a "beaded" appearance on angiography support vasculitis or vasospasm as the pathogenesis of ischemic stroke in this patient. The presence of microembolic signals supports acute thrombosis at the site of vasculitis/vasospasm with distal embolism.
The aim of this study was to estimate the benchmark dose (BMD) for pancreas dysfunction caused by cadmium (Cd) exposure in smelters. Smelter workers who had been exposed to Cd for more than 1 year and matching nonoccupationally exposed subjects were asked to participate in this study. Urinary cadmium (UCd) was used as a biomarker for exposure, serum insulin and amylase were used as biomarkers for pancreatic effects. In this study, serum insulin and amylase were lower in the smelter workers than in the nonoccupationally exposed subjects. A significant dose-response relationship with UCd was displayed. BMDs in terms of urinary Cd corrected for creatinine were calculated by use of BMDS (version 1.3.2). The benchmark dose lower limit of a one-sided 95% confidence interval (BMDL) for 10% excess risk was also determined. It was found that the BMDL10 for serum insulin and serum amylase was 3.7 and 5.3 microg/g Cr, respectively. Compared to the BMDL for renal damage caused by Cd exposure, identified by the effect biomarkers urinary beta2-microglobulin, urinary N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, and urinary albumin (UALB), it was shown that BMDL10 for serum insulin is the lowest among all values and UALB gave the highest value (5.8 microg/g Cr). This study indicates that Cd exposure can result in pancreatic dysfunction and the effect appears at lower urinary Cd level than renal dysfunction. The endocrine function of the pancreas was affected at lower urinary levels of Cd, compared to the exocrine function, which was seen at higher urinary levels of Cd than those giving rise to renal tubular dysfunction.
Although it varies from country to country, there is a worrying worldwide increase in antibiotic resistance among pathogens causing otitis. This has led to a search for therapeutic alternatives to the reference treatment, which is still amoxicillin in many countries. Cefpodoxime proxetil is one such alternative. Six comparative randomized trials of cefpodoxime proxetil in childhood acute otitis media have been published or presented at international conferences. They involved a total of 1188 patients, 658 of whom received cefpodoxime proxetil and 530 of whom received the comparator drug (amoxicillin/clavulanic acid in 3 trials, cefaclor in 1, and cefixime in 2); duration of treatment varied from 5 days for cefpodoxime proxetil to 10 days for amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, and the age of the children included ranged from 2 months to 12 years. The clinical efficacy of cefpodoxime proxetil was at least equivalent to that of the comparators in 4 trials and significantly better in 2 trials. Firstly, in one study vs. amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, the superiority of cefpodoxime proxetil (8 mg/kg/day twice daily) in terms of healing at the end of treatment and in terms of the number of normal tympanograms at the follow-up visit was shown. Secondly, in a study performed by our group, vs. cefixime, cefpodoxime proxetil (8 mg/kg/day twice daily) showed a better healing rate at the end of treatment in febrile and painful acute otitis media. The microbiologic and pharmacokinetic data show that cefpodoxime proxetil is one of the most active compounds against Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The cognitive sequelae of treatment for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) were compared in a group of patients who received dexamethasone during the intensification and maintenance phases of therapy with those in a historical control group for whom antileukemia therapy was similar, except that the corticosteroid component of therapy was prednisone.
Patients treated for ALL on Dana-Farber Cancer Institute protocols 87-01 (n = 44) and 91-01 (n = 23) were evaluated by standard cognitive and achievement tests. Corticosteroid therapy was delivered in 5-day pulses given every 3 weeks during intensification and continuation phases of therapy for a total of 2 years.
Children treated on protocol 87-01 received prednisone at a dose of 40 mg/m2/d (standard risk, SR) or 120 mg/ m2/d (high risk, HR); those treated on protocol 91-01 received dexamethasone at a dose of 6 mg/m2 per day (SR) or 18 mg/m2 per day (HR). Children treated on protocol 91-01 performed less well on cognitive testing. Subsample analysis indicated that cranial radiation therapy and methotrexate dose did not account for differences in cognitive outcomes.
The findings of this preliminary study are consistent with the hypothesis that dexamethasone therapy can increase risk for neurocognitive late effects in children treated for ALL and indicate that further investigation of this question is warranted.
In end-stage heart failure, cardiac beta-adrenoceptors are decreased and cardiac Gi protein is increased. We assessed beta-adrenoceptors, G proteins, and effects of several beta-adrenoceptor agonists, histamine, and 5-HT on adenylyl cyclase activity in right and left atria and left ventricles and on left ventricular contractility in six potential heart transplant donors (nonfailing hearts; NFHs) and in nine patients with end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and 11 patients with end-stage ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM) to establish whether the functional responsiveness of all cardiac Gs-coupled receptors is reduced. Beta-adrenoceptors were reduced in all three tissues; in DCM, beta1-adrenoceptors were more markedly downregulated; in ICM, both beta1- and beta2-adrenoceptors were diminished. In all three tissues, isoprenaline-, terbutaline-, histamine- and 5-HT-induced adenylyl cyclase activation was reduced similarly in DCM and ICM. Moreover, in DCM and ICM, guanosine triphosphate (GTP)- (involving Gs and Gi) activated adenylyl cyclase was significantly diminished, whereas NaF-activated (involving only Gs) and Mn2+-activated (acting at the catalytic unit of the enzyme) adenylyl cyclase was unaltered. Left ventricular positive inotropic responses to beta1- (noradrenaline, dopamine, and dobutamine), beta2- (terbutaline), and beta1- and beta2-adrenoceptors (isoprenaline, adrenaline, and epinine), as well as H2-receptor (histamine) stimulation were significantly reduced. The extent of reduction was not different for each agonist in ICM and DCM. We conclude that in DCM and ICM, functional responsiveness of all cardiac Gs-coupled receptors is similarly reduced.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a heterogeneous group of hereditary disorders of the retina caused by mutation in genes of the photoreceptor proteins with an autosomal dominant (adRP), autosomal recessive (arRP), or X-linked pattern of inheritance. Although there are over 100 identified mutations in the opsin gene associated with RP, only a few of them are inherited with the arRP pattern. E150K is the first reported missense mutation associated with arRP. This opsin mutation is located in the second cytoplasmic loop of this G protein-coupled receptor. E150K opsin expressed in HEK293 cells and reconstituted with 11-cis-retinal displayed an absorption spectrum similar to the wild type (WT) counterpart and activated G protein transducin slightly faster than WT receptor. However, the majority of E150K opsin showed a higher apparent molecular mass in SDS-PAGE and was resistant to endoglycosidase H deglycosidase. Instead of being transported to the plasma membrane, E150K opsin is partially colocalized with the cis/medial Golgi compartment markers such as GM130 and Vti1b but not with the trans-Golgi network. In contrast to the endoplasmic reticulum-retained adRP mutant, P23H opsin, Golgi-retained E150K opsin did not influence the proper transport of the WT opsin when coexpressed in HEK293 cells. This result is consistent with the recessive pattern of inheritance of this mutation. Thus, our study reveals a novel molecular mechanism for retinal degeneration that results from deficient export of opsin from the Golgi apparatus.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) induce a broad spectrum of biochemical and toxic effects in mammals including alterations of the vital retinoid (vitamin A) system. The aim of this study was to characterize alterations of tissue retinoid levels in rat offspring and their dams following gestational and lactational exposure to the PCB mixture Aroclor 1254 (A1254) and to assess the interrelationship of these changes with other established sensitive biochemical and toxicological endpoints. Sprague-Dawley rat dams were exposed orally to 0 or 15 mg/kg body weight/day of A1254 from gestational day 1 to postnatal day (PND) 23. Livers, kidneys and serum were collected from the offspring on PNDs 35, 77 and 350. Tissue and serum retinoid levels, hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes and serum thyroid hormones were analyzed. A multivariate regression between A1254 treatment, hepatic retinoid levels, hepatic CYP enzymes activities, thyroid hormone levels and body/liver weights was performed using an orthogonal partial least-squares (PLS) analysis. The contribution of dioxin-like (DL) components of A1254 to the observed effects was also estimated using the toxic equivalency (TEQ) concept. In both male and female offspring short-term alterations in tissue retinoid levels occurred at PND35, i.e. decreased levels of hepatic retinol and retinoic acid (RA) metabolite 9-cis-4-oxo-13,14-dihydro-RA with concurrent increases in hepatic and renal all-trans-RA levels. Long-term changes consisted of decreased hepatic retinyl palmitate and increased renal retinol levels that were apparent until PND350. Retinoid system alterations were associated with altered CYP enzyme activities and serum thyroid hormone levels as well as body and liver weights in both offspring and dams. The estimated DL activity was within an order of magnitude of the theoretical TEQ for different endpoints, indicating significant involvement of DL congeners in the observed effects. This study shows that tissue retinoid levels are affected both short- and long-term by developmental A1254 exposure and are associated with alterations of other established endpoints of toxicological concern.
Patients with alcoholic liver disease frequently exhibit iron overload in association with increased hepatic fibrosis. Even moderate alcohol consumption elevates body iron stores; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms are unknown. Hepcidin, a circulatory peptide synthesized in the liver, is a key mediator of iron metabolism. Ethanol metabolism significantly down-regulated both in vitro and in vivo hepcidin mRNA and protein expression. 4-Methylpyrazole, a specific inhibitor of the alcohol-metabolizing enzymes, abolished the effects of ethanol on hepcidin. However, ethanol did not alter the expression of transferrin receptor1 and ferritin or the activation of iron regulatory RNA-binding proteins, IRP1 and IRP2. Mice maintained on 10-20% ethanol for 7 days displayed down-regulation of liver hepcidin expression without changes in liver triglycerides or histology. This was accompanied by elevated duodenal divalent metal transporter1 and ferroportin protein expression. Injection of hepcidin peptide negated the effect of ethanol on duodenal iron transporters. Ethanol down-regulated hepcidin promoter activity and the DNA binding activity of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBPalpha) but not beta. Interestingly, the antioxidants vitamin E and N-acetylcysteine abolished both the alcohol-mediated down-regulation of C/EBPalpha binding activity and hepcidin expression in the liver and the up-regulation of duodenal divalent metal transporter 1. Collectively, these findings indicate that alcohol metabolism-mediated oxidative stress regulates hepcidin transcription via C/EBPalpha, which in turn leads to increased duodenal iron transport.
Chronic exposure to arsenic in drinking water is associated with skin lesions, neurological effects, hypertension and high risk of cancer. The treatment in use at present employs administration of thiol chelators, such as meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) which are compromised with number of limitations due to their lipophobic nature. To address this problem, therapeutic efficacy of monoisoamyl meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (MiADMSA), an analog of DMSA having lipophilic character, was examined against chronic arsenic poisoning in rats. Adult male Wistar rats were orally exposed to arsenic (2mg sodium arsenite/kg body weight) for 10 weeks followed by treatment with MiADMSA (50mg/kg, orally, once daily for 5 consecutive days). As-exposed rats showed significant differences in behavioral functions (open field behavior, total locomotor activity, grip strength and exploratory behavior) and water maze learning. Further, the biochemical studies performed on three brain regions (cerebellum, cortex and hippocampus) also showed significant elevation in malondialdehyde (MDA) levels with a concomitant decrease in the oxidative stress marker enzymes Mn-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD), Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn-SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST). The alterations were more pronounced in cortex compared to cerebellum and hippocampus. The results showed that MiADMSA significantly reversed the As-induced alterations in behavior and biochemical variables suggestive of oxidative injury.
The molecular events during nongenotoxic carcinogenesis and their temporal order are poorly understood but thought to include long-lasting perturbations of gene expression. Here, we have investigated the temporal sequence of molecular and pathological perturbations at early stages of phenobarbital (PB) mediated liver tumor promotion in vivo. Molecular profiling (mRNA, microRNA [miRNA], DNA methylation, and proteins) of mouse liver during 13 weeks of PB treatment revealed progressive increases in hepatic expression of long noncoding RNAs and miRNAs originating from the Dlk1-Dio3 imprinted gene cluster, a locus that has recently been associated with stem cell pluripotency in mice and various neoplasms in humans. PB induction of the Dlk1-Dio3 cluster noncoding RNA (ncRNA) Meg3 was localized to glutamine synthetase-positive hypertrophic perivenous hepatocytes, suggesting a role for β-catenin signaling in the dysregulation of Dlk1-Dio3 ncRNAs. The carcinogenic relevance of Dlk1-Dio3 locus ncRNA induction was further supported by in vivo genetic dependence on constitutive androstane receptor and β-catenin pathways. Our data identify Dlk1-Dio3 ncRNAs as novel candidate early biomarkers for mouse liver tumor promotion and provide new opportunities for assessing the carcinogenic potential of novel compounds.
We report the case of a newborn infant affected by congenital hyperinsulinism who developed cholelithiasis associated with cholestatic jaundice following treatment with octreotide, a somatostatin analogue.
To describe the experience with a new lipid-based amphotericin product (amphotericin B colloidal dispersion or ABCD) in children with fever and neutropenia who are at high risk for fungal infection.
Forty-nine children with febrile neutropenia were treated in a prospective, randomized trial comparing ABCD with amphotericin B. An additional 70 children with presumed or proven fungal infection were treated with 5 different open-label studies of ABCD. Patients were registered into these studies for reasons of: 1) failure to respond to amphotericin B; 2) development of nephrotoxicity or preexisting renal impairment; or 3) willingness to participate in a dose-escalation study. Extensive data detailing response and toxicity were collected from each patient.
In the randomized trial, there was significantly less renal toxicity in the children receiving ABCD than in those receiving amphotericin B (12.0% vs. 52.4% [P = 0.003]). Other adverse symptoms were not significantly different. In the additional open-label studies, although 80% of patients receiving ABCD reported some adverse symptom, the majority of these were infusion related, and nephrotoxicity was reported in only 12% of these patients.
ABCD was well-tolerated at doses up to 5 times greater then those usually tolerated with amphotericin B. Renal toxicity was markedly less than expected, and there were no other unexpected severe toxicities. Further randomized studies are needed to further define the role of this and other liposomal products in children.
A 35-yr-old man sustained an anoxic brain injury resulting from cardiac arrest, with subsequent extreme lethargy and lack of response to stimuli. The patient's lethargy was unresponsive to trials of several medications in attempts to increase arousal. Administration of twice-daily zolpidem 8 mos after injury resulted in a dramatic increase in the level of alertness, including improved speech and gait. When the patient was not able to receive zolpidem for a brief period, the patient's lethargy returned, and he became bedbound until the medication was resumed.
Type 1 Gaucher's disease (GD) is recognized for striking but unexplained phenotypic diversity. Rarely, severe pulmonary hypertension (PH) may occur in GD but its clinical spectrum, determinants or its response to enzyme replacement therapy (ERT)+/-vasodilators is not known. One hundred and thirty-four consecutive patients with Type 1 GD were screened to estimate right ventricular systolic pressure (RVSP) by Doppler echocardiography. Ninety-four patients were on ERT and 40 were untreated. Eight additional GD patients were studied that represented consecutive tertiary referrals with severe PH. Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) gene polymorphisms and acid beta-glucosidase gene (GBA) mutations were determined by DNA analysis. Mild, asymptomatic PH (RVSP>35<50 mmHg) was prevalent in Type 1 GD: 30% in untreated patients and 7.4% among patients receiving ERT (P<0.001). Splenectomy was strongly associated with severe, life-threatening PH: all patients with severe PH (RVSP 50-130 mmHg) were asplenic compared to only 31% of patients with RVSP<50 mmHg (Odds ratio [OR] 28.8, 95% CI 1.6-531.6, P<0.001). Other characteristics of patients presenting with severe PH were poor compliance to ERT (4/9 patients) or no ERT (5/9 patients), a family history of a sib with GD and PH (2/2 patients), an excess of ACE I allele (OR 2.3, 95% CI 1.1-4.9, P=0.034) and an excess of non-N370S GBA mutation (OR 6.0, 95% CI 1.1-33, P=0.003). Severe PH was ameliorated by ERT+/-vasodilators during 4.6+/-4.0 yr (range 1-12 yr) follow-up; three patients were initially considered for lung transplantation but improved such that they are no longer active transplant candidates. Our study reveals a remarkable predisposition for PH in type 1 GD. Progression to severe, life-threatening PH occurs in the presence of additional genetic factors (non-N370S GBA mutation, positive family history, and ACE I gene polymorphism) and epigenetic modifiers (i.e., asplenia and female sex). Splenectomy should be avoided and in high-risk patients, ERT+/-vasodilators/coumadin should be initiated.
This study examines interactions of a mutation in Pax3, embryonic sex, advanced maternal age, and arsenite exposure in the splotch (Sp) mouse model, with the aim of describing gene-environment interactions for neural tube defects and embryonic lethality.
Splotch heterozygous C57BL/6J mice were crossed to produce offspring of three genotypes with a common maternal genotype that were exposed to either sodium arsenite on gestational day (GD) 8.0, or advanced maternal age (dams older than 12 months). Embryos were extracted on GD 12 and genotyped for both Pax3 and sex.
Arsenite treatment was a significant contributor to both exencephaly and spina bifida. Advanced maternal age resulted in a high exencephaly rate in Sp/Sp female embryos (but not other genotypes) and a high overall resorption rate. Arsenite treatment and advanced maternal age resulted in elevated sex ratios (male:female) for heterozygous and wild-type embryos. The sex ratio was highest for wild-type embryos and was lowered as the number of mutant Pax3 alleles increased. The sex ratio was not significantly different from 1.0 for splotch homozygotes. Control litters had spina bifida rates that were 95% in homozygous, 6% in heterozygous, and 0% in wild-type embryos.
If arsenite produces exencephaly by inactivating the Pax3 protein, then the fact that the exencephaly rate was increased in Sp/Sp embryos with no functional Pax3 indicates that arsenite may either induce this defect through additional pathways, or may alter the response via modifier genes. Genetic and environmental factors contributed to the determination of murine sex ratios, with female embryos being more susceptible to loss.
A 45-year-old female migraineur with a long-standing history of drug-induced headache is described. She had been abusing caffeine (250 mg/day) and aspirin (5 gr/day). On the third day after discontinuation a withdrawal syndrome characterized by headache and a generalized tonic-clonic seizure occurred. The temporal association makes it likely that the convulsion episode in an integral component of the withdrawal syndrome in this patient. This extra feature of the withdrawal syndrome has never been described after caffeine and/or aspirin interruption. Possible pathogenetic mechanisms are discussed.
With the increasing application of intra-arterial chemotherapy (IAC), new side-effects are encountered. We describe two children with proximal femoral osteosarcoma who developed focal myositis of the abdominal wall musculature after IAC. In both cases, myositis presented as abdominal pain and mimicked acute abdomen. US demonstrated asymmetrical thickening of abdominal-wall musculature in the right lower abdomen. This diagnosis should be considered when evaluating the patient with unexplained abdominal pain and a history of IAC.
