This study describes characteristics of a mitomycin C (MMC)-resistant human bladder cancer cell line, J82/MMC-2, which was established by repeated in vitro exposures of a 6-fold MMC-resistant variant (J82/MMC) to 18 nM MMC. A 9.6-fold higher concentration of MMC was required to kill 50% of the J82/MMC-2 sub-line compared with parental cells (J82/WT). NADPH cytochrome P450 reductase and DT-diaphorase activities were significantly lower in J82/MMC-2 cells compared with J82/WT, suggesting that reduced sensitivity of J82/MMC-2 cells to MMC resulted from impaired drug activation. Consistent with this hypothesis, the formation of MMC-alkylating metabolites was significantly lower in J82/MMC-2 cells compared with J82/WT. Furthermore, DT-diaphorase activity in J82/MMC-2 cells was significantly lower compared with the 6-fold MMC-resistant variant. Glutathione (GSH) levels were comparable in all 3 cell lines. Although GSH transferase (GST) activity was significantly higher in the J82/MMC-2 cells compared with J82/WT, this enzyme activity did not differ between 6- and 9.6-fold MMC-resistant variants. Whereas DNA polymerase alpha mRNA expression was comparable in these cell lines, levels of DNA ligase I mRNA were slightly lower in both MMC-resistant variants relative to J82/WT. However, the DNA polymerase beta mRNA level was markedly higher in the J82/MMC-2 cell line compared with either J82/WT or J82/MMC. Thus, emergence of a higher level of resistance to MMC in J82/MMC-2 cells compared with J82/MMC may be attributed to (i) impaired drug activation through further reduction in DT-diaphorase activity and (ii) enhanced DNA repair through over-expression of DNA polymerase beta.
Fulminant hepatic failure is a rare complication of disulfiram treatment for alcoholism. In the instances that it does occur, previous liver disease or failure to be abstinent from alcohol are thought to be causative. This case describes fulminant hepatic failure in a patient taking disulfiram with no previous liver disease and report of being compliant with alcohol abstinence. Careful pretreatment screening and rigorous monitoring patients are recommended to help prevent this life-threatening event.
Many patients mechanically ventilated for acute respiratory failure, are treated with medication that includes a combination of cortico-steroids and non-depolarizing neuromuscular-blocking agents (NNBa). A third of them can be expected to develop delayed neuromuscular damage, which may be severe and prolonged. We describe a 50-year-old man who suffered from acute myeloid leukemia and was ventilated due to pneumonia. He was treated with pancuronium and cortico-steroids, and during recovery suffered quadriparesis that lasted several months. Typically this damage is purely motor and is accompanied by absent tendon-reflexes, sometimes with elevated creatine-kinase. Muscle biopsy usually shows deletion and degeneration of thick myosin filaments. The phenomenon is related to the duration of NNBa treatment, and probably results from an adverse synergistic effect on muscle tissue of the cortico-steroids and cortico-steroid-like NNBa given the immobilized patient. Awareness of this adverse effect of steroids and pancuronium, the use of passive mobilization, shortening the use of NNBa and early rehabilitation would minimize disability due to this phenomenon.
Propofol is a widely used hypnotic agent for induction and maintenance of pediatric anesthesia with a well known safety profile. Experimental in vitro studies suggest that propofol may be toxic to developing neurons. We report the cases of three infants who underwent surgery before 2 months of age for different benign pathologies. Propofol was used for induction and maintenance of anesthesia in all cases. The three patients developed convulsions with similar clinical characteristics (cluster of recurrent clinical and subclinical seizures) between the 23th and 30th hours following anesthesia. Clinical and electroencephalographic improvement was obtained between the third and fourth day of management in pediatric intensive care unit. The seizures never recurred, and the three patients underwent further uneventful general anesthesia without propofol. Follow-up of the three patients disclosed unexpected neurological dysfunction: progressive microcephaly (head circumferences were normal at birth), developmental impairment with cognitive and behavioural disturbances in two cases, and bilateral symmetrical white-matter abnormalities on cerebral magnetic resonance imaging.
The causal relationship between propofol anesthesia and the neurological symptoms of our patients remains difficult to ascertain, but we believe that pediatricians, anesthetists and intensive care-givers should be aware of this possible adverse reaction that has never been described before.
Angiotensin-(1-7) [Ang-(1-7)] is a vasodilator peptide with cardiac and vascular protective properties. We examined the influence of Ang-(1-7), both endogenous and after chronic treatment with the peptide (576microg/(kgday)), on ischemia/reperfusion (I/R)-induced cardiac dysfunction in streptozotocin-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats (diabetic SHR). In isolated perfused hearts, recovery of left ventricular function from 40min of global ischemia was improved significantly in Ang-(1-7)- or captopril-treated diabetic SHR and worsened in animals treated with A779, an Ang-(1-7) receptor (AT((1-7))) antagonist. The beneficial effect of captopril on cardiac recovery was reduced when co-administered with A779. Cardiac NF-kappaB activity appears to be higher in diabetic SHR and treatment with Ang-(1-7) or captopril decreased NF-kappaB activity in diabetic SHR, an effect partially reversed by co-administration of A779. Real-time PCR-based gene array analysis of cardiac tissue revealed that Ang-(1-7) or captopril treatment may reduce expression of several genes of inflammation involved in the NF-kappaB signalling pathway. The data provide for the first time a role for endogenous Ang-(1-7) as well as confirmation that exogenous treatment with the peptide produces cardioprotection. Whether potential anti-inflammatory and transcriptional factor changes are directly linked to the cardioprotection produced by Ang-(1-7) in diabetic SHR remains to be determined.
Vincristine, along with other antimitotic chemotherapeutic drugs, produces a peripheral neuropathy in humans that is accompanied by painful paresthesias, dysesthesias, and occasionally hypoesthesia, and by hyporeflexia (Holland et al. [1973] Cancer Res. 33:1258-1264; McLeod and Penny [1969] J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 32:297-304; Postma et al. [1993] J Neurooncol. 15:23-27; Sandler et al. [1969] Neurology 19:367-374). Systemic administration of vincristine causes swelling of unmyelinated axons and disorientation of axonal microtubules (Tanner et al. [1998a1998a] J Comp Neurol. 395:481-492) at a time when it also produces allodynia and mechanical hyperalgesia (Aley et al. [1996] Neuroscience 73:259-265; Authier et al. [1999] Neuroreport 10:965-968) and enhanced responsiveness in C-fibers in the rat (Tanner et al. [1998b] J Neurosci. 18:6480-6491). Because slowing of A-fiber conduction velocities had also been demonstrated (Tanner et al. [1998b] J Neurosci. 18:6480-6491), and mechanical hyperalgesia can occur secondary to damage to large diameter sensory afferents (Basbaum et al. [1991] Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 69:647-651; Coggeshall et al. [1993] Pain 52:233-242; Woolf and Mannion [1999] Lancet 353:1959-1964), we sought to determine whether vincristine also induced ultrastructural changes in myelinated A-fibers. Moreover, since systemic treatment with vincristine did not cause profound microtubule depolymerization in the unmyelinated axons of the peripheral nerve, we hypothesized that the drug's effects may be more extensive in the cell body, because in the spinal ganglion, the blood-nerve barrier is less restrictive. We used quantitative ultrastructural methods to analyze the microtubule cytoskeleton in myelinated axons in the mid-shaft of the saphenous nerve and in the sensory ganglion cells. Vincristine induced swelling of the whole nerve and an increase in the cross-sectional areas of myelinated axons but no loss of myelinated axons. There was a significant decrease in axonal microtubules, as well as microtubule disorganization, in myelinated fibers from vincristine-treated rats. In the spinal ganglion, vincristine induced swelling of large diameter sensory neurons and a build-up of neurofilaments in the cell bodies and proximal axons, suggestive of impaired anterograde axonal transport.
The aim of the study was to assess the effects of chronic angiotensin I receptor blockade on blood pressure, the renin-angiotensin system in plasma and kidney and the extent of renal damage in spontaneously hypertensive rats of the stroke prone strain (SHRsp). Four months old male SHRsp rats were orally treated with a high (10 mg/kg b.w. per day) or a low dose (1 mg/kg b.w. per day) of the AT1 receptor antagonist Telmisartan and compared to Losartan- (20 mg/kg b.w. per day), Captopril-treated (50 mg/kg b.w. per day) or untreated control groups for 38 days. Despite a similar extent of blood pressure reduction in all groups (except low dose Telmisartan), high dose Telmisartan but not Losartan or Captopril significantly reduced left ventricular weight by 24% compared to controls (p<0.05). Renal damage as assessed by urinary albumin or glomerulosclerosis index was significantly reduced in all treatment groups (p<0.02). Plasma renin concentration was significantly elevated (p<0.02) and plasma angiotensinogen significantly lowered (p<0.05) in all pharmacologically treated group compared to controls. In the kidney, renin-mRNA as well as AT1 receptor gene expression were elevated in all treatment groups, but no significant changes were found for renal angiotensinogen-mRNA. Chronic oral treatment of genetically hypertensive rats by the AT1 receptor antagonist Telmisartan reveals a blood pressure lowering and reno-protective effect of this drug comparable to other AT1 receptor antagonists or converting enzyme inhibitors, and demonstrates a marked reduction of cardiac hypertrophy by Telmisartan in this model.
Renal impairment occurs in neonates receiving indomethacin for treatment of patent ductus arteriosus. Inhibition of cyclooxygenase within the neonatal kidney results in decreased prostaglandin synthesis and consequent reduction in renal perfusion. Indomethacin has been reported to cause short-term reduction in glomerular filtration that resolves after cessation of the drug. There is little information on the long-term effects of postnatal exposure to indomethacin. The aim of this study was to determine the incidence of renal impairment in infants treated with indomethacin in a single center, to determine whether there is evidence of renal impairment on day 30 or at discharge, and to identify risk factors for renal impairment. In a retrospective study, infants of less than 30 weeks completed gestation who received indomethacin to close the ductus arteriosus were matched with infants of the same gestation, birth weight, and severity of illness. Serum creatinine and glomerular filtration rates (GFR) were obtained prior to commencing indomethacin and on days 2, 7, and 30 following indomethacin administration. Acute renal failure was defined as an increase in creatinine of greater than 25%. Of those infants who were less than 30 weeks completed gestation, 24% had acute renal failure following indomethacin administration. There was a significant elevation in serum creatinine on day 2 and day 7 ( P<0.0001, P=0.002) and a decrease in GFR on day 2 and day 7 ( P<0.0001, P=0.01) following administration of indomethacin. Renal function had normalized by day 30 or discharge. The incidence of acute renal failure in neonates treated with indomethacin is clinically significant. Renal function returns to normal by day 30. Linear regression found no statistical significance for gestational age, day of indomethacin dosing, Clinical Risk Index for Babies (CRIB) score, and presence of an umbilical artery catheter to confound the effect of indomethacin on renal function.
We report a new case of biopsy-confirmed mesalazine-induced interstitial nephritis in an 18-year-old male with ulcerative colitis. His renal function improved with drug discontinuation and corticosteroid treatment. An English literature review revealed an additional 22 cases of this complication that, taken together, showed (1) a male predominance, (2) an absence of specific symptoms or findings on urinalysis, (3) a 61% frequency of residual chronic renal insufficiency with 13% of patients developing end-stage renal disease, and (4) an apparent favorable response to steroid therapy. We conclude that patients receiving 5-aminosalicylates should be routinely monitored with serum creatinine measurements to prevent this uncommon but potentially serious adverse drug reaction.
We measured concentrations of cocaine and its major metabolites (benzoylecgonine, ecgonine methylester, norcocaine, and cocaethylene) in 15 autopsied brain regions of 14 human chronic cocaine users. Only slight differences were observed in concentrations of cocaine and its metabolites amongst the examined brain areas. Although it is likely that some postmortem redistribution of the drug must have occurred, our data are consistent with the possibility that behaviorally relevant doses of cocaine are widely distributed throughout the brain of humans who use the drug on a chronic basis. Consideration should therefore be given to the possible pharmacological and toxicological actions of cocaine in both striatal and extra-striatal brain areas in human users of the drug.
Edaravone (MCI-186) is a potent free radical scavenger used clinically to treat acute brain infarction. Its antioxidant ability maybe also do favor to protect against lung injury. In this study, we evaluated whether edaravone could protect against lung injury and pulmonary fibrosis in paraquat-treated rats. Rats were divided into four groups (Control group, Edaravone group, Paraquat intoxication group and Paraquat+Edaravone group) and sacrificed on day 1, 3, 5, 7, 14 and 28. Lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were collected and analyzed biochemically and histologically. Paraquat intoxication significantly increased malondialdehyde (MDA), hydroproline, interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) levels in lung tissue and BALF, and also increased mRNA expression of transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) in lung tissue, but decreased SOD and GSH-PX activity in lung tissue and BALF. Histological examination of paraquat-treated rats showed acute injury with interstitial edema and widespread inflammatory cell infiltration in the alveolar space and septum, as well as fibrosis. After edaravone treatment, levels of MDA, IL-6, TNF-α and hydroproline decreased, but SOD and GSH-PX activity in lung tissue and BALF increased. In addition, the mRNA expression of TGF-β1, MMP-2, and TIMP-1 down-regulated. Histological examination showed that edaravone decreased interstitial edema, inflammatory cell infiltration and prevented the process of pulmonary fibrosis.
Alteration of beta-catenin expression in hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) may play an important role in tumor progression by stimulating cell proliferation. We have previously reported that auraptene (AUR), an antioxidant agent isolated from citrus fruit, effectively inhibits chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats. In this study, we investigated the molecular mechanism of the inhibitory effects of dietary supplementation with AUR on N,N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-initiated hepatocarcinogenesis. Male F344 rats initiated with DEN were fed the AUR-containing diet during either the initiation stage (initiation feeding for 7 weeks) or post-initiation phase (post-initiation feeding for 25 weeks) of hepatocarcinogenesis. Liver tumors >5 mm in diameter were used for the analysis of beta-catenin gene mutation and beta-catenin protein expression. After PCR amplification of exon 2 of the beta-catenin gene, the products were sequenced directly. Mutations in the beta-catenin gene were detected in 8 of 24 HCCs (33.3%) in the DEN alone group, 7 of 15 HCCs (46.7%) in the DEN + AUR (initiation feeding) group, and 0 of 8 HCCs (0%) in the DENright curved arrow AUR (post-initiation feeding) group. No mutations of beta-catenin gene were detected in liver cell adenomas of any group. These results demonstrate that AUR exposure in post-initiation period suppresses the occurrence of HCCs with beta-catenin mutation, presumably by negative selection for neoplastic cells harboring the mutation.
To develop an effective long-acting antidiabetic, the GLP-1 analogue of exendin-4 was modified with three different bile acids (BAs; cholic, deoxycholic, or lithocholic acid), at its two lysine residues. The biological, pharmaceutical, and physicochemical characteristics of these exendin-4 analogues were carefully investigated. Biological activity tests demonstrated that the monobile acid substitutions of exendin-4 showed well preserved receptor binding efficacy without noticeable insulinotropic or antidiabetic activity loss. However, physicochemical and pharmacokinetic studies revealed that the albumin-binding properties and in vivo elimination half-lives of BAM1-Ex4s (Lys(27)-BA-Ex4s) were significantly enhanced by increasing the hydrophobicities of the conjugated BAs. Furthermore, the protracted antidiabetic effects of the BAM1-Ex4s were also verified by the prolonged restoration of normoglycemia in type 2 diabetic mice. Accordingly, the present study suggests that the derivatization of exendin-4 with BAs offers a means of producing long-acting GLP-1 receptor agonists for type 2 diabetic therapy.
It has been suspected that the increased sympathetic activity seen in patients with chronic congestive heart failure from dilated cardiomyopathy may be harmful. We therefore tested the long-term effect of metoprolol on eight patients in a double-blind, randomized protocol and 12 patients in an unblinded, crossover protocol who were treated for 12 months (range 10 to 24), and compared them with 16 similar subjects who were treated with placebo for 10 months (range 6 to 12) in a double-blind, randomized protocol. Patients were followed by serial clinical assessment, treadmill testing, radionuclide ventriculography, and echocardiography. Metoprolol-treated patients had an improvement in mean exercise capacity by 3 mets (p less than .0001) while experiencing a significant improvement in functional classification (p less than .001) during both the double-blind and open-label crossover studies and had an improved ejection fraction during the double-blind study (p less than .02). These improvements were not seen in matched control subjects receiving placebo. Seven of 20 patients receiving long-term metoprolol therapy had resolution of nearly all symptoms of heart failure, doubled their exercise capacity, and had progressive improvement in resting radionuclide left ventricular ejection fraction (12.6 +/- 3% to 26.9 +/- 6%) and echocardiographic left ventricular end-diastolic dimension (7.7 +/- 0.5 to 6.5 +/- 0.5 cm). Only one of 21 patients treated was intolerant of metoprolol. We conclude that metoprolol can be given safely to a select group of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy in doses that substantially reduce both resting and exercise heart rates. Long-term beta-blockade improved functional class and exercise capacity in 14 of 20 patients while producing an exceptional clinical response in seven that was accompanied by improved resting parameters of left ventricular function.
Dopamine agonists (DAs), which can be categorized as ergot derived and non-ergot derived, are used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
This review describes the pharmacologic and pharmacokinetic properties of selected DAs and relates these characteristics to clinical outcomes, with an emphasis on adverse events.
Relevant articles were identified through a search of MEDLINE (to May 2006) using the terms dopamine agonists (or each individual drug name) and pbarmacokinetics, metabolism, drug-drug interaction, interactions, CYP450, fibrosis, valvular heart disease, tremor, clinical trials, reviews, and meta-analyses. Abstracts from recent sessions of the International Congress of Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders were also examined. Clinical studies with <20 patients overall or <10 patients per treatment group in the final analysis were excluded. All DAs that were graded at least possibly useful with respect to at least 3 of 4 items connected to the treatment/prevention of motor symptoms/complications in the most recent evidence-based medical review update were included. This resulted in a focus on the ergot-derived DAs bromocriptine, cabergoline, and pergolide, and the non-ergot-derived DAs pramipexole and ropinirole.
Bromocriptine, cabergoline, pergolide, and ropinirole, but not pramipexole, have the potential for drug-drug interactions mediated by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme system. The occurrence of dyskinesia may be linked to stimulation of the dopamine D(1) receptor, for which cabergoline and pergolide have a similar and relatively high affinity; bromocriptine, pramipexole, and ropinirole have been associated with a lower risk of dyskinesias. The valvular heart disease (VHD) and pulmonary and retroperitoneal fibrosis seen with long-term use appear to represent a class effect of the ergot-derived DAs that may be related to stimulation of serotonin 5-HT(2B) (and possibly 5-HT(2A)) receptors. The incidence of valvular regurgitation was 31% to 47% with ergot-derived DAs, 10% with non-ergot-derived DAs, and 13% with controls.
As reflected in the results of the clinical trials included in this review, dyskinesia associated with DA therapy may be linked to stimulation of the D(1) receptor. Fibrosis (including VHD) seemed to be a class effect of the ergot-derived DAs. Each of the DAs except pramipexole has the potential to interact with other drugs via the CYP enzyme system.
In research towards the development of new atypical antipsychotic agents, one strategy is that the dopaminergic system can be modulated through manipulation of the serotonergic system. The synthesis and preliminary pharmacological evaluation of a series of potential atypical antipsychotic agents based on the structure of 1-(1,2-dihydro-2-acenaphthylenyl)piperazine (7) is described. Compound 7e, 5-{2-[4-(1,2-dihydro-2-acenaphthylenyl)piperazinyl]ethyl}-2,3-dihy dro-1H- indol-2-one, from this series showed significant affinities at the 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors and moderate affinity at the D2 receptor. 7e exhibits a high reversal of catalepsy induced by haloperidol indicating its atypical antipsychotic nature.
Turmeric is a well recognized and highly recommended herb in ayurvedic systems of medicine and it has also been used for culinary purposes for thousands of years. Bis-O-demethylatedcurcumin (BDMC) was found to be more efficacious than curcumin and the increased potentcy was attributed to a higher number of phenolic groups in BDMC. A novel demethylatedcurcuminoid composition (DC) comprising minimum 95% of total demethylatedcurcuminoids (67.8% bisdemethylcurcumin, 20.7% demethylmonodemethoxycurcumin, 5.86% bisdemethoxycurcumin, 2.58% demethylcurcumin) was prepared (PCT/IN05/00337, dated October 13, 2005) starting from Curcuma longa extract containing 95% total curcuminoids (C95). DC exhibited superior neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory efficacy compared to C95 in a GeneChip study. Based on these interesting findings, this study sought to determine the broad-spectrum safety of DC. Acute oral, acute dermal, primary skin and eye irritation, and dose-dependent 90 day sub-chronic toxicity studies were conducted. The acute oral LD50 of DC was found to be > 5000 mg/kg in female SD rats. No changes in body weight or adverse effects were observed following necropsy. Acute dermal LD50 of DC was found to be > 2000 mg/kg. Based on the data from primary skin irritation test conducted on New Zealand Albino rabbits, DC was classified as minimally irritating. Similarly, primary eye irritation test was conducted with DC on rabbits and based on the test outcome DC was classified as mildly irritating to the eye. A dose-dependent 90-day sub-chronic toxicity study demonstrated no significant changes in selected organ weights and as percentages of body and brain weights. DC supplementation did not cause changes in hepatic DNA fragmentation. Hematology, clinical chemistry, and histopathological evaluations did not show any adverse effects in any of the organs tested. These results demonstrate the broad spectrum safety of DC.
Pain on injection is a recognized adverse event (AE) of propofol administration for the induction of general anesthesia. Preceded by venous occlusion, flurbiprofen axetil, a prodrug of the NSAID flurbiprofen, has been associated with a reduction in pain induced by propofol injection. A review of the literature determined that no published data were available on the influence of age on the requirements for flurbiprofen axetil dose.
This study was undertaken to examine the influence of age on flurbiprofen axetil requirements for the treatment of propofol-induced pain on injection in Japanese adult surgical patients.
This prospective, randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, parallel-group, dose-ranging study was conducted at the Department of Anesthesiology, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan. Young (age 20-40 years) and older (age 60-80 years) Japanese patients scheduled for various types of surgery (eg, cholecystectomy) were eligible. Patients were randomized to receive flurbiprofen axetil at 1 of 2 doses (25 or 50 mg, regardless of body weight) or inactive vehicle (saline), preceded by manual venous occlusion with a rubber tourniquet for 2 minutes and followed by the infusion of the first 25% of calculated propofol dose (0.5 mg/kg at room temperature, 23 degrees C) into the largest dorsal vein of the hand through a 20-G IV cannula (without local anesthesia), followed by the release of the occlusion and delivery of propofol 2 mg/kg. An investigator blinded to treatment questioned each patient about pain intensity during propofol injection which was assessed using a verbal rating scale: 0 = none; 1 = mild; 2 = moderate; and 3 = severe. The overall prevalence of pain was calculated in each group. AEs at the injection site (pain, edema, wheal, inflammation) were assessed by the study investigator for 24 hours after surgery using spontaneous reporting and patient interview.
A total of 150 patients, 75 young adults (38 men, 37 women; mean [SD] age, 31 [5] years; mean [SD] height, 163 [7] cm; mean [SD] body weight, 58 [9] kg) and 75 older adults (38 men, 37 women; mean [SD] age, 70 [6] years; mean [SD] height, 154 [8] cm; mean [SD] body weight, 53 [10] kg), were enrolled. Each treatment group comprised 25 patients. No differences in demographic characteristics were observed among the 3 study groups. In young patients, the overall prevalence of propofol-induced pain was significantly lower in patients who received flurbiprofen axetil 50 mg (12 [48%]) compared with that in patients who received flurbiprofen axetil 25 mg (20 [80%]) or vehicle (22 [88%]) (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively). The median pain intensity score was significantly lower in patients who received flurbiprofen axetil 50 mg (0) compared with that in patients who received flurbiprofen axetil 25 mg (1) or vehicle (2) (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively). In older patients, the overall prevalences of pain on propofol injection were 9 (36%) in the flurbiprofen axetil 50-mg group and 11 (44%) in the flurbiprofen axetil 25-mg group compared with 21 (84%) in the vehicle group (both, P < 0.01). The median pain score was significantly lower in patients who received flurbiprofen 50 mg (0) or 25 mg (0) than in those who received vehicle (1) (both, P < 0.01). All treatments were well tolerated.
In this small clinical trial in Japanese surgical patients undergoing general anesthesia, flurbiprofen axetil requirements for the reduction of pain during injection of propofol were found to be 50 mg in young adults (age 20-40 years) and 25 or 50 mg in older adults (age 60-80 years), regardless of weight, preceded by venous occlusion for 2 minutes.
The tape recorded EEGs of 127 patients anesthetized with large doses of opioids were retrospectively analyzed for evidence of opioid-induced seizures, and in particular, correlated with movements that occurred during induction and could be clinically interpreted as seizures. Bilateral EEG leads in patients receiving fentanyl (20), sufentanil (20), or alfentanil (87) were recorded. Forty-six of these patients from all opioid groups manifested intense rigidity, as assessed both clinically and by EMGs recorded from eight muscles in 69 of the patients receiving alfentanil. This intense rigidity often resembled seizures, in that the phenomenon entailed severe stiffness of both limbs and trunk, with an explosive onset of myoclonic limb movements, and associated vertical nystagmus. Electroencephalographic observations were extensive, entailing 69 h of paper recordings played back from the tapes, at paper speeds of 30 or 60 mm/s, with detailed annotations from the voice track. These paper recordings were examined in detail independently by three of the investigators, who were unaware of the clinical phenomena that had occurred. The only observed EEG activity that could have been interpreted as epileptiform consisted of small sharp waves related to muscle activity or other artifact. The EEG never indicated seizure activity during these drug-induced movements and rigidity. Reports of opioid-induced seizures are reviewed and a set of criteria is offered to help achieve future consistency and credibility in evaluating this phenomenon. The available evidence does not support the existence of opioid-induced seizures in the clinical setting.
The efficacies of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), phenylethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC), and 1-O-hexyl-2,3,5-trimethylhydroquinone (HTHQ) at preventing the neurotoxicity and testicular toxicity of acrylamide (ACR) were investigated in rats. To this end, Sprague-Dawley males were given 0.02% ACR in drinking water, with or without 1% NAC, 0.5% PEITC or 0.1% HTHQ in the diet for four weeks. A group of untreated controls was also included in the study. All ACR-treated animals exhibited progressive neurotoxicity as judged by gait scores, and among the chemicals co-administered, only HTHQ caused any suppression by the end of the experiment, and this was slight. The severity of the neurotoxicity, as judged by axonal degeneration in the spinal gracile fasciculus and sciatic nerve (distal portion) and aberrant dot-like synaptophysin immunoreactivity, reflecting nerve terminal degeneration in the cerebellar molecular layer, was not clearly reduced by co-administration of HTHQ, NAC or PEITC either. ACR-induced sciatic nerve axon atrophy was marginally and non-significantly reduced by HTHQ. In contrast, in terms of ACR-induced testicular toxicity, exfoliation of spermatids into seminiferous lumen was clearly reduced by co-administered PEITC and was marginally reduced by co-administered HTHQ. These antioxidative agents may therefore reduce/prevent ACR-induced toxicity, at least in the testes.
Although there are ample data on the respiratory effects of exposure to fire extinguisher gas, the potential hematologic effects have not been fully documented. We conducted this study to determine the possible etiologic agent(s) for a decrease in red blood cells among community residents in Taipei, Taiwan, after they were exposed to leakage of mixed fire extinguishants containing bromotrifluoromethane (CF3Br, Halon 1301), bromochlorodifluoromethane (CF2BrCl, Halon 1211), and dichlorodifluoromethane (CCl2F2, CFC-12).
We studied 117 exposed residents who came into one hospital for physical examinations. We also selected age- and sex-matched referents for comparison from residents who came to the same hospital for health examinations. Nine months after the exposure to mixed fire extinguishants, 91 of the exposed residents came back for a second physical examination. In the first examination of the exposed residents, we found a significant reduction in red blood cell count and hemoglobin and a relationship between dose and response.
After excluding iron-deficiency anemia, thalassemia, and other possible agents, we suspected that the hematologic effects might have resulted from pyrolytic products of CFC-12 and Halon 1211, which may contain phosgene, among other products.
The acute transient hematologic effects observed in the exposed residents were associated with the incident of leakage of mixed fire-extinguisher gases and were most likely caused by a small amount of pyrolytic products, probably phosgene. Nine months after the exposure, we found a significant improvement in the abnormalities without any specific treatment.
In vitro studies have provided evidence for the existence of M cells. The present study examines the contribution of the M cell to transmural dispersion of repolarization (TDR) and to the development of torsades de pointes (TdP) in the canine heart in vivo in animals anesthetized with either pentobarbital or halothane.
Monophasic action potentials (MAPs) were recorded from 4 to 7 transmural sites, before and after d-sotalol. Cells displaying the longest MAP duration (MAPD) generally were localized to the deep subendocardium to mid-myocardium (M region) in the anterior wall of the left ventricle. d-Sotalol preferentially prolonged the MAPD of the M region, increasing TDR significantly more (P < 0.05) in animals anesthetized with halothane (31+/-5 to 88+/-17 msec) than in those receiving pentobarbital (24+/-9 to 53+/-7 msec; basic cycle length 1,500 msec). In halothane-anesthetized dogs, a remarkable transient increase in M cell MAPD followed interpolation of one or more extrasystole(s), leading to a transient increase in TDR and TdP. TdP was never observed with pentobarbital anesthesia.
Our results demonstrate that transmural heterogeneity of repolarization is amplified under acquired long QT conditions and that the increase in TDR underlies the development of TdP in halothane- but not pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs. The data support an important contribution of M cells to TDR and to the development of TdP in the canine heart in vivo. Our data also highlight the importance of acceleration-induced prolongation of MAPD (a phenomena observed principally in M cells) in the development of TdP.
The hemodynamic interaction between tadalafil (5 mg/d) and doxazosin or tamsulosin was investigated in 2 randomized, double-blind, crossover phase 1 studies. Healthy men (n = 45) received tadalafil or placebo for 28 days and increasing doses of doxazosin (1, 2, and 4 mg/d) for the last 21 days of treatment. In the second study, participants (n = 39) received tadalafil or placebo for 14 days and tamsulosin (0.4 mg/d) for the last 7 days of treatment. Similar mean maximum postbaseline changes in standing systolic blood pressure were observed in subjects given tadalafil or placebo with 4 mg of doxazosin (-0.5 mm Hg; 95% confidence interval, -4 to 3.1 mm Hg) or with tamsulosin (0.9 mm Hg; 95% confidence interval, -1.4 to 3.2 mm Hg). Standing systolic blood pressure less than 85 mm Hg (blood pressure outlier) occurred in 1 subject treated with 4 mg of doxazosin plus tadalafil but was not reported in subjects treated with tamsulosin and tadalafil. Three subjects experienced moderate hypotensive events lasting less than 2 hours, 2 with syncope (after tadalafil alone or with 4 mg of doxazosin) and 1 without (after 4 mg of doxazosin with placebo). The incidence of hypotension was low in healthy men given increasing doses of doxazosin with chronically dosed tadalafil or placebo. Administration of tadalafil with tamsulosin was well tolerated in healthy men.
We describe a syndrome of thrombocytopenia, bleeding episodes, congenital heart disease and facial dysmorphism in a newborn infant, and trace the cause to mutations on chromosome 22 that involve the gene for platelet glycoprotein Ib beta (GPIb beta, Human Genome Organisation gene symbol GPIBB), a critical component of the von Willebrand factor (vWF) receptor. Fluorescence in situ hybridization in transformed lymphoblasts revealed hemizygous microdeletion of 22q11.2 containing the GP1BB locus. DNA sequencing revealed a C to T transition in the patient's remaining GP1BB allele, predicting a novel proline to serine substitution (Pro96Ser) in the carboxyterminal flanking domain of a leucine-rich repeat. We characterized the mutant GP1BB allele by expression in a cell line (CHO alpha IX) that stably expresses two other components of the vWF receptor, GPIb alpha and GPIX. Flow cytometry and confocal imaging of transfected CHO alpha IX cells demonstrated that P96S GPIb beta abrogates surface assembly of the complex, consistent with platelet flow cytometry studies in the patient. Based on sequence homology to the known crystal structures of two other leucine-rich repeat proteins, the human Nogo receptor and GPIb alpha, we propose a new structural model of GPIb beta. The model refutes earlier assumptions about cysteine-cysteine interactions in the amino-terminal region of GPIb beta, and predicts a hydrophobic patch the burial of which may contribute to proper conformation of the fully assembled vWF receptor complex.
One of the outcomes positively associated with dioxin exposure in humans is type 2 diabetes.
This study was conducted in order to find the molecular biological evidence for the diabetogenic action of dioxin in adipose samples from Vietnam veterans.
We obtained 313 adipose tissue samples both from Vietnam veterans who were exposed to dioxin (Operation Ranch Hand) and from comparison veterans who served in Southeast Asia with no record of dioxin exposure. We conducted quantitative reverse-transcribed polymerase chain reaction studies on selected marker mRNAs from these samples.
We found the most sensitive and reliable molecular indicator of dioxin-induced diabetes to be the ratio of mRNA of glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) and nuclear transcription factor kappa B (NFkappaB), a marker of inflammation. This ratio showed significant correlations to serum dioxin residues and to fasting glucose among those in the Ranch Hand group and, surprisingly, even in the comparison group, who have low levels of dioxin comparable to the general public. Such a correlation in the comparison group was particularly significant among those with known risk factors such as obesity and family history of diabetes.
These results show that the GLUT4:NFkappaB ratio is a reliable marker for the diabetogenic action of dioxin, particularly at very low exposure levels that are not much higher than those found in the general public, implying a need to address current exposure levels.
The therapeutic effect of combined administration of prokinetics and histamine H2 receptor antagonists (H2RA) in gastroesophageal reflux disease is reported to be superior to that of monotherapy with H2RA alone. In addition to its acid-suppressing effect, the H2RA nizatidine also has a prokinetic action by suppressing acetylcholine esterase. The present multicenter, randomized controlled study was performed to investigate whether nizatidine is superior to famotidine, which does not suppress acetylcholine esterase activity, in maintenance therapy for erosive esophagitis. In addition, the question as to whether the grade of erosive esophagitis affects the non-recurrence rate during the maintenance therapy with H2RA was also investigated.
Seventy-two patients with endoscopically healed erosive esophagitis after 8 weeks of initial treatment with proton pump inhibitors were randomly divided into two groups. Patients in the nizatidine group were treated with 150 mg nizatidine twice a day (b.i.d.), while patients in the famotidine group were treated with 20 mg famotidine b.i.d. for 6 months. At the end of therapy, and at the time when patients complained of symptoms, endoscopic investigations were repeated to find out whether the esophagitis had recurred.
Nizatidine produced a significantly higher non-recurrence rate than famotidine (P = 0.049 in intention-to-treat [ITT] analysis). This difference of remission rate between nizatidine and famotidine was observed mainly in grade B esophagitis (P = 0.016 in ITT analysis).
Nizatidine is a more effective H2RA than famotidine in the maintenance therapy of patients with reflux esophagitis.
Hepatitis B is a serious disease of global significance. In developing countries, hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and its sequelae rank among the public health problems of highest priority. Infants born to mothers who are chronic carriers of HBV are at particularly high risk of acquiring infection and becoming chronic HBV carriers. The efficacy of hepatitis B vaccine alone in preventing the transmission of HBV to infants born to HBV carrier mothers was determined in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Infants received plasma-derived vaccine at birth, 1 month, and 6 months of age. Of 180 infants born to hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive mothers, equal numbers received National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease (NIAID) vaccine, Beijing Institute of Vaccine and Serum (BIVS) vaccine, and placebo. The cumulative seroconversion to the vaccines at 1 year of age was 95% and 75%, respectively. Vaccine efficacy as measured by the prevention of HBsAg-positive events was 88% for the NIAID vaccine and 51% for the BIVS vaccine. Vaccine efficacy was similar among infants born to hepatitis Be antigen-positive mothers. Because of the low efficacy of the BIVS vaccine, an additional group of 28 infants was given vaccine and hepatitis B immune globulin at birth. The resulting efficacy was 83%. The results of this trial indicate that hepatitis B vaccine alone can substantially reduce perinatally acquired HBV infection and the resulting chronic carrier state.
Arsenic has been used successfully in clinical trials for treating acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Although sublethal doses of inorganic arsenic are used, little is known about the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of the high levels of arsenic in APL patients. To fill this important gap, this study describes the speciation of arsenic in urine from four APL patients treated with arsenic. Each patient was injected daily with an arsenite (As(III)) solution that contained 10 mg of As(2)O(3) precursor. Speciation analysis of the patient urine samples collected consecutively for 48 h, encompassing two intravenous injections of arsenic, revealed the presence of monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)), dimethylarsinous acid (DMA(III)), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA(V)), and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V)). The intermediate methyl arsenic metabolites, MMA(III) and DMA(III), were detected in most urine samples from all of the patients when a preservative, diethyldithiocarbomate, was added to the urine samples to stabilize these trivalent arsenic species. The major arsenic species detected in the urine samples from the patients were As(III), MMA(V), and DMA(V), accounting for >95% of the total arsenic excreted. The relative proportions of As(III), As(V), MMA(V), and DMA(V) in urine samples collected 24 h after the injections of As(III) were 27.6 +/- 6.1, 2.8 +/- 2.0, 22.8 +/- 8.1, and 43.7 +/- 13.3%, respectively. The relatively lower fraction of the methylated arsenic species in these APL patients under arsenic treatment as compared with that from the general population exposed to much lower levels of arsenic suggests that the high levels of As(III) inhibit the methylation of arsenic (inhibits the formation of methyl arsenic metabolites). The arsenic species excreted into the urine accounted for 32-65% of the total arsenic injected. These results suggest that other pathways of excretion, such as through the bile, may play an important role in eliminating (removing) arsenic from the human body when challenged by high levels of As(III).
