Herein, we provide evidence on the expression of transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) on human urothelial cancer (UC) cells and its involvement in the apoptosis induced by the selective agonist capsaicin (CPS). We analyzed TRPV1 messenger RNA and protein expression on human UC cell lines demonstrating its progressive decrease in high-grade UC cells. Treatment of RT4 cells with CPS induced cell cycle arrest in G(0)/G(1) phase and apoptosis. These events were associated with rapid co-ordinated transcription of pro-apoptotic genes including Fas/CD95, Bcl-2 and caspase families and ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM)/CHK2/p53 DNA damage response pathway. CPS induced Fas/CD95 upregulation, but more importantly Fas/CD95 ligand independent, TRPV1-dependent death receptor clustering and triggering of both extrinsic and intrinsic mitochondrial-dependent pathways. Moreover, we observed that CPS activates ATM kinase that is involved in Ser15, Ser20 and Ser392 p53 phosphorylation as shown by the use of the specific inhibitor KU55933. Notably, ATM activation was also found to control upregulation of Fas/CD95 expression and its co-clustering with TRPV1 as well as RT4 cell growth and apoptosis. Altogether, we describe a novel connection between ATM DNA damage response pathway and Fas/CD95-mediated intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways triggered by TRPV1 stimulation on UC cells.
Two patients developed a sensory neuropathy while under treatment with Metronidazole for Crohn's disease. Recovery took place within a few months after drug withdrawal but was still incomplete in one patient one year after cessation of Metronidazole intake. The incidence of neuropathy appears to be high in long term use of this drug. The morphological study of a sural nerve biopsy showed a severe loss of myelinated fibers (1 800 par mm2). Quantitative teased fibers preparation showed that 56 per cent of the fibers were undergoing wallerian degenerations ; segmental demyelination with subsequent remyelination was found in 4 per cent of the fibers and seem to be secondary to axonal involvement.
The treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) has been based on the administration of all-trans retinoic acid plus anthracycline chemotherapy, which is very effective as first line therapy; however 25 to 30% of patients will relapse with their disease becoming refractory to conventional therapy. Recently, studies have shown arsenic trioxide to be effective in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia. In this study, we used the human leukemia (HL-60) cell line as a model to evaluate the cytoxicity of arsenic trioxide based on the MTT assay. Data obtained from this assay indicated that arsenic trioxide significantly reduced the viability of HL-60 cells, showing LD50 values of 14.26 + 0.5microg/mL, 12.54 + 0.3microg/mL, and 6.4 + 0.6microg/mL upon 6, 12, and 24 hours of exposure, respectively; indicating a dose- and time-dependent response relationship. Findings from the present study indicate that arsenic trioxide is highly cytotoxic to human leukemia (HL-60) cells, supporting its use as an effective therapeutic agent in the management of acute promyelocytic leukemia.
A case of non-oliguric acute interstitial nephritis during treatment with ampicillin, benzylpenicillin and cephalothin is reported. There were symptoms of drug hypersensitivity, including fever, exanthema, eosinophilia and elevated serum IgE. Renal biopsy showed marked interstitial edema and infiltration with numerous eosinophils, some mononuclear cells and giant cells, and scattered tubular damage, but normal glomeruli and vessels. There was no pathological deposition of immunoglobulins or complement in the renal tissue. Renal function recovered after withdrawal of antibiotics and treatment with steroids. The findings suggest a drug-induced, hypersensitivity-mediated pathogenesis of the renal lesions, with participation of both humoral and cell-mediated immunological reactions.
CYP2E1 metabolizes many low-molecular weight toxins and carcinogens. Some in vitro experiments suggest that CYP2E1 may be involved in the metabolic activation of diethylnitrosamine. However, there has been no direct evidence demonstrating a role for CYP2E1 in diethylnitrosamine-mediated carcinogenesis in vivo. To clarify this, we carried out a diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis experiment using Cyp2e1-null mice. Male 14-day-old wild-type and Cyp2e1-null mice were treated with diethylnitrosamine (10 mg/kg of body weight) and killed at weeks 24 and 36 after diethylnitrosamine treatment for investigation of tumors and at 6, 24, and 48 h for examination of apoptosis and gene expression. Liver weights of Cyp2e1-null mice were significantly different at weeks 24 and 36 compared with wild-type mice (P < 0.01). Liver tumor incidences of Cyp2e1-null mice were significantly decreased at weeks 24 and 36 compared with wild-type mice (P < 0.01). Cyp2e1-null mice showed significant decrease in the multiplicities of hepatocellular adenoma at weeks 24 and 36 (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively), and of hepatocellular carcinoma at week 36 (P < 0.01) compared with wild-type mice. Apoptotic index and caspase-3 and/or Bax mRNA expression of Cyp2e1-null mice were significantly different at 6, 24, and 48 h after diethylnitrosamine treatment compared with wild-type mice (P < 0.05). We conclude that Cyp2e1-null mice show lower tumor incidence and multiplicity compared with wild-type mice in diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. It is suggested that CYP2E1 completely participates in diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, and high frequency of tumors in wild-type mice could be associated with the increased apoptosis.
Resveratrol, a natural phenolic compound found in red grapes and wine, exists as cis and trans isomers. Recent studies have shown that trans-resveratrol possesses anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, anti-carcinogenic, anti-tumor and immunomodulatory properties. However, it remains unclear whether cis-resveratrol may exhibit similar activities. The objective of the present study was to examine the effects of cis- and trans-resveratrol on the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and mediators in human macrophages. We examined the possibility that cis- and trans-resveratrol may affect cytokine secretion by modulating inflammasomes, intracellular multi-protein complexes, the assembly of which leads to caspase-1 activation and secretion of active IL-1β by macrophages. Our results show that pre-treatment of macrophages with cis-resveratrol not only reduces pro-IL-1β production and IL-1β secretion, but also suppresses ATP-induced transcription and activation of caspase-1 and caspase-4. Notably, cis-resveratrol inhibits the expression of the purinergic receptor, P2X(7)R, and the endoplasmic reticulum stress marker, Glc-regulated protein 78, but also reduces reactive oxygen species production. Moreover, cis-resveratrol attenuates cyclooxygenase-2 expression and prostaglandin E2 production. cis-Resveratrol also decreases the phosphorylation of p38 MAPK and expression of the c-Jun protein. These results indicate that cis-resveratrol produces anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting both the canonical and non-canonical inflammasomes, and associated pathways in human macrophages.
Because hyperammonemia is thought to contribute to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy, we examined the effects of ammonia on ATP levels, neuronal morphology, and synaptic function in rat hippocampal slices. Although ammonia did not alter ATP levels supported by 10 mM glucose, ammonia significantly depressed ATP levels in the presence of 3.3 mM glucose or 10 mM pyruvate, suggesting effects on respiratory energy metabolism. Ammonia also impaired synaptic function and neuronal integrity sustained by pyruvate. In 10 mM glucose, ammonia inhibited the induction and maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP) in a concentration-dependent fashion. These inhibitory effects of ammonia were overcome by L-carnitine. DL-APV, an antagonist of NMDA receptors, also diminished the effects of ammonia on ATP levels and LTP induction, indicating that ammonia impairs neuronal function via altered metabolism and untimely NMDA receptor activation. These results suggest that L-carnitine and NMDA receptor antagonists have the potential to preserve neuronal function during hyperammonemia.
Erectile function is testosterone dependent. For example, interference with either the levels or receptor binding of this steroid hormone may induce erectile dysfunction. Several environmental contaminants can interfere with the actions of endogenous hormones and have been termed 'endocrine disrupters.' p,p-DDE, a prominent and persistent metabolite of the insecticide DDT, has been shown to be an androgen receptor antagonist. The objective was to determine whether endocrine disrupters, as exemplified by p,p-DDE, are factors in the etiology of erectile dysfunction.
Using the established rat model of apomorphine-induced (80 microg./kg, s.c.) erections we assessed the dose-response effects of p,p-DDE in comparison to the known androgen receptor antagonist flutamide in acute (0.5 to 12 hours) and short-term (up to 8 weeks) experiments in both intact (Study 1) and castrated (Study 2) rats. As a follow up (Study 3), castrated rats treated with p,p-DDE were given increasing doses of testosterone (0.48 to 2.4 mg./kg., i.p.), eight weeks after p,p-DDE administration, to assess reversibility of p,p-DDE effect.
A single dose of flutamide (50 mg./kg., i.p.) was found to significantly decrease apomorphine-induced erections to less than 50% over 12 hours following flutamide administration with recovery of erectile response within 48 hours. In comparison, a single dose of p,p-DDE (500 mg./kg., i.p.) decreased apomorphine-induced erections for at least two weeks (1.15+/-0.3 versus 2.5+/-1.1). Castration significantly decreased apomorphine-induced erections to approximately 0.5 erections/30 minutes. Flutamide (50 mg./kg.; i.p.) or p,p-DDE (50 mg./kg.; i.p.) did not further suppress the apomorphine erections in castrated rats. Testosterone supplementation (480 microg./kg; s.c.) in vehicle treated castrated rats recovered erectile response to pre-castrated levels, whereas p,p-DDE treated castrated rats required 4 times the dose of testosterone (2 mg./kg.; s.c.) given to vehicle treated rats to recover erections.
The endocrine disrupter p,p-DDE can markedly interfere with erectile function and demonstrates persistence after a single dose. This supports our novel concept that environmental hormones may cause erectile dysfunction.
This article constructs an economic model to estimate cost of chest-pain-related care in migraine patients receiving almotriptan 12.5 mg compared with those receiving sumatriptan 50 mg.
This population-based, retrospective cohort study used data from the MEDSTAT Marketscan database (Ann Arbor, Michigan) to quantify incidence and costs of chest-pain-related diagnoses and procedures. After a 6-month exclusion period, the study used a pre-post design, with baseline and treatment periods defined, respectively, as 5 months before and after receiving sumatriptan therapy. An economic model was constructed to estimate annual cost savings per 1,000 patients receiving almotriptan instead of sumatriptan as a function of differing rates of chest pain. Annual direct medical cost avoided was calculated for a hypothetical health plan covering 1 million lives.
Among a cohort of 1,390 patients, the incidence of chest-pain-related diagnoses increased significantly (43.6%) with sumatriptan, from 110 during the baseline period to 158 during the treatment period (P= .003). Aggregate costs for chest-pain-related diagnoses and procedures increased 33.1%, from $22,713 to $30,234. Payments for inpatient hospital services rose 10-fold; costs for primary care visits and outpatient hospital visits rose 53.1% and 14.4%, respectively. Payments for angiography increased from $0 to $462, and costs for chest radiographs and electrocardiograms increased 58.7% and 31.2%, respectively. Sumatriptan treatment was associated with a 3-fold increase in payments for services for painful respiration and other chest pain. The model predicted $11,215 in direct medical cost savings annually per 1000 patients treated with almotriptan instead of sumatriptan. Annual direct medical costs avoided for the health plan totaled $195,913.
Using almotriptan instead of sumatriptan will likely reduce the cost of chest-pain-related care for patients with migraine headaches.
Antiandrogens are initially effective in controlling prostate cancer (CaP), the second most common cancer in men, but resistance, associated with the loss of androgen-regulated cell cycle control, is a major problem. At present there is no effective treatment for androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC). Cellular proliferation is driven by cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) with kinase inhibitors (for example, p27) applying the breaks. We present the first investigation of the therapeutic potential of CDK inhibitors, using the guanine-based CDK inhibitor NU2058 (CDK2 IC(50)=17 microM, CDK1 IC(50)=26 microM), in comparison with the antiandrogen bicalutamide (Casodex) in AIPC cells. A panel of AIPC cells was found to be resistant to Casodex-induced growth inhibition, but with the exception of PC3 (GI(50)=38 microM) and CWR22Rv1 (GI(50)=46 microM) showed similar sensitivity to NU2058 (GI(50)=10-17 microM) compared to androgen-sensitive LNCaP cells (GI(50)=15 microM). In LNCaP cells and their Casodex-resistant derivative, LNCaP-cdxR, growth inhibition by NU2058 was accompanied by a concentration-dependent increase in p27 levels, reduced CDK2 activity and pRb phosphorylation, a decrease in early gene expression and G1 cell cycle phase arrest in both cell lines. In response to Casodex, there were similar observations in LNCaP cells (GI(50)=6+/-3 microM Casodex) but not in LNCaP-cdxR cells (GI(50)=24+/-5 microM Casodex).
This phase 1/2 study is the first prospective evaluation of lenalidomide-bortezomib-dexamethasone in front-line myeloma. Patients (N = 66) received 3-week cycles (n = 8) of bortezomib 1.0 or 1.3 mg/m(2) (days 1, 4, 8, 11), lenalidomide 15 to 25 mg (days 1-14), and dexamethasone 40 or 20 mg (days 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12). Responding patients proceeded to maintenance or transplantation. Phase 2 dosing was determined to be bortezomib 1.3 mg/m(2), lenalidomide 25 mg, and dexamethasone 20 mg. Most common toxicities included sensory neuropathy (80%) and fatigue (64%), with only 27%/2% and 32%/3% grade 2/3, respectively. In addition, 32% reported neuropathic pain (11%/3%, grade 2/3). Grade 3/4 hematologic toxicities included lymphopenia (14%), neutropenia (9%), and thrombocytopenia (6%). Thrombosis was rare (6% overall), and no treatment-related mortality was observed. Rate of partial response was 100% in both the phase 2 population and overall, with 74% and 67% each achieving very good partial response or better. Twenty-eight patients (42%) proceeded to undergo transplantation. With median follow-up of 21 months, estimated 18-month progression-free and overall survival for the combination treatment with/without transplantation were 75% and 97%, respectively. Lenalidomide-bortezomib-dexamethasone demonstrates favorable tolerability and is highly effective in the treatment of newly diagnosed myeloma. This study is registered at http://clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00378105.
While 1,25 dihydroxycholecalciferol (calcitriol) is best recognized for its effects on bone and mineral metabolism, epidemiological data indicate that low vitamin D levels may play a role in the genesis and progression of breast, lung, colorectal and prostate cancer, as well as malignant lymphoma and melanoma. Calcitriol has strong antiproliferative effects in prostate, breast, colorectal, head/neck and lung cancer, as well as lymphoma, leukemia and myeloma model systems. Antiproliferative effects are seen in vitro and in vivo. The mechanisms of these effects are associated with G0/G1 arrest, induction of apoptosis, differentiation and modulation of growth factor-mediated signaling in tumor cells. In addition to the direct effects on tumor cells, recent data strongly support the hypothesis that the stromal effects of vitamin D analogs (e.g., direct effects on tumor vasculature) are also important in the antiproliferative effects. Antitumor effects are seen in a wide variety of tumor types and there are few data to suggest that vitamin D-based approaches are more effective in any one tumor type. Glucocorticoids potentiate the antitumor effect of calcitriol and decrease calcitriol-induced hypercalcemia. In addition, calcitriol potentiates the antitumor effects of many cytotoxic agents. Preclinical data indicate that maximal antitumor effects are seen with pharmacological doses of calcitriol and that such exposure can be safely achieved in animals using a high dose, intermittent schedule of administration. AUC and C(max) calcitriol concentrations of 32 ng.h/ml and 9.2 ng/ml are associated with striking antitumor effects in a murine squamous cell carcinoma model and there is increasing evidence from clinical trials that such exposures can be safely attained in patients. Another approach to maximizing intra-tumoral exposure to vitamin D analogs is to inhibit their catabolism. The data clearly indicate that agents which inhibit the major vitamin D catabolizing enzyme, CYP24 (24 hydroxylase), potentiate calcitriol killing of prostate tumor cells in vitro and in vivo. Phase I and II trials of calcitriol, either alone or in combination with carboplatin, taxanes or dexamethasone, as well as the non-specific CYP24 inhibitor, ketoconazole, have been initiated in patients with androgen-dependent and -independent prostate cancer and other advanced cancers. The data indicate that high-dose calcitriol is feasible on an intermittent schedule, no dose-limiting toxicity has been encountered, but the optimal dose and schedule remain to be delineated. Clinical responses have been seen with the combination of high-dose calcitriol + dexamethasone in androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC) and, in a large randomized trial in men with AIPC, potentiation of the antitumor effects of docetaxel were seen.
Colchicine is used in the treatment of gouty arthritis, familial Mediterranean fever, amyloidosis, Behcet disease and dermatoses. Myoneuropathy is a rare side-effect reported either with intoxication or in elderly patients with chronic renal insufficiency causing elevated plasma drug levels. We report the first two cases of myoneuropathy in children, both taking appropriate doses of colchicine, and having normal renal function. The myoneuropathic changes were reversible after stopping treatment. The cause of colchicine myoneuropathy is unclear.
In children treated with colchicine, neuromuscular phenomena of unknown aetiology may be related to the drug, even with a lack of intoxication or renal insufficiency.
The mechanisms of lung microvascular complications and pulmonary hypertension known to be associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a debilitating lung disease, are not known. Therefore, we investigated whether bleomycin, the widely used experimental IPF inducer, would be capable of activating phospholipase D (PLD) and generating the bioactive lipid signal-mediator phosphatidic acid (PA) in our established bovine lung microvascular endothelial cell (BLMVEC) model. Our results revealed that bleomycin induced the activation of PLD and generation of PA in a dose-dependent (5, 10, and 100 µg) and time-dependent (2-12 hours) fashion that were significantly attenuated by the PLD-specific inhibitor, 5-fluoro-2-indolyl des-chlorohalopemide (FIPI). PLD activation and PA generation induced by bleomycin (5 µg) were significantly attenuated by the thiol protectant (N-acetyl-L-cysteine), antioxidants, and iron chelators suggesting the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation, and iron therein. Furthermore, our study demonstrated the formation of ROS and loss of glutathione (GSH) in cells following bleomycin treatment, confirming oxidative stress as a key player in the bleomycin-induced PLD activation and PA generation in ECs. More noticeably, PLD activation and PA generation were observed to happen upstream of bleomycin-induced cytotoxicity in BLMVECs, which was protected by FIPI. This was also supported by our current findings that exposure of cells to exogenous PA led to internalization of PA and cytotoxicity in BLMVECs. For the first time, this study revealed novel mechanism of the bleomycin-induced redox-sensitive activation of PLD that led to the generation of PA, which was capable of inducing lung EC cytotoxicity, thus suggesting possible bioactive lipid-signaling mechanism/mechanisms of microvascular disorders encountered in IPF.
We have investigated the action of pimozide in tardive dyskinesia induced by prolonged administration of phenothiazines. Improvement was recorded in a double blind study of 18 patients treated with maximum tolerated dosage (mean 18.8 mg/day) for 6 weeks. There was no deterioration in the therapeutic action of pimozide over this time. Parkinsonism and sedation were the main adverse effects. They were corrected by reduction of the dose of pimozide, but often recurred so that further adjustments of dosage were necessary. Our findings support the view that tardive dyskinesia is produced by a disturbance in the balance of central transmitters such that dopaminergic transmission is increased.
Clomipramine in therapeutic dose was associated with nonpuerperal lactation and an elevated plasma prolactin. Both features resolved within weeks of discontinuing the drug.
To test whether the clinical presentation and prognosis of fenfluramine-induced pulmonary hypertension (PH) differs from primary PH (PPH), we compared the clinical profile and outcome of 10 patients with fenfluramine-induced PH with that of 70 patients with PPH referred to our center over the same time frame and treated identically. Patients with diet pill PH were similar to those with PPH with respect to hemodynamics. However, patients with fenfluramine-induced PH had poorer survival: 1-year survival 50% versus 88%, and 3-year survival 17% versus 60%.
Olanzapine is an atypical antipsychotic that is reported to cause myopathy and raised creatine kinase (CK) levels. The prevalence and severity of acute myopathy after deliberate olanzapine ingestion are unclear. Therefore, we reviewed case notes from 64 consecutive patients admitted to our institution after olanzapine overdose. Overall, serum CK was higher than five times the upper limit of normal in 17% of patients. The prevalence of raised CK values was positively correlated with the stated quantity of olanzapine ingested, suggesting a dose-dependent relationship for acute muscle toxicity. There was an apparent delay of 12 hours or more between olanzapine ingestion and the occurrence of maximum CK. Despite the high prevalence of acute muscle toxicity after olanzapine ingestion, none of the patients developed renal failure.
The efficacy of a rapid detoxification schedule (8 to 10 days) with clonidine or methadone was evaluated in 30 patients addicted to heroin. The dose of study drug was preestablished according to the subject's weight and the amount of opioid consumption, and the total daily dose was reduced by approximately 15% during the study. All subjects completed the detoxification program and stayed in the hospital for at least 12 days. Clonidine and methadone therapies proved to be highly effective. There was a marked reduction in anxiety during opioid detoxification, although subjects' experiences differed according to the drug used. On the day of discharge, subjects who had received methadone still had attenuated withdrawal symptoms, whereas there were no such symptoms in the clonidine group. Muscular aching, flatulence, and daily drowsiness were more common among subjects in the methadone group, while subjects in the clonidine group had more sleep disturbances and weeping. Syncopal episodes and bradycardia occurred more frequently in the clonidine group.
Exposure to even very low levels of lead, cadmium, and mercury ions is known to cause neurological, reproductive, cardiovascular, and developmental disorders, which are more serious problems for children particularly. Accordingly, great efforts have been devoted to the development of fluorescent and colorimetric sensors, which can selectively detect lead, cadmium, and mercury ions. In this critical review, the fluorescent and colorimetric sensors are classified according to their receptors into several categories, including small molecule based sensors, calixarene based chemosensors, BODIPY based chemosensors, polymer based chemosensors, DNA functionalized sensing systems, protein based sensing systems and nanoparticle based sensing systems (197 references).
Three HIV-seropositive patients were diagnosed with urolithiasis related to the use of indinavir. The first patient was a 45-year-old white male with severe haemophilia who presented with fever and flank pain referred to the glans penis. Ultrasound and intravenous pyelography (IVP) revealed a concrement in the left renal pelvis. Discontinuation of indinavir and acidification of the urine did not reduce the stone load. Percutaneous nephrolithotripsy was then performed. The second patient, a 41-year-old white male, presented at the emergency ward with flank pain and fever. Ultrasound examination showed dilatation of the left kidney. A percutaneous nephrostomy catheter was inserted. Antegrade contrast imaging showed a concrement in the proximal ureter. The patient underwent extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. A second antegrade image made a few days later showed no evidence of stone material. The third patient was a 56-year-old white male with a previous history of indinavir-associated urolithiasis. He presented at the emergency ward with flank pain and haematuria. A CT urography showed dilatation of the right kidney and distal portion of the right ureter with no evidence of concrement. The symptoms resolved after a percutaneous nephrostomy catheter was inserted and the antiviral medication was modified. The catheter was removed 2 weeks later. At last follow-up, none ofthe 3 patients had symptoms of urolithiasis. These cases illustrate that, although conservative therapy for indinavir-related urolithiasis can be sufficient, minimally invasive endourological surgery is sometimes necessary.
