The effect of combinations of a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor, temsirolimus, and an estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) antagonist, ERA-923, on breast carcinoma in culture and in a xenograft model has been studied. Phase III trials are underway using temsirolimus for several cancers. ERA-923 was studied in a phase I trial for tamoxifen refractory metastatic breast cancer and was shown to have good safety profiles. Combination of noninhibitory doses of temsirolimus with suboptimal doses of ERA-923 synergistically inhibited the growth of MCF-7 cells. Synergy was found across a wide range of doses and could also be achieved by combining temsirolimus with other antiestrogens such as raloxifene and 4-hydroxytamoxifen. In vivo combination of temsirolimus and ERA-923 at certain doses and schedules completely inhibited tumor growth, while individual agents were only partially effective. Although the mechanism underlying the synergism remains to be understood, the results were associated with the ability of temsirolimus to block the transcriptional activity mediated by ERalpha as well as an increase in G1 arrest when it was combined with ERA-923. Results demonstrated for the first time that the combination of temsirolimus and a pure antiestrogen has excellent anticancer activity in preclinical models and, therefore, may have clinical use in treating hormone-dependent tumors.
About 15-37% of the adult population worldwide suffers from hypertension. Hypertension is responsible for one-third of all global deaths. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is one of the most important characteristics of hypertension target organ damage and is also an independent risk factor for cardiovascular events. Therefore, effective regression of LVH is a main aim of hypertension treatment and also an important public health concern. However, few studies of the regression of LVH have been reported. In particular, little is known about the relationship between the genotypes of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) and chymase (CMA) genes, and the effectiveness of antihypertensive drugs in regression of LVH.
The study investigated whether the insertion/deletion (I/D) polymorphism of ACE gene and the A/B polymorphism of the CMA gene are related to the regression of LVH in essential hypertension patients who were participants in a long-term trial of therapy with benazepril.
Data from 157 patients was collected and used in the analysis. The genotypes of ACE and CMA genes were identified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP). Left ventricular mass (LVM) was measured by echocardiography, and left ventricular mass index (LVMI) was calculated.
Blood pressure was markedly reduced and heart rate was unchanged by long-term treatment with benazepril. Regression of LVH was observed. The mean reduction in LVMI was 41.50+/-28.48 g m-2. Reduction of LVM, LVMI and percentage reduction of LVMI were more in the DD group than in the II and ID groups (P<0.05). No significant difference in other indices was found in the different genotype groups of ACE (P>0.05). No significant difference in all indices was found among the different genotype groups of CMA (P>0.05). No interaction was found between the genotypes of ACE and CMA.
Hypertension patients with the DD genotype are more likely to have regression of LVH when treated with benazepril than patients with other genotypes of ACE. No evidence was found to support an association between CMA genotype and regression of LVH in patients or to support the interaction between the two genes in regression of LVH.
A case of cerebral oedema developed during an apparently common attempted suicide with valpromide is reported. The most conspicuous biochemical abnormality was hyperammonaemia. The oedema proved refractory to the standard medical treatment of intracranial hypertension, and decompressive craniectomy was performed with only minor sequelae. The cerebral oedema cum hyperammonaemia syndrome led to the discovery, in this hitherto asymptomatic adult subject, of a 50 per cent deficiency in type a carbamyl phosphate synthetase liver activity. By completing such a deficiency, valproate may produce an extremely serious syndrome resembling the neonatal encephalopathy due to complete enzyme deficiencies in the urea cycle. All valpromide or valproate intoxications probably are cerebral oedemas with hyperammonaemia akin ti Reye's syndrome. All accidents of this type occurring during treatment or poisoning with valproate should be investigated for urea cycle enzyme abnormalities.
Effects of combined exposure to m-xylene and n-butyl alcohol in the conditions of subchronic inhalation experiment in rats were examined. Rats were exposed to vapours of individual solvents at concentrations of 50 and 100 ppm and their 1:1 mixture at concentrations of 50 + 50 ppm and 100 + 100 ppm, 6 h/day, 5 days/week for 3 months. No significant changes in body weight gain, in absolute and relative organ weights and clinical biochemistry parameters were observed. The motor coordination disturbances caused by mixture of m-xylene and n-butyl alcohol at concentrations of 100 + 100 ppm were identical as those caused by n-butyl alcohol at concentration of 100 ppm. Thus, in condition of combined exposure, the toxic effect of m-xylene was not added to the effect of n-butyl alcohol. Significant increase in sensitivity to pain in animals exposed to m-xylene at both concentrations, and parallel lack of changes in the pain sensitivity in animals exposed to n-butyl alcohol and to the solvent mixtures was observed. n-Butyl alcohol provoked the increase of lipid peroxidation in hepatic microsomes without any induction of cytochrome P-450 monooxygenases, m-Xylene did not affect the activity of monooxygenase and lipid peroxidation rate in hepatic microsomes and moreover, in the case of combined exposure it abolished the effect on n-butyl alcohol. Results obtained in condition of acute and subchronic inhalation exposure interpreted jointly, indicate the less than additive toxic effect of combined exposure to m-xylene and n-butyl alcohol.
Rats engrafted with transplantable N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide (FANFT) induced urothelial tumors were treated with purpurin derivatives and red light (greater than 590 nm., 360 joules/cm.2). Treated and control tumors were harvested 12 days after treatment and dry weights compared. At doses of 5.0 micrograms./gm. and 2.5 micrograms./gm. body weight, the purpurins designated NT1 and NT2, when combined with light, caused statistically significant (p less than 0.02) tumor regression when compared to light shielded controls. At 1.0 micrograms./gm. body weight, NT1 and light also induced significant tumor regression (p less than 0.02). Purpurins, which have strong absorption bands above 650 nm. and can be synthesized with a high degree of purity, appear to have potential as photosensitizers for photodynamic therapy.
The present limitations in knowledge of the potential risk factors for PPH undoubtedly are attributable to the facts that PPH is a rare disease with an unknown pathogenesis and lacking large case series. Moreover, definite epidemiologic data are rare and ideally should be obtained from epidemiologic surveys such as large case-control studies. The increased incidence of the disease in young women, the familial cases, the association with autoimmune disorders, and the recent discovery that mutation of the PPH1 gene may not be restricted to familial PPH support the hypothesis that the development of pulmonary hypertension likely implies an individual susceptibility or predisposition, which is probably genetically determined. It is also now commonly believed that the development of pulmonary hypertension in some of these predisposed individuals could be hastened or precipitated by various expression factors (some of them yet unrecognized), such as ingestion of certain drugs or diets, portal hypertension, or HIV infection.
Five cases of contact sensitivity to topical corticosteroids are described. Two of the five patients presented with chronic hand eczema that was nonresponsive to topical steroid therapy. The others had eruptions suggestive of contact dermatitis. One patient was allergic only to amcinonide , while the other reacted to multiple corticosteroids. Two of them were also sensitive to ethylenediamine. The level of sensitivity can be mild or severe, and some with mild patch test responses are allergic to multiple corticosteroids. These patients often have a history of chronic eczema, e.g., stasis dermatitis, and the presenting complaint ranges from a failure to heal to obvious contact dermatitis. Cross-reactions occur not infrequently (based on similarities in the structure of either the corticosteroid or the ester), but these patterns are probably not sufficiently reliable to use clinically without patch test confirmation. The only treatment required is removal from the offending agent(s) and substitution of a product that does not elicit a reaction on patch testing. The findings in ninety-five other case reports are reviewed, and a practical method for patch testing to these agents is presented.
This study introduces a rat model of cocaine abstinence syndrome based on quantitation of spontaneously emitted behaviors following termination of continuous drug exposure (analogous to established methods of assessing morphine and nicotine abstinence). Groups of eight male S-D rats were infused SC for 7 days via an osmotic minipump with saline alone or with 40 or 60 mg/kg/day cocaine HCl. Pumps were removed and rats were observed at 12, 24, 36, and 48 h postremoval. Each 15-min observation employed a checklist of abstinence signs including ptosis, chews, teeth chatters, gasps, writhes, seminal ejaculations, head shakes, and tremors. The high infusion rate group displayed significantly more signs than the low infusion rate group, which in turn, displayed significantly more signs than the saline group. Cocaine injection significantly reduced signs by 83.3%, while saline injection reduced them by only 4.9%. In another experiment, rats infused with 60 mg/kg/day showed significantly more signs 36 h postinfusion than before infusion, during infusion and 84 h postinfusion. Finally, 6.5 days of infusion resulted in significantly more abstinence signs than did 1.5 days of infusion. This rapid and simple model quantitated cocaine abstinence syndrome in a manner that was cocaine-reversible and related to the rate and duration of drug infusion.
Treatments known to alter P-450 activity and glutathione levels were used to elucidate the involvement of P-450 and glutathione S-transferase metabolism in 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane (DBCP) organ toxicity in the rat. Phenobarbital pretreatment abolished DBCP-induced renal necrosis, whereas it had only a small effect on initial renal DNA damage. The DBCP levels in plasma and tissues were markedly reduced by phenobarbital pretreatment. Perdeuterated DBCP had much higher plasma and tissue levels than protio-DBCP in phenobarbital-pretreated animals, but perdeuteration was without effect in uninduced animals. This indicates that P-450 metabolism of DBCP is of major importance only in phenobarbital-pretreated animals. In order to study the effects of decreased glutathione levels on renal distribution and toxicity, rats were pretreated with either diethyl maleate or buthionine sulfoximine. The DBCP levels in plasma and tissues showed transitory elevations after diethyl maleate and buthionine sulfoximine pretreatment compared to the control situation. Despite the fact that diethyl maleate and buthionine sulfoximine pretreatments are known to block DBCP-induced DNA damage in vitro, these pretreatments did not significantly alter DBCP-induced renal necrosis nor DNA damage. Thus, a role for glutathione conjugation in DBCP-induced in vivo renal toxicity could not be established in the present study.
Tetracyclines are a commonly prescribed medication for the treatment of acne vulgaris that are associated with pseudotumor cerebri (PTC). With doxycycline specifically, however, the incidence of PTC is very rare. A patient was using oral doxycycline and topical retinoids for acne, and within two months she developed PTC. This case illustrates that despite the rarity of doxycycline-induced PTC, patients and physicians should be aware of this possibility. Furthermore, in the setting of new-onset headaches or visual changes, early ophthalmologic examination for papilledema is recommended for early diagnosis.
Opioid-induced delayed hyperalgesia and allodynia have been reported in human and animal models. The authors evaluated the influence of different opioids used during clinical anesthesia on nociceptive sensitivity and incisional pain in mice. The role of the inducible nitric oxide synthase on surgical pain and opioid-induced pronociception also was investigated.
CD1 mice were used to study the efficacy of opioids inducing pronociception and enhancing incisional pain. The implication of nitric oxide generated from the inducible nitric oxide synthase was investigated using knockout mice (C57/BL6) for its gene. Mice underwent right hind paw surgery under sevoflurane anesthesia combined with subcutaneous administration of saline or the opioids fentanyl (0.05 mg/kg), alfentanil (1 mg/kg), and remifentanil (0.04 mg/kg). Nociception was evaluated daily for 7 days using paw-pressure, plantar, and von Frey tests.
The antinociceptive effect of opioids was followed by long-lasting thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia (each lasting between 2 and 7 days), but not mechanical hyperalgesia. Intraoperative infusion of opioids significantly enhanced incisional pain in all tests. The most prominent effects were observed with remifentanil. The inducible nitric oxide synthase gene deletion attenuated both remifentanil- and incision-induced pronociceptive effects. In mutant mice for the inducible nitric oxide synthase gene, remifentanil was still efficient in enhancing incisional pain, but the global pronociceptive effect was attenuated significantly as compared with wild-type mice.
The authors' study demonstrates that the intraoperative administration of fentanyl or remifentanil enhances the extent and duration of postoperative pain. The results suggest a role of the nitric oxide systems in the cause of acute postoperative pain and opioid-induced pronociception.
To test the effect of 2,3,5,4'-tetrahydroxystilbene-2-O-beta-D-glucoside (THSG) on doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiotoxicity.
We used neonate rat cardiomyocytes and an acute mouse model of DOX-induced cardiotoxicity to examine the protective effect of THSG.
In the mouse model, administration of THSG significantly reduced DOX-induced cardiotoxicity, including animal mortality, histopathological changes, and levels of serum creatine kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Moreover, THSG was able to attenuate the increased malondialdehyde (MDA) and decreased reduced glutathione (GSH) caused by DOX. In in vitro studies, THSG 10-300 micromol/L ameliorated DOX-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis in a concentration-dependent manner. Further studies showed that THSG inhibited reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and prevented DOX-induced loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, caspase-3 activation and upregulation of Bax protein expression. We observed a protective response against damage after DOX treatment. The level of Bcl-2 protein was increased. Additionally, THSG inhibited a DOX-induced [Ca(2+)] increase.
These results showed that THSG protected against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity by decreasing ROS generation and intracellular [Ca(2+)] and by inhibiting apoptotic signaling pathways.
The pharmacological response to drugs that act on the cholinergic system of the iris has been used to predict deficits in central cholinergic functioning due to diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, yet correlations between central and peripheral responses have not been properly studied. This study assessed the effect of normal aging on (1) the tropicamide-induced increase in pupil diameter, and (2) the reversal of this effect with pilocarpine. Scopolamine was used as a positive control to detect age-dependent changes in central cholinergic functioning in the elderly.
Randomized double-blind controlled trial.
Ten healthy elderly (mean age 70) and 9 young (mean age 33) volunteers.
Pupil diameter was monitored using a computerized infrared pupillometer over 4 hours. The study involved 4 sessions. In 1 session, tropicamide (20 microL, 0.01%) was administered to one eye and placebo to the other. In another session, tropicamide (20 microL, 0.01%) was administered to both eyes, followed 23 minutes later by the application of pilocarpine (20 microL, 0.1%) to one eye and placebo to the other. All eye drops were given in a randomized order. In 2 separate sessions, a single dose of scopolamine (0.5 mg, intravenously) or placebo was administered, and the effects on word recall were measured using the Buschke Selective Reminding Test over 2 hours.
Pupil size at time points after administration of tropicamide and pilocarpine; scopolamine-induced impairment in word recall.
There was no significant difference between elderly and young volunteers in pupillary response to tropicamide at any time point (p > 0.05). The elderly group had a significantly greater pilocarpine-induced net decrease in pupil size 85, 125, 165 and 215 minutes after administration, compared with the young group (p < 0.05). Compared with the young group, the elderly group had greater scopolamine-induced impairment in word recall 60, 90 and 120 minutes after administration (p < 0.05).
There is an age-related pupillary response to pilocarpine that is not found with tropicamide. Thus, pilocarpine may be useful to assess variations in central cholinergic function in elderly patients.
A variety of molecules in human blood have been implicated in the inhibition of HIV-1. However, it remained elusive which circulating natural compounds are most effective in controlling viral replication in vivo. To identify natural HIV-1 inhibitors we screened a comprehensive peptide library generated from human hemofiltrate. The most potent fraction contained a 20-residue peptide, designated VIRUS-INHIBITORY PEPTIDE (VIRIP), corresponding to the C-proximal region of alpha1-antitrypsin, the most abundant circulating serine protease inhibitor. We found that VIRIP inhibits a wide variety of HIV-1 strains including those resistant to current antiretroviral drugs. Further analysis demonstrated that VIRIP blocks HIV-1 entry by interacting with the gp41 fusion peptide and showed that a few amino acid changes increase its antiretroviral potency by two orders of magnitude. Thus, as a highly specific natural inhibitor of the HIV-1 gp41 fusion peptide, VIRIP may lead to the development of another class of antiretroviral drugs.
Pregnant mice were treated with cytosine arabinoside on days 13.5 and 14.5 of pregnancy. Brains of the offspring were studied histologically. The matrix layer of the embryonic brains was extensively destroyed 12 h after the injection of cytosine arabinoside, but regenerated partially on day 17 of gestation. In the cerebral cortex of 1-, 3-, and 5-day-old treated mice, abnormal clusters of young neurons were found on the surface of the developing cerebral cortex. Some clusters still had a supply of immature neurons from the remnants of the regenerated matrix layer. After 20 days, the clusters became gradually indistinct, although some vestigial groups of neurons were observed even after 120 days. In the hippocampus of young mice, the pyramidal cells decreased in number and were disarranged. Heterotopic pyramidal cell masses were found in the stratum radiatum and in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Apical dendrites of pyramidal cells exhibited abnormal arborization. It was demonstrated by 3H-thymidine autoradiography that young neurons in the abnormal clusters in the cerebral cortex were those produced in the matrix layer regenerated after the destructive change by cytosine arabinoside.
Vision deficiencies are dominant symptoms from digitalis intoxication. Twenty-nine and twenty-eight patients have been examined by the Farnsworth-Munsell-100-Hue-test under common maintenance therapy with digitoxin respectively digoxin or beta-acetyldigoxin. This was done to prove how glycosides may create colour vision disturbances even in "therapeutic" glycoside serum concentrations, and in which degree the lipophile digitoxin differs in its effect from the less lipophile digoxin. To exclude any congenital colour vision deficiencies the study was restricted to females. No definite difference in the total error score has been found among patients treated with digitoxin and digoxin. Our results and further new investigations have pointed out that colour vision in digitalized patients is influenced even under common maintenance therapy. It can also be stated that digitoxin does not influence colour vision other than digoxin.
When sleepiness is excessive, undesirable, inappropriate or unexplained, it often indicates a clinical disorder that is generically termed hypersomnia. One of the leading causes of hypersomnia is sleep apnea. We present the case of a 44-year-old woman with a history of bipolar spectrum disorder and epilepsy who initially showed evidence of hypersomnia. The hypersomnia settled with changes to her medication, but the patient was subsequently found to have severe obstructive sleep apnea. The relation between the patient's medication and sleep apnea is discussed, and the possible respiratory-suppressant effects of chronic barbiturate treatment are considered. The role of other evoking factors within the context of this case and the mechanisms by which drug interactions and psychotropic treatment may worsen, obscure or perpetuate sleep apnea are also examined.
The sodium/iodide symporter (NIS) mediates iodide uptake in the thyroid gland and lactating breast. NIS mRNA and protein expression are detected in most thyroid cancer specimens, although functional iodide uptake is usually reduced resulting in the characteristic finding of a 'cold' or non-functioning lesion on a radioiodine image. Iodide uptake after thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) stimulation, however, is sufficient in most differentiated thyroid cancer to utilize beta-emitting radioactive iodide for the treatment of residual and metastatic disease. Elevated serum TSH, achieved by thyroid hormone withdrawal in athyreotic patients or after recombinant human thyrotropin administration, directly stimulates NIS gene expression and/or NIS trafficking to the plasma membrane, increasing radioiodide uptake. Approximately 10-20% differentiated thyroid cancers, however, do not express the NIS gene despite TSH stimulation. These tumors are generally associated with a poor prognosis. Reduced NIS gene expression in thyroid cancer is likely due in part, to impaired trans-activation at the proximal promoter and/or the upstream enhancer. Basal NIS gene expression is detected in about 80% breast cancer specimens, but the fraction with functional iodide transport is relatively low. Lactogenic hormones and various nuclear hormone receptor ligands increase iodide uptake in breast cancer cells in vitro, but TSH has no effect. A wide range of 'differentiation' agents have been utilized to stimulate NIS expression in thyroid and breast cancer using in vitro and in vivo models, and a few have been used in clinical studies. Retinoic acid has been used to stimulate NIS expression in both thyroid and breast cancer. There are similarities and differences in NIS gene regulation and expression in thyroid and breast cancer. The various agents used to enhance NIS expression in thyroid and breast cancer will be reviewed with a focus on the mechanism of action. Agents that promote tumor differentiation, or directly stimulate NIS gene expression, may result in iodine concentration in 'scan-negative' thyroid cancer and some breast cancer.
We report an unusual case of simultaneous transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis and distal ureter without transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder occurring after chronic cyclophosphamide therapy for nonHodgkin's lymphoma. Other upper tract neoplasms after cyclophosphamide are reviewed.
The acute effects on exercise tolerance and electrocardiographic ischaemia of felodipine and diltiazem, alone or in combination, were investigated in 12 patients with documented stable effort-induced angina pectoris. After being withdrawn from their previous antianginal treatments, patients received a single oral dose of felodipine 10 mg, diltiazem 60 mg, their combination or placebo on four different days, according to a double-blind, 4 x 4 latin-square design. Exercise time to ischaemic threshold (ST-segment depression = 1 mm) and to peak exercise was significantly prolonged by the felodipine-diltiazem combination (492 and 504 s, respectively) against placebo (301 and 370 s, both P less than 0.01), felodipine alone (381 and 428 s, both P less than 0.01) and diltiazem alone (367 and 422 s, both P less than 0.01). The effects on total work followed a similar pattern. In comparison with placebo, the administration of felodipine and diltiazem alone significantly increased exercise duration as well as total work to ischaemic threshold and to peak exercise, with no differences between the two drugs. Systolic blood pressure during exercise was not affected by any of the treatments. However, in comparison with both placebo and diltiazem, the combination induced an increase (P less than 0.01) in heart rate during exercise. One patient suffered from symptomatic hypotension with the combination, and another had sinus tachycardia after felodipine. In conclusion, the acute concomitant administration of felodipine and diltiazem in patients with stable effort angina induces a marked improvement in exercise tolerance in comparison with placebo, felodipine alone and diltiazem alone. However, the benefit/risk profile of such a combination requires further, long-term investigation.
Development of agents to overcome multidrug resistance (MDR) is important in cancer chemotherapy, and the overexpression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) is one of the major mechanisms of MDR. In this paper, we evaluated the effects of two new milbemycin compounds, milbemycin β(14) and secomilbemycin D, isolated from fermentation broth of S. bingchenggensis on reversing MDR of adriamycin-resistant human breast carcinoma (MCF-7/adr) cells. We observed that the both milbemycins (5 μM) showed strong potency to increase adriamycin cytotoxicity toward MCF-7/adr cells with reversal fold (RF) of 13.5 and 10.59, respectively. In addition, the mechanisms of milbemycins on reversing P-gp-mediated MDR demonstrated that they significantly increased the accumulations of adriamycin and Rh123 via inhibiting P-gp efflux in MCF-7/adr cells. Furthermore, the results also revealed that milbemycin β(14) and secomilbemycin D could regulate down the expression of P-gp, but not affect the expression of MDR1 gene. In conclusion, our observations suggest that the two new milbemycin compounds probably represent the promising agents for reversing MDR in cancer therapy.
Patients with bulimia nervosa have been reported to respond to treatment with the serotonin uptake inhibitor fluoxetine. In a preliminary study, which had a small sample size, women with bulimia nervosa were reported to have elevated cardiac vagal tone. We investigated cardiac vagal tone in women with bulimia nervosa before and after treatment with fluoxetine. At baseline, resting cardiac vagal tone, deduced from the respiratory component of heart rate variability, was quantified in 41 healthy volunteer women and in 25 women with bulimia nervosa. The bulimic women received in a parallel-group design, double blind, either placebo or fluoxetine 60 mg/24 hr for 8 weeks. All patients participated in behavioral therapy. Resting cardiac vagal tone was measured again at the end of the treatment. Women with bulimia nervosa had higher cardiac vagal tone than age-matched healthy volunteer women. Placebo had no effect on cardiac vagal tone. Fluoxetine reduced cardiac vagal tone among the women with bulimia nervosa to a level similar to the healthy volunteer women. Women with bulimia nervosa have elevated resting cardiac vagal tone. Fluoxetine normalized the elevated resting cardiac vagal tone among the women with bulimia nervosa. At both the central and peripheral levels, vagal neurons are endowed with serotonin-3 receptors. In vitro, fluoxetine desensitizes or blocks serotonin-3 receptors. A controlled trial of serotonin-3 receptor blockers is warranted in bulimia nervosa.
The head-up tilt test has been used for more than 10 years to reproduce vagal lipothymia. The criteria for a positive test and specificity are however still lacking.
Thirty male volunteers, age 18 to 35 years, with no past history of lipothymia nor any signs of hypervagotonicity at physical examination, on fasting blood samples or on exercise tests with sudden interruption and Holter recording were selected for the study. Two head-up tilt tests at 60 degrees for 45 minutes were conducted, one with no presensitivisation and the other with a bolus of isoproterenol (2, 4, 6 and 8 micrograms) starting 30 minutes after the beginning of the test. Blood pressure was measured throughout the test.
The systolic blood pressure curves showed drops of more than 30 mmHg accompanied by spontaneously resolving clinical signs in 6 of the 30 subjects during the non-sensitized tests and in 14 out of 30 during the sensitized tests. A symptomatic drop in systolic blood pressure of more than 30 mmHg compared to the moment before the malaise accompanied by clinical signs which did not resolve within 1 minute and required returning to the supine position occurred in one volunteer during a non-sensibilized test. This same type of reaction was observed in 4 volunteers during sensitized tests, three times after an isoproterenol bolus.
Taking this later manifestation as the criteria for a positive head-up tilt test, the specificity of the non-sensitized and isoproterenol-sensitized tests in the young adult are 96.7 and 86.7% respectively. These findings must be considered with caution since there is no proof that these young men with no past history of hypervagotonicity but a positive head-up tilt test may be one day confronted with a situation generating a vagal reaction.
Mouse and human extracted liver tissue were examined by indirect immunofluorescent staining and transmission electron microscopy in order to study the alteration of cytokeratin intermediate filaments associated with Mallory body formation. Frozen sections of griseofulvin-fed mouse liver and human liver of primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis were extracted by Triton X-100 and nuclease. Indirect immunofluorescent staining was performed by using anticow hoof keratin antibody for mouse liver and anti-human epidermal keratin antibody (AE1 and AE3) for human liver. Transmission electron microscopy was also performed on extracted and critical point-dried samples. The griseofulvin-fed mouse hepatoma cells showed four different types of altered staining pattern based on the indirect immunofluorescent staining of the cytoplasm and Mallory bodies: Type I--cytoplasm(+), Mallory body(-); Type II--cytoplasm(+), Mallory body(+); Type III--cytoplasm(-), Mallory body(+), and Type IV--cytoplasm(-), Mallory body(-). Types I and III were predominant, however, some hepatoma cells which contain Mallory bodies revealed bright cytoplasmic staining (Type II). The nuclear rims were strongly stained. In human liver, AE1 stained Mallory bodies and the bile duct epithelium intensely, but did not stain normal hepatocytes. AE3 mainly stained Mallory bodies and normal hepatocytes, but also stained bile duct epithelium weakly. Indirect immunofluorescent staining for human liver showed the same staining patterns as found in mouse liver, except that Type IV was not observed. Although many hepatocytes which contained Mallory bodies did not react with either of these two antibodies (Type III), some of the hepatocytes were stained, not only with AE3, but also with AE1 (Type II).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This study examined the effects of aspartame (APM) on caries and the Streptococcus sobrinus population. Six groups of rats (20 in each group) colonized with S. sobrinus were fed varying amounts of sucrose (SU) and APM in their diets as follows: 1-0.15% APM, 2-0.30% APM, 3-30% SU, 4-30% SU + 0.15% APM, 5-50% SU and 6-50% + 0.15% APM. Ten from each group were sacrificed at 6 weeks and 10 at 12 weeks. S. sobrinus populations at both intervals were negligible in groups 1 and 2 and had no differences between groups 3, 4, 5 and 6. No caries were found in groups 1 and 2 Animals fed SU plus APM had significantly lower caries than animals fed the same amounts of SU (p = 0.001-0.0002). We conclude that APM is noncariogenic and anticariogenic.
Hydroxychloroquine- or chloroquine -induced cardiomyopathy is a rare but potentially fatal condition. Hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine are often used for long-term treatment of rheumatic diseases and for malaria prophylaxis. Hydroxychloroquine- and chloroquine-induced cardiomyopathy have well-described microscopic features, with the classic electron microscopic findings of myelin figures (myeloid bodies). We report on 2 new cases with novel findings. The first case, in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus, was found to have megamitochondria in addition to myelin figures seen by electron microscopy. The second report describes the first case of hydroxychloroquine cardiomyopathy described in a patient with scleroderma. These novel findings will add to the present knowledge of hydroxychloroquine-induced cardiomyopathy in its pathology and its implication for treatment of rheumatic diseases.
