Arsenic is a human carcinogen with exposure associated with cancer of the lung, skin, and bladder. Many potential mechanisms have been implicated as playing a role in the process of arsenical-induced malignancy including the perturbation of signaling pathways and aberrant epigenetic regulation. We initiated studies to examine the role of a member of the non-canonical WNT signaling pathway, WNT5A, in UROtsa cells and arsenite [URO-ASSC] and monomethylarsonous acid [URO-MSC] malignantly transformed variants. We present data herein that suggest that WNT5A is transcriptionally activated during arsenical-induced malignant transformation. This WNT5A transcriptional activation is correlated with the enrichment of permissive histone modifications and the reduction of repressive modifications in the WNT5A promoter region. The epigenetic activation of WNT5A expression and acetylation of its promoter remain after the removal of the arsenical, consistent with the maintenance of an anchorage independent growth phenotype in these cells. Additionally, treatment with epigenetic modifying drugs supports a functional role for these epigenetic marks in controlling gene expression. Reduction of WNT5A using lentiviral shRNA greatly attenuated the ability of these cells to grow in an anchorage independent fashion. Extension of our model into human bladder cancer cell lines indicates that each of the cell lines examined also express WNT5A. Taken together, these data suggest that the epigenetic remodeling of the WNT5A promoter is correlated with its transcriptional activation and this upregulation likely participates in arsenical-induced malignant transformation.
In industrial workers, formaldehyde exposure has been associated with cancer of the nasal cavities, nasopharynx, prostate, lung, and pancreas; however, these associations are inconsistent and remain controversial. Animals exposed to formaldehyde show excesses of nasal cancer. In an extended follow-up of a large cohort of formaldehyde-exposed workers, the authors evaluated mortality from solid cancers (1,921 deaths) among 25,619 workers (865,708 person-years) employed in 10 US formaldehyde-producing or -using facilities through 1994. Exposure assessment included quantitative estimates of formaldehyde exposure. Standardized mortality ratios and relative risks were calculated. Compared with that for the US population, mortality from solid cancers was significantly lower than expected among subjects exposed and nonexposed to formaldehyde (standardized mortality ratios = 0.91 and 0.78, respectively). Relative risks for nasopharyngeal cancer (nine deaths) increased with average exposure intensity, cumulative exposure, highest peak exposure, and duration of exposure to formaldehyde (p-trend = 0.066, 0.025, <0.001, and 0.147, respectively). Formaldehyde exposure did not appear to be associated with lung (744 deaths), pancreas (93 deaths), or brain (62 deaths) cancer. Although relative risks for prostate cancer (145 deaths) were elevated for some measures of formaldehyde exposure, the trend was inconsistent. In this cohort of formaldehyde-industry workers, some evidence was found of an exposure-response relation with mortality from nasopharyngeal cancer (based on small numbers) but not for cancers of the pancreas, brain, lung, or prostate.
Tolerance and antiviral effect of ribavirin was studied in 6 patients with Argentine hemorrhagic fever (AHF) of more than 8 days of evolution. Administration of ribavirin resulted in a neutralization of viremia and a drop of endogenous interferon titers. The average time of death was delayed. A reversible anemia was the only adverse effect observed. From these results, we conclude that ribavirin has an antiviral effect in advanced cases of AHF, and that anemia, the only secondary reaction observed, can be easily managed. The possible beneficial effect of ribavirin during the initial days of AHF is discussed.
Low doses of ethanol may antagonize the pharmacological effects of nicotine. Recently, it has been shown that the effects of ethanol on nicotine discrimination are not correlated with blood ethanol levels. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether ethanol (0.5-2g/kg, i.p.) could block nicotine-induced seizures in C57BL/6J mice and to correlate ethanol's actions with blood ethanol concentrations. For comparison, the effects of a gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA)/benzodiazepine receptor positive modulator, midazolam (0.25-40 mg/kg, i.p.), and a gamma-aminobutyric acid B receptor agonist, baclofen (2.5-20 mg/kg, i.p.), were assessed in the same procedure. Nicotine (3-9 mg/kg, s.c.) induced clonic-tonic seizures in a dose-dependent manner. Ethanol, administered 5 or 50 min before nicotine, dose dependently antagonized seizures elicited by 6 mg/kg nicotine. The anticonvulsant effects of ethanol correlated with blood ethanol levels and were comparable to those exerted by midazolam. Baclofen antagonized only the tonic component of nicotine-induced convulsions. The anticonvulsant doses of ethanol (0.5-2 g/kg), midazolam (0.5-1 mg/kg), and baclofen (5-10 mg/kg) did not affect spontaneous locomotor activity in a control experiment. The present results indicate that (i) ethanol may block nicotine-induced seizures in mice at doses that do not alter locomotor activity and (ii) the anti-seizure effects of ethanol depend on blood ethanol levels and are comparable to those exerted by the GABAA positive modulator midazolam.
A clinical or subclinical leukoencephalopathy occurs in some children after treatment of acute lymphatic leukemia with prophylactic cranial radiation therapy and parenteral or intrathecal methotrexate. We have observed a similar clinical leukoencephalopathy in patients with bone tumors treated with intravenous high-dose methotrexate and citrovorum factor without cranial irradiation. CT scans of such patients may indicate decreased white matter attenuation, but visual appraisal of this phenomenon is occasionally misleading. A computerized method for analyzing white matter hypodensity by determining the mean attenuation coefficient for one or several contiguous CT slices has therefore been developed. Serial comparisons of this mean attenuation coefficient appear to be more reliable than simple visual appraisal.
To report the incidence and management of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with uveitis treated with the fluocinolone acetonide (FA) intravitreal implant.
Pooled data from 3 multicenter, double-masked, randomized, controlled, phase 2b/3 clinical trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of the 0.59-mg or 2.1-mg FA intravitreal implant or standard therapy were analyzed.
During the 3-year follow-up, 71.0% of implanted eyes had an IOP increase of 10 mm Hg or more than baseline and 55.1%, 24.7%, and 6.2% of eyes reached an IOP of 30 mm Hg or more, 40 mm Hg or more, and 50 mm Hg or more, respectively. Topical IOP-lowering medication was administered in 74.8% of implanted eyes, and IOP-lowering surgeries, most of which were trabeculectomies (76.2%), were performed on 36.6% of implanted eyes. Intraocular pressure-lowering surgeries were considered a success (postoperative IOP of 6-21 mm Hg with or without additional IOP-lowering medication) in 85.1% of eyes at 1 year. The rate of hypotony (IOP </= 5 mm Hg) following IOP-lowering surgery (42.5%) was not different from that of implanted eyes not subjected to surgery (35.4%) (P = .09).
Elevated IOP is a significant complication with the FA intravitreal implant but may be controlled with medication and surgery.
We describe a patient in whom respiratory failure, due to extreme neuromuscular weakness, was produced by procainamide intoxication superimposed on a peripheral neuropathy secondary to long-term amiodarone therapy. Respiratory failure reversed rapidly after procainamide was discontinued, and the serum level fell to a therapeutic range.
Gender difference is known to be associated with the occurrence of arrhythmia. However, the effects of female sex hormone on atrial electrophysiology, and on the occurrence of torsades de pointes (TdP) induced by cisapride have been unclear.
Two experiments were included in this study. In experiment 1, effective refractory periods (ERPs) from five epicardial atrial sites were measured before and after rapid atrial pacing at 800 beats/min for 30 minutes in dogs with pretreatment of verapamil (n = 10), 17beta-estradiol (n = 10), or without pretreatment (n = 10, control group). In experiment 2, limb-lead ECG and monophasic action potentials in the left and right ventricles were recorded before and after each dose of cisapride (2 to 6 mg/kg) during different ventricular rates in dogs with (n = 9) and without (n = 14) concomitant administration of 17beta-estradiol (0.3 microg/kg). After 17beta-estradiol administration, there were greater atrial ERPs in the study dogs than in the control group. The atrial ERPs were shortened significantly after rapid atrial pacing, but the degree was greater in the control group than in the dogs pretreated with verapamil or 17beta-estradiol. Moreover, the recovery of atrial ERPs was faster in dogs pretreated with verapamil or 17beta-estradiol than in the control group. In experiment 2, cisapride prolonged the QT interval and biventricular APD90 and induced early afterdepolarizations (EADs) in a dose-dependent manner. However, dogs receiving cisapride combined with 17beta-estradiol had a greater increase of ventricular repolarization and a higher incidence of EADs than those receiving cisapride only. Moreover, dogs receiving cisapride combined with 17beta-estradiol (3/9, 33%) had a greater incidence of TdP than those receiving cisapride only (0/14, 0%, P < 0.05).
17beta-estradiol has a significant effect on atrial electrophysiology, which may be related to the prevention of atrial fibrillation. However, the high incidence of TdP in dogs receiving cisapride combined with 17beta-estradiol suggests that the female sex hormone is an important risk factor of cisapride-induced proarrhythmia.
In dogs, a large amount of intravenous cocaine causes a profound deterioration of left ventricular (LV) systolic function and an increase in LV end-diastolic pressure. This study was done to assess the influence of a high intracoronary cocaine concentration on LV systolic and diastolic function in humans.
In 20 patients (14 men and 6 women aged 39 to 72 years) referred for cardiac catheterization for the evaluation of chest pain, we measured heart rate, systemic arterial pressure, LV pressure and its first derivative (dP/dt), and LV volumes and ejection fraction before and during the final 2 to 3 minutes of a 15-minute intracoronary infusion of saline (n=10, control subjects) or cocaine hydrochloride 1 mg/min (n=10). No variable changed with saline. With cocaine, the drug concentration in blood obtained from the coronary sinus was 3.0+/-0.4 (mean+/-SD) mg/L, similar in magnitude to the blood cocaine concentration reported in abusers dying of cocaine intoxication. Cocaine induced no significant change in heart rate, LV dP/dt (positive or negative), or LV end-diastolic volume, but it caused an increase in systolic and mean arterial pressures, LV end-diastolic pressure, and LV end-systolic volume, as well as a decrease in LV ejection fraction.
In humans, the intracoronary infusion of cocaine sufficient in amount to achieve a high drug concentration in coronary sinus blood causes a deterioration of LV systolic and diastolic performance.
BACKGROUND AND QUESTION: The prognosis of patients with Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) refractory to standard treatment for the induction of remission (cyclophosphamide and steroids) has been poor so far. We report on the results of the follow-up of six patients refractory to the standard regimen (Fauci's scheme) with progressive, imminent visual loss, pulmonary and renal involvement, respectively. How long can remissions be successfully maintained with anti-TNF-alpha-antibody infliximab? What side effects occur?
Patients received infliximab (3 mg/kg) in addition to standard therapy with cyclophosphamide and steroids. Intervals between the first two infliximab infusions were 2 weeks, thereafter 4 weeks. Based on the impression of higher efficacy patients received 5 mg/kg infliximab for subsequent infusions.
Remission was induced after 4-6 infliximab infusions in five patients. Remission has been maintained in four patients for 16-26 months. After 12 months a pulmonary relapse occurred in one patient, who received azathioprine for the maintenance of remission. Infliximab was stopped in another patient because of a suspected infection. In the light of high cumulative cyclophosphamide doses (100 g/275 g) and cyclophosphamide induced hemorrhagic cystitis, infliximab was added to azathioprine in the two patients with a pulmonary relapse and protrusion of the eye with imminent visual loss, respectively. Remission was induced in both patients. A carcinoid of the bronchus was diagnosed in one patient after 12 months in remission.
Infliximab means a new therapeutic option and offers better perspectives for a patient group with previously bad prognosis.
A 3-year-old girl developed acute liver disease after treatment with valproate for 6 months. She developed the typical features of Reye syndrome. Serum free carnitine was decreased as well as 3-keto-valproic acid, the main metabolite of beta-oxidation of valproate. The serum valproate concentration was at the upper limit of the therapeutic range. The possible importance of carnitine in the pathogenesis of valproate induced liver disease is discussed.
Rats were exposed to lead via the maternal milk. At 90 days of age, lead-exposed pairs and control pairs were tested for aggression induced by 5.0 mg/kg apomorphine. The large increase in aggression in response to apomorphine seen in controls was markedly attenuated in lead-treated subjects. In contrast, apomorphine-induced stereotypy was not affected. These results provide a further demonstration of persistent behavioral abnormalities resulting from early exposure to lead at levels which do not affect weight gain or mortality.
A longitudinal case report shows a sudden remission of the severe course of a seasonal bipolar disorder after 10 years of psychopharmacological treatments. The discontinuation of heavy caffeine intake appears to have contributed to the outcome.
Dopamine agonists with different selectivity for dopamine D-1 and D-2 receptors in the brain were tested for their effects: on thresholds for maximal electroshock seizures in mice and rats and for pentylenetetrazol-induced clonic seizures in mice; on seizures induced by air blast stimulation in gerbils, and on seizures induced by amygdala-kindling in rats. The mixed D-1/D-2 agonist apomorphine exerted anticonvulsant effects in all models except kindling. In gerbils and mice, the anticonvulsant action of apomorphine could be antagonized by the D-2 selective dopamine antagonist sulpiride. When injected alone, sulpiride exerted no significant effect on seizure activity. The preferential D-2 receptor agonists lisuride and (+)-PHNO [+)-4-propyl-9-hydroxynaphthoxazine) differed in their profile of action. Both compounds displayed anticonvulsant efficacy in gerbils, while only lisuride proved capable of reducing kindled seizure severity. (+)-PHNO increased the threshold for electroconvulsions in mice while lisuride was ineffective in this respect or even decreased the threshold. The reverse was obtained in regard to electroshock seizures in rats. The threshold for seizures induced by pentylenetetrazol in mice was increased significantly by lisuride but not by (+)-PHNO. The selective dopamine D-1 receptor agonist SKF 38393-A exerted no anticonvulsant effect in any seizure test except a moderate increase of the electroconvulsive threshold in mice. In contrast, the dopamine precursor L-DOPA (injected after pretreatment with carbidopa) proved capable of reducing seizure activity in all models. In mice, the increase in the threshold for maximal electroshock seizures induced by L-DOPA was significantly reduced by sulpiride, which also attenuated the anticonvulsant effect of L-DOPA in gerbils. Collectively, the data indicate that dopamine D-2 receptors mediate the anticonvulsant effect of dopamine agonist and, at least in part, of L-DOPA whereas D-1 receptors seem not to be involved.
Baclofen is a muscle relaxant approved in this country for the treatment of muscle spasms secondary to multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, and other spinal diseases. Although baclofen is considered to have fewer side effects than alternative drugs, problems can occur when the dosage is changed abruptly. Two patients are presented who developed hallucinations after discontinuing baclofen as part of routine preoperative procedures. Both patients responded at 23 and 31 hours after reinstituting baclofen. If possible, patients should be withdrawn slowly from baclofen before surgery. Any patient withdrawn abruptly from baclofen should be restarted as soon as possible.
Susceptibility to drug dependence and drug-induced psychoses is influenced not only by the pharmacological effects of the drug but also by the genetic factors of the individual. To clarify the latter, we investigated the association between methamphetamine (METH) dependence/psychosis and the hDAT1 gene (SLC6A3) encoding the dopamine transporter, which is the primary site of METH activity in the brain. Four exonic polymorphisms of the hDAT1 gene, 242C/T (exon 2), 1342A/G (exon 9), 2319G/A (3'UTR), and VNTR (3'UTR) were examined. Although there was no significant difference in genotypic and allelic distribution of the four polymorphisms between all METH dependence/psychosis patients (N=124) and controls (N=160), the patients with METH psychosis lasting for 1 month or more after discontinuance of METH consumption showed a significant excess of nine- or fewer repeat alleles of the VNTR in 3'UTR of the hDAT1 gene (P=0.0054, OR=4.24, 95% CI=2.46-7.31). The present study demonstrated that the presence of nine- or fewer repeat alleles of hDAT1 is a strong risk factor for a worse prognosis of METH psychosis.
A randomized, open label with blind assessment, controlled trial was performed to assess efficacy and adverse-event profile of vitamin E, given as supplementation for prophylaxis against cisplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN).
A total of 30 patients scheduled to receive six courses of cumulative cisplatin-based regimens were randomly allocated to treatment and control groups and were then studied by means of neurological examination and electrophysiological study. Patients assigned to group I (n=14) orally received vitamin E at a daily dose of 600 mg/day during chemotherapy and 3 months after its cessation were compared to patients of group II (n=16), who received no vitamin E supplementation and served as controls. The severity of neurotoxicity was summarized by means of a modified Peripheral Neuropathy (PNP) score.
The incidence of neurotoxicity differed significantly between groups, occurring in 3/14 (21.4%) of patients assigned to the vitamin E supplementation group and in 11/16 (68.5%) of controls (p=0.026). The relative risk (RR) of developing neurotoxicity was significantly higher in case of controls, RR=2.51, 95% C.I.=1.16-5.47. Mean PNP scores were 4.99+/-1.33 for patients of group I and 10.47+/-10.62 for controls, (p=0.023). None of the adverse events or deaths occurred, were judged as likely to be related to the vitamin E supplementation.
Vitamin E effectively and safely protects patients with cancer from occurrence of cisplatin neurotoxicity.
Intraperitoneal administration of cyclophosphamide (50-150 mg/kg) for 6 or 12 h induced edema and hemorrhagic changes in rat bladder, which were both dose and time-dependent. Pretreatment with nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 40 mg/kg) or with s-methylisothiourea (40 mg/kg) ameliorated the cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis. Cyclophosphamide administration also produced increases in NO-metabolite levels (nitrate+nitrite) in the urine and plasma of rats. Greater increases in NO metabolites were observed with 150 than with 50 mg/kg of cyclophosphamide, and at 12 than at 6 h after cyclophosphamide injection. Pretreatment with L-NAME and s-methylisothiourea significantly reduced cyclophosphamide-induced increases in urine and plasma NO-metabolite levels. To explore the mechanism by which cyclophosphamide increases the expression of inducible NOS (iNOS), primary cultures of rat bladder smooth muscle were developed. Exposure to tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) plus interferon gamma, produced a marked increase in the expression of iNOS and in NO production in the culture medium. However, exposure to cyclophosphamide or to its metabolite acrolein (10(-6)-10(-4) M for 24 h) did not increase iNOS or NO-metabolite levels. On the other hand, incubation of primary cell cultures with plasma from rats treated with cyclophosphamide (150 mg/kg, 12 h) produced a marked increase in iNOS expression and NO production. Taken together, our results indicate that NO plays an important role in the pathogenesis of cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis in rats, and some factors may be released in cyclophosphamide-treated rat plasma which stimulate iNOS expression in primary culture of rat bladder smooth muscle cells.
Maternal immune stimulation has reported, but unconfirmed, efficacy for reducing chemical-induced morphologic defects in mice.
Teratogenic chemicals (2,3,7, 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin [TCDD], ethyl carbamate [urethane], methylnitrosourea [MNU], or valproic acid [VA]) were given to pregnant mice to induce cleft palate (TCDD, urethane), digital defects (urethane, MNU), or exencephaly (VA). Before teratogen administration, the immune system of female mice was stimulated by intraperitoneal (IP) administration of pyran copolymer or attenuated bacillus Calmette Guérin (BCG), or by footpad injection with Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA).
Fetal defects caused by all four chemicals studied were reduced by maternal immunostimulation, sometimes dramatically. In addition to reducing VA-induced exencephaly, immunostimulation with FCA resulted in fetal mice displaying anury (absence of tails). Activated maternal immune cells could not be detected in fetal circulation using flow cytometry and a fluorescent cell-tracking probe.
For the chemicals tested, maternal immune stimulation has efficacy in reducing fetal defects. Immune protection against teratogenesis may be an indirect effect of maternal immune cell activation.
Psoriasis is a common disorder affecting 1-3 percent of the general global population. Many therapeutic modalities have been suggested for treatment of this condition, but still there is no definite treatment for this disease. The objective in this study was to evaluate the efficacy of topical azelaic acid gel versus placebo in the treatment of psoriasis vulgaris.
This study was a single-blinded randomized clinical trial. Overall, 31 patients were selected and the left or right sided lesions of the patients were randomized to receive either 15% azelaic acid or gel twice daily for a one-month period. Two symmetrical lesions with almost similar severity in every patient were selected and considered as index lesions to evaluate lesion response to treatment. The severity of erythema, scaling, hyperkeratosis and pruritus of the index lesions were scored in range of 0-3 for each lesion by the investigator at the baseline and follow up visits. The percent of involvement of each side of body was also measured using rule of nines. The collected data were analyzed using statistical tests including Mann-Whitney and ANOVA tests.
There was no significant difference between the two groups before treatment (P > 0.05). After treatment, however, except pruritus, there was significant difference between the two groups (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference regarding total psoriasis score between the two groups before treatment (P > 0.05). After treatment, however, there was significant difference between the two groups (P < 0.05) in favor of more efficacy for azelaic acid. There was no significant difference regarding percent of body involvement between the two groups before treatment (P > 0.05). After treatment, however, there was a significant difference between the two groups (P < 0.05) in favor of more efficacy on the part of azelaic acid gel.
The results of our study showed that 15% azelaic acid gel was effective in reduction of purities, scaling and hyperkeratosis of psoriasis plaques. This treatment was also effective in reduction of skin involvement with psoriasis. It is recommended that a longer study be performed that can better evaluate the efficacy of this treatment against plaque-type psoriasis.
It is well documented that patients with preexisting renal dysfunction are at increased risk of having nitrofurantoin-induced peripheral neuropathy develop. A diabetic patient whose condition was controlled by diet alone had peripheral neuropathy develop four days after starting nitrofurantoin therapy for the treatment of a urinary tract infection.
Respiratory chain complex I deficiency represents a genetically heterogeneous group of diseases resulting from mutations in mitochondrial or nuclear genes. Mutations have been reported in 13 of the 14 subunits encoding the core of complex I (seven mitochondrial and six nuclear genes) and these result in Leigh or Leigh-like syndromes or cardiomyopathy. In this study, a combination of denaturing high performance liquid chromatography and sequence analysis was used to study the NDUFS3 gene in a series of complex I deficient patients. Mutations found in this gene (NADH dehydrogenase iron-sulphur protein 3), coding for the seventh and last subunit of complex I core, were shown to cause late onset Leigh syndrome, optic atrophy, and complex I deficiency. A biochemical diagnosis of complex I deficiency on cultured amniocytes from a later pregnancy was confirmed through the identification of disease causing NDUFS3 mutations in these cells. While mutations in the NDUFS3 gene thus result in Leigh syndrome, a dissimilar clinical phenotype is observed in mutations in the NDUFV2 and NDUFS2 genes, resulting in encephalomyopathy and cardiomyopathy. The reasons for these differences are uncertain.
To investigate the effects of warming vs buffering, and warming with buffering, on the pain of lidocaine infiltration.
A randomized, double-blind clinical trial was conducted using volunteers aged 18 years or more and without an allergy to lidocaine. The study consisted of two parts, each comparing two solutions. The solutions for Part I were warm (38.9 degrees C; 102 degrees F) plain lidocaine and room-temperature buffered lidocaine. Warm buffered lidocaine and room-temperature buffered lidocaine were used for Part II. The subjects received two standardized 0.5-mL intradermal injections, one study solution in each forearm. Immediately after each injection, pain was assessed using a 100-mm visual analog pain scale. Pain scores were analyzed by the sign test, with significance defined as p < 0.05.
Part I (n = 10): Nine subjects reported room-temperature buffered lidocaine to be less painful than warm plain lidocaine. Mean pain scores were 28 mm lower for room-temperature buffered lidocaine than they were for warm plain lidocaine (p < 0.01). Part II (n = 24): Eleven subjects found warm buffered lidocaine to be the least painful, 11 reported room-temperature buffered lidocaine to be the least painful, and two reported no difference. A mean pain score difference of 2.1 mm favoring warm buffered lidocaine was not statistically significant. Part II had a power of 80% to detect a 10-mm difference between the two solutions at alpha = 0.05.
To reduce the pain of lidocane infiltration, buffering is more effective than warming. Warming does not enhance buffering.
