Subject acceptance of a single dose of timolol and levobunolol was compared in a three-center, double-masked, randomized, crossover study in healthy normal subjects. We tested 115 subjects who received the medications OU, in a random order, separated by a washout period of three to seven days. At the end of the administration, the subjects were asked to report any symptoms and were monitored by ophthalmologic examination. Those receiving levobunolol reported a two- to threefold higher frequency of symptoms than did those receiving timolol (P = .0002, by Mainland-Gart chi-square test). Thirty-five subjects (30.4%) treated with levobunolol complained of burning versus 14 (12.2%) receiving timolol (P = .0021). Similar results were obtained in regard to stinging (31 versus 10 subjects; P = .0011). The duration of these symptoms did not differ between the two groups (P > .05). Timolol induced considerably less burning and stinging on day 1 compared with levobunolol, using a visual analog scale over time (P = .0004). Seventy-nine percent of those stating a preference chose timolol (P < 3 x 10(-9).
The effect of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU), sodium saccharin, sodium cyclamate and cyclophosphamide on rat bladder explants in vitro was studied. MNU administered as a single dose or in multiple treatments induced concentration-dependent changes in urothelial ultrastructure and cell surface topography. In a single treatment protocol, extensive cytotoxicity was observed in both the urothelium and stroma at concentrations of 500 to 1000 micrograms/ml, establishing a toxic threshold within this range. In a multiple treatment protocol, repeated doses of low concentrations of carcinogen (7 or 8 x 50 micrograms/ml, 6 x 100 micrograms/ml) induced hyperplastic and dysplastic changes in the urothelium with no cytotoxicity, but cytotoxic effects were observed following treatments of 4 x 200 micrograms/ml or 2 x 400 micrograms/ml. Sodium saccharin, sodium cyclamate, and cyclophosphamide induced changes in urothelial cell surface topography consistent with hyperplasia and preneoplasia. Prolonged exposure to saccharin or cyclamate followed by a single dose of MNU elicited more extensive abnormalities in the urothelium than either saccharin or cyclamate alone, suggesting that these artificial sweeteners have initiating activity in a multistage process. The ultrastructural changes induced by in vitro treatment showed a good correlation with the pathological changes observed in vivo in rats treated with MNU or fed either with saccharin or cyclamate.
For two years, the following records were linked for 10 453 people: (1) basic attributes; (2) details of prescriptions; and (3) information about illnesses recorded by general practitioners (GPs) in an "E' book. Analyses were performed to reveal association between drugs and diagnoses. Although the "E' book has certain disadvantages for drug monitoring, the methods proved to be capable of detecting adverse effects of drugs. Unfortunately the number of practitioners using "E' books would be too small for detection of most serious hazards such as the induction of cancer. Hence it is concluded that the first priority should be to establish a record linkage scheme covering hospital admissions, obstetric deliveries, and deaths.
Here, we investigated whether aminophylline, an adenosine receptor antagonist used usually as a treatment for premature apnea, had synergistic effects on status epilepticus in the developing brain. On postnatal day 14 (P14), four groups of rats intraperitoneally received saline, aminophylline, lithium--pilocarpine (Li-PC), and Li-PC plus aminophylline, respectively. Subsequently, the Morris water maze task was performed at P80. The brains were then analyzed with cresyl violet stain for histological lesions and evaluated for mossy fiber sprouting with the Timm stain. No seizures were elicited in the saline-treated or aminophylline-treated rats. Both the Li-PC-treated and aminophylline plus Li-PC-treated rats exhibited seizures and there was no significant difference in mortality between the two groups. More interestingly, as in adulthood (P80), aminophylline aggravated the spatial deficits and histological damages seen in Li-PC-treated rats. In summary, this present study suggests that the use of adenosine receptor antagonists, such as aminophylline, exacerbates seizure-induced damage in the developing brain.
In a placebo-controlled, single-blinded, crossover study, we assessed the effect of "real" repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) versus "sham" rTMS (placebo) on peak dose dyskinesias in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Ten patients with PD and prominent dyskinesias had rTMS (1,800 pulses; 1 Hz rate) delivered over the motor cortex for 4 consecutive days twice, once real stimuli and once sham stimulation were used; evaluations were done at the baseline and 1 day after the end of each of the treatment series. Direct comparison between sham and real rTMS effects showed no significant difference in clinician-assessed dyskinesia severity. However, comparison with the baseline showed small but significant reduction in dyskinesia severity following real rTMS but not placebo. The major effect was on dystonia subscore. Similarly, in patient diaries, although both treatments caused reduction in subjective dyskinesia scores during the days of intervention, the effect was sustained for 3 days after the intervention for the real rTMS only. Following rTMS, no side effects and no adverse effects on motor function and PD symptoms were noted. The results suggest the existence of residual beneficial clinical aftereffects of consecutive daily applications of low-frequency rTMS on dyskinesias in PD. The effects may be further exploited for potential therapeutic uses.
Resistance to the antiestrogen tamoxifen remains a major problem in the management of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. Knowledge on the resistance mechanisms is needed to develop more effective therapies. Breast cancer antiestrogen resistance 4 (BCAR4) was identified in a functional screen for genes involved in tamoxifen resistance. BCAR4 is expressed in 27% of primary breast tumors. In patients treated with tamoxifen for metastized disease high BCAR4 mRNA levels are associated with reduced clinical benefit and progression-free survival. Regarding tumor aggressiveness high BCAR4 mRNA levels are associated with a shorter metastasis free survival and overall survival. In the present study, we investigated the role of BCAR4 in endocrine resistance. Forced expression of BCAR4 in human ZR-75-1 and MCF7 breast cancer cells resulted in cell proliferation in the absence of estrogen and in the presence of various antiestrogens. Inhibition of estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) expression with small interfering RNA (siRNA), implied that the BCAR4-induced mechanism of resistance is independent of ESR1. Highly conserved BCAR4 homologues of rhesus monkey, green monkey, and the less conserved common marmoset gene induced tamoxifen-resistant cell proliferation, in contrast to the distant BCAR4 homologues of bovine and rabbit. Injection of BCAR4-expressing ZR-75-1 cells into nude mice resulted in rapidly growing tumors. In silico analysis showed that BCAR4 mRNA is highly expressed in human placenta and oocyte, and absent in other normal tissues. In conclusion, BCAR4 is a strong transforming gene causing estrogen-independent growth and antiestrogen resistance, and induces tumor formation in vivo. Due to its restricted expression, BCAR4 may be a good target for treating antiestrogen-resistant breast cancer.
Hepatic and renal toxicity of paracetamol overdosage is well known like the fact that ethanol enhances the toxicity of the drug. Scanty data report on reversible hepatic and renal failure appearing after therapeutic dose of paracetamol in alcohol-abusers. Renal damage might also occur without gross hepatocellular damage in alcoholics. We report the case of a young alcoholic male whose first renal biopsy disclosed mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis. One month later he took 1.5 g paracetamol to control the fever caused by upper respiratory tract infection. Soon he got hospitalised due to fever, toxicoderma, elevated liver and renal function test. While liver enzymes returned to normal, macroscopic haematuria, nephrotic range proteinuria oliguria, uraemia developed. A repeated renal biopsy revealed severe interstitial inflammation, tubular atrophy, progression of the vascular changes seen in the first biopsy. Haemodialysis was started and he got steroids (1 mg/kg body-weight) besides aggressive antihypertensive medication. He showed considerable recovery of renal function in some weeks. The case points to the possibility that paracetamol--even in therapeutic dosage--might result in hepatic and renal damage in alcoholics. The sudden deterioration in renal function was due to the acute tubulointerstitial nephritis superimposed on mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis, provoked by paracetamol. Early diagnosis, immediate withdrawal of the toxic drug, steroid treatment might have kidney and life saving effect.
Non-clear cell rat kidney tumors, inducible by N-nitroso compounds but lacking mutations in the von Hippel--Lindau (VHL) coding sequence, were examined for other VHL alterations. Neither mutations nor DNA methylation was detected in a putative promoter region. By immunohistochemistry, however, VHL protein level was evidently reduced in six of the eight eosinophilic renal epithelial tumors and in all the ten nephroblastomas. Immunoblotting of normal kidney detected two VHL proteins of 20 and 22kDa in a 16-day-old fetal rat but only 20kDa protein in an adult rat. This is the first demonstration of VHL alteration at the protein level.
1. The treatment of Parkinson's disease relies predominantly upon dopamine replacement therapy, usually with l-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA). However, side-effects of long-term treatment, such as L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias can be more debilitating than the disease itself. Non-dopaminergic treatment strategies might therefore be advantageous. 2. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential anti-parkinsonian efficacy of the kappa-opioid receptor agonist, enadoline, and the alpha-adrenoreceptor agonist, clonidine, both alone or in combination, in the reserpine-treated rat model of Parkinson's disease. 3. Rats were treated with reserpine (3 mg kg-1), and experiments carried out 18 h later, at which time they exhibited profound akinesia (normal animals 1251+/-228 mobile counts h-1, reserpine-treated animals 9+/-2 mobile counts h-1). Both enadoline and clonidine increased locomotion in reserpine-treated rats in a dose-dependent manner. The maximum locomotor-stimulating effect of enadoline alone was seen at a dose of 0.2 mg kg-1 (208+/-63 mobile counts h-1). The maximum effect of clonidine was seen at a dose of 2 mg kg-1 (536+/-184 mobile counts h-1). 4. Co-administration of enadoline (0.1 mg kg-1) and clonidine (0.01 - 0.1 mg kg-1) at sub-threshold doses, synergistically increased locomotion. 5. The synergistic stimulation of locomotion in the reserpine-treated rat involved activation of kappa-opioid receptors and a combination of both alpha1 and alpha2-adrenoreceptors. 6. The results presented suggest a need for further studies on the potential of stimulating kappa-opioid and/or alpha-adrenoreceptors as a therapy for Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, the studies may offer potential mechanistic explanations of the ability of alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist to reduce L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.
DBA/2 mice, previously identified as "unresponsive" to aromatic hydrocarbons which induce microsomal enzymes in C57BL/6 mice, are more vulnerable to the convulsant effect of repeated doses of lindane than similarly treated C57BL/6 mice. Death in convulsions and higher blood and brain lindane concentrations indicate that less efficient disposition of lindane itself accounts for the greater vulnerability of the DBA/2 mice. The same two principal chlorophenolic metabolites of lindane were identified in the blood and tissues of both strains, but the time-courses of blood concentrations in response to repeated lindane dosing were different.
A 33-year-old woman without evidence of previous liver disease developed fulminant hepatic failure following the therapeutic dose of acetaminophen 3 days prior to admission. At admission, liver and renal function revealed hepatocellular injury with jaundice, and acute renal failure, total serum bilirubin 12.5 mg/ dL, direct serum bilirubin 8.1 mg/dL, aspartate aminotransferase 8460 IU/L, alanine aminotransferase 4640 IU/L, blood urea nitrogen 36 mg/dL, and serum creatinine 5.2 mg/dL. Two days later she developed multiorgan failure including hemodynamic disturbance with irreversible shock, and expired. Autopsy was performed, liver pathology showed severe centrilobular and midzonal necrosis, compatible with toxic hepatic necrosis, and renal pathology showed focal loss of tubular epithelial cells and partial occlusion of tubular lumen by cellular debris, compatible with acute tubular necrosis. Physicians should be aware of potential hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity of acetaminophen, even if given at therapeutic dosage in acute febrile illness.
The preliminary result of an ongoing study in 4 major hospitals across Nigeria on the use of magnesium sulphate (MgSO4) as an anticonvulsant in the management of eclampsia is presented. All the 21 obstetric patients with eclampsia (recruited so far) were treated with MgSO4 as the only anticonvulsant. All the patients responded well to the treatment regime in terms of control of fit, and remained conscious thereafter. There was no incidence of severe adverse reactions to the drug. The mean number of convulsions in the patients treated was 4. The observed side effects were nausea, vomiting and dizziness in 3 patients and there were 3 perinatal deaths. The findings so far on maternal and fetal outcomes support the routine administration of MgSO4 as the drug of choice for the control of convulsion in women with eclampsia.
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) and its metabolites are known to affect lipid metabolism and adipogenesis, mainly by activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). Exposure to DEHP has been linked with testicular impairment and male subfertility. However, the effects of DEHP on female reproductive health and metabolism have not been studied in detail.
We examined the effects of dietary DEHP exposure on metabolism and fertility in female mice.
In two independent approaches, female C3H/N mice were exposed to DEHP (0.05, 5, or 500 mg/kg of body weight per day) via their diet for 8 weeks, and we recorded food intake, weight gain, and litter size. After exposure, liver, visceral fat, and plasma from F0 females (study I) and F0 dams and their F1 offspring (study II) were analyzed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
In study I, DEHP-exposed F0 females (all dose groups) had a significant increase in body weight, food intake, and visceral adipose tissue compared with controls. In the 500-mg DEHP group, PPARα and PPARγ transcripts were significantly changed in liver tissue. In the same group, PPARγ mRNA was significantly reduced in liver but not in fat tissue. In addition, leptin and FABP4 (fatty acid binding protein 4) mRNA were increased in adipose tissue, whereas adiponectin was decreased. In study II, we detected a 100% abortion rate in F0 dams in the 500-mg group. F1 offspring exposed in utero and during lactation had an increase in visceral fat tissue and body weight.
Fertility was impaired in mice exposed to high doses of DEHP, and body weight and visceral fat deposits were increased in mice exposed to environmentally relevant doses. Although F1 mice were exposed to DEHP only in utero and during lactation, we observed metabolic changes in the offspring of diet-exposed females.
Three hundred twenty-five women with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the breast who had failed one prior chemotherapeutic regimen for advanced disease were randomized to receive 14 mg/m2 of mitoxantrone or 75 mg/m2 of doxorubicin intravenously (IV) every 3 weeks. Enrollment was closed on October 31, 1984, after 165 patients were randomized to mitoxantrone and 160 patients to doxorubicin. Patients randomized to the two treatment groups were compared for response rate, duration of response, time to progression or death, time to treatment failure (TTF), and survival. The response rate to mitoxantrone was 20.6%, to doxorubicin 29.3% (P = .07). The median response duration was 151 days for the mitoxantrone group and 126 days for the doxorubicin group (P = .16). The median TTF was 70 days in the mitoxantrone group and 104 days in the doxorubicin group (P = .36). The median survival of patients initially randomized to receive mitoxantrone was 273 days; for doxorubicin 268 days (P = .40). There were three responses among 77 patients crossed over to mitoxantrone after initial treatment with doxorubicin. The major dose-limiting toxicity for both drugs was leukopenia. There was significantly less severe and less frequent toxicity with mitoxantrone administration. Severe nausea and vomiting occurred in 9.5% of mitoxantrone patients and 25.3% of doxorubicin patients (P less than .001). The incidence of severe stomatitis and mucositis was 0.6% in the mitoxantrone group and 8.4% in the doxorubicin group (P = .001). Severe alopecia occurred in 5.1% of mitoxantrone patients and 61.0% of doxorubicin patients (P less than .001). A life-table comparison of the cumulative dose to the development of a cardiac event showed that mitoxantrone had significantly less cardiotoxicity than doxorubicin (P = .0005). This study demonstrates that mitoxantrone is active as a single agent in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Compared with doxorubicin it appears to be marginally less active and significantly less toxic. We conclude that mitoxantrone can be used alone or with other standard drugs to palliate the symptoms of metastatic breast cancer, especially in settings where drug toxicity is an important consideration.
In patients with large-cell lymphoma (LCL) treated with combination chemotherapy, the presence of bulk disease has consistently been associated with a poorer response rate and a shortened survival. The optimal therapy for patients with bulk disease (greater than or equal to 10 cm) will depend on whether treatment failures result from inadequate tumor eradication in prior bulk sites or from distant dissemination. To address this issue, we have evaluated patterns of relapse in patients with bulk disease who relapsed after achieving a complete remission with methotrexate, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dexamethasone (M- or m-BACOD). Eighty-one II, III, or IV patients with disease greater than or equal to 10 cm were identified; 45 of the 81 patients achieved a confirmed complete response (CR) and are included in the analysis. The 45 complete responders included 21 patients with localized (stage II) disease and 24 patients with advanced (stage III/IV) disease. Six of the 21 stage II complete responders and three of the 24 stage II/IV complete responders also received adjuvant radiation therapy following completion of M- or m-BACOD. Only one of the 21 patients with stage II disease relapsed, doing so in the site of prior bulk involvement. In contrast, nine of 24 patients with stage III/IV disease relapsed, although no patient failed solely in the site of prior bulk disease. Stage III/IV patients recurred in either a new site (one patient), a new and old site (five), an old non-bulk site (two), or both old non-bulk and bulk sites (one). These results indicate that advanced-stage bulk-disease patients do not consistently relapse in sites of prior bulk disease; therefore, this group of patients is unlikely to benefit from adjuvant radiation therapy administered following completion of combination chemotherapy. Although the low relapse rate and the addition of adjuvant radiation therapy in a subgroup of the stage II bulk-disease patients precludes a definitive analysis, our results further suggest that these patients may be effectively treated with combination chemotherapy alone.
An automated methodology for Levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) assessment is presented in this paper. The methodology is based on the analysis of the signals recorded from accelerometers and gyroscopes, which are placed on certain positions on the subject's body. The obtained signals are analyzed and several features are extracted. Based on these features a classification technique is used for LID detection and classification of its severity. The method has been evaluated using a group of 10 subjects. Results are presented related to each individual sensor as well as for various sensor combinations. The obtained results indicate high classification ability (93.73% classification accuracy).
Quantitative measures for the severity of MPTP-induced parkinsonism and response to antiparkinsonian interventions in monkeys have been lacking. We carried out an oral levodopa dose-response study in two rhesus monkeys whose left hemiparkinsonism was induced by intracarotid administration of MPTP. A newly developed clinical rating scale of monkey parkinsonism showed a consistent dose-response relationship for levodopa over the dosage range of 50-3,500 mg/day. Antiparkinsonian effects appeared at 200 mg/day and were optimal at 1,000-2,000 mg/day. Levodopa also reversed rotational behavior, improved movement times for both the impaired and opposite upper limb, and produced dyskinesias at high dosages. Thus, MPTP-induced hemiparkinsonism in monkeys closely resembles the human disease condition, is associated with sensitive response measures, and should prove valuable for assessing novel antiparkinsonian therapies.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), a widespread environmental toxicant, is a tumor promoter that induces hyperplasia in epithelial cells. Exposure of cultured human keratinocytes to TCDD, resulted in a time-dependent dioxin-specific Ah receptor-mediated release of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) into the culture medium. Cultures exposed to TCDD showed a rate of TGF-alpha secretion into the medium of about 30 fmol/ml/day, as well as a 3- to 6-fold increase in TGF-alpha mRNA expression. Increased production of TGF-alpha in human keratinocytes exposed to TCDD demonstrates a modulation of autocrine regulation in those cells. These results suggest that induction of TGF-alpha could be an important part of the mechanism of dioxin-mediated toxicity and tumor promotion.
A recent study reported an association between rs2234693, which influences enhancer activity levels in estrogen receptor alpha gene (ESR1), and schizophrenia. This study reported that schizophrenic patients with the CC genotype have significantly lower ESR1 mRNA levels in the prefrontal cortex than patients with other genotypes. The symptoms of methamphetamine induced psychosis are similar to those of paranoid type schizophrenia. Therefore, we conducted an association analysis of rs2234693 with Japanese methamphetamine induced psychosis patients.
Using rs2234693, we conducted a genetic association analysis of case-control samples (197 methamphetamine induced psychosis patients and 197 healthy controls). The age and sex of the control subjects did not differ from those of the methamphetamine induced psychosis patients.
We detected a significant association between ESR1 and methamphetamine induced psychosis patients in allele/genotype-wise analysis. For further interpretation of these associations, we performed single marker analysis of subjects divided by sex. Rs2234693 was associated with male methamphetamine induced psychosis.
Our results suggest that rs2234693 in ESR1 may play a role in the pathophysiology of Japanese methamphetamine induced psychosis patients.
Atherosclerotic renovascular disease is a common entity, particularly in persons older than 50 years of age and especially in those patients with other evidence of atherosclerotic vascular disease. The illness clearly progresses in some patients, and progression rate appears to be highly variable. Taken into account the apparent high prevalence of renovascular disease in older persons, it is possible that this disorder be the cause of end stage renal disease in 5% to 15% of patients currently entering the dialysis program each year. Surgery and percutaneous angioplasty can both improve renal function in patients with renal artery stenosis. We describe a patient in whom the detection of renovascular disease was made accidentally at the time of coronary arteriography. He presented an acute renal failure after use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and/or contrast media associated nephrotoxicity, and was treated with percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty and had a successful outcome.
Chemoprevention is defined as the use of natural or synthetic chemical agents to reverse, suppress or prevent carcinogenic progression of invasive cancer. Drugs that act as chemoprevention agents for breast cancer are divided into two major groups: drugs that prevent Estrogen Receptor (ER)-positive breast cancers [selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERM), aromatase inhibitors GnKH agonists and phytoestrogens] and drugs that prevent ER-negative breast cancers [cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors, retinoids, statins, receptor tyrosine, kinase inhibitors, monoclonal antibody against HER-2 and telomerase inhibitors]. Results from the NSABP Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene (STAR), which compared the risk-reducing efficacy as well as toxicity of these two SERMs in a similar high-risk for breast cancer population, showed that Raloxifene is as effective as Tamoxifen in reducing the risk of non-invasive breast cancer (p=.83). It has a statistically significant lower risk of thromboembolic events and cataracts, however a non- statistically significant higher risk of noninvasive breast cancer. Based on promising data involving reduction of contralateral breast cancer risk in adjuvant studies, several aromatase inhibitors, including letrozole, anastrozole and exemestane, are being included in trials to evaluate their efficacy in breast cancer prevention in both case-control and cohort studies As such randomized studies to confirm this efficacy are needed. Positive results of several recent clinical trials for preventing breast cancer in high-risk populations suggest that chemoprevention is a rational and attractive strategy.
The results of two trials conducted in human dyskinesia with progabide, a specific gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor agonist, are reviewed. In one trial, 13 parkinsonian patients with L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LDD) and "on-off" fluctuations were included in a double-blind controlled trial progabide versus placebo. No change was observed during this trial in the severity of dyskinesia on progabide treatment but the drug significantly extended the "on" period as compared with placebo. In the second trial, 20 patients with neuroleptic-induced dyskinesia (TD) entered an open dose ranging trial with progabide. Fourteen of the 16 patients who completed the trial had a good-to-excellent therapeutic response. According to these results, progabide does not seem to have the same therapeutic benefit in LDD as TD. These data suggest that the hypothesis of a dopaminergic supersensitivity as a similar pathogenic substrate for both clinical conditions should be reconsidered. If this hypothesis remains the most consistent to explain the occurrence of LDD, the therapeutic effect of progabide in TD is an argument for an implication of the GABAergic system in the appearance of TD.
We present 25 patients, aged between 18 and 153 months, with clinical symptoms suggestive of allergy to food antigens. After undergoing exhaustive studies (including case histories, cutaneous tests for reactions to food antigen, peripheral eosinophils, secretory and humoral immunity, determination of total IgE and of specific RAST, exclusion-provocation diets) and without being able to identify an offender, patients were submitted to oral provocation with different food additives (tartrazine, sunset yellow FCF, new coccine, erythrosine, sodium benzoate, 4-methyl hydroxybenzoate and acetylsalicylic acid) after 48 hours of exclusion from their diets of dyes, preservatives and salicylates. The results obtained reflect, at a global level, 57.89% of positivities for dyes, 34.21% for the benzoates and 7.81% for acetyl-salicylic acid. The low incidence of crossed intolerance phenomena should be emphasized (32% of the patients). The disparity of our results with those of other authors could be due to the age of our patients, the clinical patterns they present and the dietary habits of different countries and regions.
High-dose treatment with dexamethasone led to reversible hepatomegaly with disturbance of liver function in three children. After withdrawal of dexamethasone, liver size and function returned to normal. These observations were compared with previously published data. The authors conclude that if this condition occurs, dexamethasone should be discontinued.
Inhibition of soluble epoxide hydrolase (SEH), the enzyme responsible for degradation of vasoactive epoxides, protects against cerebral ischemia in rats. However, the molecular and biological mechanisms that confer protection in normotension and hypertension remain unclear. Here we show that 6 weeks of SEH inhibition via 2 mg/day of 12-(3-adamantan-1-yl-ureido) dodecanoic acid (AUDA) in spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone (SHRSP) rats protects against cerebral ischemia induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion, reducing percent hemispheric infarct and neurodeficit score without decreasing blood pressure. This level of cerebral protection was similar to that of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, which significantly lowered blood pressure. SEH inhibition is also protective in normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, reducing both hemispheric infarct and neurodeficit score. In SHRSP rats, SEH inhibition reduced wall-to-lumen ratio and collagen deposition and increased cerebral microvessel density, although AUDA did not alter middle cerebral artery structure or microvessel density in WKY rats. An apoptosis mRNA expression microarray of brain tissues from AUDA-treated rats revealed that AUDA modulates gene expression of mediators involved in the regulation of apoptosis in neural tissues of both WKY and SHRSP rats. Hence, we conclude that chronic SEH inhibition protects against cerebral ischemia via vascular protection in SHRSP rats and neural protection in both the SHRSP and WKY rats, indicating that SEH inhibition has broad pharmacological potential for treating ischemic stroke.
Thioredoxin is a major component of thiol-reducing system. Recently, we identified thioredoxin-binding protein-2 (TBP-2) as a negative regulator of thioredoxin. Here, we report the role of TBP-2 in oxidative renal tubular injury and the subsequent carcinogenesis by ferric nitrilotriacetate. TBP-2 was abundantly expressed in the rat kidney. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that TBP-2 was present in association with nuclei and mitochondrial intermembrane space in the proximal tubular cells and coimmunoprecipitated with cytochrome c. After acute oxidative tubular damage, TBP-2 protein, but not messenger RNA, markedly decreased, demonstrating shortened half-life of this protein. Most cases of the induced renal cell carcinoma showed undetectable levels of TBP-2 protein, which was associated with the methylation of CpG island in the promoter region. Genome sequence analyses identified the poly-A tract in the 3' untranslated region as a mutation hot spot in this rather nonselective environment. Collectively, the amounts of TBP-2 protein were inversely associated with proliferation of tubular cells, as evaluated by proliferating cell nuclear antigen. These results suggest that loss of TBP-2 is essential for proliferation of not only neoplastic but also non-neoplastic renal tubular cells, and that TBP-2 is a target gene in oxidative stress-induced renal carcinogenesis by ferric nitrilotriacetate.
We recorded the ventilatory effects of eltanolone 0.75 mg kg-1, propofol 2.5 mg kg-1 and thiopentone 4 mg kg-1 at induction of anaesthesia in 76 unpremedicated patients, aged 18-65 yr. Measurements were made using a pneumotachograph incorporated between a close-fitting face mask and a T-piece delivering 35% oxygen. Eltanolone caused significantly less apnoea than propofol (incidence 57% vs 100%) and less reduction in ventilation than propofol (median maximum decrease 4.8 vs 7.8 litre min-1), but the differences between eltanolone and thiopentone were smaller and generally not significant. Ventilatory frequency was maintained well in the eltanolone group.
