Diffuse alveolar haemorrhage associated with glomerulonephritis is a rare but serious complication of d-penicillamine therapy. A case is reported which illustrates the usefulness of bronchoalveolar lavage and kidney needle biopsy for the early diagnosis of this condition. A search for antiglomerular basement membrane antibodies in serum was negative, whereas antigranulocyte cytoplasmic antibodies were present. These immunological results differentiated the disease from Goodpasture's syndrome to which it is clinically related and placed it in the same category as microscopic polyarteritis. After treatment with corticosteroids, cytostatic drugs and plasmapheresis, the outcome was favourable in contrast with the usually poor prognosis.
Deposition of amyloid beta (A beta) is one of the pathological hallmarks of brains affected with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The accumulation of A beta have been observed in human myopathies with rimmed vacuoles (RVs) which might involve lysosomal function. Chloroquine, a potent lysosomotropic agent, induces muscle pathology in experimental animals similar to myopathy with RV. In this study, we demonstrate, for the first time, immunohistochemical evidence that A beta and cathepsin D, a lysosomal enzyme, accumulate in vacuolated rat soleus muscle due to chloroquine-induced myopathy. These data indicate that lysosomes are important in the metabolism of amyloid precursor protein to generate A beta. This experimental system seems to be useful not only to study basic mechanisms underlying RV myopathy but also to understand processing of amyloid precursor protein to A beta in AD.
We compared the acute tubular nephrotoxicity of three platinum compounds in children and adults with solid tumors by monitoring the urinary excretion of alanine aminopeptidase, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, and total protein. Cisplatin (100 mg/m2) was administered with mannitol, or at a twofold larger total dosage (50 mg/m2 per day for 4 days) in a 3% saline infusion. Carboplatin (300 mg/m2) was administered in combination with 5-fluorouracil, and iproplatin was administered in dosages ranging from 216 to 388 mg/m2. Enzymuria and proteinuria induced by cisplatin at a total dosage of 200 mg/m2 on a divided schedule did not significantly differ from that observed for the single 100 mg/m2 dose. Enzymuria and proteinuria induced by carboplatin and iproplatin were significantly less than that for cisplatin; however, one patient developed chronic tubular damage after three courses of carboplatin, and the acute tubular toxicity of iproplatin in one of 15 patients was exceptional. Our findings support the value of administering cisplatin in hypertonic saline on a divided schedule as a strategy to reduce acute tubular damage. Although carboplatin and iproplatin are less nephrotoxic than cisplatin, occasionally patients experience subclinical acute or chronic tubular damage that may lead to overt nephrotoxicity with continued therapy.
Impairments in attentional functions and capacities represent core aspects of the cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia. Attentional performance has been demonstrated to depend on the integrity and activity of cortical cholinergic inputs. The neurobiological, behavioral, and cognitive effects of repeated exposure to psychostimulants model important aspects of schizophrenia. In the present experiment, prefrontal acetylcholine (ACh) release was measured in attentional task-performing and non-performing rats pretreated with an escalating dosing regimen of amphetamine (AMPH) and following challenges with AMPH. In non-performing rats, pretreatment with AMPH did not affect the increases in ACh release produced by AMPH-challenges. In contrast, attentional task performance-associated increases in ACh release were attenuated in AMPH-pretreated and AMPH-challenged rats. This effect of repeated AMPH exposure on ACh release was already present before task-onset, suggesting that the loss of cognitive control that characterized these animals' performance was a result of cholinergic dysregulation. The findings indicate that the demonstration of repeated AMPH-induced dysregulation of the prefrontal cholinergic input system depends on interactions between the effects of repeated AMPH exposure and cognitive performance-associated recruitment of this neuronal system. Repeated AMPH-induced disruption of prefrontal cholinergic activity and attentional performance represents a useful model to investigate the cholinergic mechanisms contributing to the cognitive impairments of schizophrenia.
A 68-year-old man with coronary artery disease was admitted for chest pain and ventricular tachycardia. After electric cardioversion, therapeutic heparinization was started for myocardial ischemia and nontransmural infarction. On day 3, headache and fever developed, followed by an altered sensorium and hyponatremia. Infectious etiology for the fever was excluded, and results of computed tomography of the brain were normal. Later magnetic resonance imaging (Day 10) demonstrated a pituitary macroadenoma with hemorrhage. Treatment for panhypopituitarism with stress-dose steroids stabilized the patient, and the fever and hyponatremia resolved. Transsphenoidal resection of the pituitary adenoma was performed without incident. This is the first reported case of pituitary apoplexy after heparin anticoagulation for acute myocardial infarction, although chronic anticoagulation in other settings has been reported as a precipitant of apoplexy. The uncommon presentation of a "central" fever and confusion in a patient with previously undiagnosed adenoma posed a diagnostic challenge. Subtle presentations of panhypopituitarism, knowledge of which should lead to suspicion and early diagnosis of pituitary apoplexy, will prevent anticoagulant-induced central nervous system catastrophes and potential fatalities.
The effects of 500 and 300 mg/kg bromodeoxyuridine (BUdR) on the process of fusion of the neural folds were tested after injection into pregnant mice on day 8 of gestation (192 hours postcoitum). Various doses of the natural nucleoside, thymidine (TdR), were also tested. Both doses of BUdR retarded growth to the same extent, but only the larger dose caused neural tube defects in 28.8% of embryos. Treatment with the larger dose also caused extensive cell necrosis to appear in the neuroepithelium of the neural folds between 12 and 15 hours after treatment. No changes were detectable with the light microscope up to this time. Measurement of the cell generation time in treated and control embryos indicated that the BUdR prolonged the cycle by about 2 hours and that the dying cells were in the second DNA synthetic phase following incorporation of the analog. Treatment with the smaller dose of BUdR caused minimal cell necrosis. This was taken as evidence for the importance of cell necrosis in the pathogenesis of BUdR-induced neural tube defects. Treatment with excess TdR did not cause either neural tube defects or cell necrosis, and a dose of TdR equimolar with the large dose of BUdR (400 mg/kg TdR) did not retard growth. Doses of 800 and 1,200 mg/kg TdR retarded growth to the same extent as BUdR. The administration of an equimolar amount of TdR, along with the teratogenic dose of BUdR, prevented the occurrence of cell necrosis and neural tube defects. When treatments were given on day 9 of gestation, 500 mg/kg BUdR caused cell necrosis in the neuroepithelium about 15 hours after treatment but no neural tube defects were produced by day 9 after treatment. It is suggested that in this case cell necrosis occurred too late to interfere with neural fold fusion. It was concluded that the ability of BUdR to cause exencephaly in mouse embryos was due to cell necrosis in the neuroepithelium.
This study was conducted to explore differences in gray and white matter volume between cocaine-dependent and healthy comparison subjects using optimized voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and neuropsychological function tests were performed for 40 cocaine-dependent subjects (41.4+/-6.9 years, 27 men) and 41 healthy age- and sex-matched comparison subjects (38.7+/-8.8 years, 26 men). Optimally normalized whole brain MR images were segmented, modulated, smoothed, and compared between groups with statistical parametric mapping. The cocaine-dependent group had lower gray matter volumes in bilateral premotor cortex (Brodmann area (BA) 6, 8; 16.6%), right orbitofrontal cortex (BA 10, 15.1%), bilateral temporal cortex (BA 20, 38; 15.9%), left thalamus (12.6%), and bilateral cerebellum (13.4%) as well as lower right cerebellar white matter volume (10.0%) relative to the comparison group at a corrected p<0.05 for multiple comparisons. Duration of cocaine use negatively correlated with right and left cerebellar gray matter volumes (r=-0.37, r=-0.39, respectively). In cocaine-dependent subjects, lower cerebellar hemispheric gray and white matter volumes were correlated with deficits in executive function and decreased motor performance. This study reports that cocaine-dependent subjects have lower gray matter volumes in cerebellar hemispheres as well as in frontal, temporal cortex, and thalamus. These findings are the first to suggest that the cerebellum may be vulnerable to cocaine-associated brain volume changes, and that cerebellar deficits may contribute to neuropsychological deficits and motor dysfunction frequently observed in cocaine-dependent subjects.
Resistance to imatinib is a frequent clinical problem in advanced phase chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). A Phase II study was performed on low-dose decitabine, a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor, in combination with imatinib in patients with CML in accelerated phase (AP) and myeloid blastic phase (BP).
Patients received decitabine 15 mg/m(2) intravenously daily, 5 days a week for 2 weeks, and imatinib 600 mg orally daily. Global DNA methylation was measured by long interspersed nucleotide element (LINE) bisulfite/pyrosequencing.
Twenty-eight patients were enrolled (25 with imatinib resistance; 18 in AP, 10 in BP). A total of 91 cycles (median, 2.5 cycles per patient) was administered. Complete hematologic responses, partial hematologic responses, and hematologic improvement were observed in 9 (32%), 1 (4%), and 2 (7%) patients. Major and minor cytogenetic responses were observed in 5 (18%) and 3 (11%) patients. The hematologic response rate was higher in patients without BCR-ABL kinase mutations (10 of 19, 53%) than in those with mutations (1 of 7, 14%). Median duration of hematologic response was 18 (range, 4 to 107+) weeks. Myelosuppression was the major adverse effect, with neutropenic fever in 9 patients (32%). LINE methylation decreased from 71.6% +/- 0.9% (mean +/- standard error of the mean) to 60.4% +/- 2.0% on Day 5, 60.5% +/- 1.8% on Day 12, and returned to 68.8% +/- 1.4% at peripheral blood recovery. A decrease in LINE methylation tended to be greater in nonresponders than in responders on Days 5 and 12.
Combination therapy with decitabine and imatinib is well tolerated and active in advanced phase CML without BCR-ABL kinase mutations.
Observational studies suggest a synergistic effect of hypertension and hyperlipidaemia on the progression of atherosclerosis. The alpha-blocker doxazosin has favourable effects on plasma lipids, insulin resistance and blood pressure, while the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) principally affects blood pressure and increases insulin resistance.
A randomised double-blind study over 36 months was performed to compare the effects of doxazosin and HCTZ on fasting lipids and on progression of peripheral atherosclerosis. Eighty males (45 to 70 years) with peripheral atherosclerotic disease and increased cholesterol levels (5.2-8.0 mmol/l) were treated for essential hypertension with either doxazosin (n = 41) or HCTZ (n = 39). Main outcome measures were arterial intima-media thickness (IMT) of the carotid and femoral arteries and fasting lipid parameters.
In the doxazosin-treated group, significant changes were observed in the concentration of triglycerides (-13.7%, p < 0.01), HDLc (+25.7%, p < 0.05) and IDLc (-30.1%, P < 0.05). In the HCTZ-treated group no significant changes in plasma lipid levels were observed. On follow-up visits systolic blood pressure in the doxazosin-treated group was 6 mm higher than in the HCTZ group. Nevertheless, the groups treated with doxazosin or HCTZ showed no differential effect on IMT after three years of treatment (p = 0.8). A significant reduction of the IMT of combined carotid and femoral arterial walls was shown in both treatment groups (p < 0.005).
Hypertension treatment with doxazosin or HCTZ resulted in a comparable change in arterial IMT after three years, in spite of differences in effect on plasma lipids. The study emphasises the importance of blood pressure control in patients with peripheral vascular disease and hypercholesterolaemia.
To determine whether epinephrine-induced hypokalemia is due to beta2-adrenoceptor stimulation, and whether hypokalemia can occur at physiologic concentrations of the agonist, epinephrine was infused into six normal volunteers at a rate of 0.1 microgram per kilogram of body weight per minute. The circulating epinephrine concentration was increased to 1.74 +/- 0.65 ng per milliliter, plasma potassium was reduced by 0.82 +/- 0.19 meq per liter, plasma insulin fell by 12 +/- 4 mU per liter, plasma renin activity was elevated, and tachycardia occurred. Isoproterenol infused at 0.02 micrograms per kilogram per minute caused similar tachycardia (25 beats per minute) and elevation in plasma renin activity (6.0 to 6.5 ng per milliliter per hour), but no hypokalemia. The difference in responses to the two catecholamines was ascribed to the relative beta2-selectivity of epinephrine. This hypothesis was tested in six subjects given infusions of epinephrine (0.05 micrograms per kilogram per minute) after administration of either 2.5 or 5 mg of ICI 118551--a selective beta2-receptor antagonist--or placebo. After placebo, epinephrine infusion elevated the circulating epinephrine concentration and reduced plasma potassium; hypokalemia was prevented by the beta2-antagonist. This drug only partially inhibited the rises in plasma renin and glucose and the shortening of systolic time intervals; there was no tachycardia. Fifteen-fold to 30-fold increases in circulating epinephrine concentration appear to cause hypokalemia by a specific beta2-receptor effect distinct from other actions of epinephrine. This phenomenon may be of physiologic importance after severe myocardial infarction, when similar increases in plasma epinephrine have occurred.
The administration of N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) at a dose of 0.2% of the diet to male Fischer rats results in the appearance of urinary bladder epithelial lesions progressing from hyperplasia to invasive transitional cell carcinomas. These progressive epithelial alterations have been observed by scanning electron microscopy at 2-week intervals with special attention paid to cells covering the luminal surface. After 2 to 4 weeks of FANFT administration there is mild pleomorphism and moderate swelling of the surface cells giving a cobblestone appearance. The normal pattern of microridges of superficial transitional cells is still present, although occasional cells by 4 weeks of FANFT feeding are covered by small uniform microvilli. By 6 weeks these changes are more extensive and more cells are covered with uniform microvilli. By 8 weeks, cells covered with pleomorphic microvilli are found in discrete foci, and by 10 weeks nodular or papillary lesions are present. The 2- and 4-week lesions regress to normal within 2 to 4 weeks of discontinuing FANFT administration, and the 6- and 8-week lesions regress toward normal in 4 to 6 weeks of being fed control diet. The 6-week lesions have regressed entirely to normal 44 weeks after FANFT was stopped, but the 8-week lesions have progressed to moderate or marked hyperplastic lesions by 42 weeks of control diet with pleomorphic cells covered with pleomorphic microvilli. The results of this study suggest that lesions are reversible up to and including 6 weeks of 0.2% FANFT in the diet, and that, by 8 weeks of 0.2% FANFT, irreversible lesions result which do not revert to normal after 42 weeks of control diet.
Sharpin-deficient (Sharpin(cpdm)) mutant mice develop a chronic eosinophilic dermatitis. To determine the efficacy of eosinophil-depletion in chronic inflammation, Sharpin(cpdm) mice were treated with anti-IL5 antibodies. Mice treated with anti-IL5 had a 90% reduction of circulating eosinophils and a 50% decrease in cutaneous eosinophils after 10 days compared with sham-treated littermates. Reducing the number of eosinophils resulted in increased severity of alopecia and erythema and a significant increase in epidermal thickness. Skin homogenates from mice treated with anti-IL5 had decreased mRNA expression of arylsulfatase B (Arsb), diamine oxidase (amiloride-binding protein 1, also called histaminase; Abp1) and Il10, which are mediators that eosinophils may release to quench inflammation. Skin homogenates from mice treated with anti-IL5 also had decreased mRNA expression of Il4, Il5, Ccl11, kit ligand (Kitl) and Tgfa; and increased mRNA expression of Tgfb1, Mmp12 and tenascin C (Tnc). In order to further decrease the accumulation of eosinophils, Sharpin(cpdm) mice were crossed with IL5 null mice. Il5(-/-), Sharpin(cpdm)/Sharpin(cpdm) mice had a 98% reduction of circulating eosinophils and a 95% decrease in cutaneous eosinophils compared with IL5-sufficient Sharpin(cpdm) mice. The severity of the lesions was similar between IL5-sufficient and IL5-deficient mice. Double mutant mice had a significant decrease in Abp1, and a significant increase in Tgfb1, Mmp12 and Tnc mRNA compared with controls. These data indicate that eosinophils are not essential for the development of dermatitis in Sharpin(cpdm) mice and suggest that eosinophils have both pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory roles in the skin of these mice.
Will amifostine (A) protect against chemotherapy-induced neuro- and myelotoxicity.
Ninety ovarian cancer patients were randomized to receive standard paclitaxel + carboplatin without (PC) or preceded by amifostine 740 mg/m(2) (PC + A).
The mean baseline values of hemoglobin, leukocyte, and platelets were slightly lower in the amifostine group, but the mean percentual decrease of these parameters after each treatment cycle showed no difference between both arms. Symptoms of neurotoxicity remained absent in 40% PC vs. 49% PC + A cycles; sensory neurotoxicity grade I occurred in 45% vs. 48% and grade II in 12% PC vs. 2% of PC + A cycles (overall P < 0.001). Nausea grade II was reported in 2% vs. 6% (P = 0.007) and vomiting grade II in 1% of PC vs. 8% PC + A cycles (P < 0.001). Amifostine was temporarily interrupted in five patients due to hypotension, but no dose reductions were indicated. Quality of life questionnaires showed no difference in neurotoxicity scores between both study arms at treatment completion. The median progression-free survival was 16 vs. 22 months (n.s.) for PC and PC + A patients. In a pooled analysis of four randomized studies, amifostine diminished the risk of developing neurotoxicity grade II-III (Odds Ratio 0.3, 95% confidence interval 0.15-0.63, P < 0.05), but had no effect on the risk for bone marrow toxicity.
Amifostine shows only minor but significant activity in diminishing neurotoxicity without preventing paclitaxel + carboplatin-induced bone marrow toxicity.
N-[4-(5-Nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) fed to male and female Fischer rats at a dose of 0.2% of the diet induces lesions of the urinary bladder which progress from mild hyperplasia at 2 to 4 weeks, to moderate hyperplasia at 6 to 8 weeks, severe nodular and papillary hyperplasia at 10 to 14 weeks, and microinvasive carcinomas by 25 weeks as observed by light microscopy. Male Fischer rats fed FANFT for 2 to 4 weeks and then maintained on control diet show regression of the bladder lesions within 2 weeks to normal-appearing mucosa which persists through 50 weeks. Rats fed FANFT for 6 weeks show regression of the moderately hyperplastic epithelium to normal within 4 weeks after being placed on control diet which persists through 50 weeks. Rats fed FANFT for 8 to 10 weeks show regression of the hyperplastic bladder epithelium within 2 weeks of receiving control diet, but focal areas of mild hyperplasia are detectable through the 20th week of the experiment. By the 50th week the rats fed FANFT for 8 weeks all had moderate to marked hyperplasia, but the rats fed FANFT for 10 weeks had transitional cell tumors, one of which was invasive through the entire thickness of the bladder wall. The lesions present in rats fed FANFT for 12, 14, or 20 weeks continued to progress to invasive tumors (microinvasive or invasion of muscle) after the rats had been maintained on control diet through 50 weeks. Thus, the hyperplastic lesions developing through 6 weeks of FANFT administration appear to be reversible if FANFT is discontinued, but later lesions appear to be irreversible.
Cocaine is a widely used drug of abuse. One of the characteristic effects of this stimulant drug in the CNS of mice is the induction of motor hyperactivity. It was demonstrated that cocaine-induced motor hyperactivity could be blocked by pimozide, a dopamine receptor blocker, suggesting that dopamine was involved in cocaine-induced hyperactivity. Oxytocin, a neurohypophyseal neuropeptide, also partially antagonized cocaine-induced motor hyperactivity. Moreover, oxytocin antagonized the increased utilization of dopamine, elicited by cocaine in the nucleus accumbens. The data suggest that oxytocin may influence the behavioural effects of cocaine by affecting dopaminergic neurotransmission in some regions of the brain.
Glioblastomas are among the most difficult neoplasms to treat with continued poor prognosis for long-term survival. Glioblastomas have developed effective mechanisms to resist chemotherapy including levels anti-apoptotic proteins, Bcl-xL and Bcl-2. Chemotherapy agents that promote down-regulation of Bcl-xL and Bcl-2 may enhance sensitivity to chemotherapy in glioblastomas. The ability of the synthetic retinoid N-(4-hydroxyphenyl) retinamide to modulate these anti-apoptotic proteins and to enhance apoptosis and chemotherapy was examined in glioblastoma cells. Expression of Bcl-2 family member proteins Bcl-xL and Bcl-2 were assessed in glioblastomas from three cell lines including U87, U251, and U138. Cells were treated with either retinamide alone or in combination with the chemotherapy agent, BCNU. The incidence of apoptosis was determined with flow cytometry analysis (FACS). Based on Western blots the levels of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL were decreased in glioblastoma cells after treatment with retinamide. Retinamide treatment resulted in increased ratios of deamidated verses transamidated levels of Bcl-xL in U87 cells. BCNU chemotherapy combined with retinamide markedly down-regulated levels of both Bcl-xL and Bcl-2 proteins in glioblastoma and enhanced the incidence of apoptosis in U87 cells. These studies demonstrate that modulation of levels of the anti-apoptotic proteins, Bcl-xL and Bcl-2, may enhance the sensitivity of glioblastoma toward chemotherapy.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are implicated in spontaneous and xenobiotic-enhanced embryopathies, and protein therapy with exogenous catalase suggests an embryoprotective role, although embryonic catalase activity is only about 5% of adult activity. Using mutant catalase-deficient (acatalasemic, aCat) mice and transgenic mice expressing human catalase (hCat, enhanced catalase activity) compared with a confirmed outbred CD-1 mouse model, we investigated the protective importance of constitutive embryonic catalase against endogenous ROS and the ROS-initiating teratogen phenytoin in embryo culture. Vehicle-exposed aCat and hCat embryos, respectively, exhibited reduced and enhanced catalase activity compared with wild-type (WT) controls, with conversely enhanced and reduced spontaneous embryopathies. Phenytoin was embryopathic in all strains without altering catalase activity but less so in the WT embryos for the aCat and hCat strains, which exhibited about half the catalase activity of CD-1 embryos. Phenytoin, respectively, enhanced and reduced embryopathies in aCat and hCat embryos. Among aCat embryos exposed to phenytoin, embryopathies increased with decreasing catalase activity and were completely blocked by addition of exogenous catalase, which increased embryonic catalase activity to WT levels. These results provide the first direct evidence that (1) the low level of constitutive embryonic catalase protects the conceptus from developmental and xenobiotic-enhanced oxidative stress and (2) embryonic variations in activity of this enzyme affect development.
The DDT metabolite 3-methylsulfonyl-DDE (3-MeSO(2)-DDE) has been proposed as a lead compound for an improved adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) treatment. ACC is a rare malignant disorder with poor prognosis, and the current pharmacological therapy o,p'-DDD (mitotane) has limited efficacy and causes severe adverse effects. 3-MeSO(2)-DDE is bioactivated by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 11B1 in mice and causes formation of irreversibly bound protein adducts, reduced glucocorticoid secretion, and cell death in the adrenal cortex of several animal species. The present study was carried out to assess similarities and differences between mice and humans concerning the adrenocorticolytic effects of 3-MeSO(2)-DDE. The results support previous indications that humans are sensitive to the adrenocorticolytic actions of 3-MeSO(2)-DDE by demonstrating protein adduct formation and cytotoxicity in the human adrenocortical cell line H295R. However, neither the irreversible binding nor the cytotoxicity of 3-MeSO(2)-DDE in H295R cells was inhibited by the CYP11B1 inhibitor etomidate. We also report biphasic responses to 3-MeSO(2)-DDE in cortisol and aldosterone secretion as well as in mRNA levels of the steroidogenic genes StAR, CYP11B1 and CYP11B2. Hormone levels and mRNA levels were increased at lower concentrations of 3-MeSO(2)-DDE, while higher concentrations decreased hormone levels. These biphasic responses were not observed with o,p'-DDD or with the precursor DDT metabolite p,p'-DDE. Based on these results, 3-MeSO(2)-DDE remains a viable lead compound for drug design, although the adrenocorticolytic effects of 3-MeSO(2)-DDE in human cells seem more complex than in murine cells.
A case of tacrolimus (FK 506)-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome is reported. The direct implication of tacrolimus, an alternative immunosuppressant to cyclosporine, was strongly supported by the recurrence of the syndrome after a second exposure to the treatment.
Uterine myoma is the most common benign reproductive tract tumor in women. Despite its high prevalence, the exact pathogenesis of these benign tumors remains unknown. Toward understanding the pathogenic mechanism of these tumors, we attempted to isolate human uterine myoma mesenchymal stem cells (hUM-MSCs), which may be the target cells for tumorigenesis. Furthermore, we tested the response of these hUM-MSCs to the environmental endocrine disruptor, bisphenol A (BPA), which may mimic the action of estrogen in hormone-sensitive organs such as the uterus.
The hUM-MSC lines were clonally derived from uterine myoma tissue using the MSU-1 medium supplemented with N-acetyl-l-cysteine and l-ascorbic acid-2-phosphate. These hUM-MSCs were characterized by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis for the expression of mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) surface markers (e.g., CD90 and CD105) and the transcription factor Oct-4. The proliferation potential was measured by the cumulative population doubling level and the colony-forming efficiency.
Putative hUM-MSC lines expressed CD90, CD105, and the stem cell marker gene, Oct-4. The cells were capable of differentiating into adipocytes, osteoblasts, and chondrocytes. Bisphenol A treatment of these hUM-MSCs enhanced cell proliferation and colony-forming efficiency in a dose-responsive manner. At an environmentally relevant concentration (10(-8) M), BPA moreover induced cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) gene expression and promoted cell migration and invasiveness.
The hUM-MSC cell lines can be isolated from uterine myoma tissues. Bisphenol A could enhance cell proliferation and colony-forming efficiency, induce COX-2 gene expression, and promote migration and invasion of hUM-MSCs. The results imply that BPA has a detrimental effect on female health by promoting uterine tumorigenesis.
To examine the effect of landiolol (ONO-1101), a new ultra-short acting and highly selective beta blocker, on epinephrine-induced ventricular arrhythmias in halothane-anesthetized dogs.
We administered five different doses (0, 0.1, 0.5, 1.0, 10 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1)) landiolol and determined the dysrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine (DDE), defined as the smallest dose producing four or more PVCs within 15 sec, at each dose of landiolol and after cessation of infusion.
The control value of DDE during 1.3 MAC halothane anesthesia was 1.26 +/- 0.44 (mean +/- SD) microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) and the corresponding plasma concentration of epinephrine (PCE) was 12.2 +/- 8.3 ng x ml(-1). Concomitant administration of 10 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) landiolol increased DDE and corresponding PCE (P < 0.05). At 30 min after cessation of landiolol infusion, DDE and corresponding PCE returned to the control values.
Landiolol, at a dose of 10 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1), has an antiarrhythmic effect on epinephrine-induced ventricular arrhythmias in dogs during anesthesia with halothane.
Verapamil is extremely effective in the treatment of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. However, the basic physiologic actions of the drug may lead to serious adverse effects. An appreciation of this and an understanding of when these adverse effects are most likely to occur will minimize the potential of verapamil to cause serious complications in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
We have screened 397 chemicals for human androgen receptor (AR) antagonism by a sensitive reporter gene assay to generate data for the development of a quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) model. A total of 523 chemicals comprising data on 292 chemicals from our laboratory and data on 231 chemicals from the literature constituted the training set for the model. The chemicals were selected with the purpose of representing a wide range of chemical structures (e.g., organochlorines and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons) and various functions (e.g., natural hormones, pesticides, plastizicers, plastic additives, brominated flame retardants, and roast mutagens). In addition, the intention was to obtain an equal number of positive and negative chemicals. Among our own data for the training set, 45.7% exhibited inhibitory activity against the transcriptional activity induced by the synthetic androgen R1881. The MultiCASE expert system was used to construct a QSAR model for AR antagonizing potential. A "5 Times, 2-Fold 50% Cross Validation" of the model showed a sensitivity of 64%, a specificity of 84%, and a concordance of 76%. Data for 102 chemicals were generated for an external validation of the model resulting in a sensitivity of 57%, a specificity of 98%, and a concordance of 92% of the model. The model was run on a set of 176103 chemicals, and 47% were within the domain of the model. Approximately 8% of chemicals was predicted active for AR antagonism. We conclude that the predictability of the global QSAR model for this end point is good. This most comprehensive QSAR model may become a valuable tool for screening large numbers of chemicals for AR antagonism.
The syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) has numerous etiologies, including medical illness, stress, and various pharmacologic agents. While a number of psychotropic agents may induce SIADH, only a few reports of tricyclic-antidepressant-induced SIADH exist. A case of SIADH associated with desipramine treatment in an elderly depressed woman is described.
Thalidomide has demonstrated a remarkable efficacy in the treatment of multiple myeloma but its use may cause several toxicities. We have investigated the common and rare side-effects, especially analysing peripheral neuropathy, in order to optimise the thalidomide dose for minimizing this harmful side-effect.
Fifty-nine patients were treated with thalidomide alone or combined with oral melphalan. The median age was 69 yr. The initial dose of thalidomide was 100 mg/day increasing weekly by 100 mg increments until a maximum dose of 400 mg was attained. Melphalan was administered at a dose of 0.20 mg/kg/d for 4 d every 28 d.
Nearly one-fourth of patients discontinued thalidomide because of toxicity. Constipation (71%), somnolence (36%) and fatigue (20%) were the most common side-effects and they were not dose dependent. Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 39% of patients and a thalidomide median daily dose of more than 150 mg was significantly associated with higher frequency and actuarial risk of peripheral neuropathy without improving the response rate. Deep venous thrombosis was observed in 7% of patients and other side-effects were rare. In patients with advanced multiple myeloma we found that a thalidomide daily dose of 150 mg minimizes peripheral neuropathy without jeopardizing response and survival.
