Role of cyclooxygenase (COX) enzyme has been well documented in both physiological and pathological conditions. COX-1 and COX-2 converts arachidonic acid into prostaglandins. Non-selective inhibition of COXs produces undesirable effects, whereas selective COX-2 inhibition produces protective effects in various inflammatory diseases. Recently, cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors have been implicated as a neuroprotectant in the treatment of various neurodegenerative diseases. Quinolinic acid is an endogenous excitotoxin that causes neurotoxicity in diverse areas of the brain and produces motor dysfunction. Present study is an attempt to investigate the possible role of COX inhibitors (selective COX-2 inhibitor and preferential COX-2 inhibitors) against quinolinic acid-induced behavioral, oxidative stress and mitochondrial enzyme complex alterations in rats. Intra-striatal administration of quinolinic acid (300 nmol) caused significant reduction in body weight (9%), motor in-coordination, oxidative damage [increased MDA (100%), nitrite concentration (195%), depleted SOD (71%), catalase levels (70%)] and alteration in mitochondrial enzyme complex activity (decreased complex I (50%), II (50%) and IV(62%)) as compared to sham operated animals. Chronic treatment with rofecoxib (10 and 20 mg/kg, p.o.) and nimesulide (10 and 20mg/kg, p.o.) significantly attenuated quinolinic acid-induced behavioral and biochemical alterations as compared to quinolinic acid 300 nmol treated group. Further, rofecoxib (10, 20 mg/kg) and nimesulide (20 mg/kg) significantly restored mitochondrial enzyme complex activities in striatum as compared to quinolinic acid 300 nmol treated group. Present study highlights the therapeutic potential of cyclooxygenase inhibitors against quinolinic acid induced neurotoxicity.
Most patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) die from right heart failure. Beta-adrenergic receptor blockade reduces mortality by about 30% in patients with left-sided systolic heart failure, but is not used in PAH.
To assess the effect of the adrenergic receptor blocker carvedilol on the pulmonary circulation and right heart in experimental pulmonary hypertension in rats.
Angioproliferative pulmonary hypertension was induced in rats by combined exposure to the vascular endothelial growth factor-receptor antagonist SU5416 and hypoxia. Carvedilol treatment was started after establishment of pulmonary hypertension and right heart dysfunction.
Compared with vehicle-treated animals, treatment with carvedilol resulted in increased exercise endurance; improved right ventricular (RV) function (increased tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion and decreased RV dilatation); and an increased cardiac output. The morphology of the pulmonary vessels and the RV afterload were not affected by carvedilol. Carvedilol treatment was associated with enhancement of RV fetal gene reactivation, increased protein kinase G (PKG) activity, and a reduction in capillary rarefaction and fibrosis. Metoprolol had similar but less pronounced effects in the SU5416 and hypoxia model. Cardioprotective effects were noted of both carvedilol and metoprolol in the monocrotaline model. In the case of carvedilol, but not metoprolol, part of these effects resulted from a prevention of monocrotaline-induced lung remodeling.
Adrenergic receptor blockade reverses RV remodeling and improves RV function in experimental pulmonary hypertension. Beta-adrenergic receptor blockers are not recommended in humans with PAH before their safety and efficacy are assessed in well-designed clinical trials.
Catnip or catmint (Nepeta cataria) is a plant used extensively to treat human diseases and in toys for pets. We investigated the effects of acute and long-term administration of the plant on some behaviors of mice. The plant was fed as 10% of the normal diet for 2 h/d for 1 or 7 d. Acute and long-term dosing increased both rearing and locomotion frequencies observed in an open field. Acute exposure to catnip increased stereotyped behavior and susceptibility to seizures, did not interfere with haloperidol-induced catalepsy, and decreased sleeping time after sodium pentobarbital administration. Long-term exposure induced tolerance to stereotypic behavior, catalepsy and sleeping time, and increased the susceptibility to seizures induced by picrotoxin and strychnine. An amphetamine-like effect of catnip was suggested to explain the acute effects, while dispositional and functional adaptative changes were considered involved with the long-term effects.
A patient with twin gestation was hospitalized because of preterm labor and treated with intravenous ritodrine hydrochloride (Yutopar, Astra Pharmaceutical Products, Westborough, Mass.). After greater than 4 weeks of therapy, the patient had a petechial rash and prolonged bleeding time, which were diagnosed and confirmed by skin biopsy at cesarean section as vasculitis. This is the first documented case of vasculitis associated with ritodrine use.
Oxidative stress after stroke is associated with the inflammatory system activation in the brain. The complement cascade, especially the degradation products of complement component 3, is a key inflammatory mediator of cerebral ischemia. We have shown that pro-inflammatory complement component 3 is increased by oxidative stress after ischemic stroke in mice using DNA array. In this study, we investigated whether up-regulation of complement component 3 is directly related to oxidative stress after transient focal cerebral ischemia in mice and oxygen-glucose deprivation in brain cells. Persistent up-regulation of complement component 3 expression was reduced in copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase transgenic mice, and manganese-superoxide dismutase knock-out mice showed highly increased complement component 3 levels after transient focal cerebral ischemia. Antioxidant N-tert-butyl-α-phenylnitrone treatment suppressed complement component 3 expression after transient focal cerebral ischemia. Accumulation of complement component 3 in neurons and microglia was decreased by N-tert-butyl-α-phenylnitrone, which reduced infarct volume and impaired neurological deficiency after cerebral ischemia and reperfusion in mice. Small interfering RNA specific for complement component 3 transfection showed a significant increase in brain cells viability after oxygen-glucose deprivation. Our study suggests that the neuroprotective effect of antioxidants through complement component 3 suppression is a new strategy for potential therapeutic approaches in stroke.
Dipyridamole is an antiplatelet agent and a vasodilator which is increasingly being used for the secondary prevention of ischaemic stroke and transient ischemic attack, either alone or in combination with acetylsalicylic acid. We describe an 83-year-old woman who had developed musical hallucinations within days of initiating dipyridamole. Her psychiatric and neurological evaluation was otherwise unremarkable. After the discontinuation of dipyridamole the hallucinations ceased within a couple of days. To the best of our knowledge this is the first case of auditory hallucinations associated with dipyridamole reported in the literature.
Morphine, enkephalins, nalorphine, naloxone and pentazocine are shown to have a peripheral analgesic effect. In our modification of the Randall-Selitto test these substances were 50--100 times more potent than a standard local anaesthetic, lidocaine. At this peripheral site, naloxone did not antagonize the effect of morphine. Morphine had a marked analgesic effect on the hyperalgesia induced by PGE2 and PGI2, BaCl2, Ca2+ ionophore A23187, isoprenaline but not on that induced by dibutyryl cyclic AMP. It was suggested that the peripheral analgesic effect of morphine is due to an inhibition of adenylate-cyclase activity.
Epidemiological studies have demonstrated that the Mediterranean diet, which is rich in resveratrol, is associated with a significantly reduced risk of cardiovascular disease. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie the beneficial effects of resveratrol on cardiovascular function remain incompletely understood. Therefore, we set out to identify the molecular target(s) mediating the protective action of resveratrol on vascular function. To this end, we performed vascular reactivity studies to evaluate the effects of resveratrol on superior thyroid artery obtained from 59 patients with hypertension and dyslipidemia. We found that resveratrol evoked vasorelaxation and reduced endothelial dysfunction through the modulation of NO metabolism via (1) an 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase-mediated increase in endothelial NO synthase activity; (2) a rise in tetrahydrobiopterin levels, which also increases endothelial NO synthase activity; and (3) attenuation of vascular oxidative stress, brought about by overexpression of manganese superoxide dismutase via an nuclear factor erythroid-derived 2-like 2-dependent mechanism. The effects of resveratrol on acetylcholine vasorelaxation were also tested in vessels from patients with nonhypertensive nondyslipidemia undergoing thyroid surgery. In this setting, resveratrol failed to exert any effect. Thus, our finding that resveratrol reduces endothelial dysfunction, an early pathophysiological feature and independent predictor of poor prognosis in most forms of cardiovascular disease, supports the concept that the risk of vascular events could be further reduced by adherence to a set of dietary and behavioral guidelines.
Ovarian dysgerminoma is the most common ovarian malignancy in young women. Conservative treatment is indicated in the reproductive-age woman who wishes to preserve childbearing capacity. This case report describes a patient with ovarian dysgerminoma who underwent chemotherapy with a cisplatin-vinblastine-bleomycin regimen that resulted in serious toxic complications--including cortical blindness and seizures--that were transient in nature. Although current chemotherapy regimens have dramatically improved the overall survival of women with germ-cell tumors, there are toxic complications such as those demonstrated in this report, and toxicity must be balanced against presumed benefit.
Cutaneous rashes and eruptions can be caused by many medications, including carbamazepine. The presentation can be varied depending on severity. Cutaneous eruptions occur in 3% of individuals administered carbamazepine. Angioedema, a rare side effect of carbamazepine, involves vascular leakage in dermis and subcutis mediated by immunoglobulin E and/or bradykinins. Angioedema is more common in females and in the third decade of life. We report the case of a 27-year-old Indian woman who developed maculopapular rash and angioedema secondary to carbamazepine administration. The patient responded successfully to withdrawal of the drug and treatment with antihistamines. Due to the potentially life-threatening complications of this condition and the increasing use of anticonvulsants in the treatment of mood disorders, psychiatrists must be aware of the diagnosis and treatment of this condition.
Previous studies have shown that phenobarbital (PB), as well as another known liver tumor promoter, alpha-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH), inhibits hepatic tumor formation in infant N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA)-initiated C57BL/6 x C3H/He (B6C3F1) male mice. These inconsistencies in detecting PB and HCH as tumor promoters have raised important questions on the mechanism of tumor promotion in mice, as well as the reliability of the infant B6C3F1 mouse as an initiation model in two-stage carcinogenesis experiments. Therefore, in an effort to avoid the inconsistencies associated with the B6C3F1 mouse, the present study evaluated the ability of two known hepatic liver tumor promoters, di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP), a peroxisome proliferator, and phenobarbital (PB), a barbiturate, to promote hepatocellular tumorigenesis in mice of the C3H/HeNCr strain initiated during infancy. At 15 days of age, male and female C3H/HeNCr mice received either a single ip injection of NDEA (5 micrograms/g body weight) or saline. At weaning (4 weeks of age), mice were divided into 3 groups and treated with either DEHP in the diet (12,000 ppm), PB in the drinking water (500 ppm), or control drinking water and diet for 24 weeks. All mice were killed at 28 weeks of age and the number and size of hepatic foci and adenomas were evaluated. Mice exposed to NDEA+DEHP or NDEA+PB showed significant increases in the number and size of hepatic tumors compared to those receiving NDEA alone. DEHP treatment in males yielded larger adenomas than those seen in PB-treated males.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have extended our previous observations on the effect of tranylcypromine (TCP) on intraocular pressure (IOP), following topical administration of catecholamines is normal and chemically denervated rabbit eyes. In normal eyes, TCP inhibits the hypotensive phase after topical norepinephrine (nE); less after epinephrine (E); and not at all after isoproterenol. In denervated eyes, the inhibitory effect of TCP on the hypotensive phase of nE and E is enhanced. Phenoxybenzamine (PBA), but not timolol maleate or indomethacin, blocks the effect of TCP on alpha-adrenergic induced hypotension. Prostacyclin-like activity was estimated by bioassay using ADP induced rat platelet aggregation. This activity is significantly reduced in the primary aqueous and in the iris after TCP but it is significantly increased in pooled data of aqueous samples after topical nE. We conclude that the inhibitory effect of TCP on the hypotensive phase after topical E and nE is the result of inhibition of prostacyclin synthesis and not of MAO inhibition nor blockade of alpha-receptors. It is possible that the normal production of prostacyclin by the iris and ciliary body maintains (lower) basal levels of IOP.
The goal of our study was to determine whether maternal exposure to red raspberry leaf (RRL) and its constituents can permanently alter biotransformation of fluorogenic substrates by cytochrome P450 (CYP) in the livers of male and female offspring. Nulliparous female rats received vehicle, raspberry leaf, kaempferol, quercetin, or ellagic acid orally once breeding had been confirmed until parturition. Hepatic microsomes were prepared from animals at birth (postnatal day 1 [PND1]), weaning (PND21), PND65, and PND120 to determine the biotransformation of 8 fluorogenic substrates. The pattern of biotransformation of all but 2 of the substrates was gender specific. Maternal consumption of RRL increased biotransformation of 3 substrates by female offspring at PND120 resulting in a more masculine profile. Kaempferol and quercetin had a similar effect to RRL. These results suggest that maternal consumption of either RRL or some of its constituents leads to long-term alterations of CYP activity in female offspring.
Therapeutic doses of zoledronic acid markedly inhibit in vitro proliferation, chemotaxis, and capillarogenesis of bone marrow endothelial cells of patients with multiple myeloma. Zoledronic acid also induces a sizeable reduction of angiogenesis in the in vivo chorioallantoic membrane assay. These effects are partly sustained by gene and protein inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 in an autocrine loop. Mevastatin, a specific inhibitor of the mevalonate pathway, reverts the zoledronic acid antiangiogenic effect, indicating that the drug halts this pathway. Our results provide evidence of a direct antiangiogenic activity of zoledronic acid on multiple myeloma patient-derived endothelial cells due to at least four different mechanisms identified either in vitro or in vivo. Tentatively, we suggest that the zoledronic acid antitumoral activity in multiple myeloma is also sustained by antiangiogenesis, which would partly account for its therapeutic efficacy in multiple myeloma.
To evaluate agonistic TRA-8 monoclonal antibody to human death receptor 5 (DR5) and gemcitabine in vitro and in an orthotopic pancreatic cancer model.
Pancreatic cancer cell lines were screened for DR5 expression, cytotoxicity, and apoptosis induced by TRA-8, gemcitabine, or gemcitabine and TRA-8. An orthotopic model of pancreatic cancer was established in severe combined immunodeficient mice. Mice were treated with TRA-8, gemcitabine, or a combination for one or two cycles of therapy. Tumor growth (ultrasound) and survival were analyzed.
All five pancreatic cancer cell lines showed DR5 protein expression and varying sensitivity to TRA-8-mediated cytotoxicity. MIA PaCa-2 cells were very sensitive to TRA-8, moderately resistant to gemcitabine, with additive cytotoxicity to the combination. S2-VP10 cells were resistant to TRA-8 and sensitive to gemcitabine with synergistic sensitivity to the combination. Combination treatment in vitro produced enhanced caspase-3 and caspase-8 activation. A single cycle of therapy produced comparable efficacy for single-agent TRA-8 and the combination of TRA-8 and gemcitabine, with significant reduction in tumor size and prolonged survival compared with gemcitabine alone or control animals. With two cycles of therapy, TRA-8 and combination therapy produced enhanced inhibition of tumor growth compared with single-agent gemcitabine or untreated animals. However, the combination regimen showed enhanced survival as compared with single-agent TRA-8.
Pancreatic cancer cell lines express varying levels of DR5 and differ in their sensitivity to TRA-8 and gemcitabine-induced cytotoxicity. TRA-8 with two cycles of gemcitabine therapy produced the best overall survival.
To investigate the effects of aluminum on learning and memory and the expression of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR) of hippocampus in offspring from female rats exposed to Al in the pregnancy or lactation, and to explore the mechanism of toxic effects of Al on central nervous system (CNS) during development.
The pregnant Wistar rats were randomly divided into 3 groups based on their body weight, i.e. control group was exposed to distilled water, low exposure group (0.2%AlCl3) and high exposure group (0.4%AlCl3) were exposed orally to AlCl3 in pregnancy and lactation for 6 weeks, 10 rats each group. Aluminum content in blood and brains was determined by atomic absorption spectrophotometry (AAS). Platform experiment was used to detect the abilities of learning and memory. The expression levels of NMDARs were detected by western blot assay.
The Al content in blood and brains of rats in exposure groups increased significantly with Al dose, as compared with the control group (P < 0.05). In platform experiment, the incubation periods of rats in low and high exposure groups were (202.71 ± 81.99) and (19.67 ± 8.44) s respectively, which were significantly lower than that [(300.00 ± 0.00) s] in control group (P < 0.01), but the mistake times of rats in low and high exposure groups were 1.43 ± 0.85 and 2.47 ± 0.99 respectively, which were significantly higher than that (0.00 ± 0.00) in control group (P < 0.01). The Al exposure could change the proportion of NMDAR subtypes, the expression levels of NR1 and NR2B in hippocampus of newborn rats in low and high exposure groups were 25.22 ± 0.68, 81.23 ± 15.37 and 24.75 ± 0.71, 56.63 ± 7.82, respectively, which were significantly lower than those (31.69 ± 3.44, 107.61 ± 9.05) in control group (P < 0.05).
Aluminum exposure in pregnancy and lactation could reduce the abilities of learning and memory in newborn rats, and change the proportion of NMDAR subtypes. The reduced NR1 and NR2B expression levels may be one of important mechanisms to influence the abilities of learning and memory in offspring.
Alprazolam produced anterograde as well as retrograde amnesia in mice assessed using elevated plus-maze. Flumazenil (10 mg/kg i.p.) attenuated anterograde and retrograde amnesia produced by alprazolam. It is proposed that anterograde amnesia produced by alprazolam may be mediated through the activation of benzodiazepine receptors. Retrograde amnesia of alprazolam may be mediated through the blockade of PAF receptors. Moreover, flumazenil facilitates learning and memory perhaps by modulating the release of PAF and consequently attenuated alprazolam and BN-50730-(PAF receptor antagonist)-induced retrograde amnesia.
Fenfluramine was administered to 14 outpatient children with the syndrome of autism to determine whether previously produced decreases in blood serotonin concentrations and clinical improvements could be reinstituted. A double-blind medication-placebo crossover design was used. Each patient received fenfluramine 1.5 mg/kg daily (0.75 mg/kg twice daily) for 8 months, followed by placebo for 2 months. Blood serotonin levels promptly fell approximately 49% regardless of baseline levels. Clinical improvement returned, and on some scales gains after 8 months exceeded those noted after only 4 months of treatment. Significant correlations emerged among the amount of clinical response, initially high verbal IQs, and low blood serotonin concentrations. Compliance was excellent, and no clinically relevant side effects or weight changes occurred. It appears that fenfluramine is effective in ameliorating specific symptoms in certain autistic patients. The extent and mechanism of its action remain to be discovered.
There are no published controlled clinical trials of regular phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor therapy as a long-term treatment of hypertension. In a randomized, double-blind, 2-way crossover study, 25 otherwise untreated hypertensive subjects were administered 50 mg of sildenafil or matched placebo 3 times daily for 16 days, and the effects on ambulatory blood pressure (BP), clinic BP, arterial wave reflection, carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity, and brachial artery flow-mediated dilatation were assessed. Three subjects were withdrawn because of adverse effects, and the data from the remaining 22 subjects were analyzed. Sildenafil reduced ambulatory BP (mean [SE] change from baseline for average daytime BP: systolic -8 [2] mm Hg versus 2 [2] mm Hg with placebo, P<0.01; diastolic -6 [1] mm Hg versus 0 [1] mm Hg, P<0.01) and clinic BP (change from baseline to 1 hour after drug administration on day 16: systolic -5 [2] mm Hg versus 4 [2] mm Hg, P<0.01; diastolic -5 [1] mm Hg versus 2 [2] mm Hg, P<0.01). Compared with baseline, sildenafil, but not placebo, reduced arterial wave reflection both acutely and after chronic treatment, but the chronic change in arterial wave reflection was not statistically different from the chronic change with placebo. Sildenafil did not affect pulse wave velocity or flow-mediated dilatation. The main adverse effects of sildenafil, which were generally transient and rated as mild or moderate in severity, were dyspepsia, headache, and myalgia. In conclusion, regular sildenafil constitutes effective antihypertensive therapy. Further studies are warranted to evaluate the role of longer-acting phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors as antihypertensive agents in clinical practice.
We present a case of cutaneous vasculitis with renal impairment. This developed whilst receiving teicoplanin for Staphylococcus aureus osteomyelitis of the hip.
Deferoxamine is widely used in the diagnosis and treatment of aluminum toxicity and has a characteristic combination of side effects, including a poorly defined worsening of existing neurologic symptoms. However, to date, no measurement of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) aluminum concentrations after deferoxamine exist. We report the case of a patient who developed acute neurological deterioration in conjunction with sepsis and elevated serum aluminum levels shortly after renal transplantation. Simultaneous values for blood and CSF aluminum were measured in response to deferoxamine and hemodialysis. The increase in CSF aluminum levels appears to parallel that seen in serum after deferoxamine. We hypothesize that this elevation in CSF aluminum may account for the observed neurologic deterioration after deferoxamine and postulate various pathophysiologic mechanisms that might be involved.
A frequently fatal, although rare, side effect of cephalosporin antibiotics is noninfectious myocarditis. We report two cases of hypersensitivity myocarditis secondary to administration of cephalosporin antibiotics. In both cases, acute hypersensitivity myocarditis was not suspected clinically, and the diagnosis was made postmortem. Histology revealed intense eosinophilic infiltration of the endomyocardium with eosinophil degranulation and myocyte damage, Clinically, death in both cases was due to cardiac failure. When suspected early, appropriate management may be lifesaving.
Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is a cardiac hormone with natriuretic and diuretic effects. To better define the ANP hormonal system in the nephrotic syndrome, a condition associated with renal sodium retention, we undertook a study of glomerular ANP receptors in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrotic syndrome and in pair-fed controls. Nephrotic rats had significantly decreased serum albumin and total protein and significantly increased serum cholesterol, triglycerides and 24 hour urinary protein excretion. Plasma level of atrial natriuretic peptide was similar in both groups of rats. Competition binding inhibition studies in isolated glomeruli demonstrated one binding site in both groups of rats. The density of ANP binding sites in isolated glomeruli was similar in nephrotic and pair-fed rats while the binding affinity was increased significantly in the nephrotic rats. This is the first study to demonstrate alterations in renal ANP receptors in the nephrotic syndrome. Further studies will be necessary to determine whether alterations in glomerular ANP receptors contribute to renal sodium retention in the nephrotic syndrome.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental syndrome defined by deficits in social reciprocity and communication and by unusual repetitive behaviors. Although there is an underlying genetic predisposition, the etiology of autism is currently unknown. A recent increase in prevalence suggests that genetically determined vulnerability to environmental exposure might contribute to the causation of autism. We performed family-based association studies of polymorphisms in metal-regulatory transcription factor 1(MTF1), a multispecific organic anion transporter (ABCC1), proton-coupled divalent metal ion transporters (SLC11A3 and SLC11A2), paraoxonase 1 (PON1), and glutathione S-transferase (GSTP1) genes in 196 autistic disorder families. There was deviation from the expected pattern of transmission for polymorphisms in MTF1 (Single nucleotide polymorphism database reference identification number, dbSNP rs3790625, P = .02) and divalent metal ion transporter SLC11A3 (dbSNP rs2304704, P = .07) genes. Although these results might represent chance finding, further investigations of genetic variations of metal metabolism in autism are warranted.
We report an autopsy case of a 64 year-old Japanese man diagnosed as having leukoencephalopathy caused by tegafur, a 5-fluorouracil derivative, and review seven previous cases, mostly reported in Japan. In the present case, tegafur had been orally administered for the shortest period of 3 weeks in pre- and postoperative cancer chemotherapy. He died 2 years later after having made a slight recovery from a prolonged akinetic mute state. Unlike similar cases previously reported, the degeneration of the white matter was most prominent in the temporal lobes. Histologically, the severely involved white matter showed nearly complete myelin and axonal loss with a proliferation of hypertrophic astrocytes. In the less severely involved areas, such as in the frontal white matter where myelin was relatively well preserved, numerous activated microglial cells and a small number of T lymphocytes were identified immunohistochemically. The cerebral cortex, cerebellum and brain stem were well preserved, which is consistent with the previous reports. Literature review revealed that the histopathological features of the lesions reported in human cases are quite different from those reported in animal experiments.
Experiments were carried out on male albino rats of 200-250 g weight with bipolar electrodes implanted in neocortex, as well as in the right and the left dorsal hippocampus for the study of the effect of lidocaine and its combination with adrenaline on the electric activity of brain. On the fifth day from the implantation in the first group of animals 0,3 ml 2% lidocaine was injected intra-peritoneally and the electric activity from the above mentioned structures was registered. In the second group 0,3 ml 2% lidocaine with adrenaline was injected intra-peritoneally (1:100000). In 8-12 sec after injection in the first group of animals the encephalogram showed sharply defined clone type seizure activity, which soon obtained tonus character. Simultaneously clone-tonus type behavioural manifestation was revealed, which lasted for 20-25 minutes. In the second group of animals in 30-40 sec after injection the encephalogram revealed convulsion activity with high amplitude synchronous oscillations, which lasted for 20-25 minutes, although in this group, in distinct from the first group, no clone-tonus behavioural manifestation was detected.
Increasing doses of metaraminol bitartrate (Aramine) in a continuous intravenous infusion were used to support the blood pressure in four patients. Under such treatment a state of shock developed, characterized by intense peripheral vasoconstriction, hypotension and anuria. In spite of an adequate fluid intake all patients showed severe hemoconcentration, and a critically low plasma volume could be demonstrated in two. While metaraminol (Aramine) was ineffective, noradrenaline still caused a moderate blood pressure response. Treatment with plasma expanders (Intradex) and small doses of noradrenaline (Levophed) resulted in transient improvement in one patient and complete recovery from shock in three. The peripheral vasoconstriction persisted up to 12 hours and renal function improved on the second day after the withdrawal of metaraminol. The etiology of this shock syndrome is believed to be similar to that of experimental shock produced with adrenaline and noradrenaline.
