Rats with experimental colitis suffer from impaired gastric emptying (GE). We previously showed that this phenomenon involves afferent neurons within the pelvic nerve. In this study, we aimed to identify the mediators involved in this afferent hyperactivation. Colitis was induced by trinitrobenzene sulfate (TNBS) instillation. We determined GE, distal front, and geometric center (GC) of intestinal transit 30 min after intragastric administration of a semiliquid Evans blue solution. We evaluated the effects of the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) antagonists capsazepine (5-10 mg/kg) and N-(4-tertiarybutylphenyl)-4-(3-cholorphyridin-2-yl)tetrahydropyrazine-1(2H)carboxamide (BCTC; 1-10 mg/kg) and the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist CGRP-(8-37) (150 microg/kg). To determine TRPV1 receptor antagonist sensitivity, we examined their effect on capsaicin-induced relaxations of isolated gastric fundus muscle strips. Immunocytochemical staining of TRPV1 and RT-PCR analysis of TRPV1 mRNA were performed in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) L6-S1. TNBS-induced colitis reduced GE but had no effect on intestinal motility. Capsazepine reduced GE in controls but had no effect in rats with colitis. At doses that had no effects in controls, BCTC and CGRP-(8-37) significantly improved colitis-induced gastroparesis. Capsazepine inhibited capsaicin-induced relaxations by 35% whereas BCTC completely abolished them. TNBS-induced colitis increased TRPV1-like immunoreactivity and TRPV1 mRNA content in pelvic afferent neuronal cell bodies in DRG L6-S1. In conclusion, distal colitis in rats impairs GE via sensitized pelvic afferent neurons. We provided pharmacological, immunocytochemical, and molecular biological evidence that this sensitization is mediated by TRPV1 receptors and involves CGRP release.
Ten men reported vasospastic symptoms in their hands during metoprolol treatment. They had no signs of occlusive arterial disease. The temperature reaction to local cooling was measured and no improvement was found after changing to pindolol. Vasospastic symptoms during beta-receptor blockade may arise in predisposed individuals irrespective of the type of beta-receptor antagonist used.
The repeated finding of an apparent protective effect of cigarette smoking on the risk of Parkinson's disease is one of the few consistent results in the epidemiology of this disorder. Among the innumerous substances that originate from tobacco smoke, nicotine is by far the most widely studied, and the most likely candidate for a protective effect against neuronal degeneration in Parkinson's disease. Nicotine is a natural alkaloid that has considerable stimulatory effects on the central nervous system (CNS). Its effects on the CNS are mediated by the activation of neuronal heteromeric acetylcholine-gated ion channel receptors (nAChR, also termed nicotinic acetylcholine receptors). In the present study, we describe the neuroprotective effects of (-)nicotine in two animal models of parkinsonism: the diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC)-induced enhancement of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) toxicity in mice, and the methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in rats and mice. In parallel experiments, we found that (-)nicotine induces the basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) and the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in rat striatum. As FGF-2 and BDNF have been reported to be neuroprotective for dopaminergic cells, our data indicate that the increase in neurotrophic factors is a possible mechanism by which (-)nicotine protects from experimental parkinsonisms. Moreover, they suggest that nAChR agonists could be of potential benefit in the progression of Parkinson's disease.
Peliosis hepatis is a rare condition associated with a variety of diseases and drugs. We report a patient who developed peliosis hepatis while taking oral contraceptives. Three months after withdrawal of this oral contraceptive, reduction in size of these lesions was observed.
Treatment of vitamin E-deficient cholestatic children with water-soluble alpha-tocopherol polyethylene glycol succinate (TPGS) was previously shown to normalize vitamin E status and to improve neurological outcome.
Because vitamin E plays an important role as a free-radical scavenger, we studied the effects of long-term TPGS supplementation on lipid peroxidation and polyunsaturated fatty acid status in 15 children ages 9 months-3.4 years (median, 1.3 years) with chronic cholestasis with low serum vitamin E concentrations [1.95 (0.8-3.7) mg/L; median (1st-3rd quartile)]. The previous supplementation of alpha-tocopherol was replaced by a 20% solution of TPGS in one daily dose of 20 IU/kg. Serum alpha-tocopherol, plasma lipid peroxides expressed as thiobarbiturate reactive substance concentration (TBARS) and plasma phospholipid fatty acid profile were estimated at baseline and again after 1 month in all 15 patients, and after 1 year of TPGS therapy in 11 patients.
alpha-Tocopherol was significantly increased after 1 month [6.9 (4.4-8.4) mg/L; p = 0.008] and rose further after 1 year [9.7 (7.2-14.9) mg/L]; similar results were obtained for the ratio vitamin E/total lipids. TBARS concentrations were significantly higher in cholestatic children at baseline [2.9 (1.5-3.32) nmol/ml] than in a control group [1.2 (1.1-1.3) nmol/ml; p = 0.0006], but were not changed significantly during TPGS therapy [after 1 year 2.34 (1.9-3.0) nmol/ml]. Compared with controls, the contributions of polyunsaturated fatty acids to total phospholipid fatty acids were markedly decreased in cholestatic patients at baseline [27.7 (22.4-31.5)% versus 36.9 (34.5-39.0)%; p = 0.001] and did not show major changes after 1 year of TPGS supplementation.
We conclude that oral TPGS supplementation of cholestatic children can quickly normalize serum vitamin E levels but does not improve the increased lipid peroxidation and poor polyunsaturated fatty acid status.
To assess whether chronic ouabain administration causes hypertension by increasing sympathetic activity, we recorded arterial blood pressure and heart rate at rest and after ganglionic blockade in conscious Wistar rats following 10 to 14 days of central or peripheral administration of ouabain. Intracerebroventricular or intravenous infusion of ouabain (10 micrograms/d for both) as well as subcutaneous ouabain pellets (releasing 25 micrograms ouabain/d per pellet) increased mean arterial pressure by 20 to 30 mm Hg and heart rate by 40 to 60 beats per minute. Ouabain pellets increased blood pressure and heart rate in a dose-related manner. After 2 weeks of all ouabain treatments, ouabainlike activity in plasma was not changed but increased significantly in hypothalamus and adrenals. Ouabainlike activity in the adrenals was increased more by intravenous than subcutaneous or intracerebroventricular ouabain treatment, but the different treatment modes caused similar increases in the hypothalamus. Concomitant central infusion of antibody Fab fragments against ouabain prevented the ouabain pellet-induced increases in blood pressure and heart rate. Ganglionic blockade by intravenous hexamethonium normalized blood pressure and heart rate in ouabain-treated rats. These data suggest that in normotensive rats exogenous ouabain, regardless of the mode of administration, may act centrally to cause sympathoexcitation and thus hypertension.
To determine whether ketorolac 0.75 mg/kg would provide a comparable degree of analgesia to that of meperidine 1 mg/kg in terms of postoperative opioid requirements and pain scores in children undergoing surgeries associated with mild to moderate postsurgical discomfort.
Randomized, prospective, placebo-controlled, double-blinded study of the initial 6 postsurgical hours.
University affiliated teaching hospital.
90 healthy ASA status I and II children scheduled for elective general, orthopedic, or genitourinary procedures associated with mild to moderate postsurgical pain. Extensive surgical procedures associated with a significant risk of bleeding were excluded.
Ketorolac 0.75 mg/kg, meperidine 1 mg/kg, or placebo (normal saline) was administered intramuscularly (IM) at the beginning of surgery.
Bleeding times were measured prior to and 180 minutes after study drug administration. Time to first rescue medication, total opioid requirement, pain scores, incidence of vomiting and length of stay were evaluated. Placebo-treated patients were rescued earlier (p < 0.0001) and required twice the rescue dosage (p = 0.013) when compared with either the ketorolac or meperidine groups. The ketorolac and meperidine groups did not differ with regard to time until first rescue, cumulative proportion requiring rescue, or the number of rescue doses required. A single dose of IM ketorolac prolonged bleeding time by 53 +/- 75 seconds (p = 0.006).
Ketorolac provided analgesia comparable to that of meperidine and significantly reduced opioid requirements. Since ketorolac was not associated with a reduction in postoperative vomiting or length of stay, and in view of the uncertain risk of bleeding, it offers no advantage over meperidine in the management of mild to moderate acute postsurgical pain.
To observe the therapeutic efficacy of IFN or oxymatrine in combination with lamivudine in patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B.
Forty patients ongoing treatment with lamivudine were randomized to three groups: group A, 14 patients with addition of IFN alpha-2b 3MU to ongoing lamivudine, daily, one month, followed by the same dose given every other day, five months; group B, 15 patients with addition of injectable oxymatrine 60 mg daily, three months, followed by oral oxymatrine every day, three months, and group C, 11 patients ongoing treatment with lamivudine alone. The HBV DNA level in serum, HBeAg seroconversion, and ALT level were detected at the end of the treatment.
After 6 months of treatment, HBV DNA became negative in 35.73% patients treated with combination with IFN, and in 13.3% patients treated with combination with oxymatrine. ALT level was normal in 85.71% or 86.66% of patients, respectively. In none of the patients under ongoing treatment with lamivudine alone HBV DNA or HBeAg became negative, and ALT level was normal in 36.36% of patients.
These data indicated that IFN or oxymatrine in combination with ongoing lamivudine therapy provided effective antiviral therapy in patients with lamivudine-resistant HBV. The addition of IFN or oxymatrine to ongoing lamivudine therapy in lamivudine-resistant patients led to significant inhibition of viral replication and improvement in liver function after 6 months of therapy.
Allantoin is the end product of purine catabolism in all mammals except humans, great apes, and one breed of dog, the Dalmatian. Humans and Dalmatian dogs produce uric acid during purine degradation, which leads to elevated levels of uric acid in blood and urine and can result in significant diseases in both species. The defect in Dalmatians results from inefficient transport of uric acid in both the liver and renal proximal tubules. Hyperuricosuria and hyperuricemia (huu) is a simple autosomal recessive trait for which all Dalmatian dogs are homozygous. Therefore, in order to map the locus, an interbreed backcross was used. Linkage mapping localized the huu trait to CFA03, which excluded the obvious urate transporter 1 gene, SLC22A12. Positional cloning placed the locus in a minimal interval of 2.5 Mb with a LOD score of 17.45. A critical interval of 333 kb containing only four genes was homozygous in all Dalmatians. Sequence and expression analyses of the SLC2A9 gene indicated three possible mutations, a missense mutation (G616T;C188F) and two promoter mutations that together appear to reduce the expression levels of one of the isoforms. The missense mutation is associated with hyperuricosuria in the Dalmatian, while the promoter SNPs occur in other unaffected breeds of dog. Verification of the causative nature of these changes was obtained when hyperuricosuric dogs from several other breeds were found to possess the same combination of mutations as found in the Dalmatian. The Dalmatian dog model of hyperuricosuria and hyperuricemia underscores the importance of SLC2A9 for uric acid transport in mammals.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) inhibits liver fibrosis induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) in animal models. NK2 is a natural splice variant of HGF, but its in vivo function remains to be elucidated. We investigated the in vivo effects of NK2 on CCl4-induced liver fibrosis.
NK2 transgenic mice and wild-type (WT) mice were injected intraperitoneally with CCl4 twice a week. The extent of hepatic fibrosis was evaluated by Azan-Mallory staining. Expression levels of mRNAs of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and matrix metalloproteinase-13 (MMP-13) were examined by real-time polymerase chain reaction. The protein levels of alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), c-Met and its phosphorylation were determined by Western blot analysis.
Liver fibrosis was significantly more severe in NK2 transgenic mice than in WT mice. CCl4 administration increased the expression levels of TGF-beta1 mRNA and alpha-SMA protein, and decreased the expression of MMP-13 mRNA in livers of NK2 transgenic mice compared with those of WT mice. c-Met protein expression in the liver was compatible with the degree of fibrosis. As for c-Met activation, no difference was found between NK2 and WT livers.
Overexpression of NK2 acts as an antagonist of HGF and promotes liver fibrosis in CCl4-induced chronic liver injury.
Leukotrienes (LTs) appear to be crucial mediators of aspirin (ASA)-induced lower respiratory tract reactions. Therefore, it is logical to assume that leukotriene-modifier drugs (LTMDs) might block these reactions.
The aim of this study was to determine whether concomitant treatment with LTMDs was associated with a reduction of ASA-provoked lower respiratory tract reactions in patients with aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD), when compared to AERD patients who were not treated with LTMDs. Secondly, if ASA-induced lower respiratory tract reactions were prevented in LTMD-treated patients, was there then a higher prevalence of upper respiratory reactors or, alternatively, a higher prevalence of blocked reactions ('non-reactors') in this group.
Of 271 patients suspected by history of having AERD, 96 were taking cys-LT receptor antagonists (cys-LTRAs) and 12 were taking zileuton at the time of oral ASA challenges. A matched control group of 163 patients was not receiving LTMDs. All subjects underwent standard oral ASA challenges. Reactions were classified as follows: classic [naso-ocular combined with a 20% or > decline in forced expiratory volume of 1 s (FEV1)]; pure lower (20% or > decline in FEV1 without naso-ocular); partial asthma (naso-ocular + 15-20% decline in FEV1); upper only (naso-ocular with < 15% decline in FEV1); negative (no reactions).
In patients treated with cys-LTRAs, there were significant reductions in numbers of patients with ASA-induced bronchospastic reactions and a concomitant increase in upper respiratory reactors. There were no significant differences in mean provoking doses of ASA or the percent changes in FEV1 values in both groups. In the 12 patients receiving zileuton, no reactions to ASA (16%) were similar to the cys-LTRA-treated group (11%) and the control group (15%).
During oral ASA challenges, LTMD treatment appeared to shift target organ responses from both upper and lower respiratory tracts to upper tract alone. LTMD blocking of the entire respiratory tract did not appear to occur.
The influence of a prolonged treatment with disulfiram (DSF) and D(-)penicillamine (PA) on biological and biochemical effects induced by nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) was studied in rats. The combination of NDEA and DSF led to a massive and early development of esophageal tumors, which were fatal to the animals. No liver tumors were observed in this group, whereas PA in combination with NDEA led to an increased development of liver tumors compared with NDEA alone. In the last two groups, only incidental tumors of the esophagus were observed. Nasal cavity tumors also appeared earlier in the animals treated with DSF and NDEA than in animals treated with NDEA alone or with NDEA plus PA. At a biochemical level, DSF led to a significant inhibition of hepatic anilinehydroxylase and nitroso-dimethylaminedemethylase in contrast to PA, which had no influence on these enzymes. The reduced activities of these drug-metabolizing enzymes did not appear to be related to gross cytochrome P450 content. Highly significant increases in glutathione content and glutathione-S-transferase activity (GSH/GST) were induced by DSF but not by PA. Because N-nitrosodiethylamine requires enzymatic activation to form the ultimate carcinogen, it is suggested that the observed inhibition of nitrosamine-transforming enzymes in the liver during DSF treatment leads to an increased amount of intact nitrosamines in other organs, e.g., in the esophagus, where it could be transformed to the ultimate carcinogen. DSF treatment alone or in combination with NDEA leads to an accumulation of trace elements in the liver, whereas PA eliminated copper and cobalt. The possible influence of these elements on tumor development is discussed in part II of this study.
Micropuncture and morphologic studies were performed in four groups of male Munich-Wistar rats after removal of the right kidney and segmental infarction of two-thirds of the left kidney. Groups 1 and 3 received no specific therapy. Groups 2 and 4 were treated with the angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, 50 mg/liter of which was put in their drinking water. All rats were fed standard chow. Groups 1 and 2 underwent micropuncture study 4 wk after renal ablation. Untreated group 1 rats exhibited systemic hypertension and elevation of the single nephron glomerular filtration rate (SNGFR) due to high average values for the mean glomerular transcapillary hydraulic pressure difference and glomerular plasma flow rate. In group 2 rats, treatment with enalapril prevented systemic hypertension and maintained the mean glomerular transcapillary hydraulic pressure gradient at near-normal levels without significantly compromising SNGFR and the glomerular capillary plasma flow rate, as compared with untreated group 1 rats. Groups 3 and 4 were studied 8 wk after renal ablation. Untreated group 3 rats demonstrated persistent systemic hypertension, progressive proteinuria, and glomerular structural lesions, including mesangial expansion and segmental sclerosis. In group 4 rats, treatment with enalapril maintained systemic blood pressure at normal levels over the 8-wk period and significantly limited the development of proteinuria and glomerular lesions. These studies suggest that control of glomerular hypertension effectively limits glomerular injury in rats with renal ablation, and further support the view that glomerular hemodynamic changes mediate progressive renal injury when nephron number is reduced.
Malignant glioma is characterized by rapid proliferation, high invasiveness into the surrounding brain and increased vascularity. The aim of the study was to explain the observation that glioblastoma invasion often occurs along existing vasculature, suggesting interactions between the two types of cells. Using the in vitro model, we demonstrate that co-culturing of U87 (human glioblastoma) cells with HMEC-1 (human microvascular endothelial) cells increases the invasiveness of the U87 cells. The enhanced invasiveness correlates with increased expression of MMP-9 in both U87 and HMEC-1 cells, increased expression of cysteine cathepsins B and S and down-regulation of endogenous cell adhesion molecule NCAM in U87 cells. On the other hand, U87 tumour cells significantly enhance the proliferation of co-cultured endothelial cells by a mechanism involving cathepsin B, but not cathepsin S. Furthermore, we demonstrated that increased cell expression and activity of MMP-9 in cell microenvironment is mediated via secretion of SDF-1 by HMEC-1 cells. Selective SDF-1 inhibition impaired the enhanced U87 cell invasion, mostly via down-regulation of MMP-9, but did not alter cathepsin B, although the latter is more relevant for the invasion of U87 cells in mono-culture. Taken together, our study suggests that glioblastoma cells may be attracted by endothelial cells, enhancing their proliferation and underlines the importance of SDF-1, cathepsin B and MMP-9 in the cross-talk between these cells in normoxic conditions. This notion contributes to better understanding and suggests further investigations of the paracrine mechanisms, regulating glioma angiogenesis.
A severe cutaneous eruption in an unwell patient can be a major cause of physician anxiety. With numerous differential diagnoses, an early accurate diagnosis can be challenging. infectious causes are the most important to exclude in a timely manner and drug rash and eosinophilia with systemic symptoms (DRESS) is another differential diagnosis that should be considered in children. This hypersensitivity reaction is associated with multisystem involvement. Children with underlying chronic diseases may have impairment of normal metabolic pathways and are also often on multiple medications. Therefore, drugs should always be considered in the aetiopathology of any new symptoms and signs. This case report informs readers of the association of sulfasalazine and DRESS in an 11-year-old with inflammatory bowel disease and discusses its pathogenesis and treatment. Increased awareness of this disorder will hopefully lead to increased reporting and consequently illuminate the syndrome more clearly and help guide its prevention and treatment.
Diuretics are among the most frequently prescribed substances in elderly patients, but they are also associated with the highest incidence of adverse effects in this group of patients. Xipamide is a sulfonamide-like diuretic whose action does not depend on transtubular secretion. This characteristic makes it suitable for situations in which the kidney is highly sodium avid. Because of the potency of this substance the risk of adverse reactions like electrolyte disorders or hypovolemia is increased as well. We report seven patients (age 65-85) admitted to the emergency room of the University Hospital of Innsbruck between 1998 and 2002 who had developed serious adverse reactions upon initiation of treatment with xipamide as an additional diuretic. Six of these patients had received combinations with loop diuretics. The disturbances observed were hyponatremia (lowest value 108 mmol/l), hypokalemia (lowest value 1.5 mmol/l) and prerenal azotemia (highest serum urea 269 mg/dl, highest serum creatinine 5.13).
With the exception of diuretic resistance in severe heart failure or renal insufficiency a combination therapy of xipamide with a second diuretic appears to be associated with an unnecessarily high risk of serious adverse reactions and thus should be avoided. This is especially true for elderly patients.
Peroxisome proliferators, such as lipid-lowering fibrate drugs, are agonists for the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha). Sustained activation of PPARalpha leads to the development of liver tumors in rodents. Paradoxically, humans appear to be resistant to the induction of peroxisome proliferation and development of liver tumors by peroxisome proliferators. To examine the species differences in response to peroxisome proliferators, a PPARalpha humanized mouse (hPPARalpha) was generated, in which the human PPARalpha was expressed in liver under control of the Tet-OFF system. To evaluate the susceptibility of hPPARalpha mice to peroxisome proliferator-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, a long-term feeding study of Wy-14,643 was carried out. hPPARalpha and wild-type (mPPARalpha) mice were fed either a control diet or one containing 0.1% Wy-14,643 for 44 and 38 weeks, respectively. Gene expression analysis for peroxisomal and mitochondrial fatty acid metabolizing enzymes revealed that both hPPARalpha and mPPARalpha were functional. However, the incidence of liver tumors including hepatocellular carcinoma was 71% in Wy-14,643-treated mPPARalpha mice, and 5% in Wy-14,643-treated hPPARalpha mice. Upregulation of cell cycle regulated genes such as cd1 and Cdks were observed in non-tumorous liver tissue of Wy-14,643-treated mPPARalpha mice, whereas p53 gene expression was increased only in the livers of Wy-14,643-treated hPPARalpha mice. These findings suggest that structural differences between human and mouse PPARalpha are responsible for the differential susceptibility to the peroxisome proliferator-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. This mouse model will be useful for human cancer risk assessment of PPARalpha ligands.
Muscle related side effects of statins might be more frequent than once considered. Without affecting CK, they appear in various forms. Here, for the first time, we describe a new appearance we call "Statin-induced myositis migrans" in a 74-year-old female. Symptoms appeared more during the day and were not related to exercise. They were seen after simvastatin, pravastatin and--most intensively--after atorvastatin, but not on lovastatin, which the patient took for about 7 years without any problem. The clinical consequence (to withdraw the drug or not) of these milder statin side effects are discussed.
Escalating focal sensorimotor seizures, progressive neurologic deficit and cognitive decline with associated typical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings or pathological confirmation constitute the syndrome of Rasmussen's encephalitis.
Three patients with this clinical scenario had long-term follow-up after being given the antiviral drug ganciclovir 10 mg/kg/day IV for ten days within one to three months of disease onset.
Seizures occurred at least hourly and were localized to the Rolandic region. The MRIs were normal in one patient and in two showed changes consistent with ongoing seizures. Two patients, one whose short-term outcome was reported previously, had immediate and sustained cessation of seizures and resolution of their neurologic deficit. One patient with seizures from both hemispheres did not respond and went on to hemispherectomy that confirmed chronic encephalitis. Seizures continued in five other patients treated 6 to 72 months after disease onset.
The sustained seizure control after ganciclovir in two of three patients suggests this drug may be effective when given early in the course of this subacute intractable focal epilepsy syndrome.
In recent years elaboration of the diagnosis of analgesic-nephropathy (ANP) with the help of imaging techniques significantly increased the possibility of diagnosing the disease. Therefore, evaluating the prevalence of ANP has become more accurate in our country as well. The prevalence of ANP has been investigated in patients who have newly been taken into the dialysis program due to renal disease of unknown aetiology in 22 dialysis centers between December 1994-December 1997. The diagnosis of ANP has been based on revealing chronic drug abuse in the history and positive results of renal imaging (decrease in length of both kidneys combined with either bumpy contours and/or papillary calcification). Among 284 patients dialysed with unknown diagnosis 42 (14.8% of all cases) proved to have ANP. All patients except 2 took analgesic mixtures containing phenacetin/paracetamol, phenason derivatives, acetilsalysilic acid, caffeine and/or codeine. According to their investigations, ANP is a common disease resulting in end-stage renal failure in Hungary as well.
Propofol is a general anesthetic having good anticonvulsant properties, but is limited in antiseizure use because of its potent anesthetic/sedative properties. It is proposed that substitution of the propofol molecule in the para position may yield compounds having less toxicity, yet possessing anticonvulsant properties because of retention of the 2,6-diisopropylphenol configuration. Reported herein is the synthesis of a para-substituted analog of propofol, 2,6-diisopropyl-4-(1-hydroxy-2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phenol (MB003), and a similar analog of 2,6-di-sec-butylphenol (MB050), and their comparative anticonvulsant effects in National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke screening models.
MB003 and MB050 were synthesized by the reaction of propofol or 2,6-di-sec-butylphenol, respectively, with trifluoroacetaldehyde ethyl hemiacetal in the presence of catalytic amounts of K(2)CO(3). Compounds were purified to >98% purity. Propofol, MB003, 2,6-di-sec-butylphenol, and MB050 were screened for protective effects by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke Anticonvulsant Screening Program in the mouse maximal electroshock, subcutaneous metrazol, and 6 Hz (32 mA) partial seizure models. All compounds were administered by i.p. injection. The toxicity of each compound was assessed by the ability of the animals to stay on a Rotorod after dosing.
Propofol, MB003, and MB050 were found to be most protective in the 6 Hz model with lesser protective effects in the mouse maximal electroshock and subcutaneous metrazol models. In the 6 Hz model, propofol yielded a 50% effective dose of 32.8 mg/kg; MB003, 38.4 mg/kg; and MB050, 74.0 mg/kg. Propofol, and to a greater degree, 2,6-di-sec-butylphenol, exhibited high toxicity. The corresponding 2,6-dimethylphenol analog to MB003 and MB050, 2,6-dimethyl-4-(1-hydroxy-2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phenol, was not protective in the 6 Hz model and exhibited no toxicity at any dose tested.
These results show that the anesthetics propofol and 2,6-di-sec-butylphenol may be substituted in the para position with a 1-hydroxy-2,2,2-trifluoroethyl moiety and the resulting molecules have anticonvulsant activity in the 6 Hz model while exhibiting less toxicity (ataxia) than the parent 2,6-dialkylphenols. The effectiveness of propofol, MB003, 2,6-di-sec-butylphenol, and MB050 and the ineffectiveness of 2,6-dimethyl-4-(1-hydroxy-2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phenol, in the 6 Hz model shows that the 2,6-diisopropyl or 2,6-di-sec-butyl phenolic configuration is more important to anticonvulsant activity than having the phenolic para position free of substituents. These results suggest that 1-hydroxy-2,2,2-trifluoroethyl substituted 2,6-di-alkylphenols may have useful anticonvulsant activities.
Arsenic is an abundant toxicant in ground water and soil around areas with extractive industries. Human epidemiological studies have shown that arsenic exposure is linked to developmental defects and miscarriage. The placenta is known to utilize vasculogenesis to develop its circulation. The hypothesis tested here states the following: arsenic exposure causes placental dysmorphogenesis and defective placental vasculogenesis resulting in placental insufficiency and subsequent spontaneous abortion. To test this hypothesis, pregnant mice were exposed to sodium arsenite (AsIII) through drinking water from conception through weanling stages. Neonatal assessment of birth rates, pup weights, and litter sizes in arsenic exposed and control mothers revealed that AsIII-exposed mothers had only 40% the fecundity of controls. Preterm analysis at E12.5 revealed a loss of fecundity at E12.5 from either 20 ppm or greater exposures to AsIII. There was no loss of fecundity at E7.5 suggesting that spontaneous abortion occurs during placentation. Histomorphometry on E12.5 placentae from arsenic-exposed mice revealed placental dysplasia especially in the vasculature. These results suggest that arsenic toxicity is causative for mammalian spontaneous abortion by virtue of aberrant placental vasculogenesis and placental insufficiency.
Phosphodiesterase (PDE) 4 inhibitors are a class of drugs that can provide novel therapies for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Their development is frequently hampered by the induction of vascular toxicity in rat mesenteric tissue during preclinical studies. Whereas these vascular lesions in rats have been well characterized histologically, little is known about their pathogenesis and in turn, sensitive and specific biomarkers for preclinical and clinical monitoring do not exist. In order to investigate the early molecular mechanisms underlying vascular injury, time-course studies were performed by treating rats for 2-24 h with high doses of the PDE4 inhibitor CI-1044. Transcriptomics analyses in mesenteric tissue were performed using oligonucleotide microarray and real-time RT-PCR technologies and compared to histopathological observations. In addition, protein measurements were performed in serum samples to identify soluble biomarkers of vascular injury. Our results indicate that molecular alterations preceded the histological observations of inflammatory and necrotic lesions in mesenteric arteries. Some gene expression changes suggest that the development of the lesions could follow a primary modulation of the vascular tone in response to the pharmacological effect of the compound. Activation of genes coding for pro- and antioxidant enzymes, cytokines, adhesion molecules, and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP-1) indicates that biomechanical stimuli may contribute to vascular oxidant stress, inflammation, and tissue remodeling. TIMP-1 appeared to be an early and sensitive predictive biomarker of the inflammatory and the tissue remodeling components of PDE4 inhibitor-induced vascular injury.
Advances in the field of transplantation provide a better quality of life and allow more favorable conditions for growth and development in children. However, combinations of different therapeutic regimens require consideration of potential adverse reactions. We describe a 15-yr-old girl who had orthotopic liver transplantation because of Wilson's disease. Tacrolimus, MMF, and steroids were given as immunosuppressant. Lamivudine was added because of de nova hepatitis B infection during her follow-up. Three yr after transplantation she developed renal Fanconi syndrome with severe metabolic acidosis, hypophosphatemia, glycosuria, and aminoaciduria. Although tacrolimus was suspected to be the cause of late post-transplant renal acidosis and was replaced by sirolimus, acidosis, and electrolyte imbalance got worse. Proximal muscle weakness has developed during her follow-up. Fanconi syndrome, as well as myopathy, is well recognized in patients with mitochondrial disorders and caused by depletion of mtDNA. We suggest that our patient's tubular dysfunction and myopathy may have resulted from mitochondrial dysfunction which is triggered by tacrolimus and augmented by lamivudine.
