We have previously identified nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), an enzyme involved in the protection against oxidative stress, as a gene predominantly expressed in human adipocytes. Studies in mice deficient in NQO1 activity suggest that NQO1 may also play an important role in metabolism.
The aim of this study was to explore the expression and regulation of NQO1 in human adipose tissue (AT) and isolated adipocytes.
The high expression of NQO1 in adipocytes was verified in human adipocytes and AT by real-time PCR. DNA microarray analysis showed that NQO1 was expressed at higher levels in large compared with small adipocytes, isolated from the same fat biopsy. Furthermore, NQO1 mRNA levels were positively correlated with adipocyte size (n = 7; P < 0.002). During an 18-wk diet regime (n = 24; mean weight loss 27 kg), the NQO1 expression in human sc AT was down-regulated (P < 0.0001), and mRNA levels correlated with body mass index (P = 0.0005), sc, and total abdominal AT areas, as determined by computerized tomography (P < 0.0001, both) and metabolic parameters. NQO1 mRNA levels were also positively correlated with aspartate aminotransferase (P = 0.0028) and alanine aminotransferase (P = 0.0219), markers known to be associated with severity of hepatic steatosis.
NQO1 is highly expressed in human AT, particularly in large adipocytes. AT NQO1 expression is reduced during diet-induced weight loss, and the expression levels positively correlate with adiposity, glucose tolerance, and markers of liver dysfunction. Together, these findings indicate a role for NQO1 in the metabolic complications of human obesity.
1. Castor oil (2 ml orally) produced copious diarrhoea in rats 3 h after its administration. 2. Pretreatment (intraperitoneal, i.p.) of rats with the NO synthesis inhibitors NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 1-25 mg kg-1) and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA, 2.5-100 mg kg-1) inhibited or prevented castor-oil-induced diarrhoea. L-Arginine (150-600 mg kg-1, i.p.) administered to rats pretreated with L-NAME 10 mg kg-1, drastically reduced the antidiarrhoeal activity of L-NAME in a dose-related manner. D-Arginine (900 mg kg-1) did not modify the protection by L-NAME. 3. Pretreatment (i.p.) of rats with L-NAME (2.5-25 mg kg-1) decreased the intestinal fluid accumulation and Na+ secretion induced by castor oil. L-Arginine (600 mg kg-1) but not D-arginine (900 mg kg-1) counteracted the inhibitory effect of L-NAME (10 mg kg-1). 4. L-NAME (10 and 25 mg kg-1) had no significant effect on the intestinal transit in normal rats or those given castor oil. 5. These results provide evidence that nitric oxide (NO) could play an important role in castor-oil-induced diarrhoea.
Chronic treatment with classical neuroleptics in humans can produce a serious side effect, known as tardive dyskinesia (TD). Here, we examined the effects of V. officinalis, a medicinal herb widely used as calming and sleep-promoting, in an animal model of orofacial dyskinesia (OD) induced by long-term treatment with haloperidol. Adult male rats were treated during 12 weeks with haloperidol decanoate (38 mg/kg, i.m., each 28 days) and with V. officinalis (in the drinking water). Vacuous chewing movements (VCMs), locomotor activity and plus maze performance were evaluated. Haloperidol treatment produced VCM in 40% of the treated rats and the concomitant treatment with V. officinalis did not alter either prevalence or intensity of VCMs. The treatment with V. officinalis increased the percentage of the time spent on open arm and the number of entries into open arm in the plus maze test. Furthermore, the treatment with haloperidol and/or V. officinalis decreased the locomotor activity in the open field test. We did not find any difference among the groups when oxidative stress parameters were evaluated. Haloperidol treatment significantly decreased [(3)H]-dopamine uptake in striatal slices and V. officinalis was not able to prevent this effect. Taken together, our data suggest a mechanism involving the reduction of dopamine transport in the maintenance of chronic VCMs in rats. Furthermore, chronic treatment with V. officinalis seems not produce any oxidative damage to central nervous system (CNS), but it also seems to be devoid of action to prevent VCM, at least in the dose used in this study.
To evaluate fully the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of tolcapone, a novel inhibitor of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), after oral and intravenous administration.
Sixteen healthy male volunteers were given tolcapone in single doses of 200 mg orally and 50 mg intravenously, separated by a washout period of 7 days or more, in a single-center, open-label, randomized, cross-over study. Pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated using both compartmental and non-compartmental methods; pharmacodynamics were evaluated from erythrocyte COMT activity.
After an initial lag time of 0.5 h, tolcapone was rapidly absorbed (peak plasma concentrations were reached within approximately 2 h) following either zero- or first-order absorption kinetics. The absolute bioavailability of an oral dose was approximately 60%. The volume of distribution was approximately 9 1, and the total clearance was approximately 71.h-l, resulting in a mean plasma half-life of 1.8 h. The degree of erythrocyte COMT inhibition was closely related to tolcapone plasma concentration; a rebound in COMT activity was observed after tolcapone withdrawal. Both oral and intravenous tolcapone were well tolerated.
Because of its relatively low systemic clearance, tolcapone exhibits only a small degree of first-pass metabolism and a relatively good oral bioavailability, which explains the higher plasma concentrations and stronger COMT inhibition observed with tolcapone compared with entacapone, another COMT inhibitor. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile of tolcapone obtained in this study underlines the potential of the agent to be used as an adjunct to levodopa in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Gefitinib, an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is approved for clinical use in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). According to statistics, NSCLC patients who are female, have adenocarcinoma, or never smoked have a higher response rate to gefitinib treatment. This phenomenon could be due to the interaction between the estrogen receptor (ER) and EGFR. To test whether inhibition of the EGFR signaling pathway affects the antitumour effect of gefitinib, NSCLC cell lines were treated with gefitinib and tamoxifen, an ER antagonist. Cotreatment with gefitinib plus tamoxifen decreased the proliferation and increased the apoptosis of A549 and H1650 adencarcinoma cell lines, when compared with either drug alone. However, there was no effect on H520 cells (squamous cell carcinoma). Rapid activation of the EGFR pathway by both EGF and beta-E2 was observed in A549 cells. Additionally, EGFR and ERbeta expression was down-regulated in response to estrogen and EGF, respectively, but up-regulated in response to tamoxifen and genfitib, respectively. These results suggest that there is a functional cross-signaling between the EGFR and the ER pathways in NSCLC, possibly providing a rationale to combine gefitinib with anti-estrogen therapy for lung cancer treatment.
We examined the effects of minocycline, an anti-inflammatory drug, on functional recovery following spinal cord injury (SCI). Rats received a mild, weight-drop contusion injury to the spinal cord and were treated with the vehicle or minocycline at a dose of 90 mg/kg immediately after SCI and then twice at a dose of 45 mg/kg every 12 h. Injecting minocycline after SCI improved hind limb motor function as determined by the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor open field behavioral rating test. Twenty four to 38 days after SCI, BBB scores were significantly higher in minocycline-treated rats as compared with those in vehicle-treated rats. Morphological analysis showed that lesion size increased progressively in both vehicle-treated and minocycline-treated spinal cords. However, in response to treatment with minocycline, the lesion size was significantly reduced at 21-38 days after SCI when compared to the vehicle control. Minocycline treatment significantly reduced the number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells 24 h after SCI as compared to that of the vehicle control. DNA gel electrophoresis also revealed a marked decrease in DNA laddering in response to treatment with minocycline. In addition, minocycline treatment significantly reduced the specific caspase-3 activity after SCI as compared to that of vehicle control. Furthermore, RT-PCR analyses revealed that minocycline treatment increased expression of interleukin-10 mRNA but decreased tumor necrosis factor-alpha expression. These data suggest that, after SCI, minocycline treatment modulated expression of cytokines, attenuated cell death and the size of lesions, and improved functional recovery in the injured rat. This approach may provide a therapeutic intervention enabling us to reduce cell death and improve functional recovery after SCI.
Optic nerve involvement is a rare side effect of isoniazid (INH) and has not been described in children. We describe this adverse reaction in a 10-year-old boy, who was treated for tuberculous meningitis. The patient showed almost complete resolution following withdrawal of INH and administration of pyridoxine and steroids.
Report on the association of the psoriasis and vasculitis are a very infrequent in the literature. Such an association as been described in extensive psoriasis and arthropathy psoriasis. In this paper we described two cases in which psoriasis, vasculitis and nephropathy are present together. In both cases the association might be produced by methotrexate. In both cases methotrexate is possible uleashing.
Three consecutive young female patients with unresected liver cell adenoma and a history of contraceptive use of several years' duration were followed up over a period of 2-4.5 yr after withdrawal of hormonal medication. One patient presented multiple adenomas and in another, the adenoma was associated with a Budd-Chiari syndrome due to bilateral thrombotic hepatic vein occlusion. Complete regression of the adenomas was documented in all 3 patients by ultrasonography, liver radionuclide scan, laparoscopy, or computerized tomography. It is concluded that, in selected cases, conservative management after withdrawal of hormonal contraception may be a valid alternative to surgical therapy.
Acromegalic patients treated three times daily with subcutaneous injections of the somatostatin analogue octreotide frequently develop gallstones, due to suppressed cholecystokinin release and impaired gall-bladder emptying.
To elucidate the effects of a new long-acting octreotide formulation (Sandostatin LAR) on gall-bladder emptying, cholecystokinin release and gallstone formation.
Postprandial gall-bladder and gastric emptying were determined by ultrasonography and cholecystokinin release was measured in seven patients on days 0, 14, 28, and 75 (Sandostatin LAR, 20 mg intramuscularly on days 1, 30, and 60).
During treatment, fasting gall-bladder volumes increased from 26.5 +/- 3.2 mL to 61.4 +/- 7.5 mL, but postprandial cholecystokinin release and gall-bladder emptying (from 63.9 +/- 3.8% to 12.3 +/- 3.5%) were severely suppressed. Gallstones formed in six out of seven patients within 8 months of treatment. Gastric emptying did not change during the therapy.
The risk of gallstone formation is greatly increased during Sandostatin LAR. This is probably related to profound suppression of cholecystokinin release and gall-bladder emptying.
Hearing loss, vertigo, and tinnitus have been related to arterial hypertension. The aim of the present work was to study the permeability of the blood-perilymph and of the labyrinthine barrier, between endolymph and perilymph, to small molecules during chronic and acute hypertension. Experiments were performed in normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Acute hypertension was induced by phenylephrine. Perilymph was sampled from the first turn of the scala vestibuli and the Na, K, urea, and radioactive concentrations ((14)C-urea and (3)H-mannitol) were measured. In another experimental set, the endocochlear potential was recorded from the basal turn of scala media, before and after phenylephrine injection. The composition of the perilymph and the kinetic constants for (14)C-urea and (3)H-mannitol were similar in WKY and SHR, and not modified after acute hypertension. In endolymph, the endocochlear potential in SHR (+80+/-2.7 mV, n=24) was lower (P<0.001) than in WKY (+98+/-1.5 mV, n=29). The endocochlear potential was decreased by 40 mV during acute hypertensive peak in seven out of 19 WKY but not in SHR rats (n=13). In conclusion, chronic or acute hypertension did not severely alter the permeability to small molecules of the blood-perilymph barrier. The relationship between the low endocochlear potential and hypertension in SHR remains to be evaluated. After acute hypertensive peak, the presence of vascular protective mechanisms in the cochlea could account for the stable endocochlear potential recorded in SHR and 60% of normotensive rats.
The intraperitoneal injection of apomorphine (APO) or N-n-propyl-norapomorphine (NPA) to adult male rats markedly increases the incidence of episodes of penile erection (PE). The effect is dose related for a dose range of APO from 25 to 500 microgram kg-1 and NPA from 1.25 to 50 microgram kg-1. Higher doses are progressively less effective until 1 and 5 mg kg-1 of APO and NPA, respectively, suppress even the natural occurrence of PE. APO differs from NPA not only on a potency basis but also in that doses of APO which elicit stereotypy no longer evoke PE, while a wide range of doses of NPA (12.5 to 500 microgram kg-1) produces simultaneously strong PE activation and stereotypy. The sexual stimulant response to APO and NPA is prevented by haloperidol (0.3 mg kg-1) and sulpiride (50 mg kg-1) but is not affected by domperidone (3 mg kg-1), an inhibitor of extracerebral dopamine receptors.
Targeting of the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) pathway has become routine practice in the treatment of lung carcinoma. As more health authorities approve targeted compounds in a variety of treatment lines, use of this approach is expected only to increase.Gefitinib, an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor (tki), is approved by Health Canada in the first-line setting of advanced non-small-cell lung carcinoma (nsclc) for tumours that harbour the EGFR gene mutation. Erlotinib, another tki, is currently approved in advanced nsclc in the second- and third-line settings.The side-effect profile of this class of drugs is unique. Hematologic toxicity is seldom seen. The most frequent side effects are rash and diarrhea. Although no randomized trials have addressed treatment of the side effects of this class of drugs, some basic principles of management have been agreed on and can likely improve patient compliance and decrease inappropriate dose reduction. The prognostic and predictive implications of side effects are also evolving.Finally, the ALK fusion mutation is being recognized as a mutation driver. The use of crizotinib (again, a tki) in this setting awaits approval. The side-effect profile of crizotinib is interesting and is also reviewed here.
From 1975 through 1983, 69 patients with hereditary angioneurotic edema were treated with danazol, a semisynthetic anabolic steroid. Hematuria developed in 13 of these patients (19 per cent). Careful evaluation of the genitourinary tract showed the presence of a distinct form of hemorrhagic cystitis in 10 patients. Clinically, 9 patients presented with microscopic and 1 with intermittent gross hematuria. Irritative bladder symptoms were reported by 2 patients. Neither the dose nor duration of danazol therapy correlated with the severity of the cystoscopic or pathological findings. Cystoscopically, a rather nonspecific pattern of erythema, submucosal telangiectasia and neovascularity was observed. Histopathologically, bladder biopsy typically showed numerous dilated submucosal vessels with hemorrhage, mucosal ulceration and occasional inflammatory cells. These changes regressed in all but 1 patient when danazol therapy was discontinued. Further studies are needed to elucidate the role of danazol itself or of the danazol-hereditary angioneurotic edema interaction in the pathogenesis of these abnormalities.
Metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc) is the leading cause of cancer mortality in Canada. Although treatment outcomes in advanced disease remain modest, with paradigm shifts in the approach to treatment, they are steadily improving. Customizing treatment based on histology and molecular typing has become the standard of care. EGFR genotyping and pathology subtyping should be considered routine in new diagnoses of metastatic nsclc. Treatment options for those with somatic EGFR activating mutations include gefitinib until progression, followed by standard chemotherapy. For patients with wild-type EGFR, or in patients whose EGFR genotype is unknown, platinum-based chemotherapy remains the first-line standard, with single-agent chemotherapy as an option for older patients and those who are unfit for platinum-doublet therapy. Patients with nonsquamous histology may receive treatment regimens incorporating pemetrexed or bevacizumab. In patients with squamous cell carcinoma, the latter agents should be avoided because of concerns about enhanced toxicity or decreased efficacy. Second-line chemotherapy is offered to a selected subgroup of patients upon progression and may include pemetrexed in non-squamous histology and docetaxel or erlotinib (or both) in all histologies. Currently, only erlotinib is offered as a third-line option in unselected nsclc patients after failure of first- and second-line chemotherapy. Maintenance therapy is emerging as a new option for patients, as are targeted therapies for particular molecular subtypes of nsclc, such as crizotinib in tumours harbouring the EML4-ALK gene rearrangement.
Analysis of clinical signs seen in chronic vinyl chloride intoxication proved that early stages of the disease are characterized by functional neurologic disorders (vegetoneurosis, astheno-neurotic and astheno-vegetative syndromes) and vegetative sensory neuropathy. Periodic medical examinations of workers having continuous contact with vinyl chloride proved that neuropathologist plays major role in diagnosis and indispensably participates in the examination.
In order to compare the efficacy of beta-blocking, diuretics and ACE-inhibiting monotherapy in controlling the blood pressure increase to stress, a study was conducted on 30 subjects (10 treated with atenolol, 10 with hydrochlorothiazide/amiloride combination, 10 with enalapril) with mild or moderate essential hypertension whose resting blood pressures were normalised by therapy. In the 3 groups of subjects blood pressure values at rest, during mental stress, static and dynamic exercise did not significantly differ before antihypertensive therapy. Atenolol and enalapril significantly reduced systolic and diastolic pressure below pretreatment values throughout and immediately after each test, differing from diuretic therapy which did not show any significant reduction in diastolic rises at the peak of hand-grip or in both systolic and diastolic pressures at the highest work-loads during dynamic exercise. In the recovery period of the exercise cycle test diuretics also produced a later normalisation of diastolic pressure. In conclusion, beta-blockers and ACE-inhibitors seem to be more effective than diuretics in the control of the blood pressure response to stress in hypertensive patients, suggesting that these drugs are the first choice treatment of mild to moderate hypertension.
A double blind study was undertaken to compare the efficacy of a single bedtime dose of chlorpromazine (300 mg) with divided doses of the same drug (100 mg, thrice daily). Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) and Nurses' Observation Scale for Inpatient Evaluation (NOSIE) were administered to 80 acutely psychotic patients who took part in the study. Thirty-one patients in the experimental and 29 in the control group completed this 3-week trial. It was observed that there were no statistically significant differences between the two modes of treatment. Drowsiness was seen more often in the single bedtime schedule. Postural hypotension was observed in both patient groups. The implications of single night-time medication in psychotics is discussed.
New drugs such as pemetrexed, the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and the Alk inhibitor crizotinib have recently enabled progress in the management of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc). More drugs, especially Met inhibitors, will follow. However, the benefits of these agents are not uniform across the spectrum of nsclc, and optimizing their utility requires some degree of subgrouping of nsclc by the presence or absence of certain biomarkers.The biomarkers of current or imminent value are EGFR and KRAS mutational status, ALK rearrangements, and MET immunohistochemistry. As a predictor of benefit for anti-egfr monoclonal antibodies, EGFR immunohistochemistry is also of potential interest.Some of the foregoing biomarkers (EGFR, ALK, MET) are direct drivers of the malignant phenotype. As such, they are, quite rationally, the direct targets of inhibitory drugs. However, KRAS, while definitely a driver, has resisted attempts at direct pharmacologic manipulation, and its main value might lie in its role as part of an efficient testing algorithm, because KRAS mutations appear to exclude EGFR and ALK mutations. The indirect value of KRAS in determining sensitivity to other targeted agents or to pemetrexed remains controversial. The other biomarkers (EGFR, ALK, MET) may also have indirect value as predictors of sensitivity to chemotherapy in general, to pemetrexed specifically, and to radiotherapy and molecularly targeted agents.These biomarkers have all enabled the co-development of new drugs with companion diagnostics, and they illustrate the paradigm that will govern progress in oncology in the immediate future. However, in nsclc, the acquisition of sufficient biopsy material remains a stubborn obstacle to the evolution of novel targeted therapies.
Tumor cells can evolve to evade immune responses by down-modulating surface MHC class I expression and become refractory to T cell-directed immunotherapy. We employed a strategy to bypass this escape mechanism using a recombinant adenovirus vector expressing interleukin-12 (Ad5IL-12) to target natural killer (NK) cell-mediated killing of human prostate tumors in NOD.scid mice. Fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis revealed that LNCaP tumor cells bear negligible levels of MHC class I molecules; yet, they express MICA/B molecules, ligands for the NKG2D receptors found on NK cells. Transduction of LNCaP cells with the Ad5IL-12 vector prevented tumor formation in NOD.scid mice, indicating that NK cells alone can conduct tumor immunosurveillance and mediate protection. Intratumor injection of the Ad5IL-12 vector to established LNCaP tumors in NOD.scid mice resulted in a significant delay of tumor growth mediated by NK cell killing activity. The dependency of NK cells in this protective response was shown by the complete loss of Ad5IL-12 therapeutic efficacy on LNCaP tumors established in NOD.Cg-Rag1(tm1Mom)Prf1(tm1Sdz) congenic mice, which are devoid of NK cell activity. More pronounced attenuation of tumor growth and enhanced NK killing activity was observed when pharmacologic adrenalectomy with mitotane was done in combination with Ad5IL-12 vector treatment. The Ad5IL-12 vector treatment also induced killing of MICA/B-negative MHC class I-positive PC3 tumors formed in NOD.scid mice. Together, these results indicate that a targeted NK cell response could provide a generic approach for cancer immunotherapy, and that enhancing the NK cell response via control of cortisol levels may provide an additional therapeutic avenue in cancer.
Myocardial hypertrophy is a well-recognized complication of cocaine and methamphetamine abuse and is a strong, independent risk factor for sudden death, myocardial infarction, and congestive heart failure. We sought to determine if use of MDMA (methylenedioxyamphetamine or "ecstasy") is associated with myocardial hypertrophy at death.
A matched, retrospective study using medical examiner (ME) death reports. Consecutive MDMA positive (+) and MDMA negative (-) deaths identified from MEs in 10 states and a local county, respectively. Five MDMA(-) cases were matched to each MDMA(+) case for age, sex, and ethnicity. MDMA(+) cases were confirmed using GC/MS and other drugs of abuse (e.g., cocaine and methamphetamine) were absent. Matched MDMA(-) cases were trauma fatalities with intact hearts and blood negative for all illicit stimulants. Cardiac weights were compared between the two groups. Twenty seven MDMA(+) deaths and 135 matched MDMA(-) deaths were enrolled. Mean age was 20 years (range 16--33 years); 44% were female. 70.4% were Caucasian, 14.8% African-American, 11.1% Asian, and 3.7% Hispanic. Mean heart weight of MDMA(+) fatalities was 315.7 and 277.2g for MDMA(-) fatalities (Diff=38.5 g; 95% CI=18.3--8.7). Multivariate analysis revealed that MDMA(+) fatalities were more likely to have an enlarged heart (OR=18.3; 95% CI=3.6--1.6).
The findings of this study suggest that MDMA users might also be at risk for myocardial hypertrophy and possible cardiac toxicity, similar to other stimulants.
The effects of uninephrectomy on the function and structure of the remnant kidney were assessed in rats with Adriamycin-induced nephrosis, 12 weeks after the injection of Adriamycin. The kidney volume of Adriamycin-treated uninephrectomized rats (NX-AD) was 2.3 times that of sham-operated, Adriamycin-treated animals (SH-AD; p < 0.001). The marked renal enlargement in NX-AD animals was due to the development of large tubular cysts. Following uninephrectomy, the fractional volume of tubular lumen almost doubled (NX-AD, 0.33 +/- 0.02; SH-AD, 0.17 +/- 0.02; p < 0.001) and the absolute volume of tubular lumen increased more than fourfold (NX-AD, 0.51 +/- 0.08 ml; SH-AD, 0.12 +/- 0.02 ml; p < 0.001). The frequency of tubular lumen with a large cross-sectional area (> or = 40,000 microns 2) was 5.8 +/- 1.1% in NX-AD and 0.7 +/- 0.2% in SH-AD groups (p < 0.001). The fractional volume of interstitial fibrosis in NX-AD animals was larger than in SH-AD (0.09 +/- 0.02 versus 0.04 +/- 0.01%, p < 0.05). As opposed to the worsening of tubulointerstitial disease, single-kidney glomerular filtration rate, fractional protein clearance, glomerular volume and the extent of glomerular sclerosis did not differ significantly in NX-AD as compared to SH-AD groups. This study shows that uninephrectomy in rats with Adriamycin nephrosis worsens interstitial nephrosis and aggravates the formation of tubular cysts, leading to a macrocystic kidney disease. These changes are not associated with an increase in glomerular sclerosis.
The question of what happens to cholesterol in the adult central nervous system during its slow turnover has been addressed using rats with brain and spinal cord labeled with [4-14C]cholesterol upon intracerebral injection of labeled cholesterol into rats at 10-12 days of age. At six months after injection, 14C was found only in the brain and spinal cord and was slowly released via the rat's urine. When labeled rats were given demyelinating agents (triethyl tin chloride, hexachlorophene, sodium cyanide) and when experimental allergic encephalomyelitis was induced, a measurable increase in urinary 14C label above control levels was found. It was concluded that there is a direct relationship between the experimental demyelination induced and the increased release of cholesterol metabolites into urine. The study suggests that a clinical method could be developed to determine the rate of central nervous system demyelination by measuring the amount of urinary cholesterol metabolites.
