This article describes the occurrence of an epileptic insult immediately after the intravenous bolus administration of 200 mg propofol (Diprivan) in a healthy patient with no medical history of epilepsy or other neurological diseases. Extensive neurological examinations including EEG and CT scan did not reveal any abnormalities. We want to emphasise that even in the absence of neurological disorders propofol may induce an instantaneous epileptic insult.
Ovarian granulosa cells synthesize estrogens from androgens, which are catalyzed by aromatase cytochrome P450 (P450arom). Troglitazone (Tro), one of the insulin-sensitizing compounds, thiazolidinediones (TZDs), is a ligand for peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) and is effective in the treatment of both non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) as well as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). PPARgamma exerts a transcriptional activity as a PPARgamma:RXR heterodimer. In this study, we investigated the effects of Tro and/or RXR ligand, LG100268 (LG) on the aromatase activity in cultured human ovarian granulosa cells obtained from patients who underwent in vitro fertilization. Human ovarian granulosa cells expressed PPARgamma mRNA assessed by RT-PCR. The treatment of the granulosa cells with Tro for 24 h resulted in a dramatic inhibition of the aromatase activity in a dose-dependent manner. While the treatment with LG alone also inhibited the aromatase activity, the combined treatment with both Tro and LG caused a much more reduction in the aromatase activity. The changes in the aromatase activity by Tro and/or LG were associated with comparable changes in P450arom mRNA assessed by RT-PCR. These results suggest that Tro directly inhibit the aromatase activity in human granulosa cells probably via nuclear receptor system PPARgamma:RXR heterodimer. The findings may provide a biochemical basis for the decrease in the blood concentrations of estrogens which is observed after the in vivo administration of Tro and may also possibly be useful as a novel therapy for estrogen-dependent diseases.
Metastatic melanoma has an ominous prognosis. Bio-chemotherapy regimens can increase the response rate but with a high degree of toxicity due, mainly, to the use of high-dose intravenous interleukin-2.
To test the feasibility and activity profile of a bio-chemotherapy regimen of low-dose subcutaneous interleukin-2.
Administration scheme: dacarbazine at 200 mg/m2/d on days 1-4, cisplatin at 20 mg/m2/d intravenous on days 1-4, vinblastine at 1.5 mg/m2/d on days 1-4, IL-2 at 4.5 MUI/m2/d subcutaneous on days 5-8, IFN-alpha at 5 MU subcutaneous on days 5-9, 11, 13, 15 of every 21-day cycle.
Objective response was obtained in 11 patients (39.3%; 95%CI: 21-59) including 4 with complete response (14.3%; 95%CI: 4-33). With an extended follow-up of 49 months and 60 months, respectively, 2 patients continue with complete response. The main toxicities were haematological: grade 3-4 neutropenia in 8.2% of cycles, thrombocytopenia in 1.2% and anaemia in 3.2%.
The regimen is safe and has a good activity profile. The presence of long-term survivors, despite the use of lower doses and subcutaneous IL-2, is encouraging.
Thrombosis is a known adverse side effect associated with hormonal contraceptive use. Low-dose formulations, dominant in the market during the last several years, may also present such risk. This risk reputedly is more prevalent in older women; the following case demonstrates even very young women in otherwise good health may be at risk.
Various biochemical and physiological stimuli may interfere with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis, causing aggregation and accumulation of unfolded or malfolded proteins in the ER and resulting in ER stress (ERS), and the ER attenuates ERS through unfolded protein response (UPR). All-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) can enhance or attenuate some ERS-induced physiological or pathological changes. Our previous studies showed that there was UPR in short forelimbs induced by ATRA. Many kinds of malformations induced by ATRA may correlate with cell death, and knowing that UPR is closely associated with cell death, so we speculate that the short forelimbs may caused by UPR-induced cell death. To test this hypothesis, the present study investigated the expression of UPR-related genes and proteins in the same short forelimb malformation model to determine whether ATRA-induced short forelimb malformation occurred through UPR-induced cell death. Subsequently, we further observed the differentiation and proliferation of chondrocytes and the expression of related genes and/or proteins. It was found that ATRA evoked UPR in this short forelimb model, thus activating the anti-cell death pathway and inhibiting the cell death-promoting pathway. Cell death was not evident in short forelimb, and ATRA inhibited the expression of Ccnb1 and Ccna1, thus retarding chondrocyte maturation. As a result, the number of immature chondrocytes in short forelimb was greater than the normal level. We therefore believe that ATRA induces short forelimb malformation most likely by inhibiting chondrocyte maturation rather than by evoking excess cell death.
A 42-year-old man presented with three months of progressive proximal weakness, a thirty pound weight loss, and dysphagia. He was hospitalized two months earlier for ventilatory failure requiring five days of mechanical ventilation. His history also included long-term hydroxychloroquine therapy for discoid lupus and a recently elevated total creatine kinase. An electromyogram revealed evidence of an irritable myopathy. Microscopic examination of a muscle biopsy specimen revealed vacuolar myopathy with lysosomal activation. Electron microscopy demonstrated curvilinear inclusions that, given his history, were diagnostic of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) myopathy. Although HCQ myopathy typically presents with proximal muscle weakness and normal-to-mildly-elevated creatine kinase levels, this is one of the few reported cases of ventilatory failure due to HCQ myopathy. Hydroxychloroquine myopathy may be more common than previously reported and should be considered in patients on long term therapy presenting with weakness or ventilatory failure. In these cases, muscle biopsy should be performed to confirm the diagnosis.
As compared to other tri- and tetracyclics, antidepressant therapy in patients suffering also from cardiac disease with mianserin is known to be relatively safe. Hypertensive effects of mianserin have not been described so far. We report a case of 64 years old patient with a dilatative cardiomyopathy and left anterior hemiblock, who developed hypertension (maximum: 180/125 mmHg) during mianserin treatment. Previous treatment with tranylcypromine has been stopped two weeks before. After discontinuance of mianserin blood pressure rapidly came back to normal values. The possible noradrenergic and serotonergic mechanisms of this phenomenon are discussed in relation to pretreatment with tranylcypromine.
Lithium therapy in patients with manic depressive disorder occasionally causes neuropsychiatric side effects even at therapeutic serum levels. Those lithium-induced symptoms can be polymorphous and may be hard to differentiate from other disorders and from other drugs' side effects. We report the case of a 56-year-old woman with manic-depressive illness, who developed neuropsychiatric side effects from lithium prophylaxis at therapeutic serum levels. The symptoms included disorientation, aphasia, ideatoric apraxia, parkinsonism, restlessness and severe sleep disorder. In contrast to previous reports, the casual role lithium was underscored by symptom increase after lithium re-exposure at therapeutic serum levels. The patient recovered completely after cessation of the lithium prophylaxis.
Thirty essential hypertensive subjects had their BP measured by 24h ambulatory monitoring before (first placebo period) and after exposure to antihypertensive therapy with either enalapril (four weeks) or nitrendipine (six weeks). Similar measures of BP were obtained during a second placebo period intercalated between the two active drugs. The 24h averages of systolic and diastolic pressures were higher during placebo (148 +/- 3/91 +/- 1 mmHg, respectively) than during treatment periods. Four weeks of treatment with enalapril reduced arterial pressure to a 24h average of 137 +/- 1/86 +/- 1 mmHg while nitrendipine given for six weeks lowered BP to an average of 135 +/- 1/84 +/- 1 mmHg. The antihypertensive effect of the drugs was of a comparable magnitude (P > 0.05). In addition both drugs produced analogous reductions in BP during the day (07.00 to 23.00 h). In contrast, the nocturnal fall in BP was significantly greater during treatment with nitrendipine. Average systolic and diastolic pressures between 23.00 h and 07.00 h were 133 +/- 1 mmHg and 82 +/- 2 mmHg with enalapril compared with 129 +/- 3 mmHg (P < 0.01) and 77 +/- 3 mmHg (P < 0.01) with nitrendipine, respectively. These data suggest that antihypertensive agents show important differences in terms of their action on the mechanisms that regulate BP during sleep. Medications that amplify the otherwise physiological fall in BP during sleep may add risk to patients with impaired coronary vasodilator reserve owing to ventricular hypertrophy, coronary atherosclerosis, or both.
The objective of our study was to determine the role of ibuprofen in protecting neutropenic rats from cardiopulmonary injury due to endotoxemia. We hypothesized that ibuprofen would offer pulmonary protection by altering cytokine production. Neutropenic rats received E. coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS) alone or ibuprofen and LPS. After 4 h, arterial blood gases, heart rate and blood pressure were measured. Blood and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were collected for TNF- alpha and MIP-2 concentrations. Lung tissue for iNOS mRNA and myeloperoxidase were obtained. The ibuprofen group had decreased heart rate and better oxygenation. Ibuprofen suppressed TNF- alpha and MIP-2 production in blood and MIP-2 concentrations in BALF. Lung mRNA for iNOS was higher in the ibuprofen group. Neutrophil infiltration in the lung was similar in both groups. Ibuprofen attenuated cardiopulmonary dysfunction by decreasing the early cytokine response. The balance of vasodilator to vasoconstrictor production in the lung may favor vasodilation as shown by increased iNOS mRNA and suppression of thromboxane.
1. The present study was designed to investigate the potential antifibrotic and anti-oxidant effects of lisinopril, fosinopril and losartan in an experimental rat model of liver injury using carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)). 2. First, the potential hepatoprotective dose of each drug was screened against CCl(4)-induced acute hepatotoxicity. Then, we chose the minimum hepatoprotective dose of each drug to further investigate the mechanisms involved in the hepatoprotection using a chronic model of hepatotoxicity induced by CCl(4). 3. Liver function was assessed in addition to histopathological examination. Furthermore, oxidative stress markers (reduced glutathione (GSH) and lipid peroxides levels) and markers of fibrosis (hydroxyproline content and liver fibrosis area) were assessed. 4. It was found that treatment of animals with different drugs concomitantly with CCl(4) significantly counteracted the changes in liver function induced by CCl(4) (except fosinopril). In addition, the drugs ameliorated the histopathological changes induced by CCl(4). All drugs significantly counteracted lipid peroxidation and GSH depletion (except fosinopril) compared with the CCl(4)-intoxicated group. Moreover, the drugs studied significantly reduced liver hydroxyproline levels and the area of fibrosis compared with the CCl(4)-intoxicated group. 5. In conclusion, the present study provides evidence for the hepatoprotective effect of lisinopril, fosinopril and losartan. Both lisinopril and losartan was found to have better hepatoprotective potential than fosinopril against CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity. These hepatoprotective effects can be explained on the basis of anti-oxidant and antifibrotic mechanisms, mainly enhancement of GSH and reduction of lipid peroxidation and fibrosis.
The cardiotoxicity of tricyclic antidepressants is a well-described phenomenon requiring serious consideration in patients who have taken an overdose. In patients who are at high risk for suicide attempts, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) were thought to constitute a safe alternative. However, evidence is accumulating that they, too, possess proarrhythmic properties, which must be reconciled in the setting of an overdose. An 82-year-old woman intentionally ingested citalopram 1.6 g. Several hours after presentation, she developed sinus arrest and junctional bradycardia that resolved after infusion of intravenous sodium bicarbonate solution. Thereafter, she demonstrated no further electrocardiographic abnormalities and was safely transferred to the psychiatry service without the need for a temporary transvenous pacemaker. The dramatic effect of the sodium bicarbonate on the arrhythmia represents a probable event according to the Naranjo probability scale. Intravenous sodium bicarbonate may serve as an effective antidote to SSRI-induced bradyarrhythmias.
We report a case of endocarditis caused by a ciprofloxacin-resistant strain of Serratia marcescens in a 50-year-old female neutropenic patient with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma which occurred while receiving ciprofloxacin prophylaxis. She made poor progress on first line therapy with azlocillin and gentamicin by bolus injection t.d.s. The infection was finally eliminated by a regimen of continuous infusion of azlocillin and once daily gentamicin.
Hepatotoxicity of organophosphorus insecticides, trichlorofon and dichlorvos, a dechlorinated form of the former, was examined in isolated hepatocytes from untreated control and phenobarbital-pretreated (80 mg/kg, i.p., for 3 days) rats. These compounds produced toxic effects on hepatocytes as evidenced by malondialdehyde production and lactate dehydrogenase leakage in a dose-dependent manner up to the concentration of 2 mM, dichlorvos being more toxic than trichlorfon. Hepatocytes from phenobarbital-pretreated rats were more sensitive to these organophosphates than those from control rats. Dichloroacetaldehyde and dichloroacetic acid, metabolites of dichlorvos, did not injure hepatocytes. The toxic effects of dichlorvos on hepatocytes were enhanced by increasing oxygen concentration during the incubation, or by addition of glycolytic substrates (pyruvate, lactate or fructose) to the incubation mixtures. On the other hand, addition of antioxidants (diethyldithiocarbamate or N,N'-diphenyl-p-phenylenediamine), or cytochrome P-450 inhibitors (SKF-525A or metyrapone) to the incubation mixtures attenuated malondialdehyde production caused by dichlorvos and protected cells from death. Addition of dichlorvos to the incubation mixtures of hepatic microsomes stimulated lipid peroxidation in the presence of NADPH, which was inhibited by further addition of superoxide dismutase but not catalase. These results suggest that hepatotoxicity of trichlorfon and dichlorvos are related to their peroxidative property in microsomes which is accelerated by oxygen.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the brain has been reported to have therapeutic effects in mania, as well as depression. TMS has previously been reported to have effects similar to those of electroconvulsive shock in rat models of depression.
We, therefore, studied TMS in amphetamine-induced hyperactivity as a rat model of mania.
While two and seven daily TMS sessions significantly reduced activity after amphetamine, twice-daily TMS for 7 days enhanced activity after amphetamine.
The results suggest that TMS treatment to rats interacts with the effects of amphetamine; the specific effects may be dependent on the schedule of treatment.
The effects of lifetime oral captopril treatment on baroreflex control of heart rate and lumbar sympathetic nerve activity were measured in 19-21-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). The sensitivity of baroreflex control of heart rate and lumbar sympathetic nerve activity were determined by the slopes of the relation between the change in mean arterial pressure (MAP) (mm Hg) versus the change in pulse interval (msec/beat) and the change in MAP versus the percent change in nerve activity, respectively. Untreated SHR had significantly higher MAP than WKY (157 +/- 3 vs. 115 +/- 3 mm Hg, p less than 0.001) and exhibited a decreased baroreflex control of heart rate. Lifetime treatment with captopril prevented the development of hypertension in SHR (MAP = 110 +/- 5 mm Hg) and increased the sensitivity of baroreflex function. The gains of the baroreflex control of heart rate for captopril-treated SHR and control SHR when MAP was raised or lowered by phenylephrine or nitroprusside were 2.38 +/- 0.49 vs. 1.10 +/- 0.33 msec/mm Hg (p less than 0.05) and 0.74 +/- 0.20 vs. 0.54 +/- 0.09 (NS) msec/mm Hg, respectively. The sensitivity of the baroreflex control of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity was greater in captopril-treated SHR than in control SHR when MAP was increased or decreased (-1.03 +/- 0.26 vs. -0.38 +/- 0.11, p less than 0.05; -0.84 +/- 0.2 vs. -0.04 +/- 0.58 (NS) mm Hg-1, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We report our initial experience using Profilnine SD, a 3-Factor prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC) in combination with fresh frozen plasma and vitamin K in seven patients admitted to our neurointensive care unit with oral anticoagulation therapy-related intracranial haemorrhage over a six-month period, to achieve rapid normalisation of the international normalised ratio (INR) and allow surgical evacuation when indicated. Four patients presented with subdural haematomas while three had intracerebral haematomas. Six of seven patients had admission INR in the appropriate therapeutic range for oral anticoagulation therapy. The median dose of PCC administered was 28.5 IU/kg body weight (interquartile range 21.3 to 38.5 IU/kg). All four patients with subdural haematoma underwent surgical evacuation once INR was less than 1.5. Median time from computed tomography diagnosis to surgery was 275 minutes (range 102 to 420 minutes). The median time to INR normalisation post-PCC administration was shorter, at 85 minutes (range 50 to 420 minutes) for the four patients who survived, versus 10 hours (range 9 to 44 hours) in the three patients who died. Two of the three patients who died had haematoma increase, worsening midline shift and subfalcine herniation, leading to withdrawal of therapy. Prothrombin complex concentrates should be considered for use in the urgent reversal of INR in oral anticoagulation therapy-related intracranial haemorrhage, potentially halting haematoma expansion and expediting urgent neurosurgical intervention, although data from randomised controlled trials is still lacking. The literature supporting the use of PCC is reviewed and a protocolised emergent treatment algorithm is proposed, which may help achieve earlier consistent normalisation of the INR.
Long-term treatment with beta 1-selective adrenergic antagonists gives rise to cross-sensitisation of cardiac beta 2-adrenoceptor responses, with no corresponding alteration in beta 1-adrenoceptor responses. We performed a prospective randomised double-blind placebo-controlled cross-over study of the effects of nonselective beta-blockade with timolol on alpha-adrenergic and angiotensin II receptor mediated responses in normal subjects. We also wished to study the time course of beta 1- and beta 2-adrenergic responses after withdrawal of timolol.
Six healthy males received timolol 10 mg twice daily or placebo for 14 days. On day 11 of treatment, vascular alpha 1-, alpha 2- and angiotensin II receptor responses were assessed by measuring the blood pressure increases in response to intravenous phenylephrine, alpha-methylnoradrenaline and angiotensin amide respectively, following one dose of timolol 10 mg (to block the beta-adrenergic effects of phenylephrine and alpha-methylnoradrenaline). Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure increased in response to each of these drugs, but these increases were not different on timolol treatment or placebo. Following cessation of treatment with timolol or placebo, beta 1- and beta 2-adrenoceptor mediated responses were assessed by measuring the heart rate responses to treadmill exercise and intravenous salbutamol infusion respectively. Half each of the subjects underwent this 2 days and 3 days respectively, after the end of treatment.
Both exercise-induced and salbutamol-induced tachycardia were not different following placebo or 3 days following the end of timolol treatment. However, 2 days following timolol treatment, both were attenuated; the reduction in salbutamol-induced tachycardia was significant, whilst the reduction in exercise tachycardia did not reach statistical significance. We also measured metabolic responses to exercise and to salbutamol infusion. Exercise induced a rise in plasma potassium and noradrenaline. Salbutamol produced a fall in plasma potassium, a rise in plasma glucose and insulin and also a rise in plasma noradrenaline. All of these changes were not different following placebo or 3 days after the end of timolol treatment; by contrast, 2 days following timolol treatment, all were significantly attenuated, with the exception of the rise in plasma glucose. In addition, the rise in both plasma glucose and insulin in response to an oral load of 75 g glucose were not different post-placebo, 2 or 3 days post-timolol.
These results show that, following 14 days of nonselective beta-adrenoceptor blockade with timolol, there is evidence of residual beta-adrenoceptor blockade 2 days after drug withdrawal; this finding is in contrast with the known plasma profile of timolol (half-life 3-6 hours), but is consistent with our previous observations of the slow speeds of association and dissociation of timolol with beta-adrenoceptors in vitro. There is no evidence, in this study, of beta-adrenergic sensitisation following timolol withdrawal, nor of cross-regulation of vascular alpha 1-, alpha 2- or angiotensin II receptors in response to nonselective beta-adrenoceptor blockade.
Although amitriptyline is not usually regarded as toxic to the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and is even prescribed by some for neuropathic pain, there are sporadic reports of peripheral neuropathy following overdose or prolonged use of the drug. The scarcity of data leads us to report a case we have followed for 3 years clinically and electromyographically. A 54 year old man on oral amitriptyline 150 mg uninterruptedly for 2 years consulted us for lower limb paresthesias and was found on clinical examination to have reduced ankle jerks and mild distal global hypoesthesia. EMG yielded a pattern of sensorimotor neuropathy compatible with axonal disease in all four limbs. The history was unremarkable and the laboratory data were within normal limits. After discontinuation of amitriptyline therapy both the clinical and EMG pattern gradually normalized. We draw attention to the possible risk, infrequent though it is, of PNS neurotoxicity of a widely used drug reputedly harmless from this point of view.
To describe the clinical and ECG features of cocaine abusers evaluated in the emergency department and admitted to the medical coronary care unit with chest pain consistent with myocardial ischemia.
A four-month retrospective review of all cocaine abusers who presented to the ED with chest pain and a diagnosis of possible myocardial infarction.
Urban county hospital.
Forty-eight adult cocaine abusers admitted with chest pain.
Patients included 34 men and 14 women with a mean age of 29 +/- 7.3 years. The average duration of cocaine abuse in 28 patients for whom it was reported was 5 +/- 4.8 years. Chest pain occurred within one hour of cocaine abuse in 13 admissions (27%), more than one hour after abuse in 13 admissions (27%), and it was not recorded in 23 admissions (47%). Initial ECGs were evaluated in all patients and revealed significant repolarization abnormalities consisting of abnormal ST segment elevations in 18 (37%) and T-wave inversions in 20 (41%) that often persisted on subsequent ECGs. Three patients sustained acute myocardial infarctions.
Our findings confirm a small but significant incidence of myocardial infarction in cocaine abusers presenting to the ED with chest pain. The chronicity of cocaine abuse, the persistence of ECG abnormalities, and the variable temporal relationship of chest pain to cocaine abuse suggest possible chronic myocardial changes as etiologies of ischemia.
88 patients (aged 55-96 years) with severe infections were treated during ten days with one of four different aminoglycosides: gentamicin, dibekacin, netilmicin (3 mg/kg/day) or amikacin (15 mg/kg/day). Creatinine clearance and urinary N-acetyl-glucosaminidase (NAG) activity were measured daily. In addition, NAG isoenzyme patterns were determined on the day of maximal urinary NAG excretion. Aminoglycoside-induced acute renal failure was more prevalent in the gentamicin group (42.8%) than in the dibekacin, netilmicin or amikacin groups (42.8%, 5.5% and 0% respectively). No relationship was found between total urinary NAG activity and nephrotoxic risk. Conversely, significantly elevated levels (p less than 0.001) of B isoenzyme were detected in the gentamicin group, whereas the highest A and I isoenzyme levels were found in the dibekacin and netilmicin groups. These results suggest that functional enzymuria with preferential urinary excretion of A and I isoenzymes should be distinguished from lesional enzymuria with preferential urinary excretion of the B isoenzyme. According to our data, the NAG-B isoenzyme may possibly be a specific marker of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity.
HIV protease inhibitors (HIV PI) are a class of antiretroviral drugs that are designed to target the viral protease. Unexpectedly, this class of drugs is also reported to have antitumor activity. In this study, we have evaluated the in vitro activity of nelfinavir, a HIV PI, against human melanoma cells. Nelfinavir inhibits the growth of melanoma cell lines at low micromolar concentrations that are clinically attainable. Nelfinavir promotes apoptosis and arrests cell cycle at G(1) phase. Cell cycle arrest is attributed to inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) and concomitant dephosphorylation of retinoblastoma tumor suppressor. We further show that nelfinavir inhibits CDK2 through proteasome-dependent degradation of Cdc25A phosphatase. Our results suggest that nelfinavir is a promising candidate chemotherapeutic agent for advanced melanoma, for which novel and effective therapies are urgently needed.
Osteoarthritis is an inflammatory disease of load-bearing synovial joints that is currently treated with drugs that exhibit numerous side effects and are only temporarily effective on pain, the main symptom of the disease. Consequently, there is an acute need for novel, safe and more effective chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of osteoarthritis and related arthritic diseases. Resveratrol is a phytoalexin stilbene produced naturally by plants including red grapes, peanuts and various berries. Recent research in various cell models has demonstrated that resveratrol is safe and has potent anti-inflammatory properties. However, its potential for treating arthritic conditions has not been explored. In this study we provide experimental evidence that resveratrol inhibits the expression of VEGF, MMP-3, MMP-9 and COX-2 in human articular chondrocytes stimulated with the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1beta. Since these gene products are regulated by the transcription factor NF-kappaB, we investigated the effects of resveratrol on IL-1beta-induced NF-kappaB signaling pathway. Resveratrol, like N-Ac-Leu-Leu-norleucinal (ALLN) suppressed IL-1beta-induced proteasome function and the degradation of IkappaBalpha (an inhibitor of NF-kappaB) without affecting IkappaBalpha kinase activation, IkappaBalpha-phosphorylation or IkappaBalpha-ubiquitination which suppressed nuclear translocation of the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB and its phosphorylation. Furthermore, we observed that resveratrol as well as ALLN inhibited IL-1beta-induced apoptosis, caspase-3 activation and PARP cleavage in human articular chondrocytes. In summary, our results suggest that resveratrol suppresses apoptosis and inflammatory signaling through its actions on the NF-kappaB pathway in human chondrocytes. We propose that resveratrol should be explored further for the prophylactic treatment of osteoarthritis in humans and companion animals.
Cross-linked human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I molecules have been shown to mediate cell death in neoplastic lymphoid cells. However, clinical application of an anti-HLA class I antibody is limited by possible side effects due to widespread expression of HLA class I molecules in normal tissues. To reduce the unwanted Fc-mediated functions of the therapeutic antibody, we have developed a recombinant single-chain Fv diabody (2D7-DB) specific to the alpha2 domain of HLA-A. Here, we show that 2D7-DB specifically induces multiple myeloma cell death in the bone marrow environment. Both multiple myeloma cell lines and primary multiple myeloma cells expressed HLA-A at higher levels than normal myeloid cells, lymphocytes, or hematopoietic stem cells. 2D7-DB rapidly induced Rho activation and robust actin aggregation that led to caspase-independent death in multiple myeloma cells. This cell death was completely blocked by Rho GTPase inhibitors, suggesting that Rho-induced actin aggregation is crucial for mediating multiple myeloma cell death. Conversely, 2D7-DB neither triggered Rho-mediated actin aggregation nor induced cell death in normal bone marrow cells despite the expression of HLA-A. Treatment with IFNs, melphalan, or bortezomib enhanced multiple myeloma cell death induced by 2D7-DB. Furthermore, administration of 2D7-DB resulted in significant tumor regression in a xenograft model of human multiple myeloma. These results indicate that 2D7-DB acts on multiple myeloma cells differently from other bone marrow cells and thus provide the basis for a novel HLA class I-targeting therapy against multiple myeloma.
Since the two muscles (costal and crural) that constitute the diaphragm are separate and histologically different, their individual recovery pattern from neuromuscular blockade also may be different. Therefore, we studied the recovery of force and shortening in the in vivo diaphragm from atracurium-induced neuromuscular blockade in seven pentobarbital anesthetized dogs to assess segmental differences. Transdiaphragmatic pressure (Pdi), shortening of costal and crural segments, integrated electromyogram (EMG), and tidal volume (VT) were measured during spontaneous breathing. After atracurium had reduced VT to 30% of control, breathing parameters were followed until recovered to 90% of control values. In addition, force-frequency curves generated by supramaximal tetanic stimuli of the phrenic nerve were measured. Recovery times for tidal Pdi, tidal EMG, tidal shortening, low-frequency shortening, and twitch Pdi were twice as fast as for VT (40 +/- 4 min), reflecting a slower rate of recovery of accessory inspiratory muscles. High-frequency recovery was typically slower than that of VT. During tidal breathing and tetanic stimulation, costal and crural shortening recovered simultaneously. On the other hand, comparison between costal and crural by analysis of pressure-shortening relationships showed a segmental difference (crural shortened 30% more than costal at the same Pdi), which implied reduced afterload on the crural segment. However, since shortening and pressure were linearly related during paralysis and recovery, measurements of Pdi alone can accurately reflect changes in contractile mass when heterogeneity and afterload are controlled.
