To assess lymphocyte reactivity to dilevalol and to serum containing putative ex vivo dilevalol antigens or metabolites in a case of dilevalol-induced liver injury.
A 58-year-old woman with a clinical diagnosis of dilevalol-induced liver injury.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells collected from the patient were cultured in the presence of a solution of dilevalol and also with sera collected from a volunteer before and after dilevalol intake. A similar protocol was performed with lymphocytes from a healthy subject.
No lymphocyte proliferation was observed either in the patient or in the healthy volunteer in the presence of dilevalol solutions. A significant proliferative response to serum collected after dilevalol intake was observed in the case of the patient compared with the proliferative response to the serum collected before the drug intake. No reactivity was found when lymphocytes from the healthy subject were tested under similar conditions.
The methodology used allowed the detection of lymphocyte sensitization to sera containing ex vivo-prepared dilevalol antigens, suggesting the involvement of an immunologic mechanism in dilevalol-induced liver injury.
Mild and moderate effects of marginally low and marginally high copper exposure are poorly understood in humans.
The objective was to assess acute gastrointestinal effects and blood markers of copper status in apparently healthy adults who underwent controlled copper exposure for 2 mo.
This was a 2-mo, randomized, controlled, double-blind study of 1365 apparently healthy adults in whom acute gastrointestinal symptoms (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain) were assessed as responses to copper exposure (<0.01, 2, 4, or 6 mg/L water). Blood markers were measured in 240 participants at the end of the survey. Subjects with anemia, inflammation, or infection were excluded. Serum and erythrocyte copper, peripheral mononuclear cell copper, serum ceruloplasmin, the nonceruloplasmin bound copper fraction, superoxide dismutase activity, hemoglobin, mean corpuscular volume, serum ferritin, and liver enzyme activities were measured.
The percentage of subjects reporting gastrointestinal symptoms was higher in the 6-mg Cu group than in the <0.01-mg Cu group (P < 0.02). One hundred ninety-five subjects fulfilled the inclusion criteria for the blood studies. Although a significant relation between copper intake and total gastrointestinal symptoms was observed, no relation was found between copper intake or reported symptoms and copper-load variables.
Gastrointestinal symptoms increased significantly in response to 6 mg Cu/L water. No detectable changes were observed in indicators of copper status, which suggests competent homeostatic regulation. The results of liver function tests remained normal in all subjects. The lack of change in superoxide dismutase activity supports the Food and Nutrition Board's latest recommendation of 0.9 mg Cu/d for adults.
Deficiency in mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2), a tetrameric enzyme, results from inheriting one or two ALDH2*2 alleles. This allele encodes a protein subunit with a lysine for glutamate substitution at position 487 and is dominant over the wild-type allele, ALDH2*1. The ALDH2*2-encoded subunit (ALDH2K) reduces the activity of ALDH2 enzyme in cell lines expressing the wild-type subunit (ALDH2E). In addition to this effect on the enzyme activity, we now report that ALDH2*2 heterozygotes had lower levels of ALDH2 immunoreactive protein in autopsy liver samples. The half-lives of ALDH2 protein in HeLa cell lines expressing ALDH2*1, ALDH2*2, or both were determined by the rate of loss of immunoreactive protein after inhibition of protein synthesis with puromycin and by pulse-chase experiments. By either measure, ALDH2E enzyme was very stable, with a half-life of at least 22 h. ALDH2K enzyme had an enzyme half-life of only 14 h. In cells expressing both subunits, most of the subunits assemble as heterotetramers, and these enzymes had a half-life of 13 h. Thus, the effect of ALDH2K on enzyme turnover is dominant. These studies indicate that the ALDH2*2 allele exerts its dominant effect both by interfering with the catalytic activity of the enzyme and by increasing its turnover. This represents the first example of a dominantly acting allele with this effect on a mitochondrial enzyme's turnover.
Cocaine use has been associated with neurovascular complications, including arterial vasoconstriction and vasculitis. However, there are few studies of angiographic effects of cocaine on human cerebral arteries. Information on these effects could be obtained from angiograms of patients with cocaine-associated subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) who underwent angiography shortly after cocaine use.
We screened patients with SAH retrospectively and identified those with positive urine toxicology for cocaine or its metabolites. Quantitative arterial diameter measurements from angiograms of these patients were compared to measurements from control patients with SAH who were matched for factors known to influence arterial diameter. Qualitative comparisons of small artery changes also were made.
Thirteen patients with positive cocaine toxicology were compared to 26 controls. There were no significant differences between groups in the mean diameters of the intradural internal carotid, sphenoidal segment of the middle cerebral, precommunicating segment of the anterior cerebral, or basilar arteries (p greater than 0.05 for all comparisons, unpaired t-tests). There also were no significant differences between groups when expressing diameters as the sum of the precommunicating segment of the anterior cerebral + sphenoidal segment of the middle cerebral + supraclinoid internal carotid artery + basilar artery divided by the diameter of the petrous internal carotid artery (p greater than 0.05, unpaired t-tests). Qualitative assessments showed two arterial irregularities in the distal vasculature in each group.
No quantitative evidence for narrowing of large cerebral arteries or qualitative angiographic evidence for distal narrowing or vasculitis could be found in patients who underwent angiography after aneurysmal SAH associated with cocaine use.
In a recent acute study, amantadine was found to have antidyskinetic effect against levodopa-induced motor complications in patients with Parkinson disease. The longevity of this effect was not addressed but is of interest in light of the controversy in the literature regarding the duration of amantadine's well-established antiparkinsonian action.
To determine the duration of the antidyskinetic effect of amantadine in advanced Parkinson disease.
One year after completion of an acute, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study, patients returned for re-evaluation of motor symptoms and dyskinesias using a nonrandomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled follow-up paradigm.
National Institutes of Health Clinical Center.
Seventeen of the original 18 patients with advanced Parkinson disease complicated by dyskinesias and motor fluctuations participated in this study; 1 was lost to follow-up. Thirteen of the 17 individuals had remained on amantadine therapy for the entire year.
Ten days prior to the follow-up assessment, amantadine was replaced with identical capsules containing either amantadine or placebo.
Parkinsonian symptoms and dyskinesia severity were scored using standard rating scales, while subjects received steady-state intravenous levodopa infusions at the same rate as 1 year earlier.
One year after initiation of amantadine cotherapy, its antidyskinetic effect was similar in magnitude (56% reduction in dyskinesia compared with 60% 1 year earlier). Motor complications occurring with the patients' regular oral levodopa regimen also remained improved according to the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS-IV).
The beneficial effects of amantadine on motor response complications are maintained for at least 1 year after treatment initiation.
To describe a case of atenolol-induced breast pain and swelling in a patient receiving atenolol.
A 54-year-old woman was diagnosed with hypertension with no existing comorbidity. The patient was not taking any prescription medications, but was using an herbal supplement and several other over-the-counter supplements. After diet and exercise failed to control the woman's blood pressure, atenolol 25 mg daily was initiated. She reported symptoms of insomnia 9 days after starting the medication. During a follow-up visit 5 weeks later, the patient reported continued insomnia, as well as a 6 day history of breast pain, swelling, and tenderness. Atenolol was quickly titrated to discontinuation, and a thiazide diuretic was prescribed. Subsequently, the pain and swelling gradually resolved.
Assessment using the Naranjo probability scale revealed that the adverse reaction was probably associated with atenolol. While rare cases of hyperprolactinemia and galactorrhea have been reported with beta-blocker use, no reports of breast pain caused by this drug class were identified in the literature.
Atenolol has many reported adverse reactions, both common and rare; however, until this report, breast pain and swelling had not been documented adverse reactions. Clinicians should be aware that atenolol may be a cause of nonorganic breast pain and swelling in women.
Between 1977 and 1980, 1442 pregnant women in Thies, Senegal, were tested for serologic markers of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Of these, 9.8% were HBsAg(+), 59.9% were anti-HBs(+), and 15.6% had anti-HBc alone. Of 116 HBsAg(+) pregnant women, only 19.8% were HBeAg(+), a much lower proportion of infectious carriers than seen in Asian populations. Cord blood from 1353 babies was HBsAg(-), implying that the babies were not infected prior to birth. Four hundred sixty-two babies, including 88 born to HBsAg(+) mothers, were observed for 2 weeks to 38 months after birth. In contrast to observations in Asia, none of the babies became HBsAg(+) before 5 months of age, and only three of the 16 born to HBeAg(+) mothers became HBsAg(+) within the first year of life; all three developed chronic infections (i.e., HBsAg(+) for greater than or equal to 6 months. In the second year of life, six of 34 babies born to HBsAg(+), HBeAg(-)/anti-HBe(-) mothers became infected with HBV, and four of the six developed chronic infections. During the first 3 years of life, infections occurred at a higher rate in infants born to HBsAg(+) (17%) than to HBsAg(-) (4%) women. The latter group of infants included 4.0% of those born to anti-HBs(+) mothers, 4.6% born to anti-HBcAg(+), and 3.2% born to uninfected women. These observations indicate that HBV infections in Senegal usually do not occur perinatally, but do occur at high incidence later in infancy and childhood. Such infections can be prevented by the use of hepatitis B vaccine alone; administration of hepatitis B immune globulin should not be needed.
In animal models of focal cerebral ischemia, albumin infusions at doses ranging from 0.6 to 2.5 g/kg are neuroprotective. It is not known whether patients with stroke, often elderly and with underlying cardiovascular disease, can safely tolerate such degrees of volume expansion. Therefore, we retrospectively reviewed the safety of high-dose albumin treatment in patients with acute ischemic stroke.
Within 24 hours of ischemic stroke onset, patients who received at least 0.7 g/kg albumin were identified by a review of medical records. Each albumin recipient was assigned two control patients, who received standard fluid management. Controls were matched by age, number of stroke risk factors, stroke severity, and stroke subtype. Medical records were reviewed for treatment-related adverse events, defined as cardiopulmonary complications and mortality.
Thirty cases (mean age 62.9+/-11.4 years) and 60 controls (mean age 62.5+/-11.8 years) were identified between July 1999 and November 2001. The two groups were evenly matched. The mean dose of albumin infusion was 171 g (2.4 g/kg). Cardiopulmonary complications or death developed in 37% of cases and 18% of controls (p=0.056). Mortality was 7% in both groups. Multivariate regression analysis showed that a history of congestive heart failure and higher total albumin dose were independently associated with the occurrence of adverse events.
Albumin treatment was associated with a nonsignificant trend toward increased cardiopulmonary adverse events. However, these adverse events did not result in excess mortality.
Phencyclidine (PCP) and sigma ligands produce a typical excitatory behaviour in rats, characterized by circling and head- and body-weaving. Excitatory amino acid antagonists such as 2-amino 5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP5) or 3-(+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-l-phosphonic acid (CPP) also produce a PCP-like excitatory behaviour in rats. In the present paper, the interactions between PCP/sigma drugs or excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists and haloperidol have been investigated in rats. In addition, the influence of two other butyrophenones having a different affinity for the sigma/haloperidol receptors, such as spiperone and 3-(4-(3(4-fluorobenzoyl)-propyl-piperazino-l-yl-isoquinolino (HR 375), has been tested on the behavioural and EEG effects of PCP/sigma drugs and excitatory amino acid antagonists. PCP (2.5-5 mg/kg IP), (+) or (-) SKF 10,047 (1-15 mg/kg IP), (+) or (-) cyclazocine (2-8 mg/kg IP) and AP5 (0.5 mumol ICV) dose-dependently and significantly (P less than 0.01) antagonized the haloperidol-induced catalepsy in the horizontal bar and podium tests in rats. On the other hand, either haloperidol (1 mg/kg IP) or spiperone (1 mg/kg IP) reduced the head-weaving induced by (+) SKF 10,047, PCP, or AP5. On the contrary, HR 375 (6 mg/kg IP) was ineffective in blocking the excitatory effects of these drugs. In addition, either haloperidol (1 mg/kg IP) or spiperone (1 mg/kg IP), but not HR 375 (6 mg/kg IP) reduced the amplitude increase of the fast (20-30 Hz) frequency/low (30-50 microV) voltage background cortical activity elicited by PCP or (+) SKF 10,047. The results demonstrate an interaction between dopamine and excitatory amino acid receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pentoxifylline (oxpentifylline) is an orally active haemorheological agent for the treatment of peripheral vascular disease, cerebrovascular disease and a number of other conditions involving a defective regional microcirculation. Pentoxifylline acts primarily by increasing red blood cell deformability, by reducing blood viscosity and by decreasing the potential for platelet aggregation and thrombus formation. Extensive open and placebo-controlled studies have shown that pentoxifylline 600 to 1200 mg/day for at least 6 weeks is associated with subjective and objective improvements in 60 to 100% of patients with peripheral vascular disease. The most commonly assessed clinical parameter, walking distance, is usually improved by about 100%, although much greater improvements have also been documented. Other parameters which have been clearly improved include lower limb rest pain, paraesthesia, muscle blood flow, cramps and leg ulcers. Pentoxifylline has produced consistently better results than placebo, and in those studies using comparative drugs, better results than nylidrin, adenosine and naftidrofuryl. In patients with cerebrovascular disorders, open studies with pentoxifylline, usually at a dosage of 600 to 1200 mg/day (300 to 600 mg/day in Japan), have shown marked overall clinical improvements in about 85% of patients. Symptomatic improvements in rehabilitation psychometric tests, neuromotor and speech deficits and other subjective symptoms have accompanied increased cerebral blood flow, particularly to ischaemic areas. Pentoxifylline would appear to be useful in most types of cerebrovascular disease including transient ischaemic attacks, sequelae of cerebral thrombosis and haemorrhage, and chronic ischaemic disorders. In patients with chronic cerebrovascular disease pentoxifylline 600 to 1200 mg/day conferred significant clinical benefit compared with placebo and in isolated studies proved to be superior to drugs such as co-dergocrine mesylate, adenosine and pyrithioxine. Preliminary studies indicate that pentoxifylline may also prove useful in vaso-occlusive crises of sickle cell disease, some hearing disorders, disorders of eye circulation, high altitude sickness and asthenozoospermia. Pentoxifylline is usually well tolerated when administered as the conventional controlled release formulation, gastrointestinal symptoms (about 3%) being the most common complaint, although these and other adverse effects have not occurred to a significantly greater extent than with placebo. Thus, pentoxifylline offers a well-tolerated and effective alternative to the treatment options available for patients with peripheral vascular disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This study investigated the differences in niacin skin flush responses between patients with schizophrenia, bipolar mania, and normal controls. We applied niacin patches of three concentrations (0.001 M, 0.01 M, and 0.1 M) to the skin of 61 patients with schizophrenia, 18 patients with bipolar mania, and 40 normal controls for 5 min. Flush responses were rated at 5, 10 and 15 min after application. Flush responses were significantly different among three groups at the concentrations of 0.1 M and 0.01 M at all of the three rating time points. The use of nicotine did not have significant influences on the flush responses. Absent response was significantly more prevalent in the schizophrenia group than in the other two groups, but was not significantly different between the bipolar and the control group. The greatest degree of differentiation in flush responses among groups occurred at the 0.01 M concentration, and the rating time point of 10 min with 49.2% of schizophrenic patients but only 7.5% of controls and 11.1% of bipolar patients not showing a flush response. The niacin skin test for schizophrenia had 49.2% sensitivity and 92.5% specificity compared with controls. This study found that absent response to niacin skin patch was specific to schizophrenia and independent of smoking status.
The present study sought to determine whether the Hedgehog (Hh) pathway is active and regulates the cell growth of cultured malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) cells and to evaluate the efficacy of pathway blockade using smoothened (SMO) antagonists (SMO inhibitor GDC-0449 or the antifungal drug itraconazole [ITRA]) or Gli inhibitors (GANT61 or the antileukemia drug arsenic trioxide [ATO]) in suppressing MPM viability.
Selective knockdown of SMO to inhibit Hh signaling was achieved by small interfering RNA in 3 representative MPM cells. The growth inhibitory effect of GDC-0449, ITRA, GANT61, and ATO was evaluated in 8 MPM lines, with cell viability quantified using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. Cell death was determined by annexinV/propidium iodide staining and flow cytometry.
SMO small interfering RNA mediated a two- to more than fivefold reduction of SMO and Gli1 gene expression as determined by real-time quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, indicating significant Hh pathway blockade. This was associated with significantly reduced cell viability (34% ± 7% to 61% ± 14% of nontarget small interfering RNA controls; P = .0024 to P = .043). Treating MPM cells with Hh inhibitors resulted in a 1.5- to 4-fold reduction of Gli1 expression. These 4 Hh antagonists strongly suppressed MPM cell viability. More importantly, ITRA, ATO, GANT61 induced significant apoptosis in the representative MPM cells.
Hh signaling is active in MPM and regulates cell viability. ATO and ITRA were as effective as the prototypic SMO inhibitor GDC-0449 and the Gli inhibitor GANT61 in suppressing Hh signaling in MPM cells. Pharmaceutical agents Food and Drug Administration-approved for other indications but recently found to have anti-Hh activity, such as ATO or ITRA, could be repurposed to treat MPM.
Cortical dysplasia is a cortical malformation resulting from any developmental defects during different periods of development. This study aims to investigate the hippocampal histopathological alterations in the neonates with cortical dysplasia due to the prenatal exposure to carmustine (1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea; BCNU) and the possible effects of prophylaxis with melatonin, a neuroprotective agent.
Wistar albino female rats were randomly divided into four experimental groups; control, melatonin-treated, BCNU-exposed and BCNU-exposed+melatonin-treated. Light microscopy and immunohistochemistry were carried out on the newborn hippocampus.
Histopathology of hippocampus from the control and melatonin-treated groups showed continuity of migration and maturation as pathognomonic signs of the normal newborn hippocampus. Hippocampal cortex from the newborns exposed in utero to BCNU showed the histology of early embryonic hippocampal formation with immunohistochemical increase in the number of nestin positive cells and decreases in the immunoreactivity of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and synaptophysin. These findings indicate a significant delay in hippocampal maturation, migration, and synaptogenesis. Intrauterine treatment of BCNU-exposed rats with melatonin resulted in histopathological features almost similar to control group.
It has been concluded that cortical dysplasia induced by intrauterine BCNU administration results in delayed hippocampal maturation, which is successfully restored by intrauterine melatonin treatment.
Two female patients with an adenocarcinoma of the colon (Duke stages B and C) underwent colectomy followed by adjuvant chemotherapy combining 5 fluorouracil (5 FU) and levamisole. Secondary neurological manifestations occurred in both patients including vertigo, nausea and vomiting, dizziness with loss of balance, slow ideation, impaired memory, headache and, on one case, central origin facial paralysis. Symptoms appeared between the 11th and 34th week of treatment. The patients had received 9 to 30 g 5 FU and 2.7 to 7.6 g levamisole. CT scan and/or MRI first suggested cerebral metastases then demyelinisation. The clinical signs disappeared spontaneously in less than one month. The brain images were unchanged. The 5 FU/levamisole combination was undoubtedly responsible for the neurological manifestations. Levamisole may have potentialized the effect of 5 FU leading to demyelinisation. Whether chemotherapy should be stopped or not is debated.
Fibroblast growth factor homologous factors (FHFs) have been implicated in limb and nervous system development. In this paper we describe the expression of the cFHF-4 gene during chicken craniofacial development. cFHF-4 is expressed in the mesenchyme of the frontonasal process, and in the mesenchyme and ectoderm of the mandibular processes. The expression of cFHF-4 and other genes implicated in facial patterning have been analyzed in talpid(2) embryos or in the presence of exogenous retinoic acid. Talpid(2) mutants show abnormal patterns of gene expression, including up-regulation of cFHF-4 in the developing face, which correlate with defects in cartilage formation. By contrast, expression of cFHF-4 in the developing face is strongly downregulated by teratogenic doses of all-trans retinoic acid in a dose-dependent manner. Low levels of retinoic acid that produce distal upper beak truncations do not affect cShh, c-Patched-1, or c-Bmp-2 expression in the face, but downregulate cFHF-4 in the frontonasal process.
The effects of cimetidine (5-200 mg/kg), ranitidine (1-100 mg/kg), or saline on local anesthetic central nervous system toxicity was studied when administered 20 min before the administration of lidocaine (30-80 mg/kg) or 2-chloroprocaine (50-250 mg/kg) to female white CD-1 mice. All drugs were administered intraperitoneally. The 50% convulsive dose (CD50) was determined for each drug and dose combination. Pretreatment with cimetidine resulted in a significant, dose-dependent decrease in the CD50 of lidocaine, whereas ranitidine pretreatment did not significantly alter the lidocaine CD50. A dose of cimetidine (15 mg/kg) that caused a significant decrease in 2-chloroprocaine CD50 (from 180 to 110 mg/kg) caused only an insignificant decrease in lidocaine CD50 (from 59 to 54 mg/kg). If these results can be applied to clinical doses in humans, ranitidine may be a safer premedicant than cimetidine with regard to interactions with local anesthetics.
The Holter recording in an elderly female patient on Risperidone treatment who developed a longer than expected prolonged QT interval and associated torsades de pointes (TdP) at the onset of complete AV block is presented. The electrocardiographic manifestation of (likely) phase 2 early afterdepolarizations (EAD) as a trigger of TdP episodes; the TdP undulating or monomorphic morphologies as a counterpart of drifting or stationery scrolls, respectively, and the TdP final extinction leading to asystole and death are shown.
Retinoblastoma occurs in approximately 4 per million children per year in the United States, usually before 2 years of age. In developed countries, 95% of children with tumor in one eye can be cured with enucleation, while children with tumor in both eyes require individualized therapy to preserve vision. Although enucleation and radiation are very effective therapies for children with bilateral disease, the resultant visual impairment, cosmetic deformity and risk for new tumors result in morbidity to these children who otherwise have a near normal lifespan. Therefore, since 1994, chemoreduction with vincristine, carboplatin, and etoposide combined with focal treatment, have been used successfully. However, a major concern with the use of carboplatin has been ototoxicity.
To determine whether carboplatin, in the doses and schedule used by us and others to treat retinoblastoma (18.6 mg/kg q 4 weeks for six cycles) results in hearing impairment, we reviewed the records of 248 children with retinoblastoma, 164 of whom had received carboplatin. Children generally received carboplatin, vincristine, and etoposide (CEV) for six cycles of chemotherapy.
Hearing evaluations prior to initiating therapy were abnormal in 14 patients (5.6%). No patients with normal initial audiograms were found to have abnormal studies following repeated evaluations.
While ototoxicity is a potential concern in this young patient population, carboplatin in the treatment of retinoblastoma does not appear to produce impairment. Screening can identify children who require frequent audiologic follow-up, but children whose hearing is normal prior to therapy do not require routine surveillance following six cycles of standard CEV therapy.
A woman with metastatic breast carcinoma developed acute haemolytic anaemia on two occasions following treatment with methotrexate (MTX) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The direct antiglobulin test was positive. Compatible control cells were pretreated with either MTX or 5-FU and subsequently incubated with patient and control sera. Agglutination in the indirect antiglobulin test was observed only in the presence of patient serum and MTX, and did not occur following pretreatment with 5-FU, folic acid, folinic acid or triamterene. There was no evidence of complement binding to the red cell surface. A macrophage assay showed increased phagocytic uptake of MTX-treated cells in the presence of patient serum. This phagocytosis was not enhanced by the addition of complement. The antibody subclass was predominantly IgG-3. The 51Cr red cell survival of autologous MTX cells was markedly shortened, indicating rapid in vivo destruction. These studies demonstrate the occurrence of acute haemolytic anaemia due to an IgG-3 antibody that reacts with erythrocytes in the presence of methotrexate. This antibody does not fix complement, but sensitizes red blood cells to phagocytosis by macrophages.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) was administered orally at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg body weight five times a week to 300 male Sprague-Dawley rats in a carcinogenicity experiment. Four groups of 50 rats were treated with two different doses of sodium 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate (mesna, Uromitexan) (single doses of 5 or 15 mg/kg body weight), or disodium 2,2'-dithio-bis-ethane sulfonate (dimesna) (single doses of 12 or 35 mg/kg body weight), and the effect on carcinogenicity by cyclophosphamide was investigated. Two groups received mesna or dimesna only, and one additional group of 100 rats served as an untreated control. Evaluation of the study after 20 months proved CP to be carcinogenic, the induced neoplasms being in a variety of organs including tumors of the urinary bladder in 30% of the rats. The additional administration of mesna and dimesna significantly reduced the bladder tumor risk, this reduction being dose-related. In the 100 rats treated with mesna or dimesna only, no evidence of a carcinogenic response or signs of other toxic effects were observed.
The occurrence of fatal respiratory insufficiency following dipyridamole-thallium imaging is described. The patient, a 67-year-old man, had a history of chronic obstructive lung disease. Since patients with a history of chronic obstructive lung disease have an increased risk of developing bronchospasm after dipyridamole infusion, it is advised to be cautious in performing dipyridamole-thallium imaging in these patients. Dobutamine may be an acceptable alternative to dipyridamole in these patients.
