Melatonin concentrations in serum, as well as urinary levels of its main metabolite, 6-sulphatoxymelatonin, decrease with age. In the course of aging, the frequency of heart diseases, both acute and chronic, systematically increases. The evidence from the last 10 years suggests that melatonin influences the cardiovascular system. The presence of vascular melatoninergic receptors/binding sites has been demonstrated; these receptors are functionally linked with vasoconstrictor or vasodilatory effects of melatonin. Melatonin can contribute in cardioprotection of the rat heart, following myocardial ischemia. It has been shown that patients with coronary heart disease have a low melatonin production rate, especially those with higher risk of cardiac infarction and/or sudden death. There are clinical data reporting some alterations of melatonin in human stroke and coronary heart disease. The suprachiasmatic nucleus and, possibly, the melatoninergic system may also modulate cardiovascular rhythmicity. Hypercholesterolemia and hypertension are the other age-related symptoms. People with high levels of LDL-cholesterol have low levels of melatonin. It has been shown that melatonin suppresses the formation of cholesterol by 38% and reduces LDL accumulation by 42%. A 10-20% reduction of cholesterol concentration in women using the B-oval pill has been observed. It is a very important because, even a 10-15% reduction in blood cholesterol concentration has bee shown to result in a 20 to 30% decrease in the risk of coronary heart disease. People with hypertension have lower melatonin levels than those with normal blood pressure. The administration of the hormone in question declines blood pressure to normal range. It has been observed that melatonin, even in a dose 1 mg, reduced blood pressure and decreased catecholamine level after 90 min in human subjects. Melatonin may reduce blood pressure via the following mechanisms: 1) by a direct effect on the hypothalamus; 2) as an antioxidant which lowers blood pressure; 3) by decreasing the level of catecholamines, or 4) by relaxing the smooth muscle in the aorta wall.
Fifty-eight spinal cord injured men entered our self injection program for restoration of erections since the program began in September 1985. Early complications included sustained erection (greater than 8 hours) in 4 patients on 6 occasions requiring aspiration of the corpora cavernosa and injection of a dilute epinephrine solution (1/100,000). Bruising at the site of injection was reported at least once by 10 patients. Blood draining from the urethra was noted in 3 patients when the urethra was inadvertently injected. Rigid erections were obtained in all but 5 patients that injected (90%). Late complications included penile plaque in 3 patients (15%). There were no abnormal liver function tests. Average time on the injection program was 2 years (range of 0.5 to 4.5 years). Thirty-one (53%) of the patients have dropped out of the program, most doing so prior to the first injection or during the titration period. The average frequency of injection was twice a month. Injection therapy remains an effective and relatively safe alternative for selective patients with spinal cord injury.
The molecular responses of two small molecules, SANT-2 and GANT-61, potentially interfering with the sonic hedgehog pathway (Shh) have been studied in zebrafish embryos by microarray analysis. For both compounds and the positive reference cyclopamine previous reporter gene assays for the transcription factor Gli1 have indicated an inhibition of the hedgehog signaling pathway. In zebrafish embryos a typical phenotype (cyclopia) associated with Shh interference was only observed for cyclopamine. Furthermore, only cyclopamine led to the repression of genes specifically associated with hedgehog signaling and confirmed published microarray data. In contrast to these data hspb11 was additionally identified as the most pronounced down-regulated genes for exposure to cyclopamine. No or different effects on gene expression patterns were provoked by SANT-2 or GANT-61, respectively. Reasons for the discrepancies between cellular reporter and the zebrafish embryo assay and potential implications for the identification of compounds interfering with specific developmental pathways are discussed.
The orphan cotransport protein expressed by the SLC5A8 gene has been shown to play a role in controlling the growth of colon cancers, and the silencing of this gene is a common and early event in human colon neoplasia. We expressed this protein in Xenopus laevis oocytes and have found that it transports small monocarboxylic acids. The electrogenic activity of the cotransporter, which we have named SMCT (sodium monocarboxylate transporter), was dependent on external Na(+) and was compatible with a 3 : 1 stoichiometry between Na(+) and monocarboxylates. A portion of the SMCT-mediated current was also Cl(-) dependent, but Cl(-) was not cotransported. SMCT transports a variety of monocarboxylates (similar to unrelated monocarboxylate transport proteins) and most transported monocarboxylates demonstrated K(m) values near 100 microm, apart from acetate and d-lactate, for which the protein showed less affinity. SMCT was strongly inhibited by 1 mm probenecid or ibuprofen. In the absence of external substrate, a Na(+)-independent leak current was also observed to pass through SMCT. SMCT activity was strongly inhibited after prolonged exposure to high external concentrations of monocarboxylates. The transport of monocarboxylates in anionic form was confirmed by the observation of a concomitant alkalinization of the cytosol. SMCT, being expressed in colon and kidney, represents a novel means by which Na(+), short-chain fatty acids and other monocarboxylates are transported in these tissues. The significance of a Na(+)-monocarboxylate transporter to colon cancer presumably stems from the transport of butyrate, which is well known for having anti-proliferative and apoptosis-inducing activity in colon epithelial cells.
To identify the underlying molecular defects causing retinal degeneration in seven N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) induced mutant alleles of the Pde6b gene and to analyze the timescale of retinal degeneration in these new models of retinitis pigmentosa.
Conformation sensitive capillary electrophoresis and DNA sequencing were used to identify the mutations in the Pde6b gene. Visual acuity testing was performed with a visual-tracking drum at ages ranging from postnatal day 25 to week 10. Retinal examination was performed with an indirect ophthalmoscope. Animals were killed and eyes were prepared for histologic analysis.
Point mutations in the seven new alleles of Pde6b were identified: Three generated premature stop codons, two were missense mutations, and two were splice mutations. The three stop codon mutants and one of the splice mutants had phenotypes indistinguishable from the Pde6b(rd1) mouse in rapidity of onset of retinal degeneration, suggesting that they are null alleles. However, the remaining alleles showed slower onset of retinal degeneration, as determined by visual acuity testing, fundus examination, and histology, indicating that they are hypomorphic alleles.
These data demonstrate a correlation between genotype and phenotype. Four of the mutants with severe genetic lesions have rapid onset of retinal degeneration, as determined by fundus examination. These mice were indistinguishable from Pde6b(rd1) mice, which are effectively blind by 3 weeks of age. In contrast, the milder genetic lesions show a slower progression of the disease and provide the community with models that more closely mimic human retinitis pigmentosa.
Changes in stereotyped sniffing, biting and hyperactivity induced by apomorphine and D-amphetamine in the rat were determined after bilateral 6-hydroxy-dopamine (6-OHDA) lesions (8-16 micron/4micron6) of the extrapyramidal caudate-putamen (CP) (anterior and centre), globus pallidus (GP) and substantia nigra (SN), the mesolimbic nucleus (ACB), tuberculum olfactorium (TUO) and central amygdaloid nucleus (ACE). Lesions were also induced in the medial forebrain bundle in the lateral hypothalamus (LH). The 6-OHDA lesions of the CP reduced amphetamine biting but not sniffing or hyperactivity. Centrally placed 6-OHDA failed to modify any response to apomorphine but anterior locations reduced apomorphine biting. Both lesion locations led to a 45-65% reduction in striatal dopamine (DA) content, but the anterior location also involved depletions of mesolimbic DA. 6-OHDA lesions of the GP reduced striatal DA by 62% but initially potentiated before reducing both apomorphine and amphetamine biting. These lesions also potentiated amphetamine hyperactivity but other parameters were unmodified. The LH and SN lesions reduced striatal and mesolimbic DA by 75-80% and potentiated apomorphine biting. The LH lesions reduced amphetamine biting and hyperactivity but the SN lesions initially potentiated these responses. 6-OHDA lesions of the ACB reduced the DA content of this nucleus by 72% but had little effect on the TUO: these lesions reduced the duration of amphetamine hyperactivity and potentiated apomorphine biting. In contrast, equally selective lesions of the TUO (80% DA depletion) enhanced the locomotor activity response to both apomorphine and amphetamine; apomorphine biting was also increased but other parameters were unmodified. Lesions of the ACE depleted amygdaloid DA by at least 80% and reduced or abolished apomorphine and amphetamine biting in the chronic stage. The results indicate that the sites for mediation of sterotyped sniffing, biting or hyperactivity are not the same for apomorphine and amphetamine, and that each behavioural state involves the functioning of more than one DA-containing area.
The new calcium antagonist anipamil (1,7-bis-(3-methoxyphenyl)-3-methylaza-7-cyano-nonadecane) exhibited a pronounced protective effect against isoprenaline-induced myocardial necrosis in rats. Anipamil was administered in single doses of 10 or 20 mg/kg daily for 4 days. 30 mg/kg isoprenaline was given by subcutaneous injection on the 3rd and 4th days of the study. The protective effect of anipamil was assessed by histological investigations, and its effect on the activity of the enzymes succinate dehydrogenase, NADH-NBT reductase, acid phosphatase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase in experimentally-induced myocardial damage was assessed quantitatively by microphotometry. The protective effect of anipamil against isoprenaline-induced myocardial necrosis was definitely dose-dependent: 10 mg/kg anipamil exhibited a partial protective effect, whilst 20 mg/kg anipamil protected the heart completely.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) content is increased in the hyperplastic pituitaries of estrogen (E)-treated rats, thus suggesting that this neuropeptide could mediate the E effect on lactotrophs. E also decreases pituitary TGF-beta1 content, an autocrine/paracrine inhibitor of lactotroph proliferation, and induces pituitary angiogenesis. To elucidate the role of VIP in this context, lactotroph hyperplasia was induced in female Fisher 344 rats by implanting sc pellets of diethylstilbestrol (DES). Twenty-five days later, the rats were treated with three different increasing doses of a VIP receptor antagonist or the vehicle for 5 d. DES treatment resulted in a marked increase of serum prolactin (PRL), pituitary PRL content, PRL mRNA expression, pituitary weight, and pituitary proliferating cell nuclear antigen. DES treatment also increased pituitary VIP content and VIP mRNA levels, but not in the hypothalamus and cerebral cortex. Simultaneously, DES treatment decreased the pituitary TGF-beta1 content and increased the pituitary content of vascular endothelial growth factor. VIP receptor antagonist partially reverted the effect of DES on serum PRL and pituitary PRL, proliferating cell nuclear antigen, TGF-beta1, and vascular endothelial growth factor contents, as well as on pituitary weight, in a dose-dependent relation. These data suggest that pituitary VIP mediates the effect of E on lactotroph hyperplasia, pituitary TGF-beta1, and angiogenesis.
Acute renal failure (ARF) occurred concomitantly with the administration of gentamicin in combination with clindamycin in three patients in whom no other known predisposing cause of ARF could be demonstrated. The evidence for combined nephrotoxicity consisted of the temporal relationship between administration of the antibiotics and the development of ARF, and the prompt improvement in renal function upon cessation of therapy. Complete or partial recovery of renal function occured in all patients. Renal function should be carefully monitored in patients receiving this antibiotic combination.
Hepatic encephalopathy is associated with development of Alzheimer type II astrocytosis consisting of large, pale, frequently paired astrocytic nuclei. Previous studies have suggested that the paired forms are a manifestation of astrocytic proliferation and that the two nuclei of paired forms are in separate cells and have an equal (diploid) DNA complement. A model of hepatic encephalopathy can be produced using methionine sulfoximine to inhibit irreversibly the enzyme glutamine synthetase, resulting in elevated brain ammonia levels and development of Alzheimer type II astrocytosis. Using this model Sprague-Dawley rats were simultaneously injected with methionine sulfoximine 300 mg/kg and tritiated thymidine 15 mCi/kg. Autoradiography of cerebral sections from animals killed 18 to 36 hours after the injection revealed many heavily labeled cortical Alzheimer type II astrocytic nuclei. These findings are consistent with DNA synthesis and mitotic division of Alzheimer type II astrocytes.
To investigate the relationship between the effects of lidocaine on excitation patterns and its effects on the incidence of arrhythmias, the left anterior descending coronary artery was occluded for 6-min periods separated by 30 min of reperfusion, under control conditions and after injection of lidocaine, at a dose of either 2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 mg/kg i.v., in 29 open-chest anesthetized pigs. Sixty-three unipolar electrograms and a surface lead electrocardiogram were continuously recorded during atrial pacing and spontaneous ventricular arrhythmias. Ventricular fibrillation (VF) occurred only in four of a total of 45 control occlusions. VF occurred in two of five pigs following injection of lidocaine 2.5 mg/kg, in 15 or 17 pigs following injection of a 5 mg/kg dose, and in all three preparations following injection of a 10 mg/kg dose. Just prior to VF during occlusions preceded by injections of lidocaine 5 mg/kg, activation time of ischemic myocardium in atrial-paced beats was delayed by only 30 +/- 17 ms beyond preocclusion values, compared with 18 +/- 11 ms at a similar time during control occlusions and 33 +/- 18 ms at the end of control occlusions (mean +/- SD; n = 8). As ventricular tachycardia (VT) developed in the presence of lidocaine, conduction was further slowed or blocked in ischemic areas, and slowed in nonischemic regions; at the transition from VT to VF, excitation patterns displayed circus movement involving nonischemic regions.
Folic acid has been injected unilaterally into the amygdaloid complex of awake chronically implanted rats, or in rats under anaesthesia. Clinical, electrographic, and metabolic changes (estimated by means of the 2-deoxyglucose method) have been studied in relation to subsequently demonstrated neuropathology using Fink-Heimer and Nissl stains. The observations are compared to the corresponding effects of intra-amygdaloid application of kainic acid. Major differences were noted between the folate and the kainate induced seizure/brain damage syndrome. Thus: folate produced essentially stereotypies, alternating with myoclonic unilateral jerks of head and limbs. In contrast, limbic motor seizures which are characteristically produced by kainic acid, were extremely rare. Folate did not produce the preferential and sequential electrographic activation of limbic structures as observed after kainate. 2-Deoxyglucose autoradiography revealed an enhanced metabolic activity in the injected amygdala and in the overlying piriform and entorhinal cortices. The most conspicuous rise in labelling, however, occurred in the entire fronto-parietal cortex (ipsilaterally) up to the cingulate region, as well as in the ventral thalamic complex and the globus pallidus, i.e. in structures which are not labelled after kainate treatment. Some extent of local damage was observed 1-8 days after the injection; distant from the injection site, we found massive anoxic-ischemic type of damage in the superficial layers of the fronto-parietal cortex, a complete necrosis of the piriform lobe, and neuronal cell loss in the ventral thalamus and several extrapyramidal structures. The full range of limbic damage associated with kainate was never produced by folate. The CA3 region of the hippocampus, most susceptible to kainate, was only mildly affected by folate. These differences between kainate and folate prompted us to re-evaluate the recently reported high affinity of folates for kainic acid membrane binding sites. We found that folic acid competed only very weakly with [3H]kainic acid for binding sites on striatal, cortical, hippocampal, amygdaloid, and cerebellar membranes. It is thus concluded, that folate is not a good candidate for an endogenous kainate-like substance. We propose intracerebral injections of folic acid as a useful tool to study the vulnerability of brain structures to anoxic-ischemic conditions.
Mice exposed to the stress of conspecific aggression for 10 min showed shorter latencies to convulsions induced by pentylenetetrazol but not by pilocarpine. This effect was short lived and was not influenced by pretreatment with naltrexone (5 mg/kg, SC). The onset of pilocarpine-induced convulsions in stressed mice was reduced by the opioid antagonist. Aggression stress did not change the incidence, duration or severity of convulsions triggered by the chemoconvulsants or electroshock. The results differ widely from those obtained using other stressogenic models such as cold-restraint or swim stress. This suggests that alterations of convulsive parameters and the involvement of opioid mechanisms in their mediation are critically dependent on the characteristics of the stressogenic procedure employed.
The effectiveness of caffetin, combined analgetic drug, was estimated in treatment of acute cervicalgia and lumbar ischialgia (1 tablet 3 times daily during 10 days). Both clinical and psychological parameters were analysed. Caffetin had pronounced analgetic effect which was observed on the 2-3d day of drug application. Meanwhile there was improvement of clinical and psychological parameters, namely: relaxation of the muscles, decrease of either tension symptoms or of the levels of anxiety and depression as well as improvement of quality of life. The patients well tolerated caffetin administration without any side effects. There were no negative consequences of interaction of caffetin with other drugs (vascular, psychotropic). The conclusion was drawn about safety and effectiveness of caffetin for alleviation of acute pains in patients with myofascial, myotonic and radicular syndromes of different origin.
Cytosolic sulfotransferase (SULT)-mediated sulfation plays an essential role in the detoxification of bile acids and is necessary to avoid pathological conditions, such as cholestasis, liver damage, and colon cancer. In this study, using transgenic mice bearing conditional expression of the activated constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), we demonstrate that activation of CAR is both necessary and sufficient to confer resistance to the hepatotoxicity of lithocholic acid (LCA). Surprisingly, the CAR-mediated protection is not attributable to the expected and previously characterized CYP3A pathway; rather, it is associated with a robust induction of SULT gene expression and increased LCA sulfation. We have also provided direct evidence that CAR regulates SULT expression by binding to the CAR response elements found within the SULT gene promoters. Interestingly, activation of CAR was also associated with an increased expression of the 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate synthetase 2 (PAPSS2), an enzyme responsible for generating the sulfate donor 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate. Analysis of gene knockout mice revealed that CAR is also indispensable for ligand-dependent activation of SULT and PAPSS2 in vivo. Therefore, we establish an essential and unique role of CAR in controlling the mammalian sulfation system and its implication in the detoxification of bile acids.
Azaribine is an effective agent in the treatment of psoriasis. In this investigation the extent of clinical dermatologic remission appeared to correlate with the degree of metabolic block induced by 6-azauridylic acid, as quantitated by the urinary excretion of orotic acid and orotidine, and the development of anemia. Following azaribine therapy there was a coordinate rise of the specific activities of erythrocyte orotate phosphoribosyltransferase and orotidine-5'-monophosphate decarboxylase. There was no correlation between the pretreatment activity of these enzymes and the clinical response to azaribine. The anemia of azaribine therapy was mile and of a megaloblastic type. Uridine effectively corrected the azaribine-induced anemia, but led to exacerbation of the patients' psoriasis. Following uridine therapy there was a reduction in the urinary excretion of orotic acid and orotidine, presumable reflecting end-product inhibition or repression of the first steps of a repeated pyrimidine biosynthesis.
In spite of broad interest, intensive studies on function of melatonin have not yielded much information about relationships between this hormone and kidneys in health, and particularity, in disease. Very little is known about the circadian plasma melatonin concentrations in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF). There are only a few studies dealing with melatonin concentrations in renal diseases, mainly performed in hemodialyzed patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Moreover, the most melatonin assays were performed during the daytime, and the results are conflicting. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to determine the circadian melatonin profiles in patients with different stages of CRF.
Twenty four patients (13 males and 11 females) with CRF aged 35 to 58 years (mean+/-SEM: 47.0+/-1.6 years) were included in the study. Patients were divided into two groups: group 1 -- patients with compensated CRF (serum creatinine: 2.0-5.0 mg/dL), group 2 -- patients with ESRD (serum creatinine: > 8,0 mg/dL). The control group consisted of 20 healthy volunteers (10 males and 10 females) aged 35 to 55 years (mean+/-SEM: 46.0+/-1.5 years) checked not to have renal failure [serum creatinine: 0.8-1.4 mg/dL], and matched according to sex and age. Blood samples were collected at 08:00, 12:00, 16:00, 20:00, 24:00, 02:00, 04:00, and 08:00 h. Melatonin concentration was measured by enzyme immunoassay.
In both groups of patients with chronic renal failure, i.e. in patients with compensated disease and in patients with end-stage renal disease melatonin nocturnal concentrations were significantly lower then those in healthy volunteers. Moreover, in patients with compensated renal failure also day-time melatonin concentrations were significantly depressed. Area under curve was significantly lower in both groups of patients in comparison with the control group.
The mechanism of depressed melatonin concentrations in CRF observed in our study remains unclear. However, it seems possible that decline in melatonin levels is due to impairment in adrenergic function that occurs in CRF. Because the studies on the melatonin secretion in CRF bring about conflicting results, the relationship between renal diseases and melatonin secretion needs further investigations.
Classic Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) is a rare neoplasm, predominantly occurring in older subjects of Eastern Europe or Mediterranean descent. While single lesions may be treated by simple excision, laser therapy, cryotherapy, or intralesional therapy, advanced or disseminated disease requires systemic treatment. Several studies reported the effectiveness of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) and low-dose recombinant interferon alfa-2a (IFNalpha) in the treatment of AIDS-associated KS.
The aim of this retrospective analysis of three German centers was to compare the effectiveness and tolerability of PLD with IFNalpha in patients with advanced classic KS.
Retrospective analysis of 18 Caucasian patients who had been treated for histologically proven classic KS, with either with PLD or IFNalpha was performed. Twelve patients received 20 mg/m2 of PLD monthly, and the number of cycles was adapted to the clinical response. Dose reduction or increased cycle length was conducted if toxicity intervened. In 6 patients, 3 million U of IFNalpha was injected subcutaneously 3 times a week. IFNalpha -therapy was adapted according to the clinical response.
In the 12 KS patients treated with PLD, complete response (CR) was achieved in 8 (67 percent), major response (MR) in 3 (25 percent), and minor response (mR) in 1 (8 percent). Stable disease (SD) or progression of disease (PD) was not observed. An initial response was noted after 4-16 weeks of treatment (mean 8.6 weeks), the mean cumulative dose of PLD was 571.5 mg/m2 (range, 40 to 1496 mg/m2), and the mean follow-up was 13 months. Neutropenia (33 percent) related to PLD was the most common adverse event (4/12). Vomiting occurred in 3 (25 percent) patients; none of these were severe. Six patients were treated with IFNalpha. MR was achieved in 1 (17 percent), mR in 4 (67 percent) and SD in 1 of 6 patients (17 percent), neither had CR or PD. An initial response was observed after 8-17 weeks of treatment (mean 12.7 weeks). Fever occurred in 4 patients (67 percent). Flu-like symptoms in 3 patients (50 percent) related to IFNalpha were the most common adverse events. Mean follow-up was 6.3 months. The differences in response to treatment between PLD and IFNalpha, in general, were significant with p < 0.05 (T-test for independent samples). Comparing weeks to respond and treatment efficiency data were significant with p < 0.001 (Fisher's exact): response to PLD was up to one-third faster than IFNalpha. Calculating different stages of response (MR, CR, etc.), PLD also was clearly superior (p = 0.018) to IFNalpha (Fisher's exact).
This retrospective analysis of patients with classic KS confirms the efficacy and safety of PLD. The benefits of PLD, including the monthly application, the high response even after previous treatments have failed, and the low rate of side effects even in elderly individuals, outweigh the risks. PLD is superior to IFNalpha and should be considered as an promising option in the treatment of advanced classic KS.
We have tested the erectile effect of a topical applied drug (Minoxidil) in 15 spinal cord injured men. Minoxidil exerts a direct relaxant effect on arterial smooth muscles. This topical vasodilatory agent (1 ml of a 2% solution) was applied on the skin of the penile shaft. Increases in diameter and rigidity were measured with the RigiScan device (Dacomed Minneapolis, Minnesota). A total of 4 paraplegic men with a complete dorsal level lesion reported a positive erectile response. 3 of these 4 patients preferred to continue with this noninvasive treatment compared to prostaglandin E1 intracavernous injections. In our study no side effects were emerged and minoxidil proved to be well tolerated at the cutaneous level of the penis. Our results indicate that this treatment should be tested in spinal cord injured men before a invasive therapy is initiated.
PK 10139 is a new synthetic quinoline antiarrhythmic agent 10 times more potent and at least 2 to 3 times longer acting than quinidine sulfate. In the dog, the near 100% active dose (1.5 mg/kg i.v.) completely converted to sinus rhythm ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia for over 30 min. The efficacy of this compound against multifocal beats induced by two-stage ligation of the left coronary artery (Harris) in the conscious dog was demonstrated after i.v. and oral administration with no peripheral and central nervous system side effects after the higher effective dose contrary to quinidine. In the anesthetized dog, PK 10139 like quinidine, increased atrial, atrioventricular nodal and ventricular refractory periods as determined with the programmed extrastimulus technique. PK 10139 also increased electrical stimulus threshold and intracardiac conduction times evaluated by measurement of A-H nodal conduction time, H-V conduction time and QRS interval as seen with all the class I antiarrhythmic agents. Thus, PK 10139 is a much more potent and long-acting agent than quinidine, with better tolerance.
The objective of this study was to determine in a rat model of hepatocarcinoma (HCC) the effects of the antiangiogenic agent TNP-470 on antioxidant enzymes, including catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutases (Mn-SOD and Cu,Zn-SOD), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx). Tumor was induced in male Wistar rats by diethylnitrosamine and promoted by two-thirds hepatectomy plus acetaminofluorene administration. Experiments were carried out 28 weeks after initiating the treatment. TNP-470 was administered at 30 mg/kg, 2 times per week from weeks 20 to 28. Carcinomatous tissue was growing outside dysplastic nodules in rats with HCC. HCC caused oxidative stress demonstrated by increased lipid peroxidation and oxidized/reduced glutathione ratio that was accompanied by a reduced activity of antioxidant enzymes Cu,Zn-SOD, GPx, and CAT. In contrast, Mn-SOD activity and expression were higher in hepatocarcinoma than in control groups. These effects were absent in animals receiving TNP-470. No significant differences between untreated and TNP-470-treated rats were observed in the expression of the Cu,Zn-SOD, glutathione peroxidise, and CAT. We conclude that TNP-470 inhibits expression and activity of Mn-SOD induced by experimental hepatocarcinogenesis. Oxidative stress reduction by TNP-470 accounts for yet another anti-cancer effect of this molecule.
The estrogen receptor (ER) is the target of tamoxifen, but endocrine therapies do not benefit all patients with ER positive tumors. We therefore hypothesized that copy number changes in the ESR1 gene, encoding ER, confer resistance. Within a consecutive series of ER positive, postmenopausal patients allocated to 5 years tamoxifen, we identified 61 patients with recurrence less than 4 years and 48 patients without recurrence at least 7 years after initiation of adjuvant tamoxifen. Archival tissue containing primary tumor was collected from 97 patients (89%). Tumor samples were analyzed for ESR1 copy number changes using FISH with a probe covering the ESR1 gene at 6q25 and a reference probe covering the centromere of chromosome 6. The assay was validated in a material of 120 normal breast samples. FISH analysis for ESR1 was successful in 91 patients (94%). Amplification (ratio ESR1/CEN-6 ≥ 2.0) was observed in 11 of 50 (22%) patients with early recurrence, compared to two of 41 (5%) patients without recurrence. The difference is statistically significant (P = 0.033). In both groups, two patients with ESR1 deletion (ratio ESR1/CEN-6 < 0.8) were identified. ESR1 amplification was significantly associated with poor disease-free survival (P = 0.0054) and overall survival (P = 0.0004). This pilot study supports our hypothesis that ESR1 amplification is associated with a poorer outcome following adjuvant treatment with tamoxifen in ER positive early breast cancer. This study also revealed the existence of ESR1 deletions. The prognostic and predictive impact of ESR1 copy number changes needs further exploration in clinical trials.
Tamoxifen, used in breast cancer treatment, may induce hepatic steatosis. It has been suggested that leptin, which has a relationship with body fat stores, may be involved in the pathogenesis of hepatic steatosis. In this study, we compared serum leptin levels in tamoxifen-treated patients with and without hepatic steatosis.
Thirty-four women with breast cancer receiving tamoxifen were included in the study. Serum samples were obtained from the patients before and 3 months after tamoxifen therapy.
Increased hepatic steatosis was detected in 15 of 34 (44%) patients after 3 months of tamoxifen therapy. Serum leptin levels were found to be significantly elevated in patients with increased hepatic steatosis (37.3 +/- 17.7 to 50.5 +/- 22.4 ng/ml, p = 0.023) compared to (48.2 +/- 20.2 to 42.6 +/- 14.9 ng/ml, p > 0.05) after tamoxifen treatment.
Leptin may play a role in tamoxifen-induced hepatic steatosis. The exact mechanism involved should be investigated in further studies.
An unusual reaction associated with chronic low-dose cytarabine is described. A 77-year-old man complained of three to four weeks of hearing loss and progressive inability to walk without assistance. He had received two courses of cytarabine 100 mg sc/wk for the management of myelofibrosis myeloid metaplasia over 21 months. He received a total of 3 g over seven months during his first course followed ten months later with a 1.2 g over four months. Conjunctivitis was also identified on physical examination at the time of his admission. He was admitted to the neurology service where a complete neurological work-up with consultations from the ophthalmology, audiology, hematology, and ear, nose, and throat services failed to identify a cause of his symptoms. Cytarabine was discontinued on the suspicion that his symptoms were drug induced. The conjunctivitis resolved completely with ophthalmic antibiotics and corticosteroids. His hearing slowly improved over three to four weeks, and he was able to ambulate with a walker. He continued to improve at home although some hearing loss remained three months after his initial presentation. Although conjunctivitis and neurotoxicity are well-known complications of high-dose cytarabine, there are no prior reports of these reactions after low-dose therapy. Hearing loss, which has not been previously reported with cytarabine alone, appears to be a new complication of cytarabine administration.
There was an increase in perinatal hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections in one Arkansas county that disproportionately affected Marshallese infants.
An estimated 6000 to 10,000 Marshallese, from the Pacific island nation of the Marshall Islands where HBV is highly endemic, live in one Arkansas county. We conducted a retrospective review of hospital and health department records from 2003 to 2005 in that county. We compared maternal screening for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) between Marshallese and non-Marshallese. We also reviewed birth and immunization records for infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers to evaluate postexposure prophylaxis (PEP).
Ten percent (n = 41) of Marshallese births and 0.1% (n = 15) of non-Marshallese births were to HBsAg-positive women. Among those born to HBsAg-positive women, Marshallese and non-Marshallese infants were equally likely to receive PEP with hepatitis B vaccine (98% vs. 100%; P[r] = 0.98) and hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) <or=12 hours after birth (88% vs. 87%; P = 0.91). Approximately 57% (n = 32) of all infants born to HBsAg-positive women were tested for perinatal HBV infection. The proportion of Marshallese (17%) and non-Marshallese (13%) infants who tested positive for HBsAg at ages 9 to 25 months was similar (P = 0.78). Receiving HBIG >12 hours after birth was the only factor significantly associated with infection.
Although HBV infection was more prevalent among Marshallese compared with non-Marshallese women, there were no differences in infant receipt of PEP and perinatal HBV infection. Delivery hospitals in this county had standing orders to administer hepatitis B vaccine to all newborns, which likely provided a safety net to prevent perinatal HBV transmission in this high-risk population.
Vitamin A deficiency is associated with carcinogenesis, and upregulation of CYP26A1, a major retinoic acid (RA)-catabolizing enzyme, has recently been shown in cancer. We have previously demonstrated alterations of RA biosynthesis in Barrett's oesophagus, the precursor lesion to oesophageal adenocarcinoma. The aims of this study were to determine CYP26A1 expression levels and functional effects in Barrett's associated carcinogenesis. Retinoic acid response element reporter cells were used to determine RA levels in non-dysplastic and dysplastic Barrett's cell lines and endoscopic biopsies. CYP26A1 expression levels, with or without induction by RA and lithocholic acid, were determined by quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry. CYP26A1 promoter activity was determined by a luciferase reporter construct. CYP26A1 was stably overexpressed in GihTERT cells, which were evaluated for gene-expression changes (pathway array and quantitative RT-PCR), cellular proliferation (cytometric DNA profile and colorimetric assay) and invasion (in vitro matrigel assay) with or without the CYP inhibitor ketaconazole. RA levels decreased progressively with the degree of dysplasia (P<0.05) and were inversely correlated with CYP26A1 gene levels and activity (P<0.01). CYP26A1 expression was increased synergistically by RA and lithocholic acid (P<0.05). Overexpression of CYP26A1 led to induction of c-Myc, epidermal growth factor receptor and matrix metalloproteinase 3 as well as downregulation of tissue inhibitor metalloproteinase 1 and 3. Functional effects of CYP26A1 overexpression were increased proliferation (P<0.01) and invasion in vitro (P<0.01), which were inhibited by ketaconazole. Overexpression of CYP26A1 causes intracellular RA depletion and drives the cell into a highly proliferative and invasive state with induction of other known oncogenes.
The present study aims to evaluate the protective effects of caffeic acid on isoproterenol-treated myocardial infarction. Male albino Wistar rats were pretreated with caffeic acid (15 mg/kg) daily for 10 days. After the pretreatment, rats were injected with isoproterenol (100 mg/kg) at an interval of 24 h for 2 days to induce myocardial infarction. Isoproterenol-treated rats showed increased intensity of lactate dehydrogenase-1 and 2 isoenzyme bands and elevated ST segments. The activity of the heart sodium potassium adenosine triphosphatase was decreased, and the activities of the heart magnesium adenosine triphosphatase and calcium adenosine triphosphatase were increased in isoproterenol-treated rats. Isoproterenol-treated rats also showed a significant increase in the concentration of heart calcium. Furthermore, it significantly increased the counts of red blood cells, hemoglobin, white blood cells, and neutrophils and decreased significantly the concentration of erythrocyte sedimentation rate and the counts of lymphocytes and eosinophils. Pretreatment with caffeic acid showed protective effects on all the biochemical parameters, hematology and minimized alterations in lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes and electrocardiogram. In vitro study confirmed the free radical scavenging potential of caffeic acid. The observed effects might be due to the free radical scavenging and membrane-stabilizing property of caffeic acid.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical safety and efficacy of risperidone compared to haloperidol in patients with treatment-refractory schizophrenia.
Sixty-seven medication-unresponsive subjects were randomly assigned to treatment with risperidone (N = 34) or haloperidol (N = 33). After a 3-7 day-placebo washout period, there was a 4-week, double-blind, fixed-dose comparison trial that was followed by a 4-week, flexible-dose phase. Measures of clinical change were quantified by standard psychopathologic and neuromotor instruments.
Risperidone demonstrated clinical efficacy superior to that of haloperidol on the total Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) after the first 4 weeks of treatment. Risperidone did not show any advantage over haloperidol after an additional 4 weeks. Overall improvement on the BPRS at 4 weeks was significantly better for the risperidone group (24%) than for the haloperidol group (11%). Risperidone-treated subjects were significantly less likely than haloperidol-treated subjects to require concomitant anticholinergic medication after 4 weeks (20% versus 63%); they also had significantly les observable akathisia (24% versus 53%) and significantly less severe tardive dyskinesia. Baseline characteristics that correlated significantly with risperidone response were positive symptoms, conceptual disorganization, akathisia, and tardive dyskinesia.
Risperidone was better tolerated and more effective in a subset of patients with treatment-refractory schizophrenia. Positive psychotic symptoms and extrapyramidal side effects at baseline appear to be powerful predictors of subsequent response to risperidone.
Acute interstitial nephritis is a less frequently reported adverse effect of flucloxacillin compared with other well known associations such as hepatotoxicity.
This article describes the conservative management of a case of flucloxacillin induced acute renal failure, and reviews the available evidence on the treatment of drug induced acute interstitial nephritis, including the use of corticosteroids.
Drug induced acute interstitial nephritis can be managed conservatively by cessation of the suspected offending drug in many cases. Referral should be made to a nephrologist, with consideration given to renal biopsy, followed by trial of corticosteroids, if renal function does not improve within 7 days of drug cessation.
Hypertension is a prominent feature of patients with Cushing's disease and ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) syndrome, who have elevated ACTH levels. Chronic administration of ACTH (1-24) also raises blood pressure in humans. This effect has been postulated to be due to ACTH-induced increases in cortisol secretion in the adrenal gland. It is well known that cortisol increases vascular tone by potentiating the vasoconstrictor action of a number of pressor hormones. In the present study, we show direct evidence that human aortic endothelial cells possess the ACTH receptor. 11beta-Dehydrogenation, converting cortisol to its inactive metabolite, cortisone, mediated by vascular 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 is essential for the control of vascular tone, and the reduced activity may be relevant to the pathogenesis of hypertension. We found that ACTH (1-24) dose-dependently decreased the gene expression and enzyme activity of 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 in these cells, and the decrease was partially abolished by a selective ACTH receptor antagonist. This may indicate that ACTH potentiates the action of cortisol through its direct effect on the vasculature. Therefore, the present study provides important information for understanding the mechanism of ACTH-induced hypertension.
