Cirrhosis consists of hepatocyte nodules surrounded by a highly vascularized fibrous tissue. We previously showed that the development of biliary cirrhosis in the rat is associated with the occurrence of hepatocellular hypoxia and the induction of hepatic angiogenesis. We herein examined the occurrence of hypoxia in an experimental model of diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced cirrhosis. We also determined whether hypoxia directly affects the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), of VEGF receptors (Flt-1, Flk-1), and of type I and type IV collagens in activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and the expression of VEGF in hepatocytes. Our results show that in DEN-treated rats, although the progression of liver fibrosis is associated with hepatocellular hypoxia and angiogenesis, VEGF and Flt-1 expressions in the liver are increased and correlated with the density of microvessels. In vitro, hypoxia induces the expression of VEGF, Flt-1, and type I collagen in activated HSCs and that of VEGF in hepatocytes. In addition, we show that hypoxia-induced type I collagen expression in HSCs may occur independently of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) overexpression. In conclusion, the present study provides further evidence that hepatocellular hypoxia and angiogenesis progress together with fibrogenesis after liver injury and that hypoxia directly contributes to the progression of liver fibrosis.
Short-term therapy with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors for hypertension is effective and well tolerated, and compared with beta blockers, may cause fewer adverse reactions. Furthermore, enalapril has been observed to have a greater effect on systolic blood pressure than beta blockers. We therefore decided to compare the ACE inhibitor enalapril and the beta blocker atenolol as monotherapy in a double-blind study of patients with mild to moderate hypertension.
After a four-week placebo run-in period, 162 patients were allocated randomly to receive atenolol (50 to 100 mg daily) or enalapril (20 to 40 mg daily) for 12 weeks. To assess the influence of these drugs on quality of life, a series of psychologic tests was performed, and a subset of patients also underwent treadmill exercise and pulmonary function tests.
In 147 patients who completed the study, enalapril reduced supine blood pressure by 19/12 mm Hg, compared with 9/7 mm Hg for atenolol (p less than 0.001/p less than 0.005). The modest blood pressure response to atenolol was not due to poor compliance. A target blood pressure of 140/90 mm Hg or less was achieved by 35 percent of enalapril-treated atenolol (p less than 0.01). The frequency and severity of adverse effects with the two drugs were similar, and few important differences emerged from the quality-of-life assessments.
At the doses used, enalapril induced a greater short-term blood pressure response than atenolol; long-term studies of its safety and efficacy are required.
Effects of beraprost sodium, a chemically stable prostacyclin analogue, on renal dysfunction in an experimental rat model of glomerulonephritis were investigated. Beraprost sodium (30, 100 and 300 microg/kg) was orally given twice daily from the late stage of nephritis in which renal dysfunction was already developed. Beraprost sodium treatment inhibited the increase in urinary protein, serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen, and the decrease in creatinine clearance. The elevation of serum creatinine was also inhibited by predonisolone (1 mg/kg). However, captopril (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg) and dipyridamole (20 and 60 mg/kg) failed to inhibit the elevation of serum creatinine. In the beraprost sodium-treated nephritic rats, the increase in mRNA levels for monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and collagen in the kidney was inhibited. These results suggest that beraprost sodium ameliorates developed renal dysfunction and is possibly an effective agent for the treatment of human glomerulonephritis.
The aim of this study was to examine the effects of Cassia tora seeds on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced hepatic steatosis, and elucidate the molecular mechanisms behind its effects. After being fed a HFD for two weeks, rats were orally dosed with Cassia seed ethanol extract (CSEE) (100, 200, or 300mg/kg) once daily for 8weeks. CSEE induced dose-dependent reductions in plasma lipid levels, as well as decreased the over hepatic lipid accumulation. Furthermore, CSEE treatment improved HFD-induced hepatic histological lesions. CSEE enhanced the phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and its primary downstream targeting enzyme, acetyl-CoA carboxylase, up-regulated the gene expression of carnitine palmitoyl transferase 1, and down-regulated sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 and fatty acid synthase protein levels in the livers of HFD-fed rats. AMPK inhibition by compound C retarded CSEE-induced reduction in triglyceride accumulation in HepG2 cells stimulated by insulin. Our findings suggest that CSEE may regulate hepatic lipid homeostasis related with an AMPK-dependent signaling pathway. Targeting AMPK activation with CSEE may represent a promising approach for the prevention and treatment of obesity-related non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
The aim of the study was to provide empirical data on the severity of hostility among methamphetamine users experiencing psychotic symptoms. Participants were 71 methamphetamine users from the general community who had experienced positive psychotic symptoms in the past year. Psychotic symptoms were defined as a score of 4 or greater on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) subscales of suspiciousness, unusual thought content, or hallucinations. The BPRS hostility subscale was used to measure hostility during the most severe symptom episode during the preceding year. Pathological hostility (BPRS score of 4+) was reported by 27% of participants during their most severe episode of psychotic symptoms. Hostility was significantly more common among participants experiencing severe psychotic symptoms (BPRS score 6-7, 42% vs. 15%) or where the psychotic symptoms continued for at least two days (43% vs. 20%). Daily heroin use and low levels of schooling were also correlated with hostility. Clinically significant hostility co-occurs with psychotic symptoms in around one-quarter of methamphetamine users who experience psychosis, and it is more common with severe psychotic symptoms that persist for longer than two days.
Genetic variation, a -1327T/C polymorphism, of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is associated with leukocyte telomere length in healthy subjects, but clinical significances of this functional polymorphism are not clear. Recently, the relationship between the telomere system and coronary artery disease (CAD) was reported. We investigated the association between the -1327T/C polymorphism and (a) susceptibility to CAD and (b) telomere length in CAD patients. In a case-control study, 104 patients confirmed by coronary angiography and 115 age- and sex-matched controls were enrolled. There was a higher frequency of the -1327C/C genotype in CAD patients (51.9%) compared with controls (36.5%, p = 0.0218). Among the 104 CAD patients, leukocyte telomere length in the -1327C/C genotype (7.62+/-2.19 kb, mean+/-SD) was shorter than that in the -1327T/C and -1327T/T genotypes (8.74+/-2.92, p = 0.0287). These findings suggest that the -1327C/C genotype is a genetic risk factor for CAD and relates to shorter telomere length among CAD patients.
We tested the hypothesis that acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC) may have a protective and a curative role in chemotherapy-induced hyperalgesia in vivo, in animal models of cisplatin-, paclitaxel- and vincristine-induced neuropathy. In addition, the possible interaction between ALC and vincristine antineoplastic action was assessed.
Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) was induced in different groups of rats. The effect of ALC was evaluated both when its administration was started together with the administration of anticancer drugs ("preventive" protocol) and when ALC administration was started later on during treatment ("curative" protocol).
The ALC treatment significantly prevented the lowering of the mechanical nociceptive threshold when the administration started concomitantly and, respectively, with cisplatin, paclitaxel and vincristine as compared to each drug alone. Furthermore, when ALC administration was started later on during treatment, at well-established neuropathy, ALC was able to restore the mechanical nociceptive threshold within a few days. Finally, experiments indicated that ALC does not interfere with the antitumor effects of vincristine.
Considering the absence of any satisfactory treatment currently available for CIPN in a clinical setting, these are important observations, opening up the possibility of using ALC to treat a wide range of patients who have undergone chemotherapy and developed sensory peripheral neuropathy.
We observed changes in postganglionic efferent discharges of muscle sympathetic nerve (muscle sympathetic activity, MSA) microneurographically before and after the oral administration of L-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine (L-threo-DOPS), a precursor of norepinephrine, in a patient with Shy-Drager syndrome and irregular fluctuations of blood pressure. Before drug administration, MSA was only rarely observed with the patient in the supine position. There was a slight increase in MSA during head-up tilting to 40 degrees, and orthostatic hypotension (OH) occurred just after the body was tilted head upward to 40 degrees. MSA became prominent 30 minutes after the oral administration of 200 mg of L-threo-DOPS while the patient was in a 40 degree head-up position, and the OH was improved. The MSA discharge rate decreased and OH reappeared 3 hours after oral administration, when the plasma concentration of norepinephrine was at its highest level. We suggest that the OH improved mainly because of the increase in MSA due to L-threo-DOPS, and that the drug may activate sympathetic outflow at a site proximal to the sympathetic ganglion.
In addition to its antimicrobial activity, minocycline exerts anti-inflammatory effects in several disease models. However, whether minocycline affects the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease has not been determined. We investigated the effects of minocycline on experimental colitis and its underlying mechanisms. Acute and chronic colitis were induced in mice by treatment with dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) or trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS), and the effect of minocycline on colonic injury was assessed clinically and histologically. Prophylactic and therapeutic treatment of mice with minocycline significantly diminished mortality rate and attenuated the severity of DSS-induced acute colitis. Mechanistically, minocycline administration suppressed inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression and nitrotyrosine production, inhibited proinflammatory cytokine expression, repressed the elevated mRNA expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) 2, 3, 9, and 13, diminished the apoptotic index in colonic tissues, and inhibited nitric oxide production in the serum of mice with DSS-induced acute colitis. In DSS-induced chronic colitis, minocycline treatment also reduced body weight loss, improved colonic histology, and blocked expression of iNOS, proinflammatory cytokines, and MMPs from colonic tissues. Similarly, minocycline could ameliorate the severity of TNBS-induced acute colitis in mice by decreasing mortality rate and inhibiting proinflammatory cytokine expression in colonic tissues. These results demonstrate that minocycline protects mice against DSS- and TNBS-induced colitis, probably via inhibition of iNOS and MMP expression in intestinal tissues. Therefore, minocycline is a potential remedy for human inflammatory bowel diseases.
Doxorubicin is among the most effective and widely used anticancer drugs in the clinic. However, cardiotoxicity is one of the life-threatening side effects of doxorubicin-based therapy. Dexrazoxane (Zinecard, also known as ICRF-187) has been used in the clinic as a cardioprotectant against doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. The molecular basis for doxorubicin cardiotoxicity and the cardioprotective effect of dexrazoxane, however, is not fully understood. In the present study, we showed that dexrazoxane specifically abolished the DNA damage signal gamma-H2AX induced by doxorubicin, but not camptothecin or hydrogen peroxide, in H9C2 cardiomyocytes. Doxorubicin-induced DNA damage was also specifically abolished by the proteasome inhibitors bortezomib and MG132 and much reduced in top2beta(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) compared with TOP2beta(+/+) MEFs, suggesting the involvement of proteasome and DNA topoisomerase IIbeta (Top2beta). Furthermore, in addition to antagonizing Top2 cleavage complex formation, dexrazoxane also induced rapid degradation of Top2beta, which paralleled the reduction of doxorubicin-induced DNA damage. Together, our results suggest that dexrazoxane antagonizes doxorubicin-induced DNA damage through its interference with Top2beta, which could implicate Top2beta in doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. The specific involvement of proteasome and Top2beta in doxorubicin-induced DNA damage is consistent with a model in which proteasomal processing of doxorubicin-induced Top2beta-DNA covalent complexes exposes the Top2beta-concealed DNA double-strand breaks.
Rb1 encodes a cell-cycle regulator that is functionally disrupted in most human cancers. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (PDACs) have a high frequency of mutations in KRAS and INK4A/CDKN2A that might allow cells to bypass the regulatory actions of retinoblastoma (RB). To determine the role of loss of RB function in PDAC progression, we investigated the effects of Rb disruption during pancreatic malignant transformation initiated by oncogenic Kras.
We generated mice with pancreas-specific disruption of Rb, in the absence or presence of oncogenic Kras, to examine the role of RB in pancreatic carcinogenesis.
In the presence of oncogenic Kras, loss of Rb from the pancreatic epithelium accelerated formation of pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN), increased the frequency of cystic neoplasms, and promoted rapid progression toward PDAC. Early stage cancers were characterized by acute pancreatic inflammation, associated with up-regulation of proinflammatory cytokines within the pancreas. Despite the presence of markers associated with oncogene-induced senescence, low-grade PanIN were highly proliferative and expressed high levels of p53. Pancreatic cancer cell lines derived from these mice expressed high levels of cytokines, and transcriptional activity of p53 was impaired.
Rb encodes a tumor suppressor that attenuates progression of oncogenic Kras-induced carcinogenesis in the pancreas by mediating the senescence response and promoting activity of the tumor suppressor p53.
We report the case of a 50-year-old female who suffered from severe palmar and plantar pustulosis. During treatment with acitretin, a novel oral retinoid, which is the main derivative of etretinate, the patient developed a severe hepatotoxic reaction. Subsequent histological studies strongly suggested the development of liver cirrhosis. Reversible elevation of serum aminotransferase values during treatment with acitretin has been reported. However, the present observation indicates that severe hepatotoxic injury may also follow treatment with this agent.
A 62-year-old woman developed subacute renal failure after the repeated administration of ifosfamide (IFX), despite its combination with continuous sodium 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate (mesna) infusion. Biopsy findings, the possible underlying mechanism, and the existing literature are discussed.
In the last 10 years several reports have linked oral 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) therapy to acute and chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis, but to our knowledge only 2 patients have been reported with terminal end-stage renal disease due to mesalazine (5-ASA). After 1 year of treatment with 5-ASA annual monitoring of serum creatinine is recommended.
We report the development of end-stage renal disease in a patient 10 months after the last assessment of serum creatinine, which was normal at 71 micromol/l.
Because of this dangerous side effect, we would like to recommend 6-monthly assessment of renal function.
Endogenous opioids have nitric oxide (NO)-dependent cardiovascular actions. In the light of biological evidence of accumulation of endogenous opioids in cholestasis and also existence of NO-dependent bradycardia in cholestatic subjects, this study was carried out to evaluate the role of endogenous opioids in the generation of bradycardia in a rat model of cholestasis. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were used to induce cholestasis by surgical ligation of the bile duct, with sham-operated animals serving as a control. The animals were divided into six groups which received naltrexone [20 mg/kg/day, subcutaneously (s.c.)], N(G)-L-nitro-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 3 mg/kg/day, s.c.), aminoguanidine (200 mg/kg/day, s.c.), L-arginine (200 mg/kg/day, s.c.), naltrexone + L-NAME (20 and 3 mg/kg/day, s.c) or saline. One week after the operation, a lead II electrocardiogram (ECG) was recorded and the spontaneously beating atria of the animals were then isolated and the chronotropic responses to epinephrine evaluated. The plasma L-nitro-tyrosine level and alanine amino transferase and alkaline phosphatase activities were also measured. The heart rate of cholestatic animals was significantly lower than that of control rats in vivo and this bradycardia was corrected with daily adminstration of naltrexone or L-NAME. The basal spontaneous beating rate of atria in cholestatic animals was not significantly different from that of sham-operated animals in vitro. Cholestasis induced a significant decrease in the chronotropic effect of epinephrine. This effect was corrected by daily injection of naltrexone or L-NAME, or concurrent administration of naltrexone + L-NAME, and was not corrected by aminoguanidine. L-arginine had an equivalent effect to L-NAME and increased the chronotropic effect of epinephrine in cholestatic rats but not in control animals. Bile duct ligation increased the plasma activity of liver enzymes as well as the level of L-nitro-tyrosine. L-arginine and naltrexone treatment significantly decreased the elevation of liver enzymes in bile duct-ligated rats. Pretreatment of cholestatic animals with naltrexone or L-NAME decreased the plasma L-nitro-tyrosine level. The results suggest that either prevention of NO overproduction or protection against liver damage is responsible for recovery of bradycardia after naltrexone administration.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in hepatocarcinogenesis. Although Sho-saiko-to (TJ-9), a Japanese herbal medicine which has been recently administered to patients with chronic liver disease in Japan, prevents hepatocarcinogenesis, the mechanism by which TJ-9 protects against cancer development is not fully understood. 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), a DNA adduct by reactive oxygen species, is known as a parameter of genetic risk for hepatocarcinogenesis. To clarify whether the preventive effect on hepatocarcinogenesis by TJ-9 is dependent on 8-OHdG, the effect on 8-OHdG levels by TJ-9 was examined by using high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) in a diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis model of male Fisher rats. TJ-9 reduced the number of preneoplastic cells, detected as the glutathione S transferase P (GST-P)-positive hepatocytes, and inhibited the development of liver tumors. TJ-9 also significantly decreased the formation of 8-OHdG, as indicated by LC-MS and immunohistochemical analysis. In addition, ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive cells were not altered. An electron paramagnetic resonance spin-trapping technique showed that TJ-9 scavenges hydroxyl radicals in a dose-dependent manner. In conclusion, the results of the present study suggest that TJ-9 prevents hepatocarcinogenesis in association with inhibition of 8-OHdG formation.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) agonists and PPARgamma/alpha dual agonists have been or are being developed for clinical use in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidemias. A common tumor finding in rodent carcinogenicity studies for these agonists is hemangioma/hemangiosarcoma in mice but not in rats. We hypothesized that increased endothelial cell proliferation may be involved in the mechanism of PPAR agonist-induced vascular tumors in mice, and we investigated the effects on endothelial cells utilizing troglitazone, the first clinically used PPARgamma agonist, in vivo and in vitro. Troglitazone (400 and 800 mg/kg/day) induced hemangiosarcomas in mice in a 2-year bioassay. We showed that troglitazone increased endothelial cell proliferation in brown and white adipose tissue and liver in mice at sarcomagenic doses after 4 weeks of treatment. Troglitazone was cytotoxic both to human dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HMEC1) and mouse mammary fat pad microvascular endothelial cells (MFP MVEC) at high concentrations. However, MFP MVEC were more resistant to the cytotoxic effects of troglitazone based on the much lower LC(50) in HMEC1 (17.4 muM) compared to MFP MVEC (92.2 muM). Troglitazone increased the proliferation and survival of MFP MVEC but not HMEC1 in growth factor reduced conditions. Our data demonstrate that troglitazone may induce hemangiosarcomas in mice, at least in part, through enhancement of survival and proliferation of microvascular endothelial cells. Such an effect does not occur with human cells, suggesting that human may react differently to exposure to PPAR agonists compared with mice.
The etiology of pyeloureteritis cystica has long been attributed to chronic infection and inflammation. A case is presented that is unique in that the acute onset and the rapid resolution of pyeloureteral filling defects in this patient were documented by radiography. There is no evidence of antecedent or concurrent infection in this patient. The disease occurred subsequent to the initiation of heparin therapy for suspected pelvic thrombophlebitis and cleared rapidly subsequent to its discontinuation. The rate of resolution of the radiographic findings may be helpful in distinguishing between true pyeloureteritis cystica and submucosal hemorrhage.
Overexpression of the c-myc oncogene frequently occurs in both colon tumors and colon carcinoma cell lines. We examined the sensitization of human colorectal cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs using c-myc antisense (AS) phosphorothioate oligonucleotides ([S]ODNs).
Cancer cells were treated with c-myc [S]ODNs, taxol, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), doxorubicin and vinblastine individually and in combination. The antiproliferative effects, type of interaction between c-myc [S]ODNs and cytotoxic drugs, cell cycle, apoptosis and expression of cell-cycle- and apoptosis-regulatory genes were evaluated.
After treatment with c-myc AS[S]ODNs, the growth of cancer cells was markedly inhibited in a dose- and time-dependent manner and the levels of c-myc mRNA and protein were greatly decreased (p < 0.0001). The combinations of c-myc AS[S]ODNs and cytotoxic drugs produced greater growth inhibition of human colorectal cancer cells compared to single treatment with either c-myc AS[S]ODNs (p < 0.006) or cytotoxic drugs (p < 0.0001). These combinations exhibited time- and dose-dependent additive and/or synergistic antiproliferative effects. Cancer cells treated with cytotoxic drugs were growth arrested in the S phase. In contrast, cells treated with either c-myc AS[S]ODNs or by the combination of c-myc AS[S]ODNs and cytotoxic drugs were growth arrested in the G(2)/M and S phases. The combination treatments also exhibited a marked apoptotic effect compared to single treatments. c-myc AS[S]ODN treatment reduced the mRNA levels of Bcl2, BclxL, cdk2, cyclin E1, cdk1 and cyclin B1, while increasing the mRNA levels of p21, p27, bax and caspase-3.
This two-hit approach may be important in the quest to overcome drug resistance in cancer patients whose tumors carry an overexpressed c-myc gene.
While cyclosporine immunosuppression has improved the results of heart transplantation, nephrotoxicity and hypertension occurred in a large percentage of surviving patients. The potential irreversibility of these toxicities was noted in patients chronically exposed to cyclosporine. The immunosuppressive protocol was modified in those patients with a serum creatinine greater than 2.5 mg/100 mL. Azathioprine was added to the immunosuppressive regimen, and the dose of cyclosporine was steadily decreased until the creatinine was lowered. The combination of low-dose cyclosporine and azathioprine provided effective immunosuppression and was associated with a significant decrease in serum creatinine level, in systolic and diastolic blood pressures. Although it is premature to assess the long-term results of this immunosuppressive protocol, the early results are encouraging.
The association between HLA antigens and adverse drug reactions (ADR), (e.g. proteinuria, haematological abnormalities, stomatitis, diarrhoea and dermatitis) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) to sodium aurothiomalate (gold) and to D-penicillamine (PA) were studied in 32 patients. Thirty-eight RA patients treated with gold and PA, and with no ADR to these drugs, were used as controls. The frequency of HLA B8 was significantly (p less than 0.05) increased among RA patients with ADR compared to plasma donors. DR3 was also significantly increased (p less than 0.05) in RA patients with haematological ADR compared to plasma donors. Haematological ADR occurred significantly (p less than 0.05) more often in DR3 positive patients (55%) than among DR3 negative RA patients (27%).
A combination of 5 d of nelarabine (AraG) with 5 d of etoposide (VP) and cyclophosphamide (CPM) and prophylactic intrathecal chemotherapy was used as salvage therapy in seven children with refractory or relapsed T-cell leukaemia or lymphoma. The most common side effects attributable to the AraG included Grade 2 and 3 sensory and motor neuropathy and musculoskeletal pain. Haematological toxicity was greater for the combination than AraG alone, although median time to neutrophil and platelet recovery was consistent with other salvage therapies. All patients had some response to the combined therapy and five of the seven went into complete remission after one or two courses of AraG/VP/CPM. Our experience supports the safety of giving AraG as salvage therapy in synchrony with etoposide and cyclophosphamide, although neurological toxicity must be closely monitored.
Oto-spondylo-megaepiphyseal dysplasia (OSMED) is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by severe sensorineural hearing loss, enlarged epiphyses and early onset of osteoarthritis. COL11A2 has been reported as a causative gene for OSMED. We have identified a novel COL2A1 mutation at a splice-acceptor site within intron 10 (c.709-2A>G) in an OSMED patient. This mutation caused the skipping of exon 11, and of exons 11 and 13. These exon-skipping events are presumed to cause an in-frame deletion of the triple helical region of the COL2A1 product. Thus, our findings highlight the genetic heterogeneity of OSMED and extend the phenotypic spectrum of type II collagenopathy, as well as confirming the overlap between type II and type XI collagenopathies.
To investigate the antianginal action of nitroglycerin and nifedipine, systemic and right heart pressures, cardiac output, oxygen consumption, and radionuclide left ventricular ejection fraction and volume were measured in 14 men with stable effort angina and a positive exercise electrocardiogram. Exercise tests were performed on a semiupright bicycle ergometer on no therapy and after intravenous nitroglycerin and sublingual nifedipine, which lowered mean arterial pressure by 20 mm Hg. Exercise tolerance improved from 50 +/- 4 to 61 +/- 5 W on nifedipine and to 79 +/- 4 W on nitroglycerin (p less than 0.01, nitroglycerin vs. nifedipine). At submaximal workloads, both drugs decreased arterial pressure and ventricular volumes, but heart rate was higher on nifedipine. At peak exercise on nitroglycerin (79 W), oxygen consumption, cardiac index, heart rate, and rate-pressure product were significantly increased over peak control and nifedipine values, while systolic pressure and end-diastolic volume were unchanged. Nitroglycerin reduced pulmonary wedge pressure more and systemic diastolic pressure less than nifedipine, so the coronary perfusion gradient was reduced by nifedipine and maintained by nitroglycerin. Also, there was less angina and ST-segment depression after nitroglycerin compared to control or nifedipine, and the left ventricular diastolic pressure-volume relationship was improved only by nitroglycerin. This suggests that the action of nitroglycerin in reducing ischemia is not only due to reduced myocardial oxygen demand, but that myocardial oxygen delivery may also be increased.
The E-cadherin gene (CDH1) has been proposed as a prostate cancer (PC) susceptibility gene in several studies. Aberrant protein expression has been related to prognosis and progression in PC. In addition, a functional promoter SNP (rs16260) has been found to associate with PC risk. We performed a comprehensive genetic analysis of CDH1 by using the method of haplotype tagged SNPs in a large Swedish population-based case-control study consisting of 801 controls and 1,636 cases. In addition, Swedish PC families comprising a total of 157 cases sampled for DNA were analyzed for selected SNPs. Seven SNPs, including the promoter SNP rs16260, that captured over 96% of CDH1 haplotype variation were selected as haplotype tagging SNPs and analyzed for associated PC risk. We observed significant confirmation of rs16260 (P=0.003) for cases with a positive family history of PC (FH+) both in an independent case-control population and in PC families. In addition, a common haplotype (HapB, 25%) including the variant allele of rs16260 was associated (P=0.004) with PC risk among FH+ cases. The promoter SNP rs16260 as well as HapB were significantly transmitted to affected offspring in PC families. We report strong confirmation of the association between PC risk in FH+ cases and a functional CDH1 promoter SNP in an independent population. In conjunction with the biological importance of CDH1 our findings encourage further evaluation of genetic variation in CDH1 in relation to PC etiology. Due to the difficulties in replication of genetic association studies, this finding is unusual and novel.
