Although haloperidol is widely prescribed for the treatment of schizophrenia, its beneficial effects are accompanied by extrapyramidal side effects (EPS). Role of 5-HT-2A/2C receptors in the attenuation of acute Parkinsonian-like effects of typical antipsychotics is investigated by prior administration of mianserin and mesulergine to rats injected with haloperidol. In the first part of study effects of various doses of haloperidol (0.5, 1.0, 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg) were determined on motor activity and a selected dose (1 mg/kg) was used to monitor attenuation of parkinsonian effects by two different doses of 5-HT-2A/2C receptor antagonists mianserin (2.5 & 5.0 mg/kg) and mesulergine (1.0 & 3.0 mg/kg). Rats treated with haloperidol at doses of 0.5-5.0 mg/kg exhibited impaired motor coordination and a decrease in exploratory activity in an open field. The dose response curve showed that at a dose of 1 mg/kg significant and submaximal effects are produced on motor coordination and exploratory activity. Coadministration of mianserin and mesulergine attenuated and reversed haloperidol-induced motor deficits in a dose dependent manner. The mechanism involved in the attenuation / reversal of haloperidol-induced parkinsonian like symptoms by mianserin and mesulergine is discussed. Prior administration of mianserin or mesulergine may be of use in the alleviation of EPS induced by conventional antipsychotic drugs.The findings have potential implication in the treatment of schizophrenia and motor disorders.
To examine the association between prenatal exposure to nicotine from tobacco smoke and infant neurobehavior using tobacco biomarkers and a sensitive and comprehensive measure of infant neurobehavior.
Participants were 318 infants (206 White, 95 Black, 17 Other) and their mothers. Prenatal tobacco smoke exposure was measured twice during pregnancy and once at delivery using maternal serum cotinine. Infant neurobehavior was assessed with the NICU Network Neurobehavioral Scale at approximately 5 weeks after birth.
Prenatal tobacco smoke exposure was significantly associated with infant neurobehavior after controlling for important covariates, but the specific behaviors associated with exposure varied by race. In White infants, higher cotinine was associated with increased arousal (p=.030) and excitability (p=.034), and decreased self-regulation (p=.010). In contrast, among Black infants, higher cotinine was associated with decreased arousal (p=.001), excitability (p=.021), and special handling required to complete the assessment (p=.003), and increased self-regulation (p=.021) and hypotonicity (p=.016). In secondary analyses, we found racial differences in the effects of postnatal exposure to second hand smoke and low-level prenatal exposure.
Low-level prenatal tobacco smoke exposure is associated with infant neurobehavior at 5 weeks of age, but the specific effects differ by race. These effects may reflect racial differences in nicotine metabolism that are similar to differences reported in adult and child studies of tobacco.
The clinical features, pathology, immune responses, diagnosis and treatment of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) in the Sudan are described and discussed. The disease is characterized by maculopapular or nodular lesions on the face, limbs or trunk. Lesions appear during or within months after the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis, but in 2 of 19 patients there was no previous history of kala-azar. PKDL may be confused with leprosy both clinically and pathologically. Similarities and differences between the 2 diseases are discussed. Unlike visceral leishmaniasis, the peripheral lymphoid cells of patients with PKDL respond to Leishmania antigen and some are leishmanin positive. The response to intravenous sodium stibogluconate (20 mg/kg for 30 d) was reasonably good but some patients required repeated or more prolonged treatment. Ketoconazole in a dose of 10 mg/kg daily for 4 weeks had no effect on PKDL.
Thirty-eight metastatic breast cancer patients were treated with aminoglutethimide. All patients had progressive metastatic disease following initial response to Tamoxifen therapy. Thirty-two patients were evaluable for response, of these, two patients (6%) had complete remission, 13 patients (41%) had partial response, and six patients (19%) had stable disease. Eleven patients (34%) had progressive disease. The most common side effects were transient skin rash, lethargy or dizziness. Four patients' (11%) treatment was discontinued because of either skin rash or dizziness within the first two weeks of the study. These data show that aminoglutethimide is an effective agent following tamoxifen therapy.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that Huntington's disease is associated with impaired phospholipid-related signal transduction using the niacin skin flush test. This is the first reported use of this test in this patient group. The response to topical aqueous methyl nicotinate solution was recorded at 5 min intervals over 20 min in six in-patients with advanced (stage III) Huntington's disease and in 14 age- and sex-matched normal individuals with no history of this or any other major neurological disorder. The volumetric niacin response (VNR) (mean +/- S.E.M.) in the patients with Huntington's disease, 16.3 +/- 2.6 mol x s x l(-1), was significantly lower than the mean VNR of 28.3 +/- 2.1 mol x s x l(-1) in the control group (P = 0.004). These results are consistent with the conclusion that Huntington's disease may be associated with an abnormality of neuronal membrane fatty acid metabolism, possibly as a consequence of an as yet unidentified action of huntingtin.
The balance between the synthesis of cholesterol and bile acids in the liver is a key factor in the formation of gallstones. Patients with cholesterol gallstones have been shown to have higher rates of hepatic cholesterol synthesis and lower rates of bile acid synthesis than control subjects, as measured by the activity of the respective rate-controlling enzymes. Treatment with ursodiol reduced the high levels of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme. A reductase in gallstone patients treated for approximately one year. Such treatment did not appear to inhibit endogenous synthesis of bile acids. Ursodiol is distinct from chenodeoxycholic acid in that no significant abnormalities of liver function have been reported during its use. Bacterial 7-dehydroxylation is more active for chenodeoxycholic acid than ursodiol; thus less lithocholic acid is formed with ursodiol. Patients receiving the highest dose of ursodiol often have been shown to have the lowest percentage of lithocholic acid in the bile. During treatment with ursodiol for dissolution of gallstones, symptoms of biliary distress began to improve after three to six weeks. Gallstones will recur in about 50% of patients, but no consensus exists on management of patients after dissolution of their stones. Overall, ursodiol is a safe and effective litholytic agent.
2-[Bicyclo(2,2,1)heptane-2-endo-3-endo-dicarboximido]-glutarimide (taglutimide, K-2004) proved to be a new sedative-hypnotic drug which did not produce any toxic effects when administered orally to mice even at a very high dosage. Central-nervous depression was demonstrated by a reduction in spontaneous motor activity, potentiation of the central-depressant effect of pentobarbital, antagonism of the central-stimulant effect of amphetamine after oral administration and by narcotic activity after i.v. administration of the drug. Furthermore, oral administration of taglutimide potentiated the analgesic action of morphine without being effective on its own. Only weak potentiation of chlorpromazine-induced catalepsy, but not of reserpine-induced catalepsy was observed after taglutimide pretreatment. The drug influenced neither motor co-ordination nor the toxicity of ethanol. Taglutimide exhibited no anticonvulsant activity with respect to maximum electroshock or strychnine-induced seizures. No effect on heart rate or blood pressure was demonstrable after taglutimide treatment in conscious dogs.
Previously, we reported that common variants in precursor microRNA (pre-miRNA) sequences played a role in the prediction of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) survival.
To assess whether variants in the pre-miRNA flanking region can influence the clinical behavior of NSCLC.
We conducted a two-stage study to examine the impact of a panel of 85 single-nucleotide polymorphisms on the overall survival of 923 patients with NSCLC (568 in the screening set and 355 in the validation set) in China.
Eleven single-nucleotide polymorphisms were primarily associated with NSCLC survival in the univariate analysis. However, in the validation set, only miR-30c-1 rs928508 was consistently an NSCLC survival predictor and the protective role of rs928508 AG/GG genotypes was more pronounced among early-stage (stage I/II) patients and patients treated with surgery. The area under the curve at Year 5 was significantly increased from 0.658 to 0.741 after adding the miR-30c-1 rs928508 risk score to the traditional clinical risk score (stage and surgery). Furthermore, in the genotype-phenotype correlation analysis, rs928508 AG/GG genotypes were associated with a significantly decreased expression of precursor and mature miR-30c (P = 0.009 and 0.011), but not with that of its primary miRNA. The expression of the host nuclear transcription factor Y gene was correlated with pri-mir-30c-1, but not with rs928508 genotypes, implicating the coregulation of the transcription of nuclear transcription factor Y and pri-mir-30c-1.
Our data indicated, for the first time, that genetic polymorphisms in the pre-miRNA flanking region may be prognostic biomarkers of NSCLC, and rs928508 is such a potential candidate.
The authors describe a case of venous thrombosis of the legs, complicated by pulmonary embolism, in a 71 year-old man, following desmopressin therapy for hypothalamic diabetes insipidus. They suggest a role of desmopressin in stimulating the release of Von Willebrand's factor (VWF) from endothelial cells. VWF facilitates platelet adhesion by forming a bridge between platelet membrane and vascular subendothelium, followed by development of a large thrombus.
Contexts associated with drug use can acquire secondary reinforcing properties. Furthermore, context-specific withdrawal has been observed to reflect a relatively long-lasting learned response. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of the environment paired with morphine after 15 days of abstinence. In the first experiment, isolated male mice received saline or morphine either in their home cage or in the distinctive environment, performing two agonistic encounters in the distinctive environment during spontaneous withdrawal. Similar groups were assigned but without aggression encounters during withdrawal. In the second experiment, animals received saline or morphine as previously described but suffered two naloxone-induced withdrawals during agonistic encounters. In all cases, after the second withdrawal, animals were drug-free during 15 days and then an aggression test took place in the distinctive environment. Results show that experience of aggression during this spontaneous withdrawal causes an increase in the level of aggression exhibited when animals are drug free, in comparison with others in which this experience does not exist. Environment associated with morphine administration decreases conditioned physical signs of withdrawal and to a smaller extent aggression. It could be suggested that environment associated with morphine administration decreases the abnormal behaviors exhibited in postdependent mice.
In the last decade, the contribution of the progestin component of oral contraceptives (OCs) to the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) has come under scrutiny. The publication of 4 papers in late 1995 and early 1996 led to many women discontinuing OCs containing desogestrel and gastodene, the so-called third-generation OCs. This "pill scare" was the result of study findings that the third-generation OCs were associated with a higher risk of VTE than were OCs containing older progestins, primarily levonorgestrel. Subsequent studies and reanalysis of the original studies have not provided a definitive answer to this continuing debate. More recently, a question was raised about a possible increase in the risk of VTE associated with the use of an OC containing the novel progestin drospirenone. However, the information to date does not support any increase in the risk of VTE with use of the drospirenone-containing OC as compared with any other combination OC.
The sensitivity to intracerebroventricular morphine-induced convulsions was determined in members of the severe seizure (GEPR-9) and moderate seizure (GEPR-3) colonies of genetically epilepsy-prone rats as well as in non-epileptic control rats. GEPR-9s were more sensitive to morphine-induced wet-dog shakes, rearing with bilateral forelimb clonus and generalized clonus than controls of GEPR-3s. GEPR-3s were less sensitive to morphine-induced wet-dog shakes and rearing with bilateral forelimb clonus than controls. Both high and extremely low doses of morphine in GEPR-9s elicited tonic extensor convulsions resembling the characteristic sound-induced convulsion of GEPR-9s. The results suggest that opiotergic systems may contribute to the pathophysiology of the seizure-prone condition in GEPR-9s. Further, differences in responsiveness of opiotergic systems in GEPR-3s and GEPR-9s may partially account for differences in seizure severity in the characteristic sound-induced seizures of these two types of GEPRs.
The non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs, such as an indomethacin (IND), cause mucosal ulceration and increase the mucosal vascular permeability in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Some exogenous agents, e.g. the atropine, can protect the GI mucosa against these ulcerogenic effects. The gastrointestinal functions and mucosal protection, however, are regulated by the vagal nerve. The aims of this study was to examine the dependence of atropine-induced GI cytoprotection to the vagal innervation against the development of IND-caused ulcers and microvascular damage in the mucosa of stomach and small intestine in rats.
the observations were carried out on CFY-strain rats. The mucosal damage was produced by subcutaneous administration of IND in a 20 mg/kg dose 24 h prior to the killing of animals at the same time as the start of atropine-application, which was given in a small dose (0.1 mg/kg) every 5 h. The subdiaphragmatic bilateral surgical vagotomy was done 24 h before the experiment. The vascular permeability, indicated by the microvascular endothel damage, was measured by the appearance and concentration of intravenously administered Evans blue into the GI mucosa. The number and severity of mucosal lesions and the Evans blue content of mucosa were determined in the stomach and small intestine.
(1) The IND caused mucosal ulcers and Evans blue extravasation into the mucosa of the stomach and small intestine. (2) The IND-induced mucosal ulceration and vascular permeability significantly decreased after atropine-administration in the same parts of GI tract. (3) The extent of cytoprotective effect of atropine against the IND was decreased after bilateral surgical vagotomy.
(1) The IND causes microvascular endothel damage in the stomach and small intestinal. (2) The atropine has a cytoprotective effect in the stomach and small intestine against the aggressive effects of IND without decrease of gastric acid secretion. (3) The intact vagal nerve is necessary to the function of cytoprotective mechanisms of atropine against the IND.
Inhibition of 5-HT(6) receptors has been shown to improve memory consolidation, thus we tested whether a novel tryptamine analog with high affinity for 5-HT(6) receptors, BGC20-761 (5-methoxy-2-phenyl-N,N-dimethyltryptamine, PMDT), can enhance long-term memory. BGC20-761 (10 mg/kg i.p.) alone had no effect on social recognition in young rats, however, at doses of 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg i.p, BGC20-761 dose-dependently reversed a deficit of social recognition induced by scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg i.p.), an anticholinergic drug that impairs memory. BGC20-761 (10 mg/kg i.p.), scopolamine (0.2 mg/kg i.p.) or BGC20-761 + scopolamine had no effects on novel object discrimination in young rats (2 months). In mature rats (6 months), recognition of the novel object was improved following administration of BGC20-761. Scopolamine had no effect in object recognition. However, the addition of scopolamine disrupted the memory-enhancing effect of BGC20-761. Based on the high affinity of BGC20-761 for 5-HT(6) receptors, these cognitive enhancing effects are most likely mediated by 5-HT(6) receptor inhibition. The difference in effects of BGC20-761 in young vs. mature rats may reflect the status of memory consolidation in these different age ranges.
A combination of demethylating agents and histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) has been proposed as a novel therapy in leukemia and myelodysplasia. In HL-60 cells azacytidine (AZA) and Metacept-1 (MCT-1), a novel HDACi augmented inhibition of cell growth and increased apoptosis. In identifying a molecular mechanism responsible for these effects MCT-1 alone and in combination with AZA induced p15INK4b, p21WAF1/CIP1 and Caspase-3 whilst attenuating Bcl-XL expression. Interestingly, MCT-1 in combination with AZA significantly induced the recently identified suppressor of leukemogenesis Nur77 and attenuated AZA-induced MMP-9 expression. The combination of MCT-1 and AZA is more effective in inhibiting leukemic cell growth and induction of apoptosis. Regulation of a recently identified tumour suppressor gene together with cell cycle, apoptosis and matrix degrading proteases may underpin the molecular mechanism responsible for these effects.
We identify predictors of clinical response as well as response time in patients treated with finasteride for gross hematuria due to benign prostatic hyperplasia.
A retrospective chart review was preformed of 53 patients who had been given 5 mg. finasteride daily for the treatment of active bleeding or a recent history of recurrent bleeding. Urological evaluations were negative for tumor in all patients. A history of prostatectomy, anticoagulant status and prostate size was determined. The degree of hematuria was then graded before and after finasteride treatment according to our previously described system. Of the 53 patients who were actively bleeding at initial evaluation 16 were followed to determine time required for complete resolution of hematuria.
Hematuria grade improved after finasteride in 50 (94%) patients. Overall 77% of patients (41 of 53) experienced no further bleeding while taking finasteride. Mean followup was 38 months (range 3 to 86). Of the patients 86% (12 of 14) taking coumadin, 77% (10 of 13) taking aspirin and 73% (19 of 26) on no anticoagulants had no further bleeding once on finasteride. Of the patients who had undergone prior transurethral prostatectomy 84% (26 of 31) experienced no further bleeding versus 68% (15 of 22) of those who had not undergone previous surgery. In the 16 patients who began finasteride while actively bleeding the average time to clear urine was 12 days (range 2 to 45). Prostatic volume correlated with the average time needed for resolution of hematuria, which was 2.7 days or longer for small (less than 40 gm.), 10.3 days or longer for large (40 to 100), 19 days or longer for extra large (100 to 150) and 45 days or longer for extra extra large (greater than 150) glands. Hematuria resolved an average of 5.5 days versus 18.6 days in those who had or had not undergone previous prostatectomy, respectively.
Our long-term followup demonstrates finasteride as a useful treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia related gross hematuria, which is effective in patients who are on anticoagulants. In patients with larger prostatic volumes a longer time to response and higher incidence of recurrent but lower grade bleeding should be anticipated compared to those who have undergone prior prostatectomy or have a smaller prostate.
A previous impression that corticotrophin provided prophylaxis against delayed traumatic facial palsy has now been confirmed by the results obtained from the first 50 patients so treated.
Out of 34 consecutive patients with angina and treated with nifedipine, two subjects (5.8 percent) showed a significant increase of transient myocardial ischemic episodes during the period of treatment, as assessed by continuous Holter ECG monitoring. In both these patients, a large proportion of ischemic episodes happened to be asymptomatic. A relationship between nifedipine intake, heart rate increase, and number of ischemic episodes was observed. This occasional aggravation of myocardial ischemia could be related to an increase in myocardial oxygen demand medicated through a drug-induced reflex tachycardia.
To describe physical symptoms in those local residents, local workers, and cleanup workers who were enrolled in a treatment program and had reported symptoms and exposure to the dust, gas, and fumes released with the destruction of the World Trade Center (WTC) on September 11, 2001.
Symptomatic individuals underwent standardized evaluation and subsequent treatment.
One thousand eight hundred ninety-eight individuals participated in the WTC Environmental Health Center between September 2005 and May 2008. Upper and lower respiratory symptoms that began after September 11, 2001 and persisted at the time of examination were common in each exposure population. Many (31%) had spirometry measurements below the lower limit of normal.
Residents and local workers as well as those with work-associated exposure to WTC dust have new and persistent respiratory symptoms with lung function abnormalities 5 or more years after the WTC destruction.
The generation of free radicals is a cause of many pathological conditions like diabetes mellitus, cancer, stroke, etc. Free radicals cause damage to cellular DNA and initiate carcinogenesis. Free radicals also bring about proliferation of cells via cell signaling. An inverse relationship between the consumption of vegetable diets and the risk of cancer has been established. In the present study, Star anise (Illicium verum), which is a commonly used condiment in Indian cuisine, was assessed for its anti-carcinogenic potential in N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) initiated and phenobarbital (PB) promoted hepato-carcinogenesis. Rats were randomly selected for eight experimental groups. The carcinogenesis was induced by injecting the rats, with a single dose of NDEA (200mg/kg body weight) intraperitoneally as initiator, followed by promotion with PB (0.05%) in drinking water for 14 consecutive weeks. The treatment with NDEA increased liver weight, while Star anise (Star) treatment reduced the liver weight of rats. The treatment with Star throughout for 20 weeks or during the promotion stage (6-20 weeks) significantly reduced the nodule incidence and nodule multiplicity in the rats, while the treatment with Star at the initiation phase (first 4 weeks) only could not reduce these parameters. The treatment with Star for 20 consecutive weeks significantly reduced the nodule size and nodule volume. The treatment with Star throughout as well as at the promotion stage lowered the lipid peroxidation (LPO) in liver and erythrocytes, while the LPO was not lowered, when Star was administered during initiation stage only. The treatment with Star restored the liver and erythrocyte super-oxide dismutase (SOD) activities to normal in the carcinogenesis-induced rats. The liver catalase (CAT) activity increased in all the treated groups. The erythrocyte CAT activity increased in the rats treated with Star during initiation and promotion stage only. The liver glutathione (GSH) level increased significantly in the groups treated with Star. The erythrocyte GSH level was lowered in the rats treated with NDEA and PB, however, Star treatment helped in increasing the erythrocyte GSH level to some extent. The liver and erythrocyte glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity increased in all the groups treated with NDEA and PB. The treatment with Star decreased GST level significantly. These results indicate that the treatment with Star reduces the tumor burden, lowers oxidative stress and increases the level of phase II enzymes, which may contribute to its anti-carcinogenic potential.
Low concentrations of As(2)O(3) (</=1 micromol/L) induce long-lasting remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) without significant myelosuppressive side effects. Several groups, including ours, have shown that 0.5 to 1 micromol/L As(2)O(3) induces apoptosis in APL-derived NB4 cells, whereas other leukemic cells are resistant to As(2)O(3) or undergo apoptosis only in response to greater than 2 micromol/L As(2)O(3). In this report, we show that the ability of As(2)O(3) to induce apoptosis in leukemic cells is dependent on the activity of the enzymes that regulate cellular H(2)O(2) content. Thus, NB4 cells have relatively low levels of glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and catalase and have a constitutively higher H(2)O(2) content than U937 monocytic leukemia cells. Glutathione-S-transferase pi (GSTpi), which is important for cellular efflux of As(2)O(3), is also low in NB4 cells. Moreover, As(2)O(3) further inhibits GPX activity and increases cellular H(2)O(2) content in NB4 but not in U937 cells. Selenite pretreatment of NB4 cells increases the activity of GPX, lowers cellular H(2)O(2) levels, and renders NB4 cells resistant to 1 micromol/L As(2)O(3). In contrast, concentrations of As(2)O(3) that alone are not capable of inducing apoptosis in NB4 cells induce apoptosis in the presence of the GPx inhibitor mercaptosuccinic acid. Similar effects are observed by modulating the activity of catalase with its inhibitor, aminotriazol. More important from a therapeutic point of view, U937 and HL-60 cells, which require high concentrations of As(2)O(3) to undergo apoptosis, become sensitive to low, clinically acceptable concentrations of As(2)O(3) when cotreated with these GPx and catalase inhibitors. The induction of apoptosis by As(2)O(3) involves an early decrease in cellular mitochondrial membrane potential and increase in H(2)O(2) content, followed by cytochrome c release, caspase 3 activation, DNA fragmentation, and the classic morphologic changes of apoptosis.
Significant sensory hair cell loss leads to irreversible hearing and balance deficits in humans and other mammals. Future therapeutic strategies to repair damaged mammalian auditory epithelium may involve inserting stem cells into the damaged epithelium, inducing non-sensory cells remaining in the epithelium to transdifferentiate into replacement hair cells via gene therapy, or applying growth factors. Little is currently known regarding the status and characteristics of the non-sensory cells that remain in the deafened auditory epithelium, yet this information is integral to the development of therapeutic treatments. A single high-dose injection of the aminoglycoside kanamycin coupled with a single injection of the loop diuretic furosemide was used to kill hair cells in adult mice, and the mice were examined 1 year after the drug insult. Outer hair cells are lost throughout the entire length of the cochlea and less than a third of the inner hair cells remain in the apical turn. Over 20% and 55% of apical organ of Corti support cells and spiral ganglion cells are lost, respectively. We examined the expression of several known support cell markers to investigate for possible support cell dedifferentiation in the damaged ears. The support cell markers investigated included the microtubule protein acetylated tubulin, the transcription factor Sox2, and the Notch signaling ligand Jagged1. Non-sensory epithelial cells remaining in the organ of Corti retain acetylated tubulin, Sox2 and Jagged1 expression, even when the epithelium has a monolayer-like appearance. These results suggest a lack of marked SC dedifferentiation in these aged and badly damaged ears.
Using norepinephrine given intravenously in 10 patients with tachyarrhythmias associated with cardiogenic shock, an important sinus bradycardia was always produced, indicating an evident vagal stimulation as underlying mechanism of the termination of arrhythmias.
A case report is presented of an electrophysiologic recovery from vitamin E-deficient neuropathy after treatment with water-soluble vitamin E in a patient with chronic hepatobiliary disease. The patient was a 64-year-old man who had experienced progressive difficulty in ambulation, with ataxia, over the previous 3 years. The symptoms were associated with pain, tingling sensation in the extremities, and reduced fine motor activity. The patient had chronic hepatobiliary disease, with recurrent cholangitis and external drainage of bile acid through a T-tube for more than 20 years. Vitamin E level was barely detectable (<0.5 mg/L). Sensory conduction was absent in both sural nerves. Other sensory and motor conduction studies in the upper and lower extremities showed decreased amplitude. The patient was treated with water-soluble vitamin E. After 4 months of therapy, his ambulation function improved, but pain and tingling sensation in both hands remained. Sensory nerve action potentials appeared in both sural nerves, and amplitudes of other sensory nerves were increased. In a second follow-up study after 9 months, all of the evaluated parameters in the nerve conduction studies, as well as the vitamin E level, were normal. The authors conclude that vitamin E-deficient neuropathy is reversible and electrophysiologic recovery can occur with water-soluble vitamin E therapy.
