Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is an uncommon but serious idiosyncratic reaction associated with antipsychotic medication. The purpose of this study was to reveal and analyze the clinical characteristics of the reported cases of NMS in patients given the novel antipsychotic olanzapine. A MEDLINE search related to olanzapine-induced NMS cases reported in the international literature was conducted. All cases were critically reviewed and examined against three different sets of NMS diagnostic criteria (DSM-IV, Addonizio, Levenson). The authors identified 17 cases of possible NMS associated with olanzapine. Ten of the reported NMS cases were definitely NMS meeting all three sets of criteria and three cases were probable NMS meeting two sets of criteria. Most of the patients exhibited a full-blown NMS. There were four definite NMS cases associated with olanzapine monotherapy. Three of them had concurrent serious physical illnesses and one had a previous NMS episode. Olanzapine can cause NMS, mainly in susceptible or predisposed patients.
The incidence of hypertension was sought in 102 children who had undergone renal transplantation. Fifty five were being treated with cyclosporin and 47 with azathioprine, and they were followed up for a maximum of five years. After one year 35 of those receiving cyclosporin (64%) and 34 of those receiving azathioprine (72%) were hypertensive; after five years the figures were 5/6 (83%) and 25/35 (71%), respectively. Recipients of grafts from living related donors had a lower incidence of hypertension than recipients of cadaveric grafts. The incidence of hypertension was higher in patients with acquired original kidney disease than in children with congenital or familial diseases. In both groups creatinine clearance and the frequency of acute rejection episodes did not differ between normotensive and hypertensive patients. When the lowest concentrations of cyclosporin in whole blood were more than 400 ng/ml the incidence of hypertension one year after transplantation was higher. The incidence of hypertension after renal transplantation in children is higher than that reported in adults. Acquired original disease, transplantation of cadaveric grafts, and nephrotoxicity of cyclosporin are all contributory factors.
Adult female rats were exposed to lead-free sodium acetate via gavage [0 mg (vehicle control)] or to 16 mg lead as lead acetate for 30 days prior to breeding. Following confirmation of breeding, the female animals continued to be exposed to their respective doses throughout gestation and lactation. When weaned, 16 control and 16 lead-exposed offspring were placed on regular water and food (lead-exposure was discontinued) until postnatal day (PND) 70. At this time, one-half of the control animals and one-half of the lead-treatment animals received intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of the vehicle (saline) for 10 successive days and the remaining animals in each exposure conditions received daily injections of 1.0 mg/kg (+)-methamphetamine (METH) for 10 days (N=8/group). Locomotion in automated chambers was monitored daily for 45 min post-injection. Subsequently, during dose-effect testing, all animals received consecutive daily i.p. injections of 0, 1.0, 2.0, and then 4.0 mg/kg METH. The results of the experiment showed that both control and lead-exposed animals exhibited heightened locomotor activity (i.e. behavioral sensitization) to the repeated administration of 1.0 mg/kg METH. More importantly, animals developmentally (perinatally) exposed to lead showed more rapid sensitization than did their control counterparts. These data indicate that early lead exposure increases sensitivity to the locomotor-stimulating effects of METH. In contrast, identically exposed lead animals exhibit diminished METH dose-effect responding when tested in an intravenous (i.v.) self-administration paradigm [Rocha A., Valles R., Bratton G.R., Nation J.R. Developmental lead exposure alters methamphetamine self-administration in the male rat: acquisition and reinstatement. Drug Alcohol Depend 2008a;95:23-29, Rocha A., Valles R., Hart N., Bratton G.R., Nation J.R. Developmental lead exposure attenuates methamphetamine dose-effect self-administration performance and progressive ratio responding in the male rat. Pharmacol Biochem Behav 2008b;89:508-514].
ECGs and left ventricular systolic time intervals were studied in 26 patients suffering from major depressive disorder treated with clomipramine. ECGs did not show, with one exception, drug-induced changes. The ratio of pre-ejection period to left ventricular ejection time, both corrected for heart rate (PEPc/LVETc), presented no significant changes, as compared with initial findings, in the group of patients considered as a whole. 27% of patients, however, showed individual percent changes greater than 8%, both increases and decreases having been observed. Cardiac findings were in no way related to clomipramine plasma levels.
Buprenorphine is used as an analgesic for postoperative and chronic pain. The usual sublingual dose is 0.2 to 0.8 mg, and the usual parenteral dose is 0.3 mg for acute postoperative pain. The pharmacokinetic and related pharmacodynamic properties of buprenorphine at these doses have not been characterized.
The aim of this study was to assess the pharmacokinetic properties of buprenorphine 0.002 mg/kg IV (0.15 mg/70 kg) and its antinociceptive and psychomotor effects.
Healthy male volunteers received 0.002 mg/kg buprenorphine IV in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design. Blood samples were collected at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 1.75, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 8 hours for the determination of plasma concentrations. Pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated by a compartmental model using specialized software. Antinociceptive and psychomotor effects were determined for 8 hours. Quantitative sensory testing with thermal and electrical (nociceptive flexion RIII reflex) stimulations was performed. The cold pressor test was used to assess pain tolerance to a tonic, intense pain stimulation. Psychomotor performance was assessed by the digit symbol substitution test (DSST). Participants also rated sedation on an 11-point numeric scale (0 = none to 10 = severe). A selective liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry assay was developed for the determination of buprenorphine; the limit of quantification was 0.05 ng/mL using a 0.25-mL plasma aliquot. Participants were instructed to report adverse effects, which were recorded for type, time of onset, seriousness, and duration.
The study enrolled 12 participants, all of whom were white. Mean (SD) age was 26 (3.5) years, and mean weight was 67 (9) kg. None of the participants had a history of opiate abuse. Buprenorphine significantly increased the objective (nociceptive flexion RIII reflex) and subjective pain thresholds for >4 hours and pain tolerance (cold pressor test) for 2 hours. The mean (SD) RIII reflex threshold and subjective threshold at baseline were 31.6 (9.5) mA and 45.5 (22.3) mA, respectively. The maximum increases (mean [SD]) were +14.1 (17.5) mA for the RIII reflex (P = 0.02) and +24.2 (21.7) mA for the subjective threshold (P = 0.02), corresponding to mean (SEM) percentages of 53.7% (20.2%) and 74.7% (20.4%) of the baseline values, respectively. The maximum increases were observed at 120 minutes for both measures. The effect of buprenorphine on pain tolerance peaked at 30 minutes. Mean (SEM) latency before withdrawal of the hand was 69 (10) seconds, corresponding to a mean increase of 63.8% (14.4%) from baseline (P = 0.003). Buprenorphine had a significant effect on the DSST. The mean maximum decrease in the total number of symbols drawn was -6 (14.5%; P = 0.005) at 1 hour. The participants reported high levels of sedation: at peak effect (120 minutes), mean scores increased from 2.9 to 6.4 (SEM 0.7) (P = 0.005). Levels returned to baseline values by the end of the session, unlike for the nociceptive tests. The onset of effects occurred during the distribution phase for all the measures, and their duration was observed across a wide range of concentrations during the elimination phase. The most likely explanation for this finding is the high affinity of buprenorphine at mu-opioid receptors, and possibly distribution to the brain. Buprenorphine t(l/2) was 2.75 hours. A secondary peak in concentration was observed at 90 minutes, suggesting enterohepatic circulation of buprenorphine. A 2-compartment model adequately described buprenorphine pharmacokinetics.
A clinically relevant analgesic dose of 0.002 mg/kg (0.15 mg/70 kg) of buprenorphine had a significant effect on nociception and psychomotor performance in these healthy male volunteers. A 2-compartment model satisfactorily characterized buprenorphine pharmacokinetics, and we found evidence of enterohepatic circulation.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is usually diagnosed at advanced clinical stages, resulting in poor outcomes. To discover serum biomarkers for improved NPC diagnosis and/or management, we simultaneously analyzed the NPC cell secretome and tissue transcriptome to identify candidate genes/proteins that are highly upregulated in NPC tissues and also secreted/released from NPC cells. Among the 30 candidates identified, 11 proteins were chosen for further validation using the serum samples from NPC patients and healthy controls, including cystatin A, cathepsin B, manganese superoxide dismutase and matrix metalloproteinase 2. The results showed that serum levels of all the four proteins were indeed higher in NPC patients versus healthy controls and that the use of a three-marker panel (cystatin A, manganese superoxide dismutase and matrix metalloproteinase 2) can contribute to a better NPC detection than each marker alone. In addition, a higher pretreated serum level of cystatin A was found to be associated with a higher nodal stage and poorer prognosis of NPC patients and cystatin A could modulate the migration and invasion of NPC cells in vitro. Altogether, our results indicate that analysis of both the cancer cell secretome and tissue transcriptome is a feasible strategy for efficient identification of novel NPC serum marker panel.
Dermatomyositis was diagnosed at age 7 years to a fourteen year old female. The disease was unresponsive to high doses of prednisone, so she was treated with oral cyclophosphamide 0.8 mg.kg.day (25 mg.m2) but treatment was withheld after sixteen weeks because of hemorrhagic cystitis and changed to azathioprine for two years, which resulted in complete remission of dermatomyositis. Nevertheless silent microscopic hematuria persisted and chronic cystitis was demonstrated by cystoscopy and vesical biopsy at age 13 years. In this case chronic cystitis developed earlier and at lower doses of cyclophosphamide than in other previously reported cases.
Mitochondrial Ca2+ accumulation and the formation of reactive oxygen species are processes dependent on the electron transport system. The production of superoxide by respiring rat heart mitochondria was decreased by either chelating extramitochondrial Ca2+ with EGTA or by blocking mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake with ruthenium red. Mitochondrial experiments with doxorubicin showed an enhanced stimulation of reactive oxygen species, which was also inhibited by EGTA or ruthenium red. Myocardial cell cultures treated with doxorubicin showed an enhanced formation of intracellular reactive oxygen species, which preceded cell damage. Ruthenium red not only attenuated the enhanced formation of intracellular reactive oxygen species, but also increased cell viability. The relationship between mitochondrial Ca2+ transport and the formation of superoxide suggests that a disruption in mitochondrial Ca2+ homeostasis by doxorubicin may be involved in the release of reactive oxygen species and its cardiotoxicity.
We measured urinary levels of total protein, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG), alanine aminopeptidase, and adenosine deaminase-binding protein in ten children with osteogenic sarcoma who were receiving combination chemotherapy that included 12 doses of methotrexate (12 g/m2). Analysis of the changes in these sensitive markers of renal tubular damage permitted detection of subclinical methotrexate-induced nephrotoxicity. In the absence of cisplatin, methotrexate therapy was associated with significant but transient increases in each of the four markers. Irreversible nephrotoxicity, indicated by persistent rises in NAG and alanine aminopeptidase as well as increased serum creatinine levels, was associated with doses of methotrexate that followed the administration of cisplatin (400 mg/m2). The biphasic pattern of total protein and NAG excretion observed in all patients suggests more than one mechanism of methotrexate-induced nephrotoxicity. Monitoring renal tubular damage in patients who are receiving methotrexate in combined-drug regimens would provide useful information for scheduling nephrotoxic drugs in clinical trials.
Chromosomal abnormalities contribute substantially to reproductive problems, but the role of environmental risk factors has received little attention.
We evaluated the association of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) and dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (p,p'-DDE) exposures with sperm sex-chromosome disomy.
We conducted a cross-sectional study of 192 men from subfertile couples. We used multiprobe fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for chromosomes X, Y, and 18 to determine XX, YY, XY, and total sex-chromosome disomy in sperm nuclei. Serum was analyzed for concentrations of 57 PCB congeners and p,p'-DDE. Poisson regression models were used to calculate incidence rate ratios (IRRs) for disomy by exposure quartiles, controlling for demographic characteristics and semen parameters.
The median percent disomy was 0.3 for XX and YY, 0.9 for XY, and 1.6 for total sex-chromosome disomy. We observed a significant trend of increasing IRRs for increasing quartiles of p,p'-DDE in XX, XY, and total sex-chromosome disomy, and a significant trend of increasing IRRs for increasing quartiles of PCBs for XY and total sex-chromosome disomy; however, there was a significant inverse association for XX disomy.
Our findings suggest that exposure to p,p'-DDE may be associated with increased rates of XX, XY, and total sex-chromosome disomy, whereas exposure to PCBs may be associated with increased rates of YY, XY, and total sex-chromosome disomy. In addition, we observed an inverse association between increased exposure to PCBs and XX disomy. Further work is needed to confirm these findings.
Compromised ability to exert control over drug urges and drug-seeking behaviour is a characteristic of addiction. One specific cognitive control function, impulse control, has been shown to be a risk factor for the development of substance problems and has been linked in animal models to increased drug administration and relapse. We present evidence of a direct effect of cocaine on the neurobiology underlying impulse control. In a laboratory test of motor response inhibition, an intravenous cocaine administration improved task performance in 13 cocaine users. This improvement was accompanied by increased activation in right dorsolateral and inferior frontal cortex, regions considered critical for this cognitive function. Similarly, for both inhibitory control and action monitoring processes, cocaine normalized activation levels in lateral and medial prefrontal regions previously reported to be hypoactive in users relative to drug-naive controls. The acute amelioration of neurocognitive dysfunction may reflect a chronic dysregulation of those brain regions and the cognitive processes they subserve. Furthermore, the effects of cocaine on midline function suggest a dopaminergically mediated intersection between cocaine's acute reinforcing effects and its effects on cognitive control.
Epidemiologic studies have reported an association between proximity to highway traffic and increased cardiopulmonary illnesses.
We investigated the effect of size-fractionated particulate matter (PM), obtained at different distances from a highway, on acute cardiopulmonary toxicity in mice.
We collected PM for 2 weeks in July-August 2006 using a three-stage (ultrafine, < 0.1 microm; fine, 0.1-2.5 microm; coarse, 2.5-10 microm) high-volume impactor at distances of 20 m [near road (NR)] and 275 m [far road (FR)] from an interstate highway in Raleigh, North Carolina. Samples were extracted in methanol, dried, diluted in saline, and then analyzed for chemical constituents. Female CD-1 mice received either 25 or 100 microg of each size fraction via oropharyngeal aspiration. At 4 and 18 hr postexposure, mice were assessed for pulmonary responsiveness to inhaled methacholine, biomarkers of lung injury and inflammation; ex vivo cardiac pathophysiology was assessed at 18 hr only.
Overall chemical composition between NR and FR PM was similar, although NR samples comprised larger amounts of PM, endotoxin, and certain metals than did the FR samples. Each PM size fraction showed differences in ratios of major chemical classes. Both NR and FR coarse PM produced significant pulmonary inflammation irrespective of distance, whereas both NR and FR ultrafine PM induced cardiac ischemia-reperfusion injury.
On a comparative mass basis, the coarse and ultrafine PM affected the lung and heart, respectively. We observed no significant differences in the overall toxicity end points and chemical makeup between the NR and FR PM. The results suggest that PM of different size-specific chemistry might be associated with different toxicologic mechanisms in cardiac and pulmonary tissues.
Taxol, a natural extract with antineoplastic properties, is known to be neurotoxic in humans. Its neurotoxicity after systemic administration, however, has never been studied in detail at the morphological level in humans and in animals. In this study we administered taxol intraperitoneally to female Wistar rats and we performed an extended neurophysiological and morphological examination of the peripheral nerves, dorsal root ganglia, spinal rootlets, and spinal cord. The results obtained in this experimental model indicate that taxol induces pathological changes mainly in the peripheral nerves, but they are present also in the ventral and dorsal spinal rootlets and spinal dorsal column fibers. The dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord neurons were, on the contrary, unaffected. The most impressive change induced by systemic taxol administration was intraaxonal neurotubule accumulation. Schwann cells showed signs of "activation" but clear demyelination was not observed. We conclude that with the use of this model it is possible to induce a peripheral neuropathy in the Wistar rat which resembles that reported in humans and which can, therefore, be used to better understand the basic mechanism(s) of taxol toxicity and to evaluate protective strategies in an attempt to reduce it.
The maximum gene exhibition was shown to be achieved at 48 h after transfection with human bcl-2 (hbcl-2) genes built in an SV40 early promoter-based plasmid vector and HVJ-liposome for cultured rat hepatocytes. The similar procedure of hbcl-2 transfection was therefore conducted for livers in rats via the portal vein, and after 48 h followed by post-ischemic reperfusion (I/R) operation for some hepatic lobes. The I/R-induced hepatic injuries were in situ observed as both cell morphological degeneration and cellular DNA strand cleavages around capillary vessels of the ischemic liver lobes as detected by HE stain and TUNEL assay, and were biochemically observed as release of two hepatic marker enzymes AST and ALT into serum. All the I/R-induced injuries examined were appreciably repressed for rats transfected with hbcl-2; hbcl-2 was expressed in hepatocytes around the capillaries of ischemic regions such as the median lobe and the left lobe, but scarcely around those of non-ischemic regions. Thus cytoprotection against I/R-induced injuries may be attributed to the I/R-promoted expression of transferred hbcl-2 genes. The possibility was examined firstly by methylphenylindole method, which showed that I/R-enhanced lipid peroxidation in the reference vector-transfected livers were markedly repressed in the hbcl-2-transfected livers. Contents of ascorbic acid (Asc) in serum and livers of hbcl-2-transfected rats were enriched, unexpectedly, versus those of non-transfected rats, and were as abundant as 1.90-fold and 1.95- to 2.60-fold versus those in the pre-ischemic state, respectively. After I/R, an immediate decline in serum Asc occurred in hbcl-2-transfectants, and was followed by prompt restoration up to the pre-ischemic Asc levels in contrast to the unaltered lower Asc levels in non-transfectants except a transient delayed increase. Hepatic Asc contents were also diminished appreciably at the initial stage after I/R in the ischemic lobes of hbcl-2-transfectants, which however retained more abundant Asc versus non-transfectants especially at the initial I/R stage when scavenging of the oxidative stress should be most necessary for cytoprotection. The results showed a close correlation between cytoprotection by exogenously transferred hbcl-2 and repressive effects on the lipid peroxidation associated with Asc consumption or redistribution.
It was observed that dogs under 50 percent nitrous oxide and succinylcholine exhibited a moderately large pupil, maintained a good pupillary light reflex and had a relatively high sensitivity to the miotic effects of morphine. A cumulative dose of 1 mg/kg. i.v. of morphine caused marked and sustained miosis in these animals. Morphine, 1 mg, was found to have no pupillary effect by intraocular administration. Optic nerve section and cervical sympathectomy did not interfere with the miotic response in either acute or chronic preparations. Conversely, a cumulative i.v. dose of 30 mg/kg of morphine failed to cause pupillary constriction when oculomotor innervation had been interrupted. In addition, morphine, 0.2 to 0.6 mg/kg i.v., caused marked miosis in dogs whose occipital lobes or cerebral hemispheres had been removed. These findings suggest that morphine acts on a subcortical region causing constriction of the pupil. The possible location was ascertained by unit recording with microelectrodes. It was observed that pupilloconstrictor neurons in the visceral nuclei of the oculomotor nuclear complex responded to morphine, 0.2 mg/kg i.v., by increased frequency of discharge. Other neurons in the pupillary light reflex pathway showed depressed activity. Levallorphan, 0.05 mg/kg i.v., but not phenylephrine (locally applied to the conjunctival sac) antagonized all of the actions of morphine on the pupilloconstrictor neurons. The present findings demonstrate that the miosis induced by morphine is accomplished by an excitatory action of the narcotic on the visceral nuclei of the oculomotor nuclear complex.
Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMP)-1, the most important endogenous inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases, plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of liver fibrosis and may represent an effective therapeutic target in the design of antifibrotic strategies for chronic liver diseases.
Intraperitoneal application of a single dose of either tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha or interleukin (IL)-1beta in mice led to an enhanced expression of hepatic TIMP-1 after 4-16 h. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) in the presence and absence of specific TNF-alpha and IL-1beta inhibitors.
Real-time PCR revealed a significant increase of TIMP-1 mRNA in total rat liver 24 h after CCl4 injection. Repetitive injection of both, etanercept and anakinra, before and after CCl4 injection effectively inactivated TNF-alpha and IL-1beta. Anticytokine pretreatment reduced the increase of TIMP-1 expression after a single CCl4 injection by 50% and 75%, respectively. In contrast to CCl4-treated rats with and without TNF-alpha blockade, IL-1beta inactivation caused a sevenfold increase in matrix metalloproteinases-9 mRNA levels.
In conclusion, TIMP-1 expression is up-regulated in the early phase of toxic liver injury by proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in rodents. Pharmacological inactivation of these cytokines significantly reduces TIMP-1 gene expression. Our data provide a potential new antifibrotic approach.
Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) is a key participant in cellular cholesterol trafficking. Loss of NPC1 function leads to defective suppression of SREBP-dependent gene expression and failure to appropriately activate liver X receptor-mediated (LXR-mediated) pathways, ultimately resulting in intracellular cholesterol accumulation. To determine whether NPC1 contributes to regulation of macrophage sterol homeostasis in vivo, we examined the effect of NPC1 deletion in BM-derived cells on atherosclerotic lesion development in the Ldlr-/- mouse model of atherosclerosis. High-fat diet-fed chimeric Npc1-/- mice reconstituted with Ldlr-/-Npc1-/- macrophages exhibited accelerated atherosclerosis despite lower serum cholesterol compared with mice reconstituted with wild-type macrophages. The discordance between the low serum lipoprotein levels and the presence of aortic atherosclerosis suggested that intrinsic alterations in macrophage sterol metabolism in the chimeric Npc1-/- mice played a greater role in atherosclerotic lesion formation than did serum lipoprotein levels. Macrophages from chimeric Npc1-/- mice showed decreased synthesis of 27-hydroxycholesterol (27-HC), an endogenous LXR ligand; decreased expression of LXR-regulated cholesterol transporters; and impaired cholesterol efflux. Lower 27-HC levels were associated with elevated cholesterol oxidation products in macrophages and plasma of chimeric Npc1-/- mice and with increased oxidative stress. Our results demonstrate that NPC1 serves an atheroprotective role in mice through regulation of LXR-dependent cholesterol efflux and mitigation of cholesterol-induced oxidative stress in macrophages.
It is known that mercuric chloride (HgCl2) is a nephrotoxicant. When HgCl2 (1 mg/kg body weight) was intraperitoneally injected into rats, acute renal failure was induced. Histological changes in the kidneys were exclusively observed in the proximal tubules and the severe necrosis was found as early as 24 h after HgCl2 injection. The heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) mRNA was strongly and promptly induced at about 2.5 h, the earliest time examined and abruptly decreased after the injection. Whereas the time course of HO-1 protein level was delayed as compared with that of HO-1 mRNA level. The levels of HO-1 mRNA and protein similarly increased with dose-dependent manner. The localization of HO-1 protein was restricted to the tubule cells. These findings suggest the potential involvement of HO-1 induction in the response to HgCl2-induced acute renal injury.
Our objective was to investigate the relationship between the gene encoding the mu-opioid receptor (OPRM1) and susceptibility to substance dependence in European-American (EA) and African-American (AA) subjects. Eight single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at the OPRM1 locus, i.e., -2044C/A, -1793T/A, -1699insT, -1469T/C, -1320A/G, -111C/T, +17C/T (Ala6Val), and +118A/G (Asn40Asp) were genotyped in 676 subjects: 318 EA subjects and 124 AA subjects with substance dependence, and 179 EA normal controls, and 55 AA normal controls. Affection status was defined by each unique combination of alcohol, cocaine, and opioid dependence and analysis of association examined in relation to the possible combinations. We used a newly implemented permutation method to evaluate statistical significance. In EAs, a significant difference in haplotype frequency distributions was found between controls and "alcohol + opioid" dependent patients (P = 0.0036). This finding is also supported by logistic regression analysis and a simulation method. The frequencies of allele -2044A and haplotypes including -2044A are higher in these patients than in controls. In AAs, no allele, haplotype, or genotype frequencies were significantly different between cases and controls. There were highly significant differences in the allele, haplotype, and genotype frequencies between EA and AA controls. Four of the variants [-1793T/A, -1699insT, -1320A/G, and -111C/T] are in virtually complete linkage disequilibrium (LD) to compose a sequence pattern, which does not associate with any of the seven categories of substance dependence. In EAs, allele -2044A and haplotypes that include -2044A are the susceptibility allele and haplotypes for substance dependence. These findings suggest that OPRM1 may play a role in the pathophysiology of substance dependence and this role is population- and diagnosis-specific.
In recent years, successful examples of antisense oligonucleotide (AS) therapy for genetic diseases have stimulated scientists to investigate its application on cancer diseases. AS can be used to down-regulate the mRNA and protein expression by annealing to specific region of the target mRNA which is responsible for the malignancy. Glucose transporter 5 (Glut5) is a tissue specific transporter that can be found on breast cancer tissues but not on normal breast tissues. Therefore, it is of clinical interest to investigate whether AS against Glut5 mRNA can tackle breast cancer. In this study, two cell lines, MCF-7 which is estrogen-receptor positive and MDA-MB-231 which is estrogen-receptor negative, were used to mimic breast cancer tissues at early and late stages, respectively. A 15-base sequence around the start codon of Glut5 was used. It was found that AS against Glut5 exerted anti-proliferative effect on both of these two breast tumor cell lines and seemed to exert its effect via the suppression of expression of Glut5 proteins in the cells. AS against Glut5 exhibited no effect on human hepatoma HepG2 cells which do not possess any Glut5. The results imply an alternative way in treating breast tumor as the AS against Glut5, unlike tamoxifen, takes effect on breast tumor cells via suppressing the expression of Glut5 that they specifically possess, and regardless whether the breast tumors are estrogen dependent or not.
High consumption of soy isoflavones in Asian diets has been correlated with a lower incidence of clinically important cases of prostate cancer. The chemopreventive properties of these diets may result from an interaction of several types of isoflavones, including genistein and daidzein. The present study investigated the effects of a soy isoflavone concentrate (ISF) on growth and gene expression profiles of PC-3 human prostate cancer cells. Trypan blue exclusion and [3H]-thymidine incorporation assays showed that ISF decreased cell viability and caused a dose-dependent inhibition of DNA synthesis, respectively, with 50% inhibition (IC50) of DNA synthesis at 52 mg/L (P = 0.05). The glucoside conjugates of genistein and daidzein in ISF were converted to bioactive free aglycones in cell culture in association with the inhibition of DNA synthesis. Flow cytometry and Western immunoblot analyses showed that ISF at 200 mg/L caused an accumulation of cells in the G2/M phase of the cell cycle (P < 0.05) and decreased cyclin A by 20% (P < 0.05), respectively. The effect of ISF on the gene expression profile of PC-3 cells was analyzed using Affymetrix oligonucleotide DNA microarrays that interrogate approximately 17,000 human genes. Of the 75 genes altered by ISF, 28 were upregulated and 47 were downregulated (P < 0.05). Further analysis showed that IL-8, matrix metalloproteinase 13, inhibin beta A, follistatin, and fibronectin mRNA levels were significantly reduced, whereas the expression of p21(CIP1), a major cell cycle inhibitory protein, was increased. The effects of ISF on the expression of IL-8 and p21(CIP1) mRNA and protein were validated at high and low ISF concentrations. Our data show that ISF inhibits the growth of PC-3 cells through modulation of cell cycle progression and the expression of genes involved in cell cycle regulation, metastasis, and angiogenesis.
The relationship of fine particulate matter < 2.5 microm in diameter (PM(2.5)) air pollution with mortality and cardiovascular disease is well established, with more recent long-term studies reporting larger effect sizes than earlier long-term studies. Some studies have suggested the coarse fraction, particles between 2.5 and 10 microm (PM(10-2.5)), may also be important. With respect to mortality and cardiovascular events, questions remain regarding the relative strength of effect sizes for chronic exposure to fine and coarse particles.
We examined the relationship of chronic PM(2.5) and PM(10-2.5) exposures with all-cause mortality and fatal and nonfatal incident coronary heart disease (CHD), adjusting for time-varying covariates.
The current study included women from the Nurses' Health Study living in metropolitan areas of the northeastern and midwestern United States. Follow-up was from 1992 to 2002. We used geographic information systems-based spatial smoothing models to estimate monthly exposures at each participant's residence.
We found increased risk of all-cause mortality [hazard ratio (HR), 1.26; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.02-1.54] and fatal CHD (HR = 2.02; 95% CI, 1.07-3.78) associated with each 10-microg/m(3) increase in annual PM(2.5) exposure. The association between fatal CHD and PM(10-2.5) was weaker.
Our findings contribute to growing evidence that chronic PM(2.5) exposure is associated with risk of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality.
Little is known about the carcinogenic potential of arsenic in areas with low to moderate concentrations of arsenic (< 100 microg/L) in drinking water.
We examined associations between arsenic and lung cancer.
A population-based case-control study of primary incident lung cancer was conducted in 10 counties in two U.S. states, New Hampshire and Vermont. The study included 223 lung cancer cases and 238 controls, each of whom provided toenail clippings for arsenic exposure measurement by inductively coupled-plasma mass spectrometry. We estimated odds ratios (ORs) of the association between arsenic exposure and lung cancer using unconditional logistic regression with adjustment for potential confounders (age, sex, race/ethnicity, smoking pack-years, education, body mass index, fish servings per week, and toenail selenium level).
Arsenic exposure was associated with small-cell and squamous-cell carcinoma of the lung [OR = 2.75; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.00-7.57] for toenail arsenic concentration > or = 0.114 microg/g, versus < 0.05 microg/g. A history of lung disease (bronchitis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or fibrosis) was positively associated with lung cancer (OR = 2.86; 95% CI, 1.39-5.91). We also observed an elevated risk of lung cancer among participants with a history of lung disease and toenail arsenic > or = 0.05 microg/g (OR = 4.78; 95% CI, 1.87-12.2) than among individuals with low toenail arsenic and no history of lung disease.
Although this study supports the possibility of an increased risk of specific lung cancer histologic types at lower levels of arsenic exposure, we recommend large-scale population-based studies.
Previous studies have shown that heptachlor, a chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticide, is a liver tumor promoter in rats and mice and induces tumor promoting-like alterations in human myeloblastic leukemia cells. The nature of tumor promotion is multifaceted and has recently been shown to include suppression of programmed cell death (apoptosis) as a mechanism by which a tumor promoter can prolong cell viability. The ability of tumor promoters to suppress apoptosis prompted us to address the question of whether heptachlor is capable of effecting the expression of genes involved in lymphocyte apoptosis, in particular, the p53 tumor suppressor gene. Experiments with a CEM x 174 cell line, a hybrid of human T and B cells, revealed that heptachlor downregulated p53 gene expression at the post-transcriptional level without changing levels of mRNA in the cells. The heptachlor-induced reduction in the basal levels of expression of this gene was both in a concentration and time-dependent manner.
