To study the anti-angiogenesis effect and toxicity of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) plus cinobufacin on transplanted human hepatocarcinoma in nude mice, and the acting mechanism of the treatment was explored as well.
Human hepatocarcinoma was transplanted in nude mouse, and the modeled mice were divided at random into 4 groups, 8 in each group. They were treated respectively with normal saline (GA), 2.5 mg/kg As2O3 (GB), 5 mL/kg cinobufacin (GC) and 2.5 mg/kg As2O3 + 5 mL/kg cinobufacin (GD), by intraperitoneal injection for 21 days. The anti-tumor effects was evaluated by estimating general condition of nude mice, tumor size, microvessel density(MVD) level. Expressions of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in tumor, in tumor tissue of mice as well as pathology of tumor were detected by immunohistochemistry assay, optical microscope, transmission electron microscope (TEM), respectively. Moreover, blood routine and pathological examinations of liver and kidney were performed.
The tumor weight and volume were 0.65 +/- 0.25 g and 0.44 +/- 0.14 cm3 in GB, 0.70 +/- 0.27 g and 0.46 +/- 0.19 cm3 in GC, 0.42 +/- 0.16 g and 0.26 +/- 0.11 cm3 in GD, all significantly lower than those in GA (1.06 +/- 0.25 g and 0.67 +/- 0.17 cm3, P < 0.05). The coefficient of drug interaction (CDI) on tumor weight was 0.97 and that on tumor size was 0.86, all less than 1, showing the synergistic action between the two drugs. Expressions of VEGF and EGFR in tumor as well as the MVD were decreased in GB and GC, and the decreasing of these indices were even more significant in GD. Pathologic examination showed the growth of tumor in GB, GC and GD were all inhibited significantly. No obvious toxicity of the treatments to the hepatic, renal and hematopoietic systems in the nude mice was observed.
As2O3 and cinobufacini showed synergistic action in inhibiting human hepatocarcinoma in nude mice and the angiogenesis in tumor. Combined use of the two had no obvious toxicity to the hepatic, renal and hematopoietic systems.
Fluoxetine is a commonly prescribed antidepressant compound. Its action is primarily attributed to selective inhibition of the reuptake of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) in the central nervous system. Although this group of antidepressant drugs is generally believed to cause fewer proarrhythmic side effects compared with tricyclic antidepressants, serious concerns have been raised by case reports of tachycardia and syncopes associated with fluoxetine treatment. To determine the electrophysiological basis for the arrhythmogenic potential of fluoxetine, we investigated the effects of this drug on cloned human ether-a-go-go-related gene (HERG) potassium channels heterologously expressed in Xenopus oocytes using the two-microelectrode voltage-clamp technique. We found that fluoxetine blocked HERG channels with an IC(50) value of 3.1 microM. Inhibition occurred fast to open channels with very slow unbinding kinetics. Analysis of the voltage dependence of block revealed loss of inhibition at membrane potentials greater than 40 mV, indicating that channel inactivation prevented block by fluoxetine. No pronounced changes in electrophysiological parameters such as voltage dependence of activation or inactivation, or inactivation time constant could be observed, and block was not frequency-dependent. This is the first study demonstrating that HERG potassium channels are blocked by the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine. We conclude that HERG current inhibition might be an explanation for the arrhythmogenic side effects of this drug.
1 Homozygous members of the Gunn strain of rat, mutant Wistars jaundiced from lack of the enzyme uridine diphosphate glucuronyl transferase, are highly susceptible to analgesic-induced renal papillary necrosis. 2 A single oral dose of aspirin, phenacetin or paracetamol will produce the lesion, a circumstance which does not occur in other strains. 3 The reasons for this susceptibility have not been determined, but the experimental model should prove useful in further studies of the nephrotoxicity of analgesic drugs.
Vinyl carbamate (VC) and ethyl carbamate (EC) induce the formation of lung tumors. The mechanism involves a two-step oxidation of EC to VC and VC to an epoxide, both of which are mediated mainly by CYP2E1. Interaction of the epoxide with DNA leads to the formation of DNA adducts, including 1,N(6)ethenodeoxyadenosine and 1,N(4)-ethenodeoxycytidine. The production of DNA adducts correlated with capacities for the bioactivation of VC, which are higher in the lungs of A/J than in C57BL/6 mice. Importantly, CYP2E1 is higher in the lungs of A/J than in C57BL/6 mice. Studies using F(1) (Big Blue x A/J) transgenic mice revealed the formation of mutations in the lambda cII gene after treatment with VC. Mutations induced by VC were mainly A:T-->G:C transitions and A:T-->T:A transversions, while mutations induced by EC were mainly G:C-->A:T transitions. An EC dose that was 17-fold higher than that for VC was required to produce a similar level of mutant frequency in the lung. Pretreatment of mice with the CYP2E1 inhibitor, diallyl sulfone, significantly inhibited the mutant frequencies induced by VC. Mutations in the endogeneous Kras2 gene were found in codon 61 of exon 2 and were identified as A:T transversions and A-->G transitions in the second base and A-->T transversions in the third base. These mutations were reduced by treatment of mice with diallyl sulfone before VC and coincided with a reduction in the number of lung tumors with Kras2 mutations. These findings affirmed that the metabolism of EC and VC is a prerequisite for, or at least substantially contributes to, initiation of the cascade of events leading to lung tumor formation.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is defined as excess of fat in the liver. We investigated the effects of black soybean on the cholesterol metabolism and insulin resistance of mice fed high cholesterol/fat diets. Mice were randomly allocated into four groups that were fed different diets: the normal cholesterol/fat diet; high cholesterol/fat diets (HCD); and HCD with 1%, and 4% black soybean powder (1B-HCD, and 4B-HCD). Liver total cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations were significantly lower in the black soybean-supplemented groups than that in the HCD group. PCR revealed significantly lower hepatic SREBP2 and HMG-CoA reductase mRNA levels of black soybean-supplemented mice. Real-time PCR revealed significantly higher hepatic ABCA1 mRNA level of black soybean-supplemented mice, which may increase cholesterol efflux. Liver bile acids concentration was significantly high in the 4B-HCD group. Black soybean stimulated secretion of adiponectin, activation of pAMPK, and eliminated free fatty acids in the liver. Black soybean supplementation decreased MDA and nitrate level. The activities of SOD, catalase, and GPx were restored by black soybean supplementation. Our data strongly indicate that black soybean influences the balance between oxidative and antioxidative stress. We suggest that black soybean improves cholesterol metabolism, insulin resistance, and alleviates oxidative damage in NAFLD.
Complement mediated injury of the neuromuscular junction is considered a primary disease mechanism in human myasthenia gravis and animal models of experimentally acquired myasthenia gravis (EAMG). We utilized active and passive models of EAMG to investigate the efficacy of a novel C5 complement inhibitor rEV576, recombinantly produced protein derived from tick saliva, in moderating disease severity.
Standardized disease severity assessment, serum complement hemolytic activity, serum cytotoxicity, acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody concentration, IgG subclassification, and C9 deposition at the neuromuscular junction were used to assess the effect of complement inhibition on EAMG induced by administration of AChR antibody or immunization with purified AChR.
Administration of rEV576 in passive transfer EAMG limited disease severity as evidenced by 100% survival rate and a low disease severity score. In active EAMG, rats with severe and mild EAMG were protected from worsening of disease and had limited weight loss. Serum complement activity (CH(50)) in severe and mild EAMG was reduced to undetectable levels during treatment, and C9 deposition at the neuromuscular junction was reduced. Treatment with rEV576 resulted in reduction of toxicity of serum from severe and mild EAMG rats. Levels of total AChR IgG, and IgG(2a) antibodies were similar, but unexpectedly, the concentration of complement fixing IgG(1) antibodies was lower in a group of rEV576-treated animals, suggesting an effect of rEV576 on cellular immunity.
Inhibition of complement significantly reduced weakness in two models of EAMG. C5 inhibition could prove to be of significant therapeutic value in human myasthenia gravis.
Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is known to produce hepatitis. We report a case involving the inadvertent rechallenge with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (Bactrim) in a patient with a previous episode of drug-induced hepatitis. A liver biopsy specimen showed both cholestatic and cytotoxic changes consistent with drug-induced damage. Comparison with existing cases is presented and an immunologic cause is considered.
The causes of spinal cord cell loss in motor neuron disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are currently unknown. A role can be postulated for the transcription factor p53, which can induce apoptosis via upregulation of proapoptotic genes (e.g., Bax) and inhibition of antiapoptotic genes (e.g., Bcl-2). A model of motor neuron loss is the wobbler mouse that exhibits rapid motor neuron cell death as well as motor deficit from 21 days after birth. Affymetrix microarray data from wobbler mice demonstrate a 2.2-fold increase in p53 signal compared with their normal littermates, whereas qRT-PCR of RNA from laser capture microdissected ventral horns of normal and wobbler mice reveals a larger 6.6-fold increase in gene expression and this was supported by western blotting. Human ventral horns obtained from ALS and age-matched normal spinal cords also demonstrated an increase (2.7-fold) in p53 expression as determined by qRT-PCR. Evidence of a causative role for p53 in spinal cord cell death was provided by use of a p53 inhibitor, pifithrin-alpha, in organotypic slice cultures of mouse spinal cord. A 24-h pretreatment with pifithrin-alpha (and continuing in the presence of insult), significantly reduced the toxicity of a 48-h treatment with FeSO(4), tested with the MTT viability assay. These results indicate that p53 plays a functional role in oxidative stress-induced cell death and supports the possibility that elevated p53 could be involved in motor neuron death in ALS and the wobbler mouse.
Homeostasis of blood glucose by insulin involves stimulation of glucose uptake by translocation of glucose transporter Glut-4 from intracellular pool to the caveolar membrane system. In this study we examined resveratrol (RSV)-mediated Glut-4 translocation in the streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic myocardium. The rats were randomized into three groups: Control (Con), Diabetes Mellitus (DM) (STZ 65 mg/kg b.w., i.p.) & DM+RSV (2.5 mg/kg b.wt. for 2 weeks orally) (RSV). Isolated rat hearts were used as per the experimental model. RSV induced glucose uptake was observed in vitro with H9c2 cardiac myoblast cells. Decreased blood glucose level was observed after 30 days (375 mg/dl) in RSV-treated rats when compared to DM (587 mg/dl). Treatment with RSV demonstrated increased Adenosine Mono Phosphate Kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation compared to DM. Lipid raft fractions demonstrated decreased expression of Glut-4, Cav-3 (0.4, 0.6-fold) in DM which was increased to 0.75- and 1.1-fold on RSV treatment as compared to control. Increased Cav-1 expression (1.4-fold) in DM was reduced to 0.7-fold on RSV treatment. Increased phosphorylation of endothelial Nitric Oxide Synthase (eNOS) & Akt was also observed in RSV compared to DM (P<0.05). Confocal microscopy and coimmunoprecipitation studies demonstrated decreased association of Glut-4/Cav-3 and increased association of Cav-1/eNOS in DM as compared to control and converse results were obtained on RSV treatment. Our results suggests that the effect of RSV is non-insulin dependent and triggers some of the similar intracellular insulin signalling components in myocardium such as eNOS, Akt through AMPK pathway and also by regulating the caveolin-1 and caveolin-3 status that might play an essential role in Glut-4 translocation and glucose uptake in STZ- induced type-1 diabetic myocardium.
G(z) is a member of the G(i) G protein family associated with dopamine D2-like receptors; however, its functions remain relatively unknown. The aim of the present study was to investigate prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle, locomotor hyperactivity and dopamine D2 receptor binding in mice deficient in the alpha subunit of G(z).
We used automated startle boxes to assess startle and PPI after treatment with saline, amphetamine, apomorphine or MK-801. We used photocell cages to quantitate locomotor activity after amphetamine treatment. Dopamine D2 receptor density was determined by autoradiography.
Startle responses and baseline PPI were not different between the Galpha(z) knockout mice and wild-type controls (average PPI 46+/-4 vs 49+/-3%, respectively). Amphetamine treatment caused a marked disruption of PPI in Galpha(z) knockouts (average PPI 22+/-2%), but less so in controls (average PPI 42+/-3%). Similar genotype-dependent responses were seen after apomorphine treatment (average PPI 23+/-3% vs 40+/-3%), but not after MK-801 treatment (average PPI 29+/-5 vs 33+/-2%). Amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity was greater in Galpha(z) knockouts than in controls. There was no difference in the density of dopamine D2 receptors in nucleus accumbens.
Mice deficient in the alpha subunit of G(z) show enhanced sensitivity to the disruption of PPI and locomotor hyperactivity caused by dopaminergic stimulation. These results suggest a possible role for G(z) in neuropsychiatric illnesses with presumed dopaminergic hyperactivity, such as schizophrenia.
Analysis of 24 cases of enflurane anesthesia-associated hepatic injury shows that the clinical, biochemical, and histologic features are similar to those seen with halothane- and methoxyflurane-related hepatitis. Postoperative fever was the presenting symptom in 19 patients. Jaundice occurred in 19 patients after a mean latent period of 8 days. Sixteen patients had been previously exposed to enflurane or halothane, and the latent period from exposure to the onset of symptoms or jaundice was shortened in these patients. There were five fatalities among the entire group. Liver biopsy most characteristically showed centrilobular necrosis, occasionally with ballooning degeneration and fatty change. The presumed mechanism of injury is metabolic idiosyncracy, and prior exposure to a haloalkane anesthetic may increase the risk of hepatic injury after enflurane administration.
Acetate is a principal short chain fatty acid produced by bacterial fermentation in the colon and a major end product of alcohol metabolism. In the present study, we assessed the effects of acetate on T cell activation and found that acetate inhibited NFAT activation but not NF-kappaB activation. Moreover, acetate impaired the nuclear translocation of NFAT but not that of NF-kappaB. Unlike cyclosporin A (CsA), acetate did not affect the dephosphorylation of NFAT and calcineurin activity. Acetate impaired the binding of NFAT to importin beta1, which is involved in NFAT nuclear translocation. NFAT is a critical transcription factor in cytokine and early response gene expression in activated T cells. Agents targeting NFAT such as CsA are used to suppress harmful immune responses in inflammatory diseases. Therefore, we also evaluated the efficacy of acetate in murine models of inflammatory diseases, and found that acetate administration (as well as administration of dexamethasone) attenuated trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid-induced colitis and dinitrofluorobenzene-induced dermatitis. These findings indicate for the first time that acetate inhibits NFAT activation by interfering with the interaction between NFAT and importin beta1 in T cells and that acetate can potentially act as an anti-inflammatory agent.
After 180 min of temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats, the affect of phenylephrine-induced hypertension on blood-brain barrier permeability was assessed. One of the following blood-pressure regimens was maintained during either a 30- or 120-min period of reperfusion: (a) 30/Norm, 30 min of normotensive reperfusion was allowed; (b) 30/HTN, mean arterial blood pressure was increased by 35 mm Hg during 30 min of reperfusion; (c) 120/Norm, 120 min of normotensive reperfusion was allowed; or (d) 120/HTN, mean arterial blood pressure was increased by 35 mm Hg during 120 min of reperfusion. Evans blue (30 mg/kg) was given, and brains were analyzed for Evans blue by spectrophotometry. Evans blue (microgram/g brain tissue, mean +/- SD) was greater (P less than 0.05) in both hypertensive groups versus their time matched normotensive groups (30/HTN: 80 +/- 16 versus 18 +/- 6 in the 30/Norm group; 120/HTN: 17 +/- 6 versus 8 +/- 3 in the 120/Norm group). In addition, Evans blue was greater (P less than 0.05) in both 30-min groups versus their pressure matched 120-min groups (30/Norm: 18 +/- 6 versus 8 +/- 3 in the 120/Norm group; 30/HTN: 80 +/- 16 versus 17 +/- 6 in the 120/HTN group). The data are consistent with previous studies which have demonstrated an opening of the blood-brain barrier at the onset of reperfusion. In addition, the data support a hypothesis that changes in blood-brain barrier permeability are more sensitive to hypertension in the early period of reperfusion.
To measure the prevalence of noisy behavior as a nursing problem, a survey of head nurses was done in a chronic care hospital to identify patients whose vocalizing was frequently disturbing to other patients, staff, or visitors. We found 17 patients among the total of 154. Subsequently, the medical records of 13 surviving subjects were reviewed more exhaustively, and 11 were described as disruptive, usually when they were left alone. Of these "lonely" patients, eight had a previously documented diagnosis of depression. All were demented. Antipsychotic medication had previously been given to all 11 "lonely" patients, but had failed to control their disruptive behavior. Empirically, six patients were treated with doxepin, and in five, all with a history of previous depression, agitation and noisiness diminished. These observations suggest that the prevalence rate of disturbingly noisy behavior among long-term institutionalized elderly patients is about 11% and that the disturbingly noisy patient is often demonstrating depression in conjunction with dementia.
Recent literary case reports indicate that bromocriptine mesylate, when used for the suppression of lactation in the puerperium, can cause serious and even lethal side effects. The untoward sequelae are attributed to generalized or focal vasospasm affecting the cardiac and/or cerebral bold vessels. Apart from pre-existing hypertension and use in association with other ergot derivatives, the factors predisposing to such complications have not been elucidated, The authors present three atypical bromocriptine related postpartum accidents which may expand the understanding both of the predisposing factors and the potential consequences of bromocriptine related severe side effects. One of the cases raises the suspicion that the manifestations of hyperthyroidism may be aggravated by this method of pharmacologic ablactation. Another observation appears to imply that the drug may trigger the onset of chronic hypertension in women so predisposed. The development of cerebral infarcts, identified by MRI, in a clinically asymptomatic woman, exemplifies the threat of recurrent seizure activity in cases of bromocriptine related stroke.
A 14-year-old female patient with metastatic carcinoid developed streptozocin-induced glomerular, proximal, and distal tubular dysfunction. The latter was in the form of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, with urine volumes in excess of 11 L/24 h. The prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor, indomethacin, rapidly corrected the polyuria both initially and on rechallenge, independent of change in glomerular filtration rate.
Little has been reported on the factors, genetic or other, that underlie the variability in individual response, particularly for autism. In this study we simultaneously explored the effects of multiple candidate genes on clinical improvement and occurrence of adverse drug reactions, in 45 autistic patients who received monotherapy with risperidone up to 1 year. Candidate genes involved in the pharmacokinetics (CYP2D6 and ABCB1) and pharmacodynamics (HTR2A, HTR2C, DRD2, DRD3, HTR6) of the drug, and the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene, were analysed. Using the generalized estimating equation method these genes were tested for association with drug efficacy, assessed with the Autism Treatment Evaluation Checklist, and with safety and tolerability measures, such as prolactin levels, body mass index (BMI), waist circumference and neurological adverse effects, including extrapyramidal movements. Our results confirm that risperidone therapy was very effective in reducing some autism symptoms and caused few serious adverse effects. After adjusting for confounding factors, the HTR2A c.-1438G>A, DRD3 Ser9Gly, HTR2C c.995G>A and ABCB1 1236C>T polymorphisms were predictors for clinical improvement with risperidone therapy. The HTR2A c.-1438G>A, HTR2C c.68G>C (p.C33S), HTR6 c.7154-2542C>T and BDNF c.196G>A (p.V66M) polymorphisms influenced prolactin elevation. HTR2C c.68G>C and CYP2D6 polymorphisms were associated with risperidone-induced increase in BMI or waist circumference. We thus identified for the first time several genes implicated in risperidone efficacy and safety in autism patients. Although association results require replication, given the small sample size, the study makes a preliminary contribution to the personalized therapy of risperidone in autism.
The authors report two cases of pseudotumor cerebri in patients taking lithium for treatment of bipolar disorder. Pseudotumor cerebri is a poorly understood syndrome characterized by chronic headaches, bilateral papilledema, and increased intracranial pressure without localized neurologic signs or symptoms, intracranial mass, or hydrocephalus. Ventriculography, computed tomography, and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging reveal normal or small ventricles. Multiple etiologies may include Vitamin A toxicity, obesity, head trauma, hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, prolonged steroid therapy or its withdrawal, Addison's disease, Cushing's disease, pituitary insufficiency, and lithium therapy. Patients treated with lithium whose antidiuretic hormone-cyclic adenosine monophosphate mechanism is disturbed are most likely to develop pseudotumor cerebri via disregulation of sodium balance, thyroid-stimulating hormone production, and glucose metabolism. The authors recommend careful medical monitoring to avoid iatrogenic effects of lithium, including pseudotumor cerebri.
The central nucleus of the amygdala plays a key role in mediating aversive responses to drug withdrawal, effects thought to contribute to continued drug use. In previous studies, we found that the immediate early gene Narp, which encodes a secreted protein that binds to AMPA receptors, is induced in this nucleus following opiate withdrawal. Furthermore, Narp deletion alters the acquisition and extinction of aversive conditioning induced by opiate withdrawal. We now report that Narp is also induced in the central nucleus following withdrawal from other drugs of abuse, nicotine and Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, indicating that Narp is a common component of the transcriptional response triggered by drug withdrawal.
The purpose of this research was to study the effects of the radiocontrast medium (CM) Hypaque-76 (diatrizoate meglumine sodium), equiosmolar mannitol, and endothelin on blood pressure and renal damage in a aging male spontaneously hypertensive rat, a small animal model for CM-induced renal damage. The importance of the pressor effect and the high osmolality of CM in producing renal damage was investigated by first reducing the blood pressure with pentobarbital anesthesia, which suppresses sympathetic nervous system activity, then testing the effects of CM, saline, mannitol, and the potent vasoconstrictor endothelin alone and in combination with CM.
Systolic blood pressure was measured in 14-month-old male rats (1) when awake, (2) after pentobarbital anesthesia, (3) after the administration of saline, CM, mannitol, endothelin, or CM plus endothelin, (4) after awakening the same day, and (5) the following day while awake. Renal damage was quantified by evaluating histopathologically the left kidney removed the day after administration of test substances.
The pentobarbital-lowered blood pressure remained depressed after saline and mannitol but rose dramatically after CM, endothelin, and CM plus endothelin. Renal damage, compared with the saline controls, occurred with CM, mannitol, endothelin, and endothelin plus CM. The order of increasing severity was mannitol = CM < endothelin < endothelin plus CM.
The effect of CM on systolic blood pressure is not related to its osmolality. High osmolality, however, appears to be a factor in CM-induced renal damage. Ischemia and direct nephrotoxicity are factors contributing to the renal-damaging effects of CM, mannitol, and endothelin.
Iron catalysis is involved in oxygen-derived free radical generation and subsequent lipid peroxidation, which have been reported to occur during cardiopulmonary bypass in humans. We assessed the effects of the iron chelator deferoxamine on the susceptibility of circulating low density lipoproteins (LDLs) to induced peroxidation in 20 adult patients (10 controls and 10 treated) undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass for coronary or valve procedures. Deferoxamine was given both intravenously (30 mg/kg body wt, starting 30 minutes before bypass and extending for the next 4 hours) and as an additive to the cardioplegic solution (250 mg/l). Blood samples were taken from both atria before and immediately after the end of cardiopulmonary bypass. Plasma lipid peroxidation was assessed by measuring spectrophotometrically the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) content of selectively isolated LDLs after their exposure to a peroxidizing agent. Before cardiopulmonary bypass, the right and left atrial blood values of LDL-TBARS were not significantly different between the two groups. Cardiopulmonary bypass resulted in a lipid peroxidation of significantly greater magnitude in control than in treated patients. Postbypass right atrial values for LDL-TBARS (expressed in mumol/mmol LDL-phospholipids) were 45.7 +/- 17.2 (mean +/- SEM) in control patients and 6.9 +/- 2.9 in treated patients (p less than 0.02), whereas in the left atrial blood, LDL-TBARS yielded values of 62.7 +/- 20.5 and 10.3 +/- 3.9, respectively (p less than 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
After massive alcohol intake, a patient under disulfiram therapy developed a severe cardiovascular collapse unresponsive to dopamine but successfully reversed with norepinephrine. Resistance to dopamine could be related to norepinephrine depletion caused by disulfiram. Norepinephrine could, therefore, represent the treatment of choice of these life-threatening conditions.
We report the case of a patient who developed myoclonus and hyperalgesia following administration of high-dose subarachnoid morphine. This complication occurred with 40-80 mg/day continuous infusion. The pathophysiology of these side effects is discussed.
Decreased dopamine transporters (DAT) in the basal ganglia were shown in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) associated dementia. Therefore, we assessed the relationship between striatal DAT and dopamine D2 receptors (D2R) availability and cognitive performance, and whether cocaine abuse, a common co-morbid condition in HIV patients, would be associated with further decreases in DAT and D2 receptors.
35 HIV-positive subjects [24 without (HIV) and 11 with a history of cocaine-dependence (HIV+Coc)] and 14 seronegative controls (SN) were evaluated with PET to measure DAT using [C-11]cocaine and D2R using [C-11]raclopride (availability of DAT or D2R estimated with Bmax/Kd), and a battery of neuropsychological tests.
Compared to SN controls, both HIV subject groups had lower DAT in putamen (HIV+Coc: -16.7%, p = 0.003; HIV: -12.2%, p = 0.02) and only HIV+Coc showed lower DAT in caudate (-12.2%, p = 0.04). Lower D2R in both regions of both HIV groups were accounted by the greater nicotine use. Lower DAT, but not D2R, in putamen and caudate were associated with poorer performance on multiple neuropsychological tests, corrected for the effects of age, education, intelligence, mood, and nicotine use. Furthermore, a structural equation model (SEM) indicated that lower average dopamine function (both DAT and D2R) were related to poorer overall function on neuropsychological tests (p = 0.05).
Reduced dopaminergic function may contribute to cognitive dysfunction in HIV patients with or without additional cocaine abuse. These findings suggest that these HIV patients may benefit from treatments that enhance dopamine function or protection from dopamine cell injury.
Exposing animal models of mental illness to addictive drugs provides an approach to understanding the neural etiology of dual diagnosis disorders. Previous studies have shown that neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions (NVHL) in rats produce features of both schizophrenia and addiction vulnerability.
This study investigated ventral and dorsal striatal dopamine (DA) efflux in NVHL rats combined with behavioral sensitization to cocaine.
Adult NVHL vs. SHAM-operated rats underwent a 5-day injection series of cocaine (15 mg/kg/day) vs. saline. One week later, rats were cannulated in nucleus accumbens SHELL, CORE, or caudate-putamen. Another week later, in vivo microdialysis sampled DA during locomotor testing in which a single cocaine injection (15 mg/kg) was delivered.
NVHLs and cocaine history significantly increased behavioral activation approximately 2-fold over SHAM-saline history rats. DA efflux curves corresponded time dependently with the cocaine injection and locomotor curves and varied significantly by striatal region: Baseline DA levels increased 5-fold while cocaine-stimulated DA efflux decreased by half across a ventral to dorsal striatal gradient. However, NVHLs, prior cocaine history, and individual differences in behavior were not underpinned by differential DA efflux overall or within any striatal region.
Differences in ventral/dorsal striatal DA efflux are not present in and are not required for producing differential levels of acute cocaine-induced behavioral activation in NVHLs with and without a behaviorally sensitizing cocaine history. These findings suggest other neurotransmitter systems, and alterations in striatal network function post-synaptic to DA transmission are more important to understanding the interactive effects of addictive drugs and mental illness.
Stomach ulceration is a major side effect of most chemopreventive drugs. We have established that although resveratrol is a promising chemopreventive compound, it delays the ulcer healing process. However, its analog hydroxystilbene-1 (HST-1) was devoid of such an ulcerogenic side effect. Consequently, here we tried to explore the chemopreventive efficacy of HST-1 compared with resveratrol in different cancer cell lines and identified the probable signaling pathways responsible for cell death. Our cell viability study established that HST-1, compared with resveratrol, showed better chemopreventive potential in all of the cell lines tested, with U937 and MCF-7 being the cells most affected. Furthermore, in U937 and MCF-7 cell lines, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling assay, cell cycle analysis, and nuclear fragmentation by confocal microscopy established that both HST-1 and resveratrol switched on the apoptotic death cascade to execute cell death. The initiator signal was Fas-independent but synchronized in terms of cytosolic Ca(2+) influx, dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential, and oxidative burst. It is noteworthy that the executioner signal was cell-specific as in U937 cells; HST-1 and resveratrol treatment induced mitochondrial permealization followed by cardiolipin depletion and cytochrome c release, which eventually activated downstream caspases 9 and 3 to execute the death process. In contrast, in MCF-7 cells the death process was executed in a caspase-independent but calpain-dependent manner as calpain activation induced cleavage of cytosolic alpha-fodrin, stimulated mitochondrial release of apoptotic inducing factor and endonuclease G, and thus harmonized cytosolic and mitochondrial death signals to accomplish apoptosis.
This multicentre, randomised, double-blind study compared oral zolmitriptan 2.5 mg with a combination of oral acetylsalicylic acid 900 mg and metoclopramide 10 mg as acute anti-migraine therapy for 3 migraine attacks. In total, 666 patients took at least one dose of study medication (326 took zolmitriptan and 340 took acetylsalicylic acid plus metoclopramide). The percentage of patients with a 2-hour headache response after the first dose for all 3 attacks (the primary end point) was 33.4% with zolmitriptan and 32.9% with acetylsalicylic acid plus metoclopramide [odds ratio 1.06, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.77-1.47; p = 0.7228]. For the majority of secondary end points, the two treatments demonstrated comparable efficacy. However, post hoc analysis showed that significantly more patients receiving zolmitriptan were free of pain 2 h after the first dose in all 3 attacks compared with patients receiving acetylsalicylic acid plus metoclopramide (10.7 vs. 5.3%; odds ratio 2.19, 95% CI 1.23-4.03; p = 0.0095). In addition, post hoc analysis showed that the overall 2-hour pain-free response rate was consistently higher with zolmitriptan (34.6%) than with acetylsalicylic acid plus metoclopramide (27.9%) (odds ratio 1.40, 95% CI 1.09-1.78; p = 0.007). Both treatments reduced migraine-associated nausea, vomiting, phonophobia and photophobia. There were no important inter-group differences with respect to the onset of meaningful migraine relief, the frequency of headache recurrence, the usage or efficacy of a second dose of medication or the use of escape medication. However, at the last attack, the proportion of patients who expressed overall satisfaction with the treatment was significantly higher in the zolmitriptan group, i.e. 83.7%, versus 75.0% with acetylsalicylic acid plus metoclopramide (p = 0.0346). Both agents were well tolerated. Adverse events were reported by 40.8% (133/326) of zolmitriptan-treated patients and 29.1% (99/340) of those treated with acetylsalicylic acid plus metoclopramide. The incidence of withdrawals due to adverse events was very low with both zolmitriptan (0.9%) and the combination regimen (1.5%); the latter percentage included 1 patient who withdrew from the study due to phlebitis, which was classified as a serious adverse event. This study showed that zolmitriptan is effective and well tolerated for the acute treatment of moderate to severe migraine. Zolmitriptan was at least as effective as acetylsalicylic acid plus metoclopramide in achieving a 2-hour headache response, but significantly more effective than the combination therapy for other end points, including the 2-hour pain-free response.
Aluminum (Al) overload in dialysis patients and experimental animals is associated with the development of anemia. However, the precise mechanisms of erythrocyte Al uptake and toxicity are poorly understood. Al accumulation, hemoglobin (Hb) synthesis and cell growth were evaluated in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO)-induced Friend erythroleukemia cells (FEC), a model system for erythroid differentiation. FEC were grown in media containing either Al citrate, transferrin-aluminum (Tf-Al), Tf or no additions. Al accumulation occurring only in cells grown in Tf-Al containing media was detected at 24 hours and increased linearly up to 96 hours after induction. By 96 hours, 200 +/- 36 micrograms Al/liter lysed cells were detected in Tf-Al grown cells versus 5 +/- 1 micrograms Al/liter lysed cells in cells grown in Al citrate (P less than 0.001). Tf-Al inhibited Hb synthesis at 72 hours after induction. At 96 hours 50 +/- 15% cells were benzidine positive when grown in Tf-Al compared to 76 +/- 15% in Al citrate (P less than 0.001). FEC grown in increasing concentrations of Tf-Al (100 to 500 micrograms/ml) showed inhibition of Hb synthesis at lower concentrations of Tf-Al at 100 micrograms/ml than for cell growth at 300 micrograms/ml. Higher concentrations of Tf-Al (greater than 300 micrograms/ml) did not further inhibit Hb synthesis or cell growth. Iron (Fe) and Tf uptake were increased in Al loaded FEC compared to control cells. The increased Tf uptake was probably the result of increased Tf receptor expression on FES since Tf cell cycling time was unchanged. These data indicate that Al utilizes the Tf uptake pathway for entry into erythrocyte precursors. Al is toxic at sites distal to Fe uptake, possibly at the heme and/or globin synthetic pathways, resulting in decreased Hb synthesis and cell growth.
Four patients, all possessing an atypical form of plasma cholinesterase, developed prolonged paralysis following succinylcholine administration. The clinical management of all four cases was facilitated by monitoring the train-of-four stimulus. All patients showed marked "fade" of the train-of-four ratio, the initial ratios of the fourth to the first twitches being 50 per cent or less, indicating variable degrees of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockade. Reversal of paralysis with anticholinesterase agents was completely successful in three cases, but only partially effective in the fourth because of the probable presence of a mixture of both depolarizing block and nondepolarizing block. In such a situation, caution in the interpretation of the train-of-four ratio is necessary, since this test measures only the nondepolarizing component of the block. Whether or not reversal with anticholinesterase drugs is attempted, clinical estimates of neuromuscular function, such as head lift, vital capacity, and inspiratory force, must be carefully correlated with train-of-four values. If reversal is attempted, the brief action of edrophonium provides a useful clinical trial.
