The adenylyl cyclase (AC)-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling pathway is involved in a number of important physiological functions in both the peripheral and central nervous systems. A report now indicates that genetic disruption of AC5 increases mouse life span and confers resistance to aging-related conditions, including bone loss and cardiomyopathies. It is proposed that these beneficial effects may be the result of the increased activity of second messenger signaling proteins such as mitogen-activated or extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase kinase (MAPKK, also known as MEK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), or of enzymes such as manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) that promote cell survival through protection against oxidative stress and apoptosis. These intriguing findings should stimulate additional research aimed at dissecting the complex cellular mechanisms regulated by AC isoforms and may lead to novel genetic and pharmacological approaches to delay aging-related conditions and to extend life span.
Vitamin E-bonded hemodialyzer is known to improve oxidative stress in patients with hemodialysis. However, there is little information available as to whether or not this membrane clinically improves atherosclerosis. Furthermore, it remains unknown whether there is any effect of the membrane on rheology of circulating red blood cells.
We conducted a randomized, open-labeled, prospective control study (N = 34) for 1 year to investigate the effect of vitamin E-bonded cellulose membrane dialyzer (EE) (N = 17) on carotid atherosclerotic changes [intima-media thickness (IMT) of carotid arteries] and the viscosity, percentage of dysmorphism (%DMR) of red blood cells (RBCs) and their distribution width-standard deviation (RDW-SD), in comparison with cellulose membrane (SU) (N = 17) identical to EE without vitamin E-bonded membrane. Erythropoietin (EPO) dose used for the treatment of uremic anemia was also calculated.
The IMT significantly decreased in the EE group, while in the SU group the IMT significantly increased. The viscosity of RBCs in hemodialysis patients (4.70 +/- 0.45 cP) was greater than that in healthy individuals (3.73 +/- 0.15 cP). EE significantly improved the viscosity (from 4.84 +/- 0.41 cP to 4.51 +/- 0.54 cP, P < 0.01), %DMR (from 2.29 +/- 2.17% to 1.90 +/- 1.49%, P < 0.01), and RDW-SD (from 54.4 +/- 7.6 fL to 49.3 +/- 5.9 fL, P < 0.01). On the contrary, these parameters all worsened in the SU group. EPO dose needed for the treatment of anemia was significantly (P < 0.05) reduced from 5383 +/- 2655 U/week to 4235 +/- 3103 U/week in the EE group. During these period, mean blood pressure, Kt/V urea, and serum beta2-microglobulin were not changed between the two groups.
These findings suggest that vitamin E-bonded hemodialyzer is very useful for improving atherosclerosis from a clinical point of view. As one of the underlying mechanisms, as well as antioxidant effects, we want to address an important role of the improvement of rheology of circulating RBCs, which may also help to reduce the requirement of EPO dose in the treatment of anemia of ESRD patients.
The mouse is considered to be insensitive and the hen sensitive to clinical expression of organophosphorus-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN) which is associated with inhibition of neuropathy target esterase (NTE). This species difference is reevaluated with two optimized inhibitors of hen brain NTE by examining them for potential neurotoxic effects in mice. 2-Octyl-4H-1,3,2-benzodioxaphosphorin 2-oxide (OBDPO) and ethyl octylphosphonofluoridate (EOPF) inhibit mouse brain NTE in vitro by 50% at 0.12 and 0.02 nM and induce neurotoxic signs in mice at 10 and 5 mg/kg, respectively. The action of these compounds in both l- and 6-month-old mice, sometimes after early transient cholinergic signs, involves ataxia, paralysis, and death in 1 to 3 days and is accordingly referred to as subacute neurotoxicity. The neurotoxic signs are associated with brain edema and severe vacuolation in the grey matter of the brain and spinal cord, particularly the neuropile. Subacute neurotoxic signs are always associated with at least 80% inhibition of brain NTE activity 16-24 hr after treatment. Acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase are much less sensitive than NTE to inhibition by OBDPO and EOPF both in vitro and in vivo. Selected carbamates, thiocarbamates, phosphinates, and sulfanyl fluorides are prophylactic agents and dipentyl 2,2-dichlorovinyl phosphate is a promoter for OBDPO-induced subacute neurotoxicity. Although this type of neurotoxicity in mice is similar to OPIDN in the correlation with NTE inhibition and the prophylactic action of reversible NTE inhibitors, it differs from OPIDN in the delay time prior to onset, the sensitivity of both young and old animals, and the high incidence of fatality. A full neuropathological study is desirable to further characterize this subacute neurotoxicity.
In patients with chronic hepatitis B, long-term use of lamivudine is limited by resistance mutations. Adefovir dipivoxil has a very low rate of resistance, but there have been recent reports describing resistance mutations. Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine show potent activity against wild-type and lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus.
We describe a series of seven HIV-seronegative patients who failed to achieve undetectable hepatitis B viral DNA on adefovir. No lamivudine resistance testing was performed. The antiviral regimen was changed to tenofovir (300 mg daily) and emtricitabine (200 mg daily). Variables collected included levels of hepatitis B viral DNA by polymerase chain reaction, alanine and aspartate aminotransferase, hepatitis B e antigen and hepatitis B e antibody.
The median hepatitis B viral DNA level while on adefovir was 430,000 copies/ml with a median fall in hepatitis B viral DNA levels of 2.0 log10 copies/ml. Patients were on adefovir for a median period of 10 months before a change in regimen to tenofovir and emtricitabine. This regimen change resulted in a median fall in hepatitis B viral DNA levels of 3.0 log10 copies/ml (range, 2-4) after a median treatment duration of 23 months (range, 14-28). All patients (100%) had achieved undetectable hepatitis B viral DNA levels following combination therapy. Anti-hepatitis B e seroconversion occurred in one patient. No change in serum creatinine was observed during therapy, and no significant adverse events were reported.
In patients failing to respond to adefovir monotherapy or an adefovir-containing regimen for chronic hepatitis B virus, a combination of tenofovir and emtricitabine resulted in undetectable hepatitis B viral DNA levels without any renal toxicity. Tenofovir, in combination with emtricitabine, may be an alternative treatment for those with detectable hepatitis B viral DNA on adefovir.
The aim of this study was to assess the effect of rocuronium pretreatment at 3 and 1.5 min before succinylcholine administration on fasciculations, neuromuscular blockade and intubating conditions.
Sixty ASA I or II adults scheduled for elective surgery were anaesthetised with midazolam, fentanyl, propofol, N2O and isoflurane. They were randomised in a double blind manner into three groups: group ROC-3 min (n = 22) received 0.05 mg.kg-1 rocuronium, 3 min before 2 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine; group ROC-1.5 min (n = 20) received 0.05 mg.kg-1 rocuronium 1.5 min before 2 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine; and group NO ROC (n = 18) had no rocuronium before injection of 2 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine. Fasciculations and intubating conditions were evaluated by the same physician who was unaware of the randomisation. Neuromuscular block was measured at the adductor pollicis with an accelerometer.
The incidence of fasciculations was lower in the ROC-3 min (9%) and ROC-1.5 min (30%) groups than in the NO ROC group (83%; P < 0.001). The intensity of fasciculations was also less in both pretreatment groups. No statistical difference was noted between pretreatment at 3 and 1.5 min. Intubating conditions, onset time and duration of succinylcholine blockade were comparable in all three groups.
The incidence and severity of succinylcholine fasciculations can be reduced by giving 0.05 mg.kg-1 rocuronium either 1.5 min or 3 min before succinylcholine. The effects of 2 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine with rocuronium pretreatment, and 1 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine, without pretreatment, are similar with respect to intubating conditions, onset of paralysis and duration of blockade.
The relationship between vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and the phosphorylated critical podocyte slit diaphragm molecule nephrin is not fully clarified. This study investigated the dynamic changes in VEGF expression and nephrin phosphorylation, and the effects of the antiproteinuric drugs prednisone and lisinopril on them in Adriamycin nephropathy rats.
Renal tissues from Adriamycin rats were collected at days 3, 7, 14, and 28. Distribution and expression of VEGF was revealed by immunohistochemistry, real-time PCR and Western blot. Phosphorylated nephrin was evaluated by immunoprecipitation.
A discontinuous redistribution of VEGF was displayed at day 3, followed by significant protein reduction at day 7 with persistent downregulation to day 28. Phosphorylated nephrin decreased evidently at day 14 and persisted to day 28. The reduction in VEGF and phosphorylated nephrin was not a result of podocyte loss. The intervention of prednisone and lisinopril evidently reduced proteinuria, effectively attenuated the severe lesions of podocyte foot processes, and restored the reduction in VEGF and nephrin phosphorylation. At day 28, the reduction in VEGF and phosphorylated nephrin was negatively correlated with proteinuria, whereas the phosphorylated nephrin was positively correlated with VEGF protein from day 7 to day 28.
The reduction in VEGF protein and nephrin phosphorylation was possibly involved in the proteinuria in Adriamycin rats, and there might be some relationship between VEGF and nephrin phosphorylation. The antiproteinuric effects of lisinopril and prednisone were achieved at least partially by restoring VEGF protein and nephrin phosphorylation.
Liver cirrhosis is a chronic disease with high mortality rate and need for effective pharmacological intervention. The fibrotic remodelling of liver tissue is crucially dependent on hepatic stellate cell activation. Activation of hepatic stellate cells is reduced by an increase in cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Stable cGMP analogues also reduce the contractile response of hepatic stellate cells. However, cGMP production is downregulated in the cirrhotic liver due to the reduced activity of the endothelial nitric oxide synthase.
Here we report that the novel activator of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC), BAY 60-2770 (4-({(4-carboxybutyl) [2- (5-fluoro-2-{[4'-(trifluoromethyl) biphenyl-4-yl]methoxy}phenyl)ethyl] amino}methyl)benzoic acid), which increases the activity of sGC in a nitric oxide-independent manner, attenuates liver fibrosis in two rat models.
The compound was studied in the pig serum model and the carbon tetrachloride model. Fibrosis was assessed by estimating the increase in fibrous collagen by micromorphometry of histological sections stained with Sirius Red/Fast Green and by measuring total hepatic collagen.
BAY 60-2770, on a recombinant sGC reporter cell line, stimulated the luminescence signals with an EC50 value of 5.4 +/- 1.2 nmol/L. In the presence of [1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ; 10 pmol/L) the EC50 was shifted to 0.39 +/- 0.11 nmol/L. In both fibrosis models, once daily oral administration of BAY 60-2770 concomittantly with the fibrotic stimulus prevented 60-75% of fibrosis, the lowest effective dose being 0.1 mg/kg in the pig serum model and 0.3 mg/kg in the carbon tetrachloride model. The treatment was well tolerated by all animals. The doses used were devoid of any significant influence on systemic blood pressure.
Nitric oxide-independent activation of sGC might be an innovative therapeutic approach for the treatment of liver fibrosis of necro-inflammatory and immunological origin.
This study aims to assess type of melanin as a risk indicator for skin tumors, in a sample of melanoma cases and controls within a larger multicenter study (Helios 2), held in Europe and South America in 2001-2002. In each case and control, the melanin content in hair was assessed by three methods: 1) the amount of 2,3,5-pyrroletricarboxylic acid (PTCA); 2) the absorbance ratio with ultraviolet spectroscopy; and 3) the spectra of near-infrared spectroscopy. Statistical analysis was performed in a Bayesian setting, defining priors for confounders and effect modifiers from the larger study data set. Subjects with values of PTCA of less than 85 ng/mg carried an increased risk (26 vs. seven discordant pairs: odds ratio = 4.4, 95% confidence interval: 1.52, 14.54), adjusted by hair color, eye color, and number of nevi (n = > or =40). The absorbance ratio showed a weaker and nonsignificant odds ratio of 1.5. After correction by misclassification, near-infrared spectroscopy was associated with an odds ratio of 2.3 (95% confidence interval: 1.36, 4.22). The amount of PTCA is thus a strong and independent risk indicator for melanoma. Incorporating PTCA determination into epidemiologic studies is therefore recommended.
A case of a 38-year-old male with supraventricular paroxysmal tachycardia existing for more than a decade is reported. He has received amiodarone in a daily dose of 800 mg for three years and the tachycardia returned in 1992. New antiarrhythmic drugs were added but no beneficial effect has been achieved and moreover, a case of ventricular fibrillation occurred. The 12-lead ECG performed during tachycardia and the electrophysiological study showed orthodromic AV reentry tachycardia. Laboratory tests performed proved hyperthyreotic state. Attacks of paroxysmal tachycardia were returned and aggravated by the hyperthyreosis induced by amiodarone. Finally, antiarrhythmic drugs were discontinued and methimazol was introduced. Gradually, the patient become asymptomatic within two months. The most important conclusion of the case reported, that the amiodarone induced hyperthyreosis can be subclinical or obscure. Consequently, a regular control of serum thyreoid hormone levels at least twice a year on patients with long term amiodarone administration should be advised.
We investigated the effects of paracetamol on cell cycle and cell death in cultured HL-60 cells. Paracetamol (0.1-3.0 mM) caused a dose-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation. Inhibition of DNA synthesis was observed at as low concentrations as 0.03 mM. When HL-60 cells were exposed to paracetamol (0.1-1.0 mM), flow cytometric analysis showed that cells accumulated in the G1/S phase, and then slowly proceeded through the S-phase. Exposure to 2.0-3.0 mM paracetamol, on the other hand, resulted in a reduction of the number of cells in S-phase and G2/M phase, and a concurrent increase in cells/bodies with a lower DNA content than that of the G1 cells. Microscopic studies revealed increased numbers of cells with nuclear condensation and fragmentation, indicating that apoptosis was the dominating mode of death in this cell line after exposure to paracetamol. However, when DNA from paracetamol-treated cells were electrophoresed in agarose, no clear ladder pattern characteristic for apoptotic cells was observed. This was most likely a result of secondary necrosis which followed incomplete apoptosis. Within 5-10 hr after start of paracetamol exposure, a marked downregulation of both c-myc and bcl-2 mRNA was observed. In conclusion, the present results show that exposure to high non-therapeutic concentrations of paracetamol cause cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in HL-60 cells in S-phase.
To our knowledge, this is the first report of the histopathology of the vestibular end organs following intratympanic gentamicin for intractable Meniere's disease. There was relative sparing of the utricular macula, compared with the cristae ampullares. However, the utricular macula exhibited severe hair cell loss. Clinically, the patient has been free from vertigo spells for 3 years following labyrinthectomy.
To describe the histopathology and morphometry of the vestibular end organs from a 59-year-old Meniere's patient who underwent transmastoid labyrinthectomy for recurrent vertigo after failed intratympanic gentamicin.
Light and transmission electron microscopy were utilized; with unbiased stereology-physical fractionator for type I, type II hair cell, and supporting cell counts. Comparison with end organ histopathology in a 56-year-old with Meniere's disease without gentamicin treatment was carried out.
Histopathological analysis of the semicircular canal cristae ampullares showed severe atrophy of the neuroepithelium with undifferentiated cells, and fibrosis and edema of the stroma. The utricular macula had some remaining type I and type II vestibular hair cells, and nerve fibers and terminals within the underlying stroma. Morphometric measures were obtained from the utricular macula: 2000 type I and 500 type II hair cells, representing 7.3% of type I hair cells and 4.9% of type II hair cells compared with normative controls, and 24 000 supporting cells were obtained.
The synthesis and structure-activity relationship studies on 5-trifluoromethylpyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidin-4(3H)-ones as antagonists of the human calcium receptor (CaSR) have been recently disclosed [ Didiuk et al. ( 2009 ) Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 19 , 4555 - 4559 ). On the basis of its pharmacology and disposition attributes, (R)-2-(2-hydroxyphenyl)-3-(1-phenylpropan-2-yl)-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidin-4(3H)-one (1) was considered for rapid advancement to first-in-human (FIH) trials to mitigate uncertainty surrounding the pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) predictions for a short-acting bone anabolic agent. During the course of metabolic profiling, however, glutathione (GSH) conjugates of 1 were detected in human liver microsomes in an NADPH-dependent fashion. Characterization of the GSH conjugate structures allowed insight(s) into the bioactivation pathway, which involved CYP3A4-mediated phenol ring oxidation to the catechol, followed by further oxidation to the electrophilic ortho-quinone species. While the reactive metabolite (RM) liability raised concerns around the likelihood of a potential toxicological outcome, a more immediate program goal was establishing confidence in human PK predictions in the FIH study. Furthermore, the availability of a clinical biomarker (serum parathyroid hormone) meant that PD could be assessed side by side with PK, an ideal scenario for a relatively unprecedented pharmacologic target. Consequently, progressing 1 into the clinic was given a high priority, provided the compound demonstrated an adequate safety profile to support FIH studies. Despite forming identical RMs in rat liver microsomes, no clinical or histopathological signs prototypical of target organ toxicity were observed with 1 in in vivo safety assessments in rats. Compound 1 was also devoid of metabolism-based mutagenicity in in vitro (e.g., Salmonella Ames) and in vivo assessments (micronuclei induction in bone marrow) in rats. Likewise, metabolism-based studies (e.g., evaluation of detoxicating routes of clearance and exhaustive PK/PD studies in animals to prospectively predict the likelihood of a low human efficacious dose) were also conducted, which mitigated the risks of idiosyncratic toxicity to a large degree. In parallel, medicinal chemistry efforts were initiated to identify additional compounds with a complementary range of human PK predictions, which would maximize the likelihood of achieving the desired PD effect in the clinic. The back-up strategy also incorporated an overarching goal of reducing/eliminating reactive metabolite formation observed with 1. Herein, the collective findings from our discovery efforts in the CaSR program, which include the incorporation of appropriate derisking steps when dealing with RM issues are summarized.
Effect of diphenhydramine was investigated on withdrawal signs in lorazepam dependent rats. Physical dependence was produced by giving lorazepam admixed with the food in the following dose schedule: 10 x 4, 20 x 4, 40 x 4, 80 x 4 and 120 x 7 (mg/kg, daily x days). The parameters observed during the periods of administration of lorazepam and after its withdrawal were spontaneous locomotor activity (SLA), body temperature, reaction time to pain, foot shock aggression (FSA) and audiogenic seizures. Diphenhydramine was administered orally in the dose schedules of once daily (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg) and twice daily (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg) in separate groups during the withdrawal period. The withdrawal signs observed in control group (without diphenhydramine) were hyperkinesia, hyperthermia, hyperaggression and audiogenic seizures. Hyperkinesia and hyperthermia were blocked in all the groups of diphenhydramine-treated rats. FSA was inhibited only by diphenhydramine (10 and 20 mg/kg) given twice daily. Audiogenic seizures were completely blocked by once daily (20 and 40 mg/kg) as well as twice daily (20 mg/kg) doses of diphenhydramine. It may be concluded that diphenhydramine exerts a protective effects on benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome.
To explore the mechanism underlying severe hypomagnesaemia in long-term users of proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs).
Two cases of severe hypomagnesaemia in adult long-term users of the PPI omeprazole, presenting with hypocalcaemic seizures.
We studied renal magnesium handling during an incremental intravenous magnesium infusion, and assessed total body magnesium status by the 24-h retention of the parenteral load. We also observed the effects of oral magnesium supplements whilst continuing the PPI, and the effect of withdrawal of the PPI.
Both patients were severely magnesium-depleted and had avid renal magnesium retention, implicating a failure of intestinal magnesium absorption. There was no evidence of generalized malabsorption. The hypomagnesaemia could be partially corrected by high dose oral magnesium supplementation, and resolved on withdrawal of PPIs.
PPI use can inhibit active magnesium transport in the intestine, though it is not clear if this is an idiosyncratic effect. Long-term PPI users who are highly adherent to treatment can eventually deplete total body magnesium stores and present with severe complications of hypomagnesaemia.
Administration of anethol dithiolthione (ADT) to rodents can afford protection against some chemically induced toxicities. The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of ADT on hexachloro-1,3-butadiene (HCBD)-induced nephrotoxicity in the rat and to determine the mechanism of its action. Renal integrity was evaluated by measuring urinary excretion of glucose, protein, and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and by histological evaluation. A 3-day pretreatment with ADT (300 mg/kg/day) protected against the toxicity of various doses of HCBD (ranging from 15.6 to 62.5 mg/kg). The pretreatment increased (1.4-fold) the nonprotein sulfhydryl content (NPSH) of the liver. However, it did not modify the biliary excretion of radiolabeled materials in [14C]HCBD- treated (20 mg/kg) rats, nor that of the bioactivated HCBD metabolite, S-(1,2,3,4,4-pentachloro-1,3-butadienyl)-glutathione (PCBG). Moreover, ADT pretreatment protected rats against the nephrotoxicity induced by PCBG (20 mg/kg) itself. The extent of covalent binding to kidney proteins of [14C]HCBD-derived metabolites was not modified by pretreatment with ADT. Incubation of rat kidney cortical slices in a medium containing 0.1 mM of the nephrotoxic glutathione (PCBG) or cysteine (PCBC, S-(1,2,3,4,4-pentachloro-1,3-butadienyl)-L-cysteine) conjugates of HCBD for 30 min resulted in a 75% reduction in the slice/medium ratio of p-aminohipurate (PAH) compared to that seen in controls. When the cortical slices were incubated with ADT (30 min, 0.2 mM) prior to incubation with the nephrotoxic conjugates, the reduction was only 33%. Neither the in vitro nor the in vivo treatments did modify the activity of renal cytosolic beta-lyase; however, the latter treatment caused an increase in NPSH content. A 15-min incubation of kidney cortical slices with glutathione (10 mM) resulted in a 5-fold increase of NPSH, but failed to prevent the reduction in PAH uptake caused by PCBG and PCBC. Altogether, the in vivo and renal slice data suggest that ADT protects rats against HCBD-induced nephrotoxicity by a mechanism that does not involve the modulation of HCBD conjugation with liver GSH, nor the modulation of the kidney NPSH level and beta-lyase activity. The mechanism of protection conferred to rats by an ADT pretreatment against HCBD-induced nephrotoxicity appears to take place in the kidney at a step beyond the generation of ultimate toxic metabolites derived from PCBC.
Therapy for venous thromboembolism (VTE) currently involves a minimum of 3 months of anticoagulation. After cessation of therapy, however, recurrent venous thrombosis occurs at rates of 6 to 9% per year. Clinical trials have demonstrated the benefits of extending anticoagulation beyond 3 months for the prevention of recurrent VTE events. Despite this, many eligible patients do not receive the required thromboprophylaxis and the incidence of recurrent VTE remains too high for a preventable condition. A reason for failure to use prophylaxis is the fear of bleeding complications with current oral anticoagulants such as warfarin. Warfarin has an unpredictable pharmacokinetic profile and a variable dose-response relationship that requires frequent coagulation monitoring and dose adjustments to maintain a target intensity that is both safe and effective. Alternative strategies for long-term prophylaxis, which may potentially provide more consistent anticoagulant responses and reduce coagulation monitoring requirements, include the use of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH), treatment with warfarin at a lower intensity, and the introduction of novel anticoagulants. The long-term use of LMWH has been found to be a particularly favorable treatment option for cancer patients in whom it is difficult to control the intensity of anticoagulation. In clinical trials, LMWH significantly reduced the risk of recurrent VTE without increasing bleeding risk. The parenteral administration of the LMWHs, however, is a drawback for long-term use in the outpatient setting. A clinical trial assessing the efficacy and safety of long-term low-intensity warfarin treatment found this therapy to be better than placebo, but another study showed that conventional intensity warfarin was significantly more efficacious than low-intensity warfarin. New therapies in development that may offer improved safety-efficacy profiles are the synthetic pentasaccharides fondaparinux and idraparinux and the oral direct thrombin inhibitor ximelagatran. Parenterally administered fondaparinux has been shown to be as effective as LMWH for the acute treatment (5 to 7 days) of symptomatic deep vein thrombosis. Idraparinux, with once-weekly parenteral dosing, is currently being assessed in phase III clinical trials for the long-term secondary prevention of VTE. Ximelagatran is the first oral agent in the new class direct thrombin inhibitors. With a fast onset of action and oral administration, ximelagatran is a candidate for both acute and chronic therapy. The Thrombin Inhibitor in Venous Thromboembolism (THRIVE) clinical trial program has demonstrated that this agent has a favorable benefit-risk profile compared with standard therapy for the initial treatment (6 months) and secondary prevention (up to 18 months) of VTE. However, in a substantial proportion (6 to 13%) of patients given extended ximelagatran therapy, elevated serum transaminase enzymes developed, typically in the first 2 to 4 months of treatment. Even though these elevations usually abated without clinical sequelae whether or not treatment was continued, their clinical relevance remains unclear. In addition, locally reported coronary events occurred more frequently in ximelagatran-treated patients during the initial 6 months of treatment, the reason for which is yet unclear. The consistent anticoagulant response and fixed oral dosing without coagulation monitoring allows ximelagatran to overcome many of the limitations inherent to current treatment options for VTE treatment and secondary prevention, provided the problem of liver enzyme elevation and coronary events is resolved.
Vinyl chloride (VC) is a known animal and human carcinogen that is associated with liver angiosarcoma and most likely also with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in humans.
The authors examined the presence of p53 gene mutations in 18 HCC specimens from patients with known exposure to VC (median, 8883 parts per million-years; median duration, 245 months). In all cases, other risk factors for the development of HCC (hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus infections, alcohol consumption, and metabolic or autoimmune disorders) were excluded. Three patients had concomitant cirrhosis. The p53 gene was examined by direct sequencing of exons 5-9.
Mutations of the p53 gene were found in 11 of 18 HCCs examined. The point mutations detected were comprised of five transversions and five transitions. Five of 11 mutations (codons 175, 245, 248, 273, and 282) occurred at CpG sites. Histopathologic liver alterations (mild sinusoidal dilatation, [portal] fibrosis, and centrilobular siderosis) in tumor surrounding nonneoplastic liver confirmed exposure to VC.
The results of the current study indicated a relation between VC exposure and the development of HCC. The mutation pattern of p53 with a nearly equal rate of incidence of transitions and transversions and a high rate of incidence of mutations at CpG sites may reflect endogenous mechanisms (e.g., deamination of 5-methylcytosine) rather than exogenous carcinogens.
Over the decades, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and opioids are the most commonly used analgesics in the management of acute and chronic pain. In order to assess a possible antinociceptive interactions, the antinociceptive effects of rofecoxib p.o., a preferential inhibitor of cyclooxygenase-2, and tramadol-hydrochloride p.o., an atypical opioid analgesic, administered either separately or in combination, were determined using a rat model of arthritic pain. The data were interpreted using the surface of synergistic interaction (SSI) analysis and an isobolographic analysis to establish the nature of the interaction. The SSI was calculated from the total antinociceptive effect produced by the combination after subtraction of the antinociceptive effect produced by each individual drug. Female rats received orally rofecoxib alone (1.0, 1.8, 3.2, 5.6, 10.0, 17.8, 31.6 and 56.2 mg/kg), tramadol alone (1.8, 3.2, 5.6, 10.0, 17.8, 31.6 and 56.2 mg/kg) or 12 different combinations of rofecoxib plus tramadol. Five combinations exhibited various degrees of sub-additive (i.e. less than the sum of the effects produced by the each drug alone) antinociceptive effects (3.2 mg/kg tramadol with 7.8 mg/kg rofecoxib; 5.6 mg/kg tramadol with either 10.0 or 17.8 mg/kg rofecoxib; 10.0 mg/kg tramadol with either 10.0 or 17.8 mg/kg rofecoxib), whereas the other 7 combinations showed additive antinociceptive effects (i.e. the sum of the effects produced by each agent alone). Three combination of rofecoxib+tramadol (10.0+5.6, 10.0+10.0, and 17.8+5.6 mg/kg respectively) presented high sub-additive interactions (P<0.002: Q=9.5). The combination rofecoxib (17.8 mg/kg)+tramadol (10.0 mg/kg) caused gastric injuries less severe than those observed with indomethacin, but more severe than those obtained with rofecoxib or tramadol in single administration. The antinociceptive interaction of rofecoxib and tramadol suggests that combinations with these drugs may have no clinical utility in pain therapy.
A case of malignant phaeochromocytoma is reported. Computerized tomography and scintigraphy using metaiodobenzylguanidine localized the tumour and metastases. The anesthetic management included invasive monitoring of pulmonary pressures with a Swan-Ganz catheter and arterial pressure with a radial arterial cannula. Plasma catecholamine concentrations were measured before and during adrenalectomy and resection of a metastatic lesion on the fourth right rib. Induction of anaesthesia was carried out with droperidol, phenoperidine, thiopentone and pancuronium. After intravenous administration of droperidol, blood pressure increased together with the heart rate, vascular resistances and pulmonary pressure, whilst cardiac output decreased. Plasma noradrenaline levels were also greatly increased at the same time. The mechanism of this paradoxic pressor effect of droperidol is discussed.
Although there are alternative methods and drugs for preventing venous thromboembolism (VTE), it is not clear which modality is most suitable and efficacious for patients with severe (stable or unstable) head/spinal injures. The aim of this study was to compare intermittent pneumatic compression devices (IPC) with low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) for preventing VTE. We prospectively randomized 120 head/spinal traumatized patients for comparison of IPC with LMWH as a prophylaxis modality against VTE. Venous duplex color-flow Doppler sonography of the lower extremities was performed each week of hospitalization and 1 week after discharge. When there was a suspicion of pulmonary embolism (PE), patients were evaluated with spiral computed tomography. Patients were analyzed for demographic features, injury severity scores, associated injuries, type of head/spinal trauma, complications, transfusion, and incidence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and PE. Two patients (3.33%) from the IPC group and 4 patients (6.66%) from the LMWH group died, with their deaths due to PE. Nine other patients also succumbed, unrelated to PE. DVT developed in 4 patients (6.66%) in the IPC group and in 3 patients (5%) in the LMWH group. There was no statistically significant difference regarding a reduction in DVT, PE, or mortality between groups ( p = 0.04, p > 0.05, p > 0.05, respectively). IPC can be used safely for prophylaxis of VTE in head/spinal trauma patients.
A-Kinase Anchoring Proteins (AKAPs) ensure the fidelity of second messenger signaling events by directing protein kinases and phosphatases toward their preferred substrates. AKAP150 brings protein kinase A (PKA), the calcium/calmodulin dependent phosphatase PP2B and protein kinase C (PKC) to postsynaptic membranes where they facilitate the phosphorylation dependent modulation of certain ion channels. Immunofluorescence and electrophysiological recordings were combined with behavioral analyses to assess whether removal of AKAP150 by gene targeting in mice changes the signaling environment to affect excitatory and inhibitory neuronal processes. Mislocalization of PKA in AKAP150 null hippocampal neurons alters the bidirectional modulation of postsynaptic AMPA receptors with concomitant changes in synaptic transmission and memory retention. AKAP150 null mice also exhibit deficits in motor coordination and strength that are consistent with a role for the anchoring protein in the cerebellum. Loss of AKAP150 in sympathetic cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons reduces muscarinic suppression of inhibitory M currents and provides these animals with a measure of resistance to seizures induced by the non-selective muscarinic agonist pilocarpine. These studies argue that distinct AKAP150-enzyme complexes regulate context-dependent neuronal signaling events in vivo.
The present study was designed to examine the effect of sumatriptan on regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) during migraine headache. Nine cases were examined by 99mTc-ECD background subtraction method for the absolute value measurement of regional CBF before and after sumatriptan injection. rCBF except for occipital and perioccipital lobes, were increased 10-20% during migraine headache and significant decreases were observed by sumatriptan injection. Two cases of nine had transiently increased systemic blood pressure and cardiac pulse rate, however, all cases improved migraine headache after injection of sumatriptan.
