Fetal vascular accidents have been suggested as one cause for jejunal atresia due to in utero interruption of the superior mesenteric arterial supply to the intestines. Experimental studies support this hypothesis, and ergotamine has been shown to be a teratogen in experimental animals as a consequence of its vasoconstrictive action. We report the occurrence of intrauterine growth retardation and jejunal atresia in an offspring of a woman who also experienced four spontaneous abortions. During each of six pregnancies, the mother had taken as many as eight Cafergot tablets daily. We raise the hypothesis that Cafergot (1 mg ergotamine tartrate and 100 mg caffeine) might represent a vascular disruptive teratogenic agent during pregnancy. This hypothesis is supported by the clinical association of nonduodenal intestinal atresia with other defects that have a disruptive vascular etiology.
In the present study, the protective effect of fish oil treatment on the fatty acid composition in isoproterenol (IPH)-induced myocardial infarction was studied in male albino Wistar rats.
Rats were injected for 2 consecutive days with IPH (60 mg/kg body weight) at 24-h intervals to induce myocardial infarction. Fish oil was administered orally at a dose of 0.05 mL/d for 45 d, after which serum and heart tissue were assayed for lipid profile, lipoprotein changes, and myocardial membrane phospholipid fatty acid composition.
Biochemical assessment of myocardial infarction was done by measuring the activities of creatinine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase, which were significantly elevated in the rats administered with IPH. Further, the administration of IPH modified the fatty acid composition and analysis of fatty acids showed there was an increase in the omega-3/omega-6 ratio in phospholipid pool. In addition, increased levels of total cholesterol, free cholesterol, ester cholesterol, phospholipids, triacylglycerols and free fatty acid was observed in serum and heart tissue of IPH-induced rats. The fish oil treatment for a period of 45 d decreased the levels of cardiac markers (creatinine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase) and reversed the biochemical lesions induced by IPH.
Our study suggests that fish oil treatment has a hypolipidemic effect and has potential use in the treatment of myocardial infarction.
A case is reported of an infant who experienced seizures while being treated with a topical lidocaine 2% solution (Xylocaine 2% Viscous) for teething. The pharmacology of lidocaine is reviewed to alert physicians to the potential dangers of topical mucosal application of these preparations.
This study was aimed at assessing the incidence and mechanisms of myocardial ischemia early after coronary artery bypass grafting and the effects of treatment with nitroglycerine. The electrocardiogram of 35 patients (29 males and 6 females, mean age 61 +/- 8 years) with stable angina and multivessel coronary disease, was monitored continuously for 24 hours after uncomplicated coronary artery bypass grafting. Patients were randomized to receive nitroglycerin infusion or placebo. Fourteen of the 35 patients (40%) had 24 transient ischemic episodes (mean duration 11.8 +/- 3.5 min; range 6-20 min with ST segment elevation in 6, ST segment depression in 7 and both ST segment elevation and depression in 1. Seventy-five per cent of the ischemic episodes occurred within the first 6 postoperative hours. The mean ejection fraction prior to surgery and the mean number of stenosed vessels and of the implanted grafts were similar in patients with and without postoperative ischemia (57 +/- 5 vs 57 +/- 6%, p = 0.86; 2.7 +/- 0.5 vs 2.8 +/- 0.4, p = 0.52 and 3.0 +/- 0.9 vs 3.2 +/- 0.7, p = 0.51, respectively) as well as total bypass time and cross-clamp time (123 +/- 38 vs 124 +/- 18 min, p = 0.89 and 67 +/- 20 vs 70 +/- 14 min, p = 0.68, respectively). The values of heart rate and systolic blood pressure at the onset of the ischemic episodes were similar to those recorded 15 min before (103 +/- 16 vs 106 +/- 18 b/min, p = 0.36 and 119 +/- 12 vs 121 +/- 14 mmHg, p = 0.48). Ischemic episodes were recorded in 9 of the 16 patients (56%) randomized to receive nitroglycerine and in 5 only of the 19 patients (26%) randomized to receive placebo (p = 0.05). Thus, transient ischemic episodes occurring early after coronary artery bypass grafting are not preceded by an increase in myocardial oxygen consumption; they appear to be due, therefore, to a primary reduction in coronary blood flow. Treatment with nitroglycerine is associated with a higher prevalence of ischemic episodes, thus suggesting that myocardial ischemia is unlikely to be caused by spasm of large epicardial vessels or grafts. Myocardial ischemia may be caused, instead, by extracorporeal circulation-induced alterations enhanced by the hypotensive effects of nitroglycerine.
This phase II trial studied the efficacy and toxicity of docetaxel-epirubicin, supported by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, as first-line chemotherapy in metastatic breast cancer. Patients received epirubicin (60 mg/m2) followed 1 hour later by docetaxel (80 mg/m2) every 3 weeks for a maximum of 8 cycles or until disease progression. Prophylactic granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (5 micrograms/kg) was administered daily for 5 days. Sixty-nine patients were evaluable for efficacy and toxicity. Objective responses occurred in 45 patients (65%; 95% confidence interval: 53-76%), with 11 (16%) complete responses and 34 (49%) partial responses. Responses were observed at all metastatic sites. The median response duration was 8 months (range 4-68), median time to progression was 10 months (range 4-68) and median overall survival was 24 months (range 7-68): neutropenia was dose limiting (46% grade 3-4 toxicity). The left ventricular ejection, fraction measured in 50 patients, fell below normal in 14 patients (28%), 8 patients had grade 1 and 6 grade 2 cardiotoxicity, but none developed congestive cardiac failure. The docetaxel-epirubicin regimen is extremely effective in poor prognosis breast cancer patients with visceral metastases, with significant overall and complete responses, followed by prolonged survival in responders. Although myelosuppression remains the major toxicity, prophylactic GCSF administration was associated with a small percentage of neutropenic fever.
Paclitaxel is a microtubule stabilizing drug that causes dividing cells to arrest and then undergo apoptosis. It also has antiangiogenic activity because it alters cytoskeletal structure, affecting migration and invasion. Paclitaxel is an effective treatment for AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). KS is a tumor in which there is marked proliferation of endothelial cells in addition to the tumor cells, which themselves share many markers with activated (proliferating) endothelial cells.We sought to determine the mechanism by which paclitaxel exerts its anti-KS tumor effects. In vitro, KS cells are very sensitive to paclitaxel, with half-maximal growth inhibition observed at 0.8 nM. Inhibition of migration of KS cells was also observed at nanomolar concentrations of the drug. Paclitaxel induced cell cycle arrest with an accumulation of cells in sub-G1.This was accompanied in vitro by various events typical of apoptosis: phosphorylation of two anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-(xL) , release of cytochrome c into the cytoplasm, cleavage and activation of caspase-3. In vitro results were borne out by studies of KS tumor xenografts in nude mice. Paclitaxel (10 mg/kg) inhibited tumor growth by 75% over 21 days. Histological examination of the tumors revealed a decrease in proliferative index, a decrease in the number of mitotic figures and an increase in apoptotic cells compared to tumors from untreated mice.
We reviewed the medical records of 110 consecutive patients at our institution who had acute leukemia and received high-dose cytarabine (Ara-C; HDAC) in order to analyze risk factors associated with HDAC neurotoxicity (NT). There were adequate records on 101 patients who received 147 courses of HDAC. Twenty-six treatment courses (18%) were complicated by NT. The median time of NT onset was 5 days (range, 1 to 10 days), and NT was reversible in 16 of 21 survivors (76%). Patients with severe NT (grades 3 to 4) were less likely to have complete reversal of their neurological deficit than those with mild NT (P less than .1). In our patients, there was no significant association between previously described risk factors (age over 49 years, male gender, CNS disorder, and cumulative HDAC dose greater than 48 g/m2) and incidence of NT. However, treatment courses involving HDAC given during renal insufficiency (serum creatinine greater than or equal to 1.5 mg/dL or an increase in serum creatinine greater than 0.5 mg/dL) were much more likely to be complicated by any degree of NT during administration of HDAC (62%) and severe NT (42%) than those given during normal renal function (8% and 3%, respectively; P less than .001). Of the treatment courses involving patients with estimated creatinine clearances less than 60 mL/min, 76% were complicated by NT compared with 8% of treatment courses involving patients with clearances greater than 60 mL/min (P less than .001). HDAC courses with neurotoxic patients had higher serum creatinines (2.1 +/- 1.4 v 1.1 +/- 0.6 mg/dL), greater increases in serum creatinine (+ 0.5 +/- 0.8 v + 0.07 +/- 0.3 mg/dL), and lower estimated creatinine clearances (61 +/- 35 v 91 +/- 29 mL/min) than those courses with nonneurotoxic patients (P less than .001, all parameters). Patients receiving HDAC during renal insufficiency are at high risk for developing NT. Dose reduction of HDAC should be considered for patients with renal insufficiency.
Heme oxygenase (HO)-1, the rate-limiting enzyme in heme catabolism, can be induced in response to various oxidative stimuli, and its induction is thought to be critical in the cellular defense against oxidative tissue injuries. Carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) treatment of rats causes lipid peroxidation of cell membranes and produces massive hepatic injury. We previously demonstrated that HO-1 induction following CCl(4) treatment is an essential part of the cellular defense against the CCl(4)-inducible toxic changes. As recombinant human interleukin-11 (rhIL-11) has been shown to induce HO-1 in cultured hepatoma cells, we examined the effect of rhIL-11 in vivo in rats on the CCl(4)-induced tissue injury. rhIL-11 treatment of animals by itself markedly induced HO-1 mRNA and its functional protein principally in the liver. rhIL-11 treatment (150 microg/kg) of the CCl(4)-administered (1 ml/kg) animals led to a further increase in HO-1 mRNA, while it markedly suppressed CCl(4)-induced serum alanine transaminase, hepatic malondialdehyde formation, tumor necrosis factor-alpha mRNA, nitric oxide synthase mRNA, nuclear factor-kappaB DNA-binding activity, as well as inflammatory changes of hepatocytes. In contrast, inhibition of HO activity by tin-mesoporphyrin, a competitive specific inhibitor of HO, entirely abolished the cytoprotective effect of rhIL-11. These findings thus demonstrate that rhIL-11 confers significant protection against CCl(4)-induced hepatic injury by virtue of its liver-specific HO-1 induction.
Clinically unsuspected pituitary adenomas are common among adults on autopsy and MRI survey. Acute pituitary hemorrhage is far more rare. We report a case of a 61-year-old male patient with locally advanced prostate cancer who presented with an acute picture of pituitary apoplexy after his first dose of leuprolide. He developed headache and neck pain within a few hours of treatment followed by nausea, vomiting, ptosis and diplopia. Pituitary apoplexy is a potentially life threatening medical emergency. Although the pathophysiology is poorly defined, various conditions and treatments have been reported to trigger apoplexy. Apoplexy has been reported in response to pituitary stimulation by GnRH or GnRH-agonists. Initial stimulatory effects of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) analogue may induce apoplexy in patients with asymptomatic gonadotroph adenomas.
The effects of acute antidepressant treatment were studied in the electric footshock and apomorphine-induced aggressiveness paradigms and found to be ineffective in both experimental models. In the apomorphine-induced aggressiveness test, 100 mg/kg L-tryptophan challenge manifested the antiaggressive effect of 10 mg/kg fluoxetine (a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) treatment. Thus, concomitant L-tryptophan plus fluoxetine treatment decreased the intensity of aggressive postures and increased the time of latency before first attack. In conclusion, our study demonstrates the involvement of the serotoninergic neurotransmission in the neurobiology of aggressive behavior, but after acute treatment in normal rats, the antidepressants do not elicit antiaggressive effects.
Intraoperative hypertensive episodes are a common problem in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. Twenty patients who developed acute hypertension (mean arterial pressure increase to 110 mmHg) were studied. Ten patients received nifedipine (about 3 micrograms kg-1 min-1) and ten patients nitroprusside (about 0.75 micrograms/kg-1 min-1) to return arterial blood pressure to control levels. All patients were anaesthetized with flunitrazepam, fentanyl, pancuronium and N2O/O2. The study compares the effects of nifedipine and nitroprusside on systemic and pulmonary haemodynamics. Both nifedipine and nitroprusside decreased arterial pressure to baseline values within about 3 min by reducing the elevated systemic vascular resistance. Cardiac filling pressures and pulmonary artery pressure decreased significantly only with nitroprusside. Following nitroprusside cardiac output remained unchanged whereas nifedipine increased cardiac output and stroke volume when blood pressure was lowered by a comparable degree. The data suggest that nifedipine primarily affects resistance vessels in the systemic circulation without significantly changing venous tone as opposed to the effect of nitroprusside. Thus, nifedipine appears to be an appropriate vasodilator for controlling arterial hypertensive episodes in patients with coronary artery disease and normal left ventricular function.
In 18 hypertensive patients receiving a constant (100 mEq/day) sodium diet, treatment with clonidine (0.3 mg/day for 5 days) decreased blood pressure in 11 patients with high and normal renin levels and 7 with low renin levels. The high and normal renin group had early and rapid reductions in blood pressure and plasma renin activity. In contrast, the low renin group had a more gradual hypotensive response and only a small absolute decrease in plasma renin. For all patients, pretreatment renin levels were related to the initial decrease in blood pressure but not to the reductions measured after 5 days. Thus, two mechanisms of action of clonidine are possible, one related to acute inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system in patients with high and normal renin levels and another that is independent of renin mechanisms and occurs in all hypertensive patients. In six additional patients with high renin levels induced by prior sodium depletion (10 mEq/day sodium diet), clonidine did not reduce blood pressure or renin, thus indicating that the suppressive action of this agent on renin pressor mechanisms occurs only in patients whose elevated renin levels are intrinsic to hypertension and unrelated to sodium depletion. Of the 18 patients receiving a normal sodium diet, 13 were classified as responding to treatment (decrease in both systolic and diastolic pressures of at least 10%). The five nonresponders had greater weight gain and higher values for aldosterone excretion. For all patients, there was a significant correlation between decrements in blood pressure and in aldosterone, suggesting that the countervailing effects of fluid accumulation on blood pressure in nonresponding patients resulted from a failure of aldosterone to be suppressed. Changes in aldosterone, in turn, correlated significantly with changes in renin. Thus, the antirenin effect of clonidine enhances its antihypertensive action not only by acutely ablating renin-angiotensin pressor mechanisms, but also by inhibiting aldosterone production and thereby minimizing longer-term reactive volume retention during treatment.
It has been demonstrated that lithium (Li) and valproate (VPT), first line mood stabilizers, increase BDNF content in rat hippocampus and frontal cortex, which suggests that the regulation of neurotrophic factors might be associated with their pharmacological effects. In sight of the scarcity of studies with other neurotrophins, and the possible relevance of multiple neurotrophic signaling systems in bipolar disorder we investigated the effects of Li and VPT on NT-3 levels in rat serum and hippocampus, using an animal model of mania induced by amphetamine (AMPH). In the reversal model, adult male Wistar rats received AMPH or saline for 14 days, and between the 8th and 14th days, animals were treated with Li, VPT or saline. In the prevention model, rats were pretreated with Li, VPT or saline, and between the 8th and 14th days, the animals received AMPH or saline. Li increased serum and hippocampal NT-3 levels in all conditions, whereas VPT increased hippocampal NT-3 in the prevention model only. Li reversed AMPH changes in NT-3 in the reversal model, and VPT prevented AMPH changes in NT-3 in the prevention model. These results suggest that both Li and VPT modulate serum and central (hippocampal) NT-3 levels, and further support that the regulation of neurotrophic signaling systems may be related to the mechanisms of action of mood stabilizers.
We previously demonstrated that the inhibition of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signalling affects the endocrine therapy responses of prostate cancer (PCa) cells and that bicalutamide (BCLT) is able to reinforce PI3K activity through mechanisms involving PTEN decrement and EGFR and Her2 activities. The aim of this study was to evaluate if the hormonal therapy with BCLT can affect the EGFR-targeted therapy using primary cultures obtained from 22 human PCa tissues harvested after radical prostatectomy (RP) in patients who received (n=10) BCLT and those that did not (n=12) as neoadjuvant hormone therapy (NHT). We demonstrated that cultures derived from PCa tissues harvested after NHT presented significantly higher EGFR and Her2 levels compared to cultures derived from control patients. However, cultures derived from patients with NHT were less sensitive to gefitinib when compared to cultures derived from control patients. Conversely, BCLT effectiveness did not seem to be different in the two groups and was partially additive with gefitinib in the NHT group and additive/synergistic in the control group. Cultures (8/22) were negative for the expression of the PTEN gene and we observed no differences in the two groups. Thus the different IC50 values observed for gefitinib and the partial additivity in the combination treatment with gefitinib and BCLT is influenced by EGFR/Her2 ratio because it was shown that EGFR inhibition was lower when Her2 is overexpressed. Taken together, our results indicate that anti-EGFR targeted therapies and a possible combination therapy involving gefitinib and BCLT should be performed early in naive patients when Her2 is not overexpressed and before the anti-androgenic hormone therapy induces such an undesirable effect.
A 42-year-old woman with pronounced skin laxity of her neck underwent a rhytidectomy and was found to have pseudoxanthoma elasticum-like changes of her skin. Her medical history was significant for Wilson's disease, requiring that she take penicillamine for 26 years. In patients on long-term penicillamine therapy, 20% to 33% will develop a dermatopathy. The drug has been used to alter scar formation in various surgical conditions. Penicillamine is known to alter cross-linking of elastin and collagen fibers. A review of the literature reveals other penicillamine-related dermatopathies that may present to the surgeon.
Carbamazepine (CBZ) is an effective anticonvulsant agent. Current literature reports describe several cases of seizure exacerbation and/or EEG worsening due to CBZ with a high prevalence in children and adolescents; we report 10 new cases. Nine patients had epilepsy; one showed delayed psychomotor development and frequent EEG paroxysmal abnormalities. Four patients were on monotherapy, six on polytherapy. All but one had therapeutic CBZ plasma concentrations. Seizures increased in frequency in nine, and in eight patients new seizure types appeared, mostly absences. Cognitive functions/behaviour worsened in eight; EEG recordings showed slowing background activity and increased paroxysmal abnormalities, in six cases diffuse/generalized spike waves were seen and in two continuous spike wave discharges. The mean time of clinical EEG worsening was 1-2 days after introduction of CBZ at therapeutic doses. After CBZ withdrawal clinical EEG improvement was evident in a few days. The underlying pathogenetic mechanism is not yet understood. However, the pathophysiology of seizure exacerbation might be related to the interaction between age-related alterations in the balance of excitation and inhibition in the developing thalamocortical circuitry and the essential activity of CBZ that tends to induce interictal discharges.
Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects are common with opioid medication, and constipation affects ∼40% of patients. Such symptoms considerably impair patients' quality of life. Alvimopan is an orally administered, systemically available, peripherally acting mu-opioid receptor (PAM-OR) antagonist approved in the US for short-term, in-hospital management of postoperative ileus in patients undergoing bowel resection. This double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted as part of a recently discontinued clinical program, in which alvimopan was being developed for opioid-induced constipation (OIC). Patients (N = 518) receiving opioids for non-cancer pain were randomized to receive alvimopan .5 mg once daily, alvimopan .5 mg twice daily, or placebo for 12 weeks. The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients experiencing ≥ 3 spontaneous bowel movements (SBMs; bowel movements with no laxative use in the previous 24 hours) per week over the treatment period and an average increase from baseline of ≥ 1 SBM per week. A significantly greater proportion of patients in the alvimopan .5 mg twice-daily group met the primary endpoint compared with placebo (72% versus 48%, P < .001). Treatment with alvimopan twice daily improved a number of other symptoms compared with placebo and reduced the requirement for rescue laxative use. The opioid-induced bowel dysfunction Symptoms Improvement Scale (SIS) responder rate was 40.4% in the alvimopan .5 mg twice daily group, versus 18.6% with placebo (P < .001). In general, alvimopan .5 mg once daily produced qualitatively similar but numerically smaller responses than twice-daily treatment. Active treatment did not increase the requirement for opioid medication or increase average pain intensity scores. Over the 12-week treatment period, alvimopan appeared to be well tolerated.
These results demonstrate the potential for a PAM-OR antagonist to improve the symptoms of OIC without antagonizing opioid analgesia.
To observe the effect of taurine on hepatic stellate cell's apoptosis induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) in rats and to study its protective mechanisms.
CCl4-induced rat hepatic fibrosis was treated by taurine. Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), plasma protein, hyaluronic acid (HA), procollagen III (PC III), hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme and anti-transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) were determined. In addition, hepatic stellate cell's apoptosis and the pathological changes of liver tissue were observed under light microscope.
The activity of serum ALT and the levels of serum HA, PC III were markedly reduced by taurine treatment. The hepatic cytochrome P450 (Cyt. P450) and cytochrome b5 (Cytb5) contents were increased by the same treatment. In addition, taurine could significantly inhibit the expression of TGF-beta1, promote the hepatic stellate cell's apoptosis, and relieve hepatic fibrosis.
Taurine fulfills a role in promoting hepatic stellate cell's apoptosis in the case of hepatic fibrosis, it mitigates the liver injury, decreases the expression of TGF-beta1, and relieves hepatic fibrosis.
The genetic and molecular mechanisms responsible for and associated specifically with the development and progression of malignant prostate cells are largely unidentified. In addition, despite its implication in virtually all malignant cells, the role of altered cellular metabolism as an essential factor in prostate malignancy has been largely ignored. Moreover, the intermediary metabolism of normal prostate as well as malignant prostate cells is among the least studied and most poorly understood of all mammalian cells. Some important factors, especially the role of zinc, have been identified and implicated in the development and progression of prostate malignancy. In this review, we provide a current and updated integrated assessment of the relationships of intermediary metabolism in normal prostate and in prostate cancer. The experimental and clinical evidence that leads to the formulation of concepts of normal and malignant prostate metabolism is presented. The evidence for a concept of zinc as a tumor suppressor agent and Zip1 zinc transporter as a tumor-suppressor gene is described.
The specialized function of the normal prostate glandular epithelium to produce and secrete enormously high levels of citrate involves and requires unique intermediary metabolism activities that are not generally associated with other normal mammalian cells. The accumulation of zinc by these cells is an essential factor in this unique metabolic relationship. In malignancy, the normal zinc-accumulating citrate-producing epithelial cells are metabolically transformed to citrate-oxidizing cells that lose the ability to accumulate zinc. A genetic alteration in the expression of ZIP1 zinc transporter is associated with this metabolic transformation. These genetic/metabolic relationships have important consequences on citrate-related metabolism, bioenergetics, cell proliferation and invasive capabilities of the malignant cells, which result in tumor-suppression characteristics.
The genetic/metabolic relationships in normal prostate glandular epithelium are driven by the unique function to accumulate and secrete citrate. The genetic/metabolic transformation of the prostate malignant cells is driven by the metabolic/bioenergetic, growth/proliferative, and invasive/migration requirements of the malignant process. Zinc is critical to these relationships. An understanding of these genetic/metabolic relationships provides new directions and opportunities for development of regimens for the prevention and treatment of prostate cancer. Important insight into the genetic/metabolic requirements of the prostate malignant process is now evolving. Most importantly at this time, an appreciation and recognition of the genetic/metabolic significance and implications in the development of prostate malignancy is imperative; and much needed research in this area is essential. Hopefully, this review will help to achieve these goals.
Nuclear inclusions formed by the aggregation of a polyalanine expansion mutant of the nuclear poly(A)-binding protein (PABPN1) is a hallmark of oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD). OPMD is a dominant autosomal disease in which patients exhibit progressive difficulty of swallowing and eyelid elevation, starting around the age of 50. At present, there is no specific treatment to reduce the aggregate burden in patients. However, in cell culture models of OPMD, reduction of protein aggregation can be achieved by ectopic expression of HSP70. As gene transfer may not be the most effective means to elevate HSP70 levels, we tested four pharmacological agents for their ability to induce HSP70, recruit both HSP70 and HSC70 into the cell nucleus and reduce mutant PABPN1 aggregation in a HeLa cell culture model. We show here that exposure to moderate levels of ZnSO4, 8-hydroxyquinoline, ibuprofen and indomethacin produced a robust stress response resulting in the induction of HSP70 in HeLa cells expressing the mutant PABPN1 as a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein. Both HSP70 and the constitutive chaperone HSC70 localized in the nucleus of cells treated with any one of the four agents. This stress response was similar to what was observed following hyperthermia. All four agents also caused a significant reduction in the cellular burden of protein aggregates, as was judged by confocal microscopy and solubility changes of the aggregates. A concomitant reduction of cell death in drug-treated mutant PABPN1 expressing cells was also observed.
Deficiency of the frataxin mRNA alters the transcriptome, triggering neuro- and cardiodegeneration in Friedreich's ataxia. We microarrayed murine frataxin-deficient heart tissue, liver tissue and cardiocytes and observed a transcript down-regulation to up-regulation ratio of nearly 2:1 with a mitochondrial localization of transcriptional changes. Combining all mouse and human microarray data for frataxin-deficient cells and tissues, the most consistently decreased transcripts were mitochondrial coproporphyrinogen oxidase (CPOX) of the heme pathway and mature T-cell proliferation 1, a homolog of yeast COX23, which is thought to function as a mitochondrial metallochaperone. Quantitative RT-PCR studies confirmed the significant down-regulation of Isu1, CPOX and ferrochelatase at 10 weeks in mouse hearts. We observed that mutant cells were resistant to aminolevulinate-dependent toxicity, as expected if the heme pathway was inhibited. Consistent with this, we observed increased cellular protoporphyrin IX levels, reduced mitochondrial heme a and heme c levels and reduced activity of cytochrome oxidase, suggesting a defect between protoporphyrin IX and heme a. Fe-chelatase activities were similar in mutants and controls, whereas Zn-chelatase activities were slightly elevated in mutants, supporting the idea of an altered metal-specificity of ferrochelatase. These results suggest that frataxin deficiency causes defects late in the heme pathway. As ataxic symptoms occur in other diseases of heme deficiency, the heme defect we observe in frataxin-deficient cells could be primary to the pathophysiological process.
It's clear that environmental factors play a role in the aetiology of orofacial clefting (OFC) and an important area of future research will be to unravel interactions that occur between candidate genes and environmental factors during early development of the embryo. Periconceptional folic acid supplementation may reduce the risk of OFC. Polymorphisms in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene reduce availability of 5-methylenetetrahydrofolate, the predominant circulating form of folic acid. To determine the effect of MTHFR gene mutation on murine embryonic palatal mesenchymal (MEPM) cells and the interaction with folic acid supplement, we used RNAi study in the primary cultures of MEPM cells. The cells of MTHFR gene silencing grew slower and the apoptosis cell number was more than the cells of control. Supplement with 20 microg/ml folic acid was the best to preventing teratogenic effect of MTHFR gene silencing. By flow cytometry analysis of cell cycle, results were shown that the MEPM cells were retarded in G(0)/G(1) after MTHFR gene silencing. While using 20 microg/ml folic acid supplements could make cell transit the G(1)/S restriction point and the cells growth was close to normal level.
The balance between the pain relief provided by opioid analgesics and the side effects caused by such agents is of particular significance to patients who take opioids for the long-term relief of non-cancer pain. The spectrum of signs and symptoms affecting the gastrointestinal (GI) tract associated with opioid use is known as opioid-induced bowel dysfunction. Alvimopan is an orally administered, systemically available, peripherally acting mu-opioid receptor (PAM-OR) antagonist, approved in the US for the management of postoperative ileus in patients undergoing bowel resection (short-term, in-hospital use only). Alvimopan was under clinical development for long-term treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC) but this program has been discontinued. This double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, part of the former OIC development program, enrolled patients (N = 485) receiving opioids for non-cancer pain. Patients were randomized to receive alvimopan .5 mg once daily, alvimopan .5 mg twice daily, or placebo, for 12 weeks. The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients who experienced ≥ 3 spontaneous bowel movements (SBMs; bowel movements with no laxative use in the previous 24 hours) per week over the treatment period, and an average increase from baseline of ≥ 1 SBM per week. There were greater proportions of SBM responders in both alvimopan treatment groups (63% in both groups) compared with placebo (56%), although these differences were not statistically significant. Secondary efficacy analyses indicated that alvimopan was numerically superior to placebo in improving opioid-induced bowel dysfunction symptoms and patients' global assessment of opioid-induced bowel dysfunction, and reduced the requirement for rescue laxatives. Active treatment was well tolerated and alvimopan did not antagonize opioid analgesia.
Although the primary endpoint was not met in this study, the magnitude of alvimopan-induced improvements versus baseline, together with previous study results, suggest that a PAM-OR antagonist has the potential to improve OIC.
This pilot clinical trial explored the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of regional hepatic therapy combined with systemic anticancer agents in patients with refractory solid tumors and extensive unresectable liver involvement, including those with compromised hepatic function.
Six patients with colorectal (N = 3), ovarian (N = 2), and hepatocellular carcinoma (N = 1) received intra-arterial hepatic oxaliplatin followed by intravenous 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, and bevacizumab every 2 weeks until disease progression. All had extensive liver metastases; four had elevated baseline serum total bilirubin. Median total bilirubin was 2.8 mg/dL (range, 0.2-5.2 mg/dL). Median Child-Pugh score was 7 (range, 5-10).
Thirty treatments were delivered (2-7 per patient). Median age of patients was 57 years (range, 25-69 years). Three patients (1 with colorectal, 1 with hepatocellular, and 1 with ovarian cancer) attained partial responses. Two had failed previous oxaliplatin and cisplatin treatment. Some with elevated bilirubin at baseline had a significant drop in bilirubin with treatment (bilirubin 5.2 → 1 mg/dL, 4.8 → 1.1 mg/dL, and 5.2 → 1.8 mg/dL). The regimen was generally well tolerated; the most common side effects were grade 1 fatigue, anorexia, and/or hypertension. One patient died of enzyme-linked, immunoassay-confirmed, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia during the sixth cycle of therapy.
At doses tested, this regimen was safe and demonstrated antitumor activity in patients with advanced refractory malignancies involving the liver, including those with hepatic insufficiency. Further study is warranted.
