Cardiotoxic side-effects represent a serious complication of anticancer therapy with anthracyclines, in particular with doxorubicin (DXR) being the leading drug of the group. Different hypotheses, accentuating various mechanisms and/or targets, have been proposed to explain DXR-induced cardiotoxicity. This review focuses on the myocardial energetic network as a target of DXR toxic action in heart and highlights the recent advances in understanding its role in development of the DXR related cardiac dysfunction. We present a survey of DXR-induced defects in different steps of cardiac energy metabolism, including reduction of oxidative capacity of mitochondria, changes in the profile of energy substrate utilization, disturbance of energy transfer between sites of energy production and consumption, as well as defects in energy signaling. Considering the wide spectrum and diversity of the changes reported, we attempt to integrate these facts into a common framework and to discuss important functional and temporal relationships between DXR-induced events and the possible underlying molecular mechanisms.
Protease-activated receptors (PARs) 1 and 2 are expressed in capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons, being anti- and pro-nociceptive, respectively. Given the possible cross talk between PAR-2 and capsaicin receptors, we investigated if PAR-2 activation could facilitate capsaicin-evoked visceral pain and referred hyperalgesia in the mouse and also examined the effect of PAR-1 activation in this model. Intracolonic (i.col.) administration of capsaicin triggered visceral pain-related nociceptive behavior, followed by referred hyperalgesia. The capsaicin-evoked visceral nociception was suppressed by intraperitoneal (i.p.) TFLLR-NH2, a PAR-1-activating peptide, but not FTLLR-NH2, a control peptide, and unaffected by i.col. TFLLR-NH2. SLIGRL-NH2, a PAR-2-activating peptide, but not LRGILS-NH2, a control peptide, administered i.col., facilitated the capsaicin-evoked visceral nociception 6-18 h after administration, while i.p. SLIGRL-NH2 had no effect. The capsaicin-evoked referred hyperalgesia was augmented by i.col. SLIGRL-NH2, but not LRGILS-NH2, 6-18 h after administration, and unaffected by i.p. SLIGRL-NH2, and i.p. or i.col. TFLLR-NH2. Our data suggest that PAR-1 is antinociceptive in processing of visceral pain, whereas PAR-2 expressed in the colonic luminal surface, upon activation, produces delayed sensitization of capsaicin receptors, resulting in facilitation of visceral pain and referred hyperalgesia.
Thalidomide is a promising therapy for multiple myeloma. Sensory neuropathy is a side effect of thalidomide and resulted to be partially reversible in 50% of cases, suggesting a sensory ganglionopathy. Spinal cord magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was found to be useful in the diagnosis of sensory ganglionopathies and we use it to determine if thalidomide neuropathy has features of a ganglionopathy.
Six patients with multiple myeloma developed thalidomide-induced polyneuropathy. Nerve conduction studies, somatosensory-evoked potentials (SEPs) and cervical and dorsal spinal cord MRI were obtained in all.
All patients had a sensory neuropathy, with clinical or electrophysiological abnormalities involving all four limbs. Spinal cord MRI showed high signal intensity in the posterior columns in only one patient, with abnormal central conduction time at SEPs.
Our results suggest that thalidomide can induce either an axonal length-dependent neuropathy or, less frequently, a ganglionopathy.
A trivalent inorganic arsenic, arsenite, has been causing chronic inflammation in humans through the consumption of contaminated well water. The total peripheral blood arsenic concentrations of chronic arsenic-exposed patients, who had inflammatory-like immune responses, are less than 1 microM, thus, nM concentrations may be very important regarding the chronic inflammatory effects by arsenite. However, there are few reports about the biological effects of low concentrations of arsenite in mammalian cells, especially in normal immune effector cells. In this study, we examined whether arsenite has any biological and/or toxicological effects on the differentiation of human peripheral blood monocytes into macrophages using the colony-stimulating factor (CSF) in vitro compared with that of other metallic compounds, and found that arsenite sensitively inhibited the CSF-induced in vitro maturation of monocytes into macrophages at nM levels, and it also induced small, nonadhesive and CD14-positive abnormal macrophage generation from monocytes with granulocyte-macrophage CSF (GM-CSF) at 50-500 nM without cell death. The addition of other metallic compounds, including chromium, selenium, mercury, cadmium, nickel, copper, zinc, cobalt, manganese and other human pentavalent arsenic metabolites, such as inorganic arsenate, monomethylarsonic acid and dimethylarsinic acid, could not induce the same abnormal cell generation from monocytes with CSFs at any concentration and any additional time schedules; they showed only simple cytolethality in monocytes and macrophages at n-mM levels accompanied by cell death. This work may have implications in the arsenic-induced chronic inflammation in humans.
Adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) is effective in lamivudine (LAM)-resistant hepatitis B e antigen-negative (HBeAg(-)) chronic hepatitis B (CHB). However, it is unclear whether LAM treatment should be continued in these patients. We aimed to compare the long-term efficacy of adding ADV to ongoing LAM treatment versus switching to ADV monotherapy in LAM-resistant HBeAg(-) CHB.
Sixty LAM-resistant patients with HBeAg(-) CHB were randomly assigned (3:1) to combination therapy (10 mg ADV once daily plus ongoing LAM at 100 mg once daily [n = 45]) or 10 mg ADV monotherapy once daily (n = 15). Virological and biochemical responses were defined as hepatitis B virus (HBV)-DNA <400 copies/mL and as normalization of alanine aminotransferase levels, respectively.
The median follow-up time was 53 months (range 20-60 months). A virological response was observed in 38/45 (84.4%) and 11/15 (73.3%) patients in the ADV/LAM and ADV monotherapy groups, respectively (P = 0.56). Biochemical response rates were higher in the ADV/LAM group than in the ADV monotherapy group (90.9% vs 57.1%, respectively; P = 0.01). In the ADV/LAM group, serum HBV-DNA remained undetectable in all patients who achieved a virological response (n = 38). In the ADV monotherapy group, virological breakthrough occurred in four of the 11 patients who achieved a virological response (36.4%; P < 0.001 vs the ADV/LAM group, log-rank test). In addition, two patients in each group who did not achieve a virological response eventually developed ADV resistance.
Adding ADV to LAM is more effective than switching to ADV monotherapy in LAM-resistant patients with HBeAg(-) CHB.
To evaluate the feasibility of combined acupuncture-isoflurane anesthesia with deliberated and controlled hypotension induced by isoflurane for the neurosurgical patients.
Forty-two patients with brain tumor scheduled for selective surgery according to the methods of anesthesia, they were further divided into isoflurane anesthesia (group I, n = 21) and combined acupuncture-isoflurane anesthesia (group II, n = 21). Anesthesia was induced with fentanyl, sodium pentothal and phi avolon intravenously administered. The concentration of isoflurane was elevated to reduce mean arterial pressure (MAP) 30%-40% during dissection and occlusion of the tumor. Compare with the hemodynamic parameters (CO, CI, SV, SI, SVR, LVSWI, RPP) which were measured with Swan-Ganz technique before, during and after isoflurane-induced hypotension. In group II, during tracheal intubation the acupoint of Quanliano (SI 18), Yuyao (EX-HN4), Fengchi (GB 20) and Hegu (LI 4) were stimulated by Han's Acupoint Nerve Stimulator. Meanwhile, the isoflurane was inhalated to maintain anesthesia.
As compared with group I, concentration of isoflurane decreased significantly, and isoflurane average dosage per hour reduced by 31%-42% in group II. SVR, PVR, RPP were significantly decreased in the duration of hypotension (P < 0.05). The range change of CO, CI, SV, SI, LVSWI, RPP during controlled hypotension was significantly lower in combined acupuncture-isoflurane anesthesia than that in isoflurane anesthesia (P < 0.05).
Combined acupuncture-isoflurane anesthesia with isoflurane induced hypotension was used as a selective way for deliberated and controlled hypotension to the neurosurgical patients.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a commonly used anticonvulsant with multiple systemic effects. The purpose of this pilot study is to examine the blood genomic expression pattern associated with VPA therapy in general and secondly VPA efficacy in children with epilepsy.
Using oligonucleotide microarrays, gene expression in whole blood was assessed in pediatric epilepsy patients following treatment with VPA compared with children with epilepsy prior to initiation of anticonvulsant therapy (drug free patients).
The expression of 461 genes was altered in VPA patients (n = 11) compared with drug free patients (n = 7), among which a significant number of serine threonine kinases were down-regulated. Expression patterns in children seizure free on VPA therapy (n = 8) demonstrated 434 up-regulated genes, many in mitochondria, compared with VPA children with continuing seizures (n = 3) and drug free seizure patients (n = 7).
VPA therapy is associated with two significant and unique blood gene expression patterns: chronic VPA monotherapy in general and a separate blood genomic profile correlated with seizure freedom. These expression patterns provide new insight into previously undetected mechanisms of VPA anticonvulsant activity.
Budesonide (an anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid), R115777 (a farnesyl transferase inhibitor, Zarnestra, Tipifarnib) or combinations of them were evaluated for prevention of lung tumors and for modulation of DNA methylation in tumors. Lung tumors were induced by vinyl carbamate in female Strain A mice. One week later, mice received 60 or 100 mg/kg R115777 by oral gavage and 5 days/week, 0.8 or 1.6 mg/kg of budesonide in their diet, or their combined treatment until killed at 20, 28 and 36 weeks after administering the vinyl carbamate. Other mice were administered the drugs for 2 weeks before killing at 20 weeks. At Week 20, the rank order for prevention of lung tumors was the combined treatment>budesonide>R115777. At later killings, R115777 was no longer effective, whereas budesonide and the combinations continued to prevent tumors, albeit at a reduced efficacy. DNA hypomethylation in lung tumors was prevented by treatment with R115777, budesonide and the combinations. When administered starting at Week 18 to tumor-bearing mice, the drugs reversed DNA hypomethylation in the tumors. In summary, combined treatment with budesonide and R115777 produced the following results: (i) it was more efficacious in preventing lung tumors than the individual drugs; and (ii) it prevented and reversed DNA hypomethylation in lung tumors. These results support the combined use of budesonide and R115777 in prevention of lung tumors and suggest that reversal of DNA hypomethylation in lung tumors would be useful as a surrogate endpoint biomarker for prevention.
Hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) neurons remain unaffected in Parkinson disease (PD) while there is significant degeneration of midbrain nigrostriatal dopamine (NSDA) neurons. A similar pattern of susceptibility is observed in acute and chronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse and rotenone rat models of degeneration. It is not known if the resistance of TIDA neurons is a constitutive or induced cell-autonomous phenotype for this unique subset of DA neurons. In the present study, treatment with a single injection of MPTP (20 mg/kg; s.c.) was employed to examine the response of TIDA versus NSDA neurons to acute injury. An acute single dose of MPTP caused an initial loss of DA from axon terminals of both TIDA and NSDA neurons, with recovery occurring solely in TIDA neurons by 16 h post-treatment. Initial loss of DA from axon terminals was dependent on a functional dopamine transporter (DAT) in NSDA neurons but DAT-independent in TIDA neurons. The active metabolite of MPTP, 1-methyl, 4-phenylpyradinium (MPP+), reached higher concentration and was eliminated slower in TIDA compared to NSDA neurons, which indicates that impaired toxicant bioactivation or distribution is an unlikely explanation for the observed resistance of TIDA neurons to MPTP exposure. Inhibition of protein synthesis prevented TIDA neuron recovery, suggesting that the ability to recover from injury was dependent on an induced, rather than a constitutive cellular mechanism. Further, there were no changes in total tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression following MPTP, indicating that up-regulation of the rate-limiting enzyme in DA synthesis does not account for TIDA neuronal recovery. Differential candidate gene expression analysis revealed a time-dependent increase in parkin and ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1) expression (mRNA and protein) in TIDA neurons during recovery from injury. Parkin expression was also found to increase with incremental doses of MPTP. The increase in parkin expression occurred specifically within TIDA neurons, suggesting that these neurons have an intrinsic ability to up-regulate parkin in response to MPTP-induced injury. These data suggest that TIDA neurons have a compensatory mechanism to deal with toxicant exposure and increased oxidative stress, and this unique TIDA neuron phenotype provides a platform for dissecting the mechanisms involved in the natural resistance of central DA neurons following toxic insult.
Octylphenol (OP) and Trichlorophenol (TCP) act as endocrine disruptors and have effects on male reproductive function. We studied the interactions between 4-tert-Octylphenol (4-t-OP), 4-n- Octylphenol (4-n-OP), 2,3,4-Trichlorophenol (2,3,4-TCP), 2,4,5-Trichlorophenol (2,4,5-TCP) urinary exposure levels and polymorphisms in selected xenobiotic metabolism enzyme genes among 589 idiopathic male infertile patients and 396 controls in a Han-Chinese population. Ultra high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) was used to measure alkylphenols and chlorophenols in urine. Polymorphisms were genotyped using the SNPstream platform and the Taqman method. Among four phenols that were detected, we found that only exposure to 4-t-OP increased the risk of male infertility (P(trend) = 1.70×10(-7)). The strongest interaction was between 4-t-OP and rs4918758 in CYP2C9 (P(inter) = 6.05×10(-7)). It presented a significant monotonic increase in risk estimates for male infertility with increasing 4-t-OP exposure levels among men with TC/CC genotype (low level compared with non-exposed, odds ratio (OR) = 2.26, 95% confidence intervals (CI) = 1.06, 4.83; high level compared with non-exposed, OR = 9.22, 95% CI = 2.78, 30.59), but no associations observed among men with TT genotype. We also found interactions between 4-t-OP and rs4986894 in CYP2C19, and between rs1048943 in CYP1A1, on male infertile risk (P(inter) = 8.09×10(-7), P(inter) = 3.73×10(-4), respectively).We observed notable interactions between 4-t-OP exposure and metabolism enzyme gene polymorphisms on idiopathic infertility in Han-Chinese men.
Despite many one- or two-modal attempts to relieve postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) and pain, postoperative issues following breast cancer surgery remain a substantial problem. Therefore, the aim of this explorative, hypothesis-generating study was to evaluate the effect of a multimodal, opiate-sparing, evidence-based regimen for prevention of PONV and pain.
Two hundred consecutive patients scheduled for breast cancer surgery were included. The prevention regimen included a package consisting of preoperative paracetamol, dextromethorphan, celecoxib, gabapentin, dexamethasone, total intravenous anaesthesia and intraoperative ondansetron. The patients were prospectively scored according to PONV, pain during rest and mobilization and major side effects.
Of 200 consecutive breast cancer patients, 191 received the full package. During the first 36 postoperative hours, 79.1% reported no PONV at all and only 3.7% reported severe PONV. At rest, 69.6% reported no or light pain and 3.1% reported severe pain, with corresponding values of 59.7% and 8.9% during arm mobilization. Mean postoperative morphine consumption was 2.2 mg. The only significant side effect was transient dizziness.
A multimodal, opiate-sparing regimen to prevent pain and PONV seems to be more effective than one- or two-component regimens on PONV and pain after breast cancer surgery, a result which calls for large-scale multi-center or randomized studies.
Administration of cadmium (Cd) after 60 h (H) incubation induces ventral body wall defect (VBWD) similar to the omphalocele phenotype in the chick embryo. In this model, the earliest histological changes have been observed in somites commencing at 4-h post-treatment (4H). The molecular mechanism by which Cd acts in this critical period of embryogenesis still remains unclear. Sonic hedgehog (SHH) signalling plays an important role in vertebrate development, including somitogenesis and thus ventral body wall formation. Patched (PTCH), a cell membrane receptor for SHH, is expressed in somites and Patched knockout mice display somite dysfunction. Another transmembrane receptor, Smoothened (SMO), is also expressed in somites and transduces the SHH signal regulated by PTCH. We designed this study to test the hypothesis that SHH signalling is downregulated during the critical period of early embryogenesis in the Cd-induced omphalocele chick model.
After 60 h of incubation, chicks were exposed to either chick saline or 50 μL of 50 μM cadmium acetate and divided into two groups: control and Cd (n = 24 for each group). Chicks were harvested 1, 4, and 8 h post-treatment. Real-time RT-PCR was performed to evaluate the relative mRNA expression level of SHH, PTCH and SMO. Immunofluorescence confocal microscopy was then performed to evaluate protein expression/distribution of SHH, PTCH and SMO.
The relative mRNA expression levels of SHH, PTCH and SMO were significantly downregulated in the Cd group compared to controls at 4H post treatment, whereas, there were no significant differences at the other time points. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the intensity of SHH, PTCH and SMO was markedly diminished at 4 h in Cd-treated embryos compared to controls.
Disturbance of the SHH signalling pathway as evidenced by SHH, PTCH and SMO downregulation during the narrow window of early embryogenesis may result in somite maldevelopment, contributing to the omphalocele phenotype in the Cd chick model.
Although almost fifteen cases have been reported since 1970, renal failure during a long term lithium therapy remains in the epidemiologic studies a rare pathology. Lithium treatment side effects can be considered in term of morphologic damages or in terms of kidney physiology impairments in filtration or concentration. For example it has long been known that lithium generates polyuria which results from an induced nephrotic diabetes insipidus (NDI). Fortunately most of these common impairments are reversible without any alarming or starting consequences. Moreover histological injures may also occur such as interstitial fibrosis, sclerotic glomeruli, tubular atrophy or dilatation ... whose evidence still raises some controversy concerning their incidence and specificity. We report here the case of a Bipolar I patient stabilized for at least fifteen years with lithium at a high level of social and professional life, in whom renal failure was found with tubular damage. This injury correlated to the lithium therapy even if always controlled at a normal rate during fifteen years, forced us to withdraw this treatment and switch to valproate. Is our goal to protect the renal function against the patient wishes totally justified since he relapsed in hypomania 63 days after the drop out? We had to choose between renal preservation and mental health.
Tailoring treatment intensity is critical in Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL). Ongoing prognostic parameters may be an useful adjunct to pretreatment stratification. We used the kinetics of computed tomography (CT) scan response and residual gallium (Ga)-67 uptake to better stratify risk.
Patients received 4-8 adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine courses according to stage. Disease was reassessed evaluating late computed tomography scan response improvement (CTRI) and Ga-67 uptake. Patients received no further treatment, radiotherapy (RT) or additional chemotherapy + RT according to the presence of none (low risk), one (intermediate risk) and both parameters (high risk). Patients with bulky mediastinum received RT anyhow.
Among 102 assessable patients, 35 showed late CTRI and 9 residual Ga-67 uptake. In 30 patients with bulky mediastinum, the 3-year progression-free survival (PFS) was significantly better when neither parameter was present (100% versus 69%; P = 0.02). In 72 patients without bulky mediastinum, treatment was tailored according to risk assignment. Relapses occurred in 5 of 47 low-risk and 3 of 21 intermediate-risk patients, with no differences between the two groups, and in 3 of 4 high-risk patients.
This study shows that two on-treatment parameters, late CTRI and residual Ga-67 uptake, can predict PFS in HL and identify patients in which RT can be spared without apparently affecting the outcome.
Cocaine use has been reported to cause gastrointestinal complications. This retrospective review describes the presentation and clinical course of cocaine-associated enterocolitis.
Charts with a diagnoses of colitis or abdominal pain, between 1991 to 2001, were reviewed for a positive urine drug screen or documented cocaine use. Data about the patients' symptoms and physical findings, results of clinical studies, and outcome were collected.
There were 18 patients identified. The interval from last use to the onset of pain was fewer than one day for seven patients, one to three days for seven patients, and more than three days for four patients. Physical examination demonstrated diffuse peritonitis in 2 patients, tenderness localized to a single quadrant in 11 patients, and tenderness in two or more quadrants in 5 patients. Computed tomography was obtained in 11 patients with 10 demonstrating signs of inflammation or ischemia. The anatomic locations of disease were proximal colon (14 patients), small bowel/gastric (1 patient), and distal colon (3 patients). The initial management was nonoperative in 15 patients. One patient presented in shock and died. Another developed peritonitis and underwent laparotomy. Surgical intervention occurred in four patients (3 initially, 1 on Day 4) for peritonitis. Two died postoperatively, a 50-percent surgical mortality.
Cocaine-associated enterocolitis usually presents within three days of cocaine use. Inflammatory or ischemic changes are most common in the proximal colon. The majority of patients will recover with nonoperative therapy; however, those who develop peritonitis and undergo laparotomy have a 50 percent mortality.
The effect of D-penicillamine (DPA), a copper chelator, on the cerebellar maturation of the offspring of pregnant rats is evaluated. Pups of the mothers which received DPA in a daily dose of 300-400 mg during their last six days of gestation, showed an appreciable decrease in body and cerebellum weights, and cerebellar degenerative changes on histological examination. A postnatal diet DPA-free given to lactating mothers appeared to have a significant effect in reversing the cerebellar degenerative changes in their offspring.
Hypoalbuminemia has been recently informed by us as a risk factor in aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity. Since amikacin has a low serum binding capacity to albumin, the present study was designed to determine if the higher risk of amikacin nephrotoxicity in patients with hypoalbuminemia was due to low serum albumin per se or to malnutrition. One-hundred and thirteen ward patients who received endovenous amikacin for greater than 36 hours were studied prospectively. All were evaluated for the following factors: age, sex, diagnosis, serum creatinine, serum albumin, and nutritional status. They were followed with serum creatinine twice a week until cessation of therapy. Amikacin pharmacokinetics was studied in 11 subjects: 6 patients had a serum albumin less than 3.0 g/dL and 5 greater than 3.0 g/dL, but there were no differences in age, sex, weight, diagnosis, arterial pressure and nutritional status. The overall incidence of toxicity was 11%. In patients with serum albumin less than 3.0 g/dL it was 17.3% and in those greater than 3.0 g/dL it was 2.2%, p less than 0.05. There was no difference in the nutritional status between toxicity and non-toxicity groups. In the pharmacokinetic study, the peak levels obtained one hour after amikacin administration were higher in patients with serum albumin less than 3.0 g/dL than in those with normal serum albumin (12.7 +/- 1.6 vs 9.0 +/- 1.2, p less than 0.002). In conclusion hypoalbuminemia is a risk factor in aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity regardless of the nutritional status.
Proteasome inhibitors are a novel class of compounds entering clinical trials as a method to increase tumour sensitivity to standard chemotherapy. This phase I/II trial was carried out to evaluate the combination of capecitabine and the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib in anthracycline and/or taxane-pretreated patients with metastatic breast cancer.
A total of 35 patients were treated with bortezomib (1.0-1.3 mg/m(2) on days 1, 4, 8 and 11) and capecitabine (1500-2500 mg/m(2) on days 1-14) in 3-week intervals for up to eight cycles.
The maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) were bortezomib 1.3 mg/m(2) and capecitabine 2500 mg/m(2). The treatment was generally well tolerated and associated with toxic effects that were consistent with the known side-effects of the individual agents. The intent-to-treat overall response rate was 15% and an additional 27% of patients had stable disease (SD). In the 20 patients treated at the MTD, the response rate was 15% and 40% had SD. Median time to progression and overall survival were 3.5 months [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.9-4.4] and 7.5 months (95% CI 5.6-14.6), respectively. Median duration of response was 4.4 months.
The combination of bortezomib and capecitabine is well tolerated and has moderate antitumour activity in heavily pretreated patients.
A 51-year-old man who was treated with quinine and doxycycline for Plasmodium falciparum malaria acquired in West Africa developed hiccups soon after his first dose of antimalarial therapy. Endoscopic examination performed when his hiccups became intractable showed an esophageal erosion and ulcer most likely due to doxycycline. The patient's symptoms resolved on treatment with omeprazole and sucralfate.
As sirolimus has been implicated in impaired wound healing, the aim of this study was to evaluate risk factors for wound complications after renal transplantation in patients treated with this drug de novo.
This single center retrospective review of wound complications included 194 renal transplant recipients, all of whom received sirolimus immunosuppression in combination with reduced doses of cyclosporine (CsA) and corticosteroids de novo. A wound complication was defined as an infection, incisional hernia, or lymphocele.
The overall incidence of wound complications within the first year post-transplantation was 36% (n = 70) including infection in 12% (n = 23), lymphocele formation in 18% (n = 34), and incisional hernia in 18% (n = 34) of patients. Seventeen patients suffered more than one wound complication. A multivariate analysis showed that independent risk factors for the development of wound complications were recipients over the age of 40 yr (odds ratio 2.536, p = 0.011), subjects with body mass index (BMI) >26 (odds ratio 2.498, p = 0.027) and especially BMI >30 (odds ratio 3.738, p = 0.007), the use of thymoglobulin for induction immunosuppression (odds ratio 3.627, p = 0.002), and a cumulative dose of sirolimus of at least 35 mg by post-transplant day 4 (odds ratio 2.694, p = 0.023). African-American (odds ratio 0.139, p < 0.001) or Hispanic recipients (odds ratio 0.337, p = 0.014) were less likely to experience a wound problem than Caucasian recipients.
A number of potentially modifiable risk factors independently increase the incidence of wound complications among renal transplant recipients receiving sirolimus-based immunosuppression de novo.
In rats, the intravenous infusion with acebutolol lead to a dose dependent decrease of arterial blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac output and total peripheral resistance, to sinus bradycardia, widening of the QRS complex, 1st and 2nd degree AV-block and intraventricular conductance disturbances. Nine possible antidotes were administered i.v. to rats which had been infused with 2 mg/kg X min acebutolol for 60 min. Isoprenaline proved the best antidote against acebutolol antagonizing the bradycardia by 88% and the hypotension completely. The activities of orciprenaline and prenalterol were lower than those of isoprenaline. Dopamine, epinephrine and norepinephrine antagonized acebutolol-induced hypotension, but did not influence considerably the bradycardia. Glucagon, on the other hand, antagonized the acebutolol-induced bradycardia by 47% but exerted only a small activity on the hypotension. Aminophyllin and calcium were nearly ineffective as antidotes against acebutolol. Isoprenaline and dopamine infused simultaneously restored heart rate, arterial blood pressure and cardiac output of acebutol-poisoned rats. The survival time of rats infused with 4 mg/kg X min acebutolol was doubled by the additional infusion of 0.2 mg/kg X min isoprenaline. The antagonistic activity of a treatment with isoprenaline and dopamine against the cardiovascular toxicity of acebutolol was confirmed in rabbits.
Aminoglutethimide was applied for treatment of 10 patients (8 postmenopausal, 2 ovariectomized) with metastasizing breast cancer. The patients were extensively pretreated with cytostatic and hormonal measurements and already completely resistant to these therapies. Using aminoglutethimide (500-1000 mg daily) plus additional substitution with 20-40 mg hydrocortisone one complete and three partial remissions could be achieved. Stabilization was observed in 3 cases. The duration of remission varied between 4-8 months in 3 cases and lasted one month in a further patient.
To report a case of benign intracranial hypertension related to mesalazine use.
Observational case report.
A 23-year-old-woman with sudden visual loss, headache, and a history of ulcerative colitis treated with mesalazine underwent ophthalmologic examination, echography, magnetic resonance imaging, and lumbar puncture.
The examinations disclosed benign intracranial hypertension that resolved when mesalazine was discontinued and recurred when the drug was restarted.
We recommend periodic ocular fundus examination for patients undergoing long-term therapy with mesalazine, especially if decreased vision, headaches, or neck stiffness are present, to avoid potentially severe complications of intracranial hypertension
The effects of lipid lowering therapy (bezafibrate) on plasma lipoproteins was investigated in twelve patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia (type IIA) and eight with familial combined hyperlipidaemia (type IIB). Bezafibrate caused a decrease of plasma cholesterol, plasma triglycerides, plasma apolipoprotein B, VLDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol and an increase of HDL cholesterol. Post-heparin plasma lipoprotein and hepatic lipase activities increased in both groups (significant only in type IIB). Lipoprotein composition showed the following changes: Increased protein and phospholipids and decreased triglycerides and cholesteryl esters in VLDL. Decreased protein and triglycerides and increased free and esterified cholesterol in LDL. Decreased triglycerides and increased phospholipids in HDL. Cholesteryl ester to protein ratios decreased in VLDL and increased in LDL. The hydrated density of LDL (both groups) and of HDL3 (type IIB) decreased following bezafibrate therapy. These changes were in general similar to those observed in hypertriglyceridaemic patients and could be ascribed, at least in part, to the increase of plasma lipase activities and the decrease of lipid transfer reactions. Comparing the present data with that previously reported, it was found that bezafibrate caused decreased LDL cholesterol in types IIA and IIB but increased levels in type IV. This change was correlated with the initial plasma triglycerides (r = 0.74, P less than 0.0001) and initial plasma LDL cholesterol (r = 0.66, P less than 0.001). It is concluded that varied response of LDL to therapy reflects a complex interaction of metabolic events, including changing rates of VLDL conversion to LDL, lipoprotein compositional changes and effects of therapy on LDL degradation rates.
1 alpha,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1 alpha,25(OH)2D3) has recently been reported to exert a toxic effect on both rat and human glioma cell lines. However the potential clinical use of 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 in the treatment of glioma is impaired by its potent hypercalcemic effects. We have therefore investigated the effects on glioma cell growth of several vitamin D3 analogues which have previously been shown to be less calcemic in vivo than 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3. The present study shows that several analogues are able to induce, in vitro, the death of rat glioma cells (C6.9). The compound KH 1060 appears to be the most effective in the induction of cell death, while MC 1288 and CB 1093 are as potent as 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3. EB 1089 was somewhat less effective than 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 and MC 903, which is currently used in the treatment of psoriasis, has only a weak activity on C6.9 cells. The effective doses used are around 10(-9) M for 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 and 10(-10) M for KH 1060. Interestingly, the toxic effect exerted by 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 and its analogues is accompanied by several of the biochemical features of apoptosis, such as DNA fragmentation and induction of the c-myc protooncogene. These findings, together with the fact that the therapies currently available for glioma are only palliative, suggest that 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 analogues such as KH 1060, EB 1089 or CB 1093, alone or in combination with other therapeutic approaches, could be of potential interest in the treatment of brain glial tumors.
