3-Methylindole (3MI) is a preferential pneumotoxicant found in cigarette smoke. A number of lung-expressed human cytochrome P450 enzymes, including 1A1, 2F1, and 2A13, catalyze the metabolism of 3MI to reactive intermediates that fragment DNA, measured with the Comet assay to assess DNA damage, in a cytochrome P450-dependent manner in primary normal human lung cells in culture, but the mutagenesis of 3MI has been controversial. In the present study, the mutagenic potential of 3MI was compared to the prototypical cigarette smoke carcinogens benzo(a)pyrene (B(a)P) and 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK). 3MI, B(a)P, and NNK were incubated with the Salmonella typhimurium strain TA98, which is known to detect the most common subtype of cigarette smoke-induced mutagenicity, frameshift mutations in DNA, and with Salmonella typhimurium strain TA100, which detects base pair substitution mutants, with five sources of P450-mediated bioactivation: rat liver S9, human lung microsomes, recombinant CYP2A13, purified CYP2F3, and recombinant CYP1A1. Only B(a)P was mutagenic in TA100, and it was bioactivated by human lung microsomes and rat liver S9 sources of P450s. However, with the TA98 strain, CYP1A1, CYP2A13, CYP2F3, and human lung microsomes bioactivated 3MI to highly mutagenic intermediates, whereas neither human nor rat liver S9 subcellular fractions formed mutagenic intermediates from 3MI. Quantitative Western blot analysis verified that all three respiratory enzymes were present in human lung microsomes in widely varying amounts. These results indicate that metabolism of 3MI by human lung-expressed cytochrome P450 enzymes but not hepatic P450s elicits equivalent or higher mutagenicity than the prototype cigarette smoke mutagens B(a)P and NNK and indicates that 3MI is a likely human pulmonary carcinogen.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of prostaglandins, is made inducible by various stimuli such as inflammation. Although COX-2 is commonly overexpressed in a variety of premalignant and malignant conditions including oral leukoplakia and squamous cell carcinoma, relatively little research has compared the effects of various COX-2 inhibitors (celecoxib, NS-398, nimesulide and meloxicam). Therefore, we investigated the effects of four different selective COX-2 inhibitors on the growth of KB cells, derived from oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and its mechanisms. Celecoxib and NS-398 strongly suppressed the proliferation of KB cells at 10-100 microM, whereas nimesulide and meloxicam are less potent proliferation inhibitors. Only celecoxib induced apoptosis of the KB cells, as detected on the basis of DNA fragmentation, caspase-3/7 activation and cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) fragmentation. All four COX-2 inhibitors increased COX-2 protein expression but suppressed prostaglandin (PG) E2 production in the KB cells, suggesting that the pro-apoptotic effect of celecoxib was unrelated to the inhibition of COX-2. Mechanistically, a high level of p53 protein and a low level of multidrug-resistant protein 1 (MRP1) and breast cancer resistant protein (BCRP) mRNA in KB cells with celecoxib may explain the differential effect of these selective COX-2 inhibitors in KB cells. Taken together, celecoxib is a good therapeutic candidate for treating OSCC through the suppression of cell proliferation and the induction of apoptosis in a COX-2 independent manner.
Prior ischemic stroke is a risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in patients taking warfarin, but the mechanism is not known. This study investigates radiographic and clinical characteristics of patients with warfarin-related ICH following ischemic stroke.
In this case-control study, the authors selected all patients with warfarin-related ICH and previous symptomatic ischemic stroke from a prospective cohort of consecutive patients with ICH. Control subjects were similarly aged patients with history of symptomatic stroke randomly chosen from an anticoagulant therapy unit. The 26 eligible ICH cases and 56 controls were compared for vascular risk factors, stroke characteristics, and extent of leukoaraiosis (graded in anterior and posterior brain regions on a validated scale of 0 to 4).
The presence and severity of leukoaraiosis on CT scan correlated strongly with the occurrence of ICH. Leukoaraiosis was seen in 24 of 26 cases (92%) compared with 27 of 56 controls (48%), yielding an odds ratio of 12.9 (95% CI 2.8 to 59.8). Other clinical factors associated with ICH included an international normalized ratio >3.0, history of multiple previous strokes, and the presence of carotid artery stenosis. The relationship between leukoaraiosis and ICH persisted in multivariable analyses controlling for these risk factors as well as hypertension and diabetes mellitus.
Leukoaraiosis is an independent risk factor for warfarin-related ICH in survivors of ischemic stroke, including those in the commonly employed range of anticoagulation.
The current study examined the possibility that high local anesthetic concentrations within the central nervous system could contribute to the toxic cardiovascular effects observed clinically after an accidental intravenous injection. Equal numbers of molecules of lidocaine (1.6 microliter of a 2% solution) and bupivacaine (1.0 microliter of a 4% solution) were injected at three vasomotor and cardioactive areas in the rat medulla by means of a 28-gauge hypodermic needle and a microsyringe. These areas were the C1 region, the intermediolateral column (IML), and the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). Both lidocaine and bupivacaine at C1 significantly decreased mean arterial pressure and, at IML, resulted in significant bradycardia and hypotension. At NTS, both lidocaine and bupivacaine caused significant bradycardia and hypotension, which were accompanied by ventricular arrhythmias in 55% of the animals. In all animals in whom ventricular arrhythmias were associated with lidocaine, the arrhythmias spontaneously reverted to normal sinus rhythm. In 50% of animals developing ventricular arrhythmias after bupivacaine, the arrhythmias resulted in death. Using an equal number of molecules of lidocaine and bupivacaine, all three regions studied demonstrated that bupivacaine was 2-4 times more potent than lidocaine in producing cardiovascular effects. These data demonstrate that direct application of local anesthetics within the medullary region of the central nervous system can result in hypotension, bradycardia, and ventricular arrhythmias similar to what may be seen in humans after accidental intravenous injections of local anesthetics. Moreover, the sites and mechanisms of action appear to be identical for bupivacaine and lidocaine. Thus bupivacaine does not appear to be an aberrant local anesthetic, as some have suggested, but rather produces more profound effects related to its potency and physicochemical properties.
A 51-year-old male patient developed irreversible blindness following pulmonary tuberculosis treatment. The patient's medical history was reviewed, and thorough ophthalmologic examination undertaken (visual acuity, intraocular pressure, Kugel-Perimeter visual field checkup) on initial examination and throughout the next 2 years during the third month treatment with isoniazide, rifampicin, pirazinamide and ethambutol. Ocular symptoms occurred at 3 weeks of the initial symptoms, the patient was examined by an ophthalmologist, and treatment with ethambutol was discontinued; visual impairment progressed to bilateral optic nerve atrophy; almost no signs of improvement were found during the next 2 years of observation, in spite of treatment. Ethambutol is known to be an antituberculotic associated with ocular toxicity. Even in recommended dosage, ethambutol can lead to unpredictable and permanent damage to the optic nerve. The exact mechanism for optic neuritis has not yet been explained.
Histological, immunohistological and electron microscopical investigations on the glomerular renal lesions in penicillamine-induced nephropathy were carried out by studying biopsy material of eight patients with rheumatoid arthritis (4 cases), allergic alveolitis (3 cases) and systemic scleroderma (1 case) under the treatment with D-penicillamine. Summarizing all the findings, the characteristic pattern of immune complex nephritis as membranous type glomerulonephritis on the one hand and proliferative type glomerulonephritis (mesangioproliferative GN, focal proliferative GN or minimal proliferative GN) on the other hand could be demonstrated. The different types of glomerular alterations in penicillamine nephropathy obviously depend on the kind and duration of the primary main disease and on the individual immune reactivity of the body was a whole by this determined. The possible pathogenesis related to definite effects of the D-penicillamine is discussed and compared with the communications in the literature.
Oral acylovir treatment rarely results in renal dysfunction. In reported cases concerning renal failure due to oral acyclovir, baseline creatinine levels were unknown or impaired or a predisposing factor for nephrotoxicity was present. We report a 78-y-old female with documented normal baseline renal function and no contributing possible nephrotoxic factor, who developed irreversible renal dysfunction after oral acyclovir treatment. We suggest that in geriatric age groups chronic renal insufficiency should be taken into consideration during oral acyclovir therapy.
Osteolytic bone destruction, caused by the aberrant production and activation of osteoclasts, results in significant morbidity for patients with multiple myeloma (MM). Pamidronate [(3-amino-1-hydroxypropylidene)-1,1-bis-phosphonate] inhibits osteoclastic activity and reduces bone resorption. A potency of zoledronic acid (2-[imidazol-1-yl]-1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-bisphosphonic acid, a new third generation bisphosphonate, as inhibitor of resorption was 850-fold greater than pamidronate, as was shown in preclinical models of bone resorption. Randomized, double-blind study was conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of zoledronic acid and pamidronate for treating myeloma bone disease. Since March 1999 the efficacy and safety of pamidronate and zoledronic acid is evaluated in MM patients all receiving anti-myeloma chemotherapy acc. to VMCP/VBAP alternating regimen. Nine patients with stage III myeloma and osteolytic lesions (3 female, 6 male, median age 57 years, range 52-67, with monoclonal protein: IgG-7, IgA-2) were randomly assigned (1:1:1 ratio) to treatment with either 4 or 8 mg of zoledronic acid via 15-minute intravenous infusion or 90 mg of pamidronate via 2-hour intravenous infusion every 3 to 4 weeks for 12 months. All patients have received 500 mg of calcium supplements and 500 IU of vit.D, orally, once daily, for the duration of administration of study medication. In extension phase of the study (June 2000-April 2002) patients did not received bisphosphonates. In 7 patients 18 cycles of assessed treatment was administered to each of them and one patient received 16 cycles. One patient died after receiving of 12 pamidronate therapy cycles at 11 month of the trial duration (and at 49 month since MM diagnosis and anti-tumour treatment). The patient's death occurred during the progression of plasma cell proliferation due to acute left ventricle cardiac failure. During the 12-month-period of bisphosphonate treatment skeletal related events (SRE) and progression of osteolysis occurred with the same frequency in 3 treatment groups. One patient experienced spinal cord compression and received radiation to bone and 2 patients experienced vertebral fracture. Time from study entry to the first SRE was 304 days in pamidronate and 366 and 392 days in 4 and 8 mg zoledronic acid group, respectively. The skeletal morbidity rate was identical in all treatment groups. Single hypocalcemic events occurred in 2 patients, mild hypertransaminasemia was observed in 3, worsening of renal function parameters in 2 patients (transient in one of them). Muscular pain and fever up to 39 degrees C (transient and self-limiting "flu-like" symptoms) occurred in 6 patients after several or some dozens of hours from study drug administration. Adverse events were similar in nature and frequency with zoledronic acid and pamidronate and were experienced by a similar proportion of patients in each treatment group. Median time of patient's observation duration after completing of administered treatment with zoledronic acid and pamidronate amounts to 20 months. At present actual median survival time of analysed patients since MM diagnosis is 42 months, since the beginning of treatment with pamidronate and zoledronic acid--33 months, and since completing treatment--20 months and is similar in 3 treatment groups. As was shown in our single center study in MM patients the safety and efficacy of pamidronate 90 mg and zoledronic acid 4 mg and 8 mg in monthly i.v. infusion are comparable. Thus the recommended dosage of zoledronic acid is 4 mg administered as a 15 minute i.v. infusion at intervals of 3 to 4 weeks.
Twenty-eight patients with a DSM-III diagnosis of agoraphobia with panic attacks who completed a 4-month combined drug and behavioral treatment program and who were then discharged on imipramine were interviewed 1 to 5 years after being discharged. At the time of follow-up, half of the patients were medication free, eight were receiving a lower dose of imipramine, two were receiving the same dose as at the time of discharge, and four patients were receiving other antipanic medications. Panic attack frequency remained reduced at the time of follow-up, as did all anxiety and all impairment ratings. These improvements were similar between patients receiving and not receiving imipramine at this time. Long-term outcome was independent of nonpharmacological therapy during the follow-up interval and lifetime diagnosis of major depression at the time of admission. Our data suggest that improvement observed after 4 months of treatment with imipramine and behavioral therapy is maintained after 1 to 5 years, even for many patients who reduced the dose of or discontinued imipramine. Long-term, randomized studies are needed to compare the efficacy of treatments and to determine treatment duration.
The present study was designed to understand the effects of sublethal concentrations of dichlorvos (DIC) on hematological constituent [red blood corpuscles, white blood corpuscles (WBC), mean cell volume, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, platelet counts, hemoglobin and hematocrite levels] and serum damage marker enzymes (aspartate aminotransferase, alanin aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and lactate dehydrogenase) in rats at subacute period under laboratory conditions. DIC at dosages of 5 and 10 ppm was administered orally to six male rats ad libitum during the tests for 4 weeks consecutively. According to the results, DIC treatments increased significantly the levels of serum marker enzyme activities, whereas they did not change hematologic constituent except for WBC number treated with both dosages of DIC. The observations presented led us to conclude that the administrations of subacute DIC induced the levels of damage marker enzymes and leukocytosis.
To determine the fractalkine expression in the aorta of ApoE (-/-) mice and the effect of high-dose aspirin intervention on fractalkine expression and atherosclerotic lesion formation.
Twenty-one male ApoE gene knockout mice were randomized into three groups to receive either placebo in addition to normal mice chow (n = 7), placebo in addition to a high-fat diet (n = 7), or aspirin (58 mg/kg/d) in addition to a high-fat diet (n = 7). After 12 weeks of study, the mice were euthanized and serum cholesterol, thromboxane B(2), and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) were examined. Fractalkine and cyclooxygenase expression in aorta were measured and the atherosclerotic lesion analyzed.
Pathology image analysis showed that the atherosclerotic plaque was the most extensive in the high-fat diet group while the addition of aspirin greatly reduced the severity of the plaque. Both RT-PCR analysis and immunohistochemical analysis showed that fractalkine expression was the strongest in the high-fat diet group and was significantly decreased by aspirin treatment. Serum thromboxane B(2) was lowered by aspirin while 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) and cholesterol remained unchanged.
The results of our study indicate that high dose aspirin can improve the atherosclerotic lesion and suppress the fractalkine expression in murine aorta.
Transdermal nicotine reduces perioperative withdrawal symptoms when smoking is forbidden. We evaluated the influence of a transdermal nicotine system on cardiovascular response after endotracheal intubation. The study design was prospective, randomized, double-blind and placebo- controlled. Sixty healthy smokers scheduled for minor surgery under general anesthesia were divided into two groups. The first group received a 21 mg/day transdermal nicotine system while the second group received a placebo transdermal system. After induction with standardized doses of fentanyl, thiopental and atracurium, the patients were intubated immediately when EMG-response decreased to 10% of the initial control. Heart rate and noninvasive arterial pressures were recorded 1 min and 5 min after intubation. The transdermal nicotine system significantly increased heart rate compared with the control group without nicotine substitution. Since the transdermal nicotine system increases heart rate it should not be used if tachycardia is potentially dangerous, such as in patients with ischemic heart disease.
Hepatic fibrosis involves excess deposition of extracellular connective tissue of which collagen type I fibers form the predominant component. Left untreated it develops into cirrhosis, often linked with hepatocellular carcinoma. Owing to the fact that cirrhotic liver regeneration is impaired, resection of hepatocellular carcinoma associated with cirrhosis is questionable. The aim of the present study was to determine the potential of halofuginone, a collagen type I inhibitor, in improving liver regeneration in cirrhotic rats.
Partial hepatectomy (70%) was performed in thioacetamide-induced cirrhotic rats fed a halofuginone-containing diet. Liver regeneration was monitored by mass and proliferating cell nuclear antigen. The Ishak staging system and hydroxyproline content were used to evaluate the level of fibrosis.
Halofuginone administered prior to and following partial hepatectomy did not inhibit normal liver regeneration despite the reduced levels of collagen type I mRNA. When given to rats with established fibrosis, it caused a significant reduction in alpha smooth muscle actin, TIMP-2, collagen type I gene expression and collagen deposition. Such animals demonstrated improved capacity for regeneration.
Halofuginone may prove useful in improving survival of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and cirrhosis undergoing surgical resection.
Antineoplastic drug cisplatin remains the drug of choice for various solid tumours including breast cancer. But dose dependent nephrotoxicity is the major drawback in majority of platinum based chemotherapy regimens. Recent reports have shown that inflammatory pathways are the main offender for cisplatin induced nephrotoxicity. The present study was undertaken to assess the effect of rosiglitazone, a PPARgamma agonist and an anti-inflammatory agent, on cisplatin induced nephrotoxicity, and its anticancer activity in DMBA induced breast cancer rats.
Mammary tumours were induced in female Sprague-Dawley rats by feeding orally with dimethylbenz [a]anthracene (DMBA) (60 mg/kg). Cisplatin induced nephropathy was assessed by measurements of blood urea nitrogen, albumin and creatinine levels. Posttranslational modifications of histone H3, mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase p38 expression and PPAR-gamma expression were examined by western blotting.
Our data shows involvement of TNF-alpha in preventing cisplatin induced nephrotoxicity by rosiglitazone. Rosiglitazone pre-treatment to cisplatin increases the expression of p38, PPAR-gamma in mammary tumours and shows maximum tumour reduction. Furthermore, cisplatin induced changes in histone acetylation, phosphorylation and methylation of histone H3 in mammary tumours was ameliorated by pre-treatment of rosiglitazone. Suggesting, PPAR-gamma directly or indirectly alters aberrant gene expression in mammary tumours by changing histone modifications.
To best of our knowledge this is the first report which shows that pre-treatment of rosiglitazone synergizes the anticancer activity of cisplatin and minimizes cisplatin induced nephrotoxicity in DMBA induced breast cancer.
Previous studies have shown associations between air pollution and risk for lung cancer.
We investigated whether traffic and the concentration of nitrogen oxides (NOx) at the residence are associated with risk for lung cancer.
We identified 592 lung cancer cases in the Danish Cancer Registry among 52,970 members of the Diet, Cancer and Health cohort and traced residential addresses from 1 January 1971 in the Central Population Registry. We calculated the NOx concentration at each address by dispersion models and calculated the time-weighted average concentration for all addresses for each person. We used Cox models to estimate incidence rate ratios (IRRs) after adjustment for smoking (status, duration, and intensity), environmental tobacco smoke, length of school attendance, occupation, and dietary intake of fruit.
For the highest compared with the lowest quartile of NOx concentration at the residence, we found an IRR for lung cancer of 1.30 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.05-1.61], and the IRR for lung cancer in association with living within 50 m of a major road (>10,000 vehicles/day) was 1.21 (95% CI, 0.95-1.55). The results showed tendencies of stronger associations among nonsmokers, among those with a relatively low fruit intake, and among those with a longer school attendance; only length of school attendance modified the effect significantly.
This study supports that risk for lung cancer is associated with different markers of air pollution from traffic near the residence.
UCMA (alternatively named GRP) is a novel member of the family of γ-carboxyglutamate (Gla) containing proteins that is mainly expressed in cartilage. We have used the zebrafish as a model organism to study UCMA function. Due to the whole genome duplication two Ucma genes are present in zebrafish, ucmaa and ucmab, located on chromosomes 25 and 4, respectively. UCMA gene structure, alternative splicing and protein sequence are highly conserved between mammals and zebrafish and Ucmaa and Ucmab are expressed in zebrafish skeletal tissues. Ucmaa is first detected in the notochord at 18 hpf and expression continues during notochord development. In addition, it is widely present in the developing craniofacial cartilage. In contrast, the weakly expressed Ucmab can be first detected at specific sites in the craniofacial cartilage at 96 hpf, but not in notochord. Knockdown of ucmaa leads to severe growth retardation and perturbance of skeletal development. The cartilage of the morphants has a decreased aggrecan and collagen II content. Similar malformations were observed when glutamate γ-carboxylation was inhibited by warfarin treatment, indicating that glutamate γ-carboxylation is crucial for Ucma function and pointing to a role of UCMA in the pathogenesis of "warfarin embryopathies" and other human skeletal diseases.
A woman with a recurrent episode of a depression that hitherto had been unipolar developed a hypomania the day after her treatment with paroxetine 20 mg/day was switched to venlafaxine 75 mg/day. The hypomanic symptoms subsided gradually as the dosage was reduced and the patient thereafter remained in a euthymic state while on venlafaxine at a dose of 18.75 mg/day. Three possible explanations are discussed for the patient's response: there was a pharmacokinetic interaction between paroxetine and venlafaxine, the patient had an idiosyncratic reaction to venlafaxine or venlafaxine inhibited the re-uptake of norepinephrin.
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most important cause of severe, lower respiratory tract infections in infants, and RSV infections have been associated with chronic wheezing and asthma during childhood. However, the mechanism of RSV-induced airway inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) is poorly understood. Furthermore, there are presently neither effective vaccines nor drugs available for the prevention or treatment of RSV infections. In this study, we investigated the effect of the plant extract resveratrol as a means of preventing airway inflammation and attenuating RSV-induced AHR. Our data showed that resveratrol reduced RSV lung titers and the number of infiltrating lymphocytes present in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and reduced inflammation. Furthermore, resveratrol attenuated airway responses to methacholine following RSV infection and significantly decreased gamma interferon (IFN-γ) levels in BALF of RSV-infected mice. Data presented in this report demonstrated that resveratrol controlled Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) expression, inhibited the TRIF signaling pathway, and induced M2 receptor expression following RSV infection. These data support a role for the use of resveratrol as a means of reducing IFN-γ levels associated with RSV-mediated airway inflammation and AHR, which may be mediated via TLR3 signaling.
Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) has been described as an uncommon complication of gemcitabine. In this review, we discuss the diagnosis of gemcitabine-induced aHUS (GiHUS) and the published experience with therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE). To illustrate GiHUS, we present a patient who developed hypertension and peripheral edema while receiving gemcitabine and subsequently was found to have thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, renal failure, and normal ADAMTS-13 activity. Although laboratory parameters improved on suspending gemcitabine, they worsened after reinstitution of the drug. Thrombocytopenia and hemolysis ceased once the drug was permanently discontinued without therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE). The pathological characteristics of GiHUS suggest damage of the glomeruli endothelial lining, leading to occlusion by fibrin-rich thrombi. Among 26 patients described in the literature not treated with TPE, 56% recovered from GiHUS, whereas only 30% of 18 patients treated with TPE did. The difference in recovery rate may have been confounded by the severity of GiHUS as suggested by the rate of dialysis in each group: 10/26 (38%) patients who did not receive TPE were dialyzed compared with 11/18 (61%) of those who had plasma exchange. Thus, although the currently available evidence is not decisive for use or non use of TPE, we suggest that the most important therapeutic intervention in GiHUS is discontinuation of the drug. Apheresis medicine specialists should be aware of this specific type of aHUS and provide treatment advice based on the currently available evidence.
To evaluate the potential utility of sodium bicarbonate in an established model of acute propranolol toxicity.
Two minutes after the completion of a propranolol infusion (10 mg/kg), a bolus of 1.5 mEq/kg of sodium bicarbonate solution (1 mEq/mL) followed by an infusion of 1.5 mEq/kg over the next 26 minutes (n = 6) or an equivalent timing and volume of 5% dextrose solution (n = 6) was administered in each dog. Targeted cardiovascular parameters included heart rate, mean arterial pressure, left ventricular dP/dtmax, and QRS interval.
Propranolol infusion significantly depressed heart rate (p < 0.0001), mean arterial pressure (p < 0.0001), dP/dtmax (p < 0.0001) and prolonged the QRS interval (p < 0.0001). Sodium bicarbonate failed to significantly improve these targeted parameters when compared to control animals.
In this canine model of propranolol toxicity, intravenous sodium bicarbonate appears to be an ineffective single therapy. Furthermore, these results may suggest a different mechanism of sodium channel blockade for propanolol than that of type IA antiarrhythmic agents.
Noncirrhotic fibrosis of the liver is common in subjects chronically consuming ground water geologically contaminated with arsenic, but the mechanism of the hepatic fibrosis is not known. Because lipid peroxidation has been implicated in the development of several other forms of hepatic fibrosis, including iron and copper overload, we have explored the roles of oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation in the causation of hepatic fibrosis in a murine model of chronic arsenic toxicity.
Male BALB/c mice were given drinking water contaminated with arsenic (3.2 mg/L) or arsenic-free (<0.01 mg/L, control) ad libitum. Mice were sacrificed at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 15 months for examination of hepatic histology and assays of hepatic reduced glutathione content, lipid peroxidation, enzymes of the antioxidant defense system, and membrane-bound sodium/potassium ATPase (Na+/K+ ATPase).
After 12 months of arsenic feeding, the liver weights increased significantly as did serum aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase. After 6 months of arsenic feeding, hepatic glutathione and the enzymes glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and glutathione peroxidase were significantly lower than those of the control group. Hepatic catalase activity was significantly reduced at 9 months in the arsenic-fed group, while glutathione-S-transferase and glutathione reductase activities were also significantly reduced at 12 and 15 months. Plasma membrane Na+/K+ ATPase activity was reduced after 6 months while lipid peroxidation increased significantly after 6 months of arsenic feeding. Liver histology remained normal for the first 9 months, but showed fatty infiltration after 12 months of arsenic feeding. Histologic evidence of fibrosis was observed after 15 months.
We have demonstrated hepatic fibrosis due to long-term arsenic toxicity in an animal model. Initial biochemical evidence of hepatic membrane damage, probably due to reduction of glutathione and antioxidant enzymes, may be seen by 6 months. Continued arsenic feeding resulted in fatty liver with serum aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase elevated at 12 months and hepatic fibrosis at 15 months. The murine model is proposed as relevant to epidemic human toxicity in areas of arsenic contamination.
Arsenic is an environmental pollutant, and its liver toxicity has long been recognized. The effect of arsenic on liver protein expression was analyzed using a proteomic approach in monkeys. Monkeys were orally administered sodium arsenite (SA) for 28 days. As shown by 2D-PAGE in combination with MS, the expression levels of 16 proteins were quantitatively changed in SA-treated monkey livers compared to control-treated monkey livers. Specifically, the levels of two proteins, mortalin and tubulin beta chain, were increased, and 14 were decreased, including plastin-3, cystathionine-beta-synthase, selenium-binding protein 1, annexin A6, alpha-enolase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase-M, erlin-2, and arginase-1. In view of their functional roles, differential expression of these proteins may contribute to arsenic-induced liver toxicity, including cell death and carcinogenesis. Among the 16 identified proteins, four were selected for validation by Western blot and immunohistochemistry. Additional Western blot analyses indicated arsenic-induced dysregulation of oxidative stress related, genotoxicity-related, and glucose metabolism related proteins in livers from SA-treated animals. Many changes in the abundance of toxicity-related proteins were also demonstrated in SA-treated human hepatoma cells. These data on the arsenic-induced regulation of proteins with critical roles may help elucidate the specific mechanisms underlying arsenic-induced liver toxicity.
To describe the first case of amoxicillin-induced nonimmune hemolytic anemia in a child with glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (GPI) deficiency.
A 3-year-old boy with GPI deficiency was admitted for upper respiratory tract infection and fever. The patient was treated with a standard dose of amoxicillin (50 mg/kg/day). On hospital admission, the child had a chronic moderately low hemoglobin level (8.6 g/dL), but within 24 hours of the first amoxicillin dose, the hemoglobin level markedly decreased (5.8 g/dL), the reticulocyte level increased (58%), and the urine darkened. Results of the direct and indirect Coomb's tests were negative and the acute hemolytic phase ended spontaneously 8 days after amoxicillin withdrawal (hemoglobin 9.5 g/dL, reticulocytes 22%).
All previous cases of amoxicillin-induced hemolytic anemia have been attributed to an immune mechanism. Given the absence of anti-reticulocyte antibodies (Coomb's test), we suggest that the amoxicillin-induced hemolytic anemia in our patient occurred via a nonimmune mechanism favored by the child's GPI deficiency. Based on a MEDLINE search, we believe this to be the first report of amoxicillin-induced nonimmune hemolytic anemia in a child with GPI deficiency. GPI deficiency has been associated with well-compensated chronic hemolytic anemia that can become clinically relevant consequent to the administration of drugs. GPI deficiency can lead to impairment of the system that removes free radicals generated by amoxicillin, thereby resulting in oxidation of hemoglobin and destabilization of red cell membranes, with acute hemolysis and severe hemoglobinuria. The Naranjo probability score was consistent with a probable relationship between the hemolytic anemia and amoxicillin therapy.
This report reinforces the hypothesis that a drug-sensitivity reaction is closely related to a genetically transmitted enzyme deficiency.
