Paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia is the most common type of paroxysmal movement disorder and is often misdiagnosed clinically as epilepsy. Using whole-exome sequencing followed by Sanger sequencing, we identified three truncating mutations within PRRT2 (NM_145239.2) in eight Han Chinese families with histories of paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia: c.514_517delTCTG (p.Ser172Argfs*3) in one family, c.649dupC (p.Arg217Profs*8) in six families and c.972delA (p.Val325Serfs*12) in one family. These truncating mutations co-segregated exactly with the disease in these families and were not observed in 1,000 control subjects of matched ancestry. PRRT2 is a newly discovered gene consisting of four exons encoding the proline-rich transmembrane protein 2, which encompasses 340 amino acids and contains two predicted transmembrane domains. PRRT2 is highly expressed in the developing nervous system, and a truncating mutation alters the subcellular localization of the PRRT2 protein. The function of PRRT2 and its role in paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia should be further investigated.
The brominated flame retardants (BFRs) 1,2-dibromo-4-(1,2-dibromoethyl)cyclohexane (TBECH or DBE-DCBH) and allyl 2,4,6-tribromophenyl ether (ATE or TBP-AE) are alternative BFRs that have been introduced to replace banned BFRs. TBECH is a potential endocrine disrupter in human, chicken and zebrafish and in a recent study we showed that ATE, along with the structurally similar BFR 2,3-dibromopropyl 2,4,6-tribromophenyl ether (DPTE or TBP-DBPE) and its metabolite 2-bromoallyl 2,4,6-tribromophenyl ether (BATE or TBP-BAE) are potential endocrine and neuronal disrupters in human. In this study we analyzed ATE, BATE and DPTE for zebrafish androgen receptor (zAR) modulating properties. In silico analysis with two softwares, Molecular Operating Environment (MOE) and Internal Coordinate Mechanics (ICM), showed that ATE, BATE and DPTE bind to zAR. In vitro AR activation assay revealed that these three BFRs down-regulate 11-ketotestosterone (KT) mediated zAR activation. Exposure to 10μM DPTE resulted in reduced hatching success and like TBECH, BATE and DPTE at 10μM also had teratogenic properties with 20% and 50% back-bone curvature respectively. Gene transcription analysis in zebrafish embryos as well as in juveniles showed down-regulation of the androgen receptor and androgen response genes, which further support that these BFRs are androgen antagonists and potential endocrine disrupting compounds. Genes involved in steroidogenesis were also down-regulated by these BFRs. In view of this, the impact of these BFRs on humans and wildlife needs further analysis.
The understanding of the intestine contribution to drug biotransformation improved significantly in recent years. However, the sources of inter-individual variability in intestinal drug biotransformation, namely sex-differences, are still elusive. Nevirapine (NVP) is an orally taken anti-HIV drug associated with severe idiosyncratic reactions elicited by toxic metabolites, with women at increased risk. As such, NVP is a good model to assess sex-dimorphic metabolism. The aim of this study was to perform a comparative profiling of NVP biotransformation in rat intestine and liver and evaluate whether or not it is organ- and sex-dependent. Therefore, nevirapine-containing solutions were perfused through the intestine, in a specially designed chamber, or incubated with liver slices, from male and female Wistar rats. The levels of NVP and its Phase I metabolites were quantified by HPLC-UV. Liver incubation experiments yielded the metabolites 2-, 3-, 8-, and 12-OH-NVP, being 12-OH-NVP and 2-OH-NVP the major metabolites in males and females, respectively. Inter-sex differences in the metabolic profile were also detected in the intestine perfusion experiments. Herein, the metabolites 3- and 12-OH-NVP were only found in male rats, whereas 2-OH-NVP levels were higher in females, both in extraluminal (p<0.01) and intraluminal media. The metabolite 8-OH-NVP was not detected in the intraluminal media from either males or females. In this study, important inter-sex differences were detected in both organs, providing further clues to the sex-dimorphic profile of NVP toxicity. Moreover, an extra-hepatic contribution to NVP biotransformation was observed, strengthening the relevance of the intestinal contribution in the biotransformation of orally taken-drugs.
The organoselenium compounds have been reported for many biological properties, especially as potent antioxidants. The compound bis(phenylimidazoselenazolyl) diselenide (BPIS) is a novel diaryl diselenide derivative, which shows antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory properties in mice, but whose antioxidant activity has not been studied. The present study aimed to investigate the antioxidant and toxicological potential of BPIS in brain of rats in vitro, and the effect of BPIS against the oxidative damage induced by sodium nitroprusside (SNP) in mouse brain. BPIS, at low molecular range, reduced lipid peroxidation (LP) and protein carbonyl (PC) content in rat brain homogenates (IC50 values of 1.35 and 0.74μM, respectively). BPIS also presented dehydroascorbate reductase-like and glutathione-S-transferase-like, as well as DPPH and NO-scavenging activities. Related to togicological assays, BPIS inhibited δ-ALA-D and Na(+), K(+)-ATPase activities in rat brain homogenates and [(3)H]glutamate uptake in synaptosomes in vitro, but these effects were observed at higher concentrations than it had antioxidant effect (IC50 values of 16.41, 26.44 and 3.29μM, respectively). In vivo, brains of mice treated with SNP (0.335μmol per site; i.c.v.) showed an increase in LP and PC and a reduction in non protein thiol content, however, it was not observed significant alterations in antioxidant enzyme activities. BPIS (10mg/kg; p.o.) protected against these alterations caused by SNP. In conclusion, the results demonstrated the antioxidant action of BPIS in in vitro assays. Furthermore, BPIS protected against oxidative damage caused by SNP in mouse brain, strengthening the potential antioxidant effect of this compound.
Two depressed children with a strong family history of affective disorder developed manic episodes shortly after starting treatment with low dose antidepressant therapy. In one of these cases manic symptoms appeared on each of the three occasions that tricyclic medication was started or increased in dosage. There are a few reports of manic switching in young people and one that describe such a close temporal association between the administration of antidepressants and the development of mania. Children with a family history of affective disorder may be more susceptible to manic switching.
The antihypertensive effects of prazosin in relation to its kinetics were studied after single doses (intravenous and oral, 0.5 mg) and during increasing multiple doses (0.5 to 5 mg three times a day). There was a fall in systolic and diastolic blood pressures of 10% to 14%, which was greater in the standing than in the sitting position. Prazosin plasma concentrations correlated with dose (P less than 0.001). After intravenous prazosin the fall in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and prazosin plasma concentration correlated (P less than 0.01) during the beta-elimination phase in all patients. In only five of eight patients, however, did mean plasma concentration and antihypertensive effect during continuous treatment with different doses correlate. The maximal fall in systolic blood pressure correlated (P less than 0.01) with that after the first oral steady-state dose (0.5 mg three times daily), which indicates limited possibility of early identification of prazosin responders. There were no signs of overshoot of blood pressure when prazosin was withdrawn for a week. On rechallenge with a single oral dose of 2.5 mg prazosin there were no signs of enhanced hypotensive effect.
The purpose of the study was elaboration of the experimental model of hepatic venoocclusive disease (VOD) induced by dactinomycin and investigation of possible hepatoprotective effects of amifostine and heparin individually or in combination with dexamethasone. 198 Wistar strain male rats were used in the trial in two series of experiments. In the first series the experimental model of VOD induced by dactinomycin was elaborated on the group of 18 animals (divided into 3 groups receiving intraperitoneally isotonic salt solution, dactinomycin or nitrosamine). Nitrosamine--a well-known agent causing VOD--was used as positive control. Open biopsies of the liver and blood collections were repeated in order to determine liver enzymes' concentrations. Histopathological examinations demonstrated that dactinomycin caused liver lesion corresponding with VOD picture. Second series of animals was divided into 6 groups receiving the following drugs: I--0.9% NaCl solution, II--dactinomycin (ACT), III--ACT + fraxiparine s.c., IV--ACT + fraxiparine + dexamethasone, V--ACT + amifostine. Five animals from each group were sacrificed on the 3rd and 7th day after each cycle of drug administration. Blood was drawn in order to determine the following: AspAT, AlAT, Falk, GGTP and LDH. Intravital wedge biopsies under anesthesia with the use of inactin were also performed. Liver samples were stained with the use of H&E, p. a. S and Gomory's techniques. We did not find significant differences in liver enzymes' levels between the groups. Pathological changes corresponding with VOD picture of different intensification were found in liver samples from all the rats receiving ACT. Changes became more and more intensive after consecutive cycles. Lesion of central veins' and liver sinusoids' endothelium dominated. Fraxiparine administered individually or in combination with dexamethasone did not prevent the lesion. Administration of amifostine before ACT decreased pathomorphological changes in liver. Dactinomycin caused homogenous subclinical liver lesion corresponding with VOD. It may also occur in children receiving ACT in the course of nephroblastoma's treatment. But probably the changes are too subtle to manifest themselves clinically with exception of patients particularly sensitive (for example after previous radiotherapy). Lack of differences observed in liver enzymes' levels between the groups supports the explanation. Markers of lesion of liver vessels' endothelium should be looked for to make more specific diagnostics of VOD possible. Hepatoprotective properties of amifostine need further studies.
1. It is possible to create the experimental model of VOD induced by dactinomycin administration. 2. Amifostine seems to act hepatoprotectively to liver lesions caused by dactinomycin.
The relationship between infusion rate of etidocaine and bupivacaine and central nervous system toxicity was studied in three rhesus monkeys. Increasing the infusion rate from 0.5 to 2.0 mg/kg.min-1 decreased the seizure dosage of etidocaine but had no effect on that of bupivacaine. Arterial plasma concentrations of etidocaine and bupivacaine that induced electrical seizure activity increased as the infusion rate was increased from 0.5 to 1.0 mg/kg. min-1. A plasma decay study in a fourth animal demonstrated that etidocaine decayed more rapidly than did bupivacaine. These results suggest that the rate of administration of these agents is important in determining central nervous system toxicity.
The protective effects of oleanolic acid on carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatotoxicities and the possible mechanisms involved in this protection were investigated in mice. Pretreatment with oleanolic acid prior to the administration of carbon tetrachloride significantly prevented the increase in serum alanine aminotransferase and lactate dehydrogenase activity and liver lipid peroxidation in a dose-dependent manner. Hepatic glutathione levels and glutathione-S-transferase activities were not affected by treatment with oleanolic acid alone but pretreatment with oleanolic acid protects carbon tetrachloride-induced depletion of hepatic glutathione levels. The effects of oleanolic acid on the cytochrome P450 (P450) 2E1, the major isozyme involved in carbon tetrachloride bioactivation were investigated. Treatment of mice with oleanolic acid resulted in a significant decrease of P450 2E1-dependent p-nitrophenol and aniline hydroxylation in a dose-dependent manner. Consistent with these observations, the P450 2E1 expressions were also decreased, as determined by immunoblot analysis. These results show that the protective effects of oleanolic acid against the carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatotoxicity may, at least in part, be due to its ability to block bioactivation of carbon tetrachloride mainly by the inhibition of expression and activities of P450 2E1.
Anti-NMDA receptor antibody encephalitis is a limbic encephalitis with psychiatric manifestations, abnormal movements, coma, and seizures. The coma and abnormal movements are not typically attributed to seizure activity, and slow activity is the most common EEG finding. We report drug-resistant nonconvulsive status epilepticus as the basis for coma in a 19-year-old woman with anti-NMDA receptor antibodies and a mediastinal teratoma. The EEG showed generalized rhythmic delta activity, with evolution in morphology, frequency, and field typical of nonconvulsive status epilepticus. The status was refractory to antiepileptic drugs, repeated drug-induced coma, resection of the tumor, intravenous steroids, rituximab, and plasmapheresis. She awoke after the addition of felbamate, and the rhythmic delta activity ceased. The rhythmic delta activity described with coma in anti-NMDA receptor antibody encephalitis may represent a pattern of status epilepticus in some patients. Felbamate, which has NMDA receptor antagonist activity, should be studied as a therapeutic agent in this condition.
The case is presented of a 40-year-old man with pure red cell aplasia which developed 4 years after institution of azathioprine therapy for renal transplantation. The patient recovered 5 1/2 months after substitution of cyclophosphamide for azathioprine.
Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is a stress-responsive enzyme with potent anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Previous studies have shown that systemic induction of HO-1 by chemical inducers reduces adiposity and improves insulin sensitivity. To dissect the specific function of HO-1 in adipose tissue, we generated transgenic mice with adipose HO-1 overexpression using the adipocyte-specific aP2 promoter. The transgenic (Tg) mice exhibit similar metabolic phenotype as wild type (WT) control under chow-fed condition. High fat diet (HFD) challenge significantly increased the body weights of WT and Tg mice to a similar extent. Likewise, HFD-induced glucose intolerance and insulin resistance were not much different between WT and Tg mice. Analysis of the adipose tissue gene expression revealed that the mRNA levels of adiponectin and interleukin-10 were significantly higher in chow diet-fed Tg mice as compared to WT counterparts, whereas HFD induced downregulation of adiponectin gene expression in both Tg and WT mice to a similar level. HFD-induced proinflammatory cytokine expression in adipose tissues were comparable between WT and transgenic mice. Nevertheless, immunohistochemistry and gene expression analysis showed that the number of infiltrating macrophages with preferential expression of M2 markers was significantly higher in the adipose tissue of obese Tg mice than WT mice. Further experiment demonstrated that myeloid cells from Tg mice expressed higher level of HO-1 and exhibited greater migration response toward chemoattractant in vitro. Collectively, these data indicate that HO-1 overexpression in adipocytes does not protect against HFD-induced obesity and the development of insulin resistance in mice.
It is well established that exposure to ambient fine particulate matter (PM), defined as PM < or = 2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5), is associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and that elderly persons are particularly susceptible to these effects. We speculated that the increased susceptibility of elderly persons to PM is due to altered production of inflammatory mediators and antioxidants in the lung. We performed pilot studies in an animal model to test this hypothesis. For these studies we used diesel exhaust (DE), a major component of urban PM, as a model. Two groups of male CB6F1 mice, 2 months and 18 months old, (referred to in this report as young and old mice, respectively) were exposed to DE at 300 or 1000 microg/m3 PM (referred to as low- or high-dose DE, respectively), or to filtered air as a control, for one 3-hour period (single exposure) or for 3 hours on each of three consecutive days (repeated exposure). Mice were killed and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, serum, and lung tissue were collected immediately after exposure (0 hours) and 24 hours after the final exposure. After single or repeated exposure to DE, persistent structural alterations and inflammation were observed in the lungs of old mice. These changes consisted of patchy thickening of alveolar septa and an increase in the number of neutrophils and macrophages in alveolar spaces. In the young mice, in contrast, no major alterations in lung histology were noted. In old but not in young mice, significant increases in messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of the oxidative-stress marker lipocalin 24p3 were also observed. In both young and old mice, exposure to DE was associated with increased expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) mRNA in the lung. However, this response was attenuated in old mice. Exposure to high-dose DE resulted in significant increases in interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8 mRNA expression in the lungs of old animals; these increases persisted for 24 hours. Whereas IL-6 was also up-regulated in young mice after DE exposure, no major effects were evident on the expression of IL-8 mRNA. Expression of the antioxidant enzyme manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) was decreased in lung tissue from young animals after single or repeated exposure to DE. In contrast, constitutive expression of MnSOD was not evident in lungs of old mice, and DE had no effect on the expression of this antioxidant. These preliminary data confirm that old mice are more sensitive to DE than young mice and that increased sensitivity is associated with altered expression of inflammatory cytokines and the antioxidant MnSOD. These aberrations may contribute to the increased susceptibility of old mice to inhaled PM.
This clinical case report describes the use of extremely high doses of dantrolene in the management of an episode of malignant hyperthermia (MH). A 6-year-old, 25 kg girl underwent anesthetic induction with halothane for an elective inguinal herniorrhaphy. Tachydysrhythmias, laryngospasm, opisthotonos, rhabdomyolysis, and profound metabolic acidosis ensued as features of an MH crisis. Initial dantrolene administration did not alleviate the symptoms. Increasing doses of dantrolene eventually totaling 42 mg/kg, along with symptomatic supportive care, were administered successfully to treat the event. It is postulated that the severe muscle rigidity may have precluded the circulation of dantrolene to its site of action. The role of the Malignant Hyperthermia Association of the United States (MHAUS) Hotline as a 24-hour consultative service is noted.
The postulated beta adrenoceptor blocking properties of the new antiarrhythmic drug propafenone were studied by in vivo comparison against placebo and propranolol in the antagonism of both exercise- and isoproterenol-induced tachycardia and by in vitro radioligand binding studies of animal and human left ventricular muscle membrane preparations. Interaction with frog erythrocyte membrane adenylate cyclase was also investigated. In the clinical studies, a double blind crossover comparison of oral propafenone (300 mg), propranolol (40 mg) and placebo indicated significant antagonism of chronotropic response to isoproterenol 2 hr postdose with dose ratios of 4.1 +/- 1.3 (mean +/- S.E.M.) for propafenone and 16.8 +/- 5.1 for propranolol. Chronotropic response to exercise was modestly reduced by propafenone. Analysis of the binding of [125I]iodocyanopindolol to human left ventricular membranes revealed specific beta adrenoceptor competition by propafenone with an EC50 of 111 +/- 13 nM. Propranolol EC50 was 2.4 +/- 0.2 nM in this system. Competitive inhibition of isoproterenol-stimulated frog erythrocyte membrane adenylate cyclase activity was also obtained with propafenone. The ratio of affinities (calculated from the apparent dissociation constant; KD) for propranolol-propafenone was 1:40 for the in vivo study and 1:50 for the in vitro system. Propafenone is a specific antagonist of the human beta adrenoceptor and this action can be demonstrated during in vivo study in human subjects. At clinical dosages it appears likely that it will achieve a modest degree of beta blockade which may contribute to its antiarrhythmic effect.
The finding of new PXR modulators as potential leads for treatment of human disorders characterized by dysregulation of innate immunity and with inflammation is of wide interest. In this paper, we report the identification of the first example of natural marine PXR agonists, solomonsterols A and B, from a Theonella swinhoei sponge. The structures were determined by interpretation of NMR and ESIMS data, and the putative binding mode to PXR has been obtained through docking calculations.
Recent studies in liver and kidney transplant recipients revealed a nephrotoxic adverse effect of the new macrolide immunosuppressant FK-506. Therefore the effect of FK-506 0.1 to 0.8 mg per kg per day was investigated in rats using clearance methods including lithium clearance. In rats given FK-506 or placebo during 1 week the nephrotoxicity of FK-506 was characterized by a slight reduction of inulin clearance. The end proximal delivery as measured by the lithium clearance was decreased by FK-506. In rats treated for 4 weeks with FK-506 0.8 mg/kg/day the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) had decreased to 23% of the GFR found in controls (P < 0.001), while end proximal delivery was only 8% of normal. Renal histopathological investigation showed a slight but statistically significant increase of tubular basophilia and atrophy in FK-506-treated rats. Skin transplantation studies in the same rat strain showed a dose-dependent immunosuppressive effect of FK-506. FK-506 0.8 mg/kg was significantly more immunosuppressive than 0.2 or 0.4 mg/kg, so it was concluded that the lower doses of FK-506 did not fully exploit the drug's immunosuppressive potential. Thus in a dosage inside the therapeutic range defined from skin transplantations, FK-506 generated a number of toxic effects including a considerable nephrotoxic effect. The FK-506 induced changes in glomerular and tubular function was a close match to the changes found in cyclosporin A nephrotoxicity. The present study suggests that FK-506 nephrotoxicity is caused by constriction of preglomerular vessels.
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is a omega-3 essential fatty acid that reduces the incidence and severity of a number of diseases. Recently, a novel series of DHA-derived lipid mediators with potent protective actions has been identified. In this study we demonstrate that dietary amplification of these DHA-derived products protects the liver from necroinflammatory injury. In vitro, supplementation of hepatocytes with DHA significantly reduced hydrogen peroxide-induced DNA damage, evaluated by the "comet assay," and oxidative stress, determined by measurement of malondialdehyde levels. In vivo, dietary supplementation of mice with DHA ameliorated carbon tetrachloride-induced necroinflammatory damage. In addition, hepatic cyclooxygenase-2 expression and PGE2 levels were significantly reduced in mice fed DHA-enriched diets. In these animals, increased hepatic formation of DHA-derived lipid mediators (i.e., 17S-hydroxy-DHA (17S-HDHA) and protectin D1) was detected by HPLC-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry analysis. Consistent with these findings, synthetic 17-HDHA abrogated genotoxic and oxidative damage in hepatocytes and decreased TNF-alpha release and 5-lipoxygenase expression in macrophages. In a transactivation assay, 17-HDHA acted in a concentration-dependent manner as a PPARgamma agonist. Taken together, these findings identify a potential role for DHA-derived products, specifically 17S-HDHA and protectin D1, in mediating the protective effects of dietary DHA in necroinflammatory liver injury.
Thalidomide has been shown to lead to a high rate of autism when exposure occurs during the 20th to 24th d of gestation. Both the critical period and the neurological deficits of the autistic cases indicate that they have sustained injuries to the cranial nerve motor nuclei. To determine whether such lesions characterize other cases of autism, the brain stem of an autistic case was compared to that of a control. The autopsy case showed abnormalities predicted by the thalidomide cases and evidence of shortening of the brain stem, a defect that could have occurred only during neural tube closure. To test whether animals can be similarly injured but remain viable, rats were treated with 350 mg/kg of valproic acid on day 11.5, 12, or 12.5 of gestation. Neuron counts showed reductions of cell numbers in the cranial nerve motor nuclei. Rats with motor neuron deficits also had cerebellar anomalies like those reported in studies of autistic cases, supporting the idea that these animals may be a useful model of the developmental injury that initiates autism.
This study was conducted to investigate chromium metabolism and the effect of chromium supplementation in patients with Turner's syndrome, a condition noted for its high incidence of diabetes. Oral glucose tolerance tests were performed in 14 patients 8 to 19 yr of age. Eight of the 14 subjects were given 30 g of brewer's yeast containing 50 micrograms of chromium every day for 8 wk and glucose tolerance tests repeated. Urine samples were collected before and after each glucose load. Serum lipids were also investigated. Before supplementation, urinary chromium/creatinine ratio was high, and the urinary chromium response to oral glucose tolerance test was absent. Cholesterol and/or triglyceride levels were high in three of the patients. After supplementation, a decrease in urinary Cr/Cre ratio, and an improvement in glucose area index total were noted. A decrease in cholesterol and/or triglyceride levels occurred in the three patients with high initial levels as well as an increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. These findings indicate a state of chromium deficiency and support the hypothesis that chromium deficiency may have a role in the pathogenesis of the abnormal glucose tolerance tests encountered in Turner patients.
We report on two patients, treated with indapamide for mild hypertension, who developed life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. The former showed severe hypokalemia, QT interval prolongation and "torsade de pointes": the latter, who suffered from ischemic heart disease, had slightly decreased serum potassium and ventricular fibrillation. In both cases no other cause accounting for hypokalemia and ventricular arrhythmia was found. Therefore we stress that serum potassium and ECG must be carefully monitored during indapamide therapy, mainly in patients with cardiac disease.
S-phase kinase protein 2 (SKP2), an F-box protein, targets cell-cycle regulators including cycle-dependent kinase inhibitor p27KiP1 via ubiquitin-mediated degradation. SKP2 is frequently overexpressed in a variety of cancer cells and has been implicated in oncogenesis; however, its role in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) has not been elucidated. Therefore, we investigated the role of SKP2 and its ubiquitin-proteasome pathway in a large series (301) of DLBCL patient samples and a panel of DLBCL cell lines. Using immunohistochemistry, SKP2 was detected in 41.6% of DLBCL tumours and was inversely associated with p27Kip1 protein level. The DLBCL subset with high SKP2 and low p27Kip1 showed a strong correlation with the proliferating index marker Ki-67 (p < 0.0001) and also with the germinal centre phenotype (p = 0.0147). Treatment of DLBCL cell lines with bortezomib or expression of SKP2-specific siRNA causes down-regulation of SKP2 and accumulation of p27Kip1, leading to suppression of growth by inducing apoptosis. Furthermore, treatment of DLBCL cells with bortezomib causes apoptosis via involving the mitochondrial pathway and activation of caspases. Finally, treatment of DLBCL cells with bortezomib down-regulated the expression of XIAP, cIAP1, and survivin. Altogether, these results suggest that SKP2 and the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway may be a potential target for therapeutic intervention in DLBCL.
Thioridazine-tricyclic antidepressant combination is frequently used in clinical practice. One reason for the choice of this combination may be its anticipated effectiveness in depressions which show both retarded and anxious features. Because both of these drugs have an adverse effect on cardiac repolarization, this may be a particularly hazardous combination. Two cases are presented illustrating life-threatening ventricular arrythmia in patients who have ingested both thioridazine and tricyclic antidepressants.
The loss of survival motor neuron-1 (SMN1) is responsible for the development of the neurodegenerative disorder spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). A nearly identical copy of SMN1 is present on the same chromosomal region called SMN2. While SMN2 encodes a normal SMN protein, the majority of SMN2-derived transcripts are alternatively spliced, resulting in a truncated protein that lacks the 16 amino acids encoded by SMN exon 7. Numerous studies have shown that the SMN2-derived protein product, called SMNDelta7, is unstable and dysfunctional. Therefore, identifying molecules that stimulate full-length SMN expression from the SMN2 gene could lead to the development of effective therapies for a broad range of SMA patient populations. Polyphenol compounds have been shown to provide benefit in varied genetic disease contexts. For example, epigallocatechin galate (EGCG) was found to correct aberrant alternative mRNA splicing in familiar dysautonomia (FD). A series of polyphenols were screened and a subset was shown to increase full-length SMN expression from SMN2. Curcumin, EGCG, and resveratrol increased exon 7 inclusion of SMN2 transcripts in transient reporter assays. In SMA patient fibroblasts, these compounds stimulated the production of full-length SMN RNA and protein as well as the formation of SMN-containing nuclear gems. Collectively, these compounds elevated total SMN concentrations in SMA patient fibroblasts, potentially through the modulation of SMN2 exon 7 alternative splicing.
