The influence of dichlorvos on the cholinesterases activity during ontogenic development was investigated in rabbits. Pregnant females were treated per os with DDVP (6 mg/kg/24 hrs) for the last 10 days of pregnancy. In progeny in the blood plasma and in the homogenates of the brain tissue activity of cholinesterases was measured spectrofotometrically according to Ellman method. Method of Karnowsky and Roots [6] in histoenzymatic investigations was followed. The decrease of acetylcholinesterase activity in the brain tissue and the increase of cholinesterase activity in the blood plasma were observed. The changes sustained through whole period of investigation (1-16 day of life). Histochemically the lowered activity of enzymes was localized mainly in the neuropil of: striatum, the Broc's nuclei and rhinencephalon: in the nervous cells of: Ammon's horn, nuclei of thalamus and in neocortex. The results suggest that the brain centers connected with the high CNS function could be influenced by DDVP intoxication during ontogenic development.
We report two cases of acute hepatotoxicity after treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic. Viral hepatitis serology and autoantibodies were negative. Biliary tree obstruction and other etiologies were excluded. After discontinuation of the drug the evolution was favorable with clinical improvement and normalization of liver tests. Liver biopsy made in one patient showed cholestasic hepatitis with hepatocellular necrosis and other patient was treated with ursodeoxycholic. Also, we analyse potential utility of ursodeoxycholic acid administration in toxic cholestasis.
While cytochrome P4501A2 is the primary pathway for theophylline (aminophylline ethylenediamine) metabolism in adults, it is developmentally immature in the newborn.
To report the developmental differences in theophylline toxicokinetics of neonates.
Case series. Three premature neonates received inadvertent intravenous overdoses of theophylline for apnea of prematurity while in newborn intensive care. Maximum serum concentrations ranged from 55 to 123 mg/L. Theophylline-derived caffeine levels plateaued at 8.4 to 13 mg/L and did not decline during the sampling period. All newborns experienced sinus tachycardia and agitation. Sequential theophylline and caffeine serum levels were obtained periodically for 62 to 100 hours. In contrast to older children and adults, in whom theophylline disposition follows zero-order kinetics at high concentrations, a monoexponential function best described theophylline elimination in the premature newborn, with half-lives ranging from 24.7 to 36.5 hours and estimated clearance from 0.02 to 0.05 L/kg per hour. These values are consistent with those previously reported in neonates. All patients were treated with supportive care without invasive procedures. No seizures or apparent sequelae occurred.
Developmental differences in the balance between nonrenal (ie, metabolic) and renal elimination pathways produce the unique toxicokinetics of theophylline in the neonate.
A 79 year-old female patient presented with immunoblastic B-cell lymphoma of the ethmoidal sinuses and destruction of the anterior cranial fossa. After 3 cycles of high-dose methorexate (HD-MTX) MTX serum level remained elevated and creatinine serum levels raised. The patient received Carboxypeptidase G2 (CPG2) intravenously. Within one hour the MTX serum level decreased to <1 micromol/l as determined by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). The patient recovered without significant toxicity and attained a long lasting ongoing (>14 months) complete remission. In this case we were able to demonstrate that rescue from HD-MT nephrotoxicity by CPG2 is also safe and effective in patients with advanced age with impaired renal function. With the help of CPG2, sufficient and potentially curative therapy with HD-MTX may also be provided to patients with a high risk of renal failure.
Gentamicin is a widely used ototoxic agent. In this study, we shed light on the mechanisms underlying gentamicin-induced hearing loss. More importantly, we demonstrate in vivo and in vitro the effectiveness of a strategy for preventing drug-induced hearing loss using l-carnitine (LCAR), a safe micronutrient that plays a key role in energy metabolism and detoxification [Rebouche, C. J. & Seim, H. (1998) Annu. Rev. Nutr. 18, 39-61]. We show that LCAR prevents changes in hearing threshold and cochlear damage in newborn guinea pigs exposed to gentamicin in utero. Mechanistically, gentamicin-induced apoptosis of auditory cells is mediated by the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway through up-regulation of the proapoptotic factor Harakiri (Hrk). Most important, small interfering RNA (siRNA) experiments demonstrate that Hrk up-regulation is crucial for gentamicin-induced apoptosis. LCAR, in contrast, prevents both gentamicin-induced Hrk up-regulation and apoptosis acting by means of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Together, these results outline pathways for gentamicin-induced hearing loss and its prevention and assign a key role to Hrk in these processes. Thus, our data offer a conceptual framework for designing clinical trials using a safe micronutrient, LCAR, as a simple preventive strategy for iatrogenically induced ototoxicity.
Recent work has shown that dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blockers such as nitrendipine protect against ischemic liver damage in the rat in vivo (Thurman RG, Apel E and Lemasters JJ, J Cardiovasc Pharmacol 12: S113-S116, 1988), suggesting that calcium antagonists may have clinical value in preventing ischemic and hypoxic hepatic injury. This study was designed to examine the effects of two benzothiazepine-type calcium channel blockers, diltiazem and TA3090, in the hypoxic perfused rat liver. Livers were isolated and perfused briefly with oxygen-saturated buffer, followed by perfusion for 80 min with nitrogen-saturated buffer with diltiazem or TA3090 (20-200 microM), and concluding with 20 min of perfusion with oxygen-saturated buffer. In control preparations, maximal lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release into effluent perfusate following hypoxia averaged about 1100 U/L. Diltiazem and TA3090 decreased LDH release at all concentrations studied; both drugs were most effective at the 100 microM concentration (71 and 73% inhibition, respectively). Oxygen uptake by control livers decreased 78% following hypoxia; diltiazem and TA3090 reduced this effect markedly, with maximal effectiveness again observed with 100 microM (O2 uptake was decreased by 22% with 100 microM diltiazem and by only 9% with 100 microM TA3090). Histological examination for nuclear uptake of the vital dye trypan blue revealed necrosis of parenchymal cells along with cell shrinking and consequent expansion of the sinusoids in control livers. Perfusion with diltiazem markedly reduced parenchymal cell death but did not alter the pattern of cell damage observed. In contrast, livers perfused with TA3090 during hypoxia had virtually no parenchymal cell damage, although moderate damage to nonparenchymal cells in the sinusoids occurred. The difference in mechanisms responsible for the phenomena which occur with diltiazem and TA3090 is not completely understood; however, these and other calcium antagonists clearly have powerful hepatoprotective effects against ischemia and hypoxia.
The present study aimed to examine the proteins involved in the methamphetamine (MA)-induced nigrostriatal dopaminergic toxicity. Infusion of anisomycin into striatum and substantia nigra both abolished the MA-induced striatal dopamine (DA) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) depletions, indicating a critical role of local protein synthesis in determining such dopaminergic toxicity. Moreover, local protein synthesis blockade reversed this neurotoxicity via a temperature-independent mechanism. We then employed a proteomic approach, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) in conjunction with mass spectrometry analysis, to identify the protein candidates associated with the MA-induced neurotoxicity. In striatal samples, 2-DE analysis revealed that the intensities of nine protein spots were altered by MA treatment. Mass spectrometry analysis allowed us to identify five proteins, including an up-regulated protein, alpha-synuclein, and four down-regulated proteins, ATPase, F-actin capping protein beta subunit, ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase/PGP 9.5, and peroxidase. MA-altered expression levels of alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase/PGP 9.5 in striata were confirmed by western blotting analysis. Taken together, these results suggest that local up-regulation of alpha-synuclein and down-regulation of ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase/PGP 9.5 could be linked to the MA-induced dopaminergic terminal toxicity.
Cigarette smoke induces local inflammation and airway hyperreactivity. In asthmatics, it worsens the symptoms and increases the risk for exacerbation. The present study investigates the effects of nicotine on airway relaxations in isolated murine tracheal segments.
Segments were cultured for 24h in the presence of vehicle, nicotine (10 μM) and/or dexamethasone (1 μM). Airway relaxations were assessed in myographs after pre-contraction with carbachol (1 μM). Kinin receptors, cyclooxygenase (COX) and inflammatory mediator expressions were assessed by real-time PCR and confocal-microscopy-based immunohistochemistry.
The organ culture procedure markedly increased bradykinin- (selective B₂ receptor agonist) and des-Arg⁹-bradykinin- (selective B₁ receptor agonist) induced relaxations, and slightly increased relaxation induced by isoprenaline, but not that induced by PGE₂. The kinin receptor mediated relaxations were epithelium-, COX-2- and EP2-receptor-dependent and accompanied by drastically enhanced mRNA levels of kinin receptors, as well as inflammatory mediators MCP-1 and iNOS. Increase in COX-2 and mPGES-1 was verified both at mRNA and protein levels. Nicotine selectively suppressed the organ-culture-enhanced relaxations induced by des-Arg⁹-bradykinin and bradykinin, at the same time reducing mPGES-1 mRNA and protein expressions. α7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor inhibitors α-bungarotoxin and MG624 both blocked the nicotine effects on kinin B₂ receptors, but not those on B₁. Dexamethasone completely abolished kinin-induced relaxations.
It is tempting to conclude that a local inflammatory process per se could have a bronchoprotective component by increasing COX-2 mediated airway relaxations and that nicotine could impede this safety mechanism. Dexamethasone further reduced airway inflammation together with relaxations. This might contribute to the steroid resistance seen in some patients with asthma.
The relevance of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) for irinotecan chronopharmacology was investigated in female B6D2F1 mice. A three-fold 24h change in the mRNA expression of Abcb1b was demonstrated in ileum mucosa, with a maximum at Zeitgeber Time (ZT) 15 (p<0.001). No rhythm was found for abcb1a in ileum mucosa, or for Abcb1a/b in Glasgow osteosarcoma (GOS), a mouse tumor cell line moderately sensitive to irinotecan. Non-tumor-bearing mice received irinotecan (50mg/kg/day i.v.×4days) as a single agent or combined with P-gp inhibitor PSC833 (6.25mg/kg/day i.p.×4 days) at ZT3 or ZT15, respectively corresponding to the worst or the best irinotecan tolerability. Endpoints involved survival, body weight change and hematologic toxicity. Antitumor efficacy was studied in GOS-bearing mice receiving irinotecan (25, 30 or 40mg/kg/day×4days) and +/-PSC833 at ZT3 or ZT15, with survival, body weight change, and tumor growth inhibition as endpoints. Non-tumor bearing mice lost an average of 17% or 9% of their body weight according to irinotecan administration at ZT3 or ZT15 respectively (p<0.001). Dosing at ZT15 rather than ZT3 reduced mean leucopenia (9% vs 53%; p<0.001). PSC833 aggravated irinotecan lethal toxicity from 4 to ~60%. In tumor-bearing mice, body weight loss was ~halved in the mice on irinotecan or irinotecan-PSC833 combination at ZT15 as compared to ZT3 (p<0.001). PSC833-irinotecan at ZT15 increased tumor inhibition by ~40% as compared to irinotecan only at ZT15. In conclusion, P-gp was an important determinant of the circadian balance between toxicity and efficacy of irinotecan.
The effect on endothelium-dependent and independent vasodilation of 24-week treatment with a fixed-dose combination of perindopril/indapamide (2/0.625 mg, daily) and atenolol (50 mg, daily), was evaluated in 62 untreated essential hypertensive patients according a double-blind, parallel group, randomized study.
Brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMD), response to sublingual glyceril trinitrate (GTN, 25 microg) and to cold pressor test (CPT) were measured at baseline and after treatments at 12 and 24 weeks, as change in diameter from ultrasound scans by a computerized system.
Blood pressure (BP) was (P < 0.001) reduced in both groups, but to a greater (P < 0.01) extent in the perindopril/indapamide group. After 24 weeks, FMD was significantly increased (P < 0.01) by perindopril/indapamide (from 5.0 +/- 2.1 to 6.0 +/- 1.7%) but not by atenolol (from 5.1 +/- 1.8 to 5.5 +/- 1.8%). Improvement in FMD was not statistically related to BP reduction. Response to GTN was also significantly (P < 0.05) increased by perindopril/indapamide (from 6.2 +/- 1.9 to 6.9 +/- 1.7%), but not by atenolol (from 6.1 +/- 2.8 to 6.6 +/- 2.6%). Improvement in GTN response was significantly (P < 0.05) related to BP reduction. Response to CPT was significantly increased (P < 0.001) by perindopril/indapamide after 12 and 24 weeks, whereas atenolol significantly (P < 0.05) improved it only after 24 weeks.
Treatment with perindopril/indapamide improves endothelium-dependent vasodilation in comparison with atenolol. This improvement was observed without significant relations with BP changes, suggesting a pressure-independent effect. Improvement in endothelium-independent and sympathetic-associated vasodilation was also observed. These results suggests that long term therapy with a fixed-dose combination of perindopril/indapamide affords vascular protection in hypertensive patients.
1) To describe the effectiveness and safety of thrombolytic therapy in patients with acute atherothrombotic and embolic stroke and 2) to study the variables of the occlusion site as seen on the angiograms, the CT signs of early ischemia, the hyperdense middle cerebral artery sign (HMCAS), and the size of the infarcts as seen on the 24-hour CT scan.
Ninety-three of 139 patients with acute stroke were treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA). The initial disease and the effects of treatment were assessed with both CT and cerebral angiography.
Recanalization of occluded arteries occurred in 32 patients and was more frequent in distal occlusions. In general, patients displaying recanalization tended to develop small infarcts and patients with a HMCAS tended to develop large infarcts. Patients with signs of early ischemia developed large infarcts. The presence of a HMCAS was 100% fic for an occluded artery, but only 27% sensitive. Hemorrhagic transformations occurred in the distribution of the occluded arteries in 32 patients.
Emergency cerebral angiography, which can be carried out relatively safely, adds important information about the nature and extent of the arterial occlusions, and the recanalization efficacy of fibrinolytic therapy for patients with acute stroke. Fibrinolytic therapy can be carried out with a relatively low complication rate that still needs to be correlated with the clinical benefits of the treatment. Fibrinolytic therapy in the doses utilized in this study, is more effective with distal than with proximal carotid territory occlusions.
The authors studied the sensitivity (SN) and specificity (SP) of an epidural test dose containing either lidocaine 100 mg or 2-chloroprocaine 100 mg as symptomatic markers of intravascular injection in labouring parturients. In a prospective, double-blind and randomized fashion 48 unmedicated and labouring parturients were equally divided into three groups. After placement of a lumbar epidural catheter the normal saline group (NS) received 5 ml normal saline i.v., the lidocaine group (LD) received lidocaine 100 mg i.v., and the 2-chloroprocaine group (CH) received 2-chloroprocaine 100 mg i.v. All injections were given during uterine diastole. Within the next one to two minutes a blinded observer recorded the patient's perception of the presence of metallic or funny taste, dizziness, and tinnitus. We then calculated SN and SP of each symptom (alone and in combination) along with their positive (+) and negative (-) predictive value (PV). In both groups no symptom alone reached clinically acceptable levels of SN (< 87%). Only in the LD group, tinnitus+taste and dizziness+taste reached a SN of 100% with a SP of 81% and 69% respectively. While the -PV was 100% for both groups of symptoms, the +PV reached 42% for tinnitus+taste and 30% for dizziness+taste. We conclude that lidocaine 100 mg is a sensitive marker of intravascular injection in labouring parturients, and that tinnitus+taste is the most reliable indicator of intravenous injection.
The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of intrathecal meperidine in patients undergoing Caesarean section, and also to compare meperidine with heavy lidocaine. Fifty full-term pregnant women, ASA physical status I or II, presenting for elective Caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia were randomly divided into two groups with 25 in each, to receive either intrathecal meperidine or lidocaine. All patients received premedication with oral ranitidine, 150 mg, the night before surgery, and again two hours before surgery. Patients in the meperidine group were also given metoclopramide iv 10 mg one hour before surgery. After iv 20 ml.kg-1 Ringer's lactate, patients were given either 5% meperidine 1 mg.kg-1 or 5% heavy lidocaine 1.2 to 1.4 ml intrathecally. The sensory and motor blockades in all except two patients in each group who required sedation at the time of skin incision were adequate for surgery. None of the mothers suffered from any major side effects. The incidence of hypotension was higher in the lidocaine group than in meperidine group (P < 0.05). Pruritus and drowsiness were more common in meperidine group than in lidocaine group (P < 0.01). All the newborns in both groups cried immediately after birth and had an Apgar score > 7. The mean duration of postoperative analgesia was six hours in the meperidine group and one hour in the lidocaine group (P < 0.01). Postoperative analgesia requirement was less in the meperidine than in the lidocaine group (P < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In a systematic sequencing screen of synaptic genes on the X chromosome, we have identified an autistic female without mental retardation (MR) who carries a de novo frameshift Ile367SerfsX6 mutation in Interleukin-1 Receptor Accessory Protein-Like 1 (IL1RAPL1), a gene implicated in calcium-regulated vesicle release and dendrite differentiation. We showed that the function of the resulting truncated IL1RAPL1 protein is severely altered in hippocampal neurons, by measuring its effect on neurite outgrowth activity. We also sequenced the coding region of the close related member IL1RAPL2 and of NCS-1/FREQ, which physically interacts with IL1RAPL1, in a cohort of subjects with autism. The screening failed to identify non-synonymous variant in IL1RAPL2, whereas a rare missense (R102Q) in NCS-1/FREQ was identified in one autistic patient. Furthermore, we identified by comparative genomic hybridization a large intragenic deletion of exons 3-7 of IL1RAPL1 in three brothers with autism and/or MR. This deletion causes a frameshift and the introduction of a premature stop codon, Ala28GlufsX15, at the very beginning of the protein. All together, our results indicate that mutations in IL1RAPL1 cause a spectrum of neurological impairments ranging from MR to high functioning autism.
To evaluate the advantages of using a sweat patch (PharmCheck) for detecting cocaine abuse in cocaine-dependent patients participating in a clinical trial. The utility of the sweat patch was assessed from the following perspectives: the reliability and validity of quantitative sweat patch results, the possible degradation of cocaine to benzoylecgonine (BE) as a function of the length of time that a patch is worn, the completeness of the dataset yielded by thrice-weekly urine toxicology compared with thrice-weekly and weekly sweat patches, and the relative costs associated with sweat patch versus urine measures.
Data were collected during a 10-week out-patient clinical trial in which participants wore two sweat patches, one applied every visit and one applied weekly. Urine samples were collected thrice weekly, as were self-reports of substance use.
A multi-site clinical trial conducted in Boston, Cincinnati and New York, USA.
Twenty-seven participants with comorbid diagnoses of cocaine dependence and adult attention deficit disorder completed the study.
Sweat patch and urine samples were analyzed by standard methods for cocaine and cocaine metabolites.
Quantitative sweat patch measures had good reliability in that the correlation between the weekly and per-visit patches was 0.96 (P < 0.0001). The concurrent validity, as judged by the correlation between quantitative urine BE levels and either weekly (0.76, P < 0.0001) or per-visit (0.73, P < 0.0001) cocaine sweat patch levels was reasonable. The correlation between the self-report of cocaine use and these same two patches, however, was lower (0.40, P < 0.05 and 0.30, P < 0.05, respectively). The results revealed no significant degradation of cocaine to BE associated with wearing the patch for a longer time. Finally, the per-visit patch provided cocaine use data on 80.5% of all study days (a total of 70), while urine toxicology and the weekly patch provided 77.4% and 76.1%, respectively.
The present findings suggest that the PharmCheck patch might be an attractive alternative to urine toxicology for use as an outcome measure in cocaine clinical trials.
The influence of naloxone (an opioid receptor antagonist) on spinal cord conduction and edema formation as a result of trauma to the cord was investigated in a rat model. The spinal cord injury (SCI) was inflicted in urethane anesthetized animals by a longitudinal incision into the right dorsal horn of the T10-11 segments, about 2 mm deep and 5 mm long. Spinal cord evoked potentials (SCEP) were recorded epidurally from the T9 (rostral) and T12 (caudal) segments after stimulation of the ipsilateral tibial and sural nerves at the ankle. The edema was measured by determining water content of the cord at s h after injury. In rats not given naloxone SCI resulted in an immediate long-lasting depression of the rostral maximal negative peak (MNP) amplitude (about 60%) and a significant increase in the latency of the rostral maximal positive peak (MPP). Pretreatment with naloxone inhibited the immediate post-injury decrease of the rostral MNP and some of the increase of MPP latency. The water content in the traumatized spinal cord was reduced by 3% in naloxone treated animals compared with untreated injured controls. Our results indicate that endogenous opioid peptides participate in changes of spinal cord conduction after trauma and influence edema formation probably via multiple opioid receptors.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) induces clinical remission in acute promyelocytic leukemia, even in all-trans retinoic acid-refractory cases, with minimal toxicity at low (1-2 microM) concentration. We exposed various neuroblastoma cell lines to As2O3 at a concentration of 2 microM: as a result, seven of 10 neuroblastoma cell lines underwent apoptosis characterized by morphological changes and nucleosomal DNA fragmentation. As2O3-induced apoptosis in neuroblastoma cells was shown to occur through the activation of caspase 3, as judged from Western blot analysis and apoptosis inhibition assay. It seemed that the sensitivity of neuroblastoma cells to As2O3 was inversely proportional to their intracellular level of reduced glutathione. Taken together these results indicate that As2O3 would be a candidate as a therapeutic agent for treatment of neuroblastoma, which is a solid tumor, not only by systemic therapy but also by local therapy.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) was diagnosed in three patients. All three had a history ofamphetamine consumption. The patients were a 48-year-old male drug addictwho had used intravenous amphetamine for more than 20 years, a 43-year-old man who had been administered intravenous amphetamines during a period of intensive cycling and a 34-year-old woman who regularly consumed amphetamine at dance festivals. All three patients received medicinal treatment. Amphetamines may lead to PAH due to the release of serotonin, which causes pulmonary vasoconstriction and the proliferation of smooth muscle cells. Due to the pathophysiology of amphetamine-induced PAH, other amphetamine derivatives such as methylenedioxymethamphetamine (ecstasy) and methylphenidate can be risk factors for PAH. These three cases show that PAH should be considered in patients who present with dyspnoea and a reduced exertion tolerance, and who are known to have a history of amphetamine use.
Chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) are commonly prescribed antimalarial agents used for a variety of systemic diseases. HCQ neuromyotoxicity is a rare complication characterized by proximal muscle weakness, normal creatinine kinase levels, and characteristic ultrastructural changes on muscle biopsy of curvilinear body formation. In this report, we describe a patient with rheumatoid arthritis and respiratory failure associated with proximal myopathy secondary to HCQ. Characteristic changes on muscle biopsy were present. Patients treated with HCQ in whom proximal myopathy, neuropathy, or cardiomyopathy develop should be evaluated for possible HCQ toxicity. Clinicians should be aware of this unusual complication of antimalarials, as discontinuation of the agent may result in clinical improvement.
Melamine can cause urinary stones related to nephropathy of the kidney and hyperplasia or carcinoma of the bladder, but the mechanism of stone formation is not well understood. In this study, male rats were administered melamine for thirteen weeks to establish melamine bladder stone models and the stones were analysed by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectroscopy, sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and western blot, respectively, for the composition and proteome, and to explore the implication of proteins for stone formation. The results showed bladder stones were composed of predominant melamine and a few amount of proteins. The proteins had a wide range of molecular weights and 1051 proteins were identified. Gene Ontology (GO) classification of the identified proteins showed most proteins were from injured cells, involved in various metabolic processes and had binding functions. Of the identified proteins, there were a few inflammatory proteins and urinary proteins. Physicochemical characteristics of the identified proteins showed that 67.1% proteins' isoelectric points (pI) value was below 7.0, 91.1% proteins' grand average of hydropathicity (GRAVY) scores were below 0 and nearly half of the proteins were stable. Our data indicated proteins might play an important role in melamine bladder stone formation.
Disulfiram (Antabuse) can produce neuropathy in daily doses of less than the usually recommended 500 mg. The four recent cases reported in this paper emphasize the need for greater recognition of this condition. Nerve biopsies showed axonal degeneration. The neuropathy is difficult to distinguish from that associated with ethanol abuse. Disulfiram neuropathy occurs after a variable latent period (mean 5 to 6 months) and progresses steadily. Slow improvement may occur when the drug's use is stopped; often there is complete recovery eventually.
The purpose of this study was to examine stimulus-response (S-R) learning in active cocaine users.
Twenty-two cocaine-dependent participants (20 males and 2 females) and 21 non-drug using control participants (19 males and 2 females) who were similar in age and education were administered two computerized learning tasks. The Acquired Equivalence task initially requires learning of simple antecedent-consequent discriminations, but later requires generalization of this learning when the stimuli are presented in novel recombinations. The Weather Prediction task requires the prediction of a dichotomous outcome based on different stimuli combinations when the stimuli predict the outcome only probabilistically.
On the Acquired Equivalence task, cocaine users made significantly more errors than control participants when required to learn new discriminations while maintaining previously learned discriminations, but performed similarly to controls when required to generalize this learning. No group differences were seen on the Weather Prediction task.
Cocaine users' learning of stimulus discriminations under conflicting response demands was impaired, but their ability to generalize this learning once they achieved criterion was intact. This performance pattern is consistent with other laboratory studies of long-term cocaine users that demonstrated that established learning interfered with new learning on incremental learning tasks, relative to healthy controls, and may reflect altered dopamine transmission in the basal ganglia of long-term cocaine users.
A case is reported of cardiotoxicity during a multiple drug treatment with fluorouracil, vincristine and CCNU in a patient with a large bowel cancer without any precedent history of heart disease. The patient had chest pain, with an altered ECG and increased serum levels of alpha HBDH.
Rats were pretreated with saline or nicotine (1.5 mg/kg per day) by subcutaneously implanting each animal with an Alzet osmotic mini-pump which continuously released saline or nicotine for 1, 5 and 14 days. At the end of each pretreatment period, animals were used for (i) determining their locomotor response to acutely injected nicotine (0.2 mg/kg, s.c.) and (ii) measuring the density of L-[3H]nicotine and [3H]spiperone binding sites in the striatum. We observed no changes in nicotine-induced locomotor response, striatal L-[3H]nicotine and [3H]spiperone binding in the animals pretreated with nicotine for 1 day. In rats which were pretreated with nicotine for 5 days, there was a significant increase in the nicotine-stimulated locomotor response which was associated with an increase in the number of L-[3H]nicotine binding sites and also with an elevated dopamine (DA) level in the striatum. The number of striatal [3H]spiperone binding sites was not affected. In animals pretreated with nicotine for 14 days, the nicotine-induced locomotor response remained to be potentiated. However, this response was correlated with an elevated number of striatal [3H]spiperone binding sites, whereas the number of striatal L-[3H]nicotine binding sites and the striatal DA level were normal. These results suggest that chronic nicotine-treated rats develop locomotor hyperactivity in response to nicotine initially due to increases of both the density of nicotinic receptors and DA concentration, followed by inducing DA receptor supersensitivity in the striatum.
Carvedilol, a beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent with additional alpha(1)-adrenoceptor blocking properties, has been shown to improve left ventricular function in chronic heart failure (CHF). However, its effect on mortality has recently been the subject of controversial discussion. The aim of this meta-analysis is to review the data on mortality from two large study programs (the US Carvedilol Heart Failure Study and the study by the Australia/New Zealand Heart Failure Research Collaborative Group) on additional carvedilol treatment in CHF standard therapy and to analyse the design and limitations of the individual studies.
For determination of overall, mortality, all patients who died and all patients who were withdrawn for other reasons during the open run-in phase of the studies were assigned to the carvedilol group to create a "worst-case analysis." Meta-analysis of mortality data using the random effects model shows a significantly reduced relative risk of 0.55 x 95%-confidence interval 0.325-0.924; p < 0.05 of death in patients treated with carvedilol compared with patient on standard treatment only.
Treatment of CHF using carvedilol significantly reduces mortality in patients with CHF, even if the "worst case" is assumed by assigning all deaths in the open run-in phase to carvedilol.
Midazolam is a drug that creates temporary anterograde amnesia. In a within-subjects, double-blind experiment, participants studied a list of stimuli after receiving an injection of midazolam in one session and after receiving saline in another session. The lists consisted of three types of stimuli: words, photographs, and abstract pictures. Recognition memory was tested at the end of each session. Memory was reliably poorer in the midazolam condition than the saline condition, but this amnesic effect was significantly smaller for pictorial stimuli than for words and almost nonexistent for abstract pictures. We argue that the less familiar the stimulus, the less likely it is to be associated with an experimental context. These data bolster our claim that unitization increases the chances of episodic binding and that drug-induced amnesia prevents episodic binding regardless of unitization.
Sudden discontinuation of serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRI) can lead to a number of psychological (e.g., nervousness, anxiety, crying spells, psychomotor agitation, irritability, depersonalization, decreased mood, memory disturbances, confusion, decreased concentration, and/or slowed thinking) and somatic (e.g., nausea, dizziness, headache) symptoms. Recent studies have shown that withdrawal symptoms are common with paroxetine, venlafaxine and fluvoxamine, but relatively rare and mild with fluoxetine cessation, likely as a result of its longer half-life. We report an unusual case of a patient who developed delirium after abrupt discontinuation of fluoxetine.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors provide renoprotection, but there is considerable interindividual variability in therapeutic efficacy, with residual proteinuria and progressive renal function loss in many individuals. This requires additional strategies to optimize therapy response, particularly for individuals with a poor response to ACE inhibition. We studied whether co-treatment with an angiotensin II subtype 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist (AII-A) improves the individual antiproteinuric response of maximal ACE inhibition in established adriamycin nephrosis.
Rats were instituted on lisinopril (75 mg/L) six weeks after disease induction. After two weeks rats were re-stratified for residual proteinuria to continue this regimen, to a higher dose of lisinopril (150 mg/L) or to co-treatment with the AII-A L 158,809 for another four weeks. Groups on monotherapy AII-A and vehicle served as controls (all groups N=15).
Lisinopril lowered proteinuria by 63% from 741 to 246 g/day (range of percentage change -90 to +2%). Neither increasing the dose of the ACE inhibitor nor addition of AII-A to ACE inhibition improved the antiproteinuric efficacy on a group or individual level: non-responders remained non-responders. All drug categories reduced hard end-points of focal glomerulosclerosis to a similar degree.
ACE inhibition has variable renal protective efficacy in the adriamycin model. Neither increasing the dose of the ACE inhibitor beyond the optimal level nor co-treatment with AII-A overcome the individual therapy resistance. Thus, in established adriamycin nephrosis, blockade of the renin-angiotensin system at two different levels offers no additional benefit over ACE inhibition alone, either on the group or individual level.
