Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis is an uncommon condition with many clinical manifestations, and hereditary prothrombotic conditions such as factor Leiden V, deficiency of protein S, protein C and antithrombin III, as well as prothrombin gene mutation, may account for 10-15% of cases. To date, conflicting results have been reported for recurrent venous thrombosis in the patients with factor V Leiden and prothrombin G20210A mutation, since some studies have shown a higher risk for recurrent venous thrombosis in carriers of these two mutations than in non-carriers, and the last study showed higher risk only for carriers of double defect (homozygous or double heterozygous for this mutations).
Case report is presented.
We report a case of cerebral sinus thrombosis as a recurrent thrombotic event in a patient with heterozygous prothrombin G20210A genotype after discontinuation of oral anticoagulation therapy.
Since many facts are controversial, the use of secondary prophylaxis for thrombosis in these patients is still a matter of debate without clear consensus recommendation. Data on the risk of recurrent thrombotic events in thrombophilic patient is insufficient. The main unclear question concerning these patients is: how long and whom should we treat with long-term anticoagulant therapy as secondary prophylaxis of DVT? The problem for practitioner is that we do not have guidelines and precise recommendations for secondary thromboprophylaxis in this or similar cases. This case is remarkable for its favorable and quick outcome and its rarity, because CSVT is an uncommon condition and heterozygous prothrombin G20210A genotype was only found predisposing factor for CSVT. Further studies of risk of recurrent venous thrombosis in patients with heterozygous prothrombin G20210A genotype with the larger sample size are required.
Recent case reports have suggested that H2-antihistamines used alone may be effective in the treatment of acute urticaria, a common complaint of patients presenting to the emergency department. This contradicts accepted doctrine on the treatment of acute urticaria. Based on theories of H1- and H2-receptor interaction at the cellular level, it has been stated that H2-blockade before H1-blockade may exacerbate symptoms. The purpose of our study was to compare diphenhydramine, an H1-blocker, with cimetidine, an H2-blocker, in a randomized, prospective, double-blind clinical trial. Ninety-three patients presenting to the ED with clinical evidence of acute urticaria were treated with either 50 mg diphenhydramine IM or 300 mg cimetidine IM. Patients' signs and symptoms were quantitated on a numeric scale before receiving medications and 30 minutes after treatment. Parameters measured included degree of itching, intensity and extent of wheals, degree of sedation, and perception of overall improvement. Each medication provided significant relief of itching and wheal intensity (P less than .0001). Sedation was caused by both diphenhydramine (P less than .0001) and cimetidine (P less than .0006). However, the degree of sedation caused by diphenhydramine was significantly greater than that caused by cimetidine (P = .0001). The perception of overall improvement was greater with cimetidine, with 87% of patients reporting improvement, whereas 76% of diphenhydramine-treated patients reported improvement. Our results indicate that cimetidine is efficacious as the initial treatment of acute urticaria and has less tendency toward sedation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We report a case in which hypotension was corrected by the administration of naloxone in a patient with an ACTH-secreting mediastinal tumor. According to previous reports, reversal of hypotension would not be expected in patients with suppressed central ACTH secretion. The implications of this patient's response on the possible mechanisms for naloxone's action in reversing septic shock are discussed.
Twelve children, aged six to 13 years, whose parents reported an improvement in behavioural problems with use of the Feingold (K-P) diet for an average period of 12 months, were challenge-tested with 40 mg of acetylsalicylic acid in a double-blind, cross-over trial with ascorbic acid as a placebo. The children were tested within three hours of ingestion of either the experimental or placebo tablet with a battery of psychological and neurological tests, and were rated by a parent on an enlarged Conners' Parent-Teacher Questionnaire for four days after the ingestion of the tablet. It was found that significance was reached in tests of general cognitive capacity, line walking and the "finger-to-nose" tests, as well as increased disturbance in sleep patterns in these children.
We report on an 18-month-old girl with a seizure frequency of five/day, receiving an antiepileptic polytherapy consisting of primidone, clonazepam and phenytoin. Following discontinuation of clonazepam and primidone, the patient has been seizure-free under monotherapy for 2 years and shows marked developmental progress. Possible mechanisms of this paradoxical effect of antiepileptic drugs and the implications for antiepileptic therapy are discussed.
To compare the diagnostic value of intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) with angiography in patients with pulmonary embolism.
Open, prospective clinical study.
Two university hospitals.
Angiography and IVUS were used in 11 patients (5 men) (mean (SD) age 50 (18) years) with acute pulmonary embolism.
At a mean (SD) of 6 (4) hours after thrombolytic therapy with urokinase and full-dose heparin, all patients underwent pulmonary artery angiography. Then 3.5 F mechanical, 20 or 30 MHz IVUS catheters were advanced into the pulmonary circulation.
The pulmonary circulation was studied by both methods to detect the presence of thrombus, and a modified Miller score (assessing perfusion defects only and not velocity of flow) was used to quantify the angiographic images.
The modified Miller score was mean (SD) 7.4 (2.3) points. 168 pulmonary artery segments (diameter range 2-14 mm) were studied by angiography and IVUS. On angiography, seven segments showed complete obstruction and 49 partial obstruction; 112 were normal. Two distinct types of thrombus formation were found by IVUS. Type A thrombus only partly adhered to the wall but otherwise was mobile and type B predominantly adhered to the wall. IVUS confirmed all seven angiographically complete obstructions but missed three (6%) of the 49 partial occlusions. Forty (87%) of the remaining 46 segments had type A thrombus and six (13%) type B. IVUS indicated a thrombus in 38 (34%) of the 112 angiographically normal segments; 20 (53%) showed a type A pattern and 18 (47%) a type B pattern (P < 0.001).
IVUS was more sensitive than angiography in detecting thrombus but the clinical impact of this finding is not clear as yet.
Anagrelide (Agrylin, Xagrid) is an oral imidazoquinazoline agent which is indicated in Europe for the reduction of elevated platelet counts in at-risk patients with essential thrombocythaemia who are intolerant of or refractory to their current therapy, and in the US for the reduction of elevated platelet counts and the amelioration of thrombohaemorrhagic events in patients with thrombocythaemia associated with myeloproliferative disorders. Anagrelide is well established as an effective platelet-lowering agent in most patients with essential thrombocythaemia, including both treatment-naive patients and those refractory to other cytoreductive therapy. Results of the only randomised trial to date (the Primary Thrombocythaemia 1 [PT1] study) indicated that the composite primary endpoint (arterial or venous thrombosis, serious haemorrhage or death from vascular causes) occurred more often in recipients of anagrelide plus aspirin than in those receiving hydroxycarbamide (hydroxyurea) plus aspirin. This trial also indicated that the incidence of the secondary endpoints transient ischaemic attack and gastrointestinal bleeding favoured hydroxycarbamide plus aspirin, while the incidence of venous thrombosis favoured anagrelide plus aspirin. There were no differences between the groups in the incidence of secondary endpoints myocardial infarction, stroke, unstable angina, pulmonary embolism, hepatic-vein thrombosis, other serious haemorrhage or related deaths. The design of the PT1 study has been queried with respect to the heterogeneous nature of the study population (possible inclusion of patients with early myelofibrotic disease) and the concomitant use of aspirin (interaction with anagrelide causing increased bleeding events). Further data are therefore required before the role of anagrelide in essential thrombocythaemia can be finalized. In the meantime, when considering treatment options for patients with this disorder, anagrelide's positive effects on platelet function, lack of mutagenicity and lack of association with leukaemia or angiogenesis must be balanced against its comparative expense and positive inotropic effects. Thus, the role of anagrelide in the management of high-risk patients with essential thrombocythaemia will ultimately depend on individual patient assessment and future clarification of the potential leukaemogenicity of hydroxycarbamide.
We report on formation of bilateral renal calculi secondary to sulfasalazine therapy for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. The condition was successfully treated with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. Analysis of the fragments with thin layer chromatography and nuclear magnetic resonance revealed acetylsulfapyridine, a metabolite of sulfasalazine.
Mercury is a highly toxic metal which induces oxidative stress. Superoxide dismutases, catalase, and glutathion peroxidase are proteins involved in the endogenous antioxidant defence system. In the present study rats were administered orally, by gavage, a single daily dose of HgCl2 for three consecutive days. In order to find a relation between the proteins involved in the antioxidant defence and mercury intoxication, parameters of liver injury, redox state of the cells, as well as intracellular protein levels and enzyme activities of Mn-dependent superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), Cu-Zn-dependent superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD), catalase, and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) were assayed both in blood and in liver homogenates. HgCl2 at the doses of 0.1 mg/kg produced liver damage which that was detected by a slight increase in serum alanine aminotransferase and gamma glutamyl transferase. Hepatic GSH/GSSG ratio was assayed as a parameter of oxidative stress and a significant decrease was detected, as well as significant increases in enzyme activities and protein levels of hepatic antioxidant defence systems. Changes in both MnSOD and CuZnSOD were parallel to those of liver injury and oxidative stress, while the changes detected in catalase and GPx activities were progressively increased along with the mercury intoxication. Other enzyme activities related to the glutathione redox cycle, such as glutathione reductase (GR) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH), also increased progressively. We conclude that against low doses of mercury that produce a slight oxidative stress and liver injury, the response of the liver was to induce the synthesis and activity of the enzymes involved in the endogenous antioxidant system. The activities of all the enzymes assayed showed a rapidly induced coordinated response.
Effects of succinylcholine (SCC), 1 mg.kg-1, given following incomplete recovery from muscle paralysis induced by vecuronium were investigated in 27 female patients undergoing elective surgery, which was performed under epidural anesthesia. Anesthesia was induced with thiamylal 5 mg.kg-1 followed by SCC to facilitate orotracheal intubation. Vecuronium bromide 0.08 mg.kg-1 was given and the lungs were ventilated with 67% N2O in O2 and 0.6% sevoflurane. Neuromuscular function was monitored by means of the induced EMG. The ulnar nerve was stimulated at the wrist. Supramaximal trains of four stimuli (2 Hz for 2 s: pulse width 0.2 ms) were administered every 20 s. The effect of SCC varied depending upon the degree of recovery from vecuronium. At the 25% recovery point, the response to SCC was biphasic, showing an initial reversal followed by an increase of the partial vecuronium block which recovered showing a fade phenomenon on train-of-four stimulation. At the 50% recovery point, an initial reversal was slight. Administered at 75% recovery from vecuronium, SCC produced total neuromuscular blockade without initial recovery. The overall duration of the SCC effect (time from the administration to 90% recovery) was 7-18 min. No prolonged paralysis from SCC occurred.
Terazosin is an alpha1-selective adrenoceptor blocking agent that has been reported in many clinical trials to be an effective choice for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). To improve cost-effectiveness, the development of an effective and well-tolerated generic formulation is needed.
The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and tolerability of branded versus generic terazosin hydrochloride in adult patients with symptomatic BPH in Taiwan.
This randomized, open-label, 2-sequence, 2-period crossover study was conducted at the Urological Clinic, National Cheng Kung University Medical Center, Taman, Taiwan. Men newly diagnosed with symptomatic BPH who had not previously received treatment for BPH were recruited between August 2002 and April 2006. Patients were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment sequences. Group A received generic terazosin during period 1 (6 weeks) and branded terazosin in period 2 (6 weeks); group B received the branded drug during period 1 and the generic during period 2. The 2 study periods were separated by a 1-week washout period. All treatments were given by mouth once daily (bedtime) at an initial dosage of 2 mg/d for the first 2 weeks. At the week-2 study visit in each treatment period, the dosage could be increased to 4 mg/d or decreased to 1 mg/d based on each patient's response and experience of adverse effects (AEs), based on the opinion of the investigator. Efficacy variables included the total score on the International Prostate Symptom Scale (IPSS), a 7-item instrument used to assess objective lower urinary tract symptoms, including quality of life. IPSS was measured at baseline and weeks 2 and 6 of each treatment period, and maximal and mean uroflow rates, measured at baseline and week 6. Tolerability was assessed at each time point using physical examination, including vital signs; laboratory analysis; and spontaneous reporting.
Fifty-three patients were randomized; 43 were included in the efficacy analysis (mean [SD] age, group A, 64.5 [7.7] years and group B, 62.9 [8.2] years; mean [SD] weight, group A, 66.4 [7.2] kg and group B, 67.1 [8.9] kg; all patients were Taiwanese). At 2 and 6 weeks, no significant between-product differences were found in mean (SD) decreases from baseline in IPSS total score (generic, 2.46 [0.84] and 2.46 [1.00], respectively; branded, 1.56 [0.60] and 2.87 [0.71]). At week 6, the between-product difference in mean increase from baseline in maximal uroflow rate was nonsignificant (generic, 2.36 [0.90] mL/s; branded, 2.03 [0.62] mL/s). A total of 86 treatment-emergent AEs were reported (45 with the generic drug; 41 with the branded drug), all of which were considered by the investigator as nonserious except for 1 case of acute epididymitis, which occurred with the generic drug. The most common AEs reported with the generic and branded formulations were dizziness (7/48 [14.6%] and 10/50 [20.0%], respectively) and peripheral edema (1/48 [2.1%] and 3/50 [6.0%]). No significant differences in the prevalences of AEs were found between the 2 treatments.
In this group of Taiwanese patients with symptomatic BPH, the efficacy and tolerability of generic terazosin were similar to those of branded terazosin.
1. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor treatment leads to beneficial effects on kidney function. The aim of the present study was to determine whether ACE inhibition at high or low doses affects glomerular capillary surface area and length, glomerular number or total renal filtration surface area in rats with established hypertension and, if so, to determine whether these effects are mediated through bradykinin potentiation. 2. Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were treated with the ACE inhibitor perindopril at either 3 or 0.1 mg/kg per day (high and low doses, respectively) from 16 to 24 weeks of age. Some rats were concomitantly treated with the bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist S16118 (10 nmol/kg per day). Blood pressure was measured twice weekly during the treatment period. At 24 weeks of age, rats were perfusion fixed at 140 mmHg, the kidneys removed, embedded in resin and examined stereologically to estimate glomerular number and volume, length and surface area of glomerular capillaries and total renal filtration surface area. 3. High- and low-perindopril treatment significantly reduced systolic blood pressure compared with control SHR. However, the rats treated with low-dose perindopril were still considered hypertensive. Neither low-dose nor high-dose perindopril treatment had any observable effect on glomerular number (23 876 +/- 1201 vs 26 240 +/- 1465 glomeruli/kidney, respectively) or volume (2.25 +/- 0.21 and 1.96 +/- 0.06 x 10-3 mm3, respectively) compared with controls (glomerular number 25866 +/- 1210 glomeruli/kidney; glomerular volume 2.24 +/- 0.21 x 10-3 mm3). As a result, there was no significant difference in total renal filtration surface area between any of the experimental groups (8161.6 +/- 550.9, 8699.7 +/- 427.6, 9081.9 +/- 453.6, 8830.2 +/- 521.2 and 8559.4 +/- 341.4 mm2 for SHR, SHR low-dose perindopril, SHR low-dose perindopril + B2 antagonist, SHR high-dose perindopril and SHR high-dose perindopril + B2 antagonist, respectively). Coadministration of the bradykinin antagonist had no observable effect on any of the parameters studied. 4. In conclusion, because neither high-dose nor low-dose perindopril had any effect on total renal filtration surface area, the observed beneficial effects of ACE inhibition on kidney function are not the result of enhancement in glomerular capillary surface area.
Inhalation of gas mixtures containing different concentrations of FC 12 by anesthetized and normally oxygenated dogs produces blood levels of FC 12 which are stable and proportional to the rate of FC 12 in the mixture. From the arterial concentration of 40 microgram/ml FC 12 (5 % FC 12 mixture) and over, FC 12 alone causes effects proportional to doses: arterial pressure decrease with tachycardia. At high rates of FC 12 tachypnoea and slight morphological alterations of the electrocardiogram can be recorded. Arhythmia never occurs under the action of FC 12 alone even at maximum arterial concentration reached here : 230 microgram/ml (40 % FC 12 mixture). Recorded disturbances are always reversible. The intravenous perfusion of epinephrine alone evokes the appearance of premature contractions at the only dose of 5 microgram/kg/mn. The presence of FC 12 in blood conjoined with epinephrine induces the inhibition of the hypertensive action of epinephrine at high concentration and lowers the arhythmogenic threshold. The dog is clearly more sensitive than the rabbit to the arhythmogenic action of epinephrine and FC 12. The required rates of epinephrine and FC 12 validate the hypothesis of cardiac sensitization by FC 12 to the arhythmogenic action of circulating adrenaline to explain the cases of sudden "sniffing" deaths in man.
To determine the effect of dobutamine, a beta-adrenergic agonist, on the alveolar fluid clearance (AFC) in acute lung injury (ALI).
Thirty two male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into four equal groups: normal control group; ALI group, infused with endotoxin to induce ALI; dobutamine control group, receiving sustained intravenous injection of dobutamine at the dose of 5 microg/kg/min, and dobutamine treatment group, receiving sustained intravenous injection of dobutamine at the dose of 5 microg/kg/min after the administration of endotoxin. Experiment began 45-60 minutes after the circulation was stable. Blood pressure was measured and blood gas analysis was conducted at the beginning of the experiment and one hour later. Perfusion fluid with (125)I-albumin with the radioactivity of 1.5 microCi/ml was perfused into the lung. One hour after the mechanical ventilation the mice were killed and their lungs were taken out. Alveolar fluid was taken out to calculate the AFC by single nuclide tracer technique. RT-PCR was used to detect the expression of alpha, beta, and gamma-rat epithelial sodium channel (rENaC) mRNA.
(1) The AFC of ALI group was 14.0 +/- 1.2%, significantly lower than that of the normal control group (21.0 +/- 3.9%, P < 0.05). (2) The AFC of the dobutamine control group was 26.6 +/- 1.6%, significantly higher than that of the normal control group (P < 0.05). and the AFC of the dobutamine treatment group was 20.0 +/- 3.9%, significantly higher than that of the ALI group (P < 0.05). (3) The expression of a-rENaC mRNA was 1.40 +/- 0.40 in the ALI group and was 1.38 +/- 0.13 in the dobutamine treatment group, both significantly higher than those in the dobutamine control group (1.01 +/- 0.14) and in the normal control group (0.44 +/- 0.11, all P < 0.05). The expression of beta-rENaC mRNA was 0.70 +/- 0.8 in the ALI group was 0.71 +/- 0.17 in the dobutamine treatment group, both significantly higher than those in the dobutamine control group (0.58 +/- 0.12) and in the normal control group (0.44 +/- 0.11, all P < 0.05). There were not significant differences in expression of alpha and beta-rENaC mRNA between the normal control group and dobutamine control group, and between the ALI group and dobutamine treatment group (both P > 0.05). (4) The gamma-rENaC mRNA expression was 0.90 +/- 0.19 in the dobutamine control group and was 0.97 +/- 0.15 in the dobutamine treatment group, both significantly higher than that in the normal control group (0.69 +/- 0.10) and in the ALI group (0.70 +/- 0.32) (all P < 0.05).
Able to upregulate the gamma-rENaC expression and improve the AFC in acute lung injury, beta-adrenergic agonist may be beneficial to reduce lung edema in ALI patients.
The glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) is found in a variety of tissues outside of the pancreas. For example, GLP-1R is expressed in the lung, where it has been implicated in the regulation of the lipid fraction of surfactants, suggesting it fulfills an important role in lung function. Here, we show that GLP-1R expression is strongly up-regulated immediately after birth in neonatal rats, particular in male offspring. Moreover, administering long half-life GLP-1R agonists to the mother from gestational day 14 to birth (exendin-4 or liraglutide) increased surfactant protein (SP)-A and SP-B mRNA expression and the amount of SPs in the amniotic fluid at the end of pregnancy. These effects were similar or more potent to those induced by the glucocorticoid dexamethasone, which also increased GLP-1R expression in fetuses just before delivery. Lir increased fetal SP-A and GLP-1R expression in control rats and in a nitrofen-induced model of lung hypoplasia. Moreover, lung size increased in controls after Lir administration, which also prevented the decrease in lung weight and the poor neonatal survival of the offspring from nitrofen-treated dams, effects that were not produced by dexamethasone. Taken together, our results demonstrate the importance of the GLP-1 system in regulating SP production and lung development.
Administration of drugs by the sublingual route provides rapid systemic absorption and avoids first-pass metabolism. The purpose of the present study was to assess the pharmacokinetics, efficacy and adverse effects of standard salbutamol tablets given by this route to patients with asthma. Seven asthmatic patients were given either sublingual salbutamol tablet 2 mg (SL), swallowed tablet 2 mg (O), metered dose inhaler 200 micrograms (MDI) or placebo (PL), in a randomized single-blind cross-over design. Airways responses (FEV1, FVC, PEFR), finger tremor (Tr), heart rate (HR), plasma potassium (K) and plasma salbutamol were measured over a 6 h period following drug administration. There were highly significant changes in FEV1 with MDI, O and SL routes compared with PL, although the response to MDI was greater and more rapid than with O or SL. There were similar findings for FVC and PEFR responses. There were no adverse effects with MDI, whereas both 0 and SL produced significant tremor responses. There were no differences between O and SL for any of the pharmacodynamic parameters. In addition, pharmacokinetic profiles for O and SL were also similar apart from an initial delay in absorption with SL. There were however, no significant differences in any of the pharmacokinetic parameters, between O and SL. This suggest that buccal absorption of salbutamol was negligible, and that systemic absorption occurred after swallowing of the dissolved sublingual tablet. These results show that sublingual administration of salbutamol tablet has no clinical benefit over the oral route.
Lamivudine is a treatment option for the therapy of chronic hepatitis B with an excellent safety profile. Unfortunately, viral resistance to lamivudine is common in the course of therapy. The lamivudine resistant mutants are usually less pathogenic than the wild type, but development of viral resistance can also lead to acute exacerbation of the underlying hepatitis. The recently FDA approved nucleoside analogue adefovir dipivoxil has potent antiviral activity against lamivudine-resistant mutants and can prevent viral replication effectively.
A 31-year-old man with pre-existing compensated liver cirrhosis developed resistance to lamivudine therapy leading to subacute liver failure. After referral adefovir dipivoxil 10 mg daily was initiated within an early access protocol. Since initiating therapy with adefovir dipivoxil progression of the subacute liver failure was delayed accompanied by a rapid decrease of ALT and decline of HBV viral load. Even so, the clinical course was not reverted but showed slower deterioration. This enabled the patient to undergo living-related liver transplantation. Adefovir dipivoxil was well tolerated in the acute phase of the disease and did not cause nephrotoxicity or favour the development of hepatorenal syndrome.
Adefovir dipivoxil resulted in a delay of hepatic decompensation and enabled liver transplantation as final treatment option for this patient. Earlier initiation might even have prevented the need of liver transplantation. Thus, in patients with pre-existing liver cirrhosis an early switch to adefovir dipivoxil appears indicated after emergence of lamivudine resistance.
The actions of metoclopramide and ergotamine, drugs which are used as a combined migraine medication, on human (h)5-HT3A receptors and 5-HT reuptake carriers, stably expressed in HEK-293 cells, were studied with patch-clamp- and ([3H]5-HT)-uptake techniques. At clinical concentrations, metoclopramide inhibited peak and integrated currents through h5-HT3A receptors concentration-dependently (IC50 = 0.064 and 0.076 microM, respectively) when it was applied in equilibrium (60 s before and during 5-HT (30 microM) exposure). The onset and offset time constants of metoclopramide action were 1.3 and 2.1 s, respectively. The potency of metoclopramide when exclusively applied during the agonist pulse decreased more than 200-fold (IC50 = 19.0 microM, peak current suppression). Metoclopramide (0.10 microM) did not alter the EC50 of 5-HT-induced peak currents. In contrast to the lack of competitive interaction between metoclopramide and 5-HT in this functional assay, metoclopramide inhibited specific [3H]GR65630 binding to human h5-HT3A receptors in a surmountable manner. This seeming discrepancy between functional studies and radioligand binding experiments may be accounted for by (1) the slow kinetics of inhibition of peak currents by metoclopramide compared with the fast onset and offset kinetics of 5-HT-induced currents and (2) the low efficacy of metoclopramide in inhibiting radioligand binding (e.g. only 20% binding inhibition compared to 79% peak current suppression by 200 nM metoclopramide). At low concentrations (1-10 nM), ergotamine had no effect on 5-HT (30 microM)-induced peak currents. Above clinical concentrations, ergotamine (>3 microM) inhibited them. When both drugs were applied together (0.10 microM metoclopramide +0.001 to 0.01 microM ergotamine), an inhibition of both, peak and integrated current responses was observed. Neither metoclopramide (< or =30 microM) nor ergotamine (< or =30 microM) had an effect on the 5-HT reuptake carrier as they did not alter the citalopram-sensitive [3H]5-HT uptake.
Nephrolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis in low-birth-weight, preterm neonates are well-documented complications of furosemide administration. Perinephric urinomas and urinary ascites have been previously reported as complications of obstruction due to posterior urethral valves or ureteropelvic junction obstruction. We present an unusual case of furosemide-induced nephrolithiasis causing ureteral obstruction, urinoma, and acute renal failure in a preterm neonate.
Bradycardia and hypotension were the first major signs of toxicity from a 250 mg bupivacaine axillary brachial plexus block experienced by a patient with chronic renal failure, who had an anion gap acidosis and hyperkalaemia. Without these metabolic abnormalities, this patient received four similar blocks: three were without incident and one was complicated by seizure. Acidosis and/or hyperkalaemia in man appears to increase the myocardial susceptibility to bupivacaine toxicity into the range of arterial concentrations of the drug normally produced by plexus blocks, even in the absence of drug-induced cerebral toxicity, seizures and hypoxia.
A 55-year-old man became acutely psychotic and had a pseudoseizure after receiving six doses of intravenously administered trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. These symptoms resolved within 24 hours after discontinuation of the medication; this finding suggests a causal effect of the drug administration.
A case of carbamazepine neurotoxicity following the addition of diltiazem is reported. A patient with previously stable carbamazepine serum concentrations was treated with diltiazem for atrial fibrillation and a rapid ventricular response. After three days on the combined regimen, the patient developed neurological symptoms resulting in hospitalization. After a review of the patient's medication usage and carbamazepine concentrations, an interaction between diltiazem and carbamazepine was suspected. Carbamazepine's elimination appears to have been decreased, resulting in neurotoxicity. The toxicity resolved when the carbamazepine dosage was decreased 62 percent.
Explant cultures containing identifiable cerebellar cortical neurons and locus coeruleus neurons were treated with 500 microM 6-hydroxydopamine. At this concentration, locus coeruleus neurons were usually degenerated after 48 h, while the cerebellar cortical neurons had a normal appearance. Extracellular recording and iontophoresis of noradrenaline and glutamate were used to test for changes in electrical activity or neurotransmitter responsiveness of the cerebellar neurons. At 4-5 days following the toxin exposure, spontaneous spiking activity appeared similar to that in control cultures. Mean iontophoretic currents required to give noradrenaline-induced depressions of activity were somewhat lower for the toxin-treated cultures than for controls but not significantly so. The mean currents for glutamate excitations, however, were markedly lower in the treated cultures. Noradrenaline potentiations of glutamate responses were observed in both treated and control cultures. The greatly increased sensitivity of cerebellar neurons to glutamate does not seem related to degeneration of granule cells in the treated cultures but might be explained by disruption of astrocytic uptake mechanisms for glutamate.
Severe hepatic vascular disease developed in two patients 4 and 8 years after kidney transplantation, while receiving combined immunosuppressive therapy with prednisone and azathioprine. Portal hypertension and marked liver failure were observed in both cases. The diagnosis was established by histological examination of liver biopsies showing typical veno-occlusive disease of the liver associated with peliosis in both cases. Azathioprine was discontinued. Two years later one patient was asymptomatic and liver function tests were normal. The second patient died 3 years later from liver failure. Early recognition of hepatic vascular disease arising in kidney transplant recipients would be of utmost importance, as substitution of another immunosuppressive agent for azathioprine could halt the process leading to portal hypertension.
