Progesterone replacement attenuates the intensity of cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) behaviors in female rats. The present study aimed to expand that finding by (i) determining the role of progesterone in the acquisition and/or expression of cocaine-induced CPP and (ii) determining if progesterone's effects might be meditated through learning and memory. To this end, female rats were administered progesterone during cocaine conditioning or object recognition tasks; rats received subcutaneous injections of progesterone (500 microg) or vehicle (sesame oil) 4 h before saline or cocaine (5 mg/kg) on conditioning days (acquisition phase) or before testing (expression phase or object recognition tasks). Progesterone treatment during both the acquisition and the expression phases of cocaine conditioning blocked cocaine-induced CPP. Progesterone affected neither the number of entrances and explorations in the CPP chambers nor the ambulatory and rearing behaviors. In the object recognition task (a non-spatial learning and memory task), progesterone treatment had no effect. However, in the object placement task (a spatial learning and memory task), progesterone treatment significantly impaired retention in hormone-treated rats as compared with control groups. These results suggest that progesterone treatment interferes with cocaine-induced reward associations, possibly through effects on spatial working memory consolidation The observed effects of acute progesterone treatment on cocaine-induced CPP may in part contribute reported menstrual effects and sex disparities in overall cocaine use and rates of relapse.
alpha 2-Macroglobulin (A2M) is a major human plasma protease inhibitor capable of inhibiting most endopeptidases tested so far. In the case of the other major plasma protease inhibitor, alpha 1-antitrypsin, genetically determined deficiency states are known to increase the risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 20- to 30-fold in affected individuals. No defects of the A2M gene have been described as yet, but A2M may play a role in the regulation of protease activity in the lung, especially with respect to those proteases not inhibited by alpha 1-antitrypsin. We report here the molecular genetic detection of an alteration of the A2M gene in a patient with serum A2M deficiency and chronic lung disease since childhood. The alteration involves restriction sites detected with 10 different enzymes and is most probably caused by a major deletion or rearrangement of the gene. Nine of the restriction enzymes used detected no polymorphisms in 40 healthy control subjects and 39 COPD patients. The polymorphism detected in this patient with the enzyme PvuII was different from another described previously, and was found in this patient only. The patient is heterozygous for an alteration in the A2M gene; this may be responsible for his serum A2M deficiency and may be relevant to the early onset of pulmonary disease in his case.
This single-blind (investigator) comparative study was designed to determine the efficacy and tolerability of 1 g of azithromycin vs 500 mg of ciprofloxacin both given as a single oral dose in patients with gonorrhea, who were constantly on the move. One hundred eight patients (59 men and 49 women) with clinically suspected gonococcal infection, confirmed by Gram-stain and culture, were enrolled. Data of 50 patients treated with azithromycin and 51 with ciprofloxacin were evaluable for efficacy and tolerability at the end of the study. After 2 weeks clinical and microbiological cure rates were 96.0% (48 out of 50) for the patients treated with azithromycin and 92.15% (47 out of 51) for the patients treated with ciprofloxacin (p > 0.05). Adverse reactions were reported in 5 patients treated with azithromycin and 6 with ciprofloxacin. In conclusion, 1 g azithromycin is at least as clinically and microbiologically effective and well tolerated as 500 mg of ciprofloxacin in the treatment of gonococcal infections. The drug is particularly useful for sailors and people constantly on the move.
Nephropathy associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus is a rising cause of end-stage renal disease and is a major public health problem. If blocking of the renin angiotensin system has a well established nephroprotective effect in type 1 diabetic nephropathy, this remained to be shown for type 2 diabetes. Two large outcome trials using angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ARA's) in proteinuric chronic renal impairment and hypertensive type 2 diabetic patients have now closed this gap: the Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT) and the Reduction of Endpoints in NIDDM with Angiotensin II Antagonist Losartan (RENAAL) trial. Both trials showed a significant reduction in the primary pre-specified end-point of death, or worsening of renal function (doubling of serum creatinine) or the development of end-stage renal disease. This effect goes beyond the reduction in blood pressure and makes of ARA's one of the important tools in the treatment of type 2 diabetic nephropathy.
Long-term treatment with tamoxifen has produced few side effects, which are generally mild. Of the serious ones, all of them except eye toxicity seem to be related to the molecule's intrinsic mildly estrogen-like action, such as, for example, endometrial carcinoma. This property is also responsible for some favorable clinical effects including a lower risk of osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease. Whether tamoxifen causes neoplastic growth in patients who develop resistance to this drug is still controversial. Further prospective clinical studies are therefore needed to investigate such problems and also to evaluate less frequent side effects. Moreover, decisions on the overall duration of hormone therapy should be based on possible side effects as well as on therapeutic response.
Nitroaromatic musks, including musk ketone (MK; 2,6-dimethyl-3,5-dinitro-4-t-butylacetophenone), are chemicals used as perfume ingredients in household products, cosmetics, and toiletries. Musk xylene (MX; 1,3,5-trinitro-2-t-butylxylene), another nitromusk, is not genotoxic but has been reported to produce mouse liver tumors in a chronic bioassay. In addition, MX has been shown to both induce and inhibit mouse liver cytochrome P450 2B (CYP2B) isozymes. The ability of MX to inhibit CYP2B enzyme activity is attributable to inactivation of the enzyme by a specific amine metabolite. MK is structurally similar to MX, but lacks the nitro substitution that is reduced to the inactivating amine metabolite. Therefore, we hypothesized that MK would induce, but not inhibit, CYP2B isozymes. To test this hypothesis, and to evaluate the effects of MK on mouse liver cytochrome P450 enzymes, two sets of experiments were performed. To evaluate the ability of MK to induce cytochromes P450, mice were dosed daily by oral gavage at dosages ranging from 5 to 500 mg/ kg MK for 7 days. This treatment resulted in a pleiotropic response in mouse liver, including increased liver weight, increased total microsomal protein, and centrilobular hepatocellular hypertrophy. At the highest dose tested, MK caused a 28-fold increase in CYP2B enzyme activity and a small (approximately 2-fold) increase in both cytochromes P450 1A and 3A (CYP1A and CYP3A) enzyme activities over control levels. Protein and mRNA analyses confirmed the relative levels of induction for CYP2B, CYP1A, and CYP3A. In addition, the no-observable-effect level (NOEL) for CYP2B induction by MK was 20 mg/kg. To evaluate the ability of MK to inhibit phenobarbital-induced CYP2B activity, mice were given 500 ppm phenobarbital (PB) in the drinking water for 5 days to induce CYP2B isozymes, followed by a single equimolar (0.67 mmol/kg) oral gavage dose of either MK (198 mg/kg) or MX (200 mg/kg), and microsomes were prepared 18 h later. While MX inhibited more than 90% of the PB-induced CYP2B activity in the microsomes, MK caused only a small (about 20%) reduction in PB-induced CYP2B enzyme activity. These results indicate that, like MX. MK is a PB-type inducer of mouse liver CYP2B isozymes, but unlike MX, MK does not effectively inhibit PB-induced CYP2B enzyme activity.
We investigated the effect of the water extract of Salacia oblonga (SOE), an ayurvedic antidiabetic and antiobesity medicine, on obesity and diabetes-associated cardiac hypertrophy and discuss the role of modulation of cardiac angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT(1)) expression in the effect.
SOE (100 mg/kg) was given orally to male Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats for 7 weeks. At the end-point of the treatment, the hearts and left ventricles were weighed, cardiomyocyte cross-sectional areas were measured, and cardiac gene profiles were analysed. On the other hand, angiotensin II-stimulated embryonic rat heart-derived H9c2 cells and neonatal rat cardiac fibroblasts were pretreated with SOE and one of its prominent components mangiferin (MA), respectively. Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) mRNA expression and protein synthesis and [(3)H]thymidine incorporation were determined.
SOE-treated ZDF rats showed less cardiac hypertrophy (decrease in weights of the hearts and left ventricles and reduced cardiomyocyte cross-sectional areas). SOE treatment suppressed cardiac overexpression of ANP, brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and AT(1) mRNAs and AT(1) protein in ZDF rats. SOE (50-100 microg/ml) and MA (25 micromol) suppressed angiotensin II-induced ANP mRNA overexpression and protein synthesis in H9c2 cells. They also inhibited angiotensin II-stimulated [(3)H]thymidine incorporation by cardiac fibroblasts.
Our findings demonstrate that SOE decreases cardiac hypertrophy in ZDF rats, at least in part by inhibiting cardiac AT(1) overexpression. These studies provide insights into a potential cardioprotective role of a traditional herb, which supports further clinical evaluation in obesity and diabetes-associated cardiac hypertrophy.
This study involved 25 elderly (> 65 years old) patients (pts) with unresectable non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who were not eligible for polychemotherapy. The diagnosis of NSCLC was histologically or cytologically documented, and all of them had measurable or evaluable disease. The median age of the patients was 71 (range 65-77); 9 had been pretreated. The pts received 25 mg/m2 of vinorelbine weekly or bi-weekly depending on the results of blood tests. The treatment continued until disease progression or tolerance. No complete response was achieved: 3 pts (12%) had a partial response (RP) (8-12-14 months), 13 (52%) stable disease (SD) with an improvement in symptoms, such as cough and/or pain, and 9 pts (36%) progressed. Compliance with the therapy was acceptable. The main toxicity was hematological: neutropenia was observed in 16 pts, with only 1 case of grade 4 neutropenia without sepsis; grade 1-2 anemia occurred in 8 patients. The other toxicities included grade 1-2 neurotoxicity in 8 pts, chemical phlebitis in 2 pts and grade 3 cardiotoxicity reversible with medical treatment in 1 patient. The median survival time was 10 months (lower quartile 5 months, upper quartile 23 months) (Kaplan and Meyer method). Vinorelbine can be considered a rational choice in elderly pts with advanced NSCLC who are not suitable for aggressive polychemotherapy, with the aim of improving their quality of life in terms of symptoms and outpatient treatment.
The second most prevalent urological malignancy in middle aged and elderly men is bladder cancer, with 90% of the cases being transitional cell carcinomas. The success of current systemic and intravesical therapeutic agents, such as cisplatin, thiotepa, Adriamycin, mitomycin C, and bacillus Calmette-Guerin, is limited with recurrence rates reduced to 17-44%. In addition, most of these agents require instrumentation of the urinary tract and are delivered at a significant cost and potential morbidity to the patient. Fluroquinolone antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin, which can be administered p.o., may have a profound effect in bladder cancer management. This is primarily based on limited in vitro studies on tumor cells derived from transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder that revealed a dose- and time-dependent inhibition of cell growth by ciprofloxacin at concentrations that are easily attainable in the urine of patients. However, the mechanism(s) by which ciprofloxacin elicits its biological effects on bladder cancer cells is not well documented. Our experimental data confirm previous studies showing the in vitro cell growth inhibition of the transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder cell line HTB9 and further showed the induction of cell cycle arrest at the S/G2-M checkpoints. In addition, we found down-regulation of cyclin B, cyclin E, and dephosphorylation of cdk2 in ciprofloxacin-treated bladder tumor cells. There was also an up-regulation of Bax, which altered the Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, which may be responsible for mitochondrial depolarization reported to be involved prior to the induction of apoptosis. The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21WAF1 level was found to be decreased within 12 h of ciprofloxacin treatment and disappeared completely when HTB9 cells were treated with 200 microg/ml ciprofloxacin for 24 h. The down-regulation of p21WAF1 closely correlated with poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage and CPP32 activation. Recent studies revealed that p21WAF1 protects cells from apoptosis by arresting them in G1 and further binds to pro-caspase-3, preventing its activation and thus, inhibiting the apoptotic cascade. Hence, the down-regulation of p21WAF1, together with the alterations in Bax and cdk2 as observed in our studies, may define a novel mechanism by which ciprofloxacin inhibits tumor cell growth and induces apoptotic cell death. The results of our current studies provide strong experimental evidence for the use of ciprofloxacin as a potential preventive and/or therapeutic agent for the management of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder.
The majority of pharmacotherapies proposed for cocaine dependence have been marginally effective and frequently have undesirable side effects. We recently demonstrated that short-term treatment with citicoline decreased self-reported desire to use cocaine in crack cocaine users.
The present study was conducted to assess the safety of citicoline in combination with cocaine by investigating whether cocaine-induced cardiovascular and behavioral effects and cocaine plasma levels are altered by citicoline pretreatment.
Eight healthy male and female volunteers who used cocaine on an occasional basis participated in this randomized, placebo-controlled, three-visit study. During all three visits, subjects received an acute intranasal dose of cocaine (0.9 mg/kg) and were continuously monitored for the ensuing 3.5 h. The first visit involved no pretreatment, and visits 2 and 3 were preceded by a 4-day pretreatment period of either citicoline (1 g/day) or placebo.
Citicoline pretreatment did not alter the cardiovascular, physiologic, or subjective effects of acute cocaine.
Although citicoline did not block the acute subjective effects of cocaine in a laboratory environment, the combined use of citicoline and a moderate dose of intranasal cocaine presented no added risk of cardiovascular effects. Further study is necessary to determine whether this medication (which is currently used to treat strokes) will be a useful adjunct to treat cocaine dependence.
The serotonin syndrome, induced by serotoninergic agents, includes confusion, agitation, myoclonus, diaphoresis, tremor and diarrhea. The authors prospectively evaluated all these symptoms in 38 depressed inpatients fullfilling DSM-III-R criteria for major depression. Sixteen (42%) of 38 patients presented at least one symptom of serotonin syndrome. In 14 cases tremor and myoclonus occurred simultaneously, and 10 patients presented at the same time tremor plus myoclonus, diaphoresis and shivering. Except for 2 patients, symptoms were transient, lasted less than 1 week and disappeared with the pursuit of treatment.
L-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), the precursor of dopamine, and bromocriptine, a dopamine D2 receptor agonist, were investigated in haloperidol-induced motor impairments in mice using both catalepsy and pole tests. In catalepsy test, subcutaneous treatment with haloperidol (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) caused a cataleptic effect in mice in a dose-dependent manner. This cataleptic effect was evident upto 7 hr after haloperidol treatment. In pole test, haloperidol (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) produced the prolongation of Tturn and TLA as a marker of bradykinesia in mice and the prolongation lasted at least 7 hr after haloperidol treatment. Intraperitoneal co-pretreatment with L-DOPA (400 mg/kg) + carbidopa (10 mg/kg) in mice decreased the catalepsy induced by haloperidol at a dose of 0.125 mg/kg, while co-pretreatment with L-DOPA (200 and 400 mg/kg) + carbidopa (10 mg/kg) dose-dependently decreased the haloperidol (0.125 mg/kg)-induced bradykinesia. The effect of LDOPA + carbidopa in pole test was more pronounced than that in catalepsy test. Intraperitoneal pretreatment with bromocriptine (2 and 4 mg/kg) in mice reduced the catalepsy and bradykinesia produced by haloperidol at a dose of 0.125 mg/kg. The effect of bromocriptine in pole test was relatively similar to that in catalepsy test. Also, co-pretreatment with LDOPA (400 mg/kg) + carbidopa (10 mg/kg) and pretreatment with bromocriptine (2 and 4 mg/kg) significantly decreased the catalepsy induced by haloperidol at a higher dose of 0.5 mg/kg. These results indicate that co-administration with L-DOPA + carbidopa and single treatment with bromocriptine can decrease haloperidol-induced catalepsy and bradykinesia in mice. Furthermore, our study suggests that pole test as well as catalepsy test is of value in the screening of drugs against neuroleptic-induced motor deficits.
Treatment of mice with haloperidol increased the number of dopamine D2 receptors (Bmax). The animals were given 40 or 50 mg of pentobarbital. Animals treated with haloperidol had a shorter duration of narcosis induced by pentobarbital than the controls, suggesting a decreased sensitivity to pentobarbital which was functional (CNS), since the animals treated with haloperidol had higher levels of pentobarbital in the brain upon awakening than the controls. The results suggest that increased Bmax reduces the sensitivity of the brain to pentobarbital.
Some patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) treated by antiarrhythmic drugs (AAD) can develop typical atrial flutter, but the mechanism is not clear. This study included 21 patients with AF. Group I (n = 7) had typical atrial flutter due to amiodarone therapy. Group II (n = 7) did not develop atrial flutter after amiodarone treatment. Group III (n = 7) did not receive AAD treatment. A 7 Fr, 20-pole electrode catheter was placed along the CT identified by fluoroscopy and intracardiac echocardiography. After restoration of the sinus rhythm, decremental pacing near the CT was performed until 2 to 1 atrial capture. Complete transverse conduction block was defined as the appearance of double potentials with opposite activation sequence along the CT. Focal transverse conduction delay was defined as the appearance of double potentials at > or = 2 recording sites. Focal transverse conduction delay was observed during pacing at the cycle length of 693 +/- 110 ms in group I, 360 +/- 97 ms in group II and 343 +/- 109 ms in group III (P = 0.001). Complete transverse conduction block was observed during pacing at the cycle length of 391 +/- 118 ms in group I and 231 +/- 23 ms in group II (P = 0.001), but not in group III. In conclusion, focal transverse conduction delay in the CT was common in patients with AF. A predisposition to the line of the conduction block in the CT might contribute to the conversion of AF to typical atrial flutter due to amiodarone therapy.
Doppler echocardiographic measurement of transmitral filling velocities seems to be a sensitive marker for resting left ventricular diastolic abnormalities in patients with coronary artery disease. The behaviour of these filling velocities during induced myocardial ischaemia, however, has not been fully studied. Left ventricular filling was assessed by pulsed Doppler ultrasound in 21 patients with angina pectoris and coronary artery disease and in five controls (patients with chest pain but without myocardial ischaemia). High dose dipyridamole infusion (0.9 mg/kg over 10 minutes) was used to provoke myocardial ischaemia, which was assessed by symptoms and electrocardiographic ST segment change. Doppler indices of diastolic filling were measured and the results expressed as percentage change from baseline values. Dipyridamole increased the heart rate and reduced systolic blood pressure equally in both groups. In the controls dipyridamole increased the peak filling velocities of both the early and atrial filling waves. In the 12 patients with coronary artery disease who did not develop evidence of myocardial ischaemia, the effect on left ventricular filling velocity resembled that in the controls though the time to peak change was delayed. Six of the nine patients with dipyridamole induced myocardial ischaemia had a significantly reduced maximum changes in early (+30% v +18%) and atrial (-0.2% v +33%) filling velocities compared with the controls. The remaining three patients had a decrease in early filling velocity (-20%) with an associated increase in atrial peak filling velocity (+21%). Dipyridamole increased diastolic filling velocities in the controls. In patients with coronary artery disease there was a variable change in diastolic filling indices which may be attributed either to the degree of myocardial ischaemia or to the different haemodynamic changes occurring during myocardial ischaemia.
High plasma triglyceride (TG) level is a major independent risk factor of coronary heart disease. A newly identified Apolipoprotein A5 (Apoa5) gene has been shown to play an important role in determining plasma TG concentrations in humans and mice. Prague hereditary hypertriglyceridemic (HTG) rats are a useful model of human hypertriglyceridemia and other symptoms of metabolic syndrome. Thus, the variation of Apoa5 gene and its expression were studied in this strain under normal conditions and after chronic fructose loading. Lewis and Wistar rats served as normotriglyceridemic controls. Plasma TG were significantly higher in HTG rats in comparison with both control strains. Screening of the coding regions and intron-exon boundaries of Apoa5 gene did not reveal any mutation of this gene in HTG rats in comparison with Lewis and Wistar ones. However, rat Apoa5 gene contains only one intron in contrast with two introns of mouse Apoa5 gene. Under the basal conditions the expression of Apoa5 was lower in all age groups of HTG rats compared to Wistar animals. Furthermore, during chronic fructose loading there were no significant changes of Apoa5 expression in HTG rats, although plasma TG levels rose 3-4 times within first two days of fructose loading and were increased during the whole period of fructose treatment. In conclusion, Apoa5 does not seem to be a genetic determinant of hypertriglyceridemia in HTG rats. The absence of significant changes in Apoa5 gene expression during chronic fructose-induced TG elevation excludes its major role in mechanisms compensating severe hypertriglyceridemia.
Oxaliplatin is effective in the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (MCRC) patients; however, severe neurotoxicity develops frequently. To assess the efficacy of oral glutamine for preventing neuropathy induced by oxaliplatin, a pilot study was performed. A total of 86 patients with MCRC treated at Taipei Veterans General Hospital were enrolled. Oxaliplatin (85 mg/m(2), days 1 and 15) plus weekly bolus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU; 500 mg/m(2)) and folinic acid (FA; 20 mg/m(2)) on days 1, 8, and 15 were given every 28 days as first-line treatment. Patients were randomized to receive (glutamine group; n = 42) or not receive (control group; n = 44) glutamine (15 g twice a day for seven consecutive days every 2 weeks starting on the day of oxaliplatin infusion). Efficacy of chemotherapy, neurological toxicity, and electrophysiological alterations were assessed. A lower percentage of grade 1-2 peripheral neuropathy was observed in the glutamine group (16.7% versus 38.6%) after two cycles of treatment, and a significantly lower incidence of grade 3-4 neuropathy was noted in the glutamine group after four cycles (4.8% versus 18.2%) and six cycles (11.9% versus 31.8%). By adding glutamine, interference with activities of daily living was lower (16.7% versus 40.9%), and need for oxaliplatin dose reduction was lower (7.1% versus 27.3%). There were no significant between-group differences in response to chemotherapy (52.4% versus 47.8%), electrophysiological abnormalities, grade 3-4 non-neurological toxicities (26.2% versus 22.8%), or survival. These data indi-cate that oral glutamine significantly reduces the incidence and severity of peripheral neuropathy of MCRC patients receiving oxaliplatin without affecting response to chemotherapy and survival.
Primary hepatocyte cultures prepared from male beagle dog liver were used to determine susceptibility of the canine liver to tetracycline-induced steatosis. The effects of the drug on mitochondrial lipid metabolism and intracellular triglyceride accumulation were monitored at the same time that steatosis was detected by light microscopy and quantitated using lipid-specific stains. Exposure of primary canine hepatocyte cultures to tetracycline for 24-48 h resulted in concentration-dependent, significant increases in the Oil Red O-stained lipid inclusions. Microscopic examination of the total stained areas suggested that increases over control levels were due primarily to the increase in the size of the lipid inclusions rather than in the number. Biochemical analyses for triglyceride content and histological staining with Nile red, another neutral lipid-specific dye, confirmed a specific increase in intracellular triglyceride following a 24-h exposure to noncytotoxic levels of tetracycline beta-oxidation studies based on the oxidation of [14C]palmitic acid or [14C]palmitoyl carnitine demonstrated a concentration-dependent inhibition of mitochondrial but not peroxisomal beta-oxidation in hepatocytes after a 24-h exposure to tetracycline. In vitro incubation of tetracycline with mitochondria isolated from dog liver showed similar concentration-dependent inhibition. This study clearly indicates that the canine hepatocyte is susceptible to tetracycline-induced steatosis. Triglyceride accumulation was concomitant with the inhibition of mitochondrial lipid metabolism, indicating that this is a primary mechanism leading to steatosis in dog hepatocytes following tetracycline exposure.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from Gram-negative bacterial has been identified as an important molecule involved in the inflammatory process through inducing nitric oxide (NO) production. However, the effect of LPS in carcinogenesis is still undefined. In the present study, the biological effect of LPS was examined in 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA)-treated rat glioma cells C6. Results of MTT assay showed that LPS and TPA exhibited no significant cytotoxicity in glioma C6 cells. Interestingly, transformation foci were found in LPS/TPA-treated glioma C6 cells, but not in LPS- or TPA-treated cells. The transformation foci induced by LPS/TPA were also observed in the absence of serum. It indicates that induction of transformation foci formation by LPS and TPA is independent on the serum in glioma C6 cells. Induction of iNOS gene expression and NO production was examined in LPS/TPA-treated cells, but not obvious in LPS- or TPA-treated cells. NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) induces transformation in glioma C6 cells in according with elevating NO production. In addition, LPS/TPA induces metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) activity by gelatin activity assay in gel. Wogonin and quercetin but not rutin, inhibitors of iNOS gene expression and NO production induced by LPS, showed the significant inhibition on LPS/TPA-induced transformation foci formation, accompanied by inhibiting iNOS gene expression, NO production and MMP9 activity. Results of the present study provide scientific evidences to link the inflammatory responses and carcinogenesis, and suggest that NO derived from inflammation may contribute to the progression of carcinogenesis; natural products with anti-inflammatory effects such as wogonin and quercetin possess the ability to block transformation induced by LPS/TPA.
The assembly of myosin into higher order structures is dependent upon accessory factors that are often tissue-specific. UNC-45 acts as such a molecular chaperone for myosin in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, in both muscle and non-muscle contexts. Although vertebrates contain homologues of UNC-45, their requirement for muscle function has not been assayed. We identified a zebrafish gene, unc45b, similar to a mammalian unc-45 homologue, expressed exclusively in striated muscle tissue, including the somites, heart and craniofacial muscle. Morpholino-oligonucleotide-mediated knockdown of unc45b results in paralysis and cardiac dysfunction. This paralysis is correlated with a loss of myosin filaments in the sarcomeres of the trunk muscle. Morphants lack circulation, heart looping and display severe cardiac and yolk-sac edema and also demonstrate ventral displacement of several jaw cartilages. Overall, this confirms a role for unc45b in zebrafish motility consistent with a function in myosin thick filament assembly and stability and uncovers novel roles for this gene in the function and morphogenesis of the developing heart and jaw. These results suggest that Unc45b acts as a chaperone that aids in the folding of myosin isoforms required for skeletal, cranial and cardiac muscle contraction.
4-Ethylsulfonylnaphthalene-1-sulfonamide, acetazolamide and oxamide were administered in the diet to female BALB/c mice for varying periods of time from three to eighty weeks. All three compounds induced lesions in the urothelium. In the bladder, these included simple hyperplasia, nodular hyperplasia, inflammation and calculi. Similar lesions were observed in the ureter and urethra, along with a novel lesion, diverticulum, in the ureter. The diverticular lesions existed as down-growths of the transitional epithelium which often extended from the mucosa through the muscle layers to the adventitial surface. The etiology of the lesions appeared to be related to urinary physiological alterations (crystalluria, calculi, hypoosmolality) caused by administration of the compounds.
We previously showed that an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril) or an angiotensin receptor blocker (losartan) reduced infarct size and improved endothelial function in a rat model of ischaemia-reperfusion. The present study was undertaken to see if aspirin (ASA) antagonised the beneficial effects of captopril or losartan.
One hundred and fourteen Sprague-Dawley rats were randomised into six groups; Control, ASA, captopril, losartan, ASA+captopril, and ASA+losartan. ASA, captopril or losartan were given at a concentration of 40 mg/kg/day in drinking water. After six weeks of pre-treatment, the rats were subjected to 17 minutes of left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion and 120 minutes of reperfusion, with haemodynamic and ECG monitoring. During the reperfusion period, the effective refractory period (ERP), ventricular fibrillation threshold (VFT) and bleeding time (BT) were measured. In fresh aortic rings precontracted with phenylephrine, endothelium-dependent and -independent relaxations were assessed using acetylcholine and nitroglycerin.
Haemodynamic changes were not different between the groups. Serum ASA concentrations were 0.5, 1.1 and 0.6 mg/dl in the ASA, ASA+captopril and ASA+losartan groups, respectively, and BT was prolonged (p<0.01). ASA alone reduced endothelium-dependent relaxation (-29+8 vs. -69+11%, p<0.01), but did not change endothelium-independent relaxation. ASA did not affect endothelial relaxation induced by acetylcholine in the presence of either captopril or losartan. Angiotensin I and ERP were elevated by captopril and losartan. Angiotensin II and VFT were elevated by losartan. ASA with captopril, captopril and losartan equally reduced infarct size, compared with control (39+3, 39+4, and 39+5 vs. 53+3%, all p<0.05).
Captopril and losartan had similar cardiovascular protective effects in a rat model of ischaemia-reperfusion. Aspirin did not attenuate the cardiovascular protective effects of captopril or losartan.
Nicotine activates the sympathetic nervous system and in this way could contribute to cardiovascular disease. Animal studies and mechanistic studies indicate that nicotine could play a role in accelerating atherosclerosis, but evidence among humans is too inadequate to be definitive about such an effect. Almost certainly, nicotine via its hemodynamic effects contributes to acute cardiovascular events, although current evidence suggests that the effects of nicotine are much less important than are the prothrombotic effects of cigarette smoking or the effects of carbon monoxide. Nicotine does not appear to enhance thrombosis among humans. Clinical studies of pipe smokers and people using transdermal nicotine support the idea that toxins other than nicotine are the most important causes of acute cardiovascular events. Finally, the dose response for cardiovascular events of nicotine appears to be flat, suggesting that if nicotine is involved, adverse effects might be seen with relatively low-level cigarette exposures.
The combination of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and an angiotensin II (Ang II) receptor antagonist (ARB) could provide a higher degree of blockade of the renin-angiotensin system(RAS) than either agent alone. The primary aim of this study was to look at the effect of three therapeutic regimens (titrated ACE inhibitor (ACE-I) versus titrated ARB versus the combination of an ACE-I and an ARB) on the attainment of adequate blood pressure (BP) control and antiproteinuric effect. Both ACE-I and ARB were titrated as monotherapy up to the maximal recommended dose.
A pilot randomised, parallel group open-label study was conducted in 36 patients with primary renal disease, proteinuria above 1.5 g/day and BP >140/90 mmHg while on therapy with an ACE-I. Patients were randomly assigned to (1) benazepril, n=12; (2) valsartan, n=12; or (3) benazepril plus valsartan, n=12. Other antihypertensive therapies could also be added to attain goal BP (<140/90 mmHg). The primary endpoint was the change in proteinuria during six months of follow-up.
In the presence of similar BP decreases and stable creatinine clearance values, mean proteinuria decreases were 0.5+1.7, 1.2+2.0 and 2.5+1.8 g/day in groups 1, 2 and 3, respectively. When compared with baseline values, only the fall induced by the combination of ARB and ACE-I attained statistical significance (p<0.05).
The antiproteinuric capacity of monotherapy at recommended doses with either an ACE-I or an ARB is lower than that obtained with the combination of the two drugs.
Neural tube defects (NTDs), although prevalent and easily diagnosed, are etiologically heterogeneous, rendering mechanistic interpretation problematic. To date, there is evidence that mammalian neural tube closure (NTC) initiates and fuses intermittently at four discrete locations. Disruption of this process at any of these four sites may lead to a region-specific NTDs, possibly arising through closure site-specific genetic mechanisms. Although recent efforts have focused on elucidating the genetic components of NTDs, a void persists regarding gene identification in closure site-specific neural tissue. To this end, experiments were conducted to identify neural tube closure site-specific genes that might confer regional sensitivity to teratogen-induced NTDs. Using an inbred mouse strain (SWV/Fnn) with a high susceptibility to VPA- induced NTDs that specifically targets and disrupts NTC between the prosencephalon and mesencephalon region (future fore/midbrain; neural tube closure site II), we identified a VPA-sensitive closure site II-specific clone. Sequencing of this clone from an SWV neural tube cDNA library confirmed that it encodes the r1 subunit of the cell cycle enzyme ribonucleotide reductase (RNR). The abundance of rnr-r1 mRNA was significantly increased in response to VPA drug treatment. This upregulated expression was accompanied by a significant decrease in cellular proliferation in the closure site II neural tube region of the embryos, as determined by ELISA cellular proliferation assays performed on BrdU-pulsed neuroepithelial cells in vivo. We hypothesize that rnr-r1 plays a critical role in the development of VPA-induced exencephaly.
A 7-year-old girl with an unusual reaction to induction chemotherapy for precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is described. The patient developed acute encephalopathy evidenced by behavioral changes, aphasia, incontinence, visual hallucinations, and right-sided weakness with diffuse cerebral vasospasm on magnetic resonance angiography after the administration of intrathecal cytarabine. Vincristine, dexamethasone, and polyethylene glycol-asparaginase were also administered before the episode as part of induction therapy. Neurologic status returned to baseline within 10 days of the acute event, and magnetic resonance angiography findings returned to normal 4 months later.
Two patients, ages 66 and 72, with complications of chronic levodopa therapy (random fluctuations, end of dose deterioration and dyskinesias) who were treated with Lisuride by means of a portable subcutaneous infusion pump are reported. Results obtained show significant improvement in disability through a net increase in the number of hours spent "on". Dyskinesias remained unmodified. Limiting psychiatric side effects were observed in one of the patients. Practical and technical aspects of the management of this therapeutic method are discussed.
