Oxidative stress and myocyte apoptosis are thought to play an important role in the pathogenesis, progression and prognosis of heart failure (HF). Heat shock protein 27 (Hsp27) has been found to confer resistance to oxidative stress in cultured cells; however, the role of Hsp27 in in-vivo hearts remains to be determined.
To investigate the effects of Hsp27 over-expression on doxorubicin-induced HF.
Transgenic mice (TG) with cardiac specific over-expression of Hsp27 and their wild type littermates (WT) were challenged with doxorubicin (25 mg/kg, IP) to induce HF. At day 5, TG mice had significantly improved cardiac function and viability and decreased loss of heart weight following doxorubicin exposure compared with WT. In another parallel experiment, doxorubicin-induced increased levels of reactive oxygen species, protein carbonylation, apoptosis and morphologic changes were detected in the mitochondria in WT hearts, whereas these effects were markedly attenuated in TG hearts. In addition, upregulation of heat shock protein 70 and heme oxygenase-1 was present in the TG hearts after doxorubicin stimulation in comparison to WT hearts.
These findings indicate that Hsp27 may play a key role in resistance to doxorubicin-induced cardiac dysfunction.
In order to clarify whether peroxisomal hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) plays an important role in peroxisome proliferator-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, we examined the change in metabolism of peroxisomal H2O2 in vivo and in vitro using male Fischer-344 rats fed clofibrate, bezafibrate and di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) for up to 78 weeks. Hepatic peroxisomal fatty acyl-CoA oxidase activity increased 12-20-fold after 2 or 4 weeks treatment; later this level gradually decreased toward controls, and at 78 weeks activity was 3-10-times of control. Although hepatic H2O2 levels were increased slightly by clofibrate, bezafibrate and DEHP, the changes did not correlate with the changes in peroxisomal fatty acyl-CoA oxidase activity. In isolated hepatocytes, the rate of leakage of peroxisomal H2O2 from peroxisomes into the cytosol and the hepatocellular H2O2 content was measured. The rate of leakage of peroxisomal H2O2 into cytosol increased 2.5-4-fold when peroxisomal beta-oxidation activity was induced by peroxisome proliferators, and the increases in this rate corresponded with changes in the peroxisomal beta-oxidation activity. In contrast, the hepatocellular H2O2 contents were not affected by induced peroxisomal beta-oxidation. These data show that H2O2 leaking from peroxisome into cytosol would be quickly decomposed, and thus peroxisomal H2O2 does not appear to play an important role in hepatocarcinogenesis by such an oxidative stress mechanism after the long-term treatment with peroxisome proliferators.
To report the occurrence of life-threatening hyperkalaemia following treatment with therapeutic thiopentone coma.
The neurosurgical intensive care units of Royal North Shore Hospital and Liverpool Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
Three patients treated with theraputic thiopentone coma. One patient with raised intracranial pressure secondary to a severe traumatic brain injury and two patients with refractory vasospasm secondary to subarachnoid haemorrhage. Two of the three patients developed hypokalaemia on starting thiopentone, which was resistant to potassium supplementation. All three patients developed severe hyperkalaemia during the recovery phase of coma. This was life-threatening in all three patients and fatal in one.
Severe hypokalaemia refractory to potassium therapy may occur during therapeutic thiopentone coma. Severe rebound hyperkalaemia may occur after cessation of thiopentone infusion. Protocols for the management of patients with therapeutic barbiturate coma should recognise this potentially serious complication.
Parkinsonism is a rare complication in patients with organophosphate poisoning. To date there have been two cases of transient parkinsonism after acute and severe cholinergic crisis, both of which were successfully treated using amantadine, an anti-parkinsonism drug. We report on an 81-year-old woman who was admitted for the treatment of acute severe organophosphate poisoning. Although acute cholinergic crisis was treated successfully with large doses of atropine and 2-pyridine aldoxime methiodide (PAM), extrapyramidal manifestations were noticed on hospital day 6. The neurological symptoms worsened, and the diagnosis of parkinsonism was made by a neurologist on hospital day 9. Immediately, biperiden (5mg), an anti-parkinsonism drug, was administered intravenously, and her symptoms markedly improved. From the following day, biperiden (5 mg/day) was given intramuscularly for eight days. Subsequently, neurological symptoms did not relapse, and no drugs were required. Our patient is the third case of parkinsonism developing after an acute severe cholinergic crisis and the first case successfully treated with biperiden. Patients should be carefully observed for the presence of neurological signs in this kind of poisoning. If present, an anti-parkinsonism drug should be considered.
The purpose of this study was to assess the multiple-dose clinical pharmacology of tolcapone, a novel catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor, in elderly subjects.
The drug was administered orally t.i.d. for 7 days to four sequential groups of eight elderly subjects (gender ratio 1:1) at doses of 100, 200, 400 and 800 mg in a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, ascending-multiple-dose design. On days 2 and 7, a single dose of levodopa/benserazide 100/25 mg was given 1 h after the first intake of tolcapone. Plasma concentrations of tolcapone; its metabolite 3-O-methyltolcapone, levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa were determined during the course of the study in conjunction with COMT activity in erythrocytes.
Tolcapone was well tolerated at all dose levels, with a slight increase in gastrointestinal adverse events in females at higher doses. The drug was rapidly absorbed and eliminated and showed no changes in pharmacokinetics with time during multiple doses of 100 and 200 mg t.i.d. At doses of 400 and 800 mg t.i.d., tolcapone accumulated moderately as reflected in increased Cmax and AUC values. Despite the long halflife of 3-O-methyltolcapone (39 h), only minor accumulation occurred due to suppression of its formation by tolcapone. The pharmacodynamics of tolcapone did not change during the week of treatment as reflected in inhibition of COMT activity in erythrocytes, the derived parameters of the plasma concentration-effect relationship (inhibitory Emax model with constant EC50 values) and the effect on levodopa pharmacokinetics (1.6 to 2.5-fold increase in bioavailability). This suggests the absence of tolerance development and the insignificance of the altered pharmacokinetics at 400 and 800 mg t.i.d. with regard to the pharmacodynamics.
The results of this study offer promising perspectives for the application of tolcapone as adjunct therapy to levodopa in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Osteosarcoma is a high-grade malignant bone tumor. Pterostilbene (PTE) is a natural, dimethylated analog of resveratrol with higher bioavailability. While PTE has been shown to have potent antitumor activity against various types of cancer, the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of PTE remain largely unknown. The Janus kinase 2/Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (JAK2/STAT3) signaling pathway plays a crucial role in tumorigenesis and immune development. In this study, we assessed the antitumor activity of PTE against human osteosarcoma cells and explored the role of JAK2/STAT3 and apoptosis-related signaling pathways on the activity of PTE. PTE treatment resulted in a dose- and time-dependent inhibition of osteosarcoma cell viability. Additionally, PTE exhibited strong antitumor activity, as evidenced not only by reductions in tumor cell adhesion, migration and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) but also by increases in the apoptotic index, reactive oxygen species (ROS) and several biochemical parameters. Furthermore, PTE treatment directly inhibited the phosphorylation of JAK2 at Tyr 1007 and the downstream activation of STAT3. PTE also down-regulated the expression of STAT3 target genes, including the anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-xL and Mcl-1, leading to the up-regulation of mitochondrial apoptosis pathway-related proteins (Bax, Bak, cytosolic Cytochrome c, and cleaved Caspase3) and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors such as p21 and p27. PTE, used in combination with a known JAK2/STAT3 inhibitor, AG490, further decreased the viability of osteosarcoma cells. Taken together, PTE is a potent inhibitor of osteosarcoma cell growth that targets the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway. These data suggest that inhibition of JAK2/STAT3 signaling is a novel mechanism of action for PTE during therapeutic intervention in osteosarcoma cancers.
A 57-year-old woman developed exacerbation of atopic dermatitis, fever, and nephrotic syndrome with microscopic hematuria. By bacteriological study, methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) was detected from each culture of pharyngeal mucus, stool, and blood samples. Renal biopsy specimens showed endocapillary proliferative glomerulonephritis with massive IgA deposition in the mesangium and along the capillary loops. After antistaphylococcal therapy with antibiotics, MSSA was negative for each culture and urinary protein decreased. Nine months after the first renal biopsy, a re-biopsy was performed, which revealed apparent disappearance of both endocapillary cell proliferation and IgA deposition. It is known that methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) infection causes glomerulonephritis through T-cell stimulation by superantigen presented by MRSA. The present results suggest that not only MRSA but also MSSA can cause this type of glomerulonephritis.
Acute lung injury (ALI) has many possible etiopathologies and is characterized by acute diffuse lung damage with poor prognosis. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is widely used as septic model of ALI in pharmacological research. This study compares intratracheal bolus instillation (IT) with dose-adjusted aerosol inhalation (IH) of LPS in Wistar rats using both non-invasive and terminal endpoints. The former comprised exhaled nitric oxide (NOE) and 'enhanced pause' (Penh) both measured in spontaneous breathing conscious rats. Terminal endpoints included lung weights, LDH, protein, total cell counts, and cytodifferentiation in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL). Measurements were made 1, 3, 7, and 14 days after IT instillation (5 mg LPS/kg body weight) or 6-hour directed-flow nose-only inhalation exposure to respirable LPS-aerosol at 100 mg/m(3) (thoracic dose: 2.6 mgLPS/kg body weight). Controls received saline (IT) or air only (IH). LDH and protein were significantly different from the control in the LPS-IH group (days 1 and 3) with a somewhat inconclusive outcome in the LPS-IT group due to the effects occurring in the control. Total cell counts were equally elevated with similar time-course changes in the LPS-IT and -IH groups. Polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) were indistinguishable amongst LPS-dosed rats. Again, IT-dosed control rats displayed markedly higher background levels than those dosed by inhalation. Similarly NOE was significantly elevated on post-LPS day 1 as was Penh. In summary, the LPS-aerosol dose delivered by nose-only exposure over 6 h was equally potent as the 2-times higher LPS-IT bolus dose on post-LPS day 1 with somewhat faster recovery thereafter. The climax and discriminatory power of the non-invasive endpoints matched those determined terminally. This supports the conclusion that the pharmacological efficacy and side effects of inhalation pharmaceuticals designed to mitigate ALI can better be identified by LPS-aerosol than by LPS-IT. Non-invasive time-course measurements may deliver apt information both on the efficacious dose as well as the dosing intervals required to maintain the targeted efficacy using a minimum of experimental animals. The outcome of this comparative study supports the conclusion that the inhalation route produces a more uniform type of injury at lower, more meaningful dosages. When designing studies for screening of effective drugs this mode of delivery appears to better approximate the human condition with less dosimetric uncertainty, less experimental variability and better characterization of what was actually delivered to the entire respiratory tract.
A comprehensive analysis was performed to investigate how inhibition of the human bile salt export pump (BSEP/ABCB11) relates to clinically observed drug-induced liver injury (DILI). Inhibition of taurocholate (TA) transport was investigated in BSEP membrane vesicles for a data set of 250 compounds, and 86 BSEP inhibitors were identified. Structure-activity modeling identified BSEP inhibition to correlate strongly with compound lipophilicity, whereas positive molecular charge was associated with a lack of inhibition. All approved drugs in the data set (n = 182) were categorized according to DILI warnings in drug labels issued by the Food and Drug Administration, and a strong correlation between BSEP inhibition and DILI was identified. As many as 38 of the 61 identified BSEP inhibitors were associated with severe DILI, including 9 drugs not previously linked to BSEP inhibition. Further, among the tested compounds, every second drug associated with severe DILI was a BSEP inhibitor. Finally, sandwich-cultured human hepatocytes (SCHH) were used to investigate the relationship between BSEP inhibition, TA transport, and clinically observed DILI in detail. BSEP inhibitors associated with severe DILI greatly reduced the TA canalicular efflux, whereas BSEP inhibitors with less severe or no DILI resulted in weak or no reduction of TA efflux in SCHH. This distinction illustrates the usefulness of SCHH in refined analysis of BSEP inhibition. In conclusion, BSEP inhibition in membrane vesicles was found to correlate to DILI severity, and altered disposition of TA in SCHH was shown to separate BSEP inhibitors associated with severe DILI from those with no or mild DILI.
Two patients with osteomyelitis who developed reversible cholestatic jaundice during treatment with oxacillin derivatives are described. The clinical course as well as the biochemical pattern and the investigation of liver biopsy specimens enabled us to establish the diagnoses of drug-induced canalicular and hepatocanalicular cholestasis.
This report describes a 15-year-old white boy who presented with fever, back pain, a disseminated exanthematous rash, renal failure, and hepatopathy 3 weeks after the initiation of oral minocycline therapy for facial acne. Marked peripheral and urine eosinophilia were noted. A bone marrow aspiration showed more than 50% eosinophils without any evidence of malignancy, and a simultaneous kidney biopsy showed acute interstitial nephritis (AIN). The patient's symptoms and laboratory findings improved after high-dose steroid therapy was initiated, worsened when it was withheld, and improved again after it was reinitiated in view of the biopsy findings. The patient recovered completely, and steroids were tapered to discontinuation over 3 months. Over a year later, the patient's peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were cultured for 2 weeks in the presence or absence of minocycline ex vivo, and minocycline was found to induce the emergence of CD4(+) cells after 1 week in culture. In conclusion, this article shows for the first time several new aspects of minocycline-induced morbidity: renal and hepatic failure can occur together, and AIN and elevated blood eosinophil counts can be accompanied by marked bone marrow eosinophilia, suggesting a systemic allergic response as the underlying pathomechanism. Furthermore, the initial phase of such a response appears to involve CD4(+) T cells detectable ex vivo. Lastly, high-dose treatment with corticosteroids appears to be beneficial in this setting.
We reported a lessened cyst growth in the pcy mouse model of polycystic kidney disease (PKD) when mice were fed a soy protein isolate (SPI)-based diet and hypothesized that the soyasaponins may be associated with this therapeutic effect. The effects of feeding a saponin-enriched alcohol extract (SEAE) from SPI, an isoflavone- and saponin-enriched soy supplement (Novasoy 400), or a 99.5% pure soyasaponin Bb powder on cyst growth are reported here.
The therapeutic effects of the soyasaponins were studied in 60-day-old male pcy mice in two separate, 90-day feeding trials. In the first study, mice were fed either a casein-based (control) diet, a diet in which SPI replaced the casein or the control diet supplemented with SEAE. In the second study, mice were fed the control diet unsupplemented or supplemented with either a soyasaponin- and isoflavone-enriched soy product (Novasoy 400) or a 99.5% pure soyasaponin Bb powder.
In study 1, kidney weight, water content, and plasma creatinine and urea levels were markedly reduced in the SEAE-fed animals compared to tissues from the control group; likewise, mice fed the SPI-based diet showed a decreased plasma creatinine, but only a slightly reduced plasma urea. In study 2, kidney weight, water content, plasma creatinine and urea levels were significantly reduced in mice fed the soyasaponin Bb powder and the Novasoy-400 supplement, compared to controls.
Soyasaponin Bb can impede kidney enlargement and cyst growth in the pcy mouse model of PKD. Further studies are needed to determine its most effective dose and mechanism of action.
Hyperoxia contributes to the development of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in premature infants. New BPD is characterized as having alveolar simplification. We reported previously that aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) deficiency increased susceptibility to hyperoxic lung injury in adult mice, and this was associated with decreased expression of cytochrome P450 1A enzymes and increased lung inflammation. Whether AhR protects newborn mice against hyperoxia-induced alveolar simplification is unknown. Thus, we tested the hypothesis that decreased activation of the pulmonary AhR augments hyperoxia-induced alveolar simplification and lung inflammation in newborn mice. Experimental groups included one-day old wild type (WT) and AhR dysfunctional (AhRd) mice exposed to 21% O₂ (air) or 85% O₂ (hyperoxia) for 14 days. Exposure of newborn WT mice to hyperoxia resulted in increased protein, enzyme and mRNA expression of the AhR-regulated lung cytochrome P450 1A1, NAD(P)H quinone oxidoreductase-1, and microsomal glutathione S-transferase 1 enzymes, suggesting that hyperoxia increases activation of the pulmonary AhR. On the other hand, in the AhRd mice, hyperoxia induced the AhR-regulated enzymes to a lesser extent probably due to the dysfunctional AhR in these mice. Alveolar simplification and lung inflammation was increased in mice exposed to hyperoxia compared with those exposed to air, and AhRd mice were more susceptible to hyperoxia-induced alveolar simplification and lung inflammation compared with WT mice. These findings suggest that decreased activation of the pulmonary AhR in newborn AhRd mice augments hyperoxia-induced alveolar simplification and lung inflammation in these mice.
Abuse of amphetamine, cocaine and related compounds has become an important risk factor for intracerebral haemorrhage in young adults. Five fatal cases of intracerebral haemorrhage following use of amphetamine are described. The symptoms occurred few hours after amphetamine intake, and all patients had considerably increased blood pressure upon admission. Autopsy was performed on four of the patients and did not reveal any predisposing factors for haemorrhage, such as trauma, vascular malformations or vasculitis. Cerebral CT should always be performed when severe headache and/or altered consciousness occur in relation to abuse of amphetamine-like compounds. Intracerebral haemorrhage in young adults may indicate abuse of psychoactive drugs.
It is well recognized that capsaicin increases thermogenesis through enhancement of catecholamine secretion from the adrenal medulla. In the present study of the antiobesity effect of capsaicin, rats (5-week old) received capsaicin (10 mg/kg) along with a high-fat diet (HFD). In comparison with saline-treated rats, body weight of those in the capsaicin-treated group decreased by 8%. We performed differential proteomic analysis using two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) combined with MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry to elucidate the molecular action of capsaicin on the antiobesity effect in epididymal white adipose tissue (WAT). Protein mapping of WAT homogenates using 2-DE revealed significant alterations to a number of proteins: 10 spots were significantly up-regulated and 10 spots were remarkably down-regulated in HFD fed rats treated with capsaicin. Among them, significant down-regulation of heat shock protein 27 (Hsp27) and Steap3 protein, as well as up-regulation of olfactory receptor (Olr1434) in obese WAT was reported for the first time in association with obesity. Most of the identified proteins are associated with lipid metabolism and redox regulation, in which levels of vimentin, peroxiredoxin, and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) were significantly reduced (>2-fold), whereas aldo-keto reductase, flavoprotein increased with capsaicin treatment. These data demonstrate that thermogenesis and lipid metabolism related proteins were markedly altered upon capsaicin treatment in WAT, suggesting that capsaicin may be a useful phytochemical for attenuation of obesity.
Secondary hyperkalaemic paralysis is a rare condition often mimicking the Guillain-Barré syndrome. There have been a few case reports of hyperkalaemia caused by renal failure, trauma, and drugs where the presentation has been with muscle weakness. A case of hyperkalaemic paralysis caused by an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor is reported.
The objective of the study was to assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of a fixed dose combination of telmisartan 40 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg in adult Indian patients with mild to moderate hypertension. A prospective, multicentric, open-label, non-comparative, phase IV study was conducted. A total of 353 patients of either sex, between 18- 65 years of age with supine blood pressure (BP) levels of systolic BP (SBP) of 140-200 mmHg and diastolic BP (DBP) of 95-114 mmHg were included. After a placebo run-in period of 2 weeks, each patient received a fixed dose combination of telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide (40mg/12.5mg) once daily, for 8 weeks. Supine BP was assessed at the end of every 2 weeks. Tolerability and safety were assessed by physical examination, laboratory parameters and evaluation of adverse events. A total of 339 patients completed the study with 14 drop-out cases because of loss to follow-up. There was a significant fall (p<0.05) in both the SBP and DBP starting from the second week as compared to the baseline. Mean SBP had a significant reduction of 23.55 mmHg (15.0%) and 27.79 mmHg (18%) at the end of 6th and 8th week respectively, compared to baseline values. Mean DBP had also had a significant reduction of 12.51 mmHg (12.6%) and 15.17 mmHg (15.3%) at the end of 6th and 8th week respectively, compared to baseline values. This combination was well tolerated with only 3.9% of the total cases reporting mild adverse events like fatigue, dizziness, nausea, diarrhoea etc. The laboratory values were within normal limits. Fixed dose combination of telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide (40 mg/12.5 mg) once daily has a significant therapeutic effect and a good tolerability profile in adult Indian patients with mild to moderate hypertension.
Ochratoxin A (OTA), a naturally occurring mycotoxin, is nephrotoxic in all animal species tested and is considered a potent renal carcinogen, particularly in male rats. Its mechanism of toxicity is still unknown, although oxidative stress appears to be a plausible mechanism. Therefore, the objective of this study was to identify the biological pathways that are modulated in vivo by OTA in male F344 rats in order to gain further insight into its mechanism of renal toxicity. Rats were gavaged daily with OTA (500 microg/kg bw) and gene expression profiles in target and non-target organs were analyzed after 7 and 21 days administration. As was expected, a time-dependent increase of OTA concentrations was found in plasma, kidney and liver, with the concentrations found in both tissues being quite similar. However, histopathological examinations only revealed changes in kidney; signs of nephrotoxicity involving single cell necrosis and karyomegalic nuclei were observed in the treated rats. The number of differentially expressed genes in kidney was much higher than in liver (541 versus 11 at both time points). Several similarities were observed with other in vivo gene expression data. However, great differences were found with previous in vitro gene expression data, with the exception of DNA damage response which was not observed at mRNA level in any of our study conditions. Down-regulation was the predominant effect. Oxidative stress response pathway and genes involved in metabolism and transport were inhibited at both time points. RGN (regucalcin) - a gene implicated in calcium homeostasis - was strongly inhibited at both time points and genes implicated in cell survival and proliferation were up-regulated at day 21. Moreover, translation factors and annexin genes were up-regulated at both time points. Apart from oxidative stress, alterations of the calcium homeostasis and cytoskeleton structure may be present at the first events of OTA toxicity.
Simvastatin, the most widely used cholesterol-lowering drug, has been reported to protect the adult brain from ischemia. Nevertheless, little is known about its action on developing brain after stroke. Although a few reports have found recently that simvastatin displays anti-inflammation and anti-apoptosis properties and improves the cognitive and morphological consequences in the neonatal rats after hypoxia-ischemia (HI) damage, to our best knowledge, there has been no study of the effect of it on myelin formation after neonatal brain damage. Therefore, we investigated whether simvastatin could promote the myelination of oligodendrocytes in the neonatal rats after HI and explored the possible role of microglial responses in this process.
Postnatal day 7 Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to HI. White matter integrity and myelination were evaluated by the densitometry of myelin basic protein (MBP) immunostaining. OX-42 immunoreactivity and nissl staining were used for identifying microglial responses and the structure changes of white matter and adjacent gray matter after HI. Simvastatin was administrated prophylactically to rats.
HI induced serious hypomyelination especially in external and internal capsules 3 and 7 days after HI, accompanying with microglial activation remarkably. Simvastatin treatment greatly increased the densities of MBP immunostaining, inhibited microglial activation and reduced the numbers of pyknotic cells and neuronal loss.
The present study shows that simvastatin treatment in neonatal rats attenuates HI-induced developing oligodendrocytes injury and hypomyelination. Its anti-inflammatory properties via suppression of microglial activation are likely to contribute to this action. It provides experimental evidence to support the neuroprotective effects of statins in neonatal ischemic stroke.
Inorganic arsenic is an important human carcinogen of unknown etiology. Defining carcinogenic mechanisms is critical to assessing the human health hazard of arsenic exposure but requires appropriate model systems. It has proven difficult to induced tumors in animals with inorganic arsenic alone. Several groups have studied the carcinogenic potential of inorganic arsenic in rodents, finding it to act as co-promoter or co-carcinogen, but not as a complete carcinogen. As gestation is a time of high sensitivity to chemical carcinogenesis, we performed two in utero exposure studies with inorganic arsenic. In the first study, pregnant mice received drinking water containing sodium arsenite at 0 (control), 42.5 and 85 ppm arsenic from gestation day 8 to 18, and the offspring were observed for up to 90 weeks. As adults, male offspring developed hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and adrenal tumors after in utero arsenite exposure. Although liver tumors were not induced by arsenic in female offspring, they did develop lung carcinoma, ovarian tumors, and uterine and oviduct preneoplasia. In a second study, the same doses of arsenic were used and the skin tumor promoting phorbol ester, TPA, was applied to the skin after birth in an effort to promote skin tumors potentially initiated by arsenic in utero. TPA did not promote dermal tumors after in utero arsenite exposure. Otherwise, results from the second chronic study largely duplicated the first and, irrespective of additional TPA exposure, arsenic exposure in utero induced HCC and adrenal tumors in males and ovarian tumors in females. In addition, combined arsenic and TPA induced a significant increase in hepatocellular tumors in female offspring, although arsenic alone was not effective. Thus, in utero inorganic arsenic exposure can act as a complete carcinogen in mice, with brief exposures consistently inducing tumors at several sites. In addition, it appears gestational arsenic can act as a tumor initiator in the female mouse liver, inducing liver lesions that can be promoted by TPA.
We evaluated prospectively gentamicin and tobramycin pharmacokinetics in 37 patients with multiple system trauma and seven patients with isolated closed head trauma. The mean apparent volume of distribution (Vd) was 0.38 +/- 0.10 and 0.27 +/- 0.04 L/kg actual body weight (ABW) in patients with multiple trauma and closed head trauma, respectively. The difference in Vd between the two groups of patients was significant (p less than .002). Vd was not predictable on the basis of age, sex, weight, trauma score, or hospital day that therapy was initiated. Mean aminoglycoside clearance (Cl) was 123 +/- 46 ml/min. Neither serum creatinine nor estimated creatinine Cl predicted aminoglycoside Cl with sufficient accuracy to be clinically useful (r = .33 and .67, respectively). The mean daily dose was 6.1 +/- 1.6 mg/kg. The mean peak serum level was 5.8 +/- 1.3 micrograms/ml. Only one patient developed clinically significant renal dysfunction. Our data indicate that a loading dose of gentamicin or tobramycin of 3 mg/kg ABW in patients with multiple trauma and 2.5 mg/kg ABW in patients with isolated head trauma will obtain a mean initial peak serum level of 6.6 micrograms/ml. Although adequate maintenance dosing requires individualization based on pharmacokinetic analyses, large aminoglycoside doses can be used safely in patients with blunt trauma if appropriate monitoring is employed.
Treatment with phototherapy or with the lipase inhibitor orlistat decreases plasma unconjugated bilirubin (UCB) concentrations in hyperbilirubinemic Gunn rats. We investigated the mechanism(s) underlying the effects of orlistat, phototherapy, and combined treatment, using steady-state 3H-UCB kinetics. After three weeks of treatment with orlistat (200 mg/kg chow), phototherapy (19 microW/cm2/nm) or combined treatment, tracer 3H-UCB was administered IV to treated and untreated (control) Gunn rats. Plasma samples and feces were collected every 12h for 60h, and bile for 30 min at 60h. The following results were obtained: 1) each treatment decreased plasma bilirubin levels compared with controls: orlistat- 19%, phototherapy-32%, combined treatment-53%; 2) plasma bilirubin concentrations were strongly, negatively correlated with fractional bilirubin turnover; 3) orlistat treatment induced net transmucosal excretion of UCB into the intestinal lumen, whereas phototherapy increased biliary UCB excretion rate; 4) all treatments profoundly increased the enterohepatic circulation of UCB derivatives, indicating enhanced metabolism by intestinal bacteria. In conclusion, orlistat and phototherapy lower plasma bilirubin concentrations in Gunn rats by increasing (net) intestinal influx of UCB, either by transmucosal excretion (orlistat), or increased biliary secretion (phototherapy). The mechanism of phototherapy and orlistat treatment involves increasing the availability of UCB in the intestinal lumen for fecal excretion and for metabolism by intestinal bacteria.
Both preischemic hyperglycemia and reduction of manganese superoxide dismutase activity are known to enhance neuronal death induced by transient cerebral ischemia. Transcriptional factor hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) regulates multiple downstream genes that modulate cell metabolism, survival, death, angiogenesis, hematopoiesis, and other functions. The objectives of this study were to determine (i) whether hyperglycemia is able to increase ischemic brain damage in mutant manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2) mice and (ii) whether the reduction of SOD2 activity has a profound effect on HIF-1 protein expression under hyperglycemic ischemic condition. Both wild type and mutant SOD deficient (SOD2(-/+)) mice were induced to hyperglycemia 30min before induction of a 30-min transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO). Brains were extracted after 5 and 24h of reperfusion for immunohistochemistry and Western blot analyses. The results showed that preischemic hyperglycemia significantly increased infarct volume in SOD2(-/+)mice and that HIF-1alpha protein levels were significantly reduced in ischemic core area at 5- and 24-h of reperfusion in hyperglycemic SOD2(-/+) mice. However, the HIF-1alpha protein levels were not significantly decreased in hyperglycemic wild type animals subjected to stroke. The results suggest that the increased brain damage observed in hyperglycemic SOD2(-/+) mice is associated with HIF-1alpha suppression, while hyperglycemia per se does not seem to exert its detrimental effects on ischemic brain via modulating HIF-1 pathway.
N-(3,5-Dichloro-pyrid-4-yl)-[1-(4-fluorobenzyl)-5-hydroxy-indole-3-yl]-glyoxylic acid amide (AWD 12-281) is a highly potent and selective phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitor that was designed to have a metabolic profile that was optimized for topical administration. The aim of the current study was to explore the pharmacological profile of intratracheally administered AWD 12-281 in different models of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in comparison with steroids. To assess the anti-inflammatory potential of AWD 12-281, the antigen-induced cell infiltration in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) of Brown Norway rats was determined. AWD 12-281 (ID50 of 7 microg/kg i.t.) as well as beclomethasone (0.1microg/kg i.t.) suppresses late-phase eosinophilia when administered intrapulmonary. Furthermore, AWD 12-281 has also strong anti-inflammatory properties when tested in lipopolysaccharide-induced acute lung neutrophilia in Lewis rats (ID50 of 0.02 microg/kg i.t.), ferrets (ID50 of 10 microg/kg i.t.), and domestic pigs (2-4 mg/pig i.t. or 1 mg/kg i.v.). In pigs, AWD 12-281 was as effective as beclomethasone (0.4 mg/pig i.t.) and dexamethasone (0.28 mg/kg i.v.), although at 3 to 10 times the dosage. The bronchodilatory activity of AWD 12-281 was assessed in sensitized guinea pigs. AWD 12-281 (1.5 mg/kg i.t., 1-h pretreatment) inhibited allergen-induced bronchoconstriction by 68% (parameter airway resistance). In sensitized BP-2 mice AWD 12-281 abolished the allergen-induced bronchial hyperresponsiveness and eosinophilia in BALF, showing dose dependence. When given orally, i.v. or i.t., AWD 12-281 has a considerably lower emetic potential than cilomilast in ferrets and roflumilast in pigs. When given topically by inhalation, no emesis could be induced in dogs up to the highest feasible dose (15 mg/kg in 50% lactose blend). These results indicate that AWD 12-281 is a unique potential new drug for the topical treatment of asthma and COPD.
Toxicologic aspects of long-term therapy with the gallstone-dissolving agent, chenodeoxycholic acid (CDC) are under study in the baboon. Eighteen animals, subdivided into low (20 mg. per kilogram per day), incremental (18 to 38 mg. per kilogram per day), and high (38 mg. per kilogram per day) dose groups were fed CDC daily for 8 to 15 months. During that period they maintained on appearance of excellent, unchanged health and behavior indistinguishable from that of eight control animals. However, 15 of the 18 CDC-fed animals showed significant elevations of monthly serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase-serum glutamic oxalacetic transaminase determinations, and 14 of the 18, from all dose groups, developed significant focal histologic changes in serial liver biopsies. Histologic changes are similar to those described for lithocholic acid toxicity and correlate with an elevated percentage of chenodeoxycholic acid and, particularly, with lithocholic acid (8 to 14 percent) in gallbladder bile of the CDC-fed animals. A few CDC-fed animals showed histologic changes without enzymatic changes and vice versa. To date none of the focal hepatic lesions appears irreversible; it is too early to determine whether continued CDC feeding results in progression, stabilization, or regression of changes. More intensive surveillance of human subjects receiving chenodeoxycholic acid is indicated.
Sirolimus is used in patients with renal insufficiency after liver transplantation (LT) and especially in those with calcineurin inhibitor (CNI)-associated nephrotoxicity. We conducted a systematic review of all randomized controlled trials and observational studies to test the hypothesis that the use of sirolimus is associated with an improvement in renal function at 1 year in LT recipients with renal insufficiency [glomerular filtration rate (GFR) < 60 mL/minute or creatinine level ≥ 1.5 mg/dL]. We performed a search of all major databases, conference proceedings, and relevant journals through December 2009 and contacted content experts, corresponding authors, and the pharmaceutical manufacturer. A random effects model was used to determine the pooled estimate of the change in renal function and pooled risk estimates of adverse events that may be associated with sirolimus-based therapy at 1 year. Eleven studies (three randomized controlled trials and eight observational studies) met the final inclusion criteria. A nonsignificant improvement of 3.38 mL/minute [95% confidence interval (CI) = -2.93 to 9.69] was observed in methodologically sound observational studies and controlled trials reporting the primary outcome. In controlled trials, baseline GFR >50 mL/min sirolimus use was associated with an improvement of 10.35 mL/minute (95% CI = 3.98-16.77) in GFR or creatinine clearance. Sirolimus was not significantly associated with death [relative risk (RR) = 1.12, 95% CI = 0.66-1.88] or graft failure (RR = 0.80, 95% CI = 0.45-1.41), although reporting was incomplete. It was associated with a statistically significant risk of infection (RR = 2.47, 95% CI = 1.14-5.36), rash (RR = 7.57, 95% CI = 1.75-32.70), ulcers (RR = 7.44, 95% CI = 2.03-27.28), and discontinuation of therapy (RR = 3.61, 95% CI = 1.32-9.89).
Conversion to sirolimus from CNIs is associated with a nonsignificant improvement in renal function in LT recipients with renal insufficiency, although the results are limited by heterogeneity, a risk of bias, and a lack of standardized reporting.
