The efficacy of leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRAs) in the treatment of asthma and the involvement of various patient background factors were investigated. A questionnaire was used to survey the physicians of 1,600 asthma patients regarding the use of LTRAs, whether treatment was being continued or had been discontinued, and reasons for continuation or discontinuation. The results showed that 797 patients had used an LTRA, with 468 having used pranlukast (P), 294 having used montelukast (M) and 25 having used zafirlukast. For the remaining 10 patients, either the drug name was unknown or multiple LTRAs had been used. The P Group was slightly younger in age (median: P, 55 years, M, 57 years) and had a higher frequency of mild, intermittent disease (P: 20.3%; M:11.2%). The P Group also had a higher percentage of patients who continued taking an LTRA because the drug was "clearly effective" (P: 34.6%; M: 17.3%), and a lower percentage of patients who discontinued the drug because the drug was "ineffective" (P: 2.6%; M:19.0%). Logistic regression analysis showed the following as independent factors contributing to efficacy of the LTRA in the treatment of the asthma (R2 = 0.19): P as the drug used (p < 0.01); allergic rhinitis not present as a complication (p < 0.01); and mild severity of asthma (p = 0.02). Further, the present findings indicate that LTRAs are highly effective for patients who have mild asthma without complication by allergic rhinitis. Further investigation is necessary to determine differences in efficacy among different LTRAs.
In this study, an experimental rat ligated heart model was used to observe the effect of treatment with carvedilol, metoprolol and metoprolol plus a highly selective alpha(1)-adrenergic blocking agent, bunazosin, after acute myocardial infarction (MI). Compared with an untreated MI group, all drug-treated groups demonstrated attenuation of inflammatory mediators, activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), and increased levels of mRNA and active protein for the collagenases matrix metallopeptidase (MMP)-8 and MMP-13 in the non-infarct zone of the ventricle, as well as inhibition of the increase of left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. Supplementation of metoprolol with bunazosin did not add greatly to the effects of metoprolol alone. Of the three drug treatments, carvedilol showed a uniquely potent antioxidant activity that may strengthen its capacity to inhibit oxidative stress, the release of inflammatory mediators and activation of NF-kappaB. This study may help provide a mechanistic explanation for the greater benefits shown by carvedilol compared with metoprolol in treating heart failure.
Cardiomyopathy and plastic contractile myocardial insufficiency were simulated in Wistar rats by an anthracycline antibiotic rubomycin. The myocardium in conditions of DNA-dependent RNA synthesis suppression was studied using polarization, electron microscopy and the method of cardiomyocyte isolation. During anthracycline cardiomyopathy in the absence of necrotic and necrobiotic myocardial injuries there was a smaller depression of cardiomyocyte population and their nuclei in the right ventricle (23 and 22% respectively) than in the left ventricle (38 and 39% respectively). It was concluded that a smaller amount of cardiomyocyte population was in the phase of intensive protein synthesis in the right than in the left ventricular myocardium.
Doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy is not uncommon and may progress to end-stage heart failure. Treatment of this condition with heart transplantation, however, requires that the primary malignancy be deemed "cured." We present the case of a 55- year-old woman who had doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The active status of her lymphoma precluded heart transplantation. She had end-stage heart failure and underwent the insertion of a left ventricular assist device as a destination therapy.
The involvement of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP), and vasopressin in lithium-induced polyuria was investigated in rats. Administration of LiCl (4 mmol/kg body wt) for 7 days induced a marked polyuria with a significant excretion of urinary PGE2. Administration of indomethacin (IND, 5 mg/kg body wt) for 4 days to lithium-induced diabetes insipidus (LiDI) rats diminished urine volume by 80% and urinary PGE2 by 85%. The in vitro data of the intact rat kidney showed that lithium stimulated arginine vasopressin (AVP)-induced PGE2 production and suggested that PGE2 suppressed cAMP synthesis in rat renal medulla. The AVP-induced PGE2 synthesis was greater and the AVP-stimulated cAMP production lower in the LiDI rat kidney in vitro. Interference of the vasopressin-associated cAMP system and the increased PGE2 synthesis in the kidney may be involved in the development of LiDI. The reduced cAMP production in the LiDI rat kidney might be partly due to the increased PGE2 synthesis. In LiDI rats plasma vasopressin increased, whereas AVP concentration in the hypothalamus and the neurohypophysis significantly decreased. It is postulated that lithium stimulates vasopressin release from the central nervous system and that elevated plasma vasopressin potentiates PGE2 production in the kidney synergistically with lithium.
Hyperlipidemia is a major cause of atherosclerosis and atherosclerosis-associated conditions in cardiovascular diseases. Oxidative stress, as a main risk factor causes vascular endothelial cell apoptosis, which is implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disorders. Diosgenin, an aglycone of steroidal saponins, has been reported to exert anti-proliferative and proapoptotic actions on cancer cells widely. In this study, we propose that diosgenin can protect the hyperlipidemic rats and prevent endothelial apoptosis under oxidative stress. We investigated the hypolipidemic and antioxidative effects of diosgenin on rats fed with high cholesterol and high fat diet for 6 weeks. Serum total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX), nitric oxide synthase (NOS), hepatic malondialdehyde (MDA), lipoprotein lipase (LPL), hepaticlipase (HL) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities were evaluated. Then we explored the effects and mechanism of diosgenin against hydrogen peroxide-induced apoptosis of human vein endothelium cells (HUVECs). Intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), glutathione (GSH), nitric oxide (NO), DNA fragment formation and mitochondrial membrane potentials (DeltaPsim) were determined. Diosgenin treatment increased LPL, HL, SOD, GSH-PX and NOS activities, thus attenuated oxygen free radicals, decreased MDA, TC, TG and LDL-C levels in hyperlipidemic rats. Diosgenin pretreatment significantly attenuated H(2)O(2)-induced apoptosis in HUVECs, intracellular ROS, GSH depletion, DNA fragment formation, and restored NO, DeltaPsim. These results suggested that diosgenin is a very useful compound to control hyperlipidemia by both improving the lipid profile and modulating oxidative stress and prevent H(2)O(2)-induced apoptosis of HUVECs, in partly through regulating mitochondrial dysfunction pathway.
Intracellular Ca(2+) increase is a common feature of multiple cellular pathways associated with receptor and channel activation, mediator secretion and gene regulation. We investigated the possibility of using this Ca(2+) signal as a biomarker for a reaction to chemical irritants of normal human keratinocytes (NHK) in submerged primary cell culture. We tested 14 referenced chemical compounds classified as strong (seven), weak (four) or non- (three) irritants in acute irritant contact dermatitis. We found that the strong irritant compounds tested at 20-40 mM induced an intracellular Ca(2+) increase measurable by spectrofluorimetry in an automated test. Weak and non-irritant compounds however did not increase intracellular Ca(2+) concentration. We further investigated the mechanisms by which the amine heptylamine, classified as a R34 corrosive compound, increases intracellular Ca(2+). Heptylamine (20mM) induced an ATP release that persisted in the absence of intra- and extra-cellular Ca(2+). In addition, we found that this ATP activates NHK purinergic receptors that subsequently cause the increase in intracellular Ca(2+) from sarcoplasmic reticular stores. We conclude that measuring the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration in NHK is a suitable and easy way of determining any potential reaction to soluble chemical compounds.
To test the hypothesis that nonselective blockade of adrenergic receptor (AR) subtypes is superior to selective blockade of AR subtypes in suppressing left ventricular (LV) remodeling induced by hypertension. Sixty-four spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were randomly divided into four groups: bisoprolol-treated, propranolol-treated, carvedilol-treated and no treatment groups (n=16, each). Sixteen Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats served as a control group. Echocardiography and cardiac catheterization were carried out to record the mitral flow velocity ratio of E wave to A wave (E/A), LV mass index (LVMI), maximal rising (dp/dt(max)) and falling (-dp/dt(max)) rate of the LV pressure and LV relaxation time constant (τ). The mRNA and protein expression levels of AR, protein kinase(PK) and G-protein subtypes, intracellular free calcium (Ca) concentration and cardiocyte apoptoisis rate were determined. Three drug-treated groups showed higher velocity ratio of E wave to A wave (E/A) and -dp/dt(max) and lower systolic blood pressure (SBP), LVMI, τ, apoptosis rate and intracellular free Ca(2+) concentration than the no treatment group. The mRNA expression levels of AR-α(1B) in the carvedilol group were significantly lower than the other two drug-treated groups. The mRNA expression levels of AR-β(1), AR-β(2) and Gsα were significantly higher in the three drug-treated groups than in the no treatment group, with the expression levels of AR-β(2) being the highest in the carvedilol-treated group. The protein expression levels of PKA and PKC subtype α and δ were lower in the three drug-treated groups than in the no treatment group. Overall blockade of AR subtypes is not superior to selective blockade of AR subtypes in suppressing LV remodeling in SHR. Although carvedilol is the most effective in attenuating cardiocyte apoptosis, normalizing AR-α(1B) and Gsα expression and increasing AR-β(2) expression.
Congenital afibrinogenemia is a rare, autosomal, recessive disorder characterized by the complete absence of detectable fibrinogen. We previously identified the first causative mutations in a nonconsanguineous Swiss family; the 4 affected persons have homozygous deletions of approximately 11 kb of the fibrinogen alpha (FGA) gene. Haplotype data implied that these deletions occurred on distinct ancestral chromosomes, suggesting that this region may be susceptible to deletion by a common mechanism. We subsequently showed that all the deletions were identical to the base pair and probably resulted from a nonhomologous recombination mediated by 7-bp direct repeats. In this study, we have collected data on 13 additional unrelated patients to identify the causative mutations and to determine the prevalence of the 11-kb deletion. A common recurrent mutation, at the donor splice site of FGA intron 4 (IVS4 + 1 G > T), accounted for 14 of the 26 (54%) alleles. One patient was heterozygous for the previously identified deletion. Three more frameshift mutations, 2 nonsense mutations, and a second splice site mutation were also identified. Consequently, 86% of afibrinogenemia alleles analyzed to date have truncating mutations of FGA, though mutations in all 3 fibrinogen genes, FGG, FGA, and FGB, might be predicted to cause congenital afibrinogenemia.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a major cause of failed drug development, withdrawal and restricted usage. Therefore screening assays which aid selection of candidate drugs with reduced propensity to cause DILI are required. We have investigated the toxicity of 144 drugs, 108 of which caused DILI, using assays identified in the literature as having some predictivity for hepatotoxicity. The validated assays utilised either HepG2 cells, HepG2 cells in the presence of rat S9 fraction or isolated human hepatocytes. All parameters were quantified by multiplexed and automated high content fluorescence microscopy, at appropriate time points after compound administration (4, 24 or 48h). The individual endpoint which identified drugs that caused DILI with greatest precision was maximal fold induction in CM-H2DFFDA staining in hepatocytes after 24h (41% sensitivity, 86% specificity). However, hierarchical clustering analysis of all endpoints provided the most sensitive identification of drugs which caused DILI (58% sensitivity, 75% specificity). We conclude that multi-parametric high content cell toxicity assays can enable in vitro detection of drugs that have high propensity to cause DILI in vivo but that many DILI compounds exhibit few in vitro signals when evaluated using these assays.
The pathogenesis of lupus nephritis is mainly attributable to a complex interaction between the innate and adaptive immune systems, including T and B cell function abnormalities. In addition to autoantibody production and immune complex deposition, Th1 and Th17 cytokines may play key roles in the development and progression of lupus nephritis. Acute onset of severe lupus nephritis remains a challenge in terms of prevention and treatment. In the present study, we evaluated the therapeutic effects of DCB-SLE1, an extract of a mixture of four traditional Chinese medicinal herbs (Atractylodis macrocephalae Rhizoma, Eucommiae cortex, Lonicerae caulis, and Hedyotidis diffusae Herba), on an accelerated severe lupus nephritis model, characterized by acute onset of proteinuria, azotemia, autoantibody production, and development of severe nephritis, induced by twice weekly injection of New Zealand black/white F1 mice with Salmonella-type lipopolysaccharide. DCB-SLE1 was administered daily by gavage starting 2 days after the first dose of induction of lipopolysaccharide, and the mice were euthanized at week 1 or week 5. The results showed that DCB-SLE1 significantly ameliorated the hematuria, proteinuria, renal dysfunction, and severe renal lesions by 1) suppression of B cell activation and decreased autoantibody production; 2) negative regulation of T cell activation/proliferation and natural killer cell activity; 3) suppression of IL-18, IL-6, and IL-17 production and blocking of NF-κB activation in the kidney; and 4) prevention of lymphoid and renal apoptosis. These results show that DCB-SLE1 can protect the kidney from autoimmune response-mediated acute and severe damage through systemic immune modulation and anti-inflammation pathways.
Diabetes mellitus type 1 is an autoimmune disease with a genetic predisposition that is triggered by environmental factors during early life. Epidemiological studies show that bisphenol A (BPA), an endocrine disruptor, has been detected in about 90% of all analyzed human urine samples. In this study, BPA was found to increase the severity of insulitis and the incidence of diabetes in female non obese diabetic (NOD) mice offspring after transmaternal exposure through the dams' drinking water (0, 0.1, 1, and 10mg/l). Both the severity of insulitis in the pancreatic islets at 11 weeks of age and the diabetes prevalence at 20 weeks were significantly increased for female offspring in the highest exposure group compared to the control group. Increased numbers of apoptotic cells, a reduction in tissue resident macrophages and an increase in regulatory T cells were observed in islets prior to insulitis development in transmaternally exposed offspring. The detectable apoptotic cells were identified as mostly glucagon producing alpha-cells but also tissue resident macrophages and beta-cells. In the local (pancreatic) lymph node neither regulatory T cell nor NKT cell populations were affected by maternal BPA exposure. Maternal BPA exposure may have induced systemic immune changes in offspring, as evidenced by alterations in LPS- and ConA-induced cytokine secretion in splenocytes. In conclusion, transmaternal BPA exposure, in utero and through lactation, accelerated the spontaneous diabetes development in NOD mice. This acceleration appeared to be related to early life modulatory effects on the immune system, resulting in adverse effects later in life.
Few controlled trials of pharmacologic intervention in women with antidepressant-associated sexual dysfunction have been reported, and there is uncertainty about the usefulness of putative treatments and the assessment methodologies. The authors evaluated the efficacy of buspirone and amantadine in the treatment of sexual dysfunction associated with fluoxetine administration.
Women who had been successfully treated with fluoxetine for at least 8 weeks and who had reported a deterioration in sexual function not present before the initiation of fluoxetine entered a 4-week assessment period. After assessment they were randomly assigned to an 8-week treatment trial with buspirone (N=19), amantadine (N=18), or placebo (N=20). Outcomes were assessed by using a patient-rated daily diary and a clinician-rated structured interview.
While the amantadine-treated women did report significantly greater improvements in energy levels than women in the placebo group, all treatment groups experienced improvement in overall sexual function as well as in most individual measures. There were no statistically significant differences among the three groups.
Neither buspirone nor amantadine was more effective than placebo in ameliorating antidepressant-associated sexual dysfunction. All groups experienced marked nonspecific improvement during treatment, which suggests the importance of placebo-controlled trials for this condition.
Prior studies have shown the retinoid X receptor (RXR) agonist bexarotene has preventive efficacy in rodent models of mammary and lung tumorigenesis albeit causing hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia. We reasoned that bexarotene delivered by inhalation may provide sufficient dose directly to the respiratory tract to achieve efficacy while avoiding these side effects. In this study, the chemopreventive activity of aerosolized bexarotene was investigated in the benzo(a)pyrene [B(a)P]-induced mouse lung tumor model as assessed by tumor multiplicity and tumor load. Aerosolized bexarotene significantly decreased tumor multiplicity and tumor load by 43% and 74%, respectively. Our data showed that bexarotene can both inhibit proliferation and promote apoptosis in vivo. Our data also show that aerosolized bexarotene did not increase plasma total cholesterol and triglyceride level compared with diet group. These results indicate that aerosolization may be a safe and effective route of administering bexarotene for chemoprevention of lung cancer.
Excitatory glutamatergic fibers from limbic structures, such as the hippocampus and the basolateral amygdala, are known to converge on the same neurons in the nucleus accumbens. We have recently shown that ketamine, at a dose (25 mg/kg) that produces psychosis-like behaviors in rats, decreases glutamatergic transmission between the hippocampus and the nucleus accumbens. Here we investigated whether ketamine also affects glutamatergic transmission between the basolateral amygdala and the nucleus accumbens. We also studied the effects of amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg), known to evoke psychosis-like behaviors in rats. We found that each drug produced a long-lasting (at least 30 min) potentiation of synaptic efficacy in the projection from the basolateral amygdala to the nucleus accumbens. However, while this synaptic potentiation developed shortly after ketamine injection (within 4 min), it occurred after a 30-min delay in rats injected with amphetamine. These data reveal, in freely behaving rats, that ketamine has a more rapid and powerful effect on projection targets of the basolateral amygdala than does amphetamine.
Levocabastine is a potent histamine H1 receptor antagonist used topically in the treatment of patients with allergic rhinitis. It has been suggested that antihistamines also have anti-inflammatory properties.
The present study was performed to investigate whether levocabastine, in addition to the anti-H1 receptor activity, has anti-inflammatory properties and thus is able to modulate the release of histamine and cytokines, such as interleukin 5 from human leukocytes and isolated tissues.
Leukocytes suspensions were prepared by dextran sedimentation of peripheral venous blood drawn from allergic and healthy volunteers. Leukocytes obtained from allergic volunteers were preincubated for 30 minutes with levocabastine (doses 10(-8) M to 10(-6) M) and thereafter incubated with allergen. Leukocytes obtained from healthy volunteers were incubated for zero to three hours with levocabastine (doses 10(-14) M to 10(-3) M). Histamine release was measured by an automated fluorometric method. Interleukin-5 release was measured by enzyme linked immunoassay. Contractile responses to histamine on guinea pig trachea and lung parenchyma as well as the release of histamine and interleukin-5 by the tissues were investigated in the absence or presence of levocabastine and/or the histamine H2 receptor antagonist cimetidine.
Levocabastine did not influence allergen-induced histamine release from leukocytes obtained from allergic volunteers. High concentrations (10(-4)and 10(-3) M) of levocabastine, however, caused release of histamine from leukocytes obtained from healthy volunteers as well as guinea pig airway smooth muscle tissues. Pretreatment with levocabastine dose-dependently decreased the contractile response to histamine, showing an irreversible competitive mechanism. Interleukin 5 release from human leukocytes and by guinea pig airway smooth muscle was not detectable.
These findings indicate that the H1 receptor blocker, levocabastine, has probably no anti-inflammatory properties, measured as histamine release, and that the histamine release from both human leukocytes and guinea pig trachea and lung parenchyma is significantly increased by the drug only at high concentrations.
This paper discusses a case of neurotoxicity which developed in the course of treatment of bipolar affective disorder with Lithium. It deals with the issues of Lithium levels, concomitant usage of Phenothiazine and addresses the important question of toxicity occurring at normal serum Lithium levels.
Recent studies have shown that the novel dopamine (DA) D3 receptor antagonists SB-277011A and NGB 2904 inhibit cocaine- and/or stress-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. The present study sought to determine if SB-277011A, NGB 2904, or BP-897 (a mixed D3 agonist/antagonist) similarly inhibit cocaine-associated cue-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. Long-Evans rats were allowed to self-administer cocaine. Each cocaine infusion was paired with discrete conditioned cue-light and tone. Subsequently, drug-seeking (i.e., lever-pressing) behavior was extinguished in the absence of cocaine and cocaine-associated cues. Rats were then tested for cue-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking. We found that cocaine-associated cues evoked robust reinstatement of lever-pressing. Acute intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of SB-277011A (6, 12, or 24 mg/kg) produced a dose-dependent inhibition of cue-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior by 35, 65, and 85%, respectively, compared to vehicle-treated animals. Acute i.p. administration of NGB 2904 (0.1, 1.0, or 5.0 mg/kg) produced a 45, 30, and 70% inhibition of cue-induced reinstatement, respectively, compared to vehicle-treated animals. Acute i.p. administration of either 0.1 or 1 mg/kg of BP 897 did not produce a significant effect on cue-induced reinstatement, whereas a dose of 3 mg/kg produced a 70% inhibition of cue-induced reinstatement. These findings, combined with previous data, suggest that DA D3 receptor antagonism may underlie the inhibitory effects of SB-277011A and NGB 2904 on cocaine cue-induced reinstatement, while the effects of BP 897 may involve D3 and non-D3 receptor mechanisms.
Epidemiological evidence indicates that environmental air pollutants are positively associated with the development of chronic vascular disease; however, the mechanisms involved have not been fully elucidated. In the present study we examined molecular pathways associated with chronic vascular disease in atherosclerosis-prone apolipoprotein E-deficient (ApoE(-/-)) mice, including markers of vascular remodeling and oxidative stress, in response to exposure to the ubiquitous environmental pollutant, gasoline engine emissions. ApoE(-/-) mice, on a high-fat diet, were exposed by inhalation to either filtered air; 8, 40, or 60 mug/m(3) particulate matter whole exhaust; or filtered exhaust with gases matching the 60-mug/m(3) concentration, for 7 weeks. Aortas and plasma were collected and assayed for changes in histochemical markers, real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, and indicators of oxidative damage. Inhalational exposure to gasoline engine emissions resulted in increased aortic mRNA expression of matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3), MMP-7, and MMP-9, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-2, endothelin-1 and heme oxygenase-1 in ApoE(-/-) mice; increased aortic MMP-9 protein levels were confirmed through immunohistochemistry. Elevated reactive oxygen species were also observed in arteries from exposed animals, despite absence of plasma markers. Similar findings were also observed in the aortas of ApoE(-/-) mice exposed to particle-filtered atmosphere, implicating the gaseous components of the whole exhaust in mediating the expression of markers associated with the vasculopathy. These findings demonstrate that exposure to gasoline engine emissions results in the transcriptional upregulation of factors associated with vascular remodeling, as well as increased markers of vascular oxidative stress, which may contribute to the progression of atherosclerosis and reduced stability of vulnerable plaques.
Urticaria is the commonest cutaneous reaction caused by aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The pathogenesis of aspirin-induced urticaria (AIU) is not fully understood, but appears to involve mast cell activation and neutrophil infiltration.
To investigate the genetic contribution of interleukin (IL)-18, which can amplify acute inflammation by promoting mast cell activation, neutrophil migration and cytokine production, to the pathogenesis of AIU.
A case-control association study was performed using 275 patients with AIU and 196 normal healthy controls in a Korean population. Two promoter polymorphisms of the IL18 gene (-607A/C and -137G/C) were genotyped using the primer extension method. The functional effect of the IL18 gene promoter polymorphism was investigated through in vitro studies including a luciferase reporter assay and electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) and ex vivo studies involving neutrophil chemotaxis assays.
A significant association was detected between both AIU in general and the aspirin-intolerant acute urticaria (AIAU) phenotype and the IL18 promoter polymorphism -607A/C. Patients with AIAU showed higher frequencies of the C(-607) G(-137) haplotype, ht1 [CG], compared with controls (P=0·02). Moreover, ht1 [CG] showed a high transcript haplotype by the luciferase activity assay, and EMSAs identified a -607C allele-specific DNA-binding protein as CREB2. Neutrophil chemotactic activity was highest in subjects with AIU exhibiting the high transcript haplotype, ht1 [CG] (P=0·019).
The high transcript haplotype ht1 [CG] of the IL18 gene may contribute to the development of acute cutaneous inflammation sensitive to aspirin, leading to the clinical presentation of AIAU.
Recent studies have provided evidence for a major role of urothelially released ATP acting on a subpopulation of pelvic afferent nerves in mechano-afferent transduction in the bladder. We investigated whether desensitization of capsaicin-sensitive nerve fibres by systemic resiniferatoxin (RTX)-pretreatment can counteract the detrusor over-activity induced by intravesical capsaicin, acetic acid or ATP. Cystometric investigations were performed on awake female Sprague-Dawley rats before and 24 h after injection of RTX (0.3 mg/kg s.c.) or vehicle. The effects of intravesically instilled ATP (0.1 or 1.0 mM), capsaicin (30 microM) or acetic acid (pH 4.0) were compared with those of intravesical saline. RTX, but not its vehicle, significantly increased threshold pressure, voiding interval, micturition volume and bladder capacity. In the vehicle-pretreated rats, intravesical instillation of capsaicin or acetic acid significantly decreased voiding interval, micturition volume, and bladder capacity. However, in the RTX-pretreated rats, neither capsaicin nor acetic acid affected any parameter. On the other hand, intravesical ATP (0.1 mM) significantly decreased voiding interval and micturition volume in both groups of animals. At 1.0 mM, ATP also increased basal pressure and decreased the pressure threshold for micturition in both groups. The present results support the view that increased extracellular ATP has a role in mechano-afferent transduction in the rat bladder and that ATP-induced facilitation of the micturition reflex is mediated, at least partly, by nerves other than capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves.
The cumulative effects of environmental toxicants, for example, the alkylphenol, para-nonylphenol (p-NP) are of concern. Our previous study showed that p-NP reduced several testicular morphometric parameters, including sperm counts. The present study reexamined material collected in that study to determine the mechanistic basis of p-NP action on spermatogenic development in the offspring. Seven-day pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with vehicle or 100 or 250 mg/kg p-NP through gestation, lactation and afterward directly to all male offspring until 10 weeks of age. Both doses of p-NP significantly (P < 0.02) increased the number of germ cells with in situ end-labeled fragmented DNA (TUNEL positive) by 1.9-fold and 1.7-fold, respectively, and specifically in stages XII-XIV and I-III. TUNEL-labeling was, however, selective, and excluded labeling of basal cells with apoptotic morphology. Cleaved caspase-3 immunohistochemistry strongly labeled basal cells (spermatogonia and early spermatocytes) with condensed marginated chromatin but not degenerate germ cells lacking definitive nuclear material found throughout the epithelium. Only the caspase index (ratio of number of caspase positive to number of degenerate cells) of the 100-mg/kg p-NP group was significantly (p < 0.05) threefold greater than controls. Whereas both doses and either 250 or 100 mg/kg treatment alone significantly (p < 0.002) reduced the frequencies (duration) of stages I-III, VII-VIII, and late VIII-IX (spermiating and recently spermiated tubules), respectively, both doses significantly (p < 0.002) increased the frequencies of stages IV-VI and all stages containing late-stage spermatocytes (XII-XIII) and meiotic cell divisions (XIV). Thus, p-NP, an environmentally persistent xenoestrogen, insidiously alters the spermatogenic cycle and spermatogenic process in male offspring.
Tacrolimus is a macrolide immunosuppressant that is widely used in transplant surgery. Both mild and major neurologic side effects have been reported in patients receiving tacrolimus. Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome is one of the major tacrolimus induced neurologic side effects. We report a case of a tacrolimus induced isolated lesion of the cerebellum with no supratentorial involvement, presenting as a subacute cerebellar ataxia, which was partially reversible upon discontinuing the tacrolimus.
Migraine is a common and debilitating neurological disorder suffered worldwide. Women experience this condition 3 times more frequently than men, with estrogen strongly implicated to play a role. Bisphenol A (BPA), a highly prevalent xenoestrogen, is known to have estrogenic activity and may have an effect in migraine onset, intensity, and duration through estrogen receptor signaling. It was hypothesized that BPA exposure exacerbates migraine symptoms through estrogen signaling and downstream activation of nociception related pathways. Utilizing a multibehavior model of migraine in ovariectomized female rats, changes in locomotion, light and sound sensitivity, grooming, and acoustic startle were examined. Furthermore, changes in the expression of genes related to estrogen (ERα, GPR30), and nociception (extracellular signal regulated kinase, ERK, sodium gated channel, Nav1.8, and fatty acid amide hydrolase, FAAH) were studied following behavioral experiments. The following results were obtained: BPA treatment significantly exacerbated migraine-like behaviors in rats. Rats exposed to BPA demonstrated decreased locomotion, exacerbated light and sound aversion, altered grooming habits, and enhanced startle reflexes. Furthermore, BPA exposure increased mRNA expression of estrogen receptors, total ERK mRNA and ERK activation, as well as Nav1.8, and FAAH mRNA, indicative of altered estrogen signaling and altered nociception. These results show that BPA, an environmentally pervasive xenoestrogen, exacerbates migraine-like behavior in a rat model and alters expression of estrogen and nociception-related genes.
There is a body of evidence suggesting that BDNF is involved in bipolar disorder (BD) pathogenesis. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of ouabain (OUA), a specific Na(+)/K(+) ATPase inhibitor, induces hyperlocomotion in rats, and has been used as an animal model of mania. The present study aims to investigate the effects of the lithium (Li) and valproate (VPT) in an animal model of mania induced by ouabain. In the reversal model, animals received a single ICV injection of OUA or cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF). From the day following the ICV injection, the rats were treated for 6 days with intraperitoneal (IP) injections of saline (SAL), Li or VPT twice a day. In the maintenance treatment (prevention model), the rats received IP injections of Li, VPT, or SAL twice a day for 12 days. In the 7th day of treatment the animals received a single ICV injection of either OUA or aCSF. After the ICV injection, the treatment with the mood stabilizers continued for more 6 days. Locomotor activity was measured using the open-field test and BDNF levels were measured in rat hippocampus and amygdala by sandwich-ELISA. Li and VPT reversed OUA-related hyperactive behavior in the open-field test in both experiments. OUA decreased BDNF levels in first and second experiments in hippocampus and amygdala and Li treatment, but not VPT reversed and prevented the impairment in BDNF expression after OUA administration in these cerebral areas. Our results suggest that the present model fulfills adequate face, construct and predictive validity as an animal model of mania.
