To determine the recommended dose (RD) of cis-diammine-glycolatoplatinum (nedaplatin) when given concurrently with 5-FU and high dose radiation therapy in the treatment of esophageal cancer. The purpose of the phase II trial is to determine efficacy and further define the side effect profile.
Twenty-six patients with clinical stage I to IVA squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus were enrolled in a non-surgical treatment comprised of a fixed dose of fluorouracil (400 mg/m2 administered as continuous intravenous infusion on days 1-5 and days 8-12) plus escalating doses of nedaplatin (40 mg/m2 in level 1, 50 mg/m2 in level 2, or 60 mg/m2 in level 3 on days 1 and 8), repeated twice every 3 weeks with concurrent radiotherapy (60 Gy).
Between July 1998 and February 2004, a total of 26 patients entered this trial, all of whom were considered evaluable for toxicity assessment. In phase I of the study, 12 patients were treated in sequential cohorts of three to six patients per dose level. The maximum tolerated dose was reached at level 3 with two grade 4 neutropenia and one grade 4 thrombocytopenia. Thus, the recommended dosing schedule is level 2. Of the 20 patients treated at the RD level 2, including 6 patients of the RD phase I portion, 8 out of 20 patients (40%) had grade 3-4 neutropenia, 5 patients (25.0%) had grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia, 4 patients (20.0%) had grade 3 anemia and 4 patients (20.0%) had grade 3-4 esophagitis. Other toxicities were relatively mild and usually of grade 2 or less. Objective responses were noted in the 26 patients (overall response rate, 88.5%) including 11 (42.3%) complete remissions. The 1- and 3-year survival rates were 65.1 and 37.2%, respectively, with a median survival time of 21.2 months.
The combination of nedaplatin and 5-FU with radiation is a feasible regimen that shows promising antitumor activity with an acceptable safety profile in patients with esophageal cancer.
Subtle specific interference with language function has been suspected in benign rolandic epilepsy (BRE) because of the location of the seizure focus. The aim of this study was to investigate the language and speech problems in BRE and the changes after medication with carbamazepine. Benign rolandic epilepsy patients (n=11) who met ILAE criteria were assessed for standardized full articulation. Speech problems were present in BRE patients and worsened after medication. The error pattern of laryngeal articulation in BRE was exclusively the substitution of stop consonants, and these errors increased after medication (6% vs 13%). In this study, the variation in acoustic parameters after carbamazepine was similar to the hypokinetic pattern of articulation abnormalities. Our findings suggest that BRE patients treated with carbamazepine should be monitored for language and speech problems.
This phase II study evaluated the efficacy and safety of sorafenib plus dacarbazine in patients with advanced melanoma.
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study enrolled chemotherapy-naive patients with stage III (unresectable) or IV melanoma. A total of 101 patients received placebo plus dacarbazine (n = 50) or sorafenib plus dacarbazine (n = 51). On day 1 of a 21-day cycle, patients received intravenous dacarbazine 1,000 mg/m(2) for a maximum of 16 cycles. Oral sorafenib 400 mg or placebo was administered twice a day continuously. The primary end point was progression-free survival (PFS) by independent assessment. Secondary and tertiary end points included time to progression (TTP), response rate, and overall survival (OS).
Median PFS in the sorafenib plus dacarbazine arm was 21.1 weeks versus 11.7 weeks in the placebo plus dacarbazine arm (hazard ratio [HR], 0.665; P = .068). There were statistically significant improvements in PFS rates at 6 and 9 months, and in TTP (median, 21.1 v 11.7 weeks; HR, 0.619) in favor of the sorafenib plus dacarbazine arm. No difference in OS was observed (median, 51.3 v 45.6 weeks in the placebo plus dacarbazine and sorafenib plus dacarbazine arms, respectively; HR, 1.022). The regimen was well tolerated and had a manageable toxicity profile.
Sorafenib plus dacarbazine was well tolerated in patients with advanced melanoma and yielded an encouraging improvement in PFS. Based on these findings, additional studies with the combination are warranted in this patient population.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), with diverse and widespread commercial and industrial applications, has been detected in human and wildlife sera. Previous mouse studies linked prenatal PFOA exposure to decreased neonatal body weights (BWs) and survival in a dose-dependent manner. To determine whether effects were linked to gestational time of exposure or to subsequent lactational changes, timed-pregnant CD-1 mice were orally dosed with 5 mg PFOA/kg on gestation days (GD) 1-17, 8-17, 12-17, or vehicle on GD 1-17. PFOA exposure had no effect on maternal weight gain or number of live pups born. Mean pup BWs on postnatal day (PND) 1 in all PFOA-exposed groups were significantly reduced and decrements persisted until weaning. Mammary glands from lactating dams and female pups on PND 10 and 20 were scored based on differentiation or developmental stages. A significant reduction in mammary differentiation among dams exposed GD 1-17 or 8-17 was evident on PND 10. On PND 20, delays in normal epithelial involution and alterations in milk protein gene expression were observed. All exposed female pups displayed stunted mammary epithelial branching and growth at PND 10 and 20. While control litters at PND 10 and 20 had average scores of 3.1 and 3.3, respectively, all treated litters had scores of 1.7 or less, with no progression of duct epithelial growth evident over time. BW was an insignificant covariate for these effects. These findings suggest that in addition to gestational exposure, abnormal lactational development of dams may play a role in early growth retardation of developmentally exposed offspring.
Carvedilol is a cardiovascular drug currently used for the treatment of hypertension. Clinical studies have recently demonstrated efficacy in angina and congestive heart failure. Recently, carvedilol has been shown to attenuate oxygen free radical-initiated lipid peroxidation and to inhibit vascular smooth muscle mitogenesis induced by a wide variety of growth factors. These findings are of interest since smooth muscle proliferation and abnormal lipid metabolism are proposed to play an important role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic plaque formation and in development of stenotic lesions following vascular injury by balloon angioplasty and coronary artery bypass grafting. On the basis of these observations, the antiproliferative actions of carvedilol have been explored in detail. In human cultured pulmonary artery vascular smooth muscle cells, carvedilol (0.1-10 microM) produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of the mitogenesis stimulated by platelet-derived growth factor, epidermal growth factor, thrombin, and serum, with IC50 values ranging from 0.3 to 2.0 microM. Carvedilol also produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of vascular smooth muscle cell migration induced by platelet-derived growth factor, with an IC50 value of 3 microM. The extensive neointimal formation that occurs following balloon angioplasty of rat carotid arteries was markedly attenuated by carvedilol (1 mg/kg, i.p.; twice daily starting 3 days before angioplasty and continuing until 14 days after angioplasty). Quantitative image analysis demonstrated that carvedilol reduced the neointimal growth following angioplasty by 84% without altering either medial or adventitial cross-sectional areas. These observations indicate that carvedilol may also be effective in the treatment of pathological disorders principally associated with abnormal vascular smooth muscle growth, such as atherosclerosis and acute vascular wall injury induced by angioplasty or coronary artery bypass grafting.
Abrogation of negative feedback control represents a fundamental requirement for aberrantly activated signaling pathways to promote malignant transformation and resistance to therapy. Here we identify URI, which encodes a mitochondrial inhibitor of PP1γ and PP1γ-mediated feedback inhibition of S6K1-BAD survival signaling, as an oncogene amplified and overexpressed in ovarian cancer cell lines and human ovarian carcinomas. URI is an "addicting" oncogene selectively required for the survival of ovarian cancer cells with increased URI copy number. By constitutively detaining PP1γ in inactive complexes, URI sustains S6K1 survival signaling under growth factor-limiting conditions and mediates resistance of cells to cisplatin. Thus, oncogenic activation of URI defines an important mechanism for activating mitochondrial S6K1-BAD signaling and promoting cell survival through disabling PP1γ-dependent negative feedback inhibition.
Clearance techniques were used to evaluate renal tubular sodium and water excretion in 4 patients with antibiotic-induced acute renal failure (ARF). Creatinine clearances and maximal urine flow rates of patients with ARF (22.6 and 5.23 ml/min, respectively) were significantly lower than control values during hypotonic volume expansion (125.5 and 13.71 ml/min, respectively, both p less than 0.01). During the period of maximal hydration, fractional sodium excretion (CNa/Ccr) and maximal urine osmolality (11.4% and 171 mosm/kg H2O, respectively) were increased compared to controls (1.04% and 53 mosm/kg H2O, respectively, both p less than 0.05). The increased CNa/Ccr observed in patients with ARF was consistent with reduced proximal sodium reabsorption as reflected by increased (CH2O + CNa)/Ccr and reduced fractional distal sodium reabsorption as indicated by decreased CH2O/(CH2O + CNa). The reduction in proximal and distal sodium reabsorption cannot be explained on the basis of an osmotic effect of urea as fractional clearances of BUN (CBUN/Ccr) were similar in patients with ARF and controls.
The authors developed a dog model for the biliary sclerosis that occurs as a severe complication of protracted hepatic arterial floxuridine (FUDR) infusions (using implanted drug delivery systems) in patients with hepatic cancers. Infusaid pumps attached to hepatic arterial catheters were used for protracted infusions in ten mixed breed hounds. To allow repeated cholangiograms, the animals' gallbladders were removed and catheters connected to subcutaneous infusion ports were positioned in the cystic ducts. Five treated dogs received FUDR 0.3 mg/kg/day through the pump for a total of 30 days. Five control dogs received only saline through the pump. Cholangiograms were obtained before and after treatment in all animals. In the control group, serum liver function test results and the cholangiographic appearance of the biliary tree remained within normal limits. By contrast, in the FUDR-treated group, serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase and alkaline phosphatase progressively rose above normal, starting 2-3 weeks into FUDR infusion, followed by hyperbilirubinemia (7-28 mg/dl peak levels) beginning 4 to 6 weeks after initiation of the drug infusion. Cholangiograms revealed focal strictures involving the central bile ducts (five dogs) and diffuse attenuation of the intrahepatic ducts (four dogs). Thus, the liver function abnormalities and the cholangiographic findings in this dog model mimic the hepatobiliary toxicity in sensitive patients receiving similar treatment.
Muraglitazar, a PPARalpha/gamma dual agonist, was dosed orally to rats once daily for 13 weeks to evaluate urinary and urothelial changes of potential relevance to urinary bladder tumorigenesis. Groups of 17 young or aged rats per sex were fed a normal or 1% NH4Cl-supplemented diet and were dosed with 0, 1, or 50 mg/kg muraglitazar. Lithogenic ions and sediment were profiled from freshly voided urine samples collected 24 h after dosing, and drug exposures were measured. Urinary citrate, oxalate, and epidermal growth factor (EGF) were assayed from 18-h urine collections. Urothelium was assessed by light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and BrdU and TUNEL immunohistochemistry. When fed a normal diet, urine pH was higher in males (above 6.5). Urine volume/body weight was greater in females. Urine soluble/total calcium and magnesium and phosphorus/creatinine ratios were lower in male rats fed a normal diet. Urine citrate levels were decreased and oxalate was increased in young male rats treated with 50 mg/kg muraglitazar compared to age/sex/diet-matched controls. No changes in urine sediment were detected 24 h after dosing. In young male rats treated with 50 mg/kg on normal diet, multifocal urothelial necrosis and proliferation were observed, whereas urothelial apoptosis and urine EGF levels were unchanged compared to age/sex/diet-matched controls. Urothelial necrosis and proliferation were not correlated to systemic or urinary drug exposures and were prevented by dietary acidification. These data suggest that muraglitazar-associated changes in urine composition predispose to urothelial cytotoxicity and proliferation in the urinary bladder of young male rats and that urine sediment must be profiled at multiple daily timepoints to fully qualify drug-induced changes in urine composition.
To describe the electrocardiographic and electrophysiological findings of new atrial flutter developing in patients taking class IC antiarrhythmic drugs for recurrent atrial fibrillation, and to report the long term results of right atrial isthmus ablation in relation to the ECG pattern of spontaneous atrial flutter.
Retrospective analysis.
Tertiary care academic hospital.
24 consecutive patients with atrial fibrillation (age 54 (12) years; 5 female, 19 male) developing atrial flutter while taking propafenone (n = 12) or flecainide (n = 12).
The ECG was classified as typical (n = 13; 54%) or atypical atrial flutter (n = 8) or coarse atrial fibrillation (n = 3). Counterclockwise atrial flutter was the predominant arrhythmia. Acute success after isthmus ablation was similar in patients with typical (12/13) and atypical (8/8) atrial flutter. After long term follow up (13 (6) months, range 6-26 months), continuation of antiarrhythmic drug treatment appeared to result in better control of recurrences of atrial fibrillation in patients with typical atrial flutter (11/13) than in those with atypical atrial flutter (4/8), but the difference was not significant. Ablation for coarse atrial fibrillation was unsuccessful.
New atrial flutter developing in patients taking class IC antiarrhythmic drugs for recurrent atrial fibrillation has either typical or atypical flutter wave morphology on ECG. The endocardial activation pattern and the acute results of ablation suggest that the flutter circuit was located in the right atrium and that the isthmus was involved in the re-entry mechanism. There appeared to be better long term control of recurrent atrial fibrillation in patients with typical (85%) as compared with atypical atrial flutter (50%). Patients developing coarse atrial fibrillation may not be candidates for this strategy.
The face is one of the most intricately patterned structures in human and yet little is known of the mechanisms by which the tissues are instructed to grow, fuse, and differentiate. We undertook a study to determine if the craniofacial primordia used the same molecular cues that mediate growth and patterning in other embryonic tissues such as the neural tube and the limb. Here we provide evidence for the presence of organizer-like tissues in the craniofacial primordia. These candidate organizers express the polarizing signal sonic hedghog (shh) and its putative receptor, patched, as well as fibroblast growth factor 8 and bone morphogeneic protein 2. Shh-expressing epithelial grafts functioned as organizing tissues in a limb bud assay system, where they evoked duplications of the digit pattern. High doses of retinoic acid, which are known to truncate the growth of the frontonasal and maxillary processes and thus produce bilateral clefting of the lip and palate, inhibited the expression of shh and patched but not fgf8, in the craniofacial primordia, and abolished polarizing activity of these tissues. From these studies we conclude that the embryonic face contains signaling centers in the epithelium that participate in craniofacial growth and patterning. In addition, we discuss a novel mechanism whereby retinoids can exert a teratogenic effect on craniofacial morphogenesis independent of its effects on Hox gene expression or neural crest cell migration.
We have established an experimental model of oral contraceptive-induced hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) in female Wistar rats, revealing that ethynylestradiol (EE) and norethindrone acetate have actions as both initiators and promoters. The present time-sequence study was undertaken to clarify the role of free radicals in estrogen induction of HCC by measuring detoxifying enzyme activities and levels of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OH-dG) and by assessing the effects of concomitant vitamin C, vitamin E or beta-carotene administration on hepatocarcinogenesis. During 12 months oral administration of EE (0.075 or 0.75 mg/day), the 8-OH-dG levels reached peak values after 1 month, when they were significantly elevated as compared with the controls. Glutathione peroxidase demonstrated a tendency to decrease. Histologically, pre-neoplastic lesions assessed by immunohistochemical staining for placental glutathione S-transferase (GST-P) were first observed at 2 months in the groups given 0.075 and 0.75 mg/day of EE alone, with incidences of HCC at 12 months being 8.7% and 38.5% respectively. Combined administration of vitamins with 0.075 mg EE/day reduced the elevation of the 8-OH-dG levels. GST-P-positive lesions were first observed at 4 months in the vitamin E group and at 6 months in the vitamin C and beta-carotene groups. As compared with the value in the 0.075 mg EE alone group, vitamin administration significantly reduced the numbers of GST-P-positive foci after 12 months of treatment. The incidences of HCC at 12 months were 0% in the vitamin C group, 4.5% in the vitamin E group and 4.8% in the beta-carotene group, i.e. administration of the vitamins inhibited the development of GST-P-positive foci, with suppression of HCC. The results thus suggest that free radicals play an important role in the induction of HCC by estrogen.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)-induced mitochondrial oxidative stress (MOS) is an important prostaglandin (PG)-independent pathway of the induction of gastric mucosal injury. However, the molecular mechanism behind MOS-mediated gastric pathology is still obscure. In various pathological conditions of tissue injury oxidative stress is often linked with inflammation. Here we report that MOS induced by indomethacin (an NSAID) induces gastric mucosal inflammation leading to proinflammatory damage. Indomethacin, time dependently stimulated the expression of proinflammatory molecules such as intercellular adhesion molecule 1(ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1(VCAM-1), interleukin1β (IL-1β), and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) in gastric mucosa in parallel with the increase of neutrophil infiltration and injury of gastric mucosa in rat. Western immunoblotting and confocal microscopic studies revealed that indomethacin induced nuclear translocation of nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) in gastric mucosal cells, which resulted in proinflammatory signaling. The prevention of MOS by antioxidant tryptamine-gallic acid hybrid (SEGA) inhibited indomethacin-induced expression of ICAM-1, VCAM-1, IL-1β, and MCP-1. SEGA also prevented indomethacin-induced NF-κB activation and neutrophil infiltration as documented by chromatin immunoprecipitation studies and neutrophil migration assay, respectively. Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), a cytoprotective enzyme associated with tissue repair mechanisms is stimulated in response to oxidative stress. We have investigated the role of HO-1 against MOS and MOS-mediated inflammation in recovering from gastropathy. Indomethacin stimulated the expression of HO-1 and indomethacin-stimulated HO-1 expression was reduced by SEGA, an antioxidant, which could prevent MOS. Thus, the data suggested that the induction of HO-1 was a protective response against MOS developed by indomethacin. Moreover, the induction of HO-1 by cobalt protoporphyrin inhibited inflammation and chemical silencing of HO-1 by zinc protoporphyrin aggravated the inflammation by indomethacin. Thus, NSAID by promoting MOS-induced proinflammatory response damaged gastric mucosa and HO-1 protected NSAID-induced gastric mucosal damage by preventing NF-κB activation and proinflammatory activity.
The treatment of premature infants with the diuretic furosemide appears to be a contributory factor in the development of metabolic bone disease presumably because of furosemide-induced hypercalciuria. In this study, we measured calcium and phosphorus balance in furosemide-treated very low birth weight infants (VLBW) infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) who were fed a specialized premature formula containing increased amounts of calcium and phosphorus. Furosemide-treated infants received 166 +/- 37 mg/kg/day and retained 80 +/- 34 mg/kg/day of calcium, and 87 +/- 19 mg/kg/day and retained 52 +/- 14 mg/kg/day of phosphorus. The amounts retained were approximately 65% of the calcium and 72% of the phosphorus requirements for in utero mineral accretion. Compared to a group of similarly fed VLBW infants without BPD and not treated with the diuretic, the furosemide-treated infants excreted a larger percent of the calcium intake in the urine but had similar total urinary calcium and phosphorus losses (mg/kg/day) and serum calcium, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase, and parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels. From the latter two findings, we suggest that the extra mineral content of the formula may have promoted bone mineralization and prevented the occurrence of secondary hyperparathyroidism.
Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) is an important regulator of bone metabolism, its effects being intertwined with those of estrogen and vitamin D. A T-->C polymorphism in exon 1 of the TGF-beta1 gene, which results in the substitution of proline for leucine, is associated with bone mineral density (BMD). However, it is not known whether this polymorphism affects the response to treatment with active vitamin D or to hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in individuals with osteoporosis. Changes in BMD at the lumbar spine (L2-L4 BMD) were compared among TGF-beta1 genotypes in 363 postmenopausal Japanese women who were divided into three groups: an untreated, control group (n = 130), an active vitamin D treatment group (n = 117), and an HRT group (n = 116). TGF-beta1 genotype was determined with an allele-specific polymerase chain reaction assay. In the control group, the rate of bone loss decreased according to the rank order of genotypes TT (homozygous for the T allele) > TC (heterozygous) > CC (homozygous for the C allele), with a significant difference detected between the CC and TT genotypes. The positive response of L2-L4 BMD to HRT increased according to the rank order of genotypes TT < TC < CC, although the differences among genotypes were not statistically significant. Individuals with the CC genotype responded to active vitamin D treatment with an annual increase in L2-L4 BMD of 1.6%, whereas those with the TT or TC genotypes similarly treated lost bone to a similar extent as did untreated subjects of the corresponding genotype. These results suggest that TGF-beta1 genotype is associated with both the rate of bone loss and the response to active vitamin D treatment.
The human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (hOGG1), apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APE1), and adenosine diphosphate ribosyl transferase (ADPRT) genes play an important role in the DNA base excision repair pathway. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in critical genes are suspected to be associated with the risk of lung cancer. This study aimed to identify the association between the polymorphisms of hOGG1 Ser326Cys, APE1 Asp148Glu, and ADPRT Val762Ala, and the risk of lung adenocarcinoma in the non-smoking female population, and investigated the interaction between genetic polymorphisms and environmental exposure in lung adenocarcinoma.
We performed a hospital-based case-control study, including 410 lung adenocarcinoma patients and 410 cancer-free hospital control subjects who were matched for age. Each case and control was interviewed to collect information by well-trained interviewers. A total of 10 ml of venous blood was collected for genotype testing. Three polymorphisms were analyzed by the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism technique.
We found that individuals who were homozygous for the variant hOGG1 326Cys/Cys showed a significantly increased risk of lung adenocarcinoma (OR = 1.54; 95% CI: 1.01-2.36; P = 0.045). When the combined effect of variant alleles was analyzed, we found an increased OR of 1.89 (95% CI: 1.24-2.88, P = 0.003) for lung adenocarcinoma individuals with more than one homozygous variant allele. In stratified analyses, we found that the OR for the gene-environment interaction between Ser/Cys and Cys/Cys genotypes of hOGG1 codon 326 and cooking oil fumes for the risk of lung adenocarcinoma was 1.37 (95% CI: 0.77-2.44; P = 0.279) and 2.79 (95% CI: 1.50-5.18; P = 0.001), respectively.
The hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism might be associated with the risk of lung adenocarcinoma in Chinese non-smoking females. Furthermore, there is a significant gene-environment association between cooking oil fumes and hOGG1 326 Cys/Cys genotype in lung adenocarcinoma among female non-smokers.
1. In rats with deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) hypertension basal plasma concentrations of noradrenaline and adrenaline correspond to those of sham-treated controls. 2. In DOCA-treated rats frusemide caused a more pronounced increase in plasma noradrenaline than in control rats. This difference was not observed for adrenaline. 3. In the isolated perfused hind-limb preparation the sensitivity to noradrenaline was already enhanced before blood pressure was elevated. 4. These results suggest that the adrenergic vascular tone is increased in DOCA hypertension in rats.
The effect of buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), a glutathione biosynthesis inhibitor, on the acute lethal toxicity and urotoxicity induced by cyclophosphamide (CPA) was examined in mice. Pretreatment of mice with BSO (500 mg/kg, i.p.) 5 hr prior to CPA resulted in enhanced lethality and urotoxicity of CPA. In contrast, administration of cysteamine decreased the lethality and urotoxicity of CPA.
Rizatriptan is a potent, oral, 5-HT1B/1D agonist with more rapid absorption and higher bioavailability than oral sumatriptan. It was postulated that this would result in more rapid onset of effect. This randomized, double-blind, triple-dummy, parallel-groups study compared rizatriptan 5 mg, rizatriptan 10 mg, sumatriptan 100 mg, and placebo in 1268 outpatients treating a single migraine attack. Headache relief rates after rizatriptan 10 mg were consistently higher than sumatriptan at all time points up to 2 hours, with significance at 1 hour (37% versus 28%, P = 0.010). All active agents were significantly superior to placebo with regard to headache relief and pain freedom at 2 hours (P < or = 0.001). The primary efficacy endpoint of time to pain relief through 2 hours demonstrated that, after adjustment for age imbalance, rizatriptan 10 mg had earlier onset than sumatriptan 100 mg (P = 0.032; hazard ratio 1.21). Rizatriptan 10 mg was also superior to sumatriptan on pain-free response (P = 0.032), reduction in functional disability (P = 0.015), and relief of nausea at 2 hours (P = 0.010). Significantly fewer drug-related clinical adverse events were reported after rizatriptan 10 mg (33%, P = 0.014) compared with sumatriptan 100 mg (41%). We conclude that rizatriptan 10 mg has a rapid onset of action and relieves headache and associated symptoms more effectively than sumatriptan 100 mg.
This study was designed to investigate the effect of heart rate changes on dipyridamole echocardiographic tests in patients with coronary artery disease treated with propranolol. We prospectively studied 12 patients (8 men and 4 women; mean age 56.5 +/- 8.7 years) selected by: (a) angiographic evidence of significant coronary artery disease; (b) adequate echocardiographic window; (c) positive dipyridamole echocardiography test results in baseline conditions (step I); (d) test reproducibility in the absence of treatment; (e) negative dipyridamole echocardiography test results after 7 days of treatment with propranolol (120 mg.day-1) in twice divided doses daily (step II). In all patients treated with propranolol, dipyridamole echocardiographic testing was repeated 24 h after the last negative test. In these patients, transoesophageal atrial pacing was performed at peak dipyridamole infusion to increase heart rate to values similar to those observed at baseline (step III). At baseline, heart rate and rate-pressure product were significantly lower in patients treated with propranolol (-20.3% and -22.5% in group II, P < 0.001 vs step I; -24.3% and -26.4% in group III, P < 0.05 vs step I), but the different treatments did not produce significant differences in systolic and diastolic blood pressure. At peak dipyridamole infusion, heart rate and rate-pressure product increased with either placebo or propranolol treatments with respect to baseline, while remaining significantly lower with propranolol as compared to placebo (-29.6% and -29.5% in step II, P < 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
IL-10/TGF-beta-modified macrophages, a subset of activated macrophages, produce anti-inflammatory cytokines, suggesting that they may protect against inflammation-mediated injury. Here, macrophages modified ex vivo by IL-10/TGF-beta (IL-10/TGF-beta Mu2) significantly attenuated renal inflammation, structural injury, and functional decline in murine adriamycin nephrosis (AN). These cells deactivated effector macrophages and inhibited CD4+ T cell proliferation. IL-10/TGF-beta Mu2 expressed high levels of the regulatory co-stimulatory molecule B7-H4, induced regulatory T cells from CD4+CD25- T cells in vitro, and increased the number of regulatory T cells in lymph nodes draining the kidneys in AN. The phenotype of IL-10/TGF-beta Mu2 did not switch to that of effector macrophages in the inflamed kidney, and these cells did not promote fibrosis. Taken together, these data demonstrate that IL-10/TGF-beta-modified macrophages effectively protect against renal injury in AN and may become part of a therapeutic strategy for chronic inflammatory disease.
In pregnant rats, a significant decrease in myometrial relaxin family peptide receptor 1 (RXFP1) expression, indicative of a functional relaxin withdrawal for activation of myometrial contractions, occurs in late gestation and during spontaneous labor. This coincides with the highest level of circulating relaxin and a decrease in progesterone. We investigated the potential regulatory role of these two systemic factors on myometrial RXFP1 expression by examining the effects of the antiprogestin RU486 and a monoclonal antibody against rat relaxin (MCA1) in pregnant rats. Rats were injected with RU486 on Gestational Day (GD) 7, 16, or 19 and were killed on GD 8, 17, or 20. RU486 caused a significant reduction in myometrial RXFP1. Plasma progesterone and 17beta-estradiol levels were increased in RU486-treated animals compared with controls. RU486 treatment also caused significant increases in myometrial Esr1 and Vegf and a decrease in Esr2. MCA1 was administered i.v. to rats from GD 17 to GD 19. On GD 20, no significant effect of MCA1 treatment on myometrial RXFP1 expression was observed compared with controls. Furthermore, there was no change in Esr1 or Esr2. A significant reduction in myometrial Vegf, however, was observed. We suggest that blocking progesterone action with RU486 increases plasma 17beta-estradiol and myometrial Esr1 and results in decreased RXFP1 expression. In summary, myometrial RXFP1 expression is mediated mainly by progesterone and not circulating relaxin in pregnant rats.
Spinal (intrathecal) anesthesia has evolved into a safe, widely accepted method of anesthesia with many advantages. However, the past decade has seen a large number of case reports and incidence studies that implicate the local anesthetic (LA) lidocaine as being more neurotoxic than other commonly used LAs such as bupivacaine and tetracaine, based on patterns of clinical use current at the time of those reports. Available studies suggest a risk of persistent lumbosacral neuropathy after spinal lidocaine by single injection in about 1 in 1300 procedures and a risk as high as about 1 in 200 after continuous spinal anesthesia with lidocaine. While uncommon, this risk is probably an order of magnitude higher than the risk reported for other commonly used LAs or for general anesthesia. Spinal lidocaine is also implicated in the syndrome of transient neurologic symptoms (previously referred to as transient radicular irritation), manifest by pain or dysesthesia in the buttocks or legs after recovery from anesthesia. Although the pain typically resolves within 1 week without lasting sequelae, it can be severe in up to one third of patients with the syndrome. In addition to clinical studies, both whole animal and in vitro studies have shown that lidocaine can be neurotoxic at clinically available concentrations and that lidocaine is more neurotoxic than equipotent concentrations of other commonly used LAs. The mechanism of this neurotoxicity may involve changes in cytoplasmic calcium homeostasis and mitochondrial membrane potential.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by a polyglutamine expansion mutation in the huntingtin protein that confers a toxic gain-of-function and causes the protein to become aggregate-prone. Aggregate-prone proteins are cleared by macroautophagy, and upregulating this process by rapamycin, which inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), attenuates their toxicity in various HD models. Recently, we demonstrated that lithium induces mTOR-independent autophagy by inhibiting inositol monophosphatase (IMPase) and reducing inositol and IP3 levels. Here we show that glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta), another enzyme inhibited by lithium, has opposite effects. In contrast to IMPase inhibition that enhances autophagy, GSK3beta inhibition attenuates autophagy and mutant huntingtin clearance by activating mTOR. In order to counteract the autophagy inhibitory effects of mTOR activation resulting from lithium treatment, we have used the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin in combination with lithium. This combination enhances macroautophagy by mTOR-independent (IMPase inhibition by lithium) and mTOR-dependent (mTOR inhibition by rapamycin) pathways. We provide proof-of-principle for this rational combination treatment approach in vivo by showing greater protection against neurodegeneration in an HD fly model with TOR inhibition and lithium, or in HD flies treated with rapamycin and lithium, compared with either pathway alone.
Tumorigenic response in the prostate of F344, ACI, Lewis, CD and Wistar rat strains to 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) was examined in relation to development of other types of tumors. Rats of each strain aged 6 weeks were divided into two groups receiving DMAB s.c. at a dose of 50 mg/kg body wt once every other week for 10 times, with or without 1 week dietary ethynyl estradiol (EE) pretreatment. The experiment was terminated at week 60, carcinomas of the ventral prostate, all of microscopic size, being respectively found in 50, 17, 21, 15 and 0% of F344, ACI, Lewis, CD and Wistar strain animals treated with EE plus DMAB. The tumor yield correlated well with DMAB-DNA adduct formation. One invasive adenocarcinoma also developed in the periurethral part (occupying both of lateral and dorsal areas) of the prostate. The final survival rates were 46, 24, 65, 4 and 0% in F344, ACI, Lewis, CD and Wistar rats respectively. DMAB administration without EE pretreatment resulted in similar incidences of prostate tumors and mortalities. Tumors arose in greater than 14 different sites with strain dependency, lesions predominating in the skin/subcutis of ACI and F344, preputial gland of F344, urinary bladder of ACI, and mammary glands of CD rats respectively. Consideration of mortality and the relative incidence of prostate cancer and other types of tumors indicates the F344 rat strain to be the most appropriate for investigation of DMAB prostate carcinogenesis.
A longitudinal study of hemostatic function was carried out on 100 Singaporean acceptors using Norplant-2 rods for contraception. The results at the end of three years indicate a possible increased predisposition to thrombosis, as evidenced by significant increases in platelet count and aggregability. The prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) continued to remain shortened at the end of three years of use. There was also a general fall in most of the vitamin K coagulation factors. There is thus still an indication of a possible enhanced potential for hypercoagulation at the end of three years of Norplant-2 rod use.
