Tremulous jaw movements in rats, which can be induced by dopamine (DA) antagonists, DA depletion, and cholinomimetics, have served as a useful model for studies of tremor. Although adenosine A(2A) antagonists can reduce the tremulous jaw movements induced by DA antagonists and DA depletion, there are conflicting reports about the interaction between adenosine antagonists and cholinomimetic drugs. The present studies investigated the ability of adenosine antagonists to reverse the tremorogenic effect of the muscarinic agonist pilocarpine. While the adenosine A(2A) antagonist MSX-3 was incapable of reversing the tremulous jaw movements induced by the 4.0mg/kg dose of pilocarpine, both MSX-3 and the adenosine A(2A) antagonist SCH58261 reversed the tremulous jaw movements elicited by 0.5mg/kg pilocarpine. Systemic administration of the adenosine A(1) antagonist DPCPX failed to reverse the tremulous jaw movements induced by either an acute 0.5mg/kg dose of the cholinomimetic pilocarpine or the DA D2 antagonist pimozide, indicating that the tremorolytic effects of adenosine antagonists may be receptor subtype specific. Behaviorally active doses of MSX-3 and SCH 58261 showed substantial in vivo occupancy of A(2A) receptors, but DPCPX did not. The results of these studies support the use of adenosine A(2A) antagonists for the treatment of tremor.
The nature of the central receptors mediating the convulsant actions of nicotine has been investigated. Clonic tonic convulsions were seen in mice following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of nicotinic agonists. (-)Nicotine was the most potent agonist tested, with a CD50 of 7.9 X 10(-9) mol. (+)Nicotine, cytisine, DMPP and lobeline were 10-100 times less potent than (-)nicotine. Nicotine induced convulsions were antagonized by ganglion blocking drugs administered intraventricularly. Pentolinium was the most potent antagonist, with an ED50 of 4 X 10(-11) mol. The ganglion-blockers also produced convulsions in their own right at doses 80-1000 times the anti-nicotine ED50 dose. 'C10' blockers, such as d-tubocurarine, did not antagonize nicotine-convulsions, but produced convulsions in their own right. alpha-Bungarotoxin had neither convulsant nor anticonvulsant activity at the doses tested. It is concluded that the central receptors mediating this nicotinic effect resemble ganglionic ('C6') receptors, rather than neuromuscular ('C10') receptors.
The polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH), benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), was compared to dibenzo[def,p]chrysene (DBC) and combinations of three environmental PAH mixtures (coal tar, diesel particulate and cigarette smoke condensate) using a two stage, FVB/N mouse skin tumor model. DBC (4nmol) was most potent, reaching 100% tumor incidence with a shorter latency to tumor formation, less than 20 weeks of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) promotion compared to all other treatments. Multiplicity was 4 times greater than BaP (400 nmol). Both PAHs produced primarily papillomas followed by squamous cell carcinoma and carcinoma in situ. Diesel particulate extract (1 mg SRM 1650b; mix 1) did not differ from toluene controls and failed to elicit a carcinogenic response. Addition of coal tar extract (1 mg SRM 1597a; mix 2) produced a response similar to BaP. Further addition of 2 mg of cigarette smoke condensate (mix 3) did not alter the response with mix 2. PAH-DNA adducts measured in epidermis 12 h post initiation and analyzed by ³²P post-labeling, did not correlate with tumor incidence. PAH-dependent alteration in transcriptome of skin 12 h post initiation was assessed by microarray. Principal component analysis (sum of all treatments) of the 922 significantly altered genes (p<0.05), showed DBC and BaP to cluster distinct from PAH mixtures and each other. BaP and mixtures up-regulated phase 1 and phase 2 metabolizing enzymes while DBC did not. The carcinogenicity with DBC and two of the mixtures was much greater than would be predicted based on published Relative Potency Factors (RPFs).
Char syndrome is an autosomal dominant trait characterized by patent ductus arteriosus, facial dysmorphism and hand anomalies. Using a positional candidacy strategy, we mapped TFAP2B, encoding a transcription factor expressed in neural crest cells, to the Char syndrome critical region and identified missense mutations altering conserved residues in two affected families. Mutant TFAP2B proteins dimerized properly in vitro, but showed abnormal binding to TFAP2 target sequence. Dimerization of both mutants with normal TFAP2B adversely affected transactivation, demonstrating a dominant-negative mechanism. Our work shows that TFAP2B has a role in ductal, facial and limb development and suggests that Char syndrome results from derangement of neural-crest-cell derivatives.
To determine the frequency of eye and auditory complications and their relationship to drug dosage and iron stores in patients receiving deferoxamine, we studied 52 regularly transfused patients who received deferoxamine by subcutaneous or intravenous infusion in doses from 26 to 136 mg/kg/day, and whose serum ferritin levels of 185 to 17,775 micrograms/L reflected a wide range of iron stores. Forty-nine patients (94%) had no evidence of drug-induced visual or auditory abnormalities. Symptomatic loss of vision and hearing developed in one patient; both problems improved when chelation therapy was stopped. Of the 51 symptom-free patients, one had a mild degree of macular stippling and one had a mild, bilateral, high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss. Eye and ear abnormalities in the symptom-free patients did not progress despite continuation or resumption of chelation therapy at the same dosage. Patients with ophthalmologic and audiologic abnormalities did not receive higher doses of deferoxamine and did not have lower serum ferritin levels than patients without such abnormalities. These findings demonstrate that eye and ear abnormalities during chelation therapy with deferoxamine may not occur uniformly at as high a frequency as previously reported, even in patients who receive large doses of the chelating agent or who have only modest amounts of excessive iron.
Pattern evoked responses were recorded in 46 patients of tuberculosis on ethambutol and 16 healthy subjects. Deterioration in visual acuity was documented in two patients (4.3%). P100 latency was delayed in 16 cases (34.8%), while in 12 patients (26.1%) both latency and amplitude were affected. A cut off latency value of > or = 140 ms was associated with ophthalmological findings. The incidence of subclinical toxicity as detected by visual evoked response (VER) was higher in older subjects, patients on higher doses of ethambutol (> or = 20 mg/kg/day) and longer duration of treatment. Of two cases with objective ocular signs, one who reported for follow up after two months had recovered completely after stopping ethambutol. Recording of VER is an extremely useful objective test for subclinical optic nerve damage.
Spontaneous or traumatic intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in the white matter of neonates, children and adults causes significant mortality and morbidity. The detailed biochemical mechanisms through which blood damages white matter are poorly defined. Presently, we tested the hypothesis that ICH induces rapid oxidative stress in white matter. Also, since clot-derived plasma proteins accumulate in white matter after ICH and these proteins can induce oxidative stress in microglia in vitro, we determined whether the blood's plasma component alone induces oxidative stress. Lastly, since heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) induction is highly sensitive to oxidative stress, we also examined white matter HO-1 gene expression. We infused either whole blood or plasma (2.5 ml) into the frontal hemispheric white matter of pentobarbital-anesthetized pigs ( approximately 1 kg) over 15 min. We monitored and controlled physiologic variables and froze brains in situ between 1 and 24 h after ICH. White matter oxidative stress was determined by measuring protein carbonyl formation and HO-1 gene expression by RT-PCR. Protein carbonyl formation occurred rapidly in the white matter adjacent to both blood and plasma clots with significant elevations (3- to 4-fold) already 1 h after infusion. This increase remained through the first 24 h. HO-1 mRNA was rapidly induced in white matter with either whole blood or plasma infusions. These results demonstrate that not only whole blood but also its plasma component are capable of rapidly inducing oxidative stress in white matter. This rapid response, possibly in microglial cells, may contribute to white matter damage not only following ICH, but also in pathophysiological states in which blood-brain-barrier permeability to plasma proteins is increased.
We describe our experience in the treatment of acute liver failure in 620 patients who developed grade 3 or 4 encephalopathy between 1973 and June 1985. The principal aetiologies were paracetamol-induced hepatic necrosis, viral hepatitis, halothane hepatitis and idiosyncratic drug reactions. Cerebral oedema is a major cause of death in these patients and is most effectively treated with mannitol (20%). Renal failure occurs in between 30% and 75% of cases, depending on aetiology, and is most effectively managed by haemodialysis. Electrolyte and acid-base abnormalities are common. Haemodynamic abnormalities encountered include a high cardiac output, low peripheral vascular resistance, hypotension and venodilatation. Assisted mechanical ventilation is frequently required to treat hypoxia caused by pneumonia, atelectasis, haemorrhage and oedema. A coagulopathy is always present but coagulation factors and platelets are given only when the patient is clinically bleeding. These patients are prone to sepsis and this is a significant cause of death. Hypoglycaemia is common and must be actively and frequently sought. The use of charcoal haemoperfusion has been associated with improved survival, especially when it is started during the grade 3 phase of encephalopathy. Recently survival figures of between 47% and 60% have been achieved for patients with paracetamol-induced liver failure and hepatitis A and B. However the figure for non A non B hepatitis and halothane- and drug-induced liver failure are disappointing at around 15% and liver transplantation is being explored as a treatment option in these patients.
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are common among infants and toddlers. Children can be treated effectively with short courses (2-4 days) of intravenous (IV) therapy followed by oral therapy. If IV therapy is chosen, use of once-daily dosing may allow outpatient management instead of hospital admission. However, no description of ambulatory treatment with IV antibiotics of UTI among febrile children has been reported to date. We aimed to describe the feasibility and complications of outpatient management with IV antibiotics of UTI among febrile children, at the day treatment center (DTC) of a tertiary-care pediatric hospital.
Between April 1, 2002, and March 31, 2003, a prospective cohort of patients 3 months to 5 years of age who were examined in the emergency department (ED) and diagnosed as having presumed febrile UTI were treated according to a clinical protocol. Patients were treated at the DTC unless they met exclusion criteria, in which case they were hospitalized. The DTC was open 7 days per week, including holidays, from 8:30 am to 4:30 pm. At the DTC, patients were initially treated with a daily dose of IV gentamicin, until the child had been afebrile for at least 24 hours, and with oral amoxicillin, until preliminary urine culture results were available. Children allergic to penicillin received gentamicin only. IV antibiotics were administered through peripheral IV access; the IV catheter's patency was maintained with injection of 50 U of heparin once daily throughout the treatment period. Parental satisfaction with the DTC experience was assessed with an anonymous, self-administered questionnaire.
Two hundred ninety-one episodes of presumed febrile UTI were diagnosed in the ED, of which 212 (72.9%) were sent to the DTC. There were 71 hospital admissions (24.4%); in 9 of these instances, the child was admitted because parents refused or were unable to comply with DTC treatment. Adherence to the treatment protocol in the ED was excellent; in 92.1% of presumed febrile UTI episodes (268 of 291 episodes), the patient was referred to the appropriate setting for treatment. In 8 instances, patients who met an exclusion criterion were sent to the DTC. They should have been hospitalized, according to the protocol. At the DTC, a final diagnosis of UTI was made in 178 of the 212 episodes (84%). Patients treated at the DTC, with a final diagnosis of UTI, had a median age of 12.0 months (range: 3-68 months), and their mean initial temperature was 39.2 degrees C (SD: 1.1 degrees C). Patients were afebrile by 24 hours in 52% of UTI episodes and by 48 hours in 82%. Minor problems with IV access occurred in 9.0% of cases. The duration of IV antibiotic therapy at the DTC was 1.9 days (SD: 0.9 day). The mean number of visits to the DTC, including appointments for renal ultrasound and voiding cystourethrography evaluations, was 3.5 (SD: 0.9). Parents were present at all scheduled visits in 98.9% of cases. Four patients needed to be hospitalized from the DTC, but in only 1 case was hospital admission related to UTI treatment. Four patients with UTI treated in the DTC had positive blood cultures, 2 with Escherichia coli (both successfully treated at the DTC) and 2 with contaminants. For 4 children treated at the DTC, UTI was caused by gentamicin-resistant E coli. One patient became afebrile within 24 hours after treatment initiation with IV gentamicin; he was then treated with oral cefixime. A second patient was treated with IV ceftriaxone, administered at the DTC once culture results were available, and remained febrile for <72 hours. The last 2 patients were hospitalized; one, who was also allergic to cephalosporins, had been febrile for 72 hours at the time of hospitalization (once hospitalized, he was treated with IV amikacin), and the other was admitted to the hospital for an unrelated problem, namely, scalp cellulitis. None of these 4 patients was initially bacteremic or became bacteremic during the treatment period. Repeat urine culture was performed within 14 days after treatment initiation in 146 instances, and results were negative in all cases. At telephone follow-up assessments 14 days after discharge, no patient had been rehospitalized because of UTI. Successful treatment at the DTC (defined as attendance at all visits, normalization of temperature within 96 hours, negative control urine cultures, if performed, and absence of hospitalization from the DTC) was observed in 96.6% of the 178 UTI episodes. Overall adherence of physicians to the protocol at the DTC was 87.1% (95% confidence interval: 82.2-92.0%). One hundred seventy-two satisfaction questionnaires were returned and revealed good, very good, or excellent parental satisfaction in 98.8% of cases.
Our data show that ambulatory treatment with IV antibiotics, at a DTC, may be used for at least three-fourths of UTIs among febrile children 3 months to 5 years of age. It is safe and feasible and appears very satisfactory to parents. Although ambulatory treatment with IV antibiotics is more invasive than oral therapy during the initiation of UTI treatment, it ensures almost full compliance, allows close medical supervision, and facilitates investigations related to the UTI. It is an interesting alternative to hospitalization.
Our previous studies identified the extract of Beta vulgaris (beetroot), commercially also known as betanin, as a potent cancer chemopreventive agent in both in vitro Epstein-Barr early antigen activation assay and in an in vivo two-stage mouse lung and skin carcinogenesis. To explore this issue further, we have now investigated its cancer chemopreventive potentials in three different chemical carcinogen initiation-promotion experimental tumor models in mice. Following tumor initiation with 390 nmol of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) in 100 microl of acetone, the mouse skin tumor promotion with 3430 J/m(2) of ultraviolet light-B (UV-B) as well as splenomegaly was significantly inhibited by oral administration of 0.0025% betanin. At the same dose, betanin also afforded significant protection in the mouse skin cancer model following the topical application of 390 nmol of (+/-)-(E)-4-methyl-2-[(E)-hydroxyamino]-5-nitro-6-methoxy-3-hexanamide (NOR-1) in 100 microl of acetone and promoted by topical administration of 1.7 nmol of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). In the two-stage model of hepatocarcinogenesis in mice with N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN, 30 mg/kg) as the initiator and phenobarbital as the promoter, oral administration of 0.0025% betanin also showed a very significant inhibition of both the incidence and multiplicity of the liver tumors. These findings along with our initial reports suggest that betanin which is a regularly consumed natural product colorant is an effective cancer chemopreventive agent in mice. The most interesting observation is that the cancer chemopreventive effect was exhibited at a very low dose used in the study and thus indicating that beetroot warrants more attention for possible human applications in the control of malignancy.
The objective of this study was to ascertain the duration of tumor control and the toxicities of dose-intense myeloablative chemotherapy for patients with recurrent oligodendrogliomas. Patients with previously irradiated oligodendrogliomas, either pure or mixed, that were contrast enhancing, measurable, and behaving aggressively at recurrence were eligible for this study. Only complete responders or major partial responders (75 % reduction in tumor size) to induction chemotherapy--either intensive-dose procarbazine, lomustine, and vincristine or cisplatin plus etoposide-could receive high-dose thiotepa (300 mg/m2/day for 3 days) followed by hematopoietic reconstitution using either bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cells. Thirty-eight patients began induction chemotherapy and 20 (10 men, 10 women; median age 46 years; median Karnofsky score 80) received high-dose thiotepa. For the high-dose group, the median event-free, progression-free, and overall survival times from recurrence were 17, 20, and 49 months, respectively. Tumor control in excess of 2 years was observed in 6 patients (30%). Four patients (20%) are alive and tumor free 27 to 77 months (median, 42 months) from the start of induction therapy; however, fatal treatment-related toxicities also occurred in 4 patients (20%). Three patients died as a result of a progressive encephalopathy which, in 2 instances, was accompanied by a wasting syndrome; 1 patient died as a consequence of an intracerebral (intratumoral) hemorrhage. Fatal toxicities occurred in patients with pretreatment Karnofsky scores of 60 or 70. High-dose thiotepa to consolidate response was a disappointing treatment strategy for patients with recurrent aggressive oligodendroglial neoplasms, although several patients had durable responses. Moreover, as prescribed, high-dose thiotepa had significant toxic effects in previously irradiated patients, especially those with poorer performance status.
Hyperlipidaemia is strongly suggested to contribute to the pathogenesis of glomerular sclerosis. This study intends to clarify the effects of either a lipid lowering agent, lovastatin (LO) or protein restriction (PR) on adriamycin (ADR)-induced progressive glomerular sclerosis in rats. During the study period both serum cholesterol and triglyceride were significantly reduced in ADR-injected rats with either lovastatin administration (ADR-LO) or protein restriction (ADR-PR) compared to those without such treatment (ADR-NP). At week 22, urinary protein excretion, serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, glomerular sclerosis and tubulointestinal alterations, which were marked in ADR-NP, were ameliorated in both ADR-LO and ADR-PR rats. ADR-LO resulted in a body weight similar to that in ADR-NP while ADR-PR induced a marked weight loss. An antihyperlipidaemic agent, such as lovastatin, seems to be a useful tool for the prevention of renal deterioration.
The compound 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or ecstasy) is a synthetic, psychoactive drug chemically similar to the stimulant methamphetamine and the hallucinogen mescaline. Accumulated data has revealed potential toxic effects associated with MDMA on brain serotonin and dopamine neurons in animal models. However, the relevance of these adverse effects on prenatal exposure to this drug remains unknown. In this study, we demonstrated that prenatal (F0) exposure to MDMA caused permanent large-scale transcriptional changes in the brains of the offspring (F1), especially in the cerebral cortex, by gene expression profiling analysis. The expression analysis of the brain of F1 pups, after maternal ingestion of MDMA (20 mg/kg MDMA), revealed significant transcriptional changes in both male and female pups. Supervised analysis resulted in the identification of 804 outlier genes in males and 1784 outlier genes in females as MDMA-associated genes in the F1 generation. Most of the functional categories of genes, among the outlier genes, were intracellular signaling pathways, including the MAPK signaling pathway, Wnt signaling pathway, and neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction pathway. Although these genes were affected by MDMA exposure in utero, their association with brain dysfunction requires further investigation. The results of this study suggest that prenatal MDMA exposure may affect the developing brain.
Exogenous n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) and specially docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) have been previously reported to potentiate the efficacy of anticancer agents that generate an oxidative stress, such as anthracyclines, by enhancing the susceptibility of cell membranes to lipid peroxidation. Since lipid peroxidation has also been suggested to mediate anthracycline-induced heart failure, we designed a study aimed at investigating whether a DHA-enriched diet coupled with controlled oxidative conditions prevents or aggravates this serious side effect in vivo. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were submitted for at least 3 weeks to diet enriched in DHA, which was provided either as natural oil (sardine oil, experiment 1) or in a purified form (DHASCO, experiment 2). At the same time, to constrain the nutritional oxidative status, the anti-oxidant Vitamin E or the pro-oxidant menadione/sodium ascorbate redox mixture was added. Then, epirubicin was administered weekly at two cumulative doses, 9 mg x kg(-1) (experiment 1) or 15 mg x kg(-1) (experiment 2). Cardiotoxicity was assessed by electrocardiographic (ECG) and hemodynamic measurements, completed with histological examination. Epirubicin-induced dose-dependent mortality, alterations of hemodynamic parameters and histological damages, all features characterizing the occurrence of congestive heart failure. Moreover, the addition of anti- or pro-oxidant did not change the hemodynamics either at the lowest (experiment 1) or the highest dose (experiment 2). Similarly, the ECG measurements and histological examinations did not reveal any difference. DHA was actually incorporated, as evaluated through the adipose tissue fatty acid composition. All these observations indicated that the DHA-enriched diet, placed under controlled oxidative conditions, did not appear to prevent but neither to aggravate epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. These findings support the idea that DHA improves the anthracycline therapeutic index.
The value of two-dimensional strain echocardiography for assessing left ventricular regional systolic function in breast cancer patients who were treated with epirubicin was evaluated. A total of 116 breast cancer patients were divided into 3 groups: Thirty-eight patients in group A were given epirubicin (Epi) of 120-340 mg/m(2), 42 patients in group B received epirubicin of > or = 360 mg/m(2), and 36 patients after surging without chemotherapy served as the control group C. High frame rate two-dimensional images were recorded from apical long-axis view, four-chamber view, two-chamber view of left ventricle. Peak systolic strain of left ventricular subendocardial myocardium was measured using two-dimensional strain software. The conventional echocardiographic parameters were also obtained. Conventional echocardiography showed there was no significant changes in conventional echocardiographic parameters among the three groups (P>0.05). Two-dimensional strain echocardiography revealed that the peak systolic strain of left ventricular subendocardial myocardium in group A was reduced in some segments as compared with the controls (P<0.05). The peak systolic strain of left ventricular subendocardial myocardium in group B was reduced significantly as compared with group C (P<0.05), but that was reduced in group B just in some of the segments as compared with group A (P<0.05). It was concluded that two-dimensional strain echocardiography could early and sensitively display the effects of epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity on the systolic function of left ventricular subendocardial myocardium, and early monitor the epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
This study was designed to compare an abbreviated evaluation of uterine contents at term (teratology probe) with a modified Chernoff-Kavlock assay (postnatal study), [Chernoff N, Kavlock RJ: J Toxicol Environ Health 10:541-550, 1982]. Mice were intubated during gestation and were evaluated for signs of toxicity. In the teratology probe, uterine contents were examined at term. In the postnatal study, offspring were examined and weighed through day 22 postpartum. Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE) produced embryo lethality and malformations, and decreased fetal weight at a dose level which was not maternally toxic in the teratology probe. In the postnatal study, EGEE decreased litter size and neonatal body weight; while litter size continued to decrease beyond the neonatal period, body weights of surviving pups were not significantly different from control. Pups exposed prenatally to EGEE developed kinked tail which was not apparent in fetuses or neonates. Maternally toxic dose levels of ethylene glycol monobutyl ether and ethanol were associated with increased embryo lethality in teratology probe studies. In postnatal studies, there were no significant effects on pup growth or survival at maternally toxic dose levels. Preliminary conclusions regarding maternal and developmental toxicity were comparable based on the teratology probe or postnatal study. Both assays measure litter size and offspring weight, but the teratology probe measures resorption incidence which may be a more sensitive index of prenatal death than number of live born. Neither fetal weight nor neonatal weight reliably predict permanent alteration of growth. A postnatal study permits detection of internal malformations or functional defects which reduce postnatal survival and gross abnormalities which appear postnatally.
Our aim was to determine if gene polymorphisms in the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) were related to the degree of change in left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) during antihypertensive treatment.
Patients with essential hypertension and echocardiographically diagnosed LVH were included in a double-blind study to receive treatment with either the angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1-receptor) antagonist irbesartan (n = 41), or the beta-1 adrenergic receptor blocker atenolol (n = 43) as monotherapy for 3 months. The angiotensinogen T174M and M235T, the angiotensin-converting enzyme I/D, the AT1-receptor A1166C and the aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) -344 C/T polymorphisms were analysed and related to the change in left ventricular mass (LVM). Patients with the angiotensinogen 174 TM genotype treated with irbesartan responded with the greatest reduction in LVM (-23 +/- 31SD g/m2 for TM and +0.5 +/- 18 g/m2 for TT, P = 0.005), independent of blood pressure reduction. Both the angiotensinogen 235 T-allele (P = 0.02) and the AT1-receptor 1166 AC genotype responded with the greatest reduction in LVM when treated with irbesartan (-0.1 +/- 19 g/m2 for AA and -18 +/- 30 g/m2 for AC, P = 0.02), independent of blood pressure reduction. These polymorphisms were not associated with the change in LVM during treatment with atenolol.
The angiotensinogen T174M and M235T and the AT1-receptor A1166C polymorphisms were related to the change in LVH during antihypertensive treatment with an AT1-receptor antagonist; of these angiotensinogen T174M was the most powerful. This highlights the role of the RAAS for left ventricular hypertrophy and the potential of pharmacogenetics as a tool for guidance of antihypertensive therapy.
Current guidelines recommend drugs which reduce neurohormonal activation as standard therapy for heart failure: angiotensin converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, beta-blockers and spironolactone. The Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT) tested the efficacy of the angiotensin-receptor blocker valsartan in addition to prescribed therapy. A total of 5010 patients with heart failure of NYHA class II, III or IV were randomly assigned to receive 160 mg of valsartan or placebo twice daily. Further angiotensin antagonism by valsartan did not improve survival but was beneficial in terms of morbidity and mortality, because of reduced rate of hospitalization, significant improvements in NYHA class, ejection fraction, signs and symptoms of heart failure, and quality of life. Valsartan had highly favourable effects in patients not receiving ACE inhibitors but an adverse effect in patients receiving both ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers. The effects of adding valsartan are depending on the importance of previous neurohormonal inhibition.
Standard therapy for chronic hepatitis C (HCV) is pegylated interferon in combination with ribavirin. There is limited experience with either drug in dialysis [end stage renal disease (ESRD)]. Six haemodialysis patients, four with HCV genotype 1, one with genotype 4 and one genotype 2 were treated with pegylated interferon-alfa-2b (n = 4) and pegylated interferon-alfa-2a (n = 2) for 24-48 weeks according to genotype with a dose of 50 or 135 mug/week respectively. All patients were given reduced ribavirin doses, initially 200-400 mg/day. Ribavirin trough plasma concentrations were measured with a HPLC method previously developed for earlier treatment studies, aiming at a target concentration of 10-15 micromol/L. Interferon related side-effects were common, in one patient peg-alfa-2b was permanently reduced to 50 mug every 9-10 days with improvement in tolerance. Average ribavirin dose was 170-300 mg/day. Ribavirin-induced anaemia was treated with high doses of erythropoietin and low doses of iron. Blood-transfusions were not needed. All patients became HCV-RNA-PCR negative during treatment which was completed or nearly completed in four patients. One patient terminated therapy prematurely due to pronounced interferon related side-effects and another died of myocardial infarction probably not related to therapy. Three patients have remained HCV-RNA negative with extended follow-up, two of whom have had a successful kidney transplant. Pegylated interferons are likely to become a valuable addition for HCV therapy in ESRD and are possible to combine with ribavirin. However the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of both peg-alfa-2a and 2b need to be studied more closely in prospective studies before definite dosing recommendations can be made.
Levels of byproducts that result from the disinfection of drinking water vary within a water distribution system. This prompted us to question whether the risk for rectal cancer also varies, depending upon one's long term geographic location within the system. Such a geographic distribution in rectal cancer risk would follow naturally from an association between level of byproduct and rectal cancer risk. We assess the effects of estimated geographic variability in exposure to some of the components of the trihalomethane group of disinfectant byproducts (DBPs) on the odds ratios and probabilities for rectal cancer in white males in a case control study of 128 cases and 253 controls, conducted in Monroe County, Western New York State, U.S.A. The study was designed around health data initially collected at the University at Buffalo (Department of Social and Preventative Medicine) as part of the Upstate New York Diet Study, and trihalomethane (THM) data collected from a separate independent study of THMs conducted by Monroe County Department of Health. Case participants were chosen from hospital pathology records. The controls are disease-free white males between 35-90 years old, living in Monroe County, and chosen from control groups for studies from cancer of five other (unrelated) sites. Using a combination of case control methodology and spatial analysis, the spatial patterns of THMs and individual measures of tap water consumption provide estimates of the effects of ingestion of specific amounts of some DBPs on rectal cancer risk. Trihalomethane (THM) data were used to spatially interpolate levels at the taps of cases and controls, and odds ratios were estimated using logistic regression to assess the effects of estimated THM exposure dose on cancer risk, adjusting for alcohol, dietary beta carotene intake, tap water intake, and total caloric intake.
Trihalomethane levels varied spatially within the county; although risk for rectal cancer did not increase with total level of trihalomethanes, increasing levels of the component bromoform (measured in ug/day) did correspond with an increase in odds ratios (OR = 1.85; 95% CI = 1.25 - 2.74) for rectal cancer. The highest quartiles of estimated consumption of bromoform (1.69-15.43 ug/day) led to increased risk for rectal cancer (OR = 2.32; 95% CI = 1.22-4.39). Two other THMs were marginally associated with an increase in risk - chlorodibromomethane (OR = 1.78, 95% CI = 1.00-3.19) and bromodichloromethane (OR = 1.15; 95% CI = 1.00-1.32).
Levels of THMs in the water distribution system exhibited spatial variation that was partially due to variation in water age. We also observed a geographic pattern of increased risk of rectal cancer in areas with the highest levels of bromoform in the county.
We report a patient with Pompe disease who developed reversible nephrotic syndrome during prolonged, high-dose, experimental, enzyme replacement therapy with recombinant human acid alpha-glucosidase (rhGAA). Because of the development of antibodies to rhGAA and concomitant clinical decline, escalating doses of rhGAA were administered as part of an experimental immune tolerance regimen. Histologic evaluation of kidney tissue revealed glomerular deposition of immune complexes containing rhGAA itself, in a pattern of membranous nephropathy. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of nephrotic syndrome occurring during enzyme replacement therapy. The nephrotic syndrome gradually resolved after the rhGAA dose was decreased, indicating that decreasing the antigenic load can ameliorate glomerular immune complex deposition associated with enzyme replacement in a highly sensitized patient.
Two double-blind multicenter studies compared acebutolol with placebo (acebutolol, N = 121; placebo, N = 116) and with propranolol (acebutolol, N = 186; propranolol, N = 190) in essential hypertension. Acebutolol significantly reduced mean sitting diastolic blood pressure from 99.2 +/- 0.3 mm Hg at baseline to 89.1 +/- 0.9 mm Hg at the end of dose titration (p = 0.001). Significantly more acebutolol patients (65%) achieved therapeutic goal than did placebo patients (28%, p less than 0.01). The reduction in heart rate in acebutolol-treated patients (9.2 bpm) was greater than in placebo-treated patients (1.2 bpm, p = 0.001). The incidence of side effects and the number of patients discontinued because of side effects did not significantly differ between acebutolol and placebo. Acebutolol and propranolol produced comparable reductions in diastolic, systolic, and mean arterial blood pressures (p less than 0.001). At equipotent doses the 13% decrease in heart rate in patients receiving acebutolol was significantly less than the 17% decrease in propranolol patients (p = 0.02). The number of patients experiencing central nervous system (CNS) side effects while receiving acebutolol (N = 50) was significantly less than with propranolol (N = 75, p = 0.001), and significantly fewer acebutolol patients (N = 11) were discontinued because of side effects compared with propranolol patients (N = 29, p less than 0.01). Laboratory, ECG, or chest X-ray results did not differ for acebutolol, placebo, or propranolol. Acebutolol appears to be safe and effective in the management of mild to moderately severe essential hypertension and is better tolerated than propranolol in terms of CNS side effects, with a significantly lesser effect on heart rate.
Circadian alterations in lung function occur in respiratory disorders, with the nadir during the sleep-related hours. Higher therapeutic serum theophylline concentrations (STC) during the night have been shown to improve lung function in reversible airway disease. To determine what effect higher nocturnal STC would have in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) on overnight lung function, oxygen saturation, and sleep quality, two different theophylline products were used to give higher or lower STC during the night. We found that with a higher STC (15.0 +/- 1.0 versus 11.0 +/- 1.0 micrograms/ml, p = 0.005) at 7:00 A.M., the overnight changes in FEV1 (+7.4 +/- 5.7% versus -18.9 +/- 7.9%, respectively) and FVC (+1.8 +/- 7.5% versus -17.2 +/- 3.9%, respectively) were significantly better. However, there was no apparent effect on oxygen saturation (mean sleep values for higher STC were 85.3 +/- 1.2%, and for lower STC they were 86.5 +/- 0.8%). The higher STC did not adversely affect sleep latency, sleep efficiency, or sleep staging. We conclude that a higher therapeutic STC during sleep will improve lung function without altering oxygen saturation in patients with COPD. In this group of patients, the higher STC did not interfere with sleep characteristics.
In a multicenter, double-blind comparison of acebutolol and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension (diastolic blood pressure, 95 to 114 mm Hg) in 182 and 178 patients, respectively, each agent reduced systolic and diastolic pressures to a similar significant degree: acebutolol, 15.9 and 14.9 mm Hg; hydrochlorothiazide, 15.2 and 13.3 mm Hg (p less than 0.001 vs baseline). Acebutolol significantly reduced heart rate by 8.9 bpm at the end of dose titration (p = 0.001), with no further decrease seen during maintenance. Fourteen patients on each treatment regimen were discontinued from the study because of side effects. However, significantly more hydrochlorothiazide patients experienced side effects of arrhythmia, anorexia, and flatulence; in addition, more hydrochlorothiazide patients developed abnormal levels of serum glucose, uric acid, blood urea nitrogen, serum potassium, and chloride. In a single-center study of patients who remained hypertensive while receiving diuretics, six of nine patients receiving acebutolol concomitantly with a diuretic responded (seated diastolic blood pressure reduced below 90 mm Hg), whereas no patients receiving placebo and diuretic concomitantly responded (p less than 0.01). Patients taking both acebutolol and diuretic had significant reductions in diastolic blood pressure (11 mm Hg) and heart rate (16 bpm) compared with those taking diuretic alone (p less than 0.05, less than 0.01) and those taking both placebo and diuretic (p less than 0.05). No significant side effects were noted. Acebutolol is as effective as hydrochlorothiazide as monotherapy for mild to moderate essential hypertension and, in addition, is effective when added to a diuretic in patients who remain hypertensive while taking diuretics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The histopathological changes in the livers of 11 patients treated with alkylated and nonalkylated anabolic androgenic steroids are presented. The histological changes in the liver included: proliferation of the bile ducts with or without cystic dilatation (9/11), peliosis (8/11), atypical hyperplasia of liver cells (2/11), and tumors (3/11). The latter included one case of cholangiocarcinoma, one of hepatocellular carcinoma, and one of combined cholangiocellular and hepatocellular carcinoma. The pathological changes in the liver in this series suggest a possible relationship between anabolic androgenic steroids and bile duct proliferation and/or cholangiocarcinoma.
