The mouse mdr2 gene encodes a P-glycoprotein expressed in the hepatocanalicular membrane. Inactivation of this gene causes lack of biliary phospholipid and cholesterol secretion and non-suppurative cholangitis. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of bile salt hydrophobicity in induction of liver pathology in mdr2 (-/-) mice.
Mice (+/+) wild type or (-/-) knockout for the mdr2 gene were fed with either purified control diet or this diet supplemented with cholate (0.1%) or ursodeoxycholate (0.5%) for 3, 6, or 22 weeks after weaning. Liver histology was semiquantitatively scored.
Each mouse fed bile acid became the major constituent of the bile salt pool. The cholate diet during 22 weeks induced only very mild liver pathology in (+/+) mice. By contrast, lever histology had already deteriorated after 3 weeks in the (-/-) mice and caused pronounced inflammatory nonsuppurative cholangitis and fibrosis in the 75% of mice that survived. Dietary ursodeoxycholate had no effect on histology in (+/+) mice but improved liver pathology significantly in (-/-) mice compared with purified control diet; the decrease of ductular proliferation and portal inflammation was most prominent after 22 weeks.
The cholangiolitis and its sequelae in the mdr2 knockout mice depend on bile salt hydrophobicity.
Trazium esilate (EGYT-3615) is structurally an as-triazino isoquinolinium salt which showed considerable activity in pharmacological tests characteristic for antidepressants (antagonism of tetrabenazine, potentiation of yohimbine, behavioral despair). The compound exhibited minimal sedative effect. Some findings suggest that it influences the central dopaminergic system. The drug potentiated actions of amphetamine such as stereotypy and hypermotility. It differentially blocked the hypothermic and the stereotypy inducing action of apomorphine. Trazium esilate also inhibited the cataleptic state provoked by bulbocapnine in mice. In higher dose it decreased the plasma prolactin level in rats. The compound potentiated the effect of norepinephrine on isolated vas deferens of the rat. Trazium esilate is a weak displacer on a1-, a2- and D2-receptors, however, it induced a2-receptor desenzitization after repeated treatment. It had no influence on rat brain cortical noradrenaline and striatal dopamine release evoked by high K+ concentration, but it increased the spontaneous dopamine outflow in rat striatum. The compound also elevated the striatal dopamine and DOPAC levels both after acute and chronic treatment.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a major safety concern in drug development and clinical drug therapy. The pathogenesis of DILI usually involves the participation of the parent drug or metabolites that either directly affect the cell biochemistry or elicit an immune response. However, in most cases the mechanisms are unknown. Alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) is known as a hepatotoxicant that causes biliary cell and hepatocyte damage and induces intense neutrophil infiltration in the liver. To investigate whether an immune-mediated mechanism is involved in ANIT-induced liver injury, we examined the plasma AST, ALT and T-Bil levels, hepatic expression of transcriptional factors, cytokines and CXC chemokine genes, plasma IL-17 level and histopathological changes in liver after ANIT administration in mice. Hepatic mRNA expression of retinoid related orphan receptor gamma t (ROR gamma t) and macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP-2) and plasma IL-17 level was significantly increased in ANIT-administered mice as well as the plasma AST, ALT and T-Bil. Neutralization of IL-17 using anti-IL-17 antibody (100 microg/mouse, single i.p.) suppressed the hepatotoxic effect of ANIT. Co-administration of recombinant IL-17 (1 microg/mouse, single i.p.) to ANIT-administered mice resulted in a remarkable increase of the plasma AST, ALT and T-Bil levels. In conclusion, it was firstly demonstrated that IL-17 is involved in the ANIT-induced liver injury in mice.
Knowledge on mechanisms of smoking-induced tumorigenesis and on active smoke constituents may improve the development and evaluation of chemopreventive and therapeutic interventions, early diagnostic markers, and new and potentially reduced-risk tobacco products. A suitable laboratory animal disease model of mainstream cigarette smoke inhalation is needed for this purpose. In order to develop such a model, A/J and Swiss SWR/J mouse strains, with a genetic susceptibility to developing lung adenocarcinoma, were whole-body exposed to diluted cigarette mainstream smoke at 0, 120, and 240 mg total particulate matter per m(3) for 6h per day, 5 days per week. Mainstream smoke is the smoke actively inhaled by the smoker. For etiological reasons, parallel exposures to whole smoke fractions (enriched for particulate or gas/vapor phase) were performed at the higher concentration level. After 5 months of smoke inhalation and an additional 4-month post-inhalation period, both mouse strains responded similarly: no increase in lung tumor multiplicity was seen at the end of the inhalation period; however, there was a concentration-dependent tumorigenic response at the end of the post-inhalation period (up to 2-fold beyond control) in mice exposed to the whole smoke or the particulate phase. Tumors were characterized mainly as pulmonary adenomas. At the end of the inhalation period, epithelial hyperplasia, atrophy, and metaplasia were found in the nasal passages and larynx, and cellular and molecular markers of inflammation were found in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. These inflammatory effects were mostly resolved by the end of the post-inhalation period. In summary, these mouse strains responded to mainstream smoke inhalation with enhanced pulmonary adenoma formation. The major tumorigenic potency resided in the particulate phase, which is contrary to the findings published for environmental tobacco smoke surrogate inhalation in these mouse models.
Benzodiazepines are an important class of drugs in the management of acute pediatric seizure disorders such as status epilepticus. They are used both in the community and in the hospital; however, one of their major side effects is respiratory depression. If ventilation is needed for benzodiazepine-induced respiratory depression during seizure management, pressures to facilitate extubation may lead to the use of the specific reversal agent for this class of drugs, flumazenil. Three cases of seizure recurrence after flumazenil use in this context are reported, and the pharmacology is discussed. Irrespective of pressure to extubate such children, physicians must be alert to the potential risk of flumazenil in the clinical scenario.
O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) is a key enzyme in the DNA repair process after alkylating agent action. Epigenetic silencing of the MGMT gene by promoter methylation has been associated with longer survival in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) who receive alkylating agents. In this study, the authors evaluated the prognostic value of different biomarkers in recurrent GBM and analyzed the changes in MGMT status between primary tumors and recurrent tumors.
Twenty-two patients who had recurrent GBM and who underwent surgery with carmustine wafer implantation were enrolled prospectively between 2005 and 2007. The authors investigated the correlation between MGMT silencing in the tumor at recurrence and survival taking into account other clinically recognized prognostic factors. MGMT status was determined by using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction analysis, a high-throughput quantitative methylation assay, and immunohistochemistry. In addition, expression analyses of human mutL homolog 1, human mutS homolog 2, and tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 at recurrence were conducted with regard to their prognostic impact.
The median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) rates after recurrence were 3.6 months and 9.9 months, respectively, and the 6-month PFS rate after recurrence was 27.2%. On multivariate analysis, only age (P=.04) and MGMT promoter hypermethylation at recurrence, as determined by MethyLight technology (P=.0012) and methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP) analysis (P=.004), were correlated with better PFS. On multivariate analysis, only MGMT promoter hypermethylation at recurrence, as determined by using MethyLight technology (P=.019) and MSP analysis (P=.046), was associated with better OS.
MGMT methylation status was an important prognostic factor in patients with recurrent GBM who underwent surgery plus carmustine wafer implantation; therefore, it was useful in predicting the outcome of GBM therapy at recurrence.
1-(N-Antipyrinylglycyl)-3-arylideneamino)-2-thiobarbituric acids (III) were synthesized from 1-arylidene-4-(N-antipyrinyl glycyl)-3-thiosemicarbazones (II). Compounds II in turn were prepared from 4-amino antipyrine. Compounds III were finally converted into 1-(N-antipyrinylglycyl)-3-[(3'-chloro-4-aryl)azitidinyl]-2-t hiobarbituric acids (IV). 4-Aminoantipyrine was also treated with different N-protected amino acids in the presence of N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide to yield N-(antipyrinylcarbamoyl) substituted alkyl benzamides (V); their debenzoylation yielded 2-(amino-N-antipyrinyl) substituted acetamides (VI). The compounds were screened for their antidepressant activity. Compounds IIId, Va and Vb exhibited activity better than imipramine with less toxicity (ALD50 > 1000 mg/kg).
In secondary prevention, aspirin reduces risk of ischemic stroke. In primary prevention of stroke, however, the role of aspirin is uncertain, especially in women.
In 1980, 79 319 women in the Nurses' Health Study cohort, 34 to 59 years of age and free of diagnosed cardiovascular disease, cancer, and rheumatoid arthritis, completed questionnaires that included information on aspirin use. Data on aspirin use were updated in 1982, 1984, and 1988. By 1994, after 994 231 person-years of follow-up, 503 incident strokes (295 ischemic strokes, 100 subarachnoid hemorrhages, 52 intraparenchymal hemorrhages, and 56 strokes of undetermined type) were documented.
There was no clear relationship between aspirin use and risk of total stroke; risk was slightly reduced among women who took 1 to 6 aspirin per week and slightly increased among women who took 7 or more aspirin per week. Women who took 1 to 6 aspirin per week had a lower risk of large-artery occlusive infarction compared with women who reported no aspirin use; after simultaneous adjustment for other cardiovascular risk factors and selected nutrients, the multivariate relative risk was 0.50 (95% CI 0.29 to 0.85, P=0.01). Women who took 15 or more aspirin per week had an excess risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage; the multivariate relative risk was 2.02 (95% CI 1.04 to 3.91, P for trend=0.02). The reduction in large-artery occlusive infarction with aspirin was of greater magnitude for older, hypertensive, or smoking women than for younger, nonhypertensive, or nonsmoking women; the elevation in subarachnoid hemorrhage with aspirin was also more apparent for older or hypertensive women than for younger or nonhypertensive women. Aspirin use was not associated with risk of other subtypes of stroke.
These prospective data indicate that women who take 1 to 6 aspirin per week have a reduced risk of large-artery occlusive infarction, but those who use 15 or more aspirin per week have an increased risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage. This observational study suggests benefits of aspirin for ischemic stroke with low frequency of use and hazards for hemorrhagic stroke with high frequency of use, particularly among older or hypertensive women. Thus, the effect on total stroke will depend on the dose of aspirin and the distribution of stroke subtypes and risk factors in the population.
There is increasing evidence for a role of somatic cellular senescence in physiological aging but also in injury and disease. Cell cycle inhibitor p16(INK4a) is the key mediator for stress and aberrant signaling induced senescence. Here we report that elevated blood pressure markedly induced p16(INK4a) expression in rat kidneys and hearts, as well as in human kidneys. In kidneys from deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt-treated rats, p16(INK4a) induction was found in tubular, glomerular, interstitial, and vascular cells and correlated with the typical histopathologic features of hypertensive target organ damage. p16(INK4a) expression also correlated with phospho-p38, a positive upstream regulator of p16(INK4a) expression. In left ventricles, increased p16(INK4a) expression was found in myocardium and cardiac arteries. Antihypertensive medication consistent of hydrochlorothiazide, hydralazine, and reserpine ameliorated the histopathologic changes and attenuated p16(INK4a) expression in kidneys of deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt-treated rats. Nonantihypertensive administration of spironolactone also reduced kidney damage and p16(INK4a) expression. p16(INK4a) induction was further observed in kidneys from hypertensive transgenic rats heterozygous for the mouse Ren-2 gene and was prevented by the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker losartan. In human kidney biopsies showing hypertensive nephrosclerosis, increased p16(INK4a) expression was found compared with age-matched normotensive control subjects. Thus, hypertension induces cellular senescence via p16(INK4a), possibly through p38, thereby contributing to hypertensive target organ damage. This detrimental effect can be overcome by different therapeutic drug strategies.
Receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) play a key role in diabetic myocardial fibrosis, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) activation has been reported to reduce RAGE and CTGF expression. This study investigated the effects of the PPAR-gamma agonist, rosiglitazone, on myocardial expression of RAGE and CTGF, extent of cardiac fibrosis, and left ventricular (LV) diastolic function in type 2 diabetic (T2D) rats. Twenty-week-old T2D rats were randomized to treatment with either 20 weeks of rosiglitazone (20 mg/kg) or saline (n = 10 in each group). Serial echocardiographic examinations were performed just before randomization (20 weeks) and at study completion (40 weeks). Fibrosis extent and RAGE and CTGF expression were assessed in previously imaged hearts by picrosirius red staining, and by real-time reverse transcriptase-coupled polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunoblotting, respectively. Results of the latter assessments were further validated by immunohistochemical staining. Rosiglitazone treatment significantly improved E/A ratio in serial echocardiography assessment, and reduced LV collagen volume fraction as demonstrated by picrosirius red staining. Real-time RT-PCR and immunoblots of myocardial tissue from rosiglitazone-treated rats revealed reduced RAGE and CTGF mRNA and protein signals compared to those of saline-treated T2D rats, which were consistent with reduced proportions of myocardial RAGE and CTGF staining in the hearts of T2D rats. PPAR-gamma agonist therapy reduces cardiac fibrosis and improves LV diastolic dysfunction as assessed by serial echocardiographic imaging. Suppression of RAGE and CTGF expression in the diabetic myocardium appears to contribute to the antifibrotic effect of rosiglitazone. These results support the potential of PPAR-gamma agonists as antifibrotic agents in diabetic cardiomyopathy.
5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is a basic agent used in chemotherapy. The aim of this study is to investigate the gene expression of 5-FU anabolic and catabolic enzymes in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and non-tumor tissue, respectively to increase our knowledge of resistant mechanisms to 5-FU in HCC. The relative mRNA level of orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT), ribonucleotide reductase (RNR), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) and target enzyme thymidylate synthase (TS), were analyzed in 30 matched samples of HCC (T) and non-tumor tissue (NT) using quantitative RT-PCR. The expression of OPRT, RNR-M1, RNR-M2 and TS is significantly higher in T compared with in NT (1.3-fold increase, 1.6-fold, 7.1-fold, 1.9-fold, respectively), but that of DPD showed no difference between T and NT. Our results show that HCC should not be treated with 5-FU alone because of its instability in liver.
Exposure to high levels of manganese (Mn) results in a neurological condition termed manganism, which is characterized by oxidative stress, abnormal dopamine (DA) signaling, and cell death. Epidemiological evidence suggests correlations with occupational exposure to Mn and the development of the movement disorder Parkinson's disease (PD), yet the molecular determinants common between the diseases are ill-defined. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) of the class pi (GSTπ) are phase II detoxification enzymes that conjugate both endogenous and exogenous compounds to glutathione to reduce cellular oxidative stress, and their decreased expression has recently been implicated in PD progression. In this study we demonstrate that a Caenorhabditis elegans GSTπ homologue, GST-1, inhibits Mn-induced DA neuron degeneration. We show that GST-1 is expressed in DA neurons, Mn induces GST-1 gene and protein expression, and GST-1-mediated neuroprotection is dependent on the PD-associated transcription factor Nrf2/SKN-1, as a reduction in SKN-1 gene expression results in a decrease in GST-1 protein expression and an increase in DA neuronal death. Furthermore, decreases in gene expression of the SKN-1 inhibitor WDR-23 or the GSTπ-binding cell death activator JNK/JNK-1 result in an increase in resistance to the metal. Finally, we show that the Mn-induced DA neuron degeneration is independent of the dopamine transporter DAT, but is largely dependent on the caspases CED-3 and the novel caspase CSP-1. This study identifies a C. elegans Nrf2/SKN-1-dependent GSTπ homologue, cell death effectors of GSTπ-associated xenobiotic-induced pathology, and provides the first in vivo evidence that a phase II detoxification enzyme may modulate DA neuron vulnerability in manganism.
The "off" painful dystonia (OPD), usually concerning the feet, is a type of abnormal involuntary movement, induced by the chronic use of levodopa. It is mostly observed in the advanced stage of Parkinson's disease (PD), particularly in the early morning, in the evening, and late at night. Indeed, some patients have experienced OPD also during "on" periods when dystonic posture of the foot alternates with dyskinesia. The pain probably is due to sustained muscle contraction, which causes prolonged muscle spasm, as in primary dystonia or torticollis. Dopaminergic drugs like bromocriptine, pergolide, and especially apomorphine (s.c. infusions, or bolus), can dramatically improve the OPD. Anticholinergics baclofen and lithium are alos used in the management of OPD with some benefit. On the other hand, clinical experience shows that in many cases, these therapeutic procedures are not always enough to produce the expected results. Thirty PD patients (22 men and eight women) with OPD of the foot were treated with botulinum toxin (Botox, Btx) using electromyograms to guide injections. Dystonia was evaluated using a quantitative rating scale. The selection of the muscles for Btx treatment was carried out on the basis of foot posture. We injected Btx into tibialis posterior, tibialis anterior, gastrocnemius, flexor digitorum longus, and extensores hallucis longus with a median dose 40 IU for each muscle, distributed in two sites. In all patients, the pain improved within 10 days, whereas in 21 patients, the pain disappeared completely for 4 months (range, 3-7 months); a concomitant improvement in intensity of the dystonic spasm was also observed. No side effects were reported. Seven patients with associated "on" foot dystonia described an improvement of foot posture on walking. In conclusion, in this uncontrolled study, the use of Btx in OPD seemed a promising tool to improve pain linked to foot dystonia; however, because of the well-known underlying dopaminergic defect in OPD, the Btx therapy should be considered only if the dopaminergic treatment established for the management of OPD has failed.
We identified mutations in the VSX1 homeobox gene for two distinct inherited corneal dystrophies; posterior polymorphous dystrophy (PPD) and keratoconus. One of the mutation (R166W) responsible for keratoconus altered the homeodomain and impaired DNA binding. Two other sequence changes (L159M and G160D) were associated with keratoconus and PPD, respectively, and involved a region adjacent to the homeodomain. The G160D substitution, and a fourth defect affecting the highly conserved CVC domain (P247R), occurred in a child with very severe PPD who required a corneal transplant at 3 months of age. In this family, relatives with the G160D change alone had mild to moderate PPD, while P247R alone caused no corneal abnormalities. However, with either the G160D or P247R mutation, electroretinography detected abnormal function of the inner retina, where VSX1 is expressed. These data define the molecular basis of two important corneal dystrophies and reveal the importance of the CVC domain in the human retina.
Two cases of intracerebral hemorrhage in patients with prosthetic heart valves receiving anticoagulant therapy without preceding embolic cerebral infarction are reported. Phytonadione and fresh frozen plasma were immediately given, and the intracerebral hematoma evacuated successfully. In one case, intractable bleeding occurred perioperatively until the thrombotest value reached 40% or more. This patient later developed fatal massive multiple intracerebral hemorrhages.
On 20 December 2001, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) initiated the Anthrax Vaccine and Antibiotic Availability Program (hereafter, the "Program") under an investigational new drug application with the US Food and Drug Administration. This Program provided options for additional preventive treatment for persons at risk for inhalation anthrax as a result of recent bioterrorism attacks who had concluded or were concluding a 60-day course of antimicrobial prophylaxis. Participants were offered an additional 40 days of antibiotic therapy (with ciprofloxacin, doxycycline, or amoxicillin) or antibiotic therapy plus 3 doses of anthrax vaccine. By 11 February 2002, a total of 5420 persons had received standardized education about the Program and 1727 persons (32%) had enrolled. Twelve participants have been identified as having serious adverse events (SAEs). One SAE, which occurred in a participant with ciprofloxacin-induced allergic interstitial nephritis, was considered to be probably associated with treatment received in the Program. No SAEs were associated with anthrax vaccine. CDC will continue to monitor Program participants during the next 2 years.
The combined effects on performance of two anxiolytics with different mechanisms of action were evaluated double-blind and crossover in 12 healthy students. Objective (tracking, divided attention, Maddox wing, etc.) and subjective (visual analogue scales and questionnaires) tests were done before and twice after single oral doses. Diazepam (0.15 and 0.30 mg/kg) impaired performance dose relatedly and rendered the subjects drowsy, calm, mentally slow, and clumsy. Buspirone (15 mg) proved inactive in objective tests but matched diazepam (0.30 mg/kg) subjectively. In combinations, buspirone added to the effects of diazepam in Maddox wing and letter cancellation but tended to counteract diazepam effects on divided attention and learning acquisition. Subjectively buspirone prolonged diazepam-induced sedation. Increased calmness caused by diazepam was not affected by concomitant buspirone. It is suggested that combining small doses of buspirone to diazepam does not cause any additional decrement in psychomotor performance. Possible advantages of the diazepam-buspirone combination in therapeutic use are discussed.
Chromosomal rearrangements involving the ROS1 receptor tyrosine kinase gene have recently been described in a subset of non-small-cell lung cancers (NSCLCs). Because little is known about these tumors, we examined the clinical characteristics and treatment outcomes of patients with NSCLC with ROS1 rearrangement.
Using a ROS1 fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) assay, we screened 1,073 patients with NSCLC and correlated ROS1 rearrangement status with clinical characteristics, overall survival, and when available, ALK rearrangement status. In vitro studies assessed the responsiveness of cells with ROS1 rearrangement to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor crizotinib. The clinical response of one patient with ROS1-rearranged NSCLC to crizotinib was investigated as part of an expanded phase I cohort.
Of 1,073 tumors screened, 18 (1.7%) were ROS1 rearranged by FISH, and 31 (2.9%) were ALK rearranged. Compared with the ROS1-negative group, patients with ROS1 rearrangements were significantly younger and more likely to be never-smokers (each P < .001). All of the ROS1-positive tumors were adenocarcinomas, with a tendency toward higher grade. ROS1-positive and -negative groups showed no difference in overall survival. The HCC78 ROS1-rearranged NSCLC cell line and 293 cells transfected with CD74-ROS1 showed evidence of sensitivity to crizotinib. The patient treated with crizotinib showed tumor shrinkage, with a near complete response.
ROS1 rearrangement defines a molecular subset of NSCLC with distinct clinical characteristics that are similar to those observed in patients with ALK-rearranged NSCLC. Crizotinib shows in vitro activity and early evidence of clinical activity in ROS1-rearranged NSCLC.
Arteritis induced in rats by vasodilators, fenoldopam and theophylline, was examined immunohistochemically for expressions of inducible type of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and tumor growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1). Rats were administered fenoldopam for 24 hours by intravenous infusion with or without following repeated daily oral administrations of theophylline. Irrespective of theophylline administration, iNOS antigens were remarkably abundant in ED-1-positive cells on day 5 and 8 post-fenoldopam-infusion (DPI); bFGF antigens were remarkably abundant in ED-1-positive cells on 1 and 3 DPI; TGF-beta1 antigens were observed in ED-1-positive cells on and after 5 DPI. These results suggest that the peak expression of iNOS antigen was followed by that of bFGF antigen, and bFGF may have a suppressive effect on iNOS expression in these rat arteritis models. On the other hand, TGF-beta1 was not considered to have a suppressive effect on iNOS expression in these models.
To present a case of acute adrenal insufficiency secondary to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia-thrombosis syndrome (HITTS), an important though rare complication of heparin therapy.
A 69-year-old woman developed HITTS secondary to low dose heparin administered subcutaneously as prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis. This followed a revision of a knee replacement. The first manifestation of HITTS was the development of pulmonary emboli in the setting of a falling platelet count. Bilateral adrenal haemorrhages complicated her course resulting in acute adrenal insufficiency. Non-specific symptoms dominated the clinical picture, with fever, nausea, abdominal pain and vomiting. Symptomatic postural hypotension was noted later in the course of her illness.
The diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency was confirmed by short Synacthen test plus computed tomographic scanning which demonstrated bilateral adrenal haemorrhages. Steroid replacement resulted in rapid clinical improvement.
This case demonstrates one of the life threatening complications that may occur with heparin even in prophylactic doses. Regular platelet counts are essential to detect heparin-induced thrombocytopenia at an early stage.
Investigate whether patients on vigabatrin demonstrated new-onset and reversible T(2)-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) abnormalities.
MRI of patients treated during vigabatrin therapy was reviewed, following detection of new basal ganglia, thalamus, and corpus callosum hyperintensities in an infant treated for infantile spasms. Patients were assessed for age at time of MRI, diagnosis, duration, and dose, MRI findings pre-, on, and postvigabatrin, concomitant medications, and clinical correlation. These findings were compared to MRI in patients with infantile spasms who did not receive vigabatrin.
Twenty-three patients were identified as having MRI during the course of vigabatrin therapy. After excluding the index case, we detected new and reversible basal ganglia, thalamic, brainstem, or dentate nucleus abnormalities in 7 of 22 (32%) patients treated with vigabatrin. All findings were reversible following discontinuation of therapy. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) was positive with apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps demonstrating restricted diffusion. Affected versus unaffected patients, respectively, had a median age of 11 months versus 5 years, therapy duration 3 months versus 12 months, and dosage 170 mg/kg/day versus 87 mg/kg/day. All affected patients were treated for infantile spasms; none of 56 patients with infantile spasms who were not treated with vigabatrin showed the same abnormalities.
MRI abnormalities attributable to vigabatrin, characterized by new-onset and reversible T(2)-weighted hyperintensities and restricted diffusion in thalami, globus pallidus, dentate nuclei, brainstem, or corpus callosum were identified in 8 of 23 patients. Young age and relatively high dose appear to be risk factors.
Despite major innovations in antithrombotic and antiplatelet therapy, unfractionated intravenous heparin is widely used to treat acute coronary syndromes. Recommendations for unfractionated heparin dosing in acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina have been issued in two recent American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines. An initial heparin bolus of 60 U/kg (maximum, 4000 U) followed by a 12-U/kg/h infusion (maximum 1000 U/h) is recommended with alteplase for ST-elevation myocardial infarction. When intravenous heparin is administered for myocardial infarction with non-ST elevation and unstable angina, an initial bolus of 60 to 70 U/kg (maximum, 5000 U) followed by a 12- to 15-U/kg/h infusion is recommended. The goal is to achieve an activated partial thromboplastin time of 50 to 70 seconds. Here, we review these new dosing regimens and explain the rationale for their use. We also review the risk of bleeding with heparin, especially when administered concurrently with aspirin, thrombolytic agents, and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists, and the relationship between activated partial thromboplastin time and cardiac events.
A 38 years old white woman suffered a tibial fracture which was primarily managed by traction therapy. 3 X 5000 IU Heparin DHE was given as prophylaxis against thromboembolism. 6 days after administration of the drug a severe arterial spasm (documented by arteriography) with high-grade ischaemia of the left leg occurred. Successful arterial dilatation with a Fogarty catheter within the entire infragenual region down to the foot arteries was performed and consecutively during the same anaesthesia the intramedullary stabilisation using an interlocking nail was also performed. 8 months later the patient was free from symptoms, the fracture had healed, and the function was unrestricted. All pulses were palpable and the ultrasound Doppler index was greater than 1. In conclusion, we recommend in arterial spasm during heparin DHE therapy, immediate operative exposure of the vessel--if possible under local anaesthesia--and adequate vascular surgery as balloon catheter dilatation.
The aim of the study was to observe the effect of antisense hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha (HIF-1alpha) on progression, metastasis, and chemosensitivity of pancreatic cancer.
BxPc-3 cells transfected with antisense HIF-1alpha plasmid were exposed to 0.5% O2 for 4 hours. Expressions of HIF-1alpha, survivin, and beta1 integrin were detected by reverse transcriptase -polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting. Growth inhibition rates and apoptosis rates of BxPc-3 cells under different dosages of chemotherapy agents (5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and gemcitabine) were measured by MTT colorimetric assay and flow cytometry. The migration of BxPc-3 cells was assayed using transwell cell culture chambers. Subcutaneous transplantation of BxPc-3 cells in nude mice for 8 weeks was to assess progression and metastasis of pancreatic cancer.
Expression of HIF-1alpha was obviously down-regulated, and at the same time, survivin and beta1-integrin expressions were markedly down-regulated in the experimental group (P < 0.05). Higher dosages (100, 200, and 400 mg/L of 5-fluorouracil; 0.05, 0.075, and 0.1 mg/L of doxorubicin; and 10(-9), 10(-8), and 10(-7) mol/L of gemcitabine) caused a greater increase of inhibition in the experimental group than in control (P < 0.05). The number of migrated BxPc-3 cells in the experimental group was far less than in control (P < 0.05). In vivo, the tumor size and weight in the experimental group were significantly lower than those in control (P < 0.05).
Our data demonstrate that antisense HIF-1alpha inhibits expressions of survivin and beta1 integrin, enhancing apoptosis in human pancreatic cancer cells and restraining the progression and metastasis of pancreatic cancer. Therefore, HIF-1alpha may play a very important role in progression, metastasis, and chemosensitivity of human pancreatic cancer. Blocking HIF-1alpha in pancreatic cancer cells may offer an avenue for gene therapy.
We report two cases of unusual ureteric obstruction in patients with an excessive consumption of analgesics. In a retrospective survey of seven cases of non-malignant retroperitoneal fibrosis seen in the last 15 years it was found that four had taken excessive amounts of analgesics. A careful drug history should be taken in all patients with restroperitoneal fibrosis and ureteric obstruction.
