To investigate whether apoptosis can be induced by Octreotide in human hepatoma cells in vitro and elucidate the antineoplastic mechanism of Octreotide in hepatoma.
A cultured human hepatoma cell line, BEL-7402, was exposed to Octreotide and apoptosis was evaluated by cytochemical staining (Hochesst 33,258), transmission electron microscopy, agarose gel electrophoresis and flow cytometry (FCM).
After exposure to 0.2 microgram/ml Octreotide, apoptosis with nuclear chromatin condensation as well as fragmentation, cell shrinkage and the formation of apoptotic bodies was observed using cytochemical staining and transmission electron microscopy. A DNA ladder in agarose gel electrophoresis was also displayed. FCM showed that the apoptotic cell number rose with an increase in the concentration of Octreotide (0-2 micrograms/ml). There was a positive correlation between Octreotide concentration and apoptotic rate in BEL-7402 cells (r = 0.809, P < 0.05).
Apoptosis in human hepatoma cells can be induced by Octreotide, which may be related to the mechanism of antineoplastic action of Octreotide in hepatoma.
The aim of the present study was to assess visual alterations in a population of Argentine patients treated with the antiepileptic drug vigabatrin.
Twenty patients receiving vigabatrin and 15 patients receiving carbamazepine were examined with automated perimetry using a Humphrey 120-point full screening strategy. In addition, scotopic flash electroretinograms were performed.
Of 20 patients treated with vigabatrin, two were unable to cooperate with testing. Of the remaining 18 patients, all but two showed at least one non-detected point inside the central 40 degrees of the visual field of each eye. Of the 15 carbamazepine-treated patients, three were unable to perform the study. None of the remaining 12 patients showed visual field defects. Both a- and b-wave amplitudes of the scotopic electroretinogram were significantly reduced in 12 patients receiving vigabatrin.
Visual field defects among patients on vigabatrin therapy may occur with a higher frequency than previously recognized. The Humphrey 120-points full field screening test and electroretinography are useful tools to assess the visual dysfunction associated with vigabatrin.
The developmental toxicity for each of 45 carboxylic acids was determined for Xenopus embryos. Acids tested included 12 unbranched, saturated aliphatics, 12 branched, saturated aliphatics, 12 unsaturated aliphatics, and 9 aromatics. Embryos were collected following hormone-induced breeding and exposed to at least eight concentrations of the acid, along with a control. For each concentration, 25 properly developing embryos were exposed to the acid solution for 96 h. Each acid was tested on at least three separate occasions and the data were pooled to calculate 96-h LC50 (lethality), 96-h EC50 (malformation), and DHI (developmental hazard index = 96-h LC50/96-h EC50) values. The endpoint data were subjected to quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analyse: and computer-automated structure evaluation (CASE). Variation in acid-induced lethality was effectively explained by partitioning and ionizability of the acids, while partitioning alone was somewhat effective in explaining variation for acid-induced malformation. The results indicated that developmental hazard of the acids to Xenopus embryos is primarily dependent on carbon-chain length, with acids containing five carbon atoms in the chain tending to be the most potent. Unsaturation reduced the hazard in comparison with the corresponding unbranched saturated acid. Developmental hazard was highest for 2-position branched compounds with a 5- or 6-C chain, but was reduced for 2-position branched acids with a 3- or 4-C chain. Hazard of the non-2 position branched acids was variable. Valproic (2-propylpentanoic) acid showed the highest developmental hazard with Xenopus, twice that of any other acid tested.
Screening of pregnant women for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) in three areas of Holland led to the identification of HBsAg carriers, 20 of whom were subsequently delivered. Within two hours after birth all infants received hepatitis B immune globulin (0.5 ml/kg body weight) and, after randomisation, hepatitis B vaccine (10 micrograms) was given either at 0, 1, and 2 months of age or at 3, 4, and 5 months of age, the latter concomitantly with DPTP vaccination. Eighteen infants complying with the protocol were followed up for at least six months. No side effects were observed after either passive or active immunisation. All infants developed high concentrations of anti-HBs antibodies; no interference of high dose passive immunisation with active immunisation was observed. Concentrations of anti-HBs at three months were significantly lower in infants given delayed active immunisation than in those given early active immunisation. These data suggest that passive-active immunisation against hepatitis B virus infection is well tolerated by neonates under 3 months of age and that both early and late active immunisation in combination with passive immunisation will result in excellent anti-HBs production.
We report a patient with a sodium valproate-induced cutaneous pseudolymphoma, presenting with an erythematous papule, histologically mimicking a non-epidermotropic T-cell lymphoma. Polymerase chain reaction study of the skin biopsy revealed monoclonal rearrangement of the T-cell receptor gamma gene. Withdrawal of sodium valproate was followed by regression of the lesion, but 5 months after substitution by carbamazepine, two further papules appeared, with similar histological features and a T-cell clone identical to the initial one. Carbamazepine was stopped and the lesions disappeared without relapse over a 4-year follow-up. Sodium valproate is very rarely responsible for a hypersensitivity syndrome, and our case is the first report of sodium valproate-induced cutaneous pseudolymphoma. The recurrence with carbamazepine may be due to a common effect on T-cell lymphocyte function. The return of the same monoclonal population shows that the recurrence of monoclonal T cells may be observed in benign conditions and is not an exclusive hallmark of cutaneous lymphoma.
The 8-substituted 9-ethyladenine derivatives: 8-bromo-9-ethyladenine (ANR 82), 8-ethoxy- 9-ethyladenine (ANR 94), and 8-furyl-9-ethyladenine (ANR 152) have been characterized in vitro as adenosine receptor antagonists. Adenosine is deeply involved in the control of motor behaviour and substantial evidences indicate that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists improve motor deficits in animal models of Parkinson's disease. On this basis, the efficacy of ANR 82, ANR 94, and ANR 152 in rat models of Parkinson's disease was evaluated. All compounds tested reversed the catalepsy induced by haloperidol. However, in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, only ANR 94 and ANR 152 potentiated l-dihydroxy-phenylalanine (l-DOPA) effect on turning behaviour and induced contralateral turning behaviour in rats sensitised to l-DOPA. Taken together the results of this study indicate that some 8-substituted 9-ethyladenine derivatives ameliorate motor deficits in rat models of Parkinson's disease, suggesting a potential therapeutic role of these compounds.
The administration of lithium followed by pilocarpine induces status epilepticus (SE) that produces neurodegeneration and the subsequent development of spontaneous recurrent seizures. We have reported that tyrosine phosphorylation of the NMDA receptor is elevated over controls for several hours following 60 min of SE. In the current study, we assessed the temporal relationship between tyrosine phosphorylation of the NMDA receptor and the onset of SE. SE was induced using the Li/pilocarine model and phosphorylation of the NMDA receptor subunits NR2A and NR2B determined. Tyrosine phosphorylation of the NMDAR remained unchanged prior to the onset of SE and increased gradually thereafter. The onset of SE was accompanied by activation of Src-family tyrosine kinases and Pyk2 in the post-synaptic density, consistent with a role for these enzymes in SE-induced tyrosine phosphorylation. The results indicate that tyrosine phosphorylation of the NMDAR closely parallels the activation of Src-family kinases and follows, rather than precedes, the onset of SE.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a member of ligand-activated transcription factors and conserved among vertebrates. To investigate the role of AHR in fish development, medaka embryos were treated with agonist (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin), antagonists (alpha-naphthoflavone and resveratrol), and inhibitor (piperonyl butoxide) of cytochromes (Cyts) P450 encoded by a battery of target genes. These embryos were found to have similar abnormal phenotypes. Among the most consistent phenotypes were blood clotting and malformation of bone that were associated with vascular damages. These results thus indicate that control of AHR is important for proper development of fish embryos. AHR may control levels of Cyts P450 that are responsible for synthesis and metabolism of a toxic compound that caused the abnormal phenotypes. Complementary DNA fragments encoding AHR homologs were cloned from medaka embryos. AHR-specific mRNA was ubiquitously expressed in embryos and adult tissues.
The effects of increasing doses of intravenous isoproterenol on left ventricular (LV) size and function were assessed before and after oral propranolol (80 mg). Eleven normal subjects were studied by M-mode echocardiography. The isoproterenol dose was increased until heart rate had risen by 25 to 30 b.p.m. LV end-diastolic (LVED) dimension (46.6 +/- 1.3 mm) was increased by isoproterenol (to 48.8 +/- 1.5 mm) and decreased by propranolol (to 45 +/- 1 mm). LV end-systolic dimension was decreased by isoproterenol and increased by propranolol. Isoproterenol increased LVED dimension despite the opposing effect of the tachycardia, whereas propranolol decreased LVED dimension despite its negative inotropic and chronotropic effects. These results suggest that nonselective beta-receptor stimulation or blockade can affect cardiac output through direct cardiac actions and by influencing venous return.
Medications that act on the central nervous system are frequently used in people infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Actually, drug interactions are an important factor in the treatment of patients with (HIV) infection and because of the complexity of the current drug regimens, clinicians should be trained in order to recognize and manage drug interactions. Herein, we present an HIV infected male admitted for manic behavior and treated with risperidone who developed a profound coma secondary to increased levels of risperidone because of a possible drug interaction with ritonavir and indinavir. Subsequently, we discuss this interaction, rarely described in the literature. Risperidone is a cytochrome P450 (CYP2D6) enzyme substrate and weak inhibitor and a CYP3A4 substrate. Possible interactions with CYP2D6 inhibitors (amiodarone, fluoxetine or ritonavir) and CYP3A4 inhibitors (indinavir and ritonavir) can increase its serum concentrations and produce significant adverse effects. In conclusion, this drug combination should be administered with caution and routinely examined for signs and symptoms of risperidone toxicity. Dosages should be reduced as needed. Finally, we think that in patients taking multiple medications, plasma levels of risperidone should be monitored especially if drug interactions are possible.
Migraine and tension-type headaches impose a tremendous economic drain upon the healthcare system. Intravenous and oral niacin has been employed in the treatment of acute and chronic migraine and tension-type headaches, but its use has not become part of contemporary medicine, nor have there been randomized controlled trials further assessing this novel treatment. We aimed to systematically review the evidence of using intravenous and/or oral niacin as a treatment for migraine headaches, tension-type headaches, and for headaches of other etiologic types.
We searched English and non-English language articles in the following databases: MEDLINE (1966-February 2004), AMED (1995-February 2004) and Alt HealthWatch (1990-February 2004).
Nine articles were found to meet the inclusion criteria and were included in this systematic review. Hypothetical reasons for niacin's effectiveness include its vasodilatory properties, and its ability to improve mitochondrial energy metabolism. Important side effects of niacin include flushing, nausea and fainting.
Although niacin's mechanisms of action have not been substantiated from controlled clinical trials, this agent may have beneficial effects upon migraine and tension-type headaches. Adequately designed randomized trials are required to determine its clinical implications.
Intensive research is devoted to unravel the neurobiological mechanisms mediating adult hippocampal neurogenesis, its regulation by antidepressants, and its behavioral consequences. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that is expressed in the CNS, where its function is unknown. Here, we show, for the first time, the relevance of MIF expression for adult hippocampal neurogenesis. We identify MIF expression in neurogenic cells (in stem cells, cells undergoing proliferation, and in newly proliferated cells undergoing maturation) in the subgranular zone of the rodent dentate gyrus. A causal function for MIF in cell proliferation was shown using genetic (MIF gene deletion) and pharmacological (treatment with the MIF antagonist Iso-1) approaches. Behaviorally, genetic deletion of MIF resulted in increased anxiety- and depression-like behaviors, as well as of impaired hippocampus-dependent memory. Together, our studies provide evidence supporting a pivotal function for MIF in both basal and antidepressant-stimulated adult hippocampal cell proliferation. Moreover, loss of MIF results in a behavioral phenotype that, to a large extent, corresponds with alterations predicted to arise from reduced hippocampal neurogenesis. These findings underscore MIF as a potentially relevant molecular target for the development of treatments linked to deficits in neurogenesis, as well as to problems related to anxiety, depression, and cognition.
Since oxygen free radicals and lipid peroxidation have been implicated in the pathogenesis of an early stage of acute pancreatitis, we examined whether melatonin, a recently discovered free-radical scavenger, could attenuate pancreatic injury in Sprague-Dawley rats with cerulein-induced pancreatitis. Acute pancreatitis was induced by four intraperitoneal injections of cerulein (50 microg/kg body wt) given at 1-hr intervals. Thirty minutes after the last cerulein injection, the rats were killed and the degree of pancreatic edema, the level of lipid peroxidation in the pancreas, and serum amylase activity were increased significantly. Pretreatment with melatonin (10 or 50 mg/kg body wt) 30 min before each cerulein injection resulted in a significant reduction in pancreatic edema and the levels of lipid peroxidation. Serum amylase activity, however, was not significantly influenced by either dose of melatonin. Moreover, we found that cerulein administration was associated with stomach edema as well as high levels of lipid peroxidation in the stomach and small intestine, which were also reduced by melatonin. Melatonin's protective effects in cerulein-treated rats presumably relate to its radical scavenging ability and to other antioxidative processes induced by melatonin.
The therapeutic use of thalidomide in patients with multiple myeloma is often complicated by the development of venous thromboembolism. The objective of the present study was to identify hypercoagulable states associated with development of venous thromboembolism in thalidomide-treated multiple myeloma patients. We screened 49 consecutive multiple myeloma patients treated with thalidomide at baseline for hypercoagulability. With a median follow-up of 11 months, 10 of 49 multiple myeloma patients developed a thrombotic episode. Laboratory assays revealed an underlying abnormality in nine of the 10 patients; hypercoagulable screenings were normal in 36 of the 39 patients who did not develop venous thromboembolism (P < 0.0001). Our retrospective study results suggest that the multiple myeloma patients with thromboembolic complications during treatment with thalidomide have a frequent concomitant underlying thrombophilic state.
Bleeding and delayed healing of ulcers are well recognized clinical problems associated with the use of aspirin and other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, which have been attributed to their antiaggregatory effects on platelets. We hypothesized that antiplatelet drugs might interfere with gastric ulcer healing by suppressing the release of growth factors, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), from platelets. Gastric ulcers were induced in rats by serosal application of acetic acid. Daily oral treatment with vehicle, aspirin, or ticlopidine (an ADP receptor antagonist) was started 3 days later and continued for 1 week. Ulcer induction resulted in a significant increase in serum levels of VEGF and a significant decrease in serum levels of endostatin (an antiangiogenic factor). Although both aspirin and ticlopidine markedly suppressed platelet aggregation, only ticlopidine impaired gastric ulcer healing and angiogenesis as well as reversing the ulcer-associated changes in serum levels of VEGF and endostatin. The effects of ticlopidine on ulcer healing and angiogenesis were mimicked by immunodepletion of circulating platelets, and ticlopidine did not influence ulcer healing when given to thrombocytopenic rats. Incubation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells with serum from ticlopidine-treated rats significantly reduced proliferation and increased apoptosis, effects reversed by an antibody directed against endostatin. Ticlopidine treatment resulted in increased platelet endostatin content and release. These results demonstrate a previously unrecognized contribution of platelets to the regulation of gastric ulcer healing. Such effects likely are mediated through the release from platelets of endostatin and possibly VEGF. As shown with ticlopidine, drugs that influence gastric ulcer healing may do so in part through altering the ability of platelets to release growth factors.
The impact of motor complications of Parkinson's disease (PD), especially levodopa-induced dyskinesias, on quality of life (QL) was studied in 143 patients with PD. All were evaluated on the Hoehn and Yahr (H&Y) scale, and the Motor part of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). Motor complications were analyzed using the UPDRS Parts IV(A) and IV(B) and the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale. A specific Parkinson's disease quality of life questionnaire (39-item version, PDQ-39) was used. Motor complications significantly worsened the PDQ-39 Summary Index (PDQ-SI) of patients with PD. The dimensions of Mobility, Activities of Daily Living, Stigma, and Communication were the most strongly affected. "Peak dose" dyskinesia decreased Mobility, Emotional Well-Being, and Cognition, whereas biphasic dyskinesia affected Mobility, Stigma, Communication, and Activities of Daily Living. Morning akinesia, end-of-dose fluctuations, and "unpredictable offs" decreased QL on the dimensions of Mobility, Activities of Daily Living, Stigma, and Communication. Nocturnal akinesia led to a deterioration of all dimensions of the PDQ-39. Thus, motor complications and especially nocturnal akinesia and biphasic dyskinesias worsened the QL of PD patients.
The effect of herbal preparation "Composite Dong Yuan Gao" (CDYG) on the animal model of drug dependence was studied. After the morphinistic models of white rats and mice were made by ever increasing doses of morphine each time, the animals were divided into large dose CDYG group, small dose CDYG group, sustained morphine group, and control group. The withdrawal symptoms were observed after naloxone was given to the animals intraperitoneally. The results showed that in the CDYG groups withdrawal symptoms of the addicted white rats were alleviated, the number of jumps of the addicted mice was reduced, the scores of the principal symptoms of the animals were decreased, while the body weights of the animals were gained. Comparing with the control group, the difference was significant (P < 0.01). The effects of the CDYG enhanced in the large dose group, which suggests that the CDYG has abstinence effects.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) in children results from autoimmune destruction of pancreatic beta cells, leading to insufficient production of insulin. A number of genetic determinants of T1D have already been established through candidate gene studies, primarily within the major histocompatibility complex but also within other loci. To identify new genetic factors that increase the risk of T1D, we performed a genome-wide association study in a large paediatric cohort of European descent. In addition to confirming previously identified loci, we found that T1D was significantly associated with variation within a 233-kb linkage disequilibrium block on chromosome 16p13. This region contains KIAA0350, the gene product of which is predicted to be a sugar-binding, C-type lectin. Three common non-coding variants of the gene (rs2903692, rs725613 and rs17673553) in strong linkage disequilibrium reached genome-wide significance for association with T1D. A subsequent transmission disequilibrium test replication study in an independent cohort confirmed the association. These results indicate that KIAA0350 might be involved in the pathogenesis of T1D and demonstrate the utility of the genome-wide association approach in the identification of previously unsuspected genetic determinants of complex traits.
The initiation and severity of systemic autoimmune diseases are influenced by a variety of genetic and environmental factors, in particular bacterial infections and products. Here, we have employed bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which non-specifically activates the immune system, to explore the involvement of innate immunity in mercury-induced autoimmunity in mice. Following treatment of mouse strains resistant [DBA/2 (H-2(d))] or susceptible [SJL(H-2(s))] to such autoimmunity with mercuric chloride and/or LPS or with physiological saline alone (control), their immune/autoimmune responses were monitored. Resistant DBA/2 mice were rendered susceptible to mercury-induced autoimmunity by co-administration of LPS, exhibiting pronounced increases in the synthesis of IgG1 and IgE, high titres of IgG1 deposits in the kidneys and elevated circulating levels of IgG1 antibodies of different specificities. Furthermore, the percentages of the T cells isolated from the spleens of DBA/2 mice exposed to both mercury and LPS that produced pro-inflammatory cytokines were markedly increased by in vitro stimulation with phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) and ionomycin, which was not the case for splenic T cells isolated from mice receiving mercuric chloride, LPS or saline alone. In addition, exposure of susceptible SJL mice to mercury in combination with LPS aggravated the characteristic features of mercury-induced autoimmunity, including increased synthesis of IgG1 and IgE, the production of IgG1 anti-nucleolar antibodies (ANolA) and the formation of renal deposits of IgG1. In summary, our findings indicate that activation of the innate immune system plays a key role in both the induction and severity of chemically induced autoimmunity.
One approach to ameliorate the cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been to restore neuronal signaling from the basal forebrain cholinergic system via the activation of the M(1) muscarinic receptor. A number of nonselective M(1) muscarinic agonists have previously shown positive effects on cognitive behaviors in AD patients, but were limited due to cholinergic adverse events thought to be mediated by the activation of the M(2) to M(5) subtypes. One strategy to confer selectivity for M(1) is the identification of positive allosteric modulators, which would target an allosteric site on the M(1) receptor rather than the highly conserved orthosteric acetylcholine binding site. Quinoline carboxylic acids have been previously identified as highly selective M(1) positive allosteric modulators with good pharmacokinetic and in vivo properties. Herein is described the optimization of a novel quinolizidinone carboxylic acid scaffold with 4-cyanopiperidines being a key discovery in terms of enhanced activity. In particular, modulator 4i gave high plasma free fractions, enhanced central nervous system (CNS) exposure, was efficacious in a rodent in vivo model of cognition, and afforded good physicochemical properties suitable for further preclinical evaluation.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most frequently occurring cardiac arrhythmia with often serious clinical consequences. Many patients have contraindications to anticoagulation, and it is often underused in clinical practice. The addition of clopidogrel to aspirin (ASA) has been shown to reduce vascular events in a number of high-risk populations. Irbesartan is an angiotensin receptor-blocking agent that reduces blood pressure and has other vascular protective effects.
ACTIVE W is a noninferiority trial of clopidogrel plus ASA versus oral anticoagulation in patients with AF and at least 1 risk factor for stroke. ACTIVE A is a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of clopidogrel in patients with AF and with at least 1 risk factor for stroke who receive ASA because they have a contraindication for oral anticoagulation or because they are unwilling to take an oral anticoagulant. ACTIVE I is a partial factorial, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of irbesartan in patients participating in ACTIVE A or ACTIVE W. The primary outcomes of these studies are composites of vascular events. A total of 14000 patients will be enrolled in these trials.
ACTIVE is the largest trial yet conducted in AF. Its results will lead to a new understanding of the role of combined antiplatelet therapy and the role of blood pressure lowering with an angiotensin II receptor blocker in patients with AF.
To determine the efficacy and the renal side effects of indomethacin treatment for closure of a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in premature infants during an individualized fluid regime that avoids hypovolaemia and subsequent prostaglandin-dependent renal perfusion.
Observational retrospective analysis of the efficacy of indomethacin in premature infants with PDA treated in a single institution from June 1992 to May 2000. The clinical course and renal effects were analysed in the subgroup of infants born from June 1995 to May 2000. The management of infants at risk and the treatment of infants with PDA followed a standardized protocol that included echocardiographic screening for PDA, indomethacin treatment before congestive failure develops (early symptomatic treatment) and an individualized fluid intake.
In total, 412 infants with a gestational age < or = 32 wk were identified. Fifty-six infants with a PDA (14%) were treated with indomethacin [mean birthweight 936 (95% confidence interval 866-1006) g; gestational age 27.3 (26.8-27.9) wk]. Indomethacin treatment was successful in 52 infants (93%). The clinical course and renal effects were analysed in 41 infants. Most infants received three indomethacin doses of 0.2 mg kg(-1) every 12 h. Urine output transiently decreased from 5.6 (4.6-6.4) to 4.6 (3.9-5.3) ml kg(-1) (h(-1). Serum creatinine temporarily increased from 0.90 (0.83-0.98) to 1.06 (0.87-1.24)mg dl(-1). Fluid intake was 158 (148-168) ml kg(-1) d(-1) before indomethacin and decreased to 142 (131-154) ml kg(-1) d(-1).
Indomethacin is very effective for closure of a PDA, even in very premature infants, and is not associated with clinically significant renal side effects.
The aim of this study was to determine whether renal dysfunction affects the outcome of stroke patients treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA).
A retrospective, multicenter, observational study was conducted to identify the effects of underlying risk factors on intravenous rt-PA therapy using 0.6 mg/kg alteplase in 10 stroke centers in Japan. Consecutive stroke patients with a premorbid modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score ≤3 who received rt-PA were studied. Renal dysfunction was defined as estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <60 ml/min/1.73 m² on admission. The outcome measures were any intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and symptomatic ICH within the initial 36 h; favorable (mRS 0-1) outcome, poor outcome (mRS 4-6) and mortality at 3 months.
Of a total of 578 patients (372 men; 64.4%, 71.4 ± 11.7 years old), renal dysfunction was present in 186 patients (32.2%). These patients were older and more commonly had hypertension, atrial fibrillation, prior ischemic heart disease and prior use of antithrombotic agents than patients without renal dysfunction. ICH (27.4 vs. 16.6%) and symptomatic ICH (8.1 vs. 2.6%) was more common in patients with renal dysfunction than in those without. At 3 months, patients with renal dysfunction had higher median mRS scores than those without (3 vs. 2). After multivariate adjustment for established outcome predictors, renal dysfunction was related to any ICH (odds ratio 1.81, 95% confidence interval 1.16-2.84), symptomatic ICH (2.64, 1.10-6.56), poor outcome (1.55, 1.01-2.38), and mortality (2.94, 1.38-6.42).
Reduced eGFR was associated with early ICH and 3-month unfavorable outcome in stroke patients receiving intravenous rt-PA.
To confirm the ocular hypotensive effects of anecortave acetate on an ovine model for steroid-induced ocular hypertension. Eyes of normal sheep exhibit a robust steroid-induced ocular hypertensive response. Recent observations in an uncontrolled, interventional case series indicated that anecortave elicited hypotensive effects when administered as a sub-Tenon depot in the eyes of a small sample of patients with glaucoma.
Intraocular pressure (IOP) was monitored by Perkins applanation tonometry in 16 normal sheep receiving topically administered prednisolone acetate, 0.5%, in both eyes, 3 times daily, a protocol that doubled IOP within 12 days. Half of the sheep had received a unilateral sub-Tenon injection of anecortave in 1 eye prior to the initiation of the bilateral prednisolone instillations, while the 8 remaining sheep received the unilateral anecortave sub-Tenon depot after the IOP was maximally elevated by the prednisolone instillations.
In these 2 sets of experiments, the presence of the anecortave depot suppressed the steroid-induced IOP elevation and reverted the elevated IOP to baseline levels. Measurements of aqueous outflow facility indicated that eyes treated with prednisolone plus anecortave exhibited a 5.8-fold higher outflow facility than the fellow eyes solely exposed to prednisolone, indicating that anecortave prevented the increase in outflow resistance produced by the corticosteroid.
Elucidation of the mechanisms of action of anecortave in animal models may prove relevant to the design of novel interventions for the management of primary open-angle glaucoma.
Purine nucleoside analogs are a class of antineoplastic drugs with potent lymphotoxicity against T and B lymphocytes, causing prolonged lymphopenia and linked to delayed immune complications such as opportunistic infections and more recently autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), seen mostly in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). A characteristic temporal relation between fludarabine therapy and the appearance of a warm-reactive immunoglobulin G (IgG)-mediated AIHA in patients with CLL has been observed and, in some, the AIHA has been fatal. Whether both fludarabine and cladribine cause AIHA is uncertain because AIHA is commonly seen in patients with CLL without the use of these drugs. In contrast, AIHA is encountered in Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM) much less frequently, and the autoantibody is usually cold-reactive and IgM-mediated. In a few reported cases of AIHA arising in patients with WM after cladribine therapy, there was a latency of 24 to 60 months between therapy and the onset of AIHA, three of which were warm-reactive and IgG-mediated.
A warm-reacting IgG red cell autoantibody and evidence of hemolysis detected 1 month after completing cladribine therapy for WM, with warm antibody AIHA developing 4 months later, are described.
Cladribine, like fludarabine, is possibly able to produce this complication during or early after therapy. Because the use of purine analogs is becoming increasingly common, it is important to have an awareness of the complications that can arise during and after treatment. Further observations of warm AIHA during cladribine therapy are needed to establish it as a distinct complication.
We investigated the responses of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis during experimental colitis induced by intracolonic administration of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid in the rat. On days 3 and 7 after induction of colitis, the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA level in the parvocellular paraventricular nucleus (pPVN) of the hypothalamus was reduced, the plasma ACTH level remained at the basal level, and the plasma corticosterone (Cort) level was high. Induction of colitis on day 3 after adrenalectomy with Cort pellet replacement (ADX + Cort) resulted in a marked increase in CRH mRNA on day 7 after induction of colitis compared with noncolitic ADX + Cort animals. Pair feeding to match the food intake of the colitic animals resulted in no significant change in CRH mRNA in the pPVN, plasma ACTH, and Cort compared with healthy control animals. These findings indicated that CRH mRNA expression in the pPVN was inhibited by glucocorticoid feedback during this experimental colitis, and the decrease in food intake during colitis was not simply responsible for the expression of CRH mRNA. It is inferred that the HPA axis including the CRH level in the pPVN is altered in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
