Plasma cholinesterase (PChE) metabolizes cocaine to ecgonine methyl ester (EME). Limited data demonstrate that EME is a mild vasodilator. Exogenous PChE protects against cocaine-induced seizures and lethality. It is unclear whether this protective effect results from enhanced degradation of cocaine, the loss of active metabolites (benzoylecgonine, norcocaine), or the production of a beneficial metabolite (EME). This study was designed to further investigate the pharmacologic effects of EME.
All experiments used female ICR Swiss albino mice weighing 20-30 grams. Mice were acclimated to 12 h alternating light-dark cycles and given food and water ad libitum. Using a randomized, blinded protocol, 80 mice were then pretreated with either IP EME (50 mg/kg) in a 0.9% sodium chloride solution or an equal volume of 0.9% sodium chloride solution as control. Five minutes later, all animals received 126 mg/kg of cocaine IP and were observed for seizures and death. Fatality was compared using a Fisher's exact test, and the time to seizures and death were compared using a Mann-Whitney U statistic.
Pretreatment with EME increased survival following cocaine (9/40 vs. 2/40, for EME vs. control, respectively, p<0.05). The median times to seizure and death for both groups were 2.0 vs. 1.5 min (p>0.05), and 4.5 vs. 4.6 min (p>0.05) (EME vs. control for seizures and death, respectively).
In this animal model, EME is protective against cocaine lethality. This effect is consistent with the previously described vasodilatory effects of EME. Further studies are indicated to determine whether the increase in EME produced by exogenous PChE administration contributes to the benefits that occur when PChE is given to cocaine-poisoned animals.
We previously demonstrated that high-fat diet (HFD)-induced hepatic lipid accumulation is more severe in BALB/c mice than in C57BL/6J (B6) mice. To understand the changes in liver metabolism, we studied blood chemistry, gene expression, and histopathological changes of the liver in nine-week HFD-fed BALB/c and B6 mice and one- or four-week HFD-fed BALB/c mice. Serum total cholesterol and triglyceride levels were significantly increased in all HFD-fed groups, and one- and four-week HFD-fed BALB/c groups, respectively. Histopathology revealed that vacuolation of hepatocytes was severe in nine-week HFD-fed BALB/c mice, although it was less severe in the other groups. Microarray analysis of mRNA expression of nine-week HFD-fed BALB/c mice showed up-regulation of genes involved in fatty acid uptake and biosynthesis, such as Cd36, Acaca, Acly, and Fasn. Some changes were observed in the one- and four-week HFD-fed BALB/c groups and the nine-week HFD-fed B6 group, however these changes in mRNA expression were not so marked. In conclusion, the fatty accumulation observed in BALB/c mice may be caused, at least in part, by up-regulation of fatty acid uptake and biosynthesis. Cd36, Acaca, Acly and Fasn may be involved in these metabolic processes.
Two weeks after surgery, ovariectomized (OVX) rats were treated for 3 days with either 17 beta-estradiol (10 or 100 micrograms/kg, SC, per day) or the oil vehicle. They were then tested for morphine-induced hyperactivity (4 mg/kg, IP), analgesia and catalepsy (15 and 20 mg/kg, IP) 24 or 72 hr after the last steroid or oil injection. Estradiol treatment did not affect the locomotion or the sensitivity to nociceptive stimuli of OVX rats and did not induce a cataleptic state in animals. Estradiol- (100 micrograms/kg) treated OVX rats exhibited attenuated morphine-induced hyperlocomotion regardless of the time that had elapsed after estradiol treatment cessation, attenuated morphine-induced catalepsy at 24 hr after estradiol treatment and unaltered morphine-induced analgesia. OVX rats treated with a lower estradiol dose (10 micrograms/kg) exhibited significantly increased morphine-induced analgesia and slightly increased catalepsy. The results show that the sensitivity of brain opiate systems controlling some of the behavioral effects of morphine is modified following estradiol treatment to OVX rats.
The objective of this investigation was to determine whether celecoxib, a highly specific inhibitor of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), inhibits the promotion phase of mammary tumorigenesis in rats fed a high fat diet rich in n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) that is known to induce COX-2 expression. Sixty female Sprague-Dawley rats were initially maintained on an AIN-93G diet. At 50 days of age they received a single i.p. injection of methylnitrosourea (MNU). One week later, all rats were switched to a modified AIN-93G diet containing 18% safflower oil plus 3% soybean oil. Half of the rats also began receiving 1500 ppm celecoxib in the diet and the control and experimental diets were continued for a further 23 weeks. Celecoxib significantly decreased both the final tumor incidence (63.3% in the celecoxib group versus 82.2% in the control group, P<0.05) and tumor multiplicity (0.9+/-0.2 tumors/rat in the celecoxib group versus 2.3+/-0.3 tumors/rat in the control group, P<0.05). At the termination of the experiment, body weights were significantly lower in the celecoxib group compared to controls (330.6+/-6.1 versus 401.5+/-10.9 g respectively, P<0.05) although there was no evidence of toxicity and food intakes were not different for the two groups. Fasting serum triglycerides and abdominal adipose tissue accumulation were lower in the celecoxib group compared to controls (49.3+/-4.4 versus 82.8+/-12.6 mg/dL, P<0.05, and 7.2+/-0.3 versus 11.3+/-0.4% of body weight, P<0.01, respectively). These results show that administration of celecoxib to rats in a high fat diet rich in n-6 PUFAs suppresses the promotion of mammary tumorigenesis induced by MNU. This inhibition may be due to the effects of celecoxib on lipid metabolism as well as COX-2.
There are many reports in the literature concerning nocturnal bruxism, however, diurnal (non-sleep)/nocturnal bruxism is rarely mentioned. We report three patients with diurnal/nocturnal bruxism. They differed from the usual features of nocturnal bruxism in hypoperfusion of the left frontal lobe, a poor response to l-dopa or bromocriptine therapy and a favourable response to metoclopramide. Hypersensitive presynaptic dopamine receptors may be the underlying pathology responsible for this type of bruxism. Regional differences in dopamine receptor pharmacology may explain the perplexing relationship of bruxism to both hyper- and hypo-dopaminergic states.
To evaluate the effects of an antiarrhythmic dose of lidocaine on cocaine-induced ataxia, seizures, and death in mice.
A randomized, controlled, blinded investigation was conducted using 220 female Swiss albino mice. Groups of 20 animals received intraperitoneal (IP) administration of either 31.6 mg/kg of lidocaine hydrochloride in 0.9% NaCl (ten animals) or an equal volume of 0.9% NaCl solution (ten animals). After 5 minutes, all the animals received IP cocaine in incremental doses ranging from 40 to 110 mg/kg. The animals were observed for ataxia, seizures, and death. The animals pretreated with lidocaine were compared with the control animals for the number of adverse effects from cocaine at each dose tested.
Lidocaine significantly increased the overall incidences of cocaine-induced ataxia (p = 0.02) and seizures (p < 0.001). However, pretreatment with lidocaine offered protection against cocaine lethality (p < 0.0001).
In this preexposure model, lidocaine protects mice against cocaine-induced lethality. These effects seem to be independent of convulsive activity. Further study is required to determine the safety and efficacy of lidocaine for the management of cocaine-induced arrhythmias.
Diffuse fasciculations developed in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis who had received D-penicillamine for 6 months. Fasciculations disappeared after discontinuation of the drug but recurred on rechallenge. This reversible neuromuscular irritability has been reported with gold therapy but not with D-penicillamine.
Caffeine is the world's most popular stimulant and is known to disrupt sleep. Administration of caffeine can therefore be used in healthy volunteers to mimic the effects of insomnia and thus to test the hypnotic effects of medication. This study assessed the effects of caffeine on sleep architecture and electroencephalography (EEG) spectrum alone and in combination with two different sleep-promoting medications. Home polysomnography was performed in 12 healthy male volunteers in a double-blind study whereby subjects received placebo, caffeine (150 mg), caffeine plus zolpidem (10 mg) and caffeine plus trazodone (100 mg) at bedtime in a randomised crossover design. In addition to delaying sleep onset, caffeine decreased total sleep time (TST), sleep efficiency (SE) and stage 2 sleep without significantly altering wake after sleep onset or the number of awakenings. Zolpidem attenuated the caffeine-induced decrease in SE and increased spindle density in the caffeine plus zolpidem combination compared with placebo. Trazodone attenuated the decrease in SE and TST, and it also increased stage 3 sleep, decreased the number of awakenings and decreased the spindle density. No significant changes in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep were observed, neither was any significant alteration in slow wave activity nor other EEG spectral measures, although the direction of change was similar to that previously reported for caffeine and appeared to 'normalise' after trazodone. These data suggest that caffeine mimics some, but not all of the sleep disruption seen in insomnia and that its disruptive effects are differentially attenuated by the actions of sleep-promoting compounds with distinct mechanisms of action.
Sensorineural hearing loss due to quinine therapy for malaria has frequently been mentioned in the literature but has not been a subject of research during the last decades. The global spreading of chloroquine-resistant falciparum malaria brings about an increasing use of quinine. The ototoxicity of quinine can accurately be studied with ultrahigh frequency audiometry (up to 20 kHz). The case of a 29-year-old man suffering from falciparum malaria disease who got a reversible hearing loss from quinine therapy is presented.
Although elevation of blood and platelet serotonin has been documented in autism, genetic analyses of serotonin transporter gene have given conflicting results. Tryptophan 2,3 dioxygenase (TDO2) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the catabolism of tryptophan, the precursor of serotonin. A mutation that results in decreased activity of the TDO2 can decrease catabolism of tryptophan and increase the level of whole body serotonin. As such it is a potential candidate gene for autism. We have investigated five single nucleotide polymorphisms in the TDO2 gene for association with autistic disorder. One hundred and ninety six multiplex autistic disorder families were tested using transmission disequilibrium test. There was a significant difference in the transmission of a promoter variant to autistic subjects (P = 0.0006). Haplotype analysis also demonstrated significant difference in the transmission of TDO2 haplotypes to autistic subjects (P = 0.0027). Our results suggest the presence of a susceptibility mutation in the TDO2 or a nearby gene, but may also represent a chance finding.
Evidence from the high male to female ratio of individuals with autism as well as suggestive linkage data have implicated the possible involvement of X chromosomal loci in the aetiology of autism. Studies of the FMR1 gene on Xq27 have shown that occasionally individuals, and particularly females, with the [CGG] repeat expansion and methylation mutation may present with autistic symptoms. However, molecular studies suggest that such mutations are not a major cause of autism. Previously, we have screened autism probands for mutations in regions of the FMR1 gene downstream of the [CGG] repeat and identified an intronic variant in the FMR1 gene, IVS10 + 14C-T, which was present at a significantly higher frequency in autistic individuals compared to controls individuals. We have now investigated this variant in a further 136 autism families and 186 control individuals. We have established that the variant is significantly more frequent among East Asian individuals within our affected and control groups (P < 0.0001) and although we observed a trend of higher transmission frequency of the rare allele to affected individuals, there was no significant evidence in either family-based or case/control association studies for this variant in autism (P > 0.05).
Clinical trials and experimental studies have highlighted the importance of epigenetic processes in the development of diabetic complications. One of the earliest features of diabetic nephropathy is renal enlargement. The epidermal growth factor (EGF) has a pivotal role in the development of diabetic nephromegaly and transactivation of its receptor has been implicated in the pathogenesis of later-stage disease. As EGF signaling is altered by the acetylation status of histone proteins, we measured the effects of the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, vorinostat, in mediating renal enlargement in diabetes focusing on the EGF-EGF receptor (EGFR) axis. In cultured proximal tubule (normal rat kidney) cells, vorinostat treatment reduced EGFR protein and mRNA, and attenuated cellular proliferation. Within 72 h of diabetes induction with streptozotocin, urinary EGF excretion was increased approximately threefold and was unaffected by vorinostat, even though the kidneys of vorinostat-treated diabetic rats had reduced tubular epithelial cell proliferation. Daily treatment of diabetic rats with vorinostat for 4 weeks blunted renal growth and glomerular hypertrophy. Thus, early renal changes in diabetes are amenable to epigenetic intervention. Attenuating effects of HDAC inhibition, although multifactorial, are likely to be mediated in part through downregulation of the EGFR.
This study examined 1-year violence outcomes among non-injured patients treated in the Emergency Department (ED) for cocaine-related chest pain. An urban Level I ED required patients with chest pain (age 60 and younger) provide a urine sample for cocaine testing. Cocaine-positive consenting patients (n=219) were interviewed in the ED; 80% completed follow-up interviews over 12-months (n=174; 59% male, 79% African-American, mean age=38.8, standard deviation 9.06; range=19-60). Baseline rates of past year violent victimization and perpetration history were: 38% and 30%, respectively. During the 12-month follow-up, rates of victimization and perpetration outcomes were 35% and 30%, respectively. Predictors of violence outcomes (either victimization or perpetration) in the year post-ED visit based on characteristics were measured at baseline or during the follow-up period (i.e., gender, age, psychological distress, binge drinking days, cocaine use days, marijuana use days, substance abuse/dependence diagnosis, victimization/perpetration history). Victimization during the follow-up was related to younger age, more frequent binge drinking and marijuana use at baseline, and victimization history, and to substance abuse/dependence, more frequent binge drinking, and psychiatric distress at follow-up. Specifically, participants who reported victimization at baseline were approximately 3 times more likely to report victimization at 12-month follow-up. Perpetration during the follow-up was related to younger age and more frequent binge drinking at baseline, and to substance abuse/dependence, more frequent binge drinking, and psychiatric distress at follow-up. Overall, no significant gender differences were observed in violence; however, women were more likely than men to report injury during the most severe partner violence incident. Violence is a common problem among patients presenting to an inner-city ED for cocaine-related chest pain, with younger age and frequency of binge drinking being a consistent marker of continued violence involvement. Intervention approaches to link these not-in-treatment cocaine users to services and reduce cocaine use must take into account concomitant alcohol misuse and violence.
The timely secretion of gonadal sex steroids is essential for the initiation of puberty, the postpubertal maintenance of secondary sexual characteristics and the normal perinatal development of male external genitalia. Normal gonadal steroid production requires the actions of the pituitary-derived gonadotropins, luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone. We report four human pedigrees with severe congenital gonadotropin deficiency and pubertal failure in which all affected individuals are homozygous for loss-of-function mutations in TAC3 (encoding Neurokinin B) or its receptor TACR3 (encoding NK3R). Neurokinin B, a member of the substance P-related tachykinin family, is known to be highly expressed in hypothalamic neurons that also express kisspeptin, a recently identified regulator of gonadotropin-releasing hormone secretion. These findings implicate Neurokinin B as a critical central regulator of human gonadal function and suggest new approaches to the pharmacological control of human reproduction and sex hormone-related diseases.
Because hand steadiness is an important aspect of microsurgical technique, hand movement, amplified by a hand-held laser pointer, was measured in 14 ophthalmology trainees on four separate mornings when each had ingested (1) 200mg of caffeine, (2) 12.5mg of timolol (2.5mL of timolol 0.5% ophthalmic solution), (3) a combination of caffeine and the beta-adrenergic blocker, or (4) a placebo. Caffeine increased the resting pulse and hand movement. Although the beta-adrenergic blocker and the combination of caffeine and this drug decreased the resting heart rate from that of placebo, they did not significantly change hand steadiness. However, compared with caffeine alone, the beta-adrenergic blocker-caffeine combination significantly decreased hand movement and the pulse. Resting the wrist significantly steadied hand movements. Hand movement was not correlated with the level of ophthalmology training, the trainee's weight, or their daily caffeine consumption.
Two case reports on femoral nerve lesion due to hematoma in the iliopsoas muscle or as the case may be in the iliacus muscles on both sides are presented with review of the literature. Synopsis of the reported cases--certainly a minority of anticoagulant therapy complications nevertheless increasingly mentioned in the literature--suggests that there might be a higher risk of bleeding for women within the first week of so-called high-dose heparin therapy. Coagulation studies do not contribute essentially in preventing retroperitoneal haematoma since they are within therapeutic limits in many cases. So clinical observation is crucial in the diagnosis of this complication of heparin therapy, which might occur more frequently under concomitant administration of acetacylic acid. Early surgical decompression of the femoral nerve seems to provide better results seen on follow-up than conservative treatment, especially in patients with rapid onset of severe limb weakness.
The steroids triamcinolone, dexamethasone, beta-methasone, and cortisone were administered i.p. to adult rats for 14-63 days. The extensor digitorum longus (EDL, white muscle) and soleus (SOL, red muscle) muscles were examined histologically and histochemically. Triamcinolone was the most potent lesion-producing drug. Selective involvement of muscles, and of the fiber types within them was observed: Necrotic changes were seen only in the type 1 fibers of the SOL; atrophic fibers were observed in the type 2 fibers of both the SOL and the EDL.
A symptomatic empty sella developed in a female patient undergoing bromocriptine therapy for microprolactinoma. Placement of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt dramatically improved the symptoms of headache and blurred vision. The post-operative imaging showed resolution of the empty sella. She was able to resume bromocriptine therapy without recurrence of her previous symptoms and give birth to a baby 20 months later. An MRI 44 months after surgery and on bromocriptine therapy showed no recurrence of the empty sella. We conclude that ventriculoperitoneal shunt may be a simple, and durable treatment for drug induced empty sella and allows resumption of bromocriptine therapy for preexisting microprolactinoma.
In this report, we examine the effects of leptin on the intake of specific macro- and micronutrients in a female patient with leptin gene deficiency. The patient was studied off and on leptin at stable body weight, within the normal to mildly overweight range. The data were obtained by detailed dietary assessments, measuring dietary intakes by weighed food and fluid consumption records, and analyzed using nutrition analysis software. Overall, significant differences were found in the off versus on leptin treatment periods in the following categories: (i) macronutrients: kilocalories, protein, carbohydrates, monounsaturated fats, MFA 18:1 oleic and total fiber; (ii) vitamins: vitamin C, pyridoxine and pantothenic acid; (iii) minerals: potassium, magnesium, copper and chromium; and amino acids: threonine, lysine and histidine. The nutritional data from this study indicates a direct link between the effects of leptin and ingestion of several specific micronutrients. The mechanisms underlying these effects warrant further investigation and study.
Drug-induced liver injury was recently reported as a major complication leading to hepatic nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH) in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and 6-thioguanine (6-TG) therapy. The aim of the study was to evaluate the prevalence of 6-TG-related hepatotoxicity in a large multi-centered IBD population by means of a systematic online survey.
Clinical and laboratory data, imaging techniques (sonography, CT, MRI) and histology of liver biopsies were surveyed in IBD patients treated with 6-TG. The decision on whether liver imaging and/or liver biopsy were performed was exclusively at the discretion of the investigator.
6-TG use was fully documented in 296 patients (median treatment duration 56 weeks, range < 1-207). Laboratory signs of drug-induced liver injury were found in 43 patients (14.5%). Liver imaging revealed pathologic results in 68/176 patients (38.6%). Liver biopsy was performed in a subset of 60 patients; using silver-reticulin staining (n = 59), NRH was considered in 16 patients (27.1%). Age was the only independent, albeit weak, risk factor for development of NRH.
This large online survey confirms the strong association between 6-TG treatment and the significant risk of development of NRH in patients with IBD. The definitive diagnosis of NRH depends solely upon liver biopsy.
Reprimo, a candidate tumor-suppressor gene, regulates p53-mediated cell cycle arrest at G2 phase, and tumor-suppressor gene methylation is involved in the pathogenesis and progression of esophageal cancer. Our aim was to determine whether and at what phase of neoplastic progression Reprimo methylation occurs in Barrett's adenocarcinogenesis, as well as its columnar or squamous cell-type specificity. We also sought to determine whether Reprimo expression could be restored in vitro by the demethylating agent 5-aza-deoxycytidine (5AzaC).
Quantitative methylation-specific PCR for Reprimo was done using an ABI7700 (Taqman) apparatus on 175 endoscopic biopsy specimens. In addition, reverse transcription-PCR and quantitative methylation-specific PCR were done on esophageal carcinoma cells before and after treatment with 5AzaC.
In Barrett's esophagus (BE; P=0.001), high-grade dysplasia (HGD; P=0.001), and esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC; P=0.00003), the level and frequency of Reprimo methylation were significantly higher than in normal esophagus (NE). There was no statistically significant difference between BE and EAC, HGD and EAC, or NE and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Reprimo methylation occurred in 0 of 19 NE samples, 6 (13%) of 45 ESCC, 9 (36%) of 25 BE, 7 (64%) of 11 HGD, and 47 (63%) of 75 EAC. Analysis of Reprimo methylation in EAC versus NE revealed an area under the receiver-operator characteristic curve of 0.812 (P<0.00001; 95% confidence interval, 0.73-0.90). In vitro 5AzaC treatment of OE33 EAC cells reduced Reprimo methylation and increased Reprimo expression.
Reprimo methylation occurs significantly more frequently in BE, HGD, and EAC than in NE or ESCC, suggesting that this epigenetic alteration is a specialized columnar, cell-specific early event with potential as a biomarker for the early detection of esophageal neoplasia.
The antiarrhythmic actions of 3,6-dimethylamino-dibenzopyridonium edetate (IHC-72), lidocaine (Lid) and verapamil (Ver) on several models Were compared at equitoxic doses (equal fraction of LD50). The action of IHC-72 against aconitine induced arrhythmia was similar to that of Lid but stronger than that of Ver in anesthetized rats. The effect of IHC-72 on ouabain induced arrhythmia was also similar to that of Lid, but weaker than that of Ver in anesthetized guinea pigs. The activity of IHC-72 to raise electrical ventricular fibrillation thresholds (VFT) was weaker than that of Lid and Ver. The effects of IHC-72 in decreasing the incidence of ventricular premature beat(VP B), ventricular tachycardia (VT), ventricular fibrillation (VF) and shortening the duration of VT yielded by reperfusion were similar to those of Lid anf Ver in vivo.
Cyclosporin A is an essential drug for graft versus host disease (GvHD) prophylaxis in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Cyclosporin A-associated neurotoxicity is common but poorly understood. The authors herein report on 3 patients receiving transplants for thalassemia. GvHD prophylaxis included cyclosporin A, prednisolone, and methotrexate. All patients developed a status epilepticus with cortical signal alterations located mainly in occipital regions on T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. Complete disappearance of the neurologic symptoms and radiographic findings was observed without discontinuing cyclosporin A therapy. Especially, pediatric thalassemics receiving busulfan/cyclophosphamide as preparative regimen seem to be significantly prone to cyclosporin A-associated seizures.
Lipid-lowering drugs have been occasionally associated with neuromuscular symptoms and muscle biopsy changes. We reported the clinical course and the muscle biopsy in eight patients with hyperlipoproteinemia, treated with lipid -lowering drugs (statins/fibrates). Five patients had myalgias while; in two cases there was proximal muscle weakness. All patients became asymptomatic after the withdrawal of the drug, although creatine kinase remained elevated. We performed muscle biopsy in six cases from three months to two years after suspension of the drug. We found variation in fibers diameters in all cases, with necrosis of fibers in five cases, inflammatory infiltration in one case, the presence of vacuolated fiber in one patient and ragged-red fibers in three subjects. We concluded that although the muscle biopsy findings were not specific, the prolonged use of statins and or fibrates might induce a chronic myopathy even in the absence of symptoms.
Loss-of-function mutations in p16(INK4A) (CDKN2A) occur in approximately 80% of sporadic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), contributing to its early progression. Although this loss activates the cell-cycle-dependent kinases CDK4/6, which have been considered as drug targets for many years, p16(INK4A)-deficient PDAC cells are inherently resistant to CDK4/6 inhibitors. This study searched for targeted therapies that might synergize with CDK4/6 inhibition in this setting. We report that the IGF1R/IR inhibitor BMS-754807 cooperated with the CDK4/6 inhibitor PD-0332991 to strongly block proliferation of p16(INK4A)-deficient PDAC cells in vitro and in vivo. Sensitivity to this drug combination correlated with reduced activity of the master cell growth regulator mTORC1. Accordingly, replacing the IGF1R/IR inhibitor with the rapalog inhibitor temsirolimus broadened the sensitivity of PDAC cells to CDK4/6 inhibition. Our results establish targeted therapy combinations with robust cytostatic activity in p16(INK4A)-deficient PDAC cells and possible implications for improving treatment of a broad spectrum of human cancers characterized by p16(INK4A) loss.
Biological and positional evidence supports the involvement of the GAD1 and distal-less homeobox genes (DLXs) in the etiology of autism. We investigated 42 single nucleotide polymorphisms in these genes as risk factors for autism spectrum disorders (ASD) in a large family-based association study of 715 nuclear families. No single marker showed significant association after correction for multiple testing. A rare haplotype in the DLX1 promoter was associated with ASD (P-value = 0.001). Given the importance of rare variants to the etiology of autism revealed in recent studies, the observed rare haplotype may be relevant to future investigations. Our observations, when taken together with previous findings, suggest that common genetic variation in the GAD1 and DLX genes is unlikely to play a critical role in ASD susceptibility.
A case of diclofenac-induced hepatitis, in a 53-year-old Indian woman with recurrent jaundice, is presented. The diagnosis was suspected from the appearance of the liver biopsy and was confirmed by the temporal association with drug usage and cure on withdrawal of the drug.
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) is a nucleotide analogue approved for treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. TDF also has been shown in vitro to inhibit replication of wild-type hepatitis B virus (HBV) and lamivudine-resistant HBV mutants and to inhibit lamivudine-resistant HBV in patients and HBV in patients coinfected with the HIV. Data on the in vivo efficacy of TDF against wild-type virus in non-HIV-coinfected or lamivudine-naïve chronic HBV-infected patients are lacking in the published literature. The antiviral effect of oral administration of TDF against chronic woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV) infection, an established and predictive animal model for antiviral therapy, was evaluated in a placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study (doses, 0.5 to 15.0 mg/kg of body weight/day). Four weeks of once-daily treatment with TDF doses of 0.5, 1.5, or 5.0 mg/kg/day reduced serum WHV viremia significantly (0.2 to 1.5 log reduction from pretreatment level). No effects on the levels of anti-WHV core and anti-WHV surface antibodies in serum or on the concentrations of WHV RNA or WHV antigens in the liver of treated woodchucks were observed. Individual TDF-treated woodchucks demonstrated transient declines in WHV surface antigen serum antigenemia and, characteristically, these woodchucks also had transient declines in serum WHV viremia, intrahepatic WHV replication, and hepatic expression of WHV antigens. No evidence of toxicity was observed in any of the TDF-treated woodchucks. Following drug withdrawal there was prompt recrudescence of WHV viremia to pretreatment levels. It was concluded that oral administration of TDF for 4 weeks was safe and effective in the woodchuck model of chronic HBV infection.
