In preclinical studies, medications which decrease glutamate release have been shown to block some of the effects of psychostimulants. One such medication is riluzole, marketed for the treatment of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). The goal of this study was to determine riluzole's effects on acute physiological and subjective responses to d-amphetamine in healthy volunteers. Seven male and 5 female subjects participated in an outpatient double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. Across 4 sessions, subjects were randomly assigned to a sequence of 4 oral treatments: placebo, 20 mg D-amphetamine alone, 100 mg riluzole alone, or d-amphetamine plus riluzole. Outcome measures included heart rate, blood pressure, plasma cortisol, performance on the Sustained Attention to Response Test (SART), and subjective measures. d-amphetamine increased heart rate, blood pressure and plasma cortisol levels while inducing psychostimulant-type subjective effects. On the SART, d-amphetamine enhanced the speed of correct responses but also significantly increased the number of errors of commission. Riluzole at 100 mg did not block, the typical subjective and physiological responses to 20 mg D-amphetamine. Riluzole alone induced amphetamine-like subjective responses. On the SART test, riluzole increased the number errors of commission, but unlike d-amphetamine, did not speed reaction time. The mechanism accounting for these findings is unclear, but may involve processes other than decreased glutamate release by riluzole. The effects of glutamate medications on psychostimulant responses need to be further examined.
The aim of the study was to investigate the antihypertensive effects of angiotensin II type-1 receptor blocker, losartan, and its potential in slowing down renal disease progression in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) with adriamycin (ADR) nephropathy.
Six-month-old female SHR were randomly selected in six groups. Two control groups (SH(6), SH(12)) received vehicle. Groups ADR(6), ADR+LOS(6) and ADR(12), and ADR+LOS(12) received ADR (2 mg/kg/b.w. i.v.) twice in a 3-week interval. Group ADR+LOS(6) received losartan (10 mg/kg/b.w./day by gavages) for 6 weeks and group ADR+LOS(12) for 12 weeks after second injection of ADR. Animals were killed after 6 or 12 weeks, respectively. Haemodynamic measurements were performed on anaesthetized animals, blood and urine samples were taken for biochemical analysis and the left kidney was processed for morphological studies.
Short-term losartan treatment, besides antihypertensive effect, improved glomerular filtration rate and ameliorated glomerulosclerosis resulting in decreased proteinuria. Prolonged treatment with losartan showed further reduction of glomerulosclerosis associated with reduced progression of tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis, thus preventing heavy proteinuria and chronic renal failure. Losartan reduced uraemia and increased urea clearance in advanced ADR nephropathy in SHR. Histological examination showed that losartan could prevent tubular atrophy, interstitial infiltration and fibrosis in ADR nephropathy.
Losartan reduces the rate of progression of ADR-induced focal segmental glomerulosclerosis to end-stage renal disease in SHR.
The accelerated formation of advanced glycation/lipoxidation end products (AGEs/ALEs) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various diabetic complications. Several natural and synthetic compounds have been proposed and advanced as inhibitors of AGE/ALE formation. We examined the effects of two new AGE/ALE inhibitors, LR-9 and LR-74, on the prevention of early renal disease and dyslipidemia in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Diabetic rats were treated with either LR-9 or LR-74 for 32 weeks. Progression of renal disease was evaluated by measurements of urinary albumin and plasma creatinine concentrations. AGE-induced chemical modification of the tail tendon collagen and levels of Nepsilon-(carboxymethyl)- and (carboxyethyl)- lysines (CML and CEL) in skin collagen were measured. AGE/ALE levels in kidneys were determined by immunohistochemistry. Plasma lipids and their lipid hydroperoxide concentrations were also determined. Treatment of either LR-9 or LR-74 significantly inhibited the increase in albuminuria, plasma creatinine, hyperlipidemia, and plasma lipid peroxidation in diabetic rats without any effects on hyperglycemia. Both compounds also reduced CML-AGE accumulation in kidney glomeruli and tubules, AGE-linked fluorescence and cross-linking of tail collagen, and levels of CML and CEL in skin collagen. These results suggest that both LR compounds can inhibit the progression of renal disease and also prevent dyslipidemia in experimental diabetes. These compounds may have an additional beneficial effect as an antioxidant against lipid peroxidation, and thus may provide alternative therapeutic options for the treatment of various diabetic macrovascular complications.
A new family of multitarget molecules able to interact with acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), as well as with monoamino oxidase (MAO) A and B, has been synthesized. Novel compounds (3-9) have been designed using a conjunctive approach that combines the benzylpiperidine moiety of the AChE inhibitor donepezil (1) and the indolyl propargylamino moiety of the MAO inhibitor N-[(5-benzyloxy-1-methyl-1H-indol-2-yl)methyl]-N-methylprop-2-yn-1-amine (2), connected through an oligomethylene linker. The most promising hybrid (5) is a potent inhibitor of both MAO-A (IC50=5.2±1.1 nM) and MAO-B (IC50=43±8.0 nM) and is a moderately potent inhibitor of AChE (IC50=0.35±0.01 μM) and BuChE (IC50=0.46±0.06 μM). Moreover, molecular modeling and kinetic studies support the dual binding site to AChE, which explains the inhibitory effect exerted on Aβ aggregation. Overall, the results suggest that the new compounds are promising multitarget drug candidates with potential impact for Alzheimer's disease therapy.
Patients with peripheral arterial disease are at high risk of ischemic events and therefore are treated with antithrombotics. In patients with coronary artery disease or cerebrovascular disease, bleeding is related to the subsequent occurrence of ischemic events. Our objective was to assess whether this is also the case in patients with peripheral arterial disease.
All patients from the Dutch Bypass and Oral Anticoagulants or Aspirin (BOA) Study, a multicenter randomized trial comparing oral anticoagulants with aspirin after infrainguinal bypass surgery, were included. The primary outcome event was the composite of nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal ischemic stroke, major amputation, and cardiovascular death. To identify major bleeding as an independent predictor for ischemic events, crude and adjusted hazard ratios with 95% confidence intervals were calculated with multivariable Cox regression models. From 1995 until 1998, 2650 patients were included with 101 nonfatal major bleedings. During a mean follow-up of 14 months, the primary outcome event occurred in 218 patients; 22 events were preceded by a major bleeding. The mean time between major bleeding and the primary outcome event was 4 months. Major bleeding was associated with a 3-fold increased risk of subsequent ischemic events (crude hazard ratio, 3.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.9 to 4.6; adjusted hazard ratio, 3.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.9 to 4.7).
In patients with peripheral arterial disease, as in patients with coronary artery disease or cerebrovascular disease, major bleeding was independently associated with major ischemic complications. Without compromising the benefits of antithrombotics, these findings call for caution relative to the risks of major bleeding.
Prolonged QT interval and increased QT(C) dispersion have been described immediately following rupture of intracranial aneurysm, due to increased sympathetic activity. Here, we report a patient with transient prolongation of the QT interval, probably due to heparin-induced hypocalcaemia, which occurred during coiling of a right internal carotid aneurysm, 54 days after ictus. Correction of the hypocalcaemia led to resolution of the electrocardiogram and blood pressure abnormalities.
Montelukast, a selective reversible cysteinyl leukotriene D(4)-receptor (LTD(4) receptor) antagonist, is used in the treatment of asthma. We have investigated alterations in the glutathione (GSH) and activity levels of antioxidative enzymes [superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione S-transferase (GST), and glutathione reductase (GR)] and myeloperoxidase (MPO), as markers of the ulceration process following oral administration of montelukast, lansoprazole, famotidine, and ranitidine, respectively, in rats with indomethacin-induced ulcers. In the present study, we found that 1) montelukast, lansoprazole, famotidine, and ranitidine all reduced the development of indomethacin-induced gastric damage, with this reduction occurring at a greater magnitude for montelukast, famotidine, and lansoprazole than for ranitidine; 2) montelukast and ranitidine both alleviated increases in the activity levels of CAT and GST enzymes resulting from gastric injury; 3) montelukast and ranitidine both ameliorated depressions in the GSH and activity levels of SOD and GR enzymes caused by indomethacin administration; and 4) all doses of montelukast, lansoprazole, and ranitidine decreased amplification of MPO activity resulting from induced gastric injuries. These results suggest that the gastroprotective effects of montelukast on indomethacin-induced ulcerations can be attributed to its ameliorating effect on oxidative damage and MPO activity.
Chronic heart failure (CHF) is the cause of significant morbimortality all over the world and its incidence and prevalence are increasing. Fluid retention and volume overload are responsible of large part of morbility related to heart failure. There are a variety of therapy options for CHF, but loop diuretics play an essential role. Furosemide is the most commonly used loop diuretic. Torasemide is a loop diuretic belonging to the pyridine sulfonylurea class. It is a high-ceiling diuretic that has a longer half-life, longer duration of action and higher bioavailability compared to furosemide. It has additional actions such as antialdosterone and vasodilatation effects. It is the only loop diuretic for which it has been shown to effectively lower high blood pressure even with low doses. Thus, torasemide is recommended for CHF treatment instead of furosemide. Clinical trials have indicated that torasemide improves left ventricular function, reduces mortality as well as the frequency and duration of heart failure-related hospitalization. It also increases exercise tolerance, improves New York Heart Association functional classification and quality of life in patients with CHF. In addition, torasemide is a very safe drug. In a postmarketing surveillance study (TORIC) of 1,377 patients with CHF, torasemide significantly reduced cardiovascular mortality in comparison to furosemide. Torasemide reversed myocardial fibrosis and reduced collagen type I synthesis, improving cardiac remodeling in patients with CHF. Torasemide prolonged-release (PR) is a new formulation that, compared with torasemide immediate-release, has a similar systemic exposure but significantly slower rates of absorption and lower fluctuations in plasma concentrations. Its natriuretic efficiency is higher and diuresis is more constant, with a better tolerability.
Lines of evidence suggested a possible link between leptin and hepatic fibrosis; however, whether leptin modulates the fibrogenesis in the liver remains unclear. The purpose of this study, therefore, was to evaluate the effect of leptin on inflammatory and profibrogenic responses in the liver caused by hepatotoxic chemicals. Male C57Bl/6 mice were given carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) (0.1 microL/g body weight [BW], intraperitoneally [IP]) and/or recombinant murine leptin (1 microg/g BW, IP) simultaneously, and sacrificed up to 72 hours later. Further, some mice were given thioacetamide (TAA; 200 microg/g BW, IP) and leptin 3 times per week for 4 weeks to evaluate the effect of leptin on chronic fibrogenic responses. A simultaneous injection of leptin enhanced acute CCl(4)-induced necroinflammatory and subsequent fibrotic changes in the hepatic lobules. The steady-state messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of alpha1(I) procollagen and heat shock protein 47 (HSP47) in the liver were potentiated when leptin was injected together with CCl(4). Expression of alpha smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) in the liver after CCl(4) treatment was also augmented markedly in combination with leptin. Further, leptin increased transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) mRNA in the liver 24 hours after acute CCl(4) about 4-fold higher than CCl(4) alone. Moreover, leptin enhanced hepatic fibrosis and induction of alpha1(I) procollagen mRNA caused by chronic TAA administration. Collectively, these findings indicated that leptin augments both inflammatory and profibrogenic responses in the liver caused by hepatotoxic chemicals. It is postulated that the increase in systemic leptin levels enhances up-regulation of TGF-beta1, leading to activation of stellate cells, thereby augmenting the fibrogenic response in the liver.
Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) is a known cancer progression factor, promoting growth, spread, and metastasis. However, in selected contexts, HIF-1 is a tumor suppressor coordinating hypoxic cell cycle suppression and apoptosis. Prior studies focused on HIF-1 function in established malignancy; however, little is known about its role during the entire process of carcinogenesis from neoplasia induction to malignancy. Here, we tested HIF-1 gain of function during multistage murine skin chemical carcinogenesis in K14-HIF-1alpha(Pro402A564G) (K14-HIF-1alphaDPM) transgenic mice. Transgenic papillomas appeared earlier and were more numerous (6 +/- 3 transgenic versus 2 +/- 1.5 nontransgenic papillomas per mouse), yet they were more differentiated, their proliferation was lower, and their malignant conversion was profoundly inhibited (7% in transgenic versus 40% in nontransgenic mice). Moreover, transgenic cancers maintained squamous differentiation whereas epithelial-mesenchymal transformation was frequent in nontransgenic malignancies. Transgenic basal keratinocytes up-regulated the HIF-1 target N-myc downstream regulated gene-1, a known tumor suppressor gene in human malignancy, and its expression was maintained in transgenic papillomas and cancer. We also discovered a novel HIF-1 target gene, selenium binding protein-1 (Selenbp1), a gene of unknown function whose expression is lost in human cancer. Thus, HIF-1 can function as a tumor suppressor through transactivation of genes that are themselves targets for negative selection in human cancers.
The topical use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), widely used for moderate acute and chronic painful conditions, is one of several strategies used to improve the tolerability profile of NSAIDs, particularly with regard to gastric and renal adverse effects. However, topical NSAIDs can induce photosensitivity. Among the different NSAIDs used topically, ketoprofen has often been implicated in photosensitivity reactions. Photosensitivity includes both phototoxic and photoallergic reactions. Phototoxicity can be studied in the cell system and on biological targets such as cellular membranes or DNA. In hepatocyte cultures, data suggest that radical intermediates play a role in ketoprofen-photosensitised damage by cell membrane lysis. Photosensitised lysis of red blood cells has been employed as an indicator of membrane damage. Ketoprofen irradiation promotes the photolysis of erythrocyte suspensions. The drug is able to induce photoperoxidation of linoleic acid in the photo-induced lipid peroxidation process. The results obtained from the addition of radical scavengers suggest the involvement of free radicals in these processes. Ketoprofen may induce DNA damage in vitro upon irradiation. DNA, in the presence of ketoprofen, undergoes single strand breaks involving hydroxyl radicals as evidenced by the use of scavengers. Simultaneously with single strand breaks, pyrimidine dimers are formed by an energy transfer mechanism. The oxygen-dependence of both processes suggest competition between a radical process leading to DNA cleavage and a poorly efficient energy transfer between ketoprofen and pyrimidines at the origin of the dimerisation process. Photoallergy is due to a cell-mediated hypersensitivity response involving immunological reactions. Therefore, it only occurs in previously sensitised individuals and requires a latency period of sensitisation. Among NSAIDs, ketoprofen is the main drug involved in this photoallergic contact dermatitis. Cross-sensitivity reactions with other arylpropionic acid derivatives, such tiaprofenic acid, fenofibrate or oxybenzone-harbouring benzoyl ketone or benzophenone may also occur. Finally, the higher frequency of such adverse reactions with ketoprofen could be accounted for by its chemical structure and the variety of chemical reactions that give rise to phototoxic effects. The widespread and repeated use of these agents may lead to sensitisation, incurring a greater risk of systemic allergic reactions with oral NSAIDs or other drugs recognised to induce cross-reactions. Physicians and pharmacists should advise patients and inform them of the risks of topical NSAIDs which are often dispensed as over the counter drugs.
This study included 43 patients with stroke in a range of 48 to 85 years of age. Among them, 24 were male and 19 were female. Changes in blood pressure, plasma ANF (by radioimmunoassay), serum sodium, and serum osmolarity before and 40 minutes after hyperosmotic agents infusion were studied. The stroke was classified to be putaminal hemorrhage in 12 cases, thalamic hemorrhage in 5 cases, putaminothalamic hemorrhage in 2 cases, lobar hematoma in 2 cases, cerebral infarction in 20 cases and brainstem ischemic stroke in 2 cases. Twenty-nine patients received glycerol and the other fourteen received mannitol. After glycerol or mannitol infusion, the plasma ANF raised significantly (P less than 0.05, paired Student's test), also the serum osmolarity (P less than 0.05, paired Student's t test), but the blood pressure and serum sodium kept unchanged. Either before or after the hyperosmotic agents, no significant difference in plasma ANF was noted between the hemorrhagic and infarction patients, between the right and the left hemispheric stroke, or between male and female patients. We did not observe age-related (less than 65 or greater than 65 years) difference in plasma ANF concentration in this study, either.
A new gene, termed klotho, has been identified that is involved in the suppression of several ageing phenotypes. A defect in klotho gene expression in the mouse results in a syndrome that resembles human ageing, including a short lifespan, infertility, arteriosclerosis, skin atrophy, osteoporosis and emphysema. The gene encodes a membrane protein that shares sequence similarity with the beta-glucosidase enzymes. The klotho gene product may function as part of a signalling pathway that regulates ageing in vivo and morbidity in age-related diseases.
A comparison of midazolam (Ro 21-3981, Dormicum) and triazolam was performed with respect to residual effects 7 h after administration. A preliminary study was conducted in 25 trainee pilots attending the Swiss Civil Aviation School, followed by the main study in 105 pilots of the Swissair DC-9 fleet. All subjects were volunteers. Performance was measured in objective terms with the Instrument Coordination Analyser (ICA) which is used for the selection of trainee pilots. The subjects assessed their sleep and condition on waking by means of a questionnaire. In the double-blind trial each subject received either 0.5 mg triazolam or 15 mg midazolam or placebo. The medication was taken at midnight; the test was performed at 7 a.m. The preliminary study was conducted to assess the suitability of the test equipment. Results of the main study: With 15 mg midazolam no residual effects were detectable 7 h after administration (difference from placebo not statistically significant). Triazolam 0.5 mg, on the other hand, produced a statistically significant impairment of performance. The frequency of side effects was significantly greater under triazolam 0.5 mg than under midazolam 15 mg or placebo, whereas there was no difference between midazolam 15 mg and placebo (p = 0.49).
Pathologists are often faced with the dilemma of whether to recommend continuation of methotrexate therapy for psoriasis within the context of an existing pro-fibrogenic risk factor, in this instance, patients with genetic hemochromatosis.
We describe our experience with two male psoriatic patients (A and B) on long term methotrexate therapy (cumulative dose A = 1.56 gms and B = 7.88 gms) with hetero- (A) and homozygous (B) genetic hemochromatosis. These patients liver function were monitored with routine biochemical profiling; apart from mild perivenular fibrosis in one patient (B), significant liver fibrosis was not identified in either patient with multiple interval percutaneous liver biopsies; in the latter instance this patient (B) had an additional risk factor of partiality to alcohol.
We conclude that methotrexate therapy is relatively safe in patients with genetic hemochromatosis, with no other risk factor, but caution that the risk of fibrosis be monitored, preferably by non-invasive techniques, or by liver biopsy.
S-(1,2-Dichlorovinyl)glutathione and S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-DL-cysteine are potent nephrotoxins. Agents that inhibit gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, cysteine conjugate beta-lyase, and renal organic anion transport systems, namely L-(alpha S,5S)-alpha-amino-3-chloro-4,5-dihydro-5-isoxazoleacetic acid (AT-125), aminooxyacetic acid, and probenecid, respectively, protected against S-conjugate-induced nephrotoxicity. Furthermore, S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-DL-alpha-methylcysteine, which cannot be cleaved by cysteine conjugate beta-lyase, was not nephrotoxic. These results strongly support a role for renal gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, cysteine conjugate beta-lyase, and organic anion transport systems in S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)glutathione- and S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)cysteine-induced nephrotoxicity.
In a total of 36 volunteers with cardiac hyperreaction, investigations were carried out on the effect of bisoprolol (designated tradename: Concor), pindolol and placebo on central nervous functions with the aid of a reaction test, spiral aftereffect, tremor test and mood and sleep questionnaires. In the randomized double-blind study performed with 3 independent groups the volunteers received placebo, 2 X daily 10 mg of pindolol or 1 X daily 10 mg of bisoprolol for a period of 14 days. Bisoprolol is a new highly beta 1-selective adrenoceptor blocker with moderate lipophilia and without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA). When compared to placebo neither of the beta-adrenoceptor blockers induced any significant changes in mood, vigilance, tremor and reaction times. Moreover, under bisoprolol no negative effect on sleep quality or feeling refreshed after sleep was determined. Under pindolol, on the other hand, a significant impairment of sleep quality was observed after acute dosage and a decrease in feeling refreshed after sleep, continuing up to day 14 of treatment. It is presumed that, as bisoprolol and pindolol have comparable lipophilia, the different intensity with which the two preparations act on the central nervous system is connected with the ISA of pindolol. In the selected doses bisoprolol had a stronger effect on diastolic blood pressure and heart rate than pindolol and placebo.
The present investigation is an attempt to evaluate the possible ameliorative effect of turmeric extracts/curcumin on aflatoxin induced hemolysis in vitro. Blood samples were collected from healthy adult human beings (25-30 years old) in EDTA vials and were used for preparation of RBC suspension in saline. Saline suspension of RBC was treated with aflatoxin (0.5-2.0 microg/mL) with and without turmeric extracts/curcumin (1-100 microg/mL). The results revealed that addition of aflatoxin (0.5-2.0 microg/mL) to RBC suspension caused significant dose-dependent increase in the rate of hemolysis. However, concurrent addition of aflatoxin (2.0 microg/mL) and extracts of turmeric and curcumin caused concentration-dependent retardation in aflatoxin-induced hemolysis.
The large administrative databases of health plans contain information on drug-related medical adverse events (AE) and constitute an increasingly powerful tool for the assessment of drug safety. We conducted a retrospective observational study using an administrative managed care claims database covering 9 million members from diverse regions of the United States. Patients aged >or=18 years who received >or=2 prescriptions for lipid-lowering drugs between July 1, 2000 and December 1, 2004 were included in the study. Hospitalizations with diagnosis codes (International Classification of Diseases, 9th Revision, Clinical Modification [ICD-9]) related to muscle, kidney, and liver were determined for patients exposed to 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins), fibrates, extended-release niacin, cholesterol absorption inhibitors, or statin combination therapy. A total of 473,343 patients contributed 490,988 person-years of monotherapy and 11,624 person-years of combination dyslipidemia therapy. Rates of hospitalization due to AEs in patients on monotherapy with currently available statins were similar, whereas the incidence of hospitalization for muscle disorders increased 6.7-fold with cerivastatin therapy. Patients who received a lipid-lowering medication with a concomitant cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitor had a 6-fold increased rate of muscle disorders, including rhabdomyolysis. Hypertension was associated with a 5-fold increase in both muscle and renal events, whereas patients with diabetes mellitus had a 2.5-fold increased risk of renal events. No hospitalized cases of the index AEs were observed in study subjects during the 6-month period before initiation of the lipid-lowering drug. Statin monotherapy as currently prescribed is generally well tolerated and safe.
To date, more than 5000 patients have had experience with enalapril. Over 1000 subjects have been exposed to the drug for more than one year and approximately 600 for over two years. In controlled trials, 2249 subjects, who included normal volunteers and patients with hypertension and congestive heart failure, have received enalapril alone or concomitantly with hydrochlorothiazide or other antihypertensive agents. There have been no deaths attributed to enalapril. The incidence of serious adverse experiences in controlled trials was similar to placebo, and was not higher in the elderly. The incidence of adverse experiences was not dose-related. Drug discontinuation due to adverse experiences was 3.5%, similar to placebo, and approximately half that of control drugs. Serious laboratory adverse experiences were rare. Enalapril attenuated the adverse metabolic effects of hydrochlorothiazide, particularly hypokalaemia. Skin rash occurred in approximately 1.0% of patients. One case of transient taste loss occurred on enalapril, and one on enalapril in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. Neutropenia and agranulocytosis were not encountered. Mean white blood cell counts did not change overall. Most patients (approximately equal to 80%) show no change or an improvement in renal function on enalapril. Discontinuation of concomitant hydrochlorothiazide usually normalized renal function. Enalapril is well tolerated in renal insufficiency. Azotaemia may occur in bilateral renovascular hypertension. Proteinuria was rarely seen and often improved on enalapril. Compassionate use protocols have been available to patients either resistant or intolerant to captopril. Of 68 patients admitted for captopril-related skin rashes, only five recurred on enalapril.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 65-year-old woman presented with decreased oral intake, a reduced level of consciousness, hypercalcemia and hypernatremia. She had previously received lithium for 20 years for a schizoaffective disorder, but this treatment had been discontinued 3 years before presentation.
Physical examination, laboratory studies including measurement of serum calcium and parathyroid hormone levels, measurement of urine and serum osmolalities before and after desmopressin administration, blood and urine cultures, and a CT scan of the abdomen.
Urosepsis, dehydration, kidney stone disease, hyperparathyroidism, and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.
Hydration, antibiotics, intravenous pamidronate for rapid control of hypercalcemia, parathyroidectomy, surgical removal of the large kidney stones, a low-protein and low-sodium diet, and initiation of treatment with a thiazide diuretic.
Nineteen patients (12 male and seven female) with essential hypertension (mean arterial pressure ranging from 113-162 mmHg) were studied at rest, supine and sitting, and during bicycle exercise (50, 100 and 150 W). Intra-arterial blood pressure and heart rate were recorded continuously. Cardiac output was measured by dye dilution (Cardiogreen). The patients were treated with enalapril 10-40 mg (mean 33 mg) once-daily; seven patients received in addition 25-50 mg hydrochlorothiazide daily. After 5-13 months (mean 10 months) patients were restudied. Blood pressure fell (P less than 0.001) in all - at rest sitting from 184/108 to 150/89 mmHg (-19%) and during 100 W bicycle exercise from 225/118 to 197/101 mmHg (-13%). Pretreatment total peripheral resistance index (TPRI) was markedly increased and fell at rest sitting from 4087 to 3514 dyn s/cm-5 m2 (-14%) (P less than 0.05). No significant change was seen in cardiac output, heart rate or stroke volume. Overall body weight and body fluid volume (isotope dilution technique) remained unchanged, but in the subgroup receiving enalapril + hydrochlorothiazide, blood volume fell by 12% (P less than 0.01). No side-effects were seen. In conclusion, enalapril monotherapy reduces blood pressure in two-thirds of patients with moderately severe essential hypertension at rest and during exercise, associated with a significant reduction in TPRI. One-third of patients require a diuretic in addition to enalapril. In this subgroup the reduction in TPRI was about twice the reduction seen during enalapril treatment alone, and there was a fall in blood volume.
The effects of 8-week ethanol treatment (3% v/v in drinking water) on the rat brain dopaminergic system were investigated. Chronic ethanol consumption induced a significant increase in the number of dopamine D1 receptor sites in the caudate putamen. Conversely, no significant changes were observed in D2 receptor density or affinity. Biochemical results were in agreement with behavioral data, as amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity was significantly higher in ethanol-treated rats in comparison to controls. Moreover, grooming behavior in response to SKF 38393, a selective agonist of D1 receptors was potentiated in ethanol-treated rats, whereas locomotor hyperactivity induced by LY 171555 (a selective agonist of D2 receptors) was not affected by ethanol treatment. The results indicate that changes in dopamine receptors may occur in the central nervous system at levels of ethanol intake that do not induce tolerance or dependence.
The purpose of this phase III trial was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of regimens containing casopitant, a novel neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting during the first cycle in patients receiving moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (MEC).
Predominantly female patients (98%) diagnosed with breast cancer (96%) who were chemotherapy-naïve and scheduled to receive an anthracycline and cyclophosphamide (AC) -based regimen were enrolled onto this multinational, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled clinical trial. All patients received dexamethasone 8 mg intravenously (IV) on day 1 and oral ondansetron 8 mg twice daily on days 1 to 3. Patients were randomly assigned to a control arm (placebo), a single oral dose casopitant arm (150 mg orally [PO] on day 1), a 3-day oral casopitant arm (150 mg PO on day 1 plus 50 mg PO on days 2 to 3), or a 3-day IV/oral casopitant arm (90 mg IV on day 1 plus 50 mg PO on days 2 to 3). The primary end point was the proportion of patients achieving complete response (no vomiting/retching or rescue medications) in the first 120 hours after the initiation of MEC.
A significantly greater proportion of patients in the single-dose oral casopitant arm, 3-day oral casopitant arm, and 3-day IV/oral casopitant arm achieved complete response (73%, 73%, and 74%, respectively) versus control (59%; P < .0001). The study did not demonstrate a reduced proportion of patients with nausea or significant nausea in those receiving casopitant. Adverse events were balanced among study arms.
All casopitant regimens studied were more effective than the control regimen. Casopitant was generally well tolerated.
The neurochemical evidence of methamphetamine (MA)-induced toxicity to dopaminergic nerve terminals is well documented; however, the functional consequences are not clearly defined. The present study was designed to investigate whether MA-induced dopamine depletions affect locomotor activity, stereotypic behavior, and/or extracellular dopamine concentrations in the neostriatum. Male rats were treated with a neurotoxic regimen of MA (10 mg/kg, i.p., every 2 hr for four injections) or vehicle and tested for functional effects 1 week later. Animals that had received the neurotoxic regimen of MA showed a reduction in both caudate nucleus and nucleus accumbens dopamine contents of 56 and 30%, respectively. Furthermore, MA-treated rats exhibited a significant attenuation in spontaneous activity, as well as a significant diminution in MA (low dose)-stimulated locomotor activity as compared to vehicle-treated rats. However, there were no differences in the MA (low dose)-induced increases in extracellular dopamine concentrations in the caudate nucleus or the nucleus accumbens core of either group. Interestingly, the acute administration of higher doses of MA elicited a significantly augmented stereotypic response and a significantly attenuated increase in the extracellular concentration of dopamine in the caudate nucleus of rats treated with a neurotoxic regimen of MA as compared to vehicle-treated animals. These data indicate that MA-induced neurotoxicity results in abnormal dopamine-mediated behaviors, as well as a brain region-specific impairment in stimulated dopamine release.
The tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-family cytokine TL1A (TNFSF15) costimulates T cells through its receptor DR3 (TNFRSF25) and is required for autoimmune pathology driven by diverse T-cell subsets. TL1A has been linked to human inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), but its pathogenic role is not known. We generated transgenic mice that constitutively express TL1A in T cells or dendritic cells. These mice spontaneously develop IL-13-dependent inflammatory small bowel pathology that strikingly resembles the intestinal response to nematode infections. These changes were dependent on the presence of a polyclonal T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire, suggesting that they are driven by components in the intestinal flora. Forkhead box P3 (FoxP3)-positive regulatory T cells (Tregs) were present in increased numbers despite the fact that TL1A suppresses the generation of inducible Tregs. Finally, blocking TL1A-DR3 interactions abrogates 2,4,6 trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) colitis, indicating that these interactions influence other causes of intestinal inflammation as well. These results establish a novel link between TL1A and interleukin 13 (IL-13) responses that results in small intestinal inflammation, and also establish that TL1A-DR3 interactions are necessary and sufficient for T cell-dependent IBD.
Although conventional inotropic agents such as catecholamines increase myocardial oxygen consumption, a newly developed inotropic agent, a Ca2+ sensitizer, may be able to increase cardiac output with less myocardial oxygen consumption. By using right-side heart catheterization, we assessed the ratio of the increase in myocardial oxygen consumption per unit increase in cardiac output during beta-adrenergic receptor stimulation (dobutamine, n = 15), phosphodiesterase inhibition (E-1020, n = 10), and Ca2+ sensitization (MCI-154, n = 17) in patients with coronary artery disease. Dobutamine increased cardiac output and myocardial oxygen consumption. E-1020 increased cardiac output but did not change myocardial oxygen consumption. MCI-154 increased cardiac output and decreased myocardial oxygen consumption. The oxygen cost of increasing cardiac output with dobutamine and with E-1020 was different from that with dextran infusion (n = 18); in contrast, the oxygen cost with MCI-154 was significantly smaller. Thus a newly developed Ca2+ sensitizer, MCI-154, may be beneficial for the treatment of heart failure.
Treatment of abnormal remodeling and dysfunction of left ventricle after myocardial infarction is one of the major goals of recent therapeutic interventions. The current study, the Nisoldipine Enalapril Anterior Myocardial infarction Study pilot investigation, was designed to investigate the effects of 12 weeks of treatment with enalapril or nisoldipine or their combination on left ventricular (LV) function and exercise capacity in patients with recent (< 1 month) anterior myocardial infarction and mild LV dysfunction (LV ejection fraction [EF] 38% to 48%). Forty-six patients were studied and received, by random assignment, enalapril (5 mg once per day) plus placebo (n = 14) or nisoldipine (10 mg two times per day) plus placebo (n = 18) or enalapril (5 mg once per day) plus nisoldipine (10 mg two times per day) (n = 14). All patients received aspirin (325 mg) throughout the study. Data on LV EF and peak filling rate at rest and LV EF during exercise were collected during radionuclide ventriculography. In addition, the product of heart rate and systolic blood pressure (rate-pressure product) and exercise time were determined during exercise stress testing. The analyzed parameters were not significantly modified after treatment with enalapril or with nisoldipine. In contrast, the combination of enalapril and nisoldipine significantly raised LV EF at rest (from 43% +/- 3% to 48% +/- 6%, p < 0.01) and during exercise (from 45% +/- 8% to 50% +/- 9%, p < 0.01) and raised peak filling rate at rest (fraction of end-diastolic volume per second) from 1.57 +/- 0.3 to 1.67 +/- 0.3 (p < 0.05). In addition, the combined administration of the two drugs increased the rate-pressure product (values x 10(3)) (from 20.7 +/- 5 to 22.7 +/- 4, p < 0.05) and increased exercise time (from 573 +/- 173 seconds to 668 +/- 178 seconds, p < 0.05). These results show that in patients with recent anterior myocardial infarction and mild LV dysfunction, the combination of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril and the dihydropyridine nisoldipine improves resting LV systolic and diastolic function and exercise LV systolic function and exercise capacity.
