We report a case of severe and rare complications of amphetamine abuse: intracerebral hemorrhage and spasm-induced changes in the cerebral vessels. The pathogenesis and treatment are discussed in the light of published data.
To the authors' knowledge, treatment of patients with cocaine-associated acute coronary syndromes has not been rigorously investigated in symptomatic patients.
To perform a randomized double-blind trial of diazepam, nitroglycerin, or both for treatment of patients with potential cocaine-associated acute coronary syndromes.
Patients with potential cocaine-associated acute coronary syndromes were randomized to treatment with either diazepam, nitroglycerin, or both every 5 minutes or until symptom resolution. Outcomes were chest pain resolution (measured by visual analog scale), and changes in blood pressure, pulse rate, cardiac output (L/min), cardiac index (L/min/m2), stroke volume (mL/beat), and stroke index (mL/beat/m2) over the 15-minute treatment period. To adjust for seven outcomes using the Bonferroni correction, alpha was set at 0.007.
Forty patients were enrolled (diazepam, 12; nitroglycerin, 13; both, 15). Patients had a mean age (+/-SD) of 35.4 (+/-7.5) years; 75% were male. They presented a mean of 5 hours and 37 minutes after cocaine use. Baseline demographics, cocaine use patterns, chest pain characteristics, and initial electrocardiograms were similar for all groups. Chest pain severity improved similarly in the three groups [-33.3 mm (+/-8.0); -30.7 mm (+/-7.1); -33.0 mm (+/-7.9); p = 0.6]. The stroke index decreased during the 15-minute treatment period for all groups (diazepam, -8.7 (+/-3.3); nitroglycerin, -3.1 +/- 2.8; both, -1.8 (+/-3.1) mL/beat/m2; p = 0.03). After adjustment for differences between baseline hemodynamic and cardiac profiles and multiple comparisons, there was no difference in any response to therapy over time for the different treatments.
For treatment of patients with potential cocaine-associated acute coronary syndromes, chest pain resolutions and changes in cardiac performance are not different in patients treated with diazepam or nitroglycerin. In this study, the use of both agents did not offer any advantage over either agent alone.
Prior studies addressing the incidence of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in patients with cocaine-associated chest pain have found divergent results. Previous prospective studies, which found approximately a 6% incidence of AMI, have been criticized for selection bias. This study sought to determine the rate of AMI in patients with cocaine-associated chest pain.
All patients seen in an urban university-affiliated hospital between July 1996 and February 1998 were identified by ICD-9 medical records search for cocaine use and chest pain/ acute coronary syndromes. In this system, all faculty admit all patients with cocaine-associated chest pain for at least 23-hour observation periods. Data collected included demographics, medical and cocaine use history, presenting characteristics, hospital course, cardiovascular complications, and diagnostic tests using a 119-item closed-question data instrument with high interrater reliability. The main outcome measure was AMI according to World Health Organization (WHO) criteria.
There were 250 patients identified with a mean age of 33.5 +/- 8.5 years; 77% were male; 84% were African American. Of 196 patients tested, 185 had cocaine or cocaine metabolites in the urine (94%). The incidence of cardiac risk factors were: hypercholesterolemia, 8%; diabetes, 6%; family history, 34%; hypertension, 26%; tobacco use, 77%; prior MI, 6%; and prior chest pain, 40%. Seventy-seven percent admitted to cocaine use in the preceding 24 hours: crack, 85%; IV, 2%; nasal, 6%. Twenty-five patients (10%) had electrocardiographic evidence of ischemia. A total of 15 patients experienced an AMI (6%; 95% CI = 4.1% to 8.9%) using WHO criteria. Complications were infrequent: bradydysrrhythmias, 0.4%; congestive heart failure, 0.4%; supraventricular tachycardia, 1.2%; sustained ventricular tachycardia, 0.8%.
The incidence of AMI was 6% in patients with cocaine-associated chest pain. This result is identical to that found in prior prospective studies.
While our understanding of the molecular and cellular aspects of taste reception and signaling continues to improve, the aberrations in these processes that lead to taste dysfunction remain largely unexplored. Abnormalities in taste can develop in a variety of diseases, including infections and autoimmune disorders. In this study, we used a mouse model of autoimmune disease to investigate the underlying mechanisms of taste disorders. MRL/MpJ-Fas(lpr)/J (MRL/lpr) mice develop a systemic autoimmunity with phenotypic similarities to human systemic lupus erythematosus and Sjögren's syndrome. Our results show that the taste tissues of MRL/lpr mice exhibit characteristics of inflammation, including infiltration of T lymphocytes and elevated levels of some inflammatory cytokines. Histological studies reveal that the taste buds of MRL/lpr mice are smaller than those of wild-type congenic control (MRL/+/+) mice. 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) pulse-chase experiments show that fewer BrdU-labeled cells enter the taste buds of MRL/lpr mice, suggesting an inhibition of taste cell renewal. Real-time RT-PCR analyses show that mRNA levels of several type II taste cell markers are lower in MRL/lpr mice. Immunohistochemical analyses confirm a significant reduction in the number of gustducin-positive taste receptor cells in the taste buds of MRL/lpr mice. Furthermore, MRL/lpr mice exhibit reduced gustatory nerve responses to the bitter compound quinine and the sweet compound saccharin and reduced behavioral responses to bitter, sweet, and umami taste substances compared with controls. In contrast, their responses to salty and sour compounds are comparable to those of control mice in both nerve recording and behavioral experiments. Together, our results suggest that type II taste receptor cells, which are essential for bitter, sweet, and umami taste reception and signaling, are selectively affected in MRL/lpr mice, a model for autoimmune disease with chronic inflammation.
Children may be agitated or even delirious especially when recovering from general anesthesia using volatile anesthetics. Many trials have focused on the newer agents sevoflurane and desflurane but for the widely used isoflurane little is known about its potential to generate agitation. We investigated the emergence characteristics of small children after sevoflurane or isoflurane with caudal anesthesia for postoperative pain control.
After institutional approval and parental consent, anesthesia was randomly performed with sevoflurane (n = 30) or isoflurane (n = 29) in children at the age of 3.8 +/- 1.8 years during surgical interventions on the lower part of the body. After induction, all children received caudal anesthesia with bupivacaine (0.25%, 0.8 ml x kg(-1)). Postoperatively, the incidences of emergence agitation (EA) and emergence delirium (ED) were measured by a blinded observer using a ten point scale (TPS; EA = TPS > 5 ED = TPS > 7) as well as vigilance, nausea/vomiting and shivering.
The two groups were comparable with respect to demographic data, duration of surgery and duration of anesthesia. There were also no differences in the period of time from the end of surgery until extubation, duration of stay in the PACU, postoperative vigilance and vegetative parameters. Incidence of EA was 30% (9/30) for sevoflurane and 34% (10/29) for isoflurane during the first 60 min in the PACU (P = 0.785). Likewise, the incidence of ED was not different between the groups (20% and 24%, respectively).
In our randomized controlled study, we found no difference in the incidence of EA or ED between sevoflurane and isoflurane. Therefore, the decision to use one or the other should not be based upon the incidence of EA or ED.
The effect of transient inactivation of the amygdala on expression of cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP) and locomotion was studied. We found that rats with bilateral but not unilateral amygdala cannula placement exhibited increased CPP expression during a vehicle and a cocaine test as well as increased cocaine-induced hyper-locomotion. We discuss the observed effects as being caused by the cannulation per se and we conclude that the applied cannulation produced an increased responsiveness of the amygdala by a yet undetermined mechanism.
Results of a previous study indicated that prior administration of the kappa-opioid receptor agonist, U69593, blocked the ability of cocaine to reinstate extinguished cocaine-taking behavior.
In order to determine whether the effect of U69593 was specific to cocaine or was common to cocaine seeking produced by other dopamine uptake inhibitors, the effects of U69593 on cocaine seeking produced by experimenter-administered injections of cocaine, the dopamine uptake inhibitor, GBR 12909, or the cocaine analogs, WIN 35,428 and RTI-55, were compared.
Reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-taking behavior was measured for rats that received injections of the kappa-opioid agonist, U69593 (0.0 or 0.32 mg/kg, SC), 15 min prior to injections of cocaine- (0.0-20.0 mg/kg, IP), GBR 12909- (0.0-30.0 mg/kg, IP), WIN 35.428- (0.0-3.0 mg/kg, IP) or RTI-55 (0.0-0.50 mg/kg, IP).
All of the drugs produced a dose-dependent reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-taking behavior. However, only the effects of cocaine and RTI-55 were attenuated by prior administration of U69593 (0.32 mg/kg, SC). The U69593-produced attenuation of cocaine-produced cocaine seeking was reversed by prior administration of the kappa-opioid antagonist, norbinaltorphimine (30.0 microg, ICV), indicating that the effect was mediated by central kappa-opioid receptors.
The failure of U69593 to attenuate GBR 12909- or WIN 35,428-produced cocaine seeking suggests that the effect of this kappa-opioid receptor agonist on cocaine seeking is not mediated by interactions at the dopamine transporter. The ability of U69593 to attenuate RTI-55-produced cocaine seeking raises the possibility that kappa-opioids and cocaine may interact at common sites on the serotonin transporter.
We examined the distribution of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in nitric oxide synthase 2A, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), regulated on activation, normal T cell expressed and secreted, and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha genes in tuberculosis patients and healthy controls from Mexico. The odds of developing tuberculosis were 2.3- and 5.4-fold higher in carriers of MCP-1 genotypes AG and GG than in homozygous AA. Cases of homozygous GG had the highest plasma levels of MCP-1 and the lowest plasma levels of IL-12p40, and these values were negatively correlated. Furthermore, stimulation of monocytes from healthy carriers of the genotype GG with Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens yielded higher MCP-1 and lower IL-12p40 concentrations than parallel experiments with monocytes from homozygous AA. Addition of anti-MCP-1 increased IL-12p40 levels in cultures of M. tuberculosis-stimulated monocytes from homozygous GG, and addition of exogenous MCP-1 reduced IL-12p40 production by M. tuberculosis-stimulated monocytes from homozygous AA. Furthermore, we could replicate our results in Korean subjects, in whom the odds of developing tuberculosis were 2.8- and 6.9-fold higher in carriers of MCP-1 genotypes AG and GG than in homozygous AA. Our findings suggest that persons bearing the MCP-1 genotype GG produce high concentrations of MCP-1, which inhibits production of IL-12p40 in response to M. tuberculosis and increases the likelihood that M. tuberculosis infection will progress to active pulmonary tuberculosis.
The release of cardiac troponin T (cTnT) as a biomarker of doxorubicin-induced chronic cardiac injury was evaluated in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model. Elevations in serum levels of cTnT and decreased immunohistochemical staining of heart sections for this protein were noted in SHRs treated with cumulative doses of doxorubicin (7 mg/kg) that induced only minimal histological alterations in myocytes. Concentrations of cTnT were further elevated, coincident with reduced immunohistochemical staining, in SHRs given 10-12 mg/kg doxorubicin. Thus, monitoring serum levels of cTnT can detect doxorubicin-induced myocyte damage in SHR and may prove useful for the noninvasive evaluation of this toxicity in humans.
A primigravida, who had a Caesarean section because of cervical dystocia and relative cephalo-pelvic disproportion, in Nov. 1988 in Yekatit 12 Hospital, Addis Ababa, remained relaxed and without spontaneous respiration for about four hours after the completion of the operation, requiring assisted respiration. This condition is the result of a decreased plasma cholinesterase (PCE) activity which is responsible for the breaking down of succinylcholine used in general anaesthesia as a muscle relaxant. Although the incidence of PCE deficiency in our population is not known, it should be remembered that such a complication may be seen in hospitals where operations are carried out using succinylcholine as a muscle relaxant.
There is now accumulating evidence that matrix metalloproteinases and apoptosis may play an important role in inflammation processes. This study was undertaken to determine the effect of dexamethasone on apoptosis and matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP-2) activity compared with two nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), piroxicam and diclofenac.
A fibrosarcoma (WEHI-164) cell line was used for evaluating tolerability, MMP-2 activity, and apoptosis. Dexamethasone, piroxicam, and diclofenac were used at concentrations of 10-200 microg/ml in triplicate, two-fold dilutions. MMP-2 activity was assessed using zymography. For assessment of apoptosis, terminal deoxyribonucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) was used.
Cytotoxicity analysis of dexamethasone showed a greater tolerability than diclofenac at concentrations of 10-100 microg/ml, whereas the cytotoxic effect of dexamethasone and piroxicam were parallel at doses of 5-80 microg/ml. The dose-dependent inhibitory effect of dexamethasone on MMP-2 activity was significantly less than that of the tested NSAIDs at concentrations of 10-80 microg/ml, while it increased at doses of >100 microg/ml compared with piroxicam. Moreover, the rate of apoptosis for dexamethasone-treated cells was 20.92%, the values for diclofenac and piroxicam being 78% and 28.15%, respectively.
Our findings suggest that dexamethasone is able to induce apoptosis and suppress MMP-2 activity. Collectively, dexamethasone might be assumed as an agent which could be recommended for chemopreventive purposes.
Nitric oxide (NO) may mediate some of the toxic effects of the excitatory amino acid (EAA) glutamate when there is overactivation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. In the developing rodent nervous system, NMDA neurotoxicity peaks at postnatal day 7. To assess whether NO toxicity exhibits a similar developmental profile, we injected the NO generator sodium nitroprusside into the immature and adult rodent hippocampal formation and striatum, using a dose known to damage the adult nervous system. Contrary to our expectations, we found the immature brain highly resistant to the toxic effects of sodium nitroprusside.
This study examined the efficacy and safety of quetiapine in combination with lithium or divalproex compared with placebo with lithium or divalproex in the prevention of recurrent mood events in bipolar I patients, most recent episode mania, depression, or mixed.
Patients received open-label quetiapine (400-800 mg/day; flexible, divided doses) with lithium or divalproex (target serum concentrations 0.5-1.2 mEq/L and 50-125 microg/mL, respectively) for up to 36 weeks to achieve at least 12 weeks of clinical stability. Patients were subsequently randomized to double-blind treatment with quetiapine (400-800 mg/day) plus lithium/divalproex or placebo plus lithium/divalproex for up to 104 weeks. The primary endpoint was time to recurrence of any mood event.
Treatment with quetiapine in combination with lithium/divalproex significantly increased the time to recurrence of any mood event compared with placebo plus lithium/divalproex. The proportion of patients having a mood event was markedly lower in the quetiapine than in the placebo group (18.5% versus 49.0%). The hazard ratio for time to recurrence of a mood event was 0.28 (P<0.001), a mania event 0.30 (P<0.001), and a depression event 0.26 (P<0.001) corresponding to risk reductions of 72%, 70%, and 74%, respectively. During the randomization phase, the most common adverse events occurring in > or =5% in the quetiapine group were somnolence, nasopharyngitis, and headache. Insomnia was more common in the placebo group. During the randomization phase, there was an increase in weight of 0.5 kg in the quetiapine group and a reduction of 1.9 kg in the placebo group. The incidence and incidence density of a single emergent fasting blood glucose value> or =126 mg/dL was higher with quetiapine than with placebo (9.3% versus 4.1%; 17.6 versus 9.5 patients per 100 patient-years).
This was an enriched sample of patients with bipolar I disorder responding to treatment with quetiapine plus lithium/divalproex.
Maintenance treatment with quetiapine in combination with lithium/divalproex significantly increased time to recurrence of any event (mania, depression, or mixed) irrespective of the polarity of the index episode compared with placebo with lithium/divalproex. Long-term treatment with quetiapine was generally well-tolerated. Quetiapine with lithium/divalproex can provide an effective long-term treatment option for bipolar I disorder to prevent recurrences not only of mania but also depression.
We describe the clinical courses of two premature infants, a male born at 29(4/7) weeks' gestational age after an 8-week period of rupture of membranes (ROM) and severe oligohydramnios, and a female infant born at 31 weeks' gestational age after an 18-week period of ROM and severe oligohydramnios. Within hours after birth, despite intubation and aggressive ventilation, both infants developed fulminant hypoxic respiratory failure. Their clinical courses were consistent with pulmonary hypertension and both infants were transferred for trials of inhaled nitric oxide (iNO). Both infants had dramatic responses to iNO, suggesting that the pulmonary disease seen after prolonged oligohydramnios may have a component of nitric oxide-sensitive pulmonary hypertension. The goals of this article are to (1) review oligohydramnios-induced pulmonary hypoplasia, (2) discuss patients at highest mortality risk, and (3) describe the effects of iNO on pulmonary hypertension in infants with hypoxemia following prolonged ROM and severe oligohydramnios.
In 1998 we reported on a randomized comparison between stavudine plus didanosine plus placebo versus stavudine plus didanosine plus hydroxyurea (HU), in patients with a CD4 count of 200-500 x 10(6) cells/l. After 3 months, the HU group had a higher proportion of patients with viral load < 200 x 10 cells/l. At the end of the 3 months blinded period, patients in the placebo group had the option to add HU if their viral load remained > 200 x 10(6) cells/l. We report results after 24 months.
Seventy-two patients were randomized to the HU arm, and a further 30 elected to add HU after 12 weeks. Twenty-four months after the start of the trial, only 25% of the 72 patients originally randomized to HU, and 20% of the 30 who added HU after week 12, were still taking it. The reasons for stopping HU were: lack of efficacy (45%), adverse events (37%) and patient or physician preference (18%). Side effects were more frequent in the didanosine/stavudine/HU group than in the didanosine/stavudine group: neuropathy (35 versus 15%, P< 0.02), fatigue (22 versus 7%, P< 0.01), and nausea or vomiting (26 versus 9%, P< 0.01). Of those who had discontinued HU, 73% were taking three drugs including a protease inhibitor. Patients who had started HU were compared with similar patients who had started protease inhibitors in the Swiss cohort. The probability of stopping HU was higher than the probability of stopping nelfinavir or indinavir, and similar to the probability of stopping ritonavir.
HU increased the antiviral effect of stavudine plus didanosine. However, side effects were more frequent, and after 24 months the majority of patients had switched to protease inhibitor regimens.
The chronic pelvic pain syndrome is a common disorder of unknown etiology. Elevated cytokines in prostate fluid and semen are frequent findings. We studied genetic polymorphisms that can alter cytokine gene expression in men with the chronic pelvic pain syndrome.
Genomic DNA was extracted from blood from 36 men with the chronic pelvic pain syndrome. Reversed sequence specific oligonucleotide probing was used to genotype the polymorphisms for cytokine promoter sites, namely tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha 308, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta 25, TGF-beta 10, interleukin (IL)-10 1082 and IL-6 174. Genotype frequencies were compared with 252 controls as well as among groups of patients with the chronic pelvic pain syndrome according to diagnostic category and treatment response.
There were no differences in men with the chronic pelvic pain syndrome and control patients in the frequency of TNF-alpha, TGF-beta or IL-6 alleles, although those with the chronic pelvic pain syndrome were more likely to express the genotype associated with low IL-10 production (30.6% versus 12.1%, p = 0.007). When comparing National Institutes of Health diagnoses, category IIIa patients were more likely to have the low TNF-alpha genotype (categories II, IIIa and IIIb 33%, 100% and 18%, respectively, p = 0.04). All 11 of the 28 patients treated with the anti-inflammatory quercetin in whom treatment failed had the low TNF-alpha genotype versus 29.4% of those in whom treatment succeeded (p = 0.0003). Similarly men with quercetin treatment failure were much less likely to have the low IL-10 genotype than those with treatment success (9.1% versus 47.1%, p = 0.04).
Patients with the chronic pelvic pain syndrome are more likely to have a low IL-10 producing genotype, suggesting autoimmunity as a potential etiology. Anti-inflammatory phytotherapy failure was associated with low TNF-alpha and high IL-10 phenotypes, which may help define a subset of patients with the chronic pelvic pain syndrome without an inflammatory etiology.
We examined the efficacy of thalidomide in 34 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS): five RAEB-T, four RAEB, three CMML, six RARS, and 16 RA. Patients belonged to the following cytogenetic groups: 15 complex abnormal karyotypes, 12 normal karyotypes, four cases with 5q- as sole anomaly and three single aberrations. The median thalidomide dose was 400 mg/day (25/34 patients). Four patients discontinued the study after less than 5 weeks, because of fatigue (three) or skin rash (one). One patient died of heart failure after 4 weeks. In the remaining 29 patients (median follow-up: 13 months), treatment responses were classified according to the IWG criteria. Six patients (four RA, two CMML) showed progressive disease (five with transformation into AML) and four patients showed stable disease. Hematological improvement (HI) was observed in 19 patients. Nine of the responders (three RA, one RARS, two RAEB, three RAEB-T) achieved partial remission with granulocytes > or = 1500/microl, Hb > 11 g/dl and platelets > or =100,000/microl. Four patients (one RARS, one CMML, one RAEB, one RAEB-T) had a major response, with platelet and RBC transfusion independence. Six patients (five RA, one RARS) showed minor responses (three HI-E, two HI-E+HI-P, one HI-E+HI-N). Hematological improvement occurred after a median of 2 months of thalidomide treatment. Two patients (RAEB-T) relapsed after a partial remission lasting 8 and 16 months, respectively. In summary, a therapeutic benefit was achieved in 19 of 34 study patients (56%).
We have previously demonstrated (A. E. Pegg, Cancer Res., 50: 6119-6129, 1990) that O6-benzylguanine (O6-BG) enhances nitrosourea, temozolomide, and cyclophosphamide activity in malignant glioma xenografts growing in athymic nude mice. More recently, we have demonstrated (V. J. Patel et al., Clin. Cancer Res., 6: 4154-4157, 2000; P. Pourquier et al., Cancer Res., 61: 53-58, 2001) that the combination of temozolomide plus irinotecan (CPT-11) displays a schedule-dependent enhancement of antitumor activity secondary to trapping of topoisomerase I by O6-methylguanine residues in DNA. These studies suggested that there might be favorable therapeutic interactions between O6-BG and combinations of 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) plus cyclophosphamide or temozolomide plus CPT-11, respectively. Our present results indicate that the combination of cyclophosphamide plus BCNU plus O6-BG produces growth delays modestly-to-markedly-superior to combinations of cyclophosphamide with BCNU. Although the combination of temozolomide and CPT-11 reveals a marked increase in activity compared with either agent used alone, the addition of O6-BG to this combination dramatically increased the growth delay of the O6-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT)-positive malignant glioma D-456 MG. These results suggest that a Phase I trial of CPT-11 plus temozolomide plus O6-BG in AGT-positive tumors may be an important intervention to maximize the therapeutic benefits of the combination of CPT-11 and temozolomide.
The association of myopathy with epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) treatment after subarachnoid hemorrhage in two cases is reported. Clinical and laboratory findings and possible mechanisms are discussed in light of the known pharmacology of the drug. Recovery ensues if EACA treatment is terminated as soon as myopathy appears.
We have previously demonstrated that antihypertensive therapy could structurally modulate blood vessels in the penis, although the impact on erectile function was not established. Given the importance of inadequate penile arterial inflow as a cause of erectile dysfunction we determined in spontaneously hypertensive rats the impact of brief aggressive antihypertensive therapy on structurally based penile vascular resistance, erectile function and mean arterial pressure during and after treatment.
Young (15-week-old) and aged (40-week-old) spontaneously hypertensive rats were treated for 2 weeks (enalapril 30 mg./kg. daily plus a low salt diet). Mean arterial pressure was continuously monitored via radio telemetry. Erectile responses were assessed by administering apomorphine (80 microg./kg. subcutaneously) before, during and after treatment. Structurally based vascular resistance was determined in the isolated, perfused penile vasculature 2 weeks after stopping treatment in aged spontaneously hypertensive rats. Certain responses were determined, including resistance at maximum dilatation (lumen size) and at maximum constriction (medial bulk), and EC50 of the alpha-adrenoceptor agonist methoxamine.
In the period after the cessation of drug treatment there was a persistent reduction in the level of arterial pressure (16%) and a doubling of erectile responses compared with pre- treatment. Cardiac and vascular structure regressed, as determined by the mean decrease plus or minus standard deviation in vascular resistance at maximum dilatation (21% +/- 4.5%) and mean reduction in left ventricle mass (10.4% +/- 3.7%). Furthermore, treatment induced a significant right shift in alpha1-adrenoceptor concentration response curve in treated versus control rats (mean EC50 1.09 +/- 0.111 versus 0.76 +/- 0.111).
The improvement in erectile function after brief aggressive treatment may be related to improvement in structurally based vascular resistance within the penis and the decrease in responsiveness of alpha1-adrenoceptor mediated erectolytic signaling. These findings are suggestive of a new therapeutic strategy for hypertension and erectile dysfunction.
Ceftriaxone, a third-generation cephalosporin, is widely used for treating infection during childhood. It is mainly eliminated in the urine, but approximately 40% of a given dose is unmetabolized and secreted into bile. The aim of this study was to investigate the frequency, clinical characteristics, and outcome of biliary sludge (BS) in addition to potential contributing risk factors in children who receive ceftriaxone. Biliary ultrasonography was performed at the time of randomization before ceftriaxone treatment was started, on the 5th and 10th days, and at the end of the treatment. If BS was detected, patients were followed-up weekly by sonographic examination until the BS or biliary lithiasis (BL) disappeared. A total of 114 children (56 girls, 58 boys; age range: 2-180 months, mean 47.5 +/- 46.3 mos) were enrolled in the study. Fourteen (12%) subjects developed BS and 10 (9%) developed BL on the 5th day of treatment. On the 10th day of treatment, 20 (18%) subjects developed BS and 15 (13%) developed BL. In total, 35 (31%) of all subjects developed biliary precipitation (BP), of whom 20 (57%) were diagnosed as BS and 15 (43%) as BL. All subjects who developed BP were found to be asymptomatic during the course of therapy. Patient age over 12 months, daily total dose of ceftriaxone of more than 2 g, and duration of treatment longer than five days were found to be associated with BP. Ceftriaxone frequently causes transient BPs and its probability increases if the child is over 12 months of age, the dose is over 2 g/day, or the duration is over five days. Neither radiologic investigation nor the discontinuation of treatment with ceftriaxone is necessary as long as the patient is asymptomatic.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) continues to be a significant health problem and a serious limitation to neuroleptic medication treatment. Clozapine treatment may reduce the severity of TD but it is unclear wether the medication temporarily suppresses symptoms or leads to a sustain resolution of the disorder. Herein we describe two cases with severe TD which clozapine had to be discontinued. These cases suggest that clozapine provides a temporary suppression of TD rather than a permanent resolution of the disorder.
The purpose of the present study was to comparatively evaluate human HERG currents and QT intervals following challenge with suspected torsadogenic and nontorsadogenic drugs. Various concentrations of 14 different drugs were initially evaluated in terms of their relative potency to block I(HERG) in stably transfected human embryonic kidney cells. Four general categories of drugs were identified: high-potency blockers (IC50 < 0.1 microM) included lidoflazine, terfenadine, and haloperidol; moderate-potency blockers (0.1 microM < IC50 < 1 microM) included sertindole, thioridazine, and prenylamine; low-potency blockers (IC50 > 1 microM) included propafenone, loratadine, pyrilamine, lovastatin, and chlorpheniramine; and ineffective blockers (IC50 > 300 microM) included cimetidine, pentamidine, and arsenic trioxide. All measurements were performed using similar conditions and tested acute drug effects only (<30 min of drug exposure per measurement). Since two of the drugs that were ineffective I(HERG) blockers, arsenic trioxide and pentamidine, have been associated with cardiac repolarization delays (QT interval lengthening) and torsades de pointes ventricular arrhythmias in patients, we chose to evaluate them further using the isolated perfused rabbit heart model. Neither arsenic trioxide nor pentamidine had any significant effect on QT intervals in this model, even at relatively high (micromolar) concentrations. Similar results were obtained for loratadine in this model. When the hearts were challenged with a known torsadogenic drug such as cisapride, significant QT lengthening was rapidly induced. These results demonstrate that arsenic trioxide and pentamidine are essentially devoid of direct acute effects on cardiac repolarization or inhibition of I(HERG).
A randomized, double-blind, multi-center trial was started to compare the severity of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) during risperidone and haloperidol treatment in schizophrenic patients who had disturbing EPS during their previous neuroleptic treatment. Additional objectives of this trial were comparing the antipsychotic effectiveness of the two treatments and the use of antiparkinsonian medication.
Effects of flexible doses of risperidone and haloperidol were compared in 77 psychotic patients (83% with chronic schizophrenia) with disturbing neuroleptic-induced EPS (risperidone 40 patients, haloperidol 37). The trial was completed by 47 patients: 25 in the risperidone group (12 women, 13 men), and 22 in the haloperidol group (10 women, 12 men).
An adequate antipsychotic effect was obtained in most patients by both treatments. The primary aim of this trial was comparing parkinsonism measured with the extrapyramidal syndrome rating scale (ESRS) during treatment with risperidone and haloperidol. Two primary parameters were selected: the change from baseline to the worst score during treatment of ESRS II (parkinsonism) and ESRS VI (clinical global impression of severity of parkinsonism). The CGI of severity of parkinsonism was better with risperidone (P=0.025), while the parkinsonism total score tended to be better with risperidone (P<0. 10). Before the double-blind treatment, 34 (of the 77) had used antiparkinson medication (risperidone 18, haloperidol 16). During the double-blind treatment phase, 21 patients had used antiparkinson medication (risperidone 11, haloperidol 10). The larger reduction of parkinsonism in the risperidone group was not due to a difference in the use of anti-parkinsonian medication.
In this group of schizophrenic patients with disturbing EPS during previous neuroleptic treatment, a stronger reduction of parkinsonism was observed with risperidone than with haloperidol.
We have previously shown that moxifloxacin conferred protective anti-inflammatory effects against Candida pneumonia in immunosuppressed mice. Further in vitro studies showed anti-inflammatory effects of moxifloxacin in LPS and cytokine-stimulated monocytic and epithelial cells. In the present study, concentrating on a more challenging pathogen of immunosuppressed hosts, we studied the effect of moxifloxacin on cytokine secretion and signal transduction mechanisms in monocytic cells stimulated with Aspergillus fumigatus.
Human peripheral blood monocytes (PBMCs) and a human monocytic cell line (THP-1) were incubated with 1.5x10(6)/mL conidia of a clinical isolate of A. fumigatus. Cytokine secretion and activation of NFkappaB and the MAP-kinases ERK1/2 and p38 were measured with and without the addition of moxifloxacin (5-20 mg/L).
Stimulation of PBMCs and THP-1 cells with A. fumigatus increased IL-8, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha secretion (4.1-, 8.3- and 7-fold, and 5.4-, 3.7- and 17.8-fold, respectively). Addition of moxifloxacin (5-20 mg/L) inhibited cytokine secretion up to 45.7+/-5%, 72+/-13% and 73+/-10% in PBMCs and up to 35.6+/-0.5%, 30+/-2.4% and 19+/-4% in THP-1 cells (P<0.05). Signal transduction studies showed that incubation of THP-1 cells with A. fumigatus increased ERK1/2 and p38 phosphorylation and p65-NFkappaB protein expression by 1.6-, 1.3- and 1.8-fold, respectively. Addition of moxifloxacin inhibited ERK1/2, p38 and p65-NFkappaB by up to 69+/-14%, 58+/-3% and 75+/-15%, respectively.
Our results indicate that moxifloxacin acts as an anti-inflammatory agent in monocytic cells stimulated with A. fumigatus conidia. Whether these effects may be protective as in the Candida pneumonia model is unknown and merits in vivo studies in models of pulmonary aspergillosis.
In two patients we observed a loss of taste during clopidogrel treatment which was reversible.
