The prophylactic role of ibuprofen in experimental myocardial infarction has not been reported. Twenty-four rats pre-treated with ibuprofen (30 mg/kg), po, for 21 days were subjected to myocardial infarction by administration of isoprenaline hydrochloride (85 mg/kg), sc, on two consecutive days. An equal number of rats were given saline to serve as control. Heart specimens were taken for macroscopic and microscopic examination after 1 day, 5 days, 12 days and 21 days, following myocardial infarction. Ibuprofen pre-treatment caused a significant increase in infarct size at all the intervals studied (P less than 0.01), indicating that ibuprofen exerted a harmful effect in increasing the size of experimental myocardial infarction.
The administration of purified human plasma-derived butyrylcholinesterase (HuBuChE) as a pretreatment has been demonstrated to enhance survival and protect against decreased cognitive function after exposure to organophosphorus poisons (OPs). Based on efficacy data obtained with guinea pigs and non-human primates and the lack of behavioral side effects, plasma-derived HuBuChE has been granted investigational new drug status by the US Food and Drug Administration. The recent availability of a recombinant form of HuBuChE (rHuBuChE) from the milk of transgenic goats has now allowed us to determine the pharmacokinetics of that material in guinea pigs and use it as a therapy following exposure to the VX. The rHuBuChE was expressed as a dimer and following intramuscular (i.m.) administration had more a rapid adsorption and clearance profile in guinea pigs than the plasma-derived material. Based on those data, we administered rHuBuChE i.m. 1h after a percutaneous exposure of guinea pigs to either 2xLD(50) or 5xLD(50) of VX. Post-exposure therapy with rHuBuChE provided improved survival at both challenge levels, 90% and 33% respectively versus 20% or 0% respectively for animals that did not receive therapy. These studies showed that BuChE can be efficacious as a therapy against percutaneous exposure to VX.
Mutations in the beta-myosin heavy-chain (betaMyHC) gene cause hypertrophic (HCM) and dilated (DCM) forms of cardiomyopathy. In failing human hearts, downregulation of alphaMyHC mRNA or protein has been correlated with systolic dysfunction. We hypothesized that mutations in alphaMyHC could also lead to pleiotropic cardiac phenotypes, including HCM and DCM.
A cohort of 434 subjects, 374 (134 affected, 214 unaffected, 26 unknown) belonging to 69 DCM families and 60 (29 affected, 30 unaffected, 1 unknown) in 21 HCM families, was screened for alphaMyHC gene (MYH6) mutations. Three heterozygous MYH6 missense mutations were identified in DCM probands (P830L, A1004S, and E1457K; 4.3% of probands). A Q1065H mutation was detected in 1 of 21 HCM probands and was absent in 2 unaffected offspring. All MYH6 mutations were distributed in highly conserved residues, were predicted to change the structure or chemical bonds of alphaMyHC, and were absent in at least 300 control chromosomes from an ethnically similar population. The DCM carrier phenotype was characterized by late onset, whereas the HCM phenotype was characterized by progression toward dilation, left ventricular dysfunction, and refractory heart failure.
This study suggests that mutations in MYH6 may cause a spectrum of phenotypes ranging from DCM to HCM.
In rodents, many exogenous cannabinoid agonists including Δ(9)-THC and WIN55,212-2 (WIN-2) have been shown to impair short-term memory (STM) by inhibition of hippocampal neuronal assemblies. However, the mechanisms by which endocannabinoids such as anandamide and 2-arachidonyl glycerol (2-AG) modulate STM processes are not well understood. Here the effects of anandamide on performance of a Delayed-Non-Match-to-Sample (DNMS) task (i.e. STM task) and concomitant hippocampal ensemble activity were assessed following administration of either URB597 (0.3, 3.0 mg/kg), an inhibitor of the Fatty Acid Amide Hydrolase (FAAH), AM404 (1.5, 10.0 mg/kg), a putative anandamide uptake/FAAH inhibitor, or R-methanandamide (3.0, 10.0 mg/kg), a stable analog of anandamide. Principal cells from hippocampal CA3/CA1 were recorded extracellularly by multi-electrode arrays in Long-Evans rats during DNMS task (1-30 s delays) performance and tracked throughout drug administration and recovery. Both R-methanandamide and URB597 caused dose- and delay-dependent deficits in DNMS performance with suppression of hippocampal ensemble activity during the encoding (sample) phase. R-methanandamide-induced effects were not reversed by capsaicin excluding a contribution of TRPV-1 receptors. AM404 produced subtle deficits at longer delay intervals but did not alter hippocampal neuronal activity during task-specific events. Collectively, these data indicate that endocannabinoid levels affect performance in a STM task and their pharmacological elevation beyond normal concentrations is detrimental also for the underlying physiological responses. They also highlight a specific window of memory processing, i.e. encoding, which is sensitive to cannabinoid modulation.
Three patients developed clinical congestive heart failure after cumulative doxorubicin doses of 264, 440, and 450 mg/m2, respectively, despite serial monitoring of systolic cardiac function by resting gated radionuclide scanning. All three patients had depressed diastolic function, as shown by a decreased peak filling rate preceding a change in systolic function, which was assessed by left ventricular ejection fraction prior to the development of clinical congestive heart failure. We recommend serial monitoring of the peak filling rate, in addition to left ventricular ejection fraction. If broader experience confirms our impression that the peak filling rate is more sensitive than the current standard assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction, new guidelines may need to be drawn to monitor cardiotoxicity of anthracyclines and anthraquinones.
We report the case of a teenager who developed a postanesthesia acute psychosis (delusions, paranoia, and hallucinations) caused by a reaction to antibiotic therapy (amoxicillin and clarithromycin), so called 'Hoigne's syndrome' or 'antibiomania.' The differential diagnosis and a review of literature are presented. Our patient illustrates the importance of adding antibiomania as part of the differential diagnosis when altered postanesthesia behavior is observed in pediatric patients.
Phosphatidylserine (PS) extracted from bovine brain differs from transphosphatidylated soybean lecithin PS (SB-PS) in its n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (LC-PUFA) content. Both, however, were suggested to affect cognitive performance. We compared the effect of chronic administration of a novel n-3 LC-PUFA PS conjugates (n-3 PS) versus SB-PS, fish oil (FO), SB-PS+FO, or control oil in middle-aged rats, on brain fatty acids composition and performance in behavioral tasks. Our hypothesis was that the n-3 LC-PUFA vehicles will affect these outcomes better than the other diets. Brain phospholipid docosahexaenoic acid levels increased significantly (p=0.0434) with n-3 PS only. None of the treatments affected the animals' task performance in compare with the control, although reversal from the non-match-to-sample to match-to-sample rule in the T-maze differed (p=0.0434) between the experimental diets. Conversely, the acquisition of the Morris water maze task was impaired by scopolamine (SCO) in all but the n-3 PS group (p=0.0019). In the probe, when pretreated with SCO, the SB-PS+FO group and to a lesser degree the n-3 PS group, spent longer latency times (p=0.0390) in the non-peripheral zones of the water maze compared to the control; this may be interpreted as anxiolytic-like behavior. These results suggest that the n-3 LC-PUFA carrier may play a role in these fatty acids bioavailability and their impact on specific cognitive processes.
To evaluate the 3-year behavioral and developmental outcome of children prenatally exposed to maternal substances of abuse.
Ninety-three children exposed prenatally to cocaine and other drugs taken by the mother during pregnancy (Group 1), 24 polydrug/noncocaine exposed children (Group 2), and 25 nonexposed children (Group 3) were evaluated at 3 years of age as part of a longitudinal prospective study of the impact of intrauterine substance exposure on long-term outcome. The Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale: Fourth Edition(SBIS) was administered by examiners blinded to the exposure background of the children, and a pediatrician performed a complete medical evaluation on all the children. The children's primary caregiver completed the Achenbach Child Behavior Checklist. Stepwise multiple regression procedures were used to determine the factors that best predicted 3-year growth, intelligence, and behavior.
Groups 1 and 2 differed from Group 3 on head circumference. Group 1 scored lower than Group 3 on SBIS Verbal Reasoning. Group 2 scored Slower than Group 3 on SBIS Abstract/Visual Reasoning. Cocaine exposure predicted poor verbal reasoning. Marijuana exposure predicted poor abstract/visual reasoning. Examiner rating predicted intellectual outcome and caregiver ratings. Caregivers rated exposed children as more aggressive than nonexposed.
Contrary to information in the popular media, not all substance-exposed children suffer the same poor prognosis. In fact, generalizations about the fate of drug-exposed children must await additional research into the outcome of the broader population of drug-exposed children, examining the roles of maternal and environmental factors across a variety of geographic locations and socioeconomic levels.
Peripheral neuropathy is a rare manifestation in hyperthyroidism. We describe the neurological manifestations of a 38 year old female with Graves' disease who developed peripheral neuropathy in the course of her treatment with propylthiouracil. After the drug was tapered off, the neurological signs disappeared. Therefore, we call attention for a possible toxic effect on peripheral nervous system caused by this drug.
The deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC) has been used as a drug in a part of cancer therapy. However, because of its incorporation into DNA during DNA synthesis, 5-aza-dC can cause DNA damage, mutagenesis, and cytotoxicity. In view of the adverse effects of 5-aza-dC, DNMT-targeted inhibition may be a more effective approach than treatment with 5-aza-dC. To address the possibility of DNMT-targeted cancer therapy, we compared the effects of treatment with small interfering ribonucleic acids (siRNAs) specific for DNMT1 or DNMT3b and treatment with 5-aza-dC on transcription, cell growth, and DNA damage in gastric cancer cells. We found that DNMT1-targeted inhibition induced the re-expression and reversed DNA methylation of five (CDKN2A, RASSF1A, HTLF, RUNX3, and AKAP12B) out of seven genes examined, and 5-aza-dC reactivated and demethylated all seven genes. In contrast, DNMT3b siRNAs did not show any effect. Furthermore, the double knockdown of DNMT1 and DNMT3b did not show a synergistic effect on gene re-expression and demethylation. In addition, DNMT1 siRNAs showed an inhibitory effect of cell proliferation in the cancer cells and the induction of cell death without evidence of DNA damage, whereas treatment with 5-aza-dC caused DNA damage as demonstrated by the comet assay. These results provide a rationale for the development of a DNMT1-targeted strategy as an effective epigenetic cancer therapy.
The effect of apomorphine, injected into the dorsal hippocampus, on the locomotor activity of imipramine-treated rats was studied. The rats were chronically implanted with cannulae 1 week before imipramine treatment. Imipramine was given in a dose of 10 mg/kg per os, acutely, or twice a day for 14 days. Intrahippocampal injection of apomorphine induced a dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity. This effect was antagonized by pretreatment with pimozide (2 mg/kg). Repeated, but not single, administrations of imipramine significantly enhanced the apomorphine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in rats. This effect was observed at 2, 48 and 96 h after the last dose of imipramine. The results obtained indicate that repeated administration of imipramine increases the responsiveness of the hippocampal dopaminergic system.
Members of the Bcl-2 family of proteins are important inhibitors of apoptosis in human cancer and are targets for novel anticancer agents such as the Bcl-2 antagonists, ABT-263 (Navitoclax), and its analog ABT-737. Unlike Bcl-2, Mcl-1 is not antagonized by ABT-263 or ABT-737 and is considered to be a major factor in resistance. Also, Mcl-1 exhibits differential regulation when compared with other Bcl-2 family members and is a target for anticancer drug discovery. Here, we demonstrate that BAG3, an Hsp70 co-chaperone, protects Mcl-1 from proteasomal degradation, thereby promoting its antiapoptotic activity. Using neuroblastoma cell lines, with a defined Bcl-2 family dependence, we found that BAG3 expression correlated with Mcl-1 dependence and ABT-737 resistance. RNA silencing of BAG3 led to a marked reduction in Mcl-1 protein levels and overcame ABT-737 resistance in Mcl-1-dependent cells. In ABT-737-resistant cells, Mcl-1 co-immunoprecipitated with BAG3, and loss of Mcl-1 after BAG3 silencing was prevented by proteasome inhibition. BAG3 and Mcl-1 were co-expressed in a panel of diverse cancer cell lines resistant to ABT-737. Silencing BAG3 reduced Mcl-1 protein levels and overcame ABT-737 resistance in several of the cell lines, including triple-negative breast cancer (MDA-MB231) and androgen receptor-negative prostate cancer (PC3) cells. These studies identify BAG3-mediated Mcl-1 stabilization as a potential target for cancer drug discovery.
Rats given a tremorigenic dose of DDT (75 mg/kg, PO) were treated with pharmacological agents either 30 min prior to DDT or 1-2 h prior to testing at the time of peak effect (12 h postdosing). The administration of mephenesin (a centrally acting muscle relaxant) or Dilantin (an anticonvulsant) prior to DDT significantly attenuated tremor. Pretreatment with pizotifen (a serotonergic receptor antagonist) had no significant effect on tremor. Administration of the same agents 1-2 h prior to measurement had minimal effects. Trihexyphenidyl (a muscarinic cholinergic receptor antagonist) exacerbated the tremor produced by DDT. These data suggest that cholinergic neurotransmitter systems may be involved in DDT-induced tremor. That DDT-induced tremor was significantly attenuated by mephenesin and Dilantin is in accord with the conclusion that DDT-induced tremor is a manifestation of repetitive discharge due to interference with ionic conductance.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are persistent and ubiquitous environmental chemicals that bioaccumulate and have hepatic tumor promoting activity in rodents. The present study examined the effect of deleting the p50 subunit of NF-kappaB on the hepatic tumor promoting activity of 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (PCB-153) in mice. Both wild-type and p50-/- male mice were injected i.p. with diethylnitrosamine (DEN, 90 mg/kg) and then subsequently injected biweekly with 20 i.p. injections of PCB-153 (300 micromol/kg/injection). p50 deletion decreased the tumor incidence in both PCB- and vehicle-treated mice, whereas PCB-153 slightly (P=0.09) increased the tumor incidence in wild-type and p50-/- mice. PCB-153 increased the total tumor volume in both wild-type and p50-/- mice, but the total tumor volume was not affected by p50 deletion in either PCB- or vehicle-treated mice. The volume of tumors that were positive for glutamine synthetase (GS), which is indicative of mutations in the beta-catenin gene, was increased in both wild-type and p50-/- mice administered PCB-153 compared to vehicle controls, and inhibited in p50-/- mice compared to wild-type mice (in both PCB- and vehicle-treated mice). The volume of tumors that were negative for GS was increased in p50-/- mice compared to wild-type mice but was not affected by PCB-153. PCB-153 increased cell proliferation in normal hepatocytes in wild-type but not p50-/- mice; this increase was inhibited in p50-/- mice. In hepatic tumors, the rate of cell proliferation was much higher than in normal hepatocytes, but was not affected by PCB treatment or p50 deletion. The rate of apoptosis, as measured by the TUNEL assay, was not affected by PCB-153 or p50 deletion in normal hepatocytes. In hepatic tumors, the rate of apoptosis was lower than in normal hepatocytes; PCB-153 slightly (P=0.10) increased apoptosis in p50-/- but not wild-type mice; p50 deletion had no effect. Taken together, these data indicate that the absence of the NF-kappaB p50 subunit inhibits the promoting activity of PCB-153 and alters the proliferative and apoptotic changes in mouse liver in the response to PCBs.
Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS syndrome) or the drug hypersensitivity syndrome is a delayed and serious skin disease. It is manifest by a severe skin reaction associated with a severe visceral attack (adenopathy, hepatitis, nephritis, interstitial pneumopathy...) and haematological anomalies (raised hypereosinophilia...). The severe visceral attack is the main cause of death, which is estimated at around 10%. The principal drugs responsible are the aromatic anti-convulsants, sulphamides and minocycline. A large number of cases have been described with phenytoin, more rarely with carbamazepine and phenobarbitone.
To report on adverse reactions to intravenous nonionic iodine contrast media and evaluate the usefulness of monitoring vital signs.
A prospective study of 1537 consecutive patients who received contrast-enhanced CT with nonionic iodine was performed. Systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressure, pulse rate and arterial blood oxygen saturation were monitored. Severity of adverse reactions was classified as minor, intermediate and severe.
A total of 64 adverse reactions developed in 57 patients. The overall prevalence was 3.7% (57/1537). The most common symptom was nausea (18/64) followed by pharyngeal discomfort (11/64). One patient had a severe reaction consisting of prolonged hypotension. Four patients had an intermediate reaction, three transient hypotension or hypertension and one extensive urticaria and facial edema. In two out of four patients who became hypotensive or hypertensive, the reactions developed without any obvious clinical symptoms.
Severe or life-threatening acute adverse reactions to intravenous nonionic iodine contrast media may develop without any obvious clinical symptoms. Monitoring vital signs is very helpful for early detection.
The authors report the cases of 3 patients who had depressive episodes after administration of propranolol for medical illnesses. The depressive episodes were severe, occurred in a dose-dependent manner, and promptly remitted when propranolol was discontinued. Physicians' awareness of this complication, especially in cases of patients with a history of depression, may reduce the occurrence of this drug reaction.
Fifty patients suffering from infections caused by various salmonella species were treated with trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole compound. Twenty-three had enteric fever and two were biliary carriers of Salmonella typhi. The other 25 suffered from infections caused by salmonella species other than S. typhi or S. paratyphi B. Twenty-one of the patients with enteric fever responded clinically to the drug, one failed treatment, and one died. Two patients suffering from typhoid fever relapsed and three temporarily excreted S. typhi in stools following treatment. One of the typhoid carriers was successfully treated. All patients with infections caused by salmonella species other than S. typhi or S. paratyphi B responded to treatment but 17 continued to excrete the organism in their stools after the course of trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole compound. Four patients developed rashes during therapy and two became anaemic.
The glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper (Tsc22d3-2) is a widely expressed dexamethasone-induced transcript that has been proposed to be important in immunity, adipogenesis, and renal sodium handling based on in vitro studies. To address its function in vivo, we have used Cre/loxP technology to generate mice deficient for Tsc22d3-2. Male knockout mice were viable but surprisingly did not show any major deficiencies in immunological processes or inflammatory responses. Tsc22d3-2 knockout mice adapted to a sodium-deprived diet and to water deprivation conditions but developed a subtle deficiency in renal sodium and water handling. Moreover, the affected animals developed a mild metabolic phenotype evident by a reduction in weight from 6 months of age, mild hyperinsulinemia, and resistance to a high-fat diet. Tsc22d3-2-deficient males were infertile and exhibited severe testis dysplasia from postnatal d 10 onward with increases in apoptotic cells within seminiferous tubules, an increased number of Leydig cells, and significantly elevated FSH and testosterone levels. Thus, our analysis of the Tsc22d3-2-deficient mice demonstrated a previously uncharacterized function of glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper protein in testis development.
An involvement of glutamatergic transmission in schizophrenia has been postulated for several years. According to that view, hypofunction of NMDA receptors and a compensatory increase in glutamate release which overstimulates non-NMDA receptors contributes to psychotic symptoms. Therefore, potential antipsychotic drugs are searched for among compounds which block AMPA receptors and inhibit glutamate release. (R,S)-3,4-dicarboxyphenylglycine [(R,S)-3,4-DCPG] is a mixed antagonist of AMPA receptors and agonist of an autoreceptor, i.e. metabotropic glutamate receptor 8. The aim of the study was to look for putative antipsychotic properties of (R,S)-3,4-DCPG in the model of locomotor stimulation induced by amphetamine or phencyclidine in mice. Moreover, a risk of extrapyramidal side-effects induced by this compound was examined, as capability to induce catalepsy in the bar test and to increase the proenkephalin mRNA expression, measured autoradiographically in striatal slices by in situ hybridization. (R,S)-3,4-DCPG (80 mg/kg i.p.) decreased the amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg s.c.)-but not phencyclidine (3 mg/kg s.c.)-induced hyperactivity. That dose of (R,S)-3,4-DCPG did not decrease the spontaneous locomotor activity of mice. However, a dose of 100 mg/kg ip of that compound evoked catalepsy and enhanced the catalepsy and striatal proenkephalin mRNA expression induced by haloperidol (1-2 mg/kg i.p.). The study seems to suggest that (R,S)-3,4-DCPG may possess antipsychotic properties at doses close to those evoking extrapyramidal side-effects which speaks for its rather typical than atypical neuroleptic profile.
It has been suggested that hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion after lamivudine therapy is durable in Caucasians with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). However, little is known whether it is also durable in endemic areas of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. We evaluated the posttreatment durability of lamivudine-induced HBeAg seroconversion and the predictive factors for relapse in Korean patients with CHB. We retrospectively analyzed 98 HBeAg-positive patients with CHB who were treated with lamivudine between August 1996 and December 1997. Lamivudine was given at a dose of 150 mg per day. After HBeAg seroconversion, lamivudine was continued for an additional 2 to 4 months, and posttreatment monitoring continued for up to 24 months. HBeAg seroconversion was achieved in 34 of the 98 patients (34.7%). The mean duration of treatment in these seroconverters was 9.3 +/- 3.0 months. During the follow-up period, the cumulative relapse rates at 1 year and 2 years posttreatment were 37.5% and 49.2%, respectively. Most relapses were accompanied by elevation of serum alanine transaminase (94%) and reappearance of HBeAg (81%). Pretreatment serum HBV DNA levels and the duration of additional lamivudine therapy after HBeAg seroconversion were 2 independent predictive factors for posttreatment relapse. In conclusion, lamivudine-induced HBeAg seroconversion was not durable in this endemic area. And the duration of additional lamivudine therapy after HBeAg seroconversion significantly affected the posttreatment relapse. Further studies are needed to determine the duration of lamivudine and to elucidate the cause of high relapse after HBeAg seroconversion in endemic areas of HBV.
GR127935 (N-[methoxy-3-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)phenyl]-2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2 ,4-oxadiazol-3-yl) [1, 1-biphenyl]-4-carboxamide hydrochloride) has been recently introduced as an experimental tool to antagonize 5-HT(1B/D) receptor-mediated functional responses. The compound indeed exhibits a very high affinity and selectivity for 5-HT(1B/D) binding sites and it antagonizes a number of 5-HT(1B/D) receptor-mediated responses. The present experiments were performed to investigate the selectivity of GR127935 against functional responses mediated by 5-HT1-like, 'orphan' 5-HT1-like (5-ht7?), 5-HT2, 5-HT3 or 5-HT4 receptors in several in vivo preparations. Intravenous (i.v.) treatment with GR127935 (300 microg x kg(-1)) potently antagonized decreases in total carotid blood flow as well as hypotensive responses induced by the 5-HT1-like receptor agonist sumatriptan in rabbits. I.v. bolus injections of GR127935 (up to 500 and/or 1500 microg x kg(-1)) did not significantly modify 5-HT-induced: (i) tachycardia in the pig (5-HT4 receptor-mediated) and cat ('orphan' 5-HT1-like or, perhaps, 5-ht7 receptor-mediated); (ii) depressor effects in the rat and cat ('orphan' 5-HT1-like or 5-ht7 receptor-mediated); (iii) von Bezold-Jarisch reflex in the rat or the early phase of the urinary bladder contraction in the cat (both 5-HT3 receptor-mediated). In contrast, high doses (500-1500 microg x kg(-1)) of GR127935 suppressed 5-HT-induced pressor responses in the rat and cat and urinary bladder contractions (secondary phase) in the cat as well as the DOI ((+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride)-induced pressor responses in the rat, which are all mediated by 5-HT2A receptors. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates that GR127935 is a selective 5-HT(1B/D) receptor antagonist devoid of interactions at 'orphan' 5-HT1-like (5-ht7?), 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptors. However, GR127935 possesses a moderate 5-HT2A receptor blocking property, which is consistent with its binding profile (pKi: 7.4). Lastly, in view of the potent antagonist action of GR127935, the sumatriptan-induced hypotension in rabbits seems to be mediated by 5-HT(1B/D) receptors.
We evaluated the effect of intrathecally administered prazosin, alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, or yohimbine, alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, on fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with ketamine and were under mechanical ventilation. Fentanyl given intravenously (100 micrograms/kg) or microinjected into the bilateral locus coeruleus (LC) (2.5 microgram/50 nl) consistently evoked a significant increase in the electromyographic activity recorded from the sacrococcygeus dorsalis lateralis muscle. This implied muscular rigidity was appreciably antagonized by prior intrathecal (10 microliters) administration of prazosin (5 or 10 nmol), but not equimolar dose of yohimbine. These results suggest that the spinal alpha 1-adrenoceptors in the coerulospinal noradrenergic pathway play a key role in fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity.
The different clinical trajectories of cocaine-dependent men and women may be a consequence of distinct neurobiological substrates. Hypoperfusion of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) has previously been reported in individuals addicted to cocaine and has been posited as a biological mediator of relapse due to impulsivity or impaired decision making.
This study assessed regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) between abstinent cocaine-dependent men and women and sex-matched healthy controls.
Cocaine-dependent subjects were abstinent from cocaine for 11 to 28 days and had no other major mental health or substance use disorders. rCBF was assessed with single photon emission computed tomography after administration of a placebo saline infusion. A resting scan was also obtained in a subset of cocaine-dependent and control men.
In the 35 cocaine-dependent and 37 healthy control subjects examined, a sex-by-group effect was observed for the left lateral (P=0.001), right lateral (P=0.002), and medial (P<0.02) OFC. Cocaine-dependent men demonstrated significantly lower right and left lateral, but not medial, OFC rCBF compared with sex-matched healthy controls after placebo infusion (P<or=0.001). Similar bilateral OFC decreases were observed in male cocaine-dependent subjects at rest. In contrast, cocaine-dependent women showed lower rCBF in the medial, but not lateral, OFC relative to sex-matched healthy controls after placebo infusion (P<0.01). Male cocaine-dependent subjects also showed decreased rCBF (P<0.01) in the bilateral anterolateral temporal cortex and anterior cingulate, whereas decreased rCBF was observed in female cocaine-dependent subjects in the bilateral superior frontal gyri. Large and diffuse areas of increased rCBF were observed after placebo infusion in cocaine-dependent men, but not in women, relative to sex-matched healthy controls.
rCBF appears to be reduced in the bilateral OFC in cocaine-dependent men and in the medial OFC in cocaine-dependent women. Sex differences in the medial and lateral OFC rCBF may be relevant to understanding relapse characteristics differentiating men and women addicted to cocaine.
Orthostatic hypotension, the clinically most important side effect in treatment with tricyclic antidepressants, was investigated in a double-blind study with clomipramine and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram given for 5 weeks. All patients were initially given placebo for 1 week. In the clomipramine group (n = 17) a significant orthostatic drop in the systolic blood pressure was observed during treatment; this remained significant over the whole investigational period. A curvilinear correlation was demonstrated between the orthostatic drop in systolic blood pressure and the plasma levels of clomipramine and desmethylclomipramine. The most pronounced orthostatic reaction was thus seen in 1-2 weeks, at plasma levels of 25-75 micrograms/l (clomipramine). The correlation between the subjective symptoms and the measured orthostatic drop was poor, as was the correlation between the subjective symptoms and the plasma levels of the two active compounds. The change in orthostatic heart rate during clomipramine treatment was insignificant. In the citalopram group (n = 15) no significant changes in orthostatic blood pressure or heart rate were demonstrated during treatment and these patients had no orthostatic complaints.
Resveratrol (trans-3,4,5-trihydroxystilbene) has received attention for its potential chemopreventive and antitumor effects in experimental systems. Recent evidence suggests that paclitaxel, alone or in combination with other drugs, can be effectively used in the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and multiple myeloma (MM). This study investigated whether resveratrol can sensitize NHL and MM cell lines to paclitaxel-mediated apoptosis and to delineate the underlying molecular mechanism of sensitization. Both resveratrol and paclitaxel negatively modulated tumor cell growth by arresting the cells at the G(2)-M phase of the cell cycle. Low concentrations of resveratrol exerted a sensitizing effect on drug-refractory NHL and MM cells to apoptosis induced by paclitaxel. Resveratrol selectively down-regulated the expression of antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-x(L) and myeloid cell differentiation factor-1 (Mcl-1) and up-regulated the expression of proapoptotic proteins Bax and apoptosis protease activating factor-1 (Apaf-1). Paclitaxel down-regulated the expression of Bcl-x(L), Mcl-1, and cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein-1 antiapoptotic proteins and up-regulated Bid and Apaf-1. Combination treatment resulted in apoptosis through the formation of tBid, mitochondrial membrane depolarization, cytosolic release of cytochrome c and Smac/DIABLO, activation of the caspase cascade, and cleavage of poly(adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase. Combination of resveratrol with paclitaxel had minimal cytotoxicity against quiescent and mitogenically stimulated human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Inhibition of Bcl-x(L) expression by resveratrol was critical for chemosensitization and its functional impairment mimics resveratrol-mediated sensitization to paclitaxel-induced apoptosis. Inhibition of Bcl-x(L) expression by resveratrol was due to the inhibition of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) pathway and diminished activator protein-1-dependent Bcl-x(L) expression. The findings by resveratrol were corroborated with inhibitors of the ERK1/2 pathway. This study demonstrates that in resistant NHL and MM cell lines resveratrol and paclitaxel selectively modify the expression of regulatory proteins in the apoptotic signaling pathway and the combination, via functional complementation, results in synergistic apoptotic activity.
