Drugs and other chemicals are usually metabolized in the liver in the drug-metabolizing enzyme system. The metabolites sometimes bind with cellular macromolecules and injure the cell directly or serve as new antigens to create immunologic injury in a delayed fashion. The immediate or toxic injury is dose-dependent, predictable and zonal in the liver lobule, usually in the central region. Carbon tetrachloride intoxication and acetaminophen overdose are examples of injury resulting from microsomal metabolism. Other injuries related to microsomal metabolism are those produced by vinyl chloride in polymerization plant workers and by methotrexate in psoriatics or leukemic children. Most adverse drug reactions affecting the liver and producing jaundice are unpredictable, delayed in onset, and only hypothetically related to microsomal metabolism in some instances. The two main types are cholestasis and viral-hepatitis-like. The former may be in a pure form, in which case it may be partly dose-dependent, or in a form mixed with hepatitis. Many drugs produce cholestasis in a small percentage of persons, and because the reaction is benign, albeit prolonged at times, such drugs continue to be used. The viral-hepatitis-like reaction involves few drugs and affects few persons, but can be fatal. The recognition that chronic hepatitis can be caused by drugs such as oxyphenisatin, alpha-methyldopa, and isoniazid has added a new dimension to the clinical problem of adverse drug reactions, which may extend to widely used and commonly available agents like aspirin.
Acute renal failure (ARF) caused by rifampicin typically occurs on intermittent administration. There are isolated case reports and only one series reported in the literature. Systematic data, especially from countries endemic for tuberculosis and leprosy, are sparse.
We studied demographic, clinical, biochemical, and histopathologic features and prognosis of 25 consecutive patients with rifampicin-associated ARF admitted from July 1990 to June 2000.
Rifampicin-associated ARF constituted 2.5% of all cases of ARF seen during the study period. The most common pattern of drug intake resulting in ARF (40%) was ingestion of a single dose preceded by a drug-free period (range, 10 days to 6 years) after a course of daily rifampicin (range, 8 days to 18 months). Onset was with gastrointestinal and flu-like symptoms 4 hours (median) after drug intake. All patients were oliguric. Anemia and thrombocytopenia each occurred in 60% of patients. Acute hepatitis was present in 32%. Among 12 patients who underwent kidney biopsy, 7 patients (58%) had acute interstitial nephritis (AIN). Crescentic glomerulonephritis was seen in 1 patient, and mesangial proliferation, in 3 patients. No single feature at presentation predicted the severity of renal failure. There were no deaths, and all patients recovered renal function.
Patients with rifampicin-associated ARF were oliguric and presented with gastrointestinal and flu-like symptoms, typically after reintroduction of the drug after a drug-free period. Anemia and thrombocytopenia were common. AIN was the most common biopsy finding. No factor predicted severity, but the renal prognosis was good.
The cohort of this historical prospective mortality study consisted of 697 male employees at a chlorination plant. A majority of the cohort was potentially exposed to benzotrichloride, benzyl chloride, benzoyl chloride, and other related chemicals. The mortality experience of the cohort was observed from 1943 through 1982. For the cohort as a whole, no statistically significant mortality excess was detected. The overall Standardized Mortality Ratio (SMR) was 100, and the SMR for all cancers combined was 122 (not significant). The respiratory cancer SMR for the cohort as a whole was 246 (7 observed vs. 2.8 expected). The excess was of borderline statistical significance, the lower 95% confidence limit being 99. Analysis by race showed that all 7 respiratory cancer deaths came from the white male employees, with an SMR of 265 (p less than 0.05). The respiratory cancer mortality excess was higher among employees in maintenance (SMR = 229) than among those in operations or production (SMR = 178). The lung cancer mortality excess among the laboratory employees was statistically significant (SMR = 1292). However, this observation should be viewed with caution, since it was based on only 2 deaths. Further analysis indicated that the respiratory cancer mortality excess was limited to the male employees with 15 or more years of employment (SMR = 379, p less than 0.05). Based on animal data as well as other epidemiologic studies, together with the internal consistency of analysis by length of employment, the data suggest an association between the chlorination process of toluene at the plant and an increased risk of respiratory cancer.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In addition to the absolute magnitude of left ventricular (LV) mass (LVM), the geometric pattern of the left ventricle might help explain the different tendency toward LV hypertrophy (LVH) regression seen under effective therapy in chronic hemodialysis patients.
Forty-five hemodialyzed uremic subjects, 17 patients with concentric LVH and 28 patients with eccentric LVH, were followed up with yearly echocardiography over 3 years while on monotherapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Predialysis blood pressure (BP) and percentage of interdialytic weight gain recorded during the month the echocardiographic study was performed were retrieved and averaged. Any adverse cardiovascular events occurring during the 3-year follow-up period also were recorded.
Significant regression of LVH (P = 0.0028) was observed in the group as a whole during the 3 years on ACE-inhibitor therapy, mainly accounted for by a reduction in pulse pressure (PP; r = 0.45; P = 0.0017). After subgrouping patients according to LV geometry, an LVM reduction was observed only in the 17 patients with concentric LVH (P = 0.0003), whereas no difference was detected in subjects with eccentric LVH despite the same degree of BP reduction and hemoglobin level and Kt/V increases in both groups. Moreover, a greater incidence of cardiovascular events was observed in patients with eccentric LVH than in those with concentric LVH during the 3-year follow-up period.
The most important finding of this study is that eccentric LVH seems to be less responsive to ACE-inhibitor treatment and is associated with a greater incidence of adverse cardiovascular events compared with concentric LVH. Furthermore, the decrease in PP appears to be the main predictor of LVH regression in chronic hemodialysis patients on ACE-inhibitor therapy.
A prospective evaluation of the efficacy and safety of vancomycin was conducted in 54 consecutive patients over a 16-month period. Vancomycin was curative in 95% of 43 patients with proven infection. Drugs were ceased in six patients because of adverse reactions; in three of these vancomycin was considered the likely cause. Reactions included thrombophlebitis (20 of 54 patients), rash (4 of 54), nephrotoxicity (4 of 50), proteinuria (1 of 50) and ototoxicity (1 of 11 patients tested by audiometry). Thrombophlebitis occurred only with infusion through peripheral cannulae; nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity were confined to patients receiving an aminoglycoside plus vancomycin. We conclude that vancomycin, administered appropriately, constitutes safe, effective therapy for infections caused by susceptible bacteria.
Estrogen replacement therapy can decrease the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Phytoestrogens have been proposed as potential alternatives to estrogen replacement therapy. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the in vitro protective effects of coumestrol on mice astrocytes.
Different concentrations of coumestrol were tested for their protective efficacy against two toxic insults, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and amyloid-beta peptide, on astrocytes. The mitochondrial activity of astrocytes was determined, and the protective efficacy and pathway were examined by their specific gene expression and protein change.
The results showed that coumestrol induced a modest but significant increase in viability of astrocytes, while the viability of astrocytes was reduced following exposure to LPS and amyloid-beta peptide. The addition of coumestrol could reverse the toxic effect induced by LPS and amyloid-beta peptide. Both the LPS and amyloid-beta peptide enhanced interleukin 1, interleukin 6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha synthesis and these effects were inhibited by 10(-9)M coumestrol. This effect was more obvious on the LPS-induced inflammation. The estrogen receptor expression was upregulated by coumestrol, while the effect was more obvious on estrogen receptor-beta (ER-beta). These effects can be inhibited by extracellular signal-regulated kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase inhibitors but not p38 inhibitor.
The current data support a possible role for astrocytes in the mediation of neuroprotection by coumestrol. An indirect extracellular signal-regulated kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase signaling pathway to downregulate the expression of interleukin 1, interleukin 6, and the tumor necrosis factor-alpha cytotoxic effect may act in concert with the proposed direct ER-beta biosynethsis pathway to achieve a widespread, global protection of ER-beta positive neurons.
The ferroportin-related disorder is an increasingly recognized cause of hereditary iron overload. Based on the in vitro behavior of different ferroportin mutant subsets, it was suggested that different forms of the disorder might exist in humans. We used MRI to address this question in vivo in 22 patients from four different pedigrees carrying different ferroportin mutations: A77D, N144H, G80S and Val 162del. We found that, based on the iron status of spleen and bone macrophages, two different forms of the disease can be identified: a classic, common form, characterized by hepatocyte, splenic macrophage and bone marrow macrophage iron retention in patients carrying the A77D, G80S and Val 162del ferroportin variants; a rarer non-classic form, associated with liver iron overload but normal spleen and bone marrow iron content in patients with the N144H mutation. The two forms are likely caused by lack- or gain-of-protein function, respectively. Interestingly, in treated patients with the classic form, the spleen and the spine show appreciable iron accumulation even when serum ferritin is normal and liver iron content low. In conclusion, MRI is a useful non-invasive diagnostic tool to categorize and diagnose the disorder, monitor the status of iron depletion and gain insights on its natural history and management.
The combination of 4-epi doxorubicin (4-epi-DX) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) versus 5-FU alone was studied in previously untreated patients with metastatic gastric and rectosigmoid cancer. 5-FU alone was administered at the dose of 12 mg/kg/day i.v. on days 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 every 3-4 weeks. The combination regimen included 4-epi-DX 40 mg/m2/day i.v., on days 1 and 2 (80 mg/m2/cycle) and 5-FU administered as in the single-agent schedule, but at a somewhat lower dose (10 mg/m2/day i.v. on days 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5). Sixty-two patients with gastric cancer were evaluable, 30 in the 5-FU group and 32 in 4-epi-DX + 5-FU group. The results showed 6 partial remissions out of 30 patients treated with 5-FU alone (response rate 20%) with a median remission duration of 4 months. With 4-epi-DX + 5FU the response rate was 41% (13/32) with 1 complete and 12 partial remissions. The median remission duration was 8 months. The difference in treatment results was statistically significant (p less than 0.05). In rectosigmoid cancer the group on 5-FU included 26 patients who showed a response rate of 19% (5/26). 4-epi-DX + 5-FU resulted in 6 responses (2 complete remissions, 4 partial remissions) out of 27 patients treated (22%). Median remission duration in the 5-FU group was 3 months whereas it was 6 months in the 4-epi-DX + 5-FU group. Toxicity was mild and well tolerated in both treatment modalities. The results of the study in gastric cancer showed a clear-cut superiority of 4-epi-DX + 5-FU over 5-FU alone, while no difference in response rate was observed between the two approaches in rectosigmoid cancer. Nevertheless, rectal localization of primary tumors showed a slightly better response to 4-epi-DX + 5-FU (33 vs. 16%).
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to test whether brain activation was detectable in regions previously associated with cocaine cue-induced craving.
Blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) functional activation was measured during presentation of audiovisual stimuli containing alternating intervals of drug-related and neutral scenes to six male subjects with a history of crack cocaine use and six male comparison subjects.
Significant activation was detected in the anterior cingulate and left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in the cocaine-using group. In addition, a correlation between self-reported levels of craving and activation in these regions was found.
These results suggest that functional MRI may be a useful tool to study the neurobiological basis of cue-induced craving.
To describe profound hearing loss associated with hydrocodone overuse and the successful rehabilitation of these patients with cochlear implantation.
Retrospective review.
A tertiary otologic referral center.
Twelve patients with rapidly progressive hearing loss and a concurrent history of hydrocodone overuse.
Comprehensive medical histories, physical findings, audiometric tests, and, in those patients undergoing cochlear implantation, postimplantation performance data were reviewed.
Clinical characteristics of hydrocodone-related hearing loss and open set word and sentence performance in those patients undergoing cochlear implantation.
Hydrocodone overuse was associated with rapidly progressive sensorineural hearing loss in 12 patients. In four patients the initial presentation was unilateral, and two of the patients experienced vestibular symptoms. None of the 12 patients experienced improved thresholds after high-dose prednisone. Seven of the eight patients undergoing cochlear implantation have demonstrated early success with their devices.
Hydrocodone is frequently prescribed in combination with acetaminophen for the relief of pain and has a side effects profile similar to other medications in its class. Although not described previously, overuse or abuse can be associated with a rapidly progressive sensorineural hearing loss. These patients can be successfully rehabilitated with cochlear implantation.
Intra-hippocampal injection of kainic acid (KA) in adult mice causes a focal lesion in the CA1 area and hilus of the dentate gyrus, as well as pronounced granule cell hypertrophy and dispersion. The lesion results in chronic focal seizures, with a two-week delay following KA-induced status epilepticus. Furthermore, seizures are preceded by infiltration of T lymphocytes into the lesioned tissue and of macrophage-like cells, strongly immunopositive for the monocyte marker F4/80, into the dentate gyrus, where they regulate granule cell dispersion and survival. Unexpectedly, depletion of CD4(+) and/or CD8(+) T lymphocytes by targeted gene deletion results in a marked shortening of the delay prior to seizure onset, suggesting a role of adaptive immunity in epileptogenesis (Zattoni et al. 2011, J. Neurosci. 31, 4037). Here, we investigated the specific role of adaptive immunity in this TLE model by adoptive i.v. transfer of immunopurified T cells in mutant mice lacking either CD4(+) T cells (MHCII-knockout), CD8(+) T cells (β2-microglobulin-knockout), or both populations (RAG1-knockout mice). EEG analysis in mutants mice injected with KA two days after the T cell transfer revealed that grafting of the missing T cell population had no influence on seizure onset, but strongly influenced F4/80(+) macrophage-like cell infiltration in the dentate gyrus. Specifically, CD8(+) T cells in β2-microgloblin-knockout mice enhanced macrophage recruitment, whereas CD4(+) T cells transferred in MHCII-knockout and in RAG1-knockout mice blocked macrophage infiltration, leading to reduced granule cell dispersion and survival, thereby worsening the KA-induced lesion. These results suggest that intact adaptive immunity is required for delayed seizure onset in this mouse model of TLE and unravel complex interactions between T cells and mononuclear phagocytes for the control of neuronal integrity and survival in the lesioned brain.
Despite evidence linking dopamine D(3) receptors to the etiology of Parkinson's disease and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, the potential therapeutic utility of D(3) receptor ligands remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated whether the selective D(3) receptor antagonist, S33084, affects development and expression of abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), a behavioural correlate of dyskinesia, in rats hemi-lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine and chronically treated with L-DOPA. The ability of S33084, alone or in combination with L-DOPA, to attenuate 6-hydroxydopamine induced motor deficits was also investigated employing a battery of behavioural tests. Acute administration of S33084 (0.64 mg/kg, s.c.) did not attenuate the induction of AIMs in dyskinetic rats upon challenge with L-DOPA (6 mg/kg, s.c.). Moreover, S33084 (0.64 mg/kg) did not prevent the development of AIMs affecting axial, limb and orolingual muscles when chronically administered together with L-DOPA (6 mg/kg for 21 days). However, both acute and chronic administration of S33084 enhanced L-DOPA-induced contralateral turning, suggesting potential antiparkinsonian properties. Furthermore, S33084 (0.01-0.64 mg/kg) dose-dependently attenuated parkinsonian disabilities, including bradykinesia, in drag and rotarod tests, although, in these procedures, the combination of S33084 with L-DOPA did not produce synergistic effect. It is concluded that sustained D(3) receptor blockade does not blunt L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in hemiparkinsonian rats. However, D(3) receptor antagonism may be associated with antiparkinsonian properties. The clinical relevance of these observations will be of interest to explore further.
Sinus tachycardia bigeminy, ventricular rhythm, ventricular tachycardia, and ventricular fibrillation are produced by relatively small intravenous doses of epinephrine in nonanesthetized dogs and in dogs anesthetized with thiamylal sodium. Origin of the abnormal beat in coupled bigeminal rhythms generated from the bundle o of His or above. Increases in arterial blood pressure may predispose to arrhythmia formation during thiamylal anesthesia.
Reviewing the important teratological data on anticonvulsants, the Hungarian experiences are reported. In the Hungarian Congenital Malformation Register use of the anticonvulsants diazepam and phenobarbiturates during pregnancy was determined in infants delivered with cleft lip with or without cleft palate, posterior cleft palate and, as a control, anencephaly and spina bifida. The teratogenic effect of diphenyl-hydantoin was confirmed, while that of diazepam and phenobarbital was not supported.
To describe a probable case of transient global amnesia caused by propafenone. This adverse effect has not been previously described for this agent.
A 61-year old man with a history of sick sinus syndrome with persistent atrial fibrillation and infrequent premature ventricular contractions was admitted to the hospital for symptoms of amnesia and disorientation to time, place, and date. He began taking propafenone only 6 days prior to admission because of uncontrolled atrial fibrillation and symptoms of fatigue. His atrial fibrillation subsequently had converted to normal sinus rhythm while he received propafenone without adverse effects prior to this episode. His symptoms of amnesia resolved approximately 6-7 hours after discontinuing the propafenone therapy.
Propafenone is a class 1C antiarrhythmic agent that blocks fast sodium channels in heart muscle and Purkinje fibers similar to the action of encainide and flecainide. It also produces weak beta- and calcium-channel blockade. It has a significant adverse effect profile, with 30-45% of patients reporting cardiac adverse effects and 15-20% experiencing noncardiac events. Central nervous system effects that parallel amnesia have been reported in 10-15% of the patients, including dizziness, ataxia, drowsiness, fatigue, confusion, and paranoia. Propafenone's distribution, clearance, and structural similarity to propranolol contribute to its central nervous system effects.
The rapid resolution of this patient's symptoms after discontinuing propafenone therapy and the absence of recurrence lend credence to the probability of this effect. Comparable adverse effects, such as disorientation and temporary amnesia, have been reported in patients in the analogous agent, propranolol. Consequently, this is a likely, although rare, possible adverse effect with propafenone for which patients should be monitored.
Antiarrhythmic drugs have been reported to promote the conversion of atrial fibrillation to atrial flutter in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. However, information about the electrophysiologic mechanism and response to radiofrequency ablation of these drug-induced atrial flutters is limited. Furthermore, the determinants of the development of persistent atrial flutter in patients treated for atrial fibrillation with antiarrhythmic drugs are still unknown.
Among the 136 patients treated for atrial fibrillation with amiodarone (n = 96) or propafenone (n = 40), 15 (11%, mean age 65.5 +/- 12.3 years) were identified to have subsequent development of persistent atrial flutter based on surface ECG characteristics during antiarrhythmic drug treatment. The mean interval between the beginning of drug treatment and the onset of atrial flutter was 5.0 +/- 5.5 months. Intracardiac mapping and entrainment studies revealed that 11 patients had counterclockwise typical atrial flutter, and 4 had clockwise typical atrial flutter. All 15 patients underwent successful ablation with creation of complete bidirectional isthmus conduction block. After a mean follow-up of 12.3 +/- 4.2 months, 14 (93%) of 15 patients who underwent successful ablation and continued taking antiarrhythmic drugs have remained in sinus rhythm. Univariate analysis of clinical variables demonstrated that only atrial enlargement was significantly related to the occurrence of persistent atrial flutter.
In patients with atrial fibrillation, persistent typical atrial flutter might occur during antiarrhythmic drug treatment, and atrial enlargement was a risk factor for the development of such an arrhythmia. Radiofrequency ablation and continuation of pharmacologic therapy offered a safe and effective means of achieving and maintaining sinus rhythm.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis represents a difficult disease to manage in endemic areas. Systemic treatment is hampered by both expense and compliance. Side effects may play a major role in this aspect as well.
The effectiveness of intralesional treatment of leishmaniasis was investigated. Seven hundred and ten patients were treated with injections of sodium stibogluconate intralesionally. The clinical diagnosis was confirmed by demonstrating the parasite in the smears obtained from the lesion. Fine insulin needle was used to infiltrate the lesion with sodium stibogluconate (0.5 to 1.0 mL).
Generally eight injections were sufficient, but some of the complicated lesions needed up to 24 injections. Sixty-two percent of patients were men. The majority of the study population (64%) were children below 15 years of age. The results showed that 72% of lesions healed completely, 23.9% showed some improvement, while 4.1% showed some deterioration. Lesions of the lips, cheeks, chin, and neck healed faster than lesions in other parts of the body. Side effects were mild and limited to pain at the site of the injection and hyperpigmentation in those who were treated by folk medicine.
Intralesional treatment is as effective as the standard systemic antimonials. It offers a less expensive alternative and a low side effects profile. Our findings confirmed the findings of earlier workers. It is recommended for treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis in endemic areas.
To report a case of possible ifosfamide-induced Fanconi syndrome in and adult with cancer.
A 20-year old man was treated for an osteosarcoma with a chemotherapy regimen that included ifosfamide, methotrexate, and doxorubicin. Three months after completing therapy he developed polyuria, polydypsia, and bilateral ankle pain. Laboratory findings showed decreased serum concentrations of phosphorus, uric acid, calcium potassium, and bicarbonate; elevated blood urea nitrogen and creatinine; and increased urinary excretion of phosphorus, potassium, calcium, citrate, and protein. The patient was diagnosed with Fanconi syndrome and osteomalacia. Treatment with oral supplements of potassium, sodium, citric acid, calcium, and calcitriol corrected the electrolyte abnormalities.
The adverse effect most frequently associated with ifosfamide is hemorrhagic cystitis. The incidence of hemorrhagic cystitis is decreased with the concomitant administration of the uroprotective agent mesna. The development of Fanconi syndrome after ifosfamide therapy has been described previously, although it occurs more frequently in children than adults. the mechanism by which ifosfamide causes renal tubular damage is not well understood, but it appears to involve metabolites of the drug.
The development of renal tubular defects and renal failure should be considered in patients receiving ifosfamide. Although this complication appears more frequently in children, adults also can be affected. Renal function should be monitored closely to detect the appearance of this adverse effect. Renal tubular dysfunction can, as this case illustrates, develop months after completing chemotherapy.
Oral single-dose therapy with fosfomycin-trometamol (F-T) was used in 18 patients with lower urinary tract infections. The isolated bacterial strains presented a minimum inhibitory concentration of greater than 128 micrograms/ml in vitro. In spite of this 'resistance' in vitro, a clinical and bacteriological cure was obtained in 12 cases (66%). There were relapses in 2 cases, and clinical and bacteriological failure in only 2 cases. These results are due to the high urinary levels and prolonged bactericidal activity of urine after single-dose therapy with 3-5 g F-T. The clinical and biological tolerance was very good.
Opioid peptides are thought to be involved in blood pressure regulation, possibly via an interaction with the sympathetic nervous system (CNS). To further elucidate this hypothesis the plasma concentrations of beta-endorphin, leucine-enkephalin and noradrenaline were determined overnight (9 p.m. to 8 a.m.) in young patients with mild essential hypertension and then compared to normotensive controls. The mean concentrations of beta-endorphin during the early night (9 p.m. to 2 a.m.) and leucine-enkephalin were lower (p less than 0.05, p less than 0.01, respectively) than in the normotensive subjects, but the noradrenaline concentration was higher. After 14 days of treatment with clonidine, which decreases sympathetic activity via a central action, beta-endorphin, leucine-enkephalin, and noradrenaline concentrations did not differ between both groups. It is concluded that the lower plasma concentrations of beta-endorphin and leucine-enkephalin in the hypertensive group could reflect reduced opioidergic activity in the CNS and in the peripheral sympathetic neurons and also could be involved in the increased sympathetic activity of these patients. Besides via sympathetic inhibition, clonidine also may reduce the increased blood pressure further by normalizing central beta-endorphin release.
Multiple chronic coronary artery occlusions were produced in dogs by implantation of ameroid rings on the circumflex branches of the left and right coronary artery. Sixty-five per cent of the animals survived. Seventy-seven per cent of the remaining animals had no detectable myocardial infarction. Myocardial blood flow distribution was studied 4 weeks after operation using the tracer microsphere technique. During control conditions myocardial blood flow was homogeneously distributed within the left ventricle. In one group of dogs, regional dilatory capacity was tested by intravenous infusion of dipyridamole. Four compartments of myocardial blood flow were found. The collateral dependent subendocardium with 114 ml/min-100 g-1 was the lowest perfusion rate. In another group of dogs myocardial blood flow distribution was examined during isoproterenol infusion and after beta-blockade with prindolol during continuous isoproterenol infusion. During isoproterenol infusion, a nonhomogeneous blood flow pattern was found when the heart rate increased to 200/min together with a slight fall in diastolic perfusion pressure. Under these conditions, the flow to the collateral dependent subendocardium was severely diminished, while the flow to the areas perfused by normal coronary arteries increased, reflecting compensatory vasodilation. After beta-blockade with prindolol 0.1 mg/kg, the myocardial blood flow distribution was also nonhomogeneous but in the opposite direction: the collateral dependent subendocardium was now the best perfused compartment. The flow to the areas perfused by normal coronary arteries decreased due to the reduced oxygen requirements, while the collateral dependent subendocardium remained maximally dilated. This phenomenon was explained as a postischaemic reactive hyperaemic response to the isoproterenol-induced ischaemia in the collateral dependent subendocardium.
We assessed urodynamic changes after vardenafil administration in spinal cord injured male patients on oxybutynin treatment.
We performed a single center, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled trial in 25 patients with spinal cord injury who had erectile dysfunction and micturition disorders. A baseline urodynamic test was performed as well as a second urodynamic test 1 to 3 hours after the administration of 20 mg vardenafil and placebo in 15 and 10 cases, respectively. In all patients standard oral oxybutynin administration was not discontinued. Statistical assessment included the 3 urodynamic parameters maximum detrusor pressure during voiding, maximum cystometric capacity and detrusor overactivity volume.
Placebo administration did not affect urodynamic parameters. After vardenafil administration maximum detrusor pressure was significantly decreased (59.3 vs 52.1 cm H(2)O, p <0.001) and maximum cystometric capacity considerably improved (233.5 vs 272 ml, p <0.001). The most dramatic variations were observed for detrusor overactivity volume (174 vs 218 ml, p <0.0001). In 7 patients with American Spinal Injury Association classification A and spinal cord injury above T6 we observed the most significant improvement in the evaluated urodynamic items, including maximum detrusor pressure 57 vs 52 cm H(2)O (p = 0.039), maximum cystometric capacity 253 vs 296 ml (p = 0.004) and detrusor overactivity volume 177 vs 229 ml (p = 0.003).
This trial demonstrates that in spinal cord injured patients a single 20 mg vardenafil administration achieved a significant decrease in maximum detrusor pressure, an improvement in maximum cystometric capacity and a remarkable increase in detrusor overactivity volume value.
To determine the dose-limiting toxicities, maximum-tolerated dose, and pharmacokinetics of intravenous estramustine phosphate (IV EMP).
A total of 31 patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer received IV EMP as a 30- to 90-minute infusion weekly (n = 28) or for 3 consecutive days followed by a single weekly dose (n = 3). IV EMP dose was escalated from 500 to 3,000 mg/m(2). Pharmacokinetics of EMP and the metabolites estramustine (EaM), estromustine (EoM), estradiol, and estrone were assessed after weeks 1 and 4 of treatment.
The initial IV EMP infusion caused perineal discomfort that was ameliorated by lengthening the infusion time. Other common toxicities were grade 1 to 2 hepatotoxicity, nausea or vomiting, and fatigue or malaise. Lower-extremity thrombosis occurred in one patient, and two others developed upper-extremity thrombosis associated with venous infusion catheters. Dose-limiting fatigue and hypotension occurred at 3,000 mg/m(2), and cumulative fatigue developed after multiple cycles at 2,500 mg/m(2). Mean EMP clearance, estimated steady-state volume of distribution, and elimination half-life were 3.7 L/h, 10.6 L, and 3.7 hours, respectively. Variability of EMP clearance was 21%, and variation in area under the curve per dose for the metabolites was 28% to 36%. Elimination half-lives of EoM and EaM were 110 hours and 64 hours, and peak plasma concentrations of these active metabolites exceeded 10 micromol/L after IV EMP doses greater-than-or-equal 2,000 mg/m(2).
High-dose IV EMP can be administered safely as a weekly short infusion to patients with HRPC. High peak concentrations of active metabolites after IV EMP may provide an advantage over oral EMP in antimicrotubule drug combinations.
Although sulfasalazine is widely used to treat inflammatory bowel disease, its mechanisms of action remain unclear. Activation of transcription factor nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB, which controls transcription of various pro-inflammatory cytokine genes, has been shown to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether sulfasalazine therapy affected NF-kappaB activation and the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines in patients with ulcerative colitis.
A total of 38 patients with moderate ulcerative colitis were investigated. Twenty-one patients received sulfasalazine. Seventeen patients did not receive any medication. Biopsy specimens were obtained from inflamed mucosa and analyzed for NF-kappaB DNA binding activity, NF-kappaBp65/IkappaBalpha protein expression and the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNA using electrophoretic mobility shift assay, western blot analysis, immunohistochemical staining and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis, respectively.
Increased activation of NF-kappaB and high levels of the expression of interleukin (IL)-1beta mRNA and IL-8 mRNA were detected in biopsy specimens from patients with ulcerative colitis. Therapeutic administration of sulfasalazine effectively downregulated the activation of NF-kappaB and the expression of IL-1beta mRNA and IL-8 mRNA while IkappaBalpha levels were stable.
The therapeutic benefits for ulcerative colitis of sulfasalazine might at least in part be attributed to its ability to inhibit NF-kappaB activation, resulting in the downregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNA expression.
H2 histamine receptor antagonists (H2RAs) are widely used in patients with acid-related diseases, and the onset of antisecretory activity of H2RAs is reported to be faster than that of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). The aim of this study was to compare the rapidity of onset of antisecretory activity of cimetidine and famotidine when orally administered.
Fifteen healthy male Japanese volunteers (five H. pylori-positive and 10 H. pylori-negative) participated in a randomized cross-over study. All subjects were examined three times by ambulatory 6-h pH monitoring (from 17:30 to 23:30) with no medication or oral administration of 400 mg of cimetidine or 20 mg of famotidine. Drugs were administered at 19:30 after eating a standard meal, and plasma concentrations were also examined for 4 h periods.
The plasma concentration of cimetidine increased rapidly after oral administration, while that of famotidine increased gradually. Intragastric pH was increased and percentage time with pH < 4.0 decreased significantly 2 h after administration of either cimetidine or famotidine. There was no statistically significant difference in acid-suppressing effect between cimetidine and famotidine during the short-term post-administration period.
Rapidity of antisecretory activity did not differ between oral cimetidine and famotidine administered orally.
Tacrine is a centrally acting, reversible cholinesterase inhibitor that increases synaptic levels of acetylcholine (ACh) and can potentiate the actions of dopamine (DA). The present study was conducted to evaluate effects of tacrine on cocaine-reinforced responding in a rat line selectively bred for high levels of drug self-administration (the HS line). HS rats self-administered different doses of cocaine under a fixed-ratio-5 (FR-5) schedule. Over a four-day period, vehicle or tacrine (1.0, 3.2, or 10 mg/kg-day) was infused when animals were maintained in home cages (21 h per day). Tacrine dose-dependently decreased cocaine self-administration. Actions of tacrine differed for self-administration that was initiated within 20 min of pretreatment (described as early sessions), and for self-administration that occurred between one and three days after administration of tacrine was discontinued (late sessions). Tacrine's potency for attenuating self-administration during late sessions was greater for cocaine- relative to food-reinforcement in HS rats, and for HS relative to outbred rats. In a subset of tacrine-treated HS rats, cocaine self-administration was persistently attenuated by more than 80% from pretreatment baseline levels over a one-week period during which no further tacrine was administered. In summary, pretreatment with tacrine can produce a long-lasting attenuation of cocaine-reinforced responding.
Utilizing a model of chronic doxorubicin cardiomyopathy, this study examines the relationship between changes in expression and function of calcium handling proteins and contractile dysfunction. A possible mechanism to account for this relationship is suggested. New Zealand white rabbits were injected with either doxorubicin (1 mg/kg, twice weekly for 8 wk) or 0.9% NaCl. Gene transcript, protein levels, and the function of several proteins from the left ventricle were assessed. Protein levels of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca2+ transporting ATPase (SERCA2a and b), Ca2+ release channel (RYR2), calsequestrin, Na/Ca exchanger, mRNA levels of RYR2, and [3H]-ryanodine binding (B(max)) to RYR2 were significantly decreased in doxorubicin-treated rabbits; protein levels of phospholamban, dihydropyridine receptor alpha2 subunit, and SR Ca2+ loading rates were not decreased. However, only protein levels of SERCA2 and RYR2, mRNA levels of RYR2, and Bmax of RYR2 significantly regressed with left-ventricular fractional shortening. Analysis of contractile function of atrial preparations isolated from doxorubicin-treated rabbits revealed that doxorubicin diminished contractility (dF/dt) of rest-potentiated contractions consistent with SR dysfunction. Serum concentrations of free triiodothyronine (T3) decreased in doxorubicin-treated rabbits. Our results suggest that chronic doxorubicin administration in the rabbit causes a SR-dependent contractile dysfunction that may result, in part, from decreased T3.
A study of female sex workers in China, found alarmingly high prevalence of methamphetamine use. Methamphetamine users were more likely to be single, younger, inconsistent condom users, and have syphilis.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a widely prescribed antineoplastic and although the precise mechanism(s) have yet to be identified, DOX-induced oxidative stress to mitochondrial membranes is implicated in the pathogenic process. Previous attempts to protect against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity with alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) have met with limited success, possibly as a result of inadequate delivery to relevant subcellular targets such as mitochondrial membranes. The present investigation was designed to assess whether enrichment of cardiac membranes with alpha-ocopherol is sufficient to protect against DOX-induced mitochondrial cardiotoxicity. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received seven weekly subcutaneous injections of 2 mg/kg DOX and fed either standard diet or diet supplemented with alpha-tocopherol succinate. Treatment with a cumulative dose of 14 mg/kg DOX caused mitochondrial cardiomyopathy as evidenced by histology, accumulation of oxidized cardiac proteins, and a significant decrease in mitochondrial calcium loading capacity. Maintaining rats on the alpha-tocopherol supplemented diet resulted in a significant (two- to four-fold) enrichment of cardiac mitochondrial membranes with alpha-tocopherol and diminished the content of oxidized cardiac proteins associated with DOX treatment. However, dietary alpha-tocopherol succinate failed to protect against mitochondrial dysfunction and cardiac histopathology. From this we conclude that although dietary vitamin E supplementation enriches cardiac mitochondrial membranes with alpha-tocopherol, either (1) this tocopherol enrichment is not sufficient to protect cardiac mitochondrial membranes from DOX toxicity or (2) oxidative stress alone is not responsible for the persistent mitochondrial cardiomyopathy caused by long-term DOX therapy.
