We report results of a randomized trial comparing ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine) chemotherapy alone with treatment that includes radiation therapy in patients with limited-stage Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Patients with nonbulky clinical stage I to IIA Hodgkin's lymphoma were stratified into favorable and unfavorable risk cohorts. Patients allocated to radiation-containing therapy received subtotal nodal radiation if favorable risk or combined-modality therapy if unfavorable risk. Patients allocated to ABVD received four to six treatment cycles.
We evaluated 399 patients. Median follow-up is 4.2 years. In comparison with ABVD alone, 5-year freedom from disease progression is superior in patients allocated to radiation therapy (P = .006; 93% v 87%); no differences in event-free survival (P = .06; 88% v 86%) or overall survival (P = .4; 94% v 96%) were detected. In a subset analyses comparing patients stratified into the unfavorable cohort, freedom from disease progression was superior in patients allocated to combined-modality treatment (P = .004; 95% v 88%); no difference in overall survival was detected (P = .3; 92% v 95%). Of 15 deaths observed, nine were attributed to causes other than Hodgkin's lymphoma or acute treatment-related toxicity.
In patients with limited-stage Hodgkin's lymphoma, no difference in overall survival was detected between patients randomly assigned to receive treatment that includes radiation therapy or ABVD alone. Although 5-year freedom from disease progression was superior in patients receiving radiation therapy, this advantage is offset by deaths due to causes other than progressive Hodgkin's lymphoma or acute treatment-related toxicity.
Four new cases of the white thrombus syndrome have been treated over the last 3 years. This is a rare but serious complication of heparin therapy, multifocal arterial thrombi developing in all three patients without signs of a hemorrhagic syndrome due to the thrombopenia. Physiopathologic mechanisms of this immunity phenomenon are discussed. The diagnosis should be evoked in all patients receiving heparin who on about the 10th day present vascular manifestations of the thrombosis type, rarely in association with a hemorrhage. Blood platelet levels are reduced to below 5000/mm3. Confirmation of diagnosis is by positive results of hematologic and immunologic tests. Treatment involves immediate cessation of heparin and administration of anti-platelet aggregation agents and anti-vitamins K or low molecular weight heparin, combined with arterial thrombectomy or prevention of pulmonary emboli.
In studies of patients with cardiac failure following an acute myocardial infarction, 1114 patients were followed for 7-day mortality. In the 45% of patients receiving diuretics on day 1, the death rate was twice that of patients not receiving diuretics. In patients treated 6 to 12 hours following the onset of chest pain, mortality was 2.8 times that of patients treated within 6 hours of the onset of chest pain. Randomization to methylprednisolone sodium succinate (MPSS, Solu-Medrol Sterile Powder, The Upjohn Company) did not improve the low mortality rates of those patients who did not need diuretics nor who were treated early. However, patients who were treated late and who needed diuretics and who were randomized to MPSS had a death rate half that of those who received placebo.
A prospective study was conducted to test the hypothesis that cocaine use is a risk factor for neuroleptic-induced acute dystonia (NIAD).
The study sample consisted of a high-risk group for NIAD, males aged 17-45 years who had received high-potency neuroleptics within 24 hours of admission and had not used neuroleptics in the month prior to admission. Patients were excluded if they suffered from a neurodegenerative disorder or were exposed to anticholinergics, benzodiazepines, promethazine, carbamazepine, phenytoin, or levodopa during the study. Twenty-nine patients--9 cocaine users and 20 nonusers--entered the study, which lasted 2 years. Patients were followed for 7 days.
Cocaine-using psychiatric patients developed significantly more NIAD than did nonusers (relative risk = 4.4, 95% CI = 1.4 to 13.9).
Cocaine use is a major risk factor for NIAD and should be added to the list of well-known risk factors. The authors strongly suggest that cocaine-using psychiatric patients who are started on a regimen of neuroleptics should also be administered an anticholinergic for at least 7 days to prevent NIAD.
Hypersensitivity to endotoxin is a recognized feature in cirrhosis. High-density lipoproteins (HDL) have a high capacity to inactivate endotoxin. The aim was to determine if HDL reduces the effect of endotoxin on cytokine production and systemic hemodynamics in experimental cirrhosis.
The study was performed in control and rats with carbon-tetrachloride induced cirrhosis with ascites. Hemodynamic parameters were determined before and after several doses of endotoxin. The effects of 25 microg/kg of endotoxin on the serum concentration of TNFalpha and mean arterial pressure (MAP) were determined after treatment with HDL (80 mg/kg) or saline.
Whereas endotoxin decreased MAP only at doses of 100 and 1000 microg/kg in control rats, in cirrhotic rats significant hypotension occurred at doses of 25, 50, 100 and 1000 microg/kg. Following the administration of endotoxin (25 microg/kg) the serum levels of TNFalpha were 140 times higher in cirrhotic than in control rats (89?835+/-21?090 vs. 625+/-137 pg/ml; P<0.001). Serum TNFalpha was 80% lower in cirrhotic rats pretreated with HDL (18?890+/-5012 pg/ml; P<0.001) than in those pretreated with saline. The administration of endotoxin (25 microg/kg) was associated with a significant lower decrease of MAP in cirrhotic rats pretreated with HDL than in those receiving saline (11.9+/-3.5 vs. 24.7+/-4.3%; P<0.05).
HDL attenuates the increased effect of endotoxin on cytokine production and systemic hemodynamic in cirrhosis.
Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy in Western Europe, of which approximately 10-20% presents with advanced or metastatic disease. Initial response with androgen deprivation therapy is almost universal, but progression to castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), an incurable disease, occurs in approximately 2-3 years. In recent years, the novel taxane cabazitaxel, the hormonal agents abiraterone and enzalutamide, the immunotherapeutic agent sipuleucel-T and the radiopharmaceutical radium-223 have been shown to prolong survival in large randomised trials, thus widely increasing the therapeutic armamentarium against the disease. Despite these advances, the median survival in the first-line setting of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) is still up to 25 months and in the post-docetaxel setting is about 15-18 months. There is an urgent need for the development of biomarkers of treatment response, and for a deeper understanding of tumour heterogeneity and the molecular biology underlying the disease. In this review, we attempt to provide insight into the novel molecular targets showing promise in clinical trials.
The present study was aimed to find out the protective effect of bezafibrate on lipid peroxidation (LPO), activities of both enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants and histopathological examination of pancreas in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Experimental diabetes was induced by a single dose of STZ (60mg/kg, i.p.) injection. The oxidative stress was measured by tissue LPO level, reduced glutathione (GSH) content and by enzymatic activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione reductase (GR) in liver and pancreas. Biochemical observations were further substantiated with histological examination of pancreas. The increase in blood glucose, LPO level with reduction in GSH content and decreased enzymatic activities were the salient features observed in diabetic control rats. Administration of bezafibrate (30mg/kg day, p.o.) for 15 days caused a significant reduction in blood glucose and LPO level in STZ treated rats (group III) when compared with diabetic control rats (group II). Furthermore, bezafibrate treated diabetic rats (group III) showed significant increase in the activities of both enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants when compared to diabetic control rats (group II). Degenerative changes of pancreatic beta-cells in STZ treated rats were minimized to near normal morphology by administration of bezafibrate as evident by histopathological examination. The results obtained clearly indicate the role of oxidative stress in the induction of diabetes and suggest a protective effect of bezafibrate in this animal model.
The pesticide 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane (DBCP) is a known male reproductive toxin. Previous studies employed production-grade DBCP containing allyl chloride and epichlorohydrin, both capable of producing effects similar to DBCP. The purpose of this study was to determine if purified DBCP caused the same effects as DBCP containing allyl chloride. Rats were injected for 6 mo with varying doses of pure or production-grade DBCP. Very few differences were observed in the parameters measured between pure and production-grade DBCP-treated animals at any one dose level. Treatment with 25 mg/kg DBCP, pure or production grade, reduced body weight as well as the weight of the testes, prostate glands and seminal vesicles, and elevated serum luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). This dose of pure DBCP reduced serum testosterone. Treatment with 5 mg/kg of either grade DBCP caused decreases only in body and testis weights. Animals treated with 1 mg/kg did not show any major differences from controls. These results indicate that DBCP, and probably not a contaminant, is responsible for the effects observed on male reproduction. Furthermore, DBCP appears to affect either androgen action or production since multiple androgenic indices are affected by DBCP administration.
The magnitude of acute arrhythmogenicity of doxorubicin administration has not been characterized. In this study the type and frequency of cardiac arrhythmia is determined in the first hour and first 24 hours following doxorubicin given as a 10-minute infusion. Twenty-nine patients with diverse malignancies were studied with Holter monitors on 33 postdoxorubicin days. Control recordings were made on days remote from doxorubicin treatment. The frequency of arrhythmia that could be attributed to doxorubicin was low: 3% of studies in the first hour postinfusion and 24% of studies in 1 to 24 hours postinfusion. The most commonly seen arrhythmia was an increased frequency of ventricular premature beats. Arrhythmia following doxorubicin infusion is rare in the first hour and more common in the remainder of the first 24 hours postinfusion. There are no acute or long-term adverse consequences related to the appearance of arrhythmia due to doxorubicin.
This study was carried out on 38 chronic refractory psychotic patients who received partial multimodal treatment with individually adapted doses of Haldol. The study was based on: --Howard's experiences: more than half of his chronic psychotic patients were able to leave the State Hospital because of the multimodal treatment with high individualized doses of Haldol; -Paquay and Tanghe's experiences: one-fourth to more than one-half of their chronic refractory patients showed remarkable improvement with a partial multimodal treatment. This study shows that improvement is obtained in more than 2 out of 3 cases, thus proving that the best results are obtained when an adequate selection of the patients is made. As side-effects, above all, the extrapyramidal symptoms are possible. However, their frequency and intensity are not higher than those provoked by other incisive neuroleptics or conventional doses of Haldol. Special attention should be given to any pseudodepression or neurovegetative reactions. The individualization of the doses should be carefully done.
2-Methoxyoestrogen sulphamates are a new class of compounds, which inhibit breast cancer cell proliferation and are also potent inhibitors of steroid sulphatase (STS) activity. In the present study, we have used two cell proliferation assays (MTS and AB) to identify potent new compounds in this class. Similar IC(50) values were obtained using these assays with two of the most potent compounds identified being 2-methoxyoestradiol-bis-sulphamate (2-MeOE2bisMATE) and 2-methoxyoestradiol-17beta-cyanomethyl-3-O-sulphamate (2-MeOE2CyMATE). Both compounds inhibited the proliferation of MCF-7 (ER+) and MDA-MB-231 (ER-) breast cancer cells. Using the AB assay, which allows repeat measurements of cell proliferation without killing cells, both compounds were shown to inhibit cell proliferation in an irreversible manner. As STS may be involved in the removal of the sulphamoyl moiety of these compounds, which could reduce their potency, their ability to inhibit the proliferation of MCF-7 cells transfected with the cDNA for STS was also examined. Although the STS activity was 20-fold higher in these cells than in non-transfected MCF-7 cells, no decrease in the ability of these compounds to inhibit cell proliferation was detected. To test the efficacy of these compounds in vivo, nude mice were inoculated with MCF-7 cells in Matrigel and stimulated to grow with oestradiol. Three weeks after the oral administration of 2-MeOE2bisMATE or 2-MeOE2CyMATE (20mg/kg/day, 5 days/week) tumour volumes had regressed by 52% and 22%, respectively. Both compounds also inhibited liver and tumour STS activity by >90%. The potent anti-proliferative effects of these compounds, and their ability to inhibit tumour growth and STS activity in vivo, indicates that they are suitable for development as novel therapeutic agents, which should be active against a wide range of cancers.
Symptomatic pericardial effusion (PE) occurred in two of our patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) who had taken minoxidil for control of their hypertension. One of them died from the effects of cardiogenic shock due to cardiac tamponade. The 2 patients had taken minoxidil for over 3 months. Other patients who had CRF had not developed symptomatic PE while being treated with other anti-hypertensive agents. Our experience conforms with reports from elsewhere that minoxidil may cause PE. Therefore, patients with CRF who need minoxidil as an anti-hypertensive agent should be examined regularly for clinical evidence of PE.
A 53 year old Greenlandic male was admitted twice over a period of 4 years with a new complete right bundle branch block after ingestion of 10 g and 4 g of carbamazepine respectively. In both instances, reversion of intraventricular conduction to normal occurred within 72 hours, coinciding with clearance of carbamazepine from the blood stream. We recommend routine follow up by ECG of patients over the age of 50 treated with carbamazepine.
We report a rare case of chronic facial pain following sclerotherapy for intraparotid haemolymphangioma, thereby highlighting an important clinical consideration when advising this treatment option as an alternative to surgery in the head and neck.
Case report, with a review of relevant literature.
Sclerotherapy of lymphangiomata is well reported in the literature. Unusually, our young patient with an intraparotid haemolymphangioma experienced severe, chronic pain following intralesional injection of sodium tetradecyl sulphate, which required management by a specialist pain service. We discuss the technique of sclerotherapy for such lesions, and also discuss the potential side effects of two agents commonly used in our centre: OK 432 and sodium tetradecyl sulphate.
Non-surgical treatments of lymphangiomata and venous vascular malformations are not without complication. Both patient and clinician should be aware of this, and of the other potential side effects of sclerotherapy, prior to its use in the head and neck.
To describe a reversible hypersensitivity reaction characterized by pericardial effusion and acute mixed liver injury in a woman treated with minocycline.
A 39-year-old white woman developed dyspnea and chest pain with pericardial effusion on echocardiography approximately 20 days after starting minocycline treatment. Additional manifestations consisted of eosinophilia and liver injury. No lung, skin, or joint involvement was noted; antinuclear antibody testing was negative.
Minocycline has been associated with rare but severe hypersensitivity reactions and autoimmune disorders, generally involving the lungs, skin, or joints. We observed a patient with an unusual minocycline-induced reaction with pericardial effusion and acute mixed liver injury. The number of spontaneously reported cases in national and international databases indicates that minocycline-induced pericardial effusion is very rare as a main clinical manifestation.
Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of pericardial effusion without lung, skin, or joint involvement as an adverse effect of minocycline.
Ten consecutive patients with chorea of different etiologies were treated with trifluoroperazine, 7 were adults and 3 children; all the patients received symptomatic benefit from the medication, the effective dose ranged from 4 to 16 milligrams. The medication was well tolerated and proved to be effective a long period of time. Biochemical and pathophysiological aspects of chorea and its relations to the medication are discussed.
Sleep in epileptic patients with complex partial seizures has been considered as being less well organized than in normal subjects. This study attempted to precise whether this disorganization could be related to the length of the disease and could be improved by carbamazepine treatment. The study was performed in 15 patients with recently diagnosed (less than 3 months) and untreated temporal lobe epilepsy. Neurologic examination and CT scan were normal. Patients did not present a generalized seizure in the preceding 48 hours and during the study. Nocturnal sleep polygraphic recordings were performed: 2 recordings before treatment and 2 others after one month of carbamazepine administration (800 mg/day). Before treatment sleep was characterized by a marked instability (increase in awakenings, shifts in sleep stages, waking after sleep onset, stage 1 duration) when compared to normal subjects. Carbamazepine treatment improved sleep stability. Our data support the hypothesis of another possible mechanism than the occurrence of seizures to explain the disorganization of sleep in temporal lobe epilepsy. On the other hand sleep instability could not be related to the length of the disease since it existed soon after its onset. Carbamazepine treatment improved sleep stability and this improvement could play a role in the therapeutic effect of the drug.
The effects of the synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 on dopamine receptor-mediated alleviation of akinesia were evaluated in the reserpine-treated rat model of parkinsonism. The dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole (0.1 mg/kg, ip) caused a significant alleviation of the akinesia. This effect was significantly reduced by coinjection with the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg). The simultaneous administration of the cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR 141716A (3 mg/kg, ip) with quinpirole and WIN 55,212-2 blocked the effect of WIN 55,212-2 on quinpirole-induced alleviation of akinesia. The selective dopamine D1 receptor agonist chloro-APB (SKF82958, 0.1 mg/kg) alleviated akinesia in a significant manner. WIN 55,212-2 (0.1-1 mg/kg, ip) did not affect the antiakinetic effect of chloro-APB. Combined injection of both D1 and D2 dopamine receptor agonists (both at either 0.1 or 0.02 mg/kg) resulted in a marked synergism of the antiakinetic effect. WIN 55,212-2 (0.1-1 mg/kg) significantly reduced the antiakinetic effect of combined injections of quinpirole and chloro-APB at both 0.1 and 0.02 mg/kg. The effect of 0.3 mg/kg WIN 55,212-2 on combined D1 and D2 agonist-induced locomotion (0.02 mg/kg) was blocked by SR 141761A (3 mg/kg). Neither WIN 55,212-2 alone (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) nor SR 141716A (3 and 30 mg/kg) alone had an antiparkinsonian effect. These results suggest that cannabinoids may modulate neurotransmission in the pathway linking the striatum indirectly to basal ganglia outputs via the lateral globus pallidus and the subthalamic nucleus.
To describe the clinical features of persons who developed central retinal vein occlusion (CVO) while being treated with Coumadin for chronic anticoagulation.
In a retrospective, comparative, noninterventional case series of patients diagnosed with CVO while being treated with Coumadin as a systemic anticoagulant, visual and anatomical outcomes were compared with those for a cohort of patients diagnosed with CVO who were not treated with any systemic anticoagulation.
Fourteen eyes of 14 patients treated with Coumadin were identified. At presentation, the median international normalization ratio (INR) was 2.20 (range, 1.3-5.0). Eight patients (57%) had a therapeutic INR at the time of CVO. Their visual acuity and perfusion status were similar to those of patients with subtherapeutic INR. At the last follow-up (median, 16 months), visual acuity and perfusion status of the group of 14 eyes were similar to baseline findings (P = 0.62). Clinical features and outcomes were similar to those for a cohort of patients with CVO who were not being treated with systemic anticoagulation.
CVO can occur in patients being treated with Coumadin for systemic anticoagulation. Final visual acuity and perfusion status were similar to those in a cohort of patients with CVO who were not treated with Coumadin. Although visual acuity is unaffected, ensuring that the INR for these patients remains in the therapeutic range may be important to help prevent secondary systemic thrombotic and embolic disease.
Two studies were performed on a total of 54 patients with staphylococcal infections. Study I compares with phlebitogenic properties of flucloxacillin after intravenous infusions when either saline or sterile water was used as a solvent. No difference was observed between the two solvents, and the frequency of phlebitis for the total material without respect to solvents was 5% after 1 day of treatment and 13% after 2 days. Study II was a double-blind comparison of phlebitis caused by intravenous infusions of either flucloxacillin or cloxacillin. The frequencies of phlebitis were found to be 18 and 13%, respectively. After 2 days of treatment the frequency of phlebitis increased dramatically for both drugs. All infusions were given through a plastic cannula of 5-cm length and 1.2-mm diameter.
We analyzed pretreatment characteristics of patients with postremission acute myeloid leukemia (AML) treated with high-dose cytarabine (HIDAC) during a recent Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) trial to determine risk factors associated with HIDAC neurotoxicity.
One hundred seventy-six patients received at least one course of HIDAC as part of a CALGB protocol designed to determine the optimal dose of cytarabine (ara-C) for postremission treatment of AML. HIDAC consisted of 3 g/m2 ara-C infused over 3 hours at 12-hour intervals on days 1, 3, and 5. The pretreatment characteristics of 170 patients were available for risk analyses.
Eighteen patients (10%) experienced neurotoxicity. Univariate analyses demonstrated associations between the occurrence of neurotoxicity and elevated serum creatinine, age, and alkaline phosphatase (AP). Multivariate analysis showed that these variables were independent risk factors. These findings were used to construct a risk model with the following parameters: creatinine greater than or equal to 1.2 mg/dL, age greater than or equal to 40 years, and AP greater than or equal to 3 x normal. Seventeen of 46 (37%) patients with two or more of these criteria developed neurotoxicity compared with one of 124 (1%) patients with one or none. The sensitivity and specificity of this model were 94% and 81%, respectively.
We conclude that patients with two or more of the following parameters may be at increased risk for HIDAC neurotoxicity: (creatinine greater than or equal to 1.2 mg/dL, age greater than or equal to 40, and AP greater than or equal to 3 x normal). However, this model should be confirmed by analysis of additional groups of patients treated with HIDAC.
Elevated levels of homocysteine have been observed in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients treated with levodopa. However, it is not studied if duration of PD or PD per se is associated with hyperhomocysteinemia. In the present study, the levels of homocysteine in 99 levodopa-treated PD patients, 15 untreated PD patients and 100 controls were examined. We focused on the influence of levodopa dose, duration of therapy and disease as well as genetic (C677T methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) polymorphism) and environmental factors. We found that levodopa-treated PD patients had elevated homocysteine plasma levels as compared to controls (p < 0.05), but the levels did not depend on levodopa doses. Another factor influencing homocysteine level was the duration of PD (p < 0.001). The frequency of allele C677T of MTHFR gene did not differ between PD and controls. In conclusion, hyperhomocysteinemia is associated with the duration of PD and levodopa treatment and possibly also with PD per se.
A case of propofol infusion syndrome in a patient with respiratory failure and sepsis is reported.
A 36-year-old Hispanic woman was admitted to the medical intensive care unit for treatment of respiratory failure and sepsis, likely secondary to pneumonia. Her medical history included human immunodeficiency virus infection and chronic hepatitis C virus infection. She was intubated and placed on mechanical ventilation. Empirical i.v. antimicrobial therapy was initiated with vancomycin, moxifloxacin, piperacillin-tazobactam, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and micafungin, along with corticosteroids and vasopressors. Propofol 1.5 mg/kg per hour i.v. and midazolam i.v. were initiated for sedation, but the dosages of both propofol and midazolam needed to be increased due to persistent agitation. On hospital day 7, the patient developed a morbilliform rash on her neck, shoulders, and chest and multiple abnormal laboratory test values, including elevated levels of alanine transaminase, aspartate transaminase, amylase, lipase, creatine kinase, and triglycerides. Serial electrocardiograms revealed sinus tachycardia. Computed tomography of the abdomen showed hepatomegaly with fatty infiltration of the liver, no gallstones, and a normal pancreas. I.V. phenobarbital was added for sedation, and propofol was tapered and discontinued on the same day. The patient responded adequately to phenobarbital maintenance therapy and was eventually weaned off all other sedatives. The patient's laboratory test values returned to normal within 72 hours after discontinuation of the propofol infusion, and the rash and tachycardia resolved.
Propofol infusion syndrome developed in a patient with respiratory failure and sepsis after a prolonged infusion of high-dose propofol.
A 46-year-old man suffering from neurotic depression complicated by alcohol and benzodiazepine dependence developed Coombs'-positive hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia with acute renal failure after 5 weeks of monotherapy with doxepin at a final dosage of 100 mg daily. The patient recovered completely after discontinuation of doxepin, blood exchange transfusion, and repeated hemodialyses. He had no history of hematologic abnormalities, exposure to other toxins, or glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. Because other etiologic factors were ruled out, the short interval between the onset of the patient's hemolytic crisis and the administration of doxepin highly suggests that doxepin was associated with the complication. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first report of this adverse effect following doxepin administration.
Amiodarone is believed to have caused acute hepatitis 24 hours after intravenous administration in two patients in whom no other alternative cause of hepatitis was found.
To evaluate the safety of concurrent treatment with trastuzumab and high-dose chemotherapy (HDC), using cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU), with autologous hematopoietic progenitor cells support, in patients with HER2+ advanced breast cancer.
Patients with HER2-overexpressing high-risk primary breast cancer (HRPBC; defined as > or =4 involved nodes or inflammatory disease), or metastatic breast cancer (MBC) were eligible. Treatment consisted of a loading dose of trastuzumab at 4 mg/kg (day -5), HDC (days -5 to -2), autologous hematopoietic progenitor cells infusion on day 0, and weekly maintenance trastuzumab (2 mg/kg) from day +1 (minimum of 9 doses). Cardiac monitoring included serial left ventricular ejection fraction measurements before treatment and on days +20 and +65.
Thirty-three patients were prospectively enrolled (13 HRPBC, 20 MBC). Toxicity seemed similar to that expected with this HDC regimen alone. Neutrophils and platelets engrafted promptly. There were no cases of grade 4 or 5 toxicity. One patient experienced symptomatic grade 3 acute cardiac failure on day -4, responsive to treatment. Trastuzumab did not alter the pharmacokinetics of HDC. Eleven of twelve MBC patients with measurable disease (nine of them refractory to previous chemotherapy) experienced an objective response (9 complete and 2 partial responses). At median follow-up of 34 (13-58) months, all HRPBC patients remain alive and free of disease; the MBC group has event-free survival and overall survival rates of 45 and 70%, respectively.
Incorporation of trastuzumab into HDC (cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and BCNU) is feasible, with no apparent increased toxicity or pharmacokinetic interactions.
