The appearance and progression of essential hypertension is associated with increasing age. Older patients also frequently have an abnormally elevated systolic blood pressure (SBP) [> or =140 mmHg] without an elevated diastolic blood pressure (DBP) [< or =90 mmHg], a phenomenon known as isolated systolic hypertension. Thus, management of hypertension in elderly patients requires agents that can effectively treat isolated systolic hypertension as well as essential hypertension.
The aim of this analysis was to assess the efficacy and safety of the angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist (angiotensin receptor blocker [ARB]) olmesartan medoxomil in elderly patients with either essential hypertension or isolated systolic hypertension.
Efficacy data were obtained from two studies and safety data from an Integrated Summary of Safety. The efficacy of individually optimized doses of olmesartan medoxomil 20 or 40 mg/day, with or without hydrochlorothiazide, in elderly patients (> or =65 years) was assessed in two separate randomized, double-blind studies. One study assessed DBP changes in 251 patients with essential hypertension (mean seated DBP [seDBP] 100-114 mmHg and mean seated SBP [seSBP] >150 mmHg); the other study evaluated SBP changes in 256 patients with isolated systolic hypertension (mean seSBP >160 mmHg and mean seDBP <90 mmHg). Safety and tolerability were assessed in each study and in an Integrated Summary of Safety, which comprised data from 1646 hypertensive patients aged > or =65 years.
In patients with essential hypertension, 12 weeks of treatment reduced mean seDBP (primary efficacy parameter) by 17.9 mmHg; mean seSBP was also significantly reduced. At study end (week 52), the proportion of diastolic responders (seDBP < or =90 mmHg) was 93%. In patients with isolated systolic hypertension, mean seSBP was reduced by 30.0 mmHg at week 12 (primary efficacy parameter); mean seDBP was only slightly reduced. At study end (week 24), the proportion of systolic responders (seSBP < or =135 mmHg) was 62.5%. Reductions in blood pressure (BP) were maintained throughout treatment in both patient populations. In each study, doubling the olmesartan medoxomil dose from 20 to 40 mg/day or adding hydrochlorothiazide delivered additional BP-lowering efficacy without any tolerability concerns, and the Integrated Summary of Safety also showed that olmesartan medoxomil with or without hydrochlorothiazide was well tolerated. Efficacy and safety results were similar in elderly (65-74 years) and very elderly (> or =75 years) patients.
Olmesartan medoxomil provides effective and well tolerated control of hypertension in elderly patients with either essential hypertension or isolated systolic hypertension.
Numerous strategies have been proposed to specifically inhibit telomerase (human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT)) but to date only a few are clinically relevant in anticancer therapy. Recently, we have shown that long-term treatment with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), a compound clinically approved for differentiation therapy of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), represses hTERT in differentiation-resistant APL cell lines leading to telomere shortening and death. This signaling requires the co-activation of the retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARalpha) and the retinoic X receptor (RXR). In contrast to differentiation-therapy, which is only successful in this subtype of leukemia, the telomerase-targeted pathway could also be of use in non-APL. Here, we demonstrate that repression of hTERT occurs in fresh blasts cells from patients with myeloid leukemias of various subtypes exposed ex vivo to ATRA or synthetic retinoids. These results support the idea that, by hTERT targeting, retinoids can induce telomere shortening and cell death and their integration in therapy protocols for myeloid leukemias refractory to maturation should be considered.
Endocarditis prophylaxis following genitourinary or gastrointestinal procedures targets Enterococcus faecalis. Prophylaxis recommendations advocate oral amoxicillin (2 g in the United States and 3 g in the United Kingdom) in moderate-risk patients and intravenous amoxicillin (2 g) or vancomycin (1 g) plus gentamicin in high-risk patients. While ampicillin-resistant (or amoxicillin-resistant) E. faecalis is still rare, there is a concern that these regimens might fail against vancomycin-resistant and/or aminoglycoside-resistant isolates. The present study tested oral linezolid as an alternative. Rats with catheter-induced aortic vegetations were given prophylaxis simulating human pharmacokinetics of oral amoxicillin (2- to 3-g single dose), oral linezolid (600 mg, single or multiple oral doses every 12 h), or intravenous vancomycin (1-g single dose). Rats were then inoculated with the minimum inoculum infecting 90% of the animals (90% infective dose [ID(90)]) or with 10 times the ID(90) of the vancomycin-susceptible E. faecalis strain JH2-2 or the vancomycin-resistant (VanA phenotype) E. faecalis strain UCN41. Amoxicillin was also tested with two additional vancomycin-susceptible E. faecalis strains, 309 and 1209. Animals were sacrificed 3 days later. All the tested bacteria were susceptible to amoxicillin and gentamicin. Single-dose amoxicillin provided 100% protection against all four isolates at both the ID(90) and 10 times the ID(90). In contrast, linezolid required up to four consecutive doses to provide full protection against the vancomycin-resistant isolate. Vancomycin protected only against the vancomycin-susceptible strain. The high efficacy of single-dose oral amoxicillin suggests that this regimen could be used for prophylaxis in both moderate-risk and high-risk patients without additional aminoglycosides. Linezolid appears to be less reliable, at least against the vancomycin-resistant strain.
The aim of this study was to determine whether the prostaglandin synthase inhibitor indomethacin reverses the inflammation and abnormal gallbladder contractility that occur after common bile duct ligation (CBDL), a model of acute cholecystitis.
Gallbladder muscle contractility was studied in vitro in normal, CBDL, and sham-operated guinea pigs. Animals were treated with saline or indomethacin in vivo. Acetylcholine (ACh) was used to directly contract the muscle and electric field stimulation (EFS) to activate intrinsic nerves. Hematoxylin and eosin-stained slides of muscle strips were scored for inflammation.
CBDL in saline-treated animals increased the inflammation score and decreased gallbladder muscle contractility to ACh and EFS. Indomethacin decreased the inflammation score and partly reversed the smooth muscle contractile response to ACh 6 and 24 h after CBDL, but not at 48 h. Indomethacin did not reverse the CBDL-induced decrease in nerve-evoked contractions.
Gallbladder inflammation and contractile dysfunction after CBDL are partly reversed with indomethacin at 6 and 24 h, but not at 48 h. This suggests that, early in the course of CBDL, the inflammation and contractile dysfunction are, in part, prostaglandin-mediated.
The carcinogenicity of inhaled 1,3-butadiene was evaluated in C57BL/6 x C3H F1 mice exposed to concentrations of this gas ranging from 6.25 to 625 ppm. Butadiene is a high production volume chemical, used mainly in the manufacture of synthetic rubber. In these 2-yr inhalation studies, a potent multisite carcinogenic response was observed, including neoplasms of the lung at concentrations as low as 6.25 ppm. Early occurrence and extensive development of lethal lymphocytic lymphomas in mice exposed to 625 ppm of butadiene reduced the number of animals at risk for the expression of later developing neoplasms at other sites; at lower exposure concentrations, dose responses were demonstrated for hemangiosarcomas of the heart and neoplasms of the lung, forestomach, Harderian gland, preputial gland, liver, mammary gland, and ovary. So far, no long-term studies on butadiene have been conducted at exposure concentrations that have not shown a carcinogenic response. In separate experiments with reduced exposure durations, butadiene induced neoplastic responses at multiple organ sites even after only 13 wk of exposure. Because of the correspondence between these animal data and recent epidemiology findings, there is a worldwide public health need to reevaluate current workplace exposure standards for 1,3-butadiene.
Clinical studies demonstrate a positive correlation between the extent of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activation and malignant progression of precancerous lesions. Therefore, identification of effective, well-tolerated MMP inhibitors represents a rational chemopreventive strategy. A variety of agents, including proteinases and thiol-oxidizing compounds, activate MMPs by initiating release of the propeptide's cysteine sulfur "blockage" of the MMP active site. Despite the importance of the propeptide's cysteine thiol in preserving MMP latency, limited studies have evaluated the effects of reduced thiols on MMP function. This study investigated the effects of two naturally occurring nonprotein thiols, i.e., glutathione (GSH) and N-acetylcysteine (NAC), on activation, function, and cellular-extracellular matrix interactions of the basement-membrane-degrading gelatinase, MMP-9. Our results reveal that NAC and GSH employ protein S-thiolation to inhibit organomercurial activation of pro-MMP-9. Gelatinase activity assays showed that GSH and NAC significantly inhibited MMP-9 but not MMP-2 function, implying isoform structural specificity. Immunoblot analyses, which suggested GSH interacts with MMP-9's active-site Zn, were corroborated by computational molecular modeling. Cell invasion assays revealed that NAC enhanced endostatin's ability to inhibit human cancer cell invasion. Collectively, these data demonstrate that nonprotein thiols suppress MMP-9 activation and function and introduce the prospect for their use in chemopreventive applications.
The use of propylthiouracil (PTU) has been associated with various forms of vasculitis. We herein describe the case of a patient with Grave's disease who, after years of PTU therapy, developed a necrotizing vasculitis with anti-serine protease-3 antibodies. Despite treatment with corticosteroids and cyclophosphamide, the patient died of intra-alveolar hemorrhage secondary to her vasculitis. Based on the vessel size involved, the organ distribution of pathologic findings, and lack of granulomas, autopsy findings were felt to be more consistent with microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) than with her original clinical diagnosis of Wegener's granulomatosis. Her case satisfied both clinical and pathologic criteria for MPA. An MPA diagnosis is important to consider in similar clinical presentations because therapy may just need to be early withdrawal of an inciting drug, such as PTU, and the initiation of corticosteroids without cytotoxic therapy.
A 57-year-old woman had undergone partial mastectomy with subsequent radiotherapy for cancer of the breast. About 8 weeks after starting adjuvant treatment with tamoxifen (20 mg daily) pain, cooling and livid discoloration developed in her fingers and toes. Skin necroses over finger tips occurred and she was found to have visual field defects and double images.
There was no clinical or laboratory evidence of recurrence of the breast cancer. Tests of clotting and for inflammatory disease and complement levels were within normal limits. The antinuclear antibody titre was low (1:320) and the measured value of the rheumatoid factor reached the fourfold of normal level. Ophthalmoscopy revealed signs of retinal ischaemia, unilateral papilloedema, reduced visual acuity, visual field and abduction weakness. Duplex sonography and angiography demonstrated multiple occlusions of the finger arteries.
After tamoxifen had been discontinued and prostaglandin E1 administered (40 micrograms over one hour twice daily for 21 days) the symptoms rapidly and markedly improved, the necroses of the finger tips healed and the ophthalmoscopic changes regressed almost completely.
Tamoxifen, by inducing thrombophilia, can cause thromboembolic occlusions of peripheral arteries, and must in that case be discontinued.
Most patients with liver cancer are diagnosed when they are not suitable for resection. Although some palliative approaches can be applied to these patients, the overall survival rate remains unsatisfactory. Active hexose correlated compound (AHCC), a newly developed functional food, has been shown to act as a potent biological response modifier in in vitro experiments. Recently, AHCC was found to improve the prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma patients following surgical treatment. We investigated whether AHCC could prolong survival and improve the prognosis of patients with advanced liver cancer. A prospective cohort study was performed with 44 patients with histologically confirmed liver cancer. All of the patients underwent supportive care. Survival time, quality of life, clinical and immunological parameters related to liver function, cellular immunity, and patient status were determined. Of the 44 patients, 34 and 10 received AHCC and placebo (control) orally, respectively. Patients in the AHCC treated-group had a significantly prolonged survival when compared to the control group by Mann-Whitney test (95% CI, p = 0.000). Quality of life in terms of mental stability, general physical health status, and ability to have normal activities were significantly improved after 3 months of AHCC treatment when tested using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test (on one-sided test, p = 0.028, 0.037, and 0.040, respectively). The apparent different clinical parameters between the two groups were the levels of albumin and percentage of lymphocytes with p-values of 0.000 and 0.026 at 1 and 2 months after treatment, respectively. Unlike the control patients, AHCC treated-patients with longer survival time had the tendency of better outcomes since the levels of AST and ALT had not increased rapidly from their baselines at follow-up. In addition, the levels of total IL-12 and neopterin were slightly increased in AHCC treated-patients. This study suggests that AHCC intake could prolong the survival and improve the prognosis of patients with advanced liver cancer and delay the gradual decline of their physiological status.
Central core disease and malignant hyperthermia (MH) are both associated with mutations in the RYR1 gene. We report the anaesthetic management of one such patient presenting for coronary artery bypass grafting. Her medication included aspirin 75 mg, atorvastatin 20 mg, isosorbide mononitrate 60 mg, atenolol 25 mg and glyceryl trinitrite sublingual spray as required. The use of aprotinin, statins and moderate hypothermia in patients with central core disease and known susceptibility to MH has not been documented.
Unilateral pallidotomy is a safe and effective treatment for medically refractory bradykinetic Parkinson's disease, especially in those patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesia and severe on-off fluctuations. The efficacy of bilateral pallidotomy is less certain. The authors completed 11 of 12 attempted bilateral pallidotomies among 150 patients undergoing pallidotomy at New York University. In all but one patient, the pallidotomies were separated by at least 9 months. Patients were selected for bilateral pallidotomy if they exhibited bilateral rigidity, bradykinesia, or levodopa-induced dyskinesia prior to treatment or if they exhibited disease progression contralateral to their previously treated side. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and timed upper-extremity tasks of the Core Assessment Protocol for Intracerebral Transplantation (CAPIT) were administered to all 12 patients in the "off" state (12 hours without receiving medications) preoperatively and again at 6 and 12 months after each procedure. The median UPDRS and contralateral CAPIT scores improved 60% following the initial procedure (p = 0.008, Wilcoxon rank sums test). The second pallidotomy generated only an additional 10% improvement in the UPDRS and CAPIT scores ipsilateral to the original procedure (p = 0.05). Worsened speech was observed in two cases. In the 12th case, total speech arrest was noted during test stimulation. Speech returned within minutes after stimulation was halted. Lesioning was not performed. These results indicate that bilateral pallidotomy has a narrow therapeutic window. Motor improvement ipsilateral to the first lesion leaves little room for further improvement from the second lesion and the risk of speech deficit is greatly enhanced. Chronic pallidal stimulation contralateral to a previously successful pallidotomy may prove to be a safer alternative for the subset of patients who require bilateral procedures.
A resurgence of interest in the surgical treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) came with the rediscovery of posteroventral pallidotomy by Laitinen in 1985. Laitinen's procedure improved most symptoms in drug-resistant PD, which engendered wide interest in the neurosurgical community. Another lesioning procedure, ventrolateral thalamotomy, has become a powerful alternative to stimulate the nucleus ventralis intermedius, producing high long-term success rates and low morbidity rates. Pallidal stimulation has not met with the same success. According to the literature pallidotomy improves the "on" symptoms of PD, such as dyskinesias, as well as the "off" symptoms, such as rigidity, bradykinesia, and on-off fluctuations. Pallidal stimulation improves bradykinesia and rigidity to a minor extent; however, its strength seems to be in improving levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Stimulation often produces an improvement in the hyper- or dyskinetic upper limbs, but increases the "freezing" phenomenon in the lower limbs at the same time. Considering the small increase in the patient's independence, the high costs of bilateral implants, and the difficulty most patients experience in handling the devices, the question arises as to whether bilateral pallidal stimulation is a real alternative to pallidotomy.
Fifty-five patients underwent radiosurgical placement of lesions either in the thalamus (27 patients) or globus pallidus (28 patients) for treatment of movement disorders. Patients were evaluated pre- and postoperatively by a team of observers skilled in the assessment of gait and movement disorders who were blinded to the procedure performed. They were not associated with the surgical team and concomitantly and blindly also assessed a group of 11 control patients with Parkinson's disease who did not undergo any surgical procedures. All stereotactic lesions were made with the Leksell gamma unit using the 4-mm secondary collimator helmet and a single isocenter with dose maximums from 120 to 160 Gy. Clinical follow-up evaluation indicated that 88% of patients who underwent thalamotomy became tremor free or nearly tremor free. Statistically significant improvements in performance were noted in the independent assessments of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) scores in the patients undergoing thalamotomy. Eighty-five and seven-tenths percent of patients undergoing pallidotomy who had exhibited levodopa-induced dyskinesias had total or near-total relief of that symptom. Clinical assessment indicated improvement of bradykinesia and rigidity in 64.3% of patients who underwent pallidotomy. Independent blinded assessments did not reveal statistically significant improvements in Hoehn and Yahr scores or UPDRS scores. On the other hand, 64.7% of patients showed improvements in subscores of the UPDRS, including activities of daily living (58%), total contralateral score (58%), and contralateral motor scores (47%). Ipsilateral total UPDRS and ipsilateral motor scores were both improved in 59% of patients. One (1.8%) of 55 patients experienced a homonymous hemianopsia 9 months after pallidotomy due to an unexpectedly large lesion. No other complications of any kind were seen. Follow-up neuroimaging confirmed correct lesion location in all patients, with a mean maximum deviation from the planned target of 1 mm in the vertical axis. Measurements of lesions at regular interals on postoperative magnetic resonance images demonstrated considerable variability in lesion volumes. The safety and efficacy of functional lesions made with the gamma knife appear to be similar to those made with the assistance of electrophysiological guidance with open functional stereotactic procedures. Functional lesions may be made safely and accurately using gamma knife radiosurgical techniques. The efficacy is equivalent to that reported for open techniques that use radiofrequency lesioning methods with electrophysiological guidance. Complications are very infrequent with the radiosurgical method. The use of functional radiosurgical lesioning to treat movement disorders is particularly attractive in older patients and those with major systemic diseases or coagulopathies; its use in the general movement disorder population seems reasonable as well.
Therapeutic doses of ibuprofen (2-4'-isobutylphenyl-propionic acid) have been shown to have many deleterious effects on the nervous system. However, visual disturbances have been reported in fewer than 1% of the patients taking recommended doses of ibuprofen. The most commonly reported visual disturbances include: amblyopia, scotomata, and changes in color vision. To our knowledge, no studies have examined the effects of ibuprofen therapy on the contrast sensitivity function of an affected individual. Contrast sensitivity, Snellen visual acuity, color vision (D-15 test), and Goldmann visual fields were measured on 1 affected subject during and after ibuprofen therapy (800 mg/day for 2 days). Snellen visual acuity, color vision, and Goldmann visual fields were unaffected by the treatment. However, the contrast sensitivity was significantly depressed at low spatial frequencies while the subject was taking ibuprofen. The results, in concert with previous reports concerning the visual effects of ibuprofen, suggest that this drug can result in transient multifocal lesions of the visual pathway.
Sulfur mustard (SM; 2,2(')-dichloroethyl sulfide) is a percutaneous alkylating agent first used as a chemical weapon at Ypres, Belgium, in World War I. Despite its well-documented history, the primary lesions effecting dermal-epidermal separation and latent onset of incapacitating blisters remain poorly understood. By immunofluorescent imaging of human epidermal keratinocytes (HEK) and epidermal tissues exposed to SM (400 microM for 5 min), we have amassed unequivocal evidence that SM disrupts adhesion complex molecules, which are also disrupted by epidermolysis bullosa-type blistering diseases of the skin. Images of keratin 14 (K14) in control cells showed tentlike filament networks linking the HEK's basolateral anchoring sites to the dorsal surface of its nuclei. Images from 6-h postexposure profiles revealed early disruption (</=1 h) and progressive collapse of the K14 cytoskeleton. Collapse involved focal erosions, loss of functional asymmetry, and displacement of nuclei beneath a mat of jumbled filaments. In complementary studies, 1-h images showed statistically significant (p<0.01) decreases of 25 to 30% in emissions from labeled alpha(6)beta(4) integrin and laminin 5, plus disruption of their receptor-ligand organization. Results indicate that SM alkylation destabilizes dermal-epidermal attachments and potentiates vesication by disrupting adhesion complex molecules and associated signaling mechanisms required for their maintenance and repair.
Activating gene rearrangements of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) have been identified as driver mutations in non-small-cell lung cancer, inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors, and other cancers. Crizotinib, a dual MET/ALK inhibitor, has demonstrated promising clinical activity in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer and inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors harboring ALK translocations. Inhibitors of driver kinases often elicit kinase domain mutations that confer resistance, and such mutations have been successfully predicted using in vitro mutagenesis screens. Here, this approach was used to discover an extensive set of ALK mutations that can confer resistance to crizotinib. Mutations at 16 residues were identified, structurally clustered into five regions around the kinase active site, which conferred varying degrees of resistance. The screen successfully predicted the L1196M, C1156Y, and F1174L mutations, recently identified in crizotinib-resistant patients. In separate studies, we demonstrated that crizotinib has relatively modest potency in ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer cell lines. A more potent ALK inhibitor, TAE684, maintained substantial activity against mutations that conferred resistance to crizotinib. Our study identifies multiple novel mutations in ALK that may confer clinical resistance to crizotinib, suggests that crizotinib's narrow selectivity window may underlie its susceptibility to such resistance and demonstrates that a more potent ALK inhibitor may be effective at overcoming resistance.
Okadaic acid (OA), dinophysistoxin-1 (DTX-1), and dinophysistoxin-2 (DTX-2) are algal toxins that can accumulate in shellfish and cause diarrhetic shellfish poisoning. Recent studies indicate that DTX-2 is about half as toxic and has about half the affinity for protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) as OA. NMR structural studies showed that DTX-1 possessed an equatorial 35-methyl group but that DTX-2 had an axial 35-methyl group. Molecular modeling studies indicated that an axial 35-methyl could exhibit unfavorable interactions in the PP2A binding site, and this has been proposed as the reason for the reduced toxicity of DTX-2. Statistical analyses of published data indicate that the affinity of PP2A for DTX-1 is 1.6-fold higher, and for DTX-2 is 2-fold lower, than for OA. We obtained X-ray crystal structures of DTX-1 and DTX-2 bound to PP2A. The crystal structures independently confirm the C-35 stereochemistries determined in the earlier NMR study. The structure for the DTX-1 complex was virtually identical to that of the OA-PP2A complex, except for the presence of the equatorial 35-methyl on the ligand. The favorable placement of the equatorial 35-methyl group of DTX-1 against the aromatic pi-bonds of His191 may account for the increased affinity of PP2A toward DTX-1. In contrast, the axial 35-methyl of DTX-2 caused the side chain of His191 to rotate 140 degrees so that it pointed toward the solvent, thereby opening one end of the hydrophobic binding cage. This rearrangement to accommodate the unfavorable interaction from the axial 35-methyl of DTX-2 reduces the binding energy and appears to be responsible for the reduced affinity of PP2A for DTX-2. These results highlight the potential of molecular modeling studies for understanding the relative toxicity of analogues once the binding site at the molecular target has been properly characterized.
Spontaneously beating rat heart Langendorff preparations, perfused with Tyrode solution under low flow conditions (1.62 +/- 0.47 ml/min at 55 mmHg), were used to investigate the role of adenosine in the coronary flow control, by means of adenosine-deaminase injections into the perfusion system. Adenosine deaminase did not influence the control coronary flow, but significantly reduced autoregulation, hypoxic vasodilation, reactive hyperemia and functional adrenaline-induced hyperemia. All these effects, excepting the hypoxic vasodilation reduction, dependent upon the moment of enzyme injection during the experiment. Under the mentioned conditions adenosine seems to be responsible for more than half of the autoregulation of the coronary flow. Adenosine deaminase completely abolished reactive hyperemia during control perfusion but only delayed it under adrenaline perfusion.
Loss of T-cadherin expression has been reported in a number of human cancers. We previously reported that T-cadherin re-expression suppressed cell growth and motility in glioma. Here, we report that the T-cadherin expression was significantly decreased in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) compared to adjacent normal liver. In addition, T-cadherin expression in HCC with metastasis was significantly lower than in HCC without metastasis. To determine the mechanism underlying the reduced T-cadherin expression in HCC, we examined T-cadherin promoter methylation. We found that methylation of the T-cadherin promoter was present in 40% of HCC, but absent in all adjacent liver tissues. In the HCC with T-cadherin promoter methylation, the T-cadherin expression was significantly decreased compared to HCC without methylation. To provide a functional link between T-cadherin promoter methylation and T-cadherin growth regulation, we used the HepG2 hepatoma cell line that exhibits T-cadherin promoter methylation. Treatment of HepG2 cells with the demethylating agent 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine resulted in increased T-cadherin expression and reduced cell proliferation. These results demonstrate that the T-cadherin down-regulation by promoter methylation is associated with the development and progression of HCC, and suggest that T-cadherin is an important tumor suppressor in liver cancer.
The ability of cocaine to interact with sigma receptors indicates that these sites may mediate the negative properties associated with cocaine use, such as toxicity and addiction. Previous studies have shown that the novel sigma receptor ligand, BD1008 (N-[2-(3,4-dicholophenyl)ethyl]-N-methyl-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)ethylam ine), effectively protects against cocaine-induced convulsions and locomotor activity in mice. Therefore, BD1047 ([2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-N-methyl-2-(diamino)ethylamine) and LR172 (N-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-N-methyl-2-(1-homopiperidinyl)eth ylamine), two analogs of BD1008, were tested to determine if they also have anti-cocaine properties. Receptor binding assays showed that BD1047 and LR172 both have high affinities for a receptors, but low to negligible affinities for dopamine, opioid, phencyclidine, and 5-HT2 sites. In behavioral studies, pretreatment of mice with BD1047 or LR172 reduced the convulsions, lethality, and locomotor activity produced by cocaine. The data indicates a possible role for sigma receptor ligands in the treatment of cocaine overdose and addiction.
Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) rarely occurs in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). A 36-year-old Asian female was diagnosed with MDS (refractory cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia, RCMD) and complicated by AIHA 7 months later. Secondary myelofibrosis developed at the same time. Steroid therapy was ineffective and cyclosporin A (CsA) was discontinued due to its neurotoxicity with the development of leukoencephalopathy. However, the patient achieved a good hematological response after the use of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF, CellCept) with a dose of 1 g/day and prednisolone (15 mg/day). Prednisolone was tapered off over the next 3 weeks. The patient did not require any blood support 4 weeks after the use of MMF and has been hematologically stable for 4 months. To our knowledge, this is the first report of using MMF in treating MDS complicated by AIHA. MMF might be considered as a salvage therapy for patients with refractory anemia complicated by AIHA.
To determine definitively the morphology of neuronal death from lithium-pilocarpine (LPC)-and kainic acid (KA)-induced status epilepticus (SE), and to correlate this with markers of DNA fragmentation that have been associated with cellular apoptosis. Endogenous glutamate release is probably responsible for neuronal death in both seizure models, because neuronal death in both is N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated.
SE was induced for 3 hours in adult male Wistar rats with either LPC or KA, and 24 or 72 hours later the rats were killed. One group of rats had brain sections, stained with hematoxylin and eosin and the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) technique, examined by light microscopy and by electron microscopy. A separate group of rats had DNA extracted from the same brain regions examined by electron microscopy in the first group. The extracted DNA was electrophoresed on an agarose gel with ethidium bromide and was examined for the presence or absence of internucleosomal DNA cleavage (DNA "laddering").
Twenty-four and 72 hours after 3 hours of LPC- or KA-induced SE, neuronal death in the hippocampus, amygdala, and piriform, entorhinal, and frontal cortices was morphologically necrotic, in spite of DNA laddering in these regions 24 and 72 hours after SE and positive TUNEL staining in some of the regions 72 hours after SE. Ultrastructurally, necrotic neurons were dark and shrunken, with cytoplasmic vacuoles and pyknotic nuclei with small, irregular, dispersed chromatin clumps.
Our results, together with those of other reports, suggest that programmed cell death-promoting mechanisms are activated by SE in neurons that become necrotic rather than apoptotic and point to the possibility that such mechanisms may contribute to SE-induced neuronal necrosis.
To study when dendritic alteration can occur in the epileptic hippocampus and how it is influenced by epileptic axonal reorganization.
Human specimens and the rat pilocarpine model were used. Dentate granule cells (DGCs) were visualized by intracellular biocytin injection for spine count.
In the rat pilocarpine model, dendrites of DGCs revealed a generalized spine loss immediately after the acute status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine. However, this generalized damage was transient and was followed by recovery and plastic changes in spine shape and density, which occurred 15 to 35 days after the initial acute status, i.e., during the period of establishing a chronic phase of this model with the induction of spontaneous seizures. In human epileptic hippocampi, spine density was significantly higher when DGCs generated aberrant mossy fiber collaterals. This was particularly so in the proximal dendrite of DGCs, where the aberrant collaterals were densely localized. These findings suggest that initial acute seizures do not cause permanent damage in dendrites and spines of DGCs and that dendritic spines of epileptic neurons can respond to changes in the local cellular environment, including newly formed afferents, in a plastic manner.
Dendritic spines are dynamically maintained in chronic epilepsy during the course of establishment and maintenance of spontaneous seizures. Local dendritic spine alteration, detected later in the chronic phase of epilepsy, must have a separate cause from initial acute insults.
Nephrotic syndrome induced by puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) is characterized by tubulointerstitial (TI) inflammation, foci of TI fibrosis, and increased renal mRNA levels for matrix genes, the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMP), and the transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1). To investigate the ability of a low-protein diet known to decrease TI inflammation to alter the degree of renal fibrosis, we studied four groups of rats: 27% protein PAN, 27% protein control, 8% protein PAN, and 8% protein control. Renal TGF-beta 1 mRNA levels correlated with the number of interstitial macrophages (r = 0.76) and were significantly reduced by dietary protein restriction. On day 10, Northern blot analysis showed that the elevated renal mRNA levels for procollagens alpha 1 (I), alpha 1(III), and alpha 2(IV) and fibronectin in the PAN-treated rats were significantly reduced by 8% dietary protein. In contrast, genes regulating matrix degradation (stromelysin and TIMP) were relatively unchanged by the low-protein diet. The number of foci of interstitial fibrosis and total renal collagen were greater in the PAN + 27% protein group than in the control groups. Both parameters of fibrosis were partially normalized in the PAN + 8% protein group. The results of this study suggest that dietary protein restriction attenuates TI fibrosis in PAN-induced nephrosis by partially reversing the increase in renal matrix synthesis. This effect was associated with decreased renal expression of the fibrogenic cytokine TGF-beta 1, which may be partially mediated by the concomitant reduction in the number of interstitial inflammatory macrophages.
Diethylstilbestrol (DES), a nonsteroidal estrogen, was widely used in the United States from 1940 through 1971 to prevent pregnancy loss. In the late 1960s, an association was made with an increased incidence of clear cell adenocarcinoma in young women exposed in utero to DES. Additional study of these women over the next 35 years has shown an increased risk of other health problems including intraepithelial neoplasia, ectopic pregnancy, first trimester spontaneous abortion and second trimester pregnancy loss. The National Institutes of Health continues to fund studies to follow cohorts of DES-exposed mothers, daughters, sons and third generation children. The Centers for Disease Control have conducted a large DES Education Project and have established guidelines for management. The following six cases studies illustrate common problems seen in DES exposed daughters and management of problems encountered.
Loss-of-function mutations in the nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) inhibitor Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1) result in increased Nrf2 activity in non-small cell lung cancer and confer therapeutic resistance. We detected point mutations in Keap1 gene, leading to nonconservative amino acid substitutions in prostate cancer cells. We found novel transcriptional and posttranscriptional mechanisms of Keap1 inactivation, such as promoter CpG island hypermethylation and aberrant splicing of Keap1, in DU-145 cells. Very low levels of Keap1 mRNA were detected in DU-145 cells, which significantly increased by treatment with DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-aza-deoxycytidine. The loss of Keap1 function led to an enhanced activity of Nrf2 and its downstream electrophile/drug detoxification pathway. Inhibition of Nrf2 expression in DU-145 cells by RNA interference attenuated the expression of glutathione, thioredoxin, and the drug efflux pathways involved in counteracting electrophiles, oxidative stress, and detoxification of a broad spectrum of drugs. DU-145 cells constitutively expressing Nrf2 short hairpin RNA had lower levels of total glutathione and higher levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species. Attenuation of Nrf2 function in DU-145 cells enhanced sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugs and radiation-induced cell death. In addition, inhibition of Nrf2 greatly suppressed in vitro and in vivo tumor growth of DU-145 prostate cancer cells. Thus, targeting the Nrf2 pathway in prostate cancer cells may provide a novel strategy to enhance chemotherapy and radiotherapy responsiveness and ameliorate the growth and tumorigenicity, leading to improved clinical outcomes.
