Rise in cellular calcium is associated with acute tubular necrosis, the most common cause of acute renal failure (ARF). The mechanisms that calcium signaling induce in the quiescent tubular cells to proliferate and differentiate during acute tubular necrosis have not been elucidated.
Acute tubular necrosis induced in mice by single intravenous injection of uranyl nitrate and examined after 1, 3, 7, and 14 days. Renal function was monitored and kidneys were evaluated by histology, immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, in situ hybridization, and real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Models of folic acid induced-ARF and ischemic/reperfusion (I/R) injury were similarly investigated.
Analysis of mRNA expression of intracellular calcium and phospholipid-binding proteins demonstrated selective expression of S100A6 and Annexin A2 (Anxa2) in the renal cortex with marked elevation on day 3, and gradually decline on day 7 and further attenuation on day 14. Similarly, the expression of both proteins, as demonstrated by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis, was increased and reached the peak level on day 7 and then gradually declined by day 14. Vimentin, a marker of dedifferentiated cells, was highly expressed during the recovery phase. Combined in situ hybridization immunohistochemistry revealed colocalization of both S100A6 and Anxa2 with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). The universality of this phenomenon was confirmed in two other mouse acute tubular necrosis models, the ischemic-reperfusion injury and folic acid-induced ARF.
Collectively, these findings demonstrate that S100A6 and Anxa2 expression, initiated in response to tubular injury, persist in parallel throughout the recovery process of tubular cells in acute renal failure.
We previously demonstrated that chronic hypoxia has pivotal roles in the progression of tubulointerstitial injury from the early stage of the uninephrectomized Thy1 nephritis model. We have also shown that pretreatment of cobalt confers renoprotection in the ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury, in association with the up-regulation of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-regulated genes. Here, we tested the hypothesis that cobalt administration not only attenuates acute ischemic insult, but also ameliorates tubulointerstitial injury secondary to chronic hypoxia.
We applied sustained cobalt treatment to the uninephrectomized Thy1 nephritis model at 3 to 5 weeks, when tubular hypoxia appeared. Histologic evaluation, including glomerular and peritubular capillary networks, was made at 8 weeks. HIF activation was confirmed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analyses for HIF-regulated genes, such as erythropoietin (EPO), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1). Up-regulation of HIF-1alpha and HIF-regulated genes was also verified by Western blotting analysis. To elucidate responsible mechanisms of cobalt in the amelioration of tubuloniterstitial injury, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate (dUTP) nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining was conducted at 5 weeks. A combination therapy with angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), olmesartan, was also challenged.
Although the intervention did not change glomerular structural damage or urinary protein excretion rate, tubulointerstitial injury was improved in cobalt-treated animals when compared with the vehicle-treated group. The amelioration was associated with the parallel up-regulation of renoprotective, HIF-regulated gene expression. TUNEL staining revealed that the number of apoptotic cells was reduced in the cortex by cobalt administration, suggesting that renoprotection was achieved partly through its antiapoptotic properties. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that cobalt treatment exerts additional renoprotective effects with the ARB treatment in this model.
Maneuvers to activate HIF in the ischemic tubulointerstitium will be a new direction to future therapeutic strategies.
Toxic irreversible encephalopathic syndromes developed in 2 patients treated with lithium carbonate and haloperidol. Symptoms consisted of lethargy, fever, tremulousness, confusion, and extrapyramidal and cerebellar dysfunction, accompanied by leucocytosis and elevated serum enzyme, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine and fasting blood glucose levels. One patient suffered widespread irreversible brain damage; the other was left with persistent dyskinesias. Although causal factors have not been identified, this report and others in the literature suggest that diffuse irreversible encephalopathy may occasionally develop in individuals with abnormal brain sensitivity to the lithium carbonate/haloperidol combination. Evidence for this is based on the fact that in our patients and others mentioned in the literature the dosage and blood levels of lithium were not high.
We examined whether recruitment maneuvers (RMs) with gradual increase in airway pressure (RAMP) provide better outcome than continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) in paraquat-induced acute lung injury (ALI). Wistar rats received saline intraperitoneally (0.5 mL, CTRL) or paraquat (15 mg/kg, ALI). Twenty-four hours later lung mechanics [static elastance, viscoelastic component of elastance, resistive, viscoelastic and total pressures] were determined before and after recruitment with 40cmH2O CPAP for 40s or 40-s-long slow increase in pressure up to 40cmH2O (RAMP) followed by 0 or 5 cmH2O PEEP. Fractional area of alveolar collapse and PCIII mRNA were determined. All mechanical parameters and the fraction area of alveolar collapse were higher in ALI compared to CTRL. Only RAMP-PEEP maneuver significantly improved lung mechanics and decreased PCIII mRNA expression (53%) compared with ALI, while both RMs followed by PEEP decreased alveolar collapse. In conclusion, in the present experimental ALI model, RAMP followed by 5cm H2O PEEP yields a better outcome.
We investigated the anti-hyperalgesic effect of FR140423, 3-(difluoromethyl)-1-(4-methoxyphenyl-5-[4-(methylsulfinyl)phenyl]pyrazole, in a rat model of postoperative pain. Oral administration of FR140423 at doses between 1 and 100 mg/kg after surgery dose dependently attenuated the punctate mechanical hyperalgesia caused by an incision of the plantar surface of the hind paw with an ED50 value of 59 mg/kg. The anti-hyperalgesic effect of systematically administered FR140423 was blocked by naloxone, a non-selective opioid receptor antagonist. Furthermore, the delta-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole (0.2 mg/kg) reversed anti-hyperalgesia induced by FR140423. Naloxonazine and nor-binaltorphimine failed to antagonize the anti-hyperalgesic effect of FR140423. The action of FR140423 differs from the naloxonazine-reversible anti-hyperalgesia induced by morphine. The present findings suggest that delta-opioid systems play a role in the rat anti-hyperalgesia produced by FR140423 for postoperative pain characterized by mechanical hyperalgesia.
In previous studies we have shown that cisplatin inhibits peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPAR-alpha) activity and consequently fatty acid oxidation, and these events precede proximal tubule cell death. In addition the use of fibrate class of PPAR-alpha ligands ameliorate renal function by preventing both inhibition of fatty acid oxidation and proximal tubule cell death.
LLC-PK1 cells were treated with cisplatin and apoptosis was established by the presence of nuclear fragmentation and by cell cycle analysis. Proximal tubular cells treated with cisplatin and bezafibrate were subjected to sub cellular fractionation and the presence of Bax, Bcl-2, cytochrome c, and active caspase-3 in the cytosolic and mitochondrial membrane fractions was determined by Western blot analysis. PPAR-alpha activity was measured by determining luciferase activity after transfection of LLC-PK1 cells with TK-Luc 3x PPAR response elements (PPRE), and the accumulation of nonesterified free fatty acids was measured in lysates obtained from cells treated with cisplatin and bezafibrate.
Incubation of LLC-PK1 cells with 25 micromol/L cisplatin for 18 hours induced 41.5% apoptosis measured by cell cycle analysis. Cisplatin-induced apoptosis was significantly suppressed by bezafibrate, a fibrate class of PPAR-alpha ligand. Bezafibrate treatment of LLC-PK1 cells prevented cisplatin-induced translocation of proapoptotic Bax from the cytosol to the mitochondrial fraction, and increased the expression of antiapoptotic molecule Bcl-2. Cisplatin-induced inhibition of PPAR-alpha activity was accompanied by increased accumulation of nonesterified free fatty acids. Pretreatment with bezafibrate prevented both the inhibition of PPAR-alpha activity and the accumulation of nonesterified free fatty acids induced by cisplatin. Finally, bezafibrate prevented cisplatin-induced release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria to the cytosol, and the cleavage of procaspase-3 to active caspase-3.
Bezafibrate treatment inhibits cisplatin-mediated tubular injury by preventing the activation of various cellular mechanisms that lead to proximal tubule cell death. These findings support our previous observations where the use of fibrates represents a novel strategy to ameliorate proximal tubule cell death in cisplatin-induced acute renal failure.
To evaluate client treatment retention and evolution in terms of living conditions, at-risk behaviours, and the use of psychoactive substances (PAS) over a one-year period, following admission into a low-threshold methadone program in Montreal.
Individual interviews were administered to 114 clients from Relais-Méthadone (RM) at admission and one year after treatment initiation. Participants reported on PAS consumption and unsafe practices of drug use and sexual behaviours at high risk for transmission of HIV, sexually transmitted infections (STI) and other blood-borne viruses (BBV). Services utilized by clients were documented from Relais-Méthadone files. Bivariate analyses were used to compare data recorded at admission and one-year follow-up.
The treatment retention rate after one year at RM was 64%. However, by taking into account those clients who were transferred to a regular program during the study period, as well as those who voluntarily tapered their methadone treatment (16.7%), the status of 80.7% of clients demonstrated improvement one year after admission into treatment. Furthermore, the clients who remained in treatment for a year for whom information was available (n = 60) showed a tendency towards more stable living conditions. They also demonstrated a significant decrease in both the number of PAS injections and in risky behaviours related to drug consumption. A statistically significant decrease in the frequency of heroine and cocaine use was also observed. By contrast, however, two thirds of the individuals in treatment after a year (n = 42) maintained or increased their daily consumption of other PAS.
The treatment retention rate is comparable to other low or regular threshold substitution programs. The results support previous studies showing that the methadone substitution treatment reduces heroine and cocaine consumption, and decreases the number of unsafe behaviours that could potentially transmit HIV, STI and BBV for the majority of clients who remained in treatment. Future research could focus attention on people who abandon treatment and those who present at-risk behaviours during treatment.
Contact allergy to p-tert-butylphenol-formaldehyde resin is not rare. This resin consists of a large number of substances, most of which are unknown. For diagnostic and preventive reasons, the chemical identity of the sensitizers should be known as well as their sensitizing capacities, cross-reaction patterns and presence in the environment. The aim of this study was to investigate the sensitizing capacities and cross-reaction patterns for 5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-3-hydroxymethyl-benzaldehyde and 5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-benzaldehyde in the guinea pig maximization test. 2,6-Dimethylol p-tert-butylphenol, p-tert-butylcate chol, 2-methylol p-tert-butylphenol, p-tert-butylphenol, 4-tert-butyl-2-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-3-hydroxymethyl-benzyloxymethyl)-6-hydroxymethyl-phenol and 4-tert-butyl-2-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-benzyloxymethyl)-phenol were used as potential cross-reacting substances. 5-tert-Butyl-2-hydroxy-3-hydroxymethyl-benzaldehyde was shown to be a sensitizer (p = 0.041). In animals induced with this compound no cross-reactions to the putative cross-reacting substances were seen. In contrast, 5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-benzaldehyde failed to induce sensitization and no cross-reactions were detected.
5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-AZA-CdR) is an inhibitor of DNA methylation, and its antileukemic activity has been shown in preclinical and clinical studies. This paper describes the ability of 5-AZA-CdR to inhibit DNA methylation, DNA synthesis and cell growth in several human neuroblastoma cell lines. The stability of cell growth inhibition was ascertained, as well as the ability of the metabolite thymidine to enhance the antiproliferative effect of 5-AZA-CdR. The activity of phosphorylating enzyme deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) was correlated to different levels of sensitivity in several cell lines. The results obtained indicate that 5-AZA-CdR may be an agent for the chemotherapy of neuroblastoma.
Oxidative stress and inflammation are implicated in the pathogenesis of cisplatin-induced toxicity. Pycnogenol® is known for its strong antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. In this study, the possible protective effects of pycnogenol on kidney, bone marrow, and red blood cells in rats treated with cisplatin were investigated. The rats were divided into four groups. Group 1 was the control and groups 2, 3, and 4 were orally treated with pycnogenol (200 mg/kg bw, o.p) for 5 days, treated with cisplatin (7 mg/kg bw, i.p.) on the fifth day and treated with cisplatin plus pycnogenol, respectively. Antioxidative parameters in kidney and red blood cells were measured. Chromosome anomalies in bone marrow and renal histopathology were also investigated. Activities of pro-oxidant enzymes (myeloperoxidase and xanthine oxidase), malondialdehyde, and nitric oxide levels significantly increased but antioxidant enzymes activities decreased in the kidneys and red blood cells after cisplatin treatment. Pycnogenol treatment prior to the administration of cisplatin significantly decreased cisplatin-induced injury, as evidenced by its normalizing these parameters. Chromosomal aberrations decreased and mitotic index frequencies increased in bone marrow treated with cisplatin plus pycnogenol. These findings suggest that pycnogenol may be a useful protective agent against the toxicity associated with cisplatin therapy.
Pendrin is a transport protein exchanging chloride for other anions, such as iodide in the thyroid gland or bicarbonate in the inner ear. Mutations in the SLC26A4 gene encoding for pendrin are responsible for both syndromic (Pendred syndrome) and non-syndromic (non-syndromic enlarged vestibular aqueduct, EVA) hearing loss. Besides clinical and radiological assessments, molecular and functional studies are essential for the correct diagnosis of Pendred syndrome and non-syndromic EVA. While a broad spectrum of mutations found in the Caucasian population has been functionally characterized, little is known about mutations specifically occurring in the populations of the Middle East. Here we show the characterization of the ion transport activity of three pendrin mutations previously found in deaf patients with EVA in the Israeli Jewish and Palestinian Arab populations, i.e. V239D, G334V X335 and I487Y FSX39.
Wild type and mutated pendrin allelic variants were functionally characterized in a heterologous over-expression system. The Cl(-)/I(-) and Cl(-)/OH(-) exchange activities were assessed by fluorometric methods suitable for measuring iodide fluxes and the intracellular pH.
Both the Cl(-)/I(-) and the Cl(-)/OH(-) exchange activities of pendrin V239D, G334V X335 and I487Y FSX39 were significantly reduced with respect to the wild type, with V239D displaying a residual iodide transport.
Functional assays confirmed the diagnosis of non-syndromic EVA due to SLC26A4 mutations performed by radiological and molecular tests in deaf patients belonging to the Israeli Jewish and Palestinian Arab populations. The new finding that the V239D mutation displays residual function suggests that the symptoms caused by this mutation could be ameliorated by a pendrin 'activator', if available.
1 Catalepsy was produced in rats and mice by the subcutaneous injection of either tetrabenazine or the butyrophenone U-32,802A (4'-fluoro-4-{[4-(p-fluorophenyl)-3-cyclohexen-1-yl]amino} butyrophenone hydrochloride). Catalepsy was evaluated by the duration of total immobility on a vertical grid.2 Pretreatment with p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) reduced the intensity of catalepsy by 50% or more, whereas its time course remained the same.3 5-Hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), 10 mg/kg, enhanced the catalepsy induced by U-32,802A or tetrabenazine, provided it was administered soon (45 min) after the neuroleptic; injections at 90 min had no effect. Otherwise untreated rats given this dose of 5-HTP behaved normally on the grid.4 The anticataleptic effect of PCPA was reversed by 5-HTP.5 Measurable changes in 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) metabolism in the rat forebrain accompanied the modification of catalepsy by 5-HTP and PCPA.6 Methysergide (5 mg/kg) given 30 min before the neuroleptics to either mice or rats reduced the catalepsy, assessed 2.5 h after the methysergide. It also prevented the increase in neuroleptic-induced catalepsy following 5-HTP, 10 mg/kg.7 Tryptophan, like 5-HTP, increased the catalepsy seen in mice after U-32,802A and tetrabenazine, and increased the production of 5-hydroxyindol-3-ylacetic acid in the forebrain.8 In the rat, intracerebroventricular injection of physostigmine produced catalepsy which was not modified by methysergide or PCPA but was abolished by atropine. Similarly, in the mouse, catalepsy induced by the subcutaneous injection of pilocarpine was abolished by atropine but not affected by either methysergide or 5-HTP.9 Atropine greatly reduced the catalepsy induced by U-32,802A and tetrabenazine but lowered striatal homovanillic acid (HVA) only after U-32,802A. D,L-DOPA, 20 mg/kg, diminished the cataleptogenic effect of both neuroleptics and raised striatal HVA.10 The results support the view that there is a facilitating or permissive action of 5-HT-containing neurones on neuroleptic-induced catalepsy.
Melatonin affects the circadian sleep/wake cycle, but it is not clear whether it may influence drug-induced narcosis. Sodium thiopenthal was administered intraperitoneally into male rats pre-treated with melatonin (0.05, 0.5, 5 and 50 mg/kg). Melatonin pre-treatment affected in a dual manner barbiturate narcosis, however, no dose-effect correlation was found. In particular, low doses reduced the latency to and prolonged the duration of barbiturate narcosis. In contrast, the highest dose of melatonin (50 mg/kg) caused a paradoxical increase in the latency and produced a sustained reduction of the duration of narcosis, and a reduction in mortality rate. Melatonin 0.5 and 5 mg/kg influenced the duration but not the latency of ketamine- or diazepam-induced narcosis. Thus, the dual action of melatonin on pharmacological narcosis seems to be specific for the barbiturate mechanism of action.
Indomethacin decreases cerebral blood flow. Such an effect in humans might offer the possibility to establish a human model of cerebral ischemia. In the present study the effects of a single oral dose of 100 mg indomethacin were studied in male subjects with quantitative electroencephalography, cerebral blood flow velocity and the memory comparison task as parameters. Twelve healthy male students (age 23.2 +/- 2.6 years) were studied. Before the test day the memory comparison task was performed twice (parallel versions). On the test day baseline recordings of quantitative electroencephalography were obtained, together with measurement of blood flow velocity. Ninety minutes after indomethacin ingestion recordings of quantitative electroencephalography and blood flow velocity were repeated and a parallel version of the memory comparison task was performed. The blood flow velocity decreased to 60% of the initial value; quantitative electroencephalography showed a -0.3 Hz slowing of the alpha peak frequency (p less than 0.01) and a decrease in the relative power of the alpha band (p less than 0.10) without any change in the delta or theta band. The memory comparison task showed an increase of the slope index (p less than 0.05), indicating a deterioration of cognitive functioning.
The urinary excretion rate of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha) was determined in patients with the nephrotic syndrome both before and after an oral water load in 21 patients and 17 control subjects, and before and after remission of the syndrome in 8 of the patients. In the nephrotic syndrome PGE2 excretion rate varied considerably during basal conditions, remission was accompanied by an increase in the PGE2 excretion, and both basal PGF2 alpha excretion rate and the normal response in PGF2 alpha water loading were reduced. A significant, positive correlation was found between urine flow rate and excretion rate of PGE2 in the periods with the largest urine flow rate in both patients and control subjects. It is suggested that a relatively suppressed renal prostaglandin production may be a pathogenetic factor for sodium and water retention in the nephrotic syndrome, although it cannot be excluded that the abnormal prostaglandin excretion pattern is secondary, at least partially, to the reduction of urine flow rate.
Espins are actin bundling proteins present in hair cell stereocilia. A recessive mutation in the espin gene (Espn) has been detected in the jerker mouse and causes deafness, vestibular dysfunction, and hair cell degeneration. More recently mutations in the human espin gene (ESPN) have been described in two families affected by autosomal recessive hearing loss and vestibular areflexia.
To report the identification of four additional ESPN mutations (S719R, D744N, R774Q, and delK848) in patients affected by autosomal dominant hearing loss without vestibular involvement.
To determine whether the mutated ESPN alleles affected the biological activity of the corresponding espin proteins in vivo, their ability to target and elongate the parallel actin bundles of brush border microvilli was investigated in transfected LLC-PK1-CL4 epithelial cells. For three mutated alleles clear abnormalities in microvillar length or distribution were obtained.
The results further strengthen the causative role of the espin gene in non-syndromic hearing loss and add new insights into espin structure and function.
Five cases of encephalitis following treatment with diethylcarbamazine (DEC) were observed in Congolese patients with Loa loa filariasis. Two cases had a fatal outcome and one resulted in severe sequelae. The notable fact was that this complication occurred in three patients hospitalized before treatment began, with whom particularly strict therapeutic precautions were taken, i.e., initial dose less than 10 mg of DEC, very gradual dose increases, and associated anti-allergic treatment. This type of drug-induced complication may not be that uncommon in highly endemic regions. It occurs primarily, but not exclusively, in subjects presenting with a high microfilarial load. The relationship between the occurrence of encephalitis and the decrease in microfilaremia is evident. The pathophysiological mechanisms are discussed in the light of these observations and the few other comments on this subject published in the literature.
A biopsy-proved case of acute interstitial nephritis related to the use of cimetidine in duodenal ulcer disease is presented. The biopsy findings support a strong clinical impression of a hypersensitivity nephritis.
The effect of norepinephine, an adrenomietic drug, and of pyrroxane, its antagonist, on diethylnitrosoamine (DENA) hepatocarcinogenesis was studied in albino rats. Norepinephrine was found to stimulate carcinogenesis, whereas pyrroxane--to inhibit this process; the latter drug decreased the incidence of multicentric tumours of the liver. In vitro experiments on the isolated rat atria showed low DENA concentrations (1x10(-6) to 1x10(-8) M) to sensitize the atrium adrenoreceptors to the endogenous and exogenous norepinephrine. A new hypothesis on the adrenergic component in the DENA carcinogenic effect caused by the endogenous norepinephrine is presented.
The effects of a reversible activator of adenylate cyclase sclareol glycol (SG), a semisynthetic diterpene of the labdane family, on acute hypoxia (asphyctic, hemic-induced by 300 mg/kg of sodium nitrite injected subcutaneously, and histotoxic-induced by 20 mg/kg sodium nitroprusside injected intraperitoneally) in mice were studied. SG was applied at doses well below the lethal dose. SG increased the latency to convulsions and the survival time to death. It is suggested that the antihypoxic effects of SG on these three models of acute hypoxia are induced mainly via its effects on adenylate cyclase and perhaps its involvement in synaptic transmitter action.
Administration of tamoxifen to rats results in liver tumours with a latency time that is dependent on the strain of rat used. Wistar and Lewis rats develop liver tumours more rapidly than Fischer rats. Significant increases in the number of apoptotic hepatocytes were found in the Wistar and Lewis strains of rats after they were fed tamoxifen for up to 6 months, but not in Fischer rats. By 6 months of exposure to tamoxifen there were liver tumours in the Wistar and Lewis rats, but not the Fischers. Sustained elevations of the PCNA labelling index were found in the livers of tamoxifen-treated Wistar and Lewis rats, over the first 6 months of tamoxifen treatment, but not Fischers. It is proposed that sustained cell death by apoptosis may play a role in the mechanism of promotion of tamoxifen-induced liver tumours, by causing liver hyperplasia. To support this concept it has been shown that cyloheximide, which causes apoptosis but not necrosis in the rat liver, causes DNA synthesis and cell division in hepatocytes.
Rapamycin (sirolimus) is associated with functional nephrotoxicity in some patients with nephrotic glomerular diseases but the pathophysiologic mechanisms are not known. This study investigated the effects of rapamycin on renal function and structure in protein overload nephropathy.
Rats with protein overload nephropathy [induced by bovine serum albumin (BSA), 2.1 g by daily intraperitoneal injection, day 0 to day 3] received daily intraperitoneal injections of either vehicle [dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)], rapamycin (0.2 mg/kg, an inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin), or roscovitine (3.5 mg/kg, a small molecule cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor) (N= 9 each) from day -3 to day 3.
In protein overload nephropathy, rapamycin caused severe acute renal failure and mild hypercholesterolemia (both P < 0.05). Rapamycin dramatically increased intratubular cast formation, and proximal tubular epithelial cells were swollen and engorged with increased cytoplasmic protein droplets. The number of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive tubular epithelial cells increased by more than 20-fold on day 3 in protein overload nephropathy, and this was attenuated by 65% with rapamycin (P < 0.05), whereas roscovitine was ineffective. Rapamycin increased the protein expression of p27(kip1) in tubular epithelial cells, but did not alter D-type cyclin expression or apoptosis.
Rapamycin caused a specific pattern of acute renal injury characterized by increased intratubular cast formation in protein overload nephropathy. This could be due to disruption of a potentially important compensatory mechanism in nephrotic glomerular diseases involving tubular epithelial cell protein endocytosis and proliferation.
Lipid peroxidation (LPO) is known to be associated with liver fibrosis in chronic liver injury. However, direct effects of the products of LPO on liver fibrogenesis have not been demonstrated. In this study, we examined the LPO products of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)+corn oil to evaluate the effect of LPO products on liver fibrosis. CCl4 was given twice a week for 8 weeks. Corn oil was given daily to rats at a dose of 2 or 10ml/kg via gastrogavage throughout the whole experiment period. CCl4 induced both cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 independent and COX-2 dependent LPO. COX-2 independent LPO was enhanced by corn oil treatment while no effect was reflected on COX-2 dependent LPO. CCl4-induced liver fibrosis in rats was not aggravated by corn oil treatment. In addition, the amount of fatty liver induced by CCl4 was increased by corn oil treatment. Though the inflammation-related UCP-2 mRNA expression was induced by CCl4, it was not aggravated by the enhancement of corn oil.
corn oil enriches polyunsaturated fatty acids through COX-2 independent pathways to increase LPO products that do not enhance liver fibrosis induced by CCl4.
