We report a genome-wide association study for melanoma that was conducted by the GenoMEL Consortium. Our discovery phase included 2,981 individuals with melanoma and 1,982 study-specific control individuals of European ancestry, as well as an additional 6,426 control subjects from French or British populations, all of whom were genotyped for 317,000 or 610,000 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Our analysis replicated previously known melanoma susceptibility loci. Seven new regions with at least one SNP with P < 10(-5) and further local imputed or genotyped support were selected for replication using two other genome-wide studies (from Australia and Texas, USA). Additional replication came from case-control series from the UK and The Netherlands. Variants at three of the seven loci replicated at P < 10(-3): an SNP in ATM (rs1801516, overall P = 3.4 × 10(-9)), an SNP in MX2 (rs45430, P = 2.9 × 10(-9)) and an SNP adjacent to CASP8 (rs13016963, P = 8.6 × 10(-10)). A fourth locus near CCND1 remains of potential interest, showing suggestive but inconclusive evidence of replication (rs1485993, overall P = 4.6 × 10(-7) under a fixed-effects model and P = 1.2 × 10(-3) under a random-effects model). These newly associated variants showed no association with nevus or pigmentation phenotypes in a large British case-control series.
Dexrazoxane (DZR), a clinically approved cation chelator, is effective in reducing doxorubicin (DOX)-induced heart damage, yet its cardioprotective mechanism is not fully understood. We aimed to investigate the effects of DZR on the activation of Akt and Erk 1/2 signals in a rat model of DOX-induced cardiomyopathy.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats received weekly DOX injection (2.5 mg/kg) for 6 weeks, with or without DZR pretreatment at a dose ratio of 20:1. The ventricular functions of these animals were monitored at week 6, 9 and 11 by echocardiography. At week 11, their heart morphology was studied by light and electron microscopy. Phosphorylation of Akt and Erk in heart tissues was measured by Western blot analysis.
DOX caused myocardial damage with compromised left ventricular function, increased myocardium injury and reduced phosphorylation of Akt and Erk. DZR exerted a significant cardioprotective effect in terms of improved fractional shortening, cardiac output and cardiomyopathy score at one or more time points. We also provided the first evidence that dexarazoxane-treated animals had increased levels of Akt and Erk activation, whilst total Akt and Erk remained unchanged.
Our results showed that the cardioprotective effect of dexarazoxane has been sustained beyond the treatment period. The data also suggested that activation of the Akt and Erk signaling pathways was regulated in the course of DOX-induced cardiomyopathy and protection by DZR.
We tested 16 million SNPs, identified through whole-genome sequencing of 457 Icelanders, for association with gout and serum uric acid levels. Genotypes were imputed into 41,675 chip-genotyped Icelanders and their relatives, for effective sample sizes of 968 individuals with gout and 15,506 individuals for whom serum uric acid measurements were available. We identified a low-frequency missense variant (c.1580C>G) in ALDH16A1 associated with gout (OR = 3.12, P = 1.5 × 10(-16), at-risk allele frequency = 0.019) and serum uric acid levels (effect = 0.36 s.d., P = 4.5 × 10(-21)). We confirmed the association with gout by performing Sanger sequencing on 6,017 Icelanders. The association with gout was stronger in males relative to females. We also found a second variant on chromosome 1 associated with gout (OR = 1.92, P = 0.046, at-risk allele frequency = 0.986) and serum uric acid levels (effect = 0.48 s.d., P = 4.5 × 10(-16)). This variant is close to a common variant previously associated with serum uric acid levels. This work illustrates how whole-genome sequencing data allow the detection of associations between low-frequency variants and complex traits.
Among the toxic chemicals present in the ambient air of urban centres, benzene raises particular concern due to its haematoxicity and leukaemogenic hazards, probably related to clastogenic factors. However, little is known about the health risks associated with environmental--rather than industrial--exposure to benzene. We analysed micronucleus (MN) frequencies in peripheral lymphocytes by use of the cytokinesis-block technique, and haematological parameters among 49 traffic police and 36 indoor workers (controls) in the city of Bologna. The analysis of urban air provided by a municipal air-quality monitoring station indicated that the levels of environmental benzene were often above the recommended threshold level (10 microg/m3) whereas other pollutants--nitrogen oxides, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon compounds, total suspended particulate matter, carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide--did not exceed the maximum atmospheric concentration established for air-quality standards. Mean levels of individual airborne benzene exposure--as measured by personal devices worn during 4-h morning work-shifts--were six-fold higher in the traffic police than in controls (P=0.001). While no significant difference in haematological parameters was found between the two groups, MN frequency was significantly higher among the traffic police than in indoor workers (P=0.001). Among the study population, MN frequency was found to increase with age, but no influence was observed for gender or smoking. Although it cannot be excluded that the increase of MN frequency observed in traffic police could also depend, apart from benzene, on the complex mixture of pollutants encountered in urban air, our data indicate that elevated personal benzene exposure could represent a genetic risk. The analysis of biomarkers of genetic damage in subjects particularly exposed to environmental benzene deserves careful study.
The effect of L-arginine (840 mg/kg) pre- (30 min before challenge) and post-treatment (5 min after challenge) period was tested on picrotoxin-induced increase in ammonia concentrations in brain regions (cerebral cortex, brain stem and cerebellum) and the accompanying convulsive responses in adult male rats. The combined effect of L-arginine and diazepam was also tested against picrotoxin-induced convulsions. Picrotoxin-induced increase in ammonia was reverted partially by L-arginine pretreatment. However, L-arginine pretreatment did not show anticonvulsant effect independently or concurrently with diazepam. On the other hand, L-arginine post-treatment reverted ammonia to control level in all brain regions. A partial but significant inhibition of convulsion responses was found in these animals. The combined effect of diazepam and L-arginine post-treatment was much greater than that produced by these agents independently. These findings suggest that ammonia has a partial but significant participation in the convulsant action of picrotoxin. L-arginine has a potential to revert brain ammonia to control level in picrotoxin-treated animals and thereby it has produced a partial protection. The data further indicate that the duration of action of L-arginine is considerably short and has an additive anticonvulsant action with diazepam.
The possibility that a serotonin 5-HT2c receptor-modulating compound, AP-267, will influence spontaneous morphine withdrawal symptoms and the alterations in the brain fluid microenvironment was examined in a rat model. Daily administration of morphine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) for 10 days resulted in dependence of rats as seen by loss of analgesic response. On the 11th day, no morphine administration was given. This resulted in profound withdrawal symptoms 24 h after morphine withdrawal. The magnitude and severity of these symptoms were increased further 48 h after withdrawal. Measurement of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, a measure of perturbed brain fluid microenvironment showed leakage of Evans blue and radioiodine tracers in several parts of the brain in rats showing withdrawal symptoms. Whereas, rats treated with AP-267 either on the 1st day or 2nd day morphine withdrawal showed much less symptoms and leakage of the BBB. Taken together, these observations suggest that (a) stress associated with the withdrawal symptoms are sufficient enough to induce breakdown of the BBB function, and (b) modulation of serotonin 5-HT2c receptors may have some protective influence on the stress symptoms and the BBB disruption.
Despite evidence for a conserved role of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) in regulating vertebrate thyroid function, molecular data on thyroid responses to TSH are mainly limited to mammalian species. In this study, we examined histological and molecular changes in the thyroid of Xenopus laevis tadpoles during a 12-day treatment with 20mg/l perchlorate (PER) and 50mg/l ethylenethiourea (ETU). Inhibition of thyroid hormone (TH) synthesis by PER and ETU was evident from developmental retardation, reduced expression of TH-regulated genes and up-regulation of tshb-A mRNA. Thyroid histopathology revealed goiters with strikingly different follicular morphologies following PER and ETU treatment. Using real-time PCR, we analyzed thyroids sampled on day 12 for differential expression of 60 candidate genes. Further temporal analyses were performed for a subset of 14 genes. Relative to the control, PER and ETU treatment modulated the expression of 51 and 49 transcripts, respectively. Particularly genes related to TH synthesis and protein metabolism were similarly affected by PER and ETU. However, several genes were differentially expressed in PER- and ETU-treated tadpoles. Specifically, goiter formation in the PER treatment was associated with low expression of genes related to DNA replication but high expression of negative growth regulators. Results from this work provide for the first time a characterization of gene expression profiles during goitrogenesis in a non-mammalian vertebrate model. Overall, our data suggest that, in addition to TSH over-stimulation, further mechanisms related to the mode of goitrogen action contribute to the regulation of thyroid gene expression.
The concomitant use of cocaine by heroin-dependent subjects, or by patients on methadone maintenance treatment, is a relevant phenomenon that determines the negative consequences on health, social adjustment, and outcome of opioid addiction treatment. Little is known about the patterns of co-use of these two substances and the pathophysiological alterations following this condition. Only a few studies have evaluated the neurochemical effects in subjects carrying this specific pattern of abuse. Similarly, the impact of cocaine abuse on psychiatric and social function in subjects already affected by opioid addiction is still poorly understood and further studies are necessary to investigate this specific area that could profoundly affect methadone maintenance treatment. The aim of this article is to investigate the psychopathological symptoms of heroin-cocaine abuse in a group of heroin addicts applying for treatment. Results show a direct relationship between cocaine abuse and a higher rate of psychiatric disorders, but a negative correlation with the severity of self-rated psychopathology.
Beta-blockers substantially improve survival in patients with chronic heart failure (HF) with left ventricular systolic dysfunction, but concerns about cardiovascular adverse effects may deter physicians from prescribing this therapy. We performed an overview of randomized beta-blocker trials in patients with HF to quantify the risks of these adverse effects.
Heart failure trials of beta-blockers were identified by electronic searches of the MEDLINE database from 1966 to 2002. The random-effects model was used to combine results from individual trials and calculate estimates of risks associated with therapy.
beta-Blocker therapy was associated with significant absolute annual increases in risks of hypotension (11 per 1000; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0-22), dizziness (57 per 1000; 95% CI, 11-104), and bradycardia (38 per 1000; 95% CI, 21-54). There was no significant absolute risk of fatigue associated with therapy (3 per 1000; 95% CI, -2 to 9). beta-Blocker therapy was associated with a reduction in all-cause withdrawal of medication (14 per 1000; 95% CI, -2 to 29) as well as significant reductions in all-cause mortality (34 per 1000; 95% CI, 20-49), HF hospitalizations (40 per 1000; 95% CI, 22-58), and worsening HF (52 per 1000; 95% CI, 10-94).
Although beta-blocker therapy was associated with hypotension, dizziness, and bradycardia, the absolute increases in risk were small, and overall fewer patients were withdrawn from beta-blocker therapy than from placebo. This information should alleviate concerns about prescribing this life-saving therapy to patients with HF.
Donepezil, a choline esterase inhibitor, has been widely used as a medicine for Alzheimer's disease. Recently, a study showed that donepezil inhibited addictive behaviors induced by cocaine, including cocaine-conditioned place preference (CPP) and locomotor sensitization to cocaine. In the present study, we investigated the effects of donepezil on methamphetamine (METH)-induced behavioral changes in mice. In counterbalanced CPP tests, the intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of 3 mg/kg donepezil prior to 2 mg/kg METH i.p. failed to inhibit METH CPP, whereas pretreatment with 3 mg/kg donepezil abolished the CPP for cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.). Similarly, in locomotor sensitization experiments, i.p. administration of 1 mg/kg donepezil prior to 2 mg/kg METH i.p. failed to inhibit locomotor sensitivity to METH, whereas pretreatment with 1 mg/kg donepezil significantly inhibited locomotor sensitivity to cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.). These results suggest that donepezil may be a useful tool for treating cocaine dependence but not for treating METH dependence. The differences in the donepezil effects on addictive behaviors induced by METH and cocaine might be due to differences in the involvement of acetylcholine in the mechanisms of METH and cocaine dependencies.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in the pathophysiology of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis. To elucidate further the role of radicals in PAN nephrosis and the to determine the particular radical species scavenged by dipyridamole (DPM) and dilazep (DZ), we applied chemiluminescence and electron spin resonance (ESR) techniques.
Chemiluminescence of glomeruli, which were isolated on day 7 from rats injected with 100 mg kg-1 PAN, was measured with or without scavengers. The inhibitory effects of DPM and DZ on hydroxyl radical adduct formation in the Fenton's reaction were evaluated using ESR.
Chemiluminescence was greater in glomeruli from rats with PAN nephrosis than in the the glomeruli of control rats. This increase was suppressed by superoxide dismutase, catalase, dimethylthiourea and also by DPM and DZ. ESR indicated that DPM and DZ inhibited hydroxyl radical adduct formation with a second-order rate constant of 2.9 x 10(10) and 1.6 x 10(10) (mol L(-1) s(-1) respectively, similar to that of dimethylthiourea.
DPM and DZ scavenge hydroxyl radicals, thereby alleviating PAN nephrosis.
Citalopram is the most potent selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) which is used as an antidepressant but causes sexual dysfunction. Whether citalopram induced sexual dysfunction is a result of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), kisspeptin or RF-amide related peptide (RFRP) alteration is unknown. In this study, we tested mice for sexual behavior after vehicle (0.9% NaCl) and citalopram treatment (5 mg/kg) daily for 1 day (acute) and 21 or 28 days (chronic). Effects of acute and chronic treatments on neuronal numbers and mRNA expression of GnRH, kisspeptin and RFRP were measured. In addition, RFRP fiber projections to preoptic (POA)-GnRH neurons were analyzed using double-label immunohistochemistry. The expression of 14 different serotonin receptor types mRNA was examined in immunostained laser dissected single RFRP neurons in the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH), however only 11 receptors types were identified. Acute citalopram treatment did not affect sexual behavior, whereas, the total duration of intromission was reduced with chronic treatment. There was no effect in the expression of kisspeptin (neuronal numbers and mRNA) in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus and the arcuate nucleus and expression of GnRH (neuronal numbers and mRNA) in the POA after citalopram treatment. However, RFRP neuronal numbers in the DMH and fiber projections to the POA were significantly increased after chronic citalopram treatment, which suggests citalopram induced inhibition of sexual behavior involves the modulation of RFRP through serotonin receptors in the DMH.
Indinavir was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1996 as a human immunodeficiency type 1 protease inhibitor to treat human immunodeficiency virus infection. Prompted by the high number of patients receiving indinavir who present with renal colic at our institution, we performed a detailed investigation of the true frequency of urolithiasis during indinavir treatment.
We evaluated 105 patients with a mean age of 38.1 years who were treated with indinavir from 1996 to 1997. Before indinavir treatment was initiated all patients underwent renal ultrasonography, urinalysis, and determination of serum sodium, potassium, calcium, uric acid and creatinine. It was recommended that all patients drink 2 l of fluids daily, and all remained under continuous surveillance.
Metabolic evaluation and ultrasonography showed no abnormality in any case. A stone episode occurred in 13 men (12.4%) as renal colic during observation. Colic recurred in 1 patient after 2 and 5 months, and in 1 after 2 months. Median duration of indinavir treatment until an acute stone episode was 21.5 weeks (range 6 to 50). A total of 12 stones passed spontaneously. Three patients underwent ureteroscopic calculous removal and 1 was treated with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy.
Despite adequate patient information and compliance the rate of nephrolithiasis during indinavir therapy was 12.4%.
The release of various enzymes including inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) leads to enterocyte apoptosis through free nitrogen radicals, which in turn leads to impaired mucosal barrier and bacterial translocation with resultant sepsis in necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC). Resveratrol, a polyphenol compound from phytoalexins with antioxidant and scavenger properties, also play a critical role in modulating key enzymes in cell cycle including iNOS. We therefore hypothesized that resveratrol would prevent mucosal damage in experimental NEC in rats.
Newborn rats were randomized into 3 groups: group 1 was left to breast-feed (BF), whereas group 2 (NEC) was induced by enteral formula feedings twice daily and by being subjected to hypoxia thrice. The third group (R) received the same treatment as the NEC group but the enteral feeds were supplemented with resveratrol. Rats were killed on day 4, and their terminal ileal samples were harvested for histopathologic analysis. Expression of iNOS was assessed by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis analysis and immunohistochemistry. Band densities were quantified by using the software NIH image.
The epithelial structure in group BF was normal. In the NEC group, there were marked loss of the brush border, vacuolization, and necrosis. The epithelial structure was found to be preserved in group R. Western blot analysis revealed marked elevation in the expression of iNOS protein at 130 kD molecular weight (band densities in groups BF, NEC, and R were 0.3 +/- 3.5, 3.7 +/- 2.9, and 0.6 +/- 5.1, respectively; P < .01). Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that iNOS staining was significantly increased in the NEC group, whereas it remained minimal for the BF and R groups. Ileal tissue nitrate/nitrite levels for groups BF, NEC, and R were 178.3 +/- 7, 191.4 +/- 4.1, and 181 +/- 3.6 micromol/(L x g), respectively (P < .01).
These findings may provide insights for the beneficial effect of enteral resveratrol supplementation on inflammatory conditions of the bowel including NEC through attenuating the release of iNOS and preservation of mucosal integrity.
The Adriamycin rat model is an established model for vertebral, anal, cardiac, tracheal, esophageal, renal, and limb (VACTERL) anomalies and gastrointestinal atresias. Mice are the foremost mammal studied by developmental biologists, providing greater availability of molecular probes, antibodies, and transferable knowledge with transgenic studies. Only tracheoesophageal malformations have been previously described in the Adriamycin mouse model. The aim of this study was to carry out a dose-response analysis of the teratogenicity of Adriamycin in the mouse to determine the effect of the dose and timing of exposure in producing tracheoesophageal malformations and show if it causes other VACTERL anomalies.
CBA/Ca mice were accurately time mated (n = 30). Four different doses (0 [saline], 4, 5, and 6 mg/kg) of Adriamycin (EBEWE Pharma Ges.m.b.H. Nfg.KG, A-4866 Unterach, Austria) at 3 different timings of injections were compared. Dams received 2 intraperitoneal injections, 24 hours apart, commencing on day 7, 7.5, or 8. Fetuses were harvested on day 18. Anomalies were examined using a dissecting microscope and serial transverse sections.
Administering Adriamycin at 6 mg/kg on days 7 and 8 had the most teratogenic effect, with 80% of fetuses having 3 or more VACTERL anomalies: anorectal malformation, 100%; tracheoesophageal malformation, 50%; right-sided aortic arch, 58.3%; bladder agenesis/bilateral hydronephrosis, 100%.
This study establishes a mouse model that should provide insights into the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying VACTERL anomalies.
The pathophysiology of Möbius syndrome has been debated for decades. A vascular etiology is currently favored because it explains the wide clinical spectrum of this syndrome. An infant is reported who was born with Möbius syndrome after a pregnancy complicated by heavy maternal use of cocaine and alcohol. We speculate that cocaine-induced vasoconstriction at a critical time of cerebrovascular development produced a vascular disruption sequence leading to the Möbius syndrome.
To identify the prevalence of adrenergically mediated ventricular premature depolarizations (VPDs) and characterize their electrocardiographic (ECG) features and specific anatomically determined sites of origin within the ventricles.
VPDs occurring during incremental isoproterenol infusion (3 to 20 mug/min) in 108 patients (30 women, mean age 58 +/- 10 years) with normal ventricular function and no previous ventricular tachycardia (VT) were identified. VPDs were grouped to a probable anatomic region of origin based on 12-lead ECG.
The 235 VPD morphologies (median 2 per patient, range 1-13) were observed in 85/108 (79%) patients. The most frequent regions of origin were: peri-mitral annulus 17%, left-Purkinje network 14%, right ventricle (RV) outflow tract 14%, apical RV free wall 11% and peri-tricuspid annulus 10%. Only 39 (17%) VPDs were not easily classified.
Adrenergically mediated VPDs are frequent in patients without structural heart disease or VT and tend to originate from a few anatomic sites.
Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among men in the United States, and aberrant DNA methylation is known to be an early molecular event in its development. Here, we have used expression profiling to identify novel hypermethylated genes whose expression is induced by treatment of prostate cancer cell lines with the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC). Of the 271 genes that were induced by 5-aza-dC treatment, 25 also displayed reduced expression in primary prostate tumors compared with normal prostate tissue, and the decreased expression of only one gene, aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family, member A2 (ALDH1a2), was also associated with shorter recurrence-free survival. ALDH1a2 encodes an enzyme responsible for synthesis of retinoic acid (RA), a compound with prodifferentiation properties. By immunohistochemistry, we observed that ALDH1a2 was expressed in epithelia from normal prostate but not prostate cancer. Using bisulfite sequencing, we determined that the ALDH1a2 promoter region was significantly hypermethylated in primary prostate tumors compared with normal prostate specimens (P = 0.01). Finally, transfection-mediated reexpression of wild-type ALDH1a2 (but not a presumptive catalytically dead mutant) in the prostate cancer cell line DU145 resulted in decreased colony growth (P < 0.0001), comparable with treatment with either 5-aza-dC or RA. Taken together, our findings implicate ALDH1a2 as a candidate tumor suppressor gene in prostate cancer and further support a role of retinoids in the prevention or treatment of prostate cancer.
Breast-feeding may affect the risk of developing allergy during childhood and may also cause exposure to immunotoxicants, such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), which are of concern as marine pollutants in the Faroe Islands and the Arctic region.
The objective was to assess whether sensitization and development of allergic disease is associated with duration of breast-feeding and prenatal or postnatal exposures to PCBs and methylmercury.
A cohort of 656 singleton births was formed in the Faroe Islands during 1999-2001. Duration of breast-feeding and history of asthma and atopic dermatitis were recorded at clinical examinations at 5 and 7 years of age. PCB and mercury concentrations were determined in blood samples obtained at parturition and at follow-up. Serum from 464 children (71%) at 7 years of age was analyzed for total immunoglobulin E (IgE) and grass-specific IgE.
The total IgE concentration in serum at 7 years of age was positively associated both with the concomitant serum PCB concentration and with the duration of breast-feeding. However, the effect only of the latter was substantially attenuated in a multivariate analysis. A raised grass-specific IgE concentration compatible with sensitization was positively associated with the duration of breast-feeding and inversely associated with prenatal methylmercury exposure. However, a history of asthma or atopic dermatitis was not associated with the duration of breast-feeding, although children with atopic dermatitis had lower prenatal PCB exposures than did nonallergic children.
These findings suggest that developmental exposure to immunotoxicants may both increase and decrease the risk of allergic disease and that associations between breast-feeding and subsequent allergic disease in children may, at least in part, reflect lactational exposure to immunotoxic food contaminants.
Dronedarone is a new antiarrhythmic drug with an amiodarone-like benzofuran structure. Shortly after its introduction, dronedarone became implicated in causing severe liver injury. Amiodarone is a well-known mitochondrial toxicant. The aim of our study was to investigate mechanisms of hepatotoxicity of dronedarone in vitro and to compare them with amiodarone. We used isolated rat liver mitochondria, primary human hepatocytes, and the human hepatoma cell line HepG2, which were exposed acutely or up to 24h. After exposure of primary hepatocytes or HepG2 cells for 24h, dronedarone and amiodarone caused cytotoxicity and apoptosis starting at 20 and 50 µM, respectively. The cellular ATP content started to decrease at 20 µM for both drugs, suggesting mitochondrial toxicity. Inhibition of the respiratory chain required concentrations of ~10 µM and was caused by an impairment of complexes I and II for both drugs. In parallel, mitochondrial accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was observed. In isolated rat liver mitochondria, acute treatment with dronedarone decreased the mitochondrial membrane potential, inhibited complex I, and uncoupled the respiratory chain. Furthermore, in acutely treated rat liver mitochondria and in HepG2 cells exposed for 24h, dronedarone started to inhibit mitochondrial β-oxidation at 10 µM and amiodarone at 20 µM. Similar to amiodarone, dronedarone is an uncoupler and an inhibitor of the mitochondrial respiratory chain and of β-oxidation both acutely and after exposure for 24h. Inhibition of mitochondrial function leads to accumulation of ROS and fatty acids, eventually leading to apoptosis and/or necrosis of hepatocytes. Mitochondrial toxicity may be an explanation for hepatotoxicity of dronedarone in vivo.
Tamoxifen is the most widely used selective estrogen receptor modulator for breast cancer in clinical use today. However, tamoxifen agonist action in endometrium remains a major hurdle for tamoxifen therapy. Activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase src promotes tamoxifen agonist action, although the mechanisms remain unclear. To examine these mechanisms, the effect of src kinase on estrogen and tamoxifen signaling in tamoxifen-resistant Ishikawa endometrial adenocarcinoma cells was assessed. A novel connection was identified between src kinase and serine 167 phosphorylation in estrogen receptor (ER)-alpha via activation of AKT kinase. Serine 167 phosphorylation stabilized ER interaction with endogenous ER-dependent promoters. Src kinase exhibited the additional function of potentiating the transcriptional activity of Gal-steroid receptor coactivator 1 (SRC-1) and Gal-cAMP response element binding protein-binding protein in endometrial cancer cells while having no effect on Gal-p300-associated factor and Gal fusions of the other p160 coactivators glucocorticoid-interacting protein 1 (transcriptional intermediary factor 2/nuclear coactivator-2/SRC-2) and amplified in breast cancer 1 (receptor-associated coactivator 3/activator of transcription of nuclear receptor/SRC-3). Src effects on ER phosphorylation and SRC-1 activity both contributed to tamoxifen agonist action on ER-dependent gene expression in Ishikawa cells. Taken together, these data demonstrate that src kinase potentiates tamoxifen agonist action through serine 167-dependent stabilization of ER promoter interaction and through elevation of SRC-1 and cAMP response element binding protein-binding protein coactivation of ER.
Limited epidemiologic studies have examined the association between maternal low-level lead exposure [blood lead (PbB) < 10 µg/dL] and fetal growth.
We examined whether maternal low-level lead exposure is associated with decreased fetal growth.
We linked New York State Heavy Metals Registry records of women who had PbB measurements with birth certificates to identify 43,288 mother-infant pairs in upstate New York in a retrospective cohort study from 2003 through 2005. We used multiple linear regression with fractional polynomials and logistic regression to relate birth weight, preterm delivery, and small for gestational age to PbB levels, adjusting for potential confounders. We used a closed-test procedure to identify the best fractional polynomials for PbB among 44 combinations.
We found a statistically significant association between PbB (square root transformed) and birth weight. Relative to 0 µg/dL, PbBs of 5 and 10 µg/dL were associated with an average of 61-g and 87-g decrease in birth weight, respectively. The adjusted odds ratio for PbBs between 3.1 and 9.9 µg/dL (highest quartile) was 1.04 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.89-1.22] for preterm delivery and 1.07 (95% CI, 0.93-1.23) for small for gestational age, relative to PbBs ≤ 1 µg/dL (lowest quartile). No clear dose-response trends were evident when all of the quartiles were assessed.
Low-level PbB was associated with a small risk of decreased birth weight with a supralinear dose-response relationship, but was not related to preterm birth or small for gestational age. The results have important implications regarding maternal PbB.
Four hundred two patients with suspected myocardial infarction seen within 6 hours of the onset of symptoms entered a double-blind randomized trial of lidocaine vs placebo. During the 1 hour after administration of the drug the incidence of ventricular fibrillation or sustained ventricular tachycardia among the 204 patients with acute myocardial infarction was low, 1.5%. Lidocaine, given in a 300 mg dose intramuscularly followed by 100 mg intravenously, did not prevent sustained ventricular tachycardia, although there was a significant reduction in the number of patients with warning arrhythmias between 15 and 45 minutes after the administration of lidocaine (p less than 0.05). The average plasma lidocaine level 10 minutes after administration for patients without a myocardial infarction was significantly higher than that for patients with an acute infarction. The mean plasma lidocaine level of patients on beta-blocking agents was no different from that in patients not on beta blocking agents. During the 1-hour study period, the incidence of central nervous system side effects was significantly greater in the lidocaine group, hypotension occurred in 11 patients, nine of whom had received lidocaine, and four patients died from asystole, three of whom had had lidocaine. We cannot advocate the administration of lidocaine prophylactically in the early hours of suspected myocardial infarction.
The unified idea on the molecular pathogenesis of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is still unknown although mutations in genes encoding neuroligins and SHANK3 have been shown in a small part of the patients. RA175/SynCAM1/CADM1(CADM1), a member of immunoglobulin superfamily, is another synaptic cell adhesion molecule. To clarify the idea that impaired synaptogenesis underlies the pathogenesis of ASD, we examined the relationship between mutations in the CADM1 gene and ASD. We found two missense mutations, C739A(H246N) and A755C(Y251S), in the CADM1 gene of male Caucasian ASD patients and their family members. Both mutations were located in the third immunoglobulin domain, which is essential for trans-active interaction. The mutated CADM1 exhibited less amount of high molecular weight with the matured oligosaccharide, defective trafficking to the cell surface, and more susceptibility to the cleavage and or degradation. Our findings provide key support for the unified idea that impaired synaptogenesis underlies the pathogenesis of ASD.
