In conscious trained dogs, administration of bromazepam (0.3 mg/kg p.o.) or diazepam (0.3 and 1.0 mg/kg p.o.) had no influence on heart rate. A higher dose (10 mg/kg p.o.) of two benzodiazepines elicited a positive chronotropic effect which was rapid in onset and of long duration. The beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent practolol (2.5 mg/kg i.v.) did not revert heart rate after the benzodiazepines to the same level as in controls, indicating that the tachycardia was not produced by an increase in sympathetic outflow to the heart. For diazepam, a sympathetic--parasympathetic interaction cannot be excluded. However, diazepam and bromazepam significantly reduced the tachycardia which is normally observed after administration of methylatropine (0.5 mg/kg i.v.) alone or in combination with practolol. In anaesthetized dogs, bromazepam failed to modify the heart rate responses to electrical stimulation of cardiac vagal or sympathetic nerves, excluding an action on this compound on ganglionic transmission and cardiac cholinoceptors and adrenoceptors. It is concluded that high doses of diazepam and bromazepam influence the heart rate of conscious dogs in a biphasic way. Firstly, they cause a central reduction of vagal tone to the heart resulting in tachycardia. Secondly, the two drugs decrease the cardiac pacemaker rate directly. Since the overall effect is tachycardia, the central action is more pronounced.
Under analysis were 40 cases of allergic reactions of the immediate type arising in 38 patients following the application of various pharmacological agents. Urticaria and Quincke's edema were observed in 21 cases and anaphylactic shock--in 19 cases. Rare cases of anaphylactic shock following injections of sombrevin, polyglucin and clinical observations of the recurring character of the course of allergic reactions are described.
In this study we sought to determine the effect of sepsis on two sequelae of prolonged (24-h) beta-agonist administration, myocardial hypertrophy and catecholamine-induced cardiotoxicity. Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized to cecal ligation and perforation (CLP) or sham study groups and then further randomized to receive isoproterenol (2.4 mg. kg-1. day-1 iv) or placebo treatment. At 24 h, myocardial function was assessed by using the Langendorff isolated-heart technique or the heart processed for plain light microscopy. We found that 1) sepsis reduced contractile function, indicated by a rightward shift in the Starling curve (ANOVA with repeated measures, sepsis effect, P < 0.002); 2) sepsis-induced myocardial depression was reversed by isoproterenol treatment (isoproterenol effect, P < 0.0001); 3) sepsis reduced, but did not block, isoproterenol-induced myocardial hypertrophy (isoproterenol effect, P < 0.0001); 4) sepsis did not protect the heart from catecholamine-induced tissue injury; 5) the septic heart was protected against the effects of ischemiareperfusion (decreased postreperfusion resting tension, ANOVA with repeated measures, P < 0.01), an effect attenuated by isoproterenol treatment (P < 0.005); and 6) sepsis reduced the incidence of sustained asystole or ventricular fibrillation after ischemia-reperfusion (P < 0.05), an effect also attenuated by isoproterenol treatment (P < 0.01). We conclude that, in sepsis, beta-agonists induce changes in myocardial weight and function consistent with acute myocardial hypertrophy. These changes occur at the expense of significant tissue injury and increased sensitivity to ischemia-reperfusion-induced tissue injury.
Acute lung injury can be induced indirectly (e.g., sepsis) or directly (e.g., chlorine inhalation). Because treatment is still limited to supportive measures, mortality remains high ( approximately 74,500 deaths/yr). In the past, accidental (railroad derailments) and intentional (Iraq terrorism) chlorine exposures have led to deaths and hospitalizations from acute lung injury. To better understand the molecular events controlling chlorine-induced acute lung injury, we have developed a functional genomics approach using inbred mice strains. Various mouse strains were exposed to chlorine (45 ppm x 24 h) and survival was monitored. The most divergent strains varied by more than threefold in mean survival time, supporting the likelihood of an underlying genetic basis of susceptibility. These divergent strains are excellent models for additional genetic analysis to identify critical candidate genes controlling chlorine-induced acute lung injury. Gene-targeted mice then could be used to test the functional significance of susceptibility candidate genes, which could be valuable in revealing novel insights into the biology of acute lung injury.
Initiation of cocaine self-administration in rats was associated with release of glutamate in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). The glutamate release was transient, despite continued cocaine intake. Similar glutamate release was seen in rats earning, for the first time, unexpected saline rather than expected cocaine. VTA glutamate release was not seen in similarly trained rats earning saline instead of cocaine for the 13th time. VTA glutamate release was also seen in similarly trained rats that received yoked rather than earned cocaine injections on test day. VTA glutamate release was not seen in a group of rats that had never earned cocaine but had received yoked injections during the training period. Glutamate release was also not seen in a group of rats that received yoked injections but had no previous experience with cocaine. VTA GABA levels did not fluctuate during any aspect of cocaine seeking. Blockade of VTA glutamate receptors appeared to attenuate the rewarding effects of intravenous cocaine injections and blocked almost completely the conditioned responding normally seen during extinction trials. These findings indicate that VTA glutamate release is a conditioned response dependent on an associative process and is not a simple consequence of previous cocaine exposure. The findings implicate glutamate as at least one of the sources of VTA signals from reward-associated environmental stimuli.
Drugs have different kinds of adverse effects, one of the most serious being myocarditis. This condition is usually reported as an incidental finding, but can also be fatal. The drug clozapine, available on the European market since the 1970s, can cause myocarditis. This report describes the myocardial findings in a patient who died suddenly after taking increasing doses of clozapine. An allergic adverse reaction to clozapine is suspected. The immediate cause of death was an embolus of the central pulmonary artery.
To assess the role of lung sensory C fibers during and after inhalation of 1 part/million ozone for 8 h, we compared breathing pattern responses and epithelial injury-inflammation-repair in rats depleted of C fibers by systemic administration of capsaicin as neonates and in vehicle-treated control animals. Capsaicin-treated rats did not develop ozone-induced rapid, shallow breathing. Capsaicin-treated rats showed more severe necrosis in the nasal cavity and greater inflammation throughout the respiratory tract than did control rats exposed to ozone. Incorporation of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (a marker of DNA synthesis associated with proliferation) into terminal bronchiolar epithelial cells was not significantly affected by capsaicin treatment in rats exposed to ozone. However, when normalized to the degree of epithelial necrosis present in each rat studied, there was less 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine labeling in the terminal bronchioles of capsaicin-treated rats. These observations suggest that the ozone-induced release of neuropeptides does not measurably contribute to airway inflammation but may play a role in modulating basal and reparative airway epithelial cell proliferation.
The inhalation of reactive gases and vapors can lead to severe damage of the airways and lung, compromising the function of the respiratory system. Exposures to oxidizing, electrophilic, acidic, or basic gases frequently occur in occupational and ambient environments. Corrosive gases and vapors such as chlorine, phosgene, and chloropicrin were used as warfare agents and in terrorist acts. Chemical airway exposures are detected by the olfactory, gustatory, and nociceptive sensory systems that initiate protective physiological and behavioral responses. This review focuses on the role of airway nociceptive sensory neurons in chemical sensing and discusses the recent discovery of neuronal receptors for reactive chemicals. Using physiological, imaging, and genetic approaches, Transient Receptor Potential (TRP) ion channels in sensory neurons were shown to respond to a wide range of noxious chemical stimuli, initiating pain, respiratory depression, cough, glandular secretions, and other protective responses. TRPA1, a TRP ion channel expressed in chemosensory C-fibers, is activated by almost all oxidizing and electrophilic chemicals, including chlorine, acrolein, tear gas agents, and methyl isocyanate, the highly noxious chemical released in the Bhopal disaster. Chemicals likely activate TRPA1 through covalent protein modification. Animal studies using TRPA1 antagonists or TRPA1-deficient mice confirmed the role of TRPA1 in chemically induced respiratory reflexes, pain, and inflammation in vivo. New research shows that sensory neurons are not merely passive sensors of chemical exposures. Sensory channels such as TRPA1 are essential for maintenance of airway inflammation in asthma and may contribute to the progression of airway injury following high-level chemical exposures.
Current cocaine users show little evidence of cognitive impairment and may perform better when using cocaine, yet withdrawal from prolonged cocaine use unmasks dramatic cognitive deficits. It has been suggested that such impairments arise in part through drug-induced dysfunction within the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), yet the neurobiological mechanisms remain unknown. We observed that chronic cocaine self-administration increased expression of the transcription factor deltaFosB within both medial and orbitofrontal regions of the rat prefrontal cortex. However, the increase in OFC deltaFosB levels was more pronounced after self-administered rather than experimenter-administered cocaine, a pattern that was not observed in other regions. We then used rodent tests of attention and decision making to determine whether deltaFosB within the OFC contributes to drug-induced alterations in cognition. Chronic cocaine treatment produced tolerance to the cognitive impairments caused by acute cocaine. Overexpression of a dominant-negative antagonist of deltaFosB, deltaJunD, in the OFC prevented this behavioral adaptation, whereas locally overexpressing deltaFosB mimicked the effects of chronic cocaine. Gene microarray analyses identified potential molecular mechanisms underlying this behavioral change, including an increase in transcription of metabotropic glutamate receptor subunit 5 and GABA(A) receptors as well as substance P. Identification of deltaFosB in the OFC as a mediator of tolerance to the effects of cocaine on cognition provides fundamentally new insight into the transcriptional modifications associated with addiction.
We recently found that patients with drug-induced parkinsonism (DIP) may have normal (group I) or abnormal (group II) putamen [(123)I]FP-CIT DAT (dopamine transporter) binding. In this study we reassessed clinical features and DAT binding in 19 of the original 32 patients (10 of group I and 9 of group II) after a 19-39-month follow-up period and tested the effects of chronic levodopa treatment in both cohorts of patients. In group I patients, [(123)I]FP-CIT SPET (single photon emission tomography) was still normal in all patients at follow-up; DAT binding and UPDRS (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale) motor score values did not differ from baseline. In group II patients, [(123)I]FP-CIT SPET was still abnormal at follow-up; putamen DAT binding was significantly reduced and UPDRS III score higher compared to baseline. Levodopa treatment improved motor symptoms in three out of ten patients of group I and in eight out of nine patients of group II. No adverse psychiatric effects were observed in any of the patients. This study shows that DAT binding imaging may help to identify subjects with DIP secondary to a loss of dopamine nerve terminals in the context of a progressive degenerative parkinsonism. Patients with DIP may benefit from levodopa therapy, particularly when dopamine nerve terminal defects are present, and this should be considered in the therapeutic management of these patients.
Type I collagen forms the main constituent of the extracellular matrix in visceral organs. We reported here that cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis significantly increased the production of type I collagen in the inflamed bladder leading to increases in the bladder weight and the thickness of the bladder wall. The endogenous nerve growth factor (NGF) in the urinary bladder regulated type I collagen expression because the neutralizing NGF antibody attenuated cystitis-induced type I collagen up-regulation in the inflamed bladder. Neutralizing NGF antibody also subsequently reversed cystitis-induced increases in bladder weight. Further studies on the intermediate signaling pathways mediating NGF-induced type I collagen expression in the inflamed bladder during cystitis revealed that Akt, JNK, and ERK1/2 activities were increased in the inflamed bladder, whereas p38 MAPK remained unchanged. Suppression of endogenous NGF level with neutralizing NGF antibody significantly blocked the increased activity of Akt, JNK, and ERK1/2 in the inflamed bladder during cystitis. These results indicate that endogenous NGF plays an important role in the activation of Akt and MAPK in the urinary bladder and in bladder hypertrophy during cystitis.
Hirschsprung's disease is a genetic disorder of neural crest development affecting 1 in 5,000 births. It is characterized by the absence of intramural ganglion cells in the hindgut, which often results in partial to complete intestinal obstruction during the first years of life. An autosomal dominant gene causing this disease was recently mapped to chromosome 10q11.2 (refs 1,2), using an interstitial deletion of this region isolated in a cell hybrid. It was subsequently localized to a 250-kilobase interval which contains the RET proto-oncogene. Using flanking intronic sequences as primers to amplify 12 of the 20 exons of RET from genomic DNA of 27 Hirschsprung's disease patients, we have now identified four mutations (one frameshift and three missense) that totally disrupt or partially change the structure of the tyrosine kinase domain of the RET protein (Ret). Mutations in the extracellular cysteine-rich domain of Ret have been identified previously in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A, and a targeted mutation in the tyrosine kinase domain of the same gene produces intestinal aganglionosis and kidney agenesis in homozygous transgenic mice. Our results support the hypothesis that RET, in addition to its potential role in tumorigenesis, plays a critical role in the embryogenesis of the mammalian enteric nervous system.
The goal of this study was to determine the contribution of substance abuse to the expression of suicidal ideation in a sample of patients referred for evaluation of chemical dependency in a large urban Psychiatric Emergency Service (PES). Records from 777 consecutive patients referred to the chemical dependency service of the PES were analyzed. Of this sample, 43.7% of the patients with only a cocaine use disorder expressed suicidal ideation compared to 38% of those with both cocaine and alcohol use disorders, 24.3% with only an alcohol use disorder and 17% with other drug use disorders (chi(2)=24.768; df=3; P<0.0001). More than half of the patients (55.26%) with a substance-induced mood or psychotic disorder expressed suicidal ideation (chi(2)=23.174, df=1, P<0.0001), and the majority (85%) of these patients had a cocaine use disorder (chi(2)=12.309, df=1, P<0.0005). In this sample of patients served by an urban PES, cocaine use is associated with suicidal ideation, more so than other substances of abuse.
Zoniporide, an inhibitor of the Na+-H+ exchanger-1, was administered by continuous intravenous infusion to rats and dogs for up to 1 month. In 1-month studies, histological and functional changes were observed in select portions of the peripheral nervous system; however, these findings were not detected in 2-week studies at similar or higher doses. In the 1-month rat study, there was dose-dependent, minimal, focal, or multifocal nerve fiber (axonal) degeneration in the spinal cord and/or sciatic nerve. In a follow-up rat study, findings included slowing of caudal nerve conduction velocity and axonal degeneration in the spinal cord (dorsal funiculus), dorsal roots, dorsal root ganglia (DRG), radial, sciatic, and tibial nerves. In the 1-month dog study, there was impairment of the patellar reflex and associated postural reaction changes, minimal to marked proximal nerve fiber degeneration in the DRG, and minimal nerve fiber degeneration in the dorsal roots and funiculi of the spinal cord. Minimal nerve fiber degeneration of equivocal significance was noted in various peripheral nerves. Taken together, these findings were consistent with a specific effect on peripheral sensory nerve fibers. These studies demonstrated that zoniporide produces clinical, electrophysiologic, and microscopic evidence of peripheral sensory axonopathy and establishes the importance of careful preclinical evaluation of neurological function.
A total of 65 children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and seven with other types of acute leukaemia received treatment with a combination of vincristine and prednisone. In all 122 courses of treatment were given. Of 22 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia who received this as their first treatment, all achieved complete remission. The complete remission rates were 82% for patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in their first relapse, 63% in the second relapse, and much lower in subsequent relapses and in the patients with other types of acute leukaemia. Alopecia and gastrointestinal and neuromuscular toxicity occurred respectively in 51%, 29%, and 21% of instances, only the last of these side-effects of vincristine being dose-related. Most of the complete remissions were obtained with a total dose of vincristine which carried only a low risk of neurotoxicity.
Two patients with coccidioidal meningitis experienced transient neurologic deficits shortly after receiving intrathecal injections of amphotericin B. Continuation of treatment eventually led to a severe flaccid paraparesis with a thoracic sensory level in one patient, and a partial Brown-Séquard's syndrome in the other. Myelography was normal in both, with no evidence of arachnoiditis. Autopsy findings in the first patient showed a focal area of necrosis in the left half of the spinal cord consistent with the patient's clinical findings during life. The distribution of the lesion corresponded to the area supplied by a central sulcal artery. Amphotericin B may exert a direct toxic effect on the spinal cord or its vascular supply when given intrathecally.
Two cases of propylthiouracil-induced liver damage have been observed. The first case is of an acute type of damage, proven by rechallenge; the second presents a clinical and histologic picture resembling chronic active hepatitis, with spontaneous remission.
Cadmium is a potent neurotoxic heavy metal, which induces oxidative stress and membrane disturbances in brain. Melatonin is an effective antioxidant and free radical scavenger against oxidative stress. The present study was designed to investigate the neuroprotective efficacy of melatonin in protecting the Cd induced changes in the activity of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), levels of lipid peroxidation, protein carbonyls, non-enzymatic antioxidant, enzymatic antioxidant status, membrane bound ATPases and histopathology in the brain of rats.
Twenty four male albino rats were used. Cadmium induced oxidative neurotoxicity was induced by oral administration of Cd for four weeks. Melatonin was pretreated along with Cd for four weeks to assess its neuroprotective activity against Cd intoxication. Rats treated with vehicles alone were used as controls.
Rats intoxicated with cadmium (5 mg/kg/day) for 4 weeks significantly (p < 0.05) reduced the AChE levels in the plasma and brain, elevated the levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), lipid hydroperoxides and protein carbonyls along with the significant (p < 0.05) decrease in the levels of non-enzymatic antioxidants (GSH, TSH and vitamins C and E), enzymatic antioxidants superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and membrane bound ATPases in the brain tissue. Administration of melatonin (10 mg/kg/day) for 4 weeks in cadmium intoxicated rats significantly (p < 0.05) diminished the levels of oxidative stress markers, lipid peroxidation and protein carbonyls in brain and significantly (p < 0.05) elevated the levels of nonenzymatic and enzymatic antioxidants, brain and the activities of AChE, enzymatic antioxidants and ATPases in brain. The histopathological studies in the brain of rats also supported that melatonin markedly reduced the Cd induced pathological changes and preserved the normal histological architecture of the brain tissue.
The results of the present study suggest that melatonin may be beneficial in combating the cadmium induced oxidative neurotoxicity in the brain of rats.
Arsenic had been reported to be associated with carotid atherosclerosis. However, there were few studies to evaluate the association between the susceptible gene of lipid metabolism and inflammation and carotid atherosclerosis among arsenic exposure residents. The aim of the study was to investigate the associations between the genetic polymorphisms of APOE and MCP-1 and the risk of carotid atherosclerosis among residents of Lanyang Basin in Taiwan which was a newly confirmed arsenic-endemic area. In total, 479 residents who had been genotyped of these two genes and examined the severity of carotid atherosclerosis were included in this study. The study subjects with carotid intima media thickness (IMT) >or=1.0 mm or with the observable plaque in the extracranial carotid artery were diagnosed as carotid atherosclerosis. A significantly age- and gender-adjusted odds ratio of 2.0 for the development of carotid atherosclerosis was observed in study subjects with epsilon4 allele of APOE than those without epsilon4 allele. Compared with study subjects who carried wild genotypes of APOE and MCP-1, those with both risk genotypes of APOE and MCP-1 had 2.5-fold risk of carotid atherosclerosis after adjustment for age and gender, revealing a significant dose-response relationship between number of risk genotypes of these genes and risk of carotid atherosclerosis. Additionally, study subjects with two risk genotypes of APOE and MCP-1 and either had ingested well water contained arsenic level >10 microg/L or had arsenic exposure >0.22 mg/L-year would have strikingly highest risk of 10.3-fold and 15.7-fold, respectively, for the development carotid atherosclerosis, showing significant joint effect of arsenic exposure and risk genotypes of APOE and MCP-1.
Nickel and nickel compounds are carcinogens that target the lungs and kidneys causing cell death or cell survival adaptation. The multidrug resistance P-glycoprotein ABCB1 protects cells against toxic metabolites and xenobiotics and is upregulated in many cancer cell types. Here, we investigated the role of ABCB1 in nickel-induced stress signaling mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS) and ceramides. In renal proximal tubule cells, nickel chloride (0.1-0.25 mM) increased both ROS formation, detected by 5-(and-6)-carboxy-2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate, and cellular ceramides, which were determined by lipid dot blot and surface immunostaining, culminating in decreased cell viability, increased DNA fragmentation, augmented PARP-1 cleavage, and increased ABCB1 mRNA and protein. Inhibitors of the de novo ceramide synthesis pathway (fumonisin B1, L-cycloserine) and an antioxidant (α-tocopherol) attenuated nickel-induced toxicity as well as induction of ABCB1. ABCB1 protects against nickel toxicity as PSC833, an ABCB1 blocker, augmented the decrease in cell viability by nickel. Moreover, nickel toxicity was attenuated in renal MDCK cells stably overexpressing ABCB1. In agreement with previous data that demonstrated extrusion of (glucosyl)ceramides by ABCB1 (Lee et al. in Toxicol Sci 121:343, 2011), PSC833 increased total cellular ceramides by >2-fold after nickel treatment. Further, glucosylceramide synthase (GCS) mRNA is upregulated by nickel at 3 h by ~1.5-fold but declined with prolonged exposures (6-24 h). Inhibition of GCS with C9DGJ or knockdown of GCS with siRNA significantly attenuated nickel toxicity. In conclusion, nickel induces a ROS-ceramide pathway to cause apoptotic cell death as well as activate adaptive survival responses, including upregulation of ABCB1, which improves cell survival by extruding proapoptotic (glucosyl)ceramides.
No data are available regarding aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) polymorphisms related to the reproductive toxicity possibly caused by ethyl tertiary butyl ether (ETBE). In this study, two inhalation experiments were performed in Aldh2 knockout (KO), heterogeneous (HT) and wild type (WT) C57BL/6 male mice exposed to ETBE, and the data about general toxicity, testicular histopathology, sperm head numbers, sperm motility and sperm DNA damage were collected. The results showed that the 13-week exposure to 0, 500, 1,750 and 5,000 ppm ETBE significantly decreased sperm motility and increased levels of sperm DNA strand breaks and 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanosine in both WT and KO mice, the effects were found in 1,750 and 5,000 ppm groups of WT mice, and all of the three exposed groups of KO mice compared to the corresponding control; furthermore, ETBE also caused decrease in the relative weights of testes and epididymides, the slight atrophy of seminiferous tubules of testis and reduction in sperm numbers of KO mice exposed to ≥500 ppm. In the experiment of exposure to lower concentrations of ETBE (0, 50, 200 and 500 ppm) for 9 weeks, the remarkable effects of ETBE on sperm head numbers, sperm motility and sperm DNA damage were further observed in KO and HT mice exposed to 200 ppm ETBE, but not in WT mice. Our findings suggested that only exposure to high concentrations of ETBE might result in reproductive toxicity in mice with normal active ALDH2, while low active and inactive ALDH2 enzyme significantly enhanced the ETBE-induced reproductive toxicity in mice, even exposed to low concentrations of ETBE, mainly due to the accumulation of acetaldehyde as a primary metabolite of ETBE.
The development of tolerance to continuous morphine infusion (2, 4 and 6 mg x kg(-1) x hr(-1) was assessed in rats using two different methods for evaluation of nociception, tail flick (TF) and hot plate (HP). The influence of repeated testing on nociception was evaluated using two regimens; series 1 was tested repeatedly 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 hr after initiating the morphine infusion and series 2 was tested only twice, at maximum morphine effect and at 8 hr. Both, TF and HP showed pain threshold elevation after the morphine administration of 4 or 6 mg x kg(-1) x hr(-1), which reached a maximum at 2 hr after the start of the infusion. HP: reduction of the effect was found in group 4 mg x kg(-1) x hr(-1) in the series subjected to repeated testing; group 6 mg x kg(-1) x hr(-1) showed reduced effect in both sides. TF: the response latencies did not show reduction at 8 hr. Since TF is predominantly a spinal response and HP is predominantly supraspinal, the results suggest that tolerance during the first 8 hr of morphine infusion develops mainly at supraspinal level.
Midazolam may occasionally precipitate hostility and violence instead of tranquility. We characterized these episodes, their rate of occurrence, the potential paradoxical responders and possible predisposing circumstances among patients undergoing lower body surgery under spinal or epidural anaesthesia and midazolam sedation.
Fifty-eight patients who fulfilled the study entry criteria and who underwent surgery within a 3-month period in a large metropolitan, university-affiliated hospital were enrolled. Sedation and restlessness in all patients were controlled by midazolam administered intravenously by the attending anaesthesiologist; these parameters were later objectively confirmed by recorded actigrams. If "paradoxical" events occurred, flumazenil 0.1 mg 10 s-1 was injected until the aberrant behaviour ceased. Patients with paradoxical reactions were later compared with matched control patients selected from the study group to identify epidemiological characteristics.
The incidence of paradoxical events was 10.2% (six out of 58 patients, confidence limits 2.3-18.3%) and they occurred 45-210 min after sedation started; the only independent predictor was an age older than that of the entire study group. The mean cumulative and per weight doses of midazolam were similar for both the experimental and the study groups of patients: 7.3 +/- 2.8 to 10.1 +/- 3.6 mg, and 0.1 +/- 0.04 to 0.12 +/- 0.05 mg kg-1. Flumazenil 0.2-0.3 mg (range 0.1-0.5 mg) effectively stopped the midazolam-induced paradoxical activity within 30 s and surgery continued uneventfully.
Flumazenil completely reverses midazolam-induced paradoxical reactions and they are more frequent in older patients.
The purpose of this study was to measure quantitatively the effectiveness of the ketogenic diet (KD) in comparison to two clinically important anticonvulsant drugs (AEDs), valproic acid (VPA) and phenytoin (PHT), and to evaluate possible associated neurotoxicity.
Rats were maintained on either a calorie-restricted, KD or calorie-restricted, rodent-chow diet for 3-5 weeks, after which neurobehavioral and seizure testing was completed. AEDs (either VPA or PHT) were injected acutely at the time to peak effect before neurotoxic and seizure assessment. Seizures were induced by timed infusion of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) and maximal electroshock (MES).
VPA protected from both MES- and PTZ-induced seizures, whereas the KD only elevated PTZ seizure threshold; PHT only attenuated MES-induced seizures. The KD was as effective as a high dose of VPA (i.e., 300 mg/kg) and combined treatment (i.e., KD + VPA) showed an additive increase in PTZ seizure threshold. No observed neurobehavioral deficits were associated with either diet treatment; however, drug-related side effects were noted with high doses of either VPA or PHT.
These data suggest that the KD ranks among VPA and PHT as an effective treatment for seizures, without observed drug-associated neurobehavioral contraindications. In combination with AEDs, our results indicate that the KD plus VPA work synergistically to increase seizure threshold, whereas the KD plus PHT may be complementary, elevating seizure threshold (KD) and reducing seizure severity (PHT). These findings may provide insights into future directions for rational polytherapy; however, it is important to be aware that the KD has been shown to elevate VPA-induced hepatotoxicity.
