Faced with unsatisfactory results of treatment for advanced Hodgkin's disease, we investigated three combinations of chemotherapy.
From 1993 to 1998, 1201 eligible patients 15 to 65 years of age who had newly diagnosed Hodgkin's disease in unfavorable stage IIB or IIIA or stage IIIB or IV were randomly assigned to receive eight cycles of cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone alternating with doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (COPP-ABVD); bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (BEACOPP); or increased-dose BEACOPP, each followed by local radiotherapy when indicated. Enrollment in the COPP-ABVD group was stopped in 1996 owing to inferior results.
For the final analysis, 1195 of 1201 patients could be evaluated: 260 in the COPP-ABVD group, 469 in the BEACOPP group, and 466 in the increased-dose BEACOPP group; the median follow-up was 72, 54, and 51 months, respectively. The rate of freedom from treatment failure at five years was 69 percent in the COPP-ABVD group, 76 percent in the BEACOPP group, and 87 percent in the increased-dose BEACOPP group (P=0.04 for the comparison of the COPP-ABVD group with the BEACOPP group and P<0.001 for the comparison of the increased-dose BEACOPP group with the COPP-ABVD group and with the BEACOPP group), and the five-year rates of overall survival were 83 percent, 88 percent, and 91 percent, respectively (P=0.16 for the comparison of the COPP-ABVD group with the BEACOPP group, P=0.06 for the comparison of the BEACOPP group with the increased-dose BEACOPP group, and P=0.002 for the comparison of the COPP-ABVD group with the increased-dose BEACOPP group). Rates of early progression were significantly lower with increased-dose BEACOPP than with COPP-ABVD or standard BEACOPP.
Increased-dose BEACOPP resulted in better tumor control and overall survival than did COPP-ABVD.
Endocannabinoids are involved in the modulation of pain and hyperalgesia. In this study we investigated the role of the endocannabinoid system in the migraine model based on nitroglycerin-induced hyperalgesia in the rat. Male rats were injected with nitroglycerin (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle and sacrificed 4 h later. The medulla, the mesencephalon and the hypothalamus were dissected out and utilized for the evaluation of activity of fatty acid amide hydrolase (that degrades the endocannabinoid anandamide), monoacylglycerol lipase (that degrades the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol), and binding sites specific for cannabinoid (CB) receptors. The findings obtained show that nitroglycerin-induced hyperalgesia is associated with increased activity of both hydrolases and increased density of CB binding sites in the mesencephalon. In the hypothalamus we observed an increase in the activity of fatty acid amide hydrolase associated with an increase in density of CB binding sites, while in the medulla only the activity of fatty acid amide hydrolase was increased. Anandamide also proved effective in preventing nitroglycerin-induced activation (c-Fos) of neurons in the nucleus trigeminalis caudalis. These data strongly support the involvement of the endocannabinoid system in the modulation of nitroglycerin-induced hyperalgesia, and, possibly, in the pathophysiological mechanisms of migraine.
In order to better define the role of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the modulation of extrapyramidal motor functions, we investigated the effect of 5-HT(1A) agonists on tacrine-induced tremulous jaw movements (TJM) in rats, a putative model of parkinsonian tremor. Acute injection of 5-HT(1A) agonists 8-OH-DPAT and buspirone dose-dependently counteracted the tacrine-induced oral movements (ED(50)=0.04 and 1.0mg/kg, respectively), an effect reversed by the selective 5-HT(1A) antagonist WAY 100,635. In contrast to classical antipsychotics, the atypical antipsychotics risperidone (ED(50)=0.3mg/kg) and clozapine (ED(50)=1.5mg/kg) blocked the oral movements induced by the cholinomimetic agent at or below the doses required for suppression of conditioned avoidance response. The compound F-97013-GD (6-methyl-2-[4-(naphtylpiperazin-1-yl)butyl]-3-(2H)-pyridazinone), a putative antipsychotic drug that in functional in vitro and in vivo assays behaved as a mixed dopamine D(2)-antagonist and 5-HT(1A)-partial agonist, also displayed a potent antitremorgenic effect in this paradigm (ED(50)=0.5mg/kg). Interestingly, pretreatment with WAY 100,635 blocked the inhibitory effect of F-97013-GD but not that of clozapine. The 5-HT depleting agent para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) partially attenuated tacrine-induced TJM but did not block the suppressive effect of 5-HT(1A) agonists. In addition, only high doses of F-97013-GD induced catalepsy in rodents and, like 8-OH-DPAT and clozapine, the compound reversed the haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. These results show that 5-HT(1A) receptors play a role in the regulation of tacrine-induced TJM and suggest that their activation by novel antipsychotics may not only reduce the extrapyramidal side effects EPS liability, but also be effective in the treatment of parkinsonian tremor.
We report a case of intractable hemorrhagic cystitis due to cyclophosphamide therapy for Wegener's granulomatosis. Conservative treatment, including bladder irrigation with physiological saline and instillation of prostaglandin F2 alpha, failed to totally control hemorrhage. We then used hyperbaric oxygen at an absolute pressure of 2 atm, 5 days a week for 8 consecutive weeks. The bleeding ceased completely by the end of treatment and the patient remained free of hematuria thereafter. No side effect was noted during the course of therapy. In future, this form of therapy can offer a safe alternative in the treatment of cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.
The aim of the present work was to establish a time-course correlation between vascular and autonomic changes that contribute to the development of hypertension during ethanol ingestion in rats. For this, male Wistar rats were subjected to the intake of increasing ethanol concentrations in their drinking water during four weeks. Ethanol effects were investigated at the end of each week. Mild hypertension was already observed at the first week of treatment, and a progressive blood pressure increase was observed along the evaluation period. Increased pressor response to phenylephrine was observed from first to fourth week. α1-Adrenoceptor protein in the mesenteric bed was enhanced at the first week, whereas β2-adrenoceptor protein in the aorta was reduced after the second week. In the third week, ethanol intake facilitated the depressor response to sodium nitroprusside, whereas in the fourth week it reduced nitrate content in aorta and increased it plasma. The bradycardic component of the baroreflex was impaired, whereas baroreflex tachycardia was enhanced at the third and fourth weeks. AT1A receptor and C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) mRNAs in the nucleus tractus solitarius were increased at the fourth week. These findings suggest that increased vascular responsiveness to vasoconstrictor agents is possibly a link factor in the development and maintenance of the progressive hypertension induced by ethanol consumption. Additionally, baroreflex changes are possibly mediated by alterations in angiotensinergic mechanisms and CNP content within the brainstem, which contribute to maintaining the hypertensive state in later phases of ethanol ingestion. Facilitated vascular responsiveness to nitric oxide seems to counteract ethanol-induced hypertension.
To determine the myocardial kinetics of technetium-tertiary-butyl-isonitrile (Tc-TBI) during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia, the circumflex coronary arteries (LCX) of 15 dogs were partially occluded. Dipyridamole was then infused intravenously over 4 minutes, creating hyperemic flows in the anterior descending (LAD) coronary system. Tc-TBI was administered, then LAD and LCX regional myocardial Tc-TBI activities were continuously monitored with miniature detectors and gamma camera imaging over 3 hours. Microsphere-determined regional myocardial blood flows demonstrated an LCX/LAD flow ratio of 0.81 +/- 0.21 at rest and 0.45 +/- 0.24 (SD) during dipyridamole infusion. Three-hour fractional Tc-TBI clearance rates were minimal and were equal in the LAD (0.14 +/- 0.11) and LCX (0.13 +/- 0.12) zones (p = ns). Excellent gamma camera images, demonstrating the LCX defect, were obtained in all dogs. The correlation coefficient was 0.98 for regional myocardial blood flow vs initial Tc-TBI distribution.
(1) Dipyridamole vasodilation unmasked coronary stenoses despite no flow disparities at rest. (2) The initial distribution of Tc-TBI is proportional to regional myocardial blood flow. (3) There is minimal washout and no redistribution into the initial defect over time, and thus image quality is stable over time. (4) Tc-TBI myocardial kinetics may be applicable to closely related agents currently being developed.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is the most resistant type of epilepsy. Currently available drugs for epilepsy are not antiepileptogenic. A novel treatment for epilepsy would be to block or reverse the process of epileptogenesis. We used intermittent feeding (IF) regimen of the dietary restriction (DR) to study its effect on epileptogenesis and neuroprotection in the pilocarpine model of TLE in rats. The effect of IF regimen on the induction of status epilepticus (SE), the duration of latent period, and the frequency, duration, severity and the time of occurrence of Spontaneous Recurrent Seizures (SRS) were investigated. We also studied the effect of IF regimen on hippocampal neurons against the excitotoxic damage of prolonged SE (about 4h) induced by pilocarpine. The animals (Wistar, male, 200-250g) were divided into four main groups: AL-AL (ad libitum diet throughout), AL-IF (PfS) [IF post-first seizure], AL-IF (PSE) [IF post-SE] and IF-IF (IF diet throughout), and two AL and IF control groups. SE was induced by pilocarpine (350mg/kg, i.p.) and with diazepam (6mg/kg, i.p.) injected after 3h, the behavioral signs of SE terminated at about 4h (AL animals, n=29, 260.43+/-8.74min; IF animals, n=19, 224.32+/-20.73min). Behavioral monitoring was carried out by 24h video recording for 3 weeks after the first SRS. Rat brains were then prepared for histological study with Nissl stain and cell counting was done in CA1, CA2 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus. The results show that the animals on IF diet had significantly less SE induction and significantly longer duration of latent period (the period of epileptogenesis) was seen in IF-IF group compared to the AL-AL group. The severity of SRS was significantly more in AL-IF (PfS) compared to the AL-IF (PSE) group. These results indicate that IF diet can make rats resistant to the induction of SE and can prolong the process of epileptogenesis. The results of the histological study show that the number of pyramidal neurons was statistically less in CA1, CA2 and CA3 of the hippocampus in the experimental groups compared to the control groups. However, IF regimen could not protect the hippocampal neurons against the excitotoxic injury caused by a prolonged SE. We conclude that IF regimen can significantly influence various behavioral characteristics of pilocarpine model of TLE. Further studies can elaborate the exact mechanisms as well as its possible role in the treatment of human TLE.
Ethanolic extract of flowers of Pongamia pinnata was studied for its protective effect against cisplatin and gentamicin induced renal injury in rats. When the extract (300 & 600 mg kg(-1)) was administered orally for 10 days following cisplatin (5 mg kg(-1) i.p.) on day 5, toxicity of cisplatin, as measured by loss of body weight, elevated blood urea and serum creatinine declined significantly. Similarly in gentamicin (40 mg kg(-1) s.c.) induced renal injury, the extract (600 mg kg(-1)) normalized the raised blood urea and serum creatinine levels. Reversal of cisplatin and gentamicin renal cell damage as induced by tubular necrosis ie, marked congestion of the glomeruli with glomerular atrophy, degeneration of tubular epithelial cells with casts in the tubular lumen and infiltration of inflammatory cells in the interstitium was confirmed on histopathological examination. In the preventive regimen, co-administration of the extract with gentamicin significantly prevented the renal injury both functionally and histologically. Ethanolic extract of flowers had a marked nitric oxide free radical scavenging effect, suggesting an antioxidative property. Two flavonoids, known for their antioxidant activity viz. kaempferol and 3, 5, 6, 7, 8-pentamethoxy flavone were isolated from the extract. The results suggested that the flowers of Pongamia pinnata had a protective effect against cisplatin and gentamicin induced renal injury through antioxidant property.
Clozapine, used in the treatment of patients with schizophrenia resistant to other neuroleptic medication, is metabolized by the hepatic microsomal system to demethyl-clozapine and clozapine-N-oxide. Changes in clozapine serum concentrations have been documented after initiation of therapy with medications known to induce or inhibit liver microsomal enzymes. These interactions are of clinical importance when diminished efficacy or increased toxic effects of clozapine therapy occur. A 34-year-old schizophrenic man had increased clozapine serum concentrations, leukocytosis, and adverse effects as a result of concomitant erythromycin therapy given for suspected lower respiratory tract infection. Symptoms included somnolence, difficulty in coordination and ambulation, slurred speech, disorientation, and incontinence. The symptoms resolved after treatment with clozapine and erythromycin were discontinued, and treatment with clozapine was gradually resumed.
This paper presents results from a study which examined the occurrence and time course of smoking withdrawal symptoms in a group of 33 smokers followed over a 21 day period of abstinence. Smoking withdrawal symptoms examined included: irritability, feeling sleepy, sleeplessness, dizziness, coughing, tightness in the chest, constipation, mouth sores, and cravings for a cigarette. Findings showed a fairly consistent pattern of reduction across days of abstinence for six of the nine symptoms examined--irritability, feeling sleepy, dizziness, coughing, tightness in the chest, and cravings. Most symptoms decreased sharply during the first few days of cessation followed by a continued, but slower rate of decline in the second and third week of abstinence. Heavy smokers tended to report more withdrawal symptoms than light smokers, although the difference between heavy and light smokers was statistically significant only with respect to irritability. The implications of these findings for relapse prevention are discussed.
Children exposed to valproate monotherapy in utero were evaluated with respect to neurological functioning, behavior, and additional educational needs, and the results were compared with those for age- and gender-matched controls exposed to carbamazepine and children with no prenatal exposure to antiepileptic drugs. We identified from the community-based pregnancy registry of Kuopio University Hospital area (1989-2000) all first-born and school-aged children exposed to valproate (N=13). Neurological and neuropsychological assessments were made clinically, and behavioral problems were assessed with the Conners' Teacher Rating Scale (CTRS). Eight children (62%) exposed to valproate and two (15%) each in the carbamazepine-exposed and nonexposed groups (P=0.022) required educational support. Minor dysmorphic features were noted in eight children (62%) exposed to valproate and in three children (23%) each in the carbamazepine-exposed and nonexposed groups. On CTRS, children exposed to valproate received higher scores, indicating behavioral problems. In our small but population-based study, all children exposed to valproate had minor, and some of them major, cognitive or neurological problems. This difference is clearly observed when assessing each child individually, but the many confounding factors explaining at least part of this difference are difficult to control and avoid in clinical practice. Larger studies with a prospective design are needed to confirm these findings.
The influence of an irreversible inhibitor of constitutive NO synthase (L-NOArg; 1.0 mg/kg ip), a relatively selective inhibitor of inducible NO synthase (L-NIL; 1.0 mg/kg ip) and a relatively specific inhibitor of neuronal NO synthase (7-NI; 0.1 mg/kg ip), on antihyperalgesic action of selective antagonists of B2 and B1 receptors: D-Arg-[Hyp3,Thi5,D-Tic7,Oic8] bradykinin (HOE 140; 70 nmol/kg ip) or des Arg10 HOE 140 (70 nmol/kg ip) respectively, in model of diabetic (streptozotocin-induced) and toxic (vincristine-induced) neuropathy was investigated.
The changes in pain thresholds were determined using mechanical stimuli--the modification of the classic paw withdrawal test described by Randall-Selitto.
The results of this paper confirm that inhibition of bradykinin receptors and inducible NO synthase but not neuronal NO synthase activity reduces diabetic hyperalgesia. Pretreatment with L-NOArg and L-NIL but not 7-NI, significantly increases antihyperalgesic activity both HOE 140 and des Arg10 HOE 140. It was also shown that both products of inducible NO synthase and neuronal NO synthase activation as well as bradykinin are involved in hyperalgesia produced by vincristine. Moreover, L-NOArg and 7-NI but not L-NIL intensify antihyperalgesic activity of HOE 140 or des-Arg10HOE 140 in toxic neuropathy.
Results of these studies suggest that B1 and B2 receptors are engaged in transmission of nociceptive stimuli in both diabetic and toxic neuropathy. In streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia, inducible NO synthase participates in pronociceptive activity of bradykinin, whereas in vincristine-induced hyperalgesia bradykinin seemed to activate neuronal NO synthase pathway. Therefore, concomitant administration of small doses of bradykinin receptor antagonists and NO synthase inhibitors can be effective in alleviation of neuropathic pain, even in hospital care.
Methohexital and amobarbital have been used as agents for Wada testing in the presurgical evaluation of patients with epilepsy. Previous experience with methohexital as an anesthetic indicates that methohexital may decrease seizure threshold and may trigger seizures.
A retrospective chart review of 760 intracarotid amobarbital and methohexital tests was performed to determine the frequency of seizures associated with preoperative intracarotid barbiturate testing for language and memory lateralization.
Sixteen patients (2.1%) who had seizures were found. In 3 patients, seizures occurred prior to barbiturate injection, and in 13, following barbiturate injection. After injection of amobarbital, 4 of 538 patients (0.7%) had a seizure. Nine of 222 patients had a seizure after methohexital injection (4.1%) (P=0.001).
Patients with a previous history of epilepsy may be at higher risk for seizures after methohexital injection as compared with amobarbital injection.
Vincristine-associated peripheral neuropathy is a well-described entity. We describe a case of vincristine-induced vocal cord paralysis, which is a rare complication of this drug. We report herein the second case of bilateral vocal cord paralysis in a patient receiving conventional doses of vincristine.
To present a case report of vincristine-associated vocal cord paralysis and to review the relevant English language literature on this subject.
Report and review of the literature.
Outpatient community cancer center.
A 58-year-old female with a diffuse large cell lymphoma stage IV receiving cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone.
Bilateral vocal cord paralysis occurred in this patient receiving vincristine as part of her chemotherapy regimen. In addition to this case there have been a total of 25 prior reports, which are reviewed in the text.
The incidence of bilateral vocal cord paralysis in patients receiving vincristine on the usual low-dose schedule is low. Prompt withdrawal of the offending agent results in prompt recovery without untoward long-lasting sequela.
Orotate phosphoribosyl transferase (OPRT) is the initial enzyme of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) activation, in which 5-FU is converted to 5-fluorouridinemonophosphate. Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) is a degrading enzyme that catabolizes 5-FU. In this study, we investigated the expression of these enzymes in normal prostate gland (NP), hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (HSPC) and hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC). Forty-two prostatic tissue specimens were obtained from patients who had undergone prostate needle biopsies without any treatments or with PSA failure after initial androgen deprivation. The tissue samples derived from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections were made by laser-captured microdissection and from those RNA was extracted. The levels of OPRT and DPD mRNA expression were examined by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The level of OPRT mRNA expression in the HSPC or the HRPC specimens was significantly higher than that in the NP specimens. Immunohistochemical staining for OPRT revealed strong expression of OPRT in prostate cancer cells. There was a significant correlation between OPRT mRNA expression levels and the tumor pathological grade. Furthermore, the OPRT/DPD expression ratio, a powerful predictive factor to evaluate 5-FU sensitivity, in the HRPC group was significantly higher than that in the low grade HSPC group. Thus, 5-FU may be an effective option for some HRPC patients.
The effects of a nootropic drug, oxiracetam (50-100-200 mg/kg ip), and a potent antioxidant agent, ascorbic acid (62.5-125-250 mg/kg ip), administered alone or in combination, were investigated on scopolamine-induced amnesia in a mouse habituation test. The light-dark aversion test was selected and was carried out in aged mice. Habituation to the test box occurred over a 3-day period, control mice showing a significant between-day increase in the time spent in the dark box, but not in the number of transitions. On Day 4, following post-trial administration over a 3-day period of oxiracetam (50-100 and 200 mg/kg ip) or ascorbic acid (62.5-125 and 250 mg/kg ip), a significant between-day increase in the time spent in the black area, but not in the number of transitions, was found. The combination of oxiracetam (100 mg/kg ip) with ascorbic acid (125 mg/kg ip) produced a similar pattern of results. The acute administration of scopolamine (0.25 mg/kg ip) to mice treated over a 3-day period with vehicle disrupted the habituation response. In mice that had received the 3-day treatment with oxiracetam or ascorbic acid or its combination, scopolamine failed to alter significantly the learning pattern. In conclusion, these data demonstrate that ascorbic acid, alone or in combination with oxiracetam, may prevent experimentally induced amnesia in aged mice.
A new triterpenoid named alisol O ( 1) was isolated from the rhizomes of Alisma orientalis, together with six known compounds: alisol A 24-acetate ( 2), 25-anhydroalisol A ( 3), 13 beta,17 beta-epoxyalisol A ( 4), alisol B 23-acetate ( 5), alisol F ( 6), and alisol F 24-acetate ( 7). Based on 1D and 2D-NMR data (HMQC, HMBC, COSY, ROESY), the structure of the new compound was deduced to be 11-dehydroxy-12-dehydroalisol F-24-acetate ( 1). Compounds 2 - 7 exhibited inhibitory activity in vitro on hepatitis B virus (HBV) surface antigen (HBsAg) secretion of the Hep G2.2.15 cell line with IC (50) values of 2.3, 11.0, 15.4, 14.3, 0.6 and 7.7 microM, and on HBV e antigen (HBeAg) secretion with IC (50) values of 498.1, 17.6, 41.0, 19.9, 8.5 and 5.1 microM, respectively.
To assess the possible contribution of the circulatory and cardiac renin-angiotensin system (RAS) to the cardiac hypertrophy induced by a beta-agonist, the present study evaluated the effects of isoproterenol, alone or combined with an angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor or AT(1) receptor blocker, on plasma and LV renin activity, ANG I, and ANG II, as well as left ventricular (LV) and right ventricular (RV) weight. Male Wistar rats received isoproterenol by osmotic minipump subcutaneously and quinapril or losartan once daily by gavage. Plasma and LV ANGs were measured by radioimmunoassay after separation by HPLC. Isoproterenol alone decreased blood pressure, more markedly when combined with losartan or quinapril. Isoproterenol significantly increased LV and RV weight and total collagen. Neither losartan nor quinapril inhibited the increases in LV or RV weight. Losartan prevented the increase in RV collagen but enhanced the increase in LV collagen. Isoproterenol increased plasma renin, ANG I, and ANG II three- to fourfold. Isoproterenol combined with losartan or quinapril, caused marked further increases except for a significant decrease in plasma ANG II with quinapril. Isoproterenol alone did not increase LV ANG II and, combined with losartan or quinapril, actually decreased LV ANG II. These results indicate that isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy is associated with clear increases in plasma ANG II, but not in LV ANG II. Both losartan and quinapril lower LV ANG II below control levels, but do not prevent the isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy. These findings do not support a role for the circulatory or cardiac RAS in the cardiac trophic responses to beta-receptor stimulation.
The relationship between tobacco withdrawal symptoms and pre- and post-cigarette blood nicotine levels, pre-cigarette cotinine levels, change in nicotine level from pre- to post-cigarette, half-life for nicotine, and total smoke exposure was examined in 20 smokers. Subjects' reports of craving for cigarettes were significantly related to blood nicotine/cotinine levels and change in nicotine level from pre- to post-cigarette; questionnaire measures of confusion and number of awakenings during sleep was related to half-life for nicotine; and number of awakenings during sleep was related to behavioral measures of total smoke exposure. These results suggests some symptoms of tobacco withdrawal are related to nicotine deprivation while others are not.
A fatal syndrome of acute toxicity was produced in Mongolian gerbils following the injection of a penicillin-dihydrostreptomycin-procaine combination. The toxicity was determined to be due to the dihydrostreptomycin component. Fifty milligrams of dihydrostreptomycin produced 80-100% mortality in 55-65 g gerbils.
Twenty-eight women with hyperprolactinaemia and amenorrhoea received bromocriptine treatment which resulted in 31 term pregnancies. Bromocriptine treatment was stopped as soon as pregnancy was established. Nineteen of the women had radiological signs of a pituitary tumour. The pregnancies were clinically uneventful in all cases except one who developed headache. Post-partum sellar X-ray showed pregnancy-induced enlargement of the pituitary fossa in 4 of the 28 women. Regression of the radiological changes occurred in 3 of the 4 women within 2 years after the delivery. The women with abnormal sellar X-rays had no difference in the mean prolactin levels before treatment and after pregnancy and lactation while all the women with normal sellae had lower prolactin levels after pregnancy than before. Three women resumed regular spontaneous menstruations after pregnancy and lactation but only one conceived again. Thus, serious pituitary tumour complications are rare in hyperprolactinaemic women with bromocriptine-induced pregnancies. The pregnancy does not worsen the condition. Resolution of hyperprolactinaemia after bromocriptine-induced pregnancy is an unfrequent finding.
In 25 patients with transmural myocardial infarction a mean of 16 days after the onset of infarction an exercise stress test was performed 2 hours after the administration of Corinfar Retard. We evaluated ECG, blood pressure, heart rate, echocardiograms and spirographic parameters before and after drug administration. In the majority of patients ST segment depressions were reduced and duration of the exercise test increased or remained unchanged. In 5 patients the magnitude of ST segment depression was markedly decreased and associated with prolonged duration of exercise and substantial patient comfort. In these patients the drug is continued, as its withdrawal resulted in decreased exercise tolerance with accompanying chess discomfort. Corinfar Retard significantly decreased weigh blood pressure, both systolic and diastolic, whereas its effect on low blood pressure was only slight or none. Heart rate was higher before exercise, during and after exercise it did not differ from that measured without the drug. Ejection fraction increased by a mean of 4%; VC and FEV1 increased or remained unchanged. Exercise testing was safe, did not produce and any side effects and seems to be useful in deciding about the choice of drug after myocardial infarction, especially in patients with counterindications to beta blockers.
The presence of endogenous digitalis-like factors in the central nervous system suggests their functional significance in the central nervous system. Three-day infusions of three-stepped doses of the digitalis agent ouabain (1-100 ng.kg body wt-1.h-1) into the lateral cerebral ventricle of freely moving rats caused a dose-dependent increase in the number of central-apneic episodes during rapid-eye-movement sleep without affecting the time spent in rapid-eye-movement sleep or basic respiratory rate. These results suggest that endogenous digitalis-like factors may be involved in the genesis of central sleep apneas.
Therapy of malignant tumors is frequently curtailed by the emergence of chemoresistant cell clones. Experimentally, the authors have demonstrated that chemotherapy for glioma in rats is markedly improved by the administration of the antimutagenic quinacrine. They studied the effects of chloroquine, an antimutagenic with an optimal pharmacological profile for human use, as adjuvant for the treatment of patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).
In a prospective controlled randomized trial, 18 patients with GBM underwent standard treatment with surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy; nine received an additional 150-mg dose of chloroquine daily starting 1 day after surgery and continued through the observation period. Nine matched patients were included as controls. Neuroimaging studies and clinical response were periodically compared. The follow-up period ranged from 24 to 50 months. Survival time was defined as the main outcome measure. Survival was significantly longer in chloroquine-treated patients than in controls (33 +/- 5 and 11 +/- 2 months, respectively [p < 0.0002]). At the end of the observation period, four patients (46%) treated with chloroquine were alive, two had evidence of tumor remission after 2 years; in another two, tumor recurrence developed after 2 and 4 years of remission, respectively. No control patient survived more than 22 months after surgery.
Chronic administration of chloroquine greatly enhanced the response of GBM to antineoplastic treatment. Because the cytotoxicity of chloroquine on malignant cells is negligible, these favorable results appear mediated by its strong antimutagenic effect that precludes the appearance of resistant clones during radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
A case is reported of a young girl who developed benign intracranial hypertension, with severe bilateral papiledema and a left sixth cranial nerve palsy, after minocylcine therapy. This drug is a semisynthetic tetracycline which has proven to pass into the CSF more effectively and to have a greater lipoid solubility than the other antibiotics of the same group.
Adriamycin widely used in the treatment of neoplastic conditions is nephrotoxic. In the present study the protective effect of lipoic acid was investigated in adriamycin-induced nephrotoxicity in adult male albino Wistar rats. Adriamycin-induced nephrotoxicity was characterized by hyperlipidemia, proteinuria, and hypoproteinemia, by decreased activities of the enzymes N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase and cathepsin D, by increased lipid peroxidation and decreases in serum catalase and glutathione activities, and by increased urinary and serum urea, creatinine and urinary glycosaminoglycans. Pretreatment with lipoic acid restored the changes, indicating that lipoic acid is renoprotective in adriamycin nephrotoxicity.
The present study evaluated the effects of benazepril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor on haemodynamic, biochemical, and immunohistochemical (Bax and Bcl-2 protein) indices in ischaemia and reperfusion (IR) injury.
Male Wistar albino rats were divided into three groups and were orally administered saline once daily (IR-sham and IR-control) or benazepril (30 mg/kg/day; IR-benazepril) for 14 days. On the 15(th) day, in the IR-control and IR-benazepril groups, rats were subjected to left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion for 45 minutes followed by a one-hour reperfusion. Haemodynamic parameters were recorded and rats were sacrificed; hearts were isolated for biochemical estimation and immunohistochemistry.
In the IR-control group, significant ventricular dysfunctions (p<0.05 vs. IR-sham group) were observed along with enhanced expression of pro-apoptotic protein Bax. A decline in lactate dehydrogenase activity and increased content of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, a marker of lipid peroxidation, were observed. Benazepril pretreatment significantly improved mean arterial pressure (p<0.01), reduced left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (p<0.05), and improved both inotropic and lusitropic function of the heart (+LVdP/dt and - LVdP/dt) (p<0.05; p<0.01) as compared to IR-control. Furthermore, benazepril treatment significantly decreased the level of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and restored the activity of lactate dehydrogenase towards normal value (p<0.05 vs. IR-control).
This study demonstrates that benazepril upregulated Bcl-2 protein and decreased Bax protein expression, thus exhibiting anti-apoptotic effects. These beneficial effects of benazepril will have an important implication in the therapeutic use of benazepril in ischaemic heart disease.
