We report a case of nonfatal complete atrio-ventricular (A-V) block after injection of 125 mg of furosemide by a central vena cava catheter. Accidents with this diuretic are very rare but this observation shows that it could induce A-V conduction disturbances. When large quantities of this diuretic must be used, we would recommend a slow injection rate to avoid such accidents.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of glucagon on cardiovascular parameters in anesthetized rat model of tricyclic antidepressant overdose. Toxicity was induced by infusion of amitriptyline 0.94 mg/kg/min until a 40-45% of reduction in mean arterial pressure was observed. Amitriptyline infusion rats were then randomized into three groups. Control group of rats (group 1) received a bolus of 5% dextrose followed by the continuous infusion of dextrose, whereas treatment groups received 1 mg/kg (group 2) or 2 mg/kg (group 3) bolus doses of glucagon followed by continuous infusion (0.1 mg/kg/min) of glucagons for 60 min. Mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and electrocardiogram were recorded. Amitriptyline caused a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure and a prolongation in QRS, yet it did not change the heart rate. High-bolus dose of glucagon (2 mg/kg) followed by glucagon infusion significantly increased mean arterial pressure at 40, 50, and 60 min (P < 0.05) and shortened the prolonged QRS at 50 and 60 min (P < 0.05) when compared with control group. There was also a significant increase in heart rate. In conclusion, bolus doses followed by a continuous infusion of glucagon were found to be effective in reversing the hypotension and QRS prolongation in the rat model of amitriptyline toxicity. Further studies are needed to reveal the exact mechanism of the proposed effect.
The influence of melatonin, curcumin, quercetin, and resveratrol pretreatment on ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA)-induced oxidative renal damage was studied. Male Wistar rats were treated orally once daily for 3 days with melatonin (10 mg/kg), curcumin (50 mg/kg), quercetin (15 mg/kg), and resveratrol (10 mg/kg). One hour after the last dose of antioxidants, a single dose of Fe-NTA was administered (8 mg of Fe/kg body weight, i.p.) to pre-treated animals. Twenty-four hours after Fe-NTA administration, the lipid peroxidation (LP), reduced glutathione (GSH), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) were estimated in kidney homogenates. Iron, zinc, and copper concentrations were estimated in kidney tissue. Administration of Fe-NTA to rats induced renal LP (170%, P < 0.001) and inhibited catalase (78%, P < 0.05) in the kidney. The oral pretreatment with melatonin, curcumin, quercetin, and resveratrol each one was effective in decreasing the Fe-NTA-induced LP (P < 0.001); however, it did not influence the FeNTA-induced inhibition of renal CAT activity. No changes were found in renal GSH level and GSH-Px activity compared to control animals. The pretreatment with antioxidants did not affect the increase in renal iron content, blood urea nitrogen/creatinine ratio, and relative kidney weight of FeNTA-intoxicated rats. The results indicate that the pretreatment with natural antioxidants, curcumin, melatonin, quercetin, and resveratrol, significantly and equally suppressed lipid peroxidation induced by Fe-NTA but had no effect on other markers of FeNTA nephrotoxicity and iron deposition in kidneys.
Keratins 8 and 18 (K8/K18) are important hepatoprotective proteins. Animals expressing K8/K18 mutants show a marked susceptibility to acute/subacute liver injury. K8/K18 variants predispose to human end-stage liver disease and associate with fibrosis progression during chronic hepatitis C infection. We sought direct evidence for a keratin mutation-related predisposition to liver fibrosis using transgenic mouse models because the relationship between keratin mutations and cirrhosis is based primarily on human association studies.
Mouse hepatofibrosis was induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) or thioacetamide. Nontransgenic mice, or mice that over express either human Arg89-to-Cys (R89C mice) or wild-type K18 (WT mice) were used. The extent of fibrosis was evaluated by quantitative real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction of fibrosis-related genes, liver hydroxyproline measurement, and Picro-Sirius red staining and collagen immunofluorescence staining.
Compared with control animals, CCl(4) led to similar liver fibrosis but increased injury in K18 R89C mice. In contrast, thioacetamide caused more severe liver injury and fibrosis in K18 R89C as compared with WT and nontransgenic mice and resulted in increased messenger RNA levels of collagen, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1, matrix metalloproteinase 2, and matrix metalloproteinase 13. Analysis in nontransgenic mice showed that thioacetamide and CCl(4) have dramatically different molecular expression responses involving cytoskeletal and chaperone proteins.
Over expression of K18 R89C predisposes transgenic mice to thioacetamide- but not CCl(4)-induced liver fibrosis. Differences in the keratin mutation-associated fibrosis response among the 2 models raise the hypothesis that keratin variants may preferentially predispose to fibrosis in unique human liver diseases. Findings herein highlight distinct differences in the 2 widely used fibrosis models.
It has become appreciated that drug levels of procainamide hydrochloride needed to suppress inducible ventricular tachycardia by programmed ventricular stimulation exceed the previously published therapeutic range. Cerebellar ataxia developed acutely in a patient receiving high-dose procainamide. This was associated with a marked increase in the serum drug level. Resolution occurred within three days after drug therapy was discontinued.
Recent articles have described the increasing frequency of use of propofol as a sedating agent in the ED, and praise the safety profile of propofol when used in this manner. We describe a patient who developed torsade de pointes followed by ventricular fibrillation while undergoing propofol sedation for closed reduction of a mid-shaft fracture of the tibia and fibula. Possible reasons for the event are discussed, and suggestions are made for areas of further research.
To determine the effects on pre- and post-glomerular vascular resistance of adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH)-induced hypertension in rats, before and after blockade of nitric oxide formation.
Four groups of Sprague-Dawley rats were studied. Measurements were made in ACTH- (Synacthen Depot, 0.25 mg/kg twice daily for 8 days) and sham-treated anaesthetized rats, before and after either Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA, 6 mg/kg) or vehicle.
Whole-kidney and single-nephron haemodynamics and function were measured. Glomerular capillary pressure was estimated from tubular stop-flow pressure measurements.
Blood pressure (P < 0.001), renal blood flow (RBF, P < 0.05) and glomerular filtration rate (P < 0.01) were increased following ACTH treatment compared with sham. There were no differences in either total renal, or pre- or post-glomerular vascular resistances, but stop-flow-estimated glomerular capillary pressure was elevated (P < 0.001) as was single-nephron glomerular filtration rate (SNGFR) (P < 0.001) and single-nephron blood flow (P < 0.01 ) in the ACTH- compared to the sham-treated rats. L-NNA treatment increased blood pressure by a similar extent in both ACTH- and sham-treated rats, but reduced RBF (P < 0.05) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) (P < 0.05) more in the ACTH group; similar changes were seen in single-nephron values. L-NNA increased pre- and post-glomerular resistances to a greater extent in the ACTH group.
ACTH-induced hypertension produced glomerular hypertension and hyperfiltration, which may be due to nitric oxide-related vasodilatation of the renal vasculature.
Five benzodiazepine drugs (diazepam, flunitrazepam, flurazepam hydrochloride, nitrazepam, and triazolam) were evaluated separately in 15 sleep laboratory studies. Rebound insomnia, a worsening of sleep compared with baseline, occurred following withdrawal of triazolam, nitrazepam, and flunitrazepam after they had been given in only single, nightly doses for short periods. The rebound insomnia was attributed to the short and intermediate half-lives of these drugs. Diazepam and flurazepam, which have longer half-lives, did not cause rebound insomnia on withdrawal. Rebound insomnia may play a role in the development of hypnotic drug dependence with shorter-acting benzodiazepine drugs.
Intrauterine infection is the main contributor to maternal-infantile transmission of HBV. This is a retrospective study of 158 HBsAg-positive pregnant women who delivered children from Jan 1st, 2004 to Dec.31th, 2006 in Wuhan City, China. We investigated the measures taken to prevent maternal-infantile transmission of hepatitis B virus and the infection status of children.
HBsAg-positive pregnant women were selected by a random sampling method when they accepted prenatal care in district-level Maternal and Child Health Hospitals. On a voluntary basis, these women completed questionnaires by face-to-face or phone interviews. The collected data were used to evaluate the immunization programs that pregnant women had received for preventing hepatitis B maternal-infantile transmission.
Among the 158 women, 143(90.5%) received Hepatitis B immune globulin during pregnancy, and 86.0% of their children were given Hepatitis B immune globulin and Hepatitis B vaccine. The rate of cesarean section was 82.3%, and 28.5% of these were aimed at preventing HBV infection. The rate of bottle feeding was 51.9%, and 89.0% of bottle feeding cases were for the purpose of preventing HBV infection. There were 71 cases of participants who were HBeAg-positive. Compared with the HBsAg+ HBeAg- group (only HBsAg-positive), the HBsAg + HBeAg+ group (HBsAg-positive and HBeAg-positive) had significantly higher rates of the caesarean section and bottle feeding resulting from hepatitis B (P < 0.05). Five cases were HBsAg-positive by Umbilical Cord Blood detection. The intrauterine infection rate of newborns was 6.7%. The chronic HBV rate of children was 4.0%.
Most HBsAg positive pregnant women have a growing awareness of maternal-infantile transmission of Hepatitis B virus and are receiving some form of preventative treatment, like combined immunization. Caesarean and bottle feeding are very common, often primarily to prevent transmission. Relatively few intrauterine infections were identified in this sample, but many infants did not appear to seroconvert after vaccination.
Clozapine is the current treatment of choice for drug-induced psychosis (DIP) occurring in Parkinson's disease. However, alternative medications have been sought because of the small but significant risk of agranulocytosis and the need for frequent blood testing. The new "atypical" antipsychotic olanzapine (OLZ) has recently been proposed as a safe and effective option for treating psychosis in this setting. To investigate this, we retrospectively evaluated all 12 of our patients treated with OLZ for DIP. Symptoms of psychosis were improved in nine of 12 patients, but nine of 12 patients also experienced worsening of motor functioning while on OLZ. The worsening was considered dramatic in six of these patients. Overall, there was no significant increase in levodopa doses on OLZ. Only one patient remained on OLZ at the time of the analysis. Nine patients were switched to alternative treatment for DIP. We conclude that although OLZ may improve symptoms of psychosis in parkinsonian patients, it can also worsen motor functioning. In some patients, the degree of motor worsening may be intolerable.
In a study to determine the nature and frequency of cardiac side effects during long-term administration of tricyclic antidepressant drugs in usual dosages in the aged, 32 geriatric patients were followed for an average of 36.6 weeks. Ten of them received amitriptyline in a daily dosage of 20-75 mg for 53 weeks (average); in 2, electrocardiographic side effects developed, viz, inversion of the T waves or evidence of acute coronary insufficiency. Imipramine was administered to 21 patients in a daily dosage of 20-100 mg (average, 66 mg) over a period of 40 weeks; in 3 instances major side effects developed--intermittent left bundle-branch block, acute coronary insufficiency with node dysfunction, or T-wave inversion with sinus tachycardia; in 1 instance there was a minor side effect, viz, tachycardia only. In 1 patient, acute myocardial infarction developed after two 10-mg doses of nortriptyline. Five of the 7 patients with cardiac side effects had prior organic heart disease. It was concluded that the incidence of cardiac side effects in aged persons given tricyclic antidepressant drugs in the usual therapeutic dosages for a prolonged period is great enough to warrant frequent careful monitoring of cardiac status during therapy.
Nitric acid esters such as glyceryl trinitrate were introduced into therapy more than a century ago and are still widely used for the treatment of myocardial ischemia and its main symptom angina pectoris. The basic mechanisms responsible for the vasodilatory and anti-ischemic action of organic nitrates involve bioactivation of, and nitric oxide (NO) release from, these compounds which have therefore been termed NO donors. The organic nitrate pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN) is known to possess antioxidant properties that are thought to be the underlying cause for its specific pharmacological profile. In contrast to other long-acting nitrates, PETN induces tolerance- free vasodilation in humans and was reported to prevent endothelial dysfunction as well as atherogenesis in cholesterol- fed rabbits. However, the exact nature of the vasoprotective signaling pathways triggered by PETN has remained obscure. The present study demonstrates that the active PETN metabolite PETriN stimulates protein expression of the antioxidant defense protein heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1; Figures 1 and 2). Additionally, PETriN enhanced the enzymatic activity of HO-1 measured as formation of the HO-1 metabolites bilirubin (Figure 3) and carbon monoxide (Figure 4) in lysates from endothelial cells. HO-1 induction subsequently led to a marked increase in protein expression of a second antioxidant protein, ferritin, via the HO-1-dependent release of free iron from endogenous heme sources (Figures 1 and 5). Pretreatment of endothelial cells with PETriN was followed by increased cellular resistance to oxidant injury mediated by hydrogen peroxide (Figure 6). Endothelial protection by PETriN was mimicked by exogenous bilirubin which led to an almost complete reversal of hydrogen peroxide-induced toxicity (Figure 8). Increased HO-1 and ferritin expression as well as endothelial protection occurred at micromolar concentrations of PETriN which are well within the range of plasma or tissue levels that can be expected during oral therapy. The capacity to protect the endothelium in vitro may translate into and explain the previously observed antiatherogenic actions of PETN in vivo. In this study, another long-acting nitrate, isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN), did not protect endothelial cells from oxidant damage (Figure 6). The absence of significant cytoprotection in the presence of ISDN was paralleled by a lack of HO-1 and ferritin stimulatory capacity (Figures 2 and 5). ISDN had no significant effect on carbon monoxide release or bilirubin formation (Figures 3 and 4). These observations are in agreement with results demonstrating small or nondetectable amounts of NO released from ISDN and its active metabolite isosorbide mononitrate (ISMN) measured as cyclic GMP formation in RFL-6 reporter cells (Figure 7). Interestingly and in contrast to PETN, isosorbide nitrates are known to induce tolerance to their cardiovascular effects, presumably via oxidant stress. Moreover, in earlier investigations aimed at assessing the antiatherogenic potential of nitrates, PETN but not isosorbide nitrates prevented plaque formation and endothelial dysfunction in animal models of atherosclerosis. Thus, the ability to activate HO-1 induction and associated antioxidant pathways apparently distinguishes PETN from other long-acting nitrates and may explain their different patterns of action in vivo (Figure 9).
The signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3, a transcriptional factor downstream of several cytokines, is activated by Janus kinase families and plays a pivotal role in cardiac hypertrophy through gp130. To determine the physiological significance of STAT3 in vivo, transgenic mice with cardiac-specific overexpression of the Stat3 gene (STAT3-TG) were generated. STAT3-TG manifested myocardial hypertrophy at 12 wk of age with increased expression of the atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), beta-myosin heavy chain (MHC), and cardiotrophin (CT)-1 genes. The animals were injected i.p. with 15 mg/kg doxorubicin (Dox), an antineoplastic drug with restricted use because of its cardiotoxicity. The survival rates after 10 days were 25% (5/20) for control littermates (WT), but 80% (16/20) for STAT3-TG (P < 0.01). WT showed increased expression of beta-MHC and ANF mRNAs in the hearts 1 day after Dox treatment; this expression peaked at 3 days, suggesting that the WT suffered from congestive heart failure. Although the expression of these mRNAs was elevated in STAT3-TG hearts before Dox treatment, no additional increase was observed after the treatment. Dox administration significantly reduced the expression of the cardiac alpha-actin and Stat3 genes in WT hearts but not in STAT3-TG. These results provide direct evidence that STAT3 transduces not only a hypertrophic signal but also a protective signal against Dox-induced cardiomyopathy by inhibiting reduction of cardiac contractile genes and inducing cardiac protective factors.
To investigate the anti-inflammatory potential of sinapic acid as well as the underlying mechanism involved, we studied the inhibitory effect of sinapic acid on the production of pro-inflammatory mediators in vitro and then evaluated its in vivo anti-inflammatory effect. Sinapic acid inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced nitric oxide (NO), prostaglandin E 2 (PGE 2), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and interleukin (IL)-1beta production in a dose-dependent manner. Consistent with these findings, sinapic acid inhibited LPS-induced expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygase (COX)-2 at the protein levels, and iNOS, COX-2, TNF-alpha, and IL-1beta mRNA expression in RAW 264.7 macrophages, as determined by Western blotting and reverse-transcribed polymerase chain reaction, respectively. Sinapic acid suppressed the LPS-induced activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), a transcription factor pivotal necessary for pro-inflammatory mediators, such as iNOS, COX-2, TNF-alpha, and IL-1beta. This effect was accompanied by a parallel reduction of the nuclear translocation of p65 and p50 NF-kappaB subunits, as well as IkappaB-alpha degradation and phosphorylation. The effects of sinapic acid on acute phase inflammation were investigated on serotonin- and carrageenan-induced paw edema and compared with indomethacin (10 mg/kg, p.o.) or ibuprofen (100 mg/kg, p.o.). Maximum inhibitions of 34.2 and 44.5% were observed at a concentration of 30 mg/kg for serotonin- and carrageenan-induced paw edema, respectively. These results suggest that the suppressions of the expressions of iNOS, COX-2, TNF-alpha, and IL-1beta via NF-kappaB inactivation are responsible for the anti-inflammatory effects of sinapic acid.
Recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) has hitherto been administered in acute myocardial infarction as an intravenous infusion with an initial bolus of about 10% of the total dose, both due to its short half-life and to avoid possible early reocclusions. A single-bolus dose would simplify the therapeutic regimen. Therefore, 20 patients with symptom duration of 125 +/- 58 minutes were given a single bolus of 50 mg of rt-PA over 2 minutes. Coronary angiography 60 minutes after the rt-PA bolus revealed a patent infarct-related artery in 15 of 20 patients (patency rate 75%, 95% confidence limits 51 to 91%). In the remaining patients, reperfusion was achieved by coronary angioplasty and intracoronary fibrinolysis; in 2 patients coronary artery bypass grafting was necessary. Control angiograms at 24 hours showed reocclusions in 4 of 18 patients. One woman died due to an intracranial hemorrhage 48 hours after the rt-PA bolus injection. Circulating fibrinogen decreased from 2.7 +/- 0.5 to 1.5 +/- 0.9 g/liter after 2 to 4 hours and reached the initial value within 24 hours. Pharmacokinetic parameters were obtained in 7 patients by measuring rt-PA antigen levels in multiple plasma samples. Mean peak rt-PA concentration was 9.8 +/- 3.6 micrograms/ml, total plasma clearance 476 +/- 148 ml/min and dominant half-life 4.8 +/- 1.0 minutes. Thus, rt-PA administered as a 50-mg single bolus appears to provide similar patency rates and shows similar kinetics in comparison with the conventional infusion regimen. Assessment of the incidence of bleeding complications requires further studies.
An admixture of thiopentone and propofol was evaluated against propofol for laryngeal mask airway (LMA) insertion. Eighty-one ASA 1 and 2 18- to 65-year-old patients, premedicated with 7.5 mg midazolam orally were assigned randomly to receive either propofol 1% or an admixture of thiopentone and propofol (1.25% and 0.5% respectively), both at a dose of 0.25 ml x kg(-1). Satisfactory conditions for insertion were achieved with the admixture, which was comparable to propofol (73% vs 85%, P>0.05). There was no statistical difference in the incidence or severity of gagging, coughing, inadequate jaw relaxation and laryngospasm. The incidence of hypotension was lower in the admixture group (51% vs 78%, P=0.02). The duration of apnoea was not different between the admixture and propofol group (mean 103s vs 109s respectively, P>0.05). We conclude that thiopentone/propofol admixture can be a suitable alternative to propofol for LMA insertion, producing less hypotension while allowing cost savings of up to 45%. An admixture of thiopentone and propofol (1.25% and 0.5% respectively) can produce suitable conditions compared to propofol 1%, for laryngeal mask insertion. In addition to cost containment, the admixture also produces less hypotension.
Non syndromic cleft lip and palate (CLP) is the most frequent human malformation. CLP is of complex inheritance and at least twenty contributing chromosomal regions have been identified by linkage studies. On the other hand, mutations in several genes such as TWIST and FGFR2 result in syndromic cranio-facial abnormalities of highly variable range. It is our hypothesis that some mutations at TWIST might contribute to CLP in absence of other dysmorphic features. Thus, DNA biopsies of patients with non syndromic CLP are collected and prepared to search for allelic variations or mutations at TWIST. This study should contribute to improve the classification of facial malformations relative to gene, to help to a better understanding of the inheritance pattern of this pathology, to help to genetic counselling for some cases aiming at the prevention of genetic disease. This project is based on a close cooperation between the Orthodontic Department, the Paediatric Surgery Department and the Center for Clinical Investigation (University Hospital in Strasbourg), in a joint project with an academic research laboratory, expert in molecular biology and genetics.
5'-dFUrd (doxifluridine) is a new fluoropyrimidine that may have a higher antitumor effect and less side effects than 5-FU. In this study 15 patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma, one with renal carcinoma, one with carcinoid and one with advanced carcinoma of unknown origin, were randomly assigned to receive 5'-dFUrd 5 g/m2 or 3 g/m2 as a 1-h infusion for 5 days in 3 cycles at intervals of 4 weeks. The patients had repeated neurological and neurophysiological examinations before and during the treatment. Ten patients developed symptoms of toxicity of the central nervous system (CNS), with cerebellopathy and encephalopathy resembling a Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. The neurotoxicity was dose related, affecting 7 of 8 patients in the high dosage group and 3 of 9 patients in the low dosage group. The symptoms generally started at the end of the second week of the cycle with unsteadiness and diplopia, and progressed to the fourth week with ataxia, confusion and EEG-changes, becoming more pronounced with increasing number of cycles. After the treatment there was normalisation within 4-8 weeks. Cachectic patients and patients with a pathological EEG before treatment seem to represent a high-risk group for CNS-symptoms. EEG may be helpful in early diagnosis of CNS-toxicity.
Valproic acid and its derivatives are now commonly used to treat various psychiatric disorders in the elderly. Data indicates that the elderly patients are more susceptible to developing neuropsychiatric complications when treated with these medications. In this report, we describe the case of a 66-year-old woman with early-onset, Alzheimer's type dementia, who developed myoclonus when treated with a valproic acid preparation for behavioral disturbances associated with the dementia.
Plasmin is an important factor in the degradation of extracellular matrix. In the study reported here we examined the expression of plasminogen-activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA), and uPA receptor (uPAR), as well as the relevance of such expression to the production of type IV collagen, a major component of extracellular matrix, in the renal tissue of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Because angiotensin II is involved in the synthesis of PAI-1 and uPA, we also examined the effect of benazepril, an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor, on the expression of PAI-1, uPA, and uPAR messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and type IV collagen protein. Rats with streptozocin-induced diabetes-some untreated and some treated with 30 mg/L benazepril-and nondiabetic control rats were sacrificed at 4, 12, or 24 weeks after induction of diabetes. We examined the expression of PAI-1, uPA, and uPAR mRNAs through the use of in situ hybridization and that of type IV collagen by means of immunohistochemical methods. In control rats, we detected weak signals for PAI-1, uPA, and uPAR mRNAs in glomeruli. Diabetic rats exhibited high levels of expression of PAI-1, uPA, and uPAR mRNAs and type IV collagen protein, mainly in mesangial cells. These mRNAs were synthesized in various renal cells (epithelial, mesangial, and endothelial cells and Bowman's capsule). Benazepril inhibited increases in all 3 mRNAs, especially in the mesangium; reduced type IV collagen expression; and attenuated mesangial expansion. Our results indicated that altered expression of PAI-1, uPA, and uPAR in diabetic nephropathy was associated with mesangial expansion and that the beneficial effects of ACE-I may be at least associated with such expression.
Chronic-ouabain administration to rats induces hypertension and increases the endothelial modulation of vasoconstrictor responses. The aim of this study was to analyze whether ouabain-treatment affects the mechanisms involved in endothelium-dependent relaxation of coronary arteries.
Coronary arteries from control and ouabain-treated rats (approximately 8.0 microg/day, 5 weeks) were used. Vascular reactivity was analyzed by isometric tension recording and membrane currents were measured using the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique.
In 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) precontracted arteries, acetylcholine (ACh, 1 nmol/l-10 micromol/l) induced a similar relaxant response in coronary arteries from both groups that was abolished by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 micromol/l). However, when arteries were contracted with high KCl (60 mmol/l) or preincubated with the large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ (BKCa) channels-blocker iberiotoxin (0.1 micromol/l), the relaxation elicited by ACh was more reduced in ouabain-treated than control rats. After iberiotoxin preincubation, the relaxant response of the nitric-oxide donor, DEA-NO (10 nmol/l-100 micromol/l) was significantly inhibited in ouabain-treated coronary arteries but not in control vessels. The soluble guanylyl cyclase activator BAY 41-2272 (10 nmol/l-30 micromol/l) induced relaxant responses that were inhibited by iberiotoxin. In coronary-artery myocytes isolated from ouabain-treated rats DEA-NO (1 micromol/l) markedly increased the amplitude of the iberiotoxin-sensitive current in the whole range of test potentials, compared with nontreated rats.
Our results indicate that chronic ouabain treatment increases activation of BKCa currents by nitric oxide and this effect might contribute to preserve the endothelial function in coronary arteries in this hypertension model.
Insulin-like growth factor II is a fetal promoter of cell proliferation that is involved in some forms of cancer and overgrowth syndromes in humans. Here, we provide two sources of genetic evidence for a novel, pivotal role of locally produced insulin-like growth factor II in the development of atherosclerosis. First, we show that homozygosity for a disrupted insulin-like growth factor II allele in mice lacking apolipoprotein E, a widely used animal model of atherosclerosis, results in aortic lesions that are approximately 80% smaller and contain approximately 50% less proliferating cells compared with mice lacking only apolipoprotein E. Second, targeted expression of an insulin-like growth factor II transgene in smooth muscle cells, but not the mere elevation of circulating levels of the peptide, causes per se aortic focal intimal thickenings. The insulin-like growth factor II transgenics presented here are the first viable mutant mice spontaneously developing intimal masses. These observations provide the first direct evidence for an atherogenic activity of insulin-like growth factor II in vivo.
The Forkhead Box m1 (Foxm1) protein is induced in a majority of human non-small cell lung cancers and its expression is associated with poor prognosis. However, specific requirements for the Foxm1 in each cell type of the cancer lesion remain unknown. The present study provides the first genetic evidence that the Foxm1 expression in respiratory epithelial cells is essential for lung tumorigenesis. Using transgenic mice, we demonstrated that conditional deletion of Foxm1 from lung epithelial cells (epFoxm1(-/-) mice) prior to tumor initiation caused a striking reduction in the number and size of lung tumors, induced by either urethane or 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA)/butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT). Decreased lung tumorigenesis in epFoxm1(-/-) mice was associated with diminished proliferation of tumor cells and reduced expression of Topoisomerase-2alpha (TOPO-2alpha), a critical regulator of tumor cell proliferation. Depletion of Foxm1 mRNA in cultured lung adenocarcinoma cells significantly decreased TOPO-2alpha mRNA and protein levels. Moreover, Foxm1 directly bound to and induced transcription of the mouse TOPO-2alpha promoter region, indicating that TOPO-2alpha is a direct target of Foxm1 in lung tumor cells. Finally, we demonstrated that a conditional deletion of Foxm1 in pre-existing lung tumors dramatically reduced tumor growth in the lung. Expression of Foxm1 in respiratory epithelial cells is critical for lung cancer formation and TOPO-2alpha expression in vivo, suggesting that Foxm1 is a promising target for anti-tumor therapy.
Our aim was to study the relationship between cerebral blood flow (CBF) responses to induced hypotension and to CO2 inhalation in patients with occlusive disease of the carotid or middle cerebral arteries. In 13 patients (8 men, 5 women) aged 31-73 years (mean +/- 1 SD = 63.2 +/- 10.6), regional CBF values during the resting state (CBFrest), 7% CO2 inhalation (CBFhypercapnia), and hypotension induced by 10-20 microg/kg/min intravenous trimethaphan (CBFhypotension) were measured using positron-emission tomography (PET) with H2(15)O. The % CBF change during induced hypotension (% CBFhypotension) was defined as (CBFhypotension - CBFrest)/CBFrest multiplied by 100. The % CBF change during CO2 inhalation (% CBFhypercapnia) was defined as (CBFhypercapnia - CBFrest)/CBFrest/mm Hg arterial partial pressure of CO2 x 100. We defined symptomatic hemispheres as those with a stenotic or occlusive lesion with neurological symptoms or signs and asymptomatic hemispheres as those which had a similar lesion and/or were influenced by the collateral flow pattern without neurological symptoms. In the territory of the occlusive lesion, % CBFhypotension correlated significantly with % CBFhypercapnia (r = 0.793, P < 0.002) in the symptomatic hemispheres. In the brain regions in which trimethaphan did not induce a reduction in CBF. % CBFhypercapnia was 6.13 +/- 1.79. In those in which % CBFhypotension ranged from 0 to -5, from -5 to -10, and more than -10%, % CBFhypercapnia was 4.05 +/- 1.99, 3.21 +/- 1.17, and 1.73 +/- 1.61, respectively, with significant differences between each pair of groups. In the asymptomatic hemispheres, % CBFhypotension also correlated with % CBFhypercapnia (r = 0.979, P < 0.0001). Failure to maintain CBF during induced hypotension was associated with diminished cerebrovascular vasoreactivity to hypercapnia in patients with arterial disease. This may indicate that failure of autoregulation can be assessed by the CBF response to both induced hypotension and CO2 inhalation. From the technical point of view, estimation of the CO2 response may be useful for assessing failure of autoregulation.
The antipsychotic drug molindone is considered to be atypical in its mode of action and to have mild side effects. Currently no data are available on the range of serum levels of this drug during treatment. By means of a high performance liquid chromatographic technique, serum molindone levels were measured in 14 psychotic patients receiving a wide range of doses of this drug. Molindone levels as high as 350 ng/mL were obtained and were not associated with any toxic effects. Significant relations were noted between the serum level of the drug and both serum prolactin level and treatment response. The authors suggest that molindone may have a range of serum levels consistent with therapeutic benefit. Serum molindone and prolactin levels might help assess resistance to molindone treatment.
Microarrays have the potential to significantly impact our ability to identify toxic hazards by the identification of mechanistically relevant markers of toxicity. To be useful for risk assessment, however, microarray data must be challenged to determine reliability and interlaboratory reproducibility. As part of a series of studies conducted by the International Life Sciences Institute Health and Environmental Science Institute Technical Committee on the Application of Genomics to Mechanism-Based Risk Assessment, the biological response in rats to the hepatotoxin clofibrate was investigated. Animals were treated with high (250 mg/kg/day) or low (25 mg/kg/day) doses for 1, 3, or 7 days in two laboratories. Clinical chemistry parameters were measured, livers removed for histopathological assessment, and gene expression analysis was conducted using cDNA arrays. Expression changes in genes involved in fatty acid metabolism (e.g., acyl-CoA oxidase), cell proliferation (e.g., topoisomerase II-Alpha), and fatty acid oxidation (e.g., cytochrome P450 4A1), consistent with the mechanism of clofibrate hepatotoxicity, were detected. Observed differences in gene expression levels correlated with the level of biological response induced in the two in vivo studies. Generally, there was a high level of concordance between the gene expression profiles generated from pooled and individual RNA samples. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to confirm modulations for a number of peroxisome proliferator marker genes. Though the results indicate some variability in the quantitative nature of the microarray data, this appears due largely to differences in experimental and data analysis procedures used within each laboratory. In summary, this study demonstrates the potential for gene expression profiling to identify toxic hazards by the identification of mechanistically relevant markers of toxicity.
We report a case of a 6-year-old boy who had been living with his parents, both cocaine smokers, and who was urgently admitted to hospital for general distress. Upon examination, cocaine and cocaine metabolites were detected in hair and urine samples. These toxicological findings most likely indicate that the child had passively consumed the drug when living in a heavily contaminated environment.
The aim of the present study was to determine the extent to which vasopressin or the renin-angiotensin system contributed to the recovery of blood pressure following acute hypotension induced by treatment with pentolinium and captopril, or pentolinium and the vasopressin antagonist d(CH2)5DAVP, respectively, in conscious, free-moving rats treated 21 days previously with saline or streptozotocin (STZ) (60 mg/kg ip). Half the animals given STZ were subsequently treated with insulin (about 4.5 U/day). The STZ-treated animals demonstrated a resting bradycardia and systolic hypotension. The vasopressin-mediated recovery in blood pressure seen following administration of pentolinium, in the presence of captopril, and the renin-angiotensin-mediated recovery seen following administration of pentolinium, in the presence of d(CH2)5DAVP, were both found to be significantly (P less than 0.05) attenuated in the STZ-treated animals. These abnormalities were absent in the animals injected with STZ and treated daily with insulin, but receiving their last dose 24 h before measurement. At that time the animals had elevated blood glucoses. These results indicate that the abnormalities observed were not due to toxic effects of STZ or to hyperglycemia per se.
