Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) receptor complex and its downstream Smad signaling intermediates constitute an extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation pathway.
In the present study, we examined whether decreased expression of the TGF-beta type II receptor (TGF-betaIIR) in TGF-betaIIR gene heterozygous (TGF-betaIIR+/-) (HT) mice could inhibit the Smad signaling pathway and subsequent progression of renal lesions when streptozotocin (STZ) diabetes is induced.
At the end of the 28-week experiment after STZ injections, wild-type diabetic mice showed severe glomerular hypertrophy and mesangial matrix accumulation occasionally featuring nodular glomerulosclerosis. In contrast, mean glomerular area and mesangial volume density were significantly decreased in the HT diabetic mice as compared with the wild-type diabetic mice. Immunostaining for phosphorylated Smad2/Smad3 and TGF-betaIIR in the glomerular cells was also significantly reduced in the HT diabetic mice. Southwestern histochemistry using digoxigenin-labeled CAGA sequence probes showed that localization of labeled probes to the nuclei of glomerular cells in the HT diabetic mice was significantly less frequent than that in the wild-type diabetic animals. Northern blot analysis showed that alpha1(IV) collagen mRNA levels were significantly reduced in the kidney tissue of HT diabetic mice as compared with the wild-type diabetic mice.
These results suggest that decreased expression of TGF-betaIIR in the HT diabetic mice can inhibit the progression of diabetic renal injury by inhibiting the downstream Smad signaling pathway and subsequent ECM gene expression. Thus, TGF-betaIIR appears to play an important role in the progression of diabetic nephropathy by mediating intracellular Smad signaling.
Studies with benoxaprofen in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, conducted in more than 2000 patients, continue to demonstrate its safety and effectiveness. In long-term, double-blind, parallel studies, benoxaprofen administered as a single daily dose was more efficacious than multiple daily doses of aspirin or ibuprofen. Significant clinical improvement was apparent after one week of benoxaprofen therapy in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. Additional improvement was noted after 6 and 12 months of therapy. Discontinuation due to lack of efficacy or adverse effects was substantially lower for benoxaprofen than for aspirin or ibuprofen. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate, the rheumatoid factor titer, and alkaline phosphatase were significantly reduced in the benoxaprofen patient group. The incidence of drug-related peptic ulcer disease was 7 in 2204 (0.3%). No other serious gastrointestinal effect was attributable to benoxaprofen. The incidences of drug-related phototoxicity and onycholysis were 9.4 and 12.5%, respectively. These data suggest that benoxaprofen has a superior and perhaps different therapeutic profile than aspirin or ibuprofen.
We have reported that a scheduled nonnarcotic analgesic regimen after dorsal lumbar rhizotomy and Chiari I malformation decompression is efficacious in managing postoperative pain in children. To date, this regimen has not been analyzed in children after brain tumor biopsy or resection.
To elucidate the safety and utility of such an analgesic protocol in these patients.
A database review was conducted to identify children who received a scheduled dose of alternating acetaminophen and ibuprofen after craniotomy for tumor biopsy or resection, and postoperative imaging was evaluated.
Fifty-one children who met the inclusion criteria were identified. On postoperative imaging, 17.67% had routine, postoperative blood in the resection cavity according to both radiology and neurosurgical review. One patient had moderate postoperative bleeding in the tumor cavity. Overall, 44 of the 51 patients (86.3%) required no or minimal narcotic medication for pain.
A scheduled regimen of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs given in alternating doses immediately after craniotomy for tumor biopsy or resection and throughout hospitalization did not result in any significant postoperative hemorrhage in our patient series.
Recently T-helper 17 (Th17) cells were demonstrated to disrupt the blood-brain barrier (BBB) by the action of IL-17A. The aim of the present study was to examine the mechanisms that underlie IL-17A-induced BBB breakdown. Barrier integrity was analyzed in the murine brain endothelial cell line bEnd.3 by measuring the electrical resistance values using electrical call impedance sensing technology. Furthermore, in-cell Western blots, fluorescence imaging, and monocyte adhesion and transendothelial migration assays were performed. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was induced in C57BL/6 mice. IL-17A induced NADPH oxidase- or xanthine oxidase-dependent reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. The resulting oxidative stress activated the endothelial contractile machinery, which was accompanied by a down-regulation of the tight junction molecule occludin. Blocking either ROS formation or myosin light chain phosphorylation or applying IL-17A-neutralizing antibodies prevented IL-17A-induced BBB disruption. Treatment of mice with EAE using ML-7, an inhibitor of the myosin light chain kinase, resulted in less BBB disruption at the spinal cord and less infiltration of lymphocytes via the BBB and subsequently reduced the clinical characteristics of EAE. These observations indicate that IL-17A accounts for a crucial step in the development of EAE by impairing the integrity of the BBB, involving augmented production of ROS.-Huppert, J., Closhen, D., Croxford, A., White, R., Kulig, P., Pietrowski, E., Bechmann, I., Becher, B., Luhmann, H. J., Waisman, A., Kuhlmann, C. R. W. Cellular mechanisms of IL-17-induced blood-brain barrier disruption.
Digitalis constricts the peripheral vasculature. When digitalis is administered to patients whose mesenteric blood flow is reduced secondary to heart failure, the vasoconstrictor action coupled to reduced mesenteric flow may result in mesenteric ischemia or hemorrhagic bowel necrosis. The clinical syndrome of mesenteric ischemia secondary to heart failure and excess digitalis developed in a patient. Splanchnic vasoconstriction was proved angiographically. Both the vasospasm and clinical evidence of mesenteric ischemia were promptly reversed by sodium nitroprusside.
Exposure to organophosphate (OP) pesticides is virtually ubiquitous. These inevitable agents are neurotoxicants, but recent evidence also points to lasting effects on carbohydrate metabolism. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of 32 repeated treatment days with malathion, an OP insecticide, on some molecular and metabolic parameters. Malathion at 100 mg/kg was administered by gavage in Wistar rats. Results of this study indicate a significant decrease in hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone mRNA, of malathion-treated rats. This result, in accordance with that of diabetic type 2 rat model, may be due to very potent negative feedback effects of glucocorticoids on hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity. In addition, we have recorded a significant increase in hypothalamic inducible NO synthase mRNA which probably enhances the negative feedback. These alterations are accompanied with hypertriglyceridemia that may be a favourable condition to insulin resistance. Thus, results of the present study suggest that malathion can be considered as an important risk factor in the development of diabetes type 2, which prevalence increased substantially in our country and around the world. Clearly, we need to focus further research on the specific incidences of hazardous food chemical contaminant that might be contributing to epidemic health perspectives.
Estrogen deficiency is associated with impaired cutaneous wound healing. Remodeling of the extracellular matrix in wound healing involves the action of matrix metalloproteinases on basement membrane zone components, especially laminin-5. We studied the effects of estrogen and a potent matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor, chemically modified non-antimicrobial tetracycline, CMT-8, on wound healing in ovariectomized rats. At the tissue level, laminin-5 gamma2-chain expression was decreased and the migration-inductive 80 kDa form of laminin-5 gamma2-chain was absent in ovariectomized rats when compared with sham and CMT-8- or estrogen-treated ovariectomized animals as detected by Western blotting. The highest levels of gelatinolytic activity (matrix metalloproteinase-2 and -9) were found in sham animals. Levels were reduced in ovariectomized rats and were lowest after treating ovariectomized rats with CMT-8 or estrogen as analyzed by functional activity assay and zymography. The total amount of membrane type 1-matrix metalloproteinase was unchanged in all groups. We conclude that CMT-8 and estrogen can promote wound healing in ovariectomized rats, not only by normalizing wound bed total collagen content and structure, but also by recovering the expression and processing of key molecules in wound healing, i.e., laminin-5 gamma2-chain. This study shows, for the first time, the role of estrogen and CMT-8 in laminin-5 gamma2-chain modulation in vivo.
We propose that diabetic foot ulcers and diabetic mouse wounds have insufficient glutathione to maintain correct cellular redox potential. Therefore, tissue samples from the wound edge of diabetic foot ulcers, diabetic mice wounds and nondiabetic mice wounds were obtained. Levels of glutathione, cysteine, and mixed protein disulfide were determined and topical application of esterified glutathione in carboxymethylcellulose or carboxymethylcellulose alone was applied to the mice wounds. Diabetic foot ulcer mean glutathione levels were 150.6 pmol/mg in the controls and 53.4 pmol/mg at the wound edge (p < 0.05), while mean cysteine levels were 22.3 pmol/mg in the control and 10.5 pmol/mg at the wound edge (p < 0.05). The mixed protein disulfide levels were elevated in the wounds (14.6 pmol/mg), but not in the control (6.9 pmol/mg) (p < 0.05). The glutathione levels were lower in the diabetic mouse wounds (155 pmol/mg) than the nondiabetic mouse wounds (205 pmol/mg) (p=0.04). The diabetic mouse treated with carboxymethylcellulose alone healed slower (19.5 +/- 2.2 days) than the nondiabetic mouse DM (11.5 +/- 0.5 days) (p < 0.001). The diabetic mouse that received topical glutathione healed significantly faster (12.5 +/- 0.8 days) than the carboxymethylcellulose-treated mice (19.5 +/- 2.2 days) (p < 0.001). Glutathione levels in the diabetic mouse (26.0 pmol/mg) were lower than in the nondiabetic mouse (311.7 pmol/mg) (p < 0.05) after glutathione treatment. In the glutathione-treated diabetic mouse, the oxidized glutathione was higher (26.7%) than in the nondiabetic mouse (9.9%) (p=0.05). These data suggest that cellular redox dysfunction and lower glutathione levels are present in diabetic foot ulcers and diabetic mouse wounds.
Offensive and defensive components of aggressive behavior were determined in resident and intruder mice. Withdrawal aggression was measured after the removal of a subcutaneous morphine pellet or after precipitation by naloxone in naive mice and after removal of a morphine pellet in mice with prior fighting experience. In naive mice, removal of a morphine pellet led to increases in attack bites and threats but naloxone-precipitated withdrawal led to decreases in these behaviors and to increases in defensive posturing, escape attempts and vocalizations. Prior fighting experience abolished the enhanced attack behaviors of resident mice following morphine pellet removal, but led to heightened defensive behavior in intruder mice. The behavior of intruder mice appeared more sensitive to naloxone administration than the behavior of resident mice; naloxone influenced not only intruder defensive behavior, but also other non-aggressive behaviors. The social role of the drug recipient and his prior history of aggressive behavior are important determinants of morphine and naloxone effects on aggression.
A 21-tablet oral contraceptive packet containing .5 mg dl-norgestrel and .03 mg estradiol was clinically tested in 1085 women of reproductive age for a total of 7323 cycles. There was 1 pregnancy which may have been due to incorrect tablet use. 98.2% of the cycles fell within a 28-day plus or minus 3-day pattern. 21% of the women had some breakthrough bleeding at some time, but it was confined to 1 cycle in 63% and not more than 2 cycles in 82%. The contraceptive is recommended for general use on the bases of how pregnancy rate, mean intermenstrual bleeding of .54 days per cycle, and the mean total bleeding of 4.87 days per cycle. The hypothesis that an effective combined oral contraceptive using norgestrel as the progestogen can employ as little as 30 mcg of estrogen is supported.
Transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-beta 1) is thought to be one of the most important factors affecting the development of fibrotic processes in the liver.
To discover whether endogenously higher TGF-beta 1 production influences the progression and reversibility of liver fibrosis in mice.
We compared thioacetamide-induced liver fibrosis between wild-type and transgenic mice overexpressing active TGF-beta 1 in the liver. Hepatic fibrosis was detected on histological sections, and fibrotic areas were measured by means of morphometric analysis. We also performed Northern blot hybridisation and gelatine zymography to improve our understanding of the process.
The fibrotic process was faster in the transgenic animals, and regression after the withdrawal of the fibrogenic agent was slower. Fibrosis did not disappear completely from the TGF-beta 1 overexpressing mice, even at the endpoint of the experiment.
Since the increased TGF-beta 1 production in the liver slowed down the regression of the liver fibrosis, the behaviour of these transgenic mice is more similar to the human situation, where cirrhosis is irreversible. We propose that this transgenic model is more suitable for investigating fibrotic liver diseases than the experiments done previously on wild-type rodents.
Histamine is an important mediator of allergic responses. Arthropods express several biologically active proteins in their saliva, which may allow a prolonged blood meal on the host. Proteins identified and expressed include histamine, serotonin, tryptase, and complement binding proteins. We review here data that scavenging of endogenous histamine by the histamine-binding protein EV131 has a profound inhibitory effect on allergic asthma. Aerosol administration of EV131 prevented airway hyperreactivity and abrogated peribronchial inflammation, eosinophil recruitment, mucus hypersecretion, and IL-4 and IL-5 secretion. Saturation with histamine abrogated the inhibitory effect of EV131 on bronchial hyperreactivity. The data suggest that histamine plays a role in allergies and that scavenging of histamine by EV131 may represent a novel therapeutic strategy in the treatment of allergic diseases.
The effect of a maximal dose of a commonly used diuretic, chlorthalidone, on renal function was assessed in 6 patients with untreated essential hypertension. 100 mg daily of chlorthalidone for a 4-week period produced a significant fall in the plasma potassium concentration and total body potassium content by 16 and 4.2%, respectively. Associated with this change in body potassium status was a 10% decrease in the maximum urine concentrating capacity (p less than 0.01). Renal plasma flow, but not glomerular filtration rate, was also depressed (9.2%) by diuretic therapy. These results suggest that small diuretic induced deficits in the plasma potassium concentration as well as the total body potassium status interfere with renal tubular function.
In the present study we made an attempt to understand the skin irritation cascade of selected aliphatic hydrocarbons using microdialysis technique. Microdialysis probes were inserted into dermis in the dorsal skin of hairless rats. After 2h of probes insertion, occlusive dermal exposure (2h) was carried out with 230 microl of nonane, dodecane and tetradecane, using Hill top chambers((R)). Inflammatory biomarkers such as substance P (SP), alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) Interleukin 6 (IL-6) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE(2)) were analyzed in the dialysis samples by enzyme immunoassay (EIA). SP, alpha-MSH and IL6 were released in significant amounts following the dermal exposure of nonane and dodecane, whereas tetradecane did not induce any of these markers in significant amounts compared to control. Nonane increased the PGE(2) levels in significant amounts within 2h of chemical exposure compared to dodecane and tetradecane. IL-6 response was found to be slow and 2-3-fold increase in IL-6 levels was observed after 5h following nonane and dodecane application. The magnitude of skin irritation exerted by all three chemicals was in the order of nonane>or=dodecane>or=tetradecane. The results demonstrate that microdialysis can be used to measure the inflammatory biomarkers in the skin irritation studies and irritation response of chemicals was quantifiable by this method. In conclusion, microdialysis was found to be an excellent tool to measure several inflammatory biomarkers as a function of time after dermal exposures with irritant chemicals.
Hereditary angioedema (HAE) is a rare, autosomal-dominant disorder caused by C1 inhibitor gene mutation. Patients with HAE experience intermittent attacks of edema affecting the oropharynx, abdomen, gastrointestinal tract, and limbs. C1 inhibitor is the primary endogenous inhibitor of the kallikrein-kinin (contact) cascade. Unregulated kallikrein activation generates bradykinin, the likely mediator of the swelling and pain characterizing HAE attacks. Ecallantide, a novel, recombinant protein, potently inhibits kallikrein. This is the first placebo-controlled assessment in human beings of a therapeutic intervention to improve symptoms of HAE attacks under the hypothesis that the contact cascade is the putative pathway responsible for HAE pathology.
To determine the safety and efficacy of ecallantide in patients with HAE.
This double-blind, placebo-controlled, ascending-dose study assessed efficacy and tolerability of ecallantide (5, 10, 20, or 40 mg/m(2) intravenously) in individuals experiencing acute HAE attacks (N = 49). Twelve patients were assigned to each dose level: 10 to ecallantide and 2 to placebo, per cohort.
Ecallantide treatment ameliorated the symptoms of HAE attacks: 72.5% (29/40) of patients treated with ecallantide versus 25.0% (2/8) of placebo patients reported significant improvement in symptoms within 4 hours (P = .0169). Ecallantide was well tolerated at all doses.
Ecallantide, a potent, specific inhibitor of plasma kallikrein, significantly improved HAE symptoms over placebo. The trial provides strong support for the role of the kallikrein-kinin cascade and its end product, bradykinin, in the pathophysiology of HAE. Further clinical trials are underway.
Ecallantide is a promising new therapy for HAE attacks.
Complication rates of medical therapy for secondary stroke prevention derived from clinical trials may or may not be applicable to patients with cerebrovascular disease in the general population.
To determine complication rates for aspirin, warfarin, and intravenous heparin administered for secondary stroke prevention after first episodes of ischemic stroke, transient ischemic attack, or amaurosis fugax in a community.
Population-based historical cohort study.
Rochester, Minnesota.
All residents of Rochester who, between 1985 and 1989, received aspirin (n = 339) or warfarin (n = 145) within 2 years after first ischemic stroke, transient ischemic attack, or amaurosis fugax or received intravenous heparin (n = 201) within 2 weeks after first ischemic stroke, transient ischemic attack, or amaurosis fugax.
Occurrence of major complications caused by therapy.
Twenty aspirin-associated complications (1 fatal) occurred during an average 1.7 years of treatment, 8 warfarin-associated complications occurred during an average 0.7 years of treatment, and 3 heparin-associated complications (1 fatal) occurred during an average 5.1 days of treatment. Complication rates were 3.5 per 100 person-years (95% CI, 2.1 to 5.4) for aspirin, 7.9 per 100 person-years (CI, 3.4 to 15.6) for warfarin, and 0.30 (CI, 0.06 to 0.86) per 100 person-days for heparin. Rates of fatal complications were 0.2 per 100 person-years (CI, 0 to 1.0) for aspirin, 0 per 100 person-years (CI, 0 to 3.6) for warfarin, and 0.10 per 100 person-days (0 to 0.55) for heparin.
Complication rates for warfarin and intravenous heparin given as therapy for secondary stroke prevention in Rochester, Minnesota, were lower than rates reported from earlier trials and observational studies. However, complication rates for warfarin were higher than in more recent referral-based studies and multicenter randomized trials. After adjustment for duration of therapy, complication rates for heparin were higher than those for aspirin or warfarin. These rates can be used to judge the applicability of complication rates derived from ongoing clinical trials.
Immune factors such as autoimmunity have been implicated in the genesis of autism, a neurodevelopmental disorder. Since autoimmune response involves immune activation, the plasma levels of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), interleukin-12 (IL-12), interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1) were measured in autistic patients and age-matched normal controls. The levels of IL-12 and IFN-gamma were significantly (P < or = 0.05) higher in patients as compared to controls. However, IFN-alpha, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and sICAM-1 levels did not significantly differ between the two groups. Because macrophage-derived IL-12 is known to selectively induce IFN-gamma in T helper type-1 (Th-1) cells, it is suggested that IL-12 and IFN-gamma increases may indicate antigenic stimulation of Th-1 cells pathogenetically linked to autoimmunity in autism.
Raloxifene is a second-generation selective estrogen receptor modulator that reduces the incidence of breast cancer in postmenopausal women. Exemestane, a steroidal aromatase inhibitor, decreases contralateral new breast cancers in postmenopausal women when taken in the adjuvant setting. Preclinical evidence suggests a rationale for coadministration of these agents to achieve complete estrogen blockade.
We tested the safety and tolerability of combination exemestane and raloxifene in 11 postmenopausal women with a history of hormone receptor-negative breast cancer. Patients were randomized to either raloxifene (60 mg PO daily) or exemestane (25 mg PO daily) for 2 weeks. Patients then initiated combination therapy at the same dose levels for a minimum of 1 year. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data for plasma estrogens, raloxifene, exemestane, and their metabolites were collected at the end of single-agent therapy and during combination therapy.
Plasma concentration-time profiles for each drug were unchanged with monotherapy versus combination therapy. Raloxifene did not affect plasma estrogen levels. Plasma estrogen concentrations were suppressed below the lower limit of detection by exemestane as monotherapy and when administered in combination with raloxifene. The most common adverse events of any grade included arthralgias, hot flashes, vaginal dryness and myalgias.
In this small study, coadministration of raloxifene and exemestane did not affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of either agent to a significant degree in postmenopausal women. The combination of estrogen receptor blockade and suppression of estrogen synthesis is well tolerated and warrants further investigation.
Acute hepatic failure developed after 8-methoxypsoralen and ultraviolet irradiation for psoriasis in a patient with prior methotrexate-induced cirrhosis. Review of the literature and the temporal relationship between 8-methoxypsoralen and hepatic injury in our patient suggests it may be a direct hepatotoxin. In our report, submassive necrosis superimposed on cirrhosis appears to have produced hepatic failure.
Pentoxifylline potently inhibits cell proliferation, inflammation, and extracellular matrix accumulation. Human studies have proved its antiproteinuric effect in patients with glomerular diseases. Its benefit in addition to angiotensin receptor blockade in patients with chronic kidney disease is not clear.
Randomized controlled study.
85 patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 10 to 60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) and proteinuria with protein greater than 500 mg/g of creatinine on treatment with losartan, 100 mg/d, for longer than 6 months were screened in National Taiwan University Hospital.
In the first stage (12 months), group 1 served as control and group 2 was administered pentoxifylline. In the second stage (6 months), both groups were administered pentoxifylline. The pentoxifylline dose was 400 mg twice daily for patients with eGFR of 30 to 60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) or once daily for patients with eGFR of 10 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m(2).
Proteinuria and eGFR.
Proteinuria was assessed as total protein-creatinine ratio, eGFR was computed by using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease Study equation.
27 and 29 patients were randomly assigned to groups 1 and 2, respectively. In the first stage, pentoxifylline decreased median proteinuria from 1,140 to 800 mg/g (median change, -23.9%) compared with 1,410 to 1,810 mg/g (median change, 13.8%) in the control group. The difference between groups was 38.7% (95% confidence interval, 25.7 to 51.6; P < 0.001). The change in proteinuria was related to the change in urinary tumor necrosis factor alpha and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 excretion (R = 0.64 and R = 0.55, respectively; P < 0.001 for both). In the second stage, pentoxifylline reproduced the change in proteinuria in group 1.
Small sample size, disease of late stages, open-labeled study.
Pentoxifylline added to losartan therapy for 1 year decreased proteinuria in patients with CKD stages 3 to 5. A large-scale clinical trial is necessary to confirm this result.
Cladribine (2-CdA, 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine), a chlorinated adenosine analog, is active in the treatment of hairy cell leukemia and other hematologic malignancies, but its use in treating solid tumors is still under investigation, as is the optimal schedule for administering this drug. The authors conducted a dose-finding study to define the maximal tolerated dose and toxicities of this agent when given to patients with refractory solid tumors having normal renal, hepatic, and bone marrow function.
Cladribine was given as a 1-hour intermittent infusion, repeated daily for 5 days, with a cycle length of 28 days. The initial dose was 4 mg/m2, with escalating doses by cohort. Three dosage levels (4, 6, and 8 mg/m2/day) were explored, and patients were observed to determine toxicity. The end points of the study were the definition of the maximally tolerated dose (MTD), toxicity profile, and establishment of a recommended Phase II dose (RPTD) for cladribine.
Eighteen patients were treated; the majority were patients with non-small cell lung cancer and colorectal cancer. The median Cycle-1 leukocyte nadirs for the 4, 6, and 8 mg/m2/day dosage levels were 3100, 2300, and 950 cells/microliters (range 800-3500), respectively, and the and 950 cells/microliters (range 800-3500), respectively, and the mean nadir absolute neutrophil counts were 1500, 936, and 482 cells/microliters (range 130-2241), respectively. Minimal thrombocytopenia was seen, and no evidence for cumulative myelosuppression was observed. Two patients were hospitalized for neutropenic fevers, both of whom received the 6 mg/m2/day dose. One patient who received the 4 mg/m2/day dose had a transient episode of blindness that occurred during the infusion on Day 3 of Cycle 3. Thorough evaluation of this problem did not reveal an etiology, and it did not recur with further administration of cladribine. No other significant nonhematologic toxicity has been noted. No responses were observed.
At the MTD (8 mg/m2/day), the dose-limiting toxicity of this agent is myelosuppression. The RPTD for further testing of this schedule is 6 mg/m2 daily x 5 days.
Pathological gambling (PG) is a serious psychiatric disorder afflicting 1-3% of the general population. Experimental evidence indicates shared neurochemical substrates for PG and psychostimulant addiction. Impulsivity characterizes one key subtype of PG. Therefore, medications that ameliorate psychostimulant addiction and impulsive syndromes might also benefit impulsive PG subjects. The atypical stimulant, modafinil reduces cocaine abuse and impulsivity in patients with ADHD. The present study sought to determine if modafinil (200 mg) would reduce the reinforcing effects of slot machine gambling in PG subjects, and if this effect was stronger in high (H-I) vs. low (L-I) impulsivity subjects (N = 20). A placebo-controlled, double-blind, counterbalanced, repeated measures design was employed. Apart from bet size, which declined uniformly in both groups under drug, modafinil had bi-directional effects in the two groups. In H-I subjects, the drug decreased desire to gamble, salience of Gambling words, disinhibition and risky decision-making. In L-I subjects, modafinil increased scores on these indices. Modafinil also differentially affected blood pressure response to the game in the two groups. These findings for modafinil appear to fit well with a growing literature demonstrating bi-directional effects of D2 agonists as a function of trait impulsivity. Impulsivity could critically moderate medication response in PG.
By making use of a twenty-four hour Holter monitoring, it as been possible to compute the acute cardiotoxicity of the cyclophosphamide + mitoxantrone + 5-fluorouracil (CNF) association in twenty oncologic patients (pts) each of whom being immune from organic cardiopathy emerging clinically and at their first cycle of chemotherapy. The following parameters have been computed: meaningful changes in the heart frequency; premature atrial and ventricular depolarizations, both as a first appearance and as a clear growth in the number; the ST dislocation entity; malignant ventricular arrhythmias. The administration of CNF at the doses of: 600 mg/m2 of cyclophosphamide, 12 mg/m2 of mitoxantrone and 600 mg/m2 of 5-fluorouracil , has caused a meaningful increase in the heart frequency on 6 pts (30%), an increase of premature atrial depolarization on 4 pts (20%) with an appearance ex novo on 2 pts (10%), an increase of premature ventricular depolarization, without any passing to superior Lown classes, on 2 pts (10%) with an appearance ex novo on 3 pts (15%). Although the results in the study point out a frequency percentage of simple hyperkinetic arrhythmias equal to the 55%, the lack of more serious hyperkinetic arrhythmias and of intense disorders of ventricular repolarization testified to a synergic effect as a determining factor on the acute cardiotoxicity of the previously discussed association, in our opinion.
The current pilot project was designed to evaluate the safety and tolerability of a loading dose of divalproex (DVPX) in subjects with cocaine dependence. Seventeen cocaine-dependent subjects were enrolled in an eight-week, open-label trial of 20 mg/kg/day DVPX. Subjects were seen weekly and urine drug screens were obtained at each visit. Over the eight-week trial, craving intensity and frequency as well as reported time using cocaine decreased significantly. Retention in the current study was 79% at week four and 50% at week eight. The medication and dosing strategy was well tolerated. This pilot study indicates that DVPX loading is well tolerated and may be efficacious in the treatment of cocaine dependence. A placebo-controlled trial would be of interest.
Levamisole has increasingly been discovered in street cocaine as an adulterant. Recent reports have linked levamisole in street cocaine to agranulocytosis in cocaine users. It is well known that agranulocytosis is associated with therapeutic use of levamisole, and this may have led to the withdrawal of the drug from the US market. Levamisole was a US Food and Drug Administration-approved drug that has been used as an immunomodulator, a chemotherapy adjuvant, and anthelmintic medication. The purpose of adulterating street cocaine with levamisole is not known, but it has been speculated that it is added intentionally in order to potentiate the effects of cocaine. This may be supported by the recent report of metabolism of levamisole to aminorex in racehorses. Aminorex and related compounds, specifically 4-methylaminorex, or "ice," have high abuse potential because of their amphetamine-like pharmacological activity. This metabolism has not been reported in humans, and therefore the intended role of levamisole in street cocaine remains an enigma.
A series of benzimidazolone carboxylic acids and oxazolidinediones were designed and synthesized in search of selective PPARγ modulators (SPPARγMs) as potential therapeutic agents for the treatment of type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) with improved safety profiles relative to rosiglitazone and pioglitazone, the currently marketed PPARγ full agonist drugs. Structure-activity relationships of these potent and highly selective SPPARγMs were studied with a focus on their unique profiles as partial agonists or modulators. A variety of methods, such as X-ray crystallographic analysis, PPARγ transactivation coactivator profiling, gene expression profiling, and mutagenesis studies, were employed to reveal the differential interactions of these new analogues with PPARγ receptor in comparison to full agonists. In rodent models of T2DM, benzimidazolone analogues such as (5R)-5-(3-{[3-(5-methoxybenzisoxazol-3-yl)benzimidazol-1-yl]methyl}phenyl)-5-methyloxazolidinedione (51) demonstrated efficacy equivalent to that of rosiglitazone. Side effects, such as fluid retention and heart weight gain associated with PPARγ full agonists, were diminished with 51 in comparison to rosiglitazone based on studies in two independent animal models.
Nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) is a transcription factor that mediates the inducible expression of a variety of genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses. NF-κB activation induces numerous proinflammatory gene products including cytokines, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). The divalent heavy metal mercury has been used for thousands of years. Although mercury is clearly toxic to most mammalian organ systems, especially the immune system, exposure has still increased in some areas of the world. However, the underlying toxic mechanism is not clearly identified. Here, we report biochemical evidence that mercury alone induces NF-κB activation, resulting in the induced expression of COX-2 and iNOS. The results suggest that mercury can induce inflammatory diseases by lowering host defense.
CD-1 is the outbred mouse line most often used in toxicology and carcinogenicity bioassays. A literature survey revealed a relatively high (21.8%) incidence of spontaneous lung tumors in these mice, and a susceptibility to lung tumorigenesis induced by vinyl chloride, styrene or benzene inhalation that is not seen in B6C3F1 or C57BL/6 mice, or in rats and hamsters. As the pulmonary adenoma susceptibility 1 (Pas1) locus is the major determinant of genetic susceptibility to lung tumorigenesis in mice, we analyzed CD-1 mice for genetic polymorphisms of the Kras2 and Pthlh genes, which are tightly linked with the Pas1 locus. From 95 to 98% of CD-1 mice carried the susceptibility allele at the Pas1 locus either at homozygosity or heterozygosity, providing a molecular genetic explanation for the high susceptibility of CD-1 mice to spontaneous and chemically induced lung tumorigenesis. These results may have implications for the risk assessment of chemicals in humans using experimental animals that display strain-specific lung tumorigenicity.
