In this report, we describe the case of a woman with normal coronary arteries who experienced a cardiac arrest during a dobutamine stress test. The patient was successfully treated with external cardiac massage. The possible mechanisms underlying this unusual life-threatening side effect of dobutamine infusion are discussed.
Morphine-3-glucuronide (M3G), a main metabolite of morphine, has been proposed as a responsible factor when patients present with the neuroexcitatory side effects (allodynia, hyperalgesia, and myoclonus) observed following systemic administration of large doses of morphine. Indeed, both high-dose morphine (60 nmol/5 microl) and M3G (3 nmol/5 microl) elicit allodynia when administered intrathecally (i.t.) into mice. The allodynic behaviors are not opioid receptor mediated. This chapter reviews the potential mechanism of spinally mediated allodynia evoked by i.t. injection of M3G in mice. We discuss a possible presynaptic release of nociceptive neurotransmitters/neuromodulators such as substance P, glutamate, and dynorphin in the primary afferent fibers following i.t. M3G. It is possible to speculate that i.t. M3G injection could activate indirectly both NK(1) receptor and glutamate receptors that lead to the release of nitric oxide (NO) in the dorsal spinal cord. The NO plays an important role in M3G-induced allodynia. The phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) in the dorsal spinal cord evoked via NO/cGMP/PKG pathway contributes to i.t. M3G-induced allodynia. Furthermore, the increased release of NO observed after i.t. injection of M3G activates astrocytes and induces the release of the proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1beta. Taken together, these findings suggest that M3G may induce allodynia via activation of NO-ERK pathway, while maintenance of the allodynic response may be triggered by NO-activated astrocytes in the dorsal spinal cord. The demonstration of the cellular mechanisms of neuronal-glial interaction underlying M3G-induced allodynia provides a fruitful strategy for improved pain management with high doses of morphine.
To study the therapeutic efficacy and mechanism of oxime drug, pralidoxime chloride (PAM-Cl), on acute dichlorvos (DDV) poisoning.
The toxic signs and survival rate were recorded and ChE activity in blood was determined in treatment group with PAM-Cl and non-treatment group after DDV was given to rats and mice by gastrogavage; the therapeutic efficacy and reactivation of DDV-inhibited ChE by PAM-Cl were observed on the patients with acute DDV poisoning.
(1) The alleviated and delayed toxic signs as well as higher survival rate were found in PAM-Cl treatment group compared with non-treatment group. (2) After the rats were exposed to DDV, the ChE activities of whole blood in different time within 24 h were statistically significantly higher in PAM-Cl treatment group than in non-treatment group (P < 0.05). (3) After PAM-Cl treatment, muscular fasciculation and other nicotinic signs in poisoned patients were disappeared and the inhibited blood ChE activities were gradually reactivated to normal level.
PAM-Cl has therapeutic efficacy against acute toxicity of DDV through its reactivation of inhibited ChE.
To study the therapeutic efficacy and mechanism of adenosine receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) against acute dichlorvos poisoning.
Soon after a certain doses of dichlorvos were given to mice and rats by gastrogavage, physiological saline, CPA, atropine or pralidoxime chloride were administered to different groups. Toxic signs and survival rate were recorded and cholinesterase (ChE) activities and acetylcholine (ACh) concentrations in whole blood were determined in treatment group with CPA and non-treatment group after dichlorvos was given to rats by gastrogavage.
(1) The alleviated and delayed appearance of toxic signs as well as obvious prolongation of survival time was observed in CPA treatment group compared with non-treatment group. (2) ChE activities in both treatment group with CPA [(0.49 +/- 0.05) U/ml] and non-treatment group [(0.52 +/- 0.04) U/ml] were significantly lower than that [(1.56 +/- 0.15) U/ml] of the control group (P < 0.01), but there was no significant difference between treatment group and non-treatment group (P > 0.05). (3) ACh concentration [(204.24 +/- 20.48) microg/ml] in whole blood of treatment group with CPA was significantly lower than that [(230.91 +/- 25.61) microg/ml] of non-treatment group (P < 0.05).
CPA has therapeutic efficacy against acute dichlorvos poisoning, which is probably through the decrease in ACh concentration.
Benzo[a]pyrene-7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide (B[a]PDE) is a well-known carcinogen that is associated with skin cancer. Abnormal expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is an important mediator in inflammation and tumor promotion. We investigated the inhibitory effect of cyanidin-3-glucoside (C3G), an anthocyanin present in fruits, on B[a]PDE-induced COX-2 expression in mouse epidermal JB6 P+ cells. Pretreatment with C3G resulted in the reduction of B[a]PDE-induced expression of COX-2 and COX-2 promoter activity. The activation of activator protein-1 (AP-1) and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) induced by B[a]PDE was also attenuated by C3G. C3G attenuated the B[a]PDE-induced phosphorylation of MEK, MKK4, Akt, and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), but no effect on the phosphorylation of the upstream MAPK regulator Fyn. However, kinase assays demonstrated that C3G suppressed Fyn kinase activity and C3G directly binds Fyn kinase noncompetitively with ATP. By using PP2, a pharmacological inhibitor for SFKs, we showed that Fyn kinase regulates B[a]PDE-induced COX-2 expression by activating MAPKs, AP-1 and NF-κB. These results suggest that C3G suppresses B[a]PDE-induced COX-2 expression mainly by blocking the activation of the Fyn signaling pathway, which may contribute to its chemopreventive potential.
The effect of phenylephrine-induced hypertension on CBF was investigated after 120 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. Blood pressure was manipulated by one of the following schedules during a 90-min period of reperfusion: 90/NORM, 90 min of normotensive reperfusion; 90/HTN, 90 min of hypertensive reperfusion (MABP increased by 30 mm Hg); or 15/HTN, the 90-min period of reperfusion was divided into 30 min of normotension, followed by 15 min of hypertension and 45 min of normotension. At the end of reperfusion, 100 microCi kg-1 of [14C]iodoantipyrine was given and an autoradiographic analysis of CBF performed. In the coronal brain section at the center of middle cerebral artery distribution, the area (percentage of hemisphere, mean +/- SD) with a CBF of 0-20 or 21-40 ml 100 g-1 min-1 was less (p less than 0.05) in the 15/HTN group (1 +/- 2 and 5 +/- 3%, respectively) versus the 90/HTN group (12 +/- 4 and 10 +/- 4%), which was in turn less than in the 90/NORM group (18 +/- 5 and 22 +/- 6%). These data are consistent with the hypothesis that during reperfusion a short interval of hypertension effectively augments CBF via an abrupt opening of collapsed vessels and that a more sustained interval of hypertension conveys no added benefit.
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare aggressive tumor with a poor prognosis. The lack of a specific and effective medical treatment is due to the poor knowledge of the mechanisms underlying tumor growth. Research on potential drugs able to specifically interfere with tumor proliferation is essential to develop more efficacious therapies. We evaluated for the first time the in vivo effect of rosiglitazone (RGZ), an anti-diabetic drug with in vitro anti-tumor properties, on ACC proliferation in a xenograft model obtained by s.c. injection of human ACC H295R cells in athymic mice. When the tumor size reached 5 mm, animals were allocated to 5 mg/kg RGZ- or water-treated groups. Tumor volume was measured twice a week. A significant reduction of tumor growth in RGZ versus control (control) group was observed and was already maximal following 17 day treatment (1-T/C=75.4% (43.7-93.8%)). After 31 days of treatment, mice were killed and tumor analyzed. Tumor histological evaluation revealed characteristics of invasiveness, richness in small vessels and mitotic figures in control group, while RGZ group tumors presented non infiltrating borders, few vessels, and many apoptotic bodies. Tumor immunohistochemistry showed that Ki-67 was reduced in RGZ versus control group. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR demonstrated a significant reduction in the expression of angiogenic (VEGF), vascular (CD31), proliferation (BMI-1), and anti-apoptotic (Bcl-2) genes in RGZ versus control group tumors. The same inhibitory effects were confirmed in in vitro RGZ-treated H295R. Our findings support and expand the role of RGZ in controlling ACC proliferation and angiogenesis in vivo and in vitro.
Levodopa-induced psychotic symptoms frequently complicate the management of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). We examined the efficacy and tolerability of a novel antipsychotic, remoxipride, in this population. This was a 7-week, open-label pilot evaluation of patients with moderate to severe PD and levodopa-induced psychotic symptoms of at least 2 months' duration. The patients were recruited at the Movement Disorders Clinic, The Toronto Hospital, a tertiary referral center. After 1 week of baseline observation, the patients received remoxipride, 25 mg, three times a day orally, with the dose increasing by 25 to 50 mg each week as tolerated. The outcome measures included the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), the Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) scale, and the United Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. Adverse symptoms were elicited by an open-ended questionnaire and a symptom checklist. Six men and three women aged 69.3 +/- 9 years received remoxipride 147 +/- 57 mg/day. Total BPRS score decreased modestly in eight of nine subjects, and there was a statistically significant improvement of mental status as indicated by the CGI scale score, which decreased from 3.8 +/- 0.4 at baseline to 2.4 +/- 1.3 at last rating (p < 0.05; Wilcoxon signed rank test). The motor performance deteriorated somewhat in two subjects, whereas the rest showed no appreciable change. The most common adverse effects included tremor, rigidity, akathisia, and hypersalivation. Remoxipride treatment reduced psychotic symptoms in eight of nine subjects while having no appreciable effect on the parkinsonian status of seven of nine subjects.
Treatment with amiodarone is often associated with sinus bradycardia. We studied 477 patients (mean age 48.7 +/- 0.7 years) with various cardiac rhythm disturbances. Most patients had ischemic heart disease. Average saturation dose of amiodarone was 809.4 +/- 13.4 mg/day, average maintenance dose - 263.2 +/- 5.4 mg/day, average duration of follow-up - 20.85 +/- 1.2 months. Regular Holter ECG monitoring was used for detection of sinus bradycardia (heart rate less than 60/min). Sinus bradycardia was registered in 32 and 11.2% of patients during saturation with amiodarone and maintenance treatment, respectively. Bradycardia usually improved after lowering of amiodarone dose. Heart rate slowing was not pronounced and required neither cessation of amiodarone administration nor electrical cardiac pacing.
The haemodynamic influence of positive inotropic therapy with dobutamine, both alone and when combined with isosorbide dinitrate, was evaluated in 10 consecutive patients admitted to Coronary Care with acute left ventricular failure (pulmonary artery occluded pressure greater than 20 mm Hg) complicating myocardial infarction. Dobutamine increased systemic arterial blood pressure and heart rate without reduction in the left heart filling pressure; cardiac index (+0.9 L/min/m2; p less than 0.01) was substantially increased. Thus, consequent on these effects, dobutamine could increase myocardial oxygen requirements. The addition of intravenous isosorbide dinitrate reduced systemic arterial pressure and left heart filling pressure; the augmented cardiac index following therapy with dobutamine alone was maintained. Combined dobutamine/nitrate therapy, therefore, appeared haemodynamically superior to dobutamine monotherapy, in that it improved cardiac stroke volume at a normalised left ventricular filling pressure. These data suggest that combined dobutamine/nitrate therapy may prove useful as an adjunct to the treatment of normotensive heart failure complicating acute myocardial infarction.
The effects of plasma drug binding on the relationship between propranolol concentration and the antagonism of isoproterenol tachycardia have been investigated in 8 normal subjects and 8 hypertensive patients. During chronic intravenous infusion of propranolol giving a narrow range of total plasma concentrations (22.5 to 50 ng/ml), there was, at best, a poor correlation with effects. On the other hand, there was excellent correlation between efficacy and free drug concentration, which fitted the predictions of the receptor theory of competitive antagonism. The true affinity constant for the binding of propranolol to its receptor can be calculated in terms of free drug concentration (KAfree) and was found to vary 2-fold compared to the affinity constant in terms of total plasma concentration (KAtotal) which varied 4-fold, the greater variation being due to plasma binding differences. Compared to normal subjects, KAfree and KAtotal were smaller in hypertensive subjects, implying lesser sensitivity to the drug, and plasma propranolol binding was greater. There was no difference in KAfree between high- and low-renin essential hypertensives, but KAtotal was smaller in the high-renin group due to increased plasma binding which did not reach statistical significance. It is concluded that the effect of propranolol on heart rate is a predictable function of free drug concentration in man and that the contribution of individual variation in receptor sensitivity to differences in oral dosage requirement is minor compared to that of variations in bioavailability.
This study was conducted to more clearly delineate the possible role of endogenous opioid receptors and opioid peptides in general anesthesia-associated hypotension in rats. Exposure to 2% isoflurane in oxygen produced a triphasic change in mean arterial pressure (MAP), including an early phase in which MAP fell by -28.4 +/- 2.2%. The magnitude of this early-phase hypotension was attenuated in rats pretreated with intravenous (i.v.) mu-subtype-selective doses of either naloxone or methylnaloxone but not central doses of the selective mu-opioid antagonist beta-funaltrexamine. This early hypotensive phase was also reduced following i.v. pretreatment with antiserum against methionine-enkephalin but not beta-endorphin. These findings suggest that early-phase isoflurane-induced hypotension may be due to activation of peripheral mu-opioid receptors by an endogenous opioid peptide, possibly related to methionine-enkephalin.
Chronic opioid-induced drug dependence and withdrawal syndrome after opioid cessation remain a severe obstacle in clinical treatment of chronic pain and opioid drug addiction. One of the key symptoms during opioid withdrawal is a state of sensitized pain. The most significant molecular adaptation induced by chronic opioids in the brain is upregulation of the cAMP-signaling pathway. Although the cAMP system is known to have multiple effects on central neuron functions, how its upregulation mediates behavioral opioid dependence and withdrawal-induced pain in vivo remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that withdrawal from chronic morphine significantly upregulates the mRNA level of adenylyl cyclase (AC) VI and VIII isoforms and immunoreactivity of ACV/VI in the nucleus raphe magnus (NRM), a brainstem site critically involved in opioid modulation of pain. In cellular studies of NRM neurons containing mu-opioid receptors, we show that morphine withdrawal significantly increases glutamate synaptic transmission via a presynaptic mechanism mediated by an upregulated cAMP pathway. Morphine withdrawal also enhances the hyperpolarization-activated current in these neurons by increased intracellular cAMP. Both of the withdrawal-induced cAMP actions increase the excitability of these mu-receptor-containing neurons, which are thought to facilitate spinal pain transmission. Furthermore, in morphine-dependent rats in vivo, blocking the cAMP pathway significantly reduces withdrawal-induced pain sensitization. These results illustrate neurobiological mechanisms for the cAMP-mediated withdrawal pain and provide potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of opioid dependence and withdrawal-related problems.
The objective of this study was to determine whether in utero exposure to Bisphenol A (BPA) induced reproductive tract abnormalities in the adult male testis. Using the C57/Bl6 mouse, we examined sex-organ weights, anogenital distance, and testis histopathology in adult males exposed in utero via oral gavage to sesame oil, 50 µg/kg BPA, 1000 µg/kg BPA, or 2 µg/kg diethylstilbestrol (DES) as a positive control from gestational days 10 to 16. No changes in sperm production or germ cell apoptosis were observed in adult testes after exposure to either chemical. Adult mRNA levels of genes associated with sexual maturation and differentiation, GATA4 and ID2, were significantly lower only in DES-exposed testes. In summary, the data indicate no gross alterations in spermatogenesis after in utero exposure to BPA or DES. At the molecular level, in utero exposure to DES, but not BPA, leads to decreased mRNA expression of genes associated with Sertoli cell differentiation.
Experimental research involving animal models plays a critical role in the development and improvement of minimally invasive therapies for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). As a large animal, the pig is commonly used for surgery and interventional radiology research. In this study, liver multicentric HCC with cirrhosis was induced in six China Taihu pigs by intraperitoneal injection of 10 mg/kg of N-nitrosodiethylamine once a week for 3 months, followed by a period of 10-12 months without N-nitrosodiethylamine treatment. All pigs were in generally good health until the end of the study. The tumor nodules appeared hyperattenuating in the arterial phase of a dynamic computed tomography (CT) scan. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and CT angiography demonstrated that the tumors derived their blood supply mainly from the hepatic artery system. Lipiodol-CT showed Lipiodol retention in tumor areas. The histology and electron microscopic ultrastructure of the chemically induced liver HCC in this study resembled human HCC with a cirrhosis background. An immunohistochemistry study confirmed that the tumors were of hepatocyte origin. All highly, moderately, and poorly differentiated HCC tumors were identified in this study. Cholangiocarcinoma was not seen in any of the animals. Due to its comparable size to human anatomy, the pig liver HCC model would give a better scope for interventional and surgical manipulations than small animal models.
Valproic acid (VPA) is an antiepileptic drug (AED) commonly used for generalized and focal epilepsies. We provide an update on hepatotoxic side effects in Germany between 1994 and 2003.
We mailed a questionnaire to all members of the German Section of the International League Against Epilepsy, asking for VPA-induced side effects, especially severe side effects such as hepatopathy.
As a result of our questionnaire, we found 31 cases of reversible hepatotoxicity and nine cases of lethal hepatopathies in Germany from 1994 to 2003.
The outcome of patients with severe hepatotoxicity is better than that in the past. The risk of a VPA-induced hepatopathy is not limited to patients younger than 2 years, receiving polytherapy, or patients with congenital or acquired metabolic diseases.
In the experiments on Wistar rats with pain syndrome of spinal origin (PSSO) caused by the generator of pathologically enhanced excitation (GPEE) in dorsal horns of the spinal cord lumbosacral segments, it was shown that the intravenous verapamil injection (1.25 mg/kg) undoubtedly decreased behaviour response and improves the state of microcirculation. The compound of 10-fold decreased dose does not affect the behaviour response and microcirculation. When PSSO exists, the intravenous injection of analgin (150 mg/kg) produced an effect on the behaviour response and does not produce any action on microcirculation. When verapamil reaches the dorsal surface of the spinal cord (GPEE area) it decreases the behaviour response and microcirculation disorders created in PSSO. The obtained data make it clear that the GPEE depression caused by the verapamil calcium channel blocker weakens PSSO and normalizes the microcirculation.
Diabetics have an increased risk of developing renal insufficiency, as well as congestive heart failure independent of coronary atherosclerotic or hypertensive heart disease. Aluminum toxicity is being recognized with increased frequency in patients with reduced renal function and aluminum accumulates to a greater degree in tissues of patients with diabetes. Studies in patients with end stage renal disease have implicated aluminum overload as a potential cause of reduced cardiac function. Since both diabetes and aluminum decrease the activity of (Ca + Mg)-ATPase, a key enzyme involved in myocardial calcium transport, the interaction of experimental diabetes mellitus and aluminum toxicity on myocardial sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium transport was investigated in rats. Aluminum alone had no effect on (Ca + Mg)-ATPase activity, while activities in both the diabetic ([DM]) and diabetic plus aluminum loaded ([DM + Al]) groups were significantly lower than controls ([C]). Oxalate-dependent calcium uptake in the [DM] rats was slightly, but not significantly lower than controls, however, uptake was markedly reduced in rats which were both diabetic and aluminum loaded. The calcium regulatory protein calmodulin was measured by a functional assay in the soluble fraction of myocardial tissue prepared from each of the four groups. Compared to [C], calmodulin activity was significantly reduced in both the [DM] and [DM + Al] groups but not affected by aluminum alone. These data indicate that diabetes mellitus is associated with decreased myocardial calmodulin activity that may contribute to reduced sarcoplasmic reticulum (Ca + Mg)-ATPase and calcium transport activities and that aluminium toxicity potentiates the adverse effects of diabetes on decreasing sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium uptake.
This randomized, double-blind, parallel-group design study of 100 outpatients with major depressive disorder is the first study in the United States to compare the efficacy and tolerability of fluvoxamine (100-150 mg/day) and fluoxetine (20-80 mg/day). After a variable, single-blind, washout period, patients were randomized to receive either fluvoxamine (51 patients) of fluoxetine (49 patients) for 7 weeks. Efficacy was assessed with the 21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D), and Clinical Global Impressions scale for severity and improvement. Eighty-four percent of each treatment group completed the study with each group having a mean score at end point of less than 10. Both groups demonstrated a 60% improvement in HAM-D scores over the 7-week trial. There were no statistically significant differences observed between the two groups on any efficacy parameter. The medications were well tolerated, with only two patients in each group who were terminated because of side effects. There were differences in the side-effect profiles, with fluvoxamine being associated with less nausea than fluoxetine. In summary, fluvoxamine and fluoxetine were equally effective in reducing depressive symptoms, but the two drugs displayed slightly different side-effect profiles.
A gastric pentadecapeptide, BPC 157, with the amino acid sequence, Gly-Glu-Pro-Pro-Pro-Gly-Lys-Pro-Ala-Asp-Asp-Ala-Gly-Leu-Val, MW 1419, known to have a variety of protective effects in gastrointestinal tract and other organs, was recently shown to particularly affect dopamine systems. For instance, it blocks the stereotypy produced acutely by amphetamine in rats, and the development of haloperidol-induced supersensitivity to amphetamine in mice. Consequently, whether pentadecapeptide BPC 157, that by itself has no cataleptogenic effect in normal animals, may attenuate the immediate effects of neuroleptics application, particularly catalepsy, was the focus of the present report. Prominent catalepsy, otherwise consistently seen in the mice treated with haloperidol (0.625, 1.25, 2.5, 5.0 and 10.0 mg/kg b.w., i.p.) and fluphenazine (0.3125, 0.625, 1.25, 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg b.w., i.p.) after 1.5, 3, 4.5, 6 and 7.5 h following administration, was markedly attenuated when pentadecapeptide BPC 157 (10 microg or 10 ng/kg b.w., i.p.) was coadministered with the neuroleptic. The number of cataleptic mice was markedly lower throughout most of the experimental period. Moreover, on challenge with lower doses of neuroleptics, catalepsy appearance was postponed and the mice, otherwise cataleptic since the earliest period, became cataleptic later, not before 3 or 4.5 h after neuroleptic administration, especially if protected with higher pentadecapeptide dose. Besides catalepsy, coadministration of the pentadecapeptide BPC 157, given in the above mentioned doses, reduced not only catalepsy but somatosensory disorientation (for 7.5 h after administration of a neuroleptic, assessed at intervals of 1.5 h, by a simple scoring system [0-5]) in haloperidol- or fluphenazine-challenged mice as it did in mice treated with sulpiride (20, 40, 80 and 160 mg/kg b.w., i.p.) or with clozapine (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg b.w., i.p.), in which case catalepsy was absent. In other experiments, considering the gastric origin of this pentadecapeptide, the focus was shifted to the evidence that a dose of haloperidol, cataleptogenic due to dopamine receptors blockade, induces gastric ulcers in rats. Coadministration of pentadecapeptide BPC 157 (10 microg, 10 ng, 1.0 ng, 100 pg/kg b.w., i.p.) to rats completely inhibited the lesions otherwise regularly evident 24 h after haloperidol (5.0 mg/kg b.w., i.p.) in control rats (18 of 20 rats had gastric lesions). This activity accompanied the antagonism of the haloperidol catalepsy in rats (assessed at 60-min intervals from I to 5 h after haloperidol), when 10-microg- or 10-ng regimens were given (lower doses could not influence catalepsy). Together, these findings indicate that pentadecapeptide BPC 157 fully interacts with the dopamine system, both centrally and peripherally, or at least, that BPC 157 interferes with some steps involved in catalepsy and/or ulcer formation.
A case of acute renal failure associated with halothane-induced hepatitis is reported which responded to treatment. The possible mechanisms of rare disease association are discussed and precautions advised.
In the present study a short (120 min) and long-lasting (360 min) antagonism of scopolamine-induced amnesia in rats was investigated in an eight-arm radial maze, by (3a S, 8a R)-1,2,3,3a,8,8a-hexahydro-1,3a,8-trimethylpyrrolo[2,3-b]indol-5-o l[8-(cis2,6-dimethyl-morpholin-4-yl)octyl]-carbamate L-bitartrate hydrate (MF268), a new cholinesterase inhibitor. Upon completing the training session, the rats were orally administered increasing doses of MF268 (2, 3, 6, 7, and 8 mg/kg) 60 min prior to s.c. injection of scopolamine (0.25 mg/kg). Following a further 60 min the rat was placed in the maze. The reversal of scopolamine-induced impairment was characterized by an inverted U-shaped dose-response curve. A significant reduction in the number of errors, and time taken to complete the maze was observed with a dose of 6 mg/kg. The compound improved memory retention without affecting scopolamine-induced hypermotility. When the same dose was administered 360 min prior to the test a significant reduction in the number of amnesic animals was observed, whereas no cognitive improvement was detected when either 1-Benzil-4-[(5,6-dimethoxy-1-indanon)-2-yl]-methyl piperidine hydrochloride (E2020) (0.25 mg/kg) or tacrine (0.5 mg/kg) were administered 360 min prior to the test. The kinetics of whole-brain cholinesterase confirmed the long-lasting activity for MF268. A clinical relevance for the use of MF268 in AD treatment is suggested.
To investigate the immunological mechanism of allergic dermatitis induced by trichloroethylene (TCE).
The guinea pig model of TCE-induced allergic dermatitis was established by Guinea pig Maximization Test. The effects of TCE and its metabolites on splenic lymphocytes of TCE-sensitized and non-sensitized guinea pig were detected by MTT assay.
For TCE-sensitized guinea pig, the survival rate of lymphocytes cultured with TCE (+S9) was significantly higher than that cultured with TCE (-S9) (83.0% +/- 3.4% vs 75.9% +/- 7.9%, P < 0.01), while, for normal animals, the survival rate of lymphocytes cultured with TCE (+S9) was significantly lower than that cultured with TCE (-S9) (63.4% +/- 8.4% vs 77.0% +/- 7.2%, P < 0.01). The survival rate of lymphocytes cultured with TCE (+S9) in TCE-sensitized animals was higher than that in normal animals (83.0% +/- 3.4% vs 63.4% +/- 8.4%, P < 0.05), but no statistically significant difference was found for TCE (-S9) (75.9% +/- 7.9% vs 77.0% +/- 7.2%, P > 0.05).
Cytotoxicity of TCE to normal lymphocytes and proliferation of sensitized lymphocytes were enhanced by metabolic activation. The metabolites of TCE may act as effective immune hapten to stimulate the proliferation of hapten-specific lymphocytes in TCE-sensitized animals.
Cocaine's ability to interact with sigma receptors suggests that these proteins mediate some of its behavioral effects. Therefore, three novel sigma receptor ligands with antagonist activity were evaluated in Swiss Webster mice: BD1018 (3S-1-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-1,4-diazabicyclo[4.3.0]nonane), BD1063 (1-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-4-methylpiperazine), and LR132 (1R,2S-(+)-cis-N-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexylamine). Competition binding assays demonstrated that all three compounds have high affinities for sigma1 receptors. The three compounds vary in their affinities for sigma2 receptors and exhibit negligible affinities for dopamine, opioid, GABA(A) and NMDA receptors. In behavioral studies, pre-treatment of mice with BD1018, BD1063, or LR132 significantly attenuated cocaine-induced convulsions and lethality. Moreover, post-treatment with LR132 prevented cocaine-induced lethality in a significant proportion of animals. In contrast to the protection provided by the putative antagonists, the well-characterized sigma receptor agonist di-o-tolylguanidine (DTG) and the novel sigma receptor agonist BD1031 (3R-1-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-1,4-diazabicyclo[4.3.0]nonane) each worsened the behavioral toxicity of cocaine. At doses where alone, they produced no significant effects on locomotion, BD1018, BD1063 and LR132 significantly attenuated the locomotor stimulatory effects of cocaine. To further validate the hypothesis that the anti-cocaine effects of the novel ligands involved antagonism of sigma receptors, an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide against sigma1 receptors was also shown to significantly attenuate the convulsive and locomotor stimulatory effects of cocaine. Together, the data suggests that functional antagonism of sigma receptors is capable of attenuating a number of cocaine-induced behaviors.
To evaluate the effects of hemodilution during controlled hypotension on, the hepatic renal, and pancreatic function in the clinical setting.
Randomized, prospective study.
Inpatient surgery at Rosai Hospital.
20 ASN status I and II patients scheduled for total hip arthroplasty.
Hemodilution was carried out after induction of anesthesia, in which drawn blood was replaced with dextran solution to achieve final hematocrit (Hct) of 31% Group A = mild hemodilution group, N = 10) or 23% (Group B = moderate hemodilution group, N = 10). In both groups, controlled hypotension was induced with prostaglandin in (PGE1) to maintain mean arterial blood pressure at 55 mm Hg for 80 minutes.
Measurements included arterial ketone body ratio AKBR, aceto-acetate/3-hydroxybutyrate) for hepatic cellular function, pancreatic phospholipase A2 (P-PLA2) for pancreatic cellular function, and urine N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG index) for cellular function of the renal tubule. These indices were measured before hemodilution, after hemodilution, 80 minutes after starting hypotension, 60 minutes after recovery of normotension, and on the first postoperative day. Neither AKBR nor P-PLA2 showed a significant change throughout the time course of the study in either group. Urine-NAG index showed a significant increase in moderate hemodilution group at 60 minutes after recovery of normotension (+ 136%) and on the first postoperative lay (+ 149%) compared with prehemodilution value, whereas it showed no significant change in the mild hemodilution group. Blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine measured postoperatively were within normal range.
PGE1 induced hypotension combined with moderate hemodilution using dextran, such as 23% of Net value maintains hepatic and pancreatic function but causes damage to the renal tubular cells.
The effects of glycine on morphine-induced hyperactivity, reverse tolerance and postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity in mice was examined. A single administration of morphine (10 mg/kg, s.c.) induced hyperactivity as measured in mice. The morphine-induced hyperactivity was inhibited by pretreatment with glycine (100, 200 and 400 mg/kg, i.p.). In addition, it was found repeated administration of morphine (10 mg/kg, s.c.) to mice daily for 6 days caused an increase in motor activity which could be induced by a subsequent morphine dose, an effect known as reverse tolerance or sensitization. Glycine (100, 200 and 400 mg/kg, i.p.) also inhibited morphine-induced reverse tolerance. Mice that had received 7 daily repeated administrations of morphine also developed postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity, as shown by enhanced ambulatory activity after administration of apomorphine (2 mg/kg, s.c.). Glycine inhibited the development of postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity induced by repeated administration of morphine. It is suggested that the inhibitory effects of glycine might be mediated by dopaminergic (DAergic) transmission. Accordingly, the inhibition by glycine of the morphine-induced hyperactivity, reverse tolerance and dopamine receptor supersensitivity suggests that glycine might be useful for the treatment of morphine addiction.
