Patients with mixed dyslipidemias (increased LDL cholesterol and triglyceride as well as low HDL cholesterol levels) benefit from a combination of lipid-modifying drugs such as statins, niacin, fibrates and ezetemibe. However, safety, tolerability and cost are a concern in drug combination therapy. Dietary phytosterols reduce LDL cholesterol, and niacin or fenofibrate primarily reduces triglyceride and increases HDL-cholesterol levels. Thus, we hypothesized that a combination of phytosterols with niacin or fenofibrate will synergistically impact lipoprotein profile and atherogenesis in apo E-KO mice. Phytosterols alone significantly reduced plasma total cholesterol levels (14.1 vs. 16.9 mmol/L, P < .05) and the extent of atherosclerosis (0.42 vs. 0.15 mm(2), P < .05). The addition of fenofibrate to phytosterols increased plasma total cholesterol levels by >50% (14.1 vs. 21.6 mmol/L, P < .05) and decreased HDL-cholesterol concentrations by 50% (0.8 vs. 0.4 mmol/L). These changes were accompanied by slight reductions in the extent of atherosclerosis (0.42 vs. 0.34 mm(2), P > 0.05) as compared to controls, suggesting other potential anti-atherogenic effects of fenofibrate. Unlike fenofibrate, niacin caused an increase of 150% (P < .05) in HDL-cholesterol concentrations and a decrease of 22% (P < .05) in total cholesterol levels which were associated with significant reductions (65%, P < .05) in atherosclerotic lesion size as compared to controls. Neither the addition of niacin nor of fenofibrate reduced plasma triglyceride levels. In conclusion, the addition of niacin to phytosterols synergistically increases HDL-cholesterol levels, while a combination of phytosterols and fenofibrate results in no synergistic effects in apo E-KO mice. Further studies in other animal models are needed to establish synergetic effects between these lipid-modifying dietary and pharmacological agents.
This clinical trial of a new antidepressant, fluoxetine, shows it to be as effective as a standard tricyclic drug, imipramine. It is effective as a single daily dose and is free of any significant side-effects. It is less sedative and appears to cause fewer problems of weight increase. The three scales used to assess efficacy showed a very positive correlation.
The effect of meropenem on animal kidneys has been assessed in rats (5 of each sex/group), rabbits (3 of each sex/group) and monkeys (3 of each sex/group) in comparative iv studies with ceftazidime, cefotaxime, cephaloridine and imipenem (without cilastatin). Diarrhoea occurred in rabbits and monkeys dosed with imipenem or meropenem. Emesis occurred only after the administration of imipenem to monkeys. After 14 days administration to rats evidence of nephrotoxicity was seen only in males dosed with cephaloridine (850 mg/kg); no changes were seen with ceftazidime, cefotaxime or meropenem (all at 1000 mg/kg). Four days after a single dose to rabbits renal tubular necrosis was seen in all animals receiving imipenem (150 mg/kg) and cephaloridine (250 mg/kg). Minimal histopathological changes to the kidneys were seen with cefotaxime, ceftazidime and meropenem (all at 400 mg/kg). After seven days' administration to cynomolgus monkeys imipenem (180 mg/kg) caused moderate to severe tubular necrosis. No tubular damage was seen with meropenem at 180 mg/kg or with cefotaxime or ceftazidime (both at 500 mg/kg). At 500 mg/kg meropenem caused mild tubular regeneration and/or fat accumulation in 3/6 animals, with mild tubular necrosis in one of these. The data from these three species indicate that meropenem has a low nephrotoxic potential in these animal models.
There is conflict by evidence as to whether therapy with vancomycin plus an aminoglycoside is more nephrotoxic than therapy with either agent alone. Here we report the results of a prospective, non-randomized, open-label study of the incidence of nephrotoxicity in elderly patients who received vancomycin alone (32 patients) or an aminoglycoside alone (67 patients) or in combination (37 patients). The mean (95% confidence limits) incidence of nephrotoxicity, defined as an increase of > or = 44.2 mumol/L in the serum creatinine, was 19% (5-32%) in patients receiving vancomycin alone, 24% (10-38%) in patients receiving vancomycin plus an aminoglycoside, and 12% (4-20%) in patients receiving an aminoglycoside alone (P > 0.05 for all comparisons). The corresponding absolute increases of the serum creatine were 20.3 +/- 23.0 mumol/L (-24.8 to +65.4 mumol/L), 37.1 +/- 53.0 mumol/L (-67.2 to +140.4 mumol/L), and 22.1 +/- 31.8 mumol/L (-40.7 to +94.6 mumol/L). The absolute increase was significantly greater (P < 0.05) in patients receiving vancomycin plus an aminoglycoside than in patients receiving an aminoglycoside alone. A meta-analysis of seven previously published studies combined with our data revealed that the incidence of nephrotoxicity associated with combination therapy is 13.3 +/- 3.1% (7.3-19.4%) greater than therapy with vancomycin alone (P < 0.01) and 4.3 +/- 1.4% (1.6-7.0%) greater than therapy with an aminoglycoside alone (P < 0.05). The clinical relevance of this finding may be limited in that the mean duration of antimicrobial therapy in three of the studies was greater than 21 days.
1-(2,6-Dimethylphenyl)-3-methyl-amidinourea hydrochloride (WHR-1142A, lidamidine hydrochloride) was shown to have potent antimotility, antidiarrheal and intestinal antisecretory activity in mice, rats and dogs. Antimotility activity was demonstrated in charcoal intestinal motility, gastric emptying and gastric and intestinal intraluminal pressure studies. Antidiarrheal activity was evaluated in castor oil-, prostaglandin E2-, carbachol-, and serotonin-induced diarrhea. Intestinal secretion induced by cholera toxin was inhibited by WHR-1142A. In general, WHR-1142A was more potent than diphenoxylate and loperamide although species differences were noted. The ED50 for inhibition of castor oil-induced diarrhea was 1.8 mg/kg p.o. and the duration of action at 16 mg/kg p.o. was at least 6 h. Unlike diphenoxylate, WHR-1142A showed no tolerance.
We investigated and compared the results of treating the chronic hepatitis C (HCV) infection of different groups of psychiatric-risk patients and controls with pegylated interferon alpha (pegIFN-alpha) plus ribavirin. Seventy patients were prospectively screened for psychiatric disorders. Seventeen patients without psychiatric diseases or drug addiction (controls), 22 patients with psychiatric disorders, 18 patients who had received methadone substitution treatment and 13 patients who were former drug users were treated with pegIFN-alpha plus ribavirin. Sustained virological response (SVR), adherence, and psychiatric side effects (using the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale and the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale) in the groups were compared. An SVR was found in 58.6% of all patients: 58.8% of the controls, 50% of psychiatric patients, 72.2% of methadone patients, and 53.8% of former drug users. Methadone-substituted patients and former drug users had significantly higher dropout rates. Scores for neither depressive nor psychotic symptoms differed significantly between groups during treatment. However, the controls had lower pretreatment scores, followed by a significant higher increase to maximum scores. A stepwise logistic regression model showed that only genotype, not group (control, psychiatric, methadone, or former drug abuse), type of psychiatric diagnosis (affective disorder, personality disorder, or schizophrenic disorder), depression scores before and during treatment, change in depression score, antidepressive treatment, sex, or liver enzymes before treatment, was associated with SVR.
In an interdisciplinary treatment setting psychiatric diseases and/or drug addiction did not negatively influence psychiatric tolerability of and antiviral response rate to HCV treatment with pegIFN-alpha and ribavirin.
Inhalation of silica crystals causes inflammation in the alveolar space. Prolonged exposure to silica can lead to the development of silicosis, an irreversible, fibrotic pulmonary disease. The mechanisms by which silica and other crystals activate immune cells are not well understood. Here we demonstrate that silica and aluminum salt crystals activated inflammasomes formed by the cytoplasmic receptor NALP3. NALP3 activation required phagocytosis of crystals, and this uptake subsequently led to lysosomal damage and rupture. 'Sterile' lysosomal damage (without crystals) also induced NALP3 activation, and inhibition of either phagosomal acidification or cathepsin B activity impaired NALP3 activation. Our results indicate that the NALP3 inflammasome senses lysosomal damage as an endogenous 'danger' signal.
The present study was designed to investigate the cardioprotective potential of Piper betle (P. betle) against isoproterenol (ISP)-induced myocardial infarction in rats. Rats were randomly divided into eight groups viz. control, ISP, P. betle (75, 150, and 300 mg/kg) and P. betle (75, 150, and 300 mg/kg) + ISP treated group. P. betle leaf extract (75, 150, or 300 mg/kg) or saline was orally administered for 30 days. ISP (85 mg/kg, s.c.) was administered at an interval of 24 h on the 28(th) and 29(th) day and on day 30 the functional and biochemical parameters were measured. ISP administration showed a significant decrease in systolic, diastolic, mean arterial pressure (SAP, DAP, MAP), heart rate (HR), contractility (+LVdP/dt), and relaxation (-LVdP/dt) and increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP). ISP also caused significant decrease in myocardial antioxidants; superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), reduced glutathione (GSH), and myocyte injury marker enzymes; creatine phosphokinase-MB (CK-MB) isoenzyme and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) along with enhanced lipid peroxidation; thiobarbituric acid reacting species (TBARS) in heart. Pre-treatment with P. betle favorably modulated hemodynamic (SAP, DAP, and MAP) and ventricular function parameters (-LVdP/dt and LVEDP). P. betle pre-treatment also restored SOD, CAT, GSH, and GPx, reduced the leakage of CK-MB isoenzyme and LDH along with decreased lipid peroxidation in the heart. Taken together, the biochemical and functional parameters indicate that P. betle 150 and 300 mg/kg has a significant cardioprotective effect against ISP-induced myocardial infarction. Results of the present study suggest the cardioprotective potential of P. betle.
Abnormal proliferation is an important pathological feature of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). Many drugs inhibiting cell proliferation have been proved to be effective in slowing the disease progression in ADPKD. Recent evidence has suggested that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) ligands have anti-neoplasm effects through inhibiting cell growth and inducing cell apoptosis in various cancer cells. In the present study, we examined the expression of PPARgamma in human ADPKD kidney tissues and cyst-lining epithelial cell line, and found that the expression of PPARgamma was greater in ADPKD kidney tissues and cyst-lining epithelial cell line than in normal kidney tissues and human kidney cortex (HKC) cell line. Rosiglitazone inhibited significantly proliferation of cyst-lining epithelial cells in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. These effects were diminished by GW9662, a specific PPARgamma antagonist. Cell cycle analysis showed a G0/G1 arrest in human ADPKD cyst-lining epithelial cells with rosiglitazone treatment. Analysis of cell cycle regulatory proteins revealed that rosiglitazone decreased the protein levels of proliferating cell nuclear antigen, pRb, cyclin D1, cyclin D2 and Cdk4 but increased the levels of p21 and p27 in a dose-dependent manner. Rosiglitazone also induced apoptosis in cyst-lining epithelial cells, which was correlated with increased bax expression and decreased bcl-2 expression. These results suggest PPARgamma agonist might serve as a promising drug for the treatment of ADPKD.
To determine the frequency of pruritus after intrathecal baclofen (ITB) withdrawal and to study the pathophysiology of this symptom.
Retrospective cohort study.
Rehabilitation department of a general hospital.
Patients (N=102) implanted with an ITB pump who had been followed up since 1988.
Not applicable.
Incidence of pruritus after withdrawal. We studied the relation between pruritus and daily dose, concentration and mode of infusion of baclofen, and cause of the central nervous system lesion inducing spasticity.
Pruritus was observed in 10 of 23 cases of ITB withdrawal. It never occurred during the first 3 months after pump implantation. It seems likely that the segmental spinal action of baclofen is responsible for pruritus. There was no statistically significant difference between patients with ITB deprivation who did and did not experience pruritus in their daily infused dosage or in concentration and mode of infusion. Surprisingly, no pruritus was observed in patients with multiple sclerosis.
Pruritus is a frequent symptom after ITB withdrawal. Its occurrence is probably subsequent to chronic blocking of the liberation of substance P by baclofen at the spinal level. This symptom is a good clinical predictor of baclofen withdrawal, in contrast to an isolated increase of spasticity that may be due to drug tolerance or irritant factors. Pruritus requires investigation of a possible dysfunction of the infusion system.
Psychostimulant drugs such as cocaine have profound and long-lasting neurobiological effects, which may affect anxiety or social behaviors. These actions could be greater when cocaine is administered during a developmental period such as adolescence. The present work attempts to further clarify the long-lasting effects of cocaine administration on mice, examining three major variables: age; pattern of drug administration; and housing conditions. Adolescent (postnatal day 26) or early adult mice (postnatal day 46) were exposed to a daily or binge cocaine administration and 15 days later their behavior was evaluated, the mice being housed either in isolation or in groups during this stage. After a period free of drug, the behaviors evaluated were: spontaneous and cocaine-induced motor activity; anxiety, using the elevated plus maze; the social profile, assessed in a social interaction test. Daily cocaine administration increased avoidance and flee in isolated adolescent-treated mice and decreased social contacts in those which were grouped. On the other hand, the binge pattern modified the anxiety of the grouped adolescent-treated mice evidenced by the increase in time spent on the open arms of the plus maze. An increase in spontaneous and cocaine-induced motor activity was shown in animals after a daily pre-treatment. The results are discussed in terms of presenting cocaine-induced behavioral changes within a specific temporal window and depending on the three variables studied.
Tacrine is a potent and reversible inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in the brain. It produces tremor in animals, which is believed to be due to an increase in the brain acetylcholine level following AChE inhibition. The present study was undertaken to investigate the involvement, if any, of biogenic amines in the genesis of this motor dysfunction. Administration of tacrine (10-20 mg/kg, i.p.) produced dose- and time-dependent tremor in Balb/c mice. While in vivo inhibition of striatal AChE activity was observed only for the highest dose of tacrine, a dose-dependent increase in striatal choline acetyltransferase activity was obtained. Serotonin (5-HT) levels, as assayed following a sensitive HPLC-electrochemical procedure, were significantly increased in nucleus caudatus putamen, nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, nucleus raphe dorsalis, olivary nucleus and the cerebellum. However, dopamine or norepinephrine levels remained unaltered in these areas of the brain. In animals treated with p-chlorophenylalanine, a specific tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor and 5-HT depletor, tacrine failed to elevate the levels of 5-HT in the brain regions, and significantly attenuated tremor response to the drug. Tacrine-induced tremor was also significantly (83%) attenuated by 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor antagonist mianserin (5 mg/kg, i.p.), but methysergide (5 mg/kg, i.v.) could block tacrine-induced tremor only by 20%. Atropine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) antagonized tacrine-induced tremor by about 53%, but a combination of atropine and mianserin completely blocked the tremor response. These results indicate that the cholinergic tremor produced by tacrine in Balb/c mice is mediated via central serotonergic mechanisms, and stimulation of 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors plays a pivotal role in this motor dysfunction.
Antimalarials are well established disease modifying antirheumatic drugs. A rare and underappreciated treatment difficulty is cardiac complication, in particular conduction disturbances. We describe 2 more patients that developed complete heart block after high dose, longterm treatment. Patient 1, a 73-year-old woman with longstanding rheumatoid arthritis, had taken chloroquine (250 mg/day) for 12 years when she developed complete heart block requiring a permanent pacemaker. Patient 2, a 40-year-old woman with discoid lupus erythematosus, was taking chloroquine from 1979 until 1996. Depending on the clinical disease activity, she intermittently increased the dose from 250 to 750 mg/day. In 1994, she developed complete heart block and a permanent pacemaker had to be implanted. Intensive investigations in both cases did not reveal another underlying cause for conduction disturbances; the atrioventricular block was probably due in both cases to chloroquine related cardiac toxicity. This toxicity seems to be restricted to longterm, high dose treatment; however, it should be kept in mind in patients with preexisting conduction disturbances during longterm treatment.
We used data from the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy's computer-based management system to compare the rates of serious cardiorespiratory complications and death associated with the use of midazolam and diazepam. Data were analyzed from 21,011 procedures. Midazolam was used in 15,061 of these procedures, diazepam in 4,302, and neither in 1,648. We assessed benzodiazepine dose, concomitant drug administration, type of procedure, and selected patient characteristics in each of these three groups. No significant difference between these three groups were noted other than the fact that certain clinical centers tended to exclusively use midazolam, whereas others used both benzodiazepines. Reports of serious cardiorespiratory complications and death were uncommon, occurring in 5.4 and 0.3 per thousand procedures, respectively. Midazolam did not seem to place patients in this sample at greater risk for cardiorespiratory complications than diazepam. Concomitant use of narcotics and urgent and emergent procedures, however, did increase the risk of serious cardiorespiratory events.
Since carbapenems and cephalosporins have been suggested to induce convulsive side effects through an inhibitory action on the central gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated inhibitory transmission, the present study evaluated the convulsive activity of a new carbapenem antibiotic (1R,5S,6S)-6[(R)-1-hydroxyethyl]-2-[(3S,5S)-5(S-methyl-4thiomorpholin ylcarbonyl)pyrrolidin-3-thio]-l-methylcarbapen-2-em-3- carboxylic acid (DK-35C) in in vitro and in vivo experiments, in comparison with cefazolin, imipenem and meropenem. In in vitro experiments, their abilities to inhibit [3H]muscimol (5 nM) binding to GABA(A) receptors were measured using crude synaptic membranes prepared from the rat cerebral cortex. The concentrations (mM) of the antibiotics which inhibit 50% of the specific binding, were 0.6 for imipenem, 1.8 for cefazolin, 15.4 for DK-35C and 27.6 for meropenem. In in vivo experiments, intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of cefazolin, imipenem and DK-35C induced convulsions in a dose-dependent manner in rats. The doses (nmol/rat) of the antibiotics which induce convulsions in 50% of rats, were 57 for imipenem, 96 for cefazolin, 377 for DK-35C and >3000 for meropenem. In the mouse pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) convulsive model, intravenous pretreatment with cefazolin (800 mg/kg) or imipenem (200 mg/kg) shifted the dose-response curve of PTZ (i.p.) to the left, indicating enhancement of the convulsive activity of PTZ. However, pretreatment with cefazolin, meropenem or DK-35C at a dose of 400 mg/kg did not produce any marked effects on the convulsive activity of PTZ compared with the saline vehicle-pretreated control. The results clearly demonstrate a good correlation between in vitro GABA(A) receptor binding assay and in vivo i.c.v. convulsive model using rats, and suggest that DK-35C may possess a relatively weak convulsive activity mediated through an interaction with GABA(A) receptors.
Aberrant sialylation catalyzed by sialyltransferases (STs) is frequently found in cancer cells and is associated with increased cancer metastasis. However, ST inhibitors developed till now are not applicable for clinical use because of their poor cell permeability. In this study, a novel ST inhibitor AL10 derived from the lead compound lithocholic acid identified in our previous study is synthesized and the anti-cancer effect of this compound is studied. AL10 is cell-permeable and effectively attenuates total sialylation on cell surface. This inhibitor shows no cytotoxicity but inhibits adhesion, migration, actin polymerization and invasion of alpha-2,3-ST-overexpressing A549 and CL1.5 human lung cells. Inhibition of adhesion and migration by AL10 is associated with reduced sialylation of various integrin molecules and attenuated activation of the integrin downstream signaling mediator focal adhesion kinase. More importantly, AL10 significantly suppresses experimental lung metastasis in vivo without affecting liver and kidney function of experimental animals as determined by serum biochemical assays. Taken together, AL10 is the first ST inhibitor, which exhibits potent anti-metastatic activity in vivo and may be useful for clinical cancer treatment.
We examined 106 VCGs of cancer patients receiving Adriamycin (ADM) to investigate the nature and meaning of bites. It is known that ADM causes patchy areas of myocardial degeneration and necrosis, the appearance of which is dose dependent. Thirty-eight cancer patients not yet receiving ADM were examined to provide controls. Patients were divided into six groups, according to total cumulative ADM dose received. The incidence of bites in the different groups was shown to be as follows: group 1 (controls, 38 patients) 13.1%; group 2 (1-100 mg/m2 of body surface ADM, 23 patients) 39.1%; group 3 (101-200 mg/m2, 33 patients) 42.2%; group 4 (201-300 mg/m2, 25 patients) 56%; group 5 (301-400 mg/m2, 15 patients) 66.6%; group 6 (greater than 400 mg/m2, 10 patients) 90%; groups 2-6 52.8%. These percentages show a trend which is highly correlated with the total cumulative dose of ADM (p=0.00005). The influence of age on the appearance of bites has been excluded by analyses of trends in patients below and over 50 years (p=0.08). In 80.35% of cases, bites appear on more than one plane and mostly close to the maximum vector (Vmax). We therefore think that these results favor the hypothesis that bites are the electrophysiologic expression of lesions, such as small fibrotic and necrotic areas, which interfere with the normal spread of the ventricular depolarization wavefront.
The present study examines the hypothesis that vagal activity can accelerate the onset of cardiac arrest produced by administering a beta-adrenergic blocking dose of propranolol to digitoxin-intoxicated dogs. In 11 experiments, intravenous injection of 0.75 mg/kg propranolol into digitoxin intoxicated dogs induced a sustained ventricular asystole (early-phase cardiac arrest). In six of these eleven experiments, intermittent pacing of the ventricles for as long as 150 min to maintain blood pressure after the onset of asystole, led to the resumption of spontaneous heart beats in only one dog. In five other experiments, injection of atropine (1 mg/kg) three min after the onset of early-phase cardiac arrest elicited sustained spontaneous junctional rhythms. In another four experiments the injection of atropine prior to or simultaneously with propranolol prevented the occurrence of asystole and caused the emergence of a junctional pacemaker. In eight experiments in which the cardiac arrest was reversed or prevented, injection of maintenance doses of atropine and propranolol caused eventual failure of the junctional pacemaker (late-phase cardiac arrest). This failure could not be prevented or reversed by atropine. The results suggest that early-phase cardiac arrest is due to vagal suppression of cardiac pacemakers and therefore supports the above hypothesis.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) recurrence and de novo HBV infection are frequent events in liver transplantation recipients. Treatment with lamivudine is initially efficient in both infections but the incidence of lamivudine-resistant HBV emergence increases over time. Adefovir appears to be promising in post-liver transplantation patients with recurrent HBV infection and lamivudine-resistant HBV. This study analyzed adefovir treatment in 42 post-liver transplantation patients who developed recurrent HBV or de novo HBV infection with lamivudine-resistant HBV (54.8% HCV-coinfected). Patients received 10 mg of oral adefovir once daily for a mean period of time of 21.5 months (range from 12 to 31 months). In 62.9% of patients, ALT levels decreased significantly. Serum HBV-DNA was undetectable in 64% of the cases. Twenty percent of patients lost HBeAg marker and 13.3% of them developed anti-HBe. In 9.5% of recipients, HBsAg became negative. There was no significant change in serum creatinine levels. In only one patient was worsening of the renal function detected, making dose adjustment necessary. No other side effects were reported. Our results confirm the efficacy and safety of adefovir treatment in post-liver transplantation patients with lamivudine-resistant HBV, neither were adefovir-resistant mutations identified in patients after 21 months of therapy, nor were there adverse events, especially renal toxicity.
The mechanisms by which excessive glucocorticoids cause muscular atrophy remain unclear. We previously demonstrated that dexamethasone increases the expression of myostatin, a negative regulator of skeletal muscle mass, in vitro. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that dexamethasone-induced muscle loss is associated with increased myostatin expression in vivo. Daily administration (60, 600, 1,200 micro g/kg body wt) of dexamethasone for 5 days resulted in rapid, dose-dependent loss of body weight (-4.0, -13.4, -17.2%, respectively, P < 0.05 for each comparison), and muscle atrophy (6.3, 15.0, 16.6% below controls, respectively). These changes were associated with dose-dependent, marked induction of intramuscular myostatin mRNA (66.3, 450, 527.6% increase above controls, P < 0.05 for each comparison) and protein expression (0.0, 260.5, 318.4% increase above controls, P < 0.05). We found that the effect of dexamethasone on body weight and muscle loss and upregulation of intramuscular myostatin expression was time dependent. When dexamethasone treatment (600 micro g. kg-1. day-1) was extended from 5 to 10 days, the rate of body weight loss was markedly reduced to approximately 2% within this extended period. The concentrations of intramuscular myosin heavy chain type II in dexamethasone-treated rats were significantly lower (-43% after 5-day treatment, -14% after 10-day treatment) than their respective corresponding controls. The intramuscular myostatin concentration in rats treated with dexamethasone for 10 days returned to basal level. Concurrent treatment with RU-486 blocked dexamethasone-induced myostatin expression and significantly attenuated body loss and muscle atrophy. We propose that dexamethasone-induced muscle loss is mediated, at least in part, by the upregulation of myostatin expression through a glucocorticoid receptor-mediated pathway.
Our aim was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of adding adefovir to lamivudine therapy for hepatitis B virus (HBV)-infected patients resistant to Ramivudine.
Among 17 studied patients, 7 had chronic active HBV infection and 10 were posttransplant with HBV infection (9 with de novo HBV). They received lamivudine plus adefovir therapy for 2 years. We assessed reductions in serum HBV-DNA and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels, loss of HBeAg (in HBeAg+ cases), and HBsAg clearance.
A virological response, as defined by HBV-DNA below the cut off by hybridization, was observed in 12 (70.6%) patients and loss of HBeAg in 4 (44.4%) of the 9 initially HBeAg-positive cases. A biochemical response, defined as a decreased serum ALT to the normal range, occurred in 4 (26.7%) patients. Median serum creatinine increased in 3 of 15 (20%) patients, excluding those on hemodialysis. There were two noteworthy cases of sustained HBsAg seroconversion with adefovir (11.8%): one patient with de novo HBV infection posttransplantation and positive hepatitis C virus-RNA serology, and one patient with decompensated HBV cirrhosis in whom viral replication ceased, making him eligible for transplantation.
Currently, adefovir is an effective rescue therapy that broadens the existing range of options for patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B infection, particularly those with decompensated cirrhosis awaiting a liver graft, and those with recurrent posttransplantation HBV. The relatively small biochemical response seen in these patients may be attributable to the high prevalence of concomitant hepatitis C virus infection (41%).
The skin and eyes remain in constant exposure to the surrounding environment and are subject to accidental, occupational, and biological risks at all times, Normal development, homeostasis, and repair following injury depend upon appropriate levels of calcium, zinc, magnesium, copper, iron, and minute amounts of other trace metals. Both tissues exist in a permanent state of dynamic equilibrium with the environment whereby cells lost through natural wear and tear are replaced through genetically regulated mitotic patterns. Normal functional requirements of the constituent tissues depend on critical balances between trace metals, metal ion gradients, and specific carrier proteins which are modulated by upregulation of growth factors, cytokines, hormones, and subcellular regulators acting by autocrine, paracrine, and endocrine mechanisms. Metal ion gradients in epidermal tissues serve critical functions in basal cell proliferation, post-mitotic migration, and functional differentiation in normal homeostasis and in repair following injury. Toxic mechanisms reflect imbalances in trace metals or interaction between xenobiotic and trace metals through competitive binding key carrier proteins and metabolic pathways leading to trace metal imbalances and functional impairment. Alternatively, toxic injuries result through direct cytotoxic action of metal ions on cell membranes, intercellular communication, RNA and DNA damage, and mutagenic change. Arsenic is the only primary carcinogen in the skin following ingestion or topical exposure; beryllium, aluminum, and zirconium are a cause of granuloma. Aluminum as a cause for breast cancer is equivocal. Metal toxicities in the eye result from direct accidental or occupational exposure and systemic uptake of neurotoxic metals and their action on the retina and optic nerve. Calcium, zinc, magnesium, and iron are essential trace elements in eye development and physiology but silver, gold, lead, and mercury are absorbed through optic membranes or from the circulation to accumulate in the vitreous leading to local or systemic action. Lead, mercury, cadmium, aluminum, and other xenobiotic metals are implicated in structural and physiological damage in the mammalian eye. Thallium shows an affinity for melanin.
We report the case of a woman, affected by congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS), who experienced three syncopal episodes shortly after the assumption of a low dose of orphenadrine. The ECG revealed a QT interval of 600 ms, and the corrected QT interval (QTc) was 537 ms. No structural cardiac disease was demonstrated by echocardiography. Orphenadrine treatment was discontinued. During the first 12 h of monitoring, three short-lasting, asymptomatic episodes of torsades de pointes occurred. No other sustained ventricular arrhythmia was revealed at Holter monitoring in the following days. During the ensuing 6 months, the patient remained asymptomatic, and the QTc did not change. Orphenadrine is an analogue of diphenhydramine, an antihistaminic drug that produces sodium channel blockade similar to that caused by quinidine and other Class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs. Our case rises the suspicion that orphenadrine could cause life-threatening arrhythmias in LQTS even at a low dose, and independently from concomitant assumption of potentially QT-prolonging drugs.
Nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) mediated regulation of cellular antioxidant production and the anti-inflammatory mechanism play an important role in neuroprotection against neurodegenerative diseases. Naringin a citrus flavonone, has been reported to possess neuroprotective effect against Huntington's disease, and other neurodegenerative disorders, however the mechanisms underlying its beneficial effects on 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP)-induced neurodegeneration are poorly defined. The objective of the present study was to investigate the neuroprotective role of naringin and delineate the mechanism of action on 3-NP-induced neurodegeneration. Rats were injected with 3-NP (10mg/kg body weight/day, i.p.) for 2 weeks to develop neurodegeneration, while naringin (80 mg/kg body weight/day, orally) was administered throughout the experimental period, 1h prior to 3-NP exposure. Thereafter rats were euthanized for biochemical, histological, and molecular studies. Treatment with naringin ameliorated the reduced glutathione/oxidized glutathione ratio with concomitant decrease in the levels of hydroxyl radical, hydroperoxide and nitrite in 3-NP-induced rats. Nissl staining and transmission electron microscopic studies showed that naringin modulated 3-NP-induced histological changes. Naringin induces NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase-1, heme oxygenase-1, glutathione S-transferase P1 and gamma-glutamylcysteine ligase mRNA expressions through the activation of Nrf2 and decreased the expressions of pro-inflammatory mediators like tumour necrosis factor-alpha, cyclooxygenase-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase. These results indicate that naringin might be beneficial in mitigating 3-NP-induced neurodegeneration through the enhancement of phase II and antioxidant gene expressions via Nrf2 activation; thereby modulating the oxidative stress and inflammatory responses.
We have investigated the effects of methyl mercury of mRNA metabolism in mouse brain cells in vivo. It was demonstrated that methyl mercury substantially reduces the rate of synthesis of ATP and poly(A)-segments of mRNAs. The molecular sizes of poly(A)-segments isolated from hnRNA and polysomal mRNA of the experimental animal brain are smaller than the dimensions of the same segments from the cellular RNA of intact mice. A fall in the mRNA polyadenylation rate seen under methyl mercury directly correlates with reduced metabolic stability (t 1/2) of the respective poly(A)+mRNA. The mean time of nuclear-cytoplasmic transport of these mRNAs (t0 is substantially increased under methyl mercury. At the same time, methyl mercury has no effect on the metabolism of brain polysomal poly(A)-mRNA. Direct addition of methyl mercury to an in vitro system containing excess ATP failed to affect the activity of poly(A) polymerase isolated from the brain of intact mice. The poison-induced alterations in the poly(A)+mRNA metabolism bring about a considerable reduction of the poly(A)+-fraction's share in the total polysomal mRNA and dramatic fall in the intracellular polysomes concentration. All the alterations in the examined metabolic parameters well correlate both with a reduced ATP content in the brain tissue and decreased rate of total protein synthesis in brain cells. Proceeding from these results as well as data from the literature, we developed a hypothetical model of a general molecular mechanism whereby methyl mercury inhibits protein synthesis in the brain.
