Pathological cardiac hypertrophy, induced by various etiologies such as high blood pressure and aortic stenosis, develops in response to increased afterload and represents a common intermediary in the development of heart failure. Understandably then, the reversal of pathological cardiac hypertrophy is associated with a significant reduction in cardiovascular event risk and represents an important, yet underdeveloped, target of therapeutic research. Recently, we determined that muscle ring finger-1 (MuRF1), a muscle-specific protein, inhibits the development of experimentally induced pathological; cardiac hypertrophy. We now demonstrate that therapeutic cardiac atrophy induced in patients after left ventricular assist device placement is associated with an increase in cardiac MuRF1 expression. This prompted us to investigate the role of MuRF1 in two independent mouse models of cardiac atrophy: 1) cardiac hypertrophy regression after reversal of transaortic constriction (TAC) reversal and 2) dexamethasone-induced atrophy. Using echocardiographic, histological, and gene expression analyses, we found that upon TAC release, cardiac mass and cardiomyocyte cross-sectional areas in MuRF1(-/-) mice decreased approximately 70% less than in wild type mice in the 4 wk after release. This was in striking contrast to wild-type mice, who returned to baseline cardiac mass and cardiomyocyte size within 4 days of TAC release. Despite these differences in atrophic remodeling, the transcriptional activation of cardiac hypertrophy measured by beta-myosin heavy chain, smooth muscle actin, and brain natriuretic peptide was attenuated similarly in both MuRF1(-/-) and wild-type hearts after TAC release. In the second model, MuRF1(-/-) mice also displayed resistance to dexamethasone-induced cardiac atrophy, as determined by echocardiographic analysis. This study demonstrates, for the first time, that MuRF1 is essential for cardiac atrophy in vivo, both in the setting of therapeutic regression of cardiac hypertrophy and dexamethasone-induced atrophy.
Associations between genetic polymorphisms of CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2E1, GSTM1 and GSTT1 and prostate cancer (PCa) were analyzed in a case-control study of 315 individuals. The frequency of valine (Val)/valine (Val) genotypes for CYP1A1 was 11.3% in cases compared with 5.5% in controls, this polymorphism thus being associated with a significantly increased risk of PCa (odds ratio=2.4, 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.01-5.57). No links were detected between PCa and polymorphisms in other enzymes. However, the combination of CYP1A1 (Ile/Val and/or Val/Val) polymorphisms with the GSTM1 null type resulted in an OR of 2.2 (CI=1.10-4.57, 1.12-4.20, respectively). This study suggests that the CYP1A1 polymorphism and its combination with GSTM1 may be associated with PCa susceptibility in the Japanese population.
Dilevalol, the R,R isomer of labetalol, is a non-selective beta-adrenergic blocking drug with vasodilator properties which differ from those of labetalol in that they are attributable to beta-2 agonism rather than alpha-1 blockade. This multicenter, double-blind, randomized study compares the antihypertensive efficacy and safety of dilevalol with propranolol and, in addition, compares the efficacy of dilevalol when given once daily with twice daily. Caucasian patients with mild and moderate essential uncomplicated hypertension were divided into three treatment groups and received either propranolol twice daily (N = 59), dilevalol twice daily (N = 60), or dilevalol once daily (N = 53). Patients were given increasing doses of these medications over a 2 to 10 week period to achieve a supine diastolic blood pressure (SuDBP) of less than 90 mm Hg. The three regimens were equally effective in lowering supine blood pressure (dilevalol daily and twice daily reduced SuDBP by 14 Hg and propranolol by 13 mm Hg). Patients with at least a 5 mm Hg reduction in SuDBP then entered a two month maintenance phase. Dilevalol, whether given once (N = 40) or twice daily (N = 55) maintained the supine systolic blood pressure more effectively (dilevalol daily--15 mm Hg, twice daily--13 mm Hg, P less than .05) than propranolol (N = 53, 11 mm Hg) and dilevalol given once daily maintained diastolic blood pressure more effectively than propranolol (17 mm Hg v 14 mm Hg, P less than .05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Future demographic changes predict an increase in the number of patients with atrial fibrillation. As long-term anticoagulation for the prevention of ischemic strokes becomes more prevalent, the burden of warfarin-associated intracerebral hemorrhage (W-ICH) is likely to grow. However, little is known about the clinical aspects and pathophysiologic mechanisms of W-ICH. This study describes the development of a mouse model of W-ICH in which hematoma growth and outcomes can be correlated with anticoagulation parameters.
CD-1 mice were treated with warfarin (2 mg/kg per 24 hours) added to drinking water. ICH was induced by stereotactic injection of collagenase type VII (0.075 U) into the right striatum. Hemorrhagic blood volume was quantified by means of a photometric hemoglobin assay 2 and 24 hours after hemorrhage induction. Neurologic outcomes were assessed on a 5-point scale.
The international normalized ratio in nonanticoagulated mice was 0.8+/-0.1. After 24 (W-24) and 30 (W-30) hours of warfarin pretreatment, international normalized ratio values increased to 3.5+/-0.9 and 7.2+/-3.4, respectively. Compared with nonanticoagulated mice, mean hemorrhagic blood volume determined 24 hours after hemorrhage induction was found to be 2.5-fold larger in W-24 mice (P=0.019) and 3.1-fold larger in W-30 mice (P<0.001, n=10 per group). Mortality at 24 hours after hemorrhage induction was 0% in nonanticoagulated mice, 10% in W-24 mice, and 30% in W-30 mice. Hematoma enlargement between 2 and 24 hours after hemorrhage induction was -1.4% for nonanticoagulated mice, 22.9% for W-24 mice, and 62.2% for W-30 mice.
This study characterizes the first experimental model of W-ICH. It may be helpful in gaining further insights into the pathophysiology of W-ICH and may be used for testing the efficacy of treatment strategies, such as hemostatic therapy, in this severe subtype of stroke.
In a 32-year old woman under ajmaline therapy for cardiac arrhythmia, a sudden episode of acute haemolytic anaemia and renal failure led to the identification of a potent agglutinating, haemolysing and lymphocytotoxic antibody specific to ajmaline and cross-reacting with quinine and quinidine. The immunological features of the antibody and the pathophysiological mechanism of blood cell destruction are presented, together with a brief synopsis of drugs incriminated so far in the induction of specific antibody formation and immune haemolytic anaemia.
There is a considerable difference in the number of reports of neurologic injury in the literature between lidocaine and other local anesthetics. Few in vivo animal studies have produced convincing results showing a difference in neurotoxicity among anesthetics. We investigated whether lidocaine and bupivacaine differ with respect to sensory impairment and histologic damage when equipotent doses of the two are administered intrathecally in rats. First, to determine relative anesthetic potency, rats intrathecally received 20 muL of saline, 0.625%, 1.25%, 2.5%, or 5% lidocaine, or 0.125%, 0.25%, 0.5%, or 1.0% bupivacaine, and were examined with the tail-flick test for 90 min. The potency ratio calculated was approximately 1:4.70 (95% confidence interval, 3.65-6.07) for lidocaine/bupivacaine. In the next experiment, 45 rats intrathecally received 20 muL of saline, 2.13% bupivacaine (approximately 1.5 mg/kg), or 10% lidocaine (approximately 6.9 mg/kg), and were examined for persistent functional impairment and morphologic damage. Rats given lidocaine developed significantly more prolonged tail-flick latencies than those in other groups 4 days after injection and incurred more morphologic damage than those given saline or bupivacaine. In conclusion, although the doses of anesthetics administered were larger than those used clinically, the present results suggest that bupivacaine is less neurotoxic than lidocaine when administered intrathecally at equipotent concentrations in the rat model.
Bupivacaine induces less severe functional impairment and morphologic damage than lidocaine when the two anesthetics are intrathecally administered at equipotent concentrations in the rat.
Quantitative sensory testing of heat pain sensation has become an important tool to evaluate small caliber afferent nerve function in peripheral neuropathy. In earlier studies, we found that topical application of capsaicin in humans results in the loss of epidermal nerve fibers (ENFs) with a corresponding decrease in detection of heat pain sensation. Capsaicin may therefore be a useful model for developing optimal psychophysical testing procedures for detection of neuropathy in its early stages. Here we determined the influence of thermal probe (thermode) size in detecting the diminished heat pain sensation following capsaicin application. Twelve healthy volunteers applied 0.075% capsaicin topically to the volar forearm four times daily for 7 days. Psychophysical measures of heat pain, mechanical (sharp) pain, and tactile threshold were obtained daily from untreated control skin and from capsaicin-treated skin during capsaicin application, and once weekly for 5 weeks following discontinuation of capsaicin. Heat pain sensation was assessed using a large (30 x 30 mm) and small (3 x 3 mm) thermode and different algorithms to assess pain threshold and suprathreshold heat pain. Skin biopsies were obtained and were processed for immunohistochemical localization of (ENFs) using the pan neuronal marker protein gene product 9.5. Capsaicin produced a rapid decrease in the number of ENFs, with nearly complete disappearance after 3 days of treatment. Heat pain evoked by the small, but not the large, thermode decreased dramatically after capsaicin treatment. The sensation of heat pain returned toward normal after 2--3 weeks following discontinuation of capsaicin treatment concordant with gradual reinnervation of the epidermis. Regression analysis indicated that the sensation of heat pain evoked by the small thermode correlated much better with the number of ENFs than heat pain evoked by the large thermode. The detection of sharp pain decreased moderately after capsaicin treatment. Assessment of heat pain sensation using small thermodes has potential for detecting sensory deficits in early stages of small fiber neuropathy.
Oxaprozin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug characterised by a propionic acid-based structure. It is able to diffuse easily into inflamed synovial tissues after oral administration. Although discovered > 20 years ago, it is now under intensive investigation because of its unusual pharmacodynamic properties. Other than being a nonselective cyclooxygenase inhibitor, the drug is capable of inhibiting both anandamide hydrolase in neurons (median inhibitory concentration [IC50] = 85 micromol/l), with consequent potent analgesic activity, and NF-kappaB activation in inflammatory cells (IC50 = 50 micromol/l). Moreover, oxaprozin induces apoptosis of activated monocytes in a dose-dependent manner, with the effect being detectable at a concentration of 5 micromol/l and reaching the maximum activity at 50 micromol/l. As monocyte-macrophages and NF-kappaB pathways are crucial for synthesis of proinflammatory and histotoxic mediators in inflamed joints, oxaprozin appears to be endowed with pharmacodynamic properties exceeding those presently assumed as markers of classical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
There is little published data on concomitant use of zidovudine and intravenous immunoglobulin (IV IgG). In this paper we review our experience of four HIV-1 infected children treated with zidovudine for periods of 19-33 months (mean 26.5 months) subsequent to starting IV IgG for period of 18-20 months (mean 19 months). In these children the only clear benefit we found was in one child who had developed HIV encephalopathy which resolved after starting zidovudine. The respective roles of zidovudine and intravenous immunoglobulin in HIV-1 infected children need to be clarified in larger comparative trials.
Benzodiazepine was known to produce amnesia. Salvianolic acid A extracted from Salvia miltiorrhiza was an effective antioxidant. The objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of salvianolic acid A on diazepam-induced amnesia in mice. C57BL/6 mice were treated with salvianolic acid A at doses of 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg following administration with diazepam at a dose of 3 mg/kg. Morris water maze was performed to evaluate the effect of salvianolic acid A on amnesia. The antioxidative parameters in hippocampus were measured. The results showed that salvianolic acid A decreased the mean escape latency and increased the percentage of time spent in target quadrant. Salvianolic acid A reduced the content of malondialdehyde and increased the activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase in hippocampus. The findings demonstrated that salvianolic acid A had antiamnesic effects on diazepam-induced anterograde amnesia in mice, by augmenting the antioxidative capacity of hippocampus.
Cardiac hypertrophy is often associated with an increased sympathetic drive, and both in vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated the development of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy in response to either alpha- or beta-adrenergic stimulation. Because an association between the Na+/H+ exchanger and cellular growth has been proposed, this study aimed to analyze the possible role of the antiporter in isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy. Isoproterenol alone (5 mg/kg IP once daily) or combined with a selective inhibitor of the Na+/H+ exchanger activity (3 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) BIIB723) was given to male Wistar rats for 30 days. Sex- and age-matched rats that received 0.9% saline IP daily served as controls. Echocardiographic follow-up showed a 33% increase in left ventricular mass in the isoproterenol-treated group, whereas it did not increase in the isoproterenol+BIIB723-treated group. Heart weight-to-body weight ratio at necropsy was 2.44+/-0.11 in controls and increased to 3.35+/-0.10 (P<0.05) with isoproterenol, an effect that was markedly attenuated by BIIB723 (2.82+/-0.07). Intense cardiomyocyte enlargement and severe subendocardial fibrosis were found in isoproterenol-treated rats, and both effects were attenuated by BIIB723. Myocardial Na+/H+ exchanger activity and protein expression significantly increased in isoproterenol-treated rats compared with the control group (1.45+/-0.11 vs 0.91+/-0.05 arbitrary units, P<0.05). This effect was significantly reduced by BIIB723 (1.17+/-0.02, P<0.05). In conclusion, our results show that Na+/H+ exchanger inhibition prevented the development of isoproterenol-induced hypertrophy and fibrosis, providing strong evidence in favor of a key role played by the antiporter in this model of cardiac hypertrophy.
The authors examined 84 patients with pulmonary TBC treated with ethambutol (25 mg/Kg/die). The patients were divided into two groups on the basis of zinc plasma levels: 53 patients with zinc plasma level greater than 1 mg/l and 31 with zinc plasma levels less than 0.7 mg/l. The two groups underwent periodical follow-up of visual acuity, fundus, color vision (Fransworth 100 HUE) and visual field. The checks were monthly on the first group and fortnightly in the second. Eight patients presented signs of optic neuropathy. Patients with lower zinc plasma levels showed a higher percentage of optic neuropathy.
We studied the effects of oral furosemide, 80 mg/day for 7 days, on the response of urinary excretion of phosphate and cyclic AMP to exogenous parathyroid extract (PTE) in 6 normal subjects. All 6 subjects had marked increases in urinary calcium and a significant increase in urinary cyclic AMP from the control to the furosemide periods: this suggests that furosemide-induced hypercalciuria produced elevated parathyroid activity. After treatment with furosemide, the response of urinary cyclic AMP and phosphate to PTE was blunted. During the subsequent calcium infusion (4 mg/kg), urinary cyclic AMP was suppressed to subnormal values, and the response to PTE returned to normal. The evidence suggests that furosemide may blunt the response to PTE, perhaps as a result of the elevated parathyroid activity produced by furosemide-induced hypercalciuria and lowering of plasma-ionized calcium. This blunting effect of furosemide on the response of urinary phosphate and cyclic AMP to PTE should be considered in the evaluation of parathyroid function in patients taking furosemide.
The efficacy of intravesical alum irrigation was analyzed after application to 9 patients with continuous and severe bladder hemorrhage. Causes of bleeding were radiation cystitis in 4 patients, vesical invasion by cervical cancer in 3, bladder cancer in 1 and cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis in 1. Though alum treatment was initially effective for control of massive bladder hemorrhage in all patients, it eventually failed to suppress a subsequent hemorrhage in 2 patients (78% success rate). No significant side effects directly related to this therapy were observed. In conclusion, alum irrigation is effective for controlling massive bladder hemorrhage for a rather short time. Therefore, additional treatment modalities should also be considered for primary diseases.
Amikacin was used in 77 treatment courses at a dosage of >/=7.5 mg/kg every 8 h, and patients were monitored for ototoxicity by following serial audiograms, serum creatinine, and amikacin blood levels. Patients were leukopenic (58), were infected by gentamicin-resistant organisms (11), or had cystic fibrosis (8). Three patients developed tinnitus, but none had vertigo or nystagmus. Of 55 courses with pre- and post-treatment audiogram, 13 (24%) were associated with development of high-frequency hearing loss, which was usually bilateral. No patient had conversational hearing loss, and audiograms reverted to normal in three patients. Onset of cochlear damage occurred in one patient after therapy was stopped. The group with high-tone hearing loss, in comparison to the group without audiographic changes, received a larger mean total dose (24 versus 9.6 g), were treated for a longer duration (19 versus 9 days), and more frequently had previous aminoglycosides. Fifty-seven percent of patients with a "peak" serum level exceeding 32 mug/ml and 55% of patients with "trough" levels exceeding 10 mug/ml developed cochlear damage. There was no difference between the groups in age, body weight, previous cochlear damage, renal disease before or during therapy, or average daily dose. Both monitoring of blood levels and limiting duration of therapy may prevent amikacin ototoxicity.
The effects of kappa opioids on seizures and seizure-induced histopathology were investigated with the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy. Rats treated with the kappa opioid receptor agonist U50488h before pilocarpine showed: 1) increased seizure latency; 2) decreased seizure duration; 3) decreased mossy fiber sprouting; and 4) increased hilar neuron survival when compared with rats pretreated with saline. Behavioral effects of U50488h were blocked by the kappa opioid receptor antagonist norbinaltorphimine (nBNI), whereas the changes caused by U50488h in the histological response to pilocarpine were not blocked by nBNI. Rats treated with nBNI before pilocarpine exhibited: 1) increased incidence of seizures; 2) increased mossy fiber sprouting; and 3) increased hilar neuron loss when compared with rats treated with pilocarpine alone. These changes suggest a protective role of endogenously released kappa opioids in this seizure model. The location of functional kappa opioid receptors in the rat dentate gyrus was documented electrophysiologically to enable correlation with kappa opioid effects on histopathology. The kappa selective agonist, U69593, reversibly decreased the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the middle molecular layer of the dentate gyrus from the ventral but not the more dorsal portion of the hippocampal formation. Thus, kappa opioids decreased the severity and incidence of behavioral seizures and secondarily decreased seizure-induced histopathology via the decreased incidence of seizures.
Clinical trials and meta-analyses have shown that low-molecular-weight heparin and unfractionated heparin are effective in preventing deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in acutely ill medical inpatients who are at risk as they are likely to be bedridden for 6 days or more. It is not known, however, if such prophylaxis can also reduce the likelihood of fatal pulmonary embolism or decrease all-causes mortality in this patient population. No recommendations can be made regarding thromboprophylaxis in those at a lower risk of venous thromboembolism or in short-stay inpatients, as these have not yet undergone clinical trial. Current evidence suggests that high doses of heparin should be avoided after an acute ischaemic stroke, as the results of recent large trials suggest any potential treatment benefit in preventing DVT is cancelled by the increased intracranial bleeding risk caused from the underlying disease.
Increased bone marrow angiogenesis and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels are of adverse prognostic significance in patients with myeloproliferative disorders (MPD), including agnogenic myeloid metaplasia (AMM), chronic myeloid leukemia in blastic phase (CML-BP), and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). VEGF is a soluble, circulating, angiogenic molecule that acts through receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK), including VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR-2). SU5416 is a small-molecule RTK inhibitor (RTKI) that targets VEGFR-2, c-kit, and fms-related tyrosine kinase Flk2.
Adult patients with advanced CMML, AMM, CML-BP, or other BCR-ABL negative MPD were entered on a multicenter, Phase II study.
Thirty-two patients (19 patients with BCR-ABL negative MPD, 6 patients with CMML, 4 patients with CML-BP, and 3 patients with AMM) with a median age of 66 years (range, 29-85 years) received SU5416 145 mg/m(2) twice weekly intravenously for a median of three 4-week cycles (maximum, 12 cycles). Drug-related Grade 3-4 toxicities included acute abdominal pain (13%), bone pain (9%), infusion-related dyspnea (9%) or headache (6%), fatigue (6%), diarrhea (3%), and catheter site reactions (3%). Eleven patients (34%) did not receive a second cycle of therapy (6 patients had progressive disease, 3 because of adverse events; 2 patients withdrew due to lack of response). One patient with AMM achieved a partial response. Eight patients received more than 6 months of therapy.
SU5416 had minimal clinical activity in patients with MPD. Long-term administration of a twice-weekly, hyperosmolar, intravenous solution containing polyoxyl 35 castor oil was difficult. More tolerable RTKI may be worthy of further investigation in patients with MPD.
The potentiation of motor activity caused by ephedrine (Eph) in mice was inhibited by prazosin but not by sulpiride. This potentiation effect caused by apomorphine (Apo) was not inhibited by prazosin. Apo produced stereotyped behavior (including sniffing, licking, and biting) in rodents, but Eph was ineffective except at the toxic dose (400 mg.kg-1 in mice, 200 mg.kg-1 in rats). Apo antagonized haloperidol-induced catalepsy in mice whereas Eph had no such effect. Severe vomiting was evoked by Apo in dogs, but not by Eph even when lethal dose (20 mg.kg-1) was used. Palpebral ptosis induced by prazosin was abolished by intracerebroventricular injection of Eph in mice, but not affected by Apo. The results suggest that the central stimulating action of Eph is mediated by alpha 1-adrenoceptors and not by dopamine receptors.
Recent studies indicate that combination therapy with ribavirin and interferon alfa2b (IFNAlpha2b) is effective for chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. However, reversible hemolytic anemia is a common side effect of this therapy.
We determined those factors that contribute to ribavirin dose reduction due to anemia during this treatment by using multiple logistic regression analysis in Japanese patients. The study included 123 patients with chronic hepatitis C (85 male, 38 female; mean age, 50 years; range, 20-70 years), who received 24-week combination therapy. All patients were treated with IFNAlpha2b daily for 2 weeks, followed by three times weekly dosing for 22 weeks, with oral ribavirin twice daily, at a total daily dose of 600 or 800 mg.
Of the 123 patients, 34 patients required dose reduction of ribavirin, and 78 patients required no dose reduction. Overall, 20 patients discontinued. On univariate analysis, reduction of the ribavirin dose correlated significantly with pretreatment hemoglobin (Hb) levels of less than 14 g/dl, female sex, and patient age 55 years or older. On multivariate analysis, pretreatment Hb of less than 14 g/dl level and age 55 years or older were significantly associated with ribavirin dose reduction. The hazard ratios were 3.56 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.48-8.53) for pretreatment Hb levels of less than 14 g/dl, and 2.50 (95% CI, 1.05-5.94) for age 55 years or more.
Because patient age of 55 years or more, and Hb levels of less than 14 g/dl are significant factors that influence ribavirin-induced hemolytic anemia, more careful monitoring is necessary during combination therapy for patients with these risk factors.
We report a 6-month-old female infant with status convulsivus which appeared during intravenous drip infusion of aminophylline. She had an extremely high serum theophylline concentration (79 micrograms/ml), which was effectively reduced by plasmapheresis and dialysis. Three days later, she developed status convulsivus again, though her serum theophylline was undetectable at that time. A CT on 14th day of illness revealed mild widening of frontal sulci and Sylvian fissure. The patient apparently recovered her healthy condition, but psychomotor developmental delay, especially in speech and social behavior, was noted at the age of 2 years 6 months (DQ = 55). A delay of myelination was observed on brain MRI at 4 year 1 months, suggesting an irreversible brain injury caused by theophylline intoxication.
A hemodialysis male patient exhibited depressive symptoms and trazodone was prescribed orally. Although his depressive symptoms disappeared, he gradually presented with parkinsonism. His parkinsonism improved within a week after stopping trazodone. The clinical course strongly suggested that it was induced by trazodone. However, there is no report on antidopaminergic side effects of parkinsonism. This case suggests that antidopaminergic effects leading to parkinsonism need to be considered in patients on hemodialysis that are taking trazodone.
DIOXIN TOXIC EQUIVALENCY FACTOR EVALUATION OVERVIEW: Polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) have the ability to bind to and activate the ligand-activated transcription factor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). Structurally related compounds that bind to the AhR and exhibit biological actions similar to TCDD are commonly referred to as "dioxin-like compounds" (DLCs). Ambient human exposure to DLCs occurs through the ingestion of foods containing residues of DLCs that bioconcentrate through the food chain. Due to their lipophilicity and persistence, once internalized, they accumulate in body tissue, mainly adipose, resulting in chronic lifetime human exposure. Since human exposure to DLCs always involves a complex mixture, the toxic equivalency factor (TEF) methodology has been developed as a mathematical tool to assess the health risk posed by complex mixtures of these compounds. The TEF methodology is a relative potency scheme that ranks the dioxin-like activity of a compound relative to TCDD, which is the most potent congener. This allows for the estimation of the potential dioxin-like activity of a mixture of chemicals based on a common mechanism of action involving an initial binding of DLCs to the AhR. The toxic equivalency of DLCs was nominated for evaluation because of the widespread human exposure to DLCs and the lack of data on the adequacy of the TEF methodology for predicting relative potency for cancer risk. To address this, the National Toxicology Program conducted a series of 2-year bioassays in female Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats to evaluate the chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity of DLCs and structurally related polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and mixtures of these compounds. TCDD is not manufactured commercially other than for scientific research purposes. The main sources of TCDD releases into the environment are from combustion and incineration; metal smelting, refining, and processing; chemical manufacturing and processing; biological and photochemical processes; and existing reservoir sources that reflect past releases. TCDD (dioxin) was selected for study by the National Toxicology Program as a part of the dioxin TEF evaluation to assess the cancer risk posed by complex mixtures of polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (PCDDs), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), and PCBs. The dioxin TEF evaluation includes conducting multiple 2-year rat bioassays to evaluate the relative chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity of DLCs, structurally related PCBs, and mixtures of these compounds. While one of the aims of the dioxin TEF evaluation was a comparative analysis across studies, in this Technical Report, only the TCDD results are presented and discussed. TCDD was included because it is the reference compound for the dioxin TEF methodology. Female Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats were administered TCDD (at least 98% pure) in corn oil:acetone (99:1) by gavage for 14, 31, or 53 weeks or 2 years. Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium, L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells, cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, Drosophila melanogaster, and mouse bone marrow cells. 2-YEAR STUDY: Groups of 81 or 82 female rats were administered 3, 10, 22, 46, or 100 ng TCDD/kg body weight in corn oil:acetone (99:1) by gavage, 5 days per week, for up to 105 weeks; a group of 81 vehicle control female rats received the corn oil/acetone vehicle alone. Up to 10 rats per group were evaluated at 14, 31, or 53 weeks. A stop-exposure group of 50 female rats was administered 100 ng/kg TCDD in corn oil:acetone (99:1) by gavage for 30 weeks and then just the vehicle for the remainder of the study. Survival of dosed groups was similar to that of the vehicle control group. Mean body weights of 100 ng/kg core study and stop-exposure groups were less than those of the vehicle control group after week 13 of the study. Mean body weights of 46 ng/kg rats were less than those of the vehicle controls during year 2 of the study, and those of 22 ng/kg rats were less than those of the vehicle controls the last 10 weeks of the study. THYROID HORMONE CONCENTRATIONS: Alterations in serum thyroid hormone levels were evaluated at the 14-, 31- and 53-week interim evaluations. At 14 weeks, there were significant decreases in serum total and free thyroxine (T4) levels and increases in serum total triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). At 31 weeks, there were significant decreases in serum total and free T4 levels and increases in serum total T3 but no significant effect on TSH. At 53 weeks, there were significant decreases in serum total T4 levels and increases in serum total T3. There were no significant effects on total T4 or TSH levels. HEPATIC CELL PROLIFERATION DATA: To evaluate hepatocyte replication, analysis of labeling of replicating hepatocytes with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine was conducted at the 14-, 31-, and 53-week interim evaluations. The hepatocellular labeling index was significantly higher in the 22 ng/kg group compared to vehicle controls at 14 weeks. At the 31-week interim evaluation, the labeling indices in hepatocytes were significantly higher in all dosed groups than in the vehicle controls. At 53 weeks, labeling indices were significantly higher in the 46 and 100 ng/kg groups than in the vehicle controls. CYTOCHROME P450 ENZYME ACTIVITIES: To evaluate the expression of known dioxin-responsive genes, CYP1A1-associated 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activity and CYP1A2-associated acetanilide-4-hydroxylase (A4H) activity were evaluated at 14, 31, and 53 weeks. In addition, pentoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (PROD) activity was analyzed. Hepatic EROD, PROD, and A4H activities were significantly higher in all dosed groups relative to vehicle controls at the 14-, 31-, and 53-week interim evaluations. Pulmonary EROD was also significantly higher in all dosed groups compared to vehicle controls at 14, 31, and 53 weeks. DETERMINATIONS OF TCDD CONCENTRATIONS IN TISSUES: The tissue disposition of TCDD was analyzed in the liver, lung, fat, and blood of all animals in each group at the 14-, 31-, and 53-week interim evaluations and in 10 animals per group at the end of the 2-year study (105 weeks). The highest concentrations of TCDD were observed in the liver, followed by fat tissue. Liver and fat tissue concentrations of TCDD increased with increasing doses of TCDD. No measurable concentrations of TCDD were observed in blood from vehicle control or treated rats at any of the interim evaluations. Mean levels of TCDD in the liver and fat in the 100 ng/kg group at the end of the 2-year study were 9.3 and 3.2 ng/g, respectively. In liver tissue from the stop-exposure group, TCDD concentrations were slightly higher than those observed in the 3 ng/kg group. In the stop-exposure group, TCDD concentrations in fat were below the limits of quantitation. PATHOLOGY AND STATISTICAL ANALYSES: Absolute and/or relative liver weights were increased at 14, 31, and 53 weeks, with more severe effects occurring in the higher dosed groups. Increased liver weights correlated with increased incidences of hepatocyte hypertrophy at 14, 31, and 53 weeks. Exposure led to a treatment-related increase in hepatic toxicity with a broad spectrum of lesions. Incidences and severities of lesions increased at higher doses and longer durations of exposure. The earliest effects were increased incidences and severities of hepatocyte hypertrophy at 14 weeks. At 2 years, there was a significant increase in toxic hepatopathy characterized by increased incidences of numerous nonneoplastic liver lesions including hepatocyte hypertrophy, multinucleated hepatocytes, altered hepatocellular foci, inflammation, pigmentation, diffuse fatty change, necrosis, portal fibrosis, oval cell hyperplasia, bile duct hyperplasia, bile duct cysts, cholangiofibrosis, and nodular hyperplasia At 2 years, the incidence of hepatocellular adenoma was significantly increased in the 100 ng/kg core study group. Dose-related increased incidences of cholangiocarcinoma were seen in core study rats administered 22 ng/kg or greater. The highest incidence of cholangiocarcinoma was seen in the 100 ng/kg core study group and included a significant number of animals with multiple cholangiocarcinomas. Two cholangiocarcinomas and two hepatocellular adenomas were seen in the 100 ng/kg stop-exposure group. Two hepatocholangiomas were seen in the 100 ng/kg core study group, and one cholangioma was seen in the 100 ng/kg stop-exposure group. In the lung, the incidence of cystic keratinizing epithelioma of the lung was significantly increased at 2 years in the 100 ng/kg core study group. Nonneoplastic effects in the lung included increased incidences of bronchiolar metaplasia. The incidence of gingival squamous cell carcinoma of the oral mucosa was significantly increased in the 100 ng/kg core study group at 2 years and was accompanied by an increased incidence of gingival squamous hyperplasia. At 2 years, the incidence of squamous cell carcinoma of the uterus in the 46 ng/kg group was significantly increased, and there were two squamous cell carcinomas in the 100 ng/kg stop-exposure group. At 2 years, one acinar adenoma and two acinar cell carcinomas of the pancreas were seen in the 100 ng/kg core study group; one acinar carcinoma was seen in the 100 ng/kg stop-exposure group. The incidences of acinar cell adenoma or carcinoma (combined) exceeded the historical vehicle control range. Nonneoplastic effects in the lung included acinar cytoplasmic vacuolization, chronic active inflammation, acinar atrophy, and arterial chronic active inflammation. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
DIOXIN TOXIC EQUIVALENCY FACTOR EVALUATION OVERVIEW: Polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) have the ability to bind to and activate the ligand-activated transcription factor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). Structurally related compounds that bind to the AhR and exhibit biological actions similar to TCDD are commonly referred to as "dioxin-like compounds" (DLCs). Ambient human exposure to DLCs occurs through the ingestion of foods containing residues of DLCs that bioconcentrate through the food chain. Due to their lipophilicity and persistence, once internalized, they accumulate in body tissue, mainly adipose, resulting in chronic lifetime human exposure. Since human exposure to DLCs always involves a complex mixture, the toxic equivalency factor (TEF) methodology has been developed as a mathematical tool to assess the health risk posed by complex mixtures of these compounds. The TEF methodology is a relative potency scheme that ranks the dioxin-like activity of a compound relative to TCDD, which is the most potent congener. This allows for the estimation of the potential dioxin-like activity of a mixture of chemicals based on a common mechanism of action involving an initial binding of DLCs to the AhR. The toxic equivalency of DLCs was nominated for evaluation because of the widespread human exposure to DLCs and the lack of data on the adequacy of the TEF methodology for predicting relative potency for cancer risk. To address this, the National Toxicology Program conducted a series of 2-year bioassays in female Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats to evaluate the chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity of DLCs and structurally related polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and mixtures of these compounds. 2,2',4,4',5,5'-Hexachlorobiphenyl (PCB 153) was produced as a component of some commercial PCB mixtures before 1977 for the electric industry as a dielectric insulating fluid for transformers and capacitors. Manufacture and use of the chemical was stopped due to increased PCB residues in the environment, but it continues to be released into the environment through the use and disposal of products containing PCBs, as by-products during the manufacture of certain organic chemicals, and during the combustion and biodegradation of some waste materials. Bioaccumulation of PCB 153 results in persistent levels in animal and human tissues. PCB 153 was selected for study by the National Toxicology Program as a part of the dioxin TEF evaluation to assess the cancer risk posed by complex mixtures of polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (PCDDs), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). The dioxin TEF evaluation includes conducting multiple 2-year rat bioassays to evaluate the relative chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity of DLCs, structurally related PCBs, and mixtures of these compounds. PCB 153 was included since it is present at the highest PCB concentrations in human samples on a molar basis. PCB 153 was also included in a mixture study with PCB 126, since previous studies have demonstrated interactions between PCB 153 and DLCs on pharmacokinetic and biological effects. While one of the aims of this study was a comparative analysis of effects seen with PCB 126 and the mixture of PCB 126 and PCB 153, in this Technical Report only the results of the present study of PCB 153 are presented and discussed. 2-YEAR STUDY: Female Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats were administered PCB 153 (greater than 99% pure) in corn oil:acetone (99:1) by gavage for 14, 31, or 53 weeks or 2 years. Groups of 80 (3,000 microg PCB 153/kg body weight), 81 (100, 300, and 1,000 microg/kg), or 82 (10 microg/kg) female rats received PCB 153 in corn oil:acetone (99:1) by gavage at doses of 10, 100, 300, 1,000, or 3,000 microg/kg 5 days per week for up to 105 weeks; a group of 81 female rats received the corn oil:acetone (99:1) vehicle alone. A stop-exposure group of 50 female rats was administered 3,000 microg/kg for 30 weeks and then the vehicle for the remainder of the study. Dose selection for the PCB 153 study was based on the range of PCB 153 doses used in the mixture study of PCB 126 and PCB 153 (10 to 3,000 microg/kg). Survival of dosed groups was similar to that of the vehicle control group. Mean body weights of 3,000 microg/kg core study rats were less than those of the vehicle controls after week 69 of the study. Thyroid Hormone Concentrations: Serum total thyroxine (T4), free T4, and total triiodothyronine (T3) concentrations in the 3,000 microg/kg group were significantly lower than those in the vehicle controls at the 14-week interim evaluation. At the 31-week interim evaluation, no significant differences were observed in serum total T4, free T4, T3, or thyroid stimulating hormone concentrations. At the 53-week interim evaluation, serum total T4 and free T4 concentrations in the 3,000 microg/kg group were significantly lower than in the vehicle controls. Hepatic Cell Proliferation Data: No significant differences in hepatocellular labeling index were observed between the vehicle control and dosed groups at any of the interim evaluations. Cytochrome P450 Enzyme Activities Hepatic pentoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activities were highly and significantly elevated relative to the vehicle control groups. Maximum increases over controls at 14, 31, and 53 weeks were 136-, 140-, and 40-fold, respectively. Hepatic 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) and acetanilide-4-hydroxylase (A4H) activities were significantly elevated over controls at 14 and 31 weeks; increases were less than twofold. At 14 weeks, EROD activities in the lung were dose-dependently reduced compared to vehicle controls. Determinations of PCB 153 Concentrations in Tissues: In the fat from vehicle controls, detectable levels of PCB 153 were observed at 14, 31, and 53 weeks and at the end of the 2-year study. Fat concentrations of PCB 153 increased with increasing doses of PCB 153 and tended to increase with the longer exposure durations. In the fat of the 3,000 microg/kg stop-exposure group, PCB 153 concentrations were between the levels observed in the 300 and 1,000 microg/kg groups. In the liver of vehicle controls, no measurable concentrations of PCB 153 were observed at any time point. In dosed groups, hepatic concentrations of PCB 153 increased with increasing dose and longer exposure duration. Measurable concentrations of PCB 153 were observed in the lungs of vehicle control rats at 31 and 53 weeks and at 2 years. At all time points, PCB 153 lung and blood concentrations increased with increasing dose, and blood concentrations increased with duration of exposure. In liver, lung, and blood of rats from the 3,000 microg/kg stop-exposure group, PCB 153 concentrations were slightly above or below the levels observed in the 1,000 microg/kg group. Organ Weights: Absolute liver weights of 1,000 microg/kg rats and absolute and relative liver weights of 3,000 microg/kg rats were significantly greater than those of vehicle controls at week 14. At week 31, relative liver weights of 1,000 microg/kg rats and absolute and relative liver weights of 3,000 microg/kg rats were significantly greater than those of vehicle controls. At week 53, absolute and relative liver weights were significantly greater in rats administered 100 microg/kg or greater compared to vehicle controls. Absolute kidney weights of all exposed groups and the relative kidney weight of 3,000 microg/kg rats were significantly increased at week 53. Pathology and Statistical Analyses: The incidences of hepatocyte hypertrophy were significantly increased in the 1,000 and 3,000 microg/kg groups at 14 weeks and in all groups administered 300 microg/kg or greater at 31 and 53 weeks. At 2 years, the incidences of hepatocyte hypertrophy were significantly increased in all dosed groups. The incidences of diffuse fatty change in the 300 microg/kg or greater groups and bile duct hyperplasia of the liver in 300 microg/kg and 3,000 microg/kg (core and stop-exposure) groups were significantly increased. The incidences of oval cell hyperplasia and pigmentation of the liver were significantly increased in the 3,000 microg/kg core study group. At 2 years, two cholangiomas were seen in the 1,000 microg/kg group and two cholangiomas were seen in the 3,000 microg/kg stop-exposure group. A single hepatocellular adenoma was observed in the 3,000 microg/kg core study group. At 53 weeks, sporadic incidences of minimal to mild follicular cell hypertrophy of the thyroid gland occurred in all groups (except 10 microg/kg). At 2 years, the incidences of minimal to mild follicular cell hypertrophy were significantly increased in the 300 microg/kg and 3,000 microg/kg (core and stop-exposure) groups. At 2 years, significantly increased incidences of chronic active inflammation in the ovary and oviduct occurred in the 1,000 and 3,000 microg/kg core study groups. Incidences of suppurative inflammation of the uterus in the 1,000 microg/kg group and chronic active inflammation in the 3,000 microg/kg core study group were significantly greater than those in the vehicle control group.
Under the conditions of this 2-year gavage study there was equivocal evidence of carcinogenic activity of PCB 153 in female Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats based on the occurrences of cholangioma of the liver. PCB 153 administration caused increased incidences of nonneoplastic lesions of the liver, thyroid gland, ovary, oviduct, and uterus in female rats.
