A study was performed of congenital malformations in infants whose mothers used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in early pregnancy. Data were obtained from an ongoing prospective recording of drug use during the first trimester. During the period July 1, 1995 through December 31, 1998, 2557 infants were born to women who reported the use of NSAIDs in early pregnancy. The OR (after consideration of maternal age, parity, and smoking habits) for any congenital malformation was 1.04 (95%CI 0.84-1.29), but the OR for cardiac defects reported to the Medical Birth Registry was 1.86 (1.32-2.62) based on 36 instances, and for orofacial clefts 2.61 (1.01-6.78) based on only six instances. By using other information sources, another four infants with cardiac defects were identified. There was no drug specificity for cardiac defects but among six mothers of infants with orofacial clefts, five had used naproxen.
Drugs interfering with sympathetic tone may result in depression of the function of the sinus node, especially in patients with disease of the sinus node. In 11 patients presenting with palpitations, vertigo, or syncope, the heart rate, the recovery time of the sinus node, the carotid sinus pressure slowing, and the atrioventricular conduction capacity were assessed before and every five minutes up to 30 minutes after intravenous administration of 0.15 mg of clonidine. The following significant maximal mean effects were noted at about 15 minutes after the administration of clonidine: the heart rate decreased 12 percent (59 vs 52 beats per minute); and the atrioventricular conduction capacity (ie, paced heart rate at second-degree atrioventricular block) decreased by 9 percent (132 vs 121 beats per minute), while the maximal recovery time of the sinus node increased by a factor of two (1,704 vs 3,562 msec) when atrial overdrives of 120, 150, and 200 beats per minute were used for each five minute period. In analyzing maximal carotid sinus pressure slowing after administration of clonidine, three of 11 patients developed hypersensitive carotid sinus reflex de novo, and two patients showed a decrease and three patients an increase of carotid sinus pressure slowing, while three patients had no carotid sinus pressure slowing both before and after administration of clonidine. We conclude that caution should be taken in administering clonidine to patients with signs indicative of dysfunction of the sinus node.
A comprehensive, multiphasic review of gentamicin and tobramycin utilization was undertaken with audits of the microbiological sensitivity of Gram-negative pathogens; indications for the prescription of aminoglycoside agents; the utilization of assay services; the adequacy of clinical drug delivery by measures of serum antibiotic levels; and the assessment of adverse outcomes by markers of nephrotoxicity. The great majority of clinical isolates of target organisms (n = 4208) was more sensitive to gentamicin (96%) and to tobramycin (99%) than to all alternative agents, including first- and third-generation cephalosporin agents. A review of the indications for the prescription of aminoglycoside agents by clinical criteria showed that in 85.6% of 278 documented cases, the choice of agent was appropriate by clinical and microbiological criteria. In a substantial (77.6%) proportion of the 511 patients who were receiving therapeutic courses of an aminoglycoside agent, serum drug assays had been performed. Assay data could not be interpreted adequately in 52.6% of 3079 assayed cases as a result of inadequate data on administration regimens (39.7%) or sampling regimens (12.9%). Where sampling was documented adequately, there was extreme variation (zero to five hours) in post-dose sampling. In only 33.2% of cases could it be concluded unambiguously that the patients were receiving safer, adequate therapy for clinically significant infections, 5.6% of patients were receiving potentially toxic doses, and 8.6% of patients showed suboptimal concentration profiles. The majority of potentially toxic levels were associated with adverse effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This study aimed to establish the value of myocardial ischemia induced by the dobutamine infusion test associated to 99m technetium isonitrile single photon emission computed tomography in patients with unstable angina or non Q-wave infarction during the first days in the Coronary Care Unit.
Fifty three patients with unstable coronary syndromes and common medical treatment were studied with a moderate-dose dobutamine test (5 to 20 microgram/Kg/min) using a 99mTc-MIBI SPECT. The results were correlated with the incidence of recurrent angina, infarction, death or revascularization.
The dobutamine test induced a reversible perfusion defect in 36 patients (68%) and angina in 12 of them (12/36, 33%). However, the patients who had a positive test had a similar incidence of events as those with a negative test (58% vs 59%). Thus, while the sensitivity of the dobutamine test to identify patients at risk was relatively high (68%), its specificity (32%) and its negative predictive value (41%) were low. The patients with dobutamine-induced angina, however, had a higher scintigraphy score (3.0 +/- 1,7 vs 1.6 +/- 1.8, p < 0.02) and a higher incidence of recurrent angina (8/12, 67% vs 13/41, 31%, p < 0.04) than those without, at a comparable double product.
In conventionally treated patients with unstable coronary syndromes, the specificity of the inducible scintigraphic ischemia with moderate dose of dobutamine performed during the first days is too low to be used as a marker for in-hospital events. However, inducible angina with dobutamine suggests an extensive jeopardized area and/or a particularly reduced ischemic threshold.
We report a case of a patient with colon carcinoma and liver metastasis who presented chest pain after 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) administration. Clinical electrocardiographic evolution was similar to that observed in Prinzmetal's angina, and chest pain promptly resolved with nifedipine. These data suggest that coronary spasm may be the cause of cardiotoxicity due to 5-FU, and that calcium antagonists may probably be used in the prevention or treatment of 5-FU cardiotoxicity.
The antiepileptic drug felbamate (FBM) is known to block N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated responses and to decrease voltage-sensitive Na+ and Ca+2 channels. The present work was aimed at investigating the actions of FBM on synaptic potentials in the hippocampus, a region frequently involved in epileptic discharges. In rat hippocampal slices, application of FBM (100-1300 microM, 10 min) elicited a concentration-dependent, fully reversible decrease in amplitude of electrically evoked population spikes recorded extracellularly from the CA1 pyramidal cell layer. In intracellular recordings, FBM (50-300 microM) decreased the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials and reduced the probability of firing action potentials upon synaptic activation. Action potential frequency adaptation (accommodation), which typically limits repetitive firing in CA1 pyramidal cells, was increased. By using a paired-pulse protocol, FBM (300 microM) depressed the amplitude of paired excitatory postsynaptic potentials, without affecting the facilitation of the second response. In nominally Mg(+2)-free solution, FBM (100 microM) blocked N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials isolated by the presence of 10 microM 6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline hydrochloride, a selective alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor antagonist, and 10 microM bicuculline or 25 microM picrotoxin. This effect was not reversed by the addition of 300 microM Gly. All these effects contribute to decrease excitatory synaptic transmission and are likely to limit neuron recruitment and propagation of epileptic discharges.
This study examined the carcinogenic potential of di-isodecyl phthalate (DIDP) in rasH2 mice. DIDP was administered to 15 rasH2 mice/gender/group at dietary levels of 0, 0.1, 0.33, or 1% and 15 wild-type mice/gender/group at dietary levels of 0 and 1% for 26 weeks. Non-neoplastic changes were observed in the liver (parenchymal inflammation, fatty changes, diffuse hepatocyte hypertrophy with eosinophilic granules and focal necrosis) and kidneys (tubular basophilia and tubular hyperplasia) after administration of DIDP in the rasH2 and wild-type mice. In the neoplastic lesions, there were a higher number of hepatocellular adenomas in the male rasH2 mice receiving 1% DIDP, compared with the findings in the liver of control rasH2 mice or wild-type mice. The incidence of hepatocellular adenomas in the 0.1, 0.33, and 1% DIDP exposed rasH2 mice was 7% (1/15), 7% (1/15), and 33% (5/15), respectively. This study adds a set of results for an additional test chemical for the performance of the rasH2 short-term transgenic model to the existing database of 3 compounds (WY-14643, DEHP, and clofibrate) tested in the ILSI/HESI ACT project.
Zinc deficiency in humans produces a secretory diarrhea that is corrected by zinc supplementation. In rats, differential mRNA display analysis has shown that intestinal uroguanylin gene expression is increased in zinc deficiency. An endocrine axis involving intestinal uroguanylin and the kidney may exist. Therefore, we conducted this study to examine whether zinc deficiency would affect uroguanylin expression in the kidney of rats.
A purified diet, deficient or adequate in zinc content, was fed to rats. Preprouroguanylin mRNA was localized in kidney by in situ hybridization, and prouroguanylin/uroguanylin peptides were localized in the kidney by immunohistochemistry. Abundance was measured by Western blotting and slot blotting analyses.
In situ hybridization demonstrated that preprouroguanylin mRNA-expressing cells were localized in the proximal tubules, being primarily limited to the cortical-medullary junction. Zinc deficiency did not alter the abundance or distribution of the mRNA. Immunohistochemistry, using a uroguanylin peptide-specific, affinity-purified antibody, demonstrated that immunoreactive uroguanylin peptide was localized to the same cells but that the staining was stronger in zinc-deficient rats. Western blotting analysis of kidney extracts showed that there was no difference in abundance of prouroguanylin between zinc adequate and deficient rats. However, slot blotting analysis demonstrated that the abundance of a low molecular weight immunoreactive peptide, presumably uroguanylin, was higher in extracts of zinc-deficient rats.
The results suggest that production of prouroguanylin by the kidney, in contrast to the intestine, is not influenced by dietary zinc intake, but that higher amounts of uroguanylin in kidney extracts may reflect renal processing of the hormone obtained from the systemic circulation.
Tissue injury induces central sensitization in the spinal cord dorsal horn neurons via mechanisms involving N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, leading to secondary hyperalgesia. Using punctuate mechanical hyperalgesia as a measure of central sensitization, we examined whether induction and maintenance of central sensitization after surgery could be prevented by a low-dose infusion of the NMDA-receptor antagonist ketamine.
Twenty living kidney donors were included in a randomized, double-blind, parallel, two-group study. Before start of surgery 10 patients received an i.v. bolus of racemic ketamine 0.5 mg.kg-1, followed by a continuous i.v. infusion of ketamine 2 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 for 24 h, thereafter 1 microgram.kg-1.min-1 for another 48 h. The control group received placebo bolus and infusion. A standard general anaesthesia including fentanyl was used. Patient-controlled (PCA) i.v. morphine was used for postoperative analgesia. Punctuate mechanical hyperalgesia and temporal summation of mechanical stimuli causing "wind-up pain" were measured using von Frey filaments.
The area of punctuate mechanical hyperalgesia was significantly reduced in the ketamine group 1, 3 and 7 d after the operation (P < 0.01-0.001). "Wind-up pain" was also reduced by ketamine (P < 0.05). PCA morphine consumption and pain intensity (visual analogue scale) differed between groups only during the first hours after surgery, in favour of ketamine. The ketamine patients scored significantly higher on a global satisfaction score. Side-effects were most frequent in the placebo group.
Low-dose i.v. infusion of ketamine during and after surgery reduces mechanical punctuate hyperalgesia surrounding the surgical incision. These results indicate that blockade of NMDA receptors prevents the central sensitization caused by nociceptive input during and after surgery.
Triphasic waves are seen in the electro-encephalogram of adult patients with toxic-metabolic encephalopathies of various origins. Levetiracetam is a broad spectrum anti-epileptic drug with renal elimination and no hepatic metabolism. We describe the case of encephalopathy with triphasic waves concomitant with levetiracetam accumulation in a patient with chronic renal failure. The condition was reversible after down-titration of levetiracetam with no change of the renal function. Other causes of metabolic encephalopathy were excluded. Moreover, this patient suffered from a probable cortical myoclonus that relapsed after cessation of the drug but was well controlled by a low dosage adapted to the renal failure. In cases of metabolic encephalopathy with triphasic waves in a patient with renal failure taking levetiracetam, it is important to exclude toxic accumulation of levetiracetam among other causes.
The renal climination of vancomycin has been determined in 18 patients. In 4 anuric patients in intermittent haemodialysis the dosage of vancomycin necessary to treat infection with penicillin-resistantstrains of Staphylococcus aureus was determined. In 14 patients with varying degrees of renal insufficiency vancomycin, creatinine and 125-iothalamate clearances were measured and found to be closely correlated. After administration of the initial vancomycin dose and attainment of the serum concentration desired, the maintenance dose can be calculated on the basis of the GFR.
We sought to explore new strategies targeting SUR2B/Kir6.1, a subtype of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium channels (KATP), against pressure overload-induced heart failure. The effects of natakalim, a SUR2B/Kir6.1 selective channel opener, on progression of cardiac remodeling were investigated. Pressure overload-induced heart failure was induced in Wistar rats by abdominal aortic banding. The effects of natakalim (1, 3, and 9 mg·kg⁻¹·d⁻¹ for 10 weeks) on myocardial hypertrophy and heart failure, cardiac histology, vasoactive compounds, and gene expression were assessed. Ten weeks after the onset of pressure overload, natakalim treatment potently inhibited cardiac hypertrophy and prevented heart failure. Natakalim remarkably inhibited the changes of left ventricular hemodynamic parameters and reversed the increase of heart mass index, left ventricular weight index, and lung weight index. Histological examination demonstrated that there was no significant hypertrophy or fibrosis in pressure-overloaded hearts of natakalim-treated rats. Ultrastructural examination of hearts revealed well-organized myofibrils with mitochondria grouped along the periphery of longitudinally oriented fibers in rats from the natakalim group. The content of serum nitric oxide and plasma prostacyclin was increased, whereas that of plasma endothelin-1 and cardiac tissue hydroxyproline and atrial and B-type natriuretic peptide messenger RNA was downregulated in natakalim-treated rats. Natakalim at 0.01-100 µM had no effects on isolated working hearts derived from Wistar rats; however, natakalim had endothelium-dependent vasodilatory effects on the isolated tail artery helical strips precontracted with norepinephrine. These results indicate that natakalim reduces heart failure caused by pressure overloading by activating the SUR2B/Kir6.1 KATP channel subtype and protecting against endothelial dysfunction.
The effects of FK664, a novel positive inotropic agent, and enoximone on pentobarbital-induced heart failure were compared in dog heart-lung preparations. Both FK664 and enoximone improved the cardiac function curve in a dose-dependent manner and restored it to the control level at drug concentrations of 1 microgram/ml and 10 micrograms/ml, respectively. Therefore, the cardiotonic potency of FK664 appears to be 10 times that of enoximone. These agents were almost equal in force-rate separation of cardiac effect. Neither of the agents produced arrhythmia at any dose tested. These results suggest that FK664 may be a potent cardiotonic agent for the treatment of heart failure.
Histamine H2-receptor antagonists are available over the counter for the treatment of heartburn.
To compare the effects of low doses of ranitidine and famotidine on intragastric acidity in a three-way crossover study.
Healthy subjects (12 male, 12 female) were dosed on three occasions with single oral doses of placebo, ranitidine, 75 mg, and famotidine, 10 mg, 1 h after lunch. The pH of gastric aspirates was then measured for 20 h. Subjects ate standard meals and snacks. Analysis of variance was used to determine the statistical significance of differences in acidity (mmol/L) during the day (12.30-22.30 hours) and night (22.30-08.30 hours).
Ranitidine and famotidine were superior (P < 0.05) to placebo in decreasing acidity for daytime and night-time intervals. There were no significant differences in mean gastric acidity between ranitidine and famotidine during the daytime (11.37 mmol/L vs. 13.42 mmol/L, respectively) and night-time (23.57 mmol/L vs. 24.74 mmol/L, respectively). Intragastric acidity after ranitidine was significantly lower than that after famotidine in the first 2.5-h period following dosing (4.32 mmol/L vs. 9.28 mmol/L; P < 0.05).
Lunchtime doses of ranitidine and famotidine decreased acidity during day- and night-time periods. The effect of ranitidine was significantly greater for the first 2.5 h after dosing.
Three cases are presented which emphasize the importance of hyponatraemia as a cause of grand mal seizures. The combination of hydrochlorothiazide and amiloride appears to increase the risk of hyponatraemia. We discuss the aetiology and treatment of hyponatraemia and review the necessity for such combination therapy. We recommend caution in prescribing diuretics and preparations such as Moduretic should be used only in those few patients shown to need potassium supplementation.
Bronchial inflammation plays a central role in asthma. We investigated whether parameters of inflammation were increased in peripheral blood. Furthermore, we tested whether fluticasone propionate (FP), a new inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), and beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) affected these parameters. FP 750 microg/day and BDP 1500 microg/day were compared in a randomized, crossover study consisting of two 6-week treatment periods, each preceded by a 3-week placebo period. Twenty-one patients with symptomatic asthma completed the study. The results were compared with those of six normal subjects (controls). Immunophenotyping of inflammatory cells was performed in whole blood, and serum eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) was measured. With regard to clinical efficacy, ICS increased PC20 histamine by more than 1.9 doubling doses and FEV1 by more than 0.34 l. The number of CD3/HLA-DR+ lymphocytes was significantly increased in asthmatics compared to the normal subjects, both after placebo (P<0.01) and after therapy (P<0.05). The CD3/HLA-DR+ lymphocytes decreased significantly after treatment with FP (P<0.05). Serum ECP was elevated in patients without ICS and decreased after treatment with BDP (P<0.001). In conclusion, the number of CD3/HLA-DR+ lymphocytes and serum ECP levels were raised in the peripheral blood of symptomatic asthmatics, and decreased by clinically effective doses of ICS. In this respect, FP 750 microg/day was at least as effective as BDP 1500 microg/day.
It has recently been suggested that the overactivity of glutamatergic neurotransmission may contribute to the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease. Therefore, a search for new compounds which block glutamatergic receptors and show antiparkinsonian properties in animal models of this disease seems to be justified.
The aim of this study was to determine whether L-701,324 [7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3(3-phenoxy) phenylquinoline-2-(H)-one], a selective and full antagonist at the glycine site of the NMDA receptor, counteracts parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity and catalepsy induced by haloperidol in rats.
The muscle tone was measured as the resistance developed to passive flexion and extension of the hind limb. Electromyographic (EMG) activity was additionally recorded in the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles.
L-701,324 (2.5-40 mg/kg IP) dose-dependently decreased the muscle tone enhanced by haloperidol (1-5 mg/kg IP). Likewise, the haloperidol-enhanced resting EMG activity and the EMG reflex response to passive movements were diminished by lower and almost abolished by higher doses of L-701,324. However, up to a dose of 20 mg/kg IP, L-701,324 did not influence haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg IP)-induced catalepsy. Moreover, L-701,324 (1.25-5 mg/kg IP) given alone or together with haloperidol (0.5-1 mg/kg IP) disturbed rotarod performance. Gross observation of behaviour indicated that rats injected with L-701,324 in doses equal to or higher than 5 mg/kg, alone or in combination with haloperidol, were markedly ataxic, i.e. rats showed signs of disturbed balance and loss of control over their hind limbs.
The present study suggests that L-701,324 exhibits a beneficial action in the animal model of parkinsonian rigidity, but not that of parkinsonian akinesia. Nonetheless, this compound is not devoid of motor side-effects.
Between 1976-83, 126 cases of suspected estrogen/progestogen hormone-induced hypertension were reported. Probability was established in 86 of the cases. 84 cases were linked to oral contraceptives (OCs). In 72 patients, blood pressure returned to normal levels after withdrawal of the OCs although temporary antihypertensive treatment was necessary in 23 cases. 14 patients remained hypertensive and 18 women were subsequently re-exposed to hormones with the consequent rise in blood pressure for 4 patients. Of the 72 women whose blood pressure returned to normal levels, follow-up data were available for 55 of them; among them, hypertension was then discovered in 14 (25%). Women with previous increases in blood pressure during OC administration required regular blood pressure control. (author's modified)
A 12-year-old boy developed renal wasting of magnesium, calcium, and potassium, with secondary hypomagnesaemia, hypocalcaemia, and hypokalaaemia (without hyperaldosteronism) after treatment with 14 400 mg gentamicin over 4 months. Gentamicin should not be given for prolonged courses if less toxic antibiotics are suitable. If it used, plasma magnesium, calcium, and potassium levels should be monitored during and after treatment.
Experiments were performed to examine the effects of cocaine self-administration and conditioning experience on operant behavior, locomotor activity, and nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and prefrontal cortex (PFC) dopamine (DA) responses. Sensory cues were paired with alternating cocaine and nonreinforcement during 12 (limited training) or 40 (long-term training) daily operant sessions. After limited training, NAcc DA responses to cocaine were significantly enhanced in the presence of cocaine-associated cues compared with nonreward cues and significantly depressed after cocaine-paired cues accompanied a nonreinforced lever response. PFC DA levels were generally nonresponsive to cues after the same training duration. However, after long-term training, cocaine-associated cues increased the magnitude of cocaine-stimulated PFC DA levels significantly over levels observed with nonreinforcement cues. Conversely, conditioned cues no longer influenced NAcc DA levels after long-term training. In addition, cocaine-stimulated locomotor activity was enhanced by cocaine-paired cues after long-term, but not after limited, training. Findings demonstrate that cue-induced cocaine expectation exerts a significant impact on dopaminergic and behavioral systems, progressing from mesolimbic to mesocortical regions and from latent to patent behaviors as cocaine and associative experiences escalate.
A great number of people are suffering from allergic inflammatory diseases such as asthma, atopic dermatitis, and sinusitis. Therefore discovery of drugs for the treatment of these diseases is an important subject in human health. Chrysin (5,7-dihydroxyflavone) is a natural flavonoid contained in propolis, blue passion flower, and fruits. Several studies reported that chrysin has beneficial effects including anti-tumor and anti-oxidant activities. The aim of the present study was to elucidate whether chrysin modulates the allergic inflammatory reaction and to study its possible mechanisms of action using mast cell-based in vitro and in vivo models. Chrysin inhibited immediate-type systemic hypersensitivity and serum histamine release. Chrysin attenuated immunoglobulin E-mediated local anaphylaxis. These inhibitory effects of chrysin on the systemic and local allergic reaction were more potent than cromolyn, a known anti-allergic drug. Chrysin reduced histamine release from mast cells. The inhibitory effect of chrysin on the histamine release was mediated by the modulation of intracellular calcium. In addition, chrysin decreased gene expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as, tumor necrosis factor-α, IL (interleukin)-1β, IL-4, and IL-6 in mast cells. The inhibitory effect of chrysin on the pro-inflammatory cytokine was nuclear factor-κB and caspase-1 dependent. Our findings provide evidence that chrysin inhibits mast cell-derived allergic inflammatory reactions by blocking histamine release and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression, and suggest the mechanisms of action. Furthermore, in vivo and in vitro anti-allergic inflammatory effect of chrysin suggests a possible therapeutic application of this agent in allergic inflammatory diseases.
Prostate cancer detection is a rare occurrence in patients with Klinefelter syndrome, in whom chronically low circulating androgen levels are common findings. Administration of exogenous testosterone has increasingly been used to treat young adolescents diagnosed with Klinefelter syndrome and documented androgen deficiency. Although testosterone replacement in adult patients has been associated with prostatic enlargement, it remains unknown whether chronic supplementation of exogenous testosterone to pubescent males with hypogonadism results in early prostate carcinogenesis. We report a first case of prostate cancer in a patient with Klinefelter syndrome who had undergone long-term testosterone replacement therapy since childhood for chronically depressed levels of testosterone.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and activation of the apoptotic cascade. In the study, we investigated the effects of salvianolic acid B (Sal B) on 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+))-treated SH-SY5Y cells, a classic in vitro model for PD. We found Sal B inhibited the loss of cell viability by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. The underlying mechanisms of Sal B action were further studied. Treatment of SH-SY5Y cells with MPP(+) caused a loss of cell viability and mitochondrial membrane potential, condensation of nuclei, elevation in the level of reactive oxygen species (which was associated with cytochrome c release), an increase in the Bax/Bcl-2 mRNA ratio, and activation of caspase-3. Sal B ameliorated the MPP(+)-altered phenotypes. These results indicate that the Sal B protected SH-SY5Y cells against MPP(+)-induced apoptosis by relieving oxidative stress and modulating the apoptotic process. Our findings suggest that salvianolic acid B may be a promising agent to prevent PD.
The combined effects of maternal restraint stress and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) on postnatal development and behavior of the offspring were assessed in mice. Thirty-four plug positive females were randomly divided into two groups. Animals were given by gavage 0 and 6 mg PFOS/kg/day on gestation days 12-18. One-half of the animals in each group was subjected to restraint stress (30 min per session, three sessions per day) during the same period. Neither restraint nor PFOS exposure significantly modified maternal food or water consumption. Pups of dams exposed to 6 mg/kg of PFOS showed a reduced body weight on postnatal days 4 and 8. Moreover, PFOS exposure induced some delay in developmental landmarks and neuromotor maturation. Maternal restraint stress reduced activity in an open-field when combined with 6 mg PFOS/kg/day. In addition, in males prenatal restraint stress impaired motor coordination in a rotarod. The current results indicate that concurrent exposure to PFOS and restraint stress during pregnancy induces opposite effects on developmental parameters in the pups. These effects consist in a general delayed maturation trend induced by PFOS exposure, and a general accelerated maturation pattern induced by prenatal stress. Interactive effects between PFOS and maternal stress were observed in young adult mice. These effects consisted mainly in a diminished activity in an open-field test.
While the cholinesterase-inhibiting N-methyl carbamate pesticides have been widely used, there are few studies evaluating direct functional and biochemical consequences of exposure. In the present study of the acute toxicity of seven N-methyl carbamate pesticides, we evaluated the dose-response profiles of cholinesterase (ChE) inhibition in brain and erythrocytes (RBCs) as well as motor activity (both horizontally and vertically directed) and clinical signs of overt toxicity. The chemicals tested were carbaryl, carbofuran, formetanate, methiocarb, methomyl, oxamyl, and propoxur. All were administered orally, and rats were tested in 20-min activity sessions beginning 15 min after dosing; tissues were collected immediately after activity sessions. In general, motor activity was a sensitive measure of ChE inhibition for all these carbamate pesticides, and vertical activity showed the greatest magnitude of effect at the highest doses compared to either horizontal activity or ChE inhibition. Brain and RBC ChE activities were generally affected similarly. Pearson correlation coefficients of within-subject data showed good correlation between the behavioral and biochemical end points, with brain ChE inhibition and horizontal activity showing the highest correlation values. Determination of benchmark dose levels for 10% change in each end point also revealed that these two measures produced the lowest estimates. Thus, motor activity decreases are highly predictive of ChE inhibition for N-methyl carbamates, and vice versa.
Cyproheptadine is an antihistamine with antiserotoninergic and anticholinergic properties. It is a relatively safe drug with many varied indications for usage, which rarely produces serious adverse neurologic sequelae. Reports of involuntary movement disorder secondary to cyproheptadine are rare. We present the case of a 17-year-old overdose victim which may be the first documented instance of cyproheptadine intoxication resulting in choreoathetosis. This hyperkinesia was most likely resultant from the anticholinergic properties of cyproheptadine. Although the choreoathetoid movement resolved spontaneously, the delirious state disappeared after administration of physostigmine.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) play a central role in a number of metabolic processes. Glutathione S-transferase T1 (GSTT1) is a polymorphic cytosolic enzyme and a member of the theta class of GSTs. Typical substrates for GSTT1 are industrial compounds, such as dichloromethane and ethylene oxide. It has been shown that also chemotherapeutic drugs such as BCNU [i.e. 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea] are efficiently inactivated by GSTT1. BCNU is a drug which is increasingly used locally in the chemotherapy of glioblastoma multiforme WHO grade IV. Therefore, if GSTT1 were expressed in neoplastic cells of brain tumours it could be a factor for chemoresistance. In order to clarify a possible role of GSTT1 in chemoresistance, as a first step, we localized this enzyme in malignant gliomas such as glioblastoma multiforme WHO grade IV and oligodendroglioma WHO grade II. Because of its polymorphism we first genotyped the samples for GSTT1 by PCR. Using in situ hybridization, we then demonstrated that GSTT1 transcripts are expressed in neoplastic cells of both tumour types. Immunohistochemistry revealed then that whereas neoplastic cells in glioblastoma multiforme WHO grade IV contain GSTT1, it was not localized in oligodendroglioma cells. Given the polymorphism of GSTT1 and its potential activity towards BCNU, the localization of GSTT1 in glioblastoma cells can be considered as a possible factor of non-homogeneous chemotherapy response among patients with different GSTT1 genotypes.
