A 23-year-old woman developed biochemical signs of acute severe hepatitis together with confusion and flapping tremor after snorting a large dose of cocaine. Blood levels of cocaine were very high and liver biopsy performed few days later showed centrilobular necrosis. She recovered completely with conservative measures. Cocaine toxicity should be considered in similar cases of fulminant liver failure.
Cervical traction is a frequently used treatment in rehabilitation clinics for cervical spine problems. This modality works, in principle, by decompressing the spinal cord or its nerve roots by applying traction on the cervical spine through a harness placed over the mandible (Olivero et al., Neurosurg Focus 2002;12:ECP1). Previous reports on treatment complications include lumbar radicular discomfort, muscle injury, neck soreness, and posttraction pain (LaBan et al., Arch Phys Med Rehabil 1992;73:295-6; Lee et al., J Biomech Eng 1996;118:597-600). Here, we report the first case of unilateral facial nerve paralysis developed after 4 wks of intermittent cervical traction therapy. Nerve conduction velocity examination revealed a peripheral-type facial nerve paralysis. Symptoms of facial nerve paralysis subsided after prednisolone treatment and suspension of traction therapy. It is suspected that a misplaced or an overstrained harness may have been the cause of facial nerve paralysis in this patient. Possible causes were (1) direct compression by the harness on the right facial nerve near its exit through the stylomastoid foramen; (2) compression of the right external carotid artery by the harness, causing transient ischemic injury at the geniculate ganglion; or (3) coincidental herpes zoster virus infection or idiopathic Bell's palsy involving the facial nerve.
DNA repair gene alterations have been shown to cause a reduction in DNA repair capacity. We hypothesised that DNA repair gene polymorphisms may be risk factors for prostate cancer (PC). To test this hypothesis, DNA samples from 165 cases of prostate cancer and healthy controls were analyzed by PCR-RFLP to determine the genotypic frequency of three DNA repair genes (XRCC1, XPC and XRCC7). We found that the frequency of 939Gln variant at XPC Lys939Gln was significantly lower in PC cases (OR=0.39, P=0.016). Haplotype analysis of XRCC1 Arg194Trp (C/T) and Arg399Gln (G/A) revealed that the frequency of the T-A haplotype was significantly higher in PC patients. This is the first report on the studies of XPC and XRCC1 Arg194Trp polymorphisms in PC, and our present data suggest that XPC Lys939Gln and the T-A haplotype of XRCC1 Arg194Trp and Arg399Gln may be risk factors for PC in Japanese.
The authors added haloperidol, a potent D(2) blocker, to ongoing treatment with clozapine in patients with schizophrenia to determine the effects of this combination on dopamine D(2) receptor blockade, prolactin level, and extrapyramidal side effects.
At baseline and 4-8 weeks after the addition of haloperidol (4 mg/day) to ongoing clozapine treatment, five patients were examined for prolactin elevation, extrapyramidal side effects, drug plasma levels, and D(2) receptor occupancy measured with [(11)C]raclopride and positron emission tomography imaging.
Adding haloperidol significantly increased D(2) receptor occupancy, from a mean of 55% to 79%, and significantly increased the prolactin level. One patient developed akathisia, and another manifested mild extrapyramidal side effects.
Adding a modest dose of haloperidol to clozapine results in the high D(2) receptor occupancy and sustained prolactin elevation usually associated with typical antipsychotics. These findings suggest that the lack of prolactin elevation associated with clozapine derives mainly from low D(2) receptor occupancy and not from the medication's effects on other receptors.
Previous works clearly showed that chronic contamination by 137cesium alters vitamin D metabolism. Since children are known to be a high-risk group for vitamin D metabolism disorders, effects of 137Cs on vitamin D biosynthetic pathway were investigated in newborn rats. The experiments were performed in 21-day-old male offspring of dams exposed to 137Cs in their drinking water at a dose of 6,500 Bq/l (150 Bq/rat/day) during the lactation period. Significant modifications of blood calcium (-7%, P < 0.05), phosphate (+80%, P < 0.01) and osteocalcin (-25%, P < 0.05) levels were observed in contaminated offspring, associated with an increase of blood vitamin D3 (+25%, P < 0.01). Besides, decreased expression levels of cyp2r1 and cyp27b1 (-26 and -39%, respectively, P < 0.01) were measured in liver and kidney suggesting a physiological adaptation in response to the rise in vitamin D level. Expressions of vdr, ecac1, cabp-d28k, ecac2 and cabp-9k involved in renal and intestinal calcium transport were unaffected. Altogether, these data show that early exposure to post-accidental doses of 137Cs induces the alteration of vitamin D metabolism, associated with a dysregulation of mineral homeostasis.
Among women exposed in utero to diethylstilbestrol (DES) and enrolled in the Diethylstilbestrol Adenosis (DESAD) Project, structural anomalies of the cervix or vagina were found in 25% of the 1,655 subjects identified by review of prenatal records, 43% of the 800 who themselves requested entry into the project, and 49% of the 1,089 referred by physicians but in only 2% of the 963 control subjects. Among the 367 cases found by record review to have complete information on the DES exposure, multivariate analysis indicated close association of the anomalies with the gestational week of first exposure and the total dose. Also, the prevalence rate of the anomalies was lower among subjects who had been pregnant and higher among those with later age at menarche.
Mice were administered anticholinesterase pesticides dichlorvos (DDVP) or methomyl (MET). Both DDVP and MET induced dose-dependent seizures and lethality in mice. The muscarinic antagonist atropine (ATR, 1.8 mg/kg) did not prevent seizures but diminished the lethality induced by DDVP or MET. The nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine (MEC, 1 mg/kg) affected neither DDVP-induced seizures nor DDVP- and MET-induced lethality, but diminished MET-induced seizures. At a higher dose (10 mg/kg), MEC attenuated seizures produced by MET, but not DDVP, and decreased lethality of both anticholinesterases. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801, 1 mg/kg) prevented DDVP-, but not MET-induced seizures. MK-801 did not affect DDVP- or MET-induced lethality. Concurrent administration of ATR and MK-801 prevented the occurrence of DDVP- but not MET-induced seizures. MK-801 coadministered with ATR enhanced its protective effect against DDVP- or MET-induced lethality in mice. Coinjection of MEC (at both doses studied) and MK-801 completely prevented seizures produced by both acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors. Coadministration of MEC (1 mg/kg) and MK-801 protected mice against DDVP or MET lethality. MK-801 administered along with MEC at 10 mg/kg enhanced antilethal effects of the nicotinic antagonist in DDVP- or MET-treated mice. With respect to the mechanism underlying anticholinesterase-induced neurotoxicity, muscarinic and nicotinic, as well as NMDA receptors, seem to play major roles. The results suggest that combined treatment with cholinergic and NMDA antagonists might be beneficial in anticholinesterase-induced poisonings.
This study examined how cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced cystitis related manifestations (bladder inflammation and behavioral impairment) differed in female and male Sprague-Dawley rats. Under transient halothane-O2-N2O gas anesthesia, a single dose of CP was injected (100 mg/kg i.p. in 1 ml saline) and the animal's behaviors analyzed for a period of 4 h using a protocol that permits quantitative analysis of behavioral impairment. The rats were then sacrificed and their bladders removed for histological quantification of inflammation. All CP-injected, but not control rats, exhibited a range of impairment behaviors that increased rapidly over a period of 2 h, gradually reaching plateau levels over the next 2 h. Female rats initially developed behavioral responses faster than male rats, but reached the same mean peak values overall as males. No sex differences were observed in CP-induced bladder inflammation. Influences of time-of-day and estrous stage were further examined in females. Time-of-day had no effect on the degree of bladder inflammation. Although there were also no significant time-of-day differences in behavioral impairments, impairment scores from 90 min after the injection consistently tended to be lower for rats injected 5 h versus 9 h after lights on. Overall, the effects of estrous stage were also insignificant. However, a subset of rats who were in the estrous stage of their cycle early in the morning of the experimental day developed the most severe degree of bladder inflammation, but failed to develop the severe behavioral impairments shown by all the other rats. These results show that there are seemingly only minor sex differences in the overall behavioral and inflammatory consequences of CP injections, as evidenced by similar final degrees of behavioral impairment and inflammation. These results also suggest, however, that there are sex differences in the etiology of the disease process. These differences are evidenced by the more rapid development of behavioral symptoms in females and the susceptibility of some of those having shown morning estrous smears to develop very severe bladder inflammation in absence of corresponding behavioral impairment. The multiple influences of sex and estrous condition on CP-induced cystitis related manifestations observed here underline the complexity of the etiological factors associated with the cystitis disease process.
The authors evaluated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of sertraline, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, in the treatment of generalized social phobia.
Adult outpatients with generalized social phobia (N=204) from 10 Canadian centers were randomly assigned to receive sertraline or placebo in a 2:1 ratio for a 20-week double-blind study following a 1-week, single-blind, placebo run-in. The initial dose of sertraline was 50 mg/day with increases of 50 mg/day every 3 weeks permitted after the fourth week of treatment (dosing was flexible up to a maximum of 200 mg/day). Primary efficacy assessments were the percentage of patients rated much or very much improved on the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) improvement item and the mean changes from baseline to study endpoint in total score on the social phobia subscale of the Marks Fear Questionnaire and total score on the Brief Social Phobia Scale.
In intent-to-treat endpoint analyses of 203 of the patients, significantly more of the 134 patients given sertraline (N=71 [53%]) than of the 69 patients receiving placebo (N=20 [29%]) were considered responders according to their CGI improvement scores at the end of treatment. The mean reductions in the social phobia subscale of the Marks Fear Questionnaire and in the total score on the Brief Social Phobia Scale were 32.6% and 34.3% in the sertraline group and 10.8% and 18.6% in the placebo group, respectively. Analysis of covariance showed superiority of sertraline over placebo on all primary and secondary efficacy measures. Sertraline was well tolerated: 103 (76%) of the 135 sertraline-treated patients and 54 (78%) of the 69 placebo-treated patients completed the study.
Sertraline is an effective treatment for patients with generalized social phobia.
Topical application of pantothenate is widely used in clinical practice for wound healing. Previous studies identified a positive effect of pantothenate on migration and proliferation of cultured fibroblasts. However, these studies were mainly descriptive with no molecular data supporting a possible model of its action. In this study, we first established conditions for an in vitro model of pantothenate wound healing and then analysed the molecular effects of pantothenate. To test the functional effect of pantothenate on dermal fibroblasts, cells were cultured and in vitro proliferation tests were performed using a standardized scratch test procedure. For all three donors analysed, a strong stimulatory effect of pantothenate at a concentration of 20 microg/ml on the proliferation of cultivated dermal fibroblasts was observed. To study the molecular mechanisms resulting in the proliferative effect of pantothenate, gene expression was analysed in dermal fibroblasts cultivated with 20 microg/ml of pantothenate compared with untreated cells using the GeneChip Human Exon 1.0 ST Array. A number of significantly regulated genes were identified including genes coding for interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, Id1, HMOX-1, HspB7, CYP1B1 and MARCH-II. Regulation of these genes was subsequently verified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis. Induction of HMOX-1 expression by pantothenol and pantothenic acid in dermal cells was confirmed on the protein level using immunoblots. Functional studies revealed the enhanced suppression of free radical formation in skin fibroblasts cultured with panthenol. In conclusion, these studies provided new insight in the molecular mechanisms linked to the stimulatory effect of pantothenate and panthenol on the proliferation of dermal fibroblasts.
The objectives of this study were to examine the relationship between APOE epsilon4 and subjective effects of trihexyphenidyl on measures reflecting sedation and confusion and to investigate the relationship between trihexyphenidyl-induced subjective effects and objective memory performance.
This study comprised 24 cognitively intact, health elderly adults (12 APOE epsilon4 carriers) at an outpatient geriatric psychiatry research clinic. This was a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled, three-way, crossover experimental design. All participants received 1.0 mg or 2.0 mg trihexyphenidyl or placebo administered in counterbalanced sequences over a period of three consecutive weeks. Bond and Lader's visual analog scales and alternate versions of the Buschke Selective Reminding Test were administered in a repeated measures design at baseline, 1, 2.5, and 5 hours postdrug administration.
A 2.0-mg oral dose of trihexyphenidyl resulted in increased subjective ratings of mental slowness in carriers of the APOE epsilon4 allele only. Drug effects as determined by difference scores between 2.0 mg trihexyphenidyl and placebo on ratings of mental slowness significantly correlated with total and delayed recall on the Buschke Selective Reminding Test in carriers of the APOE epsilon4 allele only. However, no significant effects were found with other visual analog scales reflecting subjective sedation and clear-headedness.
The epsilon4 allele in healthy elderly was associated with increased subjective mental slowing after trihexyphenidyl anticholinergic challenge.
Prior studies have identified recurrent oncogenic mutations in colorectal adenocarcinoma and have surveyed exons of protein-coding genes for mutations in 11 affected individuals. Here we report whole-genome sequencing from nine individuals with colorectal cancer, including primary colorectal tumors and matched adjacent non-tumor tissues, at an average of 30.7× and 31.9× coverage, respectively. We identify an average of 75 somatic rearrangements per tumor, including complex networks of translocations between pairs of chromosomes. Eleven rearrangements encode predicted in-frame fusion proteins, including a fusion of VTI1A and TCF7L2 found in 3 out of 97 colorectal cancers. Although TCF7L2 encodes TCF4, which cooperates with β-catenin in colorectal carcinogenesis, the fusion lacks the TCF4 β-catenin-binding domain. We found a colorectal carcinoma cell line harboring the fusion gene to be dependent on VTI1A-TCF7L2 for anchorage-independent growth using RNA interference-mediated knockdown. This study shows previously unidentified levels of genomic rearrangements in colorectal carcinoma that can lead to essential gene fusions and other oncogenic events.
The authors present eight cases of hepatitis probably due to amodiaquine taken at a prophylactic dose. Seven cases were minor forms with vomiting, nausea and 3 to 8 fold rise in transaminases. One case had jaundice. The symptoms regressed when amodiaquine was replaced by chloroquine. An in vitro test done once was positive.
We report the discovery of GATA2 as a new myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)-acute myeloid leukemia (AML) predisposition gene. We found the same, previously unidentified heterozygous c.1061C>T (p.Thr354Met) missense mutation in the GATA2 transcription factor gene segregating with the multigenerational transmission of MDS-AML in three families and a GATA2 c.1063_1065delACA (p.Thr355del) mutation at an adjacent codon in a fourth MDS family. The resulting alterations reside within the second zinc finger of GATA2, which mediates DNA-binding and protein-protein interactions. We show differential effects of the mutations on the transactivation of target genes, cellular differentiation, apoptosis and global gene expression. Identification of such predisposing genes to familial forms of MDS and AML is critical for more effective diagnosis and prognosis, counseling, selection of related bone marrow transplant donors and development of therapies.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are key regulators of gene expression in animals and plants. Studies in a variety of model organisms show that miRNAs modulate developmental processes. To our knowledge, the only hereditary condition known to be caused by a miRNA is a form of adult-onset non-syndromic deafness, and no miRNA mutation has yet been found to be responsible for any developmental defect in humans. Here we report the identification of germline hemizygous deletions of MIR17HG, encoding the miR-17∼92 polycistronic miRNA cluster, in individuals with microcephaly, short stature and digital abnormalities. We demonstrate that haploinsufficiency of miR-17∼92 is responsible for these developmental abnormalities by showing that mice harboring targeted deletion of the miR-17∼92 cluster phenocopy several key features of the affected humans. These findings identify a regulatory function for miR-17∼92 in growth and skeletal development and represent the first example of an miRNA gene responsible for a syndromic developmental defect in humans.
The mouse telomerase holoenzyme, which synthesizes telomeric DNA de novo, is a ribonucleoprotein complex that includes the mouse telomerase RNA component (mTERC), mouse telomerase-associated protein (mTEP1) and mouse telomerase reverse transcriptase (mTERT). To determine the role of telomerase in urethane-induced lung tumorigenesis in A/J mice we examined telomerase activity and the expression of each telomerase subunit in 20 tumor samples, harvested at 16, 28, 40 and 50 weeks after urethane treatment. The telomeric repeat amplification protocol assay showed that statistically significant telomerase activation occurred both early and late in tumorigenesis. Semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that mRNA expression levels of mTEP1 and mTERT were up-regulated during tumor progression, while mTERC expression was not significantly different between tumors and normal lung. We further examined mTEP1 protein expression in normal lung tissue and lung tumors; western blot analysis showed preferential expression of mTEP1 protein in lung tumors compared with normal lung and immunohistochemistry revealed that a majority of the adenoma cells were positively stained in the nucleus, whereas only a few of the adjacent normal alveolar cells were immunoreactive. In addition, we investigated DNAs of the 20 tumor samples by single strand conformation polymorphism and sequencing analyses to examine whether alterations of the p53 gene in exons 5-8 were associated with telomerase activity. Although we found one nonsense, two missense, two silent and one simultaneous double mutation at different codons in six late stage tumors, there was no apparent correlation between telomerase activity and p53 mutations. Collectively, these results suggest that mTEP1 as well as mTERT may be involved in the regulation of telomerase activity and that telomerase activation may contribute to lung tumorigenesis in A/J mice independently of p53 gene alterations.
1. In vitro synergistic effects of nitric oxide and prostaglandin I2 (PGI2) have been shown. Consequently we examined any potentiating effect of the nitric oxide donor molsidomine on the reduction in thrombogenicity produced by PGI2 in patients with peripheral vascular disease. 2. Thirty-six patients all with peripheral and also coronary artery disease were randomly allocated to receive PGI2 5 ng kg-1 min-1 for 6 h daily, 5 days a week for 5 weeks, alone (12 patients), with molsidomine 12 mg daily (12 patients) or molsidomine 12 mg daily alone (12 patients). 3. The effect of each treatment regimen was measured in terms of femoral artery platelet uptake and platelet survival after autologous 111Indium-oxine labelling. Molsidomine alone had no effect on platelet uptake or survival but in combination with PGI2 it significantly potentiated the decreased platelet uptake and prolonged platelet survival observed with PGI2 alone.
We report an allelic series of eight mutations in GATA2 underlying Emberger syndrome, an autosomal dominant primary lymphedema associated with a predisposition to acute myeloid leukemia. GATA2 is a transcription factor that plays an essential role in gene regulation during vascular development and hematopoietic differentiation. Our findings indicate that haploinsufficiency of GATA2 underlies primary lymphedema and predisposes to acute myeloid leukemia in this syndrome.
Interleukin 7 (IL-7) and its receptor, formed by IL-7Rα (encoded by IL7R) and γc, are essential for normal T-cell development and homeostasis. Here we show that IL7R is an oncogene mutated in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). We find that 9% of individuals with T-ALL have somatic gain-of-function IL7R exon 6 mutations. In most cases, these IL7R mutations introduce an unpaired cysteine in the extracellular juxtamembrane-transmembrane region and promote de novo formation of intermolecular disulfide bonds between mutant IL-7Rα subunits, thereby driving constitutive signaling via JAK1 and independently of IL-7, γc or JAK3. IL7R mutations induce a gene expression profile partially resembling that provoked by IL-7 and are enriched in the T-ALL subgroup comprising TLX3 rearranged and HOXA deregulated cases. Notably, IL7R mutations promote cell transformation and tumor formation. Overall, our findings indicate that IL7R mutational activation is involved in human T-cell leukemogenesis, paving the way for therapeutic targeting of IL-7R-mediated signaling in T-ALL.
Imatinib mesylate is a drug that has been approved for treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia, Philadelphia-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Several cases of hepatotoxicity, including fatal liver failure, have been reported with the long-term use of imatinib mesylate. Generally hepatotoxicity resolves after discontinuation of imatinib. Despite discontinuation of imatinib, hepatotoxicity can be progressive. Steroid may be useful in these patients and should be started early. We report a 53-year-old woman with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors who developed hepatotoxicity while receiving imatinib and subsequently acute liver failure. Ten weeks after commencing imatinib treatment, hepatotoxicity was determined. Imatinib was immediately ceased. Subsequently, a week later hepatic encephalopathy, jaundice, and coagulopathy occurred. Prednisolone was commenced. Liver biopsy was performed five weeks after the determining of hepatotoxicity. Biopsy showed sinusoidal congestion, necrosis of hepatocytes, inflammation, and hepatocyte drop out around the hepatic venule consistent with drug toxicity. Her liver function tests normalized with a nine-week prednisolone treatment. The patient was discharged. Her liver enzymes remained in normal range following visits. In cases of imatinib-induced acute hepatitis, the administration of prednisolone may be useful in the resolution of the acute episode and allow the reintroduction of a drug without risking recurrence of hepatitis.
The connexin (Cx) 32 gene, a member of the gap junction gene family, acts as a tumour suppressor gene in human renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and is down-regulated by the hypermethylation of CpG islands in a promoter region of the Cx gene. The current study investigated whether the restoration of Cx32 silenced by hypermethylation in RCC by a DNA demethylating agent could be an effective treatment against RCC.
Using nude mice bearing Caki-1 cells (a human metastatic RCC cell line), the effects of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-CdR), a DNA demethylase inhibitor, on Cx32 mRNA expression and tumour growth were examined by RT-PCR, and by measuring tumour weight and volume. Cx32 expression in Caki-1 tumours was inhibited by Cx32 short interfering (si) RNA, and the effect of siRNA on 5-aza-CdR-dependent suppression of tumour growth in nude mice was evaluated.
5-aza-CdR treatment inhibited the growth of Caki-1 cells in nude mice by 70% and increased 7-fold the level of Cx32 mRNA. The intratumour injection of Cx32 siRNA almost totally inhibited the expression of Cx32 mRNA and significantly reduced the suppression of tumour growth in 5-aza-CdR-treated nude mice.
5-aza-CdR suppressed the growth of Caki-1 tumours in a xenograft model, by restoring Cx32 expression. This finding suggests that treatment with 5-aza-CdR could be a new effective therapy against human metastatic RCC and that Cx32 could be a potential target for the treatment of RCC.
Mice heterozygous for the homeobox gene Engrailed-1 (En1) display progressive loss of mesencephalic dopaminergic (mDA) neurons. We report that exogenous Engrailed-1 and Engrailed-2 (collectively Engrailed) protect mDA neurons from 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), a mitochondrial complex I toxin used to model Parkinson's disease in animals. Engrailed enhances the translation of nuclearly encoded mRNAs for two key complex I subunits, Ndufs1 and Ndufs3, and increases complex I activity. Accordingly, in vivo protection against MPTP by Engrailed is antagonized by Ndufs1 small interfering RNA. An association between Engrailed and complex I is further confirmed by the reduced expression of Ndufs1 and Ndufs3 in the substantia nigra pars compacta of En1 heterozygous mice. Engrailed also confers in vivo protection against 6-hydroxydopamine and α-synuclein-A30P. Finally, the unilateral infusion of Engrailed into the midbrain increases striatal dopamine content, resulting in contralateral amphetamine-induced turning. Therefore, Engrailed is both a survival factor for adult mDA neurons and a regulator of their physiological activity.
The haematoma in the sheath of musculus rectus abdominis is a rare clinical entity. Its diagnosis is often difficult. Authors observed it in three patients who were on anticoagulant therapy. All subjects were female; two of them had decreased renal function. All three patients received thrombocyte aggregation inhibitor therapy as well. The anticoagulant treatment (low molecular weight heparin in two cases, warfarin in one case) caused excessive anticoagulant effect. The diagnosis, which could be suspected after the physical examination, was established in two cases by ultrasonography and in one case by computed tomography. Two patients were surgically treated while the third patient was healed with conservative treatment. To prevent the rectus sheath haematoma, authors suggest a particularly careful control of anticoagulant treatment in older females and in subjects with decreased renal function, especially if the patient takes thrombocyte aggregation inhibitors, too.
Two cases of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-positive vasculitis following treatment with propylthiouracil and carbimazole are described. Both patients had crescentic glomerulonephritis proven by renal biopsy and responded to immunosuppressive therapy and withdrawal of the anti-thyroid drugs. Though systemic vasculitis associated with propylthiouracil is reported, this is the first report to our knowledge of renal biopsy-proven vasculitis associated with either of these drugs.
The effects of leflunomide and CsA on immune responses in vitro and in vivo were investigated. Like CsA, leflunomide inhibited mitogen- or antigen-driven T cell proliferation in vitro. However, leflunomide impaired neither the capability of T cells to produce IL-2 and IL-4, nor the expression of IL-2R, that is, the acquisition of competence. In contrast to CsA, the IL-2-driven growth of secondary T cells was blocked by leflunomide. Cell cycle analyses revealed that activated T cells did not enter S phase of the cell cycle in the presence of leflunomide. Next, the effects of leflunomide and CsA on the T cell response toward the bacterial superantigen (SAg) staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) were analyzed in vivo. SEB-induced early deletion (apoptosis) of a fraction of SEB-reactive V beta 8+ T cells and IL-2R expression were not impaired by either CsA nor leflunomide. On the other hand, both CsA and leflunomide prevented V beta 8-selective clonal T cell expansion and generation of SEB-specific cytolytic activity. In contrast to CsA, leflunomide treatment permitted in vivo SEB-induced production of T cell-derived lymphokines (IL-2 and TNF). Further, leflunomide failed to protect D-galactosamine-sensitized mice from SEB-induced, T cell-mediated lethal shock, whereas CsA was fully protective. Manifestation of SEB-induced T cell anergy was not impaired by leflunomide. Our results provide evidence that CsA and leflunomide differ significantly in their functional properties to suppress immune responses in that both agents inhibit T cell functions linked to clonal expansion, while leflunomide does not inhibit lymphokine secretion and thus permits lymphokine-mediated immune functions.
Ifosfamide is a cornerstone of chemotherapy in bone and soft-tissue sarcoma. Results of pharmacokinetic studies indicate that the optimal schedule of ifosfamide should be repeated doses over several days. With the development of 5-day infusion devices, we developed and evaluated a 5-day infusion regimen of ifosfamide in sarcoma patients in the outpatient setting.
Sarcoma patients requiring chemotherapy after at least one doxorubicin-based line were enrolled in this study. Ifosfamide+mesna was administered as 1:1 concentration for a total of 6 g/m2 of each over 5 days (i.e. 1.2 g/m2 per day as continuous infusion) every 3 weeks. Patients were treated until progression or limiting toxicity, and salvage surgery was attempted when possible. An economic study was run comparing ifosfamide plus mesna as a 5-day infusion regimen and conventional Ifosfamide regimen.
Thirteen sarcoma patients were evaluable. The median number of cycles per patient was 6 (range, 1-8), for a total of 69 cycles. No acute encephalopathy or aggravation of renal function was noted. Acute grade 3 and 4 haematological toxicities were observed in 11.6 and 1.4% of patients, respectively without febrile neutropenia. Median time to progression survival and overall survival were 8.7 and 21.5 months, respectively. Total cost per cycle for a 2-m2 patient body surface area was ambulatory infusion=1,891 euros and conventional ifosfamide=6,256 euros.
The combination of ifosfamide and mesna as a continuous infusion over 5 days is feasible and well tolerated in the outpatient setting using infusion device. Its very favourable cost-effectiveness invites to further develop this approach.
Magnetic resonance techniques afford a significant advantage for noninvasive diagnosis of cardiovascular pathology. The purpose of our present study was to assay the proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR) sensitivity in the differential diagnosis of certain endocrine cardiovascular complications. In this context, we investigated the water state and content in the hypertrophied myocardium. Male and female Wistar rats were treated with different hormones (hydrocortisone acetate, testosterone, estradiol, thyroid hormones) in combination with isoproterenol (a synthetic catecholamine that induces myocardial ischemia and hypertrophy). The animals were sacrificed after 20 days of treatment and samples of integral myocardium and left ventricular myocardium were analyzed on a 1H-NMR AREMI spectrometer (0.6 T; proton resonance at 25 MHz). The estimation of T2 was made by Carr Purcell-Meiboom-Gill pulse sequence. The data were fitted to a bi-exponential curve, yielding short (T21) values for bound water and long (T22) values for free water. In order to evaluate the myocardial hypertrophy, the following ratios were calculated: integral myocardium to body weight; left ventricle to body weight; left ventricle to integral myocardium. The first two ratios were also calculated for dried tissue, in order to estimate its contribution to myocardial hypertrophy. Our findings demonstrate that myocardial hypertrophy is associated with a decrease of T22, as a consequence of the increase in the dried component (i.e. proteins) of the tissue, while the total tissue water (H2Ot%), measured by gravimetry) was not significantly modified. Nevertheless, it is reasonable that the increase in the protein content would be proportional with the increase in H2Ot%. The decrease of T21 seems to be proportional with the level of left ventricle hypertrophy in female groups. The 1H-NMR measurements were much sensitive for the differential diagnosis of myocardial hypertrophy in the case of left ventricle.
