This study highlights the usefulness of gastropods for water quality monitoring. Gastropods were caged upstream and downstream of an effluent discharge. Exposure was assessed by measurement of organic contaminants in water. Contamination of the Potamopyrgus antipodarum mudsnail was also measured using innovative techniques at the end of the 42 days of exposure. Biological effects were measured at the individual level (growth, reproduction) and subindividual level (energy reserves, vitellin-like proteins, steroid levels, expression of genes involved in estrogen signaling pathways), thus providing a better understanding of reprotoxic effects. The effluent was mainly contaminated by pharmaceutical compounds, as was the mudsnail. The highest concentrations were measured for oxazepam and were higher than 2 mg/kg downstream of the effluent discharge. Alkylphenols, bisphenol A, and vertebrate-like sex-steroid hormones were also bioaccumulated by the mudsnail downstream of the effluent. The combined use of water and snail contamination provided a complete exposure assessment. Exposure was further linked to biological effects. The mudsnail was shown to be a better adapted species for in situ exposures than Valvata piscinalis. Reproduction was sharply decreased after 6 weeks of exposure in the mudsnail. Feeding issues were excluded, confirming the toxic origin. These effects were related to estrogen signaling pathways using genomic analysis. Genes coding for proteins involved in nongenomic signaling pathways were inhibited, and those of genomic pathway repressors were induced. These results suggest that the chemical contamination due to the effluent discharge altered steroid control of reproduction and blocked the transition between oocyte and unshelled embryo, resulting in a drastic decrease of embryo production, while survival was not affected.
To elucidate the relationship between oxygen transport and uptake in cirrhosis, we studied the effects of three vasoactive drugs that change O2 transport. Systemic hemodynamics, blood gases and lactate concentration were measured in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis before and after intravenous dobutamine, propranolol and nitroglycerin. Nine patients received successively dobutamine and then propranolol. Ten patients received nitroglycerin. Three other patients without cirrhosis (controls) received dobutamine. In patients with cirrhosis, dobutamine infusion was accompanied by a significant increase in cardiac output (+21%), systemic O2 transport (+21%) and O2 uptake (+12%), whereas O2 extraction ratio and arterial lactate concentration did not change significantly. Propranolol administration was followed by a significant decrease in cardiac output (-24%) and systemic O2 transport (-25%) and a significant increase in O2 extraction ratio (+19%), whereas O2 uptake and arterial lactate concentration did not change. Nitroglycerin infusion was accompanied by a significant decrease in cardiac output (-21%), systemic O2 transport (-26%) and O2 uptake (-10%), whereas O2 extraction ratio (+18%) and arterial lactate concentration (+31%) significantly increased. In control patients, dobutamine infusion was accompanied by an increase in cardiac output and in systemic O2 transport and by a decrease in O2 extraction ratio, whereas O2 uptake was not modified. These results suggest that O2 uptake may be abnormally dependent on O2 transport in patients with cirrhosis.
The influence of alpha receptor blockers on the facilitation of the chemoreflex by clonidine was examined in anesthetized dogs. Intravertebral arterial administration of clonidine reduced blood pressure, facilitated chemoreflex-induced vasoconstriction and inhibited carotid occlusion-induced vasoconstriction. Intravertebral arterial administration of phentolamine (0.01-0.03 mg/kg), yohimbine (0.01-0.02 mg/kg), or piperoxan (0.05 mg/kg) prevented the inhibition of carotid occlusion-induced responses by clonidine, and the latter two alpha blockers reduced the hypotensive effect. Facilitation of the chemoreflex by clonidine was decreased by yohimbine and piperoxan, but not affected by phentolamine. Intravertebral infusion of propranolol (0.1 mg/kg) had no influence on clonidine's effect on reflex responses, but appeared to accentuate its hypotensive effect. The results support a role for alpha receptor stimulation in clonidine-induced hypotension and inhibition of the carotid occlusion reflex and suggest participation of alpha receptors in the potentiation by clonidine of chemoreflex-induced vasoconstriction.
We report the case of a patient with renal insufficiency who was admitted for the evaluation of splenomegaly. He had received a kidney allograft 6 1/2 years ago. Treatment with azathioprine and prednisolone for immunosuppression had been discontinued 1 year before admission. The underlying cause of the splenomegaly appeared to be an idiopathic portal hypertension. Until now, this disease has been described in only 13 kidney transplant patients receiving long-term immunosuppressive therapy with azathioprine. For the first time we demonstrate that azathioprine can cause this chronic liver disease even if the drug has been withdrawn some time before. Therefore, the indication for azathioprine must be considered very carefully.
Heparin inhibits proliferation of smooth muscle cells in culture and intimal hyperplasia in experimental animals but paradoxically exacerbates vascular injury in clinical trials. To determine whether the difference in the means by which heparin was administered explained the benefit in animals and aggravation in humans, we examined the vascular effects of a range of heparin treatments.
When laboratory rats were injected subcutaneously with heparin (55.5 IU, approximately 1.0 mg/kg) per clinical trial protocols, intimal hyperplasia after arterial injury was exacerbated rather than alleviated. The intima to media area ratio was increased 22.5% with every-other-day injections and was increased 16.8% with daily injections. When the daily dose of heparin was increased to 7.2 mg/kg or when injections were initiated a week before injury, intimal hyperplasia was made even worse (52.2% and 59.9% above control). Twice-daily heparin, 7 and 17 hours apart, had no demonstrable effect one way or the other, and it was not until the heparin was administered at 12-hour intervals that intimal hyperplasia and cell proliferation were lessened (44.6% decrease). The greatest reduction in intimal hyperplasia was obtained when the heparin was administered continuously. The continuous osmotic pump intravenous infusion of heparin inhibited 62.5% of the expected proliferation, and perivascular polymeric device release of heparin blocked the response by 74.2%. While subcutaneous injections transiently increased activated partial thromboplastin time, neither mode of continuous delivery altered coagulation.
We might reconsider the use of heparin in vascular diseases and not neglect this promising compound because of inappropriate extrapolation from the laboratory to clinical use.
Two patients, aged 44 and 68 years, presented with generalized seizures either witnessed or highly suspected. Both patients had laboratory-proven subtherapeutic anticonvulsant serum levels. The patients differed with regard to risk; one patient had existing cardiopulmonary disease, and the other was free of such risk factors except liver disease. An apparently appropriate dose of intravenous phenytoin was initiated in each case, and the patients were monitored appropriately and given supplemental oxygen. Bradycardia, hypotension, respiratory distress, and, ultimately, cardiopulmonary arrest occurred in both. The criteria proposed by Earnest et al. should be implemented for each seizure case that requires a decision on the urgent need for therapeutic anticonvulsant levels, whether by mechanical infusion, manual intravenous push, or oral loading. The mechanical infusion is the easiest method to standardize and monitor. The manual intravenous push has a greater possibility of inadvertent overdosage during some small time frame, as well as more local symptoms by some reports. Record et al. have recommended oral loading in selected patients. Careful consideration must be made of the choice of environment in which intravenous loading is done (e.g., emergency department, intensive care unit), as dictated by patient parameters, nursing staff levels, and planned disposition. The crucial factors contributing to the deterioration of both patients in the two cases presented were the concentration of phenytoin manually infused and the possibility that their high-risk status made them poor candidates for manual intravenous phenytoin. Dose and a hypersensitivity reaction were doubtful factors in these cases.
Twenty-six patients suffering from lupus erythematodes discoides were under clinical and electrophysiological examination. The results are in agreement with the concept of a mainly sensory, distal and axonal polyneuropathy. A correlation between total dosage and severeness of polyneuropathy could not be found.
An investigation of the structural requirements for CNS activity of the title compounds was undertaken. A synthesis of the precursor dihydro-10H-thieno[3,4-b][1,5]benzodiazepin-10-ones was achieved and three routes for their conversion to the title compounds were developed. The compounds were tested for neuroleptic activity by means of the blockade or d-amphetamine lethality in aggregated mice and/or effects on locomotor activity in rats. Antidepressant activity was examined using inhibition of tetrabenazine-induced depression in mice. Most of the compounds were found to be potent neuroleptic agents with several exhibiting additional antidepressant activity.
Increased expression of DNA repair genes contributes to the extreme resistance shown by melanoma to conventional DNA-damaging chemotherapeutics. One such chemotherapeutic effective against a range of other cancers, but not melanoma, is cisplatin. The DNA repair protein, ERCC1, is needed to remove cisplatin-induced DNA damage. We have shown that ERCC1 is essential for melanoma growth and resistance to cisplatin in a mouse xenograft model. Untreated xenografts of our transformed Ercc1-proficient melanocyte cell line grew very rapidly as malignant melanoma. Cisplatin treatment caused initial shrinkage of xenografts, but cisplatin-resistant regrowth soon followed. Cells reisolated into culture had twofold elevated levels of ERCC1 compared to both input cells and cells reisolated from untreated xenografts. An isogenic Ercc1-deficient derivative grew equally well in vitro as the Ercc1-proficient melanocyte cell line. However, in xenografts, the Ercc1-deficient melanomas were much slower to establish and were completely cured by just two cisplatin treatments.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of 5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine (CDHP), a potent inhibitor of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), to enhance the antitumour activity of the fluoropyrimidines. In an in vitro study, CDHP did not influence cell proliferation by itself. However, CDHP did inhibit 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) degradation and enhanced 5-FU cytotoxicity in a concentration-dependent manner in two human tumour cell lines (MIAPaCa-2 and HuTu80) with relatively high basal DPD activity. CDHP exhibited a maximum effect at a molar ratio (CDHP:5-FU) of more than 0.2. However, CDHP did not have any effect on 5-FU cytotoxicity in the CAL27 tumour cell line, which has a relatively low basal DPD activity, even at concentrations where the DPD activity is almost completely inhibited. In an in vivo study, the maximal tolerable doses (MTD) of tegafur (FT) and a combination of FT and CDHP at a molar ratio of 1:0.4 (FT/CDHP) for nude mice were determined by oral administration for 14 consecutive days. After a single oral administration of either FT or FT/CDHP at the MTD, the 5-FU serum concentration-time profiles were almost the same for both treatment strategies. When nude mice bearing subcutaneous (s.c.) MIAPaCa-2 cells were treated with either FT or FT/CDHP at the MTD, the FT/CDHP treatment showed a significantly higher antitumour effect than the FT treatment (tumour growth inhibition: FT/CDHP, 51+/-12%; FT, 21+/-25%; P<0.05). However, the host-body weight suppression induced by FT/CDHP and FT was equivalent. These findings suggest that the combination of fluoropyrimidine and CDHP for the treatment of tumours with a high basal DPD elicits a greater antitumour effect than treatment with fluoropyrimidines alone and we suggest that CDHP inhibits the degradation of 5-FU in the tumour.
The records of 19 patients receiving corticosteroid therapy for temporal arteritis were reviewed. Of 11 patients (58%) who suffered major corticosteroid related complications (group A), four died. Eight patients (group B) remained free of serious corticosteroid related complications. The average daily maintenance prednisone dose was 26.3 mg in group A and 13 mg in group B. Although all disease recrudescenses in both groups were treated by increasing the corticosteroid dose, a slower tapering of the dose to the pre-flare level was observed in group A. These findings emphasize the necessity of keeping the maintenance corticosteroid dose in patients with temporal arteritis at the lowest level consistent with suppression of disease activity.
Targeted disruption of the Hoxd-10 gene, a 5' member of the mouse HoxD linkage group, produces mice with hindlimb-specific defects in gait and adduction. To determine the underlying causes of this locomotor defect, mutant mice were examined for skeletal, muscular and neural abnormalities. Mutant mice exhibit alterations in the vertebral column and in the bones of the hindlimb. Sacral vertebrae beginning at the level of S2 exhibit homeotic transformations to adopt the morphology of the next most anterior vertebra. In the hindlimb, there is an anterior shift in the position of the patella, an occasional production of an anterior sesamoid bone, and an outward rotation of the lower part of the leg, all of which contribute to the defects in locomotion. No major alterations in hindlimb musculature were observed, but defects in the nervous system were evident. There was a decrease in the number of spinal segments projecting nerve fibers through the sacral plexus to innervate the musculature of the hindlimb. Deletion of a hindlimb nerve was seen in some animals, and a shift was evident in the position of the lumbar lateral motor column. These observations suggest a role for the Hoxd-10 gene in establishing regional identity within the spinal cord and imply that patterning of the spinal cord may have intrinsic components and is not completely imposed by the surrounding mesoderm.
Greater use of invasive procedures and aggressive antimicrobial therapy predispose extremely low birth weight (ELBW) infants to systemic fungal sepsis. Despite its adverse effects (including renal and electrolyte disturbances), amphotericin B (amphoB) remains the preferred drug for fungal therapy. Multiple studies have indicated that sodium loading may prevent renal toxicity among animals and human adults. The effects of fluid and electrolyte management on amphoB-induced nephrotoxicity among ELBW infants have not been evaluated extensively. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of fluid and electrolyte management on amphoB-induced nephrotoxicity among ELBW infants.
The medical records were reviewed for all ELBW infants (birth weights of < or =1250 g) who developed systemic fungal sepsis, requiring amphoB therapy, between January 1992 and December 2000. Demographic, clinical, and laboratory data were collected from the medical records for each patient.
Fungal sepsis requiring amphoB treatment developed for 4.4% of ELBW infants (25 of 573 infants), with a gestational age of 25 +/- 1 weeks and a birth weight of 738 +/- 37 g, at a postnatal age of 16 +/- 2 days. Renal compromise, as manifested by low urine output and high creatinine levels, occurred for 44% of those infants (11 of 25 infants). There was no difference between the infants who developed renal compromise (renal compromise group [RCG], n = 11) and those who did not (no-renal-compromise group [NCG], n = 14) with respect to birth weight, gestational age, and risk factors predisposing the infants to fungal sepsis. The RCG demonstrated a decrease in urine output by 3.4 +/- 2 days and an increase in serum creatinine levels by 3.9 +/- 2 days after the initiation of amphoB therapy. Infants in the RCG had a significantly higher incidence of hyponatremia, compared with infants in the NCG (7 of 11 infants vs 0 of 14 infants), with no significant difference in the incidences of hypokalemia (2 of 11 infants vs 0 of 14 infants). Infants in the RCG, compared with infants in the NCG, had significantly lower mean daily sodium intakes in the 4 days before the initiation of amphoB therapy (2.6-2.9 mEq/kg per day vs 4.2-4.7 mEq/kg per day) and in the first 4 days of amphoB treatment (2.7-3.1 mEq/kg per day vs 4.5-5.6 mEq/kg per day). Mean daily sodium intakes were not statistically significantly different between the 2 groups between day 5 and day 10 of amphoB therapy. Infants in the RCG tended to have lower mean daily potassium intakes in the 4 days before the initiation of amphoB therapy and during the first 4 days of amphoB therapy. Subsequently, the mean daily potassium intakes remained not statistically significantly different between the groups. Mean daily fluid intakes were not different between the groups.
Conventional amphoB combined with adequate hydration and higher sodium intakes of >4 mEq/kg per day may provide effective protection against amphoB-induced nephrotoxicity among ELBW infants. Our data confirm the published results of animal and human adult studies and suggest that higher sodium intakes may prevent renal compromise during amphoB therapy among ELBW infants.
Overexpression of the multiple drug resistance gene 1 (MDR1) was quantified in brain tissue from Coriaria lactone (CL)-kindled Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats after treatment with lamotrigine (LTG) or topiramate (TPM) and compared with that found in rats treated with carbamazepine (CBZ) and valproate (VPA).
Twenty-five CL-kindled SD rats were randomized into five groups (n = 5 for each group) to receive once-daily feeding of CBZ, VPA, TPM, and LTG as the monotherapy equivalent of maximum human adult dosage, or normal saline (NS control) for 1 month. The expression of P-gp in brain tissues of all rats was quantified by using an image analysis and measuring system (Image Pro-plus 4.0). Mean area and mean integrated optical density (mean IOD) of P-gp expression were calculated. In addition, the changes in seizure severity were analyzed via video-camera monitoring.
A significant decrease in the number and duration of seizures with antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment was observed in the TPM and LTG groups. The mean area and mean IOD of P-gp expression were highest in the CBZ group and next highest in the VPA group; much lower values were measured in the TPM and LTG groups, and the lowest in the NS control group (p < 0.05).
TPM and LTG significantly inhibited seizures in this CL model. The expression of P-gp was not significantly increased by TPM or LTG treatment in this study.
Ultraviolet (UV) irradiation is the leading factor in the development of skin cancer, prompting great interest in chemopreventive agents for this disease. In this study, we report the discovery of norathyriol, a plant-derived chemopreventive compound identified through an in silico virtual screening of the Chinese Medicine Library. Norathyriol is a metabolite of mangiferin found in mango, Hypericum elegans, and Tripterospermum lanceolatum and is known to have anticancer activity. Mechanistic investigations determined that norathyriol acted as an inhibitor of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 activity to attenuate UVB-induced phosphorylation in mitogen-activated protein kinases signaling cascades. We confirmed the direct and specific binding of norathyriol with ERK2 through a cocrystal structural analysis. The xanthone moiety in norathyriol acted as an adenine mimetic to anchor the compound by hydrogen bonds to the hinge region of the protein ATP-binding site on ERK2. Norathyriol inhibited in vitro cell growth in mouse skin epidermal JB6 P+ cells at the level of G(2)-M phase arrest. In mouse skin tumorigenesis assays, norathyriol significantly suppressed solar UV-induced skin carcinogenesis. Further analysis indicated that norathyriol mediates its chemopreventive activity by inhibiting the ERK-dependent activity of transcriptional factors AP-1 and NF-κB during UV-induced skin carcinogenesis. Taken together, our results identify norathyriol as a safe new chemopreventive agent that is highly effective against development of UV-induced skin cancer.
Bilateral removal of the fronto-parietal cortex of the rat resulted in decreased spontaneous multiple-unit activity recorded in the striatum of freely-moving rats. Cortical ablations changed the neuronal response in the striatum to systemic administration of dexamphetamine (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) from excitation in control animals (88%) to inhibition in ablated animals (61%). Furthermore, catalepsy, induced by haloperidol, but not by morphine, was markedly attenuated after cortical ablation. These changes were accompanied by a 23% decrease in the specific binding of [3H]spiperone in the striatum. The binding of [3H]met-enkephalin was unaffected by the cortical lesions. Levels of glutamate in the striatum decreased from 8.88 +/- 0.5 mumols/g in control animals to 6.93 +/- 0.37 mumols/g after bilateral cortical ablation. On the other hand, cortical ablations did not alter the content of either the gamma-aminobutyric acid or glutamine of the striatum. It is concluded that the excitatory response, observed in striatal neurons in freely-moving animals, is dependent upon an intact cerebral cortex and requires intact cortico-striatal afferents. The results further suggest that neurons in the striatum are under the tonic influence of glutamate, released from cortico-striatal afferents. Lastly, some dopamine D2 binding sites in the striatum are located on cortico-striatal afferent terminals and blockade of these striatal D2 sites may be involved in the induction of catalepsy by neuroleptic drugs.
We report the case of a woman treated with a gonadotrophin-releasing hormone analogue for endometriosis who developed typical clinical features of fibromyalgia, with widespread musculoskeletal pain, sleep difficulties, neuropsychological complaints and tender points on clininal examination. The gonadotrophin-releasing hormone analogue treatment probably induced disturbances in the neuroendocrine system and the secretion of neurotransmitters, and may be suspected to be the cause of this case of fibromyalgia.
Lower urinary tract dysfunction is a major cause of morbidity in patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA). alpha1-Adrenergic receptors are present in the proximal urethra where impaired relaxation may be responsible for voiding difficulty and a large amount of residual urine. An open study was designed to evaluate whether the blockade of these receptors by prazosin (a nonselective alpha1 blocker) and moxisylyte (an alpha1A-selective blocker) would improve bladder emptying in patients with MSA. Post-micturition residual volumes and clinical symptoms of 49 patients with MSA were evaluated at trial entry and after 4 weeks (prazosin; n=21 and moxisylyte; n=28). The respective means for the prazosin and moxisylyte groups were 38.1% and 35.2% reductions in residual urine volume (P<0.05), and there was lessening of urinary symptoms. Side effects due to orthostatic hypotension were seen in 23.8% of the prazosin group but in only 10.7% of the moxisylyte group. These effects were common in patients with postural hypotension of more than -30 mmHg at trial entry (P<0.05). Modulation of alpha1-receptors may function in the management of lower urinary tract dysfunction in MSA.
Bromfenac sodium (Duract) is a phenylacetic acid-derived nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent introduced in the United States in 1997 and withdrawn in 1998. We describe the first case of fulminant hepatic failure associated with this agent treated successfully with liver transplantation. Similarities to hepatotoxicity with related agents is discussed.
Identification of patients at high risk for perioperative cardiac events (POCE) is clinically important. This study aimed to determine whether preoperative measurement of plasma N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) could predict POCE, and compared its predictive value with that of conventional cardiac risk factors and stress thallium scans in patients undergoing vascular surgery.
Patients scheduled for non-cardiac vascular surgery were prospectively enrolled. Clinical risk factors were identified, and NT-proBNP levels and stress thallium scans were obtained. POCE was the composite of acute myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure including acute pulmonary edema, and primary cardiac death within 5 days after surgery. A modified Revised Cardiac Risk Index (RCRI) was proposed and compared with NT-proBNP; a positive result for ischemia and a significant perfusion defect (≥ 3 walls, moderate to severely decreased, reversible perfusion defect) on the thallium scan were added to the RCRI.
A total of 365 patients (91% males) with a mean age of 67 years had a median NT-proBNP level of 105.1 pg/mL (range of quartile, 50.9 to 301.9). POCE occurred in 49 (13.4%) patients. After adjustment for confounders, an NT-proBNP level of > 302 pg/mL (odds ratio [OR], 5.7; 95% confidence interval [CI], 3.1 to 10.3; p < 0.001) and a high risk by the modified RCRI (OR, 3.9; 95% CI, 1.6 to 9.3; p = 0.002) were independent predictors for POCE. Comparison of the area under the curves for predicting POCE showed no statistical differences between NT-proBNP and RCRI.
Preoperative measurement of NT-proBNP provides information useful for prediction of POCE as a single parameter in high-risk patients undergoing noncardiac vascular surgery.
Bupropion is a promising candidate medication for methamphetamine use disorder. As such, we used a preclinical model of drug-taking to determine the effects of bupropion on the reinforcing effects of methamphetamine (0.025, 0.05 or 0.1 mg/kg/infusion). Specificity was determined by investigating the effects of bupropion on responding maintained by sucrose. In the self-administration study, rats were surgically prepared with indwelling jugular catheters and trained to self-administer methamphetamine under an FR5 schedule. A separate group of rats was trained to press a lever for sucrose. Once responding stabilized, rats were pretreated with bupropion (0, 10, 30 and 60 mg/kg i.p.) 5 min before chamber placement in a unique testing order. Following acute testing, rats were then repeatedly pretreated with 30 and 60 mg/kg bupropion. Acute treatments of bupropion dose dependently reduced drug intake for 0.025-0.1 mg/kg methamphetamine; sucrose deliveries were only reduced with the high bupropion dose. Repeated exposure to 60 mg/kg bupropion before the session resulted in a consistent decrease in methamphetamine intake (0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg) and sucrose deliveries. Considered together, this pattern of findings demonstrates that bupropion decreases responding for methamphetamine, but the effects are only somewhat specific.
The mechanism of the genotoxicity and metabolism of benzene (BZ) was investigated by using a free-radical scavenger, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), to investigate the free radical mechanism in BZ metabolism. The presence of chromosomal breakage expressed as micronuclei (MN) in bone marrow polychromatic erythrocytes (PCE) and the presence of several BZ metabolites in the urine were monitored. Adult male ICR mice were exposed orally to DMSO after oral exposure to BZ (440 mg/kg b.w.). DMSO was administered either in different concentrations (1.25, 3.75 or 12.5% given at a volume of 0.01 ml/gm b.w.) or at different intervals after BZ exposure (1, 3 or 5 h). Each group consisted of five mice. It was found that the BZ-induced MN frequency was reduced by DMSO from 48.8 +/- 5.6 (SEM) to 2.6 +/- 0.7 per 1000 PCE when DMSO (12.5%) was administered at 1 h after BZ exposure (P less than 0.01), to 3.4 +/- 0.8 at 3 h (P less than 0.01) and to 36.2 +/- 12.1 at 5 h (P less than 0.01). The reduction of the clastogenic effect of BZ by DMSO was also dependent upon the DMSO doses. The MN frequency was significantly reduced from 48.8 +/- 5.6 to 29.4 +/- 10.9 with 1.25% DMSO (P less than 0.01) to 20 +/- 7.6 with 3.75% (P less than 0.01) and to 2.6 +/- 0.7 with 12.5% DMSO (P less than 0.01). The presence of different metabolites of BZ such as hydroquinone, catechol, trans-trans muconic acid (MA, the oxidized form of trans-trans muconaldehyde, ttM), and total and conjugated phenol was evaluated in the urine of the exposed mice using HPLC. Among these metabolites, the quantity of MA was found to have the closest positive correlation with the MN frequency (P less than 0.007). Phenol but not the other monitored metabolites was also positively correlated with MN frequency (P less than 0.03). Thus, our data show that the formation of genotoxic metabolites from BZ probably involves hydroxyl radicals and ttM as well as phenol are likely to be responsible for the clastogenic effect of benzene in vivo.
The aim of this study was to examine the clinical utility of low-dose oral prednisone in preventing severe paclitaxel-associated arthralgias and myalgias.
Patients treated with paclitaxel in the gynecologic oncology program of the Cleveland Clinic Foundation who developed arthralgias/myalgias which were uncontrolled through the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications received low-dose oral prednisone (10 mg B.I.D. starting 24 h after the completion of chemotherapy and continuing for a total of 5 days) with their next paclitaxel course.
Of 46 patients meeting the criteria for treatment with the oral prednisone regimen (i.e., subjective feeling of unacceptable discomfort despite the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents), 39 (85%) experienced substantial relief of symptoms. All but one of the responding patients requested continuation of the oral prednisone regimen with subsequent paclitaxel treatment cycles. There were no significant toxicities noted in any patient receiving prednisone.
This low-dose oral prednisone regimen results in substantial improvement in the majority of patients experiencing significant paclitaxel-associated arthralgias/myalgias.
To identify susceptibility loci for bipolar disorder, we tested 1.8 million variants in 4,387 cases and 6,209 controls and identified a region of strong association (rs10994336, P = 9.1 x 10(-9)) in ANK3 (ankyrin G). We also found further support for the previously reported CACNA1C (alpha 1C subunit of the L-type voltage-gated calcium channel; combined P = 7.0 x 10(-8), rs1006737). Our results suggest that ion channelopathies may be involved in the pathogenesis of bipolar disorder.
Several lines of evidence suggest that the convulsant actions of caffeine are mediated through benzodiazepine receptors. A pharmacogenetic approach has been used to further explore the relationship of these receptors to caffeine-induced seizures. The susceptibility of two inbred strains of mice (CBA and SWR) to the convulsant actions of picrotoxinin, strychnine, Ro 5-4864 and DMCM was examined. Previous studies have demonstrated these two strains differ in their susceptibilities to the convulsant action of caffeine. While no differences were observed between these two strains in susceptibility to tonic seizures induced by picrotoxinin, RO 5-4864 or strychnine, SWR mice were significantly less sensitive to tonic seizures induced by DMCM compared to CBA mice (CD50 values in CBA and SWR mice were 6 and 12 mg/kg IP). Both clonazepam and the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, Ro 15-1788, significantly blocked caffeine-induced seizures. Further, when subconvulsant doses of caffeine and DMCM were combined, a synergistic action was observed. Taken together, these findings support the hypothesis that the convulsant actions of caffeine result from an action at benzodiazepine receptors, and that the hyporesponsiveness of the SWR strain to both caffeine- and DMCM-induced seizures could result from an inherited abnormality in these sites.
Renografin 76 has been shown to have significant calcium-binding properties in vivo and in vitro. Two contrast media solutions were compared by selective injection into the right coronary artery of dogs. One set of injections was made with commercially available Renografin 76 (referred to as stock Renografin) and another set of injections was made with Renografin 76 to which had been added 24 mMols/liter of calcium chloride dihydrate. Ventricular fibrillation occurred significantly more often with the stock Renografin 76. The nature of the calcium binding and its effects are discussed.
Our objective was to demonstrate that nephrotic children at disease onset and under high-dose prednisone respond to vaccination with 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine (PV). We compared the serological response after PV in 30 children with nephrotic syndrome, directly after initiation of prednisone therapy (60 mg/m2 body surface area) at disease onset (group 1), with the response in 13 patients who received the vaccine while in remission (group 2). Safety was studied, comparing disease course in group 1 with those in patients who did not receive any PV (group 3). In group 1, 23-valent PV antibody (Ab) levels increased tenfold after 1 month and remained increased after 1 year (P < 0.01). Ab response in the short term and in the long term was not different from that of patients in group 2. Serum albumin, age, or immunosuppressive drugs did not influence Ab response. Disease courses in groups 1 and 3 were not different. In conclusion, nephrotic children on high-dose glucocorticoid therapy respond to a 23-valent anti-PV. Children with steroid dependent/resistant forms acquire high Ab levels, even if early relapses delay the tapering of steroids or if immunosuppressive agents are introduced. Patients who relapse during the tapering of steroids already have increased anti-pneumococcal Ab at the time of relapse.
We conducted a genome-wide association study using 207,097 SNP markers in Japanese individuals with type 2 diabetes and unrelated controls, and identified KCNQ1 (potassium voltage-gated channel, KQT-like subfamily, member 1) to be a strong candidate for conferring susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. We detected consistent association of a SNP in KCNQ1 (rs2283228) with the disease in several independent case-control studies (additive model P = 3.1 x 10(-12); OR = 1.26, 95% CI = 1.18-1.34). Several other SNPs in the same linkage disequilibrium (LD) block were strongly associated with type 2 diabetes (additive model: rs2237895, P = 7.3 x 10(-9); OR = 1.32, 95% CI = 1.20-1.45, rs2237897, P = 6.8 x 10(-13); OR = 1.41, 95% CI = 1.29-1.55). The association of these SNPs with type 2 diabetes was replicated in samples from Singaporean (additive model: rs2237895, P = 8.5 x 10(-3); OR = 1.14, rs2237897, P = 2.4 x 10(-4); OR = 1.22) and Danish populations (additive model: rs2237895, P = 3.7 x 10(-11); OR = 1.24, rs2237897, P = 1.2 x 10(-4); OR = 1.36).
Familial defective apolipoprotein B-100 (FDB) is a recently identified dominantly inherited genetic disorder characterized by a decreased binding of low density lipoprotein (LDL) to the LDL receptor due to defective apo B-100. FDB is caused by a G to A mutation at nucleotide 10,708 in exon 26 of the apo B gene creating a substitution of glutamine for arginine in the codon for amino acid 3500. The arginine (3500)----glutamine mutation has been observed in several populations in North America and Europe with a similar frequency of approximately 1/500 to 1/700. Haplotype analysis has demonstrated that the arginine(3500)----glutamine mutation occurs on the same chromosomal background. The fact that all individuals with FDB are of Caucasian extraction implies that the mutation has its origin in this population. The arginine(3500)----glutamine mutation has a profound impact of varying strength on the plasma LDL cholesterol level, leading to heterogeneous clinical expression comparable to "classic" familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) caused by a defective LDL receptor: tendon xanthoma, premature atherosclerosis and arcus lipoides. The present data suggest that the combination of these clinical features is no longer appropriate for the diagnosis of LDL-receptor-defective FH, but may be a common feature of a defective LDL receptor pathway originating either from defective LDL receptors or from malfunctioning ligand apo B-100.
