We determined the minimum local anaesthetic dose (MLAD) of spinal levobupivacaine and ropivacaine for Caesarean section. Ninety women were randomly allocated to two groups and received 3 ml of study solution by a combined spinal/epidural technique. The initial dose was 12 mg for levobupivacaine and 17 mg for ropivacaine groups. To be considered effective, a test solution had to achieve a visual analogue pain score (VAPS) of 30 mm or less at skin incision, uterine incision, birth, peritoneal closure, and at the end of surgery. Effective or ineffective responses determined, respectively, a 0.3 mg decrease or increase of the same drug for the next patient in the same group, using up-down sequential allocation. The MLAD of levobupivacaine was 10.58 mg (CI 95%: 10.08-11.09) and the MLAD of ropivacaine 14.22 mg (CI 95%: 13.67-14.77), using the Dixon and Massey formula. The potency ratio between spinal levobupivacaine and spinal ropivacaine was 1.34.
In patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) due to dilated cardiomyopathy, nifedipine, diltiazem and several of the newer calcium antagonists including nicardipine, nitrendipine, felodipine and PN 200-110 (isradipine) improve left ventricular function. Because of its relatively more pronounced negative inotropic and chronotropic actions, verapamil is generally not tolerated by patients with left ventricular failure. In addition, even relatively vascular-selective agents such as nifedipine can occasionally cause significant left ventricular depression, particularly if combined with beta-adrenergic blocking agents. Comparative studies using nitroprusside to cause an equivalent decrease in arterial pressure indicate that nifedipine acts predominantly on the arterial vasculature, and that a small but significant decrease in contractility occurs, apparently due to a direct myocardial action. Although diltiazem causes a depression in myocardial contractility in dogs with volume overload heart failure, limited data show no significant negative inotropic action in patients with heart failure. The negative inotropic effects, if any, of newer and possibly more vascular-selective agents are not yet known. Calcium antagonists appear to act predominantly on the limb and coronary vasculature, with relatively less effect on renal and hepatic vessels. In patients with CHF, nifedipine causes an increase in coronary blood flow and a decrease in the aorto-coronary sinus oxygen difference indicating an improvement in myocardial energetics. Although nifedipine causes an increase in cardiac index and decreases in systemic vascular resistance and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure during exercise, the limited data available fail to show a short- or long-term increase in exercise capacity. Nifedipine causes an increase in plasma renin activity, possibly due to a direct action on the kidney.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of this study was to investigate relationships between inflammatory markers and components of a metabolic syndrome cluster in adolescents.
This was a cross-sectional analysis of an Australian childhood cohort (n = 1,377) aged 14 years. Cluster analysis defined a "high-risk" group similar to adults with metabolic syndrome. Relevant measures were anthropometry, fasting insulin, glucose, lipids, inflammatory markers, liver function, and blood pressure.
Of the children, 29% fell into a high-risk metabolic cluster group compared with 2% by a pediatric metabolic syndrome definition. Relative to the "low-risk" cluster, they had higher BMI (95% CI 19.5-19.8 vs. 24.5-25.4), waist circumference (centimeters) (95% CI 71.0-71.8 vs. 83.4-85.8), insulin (units per liter) (95% CI 1.7-1.8 vs. 3.5-3.9), homeostasis model assessment (95% CI 1.7-1.8 vs. 3.5-3.9), systolic blood pressure (millimeters of mercury) (95% CI 110.8-112.1 vs. 116.7-118.9), and triglycerides (millimoles per liter) (95% CI 0.78-0.80 vs. 1.25-1.35) and lower HDL cholesterol (millimoles per liter) (95% CI 1.44-1.48 vs. 1.20-1.26). Inflammatory and liver function markers were higher in the high-risk group: C-reactive protein (CRP) (P < 0.001), uric acid (P < 0.001), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (P < 0.001), and gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) (P < 0.001). The highest CRP, GGT, and ALT levels were restricted to overweight children in the high-risk group.
Cluster analysis revealed a strikingly high proportion of 14 year olds at risk of cardiovascular disease-related metabolic disorders. Adiposity and the metabolic syndrome cluster are synergistic in the pathogenesis of inflammation. Systemic and liver inflammation in the high-risk cluster is likely to predict diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
To evaluate the antihypertensive effect of nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system and retard in terms of trough:peak ratio efficacy.
According to a double-blind, randomized, crossover design, 58 patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension, after 1 month placebo washout, received 30 mg/day nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system, 20 mg nifedipine retard twice a day and the corresponding placebos for 1 month. At the end of each treatment period, blood pressure was measured by using a mercury sphygmomanometer at trough and 1, 2, 3 and 4 h after the last dosing. The peak effect was identified as the maximum decrement induced by the three randomized treatments with respect to the value at the end of the placebo washout period during the 4 h interval. The trough:peak ratios of systolic and diastolic blood pressure were calculated as group ratios and individual ratios from decrements induced by nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system and retard, corrected for those induced by randomized placebo. Patients were defined as responders to each randomized treatment if their diastolic blood pressure at trough time was reduced by at least 10 mmHg relative to that at the corresponding time at the end of placebo washout.
Nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system and retard significantly reduced blood pressure to a similar extent both at trough and at peak. Systolic and diastolic group trough:peak ratios in responders to nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (n = 41) were 0.80 and 0.88, respectively, and those in responders to nifedipine retard (n = 30) 0.84 and 0.93, respectively. The percentage of patients with trough:peak ratios > 0.50 was > 80% (systolic trough:peak ratios) and above 90% (diastolic trough: peak ratios) for both nifedipine formulations.
Our data show that 30 mg/day nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system and 20 mg nifedipine retard twice a day have a favourable trough:peak ratios efficacy when given as monotherapy to essential hypertensive patients.
Single nucleotide polymorphisms of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenases gene (DPYD) induces dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase enzyme (DPD) deficiency resulting in increased activity of 5-fluorouracil derivatives. Cytidine-deaminase gene (CDA) polymorphisms have been involved in prognosis in experimental tumours.
Analysis of 50 consecutive resected gastric cancer patients who received adjuvant chemotherapy with Tegafur for polymorphisms of genes DPYD1 (A/G; Ile543Val), DPYD2 (C/T; Arg29Cys) and CDA (A/C; Lys27Gin). The status of alleles (wild-type or at least one polymorphism) was correlated with outcome and toxicity.
Polymorphisms frequencies wild-type/non-wild-type were 36/14 in DPYD1 (A/G; Ile543Val); 26/24 in DPYD2 (C/T; Arg29Cys); and 17/23 in CDA (A/C; Lys27Gin) or between homozygous/heterozygous were 39/11 in DPYD1; 33/17 in DPYD2 and 26/24 in CDA respectively. After 77 months of median follow-up (SD = 26.3), 18 patients died of tumour relapse. Better survival was observed in DPYD1 patients only, for non-wild-type over wild-type (P = 0.0214); and in patients with one or more heterozygous polymorphisms in any of the three genes tested (P = 0.0017). In 10 pts (20%) total dose was reduced by toxicity, only 3 of them were homozygous.
Gene polymorphisms of DPYD and CDA predict survival of gastric cancer patients treated with 5-fluorouracil-based adjuvant chemotherapy.
The DNA repair enzyme O(6)-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) inhibits the killing of tumor cells by alkylating agents, and its loss in cancer cells is associated with hypermethylation of the MGMT CpG island. Thus, methylation of MGMT has been correlated with the clinical response to 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) in primary gliomas. Here, we investigate whether the presence of MGMT methylation in gliomas is also a good predictor of response to another emergent alkylating agent, temozolomide.
Using a methylation-specific PCR approach, we assessed the methylation status of the CpG island of MGMT in 92 glioma patients who received temozolomide as first-line chemotherapy or as treatment for relapses.
Methylation of the MGMT promoter positively correlated with the clinical response in the glioma patients receiving temozolomide as first-line chemotherapy (n = 40). Eight of 12 patients with MGMT-methylated tumors (66.7%) had a partial or complete response, compared with 7 of 28 patients with unmethylated tumors (25.0%; P = 0.030). We also found a positive association between MGMT methylation and clinical response in those patients receiving BCNU (n = 35, P = 0.041) or procarbazine/1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (n = 17, P = 0.043) as first-line chemotherapy. Overall, if we analyze the clinical response of all of the first-line chemotherapy treatments with temozolomide, BCNU, and procarbazine/1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea as a group in relation to the MGMT methylation status, MGMT hypermethylation was strongly associated with the presence of partial or complete clinical response (P < 0.001). Finally, the MGMT methylation status determined in the initial glioma tumor did not correlate with the clinical response to temozolomide when this drug was administered as treatment for relapses (P = 0.729).
MGMT methylation predicts the clinical response of primary gliomas to first-line chemotherapy with the alkylating agent temozolomide. These results may open up possibilities for more customized treatments of human brain tumors.
This study was designed to reveal whether the apoptosis induced in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines by 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) could be enhanced by transfecting Bcl-2 small interfering RNA (siRNA). Bcl-2 siRNA and control siRNA were transfected into cells following treatment with or without 5-FU. Suppression of Bcl-2 expression was confirmed by Western blotting; cell viability was evaluated by MTS assay, and the occurrence of apoptosis in cells was evaluated by apoptosis assay. Expression of Bcl-2 protein after transfection of 20 nM Bcl-2 siRNA was significantly lower than that of control. Incubation of all cell lines with Bcl-2 siRNA reduced cell viability 96 h after 5-FU treatment compared with all other controls: Huh-7 (P < 0.01), Huh-7 with hepatitis C replicon (P < 0.01), HepG2 (P < 0.01), HLE (P < 0.05). Moreover, the proportion of apoptosis in control siRNA, Bcl-2 siRNA, control siRNA prior to 5-FU treatment, and Bcl-2 siRNA prior to 5-FU treatment groups were (4.6 +/- 2.3)%, (7.5 +/- 0.5)%, (6.0 +/- 2.1)%, and (19.5 +/- 0.86)%, respectively. The Bcl-2 siRNA prior to 5-FU treatment group showed the strongest effect of inducing apoptosis. In conclusion, the combination Bcl-2 siRNA and 5-FU might represent a new therapeutic option for HCC.
Two patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) developed peripheral motor and sensory neuropathies after consolidation chemotherapy with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (ara-C), daunorubicin, and asparaginase. Evidence for ara-C and daunorubicin-induced peripheral neuropathies is reported. Despite the frequent use of these agents, only two cases of peripheral neuropathy after systemic therapy have been previously described; neurotoxic effects may be potentiated and become clinically important when the three drugs are used in combination.
Haematoporphyrin derivatives (HPDs) are potent sensitizers in photodynamic therapy (PDT), associated with prolonged skin photosensitivity. 5-Aminolaevulinic acid (5-ALA), a natural precusor of haem, is converted intracellularly into the photosensitive agent protoporphyrin IX (PPIX), causing direct cytotoxicity after laser light irradiation but limited skin photosensitivity over 1-2 days and higher tumour selectivity. Unfortunately, the use of 5-ALA in PDT has been shown to cause only superficial tissue necrosis. Therefore, a combination of HPD and 5-ALA could be of great clinical value in the treatment of tumours if a synergistic effect of both sensitizers on tumour cell necrosis with less skin photosensitivity could be demonstrated. Human colon adenocarcinoma cells (HT-29) were cultured with either HPD or 5-ALA alone, simultaneously for 24 h with 5-ALA and HPD or in succession with 5-ALA (18 h) followed by HPD (6 h at different concentrations. Intracellular PPIX concentrations were determined by high-performance thin-layer chromatography. Furthermore, PDT was performed with an incoherent light source (lambda = 580-740 nm) using a light dose of 30 J cm(-2) and an output power of 40 mW cm(-2). The intracellular PPIX concentration correlated well with 5-ALA drug dose and incubation time and was highest after single 5-ALA sensitization. In the presence of HPD, either simultaneously or sequentially, PPIX decreased significantly. The PDT effect after simultaneous incubation with both sensitizers for 24 h was not superior to incubation with HPD alone. If 5-ALA incubation (18 h) was followed by HPD (6 h) cytotoxicity after PDT was higher than with either single drug. 5-ALA (80 microg ml(-1)) led to a decrease in tumour cell viability by 40%. A similar effect could be observed when 5-ALA and HPD were sequentially combined allowing for a reduction of the 5-ALA dose from 80 microg ml(-1) in the absence of HPD to 60 microg ml(-1) and 5 microg ml(-1) together with 0.5 microg ml(-1) and 2 microg ml(-1) HPD respectively. We speculate that the enhanced PDT effect after the combined administration of 5-ALA and HPD to cultures of colon carcinoma cells should be even more impressive in the tumour in vivo, since HPD primarily targets the tumour microvasculature and secondarily tumour cells.
The use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in pregnancy has been associated with neonatal morbidity and mortality. The mechanism of renal dysfunction likely is related to fetal hypotension and prolonged decreased glomerular filtration. Six of 14 previously published cases of neonatal renal failure after maternal ACE inhibitor therapy resulted in death. Eight infants survived after peritoneal dialysis, some with residual renal impairment. Serum lisinopril levels and ACE activity in our patient indicate that during the anuric state the drug has an extremely prolonged half-life, and that it is removed by peritoneal dialysis. In view of this prolonged half-life and the drug's continued suppression of ACE activity and renal function, we recommend institution of early dialysis in infants with renal failure after maternal therapy with lisinopril.
Novel therapeutics to overcome the toxic effects of organophosphorus (OP) chemical agents are needed due to the documented use of OPs in warfare (e.g. 1980-1988 Iran/Iraq war) and terrorism (e.g. 1995 Tokyo subway attacks). Standard OP exposure therapy in the United States consists of atropine sulfate (to block muscarinic receptors), the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) reactivator (oxime) pralidoxime chloride (2-PAM), and a benzodiazepine anticonvulsant to ameliorate seizures. A major disadvantage is that quaternary nitrogen charged oximes, including 2-PAM, do not cross the blood brain barrier (BBB) to treat brain AChE. Therefore, we have synthesized and evaluated pro-2-PAM (a lipid permeable 2-PAM derivative) that can enter the brain and reactivate CNS AChE, preventing seizures in guinea pigs after exposure to OPs. The protective effects of the pro-2-PAM after OP exposure were shown using (a) surgically implanted radiotelemetry probes for electroencephalogram (EEG), (b) neurohistopathology of brain, (c) cholinesterase activities in the PNS and CNS, and (d) survivability. The PNS oxime 2-PAM was ineffective at reducing seizures/status epilepticus (SE) in diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP)-exposed animals. In contrast, pro-2-PAM significantly suppressed and then eliminated seizure activity. In OP-exposed guinea pigs, there was a significant reduction in neurological damage with pro-2-PAM but not 2-PAM. Distinct regional areas of the brains showed significantly higher AChE activity 1.5h after OP exposure in pro-2-PAM treated animals compared to the 2-PAM treated ones. However, blood and diaphragm showed similar AChE activities in animals treated with either oxime, as both 2-PAM and pro-2-PAM are PNS active oximes. In conclusion, pro-2-PAM can cross the BBB, is rapidly metabolized inside the brain to 2-PAM, and protects against OP-induced SE through restoration of brain AChE activity. Pro-2-PAM represents the first non-invasive means of administering a CNS therapeutic for the deleterious effects of OP poisoning by reactivating CNS AChE.
The temporal bone histopathological findings in a case of gentamicin sulfate-induced hearing loss and vertigo in an anephric patient undergoing hemodialysis are presented. A study of the sensory neuroepithelium of the cristae and maculae disclosed the presence of vacuoles with clubbing of the sensory cells. In the cochlea, loss of the innermost row of outer hair cells in the basal turn was the most prominent feature. These findings are discussed in light of reports of similar morphological changes in laboratory studies of gentamicin ototoxicity.
A case of cardiomyopathy combined with vacuolar myopathy in the extremity muscles and irreversible retinopathy produced by chloroquine is described.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of adjuvant chemotherapy in malignant phyllodes tumors of the breast treated at the Instituto Nacional de Cancerología of Mexico. Twenty-eight patients with malignant phyllodes tumors of the breast enrolled in a observational study from January 1993 to December 2003 to receive four cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy with doxorubicin 65 mg/m(2) over 48 hours intravenous infusion and dacarbazine 960 mg/m(2) over 48 hours intravenous infusion (n = 17) versus observation (n = 11). All patients had surgical resection, and 38% had an axillary dissection. Seven patients (25%) received adjuvant radiotherapy. Log-rank test was used to test for differences in recurrence-free survival (RFS). The median patient age was 42 years (range, 23-76 years). The median tumor size was 13 cm (range, 3-30 cm), and 46% of the tumors were in the left breast. At a median follow-up of 15 months (range, 2-81 months), there were seven recurrences and five deaths. The 5 year RFS rate was 58% (95% CI = 36% and 92%) for the patients who received adjuvant therapy and 86% (95% CI = 63% and 100%) for the patients who did not (p = 0.17). The median survival after recurrence was 6.5 months. Adjuvant chemotherapy with doxorubicin and dacarbazine did not affect patient survival. Future studies to identify relevant molecular targets should be implemented in order to define effective therapies for phyllodes tumors of the breast.
The effects of the hepatocarcinogenic peroxisome proliferating hypolipidemic agents clofibrate (CF) and nafenopin (NF) on rat liver carcinogenesis initiated by N-2-fluorenylacetamide (FAA) were studied and compared with that of the neoplasm promoter phenobarbital (PB). Male F344 rats were fed 0.02% FAA for 8 weeks to induce hepatocellular altered foci, and were then given no chemical or equimolar amounts (0.03 mmol/kg diet) of the chemicals for 24 weeks in the diet. In groups of animals killed sequentially, 0.07% PB had a marked enhancing effect on FAA-induced foci, while 0.073% CF produced only slight enhancement and 0.093% NF produced none. At the end of the experiment, only PB increased the incidence and multiplicity of liver neoplasms. NF suppressed histochemical gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity in the abnormal hepatocytes of foci as well as in periportal hepatocytes. In homogenates of livers from rats fed NF, gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase activity was reduced, and this occurred to a lesser degree with CF, whereas PB enhanced activity. NF also induced alkaline phosphatase activity in hepatocytes throughout the lobule, but not in altered hepatocytes, thereby making foci demonstrable in sections reacted for alkaline phosphatase. These findings thus reveal significant cell membrane effects of NF and CF and suggest that their involvement in hepatocarcinogenesis is more complex than a promoting action.
To compare the effectiveness of i.m. P and 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17-HPC) for luteal phase support, in patients undergoing IVF-ET cycles.
Prospective, randomized study.
Patients undergoing IVF-ET in our Centers.
The inclusion criteria were the use of GnRH down-regulation and aged <40 years.
A total of 300 cycles were randomly treated with either 17-HPC (341 mg every 3 days) or P (50 mg daily).
The outcomes of IVF in both study groups were evaluated for biochemical pregnancy, miscarriage, clinical pregnancy, and ongoing pregnancy.
No difference was found in the main outcome parameters considered.
Although the results of the study encourage the use of 17-HPC for luteal phase support in patients undergoing IVF-ET program, more studies are necessary to support the hypothesis that it can replace i.m. P-in-oil.
Previous studies have shown that dietary micronutrient vanadium can protect neoplastic development induced by chemical carcinogens. Current investigation is an attempt to evaluate the role of vanadium (4.27 micro mol/l) in inhibiting 1,2 dimethyhydrazine (DMH) (20 mg/kg body weight) induced rat colon carcinogenesis. We investigated the effect of vanadium against the formation of DMH-induced O(6)-methylguanine (O(6)-Meg) DNA adduct, a potent cytotoxic and mutagenic agent for colon cancer. Supplementation of vanadium significantly reduced the hepatic (P<0.05), and colonic (at three sequential time points; ANOVA, F=4.96, P<0.05) O(6)-Meg DNA adduct levels in rats, indicating vanadium's potency in limiting the initiation event of colon carcinogenesis. Removal of initiated and damaged precancerous cells by apoptosis can prevent tumorigenesis and further malignancy. DNA fragmentation study revealed the vanadium-mediated apoptotic induction in colon tumors. The increased value of apoptotic index (AI) (62.27%; P<0.01) in subsequent TUNEL assay further confirmed the apoptosis induction by vanadium. This paralleled the nuclear immunoexpression of p53. A significant positive correlation between p53 immunoexpression and AI (P=0.0026, r=0.83, r(2)=0.69) links its association with vanadium-mediated apoptotic induction. Vanadium treatment also abated the mRNA expression of iNOS (54.03%), reflecting its protective effect against nitric oxide-mediated genotoxicity and colon tumorigenesis. These studies cumulatively provide strong evidence for the inhibitory actions of vanadium against DMH-induced genotoxicity and carcinogenesis in rat colon.
Behavioral investigations of selective and potent metabotropic glutamate receptor type 5 (mGluR5) antagonists in animal models suggest involvement of mGluR5 in compensatory mechanisms of the basal ganglia circuitry in Parkinson's disease and levodopa (L-Dopa) induced motor complications. This study investigated mGluR5 changes in MPTP lesioned monkeys. The effect of a chronic 1 month treatment with L-Dopa on mGluR5-specific binding and mRNA levels was investigated in MPTP monkeys killed 4 or 24 h after their last L-Dopa administration. [(3)H]ABP688 specific binding in the putamen was elevated in L-Dopa-treated MPTP monkeys killed 24 h but not 4 h after their last L-Dopa dose compared with vehicle-treated MPTP monkeys. Caudate nucleus [(3)H]ABP688-specific binding was elevated in both groups of L-Dopa treated compared with vehicle-treated MPTP monkeys. In contrast, caudate nucleus and putamen mGluR5 mRNA levels were elevated only in L-Dopa-treated MPTP monkeys killed 4 h after their last L-Dopa administration. MPTP monkeys killed 4 h after their last L-Dopa treatment showed higher caudate nucleus and putamen L-Dopa concentrations compared with those killed after 24 h. Hence, mGluR5 in the putamen are sensitive to presence of L-Dopa leading to a rapid decrease of [(3)H]ABP688-specific binding possibly involving a direct mGluR5/dopamine receptors interaction.
The effect of nortriptyline against ventricular arrhythmias was determined in 16 cardiac patients with 30 or more ventricular premature depolarizations per hour. Nortriptyline was administered orally, 0.5 mg/kg body weight per day, and increased by 0.5 mg/kg per day every third day until ventricular premature depolarizations were suppressed (greater than or equal to 80%), adverse effects occurred or a total daily dose of 3.5 mg/kg per day was given. Each patient had daily 24 hour continuous electrocardiograms, 12 lead standard electrocardiograms and physical examination; blood pressure was measured in the supine and standing position four times a day. Each patient also had radionuclide angiography at rest to measure ejection fraction before and at the effective or maximal dose. Thirteen patients (81%) had an antiarrhythmic response and 11 met the study criterion of at least 80% improvement. Doses ranged from 50 to 200 mg/day (mean 111 +/- 45), steady state plasma concentration ranged from 46 to 410 ng/ml (mean 153 +/- 96) and half-life of elimination of nortriptyline was 4 to 22 hours (mean 13 +/- 4). Administration of nortriptyline did not depress mean ejection fraction (before 42 +/- 12%, after 41 +/- 12%); it was associated with an orthostatic decrease in systolic blood pressure (mean -13 +/- 13 mm Hg). Nortriptyline is an effective antiarrhythmic agent which may be given twice a day even in patients with impaired ventricular function.
A study comparing intracorporeal injection of prostaglandin E1 (one-drug solution) and papaverine plus prostaglandin E1 (2-drug solution) for treatment of impotence.
A total of 100 impotent patients had intracorporeal injections of the one-drug and 2-drug solution alternatively in 3 sessions. The quality and duration of erections were assessed.
Seventy-five per cent of the patients developed full erection with the 2-drug solution compared to 50% with the one-drug solution. The average duration of erections was 60 minutes and 45 minutes, respectively. The complication rate was higher for the 2-drug solution.
Papaverine plus prostaglandin E1 is superior to prostaglandin E1 alone for treatment of impotence, but has a higher rate of complications. Intracavemous injection of vasoactive drugs is a very effective and important way for treatment of impotence. Papaverine plus prostaglandin E1 had been used for treatment of impotence alone or combined. A blind study was done to compare efficiency and complication rates of intracavemous injection of papaverine plus prostaglandin E1 (2-drug solution) with prostaglandin E1 alone.
A 27-year-old woman who acquired cutaneous leishmaniasis in Central America was inadvertently treated with 10 times the intended daily dose of the pentavalent antimonial compound sodium stibogluconate (Pentostam): 8500 mg (143 mg/kg) instead of 850 mg. The patient felt "wiped out" during the 4-h infusion of the drug. After the mistake in dosing was discovered, she was vigorously hydrated and carefully monitored in an intensive care unit for greater than 48 h. Her vital signs were stable, and no arrhythmias were noted. Her alanine aminotransferase level rose briefly to 2.4 times the upper limit of normal, and her white blood cell count briefly fell 43% to a low of 3700/microliter. Her skin lesions subsequently healed without further therapy. Although sodium stibogluconate has been associated with a variety of side effects, in this case, a single high dose of the drug was tolerated without serious toxicity.
A meta-analysis was performed of the research published from 1985 to 1998 examining the effect of in utero exposure to cocaine on infant neurobehavioral outcome. The initial search for articles to include in the meta-analysis identified 18 studies with potentially meta-analytic variables. Of the studies originally retrieved, 13 failed to meet all of the inclusion criteria and were excluded from the meta-analysis. A total of 14 meta-analyses were performed comparing cocaine-exposed infants to nonexposed infants on NBAS cluster scales at birth and at 3-4 weeks of age. While the meta-analytic combination of studies produced a large enough sample size to drive statistical significance in a small majority of the tests of difference between the cocaine-exposed and nonexposed infants both at birth and soon after, the magnitude of all effects was small. The largest reliable differences appeared for the motor performance and abnormal reflexes clusters. Both also demonstrated a slight trend for increasing standard differences from birth to measures obtained at 3-4 weeks. The orientation and autonomic regulation clusters produced small, significant effects at both time periods, but the trend was for reduced effect sizes over time. All other effects appear truly negligible.
A chronic 8 to 11 week administration of the hepatic tumor promoter phenobarbital (0.05% in drinking water) to rats previously subjected to the initiation:selection process of Solt and Farber was found to further increase the gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity of individual hyperplastic liver nodules of 4.0-10.0 mm in diameter over comparably sized nodules from control livers. Those rats which received 11 weeks of the chronic phenobarbital treatment also showed a significant increase in their liver wet weights. In addition, random tissue samples of non-nodular liver taken from the 11 week phenobarbital-treated rats exhibited a gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase mean specific activity which was approximately 3 times higher than that of control non-nodular liver samples. In contrast, there was a 1.5-fold increase in the mean % gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase-positive area (cm2), as determined histochemically, in cryostat sections made from non-nodular samples of the 11 week phenobarbital-treated rats when compared with that of control liver sections. Interruption of the chronic phenobarbital administration at 8 weeks followed by 3 weeks of control treatment resulted in a reversal of the gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity response shown by the hyperplastic liver nodules and non-nodular liver tissue samples. Thus, phenobarbital can quantitatively modulate gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity in carcinogen-induced hyperplastic liver lesions in the rat during the early stages of hepatocarcinogenesis.
