The effects of inhaled nitric oxide (NO) on hemodynamics and right ventricular (RV) contractility were compared with those of nitroprusside and nifedipine in 14 patients with severe chronic pulmonary hypertension.
Micromanometer and balloon-tipped right heart catheterization were performed. Inhaled NO, IV nitroprusside, and sublingual nifedipine were administered sequentially while patients breathed > 90% oxygen.
Cardiac catheterization laboratory in a tertiary care teaching hospital.
Fourteen patients with severe pulmonary hypertension unrelated to left ventricular dysfunction.
During NO inhalation, mean systemic arterial pressure (MAP) was unchanged, but pulmonary artery (PA) pressure ([mean +/- SEM] 49 +/- 2 mm Hg vs 44 +/- 2 mm Hg; p < 0.01), pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR; 829 +/- 68 vs 669 +/- 64 dyne x s x cm(-5); p < 0.01) and RV end-diastolic pressure (RVEDP; 12 +/- 1 vs 10 +/- 1 mm Hg; p < 0.01) decreased. Stroke volume index (SVI; 31 +/- 2 vs 35 +/- 3 mL/m(2); p < 0.05) increased, and the first derivative of RV pressure at 15 mm Hg developed pressure (RV +dP/dt at DP15) was unchanged. During nitroprusside administration, MAP decreased (105 +/- 5 vs 76 +/- 5 mm Hg; p < 0.01), PA was unchanged (48 +/- 2 vs 45 +/- 3 mm Hg; p = not significant), and PVR decreased (791 +/- 53 vs 665 +/- 53 dyne x s x cm(-5); p < 0.01). RV +dP/dt at DP15 increased (425 +/- 22 vs 465 +/- 29 mm Hg/s; p < 0.05), but SVI was unchanged. Nifedipine decreased MAP (103 +/- 5 vs 94 +/- 5 mm Hg; p < 0.01), PA and PVR were unchanged, RVEDP increased (12 +/- 1 vs 14 +/- 2 mm Hg; p < 0.01), and RV +dP/dt at DP15 decreased (432 +/- 90 vs 389 +/- 21 mm Hg/s; p < 0.05).
Inhaled NO is a selective pulmonary vasodilator in patients with chronic pulmonary hypertension that improves cardiac performance without altering RV contractility. Nitroprusside caused a similar degree of pulmonary vasodilation. In contrast to inhaled NO, nitroprusside caused systemic hypotension associated with an increase in RV contractility. Acute administration of nifedipine did not cause pulmonary vasodilation, but RVEDP increased and RV contractility decreased.
Acute renal failure occurred during indomethacin therapy in a patient with chronic pyelonephritis. Urinary prostaglandin E2 levels were diminished but returned to normal after discontinuation of drug therapy and recovery of renal function. Prostaglandins may be critical for the integrity of renal function, and the use of prostaglandin inhibitors such as indomethacin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may be deleterious in patients with underlying renal disease.
For early detection of a cerebral complication, rapid awakening from anesthesia is essential after craniotomy. Systemic hypertension is a major drawback associated with fast tracking, which may predispose to formation of intracranial hematoma. Although various drugs have been widely evaluated, there are limited data with regards to use of anesthetics to blunt emergence hypertension. We hypothesized that use of low-dose anesthetics during craniotomy closure facilitates early emergence with a decrease in hemodynamic consequences.
Three emergent techniques were evaluated in 150 normotensive adult patients operated for supratentorial tumors under standard isoflurane anesthesia. At the time of dural closure, the patients were randomized to receive low-dose propofol (3 mg.kg(-1).h(-1)), fentanyl (1.5 microg.kg(-1).h(-1)) or isoflurane (end-tidal concentration of 0.2%) until the beginning of skin closure. Nitrous oxide was discontinued after head dressing.
Median time to emergence was 6 min with propofol, 4 min with fentanyl, and 5 min with isoflurane (P=0.008). More patients had hypertension in the pre-extubation compared with extubation or postextubation phase (P=0.009). Comparing the three groups, fewer patients required esmolol with fentanyl use overall, and in the pre-extubation phase (P=0.01). Significant midline shift in the preoperative cerebral imaging scans was found to be an independent risk factor for emergence hypertension.
Pain during surgical closure may be an important cause of sympathetic stimulation leading to emergence hypertension. The use of low-doses of fentanyl during craniotomy closure is more advantageous than propofol or isoflurane for early emergence in neurosurgical patients and is the most effective technique for preventing early postoperative hypertension.
The Long-Evans Cinnamon (LEC) rats accumulate excess copper (Cu) in the liver in a manner similar to patients with Wilson's disease (WD) and spontaneously develop acute hepatitis with severe jaundice. Although hydroxyl radicals (*OH) have been proposed to be a cause of hepatitis by the accumulation of Cu, it is not clear whether or not *OH can be produced in the liver of hepatitic LEC rats in vivo and also can be involved in the onset of hepatitis. In the present study, *OH production in plasma and liver of hepatitic LEC rats was quantified by trapping *OH with salicylic acid (SA) as 2, 3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2, 3-DHBA). The ratios of 2, 3-DHBA/SA were significantly higher in plasma and liver of hepatitic LEC rats than those of Wistar rats and LEC rats showing no signs of hepatitis. Furthermore, the ratios of 2, 3-DHBA/SA in plasma and liver of hepatitic LEC rats were almost the same as those of Wistar rats treated orally with CuSO(4) (0.5 mmol/kg) 2 h before acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) injection. We also evaluated the protective effects of D-mannitol (a *OH scavenger) treatment against acute hepatitis in LEC rats. D-mannitol (500 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally to 10-week-old LEC rats for 3 weeks. D-mannitol treatment suppressed the increases in serum aspartate aminotransferase activity and total bilirubin concentration. In addition, D-mannitol treatment significantly reduced hepatic mitochondrial lipid peroxidation, which is thought to be important in the pathogenesis of Cu-induced hepatotoxicity. These observations suggest that accelerated generation of *OH catalyzed by free Cu in the liver may, at least in part, play a role in the pathogenesis of acute hepatitis in LEC rats.
To investigate possible associations of GM and KM markers with adult and juvenile forms of the idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIMs) in Caucasian and African American patients.
We performed serologic analyses of polymorphic determinants associated with immunoglobulin gamma heavy chains (GM) and kappa light chains (KM) in large populations of Caucasian patients (n= 514 [297 adults and 217 children]) and African American patients (n=123 [73 adults and 50 children]) with IIM representing the major clinical and autoantibody groups.
For Caucasian patients with dermatomyositis (DM), the Gm 3 23 5,13 phenotype was a risk factor in both adults (odds ratio [OR] 2.2, corrected P [Pcorr]=0.020) and children (OR 2.2, Pcorr=0.0013). Of interest, the GM 13 allotype was a risk factor for juvenile DM in both Caucasian subjects (OR 3.9, Pcorr<0.0001) and African American subjects (OR 4.8, Pcorr=0.033). However, the Gm 1,3,17 5,13,21 phenotype was a risk factor for juvenile DM in Caucasian subjects but not African American subjects. Among the IIM autoantibody groups, Gm 3 23 5,13 was a risk factor in Caucasian adults with anti-Jo-1 autoantibodies (OR 3.4, Pcorr=0.0031), while the GM 3 allotype was protective in adults with anti-threonyl-transfer RNA synthetase or anti-U RNP autoantibodies (OR 0.1, Pcorr=0.047 and OR 0.2, Pcorr=0.034, respectively). In contrast, GM 6 was a risk factor in African American adults with anti-signal recognition particle autoantibodies (OR 7.5, Pcorr=0.041).
These data suggest that polymorphic alleles of GM and KM loci are differentially associated with IIM subgroups defined by age, ethnicity, clinical features, and autoantibody status, and expand the list of immune response genes that are possibly important in the pathogenesis of myositis.
To analyze the side effects of captopril, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) in newborn and young infants.
Retrospective analysis of side effects in 43 patients with congenital heart disease after cardiac surgery treated with captopril for heart failure during a two-year period.
Median age of the patients was 26 days (range 6-310 days), median weight 3.5 kg (range 1.9-7.9 kg). Initial median dose of captopril was 0.17 mg/kg/day (range 0.05-0.55 mg/kg/day), slowly increased over 3-33 days to a maximal median dose of 1.86 mg/kg/day (range 0.2-2.3 mg/kg/day). All patients were additionally treated with diuretics. Side effects occurred in 17 patients (renal impairment or failure in 6, low blood pressure in 8, and oxygen saturation deficit in 3) requiring cessation or interruption in seven patients with renal impairment/failure (n=4), hypotension (n=1) and aorto-pulmonary shunting with low pulmonary perfusion (n=2). The six children who developed renal impairment or failure did so following a median delay of nine days after reaching the final dose and weighed on average 500 g less than the other patients (P=0.046). All side effects were fully reversible.
Side effects due to captopril were not dose-related in newborns and infants in this study. However, renal side effects occurred more often in smaller infants. Routine monitoring of infants on ACEI should include renal function tests, blood pressure and transcutaneous oxygen saturation measurements.
Despite "clinical lore" among health care providers that treatment with hydromorphone results in improved pain control and fewer adverse side effects, morphine continues to be the first-line medication for postoperative patient-controlled analgesia (PCA). In this study, we compared the efficacy and side-effect profiles of morphine and hydromorphone at concentrations producing equivalent drug effect measured by pain score and miosis.
We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial of 50 general and gynecological surgery patients. Subjects were randomly assigned to receive either morphine (1 mg/mL) or hydromorphone (0.2 mg/mL) via PCA after surgery and were followed for a period of 8 h. The primary outcome was nausea. Secondary outcome variables were pruritus, vomiting, sedation, pain report, pupillary miosis, and patient satisfaction.
The side effect profile was not different between drugs. The incidence of nausea did not differ between morphine and hydromorphone-treated patients (1 h: 44% vs 52%, 8 h: 68% vs 64%), vomiting (1 h: 4% vs 0%, 8 h: 0% vs 4%), or pruritus (1 h: 4% vs 16%, 8 h: 40% vs 40%). There was no difference in the amount of medication required to treat side effects or patient satisfaction. The average ratio of morphine to hydromorphone use was about 7:1. The patients used 10.9+/-6.0 mg morphine versus 1.57+/-1.0 mg hydromorphone after 1 h and 29.0+/-18.0 mg morphine versus 3.9+/-2.5 mg hydromorphone after 8 h. There was no difference between the morphine and hydromorphone groups with respect to postoperative pain scores with movement at 1 h (7.9+/-2.3 vs 7.1+/-2.4) or 8 h (5.7+/-2.8 vs 5.9+/-2.7). There was also no difference in pain at rest or miosis between groups.
We found no systematic difference between morphine and hydromorphone in opioid-related side effects. Neither was there any difference in efficacy of pain control or patient satisfaction when patients self-titrated to equal drug effect as measured by equianalgesia and pupillary miosis. The choice between morphine and hydromorphone for use in PCA should be guided by patient history, as there may be idiosyncratic reactions to either drug.
Urotoxic side effects, especially hemorrhagic cystitis, have so far been a limiting factor in the therapeutic use of cyclophosphamide (Endoxan), ifosfamide (Holoxan), and trofosfamide (Ixoten). The uroprotective agent mesna (Uromitexan) allows regional detoxification in the kidney and the urinary tract, and thus clinical prevention of the urotoxic side effects of the above cytostatics. The uroprotective mechanism of mesna is based on the formation of nontoxic additive compounds with acrolein and 4-hydroxy-metabolites. In the body, mesna is rapidly transformed into its biologically inert disulfide. After glomerular filtration mesna disulfide is rapidly reduced by reacting with the glutathion system and elimination in the urine as a free thiol compound, further detoxifying the aggressive oxazaphosphorine metabolites.
Concern about respiratory depression may lead to underuse of postoperative narcotic analgesia in neonates. The authors compared continuous infusion of fentanyl with bolus dosing in infants after surgery to determine whether continuous infusion is associated with less respiratory depression.
In the first phase of the study, 16 patients were randomly assigned to receive fentanyl by continuous infusion (C) or bolus dosing every 2 hours (B) in a double-blinded trial. Respiratory events were recorded. An observational pain score and saliva for cortisol concentration were obtained 2, 8, and 24 hours after beginning treatment to compare efficacy of pain control. In the second phase, 20 additional patients received fentanyl by continuous infusion in an unblinded fashion, with the same data collection, to more accurately determine the incidence of respiratory events.
In phase 1, apnea occurred in eight of nine B patients (89%) compared with one of seven C patients (14%; P < .009), prompting termination of the randomized trial. The incidence of apnea or significant respiratory depression in the next 20 patients (phase 2) who received fentanyl by continuous infusion was 25% (5 of 20; P < .01 v B). Episodes of apnea in B patients required significantly more intervention than episodes in C patients (P < .01). However, in phase 2, more patients remained intubated and ventilated than in phase 1. Pain scores and salivary cortisol concentrations decreased over the 24-hour study period and were similar in B and C patients during both phases of the study.
Continuous infusion of fentanyl at the doses studied is associated with pain control similar to that with bolus dosing at regular intervals. Although episodes of respiratory depression were less severe and less frequent for C patients, there may be an increased need for ventilator support with continuous infusion of fentanyl to achieve acceptable pain control. Providing adequate pain control to neonates in the immediate postoperative period remains a challenge.
We present the cases of two patients who suffered severe lower extremity injuries and subsequently developed phantom limb pain (PLP) that was refractory to high dose opioids and adjunctive pain medications. Both patients were receiving large doses of oral methadone, IV hydromorphone via a patient-controlled analgesia delivery system, and adjunctive medications including tricyclic antidepressants, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, and anti-epileptics. Despite these treatments, the patients had severe PLP. Upon induction of the oral N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist memantine, both patients had a profound reduction in their PLP without any apparent side effects from the medication.
Mitoxantrone is an anthraquinone structurally related to the anthracycline drugs doxorubicin and daunorubicin. In animal tumor models, it was equally cytotoxic as but less cardiotoxic than the parent compounds. We here describe the clinical course of a 9-year old girl who inadvertently received 100 mg/m2 of mitoxantrone as a bolus injection. Hemoperfusion carried out twice with the objective of increasing the drug clearance was totally inefficient. Severe but transient myelotoxicity was induced. Sequential echocardiograms demonstrated a reversible decrease of the shortening fraction of the left ventricle.
Although in experimental models of coronary occlusion diltiazem administration has been shown to reduce the degree of stunning and of reperfusion injury, the majority of clinical trials has failed to demonstrate significant benefits. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of diltiazem, administered before coronary reperfusion, on infarct size, residual myocardial viability and recovery of left ventricular function.
We studied 90 patients admitted within 3 hours of the onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction. They were immediately randomized to either intravenous diltiazem (10 mg bolus + 10 mg/hour for 3 days) (group 1, n = 43) or placebo (group 2, n = 47) and subsequently treated with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator. All underwent serial echocardiograms upon admission, 4 days post-admission during low-dose dobutamine stress echo, at discharge and after 6 months. We calculated the dysfunction score (1 = hypokinesia, 2 = akinesia, 3 = dyskinesia) on admission and its percent reduction after dobutamine (viability) and at follow-up (recovery). The 12-lead electrocardiograms were continuously monitored for 3 days and coronary angioplasty was performed whenever the residual stenosis was > 60%.
Upon admission, there were no differences in age, sex, infarct location and size, degree of ST-segment elevation, time from onset of symptoms and dysfunction score. Creatine kinase peaked early in 70% of patients in both groups; the incidences of recurrent ischemia, infarct-related vessel patency and the need for coronary angioplasty were also similar. The creatine kinase peak was significantly higher in group 2 (2931 +/- 2456 vs 1726 +/- 1004 IU/l, p < 0.05). Conversely, in group 1 the residual viability was significantly higher (51 +/- 23 vs 36 +/- 30% improvement in dysfunction score, p < 0.05) and the early recovery of regional function was significantly greater (35 +/- 34 vs 18 +/- 22% at discharge, p < 0.05). On the other hand, the delayed recovery was not significantly different (15 +/- 29 vs 21 +/- 32% from the time of discharge to 6 months of follow-up).
Intravenous diltiazem, started before coronary reperfusion, has beneficial effects on the infarct size, residual viability and recovery of regional function. If confirmed by larger trials, these preliminary results suggest the use of diltiazem as adjunctive therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction and undergoing reperfusion.
In most pediatric tumors, particularly sarcomas, cyclophosphamide or ifosfamide represent essential first-line chemotherapeutic agents. Whereas cyclophosphamide is known to be associated with a well-defined cardiomyopathy, only a few cardiac complications following ifosfamide chemotherapy have been observed to date. Here we report a patient treated for Ewing sarcoma with multiple pulmonary and osseous metastases who repeatedly developed a supraventricular tachyarrhythmia following administration of ifosfamide as part of a polychemotherapy regimen.
The authors attempted to reduce the rate of postpartum depression in high-risk women and to increase the time to recurrence.
Nondepressed pregnant women with at least one past episode of postpartum major depression were recruited into a randomized clinical trial. Mothers were assigned randomly to a 17-week trial of sertraline or placebo immediately after birth and assessed for 20 sequential weeks with the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression.
Of 14 subjects who took sertraline, one (7%) suffered a recurrence. Of eight subjects who were assigned to placebo, four (50%) suffered recurrences. This difference was significant. The time to recurrence was significantly longer in the sertraline-treated women than in the placebo-treated women.
Sertraline conferred preventive efficacy for postpartum-onset major depression beyond that of placebo.
To determine whether high-dose therapy (HDT) with autologous stem-cell transplantation (ASCT) should be included in the initial consolidative treatment of patients with advanced, unfavorable Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL).
One hundred sixty-three patients achieving complete remission (CR) or partial remission (PR) with four initial courses of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine, or other doxorubicin-containing regimens, were randomly assigned to receive HDT plus ASCT (83 patients) versus four courses of conventional chemotherapy (80 patients). Unfavorable HL was defined as the presence of at least two of the following poor prognostic factors: high lactate dehydrogenase level, large mediastinal mass (greater than at least 33% of the thoracic diameter), more than one extranodal site, low hematocrit level, and inguinal involvement.
At the end of the treatment program, 92% of patients in arm A and 89% in arm B achieved a CR (P =.6). After a median follow-up of 48 months, the 5-year failure-free survival rates were 75% (95% confidence interval [CI], 65 to 85) in arm A and 82% (95% CI, 73 to 90) in arm B (P =.4). The 5-year overall survival rates were 88% (95% CI, 80 to 96) in arm A and 88% (95% CI, 79 to 96) in arm B (P =.99). The 5-year relapse-free survival rates were 88% in arm A (95% CI, 80 to 96) and 94% in arm B (95% CI, 88 to 100), and the difference was not significant (P =.3).
Patients with advanced unfavorable HL achieving CR or PR after four courses of doxorubicin-containing regimens have a favorable outcome with conventional chemotherapy. No benefit from an early intensification with HDT and ASCT was shown.
Activating mutations in the BRAF gene occur in approximately 50% of melanomas. More than 70% of BRAF mutations are V600E and 10-30% are V600K. Potent and selective BRAF inhibitors have demonstrated significant clinical benefits in patients with V600E and V600K BRAF-mutated melanoma. V600R mutations constitute approximately 3-7% of all BRAF mutations and the activity of BRAF inhibitors in patients with this mutation is unknown. We have treated 45 patients with V600 mutated melanoma including patients with V600R mutation between July 2011 and October 2012 with the selective BRAF inhibitor dabrafenib (n=43) or vemurafenib (n=2) via a compassionate access programme. The overall response rate was 50% for the whole population with a progression-free survival of 5.5 months. Five objective responses were seen in six assessable patients with V600R BRAF mutation (n=9). Our experience suggests that patients with V600R BRAF mutations can be treated successfully with oral BRAF inhibitors, and molecular diagnostic assays should include detection of this type of mutation.
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome (RSDS) is clinically characterized by pain and edema of one or more extremities, trophic skin changes and vasomotor instability. Although the pathogenesis is unknown, it could be caused by an abnormal reflex of the sympathetic nervous system. Different studies haven't yet confirmed the classical division in three clinical phases (warm, of vasomotor instability and cold). Barbiturates are the precipitating event in 10-30% of cases. We describe the clinical features of a patient with RSDS associated with phenobarbital who needed corticosteroid treatment. The Technetium diphosphate bone scan (Tc 99m DPD) is very useful because there is an increased radionuclide uptake in the involved areas during the early phases of the disease and precedes in some weeks the radiologic signs. The Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) may be useful because of the early signs it shows. The patient may develop contractures and atrophy of the involved extremities in spite of the indispensable withdrawal of the drug.
Etomidate, formulated in propylene glycol, was used as the primary anesthetic agent in two dogs (No. 1 and 2) and etomidate, formulated in saline, was used as the primary anesthetic agent in an additional 20 dogs, while developing a canine model for baroreceptor sensitivity testing. Dogs 1 and 2 had signs of acute toxicosis after infusion of etomidate in propylene glycol. Dog 1 received less total etomidate than did dog 2, 5.9 mg/kg vs 15.8 mg/kg, respectively. Average infusion rates were 4.7 and 9 mg/kg/h, respectively. Dog 1 developed clinical signs of mild hemoglobinuria, whereas dog 2 recovered from anesthesia slowly, was obtunded, bradycardic, and hypothermic, with marked hemoglobinuria and intravascular hemolysis. After supportive treatment, dog 2 regained consciousness and hemodynamic variables improved within 12 h. None of the additional 20 dogs that received infusion of etomidate in saline had any clinical adverse effects, suggesting a causal relationship between the etomidate-propylene glycol formulation and the adverse effects in dogs 1 and 2. Although etomidate may be useful in designing cardiovascular models under general anesthesia, such complications may warrant use of a different etomidate formulation in the dog when the agent is administered at these infusion rates.
Previous studies have suggested that reactive oxygen species (ROS), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) are involved in the pathophysiology of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI). The NOX family of NADPH oxidases share the capacity to generate superoxide and ROS. Several studies have demonstrated that quercetin possesses a protective effect against MIRI. Our aim is to investigate the effects of quercetin on NOX2, eNOS, and iNOS after MIRI in rabbits. New Zealand rabbits were subjected to 30 min of myocardial ischemia followed by 12 h of reperfusion. They were then randomly assigned to four experimental groups: control, I/R (ischemia/reperfusion), quercetin (Que), I/R + Que. Gene and protein expression of NOX2, eNOS, and iNOS were compared. Both in real-time PCR and in the Western blotting studies, myocardial ischemia-reperfusion-induced NOX2 and iNOS expression were enhanced (P < 0.01) but eNOS mRNA and protein expression in I/R hearts were not significantly different from those in control (P < 0.01). Administration of quercetin reduced NOX2, eNOS, and iNOS mRNA and protein expression both in control and in I/R heart (P < 0.01). Gene and protein expression of NOX2 and iNOS were increased after MIRI. Quercetin not only inhibited myocardial ischemia-reperfusion-induced NOX2 and iNOS mRNA and protein expression but also inhibited eNOS mRNA and protein expression.
Inflammatory reactions accompanying ischemia increase the cytokine synthesis what leads to the increase in serum ceruloplasmin (Cp) concentration and activity. The aim of the study was to evaluate the association between serum Cp oxidase concentration and activity and the grade of lower extremity ischemia. Moreover, the correlation of Cp concentration and activity with the levels of interleukin 6 (IL-6), C-reacting protein (CRP), and a-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP) in serum was studied.
Two groups of patients were examined: 15 patients with moderate (MI) and 32 patients with critical ischemia (CI) of the lower extremities. Cp oxidase activity was measured spectrophotometrically, after incubation with o-dianisidine. The concentration of IL-6 was measured with the ELISA method, and Cp, CRP and AGP concentration by rocket immunoelectrophoresis.
Significant increase in Cp oxidase concentration and activity was observed in patients with critical limb ischemia (median: 164.8 U/L), especially in patients with necrotic changes (median: 216.6 U/L). Cp oxidase activity was dependent on its concentration in patients with critical limb ischemia with necrotic changes (r=0.56; P<0.01). In patients with critical limb ischemia, the increase in Cp concentration and activity correlated significantly with CRP concentration (r=0.46; P=0.0007) (r=0.62; P=0.0001), respectively.
Concentration and the oxidase activity of Cp depend of the degree of lower extremity ischemia and correlates with the major markers of inflammation, such as CRP. Critical limb ischemia induces the inflammatory reaction triggering the increase in IL-6 and of acute phase protein production. These processes lead to the increase in Cp oxidase activity dependent of Cp and CRP concentration.
The intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of ouabain (a Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase inhibitor) in rats has been suggested to mimic some symptoms of human bipolar mania. Clinical studies have shown that bipolar disorder may be related to mitochondrial dysfunction. Herein, we investigated the behavioral and biochemical effects induced by the ICV administration of ouabain in rats. To achieve this aim, the effects of ouabain injection immediately after and 7 days following a single ICV administration (at concentrations of 10(-2) and 10(-3)M) on locomotion was measured using the open-field test. Additionally, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARSs) and superoxide production were measured in submitochondrial particles of the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum and amygdala. Our findings demonstrated that ouabain at 10(-2) and 10(-3)M induced hyperlocomotion in rats, and this response remained up to 7 days following a single ICV injection. In addition, we observed that the persistent increase in the rat spontaneous locomotion is associated with increased TBARS levels and superoxide generation in submitochondrial particles in the prefrontal cortex, striatum and amygdala. In conclusion, ouabain-induced mania-like behavior may provide a useful animal model to test the hypothesis of the involvement of oxidative stress in bipolar disorder.
Six patients with Parkinson's disease and refractory motor fluctuations, with severe subcutaneous (s.c.) nodule formation as a result of long-term s.c. apomorphine infusions, were switched to intravenous (i.v.) therapy via a long-term in-dwelling venous catheter. Five patients were followed-up for a mean of 7 months (range 0.5-18 months). All patients had plasma apomorphine concentrations measured at baseline during s.c. infusions and three had follow-up measurements when stabilized on i.v. therapy, to test the hypothesis that motor fluctuations in these patients are largely due to impaired absorption of apomorphine. The mean i.v. rate of 9.0 mg/h (range 5-14 mg) and 24-h dose of 256.7 mg (range 90-456 mg) of apomorphine were not significantly reduced compared with the s.c. route (9.24 mg/h and 243.4 mg). However, additional oral anti-parkinsonian medication was reduced by a mean of 59%, and 'off' time was virtually eliminated (mean reduction from 5.4 to 0.5 h per day, P< 0.05). There was also a significant reduction in dyskinesias and markedly improved quality of life. Pharmacokinetic analysis demonstrated more reliable and smoother delivery of apomorphine via the i.v. route, although 'off' periods were not always explained by low plasma apomorphine concentrations. Complication rates were high and included three unforeseen hazardous intravascular thrombotic complications, secondary to apomorphine crystal accumulation, necessitating cardiothoracic surgery. We conclude that i.v. apomorphine therapy holds promise as a more effective way of controlling motor fluctuations than the s.c. route. However, further preclinical research is required before i.v. Britaject apomorphine can be recommended for routine clinical practice. Even when stable plasma apomorphine concentrations were achieved, motor fluctuations could not be totally eradicated, suggesting that postsynaptic receptor changes may also play a role in the refractory 'off' periods in these patients.
