Approximately 14% of genetic mutations in patients with ataxia-telangiectsia (A-T) are single-nucleotide changes that result in primary premature termination codons (PTCs), either UAA, UAG, or UGA. The purpose of this study was to explore a potential therapeutic approach for this subset of patients by using aminoglycosides to induce PTC read-through, thereby restoring levels of full-length ATM (A-T mutated) protein. In experiments using a modified in vitro cDNA coupled transcription/translation protein truncation test, 13 A-T cell lines carrying PTC mutations in different contexts exhibited read-through expression of ATM fragments, with three of four aminoglycosides tested. In ex vivo experiments with lymphoblastoid cell lines, we used radiosensitivity, radioresistant DNA synthesis, and irradiation-induced autophosphorylation of ATM Ser-1981 to show that the aminoglycoside-induced full-length ATM protein was functional and corrected, to various extents, the phenotype of A-T cells. These results encourage further testing of other compounds in this class, as well as follow up animal studies. Because some A-T patients with 5-20% of normal levels of ATM protein show slower neurological progression, A-T may prove to be a good model for aminoglycoside-induced read-through therapy.
The central role of T cell activation in hepatocellular injury has been well documented. In this article, we provide evidence suggesting that T cells may also play a protective role in liver disease by releasing interleukin-22 (IL-22), a recently identified T cell-derived cytokine whose biological significance is unclear. IL-22 messenger RNA and protein expression are significantly elevated in T cell-mediated hepatitis induced by concanavalin A (ConA) but are less extensively elevated in the carbon tetrachloride-induced liver injury model. Activated CD3(+) T cells are likely responsible for the production of IL-22 in the liver after injection of ConA. The IL-22 receptor is normally expressed at high levels by hepatocytes and further induced after ConA injection. IL-22 blockade with a neutralizing antibody reduces signal transducer and activator of transcription factor 3 (STAT3) activation and worsens liver injury in T cell-mediated hepatitis, whereas injection of recombinant IL-22 attenuates such injury. In vitro treatment with recombinant IL-22 or overexpression of IL-22 promotes cell growth and survival in human hepatocellular carcinoma HepG2 cells. Stable overexpression of IL-22 in HepG2 cells constitutively activates STAT3 and induces expression of a variety of antiapoptotic (e.g., Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, Mcl-1) and mitogenic (e.g., c-myc, cyclin D1, Rb2, CDK4) proteins. Blocking STAT3 activation abolishes the antiapoptotic and mitogenic actions of IL-22 in hepatic cells. In conclusion, the T cell-derived cytokine IL-22 is a survival factor for hepatocytes; this suggests that T cell activation may also prevent and repair liver injury by releasing hepatoprotective cytokine IL-22 in addition to its previously documented central role in hepatocellular injury.
In 3 patients with the long QT syndrome, one caused by quinidine and 2 of congenital origin, right ventricular monophasic action potentials were excessively prolonged and of varying shapes in different recording sites. In addition, effective refractory periods of the ventricular muscle were abnormally long.
The aim of this study was to evaluate efficacy and safety of lamivudine therapy in renal allograft recipients with chronic hepatitis B infection. Twenty-four patients with chronic hepatitis B after renal transplantation were observed. We obtained HBV replication blockage in 95% of patients, in half of them also ALT normalisation was observed. Delayed HBV replication blockage was observed in patients with prolonged duration of haemodialysotherapy or HBV infection and HCV coinfection, although listed parameters did not influence overall treatment efficacy. After lamivudine discontinuation HBV replication relapsed, in part of patients with ALT activity elevation. We did not observed any serious adverse reactions under lamivudine therapy.
Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is activated by phosphorylation of serine 1177 by the protein kinase Akt/PKB. Since hyperglycemia-induced mitochondrial superoxide overproduction increases O-linked N-acetylglucosamine modification and decreases O-linked phosphorylation of the transcription factor Sp1, the effect of hyperglycemia and the hexosamine pathway on eNOS was evaluated. In bovine aortic endothelial cells, hyperglycemia inhibited eNOS activity 67%, and treatment with glucosamine had a similar effect. Hyperglycemia-associated inhibition of eNOS was accompanied by a twofold increase in O-linked N-acetylglucosamine modification of eNOS and a reciprocal decrease in O-linked serine phosphorylation at residue 1177. Both the inhibition of eNOS and the changes in its post-translational modifications were reversed by antisense inhibition of glutamine:fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase, the rate-limiting enzyme of the hexosamine pathway, or by blocking mitochondrial superoxide overproduction with uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1) or manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD). Immunoblot analysis of cells expressing myc-tagged wild-type human eNOS confirmed the reciprocal increase in O-linked N-acetylglucosamine and decrease in O-linked serine 1177 phosphorylation in response to hyperglycemia. In contrast, when myc-tagged human eNOS carried a mutation at the Akt phosphorylation site (Ser1177), O-linked N-acetylglucosamine modification was unchanged by hyperglycemia and phospho-eNOS was undetectable. Similar changes in eNOS activity and covalent modification were found in aortae from diabetic animals. Chronic impairment of eNOS activity by this mechanism may partly explain the accelerated atherosclerosis of diabetes.
Pseudoachondroplasia (PSACH) and multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (MED) are two human autosomal dominant skeletal dysplasias characterized by variable short stature, joint laxity and early-onset degenerative joint disease. Both disorders can result from mut-ations in the gene for cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP), an extracellular matrix glycoprotein. About one-third of PSACH cases result from heterozygosity for deletion of one codon within a very short triplet repeat, (GAC)5, which encodes five consecutive aspartic acid residues within the calmodulin-like region of the COMP protein. We have identified two expansion mut-ations in this repeat: an MED patient carrying a (GAC)6allele and a PSACH patient carrying a (GAC)7allele. These are among the shortest disease-causing triplet repeat expansion mutations described thus far, and are the first identified in a GAC repeat. A unique feature of this sequence is that expansion as well as shortening of the repeat can cause the same disease. In cartilage, both patients have rough endoplasmic reticulum inclusions in chondrocytes. The inclusions are also present in tendon tissue and can be reproduced in cultured tendon cells, suggesting that the pathophysiology of disease is similar in both cartilage and tendon.
Two identical, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies enrolled 2061 adult surgical outpatients at high risk of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) to compare i.v. ondansetron 4 mg with droperidol 0.625 mg and droperidol 1.25 mg for the prevention of PONV. The antiemetic drugs or placebo were administered i.v. 20 min before the induction of anesthesia with a barbiturate compound, followed by maintenance with N2O/isoflurane/enflurane. Nausea, emetic episodes, adverse events, and patient satisfaction were analyzed for the 0 to 2 h and 0 to 24 h postoperative periods. In the 0 to 2 h postoperative period, there was a complete response (no emesis or rescue antiemetic) in 46% of subjects given placebo (P < 0.05 versus antiemetic groups), in 62% given ondansetron, in 63% given droperidol 0.625 mg, and in 69% given droperidol 1.25 mg (P < 0.05 versus ondansetron). In the 0 to 24-h postoperative period, there were no significant differences in complete response between the ondansetron and droperidol 0.625 or 1.25 mg groups; all groups remained superior to placebo. The proportion of patients without nausea during the 0 to 24 h postoperative period was greater in the antiemetic groups compared with the placebo group; however, droperidol 1.25 mg was more effective than ondansetron 4 mg or droperidol 0.625 mg (43% vs 29% or 29%, respectively). Headache incidence was higher in the ondansetron group compared with either droperidol group. Patient satisfaction scores did not differ significantly among antiemetic treatment groups, although all were superior to placebo. In conclusion, all antiemetic treatment regimens were superior to placebo for the prevention of PONV in the immediate postoperative period; however, droperidol 1.25 mg was more efficacious than ondansetron during the early recovery period (0-2 h). There were no significant differences between ondansetron and either droperidol dose for emesis prevention during the 0 to 24 h postoperative period.
More than 2000 patients at high risk of postoperative nausea and vomiting were given either placebo, ondansetron 4 mg, or droperidol 0.625 mg or 1.25 mg i.v. before the administration of general anesthesia. After surgery, the incidence of nausea, vomiting, medication side effects, and patient satisfaction were evaluated for 24 h. Droperidol 0.625 or 1.25 mg i.v. compared favorably with ondansetron 4 mg i.v. for the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting after ambulatory surgery.
Recent studies suggest that the stress (heat shock) response protects cells and tissues from inflammatory and other noxious insults. The transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB), normally sequestered in the cytoplasm by its inhibitory protein IkappaB, regulates many genes involved in the inflammatory response to critical illness. Endotoxemia is associated with increased NF-kappaB activity in liver but the effect of the stress response on endotoxin-induced NF-kappaB activation in the liver is not known. We hypothesized that the stress response inhibits NF-kappaB DNA binding activity in liver during endotoxemia. The stress response was induced in mice by hyperthermia (42 degrees C for 3 min) or sodium arsenite (10 mg/kg) and resulted in increased hepatic heat shock protein-72 levels. After induction of the stress response, mice were injected subcutaneously with endotoxin (12.5 mg/kg) or a corresponding volume of sterile saline. NF-kappaB DNA binding activity in the nuclear fraction of liver tissue increased and cytoplasmic IkappaB-alpha levels decreased after endotoxin injection, with a maximal effect seen at 60 min. The endotoxin-induced increase in NF-kappaB DNA binding activity and decrease in IkappaB-alpha levels were inhibited by prior induction of the stress response. In additional experiments, treatment of mice with sodium arsenite after induction of endotoxemia blunted the increase in NF-kappaB activity, indicating a therapeutic potential of sodium arsenite, in addition to its preventive effect. The present results suggest that the protective effects of the stress response in vivo may, at least in part, be due to inhibited NF-kappaB activation.
Orlistat is an oral inhibitor of gastrointestinal lipase used for weight reduction in obese patients. Although most adverse drug effects manifest in the gastrointestinal tract, this is the first reported case of orlistat-induced acute kidney injury secondary to acute oxalate nephropathy in a white woman with underlying chronic kidney disease. Acute kidney injury was associated temporally with an increased dose of orlistat and the development of increased fat malabsorption (more frequent loose oily stools). Urine sediment showed abundant calcium oxalate crystals and increased 24-hour urine oxalate concentration. Kidney biopsy showed deposition of calcium oxalate crystals within tubular lumens, consistent with acute oxalate nephropathy. Orlistat therapy was discontinued, and oral fluid intake was increased. A second kidney biopsy performed 1 month later to evaluate the slow resolution of kidney failure did not show calcium oxalate crystals within tubules. A steady improvement in renal function subsequently was observed. Results of a repeated 24-hour urine oxalate collection performed 3 weeks later when kidney function had improved were within normal limits.
Prenatal administration of adriamycin or nitrofen to pregnant mice produce in the embryos, respectively, esophageal atresia/VACTERL association (EA) or congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). Various genes and signalling pathways like sonic hedgehog, Gli family, retinoic acid and homeotic genes have been pointed out in the origin of these malformations. Hox genes are master regulatory genes involved in embryo segmentation and other main development processes. Hoxa3, Hoxb3, Hoxc3, Hoxc4 and Hoxa5 knock-out mice show cardiac, tracheal, lung and diaphragmatic malformations, EA and phenotypes that resemble that of VACTERL syndrome. We present herein some of our findings in the expression of these genes in both experimental models.
Pregnant mice were exposed either to 4 mg/kg of adriamycin or vehicle on embryonic days 7,5 and 8,5; embryos were recovered at four endpoints (E13 to 16). On the other hand, nitrofen was given to pregnant mice on embryonic day 8th and embryos were recovered at E14, E16 and E19. The embryos or, separately, their lungs and hearts, were randomly processed for immunohistochemical or molecular biology studies (RT-PCR). We used antibodies for Hoxa3, Hoxb3 and Hoxd3 proteins and specific primers for Hoxa3, Hoxa5, Hoxb3, Hoxb5, Hoxc4 and Hoxd3 genes.
EA: Upon immunohistochemistry, adriamycin-exposed embryos showed a severe decrease in expression of Hoxa3, Hoxb3 and Hoxb3 proteins in heart, skin, foregut but not in the heart. RT-PCR studies showed a statistically significant decrease of the four genes studied in the lungs of OA mice when compared to controls. CDH: Upon RT-PCR assessment the expression of Hoxa5 and Hoxb3 were higher in nitrofen-exposed mice than in controls on E14 and E19 and weaker on E16. As regards immunohistochemical localization, expression of the three genes was similar in nitrofen and control animals.
Both experimental models exhibit an alteration in the expression of several proximal Hox genes, specially in lung and car- diac tissues. The malformations in these organs associated with CDH and EA could be in part caused by these alterations. Due to their specific participation in lung and foregut morphogenesis, their study could let us to better understand the mechanisms of CDH and EA.
The ultrasound findings in a case of cyclophosphamide-induced acute haemorrhagic cystitis are reported. Radiologists should be familiar with these findings as the drug is used widely and the complication is not infrequent.
To investigate the relationship between the daily dose of the synthetic opioid methadone and the corrected QT (QTc) interval in a series of methadone-treated patients who developed torsade de pointes.
Retrospective case series analysis.
Outpatient pain management center and methadone maintenance treatment programs.
Seventeen patients who developed torsade de pointes while receiving very high daily doses of methadone.
The QTc intervals were calculated for each patient. The relationship between daily methadone dose and QTc interval was assessed and adjusted for clinical characteristics that may have independently prolonged cardiac repolarization. The mean QTc interval was 615 +/- 77 msec. Multiple linear regression indicated that only the daily methadone dose was predictive of the QTc interval (r = +0.51, p = 0.03). All other variables examined, such as age, sex, presence of hypokalemia or structural heart disease, and presence of QT-prolonging drugs, were not predictive of the QTc interval (minimum p = 0.28).
In this series, the daily methadone dose correlated positively with the QTc interval. This finding supports the possibility that methadone contributed to the development of arrhythmia.
To evaluate whether alpha-lipoic acid (LA) inhibits lens opacity of naphthalene-induced cataract by altering post-translational modifications (PTMs) and protecting the chaperone activity of alpha-crystallins.
Forty-five Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups: control, naphthalene, and naphthalene plus LA. Cataracts were induced by oral administration of 1 g naphthalene/kg body weight/day. Rats in the naphthalene plus LA group were also fed 30 mg LA/day. The development of naphthalene-initiated cataract was monitored every week by slit lamp microscopy for nine weeks, then the lens proteins were separated by HPLC, and peaks corresponding to alpha-crystallins were resolved on 2-DE. The spots of 2-DE were subjected to mass spectrometry to identify PTMs. Chaperone activity of alpha-crystallins was measured by heat-induced aggregation of betaL-crystallin.
The lenses of rats fed with naphthalene plus LA exhibited less light scattering than that fed with only naphthalene at three weeks after treatment (P < 0.01). C-terminal truncated alphaA crystallin was detected in naphthalene-induced cataract and was abrogated by LA treatment. Several other post-translational modifications were identified including methylation, phosphorylation, acetylation, carbamylation, and oxidation.
Our data are the first to show PTM changes induced by naphthalene in rat lenses. Our findings also indicate that LA can inhibit naphthalene-induced lens opacity by altering PTM and protecting the chaperone activity of alpha-crystallins.
Male C3H/He and C57BL/6 mice were given diets containing sodium phenobarbitone (PB) to allow a daily intake of 85 mg/kg. Control and treated animals were killed at 5, 30, 40, 60, and 80 wk. Other mice were killed in extremis or at the end of the respective experiments: 91 wk for C3H/He and 100 wk for the C57BL/6 animals. A basophilic nodule was found in 1/5 control C3H/He mice at 30 wk; these nodules increased in number with time so that nodules of this type were found in approximately 70% of animals by 91 wk. Nodules were not found in control C57BL/6 mice until 80 wk, when they were found in 4% of mice. PB treatment markedly increased the number of hepatic nodules in both strains of mice. The additional nodule burden was due to the development of a second nodule type formed of large cells with a predominantly eosinophilic cytoplasm. C3H/He animals given PB for 60 wk and then returned to a control diet bore fewer nodules at 91 wk than treated mice killed at 60 or 91 wk. The cumulative incidence of carcinoma in control C3H/He and C57BL/6 mice was 28 and 4%, respectively. The incidence of carcinoma was not increased by PB treatment in either strain. It is concluded that both strains of mice behave in a qualitively similar way to PB administration, although they show considerable quantitative differences in terms of the time and number of nodules that develop. Furthermore, the increased nodule numbers associated with PB treatment were not accompanied by an increase in the number of carcinomas.
Ifosfamide (IFS) is an antineoplastic alkylating agent whose major side effect is hemorrhagic cystitis (HC). This toxicity is attributed to the renal excretion of acrolein (ACR), a highly urotoxic IFS metabolite. Despite the clinical use of mesna to prevent HC, a significant percent ( approximately 33%) of patients present with at last one feature of HC, mainly hematuria.
To investigate the use of two antioxidants-amifostine and glutathione-for the prevention of experimental IFS- and ACR-induced HC.
Male Swiss mice were treated intraperitoneal (i.p.) with saline (control), glutathione (125, 250 or 500 mg/kg) or amifostine (25, 50 or 100 mg/kg), and 30 min later they received a single i.p. injection of IFS at a dose of 400 mg/kg. To investigate the systemic effects of the antioxidants on ACR-induced HC, the animals were treated with saline, amifostine (50 mg/kg, i.p.) or glutathione (500 mg/kg, i.p.), and 30 min afterward with 75 mug ACR intravesically (i.ve.). In another set of experiments, the antioxidants were injected directly into the bladder, where the mice received a single i.ve injection of ACR (75 mug) plus amifostine (1.5 mg/kg) or glutathione (2 mg/kg). HC was measured 3 h after IFS or ACR injection according to bladder wet weight, macroscopic (edema and hemorrhage) and microscopic changes, i.e., edema, hemorrhage, cellular infiltration, fibrin deposition and urothelial desquamation.
Pretreatments with amifostine or glutathione prevented IFS-induced HC in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, ACR-induced HC was also prevented by systemic (i.p.) or local (i.ve.) pretreatment with glutathione or amifostine. The greatest protective effect was seen with local amifostine treatment (2 mg/kg i.ve.) (P < 0.05).
Glutathione and amifostine show a beneficial effect in experimental IFS- and ACR-induced HC. Thus, they should be investigated as an alternative treatment to prevent HC observed in patients undergoing IFS treatment.
Susceptibility and resistance to systemic autoimmunity are genetically regulated. This is particularly true for murine mercury-induced autoimmunity (mHgIA) where DBA/2J mice are considered resistant to disease including polyclonal B cell activation, autoantibody responses, and immune complex deposits. To identify possible mechanisms for the resistance to mHgIA, we exposed mHgIA sensitive B10.S and resistant DBA/2J mice to HgCl2 and assessed inflammation and pro-inflammatory responses at the site of exposure and subsequent development of markers of systemic autoimmunity. DBA/2J mice showed little evidence of induration at the site of exposure, expression of proinflammatory cytokines, T cell activation, or autoantibody production, although they did exhibit increased levels of total serum IgG and IgG1. In contrast B10.S mice developed significant inflammation together with increased expression of inflammasome component NLRP3, proinflammatory cytokines IL-1β, TNF-α, and IFN-γ, hypergammaglobulinemia, splenomegaly, CD4(+) T-cell activation, and production of autoantibodies. Inflammation in B10.S mice was associated with a selective increase in activity of cysteine cathepsin B but not cathepsins L or S. Increased cathepsin B activity was not dependent on cytokines required for mHgIA but treatment with CA-074, a cathepsin B inhibitor, led to transient reduction of local induration, expression of inflammatory cytokines, and subsequent attenuation of the systemic adaptive immune response. These findings demonstrate that sensitivity to mHgIA is linked to an early cathepsin B regulated inflammatory response which can be pharmacologically exploited to abrogate the subsequent adaptive autoimmune response which leads to disease.
The ring-A-reduced progesterone derivative 5 alpha-pregnan-3 alpha-ol-20-one (tetrahydroprogesterone) is synthesized under normal physiological conditions in the brain and is a potent modulator of the GABA receptor. This neurosteroid has significant sedative and anxiolytic properties. Corticotropin-releasing hormone plays a major role in stress-induced activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, and sustained hyperactivity of hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone-producing neurons may be causally related to both, increased pituitary-adrenal secretion and behavioural symptoms observed in anxiety and affective disorders. We investigated the effect of tetrahydroprogesterone on corticotropin-releasing hormone-induced anxiety, the basal and methoxamine-stimulated release of corticotropin-releasing hormone from hypothalamic organ explants in vitro, and adrenalectomy-induced up-regulation of the gene expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus in rats. At doses of 5 and 10 micrograms i.c.v., tetrahydroprogesterone counteracted the anxiogenic action of 0.5 microgram of corticotropin-releasing hormone. Tetrahydroprogesterone did not alter the basal release of corticotropin-releasing hormone in vitro, but suppressed the stimulatory effect of the alpha 1-adrenergic agonist methoxamine on this parameter. Measurements of the steady-state levels of mRNA coding for corticotropin-releasing hormone by quantitative in situ-hybridization histochemistry revealed that tetrahydroprogesterone was equipotent with corticosterone in preventing adrenalectomy-induced up-regulation of peptide gene expression. Systemic administration of tetrahydroprogesterone also restrained adrenalectomy-induced thymus enlargement. These results demonstrate that tetrahydroprogesterone has anxiolytic effects that are mediated through interactions with hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone in both, genomic and non-genomic fashions.
Tardive dyskinesia is a serious motor side effect of chronic neuroleptic therapy. The pathophysiology of this disabling and commonly irreversible movement disorder is still obscure. It may be caused by a loss of dopaminergic cells, due to free radicals as a product of high synaptic dopamine levels. Chronic treatment with neuroleptics leads to the development of abnormal oral movements in rats called vacuous chewing movements. Vacuous chewing movements in rats are widely accepted as an animal model of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic haloperidol (1 mg/kg for 21 days) treatment significantly induced vacuous chewing movements and tongue protrusions in rats, and FK506 (Tacrolimus) [[3S-[3R*[E(1S*,3S*,4S*)],4S*,5R*,8S*,9E,12R*,14R*,15S*,16R*,18S*,19S*,26aR*]]-5,6,8,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,24,25,26,26a-hexadecahydro-5, 19-dihydroxy-3-[2-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxycyclohexyl)-1-methylethenyl]-14, 16-dimethoxy-4,10,12, 18-tetramethyl-8-(2-propenyl)-15, 19-epoxy-3H-pyrido[2,1-c][1,4] oxaazacyclotricosine-1,7,20, 21(4H,23H)-tetrone, monohydrate] dose dependently (0.5 and 1 mg/kg) reduced these haloperidol-induced movements. Biochemical analysis revealed that chronic haloperidol treatment significantly induced lipid peroxidation and decreased the levels of glutathione and of the antioxidant defense enzymes, superoxide dismutase and catalase, in the brains of rats. Co-administration of FK506 dose dependently (0.5 and 1 mg/kg) and significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation and restored the decreased glutathione levels induced by chronic haloperidol treatment. It also significantly reversed the haloperidol-induced decrease in brain superoxide dismutase and catalase levels. The major findings of the present study suggest that oxidative stress-induced neuronal death might play a significant role in neuroleptic-induced orofacial dyskinesia. In conclusion, FK506 could be a useful drug for the treatment of neuroleptic-induced orofacial dyskinesia.
Bone is a target for high affinity aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) ligands, such as dioxins. Although bone morphology, mineral density and strength are sensitive endpoints of dioxin toxicity, less is known about effects on bone microarchitecture and material properties. This study characterizes TCDD-induced modulations of bone tissue, and the role of AHR in dioxin-induced bone toxicity and for normal bone phenotype. Six AHR-knockout (Ahr(-/-)) and wild-type (Ahr(+/+)) mice of both genders were exposed to TCDD weekly for 10 weeks, at a total dose of 200μg/kgbw. Bones were examined with micro-computed tomography, nanoindentation and biomechanical testing. Serum levels of bone remodeling markers were analyzed, and the expression of genes related to osteogenic differentiation was profiled using PCR array. In Ahr(+/+) mice, TCDD-exposure resulted in harder bone matrix, thinner and more porous cortical bone, and a more compact trabecular bone compartment. Bone remodeling markers and altered expression of a number of osteogenesis related genes indicated imbalanced bone remodeling. Untreated Ahr(-/-) mice displayed a slightly modified bone phenotype as compared with untreated Ahr(+/+) mice, while TCDD exposure caused only a few changes in bones of Ahr(-/-) mice. Part of the effects of both TCDD-exposure and AHR-deficiency were gender dependent. In conclusion, exposure of adult mice to TCDD resulted in harder bone matrix, thinner cortical bone, mechanically weaker bones and most notably, increased trabecular bone volume fraction in Ahr(+/+) mice. AHR is involved in bone development of a normal bone phenotype, and is crucial for manifestation of TCDD-induced bone alterations.
Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) is the first antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) approved for patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic breast cancer. The therapeutic premise of ADCs is based on the hypothesis that targeted delivery of potent cytotoxic drugs to tumors will provide better tolerability and efficacy compared with non-targeted delivery, where poor tolerability can limit efficacious doses. Here, we present results from preclinical studies characterizing the toxicity profile of T-DM1, including limited assessment of unconjugated DM1. T-DM1 binds primate ErbB2 and human HER2 but not the rodent homolog c-neu. Therefore, antigen-dependent and non-antigen-dependent toxicity was evaluated in monkeys and rats, respectively, in both single- and repeat-dose studies; toxicity of DM1 was assessed in rats only. T-DM1 was well tolerated at doses up to 40 mg/kg (~4400 μg DM1/m(2)) and 30 mg/kg (~ 6000 μg DM1/m(2)) in rats and monkeys, respectively. In contrast, DM1 was only tolerated up to 0.2mg/kg (1600 μg DM1/m(2)). This suggests that at least two-fold higher doses of the cytotoxic agent are tolerated in T-DM1, supporting the premise of ADCs to improve the therapeutic index. In addition, T-DM1 and DM1 safety profiles were similar and consistent with the mechanism of action of DM1 (i.e., microtubule disruption). Findings included hepatic, bone marrow/hematologic (primarily platelet), lymphoid organ, and neuronal toxicities, and increased numbers of cells of epithelial and phagocytic origin in metaphase arrest. These adverse effects did not worsen with chronic dosing in monkeys and are consistent with those reported in T-DM1-treated patients to date.
Carbon monoxide (CO) synthesized by heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) exerts antinociceptive effects during inflammation but its role during neuropathic pain remains unknown. Our objective is to investigate the exact contribution of CO derived from HO-1 in the modulation of neuropathic pain and the mechanisms implicated.
We evaluated the antiallodynic and antihyperalgesic effects of CO following sciatic nerve injury in wild type (WT) or inducible nitric oxide synthase knockout (NOS2-KO) mice using two carbon monoxide-releasing molecules (CORM-2 and CORM-3) and an HO-1 inducer (cobalt protoporphyrin IX, CoPP) daily administered from days 10 to 20 after injury. The effects of CORM-2 and CoPP on the expression of HO-1, heme oxygenase 2 (HO-2), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS1) and NOS2 as well as a microglial marker (CD11b/c) were also assessed at day 20 after surgery in WT and NOS2-KO mice. In WT mice, the main neuropathic pain symptoms induced by nerve injury were significantly reduced in a time-dependent manner by treatment with CO-RMs or CoPP. Both CORM-2 and CoPP treatments increased HO-1 expression in WT mice, but only CoPP stimulated HO-1 in NOS2-KO animals. The increased expression of HO-2 induced by nerve injury in WT, but not in NOS2-KO mice, remains unaltered by CORM-2 or CoPP treatments. In contrast, the over-expression of CD11b/c, NOS1 and NOS2 induced by nerve injury in WT, but not in NOS2-KO mice, were significantly decreased by both CORM-2 and CoPP treatments. These data indicate that CO alleviates neuropathic pain through the reduction of spinal microglial activation and NOS1/NOS2 over-expression.
This study reports that an interaction between the CO and nitric oxide (NO) systems is taking place following sciatic nerve injury and reveals that increasing the exogenous (CO-RMs) or endogenous (CoPP) production of CO may represent a novel strategy for the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Peritoneal matrix accumulation is a characteristic of peritoneal fibrosis (PF). Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients with up-regulation of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) in their drained effluent show an increased risk of PF. Inhibition of TGF-beta1 expression in human peritoneal mesothelial cells (HPMC) may provide a potential treatment for PF. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) agonists are increasingly used in patients with diabetes, but their effects on extracellular matrix (ECM) turnover are unknown. The aims of this study were to investigate the effects of the PPAR-gamma agonist troglitazone on TGF-beta1 expression and matrix production in HPMC.
Human peritoneal mesothelial cells were cultured from human omentum by an enzyme digestion method, grown in a medium containing 30 mmol/L D-glucose. TGF-beta1 expression and matrix production and turnover were measured in HPMC in the presence and absence of 15 micromol/L troglitazone. The mRNA expressions of TGF-beta(1), Collagen I (Col I) and fibronectin (FN) were determined by semiquantification reverse-transcriptive polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The protein of TGF-beta1 was determined by ELISA and proteins of Col I, FN were determined by western blot.
The mRNA expression and protein of TGF-beta(1), Col I, FN were significantly increased in HPMC stimulated with 30 mmol/L D-glucose compared to the control group with F12 media (P < 0.01), which was reversed in the presence of troglitazone (15 micromol/L). Obvious decrease of TGF-beta(1) was found in troglitazone-treated groups as compared to groups stimulated with GS (P < 0.05). Exposure of HPMC to troglitazone reduced collagen I secretion (P < 0.05), and fibronectin secretion (P < 0.05).
Troglitazone reduce the expression of TGF-beta(1) in HPMC stimulated by 30 mmol/L D-glucose, and reduces ECM production. These studies suggest that the PPAR-gamma agonists may have a specific role in ameliorating the course of progressive peritoneal fibrosis under long-term peritoneal dialysis states.
Three years after the withdrawal of fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine from the market, the magnitude and prevalence of their deleterious cardiopulmonary effects remain undetermined. The links between these anorexigens and valvular heart disease and primary pulmonary hypertension, however, are clearly established. Because some evidence indicates that the valvular lesions may regress with cessation of the drug, management guidelines are still in flux. Patient reassurance and close surveillance, including serial echocardiography in selected cases, are warranted.
Antituberculosis drug-induced hepatitis attributed to isoniazid (INH) is one of the most prevalent drug-induced liver injuries. INH is metabolized by hepatic N-acetyltransferase (NAT) and cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) to form hepatotoxins. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether polymorphisms of the NAT2 and/or CYP2E1 genes were associated with antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity in Korean patients. A total of 132 patients with tuberculosis who received antituberculosis treatment were followed prospectively. Their NAT2 and CYP2E1 genotypes were determined using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with or without sequencing. Eighteen (13.6%) patients developed antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity. Regarding NAT2, slow acetylators had a higher incidence of hepatotoxicity than rapid acetylators (36.8% vs. 9.7%, P=0.005) and there was a 3.8-fold risk of hepatotoxicity for the slow acetylators compared to the rapid acetylators. For the CYP2E1 gene, the RsaI polymorphism in the 5' untranslated region, and a polymorphic repetitive sequence at the CYP2E1 5'-flaking region were analyzed; there was no significant association between any CYP2E1 genotype and antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity. In conclusion, slow acetylator status of NAT2 was a significant susceptibility risk factor for antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity; NAT2 genotyping may be a useful tool for predicting antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity.
We have studied the effect of clonidine pretreatment on cardiovascular responses to various stimuli during craniotomy. Fifty-eight patients (ASA Class I-II), scheduled for supratentorial surgery, were randomly given either oral clonidine, mean dose 3.6 micrograms/kg (n = 28), or oral diazepam, 0.2 mg/kg (n = 30), ninety to one hundred minutes before surgery. Anaesthesia was induced with thiopentone and maintained with nitrous oxide:oxygen, pentazocine and halothane. Pancuronium was used as a neuromuscular blocker. Mean arterial pressure and heart rate were recorded before and after several stimuli. In the clonidine group hypertensive response was significantly less on laryngoscopy (6.5% increases versus 11.2% in the diazepam group), intubation (9.2% versus 16.5%), Mayfield clamp application (14.5% versus 29.91%) and after skin infiltration with lignocaine-adrenaline solution (2.95% versus 5.42%). Heart rate response to laryngoscopy, intubation and skin infiltration was also significantly attenuated in the clonidine group. The sleep dose of thiopentone was smaller in patients pretreated with clonidine. Patients in the diazepam group required more medical intervention. No adverse effect occurred in any patient.
Neurological complications of metronidazole are rare, predominantly peripheral neuropathies, especially in patients on a long-term high-dose regimen. Cerebellar syndrome or seizures are less frequently reported. The concomitant occurrence of the three complications is exceptional.
We report herein a case with these three complications as side effects of metronidazole. For the cerebellar syndrome, the T2-weighted brain MRI showed a rounded and well-delimited zone of high signal intensity in the cerebellar dentate nuclei, extending up to the protuberance and the subthalamic nucleus, bilaterally and symmetrically.
Neurological complications are possible when a treatment with metronidazole is prescribed for a long duration or at high dose. In our patient, the clinical abnormalities and MRI signs regressed a few months after treatment withdrawal.
In extensive clinical trials, both cimetidine and ranitidine appeared free of central nervous system side effects. The potential for neurologic complications became apparent only after these drugs had been subjected to the test of general use. The incidence of side effects is generally low, but in the elderly and in patients with renal or hepatic failure, both of these drugs can produce confusional states. Ranitidine may also cause severe headache.
The post-mortem examination of the nervous system of a patient with Shy-Drager syndrome successfully treated with levodopa (Sharpe et al, 1972) revealed features of striato-nigral degeneration and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a cerebellar system degeneration and a loss of approximately 75% of sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Lewy bodies were not present and no detectable changes were observed in the sympathetic prevertebral ganglia. While the limited and transient beneficial effect of levodopa on the bradykinesia in our case is possibly due to the progressive loss of striatal dopaminergic receptors seen in striatonigral degeneration, we propose that in Shy-Drager syndrome, levodopa therapy benefits orthostatic hypotension because of a suppression of the central depressor action of this drug. This suppression is attributable to functional disconnection of sympathetic ganglia secondary to the loss of preganglionic neurons or to degeneration of central autonomic catecholaminergic systems.
