Dystonia is a common manifestation in Wilson's disease (WD). The striatum, especially the putamen, has been considered to be responsible for dystonia. We reported 3 patients who developed acute generalized dystonia and akinetic rigid syndrome following an initial therapy with d-penicillamine 125-500 mg daily. Brain MRI revealed lesions in the thalamus and the brainstem, particularly the tegmentum, and the basis pontis in addition to the basal ganglion lesions. After the episode, 1 patient continued to receive d-penicillamine therapy and 2 changed to zinc sulfate treatment. The generalized dystonia improved in the following 3 months and 3 years respectively in 2 patients. Follow-up brain MRI of these 2 patients revealed that the lesions in the thalamus and brainstem disappeared or resolved almost completely. From these data, acute generalized dystonia with brainstem and thalamic lesions may occur in WD patients after an initial d-penicillamine therapy. Furthermore, the dystonia may resolve following the disappearance of the brainstem and thalamic lesions.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial examining the joint action of naltrexone (NTX) in combination with relapse prevention (RP) therapy for the treatment of cocaine dependence was conducted. Eighty-five participants who achieved initial abstinence during the intake evaluation and detoxification phase of the study were randomized into 1 of 4 combined NTX (0 vs. 50 mg) by therapy (RP vs. Drug Counseling) experimental conditions for the 12-week outpatient treatment phase of the study. A random effects regression model to test for group differences on percentage of cocaine-positive urines indicated a significant time by medication by therapy interaction, suggesting less cocaine use over time among subjects receiving RP-50 mg than those in the other conditions. No differences were found for retention or time until first cocaine-positive urine. Naltrexone was well tolerated by participants, with acceptable rates of medication compliance observed. Treatment integrity measures confirmed successful manipulation of the psychotherapy. These results are consistent with the notion that substance use in dependent patients can be reduced with a combination of coping skills training and pharmacologic treatments.
To analyze relation between the use of corticosteroids in the treatment for severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) patients and arthralgia as a sequela.
Clinical date of 30 SARS patients without other diseases in whom corticosteroid was used were reviewed including total dosage, duration of use, the highest dosage and its duration, and speed of reduction in dosage. The information about arthralgia was investigated one month after discharge of SARS patients from the hospital.
The average total dosage of methylprednisolone was (4 244.16+/-2 292.30) mg, and the duration of use of the treatment was (25.36+/-5.88) days (ranging from 12 to 35 days). The maximum dosage was (321.33+/-174.03) mg/d, and the duration of its use was (7.73+/-4.08) days. The speed of reduction of dosage of corticosteroids was (21.33+/-10.18) mg/d. There were 26 of 30 patients (86.67 percent) experienced arthralgia symptom during convalescence. In 3.6 percent of patients arthralgia occurred within one month after SARS, 53.85 percent of the patients experienced low-grade arthralgia. By unifactor analysis, the total dosage and its duration of use, the highest dosage and its duration, speed of reduction of dosage of corticosteroids were correlated with the degree of arthralgia, respectively. The duration of arthralgia was correlated with the total dosage, the duration of high dosage, and high dosage. Age was not correlated with either the degree or the persisting time of arthralgia. The degree of arthralgia was only correlated with the total dosage, and the duration of arthralgia was correlated with administration time of glucocorticosteroids by multifactor analysis.
There is a dosage- effect relation between the degree of arthralgia and the total dosage of corticosteroid, and a time-effect relation between the duration of arthralgia and length of the use of corticosteroids.
Pathophysiologic changes and risks associated with isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) are described, findings of clinical trials pertaining to ISH are summarized, and recommendations for management are provided. ISH is the most frequent type of hypertension in patients over 65 years of age and is associated with increased cardiovascular and cerebrovascular morbidity and mortality. Decreased arterial compliance, increased peripheral vascular resistance, changes in cardiac output, decreases in plasma renin activity, and reduced beta-adrenergic function are all possible mechanism contributing to hypertension in older patients. Environmental factors that may contribute to hypertension in this population include diet, exercise, and salt sensitivity. Currently, the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP) is the only study that has evaluated the efficacy of treating ISH. The risk of stroke was lowered in patients who received low doses of the diuretic chlorthalidone, which was well tolerated with minimal adverse effects. Thiazide diuretics, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors, calcium antagonists, and isosorbide dinitrate have been shown to lower systolic blood pressure (SBP) in patients with ISH. Because the SHEP study is the only trial to document a decrease in morbidity, diuretics are considered firstline therapy for patients with a SBP of > or = 160 mm Hg. In older patients, it is prudent to initiate antihypertensive therapy at lower doses with a more gradual increase in dosage. The SHEP trial demonstrated a significant reduction in morbidity with a trend toward decreased mortality when patients with ISH received pharmacologic treatment. More studies are necessary to determine whether other antihypertensive agents will have similar effects on mortality in patients with ISH.
Multiple myeloma is still an incurable disease; therefore, new therapeutics are urgently needed. A771726 is the active metabolite of the immunosuppressive drug leflunomide, which is currently applied in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, BK virus nephropathy, and cytomegaly viremia. Here, we show that dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) is commonly expressed in multiple myeloma cell lines and primary multiple myeloma cells. The DHODH inhibitor A771726 inhibits cell growth in common myeloma cell lines at clinically achievable concentrations in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Annexin V-FITC/propidium iodide staining revealed induction of apoptosis of multiple myeloma cell lines and primary multiple myeloma cells. The 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine cell proliferation assay showed that inhibition of cell growth was partly due to inhibition of multiple myeloma cell proliferation. A771726 induced G(1) cell cycle arrest via modulation of cyclin D2 and pRb expression. A771726 decreased phosphorylation of protein kinase B (Akt), p70S6K, and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein-1 as shown by Western blotting experiments. Furthermore, we show that the stimulatory effect of conditioned medium of HS-5 bone marrow stromal cells on multiple myeloma cell growth is completely abrogated by A771726. In addition, synergism studies revealed synergistic and additive activity of A771726 together with the genotoxic agents melphalan, treosulfan, and doxorubicin as well as with dexamethasone and bortezomib. Taken together, we show that inhibition of DHODH by A771726/leflunomide is effective in multiple myeloma. Considering the favorable toxicity profile and the great clinical experience with leflunomide in rheumatoid arthritis, this drug represents a potential new candidate for targeted therapy in multiple myeloma.
Sixty patients scheduled for planned extracapsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens (IOL) implantation were randomly assigned to receive acetylcholine chloride, carbachol, or balanced salt solution (BSS) immediately after IOL placement and at the end of the surgical case. As part of the postoperative evaluation, patients were examined at the first and eighth postoperative day with a Kowa FC-1000 laser flare and cell meter to assess objectively the amount of postoperative inflammation. At day one and day eight, the amount of cell and flare in the carbachol group was significantly greater than in the acetylcholine group or in the BSS control group. The acetylcholine group had significantly less flare than the BSS group at day one; yet there was no difference between the two groups at day eight, nor was there a significant difference in the amount of cells between day one and day eight. It is presumed that the prolonged miosis seen in the carbachol group delays the re-establishment of the blood-aqueous barrier after surgery, causing the inflammatory response.
We report on a case of adriamycin cardiotoxicity occurring in a five-year-old boy treated for rhabdomyosarcoma. In addition to the usual features of myofibrillary degeneration associated with adriamycin, extreme endocardial fibrosis and mural thrombosis affecting the apical segments of both ventricles but particularly the left ventricle was seen at necropsy. The changes resembled classical endomyocardial fibrosis.
Miconazole was administered intravenously in six consecutive patients with, active coccidioidal infection. Such treatment was associated with progressive anemia and thrombocytosis. The hematological abnormalities appeared to be dose related and potentially reversible. Bone marrow studies demonstrated erythroid hypoplasia and increased or active platelet production in three subjects. No hemorrhagic or thrombotic episodes were identified. It is suggested that careful hematological monitoring be performed in subjects undergoing systemic miconazole therapy.
Anthracycline-containing chemotherapy has been the most frequently observed cause of iatrogenic cardiac damage in patients with breast cancer. The purpose of this study was to evaluate by radionuclide ventriculography whether a mean cumulative dose of epirubicin (MCDE) induced left ventricular (LV) systolic or/and diastolic dysfunction in 32 patients treated for breast cancer.
Thirty-two patients with breast cancer according to chemotherapeutical trials received MCDE of 360 m/m2. All patients were studied before and after they completed chemotherapy with radionuclide ventriculography at rest. Systolic and diastolic left ventricular parameters were assessed.
Diastolic left ventricular parameters and R-R intervals significantly differed before and after completed chemotherapy in our patients: peak filling rate (PFR: 2.8 +/- 0.6 vs. 2.2 +/- 0.7 EDV/sec) and time to filling rate (TPFR: 182 +/- 48 vs. 2.25 +/- 50 msec), R-R: 723 +/- 51 vs. 620 +/- 45 msec, p < 0.01. Ejection fraction, as a systolic parameter/did not significantly differ before and after completed chemotherapy (EF: 59 +/- 7 vs. 58 +/- 6%), p > 0.05.
Our results indicate that left ventricular diastolic dysfunction even at an MCDE of 360 mg/m2 may be an early sign of epirubicin cardiotoxicity.
Diets rich in natural antioxidants are associated with reduced risk of heart diseases. This study was aimed to evaluate the preventive role of naringin on cardiac troponin T (cTnT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)-isoenzyme, cardiac marker enzymes, electrocardiographic (ECG)-patterns and lysosomal enzymes in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction (MI) in male Wistar rats. Rats subcutaneously injected with ISO (85mg/kg) at an interval of 24h for 2 days showed a significant increase in the levels of cTnT, intensity of the bands of LDH-isoenzyme (LDH1 and LDH2) and the activities of cardiac marker enzymes such as creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB), creatine kinase (CK), LDH, aspartate transaminase (AST) and alanine transaminase (ALT) in serum with subsequent decrease in the activities of CK, LDH, AST and ALT in the heart and alterations in ECG-patterns. The activities of lysosomal enzymes (beta-glucuronidase, beta-N-acetyl glucosaminidase, beta-galactosidase, cathepsin-B and cathepsin-D) were increased significantly in serum and the heart of ISO-induced rats, but the activities of beta-glucuronidase and cathepsin-D were decreased significantly in the lysosomal fraction of the heart. Pretreatment with naringin (10, 20 or 40mg/kg) daily for a period of 56 days positively altered the levels of cTnT, intensity of the bands of the LDH1 and LDH2-isoenzyme and the activities of cardiac marker enzymes, ECG-patterns and lysosomal hydrolases in ISO-induced rats. Thus, naringin possess cardioprotective effect in ISO-induced MI in rats.
A term infant who had a positive urine drug screen for cocaine is reported. There was ultrasonographic evidence of an intracranial hemorrhage. A small area of low echogenicity in the left caudothalamic groove documented at 96 hours of age was resolved on repeat ultrasonography at 16 days of age. This neonate was born by repeat cesarean section and growth was appropriate for gestational age. The findings indicate the importance of considering cerebrovascular events in neonates exposed to cocaine in utero.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor therapy elicits beneficial responses from patients with heart failure. We hypothesized that a major site of action of these drugs is tissue ACE and that ACE inhibitors might differ in their ability to inhibit tissue ACE. To test this hypothesis, we assessed the effects of captopril and enalapril on blood pressure and renal function and on serum and tissue ACE activities in sham-operated rats and rats with heart failure induced by coronary artery ligation.
During short-term (1-week) treatment, captopril (200 mg.kg-1.day-1) and enalapril (25 mg.kg-1.day-1) elicited equipotent effects on blood pressure and inhibition of serum ACE activity (85%). The effects of long-term treatment (47 days) were then studied beginning 45 +/- 5 days after coronary ligation in four treatment groups: sham-operated, vehicle (n = 14); heart failure, vehicle (n = 10); heart failure, captopril (n = 8); and heart failure, enalapril rats (n = 7). During long-term treatment, captopril and enalapril caused comparable falls of 12-18 mm Hg in blood pressure (p < 0.01 compared with vehicle treatment). There was no change in urine volume or sodium or potassium excretion in vehicle- or captopril-treated heart failure rats; in contrast, enalapril-treated heart failure rats demonstrated 83% and 10% increases in urine volume and daily sodium excretion, respectively, compared with vehicle-treated rats (both p < or = 0.01). No significant changes in blood urea nitrogen or creatinine were observed with either treatment. Enalapril but not captopril elicited a significant decrease in serum and lung ACE activities. Captopril but not enalapril inhibited aortic ACE activity. Both agents caused a comparable inhibition of renal ACE activity. The magnitude of inhibition of renal ACE activity but not serum and vascular (aortic) ACE activities correlated with the long-term blood pressure response. Enalapril but not captopril normalized renal angiotensinogen expression; the magnitude of this effect correlated with the increase in daily urinary sodium excretion (r = -0.43; p < or = 0.005).
These data suggest that chronic treatment with these two agents elicits differential effects on tissue ACE activities and renal angiotensinogen regulation. The differential renal effects of these agents may be important in the treatment of heart failure.
Ketamine is a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor channel blocker known to inhibit "wind-up" and hence central hyperexcitability of dorsal horn neurons. We sought to assess the effect of ketamine on single and repeated nociceptive stimuli. A placebo-controlled, human (12 volunteers) experimental study was conducted in which several psychophysical (pain detection and tolerance thresholds, magnitude ratings) and electrophysiologic (withdrawal reflex) techniques were used 1) to investigate whether a ketamine (0.5 mg/kg) bolus followed by a 20-min infusion (9 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) inhibits central temporal summation to repeated nociceptive electrical stimuli, and 2) to assess quantitatively the hypoalgesic potency using several experimental nociceptive stimuli (argon laser, pressure, electrical). Facilitation of the withdrawal reflex to and pain rating of repeated electrical stimuli (five pulses at 2 Hz) were inhibited by ketamine. Reflex and pain rating to a single stimulus did not change. The pressure pain detection and tolerance thresholds were increased significantly by ketamine, whereas the laser heat pain and tolerance thresholds remained stable compared with placebo. The stimulus response function showed that ketamine reduced the responses to the highest electrical stimulus intensities (1.4, 1.6, and 1.8 times the reflex threshold). We conclude that ketamine inhibits central temporal summation in humans and has a marked hypoalgesic effect on high intensity nociceptive stimuli.
Certain arrhythmias detected on the electrocardiogram are considered to be reliable indicators of digitalis intoxication. We have evaluated the incidence of these arrhythmias on 24-hour electrocardiographic monitoring (Holter monitoring) in 69 consecutive patients who had serum levels of digoxin determined within 24 hours of the onset of continuous electrocardiographic monitoring. According to teh serum level of digoxin, the patients were divided into the following three groups: (1) group 1 had 0 to 1.0 ng/ml (31 patients); (2) group 2 had 1.1 to 2.0 ng/ml (27 patients); and group 3 had greater than or equal to 2.1 ng/ml (11 patients). The following arrhythmias were considered to reflect digitalis-provoked arrhythmias: (1) persistent sinus bradycardia or sinus pauses (or both); (2) atrioventricular block; (3) paroxysmal atrial tachycardia with block; (4) accelerated junction rhythm; (5) complex ventricular arrhythmias (multifocal ventricular premature beats, bigeminy and trigeminy, and pairs); and (6) ventricular tachycardia. There was no significant difference in the incidence of these six categories of arrhythmias among the three groups. In addition, there was no significant difference in the mean serum level of digoxin for patients with and without the arrhythmias within each category. Ten of the 69 patients had combinations of three of the so-called digitalis-provoked arrhythmias, with incidences among the three groups showing no significant differences. In conclusion, rhythms considered to be potentially due to digitalis intoxication are frequently observed in hospitalized patients undergoing 24-hour electrocardiographic monitoring, are frequently unrelated to the serum level of digoxin, and appear unlikely to reflect true digitalis intoxication in many of these patients.
Five patients with severe left ventricular failure, renal insufficiency, and recurrent ventricular tachycardia had cardiovascular collapse and died eight hours to 23 days after initiation of the usual doses of disopyramide. Three patients had recent myocardial infarction (12 to 33 days), and one had severe congestive cardiomyopathy. ECG changes antedated appearance of cardiovascular collapse and consisted of lengthening of the QRS (0.10 plus or minus 0.02 to 0.22 plus or minus 0.09; P less than 0.025) and the QTc duration (0.44 plus or minus 0.04 to 0.56 plus or minus 0.09; P less than 0.05). Sinus bradycardia or varying degrees of atrioventricular block or both occurred in all patients. Terminal disopyramide blood concentration (4.9 and 8.1 micrograms/ml) were available in two patients. A syndrome of progressive lengthening of ventricular depolarization and repolarization terminating in cardiovascular collapse and death associated with disopyramide is described. In addition, a high incidence of sinus bradycardia, atrioventricular conduction disturbances, or both was also noted. Disopyramide is contraindicated in patients with severe heart failure and renal insufficiency. Progressive widening of the QRS complex or the QT interval may presage appearance of severe myocardial dysfunction.
Six cases of hearing impairment have been presented. Furosemide was administered to all of these patients at the time of the alleged onset of the deafness. None of the known or suspected causes of deafness occurring in transplant patients was evident in these cases. With the experimental evidence that furosemide does induce stria damage and the absence of other recognized causes of deafness in this series of patients, furosemide must be considered the etiologic agent responsible for the permanent sensorineural hearing loss. A characteristic audiometric pattern of hearing impairment emerged and a possible explanation for these features has been given. Certain precautionary steps in the use of ototoxic drugs are suggested.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) was instilled into the bladder of 25 unselected patients suffering from post-operative urinary retention. Prior to this PGE2 application the patients were treated by a number of conservative methods without any success. 14 patients were unable to pass water spontaneously, 11 showed residual urines between 80 and 250 ml. As a rule 40 cc of an aqueous solution of PGE2 at body temperature was instilled into the catheterised bladder in the morning (14 times 0.75 mg and 11 times 1.5 mg) while the advice was given to avoid micturition for six hours. After this period and on the next morning micturition was allowed and the amount of residual was measured. When absolute urinary retention continued or the amount of residual urine exceeded 30 ml the instillation of PGE2 was repeated. Eight patients were able to empty the bladder at the first trial of micturition after PGE2 medication; on the next morning 3 additional patients were without residual urine. An obvious improvement of the initial situation was achieved in 12 additional cases (9 times spontaneous micturition for the first time and 3 times distinct diminution of residual urine). Only 2 test persons were treated without success. In 9 cases the instillation of PGE2 was repeated and thus 5 times complete emptying of the bladder was achieved as well as 4 times a marked reduction of residual urine. In 4 cases one to three days after successful PGE2 treatment retention of urine occurred again. No untoward side effects were observed.
The present study evaluated the prognostic significance of apoptosis-related proteins, p53, Bcl-2, Bax, and galectin-3 in patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer treated with definitive chemoradiotherapy.
A total of 63 patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer (squamous cell carcinoma: 62; adenocarcinoma: 1; stages II-IV) were treated with definitive chemoradiotherapy using 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin combined with radiotherapy. Pretreatment tumor biopsy specimens were analyzed for p53, Bcl-2, Bax, and galectin-3 expression by immunohistochemistry.
High expression of Bax, p53, Bcl-2, and galectin-3 was observed in 67%, 47%, 24%, and 29% of patients, respectively. The median overall survival (OS) of total patients was 14 months with 16% of 3-year OS. High expression of p53, Bcl-2, and galectin-3 did not show correlation with clinicopathologic characteristics, including patient outcome. Low expression of Bax was significantly correlated with lack of clinical complete response (P=0.023). Low expression of Bax was also associated with poor OS (median, 8 months versus 16 months; P=0.0008) in univariate analysis. In multivariate analysis, low expression of Bax was the most significant independent predictor of poor OS (P=0.009), followed by low dose intensity of cisplatin and lack of clinical complete response.
Low expression of Bax was significantly associated with the poor survival of patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer treated with chemoradiotherapy using 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin. Immunohistochemical staining for Bax with a pretreatment biopsy specimen might be useful to select the optimal treatment options for these patients.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by dysfunction in three primary behavioural domains: repetitive behaviours, social deficits, and language abnormalities. There is evidence that abnormalities exist in the serotonin (5-HT) system in autism spectrum patients. Furthermore, 5-HT is known to play a role in repetitive and social behaviours. This study examined the effect of m-chlorophenylpiperazine (m-CPP) on repetitive behaviours and prolactin response in 11 adults with autism or Aspergers disorder and 8 age- and gender-matched healthy controls via randomized double-blind, m-CPP and placebo challenges. The primary outcome measure was an instrument rating six repetitive behaviours: need to know, repeating, ordering, need to tell/ask, self-injury, and touching. Patients with autism spectrum disorders showed a significant increase in repetitive behaviours at end-point following oral m-CPP in comparison to placebo. Additionally subjects with autism spectrum disorders showed a significantly increased prolactin response to m-CPP compared to normal controls, with neither group responding to placebo. This study provides further evidence for altered 5-HT sensitivity in individuals with autism spectrum disorders, as well as a possible relationship between repetitive behaviours in autism spectrum disorders and abnormalities in the 5-HT system.
Risk of acute coronary events in patients with methamphetamine and cocaine intoxication has been described. Little is known about the need for additional evaluation in these patients who do not have evidence of myocardial infarction after the initial emergency department evaluation. We herein describe our experience with these patients in a chest pain unit (CPU) and the rate of cardiac-related chest pain in this group.
Retrospective analysis of patients evaluated in our CPU from January 1, 2000 to December 16, 2004 with a history of chest pain. Patients who had a positive urine toxicologic screen for methamphetamine or cocaine were included. No patients had ECG or cardiac injury marker evidence of myocardial infarction or ischemia during the initial emergency department evaluation. A diagnosis of cardiac-related chest pain was based upon positive diagnostic testing (exercise stress testing, nuclear perfusion imaging, stress echocardiography, or coronary artery stenosis >70%).
During the study period, 4568 patients were evaluated in the CPU. A total of 1690 (37%) of patients admitted to the CPU underwent urine toxicologic testing. The result of urine toxicologic test was positive for cocaine or methamphetamine in 224 (5%). In the 2871 patients who underwent diagnostic testing for coronary artery disease (CAD), 401 (14%) were found to have positive results. There was no difference in the prevalence of CAD between those with positive result for toxicology screens (26/156, 17%) and those without (375/2715, 13%, RR 1.2, 95% CI 0.8-1.7).
These findings suggest a relatively high rate of CAD in patients with methamphetamine and cocaine use evaluated in a CPU.
In four patients, two men aged 65 and 35 years, and two women aged 87 and 83 years, who presented with collapse, administration of Q-T time prolonging drugs (sotalol, erythromycin, disopyramide) appeared to be the cause. These patients had so-called 'concealed long Q-T syndrome'. The proarrhythmogenic properties of antiarrhythmic and other drugs and of several clinical conditions such as cardiac diseases should be kept in mind when treating patients with antiarrhythmic substances.
Neurological complications are not usually considered among the most important complications that may appear after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). We have analyzed the occurrence of neurological manifestation in 27 recipients of allogeneic BMT. Ten patients (37%) developed neurological symptoms, and 14 episodes were registered. The most frequent manifestations were due to the use of cyclosporin A or prednisone for prophylaxis or treatment of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Cerebrovascular events (infarction or hemorrhage) and CNS infections were the most severe complications: they represented 26% of cause of death in our series. In conclusion, neurological complications are frequent in these patients, and represent an important cause of morbidity and mortality.
In order to clarify the susceptibility of the Hras128 rat harboring copies of the human c-Ha-ras proto-oncogene to 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), Hras128 rats were intragastically treated with 100 mg/kg PhIP 8 times (females) or 80 mg/kg PhIP 10 times (males) over a 9-week period, then sacrificed at weeks 12 and 30. Multiple mammary tumors of adenocarcinoma type were induced in all females, while 83% of treated males developed adenocarcinomas, sarcomas and transitional carcinosarcomas, as evidenced by casein and vimentin immunoreactivity. All tumors examined had mutations in the c-Ha-ras transgene, while the endogenous rat c-Ha-ras gene was intact. Our results indicate that 1) Hras128 rats of both sexes are preferentially susceptible to mammary carcinogenesis with PhIP; 2) activation of the transgene, but not the endogenous c-Ha-ras gene, may be important in this regard; 3) the variety of tumor types evident in male rats indicates that immature mammary gland cells of the terminal end buds may be a target of PhIP; 4) although the transgene is expressed in all organs, susceptibility to PhIP is limited to mammary glands.
In the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 damages retinal mitochondria, activating the apoptotic machinery. Transcription of MMP-9 is regulated by nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), and the activation of NF-κB is modulated by the acetylation of its p65 subunit. Sirtuin 1 (Sirt1), a deacetylase, plays an important role in the acetylation-deacetylation of p65. The goal of this study is to investigate the role of Sirt1 in the activation of MMP-9 in diabetic retinopathy.
The effect of hyperglycemia and Sirt1 activator, resveratrol, on acetylation of p65 and its binding at MMP-9 promoter-and mitochondrial damage and apoptosis-was assessed in the retinal endothelial cells. Role of oxidative stress in the regulation of Sirt1 was evaluated in the cells incubated in H2O2. The results were confirmed in the retina from diabetic mice with Sod2 or MMP-9 gene manipulated.
High glucose decreased Sirt1 activity and increased p65 acetylation, and resveratrol prevented increase in p65 acetylation, binding of p65 at MMP-9 promoter and MMP-9 activation, mitochondria damage, and cell apoptosis. While Sirt1 was decreased by H2O2, MMP-9 was significantly increased. Retina from wild-type diabetic mice presented similar decrease in Sirt1, and diabetic mice with Sod2 overexpression or MMP-9 deletion had normal retinal Sirt1. Retinal microvasculature from human donors with established diabetic retinopathy also had decreased Sirt1.
Thus, in diabetes, increase in oxidative stress inhibits Sirt1 and p65 is hyperacetylated, increasing the binding of p65 at MMP-9 promoter. Prevention of Sirt1 inhibition, via modulating acetylation of p65, should protect activation of MMP-9 and inhibit the development of diabetic retinopathy.
Thiazolidinediones (TZDs) are peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARG) agonists used to treat type 2 diabetes. TZDs can also be used to reduce rates of type 2 diabetes in at-risk individuals. However, a large fraction of TZD-treated patients (30-40%) do not respond to TZD treatment with an improvement in insulin sensitivity (Si). We hypothesized that variation within the gene encoding PPARG may underlie this differential response to TZD therapy. We screened approximately 40 kb of PPARG in 93 nondiabetic Hispanic women (63 responders and 30 nonresponders) with previous gestational diabetes who had participated in the Troglitazone In the Prevention Of Diabetes study. TZD nonresponse was defined as the lower tertile in change in Si after 3 months of treatment. Baseline demographic and clinical measures were not different between responders and nonresponders. We identified and genotyped 131 variants including 126 single nucleotide polymorphisms and 5 insertion-deletion polymorphisms. Linkage disequilibrium analysis identified five haplotype blocks. Eight variants were associated with TZD response (P < 0.05). Three variants were also associated with changes in Si as a continuous variable. Our results suggest that PPARG variation may underlie response to TZD therapy in women at risk for type 2 diabetes.
We observed nine cases of transitional-cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder among patients who had had long-term treatment of other cancers with cyclophosphamide. Seven of the bladder carcinomas occurred within a cohort of 471 patients treated for non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. In this cohort the relative risk of bladder cancer was 6.8 (95 percent confidence interval, 3.2 to 14.2). The cumulative risk (mean +/- SE) was 3.5 +/- 1.8 percent 8 years after the start of treatment with cyclophosphamide and 10.7 +/- 4.9 percent after 12 years. Three of the nine patients were 50 years of age or younger; seven died with progressive bladder cancer. Subsequently, an additional patient had acute nonlymphocytic leukemia. Hemorrhagic cystitis was observed in 33 patients (cumulative risk, 11.8 +/- 2.1 percent after five years). Development of carcinoma of the urinary bladder was not related to previous hemorrhagic cystitis. The results caution against long-term treatment with cyclophosphamide for diseases with a favorable prognosis.
