It was tested whether a depletion in resources can account for the benzodiazepine-induced memory impairment. In two experiments, it was examined whether dividing attention had a disproportionately detrimental effect on learning semantically related and unrelated word pairs after diazepam intake. Word pairs had to be learned in both a single task condition and while performing a visual discrimination task concurrently (dual task condition). Moreover, the complexity of the visual discrimination task was manipulated systematically. Diazepam (15 mg, orally) or placebo was administered in a double-blind, between-subjects design. Subjects after diazepam intake were clearly impaired in learning unrelated word pairs, but not in learning related word pairs. Dividing attention in the dual task condition was associated with a reduction in learning unrelated word pairs, but this was not disproportionately reduced after diazepam intake. Moreover, the magnitude of resource depletion did not correlate with the severity of the diazepam-induced memory impairment. In general, the pattern of results does not support the hypothesis that a depletion of resources can explain the benzodiazepine-induced memory impairment.
Graded physical exercise was associated with a parallel increase in plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine concentrations, and increments in the latter correlated directly with concurrent increases in plasma renin activity, heart rate, and blood pressure as studied in four normal subjects. With a high salt intake, plasma catecholamine levels were lower at each grade of exercise; the norepinephrine-renin response curve was shifted to the right and the norepinephrine-heart rate response curve to the left. In five patients with borderline essential hypertension, after salt loading epinephrine concentrations were higher and their responses during exercise greater than in normal subjects. A high salt intake suppresses the activity of the sympathetic nervous system as well as the renin system but increases cardiovascular responsiveness to pressor hormones. A high dietary salt intake may contribute to elevated concentrations of plasma epinephrine and to its cardiovascular effects in borderline essential hypertension.
Exposure of U937 cells to tert-butylhydroperoxide (tB-OOH) led to cyclosporin A-sensitive mitochondrial membrane permeability transition and necrosis. Pyruvate and rotenone, which increase mitochondrial NADH via different mechanisms, prevented these responses and the cells which received these treatments proliferated with kinetics similar to those observed in untreated cells. In contrast with these results, cells rescued by cyclosporin A were unable to proliferate. Thus, mitochondrial NADH plays a pivotal role in preventing upstream events which result in the onset of mitochondrial membrane permeability transition and death in cells exposed to tB-OOH. These events appear to be critical for recovery of the ability of the cells to proliferate.
To assess possible differences in the incidence of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism associated with oral contraceptives of varying hormonal potencies, the authors conducted a retrospective cohort study in the 15-44 year old Michigan Medicaid population. Cohorts were defined by the progestin- and oestrogen-potencies of oral contraceptives in use at the time of follow-up as classified by an oral contraceptive potency scheme. Using the low-oestrogen-/low-progestin-potency formulations for reference (rate ratio = 1), adjusted rate ratios of 0.8 (95% CI: 0.5 to 1.3, P = 0.41) and 0.6 (95% CI 0.4 to 1.2, P = 0.13) were observed for intermediate-progestin-potency and high-progestin-potency formulations, respectively. Adjusted rate ratios of 1.4 (95% CI: 0.8 to 2.3, P = 0.21) and 2.6 (95% CI: 1.2 to 5.5, P = 0.01) were observed for intermediate- and high-oestrogen-potency formulations. These data suggest a dose-response relationship between oral contraceptive oestrogen potency and venous thromboembolism, whereas no such evidence for a dose-response relationship between oral contraceptive progestin potency and venous thrombo-embolism was found.
Similarly to unleaded gasoline, 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DCB) administered for 2 years caused a dose-related increase in the incidence of renal tumors in male but not in female rats or in either sex of mice. Unleaded gasoline and 2,2,4-trimethylpentane (TMP), a component of unleaded gasoline, increased protein droplet formation and cell proliferation in male but not in female rat kidneys. These protein droplets contained, alpha 2u-globulin, a male rat-specific low-molecular-weight protein and 2,4,4-trimethyl-2-pentanol, a metabolite of TMP that was reversibly bound to this protein. Studies were undertaken to determine if 1,4-DCB produced similar effects; 1,2-DCB was used for comparison since it did not produce renal carcinogenesis in male rats. Gel filtration chromatography of a 116,000g supernatant prepared from kidneys of 1,4-[14C]DCB-treated rats showed that radiolabel coeluted with alpha 2u-globulin as one sharp peak as opposed to a multipeak pattern observed for 1,2-[14C]DCB; the maximal quantity of radiolabel for 1,4-DCB was twice that for 1,2-DCB. Equilibrium dialysis of kidney cytosol in the presence or absence of sodium dodecyl sulfate demonstrated that the radiolabel was reversibly bound to alpha 2u-globulin; the amount for 1,4-[14C]DCB-treated rats was almost twice as much as that for 1,2-[14C]DCB-treated rats. 1,2-DCB was also shown to be covalently bound to renal alpha 2u-globulin, and covalently bound to liver and plasma high-molecular-weight proteins. 1,4-DCB and, to a minor extent, 2,5-dichlorophenol, the major metabolite of 1,4-DCB, were reversibly bound to renal alpha 2u-globulin from 1,4-DCB-treated rats. 1,4-DCB increased protein droplet formation in male but not in female rat kidneys, whereas equimolar doses of 1,2-DCB showed no effect in either sex. Renal cell proliferation, measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation into renal DNA, was increased after 1,4-DCB but not after 1,2-DCB treatment. Nephrotoxicity and biochemical alterations induced by 1,4-DCB resemble those of unleaded gasoline and suggest that a similar mechanism is involved in the induction of alpha 2u-globulin nephropathy in male rats.
The atypical antipsychotic clozapine treatment (at high doses) has been reported to be associated with tremors. However, antitremor effects of clozapine have also been reported in Parkinsonian patients. Recently, we reported the protective effects of acute clozapine against pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). With this background, this study was designed to investigate the possible protective effect of clozapine against acute chemoconvulsions and kindling seizures produced by pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) in mice. Various doses of clozapine (1.0, 2.5, 5.0 and 7.5 mg) offered different degrees of protective effects against PTZ (80 mg) challenge, and the maximum protection was observed with the 2.5 mg dose as it delayed the onset of jerks, clonus, tonic extensor phase and reduced mortality. Animals chronically pretreated with clozapine (2.5, 7.5 and 15.0 mg) for 8 days when challenged by PTZ (50 and 80 mg) on the 8th day also showed protection. Repeated administration of PTZ at a subconvulsive dose (30 mg/kg, i.p, three times a week, for 9 weeks) produced kindled seizures in over 80% of the mice. Pretreatment with clozapine (1 or 5 mg) prevented the behavioral manifestations (motor seizures) as well as the development of kindling. The effect was compared with GABA (200 mg) and diazepam (1 mg), a known anticonvulsant drug.
The use of epirubicin is limited by the risk of a dilatory congestive heart failure that develops as a consequence of induction of a mitochondrial-dependent cardiomyocyte apoptosis. In a previous in-vitro study, we have provided evidence that a new formulation of pegylated epirubicin- bearing moieties that release nitric oxide, named BP-747, exerted a potent antitumoral activity against a colon cancer cell line, which was completely devoid of cytotoxic activity against cardiomyocytes. The aim of this study was to investigate the antitumoral and cardiotoxic profile of BP-747 in Caco-2 and SKOV-2 tumor-bearing mice. Epirubicin-induced cardiomyopathy was detected by clinical (survival, weight loss), anatomical (heart weight loss) and biochemical evaluations (measurement of serum troponin and creatine phosphokinase levels). The antitumoral activity was investigated by the measurement of tumor diameters and weight. In comparison with free epirubicin and pegylated epirubicin, BP-747 showed more potent antineoplastic effects, as demonstrated by the 95% reduction of tumor volume. Moreover, while administration of epirubicin and pegylated epirubicin resulted in the development of a severe anthracycline cardiomyopathy, BP-747-treated mice were virtually devoid of clinical and biochemical signs of cardiotoxicity. The present data provide evidence that addition of a nitric oxide-releasing moiety to pegylated epirubicin confers a new and unique cytotoxic profile to the drug.
The actions of four mGluR antagonists, (+)-MCPG, MAP4, MCCG and (S)-4CPG, were evaluated against agonist-induced depressions of synaptic transmission at the Schaffer collateral-commissural pathway in rat hippocampal slices. (+)-MCPG (1 mM) reversed very effectively depressions of field EPSPs induced by (1S,3R)-ACPD and (1S,3S)-ACPD but had weak and variable effects on depressions induced by L-AP4. It had no effect on depressions induced by either (-)-baclofen or carbachol. In contrast, MAP4 (500 microM) reversed very effectively depressions induced by L-AP4 without affecting depressions induced by (1S,3S)-ACPD. MCCG (1 mM) had the opposite activity; it antagonized depressions induced by (1S,3S)-ACPD but not those induced by L-AP4. Finally, (S)-4CPG (1 mM) reversed small depressions of field EPSPs induced by high concentrations (50-100 microM) of (1S,3R)- and (1S,3S)-ACPD, but not L-AP4, whilst having no effect on large depressions induced by 10 microM (1S,3S)-ACPD in voltage-clamped cells. These results confirm and extend the effectiveness and selectivity of (+)-MCPG as an mGluR antagonist. The divergent effects of the group I antagonist, (S)-4CPG, can be explained by an indirect action on postsynaptic receptors which is manifest when high agonist concentrations are used in non-voltage-clamp experiments. The action of MCCG and MAP4 indicates that two pharmacologically-distinct mGluRs, belonging to classes II and III, can regulate synaptic transmission in the CA1 region via presynaptic mechanisms.
Under certain experimental conditions, neurotrophic factors may reduce epileptogenesis. We have previously reported that local, intrahippocampal supplementation of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) increases neurogenesis, reduces neuronal loss, and reduces the occurrence of spontaneous seizures in a model of damage-associated epilepsy. Here, we asked if these possibly anti-epileptogenic effects might involve anti-inflammatory mechanisms. Thus, we used a Herpes-based vector to supplement FGF-2 and BDNF in rat hippocampus after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus that established an epileptogenic lesion. This model causes intense neuroinflammation, especially in the phase that precedes the occurrence of spontaneous seizures. The supplementation of FGF-2 and BDNF attenuated various parameters of inflammation, including astrocytosis, microcytosis and IL-1β expression. The effect appeared to be most prominent on IL-1β, whose expression was almost completely prevented. Further studies will be needed to elucidate the molecular mechanism(s) for these effects, and for that on IL-1β in particular. Nonetheless, the concept that neurotrophic factors affect neuroinflammation in vivo may be highly relevant for the understanding of the epileptogenic process.
1. Capsaicin, the algesic substance in chilli peppers, was injected intradermally in healthy human subjects. A dose of 100 micrograms given in a volume of 10 microliters caused intense pain lasting for a few minutes after injection and resulted in a narrow area of hyperalgesia to heat and a wide surrounding area of hyperalgesia to mechanical stimuli (stroking) lasting for 1-2 h. 2. Nerve compression experiments with selective block of impulse conduction in myelinated (A) but not in unmyelinated (C) fibres indicated that afferent signals in C fibres contributed to pain from capsaicin injection and to heat hyperalgesia, whereas conduction in afferent A fibres was necessary for the perception of mechanical hyperalgesia. 3. Electrical intraneural microstimulation normally eliciting non-painful tactile sensations was accompanied by pain when the sensation was projected to skin areas within the region of mechanical hyperalgesia induced by capsaicin injection. 4. The threshold for pain evoked by intraneural microstimulation was reversibly lowered and pain from suprathreshold stimulation was exaggerated during the period of mechanical hyperalgesia, regardless of lidocaine anaesthesia of the cutaneous innervation territory of the stimulated fibres. 5. The results indicate that hyperalgesia to stroking on a skin area surrounding a painful intradermal injection of capsaicin is due to reversible changes in the central processing of mechanoreceptive input from myelinated fibres which normally evoke non-painful tactile sensations.
Severe up to life-threatening neuropathy has been observed in patients with hereditary neuropathies receiving vincristine.
A 52-year-old female painter suffering from high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (stage IVB) was treated with a total of 4 mg of vincristine during two courses of CHOP chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, adriamycin, prednisone). At onset of treatment no neurological problems were reported. There was good lymphoma response to chemotherapy. At the same time, however, the patient gradually developed dysphagia, dysarthria, muscular weakness of both lower and upper extremities, areflexia, paraesthesia of the fingertips and bilateral sensory impairment of feet and lower legs. These symptoms continually worsened over a period of seven weeks until she was unable to walk or to perform her work. Electrophysiological studies showed peripheral axonal and demyelinative sensorimotor neuropathy in correlation to histological findings. Molecular analysis revealed 17p11.2 duplication typical for Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease IA. While continuing chemotherapy without the use of vincristine the patient's neurologic symptoms slowly recovered within six months.
Prior to administration of vincristine family and patient history as well as physical examination should be performed carefully to look for underlying hereditary neuropathy. For those patients with a clinical history or symptoms suggestive for CMT nerve conduction velocity studies and on an individual base even molecular genetic analysis are necessary to prevent serious neurologic complications. worsened significantly resulting in dependency on a wheelchair and inability to perform her work as a painter. Finally she consulted a neurologist and was admitted to hospital for further diagnostic studies and continuation of treatment for her lymphoma in March 1998 with a provisional diagnosis of severe vincristine-induced neuropathy. Medical history at time of admission included hyperthyroidism, that was currently treated with propylthiouracil, a MALT lymphoma 1983, that was treated surgically only, and a meningoencephalitis in 1968. No further medication was taken. In addition she had a history of Lyme disease since 1993 with positive IgM-titer until December 1997, when antibiotic therapy with doxycycline and ceftriaxone was administered successfully. Family history obtained on admission revealed that her mother had non-specific neuropathic symptoms as well as a poorly defined foot deformities of the mother's father. The patient's brother does not show any neurologic impairment and is in good physical health.
Evoked field potentials were recorded in the CA3, CA1 and dentate gyrus (DG) regions of hippocampal slices from rats injected with streptozotocin (STZ; 60 mg/kg i.p.), to detect whether STZ-induced diabetes entails changes in hippocampal excitability. No change in hippocampal responsiveness was observed in slices from diabetic rats, up to 3 weeks post-STZ. Repetitive population spikes (PSs) reminiscent of an epileptiform hyperexcitability were, however, recorded in CA3 > CA1 > DG areas after more than 4 weeks ('long-term') post-STZ, although the maximal amplitudes were not different in STZ-diabetic versus control rats. Intracellular recordings on CA3 pyramidal neurons confirmed that fimbrial stimulation evokes significantly more action potentials in neurons from 'long-term' STZ-diabetic versus control rats. This is the first report of the appearance of repetitive hippocampal responses, particularly in the seizure-prone CA3 area, as a long-term consequence of hyperglycemic STZ treatment in rat.
Nitric oxide (NO) is normally synthesized inside skeletal muscle fibers by both endothelial (eNOS) and neuronal (nNOS) nitric oxide synthases. In this study, we evaluated the influence of hypobaric hypoxia on the expression of NOS isoforms, argininosuccinate synthetase (AS), argininosuccinate lyase (AL), and manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn SOD) in the ventilatory muscles. Rats were exposed to hypobaric hypoxia ( approximately 95 mmHg) from birth for 60 days or 9-11 mo. Age-matched control groups of rats also were examined. Sixty days of hypoxia elicited approximately two- and ninefold increases in diaphragmatic eNOS and nNOS protein expression (evaluated by immunoblotting), respectively, and about a 50% rise in diaphragmatic NOS activity. In contrast, NOS activity and the expression of these proteins declined significantly in response to 9 mo of hypoxia. Hypoxia elicited no significant alterations in AS, AL and Mn SOD protein expression. Moreover, the inducible NOS (iNOS) was not detected in normoxic and hypoxic diaphragmatic samples. We conclude that diaphragmatic NOS expression and activity undergo significant adaptations to hypobaric hypoxia and that iNOS does not participate in this response.
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD) usually follows traumatic injuries or neurologic disorders. The authors report a rare case of RSD that followed intraarterial administration of cocaine in a patient with a history of intravenous drug abuse. The cocaine was self-administered inadvertently into the femoral artery rather than the femoral vein. Despite the intense pain, swelling, and dermatologic changes that followed, the diagnosis of RSD was not considered until scintigraphic studies suggested it. A combination of normal radiographs, a normal leukocyte study, and an abnormal bone scan in the region of tenderness and swelling excluded other possibilities and suggested RSD. In our patient, RSD was likely caused by an ischemic autonomic injury from the vasoconstrictor action of cocaine. Clinical follow-up and relief using phentolamine, an alpha-adrenergic blocker and vasodilator, made the diagnosis of RSD most likely.
To evaluate long-term results of chronic intrathecal Baclofen infusion on the spasticity, on the spasms and to evaluate the side-effects of the intrathecal Baclofen in patients with supraspinal spasticity.
Fourteen patients with severe progressive refractory to medical therapy spasticity were evaluated after chronic intrathecal Baclofen infusion performed by implantation of subcutaneous pump. The patients had suffered traumatic or anoxic acquired brain injuries. The clinical evaluation was made using Ashworth Scale (AS) and the Spasm Frequency Scale (SFS).
The intrathecal therapy showed a statistically significant improvement of the tone and of the spasms.
The intrathecal infusion of Baclofen seems to be an effective treatment in patients with supraspinal spasticity.
Minocycline is a tetracycline antibiotic commonly used in the treatment of acne. While it is generally considered to be a safe medicine, a number of side effects have been associated with its use. We describe an adolescent boy who developed hyperthyroidism and a drug-induced lupus-like syndrome following minocycline treatment for his acne.
1. We have shown previously that N-acetylcysteine (NAC) prevents the increase in blood pressure induced by adrenocorticotropin treatment. The present study investigated the effect of NAC on dexamethasone (Dex)-induced hypertension. 2. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into six groups (n = 10 in each). In a prevention study, NAC (10 g/L in the drinking water) was given for 4 days prior to and 11 days during concurrent treatment with saline (0.1 mL/rat per day) or with Dex (10 mg/rat per day). In a reversal study, daily injections of Dex or saline began 8 days before NAC and cotreatment continued for 5 days. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured on alternate days using a tail-cuff system. 3. Dexamethasone significantly increased SBP from 113 +/- 4 to 139 +/- 6 mmHg (n = 10; P < 0.01). N-Acetylcysteine alone had no effect on SBP. In NAC + Dex-treated rats, SBP was significantly lower than that of Dex-treated rats (P cent < 0.01). In fully established Dex-hypertension NAC was ineffective and SBP remained high. 4. Both Dex and NAC treatments decreased bodyweight gain. N-Acetylcysteine reduced food and water consumption. Dexamethasone reduced thymus weight (P cent < 0.01) but NAC treatment did not alter this marker of glucocorticoid activity. 5. Dexamethasone tended to decrease plasma NO(x), whereas NAC restored plasma NO(x) concentrations to control levels. N-Acetylcysteine had no effect on Dex-induced increased plasma F(2)-isoprostane concentrations. 6. In conclusion, NAC partially prevented, but did not reverse, Dex-induced hypertension.
Two patients with atrial arrhythmias are described who developed ventricular tachyarrhythmias shortly after starting disopyramide therapy. One patient had manifested ventricular tachycardia while on quinidine therapy earlier and the other patient, who died, had survived ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation complicating both quinidine and lidoflazine therapy 5 years earlier. We advise against the use of lidoflazine in patients with previously documented 'quinidine syncope' and caution that ventricular tachyarrhythmias appearing for the first time with the administration of disopyramide should be considered to be drug-induced until proved otherwise.
Neurotoxicity in vincristine treatment has generally been considered a consequence of the cumulative dose of the drug, and liver dysfunction had been recognised as an indication to reduce the dosage. We demonstrate that neurotoxicity is also related to individual doses and that even when there is no other evidence of liver dysfunction, a raised level of serum alkaline phosphatase may predict severe neurotoxicity. Exposure to vincristine following IV injection of the drug was studied in 27 subjects by measuring the area under the vincristine plasma concentration time curve (AUC 0-infinity). A statistically significant relationship was found between the AUC0-infinity and the degree of neurotoxicity. The AUC0-infinity was related both to dose and to elevation of serum alkaline phosphatase, suggesting that elimination of the drug is impaired when serum alkaline phosphatase is raised. Among patients with elevated serum alkaline phosphatase, a small reduction in the dose of the drug resulted in lower vincristine plasma AUC0-infinity and less neurotoxicity.
The precise mechanism by which beta-adrenoceptor blockers exert their beneficial actions in patients with heart failure remains unclear. Several possibilities have been proposed, including heart rate reduction, beta2-adrenoceptor-mediated modulation of catecholamine release, antagonism of the receptor-mediated toxic actions of norepinephrine on the myocardium, and favorable effects on myocardial energetics. In the present study we evaluated the effect of 3 months of carvedilol therapy on hemodynamics, total systemic and cardiac norepinephrine spillover (isotope dilution method), and myocardial metabolism (myocardial oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide release) in 10 patients with severe congestive heart failure. Although carvedilol treatment was associated with a significant improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction (17+/-1% to 28+/-3%; P<0.01) and left ventricular stroke work (87+/-13 to 119+/-21 g. m per beat; P<0.05), this effect was unrelated to changes in total systemic or cardiac norepinephrine spillover. The rise in left ventricular stroke work was accompanied by a modest rise in myocardial oxygen consumption per beat (0.33+/-0.04 to 0.42+/-0.04; P=0.05), although contractile efficiency was unchanged. The favorable effects of carvedilol on ventricular function in the failing heart are not explained by alterations in norepinephrine release or by changes in myocardial contractile efficiency.
Ticlopidine, an inhibitor of platelet aggregation, is widely used for peripheral arterial disease. The use of this drug has been associated with neutropenie and other adverse hematologic effects. Aplastic anemie is a rate complication that carries high mortality. We describe the case of a 91 years old woman with ticlopedine-induced aplastic anemia. The patient was treated with filgrastim brood spectrum antibiotics and other general supportive care measures. Despite initial improvement the old woman died 7 weeks after admission for septic shock. A review of medical literature revealed 24 similar cases. Filgrastim has been used previous by with variable success.
Alcohol consumption is recognized as a potential risk factor for colorectal cancer (CRC). Genetic polymorphisms, aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2) Glu487Lys and alcohol dehydrogenase 2 (ADH2) His47Arg, which have a strong impact on alcohol metabolism, are common in Japanese population but their significance for CRC carcinogenesis remains to be clarified in detail. We, therefore, conducted a matched case-control study with 257 incident CRC cases and 771 non-cancer controls at Aichi Cancer Center, including analysis of interactions between polymorphisms, drinking and folate consumption. The ADH2 Arg allele was found to be associated with increased risk, the odds ratios (ORs) being 1.35 (95% confidence interval: 1.00-1.84) and 1.93 (1.06-3.53) for the His/Arg and Arg/Arg genotypes, respectively. In contrast, no apparent links were observed with the ALDH2 genotypes. Individuals having ALDH2 Glu/Glu with ADH2 Arg+, ALDH2 Lys+ with ADH2 His/His and ALDH2 Lys+ with ADH2 Arg+ showed ORs of 0.10(0.04-0.21), 0.10 (0.06-0.19) and 1.36 (0.94-1.97), respectively, compared with ALDH2 Glu/Glu with ADH2 His/His. Statistical gene-gene interaction was significant between the two polymorphisms for the risk of CRC (P< 0.001). The impact of ALDH2 Lys+ with ADH2 Arg+ was more evident in low folate consumer (OR = 2.32, 1.19-4.55) than high folate consumer (OR 1.38, 0.80-2.38). In conclusion, while we failed to find any significant association with the ALDH2 polymorphism itself, significant interaction between ALDH2 and ADH2 polymorphism was observed. Replication in the future study is warranted.
To determine whether impaired diastolic function may be an early sign of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity, a retrospective study was performed in 12 patients who had undergone serial radionuclide angiography and were found to have a left ventricular ejection fraction of 55% or more before doxorubicin (Adriamycin) treatment and during follow-up. Average rapid filling velocity and slow filling velocity were both significantly reduced after doxorubicin treatment. Rapid filling velocity decreased from 5.17 +/- 1.52 to 4.18 +/- 0.96 units/s (p less than 0.01), and slow filling velocity decreased from 2.20 +/- 1.32 to 1.42 +/- 0.62 units/s (p less than 0.05). There were no significant changes in filling volume ratio, total diastolic time or diastolic time ratio. Because a change in left ventricular diastolic function can occur before ejection fraction falls to subnormal levels, diastolic function as well as systolic function should be examined for the early detection of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. The clinical implications of our observations can only be established by a longer-term prospective analysis of left ventricular function in patients receiving doxorubicin therapy.
To determine whether use of a smaller needle size for subcutaneous injection of enoxaparin would reduce the size of injection-site hematomas and/or decrease the pain of injection.
Prospective, randomized trial.
Community hospital in North Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
One hundred twenty-four patients with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction who were administered enoxaparin for anticoagulation.
Each patient was randomly assigned to one of two groups. One group received enoxaparin injections with a 30-gauge, 5/16-inch insulin syringe, and the other group was injected with a 26-gauge, 3/8-inch tuberculin syringe.
Participating nurses used standard measuring tape to determine the largest diameter of each hematoma. Pain was assessed with a 10-unit numeric scale. The two groups did not differ significantly with regard to either the mean size of the largest hematoma/patient (4.2 cm in the insulin-syringe group vs 3.8 cm in the tuberculin-syringe group, p=0.68) or the mean pain score (0.3 in the insulin-syringe group vs 0.5 in the tuberculin-syringe group, p=0.10).
Use of a 30-gauge, 5/16-inch insulin syringe instead of a 26-gauge, 3/8-inch tuberculin syringe does not significantly reduce either hematoma size or pain of injection. A larger study is required to determine whether needle size affects the frequency of hematoma formation.
Pretreatment with ineffective doses of the D1 antagonist SCH23390 but not the D2 antagonist sulpiride reduced hyperactivity induced by nicotine in mice habituated to the test cage. On the other hand, the D1 and D2 antagonists were ineffective in blocking nicotine-induced hypoactivity in naive mice. Finally, SCH23390 and sulpiride did not block the antinociception induced by nicotine. Our data indicate that the dopamine receptors D1 and D2 are not involved in all the central effects of nicotine in mice, but seems to be a substrate for locomotor activation induced by nicotine under specific experimental conditions.
In order to clarify the characteristic psychopathology of chronic methamphetamine (MAP) psychosis, the clinical symptoms of 11 chronic MAP psychotics were compared with those of the same number of chronic schizophrenics matched for sex and age. The positive symptoms were almost similar in both groups. However, the negative symptoms evaluated by the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS) differed considerably. According to the SANS, the scores of avolition-apathy, anhedonia-asociality and attentional impairment were moderately high in both groups. The scores of affective flattening or blunting and alogia were lower in the MAP group than those in the schizophrenia group. The SANS scores of negative symptoms increased in accordance with the age of onset in the MAP group, while such a correlation was not observed in the schizophrenia group. Furthermore, detailed clinical observations of the patients revealed the following differences between the two groups: 1) spontaneous affective expression during the interviews was more vivid in the MAP group compared to the schizophrenia group, and 2) affective expressions or interpersonal behaviors changed immediately depending on the situation in the MAP group. From the viewpoint of clinical psychopathology, a group of MAP psychotics whose hallucinatory-delusional state persisted for a long period of one month or more after cessation of MAP use seemed to differ from either chronic schizophrenics or patients with acute MAP psychosis. The author proposed that this group of patients should be a clinical entity and be called as "residual methamphetamine psychosis."
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIA) have been shown to exert potent chemopreventive activity against colon, lung, and breast cancers. In this study, we show that at pharmacological concentrations (1 to 3 mmol/L) sodium salicylate (Na-Sal) can potently induce programmed cell death in several human myeloid leukemia cell lines, including TF-1, U937, CMK-1, HL-60, and Mo7e. TF-1 cells undergo rapid apoptosis on treatment with Na-Sal, as indicated by increased annexin V binding capacity, cpp-32 (caspase-3) activation, and cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) and gelsolin. In addition, the expression of MCL-1, an antiapoptotic member of the BCL-2 family, is downregulated during Na-Sal-induced cell death, whereas the expression of BCL-2, BAX, and BCL-XL is unchanged. Z-VAD, a potent caspase inhibitor, prevents the cleavage of PARP and gelsolin and rescues cells from Na-Sal-induced apoptosis. In addition, we show that Na-Sal accelerates growth factor withdrawal-induced apoptosis and synergizes with daunorubicin to induce apoptosis in TF-1 cells. Thus, our data provide a potential mechanism for the chemopreventive activity of NSAIA and suggest that salicylates may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of human leukemia.
