In the brain, the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (Pgp) is predominantly located on the luminal membrane of endothelial cells lining brain microvessels and forming the blood-brain barrier. Many lipophilic drugs, including antiepileptic drugs, are potential substrates for Pgp. Overexpression of Pgp in endothelial cells of the blood-brain barrier has been determined in patients with drug resistant forms of epilepsy such as temporal lobe epilepsy and rodent models of temporal lobe epilepsy and suggested to lead to reduced penetration of antiepileptic drugs into the brain. Expression of Pgp after seizures has also been described in astrocytes, whereas it is not clear whether neurons can express Pgp. In the present study, Pgp expression was studied by immunohistochemistry in rats 24 h after a status epilepticus induced by either pilocarpine or kainate, widely used models of temporal lobe epilepsy. Unexpectedly, in addition to endothelial Pgp staining, intense Pgp staining was found in neurons in the CA3c/CA4 sectors and hilus of the hippocampus formation, but not in other brain regions examined. The neuronal Pgp staining was confirmed by two different Pgp antibodies. Double immunolabeling and confocal microscopy showed that Pgp was colocalized with the neuronal marker neuronal nuclear antigen, but not with the glial marker glial fibrillary acidic protein. No neuronal Pgp staining was seen in control rats. The expression of Pgp in neurons after limbic seizures was substantiated by determining Pgp encoding genes (mdr1a, mdr1b) in neurons by real time quantitative RT-PCR. Increased Pgp expression in hippocampal neurons is likely to affect the action of drugs with intraneuronal targets and, in view of recent evidence from other cell types, could be associated with prevention of apoptosis which is involved in neuronal damage developing after seizures such as produced by pilocarpine.
A study was carried out comparing the reporting of adverse reactions to nitrofurantoin in Sweden, Holland, and the United Kingdom. The Swedish drug regulatory authorities receive more reports of adverse reactions to nitrofurantoin than to any other drug, and the annual reporting rate is increasing despite a steady fall in the prescription of nitrofurantoin. In the United Kingdom the total number of adverse reaction to nitrofurantoin reported to the Committee on Safety of Medicines has been steadily falling for many years, as has the number of prescription. Lung reactions and liver damage are more commonly reported in Sweden than in the UK, where gastrointestinal symptoms and peripheral neuropathy are more common. Such figures as were available in Holland showed an intermediate picture. The incidences of blood dyscrasias and allergic reactions are similar in the three countries. The causes for such differences are unresolved, but it is disturbing that the incidence and range of adverse reactions to such a common drug as nitrofurantoin reported to the national authorities can differ so much in countries that have close ethnic, dietary, and economic similarities. Thus great caution must be observed when data on adverse drug reactions from the country are extrapolated to another.
Optic neuropathy developed in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis who had been receiving D-penicillamine for about 1 year. An associated finding included a 2+ positive antinuclear antibody test with a titer of 1:320. Optic disc swelling was resolved on high doses of intravenous steroids. The case resembles two previously reported cases of optic neuropathy which occurred in patients with Wilson's disease who were receiving penicillamine.
We describe a case of generalized muscle rigidity in a 2-year-old patient with Freeman-Sheldon syndrome undergoing surgery for eventration of the diaphragm after anesthetic induction with halothane and succinylcholine. Anesthetic induction was by mask with oxygen, nitrous oxide and halothane, with succinylcholine as a muscle relaxant. Approximately 10 minutes after start of induction, muscular rigidity appeared and developed rapidly, becoming severe and compromising ventilation. Tracheal intubation was attempted without success, owing to stiffness of the masseter muscles. Sodium dantrolene 2.5 mg/kg was administered and relaxation was achieved immediately for both masseter and peripheral muscles, such that the patient recovered spontaneous breathing. We conclude that there is risk of association between Freeman-Sheldon syndrome and malignant hyperthermia.
Roflumilast is an inhibitor of phosphodiesterase- IV (PDE4), a cellular enzyme that is linked to airway inflammation in asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In clinical trials, roflumilast produced significant improvements in FEV1 (forced expiratory volume in one second) and PEF (peak expiratory flow) compared with low-dose inhaled beclomethasone in asthma patients, and compared with placebo in COPD patients. Roflumilast reduced the use of rescue medication in both populations. COPD patients on roflumilast experienced fewer exacerbations. The most common adverse effects reported in roflumilast trials were diarrhea, nausea, headache, and abdominal pain. Evidence is only available in non-peer-reviewed format abstracts. Most of the measures used are markers of clinical effects as opposed to clinical outcomes. More studies are needed to determine the role of roflumilast in the treatment of asthma and COPD.
In an attempt to understand how theophylline achieves its in vivo therapeutic effect, a double-blind crossover study of the effect of theophylline on the immediate response of the upper airways to challenge with antigen was performed. Ten subjects with allergic rhinitis were challenged with increasing doses of antigen extract, and their responses were assessed by counting the number of sneezes and measuring the level of histamine, N-alpha-p-tosyl-L-arginine-methyl ester-esterase activity, and kinin in nasal secretions. One-week premedication with theophylline led to serum levels in the therapeutic range (8 to 21 micrograms/ml). There were significant reductions in both the physiologic response to antigen challenge and the appearance of mediators in secretions after drug administration as compared to placebo. These data suggest that theophylline, at therapeutic blood levels, achieves at least part of its in vivo efficacy by reducing the release of histamine and other mediators from mast cells/basophils.
N,N-Dimethylformamide (DMF) is an organic solvent extensively used in industries such as synthetic leather, fibers and films, and induces liver toxicity and carcinogenesis. Despite a series of experimental and clinical reports on DMF-induced liver failure, the mechanism of toxicity is yet unclear. This study investigated whether DMF in combination with a low dose of hepatotoxicant enhances hepatotoxicity, and if so, on what mechanistic basis. Treatment of rats with either DMF (50-500mg/kg/day, for 3 days) or a single low dose of CCl(4) (0.2ml/kg) alone caused small increases in plasma transaminases and lactate dehydrogenase activities. However, combinatorial treatment of DMF with CCl(4) markedly increased blood biochemical changes. Histopathology confirmed the synergism in hepatotoxicity. Moreover, DMF+CCl(4) caused PARP cleavage and caspase-3 activation, but decreased the level of Bcl-xL, all of which confirmed apoptosis of hepatocytes. Consistently, DMF+CCl(4) treatment markedly increased lipid peroxidation. By contrast, treatment of DMF in combination with lipopolysaccharide, acetaminophen or d-galactosamine caused no enhanced hepatotoxicity. Given the link between endoplasmic reticulum (ER) dysfunction and cell death, ER stress response was monitored after DMF and/or CCl(4) treatment. Whereas either DMF or CCl(4) treatment alone marginally changed the expression levels of glucose-regulated protein 78 and 94 and phosphorylated PKR-like ER-localized eIF2alpha kinase, concomitant treatment with DMF and CCl(4) synergistically induced them with increases in glucose-regulated protein 78 and C/EBP homologous protein mRNAs. Our results demonstrate that DMF treatment in combination with CCl(4) synergistically increases hepatocyte death, which may be associated with the induction of severe ER stress.
Recent studies have revealed that copper is an important cofactor for several angiogenic agents. We examined the antiangiogenic effect against hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) of the copper chelator trientine, especially focusing on the relationship between copper and interleukin-8 (IL-8), a potent angiogenic factor produced by hepatoma cells. HuH-7 hepatoma cells were transplanted into nude mice and the growth of xenograft tumors was compared to and without administration of trientine. Using the resected tumor, microvessel density, apoptotic potential and proliferative activity were analyzed histologically and IL-8 mRNA was semiquantified by RT-PCR. In addition, HuH-7 cells were cultured in control medium, medium supplemented with copper, medium supplemented with trientine and medium supplemented with both copper and trientine. Human IL-8 levels were measured in the supernatants by ELISA. Using the extracts from cultured cells, IL-8 mRNA was semiquantified by RT-PCR. Trientine suppressed the growth of xenograft tumors significantly. Histologically, apoptotic potential was increased significantly and microvessel density, decreased. The production of IL-8 from the tumor was suppressed by trientine. In vitro, IL-8 production by HuH-7 cells in copper-containing medium was significantly greater than that in copper-free medium, and this effect was weakened when trientine was added. However, no significant change was apparent when trientine was added to the medium alone. In conclusion, the chelating effect of trientine prevented copper from functioning as a cofactor in angiogenesis, which resulted in reduced IL-8 production from HuH-7 cells.
To study ED50 and ED90 induction doses of propofol in children.
Seventy-two children from 1 to 110 months of age and premedicated with pentobarbital 4 mg/kg participated in the study. Seven different doses of propofol (1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4 and 4.5 mg/kg) were injected into the dorsal hand or foot vein in 30 seconds. We measured the response to application of the mask, corneal reflex and response to trapezius muscle compression 30 and 60 s after administration. A log-probit statistical analysis was used and complications were noted.
The doses that produced 50% elimination of reflexes (ED50) or 90% elimination (ED90) in our patients were 1.74 and 3.95 mg/kg for response to mask; 2.47 and 4.26 mg/kg for elimination of corneal reflex; and 3.27 and 4.79 mg/kg for compression of trapezius. Frequency of pain upon injection was 74% and that of spontaneous movement was 12%. Apnea (breathing halted for longer than 20 s) occurred in 7% of our patients. We recorded no cases of broncho or laryngeal spasm, or skin rash.
Induction with propofol is appropriate given the rarity of stimulant effects, but there is a high frequency of pain upon injection, limiting the usefulness of this drug for anesthetic induction in pediatrics. ED50 and ED90 varies depending on the stimulus assessed.
The authors report a case of acute mania induced by perindopril (Coversyl) in a 57 year old man with no prior history of mental illness. This Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitor (ACEI) had been introduced eight days prior to the first signs of excitation, in order to treat recently diagnosed arterial hypertension. Without proof of reintroduction, and on the basis of clinical observations, the attribution appears plausible. Similar observations have been made for other molecules in this class of medication, such as captopril (Lopril). A review of literature regroups recent data concerning psychotropic effects of ACEIs. Several reports claim that captopril clearly acts as an antidepressant. Studies on the mood or the quality of life of treated hypertensive patients show ACEIs to have an euphoric-type positive effect compared to other anti-hypertensive treatments. Captopril and perindopril also act like potential antidepressants in experimental models of antidepression. Furthermore, pharmacologic data confirm that the most lipophilic ACEIs penetrate the central nervous system and argue in favor of the role of these molecules in activating central opioides. As these data provide evidence of mood swing in some patients, but also of an overall benefit in hypertensive populations, the clinical importance of the antidepressant effect of ACEIs needs further investigations.
This case describes the novel coexistence of sporadic blepharophimosis-ptosis-epicanthus inversus syndrome (BPES) and bilateral type I Duane syndrome in a female infant, with a FOXL2 mutation. Mutational analysis of FOXL2 demonstrated a 30-nucleotide duplication (c.672(-)701dup30) within the polyalanine tract of FOXL2. The association of BPES and Duane syndrome represents a novel phenotype which may suggest a greater pleiotropic effect of FOXL2 in development. During the period of the 4-8th week of embryonic development, the cranial nerves, their nuclei and the corresponding innervation to the extraocular muscles develop, the extraocular muscles undergo development and differentiation. This coincides with the period of time that FOXL2 is expressed strongly in the developing eyelids and the surrounding tissues. Forkhead genes are transcription factors and likely to be involved in signal transduction pathways. This case expands the spectrum of FOXL2 mutations associated with BPES.
Daunorubicin is an anthracycline antitumour agent that can cause severe cardiomyopathy leading to a frequently fatal congestive heart failure. Although the exact molecular mechanisms of cardiotoxicity are not well established, oxidative mechanisms involving daunorubicin-induced superoxide anion production have been proposed. In the present study, we showed that ebselen a seleno-organic compound exhibiting glutathione peroxidase-like and antioxidant activities, significantly ameliorated daunorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy. Subcutaneous administration of ebselen to daunorubicin-treated rats showed significant improvement in serum cardiac indices including creatine kinase isoenzyme and lactate dehydrogenase as well as serum glutathione (GSH) peroxidase. Moreover, myocardium of daunorubicin/ebselen-treated rats showed significant improvement in daunorubicin-induced depletion of GSH peroxidase activity and reduced glutathione content, in addition to attenuation of daunorubicin-induced increase in cardiac malondialdehyde production and total nitrate/nitrite concentration levels. These results were confirmed by histopathological examination of ventricles of daunorubicin/ebselen-treated rats that revealed significant improvement of the characteristic cardiomyopathic changes induced by daunorubicin treatment. Interestingly, control rats treated with ebselen showed significant elevation in serum lactate dehydrogenase activity, cardiac malondialdehyde production and total nitrate/nitrite concentration levels compared with the untreated control animals. In conclusion, ebselen treatment significantly alleviates daunorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
Lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) is a potent pro-arrhythmic derivative of the membrane phosphotidylcholine, which is accumulated in heart tissues during cardiac ischemia. However, the cellular mechanism underlying LPC-induced cardiomyocyte damage remains to be elucidated. This study focuses on the effects of LPC on cardiomyocyte gap junction. At 30μM, LPC decreased the spontaneous contraction rates of cardiomyocytes, and caused arrhythmic contraction without affecting cell viability. Connexin43 (Cx43) was seen as large plaques at cell junctions in control cells, whereas upon LPC treatment, the intensity of Cx43 staining was decreased in a concentration-sensitive manner and Cx43 staining appeared as tiny dots at cell junctions with a corresponding increase in cytoplasmic punctate staining. This distributional change of Cx43 was accompanied by an impairment of the gap junction intercellular communication (GJIC). Further, LPC treatment induced protein kinase C (PKC) activation, and PKC-dependent Cx43 phosphorylation at serine (Ser) 368. Pre-treatment with a specific PKCɛ inhibitor, eV1-2, prevented the LPC-induced Cx43 phosphorylation at Ser368 and the loss of Cx43 from gap junctions, both of which may disturb GJIC functions. Furthermore, siRNA knockdown of PKCɛ in H9c2 cells prevented LPC-induced serine phosphorylation of Cx43, confirming the role of PKCɛ in Cx43 serine phosphorylation. Double labeling immunofluorescence showed that LPC increased the colocalization of Cx43 with ubiquitin, and pretreatment with MG132 effectively prevented LPC-induced gap junction disassembly. LPC increased the ubiquitination of Cx43, which was blocked by eV1-2 pretreatment, suggesting that LPC accelerated the intracellular degradation of Cx43 via the ubiquitin-proteasomal pathway. It can be concluded that LPC destroyed the structure and function of gap junctions via PKCɛ-mediated serine phosphorylation of Cx43. PKCɛ inhibitors might therefore be effective in prevention of LPC-related diseases.
The aim of this study is to investigate the hypotensive and vasodilator effects of daidzein sulfates, a water-solubility derivative of daidzein. Tail cuff blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) was measured with non-invasive Electro-Sphygmomanometer. An isometric tension of rat mesenteric artery ring segments was recoded in vitro on a myograph. The results showed that daidzein sulfates (20 and 40 mg/kg) could decrease blood pressure of SHR in single dose and multi-doses. Daidzein sulfates (1-100 microM) inhibited the contraction of rat mesenteric arterial ring segments induced by norepinephrine (NA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT). Daidzein sulfates (100-1000 microM) inhibited arterial segment's contraction induced by KCl and CaCl(2). The concentration- contractive curves were shifted toward right in a non-parallel manner with decreased E(max.) Daidzein sulfaltes inhibited the extracellular Ca(2+)-dependent contraction. Daidzein sulfates of 100 and 300 microM significantly inhibited the contraction induced by CaCl(2) in Ca(2+)-free solution, which is an extracellular Ca(2+)-dependent contraction; but daidzein sulfates did not inhibit the intracellular Ca(2+)-dependent NA-induced contraction, in Ca(2+)-free solution. The results suggest that daidzein sulfates possess significant hypotensive and vasodilator effects which mainly derive from artery smooth muscle cells by inhibiting the receptor-mediated Ca(2+)-influx.
Acute renal failure is an abrupt decrease in renal function. Interleukin (IL)-10 inhibits ischemic and cisplatin-induced acute renal failure. We aimed to determine whether IL-20 affects renal tubular epithelial cells and is associated with acute renal failure. We analyzed the expression of IL-20 and its receptor (R) in the kidneys of rats with HgCl(2)-induced acute renal failure. Reverse transcription-PCR showed upregulated IL-20, and its receptors and immunohistochemical staining showed strongly expressed IL-20 protein in proximal tubular epithelial cells. We analyzed human proximal tubular epithelial (HK-2) cells, which expressed both IL-20 and its receptors. IL-20 specifically induced mitochondria-dependent apoptosis by activating caspase 9 in HK-2 cells. IL-20 also activated c-Jun N-terminal kinase and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2, the downstream signals implicated in the apoptosis of HK-2 cells. Furthermore, IL-20 upregulated the transcripts of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1, a critical mediator of renal injury. In hypoxic HK-2 cells, IL-20 and IL-22R1 transcripts increased, and IL-20 upregulated IL-1 beta transcripts. In vivo study further demonstrated that anti-IL-20 antibody reduced the expression of TGF-beta1 and IL-1 beta and the number of damaged tubular cells in the kidneys of rats with acute renal failure. We concluded that IL-20 may be involved in the injury of renal epithelial cells in acute renal failure.
The aim of this paper is to alert the medical community to the potential risk of clinical depression following the use of antiglaucoma medication.
The available literature concerning systemic side-effects of topical antiglaucoma medication and the association of these agents with clinical depression were reviewed. In addition, two cases are reported of the occurrence of clinical depression following use of topical betaxolol which only resolved completely after switching glaucoma medication.
The case reports presented here add to the increasing body of literature linking topical ophthalmic beta-adrenoceptor antagonists with depression. While these cases are uncommon, this phenomenon continues to be poorly recognized by the medical profession, psychiatrists, ophthalmologists and general practitioners alike.
In the present study, effects of intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of histamine, mepyramine (H1-receptor antagonist) and famotidine (H2-receptor antagonist) have been investigated on the formalin test in rats. Subcutaneous injection of formalin (50 microl, 1%) into the ventral surface of the left hind paw produced a marked biphasic pain response (first phase: 0-5 min and second phase: 15-45 min). All the performed treatments did not significantly influence the first phase of pain. Histamine at the doses of 10 and 40 microg and mepyramine and famotidine at the same doses of 20 and 80 microg, significantly (P < 0.05) decreased the late phase of formalin-induced pain. Pretreatments with mepyramine and famotidine at the same dose of 80 microg, significantly (P < 0.05) prevented the histamine (40 microg)-induced antinociception. These results indicate that brain histamine produces antinociception, and both central H1 and H2 receptors may involve in the histamine-induced antinociception in the formalin test in rats.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as key post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression, involved in diverse physiological and pathological processes. An oncogenic or tumor-suppressive miRNA may have potential as a therapeutic target to control cancers. Gefitinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). H460 and A549 cells with EGFR receptor-independent over-activation of protein kinase B (Akt) or extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK) are significantly resistant to gefitinib. The first aim of this study was to confirm a role for three miRNAs (let-7a, hsa-miR-126, and hsa-miR-145) in the inhibition of proliferation in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells. A second aim was to evaluate three miRNAs for their abilities to overcome cellular resistance and enhance the gefitinib cytotoxicity. The expression of miRNAs was estimated by real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Cell proliferation was examined by sulforhodamine B assay and tumor xenografts were measured in SCID/beige mice. The activation of Akt and ERK was observed by Western blotting. Forced expression of individual miRNA suppressed the growth of two cell lines and xenografts. The effect varied among different miRNAs and cells. Restoration of hsa-miR-126 more obviously inhibited cell growth than did restoration of hsa-miR-145 in both cells, and the suppressive effect was more significant in H460 xenografts than in A549 xenografts. Western blotting revealed that the inhibition of cell proliferation resulted from the inhibition of the activation of Akt and ERK. Moreover, forced expression of miRNAs contributed to enhanced cytotoxicity induced by gefitinib in lung cancer cells; especially in hsa-miR-126, the highest value of half max inhibitory (IC50) was increased sixfold. These findings confirm that tumor-suppressive miRNAs can inhibit the growth of NSCLC cells and enhance the targeted agents cytotoxicity, suggesting novel potential approaches to an improvement in chemotherapy.
Catatonia is a disorder characterized by mutism, posturing, echophenomena, and negativism. The preferred treatment for non-malignant catatonia is benzodiazepines, which often produce a reduction in symptoms within 24 hours. Presented here is a case report of a 19-year-old woman appearing in a catatonic state that did not respond to lorazepam. On the basis of emerging evidence that atypical antipsychotics and weak N-Methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA) receptor-antagonists may effectively treat catatonia, we treated our patient with olanzapine and amantadine, which resulted in a dramatic reduction in her catatonic symptoms.
The microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) is a pathological component of several neurodegenerative diseases and clinical dementias. Here, we have investigated the effects of a series of commercially available FDA-approved compounds and natural products on total tau protein levels using a cell-based approach that allows for the rapid and efficient measurement of changes in protein expression.
The compounds that reduced tau largely fell within 3 functional categories with the largest percentage being microtubule regulators. Several of these candidates were validated in both a human neuroglioma and a human neuroblastoma cell line. While these drugs lead to a rapid reduction in tau protein levels, a selective decrease in MAPT mRNA expression was also observed.
These findings suggest that the identified compounds that reduce tau levels may act either through direct effects on the MAPT promoter itself or by altering a feedback transcriptional mechanism regulating MAPT transcription. This is particularly interesting in light of recent evidence suggesting that MAPT 5' UTR mutations in late-onset PD and PSP cases alter the expression of tau mRNA. In fact, one of the compounds we identified, rotenone, has been used extensively to model PD in rodents. These observations may provide key insights into the mechanism of tau turnover within the neuron while also providing the first evidence that selectively reducing tau protein levels may be possible using compounds that are FDA-approved for other uses.
