Metoprolol succinate is a selective beta-adrenergic receptor blocker useful in treatment of hypertension, angina and heart failure. The purpose of the present work was to design and evaluate controlled release matrix type tablet of Metoprolo succinate using HPMC K15M and Eudragit (RLPO and RSPO) as a matrix forming agents. Effect of various polymer alone and combinations were studied in pH 1.2 buffer using USP type II paddle at 50 rpm. HPMC was used to form firm gel with Eudragit polymer. Formulation with Equal proportion (1:1) of Eudragit RSPO and RLPO showed optimum drug release t(50)=7 hrs and t(100)=16 hrs indicate optimum permeability for drug release from matrix. The drug release mechanism was predominantly found to be Non-Fickian diffusion controlled.
Blood clotting, platelet aggregation, complete blood count and lipid profile were evaluated in 12 postmenopausal patients with advanced breast cancer. Patients under treatment with high-dose MPA were considered not at risk for thomboembolic disease and were given MPA orally, 800 mg/day, for at least 3 months. Laboratory investigations were performed prior to treatment with MPA then once weekly during the first month and every 2 weeks during the following months. PTT, TEG, antithrombin III and platelet adhesiveness underwent statistically significant changes, tending towards hypercoagulability, although, on the average, they did not exceed the upper normal range. The authors conclude that a clinically relevant thrombotic activity cannot be attributed to MPA at the administered oral doses in the absence of additional risk factors.
To test the effects of novel oral hypoglycemic agent A-4166 on lipolysis and lipogenesis in adipocytes from normal rats and non-obese, hypertriglyceridemic, insulin resistant and hypertensive rats (HTG) fed basal or high fat diet.
Adult male Wistar rats and hereditary HTG rats (from our own colony) were used. They were fed either basal or high fat diet for three weeks. On the day of observation the active substance A-4166 was administered intragastrically by gavage 30 minutes before decapitation. Blood was collected for the determination of insulin, glycemia, non esterified fatty acids (NEFA) by using commercial kits. The isolated adipocytes were prepared from epididymal fat pads and lipolysis (by measurement of glycerol release) and lipogenesis (by estimation of labeled glucose incorporation into lipids) were determined.
The administration of A-4166 results in increased serum insulin and decreased serum glucose level in all rats irrespective of the diet. A significant diminution of serum NEFA levels was observed in A-4166 administered Wistar and HTG rats fed high fat diet. In both groups of rats fed basal diet the lipolysis was not affected by A-4166. However, a decrease of lipolysis was found after A-4166 in Wistar rats fed high fat diet. The stimulation of lipolysis by norepinephrine was not influenced by A-4166. A lowered basal lipolysis was found in HTG rats fed high fat diet. The stimulation of lipolysis by norepinephrine was diminished in HTG rats as compared to Wistar animals. Administration of A-4166 did not affect the stimulation of lipolysis by norepinephrine in HTG rats. A decrease of stimulatory action of insulin on lipogenesis was found in Wistar rats fed high fat diet and in all groups of HTG rats. The administration of A-4166 did not change the basal lipogenesis and also the effect of insulin on lipogenesis.
Besides the hyperinsulinemic and hypoglycemic effect of A-4166 also an influence on nonesterified fatty acid serum levels was observed in rats fed high fat diet. This can be partially explained by an antilipolytic action of hyperinsulinemia after A-4166. The studies of lipogenesis showed that Wistar rats fed high fat diet and HTG animals are resistant to the stimulatory action of insulin on lipogenesis and that administration of A-4166 did not affect this response to insulin.
Local anesthetics containing adrenaline, which often cause cardiovascular side effects, are routinely used in functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS) for the main purpose of hemostasis. The controversies concerning hemodynamic effects of adrenaline in local infiltration are widely discussed, but there is no definite conclusion. A prospective, randomized, double-blinded study was carried out to discover the hemodynamic effects after local infiltration of 1:200,000 adrenaline contained in 2% lidocaine under general anesthesia.
Seventy-six adult patients undergoing FESS during general anesthesia were allocated randomly into three groups. Group I patients (n = 26) received 2% lidocaine 2 mL with adrenaline (1:200,000), group II patients (n = 25) received saline 2 mL with adrenaline (1:200,000), and group III patients (control group, n = 25) received saline 2 mL without adrenaline for local infiltration. Electrocardiogram (ECG) and heart rate (HR) were monitored simultaneously; systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) were directly measured in radial artery continuously after local infiltration.
SBP, DBP, MAP, and HR were recorded at 10 time points: before infiltration (baseline), 0.5 minutes, 1 minute, 1.5 minutes, 2 minutes, 2.5 minutes, 3 minutes, 3.5 minutes, 4 minute, and 5 minutes after infiltration.
Significant hemodynamic changes, particularly hypotension (P < .01), after local infiltration were observed in group I and group II compared with the baseline, but not in group III. However, there were no significant hemodynamic changes between group I and group II at the same time points (P > .05). The significant hemodynamic changes lasted no longer than 4 minutes.
Lidocaine (2%) or saline with adrenaline (1:200,000) does cause temporary hypotension and other hemodynamic changes during general anesthesia, which last no longer than 4 minutes. The causative mechanism is caused by the effect of adrenaline. This is a preliminary study.
The major herbicide used worldwide, Roundup, is a glyphosate-based pesticide with adjuvants. Glyphosate, its active ingredient in plants and its main metabolite (AMPA) are among the first contaminants of surface waters. Roundup is being used increasingly in particular on genetically modified plants grown for food and feed that contain its residues. Here we tested glyphosate and its formulation on mature rat fresh testicular cells from 1 to 10000ppm, thus from the range in some human urine and in environment to agricultural levels. We show that from 1 to 48h of Roundup exposure Leydig cells are damaged. Within 24-48h this formulation is also toxic on the other cells, mainly by necrosis, by contrast to glyphosate alone which is essentially toxic on Sertoli cells. Later, it also induces apoptosis at higher doses in germ cells and in Sertoli/germ cells co-cultures. At lower non toxic concentrations of Roundup and glyphosate (1ppm), the main endocrine disruption is a testosterone decrease by 35%. The pesticide has thus an endocrine impact at very low environmental doses, but only a high contamination appears to provoke an acute rat testicular toxicity. This does not anticipate the chronic toxicity which is insufficiently tested, and only with glyphosate in regulatory tests.
Bazedoxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that has been developed for use in post-menopausal osteoporosis. However, it contains a potentially toxic 5-hydroxy-3-methylindole moiety. Previous studies on the 5-hydroxyindole and the 3-alkylindole-containing drugs indometacine, zafirlukast and MK-0524 structural analogs have shown that they are bioactivated by cytochrome P450s through a dehydrogenation process to form quinoneimine or 3-methyleneindolenine electrophilic species. In the present study, bazedoxifene was synthesized and then evaluated, together with raloxifene and 2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-3-methyl-1H-indol-5-ol (13), a 3-methyl-5-hydroxyindole-based structural fragment of bazedoxifene, for its ability to form reactive electrophilic species when incubated with human liver microsomes (HLMs) or recombinant CYP isozymes. We showed that bazedoxifene was bioactivated only in trace amounts with recombinant CYP isozymes. In contrast, the N-dealkylated fragment of bazedoxifene (2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-3-methyl-1H-indol-5-ol) was bioactivated in considerable amounts to an electrophilic intermediate, which was trapped with glutathione and identified by LC-MS/MS. This suggests that bazedoxifene would require initial N-dealkylation, which could subsequently lead to the formation of the reactive intermediate. However, such an N-dealkylated metabolite of bazedoxifene was not detected after the incubation of bazedoxifene in HLM or recombinant CYP isozymes.
Several analogues of the neuroleptic agent butaclamol, having modifications in the ring E region of the molecule, have been synthesized. Pharmacological evaluation identified two of the analogues as being equipotent to butaclamol, namely, anhydrobutaclamol (8) and deoxybutaclamol (9a). The molecular structures of both the active and inactive analogues were analyzed and the results have been used for mapping the central dopamine receptor. The existence of a previously proposed lipophilic accessory binding site on the receptor macromolecule has been confirmed. Its minimum dimensions, as well as its locus with respect to the primary binding sites, have been defined. A receptor model incorporating the above features is proposed.
In this report the clinical features of a case of clofibrate-induced muscular syndrome, as well as the electromyographic, histochemical, light- and electron-microscopic findings are described. The clinical features are similar to those of previously reported cases. Electromyography was consistent with a myopathy. Histochemical profile was normal. The myopathology included breakdown of contractile material, deranged mitochondria, dilated sarcoplasmic reticulum profiles, accumulation of membrane bound dense bodies, discontinuities in sarcolemma and thickening of capillary basement membrane. Macrophages invaded severely affected fibers.
Two patients developed renal Fanconi syndrome (RFS) after intensive long-term chemotherapy for metastatic Ewing sarcoma and disseminated neuroblastoma. Whereas RFS was diagnosed in patient 1 before he developed osteomalacia, patient 2 experienced severe rickets and growth retardation. Renal function studies revealed slight glomerular impairment and severe tubular defects leading to increased excretion of glucose, amino acids, inorganic phosphate and low molecular weight proteins, indicating proximal tubular damage. Patient 2 additionally showed distal tubular dysfunction with acidosis and diminished concentrating capacity. Renal biopsy in patient 1 revealed marked proximal tubular defects without interstitial lymphocytic infiltration. In both patients renal damage could most likely be ascribed to previous ifosfamide (IFOS) therapy. Our patients showed no improvement in renal function after cessation of IFOS treatment, indicating a poor prognosis of once established RFS after IFOS therapy. Measurement of tubular reabsorption capacities provides exact information on the extent of tubular toxicity induced by IFOS and may be used to monitor IFOS treated patients.
Tiotropium (Spiriva is an inhaled, once-daily anticholinergic medication for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). We conducted a population-based cohort study to examine the risk of cardiovascular and respiratory hospitalizations and mortality with tiotropium. Using the Danish healthcare registries, we identified persons >/=40 years old in three counties who were hospitalized for COPD from 1/1/1977 to 12/31/2003. Respiratory and cardiovascular medications were assessed from dispensing records. Cox regression was used to compute incidence rate ratios (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for hospitalization and death between 1/1/2002 and 12/31/2003, associated with periods of tiotropium use compared to non-use, controlling for age, gender, time since COPD, concomitant respiratory and cardiovascular medications, prior hospitalizations and Charlson comorbidity index. Among persons with COPD (10,603), 75% were >/=60 years old. Follow-up was >/=18 months for 64%. Among those exposed to tiotropium compared to periods of non-use, the RR for total and cause-specific hospitalization endpoints were not elevated except for COPD hospitalization (RR = 1.52, 95% CI: 1.29, 1.79). Mortality endpoints included total mortality (RR = 0.77, 95% CI: 0.65, 0.91), respiratory mortality (RR = 0.79, 95% CI: 0.60, 1.04), sudden death (RR = 0.71, 95% CI: 0.21, 2.34), cardiac arrest (RR = 0.74, 95% CI: 0.42, 1.32), heart failure (RR = 0.84, 95% CI: 0.41, 1.75), and myocardial infarction (RR = 1.25, 95% CI: 0.49, 3.17). Compared to periods of non-use, tiotropium was associated with reduced respiratory and overall mortality and was not associated with increased cardiac mortality. An increase in COPD hospitalization is inconsistent with clinical trial data and suggests preferential prescribing due to disease severity.
In this report, we describe the synthesis and characterization of nanocrystalline silicalite (the purely siliceous form of the zeolite, ZSM-5) of defined crystal size and surface functionalization and determine the effect on the type and degree of cytotoxicity induced in two distinct model cell lines. The silicalite materials were characterized by powder X-ray diffraction, dynamic light scattering and zeta potential, solid state NMR, thermal gravimetric analysis, and nitrogen adsorption using the BET method to determine specific surface area. The silicalite samples were functionalized with amino, thiol, and carboxy groups and had crystal sizes of approximately 30, 150, and 500 nm. The cytotoxicities of the silicalite samples with different crystal sizes and different surface functional groups were investigated using human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK-293) cells and RAW264.7 macrophage cell lines. We used the lactic dehydrogenase release assay to measure damage to the cell membrane, the caspase 3/7 activity assay to measure key molecules involved in apoptosis, and the Annexin V-propidium iodide staining method to provide visual confirmation of the types of cell death induced. We have shown that the impact of size and surface functionalization of silicalite nanoparticles on cell toxicity and mechanism of cell death is cell type-dependent. Thirty nanometer silicalite nanoparticles were nontoxic in RAW264.7 cells relative to untreated controls but caused necrosis in HEK293 cells. Carboxy-functionalized 500 nm silicalite nanoparticles resulted in apoptosis and necrosis in RAW264.7 cells and predominantly activated apoptosis in HEK293 cells.
Since 1975 mitomycin C (MMC) has been suggested to be cardiotoxic, especially when combined with or given following doxorubicin. Data on dose dependency or incidence concerning this side effect were not known. We have initiated a prospective study to obtain some more data on these subjects. Forty-four MMC-treated patients were studied, 37 of them could be evaluated. All patients were studied by repeated physical examinations, chest X-rays, electro- and echocardiography and radionuclide left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) determinations. The results were evaluated per cumulative dose level. One of the patients developed cardiac failure after 30 mg m-2 MMC and only 150 mg m-2 doxorubicin. The cardiac failure was predicted by a drop in EF determined during a cold pressor test. None of the other patients developed clinical cardiotoxicity, nor did the studied parameters change. The literature on this subject was also reviewed. Based on the combined data from the present study and the literature, we suggest that MMC-related cardiotoxicity is dose dependent, occurring at cumulative dose levels of 30 mg m-2 or more, mainly in patients also (previously or simultaneously) treated with doxorubicin. The incidence is likely to be less than 10% even for this risk group.
In Hong Kong, a multidisciplinary team consisting of a pharmacist, a chemical pathologist, a scientific officer, and a physician has jointly provided an advisory service on herbal safety to healthcare professionals of all public hospitals since August 2000. This paper reports the first 2 years of experience of this team to emphasize the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to herbal poisoning. Twenty referrals received from the public hospitals from August 2000 to June 2002 were reviewed. The diagnosis of herbal toxicity was made after consideration of the temporal relationship between exposure to the herb and the occurrence of the adverse event and the exclusion of other causes. The causal relationship was seen as much stronger if the herb's pharmacological effects could fully explain the adverse event, if there were similar previous reports, and if the toxicological analysis findings were supportive. In 10 patients, the adverse events were deemed unlikely to be related to the use of herbal medicines. In 3 patients, it was concluded that the adverse events were possibly related to the use of herbal medicines. In 7 patients, the causal relationship was seen to be much stronger because the adverse events in these patients simply reflected the pharmacological effects of the herbs consumed and specific toxic ingredients were isolated from herbal residues and patients' urine or serum. The clinical problems arising from the use of herbal medicines included the Aristolochia species causing acute renal failure (n = 1), aconite roots causing aconitine poisoning (n = 2), the Datura species causing anticholinergic poisoning (n = 1), and "yulan" (Stephania sinica) causing tetrahydropalmatine poisoning (n = 3). The 4 patients with acute renal failure and tetrahydropalmatine poisoning received these toxic herbs, which were not listed in the prescriptions, as a result of poor dispensing practice or for other reasons. Toxicological problems associated with the use of herbal medicines are complex and may be easily overlooked. A multidisciplinary team of experts should be made available to provide advice to frontline healthcare professionals.
To determine risk for central nervous system/autonomic nervous system (CNS/ANS) signs following in utero cocaine and opiate exposure.
A multisite study was designed to determine outcomes of in utero cocaine and opiate exposure. A total of 11 811 maternal/infant dyads were enrolled. Drug exposed (EXP) infants were identified by maternal self report of cocaine or opiate use or by meconium testing. Of 1185 EXP, meconium analysis confirmed exposure in 717 to cocaine (CO) only, 100 to opiates (OP), and 92 to opiates plus cocaine (OP+CO); 276 had insufficient or no meconium to confirm maternal self report. Negative exposure history was confirmed in 7442 by meconium analysis and unconfirmed in 3184. Examiners masked to exposure status, assessed each enrolled infant. Using generalised estimating equations, adjusted odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were estimated for manifesting a constellation of CNS/ANS outcomes and for each sign associated with cocaine and opiate exposure.
Prevalence of CNS/ANS signs was low in CO, and highest in OP+CO. Signs were significantly related to one another. After controlling for confounders, CO was associated with increased risk of manifesting a constellation of CNS/ANS outcomes, OR (95% CI): 1.7 (1.2 to 2.2), independent of OP effect, OR (95% CI): 2.8 (2.1 to 3.7). OP+CO had additive effects, OR (95% CI): 4.8 (2.9 to 7.9). Smoking also increased the risk for the constellation of CNS/ANS signs, OR (95% CI) of 1.3 (1.04 to 1.55) and 1.4 (1.2 to 1.6), respectively, for use of less than half a pack per day and half a pack per day or more.
Cocaine or opiate exposure increases the risk for manifesting a constellation of CNS/ANS outcomes.
Two adjacent groups of midbrain dopaminergic neurons, A9 (substantia nigra pars compacta) and A10 (ventral tegmental area), have distinct projections and exhibit differential vulnerability in Parkinson's disease. Little is known about transcription factors that influence midbrain dopaminergic subgroup phenotypes or their potential role in disease. Here, we demonstrate elevated expression of the transcription factor orthodenticle homeobox 2 in A10 dopaminergic neurons of embryonic and adult mouse, primate and human midbrain. Overexpression of orthodenticle homeobox 2 using lentivirus increased levels of known A10 elevated genes, including neuropilin 1, neuropilin 2, slit2 and adenylyl cyclase-activating peptide in both MN9D cells and ventral mesencephalic cultures, whereas knockdown of endogenous orthodenticle homeobox 2 levels via short hairpin RNA reduced expression of these genes in ventral mesencephalic cultures. Lack of orthodenticle homeobox 2 in the ventral mesencephalon of orthodenticle homeobox 2 conditional knockout mice caused a reduction of midbrain dopaminergic neurons and selective loss of A10 dopaminergic projections. Orthodenticle homeobox 2 overexpression protected dopaminergic neurons in ventral mesencephalic cultures from Parkinson's disease-relevant toxin, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, whereas downregulation of orthodenticle homeobox 2 using short hairpin RNA increased their susceptibility. These results show that orthodenticle homeobox 2 is important for establishing subgroup phenotypes of post-mitotic midbrain dopaminergic neurons and may alter neuronal vulnerability.
The case report on a 22-year-old female patient shows how the treatment with Imipenan/Cilastatin resulted in a severe intrahepatic cholestasis. The serum-bilirubin rapidly decreased after discontinuation of the antibiotic. The laboratory findings were no longer conspicuous four weeks after discharge from hospital.
Several analogues of the neuroleptic agent butaclamol having modifications in the rings A/B region of the molecule have been synthesized. Pharmacological evaluation identified the benzo[5,6]cyclohepta analogue 2b, isobutaclamol, as being equipotent to butaclamol. The molecular structure of this compound has been analyzed, and the results have been used for mapping the central dopamine receptor. A planar catechol primary binding site, composed of alpha and beta regions, has been identified and its minimal dimensions deduced. Its locus with respect to the nitrogen location site and its complementary hydrogen bond donor site has been specified. Using a Cartesian coordinate system, a receptor model is proposed which incorporates the above-mentioned features. The receptor model has been used to rationalize the observed chirality of the central dopamine receptor.
The serological hallmark of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is the presence of antibodies against double-stranded DNA. However, several studies have suggested that it is not DNA itself, but nucleosomes that are the immunogenic particles involved both in the induction of anti-DNA antibodies, and in the pathophysiology of SLE. Meanwhile, It has been demonstrated that there is an accelerated in vitro apoptosis of lymphocytes from patients with SLE. Therefore, one can postulate that the process of apoptosis may provide a source of nuclear antigens to drive the autoantibody response seen in SLE. Our study has demonstrated that hydroxychloroquine exhibits an anti-apoptotic action and this anti-apoptotic effect is dependent on monocyte coexistence. We used both morphology assessment and fluorescent antibody cell sorter (FACS) analysis to measure the apoptotic percentage of lymphocytes from 25 SLE patients in medium alone (control) or with the addition of different concentrations of hydroxychloroquine. Our results have shown that there is a significant decrease in the percentage of apoptosis at the therapeutic concentration (10(-6) M) as compared with the control (p < 0.05). It has been reported that the anti-rheumatic properties of hydroxychloroquine result from its interference with antigen processing in macrophages and other antigen-presenting cells. We propose that this results in decreased stimulation of autoreactive lymphocytes reactive with self-peptides, and consequently diminution of activation-induced cell death (apoptosis) of mature peripheral lymphocytes.
Recent studies have suggested that retinoids may be involved in the molecular mechanisms of pulmonary hypoplasia (PH) in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) plays a key role in foetal lung development and remodelling during later gestation. CTGF knockout mice exhibit PH with similar characteristics to the human and nitrofen-induced PH. Prenatal administration of retinoic acid (RA) has been shown to stimulate alveologenesis in nitrofen-induced PH. In vitro studies have revealed that RA can induce CTGF gene expression. We hypothesized that pulmonary gene expression of CTGF is downregulated during the later stages of lung development, and that prenatal administration of RA upregulates CTGF in the nitrofen CDH model.
Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or nitrofen on day 9 (D9) of gestation. RA was given intraperitoneally on D18, D19 and D20. Foetuses were harvested on D21 and divided into control, CDH, control + RA and CDH + RA group. Pulmonary CTGF gene and protein expression levels were determined using RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry.
On D21, CTGF relative mRNA expression levels were significantly downregulated in CDH group compared to controls. After RA treatment, expression levels of CTGF were significantly upregulated in CDH + RA and control + RA compared to the CDH group. Immunohistochemical studies confirmed these results.
Downregulation of pulmonary CTGF gene and protein expression during later stages of lung development may interfere with normal alveologenesis in the nitrofen CDH model. Upregulation of CTGF pulmonary gene expression after prenatal RA treatment may promote lung growth by promoting alveologenesis in the nitrofen-induced CDH model.
The nitrofen model of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is widely used to investigate the pathogenesis of CDH. However, the exact pathomechanism of the diaphragmatic defect is still unclear. Diaphragmatic muscularization represents the last stage of diaphragmatic development. Myogenic differentiation 1 (MyoD) and myogenic factor 5 (Myf5) play a crucial role in muscularization. MyoD(-/-) : Myf5(+/-) mutant mice show reduced diaphragmatic size, whereas MyoD(+/-) : Myf5(-/-) mutants have normal diaphragms. We designed this study to investigate diaphragmatic gene expression of MyoD and Myf5 in the nitrofen CDH model.
Pregnant rats received nitrofen or vehicle on day 9 of gestation (D9), followed by cesarean section on D18 and D21. Fetal diaphragms (n = 40) were micro-dissected and divided into CDH group and controls. MyoD and Myf5 mRNA-expression were determined using Real-time PCR. Immunohistochemistry was performed to evaluate protein expression of MyoD and Myf5.
Relative diaphragmatic mRNA expression levels and immunoreactivity of MyoD were decreased in the CDH group on D18 and D21. Myf 5 mRNA and protein expression were not altered in the CDH group.
This is the first study showing that MyoD expression is selectively decreased in the diaphragm muscle in the nitrofen model of CDH.
Reduction and oxidation (redox) chemistry is increasingly implicated in cancer pathogenesis. To interrogate the redox status of prostate tumors noninvasively, we developed hyperpolarized [1-(13)C]dehydroascorbate ((13)C-DHA), the oxidized form of vitamin C, as an MR probe. In a model of transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (TRAMP), increased reduction of hyperpolarized (13)C-DHA to vitamin C was observed in tumor, as compared with normal prostate and surrounding benign tissue. We hypothesized that this difference was due to higher concentrations of glutathione and increased transport of hyperpolarized (13)C-DHA via the glucose transporters (GLUT1, GLUT3, and GLUT4) in TRAMP tumor. To test these hypotheses, hyperpolarized (13)C-DHA MR spectroscopy (MRS) and (18)F-FDG PET were applied as complementary technologies in the TRAMP model.
Late-stage TRAMP tumors (>4 cm(3)) were studied at similar time points (MR studies conducted < 24 h after PET) in fasting mice by (18)F-FDG PET and hyperpolarized (13)C-DHA MR imaging on a small-animal PET/CT scanner and a (1)H/(3)C 3-T MR scanner. PET data were processed using open-source AMIDE software to compare the standardized uptake values of tumor with those of surrounding muscle, and (13)C-DHA MRS data were processed using custom software to compare the metabolite ratios (vitamin C/[vitamin C + (13)C-DHA]). After in vivo studies, the tumor glutathione concentrations were determined using a spectrophotometric assay, and thiol staining was performed using mercury orange. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to evaluate the relevant transporters GLUT1, GLUT3, and GLUT4 and vitamin C transporters SVCT1 and SVCT2. GLUT1 was also evaluated by immunohistochemistry.
The average metabolite ratio was 0.28 ± 0.02 in TRAMP tumor, versus 0.11 ± 0.02 in surrounding benign tissue (n = 4), representing a 2.5-fold difference. The corresponding tumor-to-nontumor (18)F-FDG uptake ratio was 3.0. The total glutathione was 5.1 ± 0.4 mM in tumor and 1.0 ± 0.2 mM in normal prostate, whereas reduced glutathione was 2.0 ± 0.3 mM and 0.8 ± 0.3 mM, respectively, corresponding to a 2.5-fold difference. In TRAMP tumor, mercury orange staining demonstrated increased thiols. Real-time polymerase chain reaction showed no significant difference in GLUT1 messenger RNA between TRAMP tumor and normal prostate, with immunohistochemistry (anti-GLUT1) also showing comparable staining.
Both hyperpolarized (13)C-DHA and (18)F-FDG provide similar tumor contrast in the TRAMP model. Our findings suggest that the mechanism of in vivo hyperpolarized (13)C-DHA reduction and the resulting tumor contrast correlates most strongly with glutathione concentration. In the TRAMP model, GLUT1 is not significantly upregulated and is unlikely to account for the contrast obtained using hyperpolarized (13)C-DHA or (18)F-FDG.
Terbutaline has direct effects on the cardiac conduction system, but when used to treat preterm labor it is rarely associated with clinically significant cardiac arrhythmias. Commonly used drug references did not list atrial fibrillation as a complication of terbutaline, and our literature search found only one case of atrial fibrillation that occurred with parenteral administration.
A 30-year-old gravida 1 carrying a twin gestation at 35 weeks was taking 2.5 mg oral terbutaline four times daily for premature labor. She developed atrial fibrillation and was ultimately treated by chemical cardioversion with procainamide to restore normal sinus rhythm.
This is the first report of atrial fibrillation during pregnancy associated with oral terbutaline. Atrial fibrillation should be added as a complication of oral terbutaline therapy.
Resveratrol is an active polyphenol found in red wine that has anti-cancer effects, but the molecular mechanisms of resveratrol on tumor invasion inhibition have not been well documented. The aim of this study was to elucidate the effects of resveratrol on invasion ability of human hepatocellular carcinoma cells and TNF-alpha-mediated MMP-9 expression. The expression activity of MMP-9 was measured by zymography, RT-PCR and western blot analysis. The expression of NF-kappa B was measured by EMSA and western blot analysis. TNF-alpha induced the MMP-9 expression in HepG2 cells. Resveratrol significantly inhibited TNF-alpha-mediated MMP-9 expression in HepG2 cells. NF-kappa B inhibitor induced a marked reduction in MMP-9 expression, and it suggested that NF-kappa B could play an important role in TNF-alpha-mediated MMP-9 expression. Furthermore, resveratrol significantly suppressed TNF-alpha-mediated NF-kappa B expression and invasion of HepG2 cells. Our results showed that resveratrol inhibited TNF-alpha-mediated MMP-9 expression and invasion of human hepatocellular carcinoma cells. The inhibitory effects are partly associated with the downregulation of the NF-kappa B signaling pathway.
Priapism of the clitoris is a rare condition associated with prolonged erection of the clitoris causing engorgement, swelling, and pain to the clitoris and immediate adjacent area.
A 47-year-old woman presented complaining of vulvar and clitoral pain. Self-reported findings of a swollen and tender clitoris had been confirmed by physical examination during an episode of priapism, otherwise there were no abnormal findings on routine evaluation. The history and findings of prolonged clitoral swelling, tenderness, and pain of the clitoris and adjacent area were considered consistent with clitoral priapism, and discovered to be attributed to the use of trazodone hydrochloride, a heterocyclic antidepressant. The patient was initially treated with imipramine hydrochloride; however, it was the withdrawal of the medication instigating the condition that was the focal point in its management.
Priapism of the clitoris is a condition that may develop during therapy with certain medications, specifically those possessing a strong alpha-adrenergic blockade. Conditions altering blood flow to the clitoris may also predispose to developing this condition. Familiarity with this condition and a high index of suspicion are paramount in establishing a diagnosis.
