The effects of various levels of dietary iron on hepatic lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde [MDA] content), reduced glutathione (GSH) and GSH peroxidase (GSH-PX) activity as well as liver and body weights of female rats following TCDD administration were examined. Rats were fed diets containing deficient (6 ppm), normal (35 ppm) and supplemented (120 ppm) iron for 17, 24 and 31 days. 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD, 40 micrograms/kg/day P.O.) in corn oil or the vehicle was given on days 9, 8 and 7 prior to sacrifice. TCDD treatment produced a 3-fold increase in hepatic MDA content in animals on normal iron diet. TCDD administration failed to increased MDA content in iron deficient animals. In the iron supplemented groups, TCDD resulted in 2.5 fold increases in lipid peroxidation. Dietary iron had no effect on hepatic GSH-PX activity. Animals on the iron deficient diet had 12-21% decreases in hepatic GSH content. TCDD administration resulted in 15-22% decreases in GSH content in animals on the control and iron supplemented diets. TCDD treatment resulted in significant decreases in body weights of animals on all 3 diets. TCDD induced lipid peroxidation appears to be iron dependent. However, the loss in body weight due to TCDD toxicity may not be dependent on lipid peroxidation.
Aspirin reduces risk of colorectal neoplasia in randomized trials and inhibits tumor growth and metastases in animal models. However, the influence of aspirin on survival after diagnosis of colorectal cancer is unknown.
To examine the association between aspirin use after colorectal cancer diagnosis on colorectal cancer-specific and overall survival.
Prospective cohort study of 1279 men and women diagnosed with stage I, II, or III colorectal cancer. Participants were enrolled in 2 nationwide health professional cohorts in 1980 and 1986 prior to diagnosis and followed up through June 1, 2008.
Colorectal cancer-specific and overall mortality.
After a median follow-up of 11.8 years, there were 193 total deaths (35%) and 81 colorectal cancer-specific deaths (15%) among 549 participants who regularly used aspirin after colorectal cancer diagnosis, compared with 287 total deaths (39%) and 141 colorectal cancer-specific deaths (19%) among 730 participants who did not use aspirin. Compared with nonusers, participants who regularly used aspirin after diagnosis experienced a multivariate hazard ratio (HR) for colorectal cancer-specific mortality of 0.71 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.53-0.95) and for overall mortality of 0.79 (95% CI, 0.65-0.97). Among 719 participants who did not use aspirin before diagnosis, aspirin use initiated after diagnosis was associated with a multivariate HR for colorectal cancer-specific mortality of 0.53 (95% CI, 0.33-0.86). Among 459 participants with colorectal cancers that were accessible for immunohistochemical assessment, the effect of aspirin differed significantly according to cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) expression (P for interaction = .04). Regular aspirin use after diagnosis was associated with a lower risk of colorectal cancer-specific mortality among participants in whom primary tumors overexpressed COX-2 (multivariate HR, 0.39; 95% CI, 0.20-0.76), whereas aspirin use was not associated with lower risk among those with primary tumors with weak or absent expression (multivariate HR, 1.22; 95% CI, 0.36-4.18).
Regular aspirin use after the diagnosis of colorectal cancer is associated with lower risk of colorectal cancer-specific and overall mortality, especially among individuals with tumors that overexpress COX-2.
Glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) was previously reported to induce hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in rats after prolonged feeding. The present experiments were undertaken to evaluate the histogenesis and molecular biology of these tumors and the possible role of nitric oxide (NO), a GTN metabolite, in their development. Male F344 rats received a single i.g. intubation of GTN (1.2 g/kg) at 6 weeks of age and/or a diet containing 1% GTN from 8 weeks of age until necropsy, i.e. for up to 78 weeks. Some animals were subjected to 2/3 partial hepatectomy (PH) at 9 weeks of age. Five sequential sacrifices (14, 32, 52, 78 and 84 weeks of age) were performed. No liver tumors developed in control rats or in rats that received GTN only by a single i.g. intubation, even when intubation was followed by PH. Preneoplastic foci, mainly of clear cell and mixed cell type (identified as positive for glutathione S-transferase placental form) were found from 14 weeks of age in rats receiving GTN in the diet. Focal eosinophilic areas (atypical foci) composed of atypical hepatocytes that often extended into the veins were observed beginning at 52 weeks of age. Some mixed hepatocholangiocellular adenomas and carcinomas arose in eosinophilic lesions. HCCs were seen beginning at 78 weeks of age, but only in rats receiving dietary GTN. Incidence of HCC in the latter animals was 50-75%. Most HCCs were well differentiated. The carcinogenic effect of GTN given in the diet was not affected by prior intubation of a large single dose followed by PH. No p53 mutations were found in 18 tumors but K-ras point mutations, all within codon 12, were found in 8/18 tumors, mostly those with cholangiocellular elements. These were first or second position G-->T transversions or second position G-->A transitions. While these mutation types have also been commonly seen in bacteria after NO-related DNA damage, the fact that tumors arose only on prolonged feeding of this potently bioactive agent at massive doses seems consistent with a more complex mechanism involving multiple (i.e. genetic and/or epigenetic) factors in carcinogenesis by GTN.
Systemic vasculitis may, at times, be drug-induced and associated with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA). However, pantoprazole, a commonly used and well-tolerated proton pump inhibitor, has not previously been reported to cause ANCA-associated syndromes. We describe a patient who developed interstitial nephritis, cutaneous vasculitis, a perinuclear ANCA staining pattern (pANCA) on immunofluorescence, and anti-myeloperoxidase antibodies (MPO-ANCA) in association with pantoprazole. We review various immune-mediated syndromes reported in association with proton pump inhibitors, including one report of omeprazole associated with interstitial nephritis and the development of ANCA.
The objective of this study is to investigate the potential protective effects of intravesical instillation of epinephrine in cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis. In an earlier study, we have shown that epinephrine promotes hemostasis on established hemorrhagic cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into seven groups as follows: group 1: positive control (150 mg/kg, cyclophosphamide, i.p.), group 2: negative control (10 microg/ml, epinephrine, intravesical), co-administration of cyclophosphamide (150 mg/kg, i.p.), group 3: saline (intravesical), groups 4-6: epinephrine (2.5, 5, and 10 mu g/ml, intravesical), and group 7: mesna (50 mg/kg, i.p.). Rats were sacrificed on 3 consecutive days and the urinary bladders were removed, weighed, and evaluated. The vesical vascular permeability was determined by wet bladder weight and Evan's blue dye absorbance. After 24 hours of cyclophosphamide administration, severe hemorrhagic cystitis was induced with marked edema, hemorrhage, and inflammation. In the epinephrine-treated groups, symptoms of hemorrhagic cystitis (such as edema, inflammation, and hemorrhage) were reduced significantly. Intravesical instillation of epinephrine prevents edema, hemorrhage, and inflammation in rats with cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.
The t(9;22)(q34;q11) translocation leading to the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome resulting in BCR-ABL gene fusion is associated with a poor prognosis in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).
We studied the relation between t(9;22), determined by karyotype, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) or polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and in vitro drug resistance, measured by the MTT assay, in precursor B-cell ALL at diagnosis. The findings in twenty-one Ph-positive (Ph+) childhood common/precursorB (c/preB) cases were compared with 254 Ph-negative (Ph-) ALL cases.
A large range of LC(50) values was found within the Ph+ patients. Moreover, LC(50) values did not differ significantly between Ph+ and Ph- samples for prednisolone, dexamethasone, L-asparaginase, vincristine, anthracyclines, thiopurines, epipodophyllotoxins, and 4H00-ifosfamide, even after matching for important prognostic features (age, white blood cell count (WBC), and immunophenotype). Adult Ph+ (n = 12) ALL was more resistant to prednisolone (> 270-fold, P = 0.030), and displayed an overall tendency to resistance when compared to matched cases of Ph- (n = 15) adult precursor B-cell ALL. Within Ph+ ALL, in vitro prednisolone resistance increased significantly with age (P = 0.006). The expression of lung resistance protein (LRP), but not P-glycoprotein (P-gp) or multidrug resistance protein (MRP), was significantly higher in all Ph+ patients.
Both childhood and adult Ph+ precursor B-cell ALL samples display a heterogeneous in vitro resistance profile, with relatively sensitive and resistant cases. The adult Ph+ samples, however, are generally more resistant compared to matched Ph- controls, reaching significance for prednisolone. The correlation of prednisolone resistance with age within the Ph+ cases might help explain the poorer prognosis of adult Ph+ ALL.
Two different types of focal preneoplastic lesions, tentatively named Type I and II lesions, were recognized in the liver of rats chronically treated with clofibrate for 104 weeks. Type I lesions were characterized by mostly negative glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) activity (6 out of 10, 60%) and positive expression of succinate dehydrogenase (10 out of 10, 100%), in addition to the previously documented complete lack of expression of glutathione S-transferase, placental form (GST-P) and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT). Furthermore, most importantly, Type I lesions exhibited a clear decrease in immunohistochemically demonstrated connexin32 (Cx32) spot counts on their hepatocyte membranes, similarly to nitrosamine-induced lesions. In contrast, Type II lesions, mostly small in size and positively expressing GST-P and/or GGT and G6PD, similarly to their previously reported nitrosamine-induced counterparts, did not exhibit a significant decrease in Cx32 count. In addition, spontaneously occurring lesions, again sharing the same enzyme phenotype, did not show a decrease in Cx32. The results indicate that: (i) a clear distinction between the two lesions, with Type I being involved in clofibrate-induced tumors and Type II being more likely to be spontaneous in nature; (ii) a decrease in Cx32 is closely linked to lesion development and possibly stage of progression, irrespective of the enzyme phenotype and the applied carcinogen; (iii) the unaltered condition of Cx32 may suggest a slow growing or non-progressive nature.
The substantia nigra has a gating function controlling the spread of epileptic seizure activity. Additionally, in models of prolonged status epilepticus the pars reticulata of substantia nigra (SNR) suffers from a massive lesion which may arise from a massive metabolic derangement and hyperexcitation developing in the activated SNR. In this study, status epilepticus was induced by systemic injection of pilocarpine in rats. The neuropathology of SNR was investigated using immunohistochemical techniques with the major emphasis on the time-course of changes in neurons and astrocytes. Animals surviving 20, 30, 40, 60 min, 2, 3, 6 hours, 1, 2, and 3 days after induction of status epilepticus were perfusion-fixed, and brains processed for immunohistochemical staining of SNR. Nissl-staining and antibodies against the neuron-specific calcium-binding protein, parvalbumin, served to detect neuronal damage in SNR. Antibodies against the astroglia-specific cytoskeletal protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and against the glial calcium-binding protein, S-100 protein, were used to assess the status of astrocytes. Immunohistochemical staining for serum-albumin and immunoglobulins in brain tissue was taken as indicator of blood-brain barrier disturbances and vasogenic edema formation. Immunohistochemical staining indicated loss of GFAP-staining already at 30 min after induction of seizures in an oval focus situated in the center of SNR while sparing medial and lateral aspects. At 1 h there was additional vacuolation in S-100 protein staining. By 2 hours, parvalbumin-staining changed in the central SNR indicating neuronal damage, and Nissl-staining visualized some neuronal distortion. Staining for serum-proteins occurred in a patchy manner throughout the forebrain during the first hours. By 6 h, vasogenic edema covered the lesioned SNR. By 24 h, glial and neuronal markers indicated a massive lesion in the center of SNR. By 48-72 h, astrocytes surrounding the lesion increased in size, and polymorphic phagocytotic cells invaded the damaged area. In a further group of animals surviving 1 to 5 days, conventional paraffin-sections confirmed the neuronal and glial damage of SNR. Additional pathology of similar quality was found in the globus pallidus. Since astrocytes were always damaged in parallel with neurons in SNR it is proposed that the anatomical and functional interrelationship between neurons and astrocytes is particularly tight in SNR. Both cell elements may suffer in common from metabolic disturbance and neurotransmitter dysfunction as occur during massive status epilepticus.
Neuromyopathy is a rare side effect of chronic colchicine therapy, most often occurring in patients with chronic renal failure. Drugs interacting with colchicine metabolism through CYP(3)A(4) and P-glycoprotein can accelerate accumulation and toxicity. We describe a case of an interaction between clarithromycin and colchicine resulting in acute neuromyopathy, and we conclude that combined use of macrolides and colchicine should be avoided.
As a modification of the diagnostic criteria of the serotonin syndrome proposed by Sternbach, we developed the Serotonin syndrome scale for the operationalized assessment of both the presence and the severity of the core symptoms of the serotonin syndrome. In a first study on the validity of this scale, the relationships between the serotonin syndrome score (SSS) and both the paroxetine plasma levels (n = 42) and the loudness dependence of the auditory evoked potentials (LDAEP; n = 24) were investigated in depressed patients treated with paroxetine. A strong LDAEP is supposed to indicate low central serotonergic neurotransmission, and vice versa. The SSS was positively related to paroxetine plasma levels and negatively to the LDAEP. Both results support the validity of the serotonin syndrome scale. Using a SSS > 6 as diagnostic criterion, mild serotonin syndromes were diagnosed in 5 of our 42 patients. The Serotonin syndrome scale may become a useful tool for clinicians and scientists dealing with the serotonin syndrome.
Acetaminophen (APAP) produces sex-dependent nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity in young adult Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats and age-dependent toxicity in male rats. There is no information regarding the susceptibility of aging female SD rats to APAP toxicity. Therefore, the present studies were designed to determine if sex-dependent differences in APAP toxicity persist in aging rats and to elucidate factors contributing to sex- and age-dependent APAP hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. Young adult (3 months old) and aging (18 months old) male and female rats were killed from 2 through 24 hr after receiving APAP (0-1250 mg/kg, ip) containing [ring-14C]APAP. Trunk blood was collected for determination of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentration, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity, and plasma APAP concentration; urine was collected for determination of glucose and protein excretion; and liver and kidneys were removed for determination of tissue glutathione (GSH) concentration, APAP concentration, and covalent binding. APAP at 1250 mg/kg induced nephrotoxicity (as indicated by elevations in BUN concentration) in 3-month-old females but not males, whereas APAP induced hepatotoxicity (as indicated by elevations in serum ALT activity) in 3-month-old males but not females. Sex differences in APAP toxicity were no longer apparent in 18-month-old rats. APAP at 750 mg/kg ip produced liver and kidney damage in 18-month-old but not 3-month-old male and female rats. No consistent sex- or age-dependent differences in serum, hepatic, and renal APAP concentrations were observed that would account for differences in APAP toxicity. No sex- or age-dependent differences in tissue GSH depletion or covalent binding of radiolabel from APAP in livers or kidneys were observed following APAP administration. Utilizing an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody raised against APAP, arylated proteins with electrophoretic mobility similar to those observed in mice were prominent in rat livers following APAP administration to 3- and 18-month-old rats of both sexes. In contrast, no arylated proteins were detected in any rat kidneys following APAP administration. Absence of immunochemically detectable proteins in rat kidney following APAP administration is in direct contrast to observations in mice and supports the hypothesis that mechanisms of APAP hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity in rats and mice are distinctly different. In conclusion, sex differences in APAP toxicity are observed only in young adult (3-month-old) rats and sex differences are organ-specific with males more susceptible to hepatotoxicity and females more susceptible to nephrotoxicity. Aging rats are more susceptible to APAP-induced damage to both the liver and the kidney than are 3-month-old rats but sex differences are no longer apparent in 18-month-old rats. The mechanisms contributing to sex- and age-dependent differences in APAP toxicity cannot be attributed to differences in tissue APAP concentrations, GSH depletion, or covalent binding.
The convulsant effects of cocaine and its C2-epimer, pseudococaine on EEG, respiration, heart rate and behavior were studied in the rhesus monkeys with electrodes implanted in the brain. Intravenous injections of cocaine (3.0 to 8.0 mg/kg) and pseudococaine (3.0 to 7.0 mg/kg) in the animals produced a similar pattern of clonic convulsions accompanied by marked increases in the heart and respiratory rates with mydriasis and excessive salivation. However, both isomers showed different effects on the EEG and animal's behavior following convulsions; e.g., the cocaine-induced convulsions were followed by low-voltage fast waves in the EEGs associated with behavioral hyperexcitation, while pseudococaine-induced convulsions were followed by high-voltage slow waves associated with behavioral depression and drowsiness with intermittent sleep. Pseudococaine was more potent than cocaine in producing convulsions in the same monkeys. The durations of convulsions produced by these drugs were dose-dependent.
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are believed to be the initiating cells for many types of blood cancer and some solid tumors, and curative therapies of these cancers require eradicating CSCs. Specific targeting of CSCs but not normal stem cell counterparts is a correct strategy for developing new anti-cancer therapies, and the success of this approach relies on identification of specific target genes in CSCs. Using BCR-ABL-induced chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) as a cancer model, we recently identified arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) gene (Alox5) as a critical regulator for leukemia stem cells (LSCs) in CML. Without Alox5, BCR-ABL fails to induce CML in mice due to the impairments of the functions of LSCs. The lack of Alox5 does not significantly affect the functions of normal hematopoietic stem cells. In addition, Zileuton, a specific 5-LO inhibitor, also causes the impairments of the functions of LSCs in a similar manner. Our results prove the principle that CSC-specific genes that play key roles in cancer development can be identified and inhibition of these genes can lead to eradication of these cells for cure. Here, we further discuss the mechanisms of Alox5 in CML, and the use of Zileuton as a potential and promising drug in eradicating LSCs in CML and other myeloproliferative diseases. We believe that our discovery of the role of Alox5 in regulating the function of LSCs in CML reminds us of viewing CSCs at a different angel. We predict that CSCs in other types of cancer also utilize specific regulatory pathways to control their survival and self-renewal, and inhibition of these pathways profoundly suppresses CSCs but not their normal stem cell counterparts. Specific targeting of CSCs without causing significant harm to normal stem cells should be a correct direction to go in developing novel therapeutic strategies in the future.
Male rats treated with either budesonide, prednisolone, or triamcinolone acetonide in drinking water for up to 104 weeks developed slightly increased incidences of basophilic foci, and significantly increased incidences of combined hepatocellular adenomas/carcinomas as compared to controls. Based upon reduced body weight gains and survivals, the doses administered were considered to be toxic. It was concluded that the positive findings represented a class effect, and probably involved glucocorticoid receptors.
Unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) is a well-established model for the study of interstitial fibrosis in the kidney. It has been shown that the renin-angiotensin system plays a central role in the progression of interstitial fibrosis. Recent studies indicate that endothelin, a powerful vasoconstrictive peptide, may play an important role in some types of renal disease. To investigate the effects of angiotensin II on endothelin and its receptors in the kidney, mice were subjected to UUO and treated with or without enalapril, an orally active angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, in their drinking water (100 mg/l). The animals were killed 5 days later. Using RT coupled with PCR, we measured the levels of endothelin-1, endothelin A, and endothelin B (ET(B)) along with transforming growth factor-beta, TNF-alpha, and collagen type IV mRNA expression in the kidney with UUO and the contralateral kidney along with interstitial expansion in the kidney cortex by a standard point counting method. We found that enalapril administration ameliorated the increased expression of ET-1 mRNA in the obstructed kidney by 44% (P < 0.02). Although the level of endothelin A mRNA expression was significantly increased in the obstructed kidney, it was not affected by enalapril. We found that enalapril treatment increased ET(B) mRNA expression by 115% (P < 0.05) and protein expression (measured by Western blot) in the kidney with an obstructed ureter. Enalapril treatment alone inhibited the expansion of interstitial volume due to UUO by 52%. Cotreatment with enalapril and the ET(B) receptor antagonist BQ-788 inhibited the expression of interstitial volume by only 19%. This study confirms that enalapril inhibits the interstitial fibrosis in UUO kidneys. It also suggests a beneficial and unforeseen effect of enalapril on the obstructed kidney by potentially stimulating the production of nitric oxide through an increased expression of the ET(B) receptor.
X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) is a member of the inhibitors of apoptosis protein (IAP) family, and has been reported to exhibit elevated expression levels in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and promote cell survival, metastasis and tumor recurrence. Targeting XIAP has proven effective for the inhibition of cancer cell proliferation and restoration of cancer cell chemosensitivity. Arsenic (or sodium arsenite) is a potent anti-tumor agent used to treat patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Additionally, arsenic induces cell growth inhibition, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in human HCC cells. In this study, we identified XIAP as a target for sodium arsenite-induced cytotoxicity in HCC. The exposure of HCC cell lines to sodium arsenite resulted in inhibition of XIAP expression in both a dose- and time-dependent manner. Sodium arsenite blocked the de novo XIAP synthesis and the activity of its internal ribosome entry site (IRES) element. Moreover, treatment with sodium arsenite decreased the protein stability of XIAP and induced its ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation. Overexpression of XIAP attenuated the pro-apoptotic effect of sodium arsenite in HCC. Taken together, our data demonstrate that sodium arsenite suppresses XIAP expression via translational and post-translational mechanisms in HCC.
5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-AZA-CdR), a potent inhibitor of DNA methylation, is an effective agent for the treatment of leukemia. The aim of this study was to investigate the antileukemic activity of this epigenetic agent in combination with genistein, a nontoxic isoflavone with chemopreventive activity. The combined treatment produced a synergistic loss of clonogenicity in human myeloid (HL-60) and lymphoid (MOLT-3) leukemic cell lines. Genistein alone showed a significant antileukemic activity against murine 5-AZA-CdR-resistant cells, and this effect was enhanced when used in combination with 5-AZA-CdR. The combined treatment also produced a synergistic increase in life span of mice with L1210 leukemia. These results suggest that genistein may have the potential to increase the clinical efficacy of 5-AZA-CdR for the treatment of leukemia.
Oxidative stress to DNA is recognized as a mechanism underlying carcinogenic effects of some environmental agents. Here, we hypothesized that dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V)), an organic metabolite of inorganic arsenic in humans, might exert carcinogenic potential in a mouse line carrying a mutant Mmh allele of the Mmh/OGG1 gene encoding the enzyme 8-hydroxyguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (OGG1). Ogg1 mutant and wild type mice were treated with DMA(V) in their drinking water at a dose of 200 p.p.m. for up to 72 weeks. All DMA(V)-treated Ogg1(-/-)animals developed tumors, with a tendency for lower total incidences in the Ogg1(+/+) cases. Lung tumors in particular were induced as compared to the lack in non-carcinogen controls and were significantly more frequent in the homozygotes. At week 4, the levels of DNA 8-OH-dG and cell proliferation were significantly elevated in the lungs of non-treated Ogg1(-/-) as compared to Ogg1(+/+) mice and were strongly enhanced by DMA(V) treatment. Marked induction of Pola1, Cyp7b1, Ndfua3, Mmp13 and other genes specific to cell proliferation, cell signaling and xenobiotic metabolism in the lungs of DMA(V)-treated Ogg1(-/-) mice was found. Electron microscopic examination revealed the growth of microvilli, with increased numbers of mitochondria only in lungs and lung tumors of DMA(V)-exposed Ogg1(-/-) mice. Therefore, we strongly suggest that DMA(V) exerts carcinogenicity in the lungs of Ogg1(-/-) mutant mice, with a possible role for persistent accumulation of DNA oxidative adducts.
Chronic administration of alachlor in the diet at a level of 126 mg/kg/day has previously been shown to cause an increase in benign thyroid follicular cell tumors in male Long-Evans rats. Studies were conducted to elucidate the mechanism of the alachlor-induced thyroid tumors in the male rat by evaluating changes in parameters that are collectively associated with a hormonally mediated mode of action for thyroid neoplasia. Male Long-Evans rats were administered 126 mg alachlor/kg body wt/day via the diet for up to 120 days. One group of animals was removed from alachlor-treated diet after 60 days and received untreated diet for an additional 60 days. Liver and thyroid weights and serum levels of triiodothyronine (T3), thyroxine (T4), and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), as well as hepatic uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferase (UDPGT) activity, were determined at 7, 14, 28, 60, and 120 days of treatment. Liver and thyroid weights, hepatic UDPGT activity, and circulating levels of TSH were significantly increased in animals administered alachlor. These increases were seen as early as 7 days after alachlor administration. Circulating levels of T4 in alachlor-treated animals were significantly decreased compared with controls at 7 days, but had returned to control levels by 60 days. T3 levels were elevated at all time points except at 28 days. The changes in TSH and T3 levels, hepatic UDPGT activity, and liver weights were all reversible on elimination of alachlor from the diet. Thyroid weights did not completely return to control levels after removal of alachlor from the diet, although some recovery was evident. The results of this study clearly suggest that alachlor-induced thyroid neoplasia, observed in previous chronic bioassays with alachlor, was associated with increases in circulating TSH levels. Increased metabolism of T4 via hepatic enzymatic conjugation (i.e., T4-UDPGT) appeared to be responsible for the increased TSH levels. These effects were shown to be reversible on cessation of exposure to alachlor. In summary, evidence is presented for a hormonally mediated process for the development of thyroid follicular cell tumors.
The environmental pollutant 6-nitrochrysene (6-NC) is a powerful mammary carcinogen and mutagen in rats. Our previous studies have shown that 6-NC is metabolized to trans-1,2-dihydroxy-1,2-dihydro-6-nitrochrysene (1,2-DHD-6-NC) in rats and in several in vitro systems, including human breast tissue, and the latter is the proximate carcinogenic form in the rat mammary gland. Because optically active enantiomers of numerous polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) metabolites including chrysene have different biological activities, we hypothesized that the stereochemical course of 6-NC metabolism might play a significant role in the carcinogenic/mutagenic activities of the parent 6-NC. The goal of this study is to evaluate the effect of stereochemistry on the mutagenicity of 1,2-DHD-6-NC using the cII gene of lacI mammary epithelial cells in vitro. Resolution of (+/-)-1,2-DHD-6-NC was obtained by either nonchiral or chiral stationary phase HPLC methods. We determined that the ratio of (-)-[R,R]- and (+)-[S,S]-1,2-DHD-6-NC formed in the metabolism of 6-NC by rat liver microsomes is 88:12. The mutation fractions and mutation spectra of [R,R] and [S,S]-enantiomers were examined. Our results showed that the [R,R]-isomer is a significantly (p < 0.01) more potent mutagen than the [S,S]-isomer. The major types of mutation induced by the [R,R]-enantiomer are AT > GC, AT > TA, and GC > TA substitutions, and these are similar to those obtained from 6-NC in vivo in the mammary glands of rats treated with 6-NC. The mutation spectra of the [S,S]-isomer were similar to the [R,R]-isomer, but a higher percentage of AT > GC substitutions in the [R,R]-isomer was noted. On the basis of the results of the present study, we hypothesize that [R,R]-1,2-DHD-6-NC is the proximate carcinogen of 6-NC in the rat mammary gland in vivo and will test this hypothesis in a future study.
Mutagenicity tests have shown that the potencies of ethylene oxide and other alkylating agents relative to that of low-LET ionising radiation are approximately the same in different biological systems. In the present study this relationship, the radiation-dose equivalence ("rad-equivalence") of doses of genotoxic chemicals, was tested for the induction of tumours in skin and lung of mice using different initiation-promotion protocols. The initiators used were X-rays, ethylene oxide and N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-N-nitrosourea (HOENU). This short-term treatment was followed by treatment with the "promoters" 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) and carbon tetrachloride. Unexpectedly, the animals treated with carbon tetrachloride did not show treatment-related liver tumours, but exhibited precocious death, mostly with lung tumours. According to estimates from in vitro tests the total in vivo dose from exposure to 400 ppm for 4 x 5 h corresponds to 700 rad-equivalents. Although still with great statistical uncertainty, this ratio is supported by the observed time-dependent frequencies of animals with papillomas (in the TPA series) and lung tumours (in the carbon tetrachloride series). Animals treated with HOENU exhibited high incidences of tumours of both these types in approximate agreement with the higher rad-equivalence of the treatments with this compound.
Thienopyridines can cause neutropenia and agranulocytosis. The aim of the current investigations was to compare cytotoxicity of ticlopidine, clopidogrel, clopidogrel carboxylate and prasugrel for human neutrophil granulocytes with the toxicity for lymphocytes and to investigate underlying mechanisms. For granulocytes, clopidogrel, ticlopidine, clopidogrel carboxylate and prasugrel were concentration-dependently toxic starting at 10μM. Cytotoxicity could be prevented by the myeloperoxidase inhibitor rutin, but not by the cytochrome P450 inhibitor ketoconazole. All compounds were also toxic for lymphocytes, but cytotoxicity started at 100μM and could not be prevented by rutin or ketoconazole. Granulocytes metabolized ticlopidine, clopidogrel, clopidogrel carboxylate and prasugrel, and metabolization was inhibited by rutin, but not by ketoconazole. Metabolism of these compounds by lymphocytes was much slower and could not be inhibited by ketoconazole or rutin. In neutrophils, all compounds investigated decreased the electrical potential across the inner mitochondrial membrane, were associated with cellular accumulation of ROS, mitochondrial loss of cytochrome c and induction of apoptosis starting at 10μM. All of these effects could be inhibited by rutin, but not by ketoconazole. Similar findings were obtained in lymphocytes; but compared to neutrophils, the effects were detectable only at higher concentrations and were not inhibited by rutin. In conclusion, ticlopidine, clopidogrel, clopidogrel carboxylate and prasugrel are toxic for both granulocytes and lymphocytes. In granulocytes, cytotoxicity is more accentuated than in lymphocytes and depends on metabolization by myeloperoxidase. These findings suggest a mitochondrial mechanism for cytotoxicity for both myeloperoxidase-associated metabolites and, at higher concentrations, also for the parent compounds.
To describe a case of granulomatous hypophysitis occurring after treatment with interferon alfa-2b and ribavirin for hepatitis C.
Clinical, radiologic, laboratory, and pathologic assessments of a woman with granulomatous hypophysitis and interferon-induced thyroiditis are presented.
A 42-year-old woman with hepatitis C was treated with interferon alfa-2b and ribavirin for 5 months. She was referred after symptoms of thyrotoxicosis developed, in conjunction with laboratory and radiographic evidence of thyroiditis. During the initial evaluation, she was weak and hypotensive; biochemical evaluation showed undetectable plasma cortisol and corticotropin concentrations. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed diffuse enlargement of the pituitary gland, which encroached on but did not compress the optic chiasm. Treatment with supraphysiologic doses of prednisone resulted in clinical and radiographic improvement. Once physiologic doses of glucocorticoids were instituted, however, follow-up magnetic resonance imaging showed substantial progression of the diffuse pituitary enlargement and mild compression of the optic chiasm. Surgical debulking of the mass and histologic evaluation showed chronic, noncaseating granulomatous hypophysitis. An extensive evaluation for secondary causes of granulomatous inflammation of the pituitary revealed only an elevated angiotensin-converting enzyme level; no organisms were identified. After 2 courses of high-dose glucocorticoids, she had radiographic evidence of decreased size of the pituitary lesion but continued to have multiple anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies.
Granulomatous hypophysitis and sarcoidosis of the pituitary are rare disorders. Hypophysitis should be considered in patients receiving interferon and ribavirin therapy who have symptoms consistent with pituitary dysfunction.
The flavonolignan silibinin, which is a mixture of two diastereoisomers, silybin A and silybin B, is a component of the extract obtained from the fruit and seeds of the variegated milk thistle (Silybum marianum (L.) Gaertn. (Asteraceae)), known as silymarin. Among the therapeutic properties credited to silibinin, its antihyperglycaemic action has been extensively explored. Silibinin is structurally related to the flavonoids quercetin and fisetin, which have been previously demonstrated to be very active on liver metabolic processes related to glycaemic regulation. The aim of the present work was to investigate the effects of silibinin on metabolic pathways responsible for the maintenance of glycaemia, particularly glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis, in the perfused rat liver. The activities of some key enzymes in these pathways and on parameters of energy metabolism in isolated mitochondria were also examined. At a concentration range of 50-300μM, silibinin inhibited gluconeogenesis in the fasted condition and inhibited glycogenolysis and glycolysis in the fed condition. The mechanisms by which silibinin exerted these actions were multiple and complex. It inhibited the activity of glucose 6-phosphatase, inhibited the pyruvate carrier, and reduced the efficiency of mitochondrial energy transduction. It can also act by reducing the supply of NADH for gluconeogenesis and mitochondria through its pro-oxidative actions. In general, the effects and the potency of silibinin were similar to those of quercetin and fisetin. However, silibinin exerted some distinct effects such as the inhibitory effect on oxygen consumption in the fed condition and a change in the energy status of the perfused livers. It can be concluded that the effects of silibinin on liver glucose metabolism may explain its antihyperglycaemic property. However, this effect was, in part, secondary to impairment in cellular energy metabolism, a finding that should be considered in its therapeutic usage.
Seventeen acute psychotic patients were studied in the course of chlorpromazine (CPZ) treatment. Blood samples were taken weekly both before and two hours after the morning CPZ dose. Plasma levels of CPZ, CPZ sulphoxide (CPZ SO) monodesmethylated CPZ (NOR1CPZ) and 7-hydroxy CPZ (7OH CPZ) were estimated by gas chromatography. Plasma prolactin, luteinizing hormone, testosterone and oestrogens were measured by radioimmunoassay. Six of the seven patients who showed no clinical improvement had plasma CPZ levels equal to or higher than those of patients who improved. 'Non-responders' has a greater proportion of CPZ SO in pre-dosage samples. The occurrence of parkinsonian side effects was associated with a mean plasma CPZ of greater than 50 ng/ml and a mean plasma prolactin of greater than 30 ng/ml two hours after dosage. The elevation of prolactin preceded the onset of parkinsonian symptoms by 1-2 weeks. There was a significant positive correlation between mean plasma prolactin and mean plasma CPZ levels. The prolactin response may prove a useful index of the central antidopaminergic effect of neuroleptic drugs.
The usefulness of transabdominal ultrasonography in the diagnosis of 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl- and testosterone propionate-induced tumors of the urogenital organs was evaluated in F344 rats. Seven mass lesions (1 ventral prostate, 1 dorsolateral prostate, 3 seminal vesicles, and 1 kidney) in the urogenital organs could easily be diagnosed concerning size and localization by ultrasound. Histological examination revealed a lesion in the ventral prostate to be an abscess and the other tumors to be malignant. Three hydronephroses by tumor invasion to the ureter, and six tumors in organs other than the urogenital organs could be detected by ultrasound. The threshold of malignant tumor detection by ultrasound was 7 mm in actual length. The size of the mass lesion estimated by ultrasound correlated well with the direct measurement (r = 0.96). Transabdominal ultrasonography is useful for diagnosing the localization of experimental tumors and accurately measuring their size in the urogenital organs of rats.
