The aim of this study was to investigate the levels of acute-phase proteins and minerals as indicators for the reactivity in 1-year-old sheep. A total of 26 Chios breed sheep were fed colostrum-breast milk (control, n = 15)or were deprived afterseparation from their mother immediately after birth(experimental, n = 11). Mannheimia (Pasteurella) haemolytica serotype A1 was inoculated intratracheally and blood samples were taken in vacuumed sera on days 0, 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16, 19 and 22. Antibiotic treatment was initiated after blood sampling on day 22, and blood samples were taken on days 1, 4 and 7 after the treatment. The levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), haptoglobin, ceruloplasmin, fibrinogen, zinc, iron and calcium, which are the indicators of immune function and infectious diseases were analysed. No significant difference between the control and trial groups before and after the infection was determined. However, serum CRP, haptoglobin, ceruloplasmin and fibrinogen levels were increased in the course of the infection. These levels were restored to normal following treatment.
In the present study, the effects of amphetamine-class drugs were examined in cases reported to the Victorian coroner from 2001 to 2005 to determine if death can occur from the use of amphetamine-class drugs alone. A total of 169 cases were reviewed where a forensic autopsy detected amphetamine(s) in the blood. Pathology, toxicology, and police reports were analyzed in all cases to ascertain the involvement of amphetamine-class drugs in these deaths. In Victoria, methamphetamine (MA) is the principal abused amphetamine-class followed by methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). There were six cases in which a cerebral hemorrhage caused death and three cases in which serotonin syndrome was established as being caused by the interaction of MDMA and moclobemide. There were 19 cases in which long-term use of amphetamines was associated with heart disease. There were three cases where amphetamine-class drugs alone were regarded as the cause of death, of which two cases exhibited high levels of MDMA and lesser amounts of MA and/or amphetamine. There were no cases in which significant natural disease was absent and death was regarded as caused by the use of MA. There was no correlation between blood concentration of drug and outcome.
Nine patients were studied retrospectively and 21 prospectively to ascertain the effectiveness and complications of three therapeutic regimens for life-threatening hypotensive reactions (systolic blood pressure 50 mm Hg or less) to intravenous (IV) contrast media. Initial treatment was pharmacologic in nine patients, with fluid in 14 and combined fluid-pharmacologic in seven. All nine patients treated initially with epinephrine required fluid volume administration to restore blood pressure. Thirteen of 14 patients initially treated with fluids (0.5-3 liters) required no other therapy. All patients treated with the combined regimen responded satisfactorily. Complications of drug therapy included six-beat ventricular tachycardia and ventricular bigeminy (epinephrine) and exacerbated hypotension (diphenhydramine hydrochloride). No pulmonary edema was encountered as a complication of fluid therapy. Fluid therapy, alone or with drugs, with electrocardiographic monitoring appears to be a safe and effective method of treating severe IV contrast agent-induced hypotension. Pharmacologic therapy alone in the doses the authors used is often ineffective and may cause major complications.
The Hippo pathway regulates organ size and tumorigenesis in Drosophila and mammals and is altered in a variety of human cancers, yet it remains unclear if the Hippo pathway is of prognostic significance to cancer patients. Here we show that the key targets of Hippo signaling, transcriptional coactivators Yki and Yap, play a conserved role in promoting ovarian cancer in flies and humans, respectively. Whereas studies linking Yap to cancer in other tissues have focused on overall Yap levels, we show for the first time that subcellular levels of Yap show an exceptionally strong association with poor patient survival. Specifically, high levels of nuclear Yap (nYap), or low levels of cytoplasmic phosphorylated Yap (cpYap), associated with poor survival from ovarian cancer. Patients with both high nYap and low cpYap had ∼50% lower 5-year survival, and this combination is an independent prognostic marker for survival, with an exceptionally high hazard ratio of 7.8. We find that Yap2 is the predominantly expressed Yap isoform in both the ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) and epithelial ovarian cancers. Overexpression of Yap2 and phosphorylation-defective Yap2-5SA in immortalized OSE cells resulted in increased cell proliferation, resistance to cisplatin-induced apoptosis, faster cell migration, and anchorage-independent growth, whereas Yap knockdown resulted in increased sensitivity to cisplatin-induced apoptosis. Findings argue that the Hippo signaling pathway defines an important pathway in progression of ovarian cancer.
Pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs) are among the most hepatotoxic natural products that produce irreversible injury to humans via the consumption of herbal medicine and honey, and through tea preparation. Toxicity and death caused by PA exposure have been reported worldwide. Metabolomics and genomics provide scientific and systematic views of a living organism and have become powerful techniques for toxicology research. In this study, senecionine hepatotoxicity on rats was determined via a combination of metabolomic and genomic analyses. From the global analysis generated from two omics data, the compromised bile acid homeostasis in vivo was innovatively demonstrated and confirmed. Serum profiling of bile acids was altered with significantly elevated conjugated bile acids after senecionine exposure, which was in accordance with toxicity. Similarly, the hepatic mRNA levels of several key genes associated with bile acid metabolism were significantly changed. This process included cholesterol 7-α hydroxylase, bile acid CoA-amino acid N-acetyltransferase, sodium taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide, organic anion-transporting polypeptides, and multidrug-resistance-associated protein 3. In conclusion, a cross-omics study provides a comprehensive analysis method for studying the toxicity caused by senecionine, which is a hepatotoxic PA. Moreover, the change in bile acid metabolism and the respective transporters may provide a new PA toxicity mechanism.
Ca(2+) signaling is important for growth and survival of prostatic carcinoma (PCa) cells. Here we report that the gene for CaT1, a channel protein highly selective for Ca(2+), is expressed at high levels in human PCa and in the LNCaP PCa cell line. CaT1 mRNA levels were elevated in PCa specimens in comparison to benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) specimens and positively correlated with Gleason grade in a PCa series. CaT1 mRNA was suppressed by androgen and was induced by a specific androgen receptor antagonist in LNCaP cells, suggesting that the gene is negatively regulated by androgen. These findings are the first to implicate a Ca(2+) channel in PCa progression and suggest that CaT1 may be a novel target for therapy.
Endogenous opioids are known to be released within certain brain areas following stressful stimuli. Recently, it was shown that also leukocytes are a potential source of endogenously released opioid peptides following stress. They activate sensory neuron opioid receptors and result in the inhibition of local inflammatory pain. An important prerequisite for the recruitment of such leukocytes is the expression of intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) in blood vessels of inflamed tissue. Here, we investigated the contribution of peripheral sensory and/or sympathetic nerves to the enhanced expression of ICAM-1 simultaneously with the increased recruitment of opioid peptide-containing leukocytes to promote the inhibition of inflammatory pain. Selective degeneration of either peripheral sensory or sympathetic nerve fibers by their respective neurotoxins, capsaicin or 6-hydroxydopamime, significantly reduced the subcutaneous immigration of β-endorphin- (END-) and met-enkephalin- (ENK-)-containing polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) (in the early phase) and mononuclear cells (in the late phase) during painful Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA) rat hind paw inflammation. In contrast, this treatment did not alter the percentage of opioid peptide-containing leukocytes in the circulation. Calcitonin gene-related peptide- (CGRP-) and tyrosine hydroxylase- (TH-) immunoreactive (IR) nerve fibers were in close contact to ICAM-1 IR blood vessels within inflamed subcutaneous tissue. The selective degeneration of sensory or sympathetic nerve fibers attenuated the enhanced expression of vascular endothelial ICAM-1 after intraplantar (i.pl.) FCA and abolished endogenous opioid peptide-mediated peripheral analgesia. Our results suggest that, during localized inflammatory pain, peripheral sensory and sympathetic nerve fibers augment the expression of vascular endothelial ICAM-1 simultaneously with the increased recruitment of opioid peptide-containing leukocytes which consequently promotes the endogenous opioid peptide-mediated inhibition of inflammatory pain. They support existing evidence about a close link between the nervous and the immune system.
Although retroplacental hemorrhage is a major cause of fetal death, its etiology often remains obscure. In some reports, cocaine use by pregnant women has been associated with retroplacental hemorrhage and clinical abruptio placentae. This study was designed to assess the occurrence of chorionic villus hemorrhage, an entity shown recently to be associated with retroplacental hemorrhage, in the placentas of cocaine users.
Twenty-nine placentas from cocaine users and 15 placentas from drug-free controls, as determined by questionnaire and urine toxicology screen, were examined prospectively, and pathological findings documented. The prevalence of retroplacental hemorrhage, chorionic villus hemorrhage, edema, chorioamnionitis, funisitis, infarction, fetal vessel thrombosis, and intervillus hemorrhage was examined in the two groups.
Chorioamnionitis was the most frequent finding in both groups (58% of cocaine users, 66% of controls). Edema of moderate severity or greater was found only in the cocaine-using group (17%). The prevalence of chorionic villus hemorrhage among women using cocaine also was 17%.
Cocaine use during pregnancy may be associated with chorionic villus hemorrhage and villus edema, even in the absence of clinical abruptio placentae. The relationship between abnormal placental morphology and adverse perinatal outcomes remains to be determined.
We describe a patient who developed acute chest pain after using cocaine and had ST-segment elevation in the anterior leads on electrocardiography with mild elevation of cardiac enzymes. Cardiac catheterization showed normal coronary arteries with no coronary vasospasm. Left ventricular angiography revealed typical ballooning of the left ventricular apex during systole with an estimated left ventricular ejection fraction of 25%. The symptoms improved during the next few hours, and follow-up echocardiography 4 days later showed complete resolution of the left ventricular dysfunction. Transient left ventricular apical ballooning (LVAB) was diagnosed. To our knowledge, LVAB (also known as Takotsubo cardiomyopathy or "broken heart syndrome") has not been reported previously in association with cocaine use. We discuss the possible pathophysiologic link between LVAB and cocaine-induced cardiotoxicity.
An amyloid protein that precipitates in the cerebral vessel walls of Dutch patients with hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis is similar to the amyloid protein in vessel walls and senile plaques in brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease, Down syndrome, and sporadic cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Cloning and sequencing of the two exons that encode the amyloid protein from two patients with this amyloidosis revealed a cytosine-to-guanine transversion, a mutation that caused a single amino acid substitution (glutamine instead of glutamic acid) at position 22 of the amyloid protein. The mutation may account for the deposition of this amyloid protein in the cerebral vessel walls of these patients, leading to cerebral hemorrhages and premature death.
Among numerous neurotransmitters involved in central cardiovascular control, glutamate is one of the most studied transmitters that are related to nicotine considering its release and its postsynaptic regulation. However, there are no conclusive studies about nicotine effects on glutamatergic system and its relevance on hypertension development, which can help to understand the role of these two systems in that pathology. In this context, the objective of the present study is to evaluate the effects of systemic chronic nicotine exposure on hypertension development as well as the interaction between nicotine and the glutamatergic system in normotensive and neurogenic hypertensive rats. By means of high performance liquid chromatograph, immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization and binding techniques, glutamatergic system was evaluated in SHR and Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats treated with nicotine, delivered subcutaneously through nicotine pellets, for 8 weeks. The most important findings in this study were that (1) moderate doses of nicotine accelerated the onset and increased blood pressure in SHR but not in WKY rats, (2) the nicotine dosage and time of treatment employed did not affect body weight, (3) chronic nicotine treatment differentially affected glutamatergic system in normotensive and hypertensive rats, and (4) spontaneously hypertensive rats seem to be more sensitive to peripherally administered nicotine than Wistar Kyoto rats considering blood pressure and glutamatergic neurotransmission changes. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that a moderate dose of nicotine accelerates the onset and exacerbates hypertension in the SHR and that might be, at least in part, related to the modulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission.
To clarify the mechanism of castor oil-induced diarrhea, this study was performed by using rats in relation to nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin (PG). Castor oil induced diarrhea in all rats within 3 hr in the control group. The pretreatment of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester prevented the diarrhea, and this effect was attenuated by the combined treatment of L-arginine. Amino-guanidine inhibiting inducible NO synthase had no effect on the diarrhea, but dexamethasone, an inhibitor of both inducible NO synthase and phospholipase A2 that synthesizes PGs, significantly prevented it. Indomethacin, an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase that synthesizes PGs, also significantly prevented diarrhea. Therefore, the mechanism of the preventive effect by dexamethazone on diarrhea was suggested to be the inhibition of PGs generation. From the above results, it became clear that PG and NO, especially that synthesized by constitutive NO synthase, are involved in the mechanism of diarrhea induction by castor oil in rats.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether central nervous system prophylactic treatment (CNSP) with cranial irradiation therapy (CrRT) 18 Gy and intrathecal methotrexate would decline the intelligence quotient (IQ) scores of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). In protocol TCL 842, children with ALL received CrRT 18 Gy in 12 fractions, and 5 concomitant doses of intrathecal methotrexate 15 mg/m2/dose with 15 mg as the maximum, for CNSP after remission achieved. The first IQ test was performed immediately after CNSP. Those who had no CNS relapse for more than 5 years after CNSP had a second IQ test. For children between 3 and 6 years old, the Stanford-Binet (S-B) IV test was used, and for older children, the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised (WISC-R) was used. Fourteen consecutive children at our hospital were enrolled. There were 7 boys and 7 girls. The age at diagnosis ranged from 3 to 9 years old. Two of them were in the high-risk group, eight in the intermediate-risk group, and four in the standard-risk group. The IQ scores of all patients fell within the average range. In the first IQ tests, the mean IQ score was 104.29 (range 83-124, S.D. 14.55). In the second IQ tests, the mean IQ score was 100.93 (range 85-128, S.D. 11.57). Statistically, there was no significant difference between the first and second IQ scores (paired t-test, two-tailed P = 0.4232; one-tailed P = 0.2116). Our findings suggested that CNSP used in protocol TCL 842 did not reduce IQ scores of children with ALL 5 years after CNSP.
In asthma the bronchial epithelium is highly abnormal, with various structural changes. As a consequence, the epithelium becomes an important source of inflammatory mediators that contribute to the ongoing inflammation and remodeling responses occurring in asthma. Compared with normal individuals, the fraction of exhaled nitric oxide (NO) is elevated in patients with asthma, and these levels have been shown to vary with disease activity. Thus, in asthma, epithelial cells may be exposed to large amounts of NO. Increased NO production is associated with the formation of various nitrosating species capable of promoting DNA damage. In this study we investigated the effect of NO on DNA of rat trachea epithelial cells in the presence or absence of flunisolide. Rat airway epithelial cells were prepared and incubated with the NO donor S-nitroso-L-glutathione monoethyl ester (GSNO-MEE). DNA damage was evaluated using single cell gel electrophoresis 'comet assay.' The parameters used as an index of DNA damage were tail length, tail intensity, and tail moment. Results of our study demonstrated that NO induced significant DNA damage in rat airway epithelial cells. Flunisolide in amounts of 11-110 mumol/L significantly reduced all the considered parameters indicating DNA damage. These data indicate that flunisolide may protect epithelial cells from the NO-mediated DNA damage. NO overproduction could contribute to epithelial injury in asthma, and flunisolide seems to attenuate this damage.
A boy is described who developed clinically significant hyponatraemia during carbamazepine treatment. After eight years treatment with carbamazepine the boy began to have grand mal seizures which were clearly related to hyponatraemia. This disappeared when carbamazepine was stopped. Afterwards the boy was more alert and did not have seizures any more. The serum concentrations of sodium and potassium and serum osmolality were subsequently investigated in 94 other children under our care who received carbamazepine. No abnormal values were found. Serum osmolality was not related to serum concentration of carbamazepine in these children. It is concluded that water intoxication during carbamazepine treatment can occur also during childhood, but that it is probably not a common side effect.
To investigate the effects of Fuzheng Huayu Recipe on renal interstitial fibrosis in rats induced by the toxic substances.
Forty Wistar rats were divided into 3 groups, including the normal group, model control and Fuzheng Huayu Recipe treated group. The renal fibrotic model was induced with intraperitoneal injection of dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) for 4 weeks and oral administration of food containing heavy metals such as Hg, etc for 8 weeks. From the 5th week, the rats were orally administered Fuzheng Huayu Recipe for 4 weeks. The renal tissue was stained with HE and periodic acid-silver metheramine, respectively. The serum creatinine and urea nitrogen were assayed with the kits, and the renal hydroxyproline (Hyp) contents in the homogenate of kidney tissue were measured with HCl hydrolysis.
In the model group, the renal tubule was swollen, and the tubular epithelial cells were degenerated, necrosed and detached, with the infiltration of inflammatory cells; the tubular interstitium was expanded, characterized with the deposition of large collagens; the tubular basement membrane became thicker and wrinkled; and the renal Hyp content and serum creatinine and urea nitrogen levels increased remarkably as compared to the normal group. After the treatment with Fuzheng Huayu Recipe, the renal tubular inflammation and interstitial collagen deposition were alleviated, and the serum creatinine and urea nitrogen levels decreased significantly as compared to the model group.
Administration of DMN and heavy metals can induce the renal interstitial fibrosis and impair the renal function. Fuzheng Huayu Recipe can improve the impaired renal functions and reverse the renal interstitial fibrosis.
The present study examines the epidemiological evidence for a causal relationship between caffeine consumption and cognitive deterioration in the elderly. Using a population of 641 elderly persons, we examined cognitive functioning, caffeine consumption, magnetic resonance imaging volumetrics, and other factors known to affect cognitive performance. Our findings demonstrate the association between caffeine consumption and lower cognitive change over time to be statistically significant for women only, taking into account multiple confounders, to be dose-dependent and temporarily related (caffeine consumption precedes cognitive change). Mean log transformed white matter lesion/cranial volume ratios were found to be significantly lower in women consuming more than 3 units of caffeine per day after adjustment for age (-1.23 SD=0.06) than in women consuming 2-3 units (-1.04 SD=0.04) or one unit or less (-1.04 SD=0.07, -35% in cm3 compared to low drinkers). This observation is coherent with biological assumptions that caffeine through adenosine is linked to amyloid accumulation and subsequently white matter lesion formation. The significant relationship observed between caffeine intake in women and lower cognitive decline is highly likely to be a true causal relationship and not a spurious association.
Toxic psychosis due to Chloroquine is a relatively uncommon occurrence in childhood. This entity must be kept in differential diagnosis in a case of unexplained psychosis, before resorting to a sophisticated array of detailed investigations. The purpose of this is to familiarize pediatricians with this relatively uncommon entity. The authors encountered four cases of psychosis with a wide variety of symptomatology over a period of the past 18 months.
Acetylic acid, such as aspirin, is one of the most commonly used medication in Western societies. Aspirin overdosage causes ototoxic side effects in some patients, such as bilateral mild to moderate sensorineural hearing loss and tinnitus. Recent literature describes, that salicylates act as competitive inhibitors of Cl- anions at the anion-binding site of prestin, the motor protein of the outer hair cell. This molecular mechanism correlates well with the clinical audiological mainstays of aspirin-induced hearing loss, dose dependency, cochlear site of hearing loss and reversibility. We report about a young man with an acute moderate aspirin intoxication resulting in asymmetric hearing loss of 50 dB HL and tinnitus for five days. Otoacoustic emissions were absent on the first day of intoxication but could be measured again on the fifth day after the intoxication. As the ototoxic side effects resolve with in two or three days, no specific treatment is necessary for ototoxicity. Medical treatment of acute or chronic aspirin intoxications aims to decrease further drug absorption by gastrointestinal decontamination and to accelerate elimination by alkaline diuresis. Only in severe intoxications hemodialysis may be considered to treat neurologic, pulmonal, renal or cardial complications.
Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of the endorphins and of morphine in rats produce highly characteristic, naloxone sensitive, electrographic seizures. In contrast, systemic injections of morphine have been shown to exert a marked anticonvulsant effect. The present study demonstrates that systemic morphine pretreatment can prevent the occurrence of electrographic seizures injected by i.c.v. morphine, Leu-enkephalin and beta-endorphin and that the anti-epileptic effect of morphine can be reversed by naloxone. Male albino rats, previously prepared for chronic i.c.v. injections and EEG recordings, were pretreated with 0--100 mg/kg of intraperitoneal (i.p.) morphine. Thirty five minutes later morphine (520 nmol), Leu-enkephalin (80 nmol) or beta-endorphin (5 nmol) were injected i.c.v. Pretreatment with i.p. morphine blocked the occurrence of seizures induced by morphine and both endogenous opioids. Lower doses of systemic morphine (50 mg/kg) were necessary to block i.c.v. morphine seizures than the dose (100 mg/kg) necessary to block seizures induced by i.c.v. Leu-enkephalin and beta-endorphin. Naloxone (1 mg/kg) administered 25 min following 50 mg/kg of i.p. morphine and preceding the injections of i.c.v. morphine reversed the antiepileptic effect of systemic morphine. These results demonstrate the possible existence of two opiate sensitive systems, one with excitatory-epileptogenic effects and the other possessing inhibitory-antiepileptic properties. The possible relationship between these findings and the known heterogeneity of opiate receptors and opiate actions is discussed.
A case of acute renal failure due to rhabdomyolysis in a patient who used cocaine on a daily basis is presented. In contrast to many prior reports of renal failure occurring with cocaine-associated rhabdomyolysis, our patient did not use intravenous cocaine and did not have any evidence of trauma, seizure, hypotension, hyperthermia, hyperactivity, or coma. His creatine phosphokinase peaked at 448,000 U/liter. He was treated initially with forced diuresis and i.v. furosemide, but he became oliguric, developed pulmonary edema, and required hemodialysis. He recovered fully after 3 weeks of dialysis. The literature is reviewed in an attempt to delineate a rational approach to evaluating cocaine users at risk for rhabdomyolysis.
Pulmonary hypertension and foreign body granulomas are recognized sequelae of chronic intravenous drug abuse. We have recently described the development of transient pulmonary hypertension and increased permeability pulmonary edema after the intravenous injection of crushed, suspended pentazocine tablets in both humans and dogs. To determine the role of vasoactive substances in the development of this transient pulmonary hypertension, we measured pulmonary hemodynamics and accumulation of arachidonic acid metabolites in dogs during the infusion of indomethacin, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, diethylcarbamazine (DEC), a lipoxygenase inhibitor, and FPL 55712, a receptor antagonist for leukotriene C4/D4 (LTC4/D4). Following the intravenous administration of crushed, suspended pentazocine tablets (3-4 mg/kg of body weight), mean pulmonary artery pressure increased from 14 +/- 2 mmHg to 30 +/- 6 mmHg (p less than 0.05) at 60 secs with a concomitant increase in plasma concentrations of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha from 187 +/- 92 pg/ml to 732 +/- 104 pg/ml and thromboxane B2 from 206 +/- 83 pg/ml to 1362 +/- 117 pg/ml (both p less than 0.05). Indomethacin prevented the increase in both cyclooxygenase metabolites, but had no effect on the pulmonary hypertension. In contrast, DEC had no effect on the increase in cyclooxygenase products, but blocked the pulmonary hypertension. FPL 55712 did not effect either the increase in cyclooxygenase metabolites or the pulmonary hypertension. We conclude that the transient pulmonary hypertension, induced by the intravenous injection of crushed, suspended pentazocine tablets, is not mediated by cyclooxygenase products but may be mediated by lipoxygenase product(s) other than LTC4/D4.
The effect of anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) on serum lipid profile is controversial in children as well as in adults. We longitudinally studied serum lipid profile in 34 newly diagnosed epileptic children receiving AED monotherapy with valproic acid (VPA), carbamazepine (CBZ) or phenobarbital (PB). Serum levels of total cholesterol (TC), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), triglycerides (TGs), apolipoprotein Al (Apo A1) and apolipoprotein B (Apo B) were measured at baseline and after 2 years of AED monotherapy. Atherosclerotic indices of TC/ HDL-C and Apo A1/Apo B ratios were calculated. Although there were some alterations in serum lipid profile with AED without statistical significance, the atherosclerotic indices of TC/HDL-C and Apo A1/Apo B ratios did not change significantly after 2 years of monotherapy. Only serum TGs levels significantly decreased with VPA monotherapy. These data suggest that 2 years AED monotherapy with VPA, CBZ or PB did not cause a significant level of concern for an atherogenic effect in children with epilepsy.
