The presence of mixed disaccharides (maltose and isomaltose) in plasma from uremic patients has been previously investigated using gel-permeation chromatography. However, this method is unable to separate maltose (linked alpha-1-4) from isomaltose (linked alpha-1-6). We describe an alternative method using high-performance anion-exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection (HPAE-PAD) for the direct determination of maltose and isomaltose in uremic plasma. We measured maltose and isomaltose using HPAE-PAD in 6 normal subjects and in 15 uremic patients before and after once-daily icodextrin administration for at least 4 weeks. Both maltose and isomaltose were below limits of detection (< 1.0 mg/L) in plasma from normal controls. Patients with end-stage renal disease treated by continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis had elevated levels of isomaltose (23.6 +/- 8.3 mg/L) but low levels of maltose (< 3.0 mg/L). Treatment with icodextrin resulted in elevated plasma levels of maltose (range: 500-1600 mg/L), while levels of isomaltose declined to 9.8 +/- 5.2 mg/L (P < 0.0001 vs. baseline levels). We conclude that isomaltose (not maltose) is the primary disaccharide isomer that is elevated in the plasma of uremic patients, whereas maltose is the primary disaccharide isomer that is elevated following icodextrin administration. Furthermore, icodextrin administration results in an apparent reduction of isomaltose. Additional investigation will be required to address the mechanism for the reduction of isomaltose in patients treated by icodextrin.
Mental confusion or delirium can occur after application of scopolamine patch. However, predisposing factors for scopolamine-induced delirium are not known. It is expected that undetected incipient dementia or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) may be prone to develop mental confusion after applying the scopolamine patch. For the past 5 years, we found seven elderly women who had experienced transdermal scopolamine-induced mental confusion. They underwent neuropsychological tests after recovery from mental confusion (mean duration from onset to the test: 66 days). The results showed that all the patients were impaired in at least one of cognitive domains, fulfilling the criteria of MCI. These findings suggest that scopolamine patch-induced mental confusion should be included in the differential diagnoses of mental confusion in elderly, especially in travel situation, and that older people with undetected MCI are prone to develop scopolamine patch-induced mental confusion.
Metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) remains refractory to therapies. The nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) transcription factor is involved in cell growth, cell motility, and vascularization. We evaluated whether targeting NF-kappaB could be of therapeutic and prognostic values in human RCC. The activation of the NF-kappaB pathway in human RCC cells and tumors was investigated by Western blot. In vitro, the effects of BAY 11-7085 and sulfasalazine, two NF-kappaB inhibitors, on tumor cell growth were investigated by cell counting, 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide analysis, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling, and fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Their specificity toward NF-kappaB was analyzed by Western blot, confocal microscopy, NF-kappaB small interfering RNA, and NF-kappaB transcription assay. In vivo, the effects of BAY 11-7085 on the growth of human RCC tumors were investigated in nude mice. A tissue microarray (TMA) containing 241 cases of human RCC with 12 to 22 years of clinical follow-up and corresponding normal tissues was built up to assess prognostic significance of activated NF-kappaB. NF-kappaB is constitutively activated in cultured cells expressing or not the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor gene as a consequence of Akt kinase activation and in tumors. In vitro and in vivo NF-kappaB inhibition blocked tumor cell growth by inducing cell apoptosis. On the TMA, NF-kappaB activation was correlated with tumor dimension but was not found to be an independent prognostic factor for patient survival. This report provides strong evidence that the mechanisms responsible for the intrinsic resistance of RCC cells to apoptosis converge on NF-kappaB independently of VHL expression and that targeting this pathway has great anticancer potential.
To describe a case of penicillamine-related neurologic symptoms in a 9-year-old boy affected by asymptomatic Wilson disease with hepatic presentation; to compare this case with similar cases in adults; and to discuss the role of zinc therapy as an alternative treatment for patients who have an adverse reaction to penicillamine therapy.
Referral hospital.
The occurrence of a neurologic syndrome that severely impaired a child's usual daily activities and his health-related quality of life after the institution of penicillamine therapy.
Initial penicillamine therapy was chronologically related to the development of progressive neurologic deterioration in the absence of other causes of neurologic syndrome. The discontinuation of penicillamine therapy and the initiation of zinc therapy were followed by a prompt disappearance of neurologic symptoms and a return to neurologic baseline status.
Penicillamine therapy, even in children affected by Wilson disease with hepatic presentation alone and without neurologic disease at the beginning of treatment, may trigger neurologic symptoms. Zinc therapy may be a satisfactory alternative.
To identify the initial alterations in myocardial tissue associated with the early signs of diabetic cardiac haemodynamic dysfunction, we monitored changes in cardiac function, structural remodelling and gene expression in hearts of type 2 diabetic db/db mice.
Cardiac dimensions and function were determined echocardiographically at 8, 12, 16 and 18 weeks of age. Left ventricular pressure characteristics were measured at 18 weeks under baseline conditions and upon dobutamine infusion.
The db/db mice were severely diabetic already at 8 weeks after birth, showing elevated fasting blood glucose levels and albuminuria. Nevertheless, echocardiography revealed no significant changes in cardiac function up to 18 weeks of age. At 18 weeks of age, left ventricular pressure characteristics were not significantly different at baseline between diabetic and control mice. However, dobutamine stress test revealed significantly attenuated cardiac inotropic and lusitropic responses in db/db mice. Post-mortem cardiac tissue analyses showed minor structural remodelling and no significant changes in gene expression levels of the sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA2a) or beta1-adrenoceptor (beta1-AR). Moreover, the phosphorylation state of known contractile protein targets of protein kinase A (PKA) was not altered, indicating unaffected cardiac beta-adrenergic signalling activity in diabetic animals. By contrast, the substantially increased expression of uncoupling protein-3 (UCP3) and angiopoietin-like-4 (Angptl4), along with decreased phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) in the diabetic heart, is indicative of marked changes in cardiac metabolism.
db/db mice show impaired cardiac functional reserve capacity during maximal beta-adrenergic stimulation which is associated with unfavourable changes in cardiac energy metabolism.
One dose of pentostatin was added to a standard cyclophosphamide (CY) based transplant regimen in two patients in an attempt to decrease the rate of non-engraftment in haploidentical allogeneic BMT. Despite a normal cardiac history and evaluation prior to transplant, both patients suffered fatal cardiac toxicity within 48 h of receiving the chemotherapy. This phenomenon was further investigated in an animal model. Laboratory rats were treated with progressive doses of CY in a range that produces acute cardiac toxicity. Successive groups of rats were treated with either pentostatin or fludarabine and CY at 400 mg/kg. Neither pentostatin nor fludarabine alone produced early mortality. However, a marked increase in early mortality was noted in those animals treated with pentostatin and high-dose CY. The addition of fludarabine did not increase the early toxicity of CY. Autopsy revealed no gross or microscopic abnormalities in the animals. The implications of adding agents that interfere with adenosine metabolism to CY based transplant regimens is discussed.
Valproic acid (VPA) is effective for the treatment of many types of epilepsy, but its use can be associated with an increase in body weight. We report a case of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) arising in a child who developed obesity during VPA treatment. Laboratory data revealed hyperinsulinemia with insulin resistance. After the withdrawal of VPA therapy, our patient showed a significant weight loss, a decrease of body mass index, and normalization of metabolic and endocrine parameters; moreover, ultrasound measurements showed a complete normalization. The present case suggests that obesity, hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, and long-term treatment with VPA may be all associated with the development of NAFLD; this side effect is reversible after VPA withdrawal.
The potential value of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in treating Parkinson's disease (PD) remains controversial. In order to evaluate the therapeutic effect of GDNF-engineered bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) in parkinsonian rat model, GDNF-BMSCs and LacZ-BMSCs were transplanted into striatum and followed by Lactacystin lesioning at median forebrain bundles 1 week later. We observed that the intrastriatal transplantation of GDNF-BMSCs could significantly rescue the dopaminergic neurons from lactacystin-induced neurotoxicity with regard to behavioral recovery, tyrosine hydroxylase level in nigra and striatum, and striatal dopamine level. We interpret the outcomes that intrastriatal transplantation of GDNF-BMSCs might be beneficial in the treatment of PD.
To study the outcome at 2-year corrected age of infants who participated in a double-blind controlled trial of early (<12 hours) dexamethasone therapy for the prevention of chronic lung disease (CLD).
A total of 133 children (70 in the control group, 63 in the dexamethasone-treated group) who survived the initial study period and lived to 2 years of age were studied. All infants had birth weights of 500 to 1999 g and had severe respiratory distress syndrome requiring mechanical ventilation within 6 hours after birth. For infants in the treatment group, dexamethasone was started at a mean age of 8.1 hours and given 0.25 mg/kg every 12 hours for 1 week and then tapered off gradually over a 3-week period. The following variables were evaluated: interim medical history, socioeconomic background, physical growth, neurologic examinations, mental and psychomotor development index score (MDI and PDI), pulmonary function, electroencephalogram, and auditory and visual evoked potential.
Infants in the control group tended to have a higher incidence of upper respiratory infection and rehospitalization than did the dexamethasone-treated group because of respiratory problems. Although there was no difference between the groups in somatic growth in girls, the dexamethasone-treated boys had significantly lower body weight and shorter height than the control boys (10.7 +/- 3.0 vs 11.9 +/- 2.0 kg; 84.9 +/- 5.7 vs 87.5 +/- 4.8 cm). The dexamethasone-treated group had a significantly higher incidence of neuromotor dysfunction (25/63 vs 12/70) than did the control group. The dexamethasone-treated infants also had a lower PDI score (79 +/- 26) than did the control group (87 +/- 23), but the difference was not statistically significant. Both groups were comparable in MDI, incidence of vision impairment, and auditory and visual evoked potential. Significant handicap, defined as severe neurologic defect and/or intellectual defect (MDI and/or PDI </= 69), was seen in 22 children (31.4%) in the control group and 26 (41.2%) in the dexamethasone-treated group.
Although early postnatal dexamethasone therapy for 4 weeks significantly reduces the incidence of CLD, this therapeutic regimen cannot be recommended at present because of its adverse effects on neuromotor function and somatic growth in male infants, detected at 2 years of age. A longer follow-up is needed. If early dexamethasone therapy is to be used for the prevention of CLD, the therapeutic regimen should be modified. The proper route of administration, the critical time to initiate the therapy, and the dosage and duration of therapy remain to be defined further.
This report describes a patient treated for lymphoma who had development of doxorubicin (Adriamycin) cardiotoxicity proved by endomyocardial biopsy seven years after treatment. Doxorubicin cardiotoxicity is reviewed with emphasis on the implications of the long latency period for anthracycline cardiotoxicity in patients treated with this widely used antineoplastic agent.
A controlled study of the effects of the potent vitamin-D metabolite, 1, 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (1,25[OH]2D3), and vitamin D3 was done in 18 non-dialysed patients with chronic renal failure (C.R.F.). Patients with a creatinine clearance below 35 ml/min and mild renal osteodystrophy were selected. After 6 months' observation of the spontaneous course the patients were randomly allocated to 6 months' oral treatment with either 1, 25 (OH)2D3 or vitamin D3 in initial daily doses of 1microgram and 4000 I.U., respectively, combined with 0.5 g calcium. 1,25(OH)2D3 quickly corrected hypocalcaemia, reduced serum-alkaline-phosphatases and serum-immunoreactive-parathyroid-hormone, and more than doubled the urinary excretion rate of calcium. D3 had similar, but less pronounced effects. 7 out of 8 patients on 1,25(OH)2D3, developed hypercalcaemia which necessitated a reduction in dosage. None of the patients on D3 treatment developed hypercalcaemia. The percentage fall in creatinine clearance was greater during treatment than before treatment in all patients on 1, 25 (OH)2D3 (P less than 0.01) and in 7 of 9 patients on vitamin D3 treatment (though the group change here was not significant). Deterioration of renal function is a major limitation of the clinical use of 1, 25(OH)2D3 and D3 in non-dialysed patients with C.R.F. In fact, the decrased formation of 1, 25(OH)2D3 seen in C.R.F. might protect renal function at the expense of abnormalities in mineral metabolism.
Twenty subjects with clinically stable asthma were treated in double-blind crossover manner with inhaled and oral metaproterenol, alone and in combination. The combination of inhaled and oral metaproterenol resulted in a greater degree of bronchodilation than either inhaled or oral alone. Inhaled metaproterenol was not associated with any significant side effects. Oral metaproterenol was associated with a small but significant increase in pulse rate and systolic blood pressure, and a small incidence of unpleasant sensations such as tremor and palpitation. Older subjects were more likely to experience the unpleasant sensations, whereas younger subjects were more likely to experience the increase in pulse rate.
Glycosuria, hyperglycemia, and nephrotic-range proteinuria developed in a 68-year-old patient after clonidine was added to a stable antihypertensive regimen, which included metoprolol, of three years' duration. He later became glucose-intolerant with fasting hyperglycemia. Clonidine has been reported to transiently impair glucose tolerance. Persistent diabetes in a previously normoglycemic patient following clonidine has not been reported, and it supports the possibility that clonidine and metoprolol may have additive effects in suppressing endogenous insulin secretion.
Two cases of adverse sequelae associated with the use of 2.5% thiopentone are reported: one involved extensive local venous thrombosis at the site of the injection causing great distress to the patient; the other involved a histaminoid reaction in a patient who, like others who have been reported with this type of reaction, had a history of allergy.
The present study examines the effect of 6-day epinephrine treatment (100 micrograms/kg per h, s.c.) on stimulus-induced (1 Hz) endogenous neurotransmitter overflow from the isolated perfused kidney of vehicle- and epinephrine-treated rats. Renal catecholamine stores and stimulus-induced overflow in the vehicle-treated group consisted of norepinephrine only. However, epinephrine treatment resulted in the incorporation of epinephrine into renal catecholamine stores such that approximately 40% of the catecholamine present was epinephrine while the norepinephrine content was reduced by a similar degree. Total tissue catecholamine content of the kidney on a molar basis was unchanged. Stimulus-induced fractional overflow of neurotransmitter from the epinephrine-treated kidneys was approximately twice normal and consisted of both norepinephrine and epinephrine in proportions similar to those found in the kidney. This difference in fractional overflow between groups was not affected by neuronal and extraneuronal uptake blockade. Propranolol had no effect on stimulus-induced overflow in either group. Phentolamine increased stimulus-induced overflow in both groups although the increment in overflow was greater in the epinephrine-treated group. In conclusion, chronic epinephrine treatment results in enhanced fractional neurotransmitter overflow. However, neither alterations in prejunctional beta-adrenoceptor influences nor alterations in neuronal and extraneuronal uptake mechanisms appear to be responsible for this alteration. Furthermore, data obtained with phentolamine alone do not suggest alpha-adrenoceptor desensitization as the cause of the enhanced neurotransmitter overflow after epinephrine treatment.
More than half of patients with melanoma that has spread to regional lymph nodes develop recurrent disease within the first 3 years after surgery. The aim of the study was to improve disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) with interferon (IFN) alpha2a with or without dacarbazine (DTIC) compared with observation alone.
A total of 444 patients from 42 centers of the German Dermatologic Cooperative Oncology Group who had received a complete lymph node dissection for pathologically proven regional node involvement were randomized to receive either 3 MU s.c. of IFNalpha2a three times a week for 2 years (Arm A) or combined treatment with same doses of IFNalpha2a plus DTIC 850 mg/m(2) every 4-8 weeks for 2 years (Arm B) or to observation alone (Arm C). Treatment was discontinued at first sign of relapse.
A total of 441 patients were eligible for intention-to-treat analysis. Kaplan-Meier 4-year OS rate of those who had received IFNalpha2a was 59%. For those with surgery alone, survival was 42% (A versus C, P = 0.0045). No improvement of survival was found for the combined treatment Arm B with 45% survival rate (B versus C, P = 0.76). Similarly, DFS rates showed significant benefit for Arm A, and not for Arm B. Multivariate Cox model confirmed that Arm A has an impact on OS (P = 0.005) but not Arm B (P = 0.34).
3 MU interferon alpha2a given s.c. three times a week for 2 years significantly improved OS and DFS in patients with melanoma that had spread to the regional lymph nodes. Interestingly, the addition of DTIC reversed the beneficial effect of adjuvant interferon alpha2a therapy.
Accumulating evidence suggests that metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are involved in both cocaine reinforcement and the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. In the present experiments, rats were trained to self-administer cocaine under fixed ratio (for cocaine priming-induced reinstatement) or second-order (for cocaine cue-induced reinstatement) schedules of reinforcement. Lever pressing was then extinguished followed by a reinstatement phase where operant responding was promoted by either cocaine itself or cocaine-associated light cues. Results indicated that systemic administration of the mGluR5 antagonists 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP: 1 and 3mg/kg i.p.) or 3-((2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl)pyridine (MTEP: 0.1 and 1mg/kg i.p.) dose-dependently attenuated reinstatement of drug seeking induced by a systemic priming injection of 10mg/kg cocaine. Systemic administration of MTEP (0.1 and 1mg/kg i.p.) also dose-dependently attenuated cocaine cue-induced reinstatement of drug seeking. Systemic administration of neither MPEP nor MTEP influenced the reinstatement of sucrose seeking, which indicates that the effects of these compounds on cocaine seeking were reinforcer specific. Additionally, administration of MPEP (1microg/0.5microl) into the nucleus accumbens shell, a brain region that plays a critical role in cocaine seeking, attenuated cocaine priming-induced reinstatement of drug seeking. These results add to a growing literature indicating that mGluR antagonists attenuate the reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Importantly, the current findings also suggest that activation of mGluR5s specifically in the nucleus accumbens shell may promote the reinstatement of cocaine seeking.
In the present study we found that repeated co-treatment with fluoxetine and amantadine for 14 days (but not for 7 days) enhanced the hyperactivity induced by amphetamine or quinpirole (a dopamine D(2/3) agonist), compared to treatment with either drug alone. Whereas repeated co-treatment with fluoxetine and amantadine for 7 days more potently inhibited the behavioral syndrome evoked by the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A) receptor agonist (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT), it did not change the action of the 5-HT(2) receptor agonist (+/-)-1-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride (/+/-/-DOI). The obtained results support the hypothesis that repeated co-treatment with fluoxetine and amantadine may evoke more effective antidepressant activity than treatment with fluoxetine alone. Moreover, our results suggest that 5-HT(1A) receptors are useful targets for the development of more rapidly acting and more effective medication.
Carcinogen-induced early DNA lesions and metallothionein (MT) over-expression have been implicated in cell proliferation and thereby subsequent expression of premalignant phenotype of the cell. We have therefore investigated the chemopreventive potential of vanadium in a multi-biomarker approach, viz. 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosines (8-OHdGs), DNA single-strand breaks (SSBs), DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs), chromosomal aberrations (CAs), in situ MT expression, and cell proliferation in rat liver preneoplasia. Hepatocarcinogenesis was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats with a single, necrogenic, intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) (200 mg/Kg body weight) at week 4 of the experimental protocol followed by promotion with phenobarbital (PB) (0.05% in basal diet), on and from week 8 and continued till 32 weeks in a long-term regimen. There was a significant and steady elevation of modified DNA bases 8-OHdGs (P < 0.0001; 90.69%) along with substantial increments of the extent of SSBs (P < 0.001) and CAs (P < 0.001) following DEN exposure. Supplementation of vanadium at a dose of 0.5 ppm abated the formations of 8-OHdGs (80.63%; P < 0.0001), SS-DNAs (P < 0.001) and SSBs/DNA unit (P < 0.01; 56.39%), DPCs (59.26%; P < 0.0001) and CAs (71.52%; P < 0.001) in preneoplastic rat liver studied at various time points. Low dose of vanadium treatment further reduced liver-MT immunoreactivity (P < 0.05) and BrdU-labeling index (P < 0.02) and a significant positive correlation (r = 0.92; r2 = 0.85; P = 0.0001) was noted between them. Continuous vanadium administration also decreased nodular incidence (66.67%) and nodule multiplicity (62.12%; P < 0.001) along with substantial improvement in the altered hepatocellular phenotype when compared to DEN + PB treatment alone. The study indicates that vanadium-mediated suppression of cell proliferation and resulting premalignant expression might be due to the observed reductions in hepatic 8-OHdGs, SSBs, DPCs, CAs, and MT immunoreactivity. Vanadium is chemopreventive for DEN-induced hepatocellular preneoplasia in rats.
Teratogenic effects are observed following long-term administration of glucocorticoids, although short-term glucocorticoid therapy is still utilized to reduce fetal mortality, respiratory distress syndrome, and intraventricular hemorrhage in preterm infants. However, the mechanism of glucocorticoid-induced teratogenicity is unknown. We hypothesize that glucocorticoid-induced teratogenesis is mediated through the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and results from altering the expression and activity of the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). During embryogenesis, degradation of the extracellular matrix to allow for proper cellular migration and tissue organization is a tightly regulated process requiring appropriate temporal and spatial expression and activity of the MMPs. Studies have demonstrated that MMP gene expression can be either inhibited or induced by glucocorticoids in a variety of model systems. Using the zebrafish (Danio rerio) as a model of development, the data presented here demonstrate that embryonic exposure to the glucocorticoids dexamethasone or hydrocortisone increased expression of two gelatinases, MMP-2 ( approximately 1.5-fold) and MMP-9 (7.6- to 9.0-fold), at 72 h postfertilization (hpf). Further, gelatinase activity was increased approximately threefold at 72 hpf following glucocorticoid treatment, and changes in craniofacial morphogenesis were also observed. Cotreatment of zebrafish embryos with each glucocorticoid and the GR antagonist RU486 resulted in attenuation of glucocorticoid-induced increases in MMP expression (52-84% decrease) and activity (41-94% decrease). Furthermore, the abnormal craniofacial phenotype observed following glucocorticoid exposure was less severe following RU486 cotreatment. These studies demonstrate that in the embryonic zebrafish, dexamethasone, and hydrocortisone alter expression and activity of MMP-2 and -9, and suggest that these increases may be mediated through the GR.
Epidemiological studies have associated estrogen replacement therapy with a lower risk of developing Alzheimer's disease, but a higher risk of developing breast cancer and certain cardiovascular disorders. The neuroprotective effect of estrogen prompted us to determine potential therapeutic impact of soy-derived estrogenic compounds. Transgenic C. elegans, that express human beta amyloid (Abeta), were fed with soy derived isoflavones genistein, daidzein and glycitein (100 microg/ml) and then examined for Abeta-induced paralysis and the levels of reactive oxygen species.
Among the three compounds tested, only glycitein alleviated Abeta expression-induced paralysis in the transgenic C. elegans. This activity of glycitein correlated with a reduced level of hydrogen peroxide in the transgenic C. elegans. In vitro scavenging effects of glycitein on three types of reactive oxygen species confirmed its antioxidant properties. Furthermore, the transgenic C. elegans fed with glycitein exhibited reduced formation of beta amyloid.
These findings suggest that a specific soy isoflavone glycitein may suppress Abeta toxicity through combined antioxidative activity and inhibition of Abeta deposition, thus may have therapeutic potential for prevention of Abeta associated neurodegenerative disorders.
While dopamine replacement remains the standard pharmacotherapy for Parkinson's disease, chronic L-dopa treatment is associated with development of debilitating motor fluctuations such as L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID). In this study we evaluated the effects of the partial dopamine D(2) agonist terguride on the development of LID in hemiparkinsonian mice (unilaterally lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine). First, consistent with the partial agonist property, terguride had 1000-fold higher potency than dopamine, yet producing one-third level of maximal activation of dopamine, as assayed by [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding. Furthermore, in the absence and presence of dopamine in vitro, terguride increased and decreased striatal [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding, respectively. Next, we found that co-administration of terguride (at 0.1 and 0.5mg/kg, i.p.) with L-dopa (1.8 mg/kg) daily for 14 days, significantly attenuated the development and expression of L-dopa-induced rotational sensitization. Furthermore, the cross-challenge paradigm revealed that chronic L-dopa treatment (but not terguride) sensitized locomotor response to the dopamine D(1) agonist SKF 81297 while chronic treatment with terguride (but not L-dopa) produced sensitized locomotor responses to the adenosine A(2A) antagonist 8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine (CSC). Importantly, the co-administration of terguride with L-dopa did not show locomotor sensitization to either SFK 81297 or CSC upon challenge. Together, these results suggest that co-administration of partial dopamine D(2) agonists with L-dopa may prophylactically attenuate L-dopa-induced abnormal behavioral responses such as LID.
The convulsant action of cocaine and the proconvulsant effects of sildenafil, a drug which is widely used in the treatment of erectile dysfunction, have been documented both in humans and mice. Since it was reported that sildenafil alone, and in conjunction with cocaine, is used recreationally, the present study was performed to examine the influence of sildenafil on cocaine-induced seizures in mice.We showed that administration of sildenafil (5-20 mg/kg, ip) did not affect latency to clonic seizures induced by ip administration of cocaine at a dose of 85 mg/kg, nor did it influence seizure incidence and mortality.We conclude that sildenafil does not significantly increase the risk of seizures when co-administered with cocaine.
The effect of cessation of phenobarbital and dieldren treatment on hepatic focal lesion growth in male B6C3F1 mice was investigated. Following induction of lesions by diethylnitrosamine, mice were placed on control NIH-07 diet (control diet) or NIH-07 diet containing either dieldrin (10.0 mg/kg diet) or phenobarbital (500 mg/kg diet). Mice were sacrificed after 30 and 60 days of dietary treatment. Two additional groups of mice were fed either the dieldren- or phenobarbital-containing diet for 30 days followed by feeding of NIH-07-only diet for an additional 30 days. The effect of treatment and removal of dieldrin or phenobarbital on lesion growth was examined by measuring both the number of focal lesions per liver and the relative volume of focal lesions. In addition, the rate of cell proliferation and programmed cell death in focal lesion growth was investigated by examining DNA synthesis and apoptosis in the focal lesions. Dietary dieldrin or phenobarbital increased the number of focal lesions and the focal lesion volume. In both dieldrin- and phenobarbital-treated mice, an increased number of eosinophilic lesions were seen. The focal lesion volume was increased in both eosinophilic and basophilic lesions. Dieldrin and phenobarbital treatment also increased the DNA synthetic labeling index in both eosinophilic and basophilic lesions. Removal of dieldrin or phenobarbital from the diet after 30 days of promoter treatment decreased the total number and volume of hepatic focal lesions. The labeling index of the focal lesions was also decreased in these mice. At the terminal sacrifice, the percentage of apoptotic cells in focal lesions was higher in mice fed dieldrin- or phenobarbital-containing diets for the entire 60 days than in mice returned to control diet for the last 30 days. Eosinophilic lesions were more dependent on the presence of a promoting stimulus than the basophilic lesions. These data indicate that induction and maintenance of the growth of some preneoplastic lesions in the mouse may be dependent upon continuous tumor promoter treatment.
Prenatal exposure to excessive glucocorticoids may alter the developing fetus inducing metabolic and endocrine imbalance in various organs, including the kidney. This study aimed at evaluating whether prenatal exposure to high levels of glucocorticoids adversely affects renal cell survival and predisposes to renal cell death. Pregnant rats were injected with 0.1 mg/kg dexamethasone (DEX) i.p. from day 1 of gestation. Renal proximal tubular cells (PTCs) were prepared from 20-day-old offspring in the DEX (DEX cells) and control groups (CON cells). After 4 days' culture, cells were exposed to uropathogenic Escherichia coli ARD6 toxins at concentrations known to induce apoptotic cell death. We found that cell death rate was significantly higher in DEX than in CON cells. Cells exhibited morphological and biochemical features of apoptosis. Conversely, the activity of the antioxidant enzyme catalase was significantly increased in renal cortex homogenate from 20-day-old DEX rats. The antioxidant vitamin E did not prevent apoptosis. These results indicate that prenatal exposure to high levels of glucocorticoids induces alterations in renal PTCs rendering them more sensitive to E. coli toxins via nonoxidative stress. With the increasing use of multiple doses of glucocorticoids in preterm infants, the possibility that antenatal glucocorticoids may lead to renal adverse consequences is of clinical relevance.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is a transcription factor that regulates genes involved in cell growth, proliferation, and survival, and given its association with many types of cancers, it has recently emerged as a promising target for therapy. In this work, we present the synthesis of N-substituted azaspirane derivatives and their biological evaluation against hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells (IC50 = 7.3 μm), thereby identifying 2-(1-(4-(2-cyanophenyl)1-benzyl-1H-indol-3-yl)-5-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-1-oxa-3-azaspiro(5,5) undecane (CIMO) as a potent inhibitor of the JAK-STAT pathway with selectivity over normal LO2 cells (IC50 > 100 μm). The lead compound, CIMO, suppresses proliferation of HCC cells and achieves this effect by reducing both constitutive and inducible phosphorylation of JAK1, JAK2, and STAT3. Interestingly, CIMO displayed inhibition of Tyr-705 phosphorylation, which is required for nuclear translocation of STAT3, but it has no effect on Ser-727 phosphorylation. CIMO accumulates cancer cells in the sub-G1 phase and decreases STAT3 in the nucleus and thereby causes down-regulation of genes regulated via STAT3. Suppression of STAT3 phosphorylation by CIMO and knockdown of STAT3 mRNA using siRNA transfection displayed a similar effect on the viability of HCC cells. Furthermore, CIMO significantly decreased the tumor development in an orthotopic HCC mouse model through the modulation of phospho-STAT3, Ki-67, and cleaved caspase-3 in tumor tissues. Thus, CIMO represents a chemically novel and biologically in vitro and in vivo validated compound, which targets the JAK-STAT pathway as a potential cancer treatment.
Reactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) after cytotoxic chemotherapy is a serious problem, and it occurred to 41% of breast cancer patients carrying HBV. Previous studies have demonstrated that lamivudine was effective for HBV flare-up during cytotoxic chemotherapy. We aimed to monitor the HBV status of breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy with preemptive lamivudine over time. Six breast cancer patients carrying hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) were monitored during chemotherapy, five in the adjuvant setting and one with metastatic disease. Preemptive lamivudine was given throughout the chemotherapy course. HBsAg, HBV envelope antigen (HBeAg), anti-HBV envelope antibody (HBe Ab), serial serum alanine transaminase (ALT), quantitative HBV viral DNA analysis, and HBV DNA precore promoter and precore sequence were monitored. One patient carried wild type and the other five precore mutant strain of HBV by examination of HBV sequence in precore promoter and precore region. No evident HBV reactivation developed, and all patients tolerated lamivudine well. During the 6-to-8-month follow-up after cessation of cytotoxic therapy and withdrawal of lamivudine, serum ALT remained unchanged, although an increase of HBV DNA levels in four patients was found. No emergence of the tyrosine-methionine-aspartate-aspartate (YMDD) lamivudine-selective resistant strain was observed in the six patients. Preemptive use of lamivudine can effectively prevent reactivation of HBV in breast cancer patients receiving postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy. Lamivudine can be discontinued safely without emergence of lamivudine-resistant HBV strain or rebound HBV flare-up. The candidate for the use of preemptive lamivudine in HBV carriers who need short-term chemotherapy remained to be investigated
Tartrazine was given in the diet to provide levels of 0% (control), 0.05%, 0.15%, and 0.45% (approximately 83, 259, 773 mg/kg/day, respectively) from five weeks of age of the F0 generation to nine weeks of age of the F1 generation in mice, and selected reproductive and neurobehavioural parameters were measured. In movement activity of exploratory behaviour in the F0 generation, number of vertical activity was significantly increased in the middle-dose group in males. There were no adverse effects of tartrazine on either litter size, litter weight and sex ratio at birth. The average body weight of male offspring was significantly increased in the high-dose group and that of female offspring was significantly increased in the middle-dose group at birth. In behavioural developmental parameters, surface righting at PND 4 was significantly accelerated in the high-dose group in male offspring, and those effects were significantly dose-related in a trend test (P<0.01). Cliff avoidance at PND 7 was significantly accelerated in the middle-dose group in male offspring. Negative geotaxis at PND 4 was significantly delayed in the high-dose group in female offspring. Other variables measured showed no significant adverse effects in either sex in the lactation period. In movement activity of exploratory behaviour in the F1 generation, number of movement showed a significant tendency to be affected in the treatment groups in male offspring in a trend test (P<0.05). The dose level of tartrazine in the present study produced a few adverse effects in neurobehavioural parameters during the lactation period in mice. Nevertheless, the high-dose level were in excess of the ADI of tartrazine (0-7.5 mg/kgbw), and the actual dietary intake of tartrazine is presumed to be much lower. It would therefore appear that the levels of actual dietary intake of tartrazine is unlikely to produce any adverse effects in humans.
A double-blind study was undertaken to investigate the period of treatment with the beta-adrenoreceptor/5-hydroxytryptamine 1A (5-HT1A) antagonist pindolol required to enhance the antidepressant effects of paroxetine. After 1 week of a placebo run-in period, 63 untreated major depressive inpatients were randomly assigned to three different groups. Group 1 received paroxetine (20 mg/day) plus placebo (4 weeks). Group 2 received paroxetine (20 mg/day) plus pindolol (7.5 mg/day) for 1 week and placebo for 3 weeks. Group 3 received both active treatments for the entire duration of the study (4 weeks). Clinical response was defined as a reduction of the score in the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) to 8 or below. Also, to preliminarily examine whether beta-adrenoreceptor blockade was involved in the action of pindolol, another group of 10 inpatients was treated in an open-label manner with paroxetine (20 mg/day) plus 50 mg/day of the beta-adrenergic antagonist metoprolol, devoid of significant affinity for 5-HT1A receptors. At endpoint, the incidence of treatment-emergent side effects did not significantly differ among the three groups. After 1 and 2 weeks of treatment, the two groups treated with paroxetine plus pindolol displayed a significantly greater response rate than the group treated with paroxetine plus placebo. At study completion, only the patients treated with pindolol for the entire period showed a significantly greater response rate (p = 0.05). HAM-D score were also significantly lower at endpoint in patients treated with the combination for 4 weeks (p = 0.00003). The group of patients treated with paroxetine and metoprolol exhibited a side-effect profile comparable to that of paroxetine alone. Response rates were also comparable. These findings support the efficacy of pindolol, but not of metoprolol, in accelerating the antidepressant effect of paroxetine and suggest that the administration of pindolol for the entire period of the acute treatment may increase the efficacy of paroxetine.
