Early life exposure to Bisphenol A (BPA), a component of polycarbonate plastics and epoxy resins, alters sociosexual behavior in numerous species including humans. The present study focused on the ontogeny of these behavioral effects beginning in adolescence and assessed the underlying molecular changes in the amygdala. We also explored the mitigating potential of a soy-rich diet on these endpoints. Wistar rats were exposed to BPA via drinking water (1 mg/L) from gestation through puberty, and reared on a soy-based or soy-free diet. A group exposed to ethinyl estradiol (50 µg/L) and a soy-free diet was used as a positive estrogenic control. Animals were tested as juveniles or adults for anxiety-like and exploratory behavior. Assessment of serum BPA and genistein (GEN), a soy phytoestrogen, confirmed that internal dose was within a human-relevant range. BPA induced anxiogenic behavior in juveniles and loss of sexual dimorphisms in adult exploratory behavior, but only in the animals reared on the soy-free diet. Expression analysis revealed a suite of genes, including a subset known to mediate sociosexual behavior, associated with BPA-induced juvenile anxiety. Notably, expression of estrogen receptor beta (Esr2) and two melanocortin receptors (Mc3r, Mc4r) were downregulated. Collectively, these results show that behavioral impacts of BPA can manifest during adolescence, but wane in adulthood, and may be mitigated by diet. These data also reveal that, because ERβ and melanocortin receptors are crucial to their function, oxytocin/vasopressin signaling pathways, which have previously been linked to human affective disorders, may underlie these behavioral outcomes.
We report FK506-induced neurotoxicity in 14 of 44 consecutive patients following orthoptic liver transplantation. In 10 of these 14 patients, postural hand tremors were found in the first weeks following surgery, transient apraxia of speech in 3, and generalized tonic-clonic seizures were noted in 2 patients. Other manifestations included nightmares, agitation, and acute delirium. Reduction of the FK506 dose resulted in resolution of symptoms, but in 1 patient mild speech difficulties and in 3 patients a fine tremor remained. Blood and plasma levels of FK506 were similar in patients with and without neurotoxicity. FK506 neurotoxicity in patients with liver transplantation commonly results in transient neurological manifestations. The incidence of neurotoxicity in FK506 is dramatically reduced in maintenance doses of 0.075 mg/kg twice a day.
A 40-year-old man presented to an emergency department with slurred speech, diplopia and agitation several hours after cocaine use. His level of consciousness rapidly dropped in the hours following presentation.
Physical examination, CT scan of the head, cerebral angiography.
Cocaine-induced basilar artery thrombosis.
Intra-arterial thombolysis, mechanical clot aspiration, intravenous abciximab, neurointensive care support, rehabilitation at a specialist stroke unit.
Use of cisplatin, a chemotherapeutic agent, is associated with toxicity as a significant number of patients develop a decline in renal function. The mechanisms by which cisplatin produces renal injury are not well understood. It has been suggested that free radical-catalyzed lipid peroxidation can induce apoptosis or necrosis leading to renal injury. This study examined whether low concentrations of cisplatin induce apoptosis in LLC-PK1 cells and whether caspases 1, 2, 3, 8, and 9 are activated during this event. Our results show a dose- and time-dependent induction of apoptosis by micromolar concentrations of cisplatin. Expression of oncogenes c-myc and p53 was induced, and except for caspase 1, all the other caspases tested were activated. Z-VAD, the broad-spectrum inhibitor of caspases, prevented caspase activation and apoptosis, but not c-myc and p53 induction. On the other hand, N-acetylcysteine prevented cisplatin-induced apoptosis as well as c-myc induction but not p53 induction. The antioxidant trolox also prevented cisplatin-induced apoptosis. The results suggest that antioxidants and caspase inhibitors may alleviate cisplatin-associated nephrotoxicity.
Bile acid induced apoptosis in hepatocytes can be antagonised by nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB) dependent survival pathways. Sulfasalazine modulates NFkappaB in different cell types. We aimed to determine the effects of sulfasalazine and its metabolites sulfapyridine and 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) on bile acid induced apoptosis in hepatocytes.
Apoptosis was determined by caspase assays and immunoblotting, NFkappaB activation by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and reporter gene assays, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) fluorometrically, bile secretion gravimetrically, and bile acid uptake radiochemically and by gas chromatography in HepG2-Ntcp cells and isolated perfused rat livers.
Glycochenodeoxycholic acid (GCDCA 75 micromol/l) induced apoptosis was reduced by sulfasalazine dose dependently (1-1000 micromol/l) in HepG2-Ntcp cells whereas its metabolites 5-ASA and sulfapyridine had no effect. Sulfasalazine significantly reduced GCDCA induced activation of caspases 9 and 3. In addition, sulfasalazine activated NFkappaB and decreased GCDCA induced generation of ROS. Bile acid uptake was competitively inhibited by sulfasalazine. In perfused rat livers, GCDCA (25 micromol/l) induced liver injury and extensive hepatocyte apoptosis were significantly reduced by simultaneous administration of 100 micromol/l sulfasalazine: lactate dehydrogenase and glutamate-pyruvate transaminase activities were reduced by 82% and 87%, respectively, and apoptotic hepatocytes were observed only occasionally. GCDCA uptake was reduced by 45 (5)% when sulfasalazine was coadministered. However, when 50% of GCDCA (12.5 micromol/l) was administered alone, marked hepatocyte apoptosis and liver injury were again observed, questioning the impact of reduced GCDCA uptake for the antiapoptotic effect of sulfasalazine.
Sulfasalazine is a potent inhibitor of GCDCA induced hepatocyte apoptosis in vitro and in the intact liver.
It has been reported that cimetidine, a histamine type-2 receptor (H2R) antagonist, inhibits the growth of glandular tumors such as colorectal cancer. However, its effects against salivary gland tumors are still unknown. We demonstrated previously that human salivary gland tumor (HSG) cells spontaneously express the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) and also that HSG cell proliferation could be controlled via a homophilic (NCAM-NCAM) binding mechanism and that NCAM may be associated with perineural invasion by malignant salivary gland tumors. In the present study, we investigated the effects of cimetidine via the expression of NCAM on tumor growth and perineural/neural invasion in salivary gland tumor cells. Expression of both NCAM mRNA and protein was found to decrease in a dose-dependent manner upon treatment with cimetidine for 24 h. The MTT assay and confocal laser microscopy clearly showed that HSG cells underwent apoptosis after treatment with cimetidine. Activation of caspases 3, 7, 8 and 9 was observed in HSG cells after cimetidine treatment, thus confirming that the apoptosis was induced by the activated caspases. Apaf-1 activity was also detected in HSG cells in a dose-dependent manner after treatment with cimetidine. We also found that the cimetidine-mediated down-regulation of NCAM expression in HSG cells did not occur via blocking of the histamine receptor, even though H2R expression was observed on HSG cells, as two other H2R antagonists, famotidine and ranitidine, did not show similar effects. We demonstrated for the first time that cimetidine can induce significant apoptosis of salivary gland tumor cells, which express NCAM, at least in part by down-regulation of NCAM expression on the cells. These findings suggest that the growth, development and perineural/neural invasion of salivary gland tumor cells can be blocked by cimetidine administration through down-regulation of NCAM expression, as well as induction of apoptosis.
In a retrospective survey of patients taking medication for hyperlipidaemia, those taking niacin (nicotinic acid) were more likely (p < 0.05) to report sicca syndromes, blurred vision, eyelid oedema, and macular oedema compared with those who never took niacin. Additionally, 7% of those taking niacin discontinued the drug owing to adverse ocular side effects, while none of the other lipid lowering agents were found to cause these side effects (p = 0.016). Data from spontaneous reporting systems support a possible association of decreased vision, cystoid macular oedema, sicca-like symptoms, discoloration of the eyelids with or without periorbital or eyelid oedema, proptosis, loss of eyebrow or eyelashes, and superficial punctate keratitis with the use of niacin in high doses. Decreased vision may be marked, and if the drug is not discontinued, may progress to cystoid macular oedema. All ocular side effects listed above are reversible if the association with niacin is recognised and the drug is discontinued; both the incidence and severity of the ocular side effects seem to be dose dependent.
Cardiotoxicity is the main dose-limiting side effect of doxorubicin in the clinic. Being a free radical producer, doxorubicin affects the heart specifically because of its low antioxidant capacity. Among those antioxidants, catalase is present in very low levels in the heart compared to other organs. Since catalase is an essential enzyme in detoxifying hydrogen peroxide, the aim of the present study was to investigate the protective effect of catalase as delivered by an adenovirus vector against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes (NeRCaMs). 7-Monohydroxyethylrutoside (MonoHER), a potent cardioprotector currently under clinical investigations, was included in the study as a reference. Neonatal rat cardiac myocytes were infected with different multiplicity of infections (MOIs) of adenovirus encoding catalase (AdCat). A control infection with an adenovirus vector encoding a nonrelated protein was included. The activity and content of catalase in infected cells were determined during 3 days postinfection. One group of NeRCaMs was infected with AdCat before treatment with doxorubicin (0-50 microM). The second and third group were treated with doxorubicin (0-50 microM) with and without 1 mM monohydroxyethylrutoside (monoHER), respectively. The LDH release and viability of treated cells were measured 24 and 48 h after doxorubicin treatment. The beating rate was followed in three other groups of cells receiving the same treatments within 3 days after doxorubicin (0-100 microM) treatment. Catalase activity increased in AdCat-infected cells, with different MOIs, starting from the second day after infection as compared to the mock-infected cells (P<0.03). At the third day of infection, an MOI of more than 50 caused cytopathic effects, which hampered the use of higher viral titres. With an MOI of 50, catalase activity increased 3.5-fold in AdCat-infected cells 3 days postinfection (P=0.021) compared to mock-infected cells. The beating rate and survival of NeRCaMs decreased in a concentration and time-dependent manner after doxorubicin treatment (P<0.0005). This cytotoxicity was associated with an increase in the LDH release from the treated cells (P<0.0005). The cells stopped beating 24 h after treatment with >50 microM doxorubicin. A 3.5-fold increase in the activity of catalase did not protect NeRCaMs against any of the cytotoxic effects of doxorubicin on NeRCaMs. In contrast, monoHER (1 mM) significantly protected NeRCaMs against the lethal effects of doxorubicin on the survival, LDH release and the beating rate of NeRCaMs (P<0.004) during 48 h after doxorubicin treatment. This protection resulted in a prolongation of the beating of doxorubicin-treated cells after the end of the experiment (i.e. >72 h). The present study (1) illustrates that the cytotoxicity of high MOI of AdCat (>50) limited the possibility to increase catalase activity more than 3.5-fold, which was not enough to protect infected NeRCaMs against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity and (2) confirms the efficacy of monoHER as a cardioprotector. Thus, the use of monoHER proves more suitable for the prevention of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity than catalase gene transfer employing adenovirus vectors.
Mycotoxins are chemicals produced by fungus and many of them are toxic to humans. Zeranol is a mycotoxin used to promote growth in cattle in North America; yet such a practice draws concern about the residual compound in meat in European countries. In the present study, the toxicity of zeranol was tested in a mouse model for reproduction. Pregnant ICR mice were given p.o. daily doses of zeranol at 0, 1, 10, 100mg/kg for 4 days (from E13.5 to E16.5). Increased rates of fetal resorption at late gestation (E17.5) and preterm birth (<E18.5) were observed in mice treated with zeranol. The apparent factors causing these perinatal conditions were subsequently investigated. Perturbation of cell death or proliferation-related proteins might deter the growth and maintenance of the placentae, and the subsequent fetal resorption and preterm birth. Placental tissue isolated from pregnant mice at E17.5 showed that the expressions of Cdk2 and 4, Cyclin D1 and Bcl-xL were reduced in zeranol-treatment groups. The downregulations might signify growth or maintenance failure in the placentae. Furthermore, reduction in the signaling proteins Erk-1/2 in the placentae could trigger the decrease in the cell cycle/apoptosis proteins. In addition, relaxin is associated with preterm labor. An increase in placental Relaxin-1 expression could also contribute to early delivery in this study. Result of the current study suggested that exposure to zeranol might introduce adverse effect in pregnancy.
To determine whether available lipid-modifying medication can increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol in well-defined genetic or familial HDL-deficiency states, we studied 19 men with HDL deficiency (HDL cholesterol <5th percentile for age and gender) 55 +/- 10 years of age. Concomitant risk factors included diabetes (n = 3) and hypertension (n = 7) and 8 patients had coronary artery disease. Molecular analysis revealed that 4 patients had a mutation in the ABCA1 gene. Patients were assigned to sequentially receive atorvastatin 20 mg/day, fenofibrate 200 mg/day, and extended-release niacin 2 g/day for 8 weeks, with a 4-week washout period between each treatment. Patients in whom a statin was required, according to current treatment guidelines, were kept on atorvastatin throughout the study. Baseline HDL cholesterol level was 0.63 +/- 0.12 mmol/L (24 +/- 5 mg/dl), triglycerides 2.01 +/- 0.98 mmol/L (180 +/- 86 mg/dl), and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol 2.29 +/- 0.95 mmol/L (94 +/- 39 mg/dl). Mean percent changes in HDL cholesterol on atorvastatin, fenofibrate, and niacin were -6% (p = NS), +6% (p = NS), and +22% (p <0.05), respectively. Furthermore, niacin significantly increased the large alpha-1 apolipoprotein A-I-containing HDL subspecies (12 to 17 nm). In conclusion, niacin was the only effective drug to increase HDL cholesterol. The absolute increase in HDL cholesterol, approximately 0.10 mmol/L (3.9 mg/dl), is of uncertain clinical significance. Biomarkers of HDL-mediated cellular cholesterol efflux were not changed by niacin therapy. Atorvastatin or fenofibrate had little effect on HDL cholesterol; atorvastatin decreased the total cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratio by 26%. Fenofibrate did not change HDL cholesterol levels and caused an increase in LDL cholesterol. Aggressive LDL cholesterol lowering may be the strategy of choice in such patients.
To investigate whether dilute brimonidine (0.025%) reduces patient discomfort, subconjunctival hemorrhage, and injection after LASIK without a significant increase in the rate of flap complications or surgical enhancements.
This randomized, double-blind, prospective study enrolled 180 patients (360 eyes) in a contralateral eye comparison of topical dilute brimonidine, naphazoline/pheniramine, or Systane Ultra (Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Fort Worth, TX) administered shortly before LASIK for any indication. Patients were evaluated for subconjunctival hemorrhage, injection, and flap dislocation 1 hour and 1 day postoperatively. Patient questionnaires measuring patient comfort and ocular symptoms were administered at these same follow-up visits. Patients were examined for 3 months to determine similar outcomes for standard indices of safety, predictability, efficacy, and enhancement rates.
Scores of patient discomfort, subconjunctival hemorrhage, and injection were significantly lower in eyes treated with dilute brimonidine at the 1 hour and 1 day postoperative examinations. Refloats for mild-flap edge wrinkling were required in 3 brimonidine eyes (2.5%), 1 naphazoline/pheniramine eye (0.8%), and no control eyes, but this difference did not reach statistical significance (P = .18). There was no significant difference between eyes at 3 months in terms of visual acuity, refractive error, corrected distance visual acuity, or rate of enhancement.
Use of dilute brimonidine before LASIK reduces subconjunctival hemorrhage and injection and improves patient comfort after surgery. Flap edge wrinkling requiring refloat may still be a complication with dilute brimonidine.
To explore potential differences in efficacy, treatment completion, and adverse events (AEs) in elderly women receiving adjuvant tamoxifen or letrozole for five years in the Breast International Group (BIG) 1-98 trial.
This report includes the 4,922 patients allocated to 5 years of letrozole or tamoxifen in the BIG 1-98 trial. The median follow-up was 40.4 months. Subpopulation Treatment Effect Pattern Plot (STEPP) analysis was used to examine the patterns of differences in disease-free survival and incidences of AEs according to age. In addition, three categoric age groups were defined: "younger postmenopausal" patients were younger than 65 years (n = 3,127), "older" patients were 65 to 74 years old (n = 1,500), and "elderly" patients were 75 years of age or older (n = 295).
Efficacy results for subpopulations defined by age were similar to the overall trial results: Letrozole significantly improved disease-free survival (DFS), the primary end point, compared with tamoxifen. Elderly patients were less likely to complete trial treatment, but at rates that were similar in the two treatment groups. The incidence of bone fractures, observed more often in the letrozole group, did not differ by age. In elderly patients, letrozole had a significantly higher incidence of any grade 3 to 5 protocol-specified non-fracture AE compared with tamoxifen (P = .002), but differences were not significant for thromboembolic or cardiac AEs.
Adjuvant treatment with letrozole had superior efficacy (DFS) compared with tamoxifen in all age groups. On the basis of a small number of patients older than 75 years (6%), age per se should not unduly affect the choice of adjuvant endocrine therapy.
Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is increasingly used for prevention of allograft rejection and to treat immune disorders. We report the development of an acute inflammatory syndrome in two patients with Wegener's granulomatosis after MMF was introduced, because of persistent renal and systemic disease activity despite cyclophosphamide treatment. Within 1 week both patients developed an acute inflammatory syndrome, characterized by fever, arthralgias and muscle pain. No infection could be detected and no indications for increased Wegener's activity were present. MMF was stopped resulting in a rapid and complete resolution of the syndrome. A rechallenge with 2 g of MMF in the second patient resulted in a relapse of the syndrome within 4 days. There was an association between symptoms and increased levels of mycophenolic acid (MPA) acyl glucuronide and serum interleukin-6, suggesting the induction of inflammatory cytokines by MPA acyl glucuronide as the cause of the syndrome. Therefore, special attention should be given to side effects such as fever, arthralgias and muscle pain when treating patients with Wegener's granulomatosis during the active phase. Because this side effect of MMF may also occur after solid organ transplantation and in other immune disorders, pharmacokinetic profiling of MPA and MPA acyl glucuronide is needed in future studies with MMF.
A 37-year-old woman, while being treated with nitroprusside for acute hypertension due to an intramural renal artery hemorrhage, became blind on the fourth hospital day, comatose on the fifth, and brain dead on the seventh. Postmortem examination of her brain revealed border-zone infarcts in the parietal-occipital regions and cerebrellum of the sort associated with cerebral hypoperfusion due to hypotension. Yet her blood pressure had been lowered judiciously to a mean pressure in the vicinity of 110 to 120 mm Hg, and episodes of hypotension had been avoided. As possible explanations for this unusual complication, the roles of acute hyperangiotensinemia and nitroprusside administration are discussed.
Somatically acquired epigenetic changes are present in many cancers. Epigenetic regulation is maintained via post-translational modifications of core histones. Here, we describe inactivating somatic mutations in the histone lysine demethylase gene UTX, pointing to histone H3 lysine methylation deregulation in multiple tumor types. UTX reintroduction into cancer cells with inactivating UTX mutations resulted in slowing of proliferation and marked transcriptional changes. These data identify UTX as a new human cancer gene.
A mutational analysis of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) gene family in human melanoma identified somatic mutations in 23% of melanomas. Five mutations in one of the most commonly mutated genes, MMP8, reduced MMP enzyme activity. Expression of wild-type but not mutant MMP8 in human melanoma cells inhibited growth on soft agar in vitro and tumor formation in vivo, suggesting that wild-type MMP-8 has the ability to inhibit melanoma progression.
We have previously shown that down-modulation (i.e., by antisense expression vector) of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) in a noninvasive, nontumorigenic cell line led to an acquisition of an invasive, tumorigenic, and metastatic ability in these cells.
Our purpose was to examine whether increased levels of murine TIMP-1 can directly suppress the invasive ability of malignant cells.
Murine B16-F10 melanoma cells were transfected with an expression vector to overproduce TIMP-1. Among these transfectants, we isolated five clonal cell lines (2-5, 2-8, 2-10, 6-5, and 6-9) that showed upregulation (i.e., overexpression) of TIMP-1.
These cell lines had an increased basal level of TIMP-1 messenger RNA. TIMP-1 expression was under the control of the mouse metallothionein-I promoter, and four of these five clones (2-5, 2-8, 6-5, and 6-9) showed a threefold to 10-fold induction of TIMP-1 message when they were treated with 20 microM cadmium for 4 hours. An increase in TIMP-1 message led to an increase in TIMP-1 protein activity measured in the conditioned medium of clones 2-10 and 6-5. The invasive ability of the TIMP-1-upregulated cells was tested in a matrigel transwell invasion assay. All of the upregulated clones showed a significant reduction in their invasive ability, relative to the invasive ability of parental B16-F10 and the control 1-2 cell line; this reduction correlated with the level of TIMP-1 overexpression. Cadmium induction of TIMP-1 messenger RNA resulted in a further suppression of the invasive ability of the two inducible cell lines tested (i.e., 2-8 and 6-5).
Our data demonstrate that a specific upregulation of murine TIMP-1 expression in B16-F10 melanoma cells directly suppresses their invasive ability.
To determine the effect of Niaspan--a niacin preparation with both immediate- and extended-release characteristics--on lipid and glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Retrospective study
Private-practice endocrinology group.
Thirty-two patients (mean age 60 yrs; 72% men) with type 2 diabetes identified by a computerized text search.
Patients received Niaspan 1000, 1500, or 2000 mg/day (median daily dosage 1000 mg).
Total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, triglycerides, hemoglobin A1c, and transaminase levels were compared for each patient before and 6 months after initiation of Niaspan. Niaspan therapy was associated with a significant 34% increase in HDL (p=0.033), a significant 36% reduction of triglycerides (p=0.049), and no significant change in LDL (p=0.236) or total cholesterol (p=0.122). Mean hemoglobin A1c levels significantly decreased from baseline by 0.5 +/- 0.3% (p=0.032), even though dosages and treatment with antidiabetic agents remained constant. There were no significant changes in transaminase levels. Seven patients (21.9%) discontinued Niaspan; one of them experienced an increase in blood glucose while receiving the agent.
For most patients with type 2 diabetes, Niaspan is a safe and effective therapy for dyslipidemia and does not exacerbate glycemic control.
Retinoic acids and their derivatives potentiate anti-cancer effects in breast cancer cells. The aberrant expression of telomerase is critical to the continued proliferation of most cancer cells. Thus, telomerase is an attractive target for chemoprevention and treatment of breast cancer. 9cUAB30 is a novel synthetic retinoid X receptor-selective retinoic acid (RA) that effectively reduces the tumorigenic phenotype in mouse breast carcinoma with lower toxic effects than natural retinoid treatments. We have assessed 9cUAB30 retinoic acid treatment of human breast cancer cells to determine the potential of this drug as an effective telomerase inhibitor and its application to cancer therapy. 9cUAB30 was found to decrease DNA methyltransferase and telomerase expression in MDA-MB-361, T-47D, and MCF-7 human breast cancer cells and to inhibit the proliferation of these cells. This low-toxicity retinoid also reduced colony formation in soft agar assays in each of these cell types. Combination treatments of 9cUAB30 and all-trans RA proved to be synergistically more effective than either RA alone, further suggesting a possible general epigenetic mechanism that contributes to the anti-telomerase activity of the retinoids. Therefore, the novel retinoid, 9cUAB30, is effective in inhibiting the growth of human breast cancer cells, its anti-cancer effects appear to be related to telomerase inhibition and the mechanism for this process could be mediated through epigenetic modifications.
Many chronic renal diseases in children, including membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN), often continue into adulthood, and these patients require continuing management. Despite the importance of the topic, there has been limited discussion about the problems of transition in children with continuing renal disease. We report our experience in patients with MPGN, as they matured from childhood to adolescence and adulthood, so-called "carry-over" cases.
The clinical course of diffuse MPGN in 27 children was retrospectively reviewed. Patients were over 18 years old at the end of follow-up.
The mean follow-up period was 12.6 years; 20 children (74%) were identified by school urinary screening. The clinical course was favorable, and none of the patients progressed to end-stage renal failure during follow-up. However, eight patients (30%) continued to demonstrate proteinuria; two patients were nephrotic. Four patients were non-compliant and discontinued medication by themselves. Three patients were still on low dose of alternate-day (ALD) prednisolone. Twenty patients finished the treatment and were followed for an average of 4.6 years. Only one demonstrated trace amounts of proteinuria 1 year after discontinuing ALD prednisolone.
MPGN often continues during maturation from childhood to adulthood, and patients are usually referred to adult nephrologists. Good communication between pediatric and adult nephrologists is important. In addition, more in depth explanation and reeducation about their disease and its management are helpful when these patients reach adolescence. These measures will improve their care and help to assure compliance with their medication regimen.
Little is known about the outcomes of patients who have hemorrhagic complications while receiving warfarin therapy. We examined the rates of death and disability resulting from warfarin-associated intracranial and extracranial hemorrhages in a large cohort of patients with atrial fibrillation.
We assembled a cohort of 13,559 adults with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and identified patients hospitalized for warfarin-associated intracranial and major extracranial hemorrhage. Data on functional disability at discharge and 30-day mortality were obtained from a review of medical charts and state death certificates. The relative odds of 30-day mortality by hemorrhage type were calculated using multivariable logistic regression.
We identified 72 intracranial and 98 major extracranial hemorrhages occurring in more than 15,300 person-years of warfarin exposure. At hospital discharge, 76% of patients with intracranial hemorrhage had severe disability or died, compared with only 3% of those with major extracranial hemorrhage. Of the 40 deaths from warfarin-associated hemorrhage that occurred within 30 days, 35 (88%) were from intracranial hemorrhage. Compared with extracranial hemorrhages, intracranial events were strongly associated with 30-day mortality (odds ratio 20.8 [95% confidence interval, 6.0-72]) even after adjusting for age, sex, anticoagulation intensity on admission, and other coexisting illnesses.
Among anticoagulated patients with atrial fibrillation, intracranial hemorrhages caused approximately 90% of the deaths from warfarin-associated hemorrhage and the majority of disability among survivors. When considering anticoagulation, patients and clinicians need to weigh the risk of intracranial hemorrhage far more than the risk of all major hemorrhages.
Fenretinide (N-[4-Hydroxyphenyl]retinamide; 4HPR) is a semisynthetic retinoid that induces apoptosis in a variety of malignancies. Fenretinide has been examined in clinical trials as a cancer chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic agent. Oxidative stress induced by fenretinide has been shown to mediate apoptosis through a mitochondrial pathway by the induction of a transcription factor CCAAT/enhancer binding protein homologous protein (CHOP) and Bak. In this study, we report that fenretinide induces death receptor 5 (DR5)/TRAIL-R2 up-regulation via the induction of the transcription factor CHOP in colon cancer cell lines. Fenretinide induced DR5 expression at protein and mRNA levels. Furthermore, fenretinide increased DR5 promoter activity and the enhanced activity decreased by mutation of the CHOP binding site. CHOP was also up-regulated by fenretinide at the promoter level. We also showed that combined treatment with fenretinide and TRAIL induced synergistic apoptosis in colon cancer cell lines. The synergistic apoptosis was markedly blocked by DR5/Fc chimeric protein. Fenretinide and TRAIL cooperatively activated caspase-3, -8, -10 and -9 and cleavage of Bid and PARP, and this activation was also blocked in the presence of DR5/Fc chimeric protein. These results indicate that fenretinide-induced apoptosis is sensitized by TRAIL. Therefore, combined treatment with fenretinide and TRAIL might be a promising model for the treatment of colorectal cancer.
Experimental and occupational exposure to methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) has been reported to induce neurotoxicological and neurobehavioral effects, such as headache, nausea, dizziness, and disorientation, etc. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in MTBE-induced neurotoxicity are still not well understood. In the present study, we investigated the effects of MTBE on spatial memory and the expression and function of GABA(A) receptor in the hippocampus. Our results demonstrated that intraventricular injection of MTBE impaired the performance of the rats in a Morris water maze task, and significantly increased the expression of GABA(A) receptor alpha1 subunit in the hippocampus. The phosphorylation of ERK1/2 decreased after the MTBE injection. Furthermore, the decreased ability of learning and the reduction of phosphorylated ERK1/2 level of the MTBE-treated rats was partly reversed by bicuculline injected 30 min before the training. These results suggested that MTBE exposure could result in impaired spatial memory. GABA(A) receptor may play an important role in the MTBE-induced impairment of learning and memory by regulating the phosphorylation of ERK in the hippocampus.
