The Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes study demonstrated that treatment with fenofibrate in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus not only reduced nonfatal coronary events but also diminished the need for laser treatment of diabetic retinopathy and delayed the progression of diabetic nephropathy. However, the mechanism by which fenofibrate may have altered the microvasculature remains unclear. We thus investigated the effect of fenofibrate on human glomerular microvascular endothelial cells (HGMEC). Treatment of HGMEC with fenofibrate resulted in transient activation of adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), thereby inducing the phosphorylation of Akt and endothelial nitric oxide synthase, leading to nitric oxide production. We compared AMPK activation induced by bezafibrate and WY14643 with that induced by fenofibrate in HGMEC as well as HepG2 cells. Only fenofibrate activated AMPK in HGMEC. Fenofibrate also inhibited nuclear factor-κB activation by advanced glycation end-products, thereby suppressing the expression of various adhesion molecule genes in HGMEC. Suppression of fenofibrate-induced inhibition of nuclear factor-κB activation was observed in cells treated with AMPK small interfering RNA or compound C. Furthermore, fenofibrate was observed to significantly suppress apoptosis of HGMEC in hyperglycemic culture medium. Treatment with compound C or Nw-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) abolished the suppressive effect of fenofibrate on HGMEC apoptosis. Our findings suggest that fenofibrate might exert a protective effect on the microvasculature by suppressing inflammation and apoptosis through AMPK activation beyond its lipid-lowering actions.
The catecholaminergic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine is used to lesion dopaminergic pathways in the experimental animal models of Parkinson's disease. The present study was aimed to evaluate the combined treatment with bioflavonoid quercetin (QN) and desferrioxamine (DFO) on 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) - induced neurotoxicity in the striatum of rats. Adult, male Sprague - Dawley rats were divided into control, sham lesion, 6-OHDA treated (300 µg, intracisternal), 6-OHDA with QN (50 mg/kg) treated, 6-OHDA with DFO (50 mg/kg) treated and 6-OHDA with QN and DFO treated groups. Striatal dopamine, protein carbonyl content (PCC), glutathione (GSH) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were estimated. There was a significant increase (p < 0.05) in PCC and decrease in dopamine, GSH and SOD level and striatal neuronal number with 6-OHDA treatment. QN and DFO treatment significantly (p < 0.05) reduced these changes showing a significant neuronal protection. Combined treatment has a more significant effect (p < 0.05) in protecting the neurons and increasing the antioxidant enzymes in the striatum. In conclusion, an antioxidant with iron chelator treatment showed a significant neuroprotective effect against 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) by preventing dopaminergic neuronal loss and maintaining the striatal dopamine level.
exo-Methylene lactone group-containing compounds, such as (--)-xanthatin, are present in a large variety of biologically active natural products, including extracts of Xanthium strumarium (Cocklebur). These substances are reported to possess diverse functional activities, exhibiting anti-inflammatory, antimalarial, and anticancer potential. In this study, we synthesized six structurally related xanthanolides containing exo-methylene lactone moieties, including (--)-xanthatin and (+)-8-epi-xanthatin, and examined the effects of these chemically defined substances on the highly aggressive and farnesyltransferase inhibitor (FTI)-resistant MDA-MB-231 cancer cell line. The results obtained demonstrate that (--)-xanthatin was a highly effective inhibitor of MDA-MB-231 cell growth, inducing caspase-independent cell death, and that these effects were independent of FTase inhibition. Further, our results show that among the GADD45 isoforms, GADD45γ was selectively induced by (--)-xanthatin and that GADD45γ-primed JNK and p38 signaling pathways are, at least in part, involved in mediating the growth inhibition and potential anticancer activities of this agent. Given that GADD45γ is becoming increasingly recognized for its tumor suppressor function, the results presented here suggest the novel possibility that (--)-xanthatin may have therapeutic value as a selective inducer of GADD45γ in human cancer cells, in particular in FTI-resistant aggressive breast cancers.
The current study dealt with the protective role of mangiferin, a polyphenol from Mangifera indica Linn. (Anacardiaceae), on isoproterenol (ISPH)-induced myocardial infarction (MI) in rats through its antioxidative mechanism. Subcutaneous injection of ISPH (200 mg/kg body weight in 1 ml saline) to rats for 2 consecutive days caused myocardial damage in rat heart, which was determined by the increased activity of serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine phosphokinase isoenzymes (CK-MB), increased uric acid level and reduced plasma iron binding capacity. The protective role of mangiferin was analyzed by triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (TTC) test used for macroscopic enzyme mapping assay of the ischemic myocardium. The heart tissue antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione transferase and glutathione reductase activities, non-enzymic antioxidants such as cerruloplasmin, Vitamin C, Vitamin E and glutathione levels were altered in MI rats. Upon pretreatment with mangiferin (100 mg/kg body weight suspended in 2 ml of dimethyl sulphoxide) given intraperitoneally for 28 days to MI rats protected the above-mentioned parameters to fall from the normal levels. Activities of heart tissue enzymic antioxidants and serum non-enzymic antioxidants levels rose significantly upon mangiferin administration as compared to ISPH-induced MI rats. From the present study it is concluded that mangiferin exerts a beneficial effect against ISPH-induced MI due to its antioxidant potential, which regulated the tissues defense system against cardiac damage.
Vasoactive intracavernous pharmacotherapy (VIP) has become an important tool for the treatment of erectile impotence. The average age of patients treated has been only 59 years and the oldest, 79. We describe the results of VIP in the oldest group of patients described. 28 men, 65-84 years old (average 70), were treated for organic impotence with intracavernous injections of a mixture containing 25 mg/ml papaverine HCl and 0.83 mg/ml phentolamine. Treatment was started with an injection of 0.25 ml of the mixture, with increments of 0.25 ml until there was functional erection, or untip a total of 1.5 ml was injected. Full erection was obtained in 46.5%, while in 40.0% there was a mild nonfunctional erection and in 13.4% no reaction to treatment. The response to the injection was similar in the different etiologic groups. There were no complications, such as prolonged erections or adverse reactions to the drugs injected. We conclude that elderly men seek help in order to have normal sexual function. We therefore think that VIP has a definite place in the treatment of impotence of the elderly.
Changes in local cerebral blood flow during sodium nitroprusside hypotension were measured using the hydrogen electrode technique. At mean arterial pressures from 90% to 50% of control values, local cerebral blood flow showed a significant decrease by 20%. When blood pressure was reduced below 50%, the local cerebral blood flow increased significantly and approached control levels. It is suggested that the flow increase may be due to local hypoxia. Associated with this increase were electrocorticogram changes indicative of hypoxia. The significant decrease in mean local cerebral blood flow and the large range of flows seen during mild hypotension indicate that autoregulation is impaired. During hypotension, intracranial pressure increased by, at most, 3 mm Hg. Cardiac output was usually unaffected and was never decreased by more than 20%.
Bupropion is increasingly used for nicotine withdrawal and in the treatment of major depression, especially in bipolar patients. We present the case of a 38-year-old female schizoaffective, rapid-cycling patient treated with bupropion for a depressive episode. After 4 weeks of successful treatment (300 mg/day), the patient developed a circumscribed unilateral impairment of sensory trigeminal nerve function. Symptoms completely recovered after discontinuation of bupropion. When re-exposed to bupropion, mild symptoms reappeared, leading to final discontinuation of bupropion. With this natural on-off-on-off design, a causative role of bupropion for trigeminal impairment in this patient can be assumed. To our knowledge, a similar side-effect of bupropion has not been described to date.
A 68-year-old man without previous hepatobiliary or pancreatic disease was admitted after five attacks of nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and high fever. Laboratory investigations indicated cholestatic liver disease and pancreatitis. For 1.5 years the patient had occasionally been taking a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, sulindac (clinoril, MSD, New York), for osteoarthritis. On suspicion of a drug-associated disease, a rechallenge experiment was performed with sulindac. Five hours after drug administration symptoms recurred. There was a pronounced increase in serum alkaline phosphatase and amylase. A liver biopsy 3 d later showed portal tract inflammatory infiltration and abnormal interlobular bile ducts with degeneration and necrosis of the epithelium and neutrophilic infiltration of the ducts. Sulindac-induced cholangitis has not been described previously. The pathogenetic mechanism is considered to be an immunoallergic idiosyncratic reaction to the active metabolite of sulindac absorbed by the bile duct epithelium. The lesion is apparently reversible.
Barium-supplemented Long-Evans hooded rats were characterized by a persistent hypertension that was evident after 1 month of barium (100 micrograms/ml mineral fortified water) treatment. Analysis of in vivo myocardial excitability, contractility, and metabolic characteristics at 16 months revealed other significant barium-induced disturbances within the cardiovascular system. The most distinctive aspect of the barium effect was a demonstrated hypersensitivity of the cardiovascular system to sodium pentobarbital. Under barbiturate anesthesia, virtually all of the myocardial contractile indices were depressed significantly in barium-exposed rats relative to the corresponding control-fed rats. The lack of a similar response to ketamine and xylazine anesthesia revealed that the cardiovascular actions of sodium pentobarbital in barium-treated rats were linked specifically to this anesthetic, and were not representative of a generalized anesthetic response. Other myocardial pathophysiologic and metabolic changes induced by barium were manifest, irrespective of the anesthetic employed. The contractile element shortening velocity of the cardiac muscle fibers was significantly slower in both groups of barium-treated rats relative to the control groups, irrespective of the anesthetic regimen. Similarly, significant disturbances in myocardial energy metabolism were detected in the barium-exposed rats which were consistent with the reduced contractile element shortening velocity. In addition, the excitability of the cardiac conduction system was depressed preferentially in the atrioventricular nodal region of hearts from barium-exposed rats. Overall, the altered cardiac contractility and excitability characteristics, the myocardial metabolic disturbances, and the hypersensitivity of the cardiovascular system to sodium pentobarbital suggest the existence of a heretofore undescribed cardiomyopathic disorder induced by chronic barium exposure. These experimental findings represent the first indication that life-long barium ingestion may have significant adverse effects on the mammalian cardiovascular system.
Drug transporters play a pivotal role in the disposition and elimination of a wide variety of organic compounds across the biological membrane of the body. Recent studies have revealed that some drug transporters are involved in drug-induced toxicity. We have previously reported that methotrexate (MTX)-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis in primary mouse alveolar epithelial cells (MAEC) are more sensitive than primary mouse lung fibroblasts (MLF). In the present study, we investigated the mRNA expression of ABCs, Slco/Slc/Oatp transporters by RT-PCR and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) techniques in mouse lung tissues and primary lung cells. The ABC transporters (Mdr1, Mrp1, 3, 4, 5, and Bcrp) and the Slco/Oatp transporters (Rfc, Oatp1a1, 1a4, 1a5, 1b2, 2a1, 2b1, 3a1, 4c1, and 5a1) were detected in mouse lung tissues, whereas some ABCs, Slcs/Oats, and Slco/Oatps transporters were not expressed in the mouse lung. Additionally, we found that some Abc transporters are expressed predominantly in MLF whereas Mrp3 and Oatp4c1 are expressed predominantly in MAEC. The transport activity of [(3)H]MTX mediated via MAEC was significantly higher than the MLF-mediated transport. When MLF was treated with MK571, accumulated [(3)H]MTX significantly increased when compared with MAEC. Thus, our results indicate that depending on the type of cells, several types of drug transporters are expressed in mouse lung tissues. Our results also suggest that MTX-induced fibrosis with cell dysfunction may be caused by the accumulation within the alveolar epithelial cells of MTX in the lung.
This study evaluated the anti-apoptotic activity of fucoxanthin in carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced hepatotoxicity. An in vitro study using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl) 2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay clearly demonstrated an attenuation of CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity with fucoxanthin. This effect was dose-dependent; 25 µM was more effective than 10 µM of fucoxanthin for attenuating the hepatotoxicity induced by 5 mM of CCl(4). Acute CCl(4)-hepatotoxicity in rats, with numerous cells positive for the terminal deoxynucleotidyl - transferase (TdT) -mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-digoxigenin (dUTP) nick-end labeling (TUNEL) stain were seen in the pericentral area of the hepatic lobule. Oral pretreatment of CCl(4)- injected rats with fucoxanthin significantly reduced hepatocyte apoptosis. Fucoxanthin was immunohistochemically shown to increase heme oxygenase-1 expression in the cultured liver cells of Hc cells and TRL1215 cells. By oral pretreatment of CCl(4)-injected rats with fucoxanthin, the hepatic heme oxygenase-1 protein levels were significantly increased compared to those not pretreated with fucoxanthin. Heme oxygenase-1 mRNA expression after CCl(4 )injection was higher in the CCl(4)+fucoxanthin group than in the CCl(4 )group, although the difference was not significant. The findings suggest that fucoxanthin attenuates hepatocyte apoptosis through heme oxygenase-1 induction in CCl(4)-induced acute liver injury.
We previously demonstrated the super-induced expression of the Grin2c gene encoding the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 2C subunit during the development of liver enlargement with hepatocellular hypertrophy induced by phenobarbital, clofibrate, or piperonyl butoxide. In the present study, we assessed whether or not Grin2c gene expression was induced during the development of chemically induced liver enlargement with hyperplasia. Male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSPs), and SHRSP's normotensive control, Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, were administered lead nitrate (LN) (0.1 mmol/kg, single i.v.), a direct inducer of liver hyperplasia, and changes in the level of Grin2c mRNA in the liver were assessed by real-time RT-PCR. The level of hepatic Grin2c mRNA was significantly higher 6-48 hr after the injection in SD rats (about 30~40- and 70-fold over the control at 6~24 hr and 48 hr, respectively) and in WKY rats (about 20-fold over the control only at 12 hr), but was not significantly higher in SHRSPs. Such differences in LN-induced levels of Grin2c mRNA among SD rats, WKY rats, and SHRSPs were closely correlated with those in the previously reported increase in liver weight 48 hr after LN administration. The present findings suggest that the increase in the level of hepatic Grin2c mRNA relates to development of chemically induced liver enlargement with hyperplasia.
Some antipsychotic medications prescribed for the treatment of psychoses, mood disorders or post-traumatic stress disorder in patients with coexisting substance dependence disorders (SDD) have reduced substance dependence. We studied the potential benefits of quetiapine in the treatment of SDD.
We conducted a retrospective chart review of data for 9 patients who were admitted to a 28-day residential rehabilitation program designed for individuals with SDD during a 3-month period from January 2003 through March 2003 and treated with quetiapine for nonpsychotic anxiety. These patients also met the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition, criteria for alcohol, cocaine and/or methamphetamine dependence and substance-induced anxiety disorder. The patients were assessed using the Hamilton-D Rating Scale for Depression (Ham-D), a 10-point Likert scale to measure alcohol or drug cravings, and random Breathalyzer and urine drug screens.
Quetiapine was generally well tolerated. Only 1 of the 9 patients stopped taking the medication because of increased anxiety. Other patients reported improvement in sleep and anxiety. The mean decrease in Ham-D score at discharge for the responders was 18.5 (p < 0.005). The biggest decreases on the Ham-D occurred on the subscales of insomnia, agitation, somatic anxiety, psychologic anxiety, hypochondriasis and obsessional symptoms. The mean decrease in the Likert 10-point craving scale was 5.9 for the responders (p < 0.005). These patients' periodic Breathalyzer and urine test results suggested that they remained abstinent from alcohol and other drug use.
Quetiapine was beneficial in the treatment of SDD in patients with nonpsychotic anxiety.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) recurrence following liver transplantation (LTx) has been controllable primarily with the use of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIg) and lamivudine (LAM). However, HBV resistance to LAM and/or HBIg has become an increasing problem prompting the use of newer antiviral agents. The purpose of our study was to investigate the association between therapy, HBV breakthrough, and allograft / patient survival in HBV-positive liver transplant recipients. We performed a retrospective review of the medical records of patients that were transplanted for HBV from June 1994 to May 2003. A total of 92 patients, positive for either hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) or HBV deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) pretransplant, received LAM monotherapy or HBIg (6 months) plus LAM therapy post-liver transplant. HBV breakthrough post-LTx was noted in 14 patients. All patients had detectable HBV DNA prior to liver transplantation; none of the patients that were HBV DNA negative prior to transplant had detectable HBV DNA posttransplant. Of these 14, 9 patients (64%) were switched from LAM to adefovir dipivoxil (ADF) and 5 patients (36%) to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TNV). In conclusion, pre-LTx HBV viremia should be considered in planning post-LTx prophylaxis. Trials to evaluate oral antiviral agents in combination with or without HBIg therapy are needed.
Thiram is a dithiocarbamate pesticide that causes tibial dyschondroplasia (TD), a growth plate defect, in poultry. Deaths of transitional zone chondrocytes appear to interrupt endochondral bone development leading to the broadening of growth plate. The mechanism of action of thiram on chondrocytes is not well understood. Since proteins play major roles in different aspects of cell's metabolism, growth, and survival, the objective of this study was to find whether thiram produces proteomic changes that could impair the development of chondrocytes. The chondrocytes, isolated from proximal tibial growth plates, were cultured with or without a sub-lethal concentration of thiram for 48 hr, and the cell proteins were extracted, and subjected to 2-D gel electrophoresis. The gel images were compared and statistically evaluated using Melanie software to identify differentially expressed protein spots. Of a total of 72 identifiable spots 3 were down-regulated and 2 up-regulated in thiram treated chondrocytes. In-gel trypsin digestion of the protein spots followed by their characterization by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time-of- flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry identified 25 spots comprising of 23 proteins. Two of 3 down-regulated proteins were identified as a heat shock protein 70 (HSP 70) and a GALE (UDP-galactose-4 epimerase) protein isoform I. The up-regulated proteins were Serpin H1, a protein involved in collagen metabolism and a redox sensor NmrA-like (NMRAL) family domain protein-1. Both GALE and NMRAL proteins are implicated in energy metabolism and redox regulation whereas the HSP 70 protects cells against stress, and implicated in chondrocyte hypertrophy, an important event in endochondral bone formation. The failure of chondrocyte protective mechanisms such as associated with protection against cellular stress and energy metabolism appear to be the likely cause for chondrocyte death induced by thiram.
Intracavernosal injection of vasoactive drugs is a safe, effective, and commonly used treatment for impotence in diabetic men. In prospective studies infection has rarely occurred. We report a case of life-threatening Staphylococcal septicaemia complicating this treatment in a 61-year-old man with Type 2 diabetes, probably due to a combination of an unsterile technique and drug-induced priapism. Infection is a potential risk in diabetic men using intracavernosal injection therapy and those offered it should be informed of the importance of a scrupulous sterile technique and the need to seek urgent medical help for decompression if an erection persists for more than 4-6 h.
Platelet functional parameters (platelet aggregation, blood circulating reversibly and irreversibly aggregated platelet complexes, thromboxane B2, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha) were examined in unstable angina treated with aspirin in a daily dose of 320 mg in relation to the outcome of the disease: Group 1, stabilization and Group 2, evolving myocardial infarction. Differences were found in the baseline platelet functional parameters between the groups. The findings suggest that platelet functional parameters show a varying response to aspirin depending on the outcome of the disease. Despite the effective inhibition of thromboxane A2 synthesis, aspirin was found to fail to prevent enhanced platelet aggregatory activity in case of myocardial infarction developed during the therapy.
Six dogs were, under constant environmental conditions, treated for 7 weeks with clonazepam (0.5 mg/kg b.i.d. orally). Already after 1 week of treatment, slight symptoms of withdrawal could be elicited by intravenous injection of flumazepil (Ro 15-1788). When clonazepam was finally withdrawn, a self-limiting abstinence syndrome was observed in all dogs, consisting of behavioral alterations (listlessness, wet dog shakes, dorsal recumbency), tremor, a severe clonic-tonic seizure in 1 case, hyperthermia, and weight loss. The syndrome was most pronounced on days 2 and 3 after withdrawal, after 1 week all signs of physical dependence had disappeared.
FK506 is an immunosuppressant for organ transplantation in the same clinical settings as cyclosporine (CsA). In the management of liver transplantation, FK506 has advantages over CsA, in terms of rejection and corticosteroid requirements. Recent clinical findings in liver transplant patients indicate that FK506, but not CsA, stimulates choleresis, suggesting that FK506 treatment may accelerate recovery from cholestatic dysfunction through its choleretic action. Recently, we demonstrated in rats that exogenous treatment with insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) results in an increase in bile flow and also that FK506 has the potential to increase hepatic production of IGF-I. However, circulating levels of IGF-I in FK506-treated rats were only 30% higher than in nontreated rats. In this study, we evaluated the combined effect of treatment with both IGF-I and FK506 on bile flow in rats to explore the possibility that combination treatment in liver transplant patients could enhance the choleretic action of FK506, benefiting the transplanted liver. Combination treatment of IGF-I with FK506 resulted in a potent and long-lasting increase in bile flow. Overall, this study demonstrated that IGF-I treatment enhanced the choleretic action of FK506, providing potential clinical utility for combination therapy using these two drugs, in treatment after liver transplantation.
We evaluated the histopathologic changes of the uterine epithelium in 73 breast cancer patients with tamoxifen stratified by menopausal status. Clinicopathologic data at the time of breast cancer diagnosis and endometrial sampling were analyzed and compared with 122 breast cancer patients not receiving the drug. The incidence of endocervical and/or endometrial polyps was increased in tamoxifen-treated postmenopausal patients compared with untreated patients, 43% (25 of 58) and 24% (16 of 68), respectively (odds ratio=2.46, P=0.02). In contrast, there was no increase in polyps in premenopausal tamoxifen-treated patients. This finding suggests that the effects of tamoxifen on the endometrium may vary with menopausal status.
Serum vitamin A concentrations were measured in 38 patients undergoing haemodialysis, 24 of whom were taking multivitamin preparations containing vitamin A. Vitamin A concentrations were significantly higher in patients undergoing haemodialysis than in 28 normal controls (p less than 0.001). Patients taking vitamin A supplements had significantly higher vitamin A concentrations than those not taking them (p less than 0.05), and hypercalcaemic patients had higher concentrations than normocalcaemic patients (p less than 0.005). Withdrawal of vitamin A supplements in seven patients caused significant falls in serum vitamin A concentrations and plasma calcium concentrations (p less than 0.01 at two and three months in both cases) and in plasma alkaline phosphatase concentrations (p less than 0.01 at two months). Vitamin A toxicity can contribute to hypercalcaemia in patients undergoing haemodialysis, probably by an osteolytic effect. Multivitamin preparations containing vitamin A should therefore be prescribed with caution in these patients.
An open clinical trial with intravenous chlorimipramine was carried out on twenty depressed inpatients, diagnosed as primary or secondary affective disorders following a classificatory scheme for use in psychiatric research. Eleven of twelve patients with primary affective disorders had a significant decrease in symptoms of depression at the end of two weeks. In contrast, eight patients with secondary affective disorders did not show such significant improvement. Changes in physiological parameters (systolic blood pressure) were significantly greater in the primary affective disorders than in the secondary ones. It is inferred from the results of this trial, that intravenous administration of chlorimipramine is a safe and feasible procedure, which may compare to electroconvulsive therapy in the treatment of severe unipolar and bipolar depressions.
Altered gene expression of the DNA repair- and cell proliferation-associated proteins/enzymes was examined during the process of tamoxifen-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in female Sprague-Dawley rats. When rats were treated by gavage with a single dose of tamoxifen (20 mg/kg body weight) or with the same dose given at 24-h intervals for 2, 12 or 52 weeks, no histopathological change was observed in the liver after 2 weeks. Pathologically altered cell foci and placental form of glutathione-S-transferase (GST-P)-positive foci were observed in the liver after 12 weeks of treatment. Treatment for 52 weeks resulted in the formation of liver hyperplastic nodules that strongly expressed GST-P. During the process of carcinogenesis, changes in hepatic gene expression of DNA repair proteins/enzymes (XPA and XPC, xeroderma pigmentosum complementation groups A and C, respectively; APE, apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease) and of cell proliferation-associated proteins (c-myc; PCNA, proliferating cell nuclear antigen; cyclin D1, cyclin B, and p34cdc2) were examined by RT-PCR. The gene expression of XPA and APE was increased by the tamoxifen treatment for 2 or 12 weeks, but no increase was observed after the 52-week treatment. In addition, no significant change in XPC gene expression occurred at any period examined. The gene expression of c-myc, PCNA, and cyclin D1 was increased in a time-dependent fashion up to 12 weeks of treatment, and this increase was maintained up to 52 weeks of treatment. The gene expression of cyclin B and p34cdc2 was increased after the 1-day treatment, reverted to the control level at 2 and 12 weeks of treatment, and was remarkably increased after the 52-week treatment. In the present study, we demonstrate the altered gene expression of various proteins/enzymes involved in DNA repair, cell growth and the cell cycle during the process of tamoxifen-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. We discuss the relationship between the altered gene expression and hepatocarcinogenesis.
Dopamine replacement therapy in patients with Parkinson's disease is plagued by the emergence of abnormal involuntary movements known as L-dopa-induced dyskinesias. It has been demonstrated that yohimbine can reduce L-dopa-induced dyskinesia in the MPTP-lesioned primate model of Parkinson's disease. Yohimbine is, among other things, an alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist. In this study, we demonstrate that the selective and potent alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist idazoxan reduces L-dopa-induced dyskinesia in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. The alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonists rauwolscine and yohimbine also reduce L-dopa-induced dyskinesia. Furthermore, we demonstrate that coadministration of idazoxan with L-dopa can provide an anti-parkinsonian action more than twice the length of that seen with L-dopa alone. However, idazoxan as a monotherapy displayed no anti-parkinsonian actions. We propose that idazoxan in combination with L-dopa may provide a novel approach to the treatment of Parkinson's disease that will not only reduce the dyskinetic side effects, but extend the anti-parkinsonian actions of L-dopa. Idazoxan, as an adjunct to dopamine replacement, may prove useful in the treatment of parkinsonian patients at all stages of disease progression.
Serum paraoxonase (PON1) provides protection against organophosphate induced toxicity. Recently we reported that the frequency of paraoxonase polymorphisms in sheep dippers with self-reported chronic ill-health differed from that in dippers with a similar dipping history but no ill-health. As these analyses may have included subjects with conditions unrelated to organophosphate exposure, the aim of this study was to examine whether the risk associated with PON1 polymorphisms varied using a more homogenous case and referent population.
Each subject completed a detailed symptom questionnaire and their general practitioner was asked whether there was any history of neurological disease that could be confused with the effects of organophosphate poisoning. Subjects were then excluded both on clinical grounds and where identified as atypical on discriminant analysis.
Risk associated with the PON1 192 and 55 genotypes altered little with these changes in the population.
These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that organophosphates contribute to the self-reported ill-health of sheep dippers.
Bartter syndrome represents the group of renal disturbances characterized by hypokaliemia and metabolic alkalosis. Some diseases could display hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis without primary tubular dysfunction. These disorders are called pseudo-Bartter syndrome. In this paper we present 2 cases of pseudo-Bartter syndrome related among to other things to overuse of diuretic drugs.
