In an attempt to decrease the activation of 5-FU by normal cells relative to cancer cells, 20 patients with metastatic cancer were given 72 courses of 5-FU and allopurinol (HPP) in a phase I trial. 5-FU was given daily by iv bolus injection for 5 consecutive days every 4 weeks: HPP, 300 mg orally every 8 hours for 6 consecutive days, was started 24 hours before the first injection of 5-FU. HPP appeared to modulate 5-FU toxicity by allowing higher doses (18-21 mg/kg daily for 5 days) to be given. Unexpectedly, neurotoxicity was the dose-limiting toxicity; it was slowly reversible and manifested primarily as encephalopathy, with some patients having cerebellar signs. Gastrointestinal and hematologic toxic effects were mild and infrequent. Because of the high incidence of neurotoxicity and low response rate, this program does not appear to offer any advantages over conventional dose schedules of 5-FU alone.
To map and identify the pattern, in vivo, of axonal degeneration in ethambutol-induced optic neuropathy using optical coherence tomography (OCT). Ethambutol is an antimycobacterial agent often used to treat tuberculosis. A serious complication of ethambutol is an optic neuropathy that impairs visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, and color vision. However, early on, when the toxic optic neuropathy is mild and partly reversible, the funduscopic findings are often subtle and easy to miss.
Three subjects with a history of ethambutol (EMB)-induced optic neuropathy of short-, intermediate-, and long-term visual deficits were administered a full neuro-ophthalmologic examination including visual acuity, color vision, contrast sensitivity, and fundus examination. In addition, OCT (OCT 3000, Humphrey-Zeiss, Dublin, CA) was performed on both eyes of each subject using the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) analysis protocol. OCT interpolates data from 100 points around the optic nerve to effectively map out the RNFL.
The results were compared to the calculated average RNFL of normal eyes accumulated from four prior studies using OCT, n=661. In all subjects with history of EMB-induced optic neuropathy, there was a mean loss of 72% nerve fiber layer thickness in the temporal quadrant (patient A, with eventual recovery of visual acuity and fields, 58% loss; patient B, with intermediate visual deficits, 68% loss; patient C, with chronic visual deficits, 90% loss), with an average mean optic nerve thickness of 26+/-16 microm. There was a combined mean loss of 46% of fibers from the superior, inferior, and nasal quadrants in the (six) eyes of all three subjects (mean average thickness of 55+/-29 microm). In both sets (four) of eyes of the subjects with persistent visual deficits (patients B and C), there was an average loss of 79% of nerve fiber thickness in the temporal quadrant.
The OCT results in these patients with EMB-induced optic neuropathy show considerable loss especially of the temporal fibers. This is consistent with prior histopathological studies that show predominant loss of parvo-cellular axons (or small-caliber axons) within the papillo-macular bundle in toxic or hereditary optic neuropathies. OCT can be a valuable tool in the quantitative analysis of optic neuropathies. Additionally, in terms of management of EMB-induced optic neuropathy, it is important to properly manage ethambutol dosing in patients with renal impairment and to achieve proper transition to a maintenance dose once an appropriate loading dose has been reached.
The goal of this study was to use c-Fos immunohistochemistry to establish a rat model for studying the central projection of the esophageal afferent neurons during acid exposure. A cannula was placed in the esophagus of anesthetized Wistar rats with the tip approximately 2 cm above the lower esophageal sphincter (LES). Hydrochloric acid (0.1 N HCl, 50 mmol/L) with pepsin (3,200-4,500 U/mL), at pH 1.6, was then perfused into the esophagi of the experimental rats (n = 8) at 10 mL/hr continuously for 50 minutes. Normal saline solution (0.9% NaCl) was used in control rats (n = 6), and home cage control animals (n = 6) were given no stimulation. Thirty minutes after the perfusion, the rat was killed and the brain was removed and processed for c-Fos immunohistochemistry. A transverse section of the esophagus, 2 cm above the LES, was stained with hematoxylin and eosin stain for light microscopy. c-Fos immunoreactivity was significantly increased in a number of brain regions in the rats receiving the acid plus pepsin perfusion. These areas included the central amygdala, the Kölliker-Fuse nucleus, the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), the medial part of the NTS, the interstitial part of the NTS, the commissural part of the NTS, the paratrigeminal nucleus, the ambiguus nucleus, and the rostroventrolateral recticular nucleus. Perfusion with acid-pepsin solution also resulted in morphologic changes in the esophagus on light microscopy. This study suggests that acid plus pepsin perfusion of esophagus results in both neural activation in areas of the central nervous system and damage to the esophagus in an animal model.
Acute bilateral renal cortical necrosis is a rare cause of renal failure frequently induced by disseminated intravascular coagulation (Dic) following obstetrical complications, sepsis and drugs. We describe a case of Dic with bilateral cortical necrosis after ingestion of only one tablet of quinine. A 41-year-old woman was admitted for severe abdominal pain, melaena, fever and anuria two hours after quinine tablet intake for nocturnal leg cramps. Her medical history included angioneurotic edema caused by chloroquine for malaria prevention. Physical examination was normal. Laboratory data showed acute renal failure, hemolytic anemia without schistocytes and Dic. Platelet antibodies were negative. Ultrasonographic examination showed a complete defect of renal perfusion with permeable renal arteries. Results of abdominal CT scan and MAG3 scintigraphy led to the diagnosis of bilateral renal cortical necrosis. The patient underwent plasma exchanges with fresh frozen plasma which induced rapid resolution of Dic. She remained dependent on chronic hemodialysis. Quinine-induced microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and Dic is a rare described entity. These complications occur typically in quinine-sensitized subjects. The presence of acute renal failure is generally associated with poor prognosis in case of bilateral renal cortical necrosis. Caution is required for the prescription of quinine derivates, which should be avoided in patients experienced on adverse reaction to the drug.
A 56-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with leukocytosis, anemia, and thrombocytopenia. Acute monoblastic leukemia was diagnosed. Two subsequent courses of consolidation chemotherapy consisted of conventional doses of cytarabine and intermediate-dose cytarabine. Intermediate-dose cytarabine was infused intravenously every 12 hr for 6 days. On day 15 after the final infusion of cytarabine, the patient suffered headache, and on day 21, he experienced a decrease in sensation on the sole of his left foot. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed widespread areas of white matter edema. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination revealed an increase in the number of cells to 31 mm(-3); the majority were lymphocytes. No infiltration of leukemia cells was seen. After 2 months, brain MRI findings were normal. The clinicoradiologic features of the case were consistent with reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS). RPLS in the present case was unlikely to have been caused by direct neurotoxicity because (1) the doses of cytarabine (500 mg/m(2); total dose 9.2 g) were much smaller than those in reported cases and were repeatedly infused until RPLS developed; (2) the RPLS developed 21 days after the final infusion of cytarabine, a much longer period than previously reported; (3) the slight leukocytosis in the CSF observed on day 33 might also have been related to the cellular immune responses evoked by the infused cytarabine. These details suggest not only that direct cerebral neurotoxicity of cytarabine but also that some type of allergic response may have been involved in the development of RPLS.
Five patients with narcolepsy (four with the allied symptom of cataplexy) were treated with the serotonin antagonist methysergide. All patients had as good control of their sleep attacks while on methysergide therapy as on a control period of dextroamphetamine therapy. The cataplexy was less well controlled by methysergide than by dextroamphetamine, but improved when compared to a period without medication. Two patients developed severe calf claudication while on methysergide.
Ceftazidime, a beta-lactamase-stable, third-generation cephalosporin, is widely used for the treatment of serious gram-negative infections. Neurotoxicity has rarely been associated with the drug; however, two of our patients developed ceftazidime-induced neurotoxicity that produced confusion, disorientation, agitation, generalized weakness, and myoclonus. In both patients these symptoms cleared with either discontinuation or reduction of the dosage of ceftazidime. This emphasizes the importance of adjusting the dosage of ceftazidime in patients with renal insufficiency.
The beta-adrenergic stimulation test with nitroglycerin, described by Fitzgerald, was used to monitor antihypertensive treatment with the beta-blocker acebutolol in 30 hypertensive patients. The nitroglycerin-induced tachycardia was reduced by acebutolol and this allowed the degree of beta-blockage to be estimated. It would also be possible, by tests performed before treatment, to select hypotensive patients who could be highly responsive to beta-adrenergic blockers, for whom there are the best prospects of success.
Smoking is associated with an increased risk of myocardial infarction and sudden death. Platelet activation and thrombosis at sites of vessel stenosis and injury or plaque disruption play a crucial role in these acute coronary events. Thus, the aim of this study was to determine whether cigarette smoking acutely increases platelet thrombus formation on an injured arterial surface at local shear rates typical of a stenotic artery.
Twelve habitual smokers with stable coronary disease, on aspirin 325 mg/d, were studied immediately before and 5 minutes after smoking two cigarettes each. Ex vivo platelet thrombus formation on porcine arterial media (simulating deep arterial injury) was measured after exposure to the patient's circulating venous blood for 3 minutes in cylindrical flow chambers at 37 degrees C. The flow chambers were designed to produce shear rates of 754 or 2546 s-1, the latter being typical of the high shear rates produced by vessel stenosis. Plasma catecholamine, thromboxane B2, and 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (6-keto-PGF1 alpha) levels and whole blood platelet aggregation responses to thrombin were also measured before and after smoking. Compared with before smoking, morphometrically measured platelet thrombus formation on arterial media at shear rates of 754 and 2546 s-1 increased by an average of 48% (P = .19) and 64% (P = .014), respectively, after smoking. Plasma epinephrine increased by more than twofold after smoking (P = .026). Plasma thromboxane B2 and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha levels did not change. Smoking also increased whole blood platelet aggregation to thrombin (P < or = .05).
These results suggest that smoking-enhanced platelet thrombosis may be an important contributory mechanism for acute coronary events in smokers that is not prevented by aspirin treatment. Catecholamine release and heightened platelet aggregation response to in vivo agonists may contribute to the prothrombotic effects of smoking.
Cardiotoxin 1 from cobra (Naja naja atra) venom was tested for its ability to cause necrosis of skeletal muscle cells after i.m. injection into mice. Light and electron microscopic examination of tissue indicated that the toxin caused necrosis of skeletal muscle as early as 30 min after injection. The plasma membranes of affected cells were ruptured in the area of delta lesions, and the myofibrils were condensed into dense clumps alternating with clear areas containing elements of the sarcotubular system and damaged mitochondria. By 24 hr the affected cells appeared as empty 'bags' containing only remnants of myofibrils and swollen mitochondria. To eliminate the possibility that the necrosis was due to contaminating phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activity of the sample, the sample was treated with p-bromophenacyl bromide (p-BPB), a known inhibitor of PLA2 activity. The p-BPB-treated preparation caused myonecrosis in vivo in mice, and the treatment caused a significant decrease in the release of fatty acids and no detectable lysophospholipid in human muscle cell cultures treated in vitro with the preparation, indicating the lack of PLA2 activity. Additionally, purified PLA2 from the same venom failed to cause myonecrosis in vivo at doses equal to or ten times the estimated contaminating concentration. Thus, it is concluded that cardiotoxin 1 from Naja naja atra venom causes necrosis of skeletal muscle cells in vivo upon i.m. injection.
It has been documented that the HMG coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, or statins, can decrease cardiovascular events and mortality in patients with clinical coronary disease and moderately to severely elevated lipid levels. Additional data are required to demonstrate a reduction of vascular events in coronary patients with less than severely elevated lipid levels and in subgroups of this population.
Clinical data from four atherosclerosis regression trials that evaluated pravastatin were pooled for a predetermined analysis of the effect of that agent on the risk of coronary events. All trials were double-masked, placebo-controlled designs that used pravastatin as monotherapy for 2 to 3 years. The 1981 participants in the trials had evidence of atherosclerosis and mildly to moderately elevated lipid levels. For fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction, there was a 62% reduction in events attributable to pravastatin (P = .001). This effect was evident in younger and older patients, men and women, and patients with and without histories of hypertension and prior infarction. There was a 46% reduction in all-cause mortality (P = .17), which, although not statistically significant, is consistent with the results of other statin trials. There also was a 62% reduction in the risk of fatal or nonfatal stroke (P = .054).
These pooled results provide strong evidence that pravastatin reduces the risk of cardiovascular events in patients with atherosclerotic disease and mildly to moderately elevated lipid levels. The benefit for reducing myocardial infarction is evident in older and younger patients, men and women, and patients with and without histories of hypertension and prior infarction.
Abeta42-lowering nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) constitute the founding members of a new class of gamma-secretase modulators that avoid side effects of pan-gamma-secretase inhibitors on NOTCH processing and function, holding promise as potential disease-modifying agents for Alzheimer disease (AD). These modulators are active in cell-free gamma-secretase assays indicating that they directly target the gamma-secretase complex. Additional support for this hypothesis was provided by the observation that certain mutations in presenilin-1 (PS1) associated with early-onset familial AD (FAD) change the cellular drug response to Abeta42-lowering NSAIDs. Of particular interest is the PS1-DeltaExon9 mutation, which provokes a pathogenic increase in the Abeta42/Abeta40 ratio and dramatically reduces the cellular response to the Abeta42-lowering NSAID sulindac sulfide. This FAD PS1 mutant is unusual as a splice-site mutation results in deletion of amino acids Thr(291)-Ser(319) including the endoproteolytic cleavage site of PS1, and an additional amino acid exchange (S290C) at the exon 8/10 splice junction. By genetic dissection of the PS1-DeltaExon9 mutation, we now demonstrate that a synergistic effect of the S290C mutation and the lack of endoproteolytic cleavage is sufficient to elevate the Abeta42/Abeta40 ratio and that the attenuated response to sulindac sulfide results partially from the deficiency in endoproteolysis. Importantly, a wider screen revealed that a diminished response to Abeta42-lowering NSAIDs is common among aggressive FAD PS1 mutations. Surprisingly, these mutations were also partially unresponsive to gamma-secretase inhibitors of different structural classes. This was confirmed in a mouse model with transgenic expression of the PS1-L166P mutation, in which the potent gamma-secretase inhibitor LY-411575 failed to reduce brain levels of soluble Abeta42. In summary, these findings highlight the importance of genetic background in drug discovery efforts aimed at gamma-secretase, suggesting that certain AD mouse models harboring aggressive PS mutations may not be informative in assessing in vivo effects of gamma-secretase modulators and inhibitors.
Calcium channel blockers are widely used in the treatment of post-transplant hypertension but have the potential for drug interaction with calcineurin inhibitors. Renal allograft outcomes when diltiazem is used with cyclosporine have been reported, but similar data with tacrolimus are not available.
We performed a retrospective analysis of all our renal transplant recipients from March 1997 to March 2002 who were given tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil and prednisone. Patients were divided into two groups based on whether diltiazem was started in the first postoperative week. Outcome measures included renal function up to 2 years post-transplant, blood pressure (BP) control, tacrolimus exposure, and costs related to tacrolimus monitoring.
Sixty-four patients constituted the diltiazem group and 32 the control group. Their baseline characteristics were similar. The mean average daily dose of diltiazem used was 213.95 mg/day. There was no difference in renal function, graft survival, or patient survival over 2 years. BP control was similar although the diltiazem group required more medication. Diltiazem was discontinued in four patients due to side-effects. There was no difference in tacrolimus-related side-effects between the two groups. There was also no difference in tacrolimus exposure, cost related to tacrolimus monitoring, or combined costs when the expense of diltiazem was added.
Diltiazem use is acceptably safe and efficacious in renal transplant recipients treated with tacrolimus-based immunosuppressive therapy. It can be considered as a first-line antihypertensive in these patients and is cost neutral for tacrolimus use.
Bromocriptine, an ergot alkaloid dopamine agonist, is a recent common treatment for suppression of lactation in postpartum women. A case is presented of a postpartum woman prescribed bromocriptine for suppression of lactation who developed hypertension, headaches, blurry vision, seizures, and pituitary hemorrhage. Differential diagnosis and a literature review are considered.
Hypolastic lung in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) shows markedly thickened alveolar walls, increased interstitial tissue, and markedly diminished alveolar air space, showing morphologic immaturity. Decrease in lung compliance and distensibility often is seen in human CDH as well as experimentally produced CDH. Collagen and elastin, critical components of the lung connective tissue, have been suggested to have important influence on lung compliance and maximal expansion. The barotrauma caused by mechanical ventilation is known to produce structural changes in the pulmonary architecture. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression and production of elastin in the lung in newborn rats with CDH during mechanical ventilation.
CDH was induced in rat embryos after administration of nitrofen to pregnant dams on day 9.5 of gestation. Cesarean section was performed on day 21 of gestation. The newborn rats were intubated using a 24-gauge Teflon catheter. After ligation of the umbilical cord, the intubated animals were transferred immediately to a warm plate and connected to a modified ventilator. Ventilation was continued for a maximum of 6 hours. The relative amount of soluble elastin in the lung was assessed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technique. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to evaluate the relative amount of tropoelastin mRNA expression in the lung.
Elastin mRNA in the CDH lung was increased significantly (P <.01) at one hour after ventilation compared with ventilated controls. Elastin protein significantly increased in the CDH lung at one hour (P <.01) and 6 hours (P <.01) after starting ventilation compared with controls.
The data show that during mechanical ventilation, elastin production is increased significantly in the CDH lung, and this may further affect lung compliance.
To report a case of rhabdomyolysis and acute hepatitis associated with the coadministration of atorvastatin and diltiazem.
A 60-year-old African American man with a significant past medical history presented to the emergency department with acute renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis. In addition, liver enzymes were elevated to greater than 3 times normal. The only change in medication was the initiation of diltiazem 3 weeks earlier for atrial fibrillation to a complicated medication regimen that included atorvastatin.
Rhabdomyolysis has been reported in patients receiving hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors when coadministered with agents that may inhibit their metabolism. Atorvastatin is the most potent of this class of agents currently available and is commonly used in the treatment of hyperlipidemia. Rhabdomyolysis resulting from the drug interaction between diltiazem and other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors has been described in the literature. However, no report has specifically associated this adverse event with atorvastatin and diltiazem. We describe a patient with a complex medication regimen who was admitted for rhabdomyolysis and accompanying acute renal failure, along with acute hepatitis, thought to be secondary to a drug interaction between atorvastatin and diltiazem.
While optimizing the patient's lipid profile should be the primary factor in choosing one statin over another, the potential for drug interactions requires close attention. All patients beginning HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy should be counseled regarding the signs and symptoms of muscle injury; particular attention should be paid to those patients who are taking medications that may interact.
Hospitalized patients are in danger of deep venous thrombosis either due to a genetic tendency, immobilization or the underlying medical condition. Paradoxically heparin, the substance used to prevent this complication, can lead to thrombo-embolic phenomena, which can be life threatening. We report a case of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, which caused a massive pulmonary embolism, and its management by administering a thrombolytic agent in a situation where bleeding seems inevitable.
Catecholamine-induced myocardial hypertrophy and necrosis in rats have been measured and compared following treatment with different catecholamines. Significant degrees of both hypertrophy (whether measured as biventricular weight or biventricular/body weight ratio) and necrosis (measured by enzyme histochemical techniques on a standardized series of cryostat sections through the apex of each heart) occurred following 10 days' treatment with daily isoproterenol (0.5 or 5 mg/kg s.c.) or dobutamine (5 mg/kg s.c.) (N = 6-12). These agents given to conscious restrained animals lowered blood pressure and increased heart rate for 3, 6, or 1 hr, respectively. Neither hypertrophy nor necrosis occurred after norepinephrine (1 mg/kg) or dopamine (5 mg/kg); both these agents acutely increased blood pressure for about 30 min. Hemodynamic factors may therefore contribute to catecholamine-induced necrosis, which may in turn contribute to the associated hypertrophy.
During the period 1976-1983, 67 patients with rheumatoid arthritis attending the arthritis clinics at Groote Schuur Hospital and Princess Alice Orthopaedic Hospital, Cape Town, were treated with penicillamine. The information obtained from a retrospective study showed that 47 patients (70,15%) gained some benefit from the therapy, and that 28 (41,79%) went into complete remission; 36 (53,73%) developed side-effects which resulted in termination of therapy in 24 (35,82%). Urinary abnormalities were the commonest side-effect (28,36%), the relatively infrequently described haematuria being the most frequent. Seven patients failed to respond to therapy.
To report a case of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) associated with use of citalopram in an elderly male patient and to review the English-language literature for any previous reports of SIADH or hyponatremia caused by citalopram.
An 87-year-old Filipino man was admitted to the hospital reporting malaise, confusion, dizziness, and falls approximately 3 weeks following an increase in his citalopram dosage from 10 to 20 mg/d. On physical examination, the patient was euvolemic and had no evidence of malignancy, cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease. Pertinent laboratory test results revealed hyponatremia, serum hypoosmolality, urine hyperosmolality, and elevated urine sodium concentration, leading to a diagnosis of SIADH. Citalopram was discontinued and fluid restrictions were instituted. The patient was discharged after his serum sodium increased from 122 to 128 mEq/L and he reported increased strength and decreased confusion. Five days after discharge, the patient denied experiencing any new falls, weakness, confusion, or lethargy. His serum sodium measured that day was 131 mEq/L; 2 months later, it was 135 mEq/L.
We report the seventh case of citalopram-induced hyponatremia published in the English language and the second in a man. Review of the cases demonstrated that the onset of citalopram-induced hyponatremia or SIADH ranged from 6 to 20 days. Potential risk factors for SIADH due to citalopram included advanced age, female gender, concomitant use of medications known to cause SIADH or hyponatremia, and, possibly, higher citalopram doses.
Elderly patients receiving citalopram should be monitored for signs and symptoms of SIADH, especially in the first few weeks of therapy, in the presence of risk factors, and during dose escalation.
Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) is being considered as a therapeutic candidate for Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment but the clinical application is hindered by its potent pro-nociceptive activity. Thus, to reduce systemic exposure that would induce pain, in recent clinical studies NGF was administered through an invasive intracerebral gene-therapy approach. Our group demonstrated the feasibility of a non-invasive intranasal delivery of NGF in a mouse model of neurodegeneration. NGF therapeutic window could be further increased if its nociceptive effects could be avoided altogether. In this study we exploit forms of NGF, mutated at residue R100, inspired by the human genetic disease HSAN V (Hereditary Sensory Autonomic Neuropathy Type V), which would allow increasing the dose of NGF without triggering pain. We show that "painless" hNGF displays full neurotrophic and anti-amyloidogenic activities in neuronal cultures, and a reduced nociceptive activity in vivo. When administered intranasally to APPxPS1 mice ( n = 8), hNGFP61S/R100E prevents the progress of neurodegeneration and of behavioral deficits. These results demonstrate the in vivo neuroprotective and anti-amyloidogenic properties of hNGFR100 mutants and provide a rational basis for the development of "painless" hNGF variants as a new generation of therapeutics for neurodegenerative diseases.
There is evidence that drug-induced embryonic arrhythmia initiates phenytoin (PHT) teratogenicity. The arrhythmia, which links to the potential of PHT to inhibit a specific potassium channel (Ikr), may result in episodes of embryonic ischemia and generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) at reperfusion. This study sought to determine whether the proposed mechanism might be relevant for the teratogenic antiepileptic drug trimethadione (TMO).
Effects on embryonic heart rhythm during various stages of organogenesis were examined in CD-1 mice after maternal administration (125-1,000 mg/kg) of dimethadione (DMO), the pharmacologically active metabolite of TMO. Palatal development was examined after administration of a teratogenic dose of DMO and after simultaneous treatment with DMO and a ROS-capturing agent (alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl-nitrone; PBN). The Ikr blocking potentials of TMO and DMO were investigated in HERG-transfected cells by using voltage patch-clamping tests.
DMO caused stage-specific (gestation days 9-13 only) and dose-dependent embryonic bradycardia and arrhythmia at clinically relevant maternal plasma concentrations (3-11 mM). Hemorrhage in the nasopharyngeal part of the embryonic palate (within 24 h) preceded cleft palate in fetuses at term. Simultaneous treatment with PBN significantly reduced the incidence of DMO-induced cleft palate, from 40 to 13%. Voltage patch-clamping studies showed that particularly DMO (70% inhibition), but also TMO, had Ikr blocking potential at clinically relevant concentrations.
TMO teratogenicity, in the same way as previously shown for PHT, was associated with Ikr-mediated episodes of embryonic cardiac arrhythmia and hypoxia/reoxygenation damage.
Methyleugenol (MEG), which is commonly used as a fragrance and flavoring agent, has been shown to induce hepatocellular tumors in rodents. However, the role of genotoxicity as a possible mechanism of action is not fully understood even though the DNA-reactive metabolite of MEG has been identified. In this study, a gpt delta transgenic rat model was used to clarify whether genotoxic mechanisms are involved in MEG-induced hepatocarcinogenesis following medium-term exposure. F344 gpt delta rats were subjected to repeated oral administration of MEG at dosages of 0, 10, 30, or 100mg/kg (a carcinogenic dose) for 13 weeks. The relative weight of the liver of the male and female rats that were administered 100mg/kg MEG and the absolute weight of the liver of the male rats that were administered 100mg/kg MEG were significantly increased. In addition, the number and area of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) positive cell ratios in the hepatocytes were significantly increased in the male and female rats that were administered 100mg/kg MEG compared with the control animals. In the in vivo mutation assays, a significant increase in the gpt and Spi(-) mutant frequencies was observed in both sexes at the carcinogenic dose. These results suggest the possible participation of genotoxic mechanisms in MEG-induced hepatocarcinogenesis.
Recent in vitro studies, clinical trials and epidemiological studies have suggested possible interactions between aspirin and other cyclo-oxygenase (COX) inhibitors, such as ibuprofen of the COX-2 inhibitors celecoxib and rofecoxib. The objective of this study was to test the effects of aspirin (1, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg), and ibuprofen (4 and 15 mg/kg), diclofenac (2.5 mg/kg), flurbiprofen (2 mg/kg), celecoxib (7.5 mg/kg), and rofecoxib (1 mg/kg), alone or combined on a rat model of arterial thrombosis. Drugs were given orally daily for 7 days, before insertion of an arterio-venous shunt thrombosis system, left in place for 15 min. Main parameter was thrombus weight. Five to 12 rats were used per experiment, and 35 controls overall. Aspirin inhibited thrombus formation in a dose-dependent manner. All NSAIDS given alone also inhibited thrombus formation to approximately the same level as aspirin 1 mg/kg/day. Ibuprofen, celecoxib and rofecoxib inhibited the effects of aspirin, but not diclofenac or flurbiprofen. The interactions with aspirin do not seem to affect all NSAIDs to equal levels. The clinical impact of this needs to be confirmed in adequately powered clinical trials or pharmaco-epidemiological studies.
Infusion of propofol often causes significant vasodilation, which is followed by a profound drop in blood pressure. However, the exact underlying molecular mechanisms of this clinically important phenomenon remain unclear.
To determine the biological role of endothelium in propofol-induced vasorelaxation and the underlying molecular mechanisms of this response in the rat aorta.
Ex vivo assessment of vasomotor function in rat aortic rings, with or without endothelium, after addition of propofol or etomidate. In vivo randomised study of haemodynamic changes in Sprague Dawley rats after administration of propofol, with or without prior infusion of a K(ATP) antagonist. In vitro measurement of intracellular calcium in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) treated with propofol. The experiments were conducted in a research laboratory at the National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan, from August 2008 to July 2009.
Changes in isometric tension of precontracted rat aortic rings were recorded after cumulative addition of propofol (3-300µM). An ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channel blocker, glibenclamide (10µM), was incubated in the organ bath before the addition of propofol. Haemodynamic changes after intravenous administration of propofol in the presence or absence of PNU-37883A (a vascular-specific K(ATP) channel blocker) were recorded in anaesthetised rats. Alterations in intracellular calcium and ATP levels in cultured VSMC treated with propofol were measured.
Compared with etomidate, propofol induced a significant concentration-dependent vascular relaxation response that was independent of the presence of endothelium. The relaxation response was almost completely abolished by K(ATP) channel antagonism. Levels of intracellular calcium were significantly attenuated in cultured VSMC treated with propofol (10mM). Pre-treatment with PNU- 37883A significantly attenuated propofol-induced hypotension in anaesthetised rats.
Development of hypotension after systemic administration of propofol is mainly caused by its direct relaxation effect on vascular smooth muscle. This response is mainly mediated by activation of K(ATP) channels.
