The cutaneous leishmaniasis is a frequent affection in Tunisia. In the Gafsa region it is a endemoepidemic infection. Our prospective study was carried out on 225 cases of cutaneous leishmaniasis of the face collected over two years in the outpatients' department of dermatology at Gafsa hospital. The aim of our study was to know more about the evolutive epidemio-clinical particularities of the cutaneous leishmaniasis of the face. The relative frequency of the cutaneous leishmaniasis of the face for the new patients reached 5%. An equal distribution between the two sexes was noted. The average age of our patients was 24 years old and 6 months old with extremes ranging from 3 months to 77 years. The nodular and ulcerated forms were the most frequent (35.3%), followed by impetiginoid forms (23%), then the lupoid forms (15%). The papular form was quite frequent (13%). Impetiginoid lesions occurred frequently in the child. Lupoid lesions appeared particularly on the nose. The complicated forms: the cutaneuos necrosis or erysipelas of the face appeared after intralesional injections of meglumine antimoniate (Glucantime). The intramuscular meglumine antimoniate was used in 172 patients, among them 47 needed two treatments or more because of a particular resistance of the lesions of the face. The pimple of Gafsa, term initially used for ulcerated skin nodules, was actually characterised by a lesional polymorphism. The prognosis was good however the risk of in aesthetic scar of the face was important.
The carboxylic acid group of the anti-inflammatory drug, (S)-2-(6-methoxynaphthalen-2-yl) propanoic acid, naproxen (CAS 22204-53-1) was reacted with the substituted ethylamine derivatives to form (S)-2-(6-methoxynaphthalen-2-yl)-N-substituted ethyl propanamides by using N,N'-dicyclohexyl carbodiimide (DCC) and 4-(dimethylamino)pyridine (DMAP). Anti-inflammatory and analgesic activities of the compounds were assessed in vivo by carrageenan-induced hind paw edema and p-benzoquinone induced abdominal contraction tests in mice, respectively. In addition, the ulcerogenic properties of the new compounds were evaluated, and compared to that of naproxen. Among the newly synthesized compounds, compound 2f showed the highest analgesic and antiinflammatory activity at 100 mg/kg oral dose, without inducing any gastric lesion. Although this compound induced less gastric lesions than naproxen, it was found to have less anti-inflammatory and analgesic activity when compared to indometacin (CAS 53-86-1). These new compounds therefore deserve further attention to develop new lead drugs.
The lateral, basal, and central nuclei of the amygdala are part of a circuitry that instantiates many fear and anxious behaviors. One line of support indicates that immediate-early gene (IEG) expression (e.g., c-fos and egr-1 (zif268)) is increased in these nuclei following fear conditioning. Other research finds that anxiogenic drugs working through various mechanisms induce IEG expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) suggesting that expression is a neural marker for fear and anxiety. However, several studies have also found that anxiolytic drugs induce IEG expression in the CeA. Expression of egr-1 in the CeA and lateral nucleus of the amygdala following administration of anxiolytic and anxiogenic benzodiazepine and serotonin agonists and antagonists was investigated. The first experiment determined behaviorally active anxiolytic and anxiogenic doses for two anxiogenic drugs (FG 7142 and mCPP) and two anxiolytic drugs (diazepam and buspirone). The effects of anxiogenic and anxiolytic doses of these drugs on egr-1 expression in the amygdala were then tested in a second experiment. All four drugs increased egr-1 in the CeA indicating that increased egr-1 mRNA expression in the CeA is not specific to anxiolytic or anxiogenic effects of the drugs. We suggest that IEG expression in the CeA may be due to activation of circuits that are associated with systemic physiological homeostasis perturbed by a number of drugs including anxiogenic and anxiolytic compounds.
Rats were given a slow-release depot implantation containing adrenaline (0.33 mumole/kg). Adrenaline was released from the implant, giving a plasma level of 1.0 nmole/liter the day after implantation. Adrenaline-treated rats had elevated blood pressures compared to control rats from 1 day to 8 weeks after treatment. However, 8 weeks after treatment no adrenaline from the implant was found in the plasma, suggesting that at this time factors other than the adrenaline were responsible for maintaining the rise in blood pressure. In rats given metoprolol tartrate (5 mg/kg/day, p.o.), adrenaline treatment did not increase the blood pressure.
The effect of induced hypertension instituted after a 2-h delay following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) on brain edema formation and histochemical injury was studied. Under isoflurane anesthesia, the MCA of 14 spontaneously hypertensive rats was occluded. In the control group (n = 7), the mean arterial pressure (MAP) was not manipulated. In the hypertensive group (n = 7), the MAP was elevated by 25-30 mm Hg beginning 2 h after MCAO. Four hours after MCAO, the rats were killed and the brains harvested. The brains were sectioned along coronal planes spanning the distribution of ischemia produced by MCAO. Specific gravity (SG) was determined in the subcortex and in two sites in the cortex (core and periphery of the ischemic territory). The extent of neuronal injury was determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium staining. In the ischemic core, there was no difference in SG in the subcortex and cortex in the two groups. In the periphery of the ischemic territory, SG in the cortex was greater (less edema accumulation) in the hypertensive group (1.041 +/- 0.001 vs 1.039 +/- 0.001, P less than 0.05). The area of histochemical injury (as a percent of the cross-sectional area of the hemisphere) was less in the hypertensive group (33 +/- 3% vs 21 +/- 2%, P less than 0.05). The data indicate that phenylephrine-induced hypertension instituted 2 h after MCAO does not aggravate edema in the ischemic core, that it improves edema in the periphery of the ischemic territory, and that it reduces the area of histochemical neuronal dysfunction.
In a double-blind trial 26 patients with essential hypertension were treated with nifedipine or placebo for 8 weeks, following a 4-week run-in-placebo period in all patients. The daily dosage of nifedipine during this phase was 10 mg 3 times daily. Metoprolol was then added to the therapeutic regimen of both groups for a further 12 weeks. Both nifedipine and metoprolol used as mono-therapy caused statistically significant reductions of arterial pressure. The addition of metoprolol to nifedipine tended to reduce blood pressure further, but blood pressures were not significantly lower than during nifedipine mono-therapy. Side-effects were few and only two patients had to be withdrawn during active therapy, one for headaches during nifedipine therapy, and another for asthma during metoprolol treatment. Combined therapy with a beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent, such as metoprolol, and a calcium antagonist with vasodilation properties, such as nifedipine, offers a theoretically interesting approach in the treatment of hypertension, even though the practical outcome in the present study probably suffered from an inadequate dose of nifedipine during the period of combined therapy.
Taxanes, a new class of antitumor drugs, are effective against a large number of human tumors, although there are problems with drug resistance. The novel taxane, IDN5109, is characterized by its high tolerability, antitumor efficacy, ability to overcome multidrug resistance, and oral bioavailabilty. We investigated the cellular response of IDN5109 to head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), and compared the antitumor activity of IDN5109 with that of paclitaxel. This is the first demonstration of antitumor effects of IDN5109 on HNSCC. In in vitro experiments, IDN5109 showed antiproliferative effects against HNSCC cell lines. After treatment with IDN5109, Bcl-2 and Bcl-XL were down-regulated, Bax was up-regulated, and caspase-3 was activated. After treatment with IDN5109, concentrations of both VEGF and IL-8 in the culture supernatant of HNSCC cells decreased. In in vivo experiments, the oral administration of IDN5109 showed antitumor effects against HNSCC tumor xenografts. Immunohistochemistry showed that IDN5109 inhibited tumor angiogenesis and induced apoptosis in HNSCC cells, producing a decreased blood vessel density and increased apoptosis index. On the basis of these results, IDN5109 is useful as a chemotherapeutic agent against HNSCC.
Thrombocytopenia is a known adverse reaction occurring in some patients receiving heparin. Two different types of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia have been described. Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type I is a mild thrombocytopenia after 1 to 4 days of heparin therapy, attributed to a direct interaction between heparin and circulating platelets. No specific treatment is necessary. Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II is a severe thrombocytopenia mediated by an immunologic mechanism. Type II generally develops after 5 to 10 days of heparin therapy and can be associated with potentially devastating thromboembolic complications. The incidence of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II is below 3%. Thromboembolic events are always accompanied by a decrease in the platelet count, however, complications in the absence of absolute thrombocytopenia have been reported. Diagnosis of HIT type II is based on clinical features and laboratory studies for the heparin-dependent platelet antibody. Immediate cessation of heparin administration is essential. Several alternative anticoagulant therapies have been studied and have shown promising results when used for this purpose. Two patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery are presented in whom pulmonary embolism developed due to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II. In both cases, platelet counts were within the subnormal range at the time of the first thromboembolic complication. The clinical, therapeutic, and prognostic implications are discussed.
The dried roots of Sophora flavescens Aiton (SFA) has been used in traditional medicine for treatment of inflammation, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, diarrhea, and asthma. In the present study, we investigated the effect of SFA on the inflammatory allergic reaction using human mast cell-1 (HMC-1). SFA (200mg/kg) inhibited the mast cell-mediated passive cutaneous anaphylaxis reaction in vivo and the release of histamine from rat peritoneal mast cells by compound 48/80. In addition, the expression levels of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and calcium ionophore A23187-stimulated TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-8 were also decreased by SFA treatment. In molecular mechanism level, this study showed that SFA inhibited the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor (NF) kappaB through inhibition of the phosphorylation and degradation of IkappaB-alpha, which is an inhibitor of NF kappaB. Moreover, SFA suppressed PMA plus A23187-induced phosphorylation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase p38 and c-jun N-terminal kinase. The inhibited induction of NF kappaB promoter by SFA was determined using luciferase activity. These results suggest that SFA could be used as a treatment for mast cell-derived allergic inflammatory diseases.
To determine whether serum aminoglycoside assays aided clinicians in treating infections and avoiding aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity, we reviewed the charts of patients treated with aminoglycoside antibiotics parenterally. We compared 78 episodes of aminoglycoside-treated infections during which serum assays were done (group B) to 51 episodes without serum assays (group A). The groups of patients were comparable in age, outcome of infection, incidence of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity, mean total dose of aminoglycosides given, and number of courses. Toxic trough levels of tobramycin (the most frequently used aminoglycoside) were seldom detected before the onset of nephrotoxicity, and peak tobramycin levels were frequently suboptimal. While 71% of decisions to increase or decrease the aminoglycoside dose after serum assays were considered appropriate, only 57% of noninterventions were appropriate. At our hospital, serum aminoglycoside assays did not help improve the outcome of infection or the incidence of nephrotoxicity. Their major clinical contribution was to alert the physician that serum concentrations were low.
1. Rosiglitazone is widely used in the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. However, in recent years it has become evident that the therapeutic effects of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma ligands reach far beyond their use as insulin sensitizers. Recently, the ability of rosiglitazone pretreatment to induce cardioprotection following ischaemia-reperfusion (I/R) has been well documented; however, the protective mechanisms have not been elucidated. In the present study, examined the role of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K)/Akt signalling pathway in rosiglitazone cardioprotection following I/R injury. 2. Mice were pretreated with 3 mg/kg per day rosiglitazone for 14 days before hearts were subjected to ischaemia (30 min) and reperfusion (2 h). Wortmannin (1.4 mg/kg, i.p.), an inhibitor of PI3-K, was administered 10 min prior to myocardial I/R. Then, activation of the PI3-K/Akt/glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3alpha signalling pathway was examined. The effects of PI3-K inhibition on rosiglitazone-induced cardioprotection were also evaluated. 3. Compared with control rats, the ratio of infarct size to ischaemic area (area at risk) and the occurrence of sustained ventricular fibrillation in rosiglitazone-pretreated rats was significantly reduced (P < 0.05). Rosiglitazone pretreatment attenuated cardiac apoptosis, as assessed by ELISA to determine cardiomyocyte DNA fragmentation. Rosiglitazone pretreatment significantly increased levels of phosphorylated (p-) Akt and p-GSK-3alpha in the rat myocardium. Pharmacological inhibition of PI3-K by wortmannin markedly abolished the cardioprotection induced by rosiglitazone. 4. These results indicate that rosiglitazone-induced cardioprotection in I/R injury is mediated via a PI3-K/Akt/GSK-3alpha-dependent pathway. The data also suggest that modulation of PI3-K/Akt/GSK-3alpha-dependent signalling pathways may be a viable strategy to reduce myocardial I/R injury.
A new anticonvulsant compound, zonisamide (1,2 benzisoxazole-methanesulfonamide), was studied in 10 adults with medically refractory partial seizures. Following a single oral dose of 400 mg, peak plasma levels occurred an average of 2.8 h after dosing, and the mean clearance from plasma was 2.34 L/h. Whole blood concentrations were higher than plasma concentrations because of red blood cell binding. Steady-state plasma concentrations were higher than predicted from a linear kinetic model. In most patients, seizure frequency was reduced after zonisamide was substituted for a standard antiepileptic drug. Dose-related reversible side effects in the central nervous and gastrointestinal systems were observed. Most patients tolerated doses between 5.2 and 12.5 mg/kg/day.
Fluorosis can manifest as dental fluorosis (seen mostly in secondary dentition), skeletal fluorosis, and systemic fluorosis. Groundwater with high fluoride concentrations, diet rich in fish and tea, indoor air-pollution, and use of fluoride toothpastes may contribute considerably to total exposure.
To assess the prevalence of dental fluorosis and associated factors particularly fluoridated toothpastes, among middle school children of a resettlement colony in Delhi.
This survey was conducted among the middle school students (VI th -VIII th ) studying in three government schools of Sangam Vihar, South Delhi. Students were examined for dental fluorosis by experts. A pre-structured questionnaire was used to obtain data regarding age, source of drinking water, toothpaste used, etc. Height, weight, and hemoglobin were recorded. Two repeat visits were made. Out of 432 students enrolled in these schools, 413 students were examined.
Descriptive and chi-square statistics were used.
Dental fluorosis was prevalent in 121 (29.3%) study subjects. It was significantly more in children of age 13 years or above, in those who used fluoridated toothpaste for dental cleaning (P=0.033) and in anemic children (P<0.001). However, there was no significant association of disease with gender (P=0.02), source of drinking water (P=0.417), and with BMI (P=0.826).
As dental fluorosis is very common (in about one-fourth) among the middle school children, in this resettlement colony of Delhi, various control measures e.g. discouraging the fluoridated toothpastes, educating parents about fluorosis, de-fluoridation of water in the high risk areas, etc may help to tackle this situation.
Urinary retention after epidural morphine is a distressing and troublesome complication. This study was undertaken to determine the effects of morphine (epidural, intramuscular, and intravenous) on urinary bladder function and possible reversal by naloxone. Thirty male volunteers (aged 20-28 years) were studied; the doses studied were 2, 4, and 10 mg of epidural morphine, 10 mg intramuscular morphine, and 10 mg intravenous morphine. The urodynamic study consisted of measurements of urine flow rate, strength of detrusor contraction, bladder capacity, and urethral pressure. Irrespective of dose, all subjects receiving epidural morphine showed marked relaxation of the detrusor shortly after injection. There was a corresponding increase in the maximal bladder capacity leading to urinary retention. These effects lasted an average of 14-16 h. Urethral pressures remained unchanged. Urodynamic changes after intramuscular and intravenous morphine were minimal. Treatment using a single intravenous injection of 0.8 mg naloxone promptly reversed the effects of epidural morphine on the bladder. Prevention of urinary retention was achieved with an intravenous infusion of naloxone started before administration of epidural morphine. The possible mechanisms of urinary retention following epidural opiates are discussed.
Long-term treatment with lamivudine is required to control viral replication in patients with hepatitis B e antigen-negative chronic hepatitis B, but is associated with a high rate of viral resistance. The role of adefovir dipivoxil in these patients has not been definitively evaluated.
To address the role of adefovir in the management of patients with lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B e antigen-negative chronic hepatitis B.
Patients were assigned to receive adefovir 10 mg once daily plus ongoing lamivudine 100 mg once daily for 52 weeks. The primary end point was reduction in serum hepatitis B virus DNA level (hepatitis B virus DNA response). Secondary end points included the proportion of patients with undetectable hepatitis B virus DNA at week 52 (complete virological response) and the percentage of patients with normalization of alanine transferase level at week 52 (biochemical response).
A total of 49 consecutive patients were enrolled in this study. After 52 weeks of treatment, all patients had an hepatitis B virus DNA response and 57.1% had complete virological response. Biochemical response occurred in 75.6% of patients.
Administration of adefovir in patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B results in significant suppression of viral replication. Nevertheless, continuous therapy will probably be needed in order to maintain remission in these patients.
Previous human studies have demonstrated that midazolam-induced signal changes on scalp EEG recording include widespread augmentation of sigma-oscillations and that the amplitude of such oscillations is correlated to the severity of midazolam-induced amnesia. Still unanswered questions include whether midazolam-induced sigma-augmentation also involves the medial temporal region, which plays a role in memory encoding. Taking advantage of rare and unique opportunities to monitor neuronal activities using intracranial electrocorticography (ECoG) recording, we determined how intravenous administration of midazolam elicited spectral frequency changes in the human cerebral cortex, including the medial temporal region. We studied three children with focal epilepsy who underwent subdural electrode placement and extraoperative ECoG recording for subsequent resection of the seizure focus; an intravenous bolus of midazolam was given to abort an ongoing simple partial seizure or to provide sedation prior to induction of general anesthesia. 'Midazolam-induced ECoG frequency alteration' in sites distant from the seizure focus was sequentially animated on their individual three-dimensional MR images. The common ECoG changes induced by midazolam included gradual augmentation of sigma-oscillations (12-16 Hz) in the widespread non-epileptic regions, including the medial temporal region. The spatial and temporal alteration of ECoG spectral frequency pattern can be appreciated via animation movies. Midazolam-induced sigma-augmentation was observed in the medial temporal region in our relatively small cohort of human subjects. In-vivo animation of ECoG spectral measures provided a unique situation to study the effect of midazolam on neuronal processing in the deep brain regions.
Advanced glycation end products (AGE) and the receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) are closely associated with colorectal cancer progression. The association between RAGE and AGE in colon carcinogenesis needs to be clarified.
Levels of RAGE and AGE were examined in azoxymethane (AOM)-injected Fischer 344 rats fed a control diet (Group C), a 15 % linoleic acid (LA) diet (Group L), a control diet with 10 % glucose drink (Group G), and a 15 % LA diet with 10 % glucose drink (Group L + G). Group L + G showed the most pronounced increase of body weight, blood sugar, and serum insulin.
The rats in Group L + G showed the most pronounced multiplicity of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) and carcinomas with increased mucosal RAGE and AGE. IEC6 rat intestinal epithelial cells treated with AGE showed increased RAGE expression, which was inhibited by treatment with metformin or losartan. In the AOM-injected rat colon cancer model, the levels of RAGE and AGE, and the multiplicity of ACF and carcinomas, in Group L + G rats were suppressed by treatment with metformin or losartan.
These results suggest that AGE-RAGE induced by high-LA and high-glucose diets substantially enhances colon cancer development; thus, suppression of AGE-RAGE could be a potential target for colon cancer chemoprevention.
Increasing doses of capsaicin were applied topically to the forearm skin of 30 patients with psoriasis, 16 patients with systemic scleroderma and 16 healthy volunteers. Only one-third of the patients with psoriasis responded with neurogenic inflammation to capsaicin doses of 0.125 and 0.25 microgram/cm2 in contrast to 81% of scleroderma patients and all the normal controls, who showed a positive cutaneous reaction. Higher doses of capsaicin (0.5-4 micrograms/cm2) were required to induce erythema and flare in patients with late-onset psoriasis (after 21 years of age) as well as in patients with more than 40% of skin surface involved with psoriatic lesion.
Se-methylselenocysteine (MSC) is a naturally occurring organoselenium compound that inhibits mammary tumorigenesis in laboratory animals and in cell culture models. Previously we have documented that MSC inhibits DNA synthesis, total protein kinase C and cyclin-dependent kinase 2 kinase activities, leading to prolonged S-phase arrest and elevation of growth-arrested DNA damage genes, followed by caspase activation and apoptosis in a synchronized TM6 mouse mammary tumor model. The aim of the present study was to examine the efficacy of MSC against TM6 mouse mammary hyperplastic outgrowth (TM6-HOG) and to determine in vivo targets of MSC in this model system.
Twenty mammary fat pads each from female Balb/c mice transplanted with TM6-HOG and fed with 0.1 ppm selenium and with 3 ppm selenium respectively, were evaluated at 4 and 12 weeks after transplantation for growth spread, proliferative index and caspase-3 activity. Thirteen mice transplanted with TM6-HOG in each selenium group were observed for tumor formation over 23 weeks. Tumors from mice in both groups were compared by cDNA array analysis and data were confirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. To determine the effect of MSC on the expression of the novel target gene and on cell migration, experiments were performed in triplicate.
A dietary dose of 3 ppm selenium significantly reduced the growth spread and induced caspase-3 activity in mammary fat pads in comparison with mice fed with the basal diet (0.1 ppm selenium). The extended administration (23 weeks) of 3 ppm selenium in the diet resulted in a tumor incidence of 77% in comparison with 100% tumor incidence in 0.1 ppm selenium-fed animals. The size of TM6 tumors in the supplemented group was smaller (mean 0.69 cm2) than in the mice fed with the basal diet (mean 0.93 cm2). cDNA array analysis showed a reduced expression of osteopontin (OPN) in mammary tumors of mice fed with the 3 ppm selenium diet in comparison with OPN expression in tumors arising in 0.1 ppm selenium-fed mice. A 24-hour treatment of TM6 cells with MSC significantly inhibited their migration and also reduced their OPN expression in comparison with untreated cells.
OPN is a potential target gene in the inhibition of mammary tumorigenesis by selenium.
1. The authors examined the anticonvulsant effects of MK-801 on the pilocarpine-induced seizure model. Intraperitoneal injection of pilocarpine (400 mg/kg) induced tonic and clonic seizure. Scopolamine (10 mg/kg) and pentobarbital (5 mg/kg) prevented development of pilocarpine-induced behavioral seizure but MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg) did not. 2. An electrical seizure measured with hippocampal EEG appeared in the pilocarpine-treated group. Scopolamine and pentobarbital blocked the pilocarpine-induced electrographic seizure, MK-801 treatment augmented the electrographic seizure induced by pilocarpine. 3. Brain damage was assessed by examining the hippocampus microscopically. Pilocarpine produced neuronal death in the hippocampus, which showed pyknotic changes. Pentobarbital, scopolamine and MK-801 protected the brain damage by pilocarpine, though in the MK-801-treated group, the pyramidal cells of hippocampus appeared darker than normal. In all treatments, granule cells of the dentate gyrus were not affected. 4. These results indicate that status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine is initiated by cholinergic overstimulation and propagated by glutamatergic transmission, the elevation of which may cause brain damage through an excitatory NMDA receptor-mediated mechanism.
A 54-year old man who had been taking triamterene (150 mg daily) over a period of 8 months, passed a 3 mm stone partly coated with mustard-colored substance. Metabolic evaluation showed only mild-hyperoxaluria. Through IR spectrography after microdissection, thin-layer chromatography, UV light examination, and mass spectrometry, the stone if found to consist of 70% whewellite, 5% protein, 5% carbapatite and 20% triamterene and hydroxylated triamterene, and perhaps also the sulfate conjugate of this metabolite. In spite of the few number of observations (two cases have been reported previously), triamterene seems likely to induce stone formation, both alone and associated with urate or oxalate, and triamterene should be used cautiously in patients with a predisposition for nephrolithiasis.
Since advanced glycosylation end products have been suggested to mediate hyperglycemia-induced microvascular atherogenesis and because aminoguanidine (AG) prevents their generation, we examined whether AG could prevent or ameliorate the physiologic and biochemical indices of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced experimental diabetic neuropathy. Four groups of adult Sprague-Dawley rats were studied: group I received STZ plus AG (25 mg.kg-1.day-1), group II received STZ plus AG (50 mg.kg-1.day-1), group III received STZ alone, and group IV was a control. We monitored conduction and action potential amplitudes serially in sciatic-tibial and caudal nerves, nerve blood flow, oxygen free radical activity (conjugated dienes and hydroperoxides), and the product of the permeability coefficient and surface area to 125I-labeled albumin. STZ-induced diabetes (group III) caused a 57% reduction in nerve blood flow and in abnormal nerve conduction and amplitudes and a 60% increase in conjugated dienes. Nerve blood flow was normalized by 8 weeks with AG (groups I and II) and conduction was significantly improved, in a dose-dependent manner, by 16 and 24 weeks in sciatic-tibial and caudal nerves, respectively. The permeability coefficient was not impaired, suggesting a normal blood-nerve barrier function for albumin, and the oxygen free-radical indices were not ameliorated by AG. We suggest that AG reverses nerve ischemia and more gradually improves their electrophysiology by an action on nerve microvessels. AG may have potential in the treatment of diabetic neuropathy.
The present study examined hepatic estrogen receptor (ER) and androgen receptor (AR) levels as well as estrogen-signaling status in a model of rat hepatic hypertrophy induced by phenobarbital (PB), chlofibrate (CF), or piperonyl butoxide (PBO). Male F344 rats were fed with PB at 2,500 ppm, CF at 2,500 ppm, and PBO at 20,000 ppm for 3 days, 4 weeks, and 13 weeks. CF and PBO induced diffuse hypertrophy, while centrilobular hypertrophy was observed with PB administration. The levels of mRNA for ERα, AR and leukemia inhibitory factor receptor (LIFR) which was found to be estrogen responsive in the present study, were determined by quantitative RT-PCR. In the CF and PBO groups, ERα mRNA expression was reduced, and consequently, the expression of a responsive gene, LIFR, was also decreased, while PB had no effect on ER mRNA levels. AR mRNA expression decreased in all the treated groups, but reduction was persistent only in PB group. Recently, LIFR was identified as a tumor suppressor gene in human HCC. Thus, LIFR may be one of the key mediators of hepatic carcinogenesis induced by CF and PBO, but PB appears to act via different mechanisms.
Cadmium is a well-known human carcinogen and a potent nephrotoxin. Lipid peroxidation is involved in cadmium-related toxicity. Vitamin E and beta-carotene are effective antioxidants and free radical scavengers. Therefore, the present study was carried out to investigate the potential protective effects of vitamin E and beta-carotene alone or in combination against cadmium (Cd) toxicity. Cadmium chloride (CdCl2, 5 mg/kg BW, 1/15 LD50), vitamin E (100 mg/kg BW), beta-carotene (10 mg/kg BW), and vitamin E with beta-carotene (100 + 10 mg/kg BW, respectively) were orally administered by gavage alone or in combination. The tested doses were given to rats every other day (15 times). Results obtained showed that CdCl2 significantly (P < 0.05) induced free radicals in plasma, liver and brain. The activities of glutathione S-transferase (GST) (plasma and liver), alkaline phosphatase (AlP) (plasma and liver), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (liver) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) (plasma and brain) were significantly (P < 0.05) decreased due to CdCl2 administration, whereas, the activities of AST and ALT were increased in plasma. Treatment with CdCl2 caused a significant (P < 0.05) increase in glucose, urea, creatinine and bilirubin in plasma. On the other hand, results showed that CdCl2 significantly (P < 0.05) decreased plasma total protein (TP), albumin (A), blood hemoglobin (Hb), total erythrocytic count (TEC) and packed cell volume (PCV), while total leukocyte count (TLC) increased. Treatment with CdCl2 caused a significant (P < 0.05) decrease in sperm concentration, motility (%), weight of testes and epididymis, and increase in dead and abnormal sperm. Results demonstrated the beneficial influences of vitamin E, -carotene alone and/or in combination in reducing the harmful effects of CdCl2.
Chromate is a human carcinogen with a poorly defined mechanism of DNA damage. In vitro and prokaryotic studies have shown that DNA damage may occur via the formation of the hydantoin lesions guanidinohydantoin (Gh) and spiroiminodihydantoin (Sp) from further oxidation of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine (8oxoG). The unusual structure of these lesions coupled with their enhanced mutagenicity make them attractive for study with regard to their role in chromate-induced cancer. We have studied the formation of Gh versus Sp and their associated diastereomers following oxidation by model Cr(V) complexes and from in situ chromate reduction by ascorbate and glutathione. Identification of the two optically assigned diastereomers of Sp (R-Sp and S-Sp) as well as the two diastereomers of Gh (Gh1 and Gh2, not yet optically assigned) was carried out using increasingly sterically hindered substrates (nucleoside --> ssDNA --> dsDNA). Lesion formation and diastereomeric preference were found to be highly oxidant- and substrate-dependent. The Ir(IV)-positive control showed a shift from near equal levels of Gh and Sp and near equal levels of all four diastereomers in the nucleoside to all Gh formation in dsDNA, with a 5-fold enhancement in Gh2 over Gh1. The two model Cr(V) complexes used in this study, Cr(V)-salen and Cr(V)-ehba, showed opposite trends going from nucleoside to dsDNA with Cr(V)-salen giving enhanced Sp formation (with mainly R-Sp formed) and the Cr(V)-ehba having an oxidation profile nearly identical to that of Ir(IV). The two chromate reduction systems, Cr(6+)/ascorbate and Cr(6+)/glutathione, designed to model the intracellular reduction of chromate, showed lower levels of oxidation in all substrates. Notable in this group was the shift in the formation of the lesions to essentially all Sp for the Cr(6+)/ascorbate system with the most sterically hindered substrate, dsDNA. These results, when coupled with the known diastereomeric preference for excision of hydantoin lesions by the hNEIL1 enzyme, show the importance of defining both levels of lesion formation and diastereomeric preference of formation with regard to their potential impact on chromate carcinogenesis.
Gene expression technologies have the ability to generate vast amounts of data, yet there often resides only limited resources for subsequent validation studies. This necessitates the ability to perform sorting and prioritization of the output data. Previously described methodologies have used functional pathways or transcriptional regulatory grouping to sort genes for further study. In this paper we demonstrate a comparative genomics based method to leverage data from animal models to prioritize genes for validation. This approach allows one to develop a disease-based focus for the prioritization of gene data, a process that is essential for systems that lack significant functional pathway data yet have defined animal models. This method is made possible through the use of highly controlled spotted cDNA slide production and the use of comparative bioinformatics databases without the use of cross-species slide hybridizations.
Using gene expression profiling we have demonstrated a similar whole transcriptome gene expression patterns in prostate cancer cells from human and rat prostate cancer cell lines both at baseline expression levels and after treatment with physiologic concentrations of the proposed chemopreventive agent Selenium. Using both the human PC3 and rat PAII prostate cancer cell lines have gone on to identify a subset of one hundred and fifty-four genes that demonstrate a similar level of differential expression to Selenium treatment in both species. Further analysis and data mining for two genes, the Insulin like Growth Factor Binding protein 3, and Retinoic X Receptor alpha, demonstrates an association with prostate cancer, functional pathway links, and protein-protein interactions that make these genes prime candidates for explaining the mechanism of Selenium's chemopreventive effect in prostate cancer. These genes are subsequently validated by western blots showing Selenium based induction and using tissue microarrays to demonstrate a significant association between downregulated protein expression and tumorigenesis, a process that is the reverse of what is seen in the presence of Selenium.
Thus the outlined process demonstrates similar baseline and selenium induced gene expression profiles between rat and human prostate cancers, and provides a method for identifying testable functional pathways for the action of Selenium's chemopreventive properties in prostate cancer.
