Increasing prevalence of childhood obesity has been seen in the United States and other parts of the world. Environmental chemical exposures might play a role in the worldwide obesity epidemic.
This study was conducted to assess the association of exposure to environmental pesticides with childhood obesity.
A total of 6770 subjects aged 6-19 years were selected from the 2003-2004 and 2005-2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). Exposure to environmental pesticides was determined based on the concentrations of pesticide residues in urine. Multivariate logistic regression was performed using SAS 9.1.3 to assess the association between pesticide levels in urine and childhood obesity with the adjustment of potential confounders, including age, gender, race, income, and total fat intake.
A dose-dependent increase in prevalence of obesity was observed in the groups with inter-quartile urinary concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP). Logistic regression revealed a significant association between adjusted third (Q3) (AOR: 1.47; 95% CI: 1.09, 1.97) and fourth (Q4) (AOR: 1.44; 95% CI: 1.06, 1.95) inter-quartile urinary 2,5-DCP levels and childhood obesity. However, urinary concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenol were not shown to be significantly associated with childhood obesity.
This study suggests a possible relationship between exposure to 2,5-DCP and obesity in children.
Blood pressure (BP) is more salt sensitive in men than in premenopausal women. In Dahl salt-sensitive rats (DS), high-salt (HS) diet increases BP more in males than females. In contrast to the systemic renin-angiotensin system, which is suppressed in response to HS in male DS, intrarenal angiotensinogen expression is increased, and intrarenal levels of ANG II are not suppressed. In this study, the hypothesis was tested that there is a sexual dimorphism in HS-induced upregulation of intrarenal angiotensinogen mediated by testosterone that also causes increases in BP and renal injury. On a low-salt (LS) diet, male DS had higher levels of intrarenal angiotensinogen mRNA than females. HS diet for 4 wk increased renal cortical angiotensinogen mRNA and protein only in male DS, which was prevented by castration. Ovariectomy of female DS had no effect on intrarenal angiotensinogen expression on either diet. Radiotelemetric BP was similar between males and castrated rats on LS diet. HS diet for 4 wk caused a progressive increase in BP, protein and albumin excretion, and glomerular sclerosis in male DS rats, which were attenuated by castration. Testosterone replacement in castrated DS rats increased BP, renal injury, and upregulation of renal angiotensinogen associated with HS diet. Testosterone contributes to the development of hypertension and renal injury in male DS rats on HS diet possibly through upregulation of the intrarenal renin-angiotensin system.
The role of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition in patients with coronary artery disease without concomitant disease such as heart failure or hypertension has not been elucidated. In this double-blind, cross-over, randomized trial of the ACE inhibitor captopril, its antianginal and anti-ischemic effects were studied during monotherapy and in the presence of an organic nitrate.
Thirty-seven patients (34 men, three women) with stable coronary artery disease and exercise-induced ST-segment depression were enrolled. After a washout phase without medication they received placebo, isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN) 20 mg twice daily, captopril 12.5 mg twice daily, and the combination of both for 1 week each, after which exercise tolerance, blood pressure and heart rate (supine, standing and 24 h profile), and peripheral arterial vasodilatation (finger pulse plethysmography) were assessed.
Thirty-three patients completed all phases of the study. Exercise-induced anginal symptoms occurred in 17 patients, and asymptomatic ischemia was seen in the other 16 men. In comparison with ISDN, the anti-ischemic effects of captopril were minimal, despite a similar reduction in blood pressure. Compared with baseline, 1 week of placebo reduced the sum of ST-segment depression, the main efficacy parameter, by 10% (NS), captopril by 19% (NS), ISDN by 37% (P < 0.001) and the combination of captopril and ISDN by 42% (P < 0.001; NS versus ISDN). No patient remained completely free of exercise-induced angina during treatment with captopril; however, three patients after ISDN and seven patients after the combination did (P < 0.05). Blood pressure at rest decreased at peak effect by 9-10% systolic (P < 0.001) with monotherapy and by up to 7% diastolic (P < 0.001), and during combined therapy with captopril and ISDN by 18% systolic (P < 0.001) and 12% diastolic (P < 0.001). Significantly enhanced circulatory effects of captopril plus ISDN versus ISDN were found for blood pressure (P < 0.001) and peripheral arterial vasodilation (P < 0.01). The reflex tachycardia induced by ISDN in the upright position (5 beats/min) was not blocked by captopril during combined therapy.
The antianginal and anti-ischemic effects of captopril alone were marginal, despite significant circulatory effects after short-term administration. Although captopril in combination with ISDN resulted in a significant further blood-pressure-lowering effect and increased peripheral arterial vasodilatation, the magnitude of potentiation of the anti-ischemic nitrate effects was, in contrast, small. Only exercise-induced angina was further improved by the use of the combination. No paradoxical worsening of ischemia or angina was seen after captopril. Thus, although captopril has no place as first-line therapy for ischemia, its use in combination with ISDN could be advantageous for long-term prognosis.
The main causes of failure after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in patients with severe aplastic anemia (SAA) are graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), infection and graft failure, often exacerbated by large numbers of transfusions and prolonged disease duration before transplant. This study retrospectively analyzes the outcome and factors related to survival or graft failure in high-risk patients with SAA receiving HSCT in our institution.
Between January 1995 and December 1999, 40 consecutive adult patients who were multi-transfused (more than 40 units of red blood cells +/- platelets) and/or had a 3 years or longer period prior to transplant were enrolled. Their median age was 27.5 years (range, 16 to 43) and 21 (52.5%) were women. All donors were human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched siblings. Before transplant, 29 patients (72.5%) received a course of antithymocyte globulin (ATG) and cyclosporin A (CsA). The median interval from diagnosis to transplant was 59 months (range, 2 to 216). The median number of transfusions was 115 units (range, 10 to 480). All patients received a conditioning regimen of cyclophosphamide, ATG, and procarbazine. Our patients received either bone marrow (BM) alone (n=20) or BM+peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) (n=20) as a stem cell source. T-cells of PBSC were depleted using the CD34 enrichment method. GVHD prophylaxis consisted of CsA and short-term methotrexate.
In the BM+PBSC group, neutrophil recovery to 0.5 x 10(9)/L and platelet recovery to 20 x 10(9)/L were achieved more rapidly than in the BM group (p=0.005 and 0.039, respectively). The incidences of graft failure, grade II to IV acute GVHD, and chronic GVHD were 22.5%, 12.8% and 23.1%, respectively. Graft failure occurred in 2 of 20 patients (10%) receiving BM+PBSC and in 7 of 20 (35%) receiving BM alone (p=0.069). Seven of 9 patients who had graft failure received a booster treatment and recovered normal marrow function. GVHD incidence was comparable between the BM+PBSC and BM groups. Six patients (15%) died from graft failure (n=2), interstitial pneumonia (n=2), cyclophosphamide-induced heart failure (n=1), and chronic GVHD followed by pneumonia (n=1). The Kaplan-Meier estimate of survival was 83.7% with a median follow-up duration of 40.5 months (range 8-67). In multivariate analysis only chronic GVHD adversely influenced survival (p=0.042).
These results suggest that HSCT is an effective treatment for multi-transfused SAA patients with prolonged disease duration. It is highly possible that the infusion of a large number of stem cells leads to a reduction of graft failure and a faster speed of engraftment. Booster treatment is successful in achieving engraftment in patients with graft failure.
The antimicrobial peptides cecropin and melittin are known to exhibit antitumour activity in tumour derived cell lines. To achieve a similar effect in vivo these peptides would have to be given repeatedly to maintain therapeutic levels, which may be pharmacologically unfavourable. The expression of the genes encoding such antimicrobial peptides in the desired cell type may circumvent these problems. Expression constructs carrying cecropin or melittin have been introduced into a human bladder carcinoma derived cell line and the resultant cell clones analysed for tumorigenicity in nude mice. Expression of cecropin resulted in either a complete loss of tumorigenicity in some clones or reduced tumorigenicity, as measured by latency of tumour formation. These results suggest that vector mediated delivery of this gene to tumour cells may prove useful for cancer gene therapy.
Fluoxetine is an anorexic agent known to reduce food intake and weight gain. However, the molecular mechanism by which fluoxetine induces anorexia has not been well-established. We examined mRNA expression levels of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) in the brain regions of rats using RT-PCR and in situ hybridization techniques after 2 weeks of administering fluoxetine daily. Fluoxetine persistently suppressed food intake and weight gain during the experimental period. The pair-fed group confirmed that the reduction in body weight in the fluoxetine treated rats resulted primarily from decreased food intake. RT-PCR analyses showed that mRNA expression levels of both NPY and POMC were markedly reduced by fluoxetine treatment in all parts of the brain examined, including the hypothalamus. POMC mRNA in situ signals were significantly decreased, NPY levels tended to increase in the arcuate nucleus (ARC) of fluoxetine treated rats (compared to the vehicle controls). In the pair-fed group, NPY mRNA levels did not change, but the POMC levels decreased (compared with the vehicle controls). These results reveal that the chronic administration of fluoxetine decreases expression levels in both NPY and POMC in the brain, and suggests that fluoxetine-induced anorexia may not be mediated by changes in the ARC expression of either NPY or POMC. It is possible that a fluoxetine raised level of 5-HT play an inhibitory role in the orectic action caused by a reduced expression of ARC POMC (alpha-MSH).
The vascular NAD(P)H oxidase-derived superoxide anion (O(2)-) plays a crucial role in the pathological progression of hypertension and atherosclerosis, and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) have vascular antioxidant effects. However, it is unclear whether the vascular NAD(P)H oxidase is involved in the endothelial dysfunction of congestive heart failure (CHF) and whether HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) exert their vasoprotective effects in CHF. The present study examined both the involvement of vascular NAD(P)H oxidase in endothelial dysfunction in dogs with tachycardia-induced CHF and the therapeutic effect of a statin (pitavastatin).
Femoral blood flow (FBF) responses to acetylcholine was significantly impaired in the CHF group, but were improved by pitavastatin. Vascular O(2)- production, NAD(P)H oxidase activity and Nox4 and p47phox expression were significantly elevated in CHF compared with the normal group. The elevated O(2)-production in the CHF group was suppressed by the NAD(P)H oxidase inhibitor, apocynin, to the normal level. In contrast, neither the gene expression nor the activity of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) differed significantly between the normal and CHF groups. However, pitavastatin significantly suppressed O(2)- production, NAD(P)H oxidase activity and Nox4 and p47phox expression and increased eNOS expression and activity compared with the CHF group.
The activated vascular NAD(P)H oxidase contributes to endothelial dysfunction in CHF, which was partly improved by pitavastatin via its inhibition of NAD(P)H oxidase.
A patient with a history of T12 burst fracture caused by a fall, and with progressive weakness and sensory loss in the left leg, survived a cardiac arrest after pulsed saline bacitracin lavage irrigation during a posterior spinal fusion.
Increased distractibility is associated with both Alzheimer's disease and attention deficit disorder. The present study examined the effects of (-)-nicotine and the novel central nicotinic receptor (nAChR) agonists ABT-418 [(S)-3-methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)isoxazole] and ABT-089 [2-methyl-3-(2-(S)-pyrrolindinylmethoxy)pyridine dihydrochloride] on the delayed recall accuracy of adult monkeys exposed to distracting stimuli. Unpredictable exposure to a random visual array produced marked decrements in recall accuracy on trials with the shortest delay intervals, reducing the accuracy on these trials by 23.4%. Intramuscular (i.m.) administration of (-)-nicotine, in doses of 5.4-43.3 nmol/kg, attenuated the effect of the distractor, but did not completely prevent it. Both ABT-418 (2.0-16.2 nmol/kg, i.m.) and ABT-089 (16.4-32.8 nmol/kg, i.m.) prevented distractibility, producing increases of 7.5-25.0% in accuracy on trials disrupted by distractor exposure. Further, both compounds also improved accuracy on trials during which distractors were not presented, an effect which was not observed after (-)-nicotine administration. Nicotinic-mediated side effects were not observed following administration of any compound. Thus, nAChR stimulation reduces distractibility in adult monkeys and may, therefore, represent a target for the pharmacologic treatment of disorders associated with susceptibility to distraction. ABT-418 and ABT-089 appear to be particularly useful in this regard, a likely result of their selective agonist activity at nAChRs expressed in the brain.
Withdrawal of opioid drugs leads to a cluster of unpleasant symptoms in dependent subjects. These symptoms are stimulatory in nature and oppose the acute, inhibitory effects of opiates. The conventional theory that explains the opioid withdrawal syndrome assumes that chronic usage of opioid drugs activates compensatory mechanisms whose stimulatory effects are revealed upon elimination of the inhibitory opioid drug from the body. Based on previous studies that show a dose-dependent dual activity of opiates, including pain perception, we present here an alternative explanation to the phenomenon of withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia. According to this explanation, the residual low concentration of the drug that remains after cessation of its administration elicits the stimulatory withdrawal hyperalgesia. The goal of the present study was to test this hypothesis. In the present study we rendered mice dependent on morphine by a daily administration of the drug. Cessation of morphine application elicited withdrawal hyperalgesia that was completely blocked by a high dose of the opiate antagonist naloxone (100 mg/kg). Similarly, naloxone (2 mg/kg)-induced withdrawal hyperalgesia was also blocked by 100 mg/kg of naloxone. The blockage of withdrawal hyperalgesia by naloxone suggested the involvement of opioid receptors in the phenomenon and indicated that withdrawal hyperalgesia is a direct effect of a residual, low concentration of morphine. Acute experiments that show morphine- and naloxone-induced hyperalgesia further verified our hypothesis. Our findings offer a novel, alternative approach to opiate detoxifications that may prevent withdrawal symptoms by a complete blockage of the opioid receptors using a high dose of the opioid antagonist.
We have reported that in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU) who reacted adversely to aspirin, the frequency of the (-444)C allele of the leukotriene C(4) synthase gene (LTC4S) was higher than in patients who tolerated aspirin well.
To study the pattern of aspirin-induced urticaria (AIU) in two families, with special interest on the polymorphisms of LTC4S (AA, AC, CC) and the glutathione S-transferase M1 and P1 genes (GSTM1 and GSTP1).
Of 74 patients with CIU and a history of aspirin hypersensitivity studied by us, two patients (probands) gave a family history of aspirin intolerance. Oral challenge tests with aspirin were carried out in members of these families. Genomic DNA samples were obtained from peripheral blood to study the polymorphisms of LTC4S, GSTM1 and GSTP1.
In family 1 the aspirin challenge test confirmed AIU in three of five (60%) individuals, but in family 2 only in two of seven (29%). In both families, the variant genotypes of LTC4S (AC or CC) were present in the parents, but only one of them had CIU. In family 1, with both parents healthy, the three children had AIU; in two it was associated with variant LTC4S genotype. In family 2, urticaria following aspirin ingestion was present only with variant LTC4S genotype. In patients of both families with positive aspirin challenge test, deletion of the GSTM1 gene was present.
AIU aggregates in families inheriting the LTC4S(-444)C allele. Segregation of aspirin sensitivity in these families does not follow a clear Mendelian pattern. A common deletion of GSTM1, one of several enzymes involved in conjugation of a wide range of electrophilic substances with glutathione, was present in all individuals ascertained to have AIU.
A case of repetitive hallucinations during treatment with a therapeutic dosage of triazolam (0.25 mg/day) and nitrazepam (5 mg/day) is presented. The patient suffered from acute pneumonia and chronic renal failure. Such non-psychotic symptoms as anxiety, tremor and depressed feeling were observed initially. However, after co-administration of erythromycin (600 mg/day), visual hallucinations and abnormal bodily sensations developed repeatedly after each administration of triazolam or nitrazepam. This report suggests that benzodiazepine hypnotics even at a therapeutic dosage with co-administration of erythromycin causes serious psychotic symptoms in vulnerable patients with physical complications.
To investigate changes in plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), N-terminal pro-atrial natriuretic peptide (NT-pro-ANP) and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) during the development of doxorubicin-induced left ventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction as measured by echocardiography (ECHO).
Prospective study.
University hospital.
Twenty-eight adult patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, who received doxorubicin to the cumulative dose of 400-500 mg m(-2).
The relationship between plasma natriuretic peptides and systolic and diastolic ECHO indices after the cumulative doxorubicin doses of 200, 400 and 500 mg m(-2).
Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF, by 2D ECHO) decreased from 58 +/- 1.7 to 52.5 +/- 1.3% (P=0.036) and fractional shortening (FS) from 34.6 +/- 1.4 to 27.8 +/- 0.9% (P=0.002). Peak E wave velocity decreased from 63.3 +/- 3.2 to 51.3 +/- 2.6 cm s(-1) (P=0.008) resulting in a statistically nonsignificant decrease in E/A ratio from 1.08 +/- 0.01 to 0.85 +/- 0.07. A significant decrease was observed in the percentage of left ventricular filling during the 1/3 of diastole (1/3FF) from 42.2 +/- 1.7 to 36.5 +/- 2.0% (P < 0.001). LV end systolic diameter increased from 32 +/- 1 to 38 +/- 1 mm (P=0.011), whereas left atrial (LA) diameter remained unchanged. Peak filling rate decreased from 4.4 +/- 0.2 to 4.0 +/- 0.2 stroke volume s(-1) (SV s(-1)) (ns). Plasma levels of ANP increased from 16.4 +/- 1.3 to 22.7 +/- 2.4 pmol L(-1) (P=0.002), NT-pro-ANP from 288 +/- 22 to 380 +/- 42 pmol L(-1) (P=0.019) and BNP from 3.3 +/- 0.4 to 8.5 +/- 2.0 pmol L(-1) (P=0.020). There was a significant inverse correlation between the decrease in FS and the increases in plasma NT-pro-ANP (r= -0.524, P=0.018) and plasma BNP (r=0.462, P=0.04) and between the decrease in PFR and the increases in plasma ANP (r= -0.457, P=0.043) and plasma NT-pro-ANP (r= -0.478, P=0.033). Furthermore, after doxorubicin therapy, significant inverse correlations were observed between E/A ratio and plasma ANP (r= -0.535, P=0.008), between E/A ratio and plasma NT-pro-ANP (r= -0.432, P=0.04) and between E/A ratio and plasma BNP (r= -0.557, P=0.006) as well as between 1/3FF and plasma BNP (r= -0.493, P=0.017). There was also a trend for correlation between LA diameter and plasma BNP (r=0.395, P=0.062) and peak E wave velocity and plasma BNP (r= -0.414, P=0.05), respectively. However, no significant correlations were observed between any of the systolic parameters and natriuretic peptide levels.
The results of this prospective study show that during the evolution of doxorubicin-induced LV dysfunction the secretion of natriuretic peptides is more closely associated with the impairment of left ventricular diastolic filling than with the deterioration of LV systolic function.
The intraventricular injection of pyridoxal phosphate (PLP; 1 mumole/brain) to rats causes convulsive seizures beginning 3 min after injection and lasting for about 20 min. The incorporation of [2-3H] glycerol into rat brain glycerides has been studied to ascertain whether treatment with PLP affects the incorporation of label into various lipid classes. The labeling pattern of glycerides is changed by the administration of PLP. The observed alterations begin a few min after injection, together with the convulsive seizures. 1 h after the injection the pattern of labeling of brain glycerides returns to normal. Different glycerides are differently affected by PLP. This work demonstrates that the labeling of diglyceride increases whereas that of phosphatidylethanolamine decreases following PLP administration.
Four cases of severe bleeding among 50 elderly patients undergoing subcutaneous calcium heparin treatment are reported. In three patients the bleeding was localized in the abdominal wall and the fourth in the retroperitoneum; 2 patients died. Heparin doses ranged between 2x12,500 and 2x20,000 I.U/day. The thrombin times, measured before the next administration, were in the subtherapeutic range in all patients. We conclude that in elderly patients subcutaneous heparin treatment in therapeutic doses should be reserved for exceptional cases.
Calcium chloride, 7 mg/kg, and calcium gluconate, 20 mg/kg, were administered to patients with low or low-normal levels of serum ionized calcium. Both patients had low blood pressure and cardiac index, and did not respond to digitalis, volume expansion, and beta-adrenergic stimulation with dopamine. Administration of calcium rapid increase of serum ionized calcium levels, decrease of serum potassium levels, and development of severe cardiac arrhythmias. Atrioventricular dissociation and further fall of cardiac index and blood pressure were common features of both cases. Administration of exogenous calcium can cause severe complications, even when theoretically indicated.
The African-American race was examined as a risk factor for cardiotoxicity from doxorubicin-based therapy for cancer.
Retrospective survey of the Howard University Hospital cancer registry during 1997-2001 identified 100 evaluable patients out of 120 African Americans who underwent doxorubicin-based combination chemotherapy (65% women, 35% men, median age 46 years, range 32-84 years). The fraction of patients who developed post-treatment cardiotoxicity, defined as congestive heart failure or a left-ventricular ejection fraction less than 45%, was compared with that from a retrospective study of 399 patients of unknown age and racial distribution. Cases were stratified by cumulative dose of doxorubicin. Statistical significance of the difference in incidence of cardiotoxicity was tested by chi-square analysis.
Patients received multiple doses of doxorubicin (range 264 to 580 mg/m2 with median of 374) with the final echocardiographic assessment at a median of 1.3 years. Howard oncologists frequently used a 48-hour infusion rather than the conventional rapid bolus to reduce the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin. The fraction with cardiotoxicity in our study versus Lefrak's review at four ranges of doxorubicin was 25% versus 18% at 551-600 mg/m2, 10% versus 4% at 501-550 mg/m2, 4% versus 1% at 451-500 mg/m2, and 0% versus <1% at <450 mg/m2. Seventy-two percent of the patients having depressed ejection fraction and/or heart failure were women. African Americans had a higher rate of cardiotoxicity after doxorubicin (7/100 cases) than that of Lefrak's (10/399) study population and were statistically significant at p<0.027 with an odds ratio of 2.93.
We have shown for the first time that African Americans at our institution appear to suffer cardiotoxicity from doxorubicin three times more frequently than the previously noted study population. To better clarify this observation, a larger study in a multiracial setting is needed.
N-acetylcysteine (NAC), an antidote for acetaminophen poisoning, might benefit patients with non-acetaminophen-related acute liver failure.
In a prospective, double-blind trial, acute liver failure patients without clinical or historical evidence of acetaminophen overdose were stratified by site and coma grade and assigned randomly to groups that were given NAC or placebo (dextrose) infusion for 72 hours. The primary outcome was overall survival at 3 weeks. Secondary outcomes included transplant-free survival and rate of transplantation.
A total of 173 patients received NAC (n = 81) or placebo (n = 92). Overall survival at 3 weeks was 70% for patients given NAC and 66% for patients given placebo (1-sided P = .283). Transplant-free survival was significantly better for NAC patients (40%) than for those given placebo (27%; 1-sided P = .043). The benefits of transplant-free survival were confined to the 114 patients with coma grades I-II who received NAC (52% compared with 30% for placebo; 1-sided P = .010); transplant-free survival for the 59 patients with coma grades III-IV was 9% in those given NAC and 22% in those given placebo (1-sided P = .912). The transplantation rate was lower in the NAC group but was not significantly different between groups (32% vs 45%; P = .093). Intravenous NAC generally was well tolerated; only nausea and vomiting occurred significantly more frequently in the NAC group (14% vs 4%; P = .031).
Intravenous NAC improves transplant-free survival in patients with early stage non-acetaminophen-related acute liver failure. Patients with advanced coma grades do not benefit from NAC and typically require emergency liver transplantation.
A prospective trial of Adriamycin and cyclophosphamide was undertaken in the treatment of patients with hormonally refractory prostatic carcinoma. Of the 20 patients evaluable, three (15%) had a partial remission and five (25%) had stable disease for a total response of 40%. All patients who responded had subjective improvement consisting of weight gain (greater than or equal to 10% of body weight), improvement of performance status (greater than or equal 10% in Karnofsky index), and a decreased need for pain medication.
We developed the increasing-current electroshock seizure (ICES) test, a new method for assessment of anti- and pro-convulsant activities of drugs in mice. In this method, a single train of pulses (square wave, 5 msec, 20 Hz) of linearly increasing intensity from 5 to 30 mA (increment of 0.1 mA/0.1 sec, i.e., 5-30 mA in 25 sec) was applied via ear electrodes. The current at which tonic hindlimb extension occurred was recorded as the seizure threshold. Thus, this method allows determination of the seizure threshold current for individual animals. Carbamazepine, phenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital, diazepam, and morphine all increased the seizure threshold current in a dose-dependent manner, whereas ethosuximide was not effective. The seizure threshold current decreased after treatment with reserpine, chlorpromazine, aminophylline, strychnine, pentylenetetrazol, bicuculline, picrotoxin, and ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (beta-CCE). These results indicate that the ICES test, like the maximal electroshock seizure test, is a model of grand mal-type seizure and is useful for evaluation of both the anti- and pro-convulsant activities of drugs.
To study the mechanisms of wood smoke-induced bronchoconstriction, we measured total lung resistance (RL) and dynamic lung compliance (Cdyn) in anesthetized and mechanically ventilated guinea pigs. Airway exposure to various doses of wood smoke (lauan wood; 5, 10, and 15 breaths) resulted in a dose-dependent increase in RL and decrease in Cdyn. The smoke-induced changes in RL and Cdyn were significantly attenuated by pretreatment with atropine, CP-96,345 [(2S,3S)-cis-2-(diphenylmethyl)-N-((2-methoxyphenyl)-methyl)-1-aza bicyclo(2.2.2.)-octan-3-amine; a tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist], and SR-48,968 [(S)-N-methyl-N(4-(4-acetylamino-4-phenylpiperidino)-2-(3,4-dichlorophen yl)-butyl)benzamide; a tachykinin NK2 receptor antagonist] in combination, atropine alone, and SR-48,968 alone, but were not significantly affected by pretreatment with the inactive enantiomers of CP-96,345 and SR-48,968, CP-96,345 alone, indomethacin (a cyclooxygenase inhibitor), and MK-571 [((3-(3-(2-(7-chloro-2-quinolinyl)ethenyl)phenyl((3-dimethyl amino-3-oxo-propyl)thio)methyl)propanoic acid; a leukotriene D4 receptor antagonist]. The activity of airway neutral endopeptidase, a major enzyme for tachykinin degradation, was not significantly influenced by wood smoke during the development of bronchoconstriction. We conclude that: (1) both cholinergic mechanisms and endogenous tachykinins, but not cyclooxygenase products or leukotriene D4, play an important role in the acute bronchoconstriction induced by wood smoke, and (2) the contribution of tachykinins to this airway response is primarily mediated via the activation of tachykinin NK2 receptors, but is not associated with inactivation of the airway neutral endopeptidase.
A 67-year-old Chinese woman presented with mediastinal B cell lymphoma in 1992 with incidental leukocytosis. Bone marrow and peripheral blood findings confirmed the diagnosis of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). After combination chemotherapy and radiotherapy for lymphoma, her peripheral blood counts remained normal, and she refused further treatment for nearly six years. Frank hematologic relapse occurred in 1998 and low dose hydroxyurea was used, which was stopped after six months owing to cytopenia. She remained well without treatment at 12-year follow up. Retrospective Southern blot analysis confirmed BCR gene rearrangement in marrow in 1992 and 1998, but not in the lymphoma or the latest peripheral blood. Fluorescence in-situ hybridzation analysis showed no Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) cells in the peripheral blood at last (FISH) follow-up, but BCR/ABL remained detectable. The relevance of the concomitant occurrence of CML and lymphoma and the unusually favorable response of CML to chemotherapy to the pathogenesis of CML is discussed.
Exposure to environmental chemicals adds to the burden of disease in humans and wildlife to a degree that is difficult to estimate and, thus, mitigate. The ability to assess the impact of existing chemicals for which little to no toxicity data are available or to foresee such effects during early stages of chemical development and use, and before potential exposure occurs, is a pressing need. However, the capacity of the current toxicity evaluation approaches to meet this demand is limited by low throughput and high costs. In the context of EPA's ToxCast project, we have evaluated a novel cellular biosensor system (Factorial (1) ) that enables rapid, high-content assessment of a compound's impact on gene regulatory networks. The Factorial biosensors combined libraries of cis- and trans-regulated transcription factor reporter constructs with a highly homogeneous method of detection enabling simultaneous evaluation of multiplexed transcription factor activities. Here, we demonstrate the application of the technology toward determining bioactivity profiles by quantitatively evaluating the effects of 309 environmental chemicals on 25 nuclear receptors and 48 transcription factor response elements. We demonstrate coherent transcription factor activity across nuclear receptors and their response elements and that Nrf2 activity, a marker of oxidative stress, is highly correlated to the overall promiscuity of a chemical. Additionally, as part of the ToxCast program, we identify molecular targets that associate with in vivo end points and represent modes of action that can serve as potential toxicity pathway biomarkers and inputs for predictive modeling of in vivo toxicity.
Activator protein-2 (AP-2) is an important transcription factor for activation of growth- and inflammatory-associated genes. To detect AP-2 in the mesangium, the expression level of AP-2 was examined in cultured mesangial cells in response to various cytokines and prostaglandins. The level was also observed in kidney tissue samples obtained from patients with proteinuria and from a rat nephrosis model.
AP-2 was immunohistochemically detected with a specific antibody. The expression level was analyzed by immunoblotting. Human tissue samples were obtained from patients with proteinuria. Kidney samples were also obtained from rats with puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-6, IL-1 and IL-2, but not TNF-alpha, induced AP-2 expression in a time- and dose-dependent manner in cultured mesangial cells. PGE(2) and PGI(2) also induced AP-2 expression, while PGF(2 alpha) failed to induce this protein. High expression levels of AP-2 were observed in different cell types including mesangial cells of kidney samples from patients with proteinuria. Similar results were obtained from the rat nephrosis model.
These findings demonstrate that the primary cytokines induce AP-2 protein in mesangial cells. AP-2 may act as a transcription factor to produce additional cytokines and growth-associated gene products, suggesting an important role for AP-2 for the function of mesangial cells in glomerular disorders.
A case is reported of a poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma that occurred in a 65-year-old patient who was on hormonotherapy for prostatic adenocarcinoma. The diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma was made 3 months after the initiation of a hormonal treatment with cyproterone acetate (for 1 month) and an LH-RH agonist. A cause and effect relationship between steroid hormones and hepatocellular carcinoma has been advocated in the literature. The occurrence of hepatic malignancy after a short hormonal therapy makes our case very unusual.
Some epigenetic mechanisms, including DNA methylation and histone deacetylation, act as transcriptional repression signals. In this study, we examined whether DNA methylation dependent transcriptional control regulates glial cell growth. Primary cultured mouse cortical glial cells were treated with the DNA methylation inhibitor 5-aza-deoxycytidine (5adC) or the histone deacetylase inhibitor sodium valproate (VPA), which inhibits DNA-methylation-dependent transcriptional repression. 5adC significantly reduced methylated C level determined by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), while VPA did not. Treatments with these inhibitors significantly reduced cell number determined by MTT assay after 48 h. Both 5adC and VPA showed little cellular toxicity observed by live and dead cell staining. In contrast, both 5adC and VPA induced an abnormality in the cell cycle. Cells treated with the inhibitors represented a significantly higher ratio in the G2+M-phase and 5adC-treated cells showed a significantly lower ratio in the S-phase. Regarding the in vivo effect, prenatal treatment with VPA, which is an autistic model in rodents, significantly reduced the brain/body weight ratio in early postnatal days. Our data indicate that DNA-methylation- and histone-deacetylation-dependent transcriptional control is crucial for the regulation of glial cell growth. Our data suggest that abnormalities of epigenetic transcriptional regulatory mechanisms in glial cells cause an abnormal brain size, which may in turn cause mental diseases.
Rhus verniciflua Stokes is a plant that is native to East Asian countries, such as Korea, China, and Japan. Butein, a plant polyphenol, is one of the major active components of R. verniciflua. Reactive oxygen species (ROS), produced via dental adhesive bleaching agents and pulpal disease, can cause oxidative stress. Here, we found that butein possesses cytoprotective effects on hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced dental cell death. H2O2 is a representative ROS and causes cell death through necrosis in human dental pulp (HDP) cells. H2O2-induced cytotoxicity and production of ROS were blocked in the presence of butein, and these effects were dose dependent. Butein also increased heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) protein expression and HO activity. In addition, butein-dependent HO-1 expression was required for the inhibition of H2O2-induced cell death and ROS generation. Furthermore, butein treatment caused nuclear accumulation of nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and increased the promoter activity of antioxidant response elements (AREs). Treatment of HDP cells with a c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) inhibitor also reduced butein-induced HO-1 expression, and butein treatment led to increased JNK phosphorylation. These results indicate that butein may be used to prevent functional dental cell death and thus may be useful as a pulpal disease agent.
