Locally generated angiotensin II (AngII) may be involved in the pathogenic mechanisms of chronic renal diseases. Renal expression of AngII and other components of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot in a model of chronic progressive nephropathy induced by inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis. Renal injury was evaluated by histology and albumin excretion. Systemic RAS status was evaluated through plasma renin activity (PRA) and plasma AngII concentration. In addition, the effects of enalapril, losartan, and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) on AngII expression in animals with chronic renal disease was also analyzed. Plasma renin activity and plasma AngII were not different between rats with nephropathy and controls (2.08 +/- 0.7 versus 2.03 +/- 0.5 ng/ml/h and 94.3 +/- 18 versus 78.9 +/- 16 fmol/ml, respectively). However, rats with chronic progressive nephropathy showed augmented renal content of angiotensinogen protein (13.5 +/- 3.5 versus 2.2 +/- 0.4 pixels in control rats; P < 0.05), enhanced expression of cathepsin D-a renin-like enzyme-in cortical collecting tubules (103.5 +/- 27.0 versus 66.2 +/- 3.6 cells/mm2 in controls; P < 0.01), and increased expression of AT1 receptor in interstitium (54.7 +/- 7.8 versus 1.3 +/- 0.4 cells/mm2 in controls; P < 0.001). Kidney angiotensin-converting enzyme content did not differ among the groups. Notably, an increased number of interstitial cells expressing AngII was detected in the renal interstitium (9.5 +/- 1.6 versus 1.7 +/- 0.6 cells/mm2 in controls; P < 0.05). Rats treated with Nomega-nitro-L-arginine-methyl-esther and losartan presented a decreased local AngII formation, in contrast to its known effect on plasma AngII. Moreover, mycophenolate mofetil lowered interstitial AngII expression, suggesting that inflammatory signaling may be involved in interstitial AngII generation. This study demonstrates the upregulation of local RAS in the kidney in a model of chronic progressive nephropathy.
Retrospective studies suggest that single nucleotide polymorphisms in the cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) gene predict reduced tamoxifen metabolism, better tolerance and worse treatment outcome. We hypothesized that women with this genotype lack tamoxifen-induced endometrial and biochemical changes in follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG). We identified 56 breast cancer patients attending the follow-up clinic with a homozygous mutant (HM) status for the CYP2D6*4 null variant. Here, we report a detailed assessment of tamoxifen activity in 19 CYP2D6 HM women, while they were using tamoxifen either for metastatic (n = 5) or for early disease (n = 14). We assessed response to tamoxifen in metastatic disease. Endometrial appearances and serum levels of FSH and SHBG were assessed from retrospective and prospective testing. Our findings do suggest that the presence of two CYP2D6*4 alleles does not exclude a durable response of tamoxifen in metastatic breast cancer. The transvaginal ultrasonographic appearance of the endometrium in CYP2D6*4/*4 patients on tamoxifen is similar as seen in the normal population of tamoxifen users. The endometrium is increased in thickness with subepithelial cysts and endometrial polyps. Serum levels of FSH and SHBG in CYP2D6*4 HM tamoxifen users were in the range of what would be expected during tamoxifen treatment in the general population. Our findings do show CYP2D6*4/*4 carriers to have activity of tamoxifen on breast cancer, endometrium and serum levels of FSH and SHBG. They support clinical trials prospectively testing the effect of CYP2D6 genetic variability in response to tamoxifen before denying this drug to breast cancer patients only based on their CYP2D6*4 status.
To determine the response to pegylated interferon-alpha treatment of HBeAg-positive hepatitis B patients with proven lamivudine resistance.
Sixteen HBeAg-positive HBV patients with YMDD mutations were treated with pegylated interferon. Median treatment duration was 52 weeks (range 20-53), with a 26-week follow-up.
Two of 16 (12.5%) patients seroconverted to HBeAg negative and achieved sustained virological (HBV-DNA levels below 10log 5 copies/ml) together with biochemical (normalization of serum ALT levels) responses. Compared with the strong signal in all other patients, only these two patients had a faint signal in the lamivudine resistance assay. For all patients, the median viral load decreased from 10log 9.4 to 7.9 copies/ml (P = 0.001) during treatment but rebounded to a median of 10log 8.7 copies/ml after treatment cessation. Similarly, elevated median ALT levels at baseline decreased with treatment but rebounded after the end of treatment.
In the largest cohort study to date, pegylated interferon-alpha therapy showed marginal efficacy in the presence of lamivudine resistance but such therapy may be beneficial in patients with only small amounts of mutant virus. In our opinion, an analysis of the patient subgroup harbouring an YMDD-mutation should be included in all future studies of pegylated interferon-alpha in chronic hepatitis B.
The safety and antiretroviral effects of didanosine and stavudine in combination were evaluated in 86 people infected with HIV with CD4 counts between 200 and 500 cells/mm3 who had received <7 days of prior nucleoside analogue antiretroviral treatment. Patients were randomized to receive blinded treatments with one of five weight-adjusted, twice-daily regimens of didanosine and stavudine (100 + 10 mg, 100 + 20 mg, 100 + 40 mg, 200 + 20 mg, and 200 + 40 mg) for up to 1 year. Dosages were adjusted appropriately for patients weighing <60 kg and reduced in response to adverse effects. No clear dose-related differences among treatment groups were detected with regard to suppression of plasma HIV RNA level or reduction in infectious titers in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), improvement in CD4 count, or adverse effects. However, trends toward greater decreases in viral load and increases in CD4 count were detected when treatment groups containing the full recommended dosage of one or both agents (high-dose subgroup; arms 3, 4, and 5) were compared with the groups receiving lower dosages. At 28 weeks the mean log 10 HIV RNA decrease was 1.12 (n = 52) and at 52 weeks it was 0.97 (n = 32). Combination therapy was well tolerated, with no apparent dose-related adverse effects. Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 2 of 86 (2.3%) of patients. Didanosine and stavudine together appear to be a good nucleoside analogue foundation for aggressive triple- or quadruple-drug therapy. Full therapeutic doses of each of these two agents should be used to achieve optimal suppression of HIV replication.
To gain insight into the phylogenetic history of mechanisms controlling renin release, we conducted studies in the freshwater turtle Pseudemys scripta. Maneuvers known to stimulate renin release in mammals were evoked in the turtle, and the response was compared with that in mammals. Cumulative hemorrhage (30% blood vol) in anesthetized turtles failed to increase renin even though arterial pressure was reduced to 50% of control. An even more severe hemorrhage (60% blood loss) or hypotension induced by nitroprusside infusion in unanesthetized turtles also failed to evoke an enhanced level of renin. However, under identical experimental conditions, a 15% blood loss in rats increased renin at least fourfold (P less than 0.01). In other studies 48 h of furosemide administration in awake turtles increased renin more than threefold (P less than 0.05) and were accompanied by concomitant reductions in plasma sodium and potassium (P less than 0.05). The general conclusions drawn from these studies is that renin secretion in this primitive vertebrate is similar to that in mammals with respect to renal tubular and electrolyte mechanisms, but unlike all mammals tested these turtles do not possess an intrarenal baroreceptor component in renin control.
1. The aim of the present study was to assess the protective effect of Sargassum polycystum (sulphated polysaccharide) extract against paracetamol-induced DNA strand breaks and modulation of membrane-bound phosphatases, protein thiols and inorganic cations during toxic hepatitis. 2. Seaweed extract (200 mg/kg per day for 21 days) was administered to male Wistar rats against paracetamol challenge. Serum and liver tissues were used to assess levels of ATPase, protein thiols and inorganic cations using atomic absorption spectroscopy. The fragmentation of DNA was assessed by agarose gel electrophoresis. 3. Paracetamol induced intracellular stress, accompanied by changes in the structural and functional characteristics of liver cell membranes, which affected DNA integrity, membrane-bound ATPase and inorganic cations homeostasis. Rats intoxicated with paracetamol (800 mg/kg, i.p.) showed significant impairment in activities of total ATPase, Mg2+-ATPase, Ca+-ATPase and Na+/K+-ATPase, with concomitant changes in the levels of tissue protein thiols and inorganic cations, such as Na+, K+ and Ca2+. These changes were prevented in animals pretreated with S. polycystum extract, which indicates that S. polycystum supplementation could exert some protective effect against paracetamol-induced toxic hepatitis in rats. 4. The protective effect of the seaweed extract may be due to the presence of sulphated compounds that have free radical-scavenging activity.
Two mouse lines were selectively bred according to their sensitivity (BS line) or resistance (BR line) to seizures induced by a single i.p. injection of methyl beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (beta-CCM), an inverse agonist of the GABA(A) receptor benzodiazepine site. Our aim was to characterize both lines' sensitivities to various physiological effects of other ligands of the GABA(A) receptor. We measured diazepam-induced anxiolysis with the elevated plus-maze test, diazepam-induced sedation by recording the vigilance states, and picrotoxin- and pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures after i.p. injections. Results presented here show that the differential sensitivities of BS and BR lines to beta-CCM can be extended to diazepam, picrotoxin, and pentylenetetrazol, suggesting a genetic selection of a general sensitivity and resistance to several ligands of the GABA(A) receptor.
Ranking as the fourth commonest cancer, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) represents one of the leading causes of cancer death in China. One of the main reasons for the low survival rate is that neoplasms in esophagus are not detected until they have invaded into surrounding tissues or spread throughout the body at advanced stages. A better understanding of the malignant mechanism and early diagnosis are important for fighting ESCC. In this study, we used proteomics to analyze ESCC tissues, aiming at defining the proteomic features implicated in the multistage progression of esophageal carcinogenesis. Proteins that exhibited significantly different expressions were identified by peptide mass fingerprinting and validated by Western blotting and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The protein changes were then correlated to the different grades of disease differentiation. Compared to those in adjacent normal epitheliums, the expression of 15 proteins including enolase, elongation factor Tu, isocitrate dehydrogenase, tubulin alpha-1 chain, tubulin beta-5 chain, actin (cytoplasmic 1), glyceraldehyde-3 phosphate dehydrogenase, tropomyosin isoform 4 (TPM4), prohibitin, peroxiredoxin 1 (PRX1), manganese-containing superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), neuronal protein, and transgelin was up-regulated; and the expression of five proteins including TPM1, squamous cell carcinoma antigen 1 (SCCA1), stratifin, peroxiredoxin 2 isoform a, and alpha B crystalline was down-regulated in cancer tissues with a statistical significance (p < 0.05). In addition, the differential expression of SCCA1, PRX1, MnSOD, TPM4, and prohibitin can be observed in precancerous lesions of ESCC. The expression of stratifin, prohibitin, and SCCA1 dropped with increasing dedifferentiation of ESCC. These data may suggest that these proteins contribute to the multistage process of carcinogenesis, tumor progression, and invasiveness of ESCC.
Indinavir (IDV) is the protease inhibitor (PI) used most often in resource-limited countries. The present study aimed to determine the prevalence of IDV-associated renal complications as well as their clinical characteristics.
The authors reviewed all patients participating in cohorts of indinavir-containing regimens at the HIV-NAT research center during the period of indinavir treatment. Patients who had pre-existing renal diseases were excluded. Renal toxicities included presence of urologic symptoms, nephrolithiasis, abnormal urine sediments, crystalluria and loss of renal function. Radiological studies of KUB system were reviewed as well.
Two-hundred and four patients treated with IDV were included. Median (IQR) follow up period was 216 (150-312) weeks. One hundred and eighty patients were treated with ritonavir-boosted regimens at some point, and 24 patients were treated only with unboosted regimens. Leukocyturia (51.9%) was the most common finding of IDV-associated renal complications. Thirty-five percent of patients had urologic symptoms such as flank pain or dysuria. Almost half of the patients had significant loss of renal function that was associated with prolonged use of IDV The most common radiological finding was nephrolithiasis. Less common, but of greater clinical importance, are nephrocalcinosis or renal atrophy.
A high prevalence of IRC was found in Thai HIV-infected patients. As long as no other cost-effective boosted PI regimens are available, strategies to prevent irreversible loss of renal function are warranted.
Vertebrate jaw development can be disrupted by exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)-a potent activator of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) transcription factor required for transducing the toxic effects of TCDD. We used zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos to investigate transcriptional responses to TCDD with the goal of discovering novel, jaw-specific genes affected by TCDD exposure. Our results uncovered a novel target of TCDD-activated Ahr belonging to the evolutionarily conserved family of forkhead box transcription factors. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated that FoxQ1b was upregulated by TCDD 7- and 10-fold at 24 and 48 h postfertilization (hpf), respectively. The rate of TCDD-induced FoxQ1b expression was more rapid than that of Cyp1a, a known direct target of TCDD-activated Ahr. TCDD-mediated induction of FoxQ1b was suppressed in the presence of an Ahr antagonist, alpha-naphthoflavone, as well as following knockdown of Ahr2 expression using an Ahr2-specific morpholino antisense oligonucleotide. In situ hybridization analysis of FoxQ1b expression at 48 hpf demonstrated that FoxQ1b is specifically expressed in the jaw primordium where it discretely outlines a developing jaw structure known as Meckel's cartilage--a conserved structure in all jawed vertebrates that develops abnormally in the presence of TCDD. These results identify a novel target of TCDD-activated Ahr and suggest that FoxQ1b may play a role in craniofacial abnormalities induced by developmental exposure to TCDD.
Resveratrol is gaining attention for its anticancer effects and is also recognized for its antioxidant properties and influence on glucose metabolism. Augmented reactive oxygen species (ROS) and high glycolytic flux are common characteristics of malignant cells. We thus evaluated the effect of resveratrol on cancer cell glucose metabolism and investigated the role of ROS in the response.
Cancer cells were measured for cell content and (18)F-FDG uptake. Assays were performed for lactate production; hexokinase activity and intracellular ROS; and immunoblotting for hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), Akt, mammalian target of rapamycin, and glucose transporter type 1 (Glut-1). Animal studies were performed with small-animal PET imaging of Lewis lung carcinoma tumor-bearing mice.
Resveratrol mildly decreased cell content and more pronouncedly suppressed (18)F-FDG uptake in Lewis lung carcinoma, HT-29 colon, and T47D breast cancer cells. Hence, (18)F-FDG uptake normalized to cell content was reduced to less than half of controls by 24-h exposure to resveratrol. This reduction was attributed to reduced glycolytic flux and Glut-1 expression. Resveratrol also decreased intracellular ROS in patterns that closely paralleled (18)F-FDG uptake. Scavenging of ROS with N-acetyl cysteine, but not inhibition of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase, was sufficient to suppress (18)F-FDG uptake. Conversely, ROS inducers effectively reversed the metabolic response of resveratrol. HIF-1α protein was markedly reduced by resveratrol, and inhibiting HIF-1α expression with cycloheximide or specific small interfering RNAs suppressed (18)F-FDG uptake. The proteosomal inhibitor MG132 partly restored HIF-1α level and (18)F-FDG uptake in resveratrol-treated cells. Resveratrol also inhibited Akt activation; in addition, inhibitors and small interfering RNAs against phosphoinositide 3-kinase decreased (18)F-FDG uptake. Finally, small-animal PET results showed resveratrol treatment to suppress tumor (18)F-FDG uptake in vivo.
Resveratrol suppresses cancer cell (18)F-FDG uptake and glycolytic metabolism in a manner that depends on the capacity of resveratrol to inhibit intracellular ROS, which downregulates HIF-1α accumulation.
This the third paper in a series of three papers on the occurrence of reactions and impairments in leprosy in Thailand, and focuses on the prevalence and incidence of neural and other impairments in leprosy.
A population-based, prospective cohort study. STUDY SUBJECT: All 640 newly diagnosed and registered leprosy patients in three provinces of northeastern Thailand between October 1987 and September 1990 were included [420 paucibacillary (PB) and 220 multibacillary (MB)]. This group of patients was followed up until the end of 1995.
Clinical data; data on the sensibility and motor function of eyes, hands and feet, and data on wounds and bone loss were obtained where appropriate. The occurrence of neural and other impairments at first examination, during treatment and during surveillance was ascertained.
The relationship between impairment prevalence (grade 2 of the combined PB and MB groups and grades 1 and 2 together of the combined PB and MB groups) and duration of disease (before diagnosis) was found to be statistically significant. Increased delay in detection led to increased problems of impairments. Too many patients still develop new/additional impairments while on treatment and thereafter. The incidence of nerve function impairment (NFI) among patients without impairments at first examination while on treatment was 1.7 [ 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.45-4.4] per 100 person-years at risk (PYAR) for the PB group and 12 (CI 8.4-17) per 100 PYAR for the MB group. Additionally, 2% of the PB and 11% of the MB patients who already had impairments at first examination developed new NFI while on treatment. The outcome, comparing the first examination with the last examination during/after surveillance [changes in the voluntary muscle test (VMT), the sensory test (ST), wound count and bone loss], indicated that of the PB patients 3.7% improved, 3.7% got worse and 3.9% kept the same impairment; of the MB patients 19% improved, 18% got worse and 2.9% kept the same impairment. During treatment most of the new/additional impairments were due to new/increase in NFI; during surveillance slightly more than 50% were due to new/increase in NFI. Eighty-three percent of the MB patients without impairments at first examination who developed NFI during treatment improved (completely or partially) after receiving prednisolone. Only 62% of the MB patients with a grade 1 impairment at first examination and who developed a severe reaction or recent silent neuropathy improved after receiving prednisolone. There is a need for an indicator to measure new/additional impairments while on treatment and thereafter. It is proposed to measure changes in impairment by measuring changes in VMT, ST, wound count and bone loss.
We report a case of detrusor areflexia caused by vincristine neurotoxicity and documented by urodynamic testing. Vincristine commonly induces peripheral neuropathy but rarely causes voiding dysfunction. Neurourological evaluation aided in monitoring and understanding this problem.
We report a case of leiomyosarcoma in the bladder 8 years after completion of 45 months of cyclophosphamide chemotherapy for Hodgkin's disease. One year after cystoprostatectomy a large fibroblastic tumor arose in the soft tissues of the pelvis.
To report a case of sudden cardiac death in a patient receiving combination therapy with clozapine and sertraline.
A 26-year-old white man was discovered dead at his residence. His medical history included chronic paranoid schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, major depressive disorder, obstructive sleep apnea, and akathisia. He had no prior history of cardiovascular disease. His medication regimen included clozapine 100 mg twice daily (started 4 y prior to his death), risperidone 3 mg twice daily, sertraline 200 mg once daily, atenolol 50 mg twice daily, and lorazepam 0.5 mg four times daily. Autopsy and toxicology studies revealed cardiomegaly suggestive of idiopathic cardiomyopathy, single-vessel coronary artery disease, sertraline and clozapine blood concentrations in the expected range, undetectable lorazepam and risperidone blood concentrations, obesity, and moderate fatty changes to the liver. The most likely cause of death was sudden cardiac death due to acute cardiac arrhythmia.
Clozapine is structurally similar to the tricyclic antidepressants, which have type 1 A antiarrhythmic properties. Case reports have described electrocardiographic abnomalities, cardiomyopathy, and fatal myocarditis associated with its use. Unexplained death in patients on clozapine therapy has also been reported. Sertraline appears to have less cardiac effect; however, one report has observed clinically significant QT prolongation during sertraline therapy.
Clozapine-induced cardiomyopathy and cardiac arrhythmia from clozapine and/or sertraline use may have contributed to this man's death.
A few recent individual case reports have suggested that a myasthenic syndrome may be associated with statin treatment, but this association is not well described. We report 4 patients who developed symptoms of myasthenia gravis within 2 weeks of starting treatment with a statin drug. In 1 case the drug appears to have exacerbated underlying myasthenic weakness, whereas in the other 3 cases, de novo antibody formation appears to be most likely. In each case, some degree of recovery followed discontinuation of the statin medication.
To report the use and subsequent failure of the bladder-selective agent tolterodine, to treat clozapine-induced nocturnal enuresis in an adolescent patient with psychotic illness.
A 16-year-old Hispanic girl was admitted to the state psychiatric hospital with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder with psychotic features. Clozapine therapy was initiated, and after three months of treatment the patient began experiencing episodes of nocturnal enuresis. The bladder-selective agent tolterodine was tried and subsequently failed to resolve the enuresis episodes. Desmopressin was initiated, which resulted in amelioration of symptoms.
This is the first published report of using tolterodine to treat clozapine-induced nocturnal enuresis. Several methods to decrease clozapine-induced urinary incontinence have been used and typically include the addition of agents with high anticholinergic properties. Tolterodine is a bladder-selective anticholinergic agent indicated for the treatment of urinary urge incontinence and may be employed as a treatment for antipsychotic-induced incontinence.
Nocturnal enuresis is an adverse effect that infrequently occurs with use of clozapine therapy. Although tolterodine was ineffective in our patient to treat clozapine-induced nocturnal enuresis, further trials are required to appropriately evaluate the effectiveness of tolterodine to treat this adverse drug reaction.
Unbiased genetic studies have uncovered surprising molecular mechanisms in human cellular immunity and autoimmunity. We performed whole-exome sequencing and targeted sequencing in five families with an apparent mendelian syndrome of autoimmunity characterized by high-titer autoantibodies, inflammatory arthritis and interstitial lung disease. We identified four unique deleterious variants in the COPA gene (encoding coatomer subunit α) affecting the same functional domain. Hypothesizing that mutant COPA leads to defective intracellular transport via coat protein complex I (COPI), we show that COPA variants impair binding to proteins targeted for retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport. Additionally, expression of mutant COPA results in ER stress and the upregulation of cytokines priming for a T helper type 17 (TH17) response. Patient-derived CD4(+) T cells also demonstrate significant skewing toward a TH17 phenotype that is implicated in autoimmunity. Our findings uncover an unexpected molecular link between a vesicular transport protein and a syndrome of autoimmunity manifested by lung and joint disease.
A case of endomyocardial fibrosis in a patient with acute myeloblastic leukaemia treated by daunorubicin is reported. The pathological findings are indistinguishable from tropical endomyocardial fibrosis.
Tribromophenol (2,4,6-TBP) is ubiquitously found in aquatic environments and biota. In this study, we exposed zebrafish embryos (F(0); 2" days post-fertilization, dpf) to environmental concentration (0.3 microg/L) and a higher concentration (3.0 microg/L) of TBP and assessed the impact of chronic exposure (120 dpf) on reproduction. TBP exposure did not cause a significant increase in the malformation and reduction in the survival in the F(0)-generation fish. After TBP exposure, the plasma testosterone and estradiol levels significantly increased in males and decreased in females. The transcription of steroidogenic genes (3beta-HSD, 17beta-HSD, CYP17, CYP19A, CYP19B) was significantly upregulated in the brain and testes in males and downregulated in the brain and ovary in females. TBP exposure significantly downregulated and upregulated the expression of VTG in the liver of female and male fish, respectively. Meanwhile, TBP exposure altered the sex ratio toward a male-dominant state. The F(1)-generation larvae exhibited increased malformation, reduced survival, and retarded growth, suggesting that TBP in the aquatic environment has significant adverse effects on fish population.
To investigate the oxidative-stress-related changes in rats with portal hypertension with particular emphasis on nitric oxide (NO) and trace metals.
Cirrhosis was induced by partial portal vein ligation (PVL) in Wistar rats. The lipid peroxidation marker (malondialdehyde, MDA), antioxidant defense enzymes including superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione (GSH), and agents known to have antioxidant features including nitric oxide (NO), zinc (Zn), copper (Cu) were determined both in serum and in liver tissue at 4 wk after surgery in PVL and sham-operated rats. Portal pressure of all experimental animals was measured. MDA was detected by thiobarbituric acid reactivity assay. SOD activity was determined by inhibition of nitroblue tetrazolium reduction with xanthine/xanthine oxidase used as a superoxide generator. CAT activity was determined by the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide. GSH concentrations were measured by using metaphosphoric acid for protein precipitation and 5'-5'-dithio-bis-2-nitrobenzoic acid for color development. NO was detected by the Griess method after reduction of nitrate to nitrite with nitrate reductase, and the concentrations of Zn and Cu were measured by a Shimadzu 680 AA atomic absorption spectrometer. Histopathological confirmation was done under light microscope. Statistical analyses were done by Student's t-test, and significance of the difference was tested by the unpaired Mann-Whitney test. P<0.05 was considered statistically significant.
Histopathological studies confirmed PVL-induced cirrhotic changes. There was a statistically significant difference in portal pressure between PVL and control groups (P<0.001). The results showed significant increases in the levels of MDA and NO in both tissue and serum (P<0.05 and P<0.001, respectively in tissue; P<0.001 for each in serum), and Zn only in tissue (P<0.001) in rats with PVL compared with sham-operated rats. Besides, PVL rats exhibited reduced plasma and tissue GSH, CAT, SOD (P<0.001 for each). Serum and tissue Cu concentration did not change.
Our findings suggest that PVL in rats induces important biochemical and molecular changes related to oxidative stress in the liver.
In four patients with chronic myelocytic leukemia, a solitary rise in serum alkaline phosphatase (S-ALP) was noted 2--12 months prior to death. All patients had received busulphan (Myleran) therapy for longer than 12 months (total dosage 1.0--2.4 g). It is suggested that the increase in S-alp was due to a cholestatic liver damage, possible secondary to the busulphan treatment.
1. Male and female rats representing the four inbred strains [Wistar (albino), Sprague-Dawley (albino), DA (brown) and PVG (hooded) rats] were injected intraperitoneally with 4 . 5-5 . 5 mg of Cohn V bovine albumin day-1 g-1 body wt. 2. The levels of proteinuria and glomerular ultrastructural damage induced in response to hyperalbuminaemia varied widely with the strain and sex of rat studied, being highest in the male Wistar and lowest in the male Sprague-Dawley. 3. A survey of the relevant literature shows that these results probably explain most of the reported inconsistencies and anomalies concerning the effect of parenteral protein injection in the rat.
Scleroderma-like cutaneous lesion as an adverse event from paclitaxel and carboplatin has been reported. No report shows the occurrence of scleroderma-like cutaneous lesions from a single course of carboplatin. The patient is a 67-year-old female, administered paclitaxel and carboplatin as neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Following four courses, scleroderma-like cutaneous lesions were demonstrated. Skin biopsy corresponded to histopathological findings of scleroderma. Immunological investigation shows only antinuclear antibodies are positive. The characteristic Raynaud's phenomenon of scleroderma and hemorrhagic spots on the cuticles were not found. Postoperatively, a single course of carboplatin treatment was given. Scleroderma-like cutaneous lesions re-induced and worsened. This is the first report detailing scleroderma-like cutaneous lesions induced by previously administrated paclitaxel that worsened by carboplatin.
Chronic doxorubicin (adriamycin; ADR) intoxication was produced in Beagle dogs by weekly IV injections (1 mg/kg of body weight) for 20 weeks (cumulative dose 400 mg of ADR/m2). Group A (5 dogs) were given ADR only; group B (5 dogs), ADR and daily supplements of 0.5 mg of L-thyroxine (T4) (twice the recommended maintenance dose); and group C (5 dogs), ADR and 2.0 mg of T4 daily (8 times the recommended maintenance dose). The control group D (5 dogs) was given 0.5 mg of T4 daily. The ADR-induced cutaneous lesions (alopecia and melanosis), body weight loss, hematologic alterations, and myocardial microscopic and ultrastructural alterations (sarcoplasmic vacuolation and myocytolysis) were present with equal severity in the 3 ADR-treated groups, with or without T4 supplements. Six of the 15 ADR-treated dogs died during the study: 3 dogs had pneumonia, 1 dog had no established cause of death, and 2 dogs (from group C) had lesions of congestive cardiac failure. All ADR-treated dogs given a cumulative dose of 340 mg of ADR/m2 or more had characteristic myocardial histopathologic alterations, but 2 dogs that died after they were given only 140 or 260 mg of ADR/m2 had no microscopic evidence of myocardial damage. Low serum triiodothyronine (T3) concentrations were present in ADR-treated dogs after 28, 56, 84, 112, and 140 days and were attributed to faulty extrathyroidal conversion of T4 to T3. Serum T4 concentrations were high in dogs given 2 mg of T4/day (group C) after 28, 56, 84, and 112 days, but were low terminally as those dogs became debilitated from chronic ADR toxicosis. Unusual clinical signs or cardiac alterations of hyperthyroidism did not develop in the dogs given T4 supplements (groups B, C, and D). Our findings indicate that supplements of T4 do not alter the development of the cardiac and extracardiac lesions of chronic ADR toxicosis in dogs and indicate that the ADR-induced lesions probably are not mediated via hypothyroidism.
We present a case of a 69-year-old woman who developed brachial plexopathy and long thoracic nerve palsy secondary to compression from a hematoma while receiving heparin therapy for the treatment of a stroke. The patient was treated conservatively with discontinuation of heparin and had complete resolution of her compressive neuropathy. This is the first report of a patient with long thoracic nerve palsy with a brachial plexopathy complicating anticoagulation. We review the literature on hematoma-induced compressive neuropathies and treatment options. Our review concludes by emphasizing the importance of clinical judgment in determining the best therapeutic modality.
Two case reports of patients who developed a toxic neuropathy associated with nitrofurantoin are presented. In each case the patient had normal renal function and the symptoms abated upon withdrawal of the drug. Although the specific mechanism by which nitrofurantoin causes the neuropathy is still not known, various hypotheses are discussed and the literature is reviewed. The danger of nitrofurantoin administration in patients with impaired renal function is emphasized, and it is stress that early signs and symptoms of peripheral neuropathy be reported and the drug immediately discontinued. Even in the presence of normal renal function, the recommended dosage and duration of therapy should not be exceeded.
Symptomatic nephrotoxicity is a well-known complication of indinavir treatment. However, little is known about the relevance of other abnormalities, such as leukocyturia during use of indinavir. We determined the prevalence, risk factors, and consequences of persistent leukocyturia in a prospectively monitored cohort of indinavir users in three adult outpatient clinics. Patients were monitored for nephrotoxicity at regular visits (every 3 months) between August 1998 and September 2000. Monitoring involved urine dipstick analysis and microscopy for pH, erythrocytes, leukocytes, and indinavir crystals. The urine albumin concentration/creatinine concentration ratio and serum creatinine and indinavir plasma concentrations were measured, and urinary tract infection was excluded. Urologic symptoms were retrieved from medical records. Of 184 patients with at least one assessment, 35% had leukocyturia (i.e., >75 cells/microL) at least once during the study period, which coincided with mild increase in the serum albumin level, erythrocyturia, and crystalluria. Thirty-two (24%) of 134 patients with two or more assessments had persistent leukocyturia (i.e., on two or more occasions). Risk factors were indinavir plasma concentration of >9 mg/L, urine pH of >5.7, and crystalluria. Persistent leukocyturia was associated with a gradual loss of renal function but not with urologic symptoms. The data show that leukocyturia is a frequent finding and emphasize the need for monitoring renal function during indinavir treatment, even in the absence of urologic symptoms.
