In five hyponatremic, cirrhotic patients, demeclocycline hydrochloride was used to inhibit the hydroosmotic effect of vasopressin. In four, renal impairment developed during the 7 to 20 days of demeclocycline hydrochloride (900 to 1,200 mg/day) administration. In these four patients, creatinine clearance fell (72 to 20 mL/min, P less than .01) as BUN (12 to 47 mg/dl, P less than .02) and serum creatinine (0.9 to 4.2 mg/dl, P less than .01) levels rose. The azotemic effect of the drug could not be accounted for consistently by volume depletion secondary to its natriuretic effect. However, a close correlation between plasma demeclocycline levels and its azotemic effect was observed. We conclude that a nephrotoxic effect of demeclocycline severly limits its usefulness in treating hyponatremia in the cirrhotic patient.
Arsenic, a human carcinogen, is known to induce oxidative damage to DNA. In this study we investigated oxidative stress and As exposure by determining gene expression of OGG1, which codes for an enzyme, 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase, involved in removing 8-oxoguanine in As-exposed individuals. Bayingnormen (Ba Men) residents in Inner Mongolia are chronically exposed to As via drinking water. Water, toenail, and blood samples were collected from 299 Ba Men residents exposed to 0.34-826 microg/L As. RNA was isolated from blood, and mRNA levels of OGG1 were determined using real-time polymerase chain reaction. OGG1 expression levels were linked to As concentrations in drinking water and nails, selenium concentrations in nails, and skin hyperkeratosis. OGG1 expression was strongly associated with water As concentrations (p < 0.0001). Addition of the quadratic term significantly improved the fit compared with the linear model (p = 0.05) . The maximal OGG1 response was at the water As concentration of 149 microg/L. OGG1 expression was also significantly associated with toenail As concentrations (p = 0.015) but inversely associated with nail Se concentrations (p = 0.0095) . We found no significant differences in the As-induced OGG1 expression due to sex, smoking, or age even though the oldest group showed the strongest OGG1 response (p = 0.0001) . OGG1 expression showed a dose-dependent increased risk of skin hyperkeratosis in males (trend analysis, p = 0.02) , but the trend was not statistically significant in females. The results from this study provide a linkage between oxidative stress and As exposure in humans. OGG1 expression may be useful as a biomarker for assessing oxidative stress from As exposure.
The teratogenicity of the widely popular antiepileptic drug (AED) and mood stabiliser sodium valproate (also known as valproate, VPA) has been evidenced by previous research; however, these findings have often been limited by a small population sample of exposed women and a retrospective study design. Many factors contribute to the teratogenicity of VPA. These include the number of drugs that are co-administered, drug dosage, differences in maternal and/or infant metabolism, the gestational age of the fetus at exposure, and hereditary susceptibility. VPA has been associated with a variety of major and minor malformations, including a 20-fold increase in neural tube defects, cleft lip and palate, cardiovascular abnormalities, genitourinary defects, developmental delay, endocrinological disorders, limb defects, and autism. It has been suggested that polytherapy treatment in epileptic pregnant women increases the risk of teratogenicity in offspring. Furthermore, there is an established relationship between VPA dose and adverse outcome. Large single doses of VPA potentially cause high peak levels in the fetal serum resulting in deleterious effects. Currently there is an increase in the number of national and international pregnancy registries being formed in an effort to better identify the teratogenic effects of AEDs. These efforts hope to enhance our understanding of AEDs and their associated risks by addressing past study limitations.
Until now the "neuroleptic threshold" (Haase) was considered to be the efficiency criterion of the antipsychotic effect of a neuroleptic substance and it was thought therefore that the extrapyramidal symptoms were a necessary although undesired side effect. The benodiazepine derivative Leponex developed by Sandox - Basel upsets this view because it has an excellent antipsychotic effect without creating definite extrapyramidal symptoms. It is noted for its quick soporfic effect after only a few minutes, for subdueing psychopathological productivity in a very impressive way, for acting rapidly on the "plus"-symptomatology typical of psychosis, as early as in the first days of treatment, and for its equally visible effect on the "minus"-symptoms, typical of psychosis, in the last third of an average period of treatment lasting 40 days. The clinic using Leponex (Dresden, Halle, Brandenburg-Görden) belonged to the clinical application programme of the Sandox - Basel firm. The article gives a summary of essential results and particulars about the treatment. A detailed evaluation of the case sheets which are at present being statistically reviewed will be given in the next paper.
A controlled double-blind study of 40 depressed psychiatric outpatients who received doxepin either q.i.d. or h.s. showed that doxepin may be administered h.s. without loss of efficacy or increase in side effects. The patients who received doxepin h.s. felt significantly better rested in the morning than the patients who received doxepin in divided doses.
The stress-activated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) p38 is emerging as an important mediator of pain. The present study examined the possible involvement of peripheral and spinal p38 MAPK in capsaicin-induced thermal hyperalgesia. Topical capsaicin produced phosphorylation of p38 MAPK in the skin from the affected hindpaw as well as the corresponding lumbar spinal cord in a time dependent manner. Topical capsaicin produced robust C-fiber mediated thermal hyperalgesia that was inhibited by systemic, local peripheral, or central intrathecal pre-treatment with the p38 MAPK inhibitor, SD-282. Intraperitoneal SD-282 (10-60 mg/kg) significantly and dose-dependently attenuated capsaicin-induced C-fiber mediated thermal hyperalgesia. Similarly, 0.1-5mg/kg subcutaneous SD-282 in the hindpaw dose-dependently attenuated capsaicin-induced thermal hyperalgesia. Intrathecal administration of 1microg SD-282 was also anti-hyperalgesic in this model. Functionally, SD-282 decreased capsaicin-induced release of calcitonin gene related peptide in an in vitro skin release assay, consistent with a role for p38 MAPK in peripheral nerve function. These results suggest that p38 MAPK plays a role in the development of hyperalgesic states, exerting effects both centrally in the spinal cord and peripherally in sensory C fibers.
Forty-five patients with untreated, de novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML) were treated with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) plus mitoxantrone or daunorubicin. Forty-two patients entered complete remission with recovery of normal blood counts. Seven of these patients were excluded from further analysis (two, early consolidation chemotherapy; four, early relapse; one, hypersplenism). Of the remaining 35 patients, 20 (57%) developed thrombocytopenia and anemia (with or without neutropenia) a median of 3 weeks after entering complete remission. Post-remission cytopenias were more common in patients receiving mitoxantrone (81%) compared to those receiving daunorubicin (37%; p < 0.003). The cytopenias lasted a median of 54 days. Four of five patients in whom the cytopenias did not recover received mitoxantrone. Leukemia relapse or myelodysplasia did not explain these cytopenias. Post-remission cytopenias resulted in a greater than 90-day delay or prevention of planned autologous bone marrow transplantation in 13 of 17 otherwise eligible patients. We conclude that post-remission cytopenias are common following blood count recovery in AML patients entering complete remission with high-dose Ara-C and mitoxantrone or daunorubicin. Post-remission cytopenias do not necessarily imply leukemia relapse.
In the present study, susceptibility of CB6F1 mice carrying the human prototype c-Ha-ras gene (rasH2 mice) and p53 gene knockout mice (p53 (+/-) mice) to urethane-induced lung carcinogenesis was compared under the same experimental conditions. Both strains were administered 500 ppm urethane in their drinking water for 3 weeks. At week 26, lung adenocarcinomas and adenomas were observed in 53% and 100% of rasH2 mice, respectively, and lung adenomas were observed in 67% of rasH2 littermate (non-Tg) mice. However, lung tumors were not observed in either p53 (+/-) or p53 (+/+) mice. Peliosis hepatis and hepatic hemangiomas were observed in 27% and 67% of p53 (+/-) mice, but only in 6.7% and 6.7% of the rasH2 animals, respectively. Under the same experimental conditions, BALB/c mice, the strain of origin of the rasH2 mice, developed lung adenomas at an incidence of 93%, whereas none of the C57BL/6 original strain for p53 (+/-) mice developed lung tumors. Peliosis hepatis was observed in 40% of the C57BL/6 mice, but not in BALB/c mice; hepatic and splenic hemangiomas were not observed in these animals. These results indicate that organ susceptibility of rasH2 and p53 (+/-) mice is inherited from their strains of origin, the rasH2 and BALB/c lines being much more sensitive to the induction of pulmonary carcinogenesis.
To determine whether changes in serum glucose, serum potassium, and plasma insulin levels are correlated in a cohort of hypertensive patients.
Prespecified subgroup analysis of results from a prospective, multicenter, randomized, open-label, parallel-group study. Setting. Primary care clinics at three tertiary care medical centers.
Community-based ambulatory population of 202 patients (age range 17-65 yrs) with a new diagnosis of hypertension, untreated hypertension, or known hypertension, who were previously treated with fewer than three antihypertensive drugs and had no evidence of cardiovascular disease or diabetes mellitus. Intervention. Monotherapy with oral hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 or 25 mg/day for 9 weeks.
Fasting serum glucose, serum potassium, and plasma insulin levels were obtained at baseline (before hydrochlorothiazide therapy was started) and after 9 weeks of therapy. Significant elevations were noted in fasting serum glucose (mean +/- SD 3.42 +/- 10.38 mg/dl, p<0.0001) and plasma insulin (2.35 +/- 9.47 microU/ml, p<0.0001) levels, and a significant reduction in serum potassium level (0.30 +/- 0.44 mEq/L, p<0.0001) was noted. No significant correlation was observed between changes in fasting serum glucose and potassium levels (r = 0.022, 95% confidence interval (CI) -0.120-0.164, p=0.757) or between changes in serum potassium and plasma insulin levels (r = -0.112, 95% CI -0.256-0.037, p=0.140). Changes in serum glucose levels did not differ significantly between patients maintaining serum potassium levels of 4.0 mEq/L or greater and those with levels below 4.0 mEq/L.
Changes in serum potassium and serum glucose levels were not correlated in individuals receiving hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy; thus maintenance of normal potassium levels may not attenuate the risk of thiazide diuretic-induced hyperglycemia.
It has been reported that in vitro uridine (Urd) can reverse azidothymidine (AZT) cytotoxicity without decreasing anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) activity. Our studies in mice have shown that daily oral doses of benzylacyclouridine (BAU), an inhibitor of Urd breakdown, also reduces AZT hematologic toxicity, presumably by elevating the plasma concentration of Urd. We now extend these murine studies and report the effect of various doses of exogenous Urd, various doses of BAU, or the combination of BAU and Urd, administered daily, on AZT-induced toxicity. In mice receiving concomitant AZT, daily doses of Urd of 1,000 to 2,000 mg/kg increase peripheral reticulocytes and slightly reduce AZT-induced hematologic toxicity. However, the range of effective doses is narrow, and higher doses of Urd (greater than 3,000 mg/kg/d) significantly enhance hematologic toxicity. At its most effective dose, (2,000 mg/kg/d), Urd produces 28% mortality. In contrast, BAU doses up to 300 mg/kg/d reduced AZT-related hematologic toxicity in a dose-dependent manner without mortality. Higher daily doses of BAU and the combination of BAU with low doses of Urd were not more effective. Studies conducted in mice infected with the Rauscher murine leukemia virus (RLV) indicate that BAU does not impair the antiretroviral effect of AZT when administered at doses that reduce AZT-induced anemia and leukopenia. These findings may be significant for the treatment of patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and AIDS-related complex.
Increased extracellular concentrations of uridine (Urd) have been reported to reduce, in vitro, azidothymidine (AZT)-induced inhibition of human granulocyte-macrophage progenitor cells without impairment of its antihuman immunodeficiency virus (HIV) activity. Because of the clinical toxicities associated with chronic Urd administration, the ability of benzylacyclouridine (BAU) to effect, in vivo, AZT-induced anemia and leukopenia was assessed. This agent inhibits Urd catabolism and, in vivo, increases the plasma concentration of Urd in a dose-dependent manner, without Urd-related toxicity. In mice rendered anemic and leukopenic by the administration of AZT for 28 days in drinking water (1.5 mg/mL), the continued administration of AZT plus daily BAU (300 mg/kg, orally) partially reversed AZT-induced anemia and leukopenia (P less than .05), increased peripheral reticulocytes (to 4.9%, P less than .01), increased cellularity in the marrow, and improved megaloblastosis. When coadministered with AZT from the onset of drug administration, BAU reduced AZT-induced marrow toxicity. In vitro, at a concentration of 100 mumol/L, BAU possesses minimal anti-HIV activity and has no effect on the ability of AZT to reverse the HIV-induced cytopathic effect in MT4 cells. The clinical and biochemical implications of these findings are discussed.
Phosphatase inhibitor-1 (I-1) is a distal amplifier element of beta-adrenergic signaling that functions by preventing dephosphorylation of downstream targets. I-1 is downregulated in human failing hearts, while overexpression of a constitutively active mutant form (I-1c) reverses contractile dysfunction in mouse failing hearts, suggesting that I-1c may be a candidate for gene therapy. We generated mice with conditional cardiomyocyte-restricted expression of I-1c (referred to herein as dTGI-1c mice) on an I-1-deficient background. Young adult dTGI-1c mice exhibited enhanced cardiac contractility but exaggerated contractile dysfunction and ventricular dilation upon catecholamine infusion. Telemetric ECG recordings revealed typical catecholamine-induced ventricular tachycardia and sudden death. Doxycycline feeding switched off expression of cardiomyocyte-restricted I-1c and reversed all abnormalities. Hearts from dTGI-1c mice showed hyperphosphorylation of phospholamban and the ryanodine receptor, and this was associated with an increased number of catecholamine-induced Ca2+ sparks in isolated myocytes. Aged dTGI-1c mice spontaneously developed a cardiomyopathic phenotype. These data were confirmed in a second independent transgenic mouse line, expressing a full-length I-1 mutant that could not be phosphorylated and thereby inactivated by PKC-alpha (I-1S67A). In conclusion, conditional expression of I-1c or I-1S67A enhanced steady-state phosphorylation of 2 key Ca2+-regulating sarcoplasmic reticulum enzymes. This was associated with increased contractile function in young animals but also with arrhythmias and cardiomyopathy after adrenergic stress and with aging. These data should be considered in the development of novel therapies for heart failure.
An 82-year-old man was referred to our hospital because of progressive heart failure. He had Parkinson's disease and had been treated with cabergoline during the preceding 4 years and 8 months. Echocardiography revealed severe mitral regurgitation through retracted mitral leaflets with incomplete coaptation. Heart failure persisted despite pharmacologic therapy, so the mitral valve was surgically replaced with a biological valve. Histologic analysis showed fibrous thickened mitral chordae with myxoid degeneration. These characteristics of the mitral valve of our patient are similar to the valvular heart disease described with the use of cabergoline. Clinicians must be care of valvular heart disease whenever they treat Parkinson's disease patients with cabergoline.
The influence of lisuride on naloxone-induced withdrawal signs (wet shakes, escape attempts) was studied in morphine-dependent rats. Lisuride, injected IP at doses of 12.5 and 25 micrograms/kg, inhibited wet shakes while not significantly altering escape attempts induced by naloxone (4 mg/kg IP). At higher doses (50 and 100 micrograms/kg IP), lisuride's inhibitory effect on wet shakes persisted while escape attempts were actually potentiated with respect to control withdrawal rats. Increases in aggressive behavior were seen at all doses, and were dose-related. Haloperidol (0.3 mg/kg IP), administered 40 min before lisuride, did not modify the antagonistic effect on wet shakes, unlike sulpiride (40 mg/kg IP 30 min before lisuride), but at the same time blocked the increase in escape attempts and aggressiveness induced by lisuride. We suggest that lisuride modulates withdrawal signs by stimulation of dopamine receptors in the CNS. The effect of the dopamine mimetic N-n-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) on the same variables is reported as well as the influence of haloperidol on NPA, and a comparison between the effects of the two drugs is made.
An animal model is described in which mild transitory renal impairment is induced with glycerol and the nephrotoxic effects of cephalosporin antibiotics and furosemide studied. Cephaloridine and cephalothin were found to produce extensive acute tubular necrosis in rats when given in subnephrotoxic doses in combination with furosemide; this damage occurred at serum antibiotic levels not much higher than those obtained in clinical practice. No significant renal damage was found with cephalexin or Cephapirin given in equivalent dosage. It is suggested that the cephalosporin antibiotics should be used with caution in the presence of even minor transient renal impairment and particularly if furosemide is being given concurrently.
10 monkeys (macaques) received adriamycin by monthly intravenous injections at 12 mg/m2 (1 mg/kg). 8 of the 10 monkeys developed congestive heart failure at an average cumulative adriamycin dose (310 mg/m2) well below that considered the safe upper limit (550 mg/m2) in man. Histologically, the myocardial lesions resembled those found in human anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy. 1 of the 10 monkeys developed acute myeloblastic leukemia after receiving 324 mg/m2 of adriamycin; the 10th monkey is alive and well 26 months after the last dose of drug. Our results suggest that adriamycin is a more potent cardiotoxin in monkeys than in man, and that leukemia may be a consequence of prolonged treatment with this drug.
The association between preterm delivery (PTD) and exposure to air pollutants has recently become a major concern. We investigated this relationship in Incheon, Republic of Korea, using spatial and temporal modeling to better infer individual exposures. The birth cohort consisted of 52,113 singleton births in 2001-2002, and data included residential address, gestational age, sex, birth date and order, and parental age and education. We used a geographic information system and kriging methods to construct spatial and temporal exposure models. Associations between exposure and PTD were evaluated using univariate and multivariate log-binomial regressions. Given the gestational age, birth date, and the mother's residential address, we estimated each mother's potential exposure to air pollutants during critical periods of the pregnancy. The adjusted risk ratios for PTD in the highest quartiles of the first trimester exposure were 1.26 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.11-1.44] for carbon monoxide, 1.27 (95% CI, 1.04-1.56) for particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter < or = 10 microm, 1.24 (95% CI, 1.09-1.41) for nitrogen dioxide, and 1.21 (95% CI, 1.04-1.42) for sulfur dioxide. The relationships between PTD and exposures to CO, NO2, and SO2 were dose dependent (p < 0.001, p < 0.02, p < 0.02, respectively) . In addition, the results of our study indicated a significant association between air pollution and PTD during the third trimester of pregnancy. In conclusion, our study showed that relatively low concentrations of air pollution under current air quality standards during pregnancy may contribute to an increased risk of PTD. A biologic mechanism through increased prostaglandin levels that are triggered by inflammatory mediators during exposure periods is discussed.
We examined whether combining all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and arsenic trioxide (ATO) might be an alternative to ATRA plus chemotherapy in untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Twenty-five low-risk patients (white blood cell [WBC] count less than 10 x 10(9)/L [10,000/microL]) received ATRA (45 mg/m(2) daily) and ATO (0.15 mg/kg daily, beginning day 10 of ATRA), and in complete remission (CR) received ATO plus ATRA, without chemotherapy, unless they were reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)-positive 3 months from CR date or had molecular relapse. Nineteen high-risk patients were treated identically, but received chemotherapy, generally 9 mg/m(2) gemtuzumab ozogamycin (GO) on day 1 of induction. The CR rate was 39 of 44 (24 of 25 in low-risk, 15 of 19 in high-risk). Disease recurred at 9, 9, and 15 months, respectively, in 3 high-risk patients. The median follow-up time from CR date in the 36 patients alive in first CR is 16 months (15 months in low-risk, 20 months in high-risk), with 9 patients followed for at least 24 months. Each of the 36 patients was PCR-negative at last follow-up. Thus, none of the low-risk patients has received chemotherapy, and only 3 high-risk patients (the 3 with relapsed disease) have received chemotherapy past induction. ATRA plus ATO may serve as an alternative to chemotherapy in low-risk untreated APL (eg, in older patients) and, when combined with GO, may improve outcome in high-risk patients.
We have examined the effect of an intradermal injection of phenylephrine (1mg/0.1 ml), an alpha-1-adrenoceptor agonist in normal subjects, and patients with sympathetically-independent (SIP) and sympathetically-maintained pain (SMP). Normal subjects and SIP patients experienced only brief stinging pain, while subsets of both sympathectomized and non-sympathectomized SMP patients (6/9 and 4/8, respectively) experienced an additional abnormal pain response accompanied by mechano-allodynia around the injection site. Both the normal and abnormal pain response after intradermal phenylephrine are similar to those observed with intradermal norepinephrine. In contrast to previous reports in the literature, we found that three sympathectomized SMP patients (who, however, had failed to experience pain relief after surgical sympathectomy despite very good relief after sympathetic blocks) also experienced abnormal pain and mechano-allodynia when phenylephrine was injected to a limb contralateral to the symptomatic sympathectomized extremity. Abnormal pain response evoked by norepinephrine or phenylephrine injection in the ipsilateral symptomatic limb of SMP patients may be due to injury-evoked nociceptor responsiveness to catecholamines. However, such a response in contralateral asymptomatic limbs suggests an additional factor that more likely than not is of central origin and may or may not be related to sympathectomy and its success or failure to treat pain.
The involvement of chemical mediators other than histamine in eosinophil infiltration in the nasal mucosa was studied using histamine H(1) receptor-deficient mice. Histamine H(1) receptor-deficient mice and wild-type controls were immunized with ovalbumin and consecutive topical antigen instillation was performed. Histological alterations and eosinophil infiltration into the nasal mucosa of mice were examined. Diffuse infiltration of inflammatory cells and edema after sensitization with antigen were observed in the nasal mucosa in both wild-type and histamine H(1) receptor-deficient mice. The number of eosinophils in the nasal mucosa in mice sensitized with antigen was significantly increased as compared with controls. The number of eosinophils in the nasal mucosa was significantly decreased by cetirizine and epinastine, ramatroban and zafirlukast in wild-type mice. Not only histamine but also thromboxane A(2) and leukotrienes play important roles in allergic rhinitis, especially in the late phase participating in nasal eosinophilia.
Reactive oxygen intermediates production and apoptotic damage induced by high glucose are major causes of neuronal damage in diabetic neuropathy. Berberine (BBR), a natural antidiabetes drug with PI3K-activating activity, holds promise for diabetes because of its dual antioxidant and anti-apoptotic activities. We have previously reported that BBR attenuated H2O2 neurotoxicity via activating the PI3K/Akt/Nrf2-dependent pathway. In this study, we further explored the novel protective mechanism of BBR on high glucose-induced apoptotic death and neurite damage of SH-SY5Y cells. Results indicated BBR (0.1-10 nM) significantly attenuated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, nucleus condensation, and apoptotic death in high glucose-treated cells. However, AG1024, an inhibitor of insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1) receptor, significantly abolished BBR protection against high glucose-induced neuronal death. BBR also increased Bcl-2 expression and decreased cytochrome c release. High glucose down-regulated IGF-1 receptor and phosphorylation of Akt and GSK-3β, the effects of which were attenuated by BBR treatment. BBR also activated nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), the key antioxidative transcription factor, which is accompanied with up-regulation of hemeoxygenase-1 (HO-1). Furthermore, BBR markedly enhanced nerve growth factor (NGF) expression and promoted neurite outgrowth in high glucose-treated cells. To further determine the role of the Nrf2 in BBR neuroprotection, RNA interference directed against Nrf2 was used. Results indicated Nrf2 siRNA abolished BBR-induced HO-1, NGF, neurite outgrowth and ROS decrease. In conclusion, BBR attenuated high glucose-induced neurotoxicity, and we are the first to reveal this novel mechanism of BBR as an Nrf2 activator against glucose neurotoxicity, providing another potential therapeutic use of BBR on the treatment of diabetic complications.
Methylglyoxal (MG) is a toxic-glucose metabolite and a major precursor of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs). MG has been reported to result in inflammation by activating receptor for AGEs (RAGE). We recently found that Monascus-fermented metabolite monascin acts as a novel natural peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ) agonist that improves insulin sensitivity. We investigated the metabolic, biochemical, and molecular abnormalities characteristic of type 2 diabetes in MG-treated Wistar rats treated with oral administration of monascin or rosiglitazone. Monascin (a novel PPARγ agonist) activated nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and down-regulated hyperinsulinmia in oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Monascin was able to elevate glyoxalase-1 expression via activation of hepatic Nrf2, hence, resulting in MG metabolism to d-lactic acid and protected from AGEs production in MG-treated rats. Rosiglitazone did not activate Nrf2 nor glyoxalase expression to lower serum and hepatic AGEs levels. Monascin acts as a novel natural Nrf2 activator with PPARγ-agonist activity were confirmed by Nrf2 and PPARγ reporter assays in Hep G2 cells. These findings suggest that monascin acts as an anti-diabetic and anti-oxidative stress agent to a greater degree than rosiglitazone and thus may have therapeutic potential for the prevention of diabetes.
Hyaluronan is overproduced in many diseases including metastasis, inflammation or ischemia, but there is no drug to attenuate hyaluronan production. Hyaluronan is exported from fibroblasts by the multidrug resistance associated protein 5 (MRP5) which is inhibited by the plant phenols curcumin or xanthohumol. We performed virtual docking and chemical synthesis of analogues to optimize the inhibitors. The AutoDock software was used to identify the binding cavity within the open conformation of MRP5. Inhibitory plant phenols bound to the ATP binding site between the two nucleotide binding domains NBD1 and NBD2. This binding cavity was chosen to screen about 120 derivatives and analogues. The superior hyaluronan export inhibitor was 1,5-bis(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-1,4-pentadien-3-one (hylin). It inhibited hyaluronan export from fibroblasts with an IC50 of 4.9 μM. Hylin is a minor component in natural curcumin preparations and has previously been described as anti-metastatic and anti-inflammatory. Since curcumin itself is unstable under physiological conditions, the active component for many cell biological and pharmaceutical effects of natural curcumin preparations could be hylin that acts by hyaluronan export inhibition.
To evaluate whether hypertension is a cause or just an association with diabetic renal disease, diabetes was induced in both normotensive Wistar-Kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats (WKY and SHR). Animals were assessed monthly for 8 months before sacrifice. When compared to normotensive diabetic rats (WKY-STZ), hypertensive diabetic rats (SHR-STZ) had an earlier and more rapid rise in urinary albumin excretion. In addition, SHR-STZ had increased glomerular basement membrane thickness when compared to WKY-STZ or SHR. In a separate experiment, Enalapril therapy (35 mg/L) was administered in drinking water to WKY-STZ and SHR-STZ. Enalapril significantly reduced blood pressure in both animal groups, and this was associated with a decrease in urinary albumin excretion. The SHR-STZ model has accelerated nephropathy as determined by both functional and structural parameters. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition is associated with a reduction in albuminuria in both hypertensive and normotensive models of diabetic nephropathy.
