Manganese is an essential trace element required for normal development and bodily functions. However, exposure of the brain to excessive amounts of manganese results in neurotoxicity. Although previous studies examining manganese neurotoxicity have focused on neuronal injury, especially direct injury to dopaminergic neurons, the effects of manganese-induced neurotoxicity on glial cells have not been reported. The current study was designed to examine the effect of manganese on microglial activation, and the underlying mechanism of manganese-induced dopaminergic neuronal injury in vivo. We established an animal model of manganism by intrastriatal injection of MnCl(2).4H(2)O into male Sprague-Dawley rats. One day after administration of manganese, a few microglial cells in the substantia nigra (SN) were activated, although the number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive neurons in the SN was unaffected. Seven days after administration of manganese, a marked reduction in the number of TH-immunoreactive neurons was observed in the SN, and the majority of microglial cells were activated. We found that manganese upregulated inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) gene expression, as well as iNOS, TNF-alpha, and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) protein levels in the SN. Furthermore, treatment with minocycline, an inhibitor of microglial activation, attenuated microglial activation and mitigated IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and iNOS production as well as dopaminergic neurotoxicity induced by manganese. These results suggested that dopaminergic neurons could be damaged by manganese neurotoxicity, and that the activated microglial cells and their associated activation products played an important role in this neurodegenerative process.
To investigate the associations between angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) related cough and ACE I/D and bradykinin beta(2) receptor (BDKRB2) C/T polymorphism.
A case-control study, nested in a 3-year community-based postmarketing surveillance of benazepril in 1 831 Chinese hypertensives was carried out. Three hundred and fifty-one cases having suffered benazepril related cough were identified and genotyped. Genotyped controls were selected through a stratified sampling design by age, sex and kidney function status.
The allele frequencies in cases were I 65.4%, D 34.6% and T 53.0%, C 47.0% and the genotype frequencies were II 42.2%, ID 46.4%, DD 11.4% (ACE) and CC 21.6%, CT 50.9%, TT 27.6% (BDKRB2), respectively. Genotype frequencies were both in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. According to stratified analyses by sex, kidney function status and age, no association was found between BDKRB2 C/T polymorphism and cough. For ACE I/D polymorphism, in men with decompensated kidney function, patients with ID or DD genotype having 4.805 times the risk of those with II genotype in developing cough. In women aged 35 to 49 years with normal or compensated kidney function, the OR of DD genotype was 5.128. No associations were detected in other subgroups.
It was suggested that kidney function status and some specific characteristics surrogated by age and sex had modified the effect of ACE I/D variant on cough.
Prostaglandin (PG) D(2) exerts contrasting activities in the inflamed lung via two receptors, the D prostanoid receptor (DP) and the chemoattractant receptor-homologous molecule expressed on T helper 2 lymphocytes. DP activation is known mainly to inhibit proinflammatory cell functions. We tested the effect of a DP-specific agonist, (4S)-(3-[(3R,S)-3-cyclohexyl-3-hydroxypropyl]-2,5-dioxo)-4-imidazolidineheptanoic acid (BW245C), on pulmonary fibroblast functions in vitro and in a mouse model of lung fibrosis induced by bleomycin. DP mRNA expression was detected in cultured mouse lung primary fibroblasts and human fetal lung fibroblasts and found to be up- and down-regulated by interleukin-13 and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β, respectively. Although micromolar concentrations of BW245C and PGD(2) did not affect mouse fibroblast collagen synthesis or differentiation in myofibroblasts, they both inhibited fibroblast basal and TGF-β-induced proliferation in vitro. The repeated administration of BW245C (500 nmol/kg body weight instilled transorally in the lungs 2 days before and three times per week for 3 weeks) in bleomycin-treated mice significantly decreased both inflammatory cell recruitment and collagen accumulation in the lung (21 days). Our results indicate that BW245C can reduce lung fibrosis in part via its activity on fibroblast proliferation and suggest that DP activation should be considered as a new therapeutic target in fibroproliferative lung diseases.
Activation of the maternal immune system in mice decreased cleft palate caused by the chemical teratogen, urethane. Direct and indirect mechanisms for this phenomenon have been suggested, including maternal macrophages that cross the placenta to find and eliminate pre-teratogenic cells, or maternal immune proteins (cytokines) that cross placenta to alleviate or partially alleviate toxicant-mediated effects in the developing fetus. A third mechanism to explain improved fetal developmental outcome in teratogen-challenged pregnant mice might involve beneficial effects of immune stimulation on the placenta. In the present experiments, urethane treatment altered placental morphology and impaired placental function, the latter indicated by down-regulated activity of cell cycle genes and of genes encoding cytokines and growth factors. Maternal immune stimulation with either Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA) or interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) reduced morphologic damage to the placenta caused by urethane and normalized expression of several genes that were down-regulated by urethane. Urethane treatment also shifted placental cytokine gene expression toward a T cell helper 1 (Th1) profile, while immunostimulation tended to restore a Th2 profile that may be more beneficial to pregnancy and fetal development. These data suggest that the beneficial effects of maternal immune stimulation on fetal development in teratogen-exposed mice may, in part, result from improved placental structure and function.
Surgical ventricular restoration (SVR) can be effective to treat ischaemic cardiomyopathy or left ventricular (LV) aneurysm. However, the initial improvement in LV function does not always last long because of LV remodelling. Beta-blockers prevent LV remodelling of failing hearts; however, their effects following SVR have not been elucidated. Thus, we sought to investigate the effects of a potent beta-blocker, carvedilol, on LV remodelling and function following SVR in rats with myocardial infarction.
Rats, which developed LV aneurysm 4 weeks after coronary artery ligation, underwent SVR. They were orally administered a vehicle (vehicle group), and low or high dose of carvedilol (20 or 50 mg kg(-1)day(-1) for C20 or C50 group) for 4 weeks following SVR (n=7 in each group).
Four weeks following SVR, late cardiac remodelling was alleviated only in the C50 group (LV end-diastolic area: 65+/-4 mm(2) vs 74+/-11 mm(2) and 76+/-11 mm(2) for C50, C20 and vehicle groups; p=0.039 and p=0.013, respectively). There was no difference in LV systolic function (end-systolic elastance) among the three groups; however, LV diastolic functions (LV end-diastolic pressure and the time constant of isovolumic relaxation) were significantly better in the C20 and C50 groups. Histologically, the percentage of myocardial fibrosis in the C50 group (4.1+/-0.2%) was lower than those in the C20 (6.7+/-0.4%, p<0.0001) and vehicle (7.5+/-0.6%, p<0.0001) groups. The mRNA expression of transforming growth factor-beta1 and brain natriuretic peptide in the C50 group were lower than those in the C20 and the vehicle groups.
High-dose carvedilol alleviated LV remodelling and diastolic dysfunction following SVR accompanying with reduction in myocardial fibrosis. Blockade of beta-adrenergic receptor may be a promising adjuvant therapy in patients following SVR.
We examined whether dopamine D4 receptor is involved in morphine dependence in mice. Mice pretreated with morphine (10 mg/kg, s.c.) twice a day for 5 days showed withdrawal syndromes such as jumping, rearing, and forepaw tremors after the administration of naloxone (2 mg/kg, i.p.) on the sixth day. Such mice exhibited significant elevation of cAMP levels in the thalamus compared with the control mice. L-745,870 (1 mg/kg, i.p.), a selective dopamine D4 receptor antagonist, pretreated with morphine on the sixth day, significantly attenuated the severity of withdrawal syndromes and the increase in cAMP levels after the administration of naloxone. These results suggest that (1) the elevation of cAMP levels is involved in the expression of morphine-induced withdrawal syndromes, and (2) dopamine D4 receptor antagonists inhibit the expression of morphine-induced withdrawal syndromes accompanied with biochemical changes in mice. Furthermore, dopamine D4 receptor antagonists may be useful drugs for attenuating the expression of morphine dependence.
Indications have been received of cell immunity in 111 primary endometrial cancer patients in the process of complex treatment: hormonotherapy+surgery. These indices have revealed correlation with pathogenetic variants of disease. Suppression has also been registered of T-lymphocytes under the influence of complex treatment. 35 patients received thymic factor "Thymalin" as a component of complex treatment. Its positive effects on cell immunity and some clinico-morphological parameters have been registered.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is an estrogenic compound commonly used in manufacture of various consumer products. Earlier studies from our group have demonstrated that neonatal exposure of male rats to BPA causes decrease in sperm count and motility, increase in post implantation loss, ultimately leading to subfertility during adulthood. One of the factors contributing for post implantation loss is altered methylation pattern of imprinted genes. The present study was undertaken to investigate the molecular effects of neonatal exposure of male rats to BPA (2.4 μg/pup) (F0) on the methylation of H19 imprinting control region (ICR) in resorbed embryo (F1) and compared with spermatozoa of their respective sires (F0). We observed a significant down regulation in the transcript expression of Igf2 and H19 genes in BPA resorbed embryo (F1) as compared to control viable embryo. A significant hypomethylation was observed at the H19 ICR in the spermatozoa as well as in resorbed embryo sired by rats exposed neonatally to BPA. These results indicated that the aberrant methylation at ICR in spermatozoa was inherited by embryo which causes perturbation in the expression of Igf2 and H19, ultimately leading to post implantation loss. This could be one of the possible mechanisms of BPA induced adverse epigenetic effects on male fertility.
The response of ifosfamide-based chemotherapeutic regimens was retrospectively analyzed in adult patients with advanced soft-tissue sarcoma who were treated at the West German Tumor Center, Essen, between 1978 and 1990. Single-agent ifosfamide was given either in split doses of 60-80 mg/kg by 4-h infusion over 5 days or as a continuous 24-h infusion of 5 g/m2. Ifosfamide was given either in split doses of 40-50 mg/kg over 5 days or as a continuous infusion of 5 g/m2 in combination with doxorubicin (40-60 mg/m2, day 1), cisplatin (20 mg/m2, days 1-5), or etoposide (100 mg/m2, days 1, 3, and 5). Mesna was given to all patients as prophylaxis against urotoxicity. Of 54 evaluable patients receiving single-agent ifosfamide, 5 achieved a complete response (CR) and 10 showed a partial response (PR), for an overall response rate of 28%. Objective responses were more frequent in previously untreated patients (47%) than in pretreated patients (15%; P < 0.01). The addition of doxorubicin (n = 41) or cisplatin (n = 29) to ifosfamide did not significantly increase the response rate (29% and 41%, respectively) or median duration of remission as compared with ifosfamide alone. In addition, no significant difference was observed between the two ifosfamide regimens used: the 24-h continuous-infusion schedule (5 g/m2 per course, 27% response rate) and the 5-day fractionated regimen (10-15 g/m2 per course, 19% response rate). We conclude that the response and the median duration of remission produced by single-agent ifosfamide compare favorably with the results achieved using single-agent doxorubicin and the usually more toxic combination regimens.
The role of oxygen-derived free radicals in the pathogenesis of acute gastric ulceration induced by indomethacin (Indo) was investigated in rats. Gastric damage was assessed by blood-to-lumen leakage of 51Cr-EDTA, as well as by measuring the extent of macroscopically visible hemorrhagic lesions. The stomach was perfused with isotonic saline for 30 min, followed by Indo (10 mg/ml for 30 min) and HCl (100 mM for 60 min). Rats were given a continuous intravenous infusion of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD) or catalase or the iron-chelating agent deferoxamine. Additional rats received an intravenous infusion of the vehicle (control group) or were pretreated with prostaglandin E2 (100 micrograms/kg ip) or allopurinol (50 mg/kg po). Exposure of the stomach to Indo caused a fourfold increase in 51Cr-EDTA leakage compared with that observed in rats receiving only the vehicle for Indo. Subsequent exposure of the stomach to HCl resulted in a further twofold increase in 51Cr-EDTA leakage. Treatment with SOD, catalase, or deferoxamine significantly (P less than 0.05) reduced 51Cr-EDTA leakage during the intragastric perfusion with Indo and during the subsequent exposure to HCl. Pretreatment with PGE2 reduced 51Cr-EDTA leakage during perfusion with HCl only. Pretreatment with allopurinol did not significantly affect 51Cr-EDTA leakage at any time during the experiment. In addition to reducing the leakage of 51Cr-EDTA into the gastric lumen, SOD, catalase, and PGE2 significantly reduced the extent of macroscopically visible mucosal damage (P less than 0.05). These results support the hypothesis that oxygen-derived free radicals, probably derived from neutrophils, contribute to the pathogenesis of Indo-induced ulceration.
Two trials using ifosfamide-based combination chemotherapy for advanced soft-tissue sarcoma have been completed. In the first study, 50 evaluable patients received ifosfamide (5 g/m2) with mesna (5 g/m2) and doxorubicin (40 or 60 mg/m2) intravenously (i.v.) every 3 weeks. In all, 11 patients (22%) achieved an objective response [3 complete responses (CRs) and 8 partial responses (PRs)]. Toxicities included leukopenia, febrile neutropenia, nausea and vomiting, and alopecia. The overall median survival was 12 months. In the second study, 51 evaluable patients received ifosfamide (3 g/m2) with mesna (3 g/m2), both being given i.v. on day 1, together with etoposide (100 mg/m2) infused i.v. daily for 3 days. Six patients (12%) achieved objective responses (1 CR, 5 PRs). Toxicities included leukopenia, nausea and vomiting, and alopecia. The overall median survival was 7.4 months. Neither of these combination regimens appears to be more effective in advanced soft-tissue sarcoma than single-agent therapy with either ifosfamide or doxorubicin. If the results of chemotherapy in the management of these tumors are to be improved a new approach to therapy is clearly required.
The cellular mechanisms that underlie the enhancement of clonidine-evoked hypotension in aortic barodenervated (ABD) rats and its dependence on central adenosine A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) are not known. We tested the hypothesis that A(2A)R-mediated phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK)1/2 in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) and its downstream activation of nitric-oxide synthase (NOS)-NO signaling underlie the centrally (clonidine)-mediated hypotension. We first demonstrated an up-regulation of the molecular targets for clonidine [imidazoline I(1) and alpha(2A) adrenergic receptors (alpha(2A)R)] in the RVLM of ABD compared with sham-operated (SO) rats; this finding might explain the enhanced clonidine hypotension in ABD rats. A similar anatomical up-regulation of the RVLM A(2A)R was evident and was complemented with enhanced central A(2A)R [2-[4-[(2-carboxyethyl)phenyl]ethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine; CGS21680]-mediated hypotension in ABD rats. The hypotension produced by intracisternal CGS21680 or clonidine, in conscious ABD rats, was associated with a significant increase in pERK1/2 level in the RVLM. Whereas selective A(2A)R blockade [5-amino-7-(2-phenylethyl)-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo[4,3-epsilon]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine; SCH58261] or NOS inhibition (N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester) virtually abolished clonidine-evoked hypotension, clonidine-evoked enhancement of RVLM pERK1/2 production was only abrogated by SCH58261 pretreatment. These findings suggest that interventions that act centrally to increase RVLM neuronal pERK1/2 production elicit hypotension via the activation of downstream NOS-NO signaling. The findings also yield insight into a cellular mechanism that might explain the dependence of centrally (clonidine)-mediated hypotension on central A(2A)R signaling in the ABD rat.
Three patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) and 3 able-bodied (AB) patients were infused with naloxone during a study to examine their neuroendocrine function. An unanticipated side effect occurred during the naloxone infusion. All 3 patients with SCI, but none of the AB patients, experienced profoundly increased spasticity during the naloxone infusion. Our report describes this side effect, which has potential implications for the clinical treatment or scientific evaluation of individuals with SCI.
All patients were in good general health and medication free for 11 days or longer before the study. Each patient was placed on a 30-hour protocol to analyze pulsatile release of gonadotropins. Physiologic saline was intravenously infused on day 1 to serve as a control period for naloxone infusion on day 2.
AB patients experienced no muscle spasm activity or any other side effects at any time during the study. In contrast, all 3 patients with SCI experienced a profoundly increased frequency and duration of spasticity in muscles innervated by the nerve roots caudal to their level of injury. In all 3 patients with SCI, spasticity increased only during the period of naloxone infusion. Within 1 hour of stopping naloxone, spasticity returned to baseline levels.
Naloxone infusion produced a differential effect on the muscle activity of men with SCI compared to AB men with intact spinal circuits. Consistent with previous studies, the results of this study indicate a relationship between opioid neuromodulation and spasticity after SCI.
Acute paraquat (PQ) poisoning induces redox cycle and leads to fatal injury of lung. Clinical management is supportive in nature due to lack of effective antidote, and the mortality is very high. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) process the properties of immunomodulation, anti-inflammatory, and antifibrotic effects and oxidative stress resistance. MSC transplantation may theoretically serve as an antidote in PQ intoxication. In this study, we examined the potential therapeutic effects of MSCs in PQ-induced lung injury. The degree of PQ toxicity in the rat type II pneumocyte cell line, L2, and MSCs was evaluated by examining cell viability, ultrastructural changes, and gene expression. L2 cells treated with 0.5 mM PQ were cocultured in the absence or presence of MSCs. For the in vivo study, adult male SD rats were administered an intraperitoneal injection of PQ (24 mg/kg body weight) and were divided into three groups: group I, control; group II, cyclophosphamide and methylprednisolone; group III, MSC transplantation 6 h after PQ exposure. MSCs were relatively resistant to PQ toxicity. Coculture with MSCs significantly inhibited PQ accumulation in L2 cells and upregulated the expression of antioxidative heme oxygenase 1 and metallothionein 1a genes, reversed epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, and increased the viability of PQ-exposed L2 cells. Treatment with MSCs resulted in a significant reduction in severity of liver and renal function deterioration, alleviated lung injury, and prolonged the life span of rats. Altogether, our results suggest that MSCs possess antidote-like effect through multifactorial protection mechanism. The results of this preclinical study demonstrate that transplantation of MSCs may be a promising therapy and should be further validated clinically.
Dopamine receptor blocking drugs, commonly used in the treatment of involuntary movements, may cause potentially serious adverse effects, including tardive dyskinesia. Tardive dyskinesia has not been reported with tetrabenazine, a dopamine-depleting drug. We report a follow-up in 217 patients treated with tetrabenazine for about 18 months (range, 1 to 80). The response was rated on a scale of 0 to 5 (1 = marked improvement, 4 = no response, 5 = worsening). The mean effect from tetrabenazine was rated as follows: 2.3 in 44 patients with tardive dyskinesia, 2.6 in 15 with tardive dystonia, 2.6 in 10 with Huntington's disease, 2.7 in 17 with Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome, 2.8 in 19 with generalized dystonia, 2.8 in 57 with Meige's syndrome, and 3.4 in 25 with other focal dystonias. Twenty-two patients with a variety of unusual movement disorders had a mean effect of 2.9. Parkinsonism occurred as a side effect in 53 patients, sedation in 28, depression in 23, anxiety in 16, insomnia in 11, and akathisia in 10. The choreatic movement disorders are most amenable to tetrabenazine therapy, but tardive and idiopathic dystonia may also be responsive. Tetrabenazine is an effective and relatively safe drug for a variety of hyperkinetic movement disorders.
Glucose and lipid metabolism dysfunction is a significant side effect associated with antipsychotics. Although there are many studies about the linkages between drugs and metabolic dysfunction, most of these studies have compared the effects of two antipsychotics on only one metabolic measure: either glucose or lipid metabolism.
The present study aimed to investigate the effects of clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone, and sulpiride on glucose and lipid metabolism in first-episode schizophrenia.
One hundred twelve schizophrenics were assigned randomly to receive clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone, or sulpiride for 8 weeks. Planned assessments included body mass index (BMI), waist-to-hip ratio, fasting glucose, insulin, C-peptide, insulin resistance index (IRI), cholesterol, and triglyceride. All measures were collected at baseline and at the end of the 8-week treatment.
After treatment, insulin, C-peptide, and IRI were significantly increased in the four groups, but not fasting glucose levels. Cholesterol and triglyceride levels were significantly increased in the clozapine and olanzapine groups. Patients treated with clozapine and olanzapine had higher fasting insulin, C-peptide, and IRI levels than those treated with risperidone and sulpiride. Among the four antipsychotics, the increases of mean BMI from high to low were as follows: clozapine, olanzapine, sulpiride, and risperidone.
This study confirmed that the four antipsychotic drugs were associated with an increase of insulin, C-peptide, and IRI. It was found that clozapine and olanzapine were associated with an increase in cholesterol and triglyceride levels. The effects of clozapine and olanzapine on the glucose and lipid metabolism outweighed those of risperidone and sulpiride.
Testosterone (T) plays a permissive role in the development of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), and phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors (PDE5is) have been found to be effective for BPH and lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) in clinical trials. This study investigated the effect of T on smooth muscle (SM) contractile and regulatory signaling pathways, including PDE5 expression and functional activity in prostate in male rats (sham-operated, surgically castrated, and castrated with T supplementation). In vitro organ bath studies, real-time RT-PCR, Western blot analysis, and immunohistochemistry were performed. Castration heavily attenuated contractility, including sensitivity to phenylephrine with SM myosin immunostaining revealing a disrupted SM cell arrangement in the stroma. PDE5 was immunolocalized exclusively in the prostate stroma, and orchiectomy signficantly reduced PDE5 immunopositivity, mRNA, and protein expression, along with nNOS and ROKβ mRNA, whereas it increased eNOS plus α(1a) and α(1b) adrenoreceptor expression in castrated animals. The PDE5i zaprinast significantly increased prostate strip relaxation to the nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) in control but not castrated rats. But SNP alone was more effective on castrated rats, comparable with sham treated with SNP plus zaprinast. T supplementation prevented or restored all above changes, including SNP and zaprinast in vitro responsiveness. In conclusion, our data show that T positively regulates PDE5 expression and functional activities in prostate, and T ablation not only suppresses prostate size but also reduces prostatic SM contractility, with several potential SM contraction/relaxation pathways implicated. Zaprinast findings strongly suggest a major role for PDE5/cGMP in this signaling cascade. PDE5 inhibition may represent a novel mechanism for treatment of BPH.
Pulmonary hypoplasia is a primary cause of high morbidity and mortality in neonates with Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia (CDH). However, the precise pathogenesis of PH associated with CDH is still not clearly understood. It has been recently reported that lung Kruppel-like factor (LKLF), a member of the Kruppel-like factor family of transcription factors, is predominantly expressed in lungs and plays an important role in lung morphogenesis and functional maturation. It has been reported that homozygous deletion of LKLF gene in mice results in reduced lung morphogenesis. It is further reported that chimeric mice derived from LKLF (-/-) embryonic stem cells exhibit delayed lung development especially in the later gestational stages. We therefore designed this study to test the hypothesis that the LKLF gene is down-regulated during later stages of lung development in nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs.
Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or nitrofen on day 9 of gestation (D9). Fetal lungs were harvested on D15, D18, and D21 and divided into 3 groups:control, nitrofen without CDH(CDH(-)) and nitrofen with CDH(CDH(+)) (n=24 for each group). Real-time RT-PCR analysis was performed to investigate pulmonary gene expression levels of LKLF. Differences between the 3 groups at each time point were tested statistically and significance was accepted at p<0.05. Immunohistochemistry was also performed to evaluate LKLF protein expression and distribution.
The relative mRNA expression levels of LKLF on D18 and D21 were significantly decreased (p<0.01) in CDH(-) and CDH(+) groups compared to controls. The gene expression levels of LKLF on D15 did not differ significantly between the nitrofen group and controls. Immunohistochemical study showed strong LKLF immunoreactivity on D18 and D21 in nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung compared to controls, whereas no difference was seen on D15.
Our results provide evidence for the first time that LKLF is down-regulated in the later stages of lung development in nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs. These data suggest that the down-regulation of LKLF during this critical period of lung morphogenesis may impair lung development and maturation, resulting in pulmonary hypoplasia in the nitrofen CDH model.
Effects of corticosteroids and surgical stress on hepatic morphologic features and enzymes were studied in 18 mature dogs of mixed breeding: group 1, control (n = 3); group 2, dexamethasone (n = 5); group 3, dexamethasone and surgery (n = 5); and group 4, surgery (n = 5). Dexamethasone (2.2 mg/kg of body weight twice a day subcutaneously) was administered for 8 days in groups 2 and 3 dogs. All dogs were anesthetized with thiopental for 10 minutes on days 0, 2, and 4. On day 2, dogs in groups 3 and 4 were intubated and maintained on methoxyflurane and oxygen, and a liver biopsy, hemilaminectomy (T13-L1), and 15 minutes of hypotension (75/45 mm of Hg) induced by methoxyflurane were done. Serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, ALP isoenzymes, and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity were determined on days 0, 2, 3, 5, and 8. All dogs were euthanatized and necropsied on day 8. Serum hepatic enzyme activity and hepatic morphologic characteristics were normal for group 1 control dogs. The mean ALP and ALT were significantly (P less than 0.05) increased in dogs in groups 2, 3, and 4. In group 2, the mean ALP (days 5 to 8) and ALT (day 8) were significantly (P less than 0.05) increased. In group 3, the mean ALP and ALT activities were significantly increased on days 2 to 8. In group 4, the mean ALP was significantly increased on days 2 to 8 and the mean ALT was significantly increased on days 3 and 5. All other values were normal. A single isoenzyme band (Rf = 0.399 +/- 0.023, mean +/- SD) was identified in all dogs. Hepatic morphologic changes attributed to dexamethasone were mild-to-moderate vacuolation in a diffuse distribution on day 2 (group 3) and aggregates of moderate-to-severe vacuolation in mainly a periportal distribution on day 8 (groups 2 and 3).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) hydrolyzes acetylcholine to terminate cholinergic neurotransmission. Overstimulation of cholinergic receptors by excess acetylcholine is known to be lethal. However, AChE knockout mice live to adulthood, although they have weak muscles, do not eat solid food, and die early from seizures. We wanted to know what compensatory factors allowed these mice to survive. We had previously shown that their butyrylcholinesterase activity was normal and had not increased. In this report, we tested the hypothesis that AChE-/- mice adapted to the absence of AChE by downregulating cholinergic receptors. Receptor downregulation is expected to reduce sensitivity to agonists and to increase sensitivity to antagonists. Physiological response to the muscarinic agonists, oxotremorine (OXO) and pilocarpine, showed that AChE-/- mice were resistant to OXO-induced hypothermia, tremor, salivation, and analgesia, and to pilocarpine-induced seizures. AChE+/- mice had an intermediate response. The muscarinic receptor binding sites measured with [3H]quinuclinyl benzilate, as well as the protein levels of M1, M2, and M4 receptors measured with specific antibodies on Western blots, were reduced to be approximately 50% in AChE-/- brain. However, mRNA levels for muscarinic receptors were unchanged. These results indicate that one adaptation to the absence of AChE is downregulation of muscarinic receptors, thus reducing response to cholinergic stimulation.
We have used ifosfamide to treat patients with sarcomas in four completed single-agent protocols and one pilot study since 1985. All the studies have used either N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) or mesna as a uroprotective agent, except in one arm of one study where hydration alone was employed. Mesna has proven superior to NAC in providing protection against ifosfamide-induced hematuria. Mesna given as a loading dose followed by continuous 24-h infusion has been effective and most practical in this regard. Ifosfamide has demonstrated clinically useful antitumor activity in our hands against most sarcoma subtypes. Our studies suggest a dose-response relationship for ifosfamide. At a total dose of 6 g/m2 per course, the overall response rate was 10%; at 10 g/m2 per course, it rose to 21%. Future clinical trials will determine ifosfamide's role in combination chemotherapy and more clearly define the best schedule or schedules for the uroprotective administration of mesna.
The antihypertensive efficacy and renal effects of enalapril maleate therapy were evaluated in 13 hypertensive patients with chronic renal failure. Enalapril was administered as follows: alone; added to furosemide, clonidine hydrochloride, or atenolol; or in combination with any of the aforementioned drugs. Three patients did not complete the study; uncontrolled hypertension was the cause in two of these patients. In the remaining ten patients, short-term (mean +/- SD, 63 +/- 9 days) enalapril maleate therapy decreased the patient's seated blood pressure from 161/98 +/- 19/8 to 130/80 +/- 13/7 mm Hg. Furosemide was administered to eight patients; the dose of concomitant sympatholytic therapy was decreased in five of five patients. Serum potassium concentration increased from 4.1 +/- 0.3 to 4.5 +/- 0.3 mmol/L. Levels of urinary total protein excretion decreased from 2.23 +/- 2.05 to 1.08 +/- 1.45 g/d. Renal function (creatinine clearance, 0.58 +/- 0.21 mL/s) did not change from baseline. During long-term therapy, the rate of progression of renal insufficiency seemed to slacken in three of four patients with diabetic nephropathy. Thus enalapril can reduce blood pressure and proteinuria in hypertensive patients with chronic renal insufficiency. The possibility that enalapril can slow the progression of diabetic nephropathy remains to be confirmed by future studies.
Described is the case of a patient who developed left bundle branch block following acute propoxyphene hydrochloride overdosage. The left bundle branch block was transient and associated with no permanent sequelae. Previously documented cardiac abnormalities, specific narcotic antagonist therapy, and animal studies correlating cardiac toxicity of propoxyphene hydrochloride with its potent local anesthetic action are discussed.
Because theophylline is a widely used analeptic, there is interest in its possible ototoxic and neurotoxic effects. The present study used the brainstem auditory evoked potential (BAEP) to evaluate the acute effects of theophylline on auditory electrophysiology in mice. Adult female C57BL/6 mice were injected intraperitoneally with 150 mg/kg theophylline or saline. The BAEP thresholds and latency-intensity profiles suggested that theophylline induced a rather slight but statistically significant change in auditory function that was suggestive of a temporary recruitment-type sensorineural deficit. This observation raises concerns about the possible ototoxic effects of theophylline, particularly in asthmatic patients and apneic preterm neonates who receive this drug chronically. While there was BAEP evidence of ototoxic effects for theophylline, there was no evidence of neurotoxic effects.
We reported a 9-year-old boy who had complex partial seizure for the first time, 4 years and 7 months after an episode of theophylline--associated convulsive status. An ictal EEG showed abnormal theta wave burst which showed no superficial focus, implying existence of deep focus in the brain. MRI revealed left thalamic infarction and hippocampal sclerosis. We regarded these abnormalities as the sequelae of theophylline-associated convulsive status.
Azoxyalkanes are isomeric with nitrosodialkylamines and could be similar in their biochemical and biological actions. To compare the structure-activity relations in the two series, the tumorigenic activities of four azoxyalkanes, azoxymethane, azoxyethane, Z-ethyl-O,N,N-azoxymethane, and Z-methyl-O,N,N-azoxyethane, were compared in male F344 rats by p.o. administration of 0.54 mM and 0.135 mM solutions in drinking water. In most cases, treatment lasted 30 weeks, but at the higher dose of the two ethylazoxy compounds, 24 weeks of treatment were sufficient. Most of the animals died with tumors that could be attributed to the treatments. The two ethylazoxy compounds caused much earlier death from tumors than the corresponding methylazoxy compounds. All four compounds induced a high incidence of liver neoplasms, which were mainly hepatocellular; the two ethylazoxy compounds also induced a large number of hemangiosarcomas in the liver. At both dose levels, azoxyethane induced tumors of the esophagus and nasal cavity, tumors that were not seen in any other group. Other tumors appearing in significant incidence were in the colon and ileum, induced by azoxymethane and Z-ethyl-O,N,N-azoxymethane, and kidney tumors induced by azoxymethane and Z-methyl-O,N,N-azoxyethane. In F344 rats, azoxyethane was similar in carcinogenic activity to its isomer nitrosodiethylamine, whereas azoxymethane was much less potent than nitrosodimethylamine and induced quite different tumors. These results suggest that the biochemical activation of azoxylkanes is different from the analogous nitrosodialkylamines.
