New data on complex realization of anxiolytic, antidepressive and antinociceptive effects of prenatal injections of a 5-HT1A agonist buspirone were obtained in prenatally stressed adult rats. Buspirone was injected to female rats from the 9th to 21st days of pregnancy; during the last week of pregnancy buspirone was injected 10 min before immobilization stress. In the adult offspring of both sexes, behavioral indices of tonic pain response in the formalin test and the indices of depression in the forced swim test were investigated. The choice of the target was defined in accordance with available literature data on the role of 5-HT1A receptors in the mechanisms of prenatal stress, of formation of the ascending link of the nociceptive system, of development of depression, and in the mechanisms of the treatment ofnociceptive information. Prenatal stress increased the duration of licking and the time of immobility, the indices of tonic pain and depression in the rats of both sexes. Buspirone evoked the decrease of the indices investigated in prenatally stressed rats in both tests in comparison with the relevant indices in prenatally stressed rats that were not subjected to buspirone. Thereby, it has been demonstrated that buspirone normalized the indices of the tonic pain response modified by prenatal stress; a considerable decrease of the index of depression suggests that there are differences in mechanisms of antinociceptive and antidepressive effects of buspirone. The data on complex realization of anxiolytic, antidepressive and antinociceptive effects ofbuspirone stimulate the attention of clinicians and prompt further investigations in this direction.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common cancers worldwide and shows a propensity to metastasize and infiltrate adjacent and more distant tissues. HCC is associated with multiple risk factors, including hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, which is especially prevalent in China. Here, we used exome sequencing to identify somatic mutations in ten HBV-positive individuals with HCC with portal vein tumor thromboses (PVTTs), intrahepatic metastases. Both C:G>A:T and T:A>A:T transversions were frequently found among the 331 non-silent mutations. Notably, ARID1A, which encodes a component of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex, was mutated in 14 of 110 (13%) HBV-associated HCC specimens. We used RNA interference to assess the roles of 91 of the confirmed mutated genes in cellular survival. The results suggest that seven of these genes, including VCAM1 and CDK14, may confer growth and infiltration capacity to HCC cells. This study provides a view of the landscape of somatic mutations that may be implicated in advanced HCC.
A case of a 53 year old female with olanzapine-induced QT interval prolongation and ventricular fibrillation is described. The relationship between neuroleptic drugs and the risk of sudden cardiac death is discussed.
The potential of the antibiotics chloramphenicol succinate (CAPS) and thiamphenicol (TAP) to induce aplastic anaemia in the female BALB/c mouse was investigated. CAPS was administered at 2000 mg/kg, and TAP at 850 mg/kg, daily by gavage, for 17 days. At 1, 13, 22, 41, 98 and 179 days after the final dose of each antibiotic, mice (n = 4 or 5) were sampled for haematological examination and haematopoietic stem cell assays. Both CAPS and TAP induced significant reductions in red blood cell count, haematocrit and haemoglobin values at day 1 post dosing; counts of colony-forming units-erythroid and colony-forming units-granulocyte-macrophage, were similarly significantly decreased at this time. All these reduced parameters returned towards normal at days 13 and 22. At days 41, 98 and 179, results for all haematological values and stem cell assays in both CAPS- and TAP-treated mice compared with the controls; there was no evidence of a reduction in peripheral blood values or bone marrow parameters at the later sampling points, as would be expected in a developing or overt bone marrow aplasia. We therefore consider that the administration of CAPS and TAP, which have been associated with the development of aplastic anaemia in man, induce a reversible anaemia, but not a chronic bone marrow aplasia, when given at haemotoxic dose levels for 17 days in the BALB/c mouse.
With the aim of developing an effective therapy for heavily pretreated refractory MM outpatients, we evaluated the OPPEBVCAD regimen, a Hodgkin's disease-derived protocol that includes many drugs effective in MM administered in a sequential schedule. Twenty-two pts aged 42-72 years, with symptomatic highly-pretreated refractory (18 cases), or primary resistant MM (four cases. including two pts with plasma cell leukemia-PCL) received this therapy every 28 days (2-4 cycles, followed by a maintenance program). Therapeutic response (Chronic Leukemia-Myeloma Task Force criteria) and performance status (PS) and pain (W.H.O.) were evaluated. All of the pts were evaluable for response. There were 9 (40%) objective responses (OR: stabilization of blood counts and bone lesions, serum calcium normalization, 50% or more reduction in the concentration of serum monoclonal component (MC), 90% reduction in Bence-Jones proteinuria), 8 (36%) partial responses (PR: 25-50% reduction in serum MC), 1 no response or stable disease (NR), and 4 (18%) cases of progressive disease (PD). OR plus PR were 77%. Of the 4 primary resistant tumors (2 PCL and 2 MM), 2 achieved PR, 1 OR (a PCL case) and 1 progressed. Median survival was 15 months for responding pts (OR plus PR) and 4.5 months for non-responders (NR plus PD). PS and pain improved in 15 pts and did not change in 9. The most frequent side effects were cytopenias, with one drug related infective death. The OPPEBVCAD regimen proved to be an effective therapy for refractory relapsing or primary resistant MM: in responders (two-thirds of the pts), survival was prolonged by about 10 months. Its efficacy in anthracycline-treated pts, as well as the feasibility of using it on an outpatient basis without any continuous drug infusions, make this regimen a promising third line salvage therapy.
The disposition and toxicity of inhaled elemental mercury (Hg0) vapor for pregnant Long-Evans rats, and potential adverse effects on reproductive outcome were investigated. Rats were exposed to 0, 1, 2, 4, or 8 mg Hg0/m(3) for 2 h/day from gestation day (GD) 6 through GD 15. Maternal toxicity occurred primarily in rats exposed to 4 and 8 mg/m(3) and was manifested as a concentration-related decrease in body weight gain and mild nephrotoxicity. Control rats gained about 13% of their initial body weight during the 10-day exposure. Rats exposed to 4 mg/m(3) Hg0 gained about 7% less than controls, and rats exposed to 8 mg/m(3) Hg0 lost about 17% of their initial body weight during the 10-day exposure period. Maternal kidney weights were significantly increased in the 4 and 8 mg/m(3) concentration groups, and urinalysis revealed increased levels of protein and alkaline phosphatase activity in urine of all Hg0-exposed rats. Dams exposed to 8 mg/m(3) were euthanized in moribund condition on postnatal day (PND) 1. There was no histopathological evidence of toxicity in maternal lung, liver, or kidney of exposed rats at GD 6, GD 15, or PND 1. The incidence of resorptions was significantly increased, litter size and PND 1 neonatal body weights were significantly decreased only in the 8-mg/m(3) group. Total Hg concentrations in maternal tissues increased with increasing number of exposure days and concentration. In general, approximately 70% of Hg was eliminated from maternal tissues during the week following the last exposure (GD 15 to PND 1). Elimination of Hg from maternal brain and kidney was slower than in other tissues, possibly due to higher levels of metallothionein. Total Hg concentrations in fetal tissues increased with increasing number of exposure days and concentration, demonstrating that a significant amount of Hg crossed the placenta. One week after the last exposure, significant amounts of Hg were still present in brain, liver, and kidney of PND 1 neonates. Metallothionein levels in neonatal tissues were not significantly increased by exposure to 4 mg/m(3) Hg0. The total amount of Hg in neonatal brain (ng/brain) continued to increase after termination of inhalation exposure, suggesting a redistribution of Hg from the dam to neonatal brain. These data demonstrate that inhaled Hg0 vapor is distributed to all maternal and fetal tissues in a dose-dependent manner. Adverse effects of Hg on developmental outcome occurred only at a concentration that caused maternal toxicity.
Anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome caused by sodium valproate (Depakene) has rarely been reported. Here we describe a patient who presented with nonspecific polymorphous eruptions, fulminant hepatitis, and jaundice. Lichenoid dermatitis was found in the skin biopsy specimen. Toxic hepatitis and microvesicular steatosis were found in the liver biopsy specimen, consistent with valproate hepatotoxicity.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma agonists such as troglitazone, pioglitazone and thiazolidine have been shown to induce apoptosis in human colon cancer cells. The molecular mechanism of PPARgamma agonist-induced apoptosis of colon cancer cells, however, is not clear. Glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) is an indispensable element for the activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) which plays a critical role in the mediation of survival signals in cancer cells. To investigate the mechanisms of PPARgamma agonist-induced apoptosis of colon cancer cells, we examined the effect of troglitazone (0-16muM) on the activation of GSK-3beta and NF-kappaB. Our study showed that the inhibitory effect of troglitazone on colon cancer cell growth was associated with inhibition of NF-kappaB activity and GSK-3beta expression in a dose-dependent manner. Cells were arrested in G(0)/G(1) phase followed by the induction of apoptosis after treatment of troglitazone with concomitant decrease in the expression of the G(0)/G(1) phase regulatory proteins; Cdk2, Cdk4, cyclin B1, D1, and E as well as in the anti-apoptosis protein Bcl-2 along with an increase in the expression of the pro-apoptosis-associated proteins; Caspase-3, Caspase-9 and Bax. Transient transfection of GSK-3beta recovered troglitazone-induced cell growth inhibition and NF-kappaB inactivation. In contrast, co-treatment of troglitazone with a GSK-3beta inhibitor (AR-a014418) or siRNA against GSK-3beta, significantly augmented the inhibitory effect of troglitazone on the NF-kappaB activity, the cancer cell growth and on the expression of G(0)/G(1) phase regulatory proteins and pro-apoptosis regulatory proteins. These results suggest that the PPARgamma agonist, troglitazone, inhibits colon cancer cell growth via inactivation of NF-kappaB by suppressing GSK-3beta activity.
Hypoxia in the tumor microenvironment triggers differential signaling pathways for tumor survival. In this study, we characterize the involvement of hypoxia and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in the antineoplastic mechanism of proopiomelanocortin (POMC) gene delivery in a mouse B16-F10 melanoma model in vivo and in vitro. Histological analysis revealed increased TUNEL-positive cells and enhanced hypoxic activities in melanoma treated with adenovirus encoding POMC (Ad-POMC) but not control vector. Because the apoptotic cells were detected mainly in regions distant from blood vessels, it was hypothesized that POMC therapy might render melanoma cells vulnerable to hypoxic insult. Using a hypoxic chamber or cobalt chloride (CoCl2), we showed that POMC gene delivery elicited apoptosis and caspase-3 activation in cultured B16-F10 cells only under hypoxic conditions. The apoptosis induced by POMC gene delivery was associated with elevated ROS generation in vitro and in vivo. Blocking ROS generation using the antioxidant N-acetyl-l-cysteine abolished the apoptosis and caspase-3 activities induced by POMC gene delivery and hypoxia. We further showed that POMC-derived melanocortins, including α-MSH, β-MSH, and ACTH, but not γ-MSH, contributed to POMC-induced apoptosis and ROS generation during hypoxia. To elucidate the source of ROS generation, application of the NADPH oxidase inhibitor diphenyleneiodonium attenuated α-MSH-induced apoptosis and ROS generation, implicating the proapoptotic role of NADPH oxidase in POMC action. Of the NADPH oxidase isoforms, only Nox4 was expressed in B16-F10 cells, and Nox4 was also elevated in Ad-POMC-treated melanoma tissues. Silencing Nox4 gene expression with Nox4 siRNA suppressed the stimulatory effect of α-MSH-induced ROS generation and cell apoptosis during hypoxia. In summary, we demonstrate that POMC gene delivery suppressed melanoma growth by inducing apoptosis, which was at least partly dependent on Nox4 upregulation.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that obsessive-compulsive symptoms are temporarily worsened by acute intravenous clomipramine, suggesting that there is a basal hypersensitivity of serotonin (5-HT) receptors in obsessive-compulsive (OC) patients. We also investigated the relationship of the effects of acute (intravenous) and chronic (oral) administration of clomipramine. Twenty-eight OC patients were recruited. The first part of the study included placebo and clomipramine infusions and monitoring of OC symptoms by 100 mm Visual Analogue self-rated scales (VAS). There was significant worsening of obsessions in the whole sample during clomipramine infusion. The second part included standardized 10-week oral treatments with clomipramine and evaluation of clinical efficacy. Among the 18 patients who completed the second part of the study, oral clomipramine significantly reduced OC symptoms, but OC patients who had become worse after clomipramine infusion showed higher Y-BOCS scores.
Although gadolinium chelates are mainly eliminated by the kidney, there is limited information about their effects. The renal tolerance of these compounds on renal function in an in vivo rat model are evaluated.
A combination of renal ischemia and intrarenal iodinated contrast agent infusion (diatrizoate) led to a reproducible and reversible model of acute renal failure (n = 5). Using this model, the renal tolerance of gadolinium DOTA (Gd-DOTA) (n = 10) and gadolinium DTPA (Gd-DTPA) (n = 10) were evaluated. The effects of the association of Gd-DOTA with diatrizoate (n = 5) on renal function also were assessed.
Gadolinium DOTA induced no change in serum creatinine and creatinine clearance. Gadolinium DTPA induced a significant increase in serum creatinine (50 to 83 +/- 5 and 70 +/- 6 mumol/L) before and at 24 and 48 hours, respectively (P < .05), and a decrease in creatinine clearance from 1.6 +/- 0.1 to 0.8 +/- 0.1; 1.2 +/- 0.1 mL/mL before and at 24 and 48 hours, respectively (P < .05). In this model, Gd-DOTA did not modify the renal tolerance of diatrizoate as assessed with serum creatinine and creatinine clearance.
Gadolinium DOTA is not nephrotoxic and can be infused in association with iodinated contrast media. In this model, Gd-DTPA induced reversible renal failure.
The aim of this investigation was to determine whether docetaxel increases the therapeutic ratio of fractionated radiotherapy in vivo. Two tumor types were chosen based on their sensitivity to docetaxel as a single agent: (a) docetaxel-sensitive MCa-4 mammary adenocarcinoma, which responds to docetaxel by G2-M-phase cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, and subsequent reoxygenation of surviving tumor cells; and (b) docetaxel-resistant SCC-VII squamous cell carcinoma, which responds to docetaxel treatment only by G2-M-phase arrest. Response of the normal jejunal mucosa in mice was compared to the response of both tumor types to confirm therapeutic gain. We conducted micromorphometric analysis of tumor cell mitosis, assayed apoptosis by its histological appearance in tissue sections, and determined tumor response by tumor growth delay. Normal tissue response of the jejunum was assayed by micromorphometric analysis of mitotic and apoptotic indices, and clonal crypt stem cell survival was measured using the microcolony assay. Two clinically relevant treatment schedules were tested for both antitumor efficacy and normal tissue toxicity: (a) a single bolus of docetaxel (33 mg/kg i.v.) 24 h before five daily fractions of radiation; and (b) daily administration of docetaxel (8 mg/kg i.v.) with radiation delivered at the peak of mitotic arrest (9 h for MCa-4 and 6 h for SCC-VII tumors). The best therapeutic gain for docetaxel-sensitive MCa-4 was achieved with a single bolus of drug 24 h before the start of fractionated radiotherapy (therapeutic gain = 2.04). This schedule takes advantage of reoxygenation of hypoxic tumor cells during the interval between drug treatment and radiation delivery. The best therapeutic gain for docetaxel-resistant SCC-VII was achieved with intermittent multiple doses of docetaxel given during the course of fractionated radiotherapy. This schedule maximized the exposure of cells to radiation while they were arrested by docetaxel in the radiosensitive G2-M phases of the cell cycle (enhancement factor = 2.0). Final therapeutic gain was reduced to 1.59 because of increased normal tissue toxicity in mice treated with multiple intermittent doses of docetaxel in combination with fractionated radiotherapy. Thus, docetaxel greatly enhanced tumor response to fractionated radiotherapy, but the magnitude of therapeutic efficacy depended on drug-radiation scheduling. The greatest therapeutic gain in the treatment of docetaxel-sensitive tumors was achieved by a single large dose of docetaxel administered 1 day before the initiation of fractionated radiotherapy and in the treatment of docetaxel-resistant tumors by daily concomitant docetaxel-radiation treatments.
The effects of chronic infusion of 3.0 mg/kg/hr of nicotine on the behavioral responses of four mouse strains (C3H, C57BL, BALB and DBA) to challenge doses of nicotine and on the levels of cholinergic receptors and enzymes were determined. Mice of the C57BL, BALB and DBA strains developed tolerance to the effects of nicotine on Y-maze activity, Y-maze rearing and body temperature. The C3H mice did not exhibit any evidence of tolerance to the effects of nicotine on these measures, but this strain did show tolerance to the effects of nicotine on acoustic startle response. None of the strains developed tolerance to the effects of nicotine on respiration rate, and only the BALB mice demonstrated tolerance to nicotine-induced bradycardia. Chronic nicotine treatment also elicited changes in putative brain nicotinic receptors. Increased binding of L-[3H]nicotine was seen in six brain regions in all four mouse strains. The changes in binding were similar for all the strains. The binding of alpha-[125I]bungarotoxin was also elevated in the four mouse strains, and modest differences among the strains were evident in this measure, with the C3H strain showing the smallest increases in four of the six brain regions. Chronic nicotine treatment did not alter brain muscarinic receptors, as measured with L-[3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate binding, nor were the activities of acetylcholinesterase or choline acetyltransferase altered, except that a small change in hippocampal choline acetyltransferase activity may have occurred. These results indicate that tolerance to nicotine is regulated by genetic factors and that changes in brain nicotinic receptor numbers are not sufficient to explain the development of tolerance.
To evaluate the effectiveness of psychiatric counseling in reducing the rate of development of psychiatric side effects of antiviral therapy with interferon-α and ribavirin among study participants compared with standard clinical monitoring alone.
Interferon-α is used to treat chronic hepatitis C. Interferons may induce adverse events that usually, but not always, reverse within a few days after the end of therapy.
Two hundred eleven patients with chronic hepatitis C, genotype 1b were treated with peginterferon and ribavirin for 48 weeks in a prospective trial. Two groups were randomly created. Group A was interviewed by a team of gastroenterologists, psychiatrists, and psychologists and treated with psychotherapy once a month. Group B was monitored once a month according to a conventional protocol that did not include psychotherapy. SVR (sustained viral response), severe psychiatric symptom onset, and mood progression were assessed (P calculated using Fisher exact test, Friedman test, Dunn posttest, and Mann-Whitney U-test).
At baseline, there was no difference in depressive symptoms or liver histologic score between the 2 groups. The onset rate of severe psychiatric manifestations was 4.7% (Group A) and 16.1% (Group B) between the 24th and 36th weeks (P<0.01). Fifteen participants in Group A and 39 in Group B required antidepressants and benzodiazepines (P<0.05).
Patients can develop depressive symptoms during interferon therapy. Multidisciplinary medical treatment with psychiatric counseling provided during the treatment of chronic hepatitis C may contribute to the decrease or prevent the higher rates of depression associated with interferon treatment.
It has recently been reported that melatonin protects neuronal cells from damage by enhancing Akt activation, thus mediating antiapoptosis signals. However, there is little information regarding the effects of melatonin on the activation of genes further downstream in the Akt signaling pathway in ischemic brain injury. This study investigated whether melatonin modulates the antiapoptotic signal through Akt and its downstream targets, Bad and 14-3-3. Adult male rats were treated with melatonin (5 mg/kg) prior to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Brains were collected at 24 hr after MCAO and infarct volumes were analyzed. Our results confirm that melatonin significantly reduces infarct volume and decreases the positive reaction of TUNEL staining in the cerebral cortex. Signal pathway activation was measured by phosphorylation of Akt at Ser(473) and Bad at Ser(136) using Western blot analysis. Melatonin prevented the injury-induced decrease of pAkt and pBad levels. However, melatonin did not affect the expression of 14-3-3, which acts as an antiapoptotic factor through interaction with Bad. Immunoprecipitation analysis showed that the interaction between pBad and 14-3-3 increased in the presence of melatonin, compared to that of control animals. Our findings suggest that melatonin prevents cell death because of brain injury and that these protective effects are mediated through maintaining the interaction between pBad and 14-3-3, thus blocking activation of the apoptotic pathway.
Male F344 rats received diet containing 3,000 ppm 2,6-dimethylaniline (DMA) after initiation with a single subcutaneous injection of 2,400 mg/kg of N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine (DHPN), and histological and electron microscopic examinations of the nasal cavity were performed at 4, 13, 26 and 52 weeks to examine sequential changes induced by DMA. Severe atrophy of Bowman's glands and epithelial disarrangement were apparent from week 4, followed by dilatation and/or proliferation of Bowman's glands, degeneration of epithelial cells, and proliferation of undifferentiated epithelial cells from week 13. Focal glandular hyperplasias, dysplastic foci, and adenomas were observed from week 26, and carcinomas at 52 week. These nasal lesions were mostly evident in the olfactory mucosa in the nasal cavity, and their severity and/or incidences, other than atrophy of Bowman's glands, increased with the treatment period. Electron microscopically, carcinoma cells demonstrated desmosomes, dense secretory granules identical to those in normal Bowman's glands, a basement membrane, and microvilli. These results suggest that Bowman's glands are the target of DMA, giving rise to nasal carcinomas after DHPN-initiation.
Zearalenone (ZEN) is a mycotoxin from Fusarium species commonly found in many food commodities and are known to cause reproductive disorders, genotoxic and immunosuppressive effects. Although many studies have demonstrated the cytotoxic effects of ZEN, the mechanisms by which ZEN mediates its cytotoxic effects appear to differ according to cell type and route of exposure. Meantime, the available information on the neurotoxic effects of ZEN is very much limited. In the present study we evaluated the role of oxidative stress in ZEN mediated neurotoxicity in SH-SY5Y cells and investigated the possible underlying mechanism. ZEN induced ROS formation and elevated levels of MDA, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and increase in DNA damage in a dose dependent manner as assessed by COMET assay and agarose gel electrophoresis. However, there was no DNA damage by plasmid breakage assay at 6, 12 and 24h time points. DAPI staining showed apoptotic nuclei at 12 and 24h. Further, ZEN treated SH-SY5Y cells showed a marked suppressive effect on the neuronal gene expression. Use of an antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) reversed the toxin-induced generation of ROS and also attenuated loss of MMP. Collectively, these results suggest that ROS is the main upstream signal leading to increased ZEN mediated neurotoxicity in SH-SY5Y cells.
Abuse of methamphetamine (METH) is a major and significant societal problem in the US, as a number of studies have suggested that METH is associated with increased cerebrovascular events, hemorrhage or vasospasm. Although cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in METH-induced toxicity are not completely understood, changes in brain O₂ may play an important role and contribute to METH-induced neurotoxicity including dopaminergic receptor degradation. Given that O₂ is the terminal electron acceptor for many enzymes that are important in brain function, the impact of METH on brain tissue pO₂ in vivo remains largely uncharacterized. This study investigated striatal tissue pO₂ changes in male C57BL/6 mice (16-20 g) following METH administration using EPR oximetry, a highly sensitive modality to measure pO₂ in vivo, in situ and in real time. We demonstrate that 20 min after a single injection of METH (8 mg/kg i.v.), the striatal pO₂ was reduced to 81% of the pretreatment level and exposure to METH for 3 consecutive days further attenuated striatal pO₂ to 64%. More importantly, pO₂ did not recover fully to control levels even 24 h after administration of a single dose of METH and continual exposure to METH exacerbates the condition. We also show a reduction in cerebral blood flow associated with a decreased brain pO₂ indicating an ischemic condition. Our findings suggests that administration of METH can attenuate brain tissue pO₂, which may lead to hypoxic insult, thus a risk factor for METH-induced brain injury and the development of stroke in young adults.
Exposure to a relatively low dose of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodebenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) during mid-gestation induces a reduction of ventral prostate weight in rat offspring. Recently we reported that a single administration of TCDD (12.5-800 ng/kg body weight) to pregnant Holtzman rats on gestational day (GD) 15 caused a decrease in androgen receptor (AR) mRNA level in the ventral prostate during the prepubertal period, and we proposed that this reduction of AR mRNA is one of the most sensitive adverse endpoints due to perinatal exposure to TCDD (S. Ohsako et al., 2001, TOXICOL: Sci. 60, 132-143). In the present study, to investigate the mechanism of a decrease in AR mRNA level, we administered TCDD to rats at other developmental stages and compared possible alterations of the male reproductive system. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were given a single oral dose of 1 microg TCDD/kg body weight on GD 15 or GD 18, or male pups born from untreated dams were subcutaneously given a single dose of 1 microg TCDD/kg body weight on postnatal day 2 (PND 2). Offspring exposed on GD 15, GD 18, and PND 2 were sacrificed on PND 70. TCDD exposure on GD 15 resulted in significant decreases in the urogenital complex and ventral prostate weights and urogenital-glans penis length of male rat offspring, but not on GD 18 and PND 2. Testicular and epididymal weights were also lower than control group only in the TCDD-exposed GD 15 group. Anogenital distance was significantly reduced in the TCDD-exposed GD 15 and GD 18 groups, but not in the TCDD-exposed PND 2 group. Semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that AR mRNA levels were decreased in the TCDD-exposed GD 15 group only, and that the constitutive level of cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1) mRNA in the ventral prostate was not changed by TCDD in any of the exposed groups. No changes in AR mRNA level were detected in the testis or brain in any of the TCDD-exposed groups. These results suggest the presence of a critical window during development with regard to impairments of male reproductive organs by in utero and lactational exposure to a low dose of TCDD.
Chronic systemic inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I by rotenone causes nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration in rats, producing an in vivo experimental model of Parkinson's disease. We recently showed that micromolar Ca2+ concentrations strongly stimulate the release of reactive oxygen species in rotenone-treated isolated rat brain mitochondria. In the present work, we show that the natural antioxidant melatonin inhibits Ca2+ plus rotenone-induced oxidative stress in isolated rat brain mitochondria. In addition, the Ca2+ ionophore A23187 strongly potentiates rotenone-induced death of intact cultured pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells, in a mechanism sensitive to melatonin. Moreover, melatonin inhibits the detection of reactive oxygen species release in PC12 cells treated with rotenone plus A23187. Melatonin does not alter free Ca2+ concentrations or the inhibitory effect of rotenone on mitochondrial complex I. We conclude that micromolar Ca2+ concentrations stimulate neuronal cell death induced by mitochondrial complex I inhibition in a mechanism involving oxidative stress, preventable by the antioxidant melatonin.
Insufflation of ozonized oxygen into the peritoneum (O3/O2-pneumoperitoneum [O3/O2-PP]) of rats reduced the lethality of peritonitis. We evaluated the prophylactic effect of O3/O2-PP combined with tazobactam/piperacillin (TZP) in polymicrobial lethal peritonitis. Wistar rats were conditioned by daily repeated insufflation of ozone for 5 days, and hematologic parameters were determined. Sepsis was induced by i.p. injection of cecal material derived from donor rats. Simultaneously, TZP was applied at a single dosage of 65 mg/kg or at two dosage schedules of 65 mg/kg each at an interval of 1 h. The conditioning effect of O3/O2-PP on the number of blood cells was measured before inoculation of bacteria. The mRNA levels of proinflammatory cytokine IL-lbeta and TNF-alpha were determined at 4 h post infection in spleen and liver by semiquantitative in situ hybridization analysis. Preconditioning of rats by O3/O2-PP enhanced the number of blood leukocytes and granulocytes and increased the survival rate of septic rats up to 33%. The combination of O3/O2-PP and TZP further enhanced the survival rate up to 93%. This effect was accompanied by a reduced amount of IL-1beta and TNF-alpha mRNA in spleen and liver. In contrast, in non-infected animals the combination of O3/O2-PP and TZP enhanced IL-1beta and TNF-alpha mRNA in the spleen and IL-1beta mRNA in liver when compared with TZP- and sham-treated controls. The preconditioning effect of O3/O2-PP seems to support the biological effectiveness of TZP by altering the immune status before and during the onset of sepsis. The combined therapy could be a simple, preoperative intervention for abdominal surgery to reduce postoperative morbidity and mortality.
We have previously demonstrated that gentamicin-induced acute renal failure is mediated by the consumption of renal glutathione (GSH) and accumulation of oxidized phospholipids in tubular epithelial cells as a result of inhibition of phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) activity. Based on these results, we tested the hypothesis that the simultaneous inhibition of PLA(2) and GSH synthesis induces acute renal failure similar in characteristics to gentamicin-induced acute renal failure. Male Sprague-Dawley rats kept under standard laboratory conditions were administered 3 mmol/kg of DL-buthionine sulfoximine (BSO; gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase inhibitor) and 30 microg/kg of manoalide (PLA(2) inhibitor), following which significant elevations in serum creatinine and urinary lysosomal enzyme levels (elevation of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase activity) were observed. The renal tissue GSH content was reduced in the group that received both BSO and manoalide as compared with the group that received manoalide alone. The renal tissue GSH content was also reduced in the group that received BSO alone. The renal tissue concentration of 2-thiobarbituric-acid-reactive substances increased rapidly, followed by an increase in renal tissue total phospholipid concentration in the group that received both BSO and manoalide. In contrast, the activity of PLA(2) in renal tissue decreased in the group that received both BSO and manoalide as compared with the groups that received BSO alone or physiological saline. In conclusion, concomitant administration of BSO and manoalide induces renal tubular damage and acute renal failure in rats, similar in characteristics to gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity, whereas administration of BSO or manoalide alone did not. These results suggest that both inhibition of PLA(2) and GSH depletion are necessary for the induction of acute renal failure.
The nephrotoxicity limits the clinical application of cisplatin. Human organic cation transporter 2 (OCT2) and multidrug and toxin extrusion proteins (MATEs) work in concert in the elimination of cationic drugs such as cisplatin from the kidney. We hypothesized that co-administration of ondansetron would have an effect on cisplatin nephrotoxicity by altering the function of cisplatin transporters. The inhibitory potencies of ondansetron on metformin accumulation mediated by OCT2 and MATEs were determined in the stable HEK-293 cells expressing these transporters. The effects of ondansetron on drug disposition in vivo were examined by conducting the pharmacokinetics of metformin, a classical substrate for OCTs and MATEs, in wild-type and Mate1-/- mice. The nephrotoxicity was assessed in the wild-type and Mate1-/- mice received cisplatin with and without ondansetron. Both MATEs, including human MATE1, human MATE2-K, and mouse Mate1, and OCT2 (human and mouse) were subject to ondansetron inhibition, with much greater potencies by ondansetron on MATEs. Ondansetron significantly increased tissue accumulation and pharmacokinetic exposure of metformin in wild-type but not in Mate1-/- mice. Moreover, ondansetron treatment significantly enhanced renal accumulation of cisplatin and cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity which were indicated by increased levels of biochemical and molecular biomarkers and more severe pathohistological changes in mice. Similar increases in nephrotoxicity were caused by genetic deficiency of MATE function in mice. Therefore, the potent inhibition of MATEs by ondansetron enhances the nephrotoxicity associated with cisplatin treatment in mice. Potential nephrotoxic effects of combining the chemotherapeutic cisplatin and the antiemetic 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonists, such as ondansetron, should be investigated in patients.
