The influence of orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N) on the morphine-withdrawal symptom was investigated. Withdrawal syndrome was induced in the morphine-dependent rats by an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of 2 mg/kg naloxone hydrochloride--an opioid receptors antagonist. Wet-dog shakes were used as a measure of the abstinence syndrome. Intraventricular injections of OFQ/N (5-20 microg/animal) caused significant inhibition of the withdrawal signs at doses between 15-20 microg, in the morphine-dependent rats. OFQ/N alone did not change behavior of the morphine-dependent animals. The obtained results indicate that OFQ/N can inhibit the morphine withdrawal symptoms induced by naloxone.
Our previous studies with the mouse model of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), C57BL/6J-APC(Min)/+ or Min mouse, demonstrated the optimal dose for adenoma reduction with R-flurbiprofen was 10 mg/kg/day as an undivided dose. Divided doses exhibited no increased efficaciousness. This study examines 10 mg/kg R-flurbiprofen daily (qd) on survival as well as a second daily (q.o.d.) schedule and compares it with sulindac sulfone. The q.o.d. schedule at 10 mg/kg was equally efficacious as qd treatment at the same dose. For the q.o.d. group, tumor number decreased similarly (p<0.01); while body weight gain (p<0.01), hematocrit and average tumor area (both, p<0.05) were improved compared with qd treatment. Treatment with R-flurbiprofen (10 mg/kg/day) increased survival significantly (p=0.0004, log-rank) compared to vehicle treated animals. Major biological endpoints (hematocrit, weight gain, tumor number, average and total area [99% reduction]) were significantly improved in treated animals (p<0.01). Sulindac sulfone treatment (50 mg/kg/day) of the Min mouse produced no significant biological benefit. The dose schedule study suggests that for tumor reduction it is necessary to attain a threshold drug-level but not necessarily sustain it over 24 hrs (pharmacodynamic t1/2 > pharmacokinetic t1/2). During the period of administration R-flurbiprofen dramatically prolongs survival for the mouse model of the human disease, FAP.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit the growth of different cancer cell types, suggesting a broad role for their cyclooxygenase (COX) targets and eicosanoid products in tumor cell growth. Sulindac sulfide, a COX inhibitor, inhibited the growth of non-small-cell lung cancers (NSCLC) both in soft agar and as xenografts in nude mice. Importantly, the concentration of sulindac sulfide required to inhibit NSCLC cell growth greatly exceeded the concentration required to inhibit prostaglandin (PG) E(2) synthesis in NSCLC cells, suggesting that NSAID inhibition of cell growth is mediated by additional targets distinct from COX. Both sulindac sulfide and ciglitazone, a defined peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) agonist, stimulated a promoter construct containing a PPAR response element linked to luciferase and potently inhibited NSCLC cell growth at similar concentrations, indicating a role for PPARgamma as a target of NSAID action in these cells. Overexpression of PPARgamma in NSCLC cells strongly inhibited the transformed growth properties of the cells, providing a molecular confirmation of the results obtained with the PPARgamma agonists. Increased expression of PPARgamma, as well as ciglitazone and sulindac sulfide induced expression of E-cadherin, which has been linked to increased differentiation of NSCLC. Despite the fact that SCLC cell lines expressed little or no cytosolic phospholipase A(2), COX-1, or COX-2, sulindac sulfide and PPARgamma agonists also inhibited the transformed growth of these lung cancer cells. We propose that PPARgamma serves as a target for NSAIDs that accounts for COX-independent inhibition of lung cancer cell growth.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been reported in HIV-negative children perinatally exposed to zidovudine, a drug often used in HIV-seropositive mothers during pregnancy. The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence of cerebral MR imaging findings in HIV-uninfected children exposed to zidovudine who present with unexplained neurologic symptoms.
Two expert groups conducted a systematic, retrospective review of all cerebral MR images available in a multicentric, nationwide French prospective cohort of children born to HIV-seropositive mothers to identify imaging abnormalities. Experts were blinded to each others' interpretations, to the children's neurologic symptoms, and to laboratory evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction. The incidence of abnormalities was determined and compared with the neurologic presentation and laboratory evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction.
MR images from 49 HIV-uninfected children (mean age, 26 months) were available for study. All children were perinatally exposed to zidovudine. Twenty-two had probable or established mitochondrial dysfunction according to their symptoms and laboratory data. Twenty-seven children without mitochondrial dysfunction presented with unexplained neurologic symptoms (n = 14) or nonneurologic symptoms (n = 7), and six were asymptomatic. Sixteen of 22 MR images in children with mitochondriopathy were considered abnormal in both independent analyses. Diffuse hyperintensity in the supratentorial white matter (n = 9) and in the tegmentum pons (n = 9) were the most frequent anomalies. Imaging abnormalities were often multifocal (n = 10) and sometimes associated with necrotic areas (n = 3) and volume loss (n = 8). Although 19 of 27 MR images of children without mitochondrial dysfunction were mainly normal, abnormal images were observed in five of 14 children with unexplained neurologic symptoms and in three of six asymptomatic children.
Images observed in children with antiretroviral-induced mitochondrial dysfunction are similar to those observed in congenital mitochondrial diseases. These images were also observed in symptomatic or asymptomatic children without evidence of systemic mitochondrial dysfunction.
A 65-year-old white male with acute myelogenous leukemia received whole brain irradiation (2550 rads) and intrathecal cytosine arabinoside for CNS prophylaxis. Bone marrow remission had been previously achieved with systemic chemotherapy (vincristine, Adriamycin, prednisone, and cytosine arabinoside). Two weeks following the last intrathecal cytosine arabinoside treatment, the patient developed a spastic paraparesis requiring the use of a walker. A gas myelogram was normal and CSF examination revealed a protein of 50 mg/100 ml but was otherwise unremarkable. Five months later, the patient had improved in that he could stand on his own. A relapse of his leukemia subsequently occurred and the patient died the following month. Striking degenerative changes were found in the spinal cord at postmortem examination. These included microvacuolization, axonal swellings, and loss of myelin with scattered macrophages laden with fat.
A 74-year-old woman, on lithium carbonate treatment, developed symptomatic sinus node dysfunction and central nervous toxicity, which disappeared after discontinuation of the drug and when serum lithium fell from 2 to 1.27 mEq/L. Our review of the literature demonstrates that sinus node abnormalities can occur both in presence of therapeutic and toxic serum lithium levels and are frequently asymptomatic and completely reversible. All patients receiving lithium should have their pulse regularly recorded and the drug should be promptly discontinued if severe bradycardia or other rhythm disturbances appeared during the treatment.
Serum levels of sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium and digoxin were studied in 67 patients on maintenance dose of digoxin, 42 with digitoxicity and 25 without. The mean serum digoxin level of toxic group was significantly higher (p less than 0.001) than non-toxic group. The mean serum potassium was significantly lower in toxic group (p less than 0.05) as compared to the non-toxic group. Of the toxic patients, 23.8% had hypokalemia. Hypokalemia resulted by significantly higher (p less than 0.005) dose of diuretic used in toxic group. The mean serum digoxin level of hypokalemic toxic group was significantly lower as compared to the normokalemic toxic group (p less than 0.001) and it was interesting to note that all hypokalemic toxic patients had their serum digoxin levels below 3 ng/ml (3.84 n mol/ml) and well within therapeutic range. There was a positive correlation between serum digoxin and potassium level amongst toxic patients (p less than 0.001). Thus, in patients on maintenance dose of digoxin therapy, use of large dosage of diuretics may result in hypokalemia, causing digitalis toxicity even at low serum digoxin levels. Serum digoxin level alone may fail as an independent guide in diagnosis of digoxin toxicity in presence of hypokalemia.
A 63-year-old male with lactic acidosis secondary to fialuridine-induced liver failure underwent seven plasma exchanges while awaiting orthotopic liver transplantation. Following plasma exchange, total serum calcium concentrations measured by conventional clinical chemistry methods were significantly lower than the elemental calciums determined by atomic absorption spectroscopy (P = 0.004). The difference in calcium measured by atomic absorption and by conventional methods correlated with serum citrate concentration (R = 0.77) Following the first exchange, the serum lactic acid concentration decreased from 10.2 to 4.4 mmol/L. These results suggest that plasma exchange may aid in the removal of metabolic products such as lactic acid in patients with liver failure. However, the accumulation of unmetabolized citrate may also result in falsely low total calcium measurements in some patients who undergo plasma exchange.
The exposure of manganese is believed to be the risk of respiratory diseases. COX-2 is a protein involved in biosynthesis of inflammatory prostaglandins. Evidence suggests that COX-2 involves in the pathogenesis of lung inflammation. In this study, the effect of manganese-chloride (manganese) on COX-2 expression in A549 human lung epithelial cells was investigated. Treatment with manganese induced COX-2 at both protein and mRNA levels that were due to COX-2 transcriptional activation. Interestingly, manganese treatment led to activation of ERKs, p38 MAPK, JNKs, ATF-2, and PKB, but not NF-kappaB, and also cellular GSH depletion in A549 cells. Importantly, the manganese-induced COX-2 expression was suppressed by treatment with the inhibitor of p38 MAPK (SB203580), PI3K/PKB (LY294002), PKCs (GO6983, GF109203X, Rottlerin), Src (PP1), or the thiol-containing compound (NAC). There was crosstalk between p38 MAPK and GSH depletion or Src in response to manganese signal. Induction of COX-2 by manganese was also seen in different human airway cells, including H292 (bronchial) or Hep2 (laryngeal). These results collectively suggest that manganese induces COX-2 by transcriptional up-regulation in human airway cells and the induction appears to be cooperatively mediated via multiple signaling pathways and GSH depletion.
Due to the increasing role of esophageal tumors in human cancer pathology, there is need for animal models evaluating the mechanisms of esophageal carcinogenesis and investigating protective factors toward this disease. Several N-nitrosamines have been shown to induce esophageal tumors in rats. We designed a study in BD(6) rats treated with N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) according to a simple protocol involving weekly i.p. injections of this carcinogen for 8 consecutive weeks. This treatment resulted in a high incidence and multiplicity of liver tumors and in occurrence of preneoplastic lesions and papillomas in the esophagus. Intraperitoneal injections of diethyldithiocarbamate (DEDTC), 4 hr after each DEN injection, i.e., during the period of DEN metabolization, improved survival of rats and did not affect the liver tumor yield but doubled the incidence of esophageal tumors and enhanced 4.9x their multiplicity. Moreover, 15% of rats developed esophageal squamocellular carcinomas. The oral administration of the thiol N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), a precursor and analogue of reduced glutathione, to rats treated with the DEN/DEDTC combination did not change the liver tumor yield but attenuated esophageal carcinogenesis by producing a significant shift of preneoplastic lesions to milder forms as well as a significant decrease of tumor multiplicity. Therefore, the DEN/DEDTC protocol appears to provide an interesting 2-organ model of N-nitrosamine-induced carcinogenesis in rats, in which NAC is moderately effective as an inhibitor. The mechanisms underlying enhancement of DEN-induced esophageal carcinogenesis by DEDTC and the protective effects of NAC are discussed.
Weight loss is an independent risk factor for mortality in HIV but the role of drug use in HIV-related weight loss is not well described. We conducted this study to determine the role of drug use in HIV-related weight loss. Men (n=304), all of whom were Hispanic, were recruited into one of three groups: HIV-infected drug users; HIV-non-infected drug users; and HIV-infected non-drug users. Body mass index (BMI) was measured at successive visits. The groups were re-categorized based on self-reported drug use at the current visit into: (1) users of cocaine alone; (2) users of cocaine and opiates; (3) users of opiates alone; (4) former drug users; and (5) those who denied ever using drugs (all HIV-infected). The effect on BMI of the duration of use of the specific drug types was evaluated using repeated-measures analyses. Longer duration of exclusive opiate use or mixed cocaine and opiate use did not affect BMI in the men, regardless of HIV status. Exclusive cocaine use was associated with a decline in BMI among HIV-infected men (-0.070 kg/m(2) per month duration of use; SE=0.033; p=0.037) but not among HIV-uninfected men (0.024 kg/m(2) per month; SE=0.023; p=0.29). Adjustment for marijuana, cigarette and alcohol use in all men, or for CD4 count, viral load or HIV medication use in the HIV-infected men, did not alter the conclusions. We conclude that the use of opiates or combined opiates and cocaine does not increase the risk of weight loss in the presence or absence of HIV infection. Exclusive cocaine use may exacerbate weight loss in HIV-infection.
The administration of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) has been established as a model of toxin-induced acute and chronic liver injury. In the present study, we investigate the progression of the biochemical response to acute CCl(4)-induced liver injury, capturing metabolic variations during both toxic insult and regeneration using NMR-based metabonomic analysis of liver tissue and plasma. A single dose of CCl(4) (1 mL/kg BW) was intraperitoneally administered to male Wister rats sacrificed every 12h up to 72 h post treatment, while healthy animals served as controls. Acquired (1)H NMR spectra of liver tissue extracts and plasma samples were explored with multivariate analysis and the resulted models were correlated with conventional biochemical and histopathological indices of toxicity for monitoring the progression of experimental injury. The metabonomic analysis resulted in discrimination between the subjects under toxic insult (up to 36 h) and those at the regenerative phase (peaked at 48 h). At 72 h normalization of liver's pathology similar to the controls group was apparent. Principal component analysis (PCA) trajectories highlighted the time points of the greater degree of toxic insult and the regenerative state. A number of metabolites such as glucose, lactate, choline, formate exhibited variations suggesting CCl(4) induced impairment in essential biochemical pathways as energy metabolism, lipid biosynthesis and transmethylation reactions. The latter provides new evidence of B12 and folate pathways deficiency, indicative of new mechanistic implications possibly by direct inhibition of B12 dependent enzymes by the chlorinated radicals of CCl(4) metabolism.
A myocarditic coxsackievirus B3 (CB3) infection in adult male A/J mice was used to investigate the effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD) exposure on mortality and on inflammatory lesion, virus and trace element contents of the heart. The mice were injected with four weekly intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of TCDD (a loading dose of 5 microg/kg followed by three maintenance doses of 1.4 microg/kg). To reach a steady-state body burden of TCDD the mice were allowed a 90-day recovery period before infection with CB3 virus. TCDD increased the infection-induced mortality rate, whereas in TCDD-exposed mice, heart lesions at day 7 after the virus inoculation (median value 0.67% of the tissue section area; interquartile range 0.28; not statistically significant) were one-third of that in non-exposed infected mice (2.07% of the tissue section area; interquartile range 3.06). The size of the inflammatory heart lesion correlated to the amount of virus (r(s) = 0.829, P < 0.01) as well as to the calcium (Ca: r(s) = 0.725, P < 0.01) and the magnesium (Mg: r(s) = -0.615, P < 0.05) contents. In TCDD-exposed mice in situ hybridisation of viral RNA in the myocardium at day 7 showed a tendency to decreased amounts of virus, as well as a less pronounced increase in myocardial Ca content, both supporting a milder myocardial disease after TCDD exposure. No effect of TCDD exposure was seen on the zinc (Zn) or selenium (Se) levels in the myocardium. In conclusion, although TCDD seemed to have a limiting effect on viral replication and the development of the inflammatory lesion in the myocardium, mortality was increased by TCDD in this infection model. However, TCDD had no significant effects on the selected trace elements that could be of importance for the severity of the inflammatory lesion (Ca, Se), for the local host response activation (Zn) or for the development of myocardial disease complications (Mg). Accordingly, the increased mortality may be a result of an infection-induced increase in TCDD toxicity to vital organs other than the heart, and/or a TCDD-induced change in the tissue affinity and virulence of the virus, possibly causing involvement of other target organs in the infectious process and changed pathogenesis.
Nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA) is an inhibitor of the IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) in breast and other cancers, and concomitantly inhibits tumor growth both in cultured cells and animals. The current study evaluates the effect of NDGA on the androgen-stimulated growth of human prostate cancer cells.
LAPC-4 prostate cancer cells in tissue culture were androgen starved for 3 days, 1 nM dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and other androgens were then added for up to 7 days, and cell proliferation measured. IGF-1R protein expression was measured by Western blot, and IGF-1R mRNA expression by quantitative PCR. IGF-1R receptor kinase activation was measured by ELISA.
After 7 days, LAPC-4 growth was doubled by 1 nM DHT. NDGA had a rapid effect to inhibit IGF-1R autophosphorylation induced by IGF-1. DHT increased the expression of IGF-1R protein and mRNA levels. Maximal IGF-1R protein levels were observed 3 days after the addition of androgen. In addition, NDGA, at 10 microM or less, inhibited DHT-induced proliferation in both cells grown in plates and cells grown in soft agar. Androgen receptor (AR) studies by FRET revealed that NDGA had no conformational effects on the AR in response to ligand.
NDGA blocks the DHT-induced growth of LAPC-4 prostate cancer cells by several mechanisms including rapid inhibition of the IGF-1R kinase, and a dose-dependent inhibition of androgen stimulation of IGF-1R expression. Clinical studies of this agent will determine its efficacy in the setting of androgen-dependent prostate cancer.
Intermittent application of chemotherapy and tyrosine kinase inhibitors may avoid antagonism between the two classes of drugs. This hypothesis was tested in a Phase II clinical trial.
Eligible patients were nonsmokers or light smokers, chemo-naïve, with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung.
4 to 6 cycles of gemcitabine 1250 mg/m(2) on days 1 and 4, cisplatin 75 mg/m(2) on day 2, and erlotnib 150 mg daily on days 5-15, followed by erlotinib as maintenance.
24 patients entered the trial. Four pts had grade 3 toxicity. Complete remission (CR) and partial remission (PR) were seen in 5 pts and 9 pts, respectively (response rate 58%). Median time to progression (TTP) was 13.4 months and median overall survival (OS) was 23 months. When compared to patients with negative or unknown status of EGFR mutations, 8 patients with EGFR gene activating mutations had significantly superior experience: 4 CR and 4 PR, with median TTP 21.5 months and OS 24.2 months (P < .05).
Intermittent schedule with gemcitabine, cisplatin and erlotinib has mild toxicity. For patients who are positive for EGFR gene activating mutations, this treatment offers excellent response rate, time to progression and survival.
Sorafenib induces apoptosis and enhances Tumour Necrosis Factor-Related Apoptosis-Inducing Ligand (TRAIL)-induced cell killing of tumoural cells. We have investigated the effects of the multikinase inhibitor Sorafenib alone or in combination with TRAIL and agonistic Fas antibodies on endometrial carcinoma cells. We have also focused on the search of the differential molecular mechanisms by which Sorafenib induces cell death and the ones involved in sensitisation to TRAIL. In the present study, we show that Sorafenib induces apoptosis of both endometrial cancer cell lines and human primary cultures and sensitises these cells to TRAIL and agonistic Fas antibodies (aFas)-induced apoptosis. However, Raf/MEK/ERK inhibition by Sorafenib was not responsible for Sorafenib cell death or TRAIL sensitisation of endometrial cancer cells. Sorafenib treatment correlated with a downregulation of both FLICE-Inhibitory Protein (FLIP) and myeloid cell leukaemia-1 (Mcl-1), caused by a proteasomal degradation of both proteins. We evaluated the contribution of FLIP and Mcl-1 downregulation in apoptosis triggered by Sorafenib alone or Sorafenib plus TRAIL. Interestingly, cell death caused by Sorafenib was mediated by downregulation of Mcl-1, but not by FLIP. In contrast, we found that Sorafenib sensitisation of endometrial carcinoma cells to TRAIL- and Fas-induced apoptosis was dependent on FLIP but not on Mcl-1 downregulation. Altogether, we discern the dual mechanisms by which Sorafenib causes cell death from those involved in death receptor sensitisation.
The role of dopamine (DA) in the secretion of gonadotropic hormones was studied in women with obesity and normal body mass. Tests with sulpiride (peripheral antagonist of DA-receptors), sulpiride LH-RH and thyroliberin were made. Basal and LH-RH-stimulated secretion of gonadotropins and prolactin (PRL) was studied to reveal the relationship of their secretion with the status of the hypothalamohypophyseal system. It was shown that the blockade of peripheral DA receptors did not result in an increase in the basal and LH-RH-stimulated secretion of LH either in healthy women or in women with obesity at the normal basal level of gonadotropic hormones. Hyperprolactinemia caused by sulpiride or LH-RH, did not lower LH secretion during the entire period of investigation. There were no differences either in the basal level of gonadotropic hormones or in their ejection in response to LH-RH administration in women with normal and excess body mass. Stimulation of PRL secretion in response to LH-RH was found in patients with exogenous-constitutional obesity and minimum signs of diencephalic pathology. Slight inhibition of PRL secretion after LH-RH administration was noted in women with obesity of hypothalamic type and unstable type of disorder of EEG. The absence of changes in PRL secretion was noted in women with strongly marked hypothalamic signs of the disease.
Acute amphetamine administration activates monoaminergic pathways and increases systemic corticosterone, both of which influence anxiety states and adult dentate gyrus neurogenesis. Chronic amphetamine increases anxiety states in rats when measured at 24 h and at 2 weeks of withdrawal. However, the effects of chronic amphetamine exposure and withdrawal on long term anxiety-like behavior and adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus are unknown. Adult male rats were administered amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg, ip.) daily for two weeks. Anxiety-like behaviors were increased markedly in amphetamine-treated rats following four weeks of withdrawal from amphetamine. Plasma corticosterone level was unaltered by amphetamine treatment or withdrawal. However, norepinephrine and serotonin concentrations were selectively reduced in the dentate gyrus 20 h following amphetamine treatment. This effect did not persist through the four week withdrawal period. In separate experiments, rats received bromodeoxyuridine to label cells in S-phase, prior to or immediately following amphetamine treatment. Newly generated cells were quantified to measure extent of progenitor cell proliferation and neurogenesis following treatment or withdrawal. Progenitor cell proliferation and neurogenesis were not significantly affected by amphetamine exposure when measured 20 h following the last amphetamine treatment. However, neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus was reduced after four weeks of withdrawal when compared to saline-pretreated rats. Overall, our findings indicate that withdrawal from chronic amphetamine leads to persistent anxiety-like behavior which may be maintained by reduced neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus at this protracted withdrawal time point. However, neurogenesis is unaffected at earlier withdrawal time points where anxiety states emerge, suggesting different mechanisms may underlie the emergence of anxiety states during amphetamine withdrawal.
Doxycycline can prevent aortic aneurysms through the inhibition of enzymes that degrade vessel walls. We investigated whether haemodialysis patients who had received one or more courses of doxycycline were at less risk for aneurysms in their vascular accesses than those who had received other antibiotics.
Three hundred and eight patients undergoing chronic maintenance hemodialysis were evaluated for aneurysm formation after exposure to doxycycline or another antibiotic. Conditional forward logistical analysis using Cox proportional hazards test (SPSS) was performed to determine the potential significance of differences of aneurysm formation between the two groups.
Patients who had received doxycycline appeared to be at lower risk than the control group, but the effect was most obvious in those patients with synthetic grafts.
Doxycycline may have the ability to reduce aneurysm formation in haemodialysis vascular accesses and a large prospective study is warranted.
The ZIP5 gene encodes a protein closely related to ZIP4, a zinc transporter mutated in the human genetic disorder acrodermatitis enteropathica. Herein, we demonstrate that mouse ZIP5 and ZIP4 genes are co-expressed in several tissues involved in zinc homeostasis (intestine, pancreas, embryonic yolk sac). However, unlike expression of the ZIP4 gene, which is induced during periods of zinc deficiency, ZIP5 gene expression is unaltered by dietary zinc. Immunohistochemistry localizes ZIP5 to the basolateral surfaces of enterocytes, acinar cells, and visceral endoderm cells in mice fed a zinc-adequate diet. However, this protein is removed from these cell surfaces and internalized during dietary zinc deficiency. In contrast, ZIP4 is induced and recruited to the apical surface of enterocytes and endoderm cells during zinc deficiency. In the pancreas, ZIP4 is expressed in beta-cells, whereas ZIP5 is expressed in acinar cells. These results suggest that the function of ZIP5 is antagonistic to that of ZIP4 in the control of zinc homeostasis; rather than functioning in the acquisition of dietary zinc, as does ZIP4, ZIP5 may function in the removal of zinc from the body. Thus, during periods when dietary zinc is replete, ZIP5 may function to remove zinc from the blood via the pancreas and intestine, the major sites of zinc excretion in mammals, whereas the acquisition of dietary zinc by intestinal ZIP4 would be minimal. In contrast, during periods of dietary zinc deficiency when secretion of zinc by the pancreas and intestine is minimized, ZIP5 is removed from the cell surface, and the intestinal uptake of zinc is augmented by induction of ZIP4.
The aim of the present study was to examine the relationships between ambulatory blood pressure (ABPM) and urinary albumin excretion (UAE) in diabetic (non-insulin dependent [NIDDM] and insulin-dependent [IDDM]) hypertensives at baseline and after treatment by an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. After a 3-week placebo period, patients were treated for 16 weeks with trandolapril, 2 to 4 mg/day. The UAE and blood pressure (mercury sphygmomanometer and 24-h ABPM) were measured at baseline and repeated on trandolapril. Predictive factors of abnormal UAE (24-h UAE > or = 30 mg) were determined using univariate and multivariate analysis (logistic regression). Predictors of UAE decrease were also searched. One hundred seventy-one patients entered the analysis. Baseline office BP was 164+/-14 / 97+/-6 mm Hg and 24-h BP was 142+/-17 / 83+/-10 mm Hg. Seventy-four patients (43%) had UAE > or = 30 mg. Independent risk factors for abnormal UAE were nighttime diastolic BP (odds ratio [OR] = 4.1, confidence interval [CI] = 2.0 to 8.6, P = .0001), diabetes duration (OR = 2.4, CI = 1.1 to 5.0, P = .025), and presence of retinopathy (OR = 3.2, CI = 1.0 to 10.0, P = .047). Conversely, office BP level was not significantly related to UAE. On treatment, office BP levels decreased to 143+/-13 / 82+/-8 mm Hg (P < .0001) and 24-h BP levels to 134+/-17 / 78+/-9 mm Hg (P < .0001). In the abnormal UAE group, UAE significantly decreased from 76 to 50 mg/day (P = .006). After treatment, independent predictive factors of abnormal UAE were: on-drug fasting plasma glucose (OR = 3.5, CI = 1.7 to 7.4, P = .0009) and on-drug nighttime diastolic BP (OR = 3.5, CI = 1.7 to 7.4, P = .001). The only predictor of UAE decrease was a 24-h systolic BP decrease (OR = 2.3, CI = 1.3 to 4.3, P = .007). We conclude that in diabetic hypertensives with abnormal UAE, trandolapril exhibited a sustained 24-h antihypertensive effect and provided a consistent reduction of microalbuminuria. This study confirmed the superiority of ABPM over clinical BP to predict target organ damage.
Activation of the nuclear enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) by oxidant-mediated DNA damage is an important pathway of cell dysfunction and tissue injury in conditions associated with oxidative stress. Increased oxidative stress is a major factor implicated in the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin (DOX), a widely used antitumor anthracycline antibiotic. Thus, we hypothesized that the activation of PARP may contribute to the DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Using a dual approach of PARP-1 suppression, by genetic deletion or pharmacological inhibition with the phenanthridinone PARP inhibitor PJ34, we now demonstrate the role of PARP in the development of cardiac dysfunction induced by DOX. PARP-1+/+ and PARP-1-/- mice received a single injection of DOX (25 mg/kg i.p). Five days after DOX administration, left ventricular performance was significantly depressed in PARP-1+/+ mice, but only to a smaller extent in PARP-1-/- ones. Similar experiments were conducted in BALB/c mice treated with PJ34 or vehicle. Treatment with a PJ34 significantly improved cardiac dysfunction and increased the survival of the animals. In addition PJ34 significantly reduced the DOX-induced increase in the serum lactate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase activities but not metalloproteinase activation in the heart. Thus, PARP activation contributes to the cardiotoxicity of DOX. PARP inhibitors may exert protective effects against the development of severe cardiac complications associated with the DOX treatment.
Berylliosis is a granulomatous disorder of the lung caused by inhalation of beryllium (Be) and dominated by the accumulation of CD4+ T-helper (Th)1 memory T-cells proliferating in response to Be in the lower respiratory tract. Two gene markers have been associated with susceptibility to berylliosis: 1) the human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-DP gene whose allelic variants, carrying glutamate in position 69 of the beta-chain (HLA-DPGlu69), can bind Be directly and present it to interferon (IFN)-gamma releasing Th1 T-cell clones from patients with berylliosis; and 2) the cytokine gene tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha which has been shown to increase berylliosis risk independent of HLA-DPGlu69. In order to determine whether TNF-alpha release was triggered by Th1 T-cell activation by Be stimulation in the context of HLA-DPGlu69 molecules, the proliferation of BeSO4-stimulated blood mononuclear cells and the release of IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, RANTES (regulated on activation normal T-cell expressed and secreted), granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, interleukin (IL)-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10 and IL-12 by BeSO4-stimulated blood mononuclear cells was quantified in 11 individuals with berylliosis using an anti-HLA-DP antibody as a probe for HLA-DP restricted T-cell activation. While proliferation and IFN-gamma release were completely abrogated by HLA-DP inhibition (inhibition with anti-HLA-DP monoclonal antibody (mAb): 88+/-16 and 77+/-16%, respectively; anti-HLA-DR: 29+/-38 and 14+/-10%, respectively), the release of TNF-alpha was not (inhibition with anti-HLA-DP mAb: 8.9+/-7.8%). No other cytokine was detected at significant levels. Moreover, Be was able to induce TNF-alpha production in healthy control subjects not exposed to Be in the absence of T-cell proliferation and IFN-gamma production. In conclusion, these data suggest that the tumour necrosis factor-alpha response of mononuclear cells is independent of the activation of beryllium-specific human leucocyte anitgen-DP restricted T-cells, which is consistent with the finding that the tumour necrosis factorA2 and the human leucocyte anitgen-DPGlu69 genetic markers are independently interacting in increasing berylliosis risk.
Cardiac lesions induced in rats by isoproterenol, a potent beta-agonist, and by repeated stress of restraint and water immersion, in which sensitization of beta-adrenergic receptors would be expected to be induced, were investigated morphologically and following facts were revealed. 1) Cardiac lesions induced by isoproterenol, characteristic findings of which were myocardial hypertrophy, myocardial degeneration and myocardial necrosis replaced by interstitial fibrosis, were more analogous to cardiomyopathy than myocardial infarction or cardiac hypertrophy. 2) Cardiac lesions induced by repeated stress of restraint and water immersion, characteristic findings of which were myocardial hypertrophy, myocardial degeneration and myocardial necrosis replaced by interstitial fibrosis, were similar to those induced by isoproterenol. These results suggest that the endogenously induced dominant beta-adrenergic stimulating action during stress may play an important role in the pathogenesis of cardiomyopathy, the specific etiology of which is not yet known.
N-terminal (NT) pro-brain natriuretic peptide (proBNP) > or =160 ng/l has a 78% positive predictive value for pulmonary hypertension and is associated with increased mortality in US sickle cell disease patients, but the importance in sickle cell disease patients in Africa is not known. In a cross-sectional study at Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Shika-Zaria, Nigeria, we studied 133 hydroxycarbamide-naïve Nigerian sickle cell anaemia patients aged 18-52 years at steady-state and 65 healthy controls. Twenty-six percent of patients versus 5% of controls had NT-proBNP > or =160 ng/l (P = 0.0006). By logistic regression among the patients, human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity, higher serum ferritin and lower haemoglobin or higher lactate dehydrogenase independently predicted elevated NT-proBNP. After adjustment for haemoglobin concentration, elevated NT-proBNP concentration was associated with an estimated 7.8-fold increase in the odds of severe functional impairment, defined as an inability to walk more than 300 m in 6 min (95% confidence interval 1.5-32.6; P = 0.005). Similarly, elevated tricuspid regurgitation velocity was associated with an estimated 5.6-fold increase in the odds of functional impairment (95% confidence interval 1.5-21.0; P = 0.011). In conclusion, NT-proBNP elevation is common and is associated with markers of anaemia, inflammation and iron status and with severe functional impairment among sickle cell anaemia patients in Nigeria.
