A preliminary study examined whether lofexidine decreases stress-induced and cue-induced opioid craving and improves opioid abstinence in naltrexone-treated opioid-dependent individuals.
Eighteen opioid-dependent patients were stabilized for 4 weeks with naltrexone (50 mg daily) and lofexidine (2.4 mg bid) before entering a 4-week randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled discontinuation study where one group continued on lofexidine for an additional 4 weeks, while the second was tapered to placebo (Lofexidine-naltrexone vs Placebo-naltrexone). Ten patients also participated in guided imagery exposure to stress, drug cue, and neutral scenarios in a single laboratory session.
Lofexidine-naltrexone patients had higher opioid abstinence rates and improved relapse outcomes as compared to the Placebo-naltrexone group. Furthermore, Lofexidine-naltrexone patients had significantly lower heart rates and an attenuated stress and drug cue-induced opioid craving response in the laboratory as compared to the Placebo-naltrexone group.
Although preliminary, these findings are the first to document lofexidine's potential in addressing stress-related opioid craving and relapse outcomes in humans. The results also suggest that combination therapies that target both drug-related reinforcement (naltrexone) and stress- and cue-related aspects of drug seeking could be beneficial in addiction relapse prevention. Further development of lofexidine to address stress-related opioid craving and relapse is warranted.
The effects of Fab fragments of high-affinity specific antibodies have been studied in a canine experimental model of lethal digitoxin toxicity. Selected antiserum from sheep immunized and boosted with a digoxin-serum albumin conjugate contained antibodies that cross-reacted with digitoxin with an average intrinsic association constant of 1.4 x 10(10) M(-1) as determined by equilibrium dialysis. Rapid second-order association kinetics (k(f) = 3.7 x 10(6) M(-1) per s) and slow dissociation kinetics (k(r) = 1.9 x 10(-4) per s) were documented for the antibody-digitoxin complex. Eight dogs given 0.5 mg/kg digitoxin intravenously developed ventricular tachycardia after 23+/-4 (SEM) min. Control nonspecific Fab fragments were then given. All animals died an average of 101+/-36 min after digitoxin administration. Another eight dogs given the same digitoxin dose similarly developed ventricular tachycardia after 28+/-3 min. This group then received a molar equivalent dose of specific Fab fragments intravenously over 3 min, followed by a 30-min infusion of one-third of the initial dose. All dogs survived. Conducted sinus beats reappeared 18+/-4 min after initial Fab infusion, and stable normal sinus rhythm was present at 54+/-16 min. Plasma total digitoxin concentrations increased threefold during the hour after initial Fab infusion, while plasma free digitoxin concentration decreased to less than 0.1 ng/ml. Effects on digitoxin pharmacokinetics of these Fab fragments and the antibody population from which they were derived were further investigated in a primate species. Unlike common laboratory animals previously studied, the rhesus monkey was found to have a prolonged elimination half-life, estimated at 135 and 118 h by radioimmunoassay and [(3)H]digitoxin measurements, respectively, similar to man and thus providing a clinically relevant experimental model. Intravenous administration of 2 mol of specific Fab fragments per mole of digitoxin 6 h after 0.2 mg of digitoxin produced a rapid 4.3-fold increase in plasma total digitoxin concentration followed by a rapid fall (t((1/2)) 4 h) accompanied by a 14-fold enhancement of urinary digitoxin excretion over control values during the 6-h period after Fab was given. Analytical studies were consistent with increased excretion of native digitoxin rather than metabolites, and the glycoside was found in equilibrium dialysis studies to be excreted in the urine in Fab-bound form. Administration of 2 mol of specific antibody binding sites per mole of digitoxin as intact IgG caused a greater and more prolonged increase in plasma total digitoxin concentration, peaking 13-fold above control levels. In contrast to the effects of Fab, however, specific IgG reduced the rate of urinary digitoxin excretion substantially below control values. We conclude that Fab fragments of antibodies with high affinity for digitoxin are capable of rapid reversal of advanced, otherwise lethal digitoxin toxicity, and are capable of reducing the plasma half-life and accelerating urinary excretion of digitoxin.
Three cases with polymorphous ventricular tachycardia following a standard dose of intracoronary papaverine during 102 measurements of coronary flow reserve are reported. This study suggests that all patients should be closely monitored while receiving intracoronary papaverine and that extreme caution should be employed when the drug is administered to patients with QT interval prolongation and poor coronary flow reserve.
The present visual and electromyographic study was designed to evaluate muscle fasciculations caused by succinylcholine in adults pretreated with either remifentanil 1.5 microg/kg or saline.
The effect of remifentanil on succinylcholine-induced muscle fasciculations was studied using a double-blind method in 40 adults. After i.v. pretreatment with either remifentanil 1.5 microg/kg (remifentanil group, n = 20) or an equivalent volume of i.v. saline (saline group, n = 20), patients were anaesthetized with a 2.0 mg/kg of i.v. propofol followed by i.v. succinylcholine 1.0 mg/kg. Intensity and duration of muscle fasciculation following i.v. succinylcholine administration were recorded. Electromyography (EMG) was used to quantify the extent of muscle fasciculation following i.v. succinylcholine injection. Myalgia was evaluated 24 hours after induction time. Serum potassium levels were measured five minutes after i.v. succinylcholine administration and creatine kinase (CK) levels 24 hours after induction time.
Compared to saline treated controls, remifentanil decreased the intensity of muscle fasciculations caused by i.v. succinylcholine [fasciculation severity scores (grade 0 to 3) were 2/1/12/5 and 3/13/4/0 (patients numbers) in the saline group and the remifentanil group, respectively, p < 0.001]. The mean (SD) maximum amplitude of muscle action potential (MAP) by EMG was smaller in the remifentanil group [283.0 (74.4) microV] than in the saline group [1480.4 (161.3) microV] (p = 0.003). Postoperative serum CK levels were lower in the remifentanil group (p < 0.001). Postoperative myalgia was not different between the two groups.
Remifentanil 1.5 microg/kg attenuated intensity of muscle fasciculations by succinylcholine.
The cataleptic and locomotor depressant effects of morphine are mediated by a series of neural structures, all of which project to the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg). To test the idea that the PPTg is also involved in mediating morphine's effect on these behaviours, we examined catalepsy and spontaneous motor activity following bilateral lesions of the PPTg (0.5 microliters of 0.1 M N-methyl-D-aspartate infused over 10 min). We also examined the effect of PPTg lesions on motor functioning by observing sensorimotor responses, limb use, muscle tone and locomotion. PPTg lesions completely abolished the catalepsy and decreased activity that normally follows morphine administration. In addition lesioned animals exhibited increased muscle tone, and impairments in limb use and righting reflexes. Although the deficits were subtle, these results confirm that damage to the PPTg is associated with motor abnormalities.
Fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, is currently being evaluated as a potential treatment for cocaine abuse. This 4-week inpatient study evaluated the pharmacologic interaction between fluoxetine and cocaine in healthy adult male volunteers (N = 5) with histories of cocaine abuse. Oral capsules were administered daily containing either placebo (weeks 1 and 4) or fluoxetine in a series of ascending doses (10, 20, 30, and 40 mg) where each dose was given for three to four consecutive days. Cocaine challenge sessions were conducted twice weekly, once at each active dose level and twice during both the placebo and washout phases. Subjects received three ascending intravenous doses of cocaine (0, 20, and 40 mg) 1.5 hours apart and were monitored on physiologic and subjective measures. Cocaine alone increased heart rate, blood pressure, and pupillary diameter and increased subjective reports reflecting positive mood effects and drug liking. Fluoxetine (40 mg) significantly decreased subjective ratings of cocaine's positive mood effects on several visual analog measures. Fluoxetine also attenuated the mydriatic effect of cocaine. No adverse physiologic interactions between the two drugs were observed on cardiovascular measures. These data suggest that fluoxetine may be safely used in the presence of cocaine use and should be investigated further as a potential pharmacotherapy for cocaine abuse.
Clinically significant liver damage in patients taking therapeutic doses of paracetamol is very rare. We report two cases of fulminant hepatic failure caused by therapeutic (4 g x day(-1)) paracetamol administration on our Intensive Care Unit. Both patients had a muscular dystrophy and presented with a chest infection on a background of endstage neuromuscular respiratory failure. We also noted one further similar case in the literature and suggest a relationship between muscular dystrophy and paracetamol-induced hepatotoxicity. In this report we discuss in detail possible mechanisms that may account for this apparent association, which include altered pharmacokinetics, reduced glutathione stores, malnutrition and hypoxic injury.
Although cisplatin-based chemotherapy considerably improved the clinical outcome of patients with metastatic germ cell tumors, approximately 20% of patients fail to achieve a durable remission to first-line treatment and require effective salvage treatment. As only 20-30% of patients can expect disease-free long-term survival after conventional salvage treatment, an increasing proportion of patients has been referred to high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell rescue during recent years. However, high-dose chemotherapy still fails to cure a considerable number of patients, emphasizing the need to continue the search for new active drugs. We report here the case of a patient with late relapse of a non-seminomatous germ cell tumor who failed to respond to high-dose chemotherapy after heavy pretreatment with 11 cycles of cisplatin-based chemotherapy. The patient received paciltaxel for symptomatic disease with hepatic and pulmonary metastases, and attained a partial remission. Despite the heavy pretreatment, hematologic toxicity of paciltaxel was tolerable. As recent reports described responses to single-agent paciltaxel in a quarter of pretreated patients with germ cell tumors, further clinical trials seem justified to study the role of paciltaxel in combination regimens against this cancer type.
To probe the space at the floor of the orthosteric ligand binding site in the dopamine D(1) receptor, four methylated analogues of dihydrexidine (DHX) were synthesized with substitutions at the 7 and 8 positions. The 8α-axial, 8β-equatorial, and 7α-equatorial were synthesized by photochemical cyclization of appropriately substituted N-benzoyl enamines, and the 7β-axial analogue was prepared by an intramolecular Henry reaction. All of the methylated analogues displayed losses in affinity when compared to DHX (20 nM): 8β-Me(ax)-DHX (270 nM), 8α-Me(eq)-DHX (920 nM), 7β-Me(eq)-DHX (6540 nM), and 7α-Me(ax)-DHX (>10000 nM). Molecular modeling studies suggest that although the disruption of an aromatic interaction between Phe203(5.47) and Phe288(6.51) is the cause for the 14-fold loss in affinity associated with 8β-axial substitution, unfavorable steric interactions with Ser107(3.36) result in the more dramatic decreases in binding affinity suffered by the rest of the analogues.
Since chondrosarcoma has a high resistance to conventional chemotherapy and radiotherapy, surgical resection is currently the only effective treatment. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor exert anticancer effects, but have not been tested in chondrosarcoma.
We investigated the phenotypic change in chondrosarcoma cells treated with SAHA by cell viability assay, Western blot, flow cytometric analysis and electron microscopy.
SAHA inhibited the growth of chondrosarcoma cell lines and induced apoptosis in SW1353 with a cleaved-PARP expression and sub-G1 fragmentation according to flow cytometric analysis. On the other hand, in RCS and OUMS-27, SAHA induced autophagy-associated cell death as shown by the detection of autophagosome-specific protein and specific ultrastructural morphology in the cytoplasm. In addition, SAHA significantly inhibited tumor growth in an in vivo xenograft model.
These results suggest that SAHA might be a promising agent for performing clinically useful chemotherapy against chondrosarcomas.
A single blind, within-patient clinical study was carried out on sixteen profoundly mentally retarded in-patients. Five of them had primary generalized, four had partial, six secondary generalized and one had mixed epileptic seizures. With the exception of two patients, all had for months or years been on CBZ combined with other anticonvulsive drugs. Eleven cases had received diphenylhydantoin, eight valproate, six had been given phenobarbital and five nitrazepam. Without changing other anticonvulsive therapy, CBZ was replaced by ox-CBZ up to a dosage of 30 mg/kg b.w. in two or three daily doses. The anticonvulsive efficacy of ox-CBZ was considered better than that of CBZ in eight patients. In three cases, CBZ was preferred and in the remaining five no preference could be stated. A desirable psychotropic effect was found in three patients on ox-CBZ. Unwanted side effects occurred in seven patients. Two of them had their first episode of status epilepticus during the trial. Two out of sixteen patients had to discontinue the therapy. One of them experienced several episodes of status epilepticus, and the other patient lost appetite and had to be fed by tube. No signs of hepatitis occurred in any patient. Three patients are still on ox-CBZ, three and a half years from the start of the trial.
Cholestatic jaundice is a rare complication associated with the use of the angiotensin -converting enzyme inhibitor captopril. The severity of the disease may range from cholestasis on liver histology to overt fulminant hepatic failure. This diagnosis is seldom considered in patients with pancreatic or biliary tract malignancy. We present a patient with unresectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas whose jaundice decreased slowly over many weeks despite establishment of adequate endoscopic biliary drainage. The presence of captopril-associated cholestasis confounded confirmation of adequate biliary drainage. The absence of observed hepatic bile secretion at duodenoscopy, as seen in this patient, is a previously unreported endoscopic feature of this syndrome.
We investigated the expression of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) network before and after castration in the prostate cancer xenograft CWR22 implanted in nude mice, and examined the effects of gefitinib (Iresssa, ZD1839), a new drug directed towards the EGF tyrosine kinase receptor (HER1) of the EGF network.
CWR22 prostate cancer xenografts were propagated in immunodeficient male mice. The expression of the growth factors and receptors in the EGF network was examined by real-time PCR analysis and ELISA at 0, 7, 14, and 30 days after castration, and the tumor growth was examined after treatment with gefitinib or placebo.
A fraction of growth factors showed a steady increase in the mRNA expression reaching between fourfold and eightfold 30 days after castration, including amphiregulin (P < 0.005) and epiregulin (P < 0.001). ELISA for amphiregulin showed a fivefold increase 30 days after castration. Tumor bearing mice were castrated and treated with or without the HER1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor gefitinib. Tumor involution was significantly increased by castration plus gefitinib as compared to castration alone.
Castration leads to adaptive increase in the concentrations of a subset of growth factors from the EGF network in the androgen sensitive CWR22 prostate cancer xenograft. Specific inhibition of the HER1 tyrosine kinase receptor significantly increases the tumor involution, and suggests that HER1 targeted drugs could be of therapeutic relevance in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer.
Side effects of beta-sympathomimetic drugs are of primary interest in the treatment of preterm labor. Incidence of side effects are dose-dependent, as is the efficacy of the beta-agonist in uterine relaxation. the effect of verapamil (Ca2+) inhibitor with antiarrhythmic action) on ritodrine does not modify the value of ritodrine in prolonging pregnancy, but clearly diminishes the incidence of maternal tachycardia and hypotension. The authors suggest that in the treatment of preterm labor with ritodrine infusion above 200 micrograms/min, the addition of verapamil (dosage, 80-120 micrograms/min) is useful because it substantially reduces the cardiovascular side effects associated with ritodrine hydrochloride.
To determine the role of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone (RAA) system in the acute effect of calcium channel blockers, we examined the acute effect of 40 mg nicardipine in 21 essential hypertensive patients. Nine patients whose mean blood pressure (MBP) decreased more than 5% at 2 hours after 20 mg furosemide i.v. were classified as salt-sensitive (SS); the remainder as salt-resistant (SR). The percentage decrease of MBP with nicardipine was not different between the two subgroups (12.4 +/- 2.5% for SS, and 17.7 +/- 4.1% for SR). The percentage decrease of MBP correlated with the pretreatment MBP (r = 0.67, p < 0.001), but not with the basal plasma renin activity (PRA), plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC), or natriuretic response. A significant increase of heart rate was noted in SR (31.2%) but not in SS (6.5%), and was associated with a higher increase of PRA in SR (90.7%) than in SS (25.5%). A correlation between the increase of PRA and the percentage increase of heart rate was noted (r = 0.77 p < 0.001). Decrease of PAC was observed in SS but not in SR until the third hour. The 3-hour sodium excretion was slightly greater in SR than in SS (59.9 +/- 9.1 vs. 35.1 +/- 3.0 mEq; p < 0.05). In summary, the acute hypotensive effect of nicardipine is dependent upon the vascular tone regardless of the status of the RAA system. An increase in PRA by nicardipine resulting from a baroreflex mechanism may counteract the inhibitory effect of aldosterone secretion by nicardipine. The unchanged PRA in SS is due to their blunted baroreflex control of heart rate. Mechanisms other than the change in the RAA system by nicardipine may account for the acute natriuretic effect.
The impact of pegylated interferon combined with ribavirin upon the status of B vitamins, iron and oxidative stress in patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection was examined.
Blood levels of B vitamins, iron status, and oxidative stress associated biomarkers were determined for 152 healthy controls and 109 HCV patients treated by pegylated interferon and ribavirin at three stages: before therapy, week 24 of treatment, and 48 weeks after therapy.
HCV infection significantly lowered vitamin B(6) and folate (p<0.05). Therapy caused further decrease in vitamin B(6) (p<0.05), and also significantly decreased vitamins B(1) and B(2) (p<0.05). This anti-HCV therapy caused more patients to exhibit insufficient iron status. HCV infection elevated plasma level of malondialdehyde and 8-isoprostane, and therapy further exacerbated lipid oxidation (p<0.05). HCV infection significantly lowered vitamin C and glutathione levels (p<0.05); therapy significantly reduced alpha-tocopherol and activity of glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase (p<0.05).
This anti-HCV therapy elevated oxidative stress and depleted B vitamins and iron. Thus, the supplement of antioxidant agents, B vitamins and/or iron should be considered for patients with this therapy in order to avoid other healthy risk.
Arsenic-contaminated well water has been shown to increase the risk of atherosclerosis. Because of involving S-adenosylmethionine, homocysteine may modify the risk by interfering with the biomethylation of ingested arsenic. In this study, we assessed the effect of plasma homocysteine level and urinary monomethylarsonic acid (MMA(V)) on the risk of atherosclerosis associated with arsenic. In total, 163 patients with carotid atherosclerosis and 163 controls were studied. Lifetime cumulative arsenic exposure from well water for study subjects was measured as index of arsenic exposure. Homocysteine level was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Proportion of MMA(V) (MMA%) was calculated by dividing with total arsenic species in urine, including arsenite, arsenate, MMA(V), and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V)). Results of multiple linear regression analysis show a positive correlation of plasma homocysteine levels to the cumulative arsenic exposure after controlling for atherosclerosis status and nutritional factors (P < 0.05). This correlation, however, did not change substantially the effect of arsenic exposure on the risk of atherosclerosis as analyzed in a subsequent logistic regression model. Logistic regression analyses also show that elevated plasma homocysteine levels did not confer an independent risk for developing atherosclerosis in the study population. However, the risk of having atherosclerosis was increased to 5.4-fold (95% CI, 2.0-15.0) for the study subjects with high MMA% (> or =16.5%) and high homocysteine levels (> or =12.7 micromol/l) as compared to those with low MMA% (<9.9%) and low homocysteine levels (<12.7 micromol/l). Elevated homocysteinemia may exacerbate the formation of atherosclerosis related to arsenic exposure in individuals with high levels of MMA% in urine.
To report a fatal case of amiodarone-induced acute hepatotoxicity after intravenous amiodarone administration and similar fatal cases review.
A 72-year-old woman with a history of hypertension, prior cardiovascular disease, atrial fibrillation and diabetes mellitus was admitted to the hospital with acute pyelonephritis and transferred to the intensive care unit due to cerebral infarction. An antidiabetic drug, a low dose of aspirin and intravenous amiodarone therapy was started. After receiving a second dose of amiodarone (1,200 mg; injection rate 1 mg/min), the woman developed ascites, jaundice, high levels of serum transaminases, decreased prothrombin time, and finally became unconscious. Immediately after treatment was discontinued, her extremely high hepatic parameters returned to normal. According to the Naranjo probability scale, this adverse reaction was highly probable.
The occurrence of acute liver damage after intravenous amiodarone is rare but harmful. It can be induced by polysorbate 80, a solubilizer, by immunomediated centrilobular necrosis, or by the presence of a functional PPAR-I+/- gene.
Amiodarone is an effective antiarrhythmic agent for preventing and treating atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. The molecular mechanism causing acute hepatic damage after amiodarone treatment is not clear. Therefore, amiodarone must be administered with care, and liver function should be monitored closely in patients treated with this drug.
This study examined the effect of 1,3-butanediol on the selective loss of CA1 pyramidal neurons following a short period of near-complete forebrain ischemia. Injection of 55 mmol 1,3-butanediol/kg body weight at 24 h of recirculation and again at 36 h following 10 min of forebrain ischemia markedly reduced damage to CA1 neurons examined at 72 h of recirculation compared with that in saline-treated rats. Comparable treatment with ethanol did not cause significant protection. Neuronal loss was also not reduced by 1,3-butanediol treatment when the ischemic period was extended to 15 min or by single treatments at 24 h or 36 h following 10 min of ischemia. However, a single treatment 5 min after reversal of 10 min of ischemia was effective in ameliorating cell loss. The difference in effectiveness of 1,3-butanediol following 10 min and 15 min of ischemia is consistent with a number of previous studies, indicating that the processes leading to loss of CA1 neurons are modified when the ischemic period is extended. Previous findings that 1,3-butanediol reduced damage in other ischemia-susceptible neuronal subpopulations but not in CA1 neurons most likely reflected the longer period of ischemia which was used. The results of the present investigation demonstrate that administration of 1,3-butanediol offers a novel approach for interfering with post-ischemic loss of CA1 neurons following a brief ischemic period which is effective even when initiated after prolonged recirculation periods.
1. In infants, promethazine has been implicated in the pathogenesis of sleep apnoea, apparent life threatening events (ALTE) and the Sudden Infant Death syndrome (SIDS). The aim of the present study was to investigate, in a neonatal animal, the effects of a commonly used promethazine-containing medication on airway protective mechanisms and cardiorespiratory reflexes following simulated gastro-oesophageal reflux (GER) to different levels in the oesophagus and pharynx. 2. Physiological and radiographic recordings were made in 21 naturally sleeping (controls) and 21 sedated (1.5 mg/kg, p.o., promethazine) piglets. On 3 consecutive days physiological recordings were made in all piglets during active sleep. Gastro-oesophageal reflux was simulated by the injection of boluses of 0.5 mL HCl, pH 2 or 3, or NaCl (0.9%) at 37 degrees C into the pharynx, upper or lower oesophagus. 3. In healthy neonatal piglets, minimal sedation with promethazine, which did not affect behaviour during wakefulness, revealed previously unreported findings during active sleep. 4. The most significant effects were observed following simulated GER to the pharynx, with no effect observed in the lower oesophagus. In sedated piglets, compared with naturally sleeping piglets, there was a significant reduction in swallowing (P < 0.01), delayed radiological clearance of fluid (P < 0.05), a reduction in breathing rate, oxygen saturation and heart rate and an increase in apnoea. 5. These findings are consistent with a low dose of promethazine producing a significant attenuation of airway protective mechanisms and, thus, stimulation of the laryngeal chemoreflex. The results suggest a mechanism for the association observed between promethazine use and the occurrence of ALTE and SIDS. The results support continued caution and suggest the need for greater regulation of promethazine-containing medications in infants.
The aim of this study was to assess the levels of secondhand smoke (SHS) exposure of men and women in public places in Kyrgyzstan. This cross-sectional study involved 10 bars and restaurants in Bishkek the capital city of Kyrgyzstan. Smoking was allowed in all establishments. Median (interquartile range) air nicotine concentrations were 6.82 (2.89, 8.86) microg/m(3). Employees were asked about their smoking history and exposure to SHS at work. Employees were exposed to SHS for mean (SD) 13.5 (3.6) hours a day and 5.8 (1.4) days a week. Women were exposed to more hours of SHS at work compared to men. Hospitality workers are exposed to excessive amounts of SHS from customers. Legislation to ban smoking in public places including bars and restaurants is urgently needed to protect workers and patrons from the harmful effects of SHS.
We recently found that the interfering peptide Tat-3L4F is able not only to disrupt the protein-protein interaction of PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10) with the serotonin 5-HT2C receptor in the rat ventral tegmental area (VTA) but also to suppress the conditioned place preference induced by cannabinoid and nicotine without significant effects on anxiety, feeding behavior and motor activity. It is unknown, however, whether Tat-3L4F affects learning and memory. Using a Morris water maze test, we show here that while the cannabinoid HU210 significantly inhibited the performance of spatial learning without significant effects on long-term memory, Tat-3L4F did not induce significant effects on the acquisition and retrieval of spatial memory. These results indicate that Tat-3L4F can suppress the rewarding effects of abused drugs without significant effects on learning and memory.
Liver injury is the leading cause of drug-induced toxicity. For the evaluation of a chemical compound to induce toxicity, in this case steatosis or fatty liver, it is imperative to identify markers reflective of mechanisms and processes induced upon exposure, as these will be the earliest changes reflective of disease. Therefore, an in vivo mouse toxicogenomics study was completed to identify common pathways, nuclear receptor (NR) binding sites, and genes regulated by three known human steatosis-inducing compounds, amiodarone (AMD), valproic acid (VPA), and tetracycline (TET). Over 1, 4, and 11 days of treatment, AMD induced changes in clinical chemistry parameters and histopathology consistent with steatosis. Common processes and NR binding sites involved in lipid, retinol, and drug metabolism were found for AMD and VPA, but not for TET, which showed no response. Interestingly, the pattern of enrichment of these common pathways and NR binding sites over time was unique to each compound. Eleven biomarkers of steatosis were identified as dose responsive and time sensitive to toxicity for AMD and VPA. Finally, this in vivo mouse study was compared to an AMD rat in vivo, an AMD mouse primary hepatocyte, and a VPA human primary hepatocyte study to identify concordance for steatosis. We conclude that concordance is found on the process level independent of species, model or dose*time point.
