Deoxypreussomerin derivatives, palmarumycins JC1 (1) and JC2 (2), and two dimeric naphthoquinones, isodiospyrin (3) and its new derivative isodiospyrol A (4), were isolated from dried fruits of Diospyros ehretioides. Structures of the isolated compounds were elucidated by spectroscopic analyses. Palmarumycins were not found in the extract of freshly collected fruits; however, they were present in dried fruit extract. The absence of palmarumycins in fresh fruits of D. ehretioides, together with the chemotaxonomic point of view, we proposed that palmarumycins JC1 (1) and JC2 (2) are more likely to be fungal metabolites, i.e., endophytes or epiphytes. The isolation of palmarumycins 1 and 2 from dried D. ehretioides fruits could be reproducible; both plant samples collected in the years 2002 and 2004 provided the same result, and, therefore, symbiont fungal strains should be specific to the plant host, D. ehretioides, and they can grow on the fruits during drying the sample. Palmarumycin JC1 (1) did not exhibit antimalarial, antifungal, antimycobacterial, and cytotoxic activities. Palmarumycin JC2 (2) exhibited antimalarial (IC50 4.5 microg/ml), antifungal (IC50 12.5 microg/ml), antimycobacterial (MIC 6.25 microg/ml), and cytotoxic (IC50 11.0 microg/ml for NCI-H187 cell line) activities. In our bioassay systems, isodiospyrin (3) did not exhibit antimycobacterial, antifungal, antimalarial, and cytotoxic activities. Isodiospyrol A (4) exhibited antimalarial (IC50 2.7 microg/ml) and antimycobacterial (MIC 50 microg/ml) activities, but was inactive towards Candida albicans. Compound 4 also exhibited cytotoxicity against BC cells (IC50 12.3 microg/ml), but not towards KB and Vero cell lines.
Twenty-eight patients with unresectable urothelial tumors who had no evidence of distant visceral metastasis were managed with iv CISCA (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) and intra-arterial (ia) CISCA chemotherapy. Ten patients had locally advanced disease only and 18 had locally advanced disease with nodal metastasis (ten in pelvic nodes; seven in pelvic and para-aortic nodes; and one in pelvic, para-aortic, and mesenteric nodes). Eleven patients (39%) achieved a complete remission, with a median duration of 49 weeks (range, 25-108). Seven patients (25%) achieved on objective response and ten patients (36%) failed to respond. Iv and ia CISCA chemotherapy is effective in the management of advanced urothelial tumors. Patients with locally advanced disease with or without the presence of nodal metastasis are a select population in whom frequent complete remissions can be achieved.
Dipylidium caninum, the dog tapeworm, is a common intestinal cestode of domestic dogs and cats, but few cases have been reported of human infection by this parasite in Japan. We repot a case of D. caninum infection in a 17 month-old girl, who sometimes had symptoms of abdominal pain, diarrhea, and dysphoria at night. Her mother noted the appearance of small white worms in her stool, and she was seen by a local pediatrician. Despite antiparasitic therapy wiht pyrantel pamoate, the problem persisted and was eventually referred for further workup to Kurume University Hospital. The diagnosis was made by microscopic examination of the excreted proglottids, which contained characteristic egg capsules. She was successfully treated with a singledose of praziquantel and four adult parasites were recovered. The longest intact worm was 32cm. Her family had household pets (a dog and a cat). The pets were seen by the local veterinary and both were evidenced D. caninum. Humans, primarily children, become infected when they accidentally ingest fleas. Parents usually find proglottids as multiple white objects, often described as cucumber, melon, or pumpkin seeds, in stool, diapers, or on the perineum. Most general practitioners and pediatricians may treat children with enterobiasis (pinworm) infection, and in case the treatment fails, other parasite infection should be considered such as this worm. A history of dog or cat pets, fleas, and flea bites may be important clues to diagnosis. Pets found to be infected should also be treated.
To assess the possible relationship between treatment with dopamine agonists and cardiac fibrotic valvulopathy in Parkinson's disease, a systematic review of published articles describing this association was performed.
Cardiac valvulopathy has been described in parkinsonian patients taking pergolide, and in a few isolated cases treated with cabergoline or bromocriptine.
Until now, no cases of valvulopathy related to non-ergot dopamine agonists have been reported.
Cumulative dose and duration of treatment are likely risk factors for development of valvulopathy. In some cases, the discontinuation of ergotic dopamine agonists was followed by improvement of valve regurgitation.
Congestive heart failure in the elderly which might be due to treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was studied by means of a questionnaire sent to the participants of a postgraduate course on locomotor disease in the elderly, and also by analysis of the hospital records of 600 elderly subjects diagnosed with congestive heart failure. The questionnaire revealed 22 possible cases, reported by 20 physicians (84 physicians out of 243 responded). In the hospital population five probable cases were detected. Details of these patients are presented. In contrast with findings in the literature, solute retention was in no case the result of kidney function impairment. The specific problems regarding the attribution of this adverse effect are discussed. The results of our study provide further evidence that congestive heart failure due to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug treatment is a probable adverse drug reaction in elderly individuals with or without a history of impaired cardiac performance. It may result from drug toxicity following (relative) overdosing in this age group, from reduced effectiveness of concomitant diuretic treatment or from effects on cardiovascular homoeostasis.
The present study compared the hemodynamic effects of captopril with those of guanethidine as well as with a combination of these two drugs in conscious male spontaneously hypertensive rats. Acutely, captopril or guanethidine or a combination of the two lowered arterial pressure to similar levels. The reduction in pressure with captopril alone or in combination with guanethidine, was due to a lowering of all organ vascular resistances. Guanethidine alone lowered pressure by reducing cardiac output. Chronically, captopril or guanethidine lowered arterial pressure to similar levels by reducing organ vascular resistances to comparable levels, particularly skeletal muscle, skin and splanchnic organs. Combination of these two drugs had an additive effect on the reduction of arterial pressure and organ vascular resistances. Since, chronically, the addition of guanethidine to captopril therapy enhanced rather than attenuated the hemodynamic changes induced by captopril, these drugs are probably acting by different mechanisms and the mechanisms of action of captopril does not require an intact sympathetic nervous system.
To report an association between acute renal failure and varenicline.
A 53-year-old white male with preexisting moderate renal insufficiency was admitted to the hospital for acute renal failure following a change in serum creatinine from 4 mg/dL at baseline to 10.6 mg/dL upon admission. One week prior to admission, the patient started taking varenicline (dose undetermined) for smoking cessation and had been stable on all other medications for 2 months prior to admission. All hospital workup tests were negative for prerenal azotemia, postrenal obstruction, and intrinsic renal disease. Varenicline was discontinued on admission. With no other changes in therapy, the serum creatinine level decreased each day of the patient's 5-day hospitalization to 8.6 mg/dL upon discharge, and it was 6.4 mg/dL at a follow-up appointment 2 weeks after discharge.
Varenicline is a novel medication that is effective for smoking cessation. Adverse effects are generally mild and self-limiting, with gastro-intestinal effects most commonly reported. According to the package insert, varenicline does not change creatinine clearance to any appreciable extent, but it should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment. It also states that varenicline can cause acute renal failure rarely; to our knowledge, this is the first published association of varenicline with renal effects. Use of the Naranjo probability scale showed varenicline to be the probable cause of renal dysfunction in this patient because of the temporal relationship and lack of alternative causes.
Although there was a probable relationship between varenicline and acute renal failure in this patient, the significant benefit of smoking cessation to overall health outweighs the risk of this rare adverse effect. Clinicians should be aware of this potential adverse effect and should monitor renal function upon initiation of varenicline therapy, especially in patients with chronic kidney disease.
The effectiveness of aprindine, N-[3-(diethyl amino)propyl]-N-phenyl-2-indanamine, was examined against experimentally induced arrhythmias. Ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia was reversed in six of six dogs by aprindine, 5 mg/kg i.v. The threshold for extrasytoles induced by a 250-msec train of 60 Hz 2-msec pulses starting 75 msec after the pacing pulse was elevated from a control value of 0.18 +/- mA to a peak of 0.29 +/- 0.03 mA 5 minutes after aprindine, 5 mg/kg (P less than .005). The similarly determined ventricular fibrillation threshold was increased from a control value of 2.45 +/- 0.78 mA to a maximum of 5.68 +/- 1.47 mA 30 minutes after aprindine, 5 mg/kg i.v. (P less than .025). Aprindine failed to protect against fibrillation associated with one-stage occlusion and release of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Conscious dogs 24 hours after two-stage ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery showed ectopic beats averaging 107 +/- 5 beats/min. Aprindine, 5 mg/kg i.v., caused an initial reduction of the ectopic rate to 1 +/- 1 beats/min (P less than .001) returning to 57 +/- 19 beats/min (P less than .05) 30 minutes postdrug. An additional 5 mg/kg dose reduced the ectopic rate to 1 +/- 1 beats/min (P less than .001) returning to 15 +/- 8 beats/min (P less than .005) 60 minutes after drug. Evaluation of these animals at 48 hours showed a similar pattern, although one animal fibrillated after 5 mg/kg of aprindine. Aprindine is an effective antiarrhythmic agent in some experimental cardiac arrhythmias, but the appearance of central nervous system toxicity at therapeutic drug concentrations in conscious animals indicates that it may have a narrow margin of safety.
A 30-month-old female infant had a cardiopulmonary arrest due to viscous lidocaine. The protective airway mechanisms were blunted by this drug, resulting in aspiration, hypoxia, seizures, and death. Lidocaine has also been associated with respiratory depression, psychosis, methemoglobinemia, and toxic cardiovascular reactions. We do not recommend the use of viscous lidocaine for minor oral irritation in infants and young children.
Following a case of mannitol-induced respiratory and circulatory collapse, the effects of hyperosmolar injections on pulmonary arterial pressure, systemic blood pressure, and cardiac output were studied in dogs. The injection of 20 ml of 10% NaCl into the pulmonary artery increased pulmonary arterial pressure and decreased systemic blood pressure by approximately 50% of control values. Injections of solutions of equal hyperosmolar strength, 50 ml of 25% mannitol or 50 ml of 4% NaCl into the pulmonary artery produced no significant elevation of pulmonary arterial pressure, but were associated with comparable decreases in systemic blood pressure. When allowed to vary, cardiac output increased with injections of all three hyperosmolar solutions, yet was still accompanied by falls in systemic blood pressure as large as when cardiac output was held constant. Vagotomy did not prevent these changes in systemic and pulmonary arterial pressure, nor the increase in cardiac output. After five to 10 injections, the decreases in system blood pressure with any of the solutions and the increases in pulmonary arterial pressure with 10% NaCl disappeared and further injections were without effect. It is concluded that adminstration of mannitol probably does not cause pulmonary edema due to fluid overload, nor does it cause heart failure as evidenced by increases in pulmonary arterial pressure. However, rapid injection may cause a fall in blood pressure and may on occasion be accompanied by bronchospasm, especially in sensitive subjects.
Alpers disease is a neurodegenerative disorder of childhood characterized by early developmental delay, intractable seizures, and death in childhood. Neuropathologic changes are most severe in the gray matter and consist of diffuse neuronal loss, spongiform changes, and astrocytosis. We report 2 siblings with Alpers disease who were discordant for exposure to valproate (VPA). Both had developmental delay, and a progressive seizure disorder beginning at 5 years of age. The proband died at age 8 years of complications of ongoing seizures, including epilepsia partialis continua, with only minimal liver abnormalities. Her younger brother was treated with VPA for new-onset seizures and developed fulminant liver failure 6 months later, which led to his death at 5 years of age. Neuropathologic abnormalities of both siblings were consistent with Alpers disease. These observations support classification of Alpers disease and Alpers disease with liver cirrhosis as a single disease. They also confirm previous reports indicating that VPA may accelerate fulminant liver failure in Alpers disease. We recommend that a diagnosis of Alpers disease be considered in children with unexplained early developmental delay, cerebellar signs, or partial seizures, especially epilepsia partialis continua. When Alpers disease is strongly suspected, use of VPA should be avoided.
The development of ototoxicity was evaluated using auditory brainstem response (ABR) in cancer patients randomized to receive a cisplatin-based chemotherapy (cisplatin dose: 70 mg/m2) or a carboplatin-based chemotherapy (carboplatin dose: 250 mg/m2). The ABR measurements were performed in a sound-treated room using 2000 clicks of alternating polarity at an intensity of 100 dB PESPL presented to the patients at a rate of 21 clicks per second. Of 59 patients, 21 (9 in the cisplatin group and 12 in the carboplatin group) met our pre-established criteria and were included in the ototoxicity study. Two patients of the cisplatin group developed evidence of clinically occult ototoxicity after two cycles of chemotherapy; the latency of wave V of the ABR increased significantly from 5.874 to 6.336 msec and from 5.826 to 6.458 msec in both patients; these patients had a hearing loss detected by conventional audiometry (125 to 8,000 Hz) after five and six cycles of chemotherapy, respectively. None of the 12 examined carboplatin patients developed ABR-measured ototoxicity or abnormal audiograms during treatment. Our results suggest that ABR might prove to be useful in detecting early hearing deterioration from cisplatin.
This study was designed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of testosterone therapy for clinical symptoms of hypogonadism (low libido, low mood, low energy, loss of appetite/weight) in human immunodeficiency virus-positive men with CD4 cell counts less than 400 cells/mm3 and deficient or low normal serum testosterone levels. The trial consisted of 8 weeks of open treatment with 400 mg of intramuscular testosterone cypionate biweekly. Responders were maintained at this dosage for another 4 weeks and then were randomized in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, 6-week discontinuation trial. Of the 112 men who completed at least 8 weeks of treatment, 102 (91%) were rated as responders on a global assessment of sexual desire/function. Of the 34 study completers with major depressive disorder and/or dysthymia, 79% reported significant improvement in mood at week 8. Average weight change was a gain of 3.7 pounds, with 45% gaining more than 5 pounds. Eighty-four men entered and 77 completed the double-blind phase; of these, 78% of completers randomized to testosterone and 13% randomized to placebo maintained their response. No significant medical or immunologic adverse effects were identified. Testosterone therapy was well tolerated and effective in ameliorating symptoms of clinical hypogonadism, and equally so for men with and without testosterone deficiency. For patients with major depression and/or dysthymia, improvement was equal to that achieved with standard antidepressants.
Recent reports of sustained hypertension in some patients receiving venlafaxine have rekindled concerns about antidepressant-induced hypertension. This study examined sitting and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure, pulse rate, and rate of sustained hypertension in 796 depressed patients (mean +/- SD age, 40 +/- 11 years) taking fluoxetine 20 mg daily for up to 12 weeks. A modest reduction in sitting and standing systolic (p < 0.001) and diastolic (p < 0.001) blood pressure measures were observed in the entire patient sample. Patients with pretreatment diastolic blood pressure < 60 mmHg (N = 32) showed a modest increase in mean diastolic blood pressure (p < 0.001), whereas patients with pretreatment diastolic blood pressure > or = 90 mmHg and < or = 95 mmHg (N = 57) had a modest reduction in mean diastolic blood pressure (p < 0.001). Patients with preexisting, stable cardiovascular disease (including hypertension) (N = 35) showed no significant blood pressure change (p = not significant). Of the patients receiving fluoxetine, 1.7% had sustained hypertension for > or = 3 consecutive clinic visits-a rate significantly lower than that previously reported with venlafaxine (4.8%) (chi2 = 13.3, p < 0.001) and similar to that previously seen with placebo (2.1%). In conclusion, these data demonstrate a low rate of sustained hypertension (1.7%) during short-term fluoxetine treatment.
Long-term administration of pancuronium for ventilatory support of adults with ARDS may result in severe tetraparesis, with areflexia and atrophy of distal muscles. This adverse effect occurs rarely in paediatric intensive care units. We describe a case of tetraparesis after prolonged pancuronium infusion in a 9-month-old girl who experienced a severe bronchopneumonia caused by para-influenza virus, requiring endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation. To decrease chest wall rigidity, pancuronium was administered over 11 days, with a total dose of approximately 120 mg of pancuronium bromide. The day after discontinuation of the muscle relaxant she had a severe tetraplegia with areflexia, but normal head movements. Electromyography showed a normal neuromuscular transmission. She recovered from tetraplegia three months later. Other causes of peripheral neuropathy were eliminated. Electroencephalograms and head CT-scans were normal. The recovery pattern observed in our patient corresponded to the process of regeneration seen after axonal degeneration. It is suggested that these neuromuscular complications were caused by prolonged high-dosage pancuronium treatment, associated with corticosteroid and aminoglycoside administration.
The effectiveness and safety of ciprofloxacin, a new quinolone antibiotic, were prospectively evaluated in the treatment of patients with complicated urinary tract infections caused by gram-negative organisms resistant to trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. Twenty-five elderly (mean age, 70.4 years) patients (24 men and one woman) were enrolled. Initial pathogens included Pseudomonas aeruginosa (15 isolates), Escherichia coli (five isolates), Enterobacter aerogenes (one isolate), Citrobacter freundii (one isolate), Serratia species (two isolates), Proteus vulgaris (one isolate), and enterococcus (one isolate). Patients received 500 mg of ciprofloxacin orally twice daily for one week (mean, 6.98 days). Results of urine cultures obtained during therapy were negative in all cases, and at one week post-therapy, 21 of 25 (84 percent) infections were cured. Four patients experienced a relapse with P. aeruginosa. Repeat urine culture specimens were obtained at four to six weeks from 14 patients who had cures at one week post-therapy, and seven continued to have cures. Three patients had late relapses with P. aeruginosa, E. coli, or Serratia marcescens, and four were reinfected with new strains. Five patients who received concomitant oral antacids had lower mean peak and trough serum ciprofloxacin levels than did patients not receiving antacids (p less than 0.05, Wilcoxon rank sum test). Mild adverse effects were seen in seven patients: eosinophilia (one patient), eosinophilia and reduced white blood cell count (one patient), crystalluria (one patient), granular casts (one patient), elevation of serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels (one patient), and nausea (two patients), but none warranted discontinuation of ciprofloxacin therapy. P. aeruginosa isolates from two patients who experienced a relapse showed increases in minimal inhibitory concentrations from 0.13 to 0.5 and 2.0 micrograms/ml, respectively, to ciprofloxacin and other antibiotics. Orally administered ciprofloxacin was a safe and effective therapy for complicated urinary tract infections in elderly patients.
Up-regulation of glycolysis has been demonstrated in multiple tumor types and is believed to originate as an adaptive response to the selective pressure of the tumor microenvironment. We hypothesized that ovarian cancer cells are dependent on the glycolytic pathway for adenosine triphosphate generation and that this phenotype could be exploited for therapeutic intervention.
Expression of glucose transporter 1 (Glut1), phosphorylated protein kinase B (pPKB/pAkt), and phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (pmTOR) was assessed in ovarian carcinoma tumors and cell lines. Cells were incubated with 2-deoxyglucose and rapamycin; growth inhibition, viability, and mechanism of cell death were determined.
Ovarian carcinoma cells overexpress Glut1, pAkt, and pmTOR compared with benign ovarian epithelial cells. 2-deoxyglucose and rapamycin markedly enhance apoptotic and nonapoptotic cell death in ovarian cancer cells.
The glycolytic phenotype of ovarian cancer cells can be targeted for therapeutic intervention. Combined treatment modalities that target multiple cellular pathways hold promise for the treatment of chemoresistant ovarian cancer cells.
Gonadotropin-producing pituitary adenomas are extremely rare in reproductive-age women. We report here a case of gonadotroph microadenoma with ovarian hyperstimulation. It was found in a 29-yr-old infertile Japanese woman with enlarged multicystic ovaries. The patient had an elevated basal serum estradiol level (up to 6755 pM, or 1840 pg/ml). Serum FSH and prolactin were mildly elevated (15.4 IU/liter, 1.4 nM or 31.4 ng/ml), whereas LH was low (0.5 IU/liter). The FSH level was paradoxically elevated in response to TRH administration. Dynamic magnetic resonance imaging revealed a pituitary microadenoma. Daily administration of bromocriptine, a dopamine agonist, normalized the ovarian size, and the patient ovulated naturally. She conceived after 3 months of bromocriptine therapy and delivered a normal child. She underwent elective transsphenoidal pituitary surgery, 3 yr after the delivery. Immunostaining of the resected tumor showed that 80% and less than 5% of the tumor cells stained for FSH-beta and prolactin, respectively. Furthermore, RT-PCR suggested that dopamine type 2 receptor was expressed in the adenoma. Gonadotroph microadenoma should be considered in women with spontaneous ovarian hyperstimulation, even if they have no neurological symptoms or marked pituitary enlargement. In such cases, bromocriptine therapy may be an alternative to pituitary surgery.
A report of ibuprofen-associated lipoid nephrosis without interstitial nephritis is presented. Previous reported cases had incomplete biopsy descriptions or concurrent interstitial disease. The patient responded to withdrawal of ibuprofen.
Identification of biomarkers that establish diagnosis or treatment response is critical to the advancement of research and management of patients with depression.
Our goal was to identify biomarkers that can potentially assess fluoxetine response and risk to poor treatment outcome.
We measured behavior, gene expression, and the levels of 36 neurobiochemical analytes across a panel of genetically diverse mouse inbred lines after chronic treatment with water or fluoxetine.
Glyoxylase 1 (GLO1) and guanine nucleotide-binding protein 1 (GNB1) mostly account for baseline anxiety-like and depressive-like behavior, indicating a common biological link between depression and anxiety. Fluoxetine-induced biochemical alterations discriminated positive responders, while baseline neurobiochemical differences differentiated negative responders (p < 0.006). Results show that glial fibrillary acidic protein, S100 beta protein, GLO1, and histone deacetylase 5 contributed most to fluoxetine response. These proteins are linked within a cellular growth/proliferation pathway, suggesting the involvement of cellular genesis in fluoxetine response. Furthermore, a candidate genetic locus that associates with baseline depressive-like behavior contains a gene that encodes for cellular proliferation/adhesion molecule (Cadm1), supporting a genetic basis for the role of neuro/gliogenesis in depression.
We provided a comprehensive analysis of behavioral, neurobiochemical, and transcriptome data across 30 mouse inbred strains that has not been accomplished before. We identified biomarkers that influence fluoxetine response, which, altogether, implicate the importance of cellular genesis in fluoxetine treatment. More broadly, this approach can be used to assess a wide range of drug response phenotypes that are challenging to address in human samples.
An angiotensin II receptor antagonist, candesartan has been shown to improve left ventricular dysfunction and exercise tolerance. The assessment of response to candesartan heart failure in Japan(ARCH-J) is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 6-month study enrolled 305 patients who has not been previously treated with ACE inhibitors, who had not been adequately controlled with ACE inhibitors or who were intolerant of ACE inhibitors. The incidence of confirmed progression of heart failure was significantly lower in the candesartan group(7.4%) than in the placebo group(22.2%), with risk reduction 63.8. Cardiovascular events were also significantly lower during treatment with candesartan than with placebo(10.8% vs 22.9%) with risk reduction of 50.2%. ARCH-J study showed that candesartan cilexetil, 8 mg/day, significantly improved the progression of heart failure when compared with placebo.
To evaluate whether providing 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17P) to high-risk pregnant women who have a history of preterm delivery in a Medicaid managed care population reduces the rate of recurrent preterm delivery and neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) admissions.
A 2004-2009 longitudinal review of birth outcomes in 193 singleton pregnant women with a history of spontaneous preterm delivery that were treated with 17P versus a control group.
Intervention included offering 17P as a benefit to pregnant women who had a history of spontaneous preterm delivery and who were deemed to be appropriate candidates by their doctor. Members for this study were identified by claims review and obstetrical (OB) case managers in the health plans. A process of early identification, using a variety of data sources, was established along with an educational program aimed at physicians, their office staff, and plan members in order to increase 17P utilization in appropriate candidates.
Deliveries with a gestational age of less than 35 weeks decreased significantly from 41.67% in the control group to 26.42% in the 17P group when 17P was initiated by 28 weeks of gestation. The NICU admission rate decreased from 45% in the control group to 33.68% in this 17P group, and was nearly significant.
Offering 17P as a benefit does have a positive effect on reducing the rate of recurrent preterm delivery and rate of NICU admission in a managed Medicaid population. There was no decrease in effectiveness with delay in initiation of 17P as long as it was started by 28 weeks of gestation.
Previous studies have indicated that the addition of progestins during sequential hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) causes negative mood and physical symptoms. History of premenstrual syndrome, type of progestin, and dose of progestin have thus far been shown to influence the progestin-induced adverse mood symptoms during HRT. The aim of this study was to compare adverse mood effects of two different doses of estradiol, in combination with a progestin, during postmenopausal HRT. Twenty-eight perimenopausal women were included in this randomized, double-blind, crossover study comparing 2- or 3-mg continuous estradiol, with an addition of 10 mg medroxyprogesterone acetate on d 17-28 during each treatment cycle. The main outcome measures were mood and physical symptoms kept on a daily rating scale. Together with the progestin, the higher dose of estrogen caused significantly more negative mood symptoms than the lower dose. Tension, irritability, and depressed mood were all significantly augmented during the progestin phase of cycles with 3 mg estradiol (P < 0.001). Physical symptoms also increased during the progestin phase of 3-mg estradiol cycles (P < 0.001), whereas positive mood symptoms were less affected. The only positive mood that changed with estrogen dose was friendliness, which decreased during the progestin phase of high estradiol cycles compared with cycles with lower estradiol (P < 0.05). Our conclusion is that an increase of the estrogen dose accentuates negative mood and physical symptoms during the progestin phase of sequential hormonal therapy.
