To assess efficacy of vaccine therapy with ribomunil in prevention of exacerbations and prolongation of remission in patients with obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Fifty three COPD patients were divided into two groups: 28 patients of the study group received ribomunil plus standard therapy; 25 controls received only standard treatment. The examination of the patients included blood count, sputum cytology, external respiration function test, immunological investigation (CD4+, CD8+, CD20+, CD25+ and CD95+; IL-4, IFN-gamma, complement). The examination was made before the treatment, 21 days, 3 and 6 months after its beginning. Ribomunil was given 3 tablets in the morning before meal for 4 days in a week for 3 weeks, 4 days each month for the following 5 months.
As a result of ribomunil treatment lymphocyte subpopulation normalized, immune response shifted to Th-1 dependent immune response, external respiration flow indices improved, remission prolonged.
Ribomunil is recommended for wide application in the practice of COPD treatment
We evaluated several potential endogenous mediators of post norepinephrine induced hyperemia in the mesenteric circulation. Hyperemia was elicited in the anesthetized rat anterior mesenteric artery after cessation of intravenous norepinephrine infusion at 0.125 to 1.0 x 10(-8) M/min x 4 min. Arterial blood pressure was measured with a transducer, and the velocity of arterial blood flow was determined with pulsed Doppler velocimetry. Conductance at the height of mesenteric hyperemia, the post norepinephrine hyperemia volume, and the autoregulatory escape volume were calculated from recorded measurements. The higher doses of norepinephrine increased both the hyperemia volume and peak conductance in both control and capsaicin pretreated rats. Hyperemic parameters were significantly diminished by pretreatment with either yohimbine, propranolol, adenosine deaminase, or methylene blue. Combining adenosine deaminase with propranolol further reduced peak conductance and the hyperemia volume compared with enzyme pretreatment alone. The magnitude of hyperemia was related to the escape volume but not to the extent of norepinephrine induced vasoconstriction. We conclude that post norepinephrine induced hyperemia in the rat mesenteric circulation is modulated by alpha 2 and beta 2 adrenergic receptor activation, adenosine release, and endothelial factors.
The mechanism of the antiemetic actions of corticosteroids is not known. The purpose of this study was to evaluate if betamethasone can prevent nausea, vomiting or increase of vasopressin induced by apomorphine. Metoclopramide, a dopamine antagonist, was used as a control substance.
Ten healthy volunteers were studied on three occasions. In a randomized order they were allocated to receive pretreatment with betamethasone 8 mg iv, metoclopramide 10 mg iv, and normal saline 2 mL as placebo on the three different occasions, 15 min before the administration of apomorphine 30 microg x kg(-1) s.c.. After administration of apomorphine, episodes of vomiting were recorded, and the intensity of nausea was estimated by the subject on a visual analogue scale (VAS 0-10 cm). Blood samples for analysis of plasma concentrations of vasopressin were analyzed.
One volunteer decided to withdraw, as he experienced akathisia after receiving metoclopramide. During the first two hours after apomorphine, eight of nine volunteers vomited both after betamethasone and placebo. One volunteer did not vomit after betamethasone and placebo but he experienced nausea. None of the volunteers vomited after metoclopramide (P < 0.01 vs betamethasone and placebo). The maximum VAS for nausea was significantly higher after betamethasone and placebo compared to metoclopramide (P < 0.01). The vasopressin levels increased after betamethasone and placebo, but there was no increase in any volunteer after pretreatment with metoclopramide.
This study demonstrates that betamethasone does not prevent nausea, vomiting and increase of vasopressin induced by apomorphine, whereas metoclopramide prevents apomorphine-induced emesis. Our work suggests that betamethasone does not have dopamine-antagonistic effects.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the renoprotective effect as reflected by short-term changes in albuminuria of ultrahigh doses of irbesartan in type 2 diabetic patients with microalbuminuria.
This double-masked randomized crossover trial included 52 (41 males) hypertensive type 2 diabetic patients with microalbuminuria on ongoing antihypertensive medication. At inclusion, previous antihypertensive treatment was discontinued and replaced with bendroflumethiazide, 5 mg once daily, for the entire study. Following 2 months wash-out (baseline), patients were treated randomly with irbesartan 300, 600, and 900 mg once daily, each dose for 2 months. End points evaluated at the end of each study period included urinary albumin excretion rate (UAE) (mean of three 24-hour collections), 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure, and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) [chromium 51 ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (51Cr-EDTA)].
Baseline values were: 24-hour UAE [geometric mean (95% CI)] 134 (103 to 170) mg/24 hours, ambulatory blood pressure [mean (SD)] 140 (10)/77 (7) mm Hg, and GFR 103 (19) mL/min/1.73 m2. All doses of irbesartan significantly reduced UAE, ambulatory blood pressure, and GFR from baseline. Reductions in UAE from baseline were 52% (46% to 57%), 49% (43% to 54%), and 59% (54% to 63%) with increasing doses of irbesartan (P < 0.01). UAE was reduced significantly more by irbesartan 900 mg compared with lower doses with an additional reduction in UAE of 15% (2% to 26%) by irbesartan 900 mg compared with 300 mg (P = 0.02). The greater reduction in albuminuria by irbesartan 900 vs. 300 mg was more pronounced in patients with UAE during irbesartan 300 mg above vs. below the median [31% (18% to 42%) vs. -9% (-25% to 6%), respectively (P < 0.05)]. With increasing doses systolic ambulatory blood pressure was reduced from baseline by 8 (4 to 12), 9 (5 to 13), and 9 (5 to13) mm Hg, and diastolic ambulatory blood pressure by 6 (4 to 7), 7 (6 to 9), and 7 (6 to 9) mm Hg (NS between doses).
Ultrahigh dosing of irbesartan (900 mg once daily) is generally safe and offers additional renoprotection independent of changes in systemic blood pressure and GFR in comparison to the currently recommended dose of 300 mg.
FBP1, fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase-1, a gluconeogenesis regulatory enzyme, catalyzes the hydrolysis of fructose 1,6-bisphosphate to fructose 6-phosphate and inorganic phosphate. The mechanism that it functions to antagonize glycolysis and was epigenetically inactivated through NF-kappaB pathway in gastric cancer has been reported. However, its role in the liver carcinogenesis still remains unknown. Here, we investigated the expression and DNA methylation of FBP1 in primary HCC and colon tumor. FBP1 was lowly expressed in 80% (8/10) human hepatocellular carcinoma, 66.7% (6/9) liver cancer cell lines and 100% (6/6) colon cancer cell lines, but was higher in paired adjacent non-tumor tissues and immortalized normal cell lines, which was well correlated with its promoter methylation status. Methylation was further detected in primary HCCs, gastric and colon tumor tissues, but none or occasionally in paired adjacent non-tumor tissues. Detailed methylation analysis of 29 CpG sites at a 327-bp promoter region by bisulfite genomic sequencing confirmed its methylation. FBP1 silencing could be reversed by chemical demethylation treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (Aza), indicating direct epigenetic silencing. Restoring FBP1 expression in low expressed cells significantly inhibited cell growth and colony formation ability through the induction of G2-M phase cell cycle arrest. Moreover, the observed effects coincided with an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. In summary, epigenetic inactivation of FBP1 is also common in human liver and colon cancer. FBP1 appears to be a functional tumor suppressor involved in the liver and colon carcinogenesis.
The association between chronic human exposure to arsenicals and bladder cancer development is well recognized; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms have not been fully determined. We propose that inflammatory responses can play a pathogenic role in arsenic-related bladder carcinogenesis. In previous studies, it was demonstrated that chronic exposure to 50 nM monomethylarsenous acid [MMA(III)] leads to malignant transformation of an immortalized model of urothelial cells (UROtsa), with only 3 mo of exposure necessary to trigger the transformation-related changes. In the three-month window of exposure, the cells over-expressed pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-8), consistent with the sustained activation of NFKβ and AP1/c-jun, ERK2, and STAT3. IL-8 was over-expressed within hours after exposure to MMA(III), and sustained over-expression was observed during chronic exposure. In this study, we profiled IL-8 expression in UROtsa cells exposed to 50 nM MMA(III) for 1 to 5 mo. IL-8 expression was increased mainly in cells after 3 mo MMA(III) exposure, and its production was also found increased in tumors derived from these cells after heterotransplantation in SCID mice. UROtsa cells do express both receptors, CXCR1 and CXCR2, suggesting that autocrine cell activation could be important in cell transformation. Supporting this observation and consistent with IL-8 over-expression, CXCR1 internalization was significantly increased after three months of exposure to MMA(III). The expression of MMP-9, cyclin D1, bcl-2, and VGEF was significantly increased in cells exposed to MMA(III) for 3 mo, but these mitogen-activated kinases were significantly decreased after IL-8 gene silencing, together with a decrease in cell proliferation rate and in anchorage-independent colony formation. These results suggest a relevant role of IL-8 in MMA(III)-induced UROtsa cell transformation.
Environmental exposure to persistent organic pollutants (POPs) may lead to elevation of serum lipids, increasing risk of atherosclerosis with thromboembolism, a recognized cause of stroke. We tested the hypothesis that exposure to contaminants from residence near hazardous waste sites in New York State influences the occurrence of stroke.
The rates of stroke hospital discharges were compared among residents of zip codes containing hazardous waste sites with POPs, other pollutants or without any waste sites using information for 1993-2000 from the New York Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) database, containing the records of all discharge diagnoses for patients admitted to state-regulated hospitals.
After adjustment for age and race, the hospitalization rate for stroke in zip codes with POPs-contaminated sites was 15% higher than in zip codes without any documented hazardous waste sites (RR 1.15, 95% CI, 1.05, 1.26). For ischemic stroke only, the RR was 1.17 (95% CI 1.04, 1.31). Residents of zip codes containing other waste sites showed a RR of 1.13 (95% CI, 1.02, 1.24) as compared to zip codes without an identified waste site.
These results suggest that living near a source of POPs contamination constitutes a risk of exposure and an increased risk of acquiring cerebrovascular disease. However further research with better control of individual risk factors and direct measurement of exposure is necessary for providing additional support for this hypothesis.
Randomized phase III trials have shown significant improvement of survival 1, 2, and 3 years after implantation of 1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) wafers for patients with newly diagnosed malignant glioma. But these studies and subsequent non-phase III studies have also shown risks associated with local chemotherapy within the central nervous system. The introduction of concomitant radiochemotherapy with temozolomide (TMZ) has later demonstrated a survival benefit in a phase III trial and has become the current treatment standard for newly diagnosed malignant glioma patients. Lately, this has resulted in clinical protocols combining local chemotherapy with BCNU wafers and concomitant radiochemotherapy with TMZ although this may carry the risk of increased toxicity. We have compiled the treatment experience of seven neurosurgical centers using implantation of carmustine wafers at primary surgery followed by 6 weeks of radiation therapy (59-60 Gy) and 75 mg/m(2)/day TMZ in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma followed by TMZ monochemotherapy. We have retrospectively analyzed the postoperative clinical course, occurrence and severity of adverse events, progression-free interval, and overall survival in 44 patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme. All patients received multimodal treatment including tumor resection, BCNU wafer implantation, and concomitant radiochemotherapy. Of 44 patients (mean age 59 ± 10.8 years) with glioblastoma who received Gliadel wafer at primary surgery, 28 patients (64%) had died, 16 patients (36%) were alive, and 15 patients showed no evidence of clinical or radiographic progression after a median follow-up of 15.6 months. At time of analysis of adverse events in this patient population, the median overall survival was 12.7 months and median progression-free survival was 7.0 months. Surgical, neurological, and medical adverse events were analyzed. Twenty-three patients (52%) experienced adverse events of any kind including complications that did not require treatment. Nineteen patients (43%) experienced grade 3 or grade 4 adverse events. Surgical complications included cerebral edema, healing abnormalities, cerebral spinal fluid leakage, meningitis, intracranial abscess, and hydrocephalus. Neurological adverse events included newly diagnosed seizures, alteration of mental status, and new neurological deficits. Medical complications were thromboembolic events (thrombosis, pulmonary embolism) and hematotoxicity. Combination of both treatment strategies, local chemotherapy with BCNU wafer and concomitant radiochemotherapy, appears attractive in aggressive multimodal treatment schedules and may utilize the sensitizing effect of TMZ and carmustine on MGMT and AGT on their respective drug resistance genes. Our data demonstrate that combination of local chemotherapy and concomitant radiochemotherapy carries a significant risk of toxicity that currently appears underestimated. Adverse events observed in this study appear similar to complication rates published in the phase III trials for BCNU wafer implantation followed by radiation therapy alone, but further add the toxicity of concomitant radiochemotherapy with systemic TMZ. Save use of a combined approach will require specific prevention strategies for multimodal treatments.
The effectiveness and tolerance of a non-amphetaminic anorexiant drug has been evaluated in a short-term and in a long-term clinical trial in simple obesity and in refractory obesity. In the short-term 'crossover' trial, a more evident effectiveness and tolerance result when the anorexiant is given in a late phase of treatment. The association of an anorexiant drug with the hypocaloric diet was seen to be effective in the treatment of so-called refractory obesity. In the evaluation of the long-term treatment it is seen that weight loss is greater and remains so farr longer periods in patients receiving anorexiant, as compared to controls. This is related to a better maintenance of a restricted calorie regimen. Mazindol did not affect the improvement of glucose tolerance and insulin secretion which follows the weight reduction.
Opioid-abstinence hyperalgesia (OAH) is a phenomenon characterized by thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia that occurs between intermittent doses of opioids or after the chronic administration of these drugs when administration is abruptly stopped. In these studies we attempted to determine whether the activation of spinal cord dorsal horn neurons was greater in mice with OAH than in control mice in response to the intrathecal administration of the primary neurotransmitters glutamate and substance P. After mice were treated with an established protocol consisting of the implantation of morphine pellets followed by removal after 6 days, the mice were hyperalgesic as assessed with the hotplate and Hargreaves thermal paw withdrawal assays. Mechanical allodynia was also demonstrated. The intrathecal injection of either glutamate (5-25 micro g) or substance P (0.02-0.1 nmol) caused greater pain behaviors in mice with OAH than in control mice. Likewise, it was observed that the dorsal horn regions of OAH mice had more Fos-positive nuclei after either glutamate or substance P administration than did control mice. We conclude that mice with OAH exhibit increased pain behaviors and have increased numbers of Fos-positive nuclei in response to intrathecal glutamate and substance P administration when compared with control mice. Thus, spinal sensitization to primary neurotransmitters may be responsible in part for the manifestation of OAH.
Opioids are a mainstay of treatment for many types of chronic pain. These studies provide evidence that the hyperalgesia induced by chronic opioid administration may be in part to spinal neuroplastic changes.
Urinary bladder and renal dysfunction are secondary events associated with spinal cord injury (SCI) in humans. These secondary events not only compromise quality of life but also delay overall recovery from SCI pathophysiology. Furthermore, in experimental models the effects of SCI therapy on bladder and renal functions are generally not evaluated. In this study, we tested whether simvastatin improves bladder and renal functions in a rat model of experimental SCI.
SCI was induced by controlled contusion of T9-T10 in adult female rats. Simvastatin (5 mg/Kg body weight) was administered at two hours after SCI and repeated every 24 hours until the end point. Simvastatin-treated SCI animals (simvastatin group) were compared with vehicle-treated SCI animals (vehicle group) in terms of the Basso Beattie Bresnahan score, tissue morphology, cell death, and bladder/renal functions.
The urinary bladder of vehicle animals showed a 4.3-fold increase in size and a 9-fold increase in wet weight compared to sham animals. Following SCI, the urine to plasma osmolality ratio increased initially but decreased 1 week after SCI. Hematoxylin and eosin staining of bladder tissue showed transitional epithelial hyperplasia, degeneration of lamina propria, and enlargement of tunica adventia in addition to detrusor muscle hypertrophy. Rats treated with simvastatin for 14 days displayed remarkable recovery by showing decreased bladder size and maintenance of a normal urine/plasma osmolality ratio, in addition to improved locomotion. The muscularis layer of the bladder also regained its compact nature in simvastatin animals. Moreover, SCI-induced renal caspase-3 activity was significantly decreased in the simvastatin group indicating the ability of simvastatin to reduce the renal tubular apoptosis.
Post-injury administration of simvastatin ameliorates bladder and renal dysfunction associated with SCI in rats.
The authors report on 6 patients with open-angle glaucoma who were treated with Timolol eye drops for 2 years. During this period the intraocular pressure was normal at all times. In spite of this a deterioration in visual fields occurred, in some of the cases associated with reduced vision. It is emphasized that these patients form part of a larger group comprising 30 individuals. In the remaining 24 patients no deterioration of the visual field or vision was found during the 2 years of treatment with Timolol.
The present study was designed to assess the combined efficacy of morin, a dietary flavanol and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indomethacin against adjuvant-induced arthritis in rats, an experimental model for rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis was induced by intradermal injection of complete freund's adjuvant (0.1 ml) into the right hind paw of the Wistar albino rats. Morin (30 mg/kg b.wt), indomethacin (3 mg/kg b.wt) and combination of morin and indomethacin were administered intraperitoneally (from 11th to 20th day) after adjuvant injection. We have found that the activities/levels of lysosomal acid hydrolases (acid phosphatase, β-galactosidase, N-acetyl glucosaminidase and cathepsin-D), glycoproteins (hexose and hexosamine), urinary constituents (hydroxyproline and glycosaminoglycans), reactive oxygen species (LPO and NO), elastase, inflammatory mediators (TNF-α, IL-1β, MCP-1, VEGF and PGE2) and paw edema were significantly increased in arthritic rats compared to controls. Whereas, the anti-oxidant status (SOD, CAT, GPx, glutathione, and ceruloplasmin), body weight and bone collagen was found to be decreased. The mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-17, IL-6 and MCP-1), inflammatory enzymes (iNOS and COX-2), RANKL, and transcription factors (NF-kB p65 and AP-1) was found upregulated in the ankle joints of arthritic rats in qRT-PCR analysis. In addition, the increased protein expression of NF-kB p65 and COX-2 was also detected by immunohistochemical analysis. On the other hand, the above said imbalances were regulated back effectively to near normal as evidenced by the histopathological and radiological analysis on combined treatment with morin and indomethacin. Our study indicates that the combination therapy was more effective than either single drug alone in suppressing the pathogenesis of RA.
The widespread use of benzodiazepines has led to increasing recognition of their unwanted effects. The efficacy of alprazolam and placebo in panic disorder with agoraphobia, and the side-effect and adverse effect profiles of both drug groups were measured.
In London and Toronto 154 patients who met DSM-III criteria for panic disorder with agoraphobia were randomised to alprazolam or placebo. Subjects in each drug group also received either exposure or relaxation. Treatment was from weeks 0 to 8 and was then tapered from weeks 8 to 16.
Mean alprazolam dose was 5 mg daily. Compared with placebo subjects, alprazolam patients developed more adverse reactions (21% v. 0%) of depression, enuresis, disinhibition and aggression; and more side-effects, particularly sedation, irritability, impaired memory, weight loss and ataxia. Side-effects tended to diminish during treatment but remained significant at week 8. Despite this, the drop-out rate was low.
Alprazolam caused side-effects and adverse effects during treatment but many patients were willing to accept these.
We have previously reported that some neurons in the anterior hypothalamic area (AHA) are tonically activated by endogenous angiotensins in rats and that activities of these AHA angiotensin II-sensitive neurons are enhanced in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Acetylcholine in the posterior hypothalamic nucleus (PHN) has been implicated in hypertension in SHR. It is suggested that there exist neuronal projections from the PHN to the AHA in rats. In this study, we examined whether cholinergic stimulation in the PHN activates AHA angiotensin II-sensitive neurons. Male Wistar rats were anesthetized and artificially ventilated. Extracellular potentials were recorded from single neurons in the AHA. Microinjection of carbachol, physostigmine and glutamate into the PHN caused an increase in firing rate of AHA angiotensin II-sensitive neurons in anesthetized rats. The carbachol-induced increase of firing rate was inhibited by pressure application of the AT1 receptor antagonist losartan onto AHA angiotensin II-sensitive neurons. The glutamate-induced increase of firing rate was also inhibited by the pressure application of losartan. PHN microinjections of carbachol and glutamate did not affect blood pressure in these anesthetized rats. In conscious rats, PHN microinjection of carbachol produced an increase of blood pressure and the carbachol-induced pressor response was inhibited by bilateral microinjections of losartan into the AHA. These findings indicate that cholinergic stimulation in the PHN activates AHA angiotensin II-sensitive neurons. It seems likely that the activation of AHA angiotensin II-sensitive neurons induced by PHN cholinergic stimulation is partly mediated via release of angiotensins at AHA angiotensin II-sensitive neuron levels.
Cyclophosphamide (CPA)-induced hemorrhagic cystitis is sometimes difficult to manage. We investigated the mucosal changes in patients subjected to CPA therapy in relation to the duration and accumulating dose of CPA.
Fifteen patients, all of whom were receiving CPA, were studied. Investigation of the dose and duration of CPA administration, urinalysis and cystoscopy was performed.
The total doses of CPA administered ranged from 2.5 to 237.0 g, and the duration of administration ranged from 4 to 130 months. Four patients with hematuria (micro or macro) showed various degrees of mucosal hyperemia and telangiectasia. Of 11 patients without microhematuria, 6 patients also revealed mucosal changes distinctive of CPA-induced hemorrhagic cystitis. CPA-induced cystitis with no hematuria insidiously progressed in the patients who received CPA orally at a total dose of more than 40 g and/or for longer than 36 months.
Early mucosal lesion of the urinary bladder, which will most likely be followed by CPA-induced hemorrhagic cystitis, may develop prior to the appearance of microscopic hematuria. Periodic prophylactic cystoscopy is recommend in patients receiving CPA.
The tricyclic antidepressants are often used for the treatment of neuropathic pain. In this study, we evaluated one of these drugs on human cutaneous experimental pain. A randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover design methodology was conducted. Subjects participated in 2 14-day study sessions separated by a 7-day washout period. One session was with desipramine and one with placebo. At baseline, Day 7, and Day 15, quantitative sensory testing was performed to thermal and mechanical stimuli. On Day 15 only, intradermal capsaicin was injected on the volar aspect of the forearm followed by an assessment of pain and hyperalgesia. Oral desipramine had no significant effect on acute sensory thresholds, pain, secondary hyperalgesia, or flare response induced by intradermal capsaicin. Mean peak plasma levels of desipramine were within the therapeutic range for the treatment of depression. This study further supports a lack of effect of the tricyclic antidepressants on acute nociception and experimentally-induced secondary hyperalgesia.
Human experimental pain models have recently been developed; however, the efficacy of the tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) in these models has not been systematically studied. This investigation provides further validation of human experimental pain models and demonstrates that the chronic delivery of a TCA has no effect on human experimental pain.
Manganese (Mn) can cause manganism, a neurological disorder similar to Parkinson' Disease (PD). The neurobehavioral and neuroinflammatory end-points in the Mn post exposure period have not been studied yet. Rats were injected on alternate days with 8 doses of MnCl2 (25mg/kg) or saline, then euthanized 1, 10, 30 or 70 days following the last dose. Whole-blood (WB) (p<0.05), urine (p<0.05) and brain cortical (p<0.0001) Mn levels were significantly increased 24h after the last dose. Decreases in the rats' ambulation were noted 1, 10 and 30 days after the last Mn dose (p<0.001; p<0.05; p<0.001, respectively) and also in the rearing activity at the four time-points (p<0.05). Cortical glial fibrillary acid protein immunoreactivity (GFAP-ir) was significantly increased at 1, 10, 30 (p<0.0001) and 70 (p<0.001) days after the last Mn dose, as well as tumor necrosis α (TNF-α) levels (p<0.05) but just on day 1. Taken together, the results show that, during the 70-day clearance phase of Mn, the recovery is not immediate as behavioral alterations and neuroinflammation persist long after Mn is cleared from the cortical brain compartment.
We previously reported a patient with hereditary hypotransferrinemia who suffered from severe anemia and growth retardation and was diagnosed on the basis of an extremely low level of serum transferrin (TF). By an isoelectric focusing analysis, we found that the patient and his father shared a variant TF protein with an abnormal isoelectric point. The study suggested that the patient was a compound heterozygote with a variant allele, encoding the mutant TF, of paternal origin and a null allele of maternal origin. In the present study, we investigated the TF gene of the patient and his family. We showed that the patient and his father shared a variant TF gene bearing a GAA to AAA transition at codon 394. This nucleotide substitution causes a nonconservative amino acid change from glutamate to lysine in amino acid residue 375 of the TF protein. This single amino acid mutation is predicted to cause a conformational change in the coiled region of the carboxyl-terminal iron-binding lobe. As for the maternal null allele, no mutation was found in either the coding region or the exon-intron boundaries, suggesting an abnormality in the transcription or stability of mRNA of maternal allele origin.
To study the safety and benefits of parenteral ketamine and lignocaine infiltration among pediatric surgical patients with co-morbidities that would preclude the use of general anesthesia requiring endotracheal intubation/face mask in a developing country.
This prospective study was undertaken at the Leadeks Medical Centre, Benin City Edo State, Nigeria between January 2002 and December 2006. Patients requiring surgery were safely operated even in the presence of co-morbidity.
A total of 416 children were recruited and they were aged 6 days to 16 years (mean 12 -/+ 2.04 years) with a male/female ratio of 1:1.1. Appendectomy (33.2%), herniotomy (20.2%) and suturing of laceration (15.9%) were the most common indications for surgery. Anemia, upper respiratory tract infections, malnutrition, malaria fever, typhoid fever, and retroviral infections were co-morbidities. Ambulatory surgery was carried out in 48.6% patients. Overall, only 23.3% experienced postoperative pain, which was statistically significant in those that had laparotomy and appendectomy (p<0.0001), and analgesics such as paracetamol were enough to relieve the pain. Complications recorded such as postoperative vomiting, emergence reaction, wound infection, post operative fever, and apnea occurring after ketamine injections were tolerated and no mortality was recorded.
The satisfactory anesthesia and analgesia recorded with this combination, and the low complications observed in the presence of co-morbidity showed that these agents have much to offer in a developing country.
Previous studies have reported that maternal exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) induces socioemotional and cognitive disturbances in rat offspring. In the present study, the effects of maternal TCDD exposure on putative inhibitory interneurons were investigated in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), basolateral amygdala (BLA), hippocampus (HP), and superior colliculus (SC) in rat offspring. Dams were given TCDD (1.0μg/kg) on gestational day 15. When offspring rats reached adulthood (14 weeks old), parvalbumin (PV)- and calbindin (Calb)-immunoreactive neurons were immunohistochemically investigated. The histological investigations indicated that the mean area of the mPFC had increased, whereas the mean area of the SC decreased in the exposed male rats. In the exposed female rats, the mean SC area increased. Furthermore, the number and area of PV-immunoreactive neurons increased in the mPFC of the female exposed rats. In contrast, the number of PV-immunoreactive neurons in the BLA, HP, and SC decreased in the male and female exposed rats. The number of Calb-immunoreactive neurons decreased in the HP of the male and female exposed rats and the SC of the female exposed rats. Because PV- and Calb-immunoreactive neurons, which are putatively GABAergic, have been implicated in various higher brain functions, the effects of TCDD on socioemotional and cognitive functions might be mediated partly through these alterations in PV- and Calb-immunoreactive neurons in these areas.
The ability of mono- and dicationic phenylcyclohexyl derivatives, which are non-competitive glutamate antagonists, to prevent convulsions induced in mice by intragastric NMDA or kainate, to weaken catalepsy induced in rats by haloperidol and to exert their own influences of movement activity and behavior in animals was studied. The actions of study compounds were compared with those of the known NMDA antagonists memantine and dizocilpine. NMDA-induced convulsions were effectively prevented by both mono- and dications, while only dications were effective against kainate convulsions. Anticataleptic activity was significantly more marked in monocations, which lacked the ability to block non-NMDA receptors. Side effects on motor coordination were less marked with study compounds than with dizocilpine. Thus, the effects of phenylcyclohexyl derivatives in in vivo experimental models correlate with their anti-NMDA and anti-AMPA activity. They can be regarded as potential agents for treating parkinsonism and other motor disorders.
We report on three cases of a novel syndrome associated with treatment for psoriasis with the retinoid etretinate. The distinctive features of this syndrome include rigidity that is restricted to the axial muscles, impairment of neck extension greater than flexion, impairment of anteflexion at the waist, severe impairment of lateral flexion at both the waist and the neck, and, in one case, rigidity of proximal lower extremity muscles. Peripheral nerve block extinguished the lower extremity rigidity in one patient, and two patients had a favorable response to Sinemet. One patient had persistence of symptoms and findings 2 years after discontinuation of etretinate. The clinical features of this syndrome are consistent with an effect of etretinate on central, possible catecholaminergic neurons.
Lotronex (alosetron hydrochloride) is a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) in females whose predominant bowel habit is diarrhea. Alosetron is extensively metabolized by multiple cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, including CYP 2C9 and 3A4. Alprazolam is a short-acting benzodiazepine commonly prescribed for the treatment of anxiety disorders and a potential comedication in patients with IBS. Alprazolam is extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. This clinical study was conducted to assess the potential for a metabolic drug interaction between these two CYP3A4 substrates. This was an open-label, randomized, two-period, crossover study in 12 healthy female and male volunteers to determine the effect of concomitant administration of alosetron at the recommended dose of 1 mg p.o. bid on the pharmacokinetics of alprazolam following a single oral 1 mg dose. The results showed no effect of alosetron on the pharmacokinetics of alprazolam. Mean alprazolam AUC was 210 and 202 ng.h/mL in the absence and the presence of alosetron, respectively. Therefore, alprazolam may be safely coadministered with alosetron without the need for dosage adjustment.
Lotronex (alosetron hydrochloride) is a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) in females whose predominant bowel habit is diarrhea. Alosetron is extensively metabolized by multiple cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, including CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. Fluoxetine is an antidepressant that is administered as a racemic mixture of equipotent R- and S-enantiomers. Fluoxetine metabolism involves CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 in the formation of its major metabolite, norfluoxetine. This metabolite is also present as two enantiomers, of which only the S-enantiomer exhibits comparable antidepressant activity. This study was conducted to assess the potential for an effect of alosetron on the pharmacokinetics of fluoxetine. This was an open-label, two-period, nonrandomized, crossover study in 12 healthy female and male volunteers. The pharmacokinetics for both enantiomers of fluoxetine and norfluoxetine were examined following single oral doses of 20 mg fluoxetine, given alone and in combination with alosetron 1 mg twice daily for 15 days. The results showed small delays in peak concentration but no clinically significant effect of alosetron on the pharmacokinetics of S- and R-fluoxetine or S- and R-norfluoxetine. Coadministration of alosetron and fluoxetine was well tolerated by all subjects.
