Atypical antipsychotics are increasingly drugs of first choice in schizophrenia. Amisulpride, a new atypical antipsychotic, is reported to be effective for both positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia in Western countries but Indian experience is limited. The aim of the present study was therefore to conduct a trial of amisulpride versus olanzapine in Indian schizophrenia patients.
Eighty adult patients of either sex were randomized to receive standard doses of the two drugs orally, in a single blind manner, for 12 weeks, with follow up at 4 and 8 weeks. Effectiveness was assessed by changes in scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), Scale for Assessment of Positive Symptoms (SAPS), Scale for Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS), and physician-administered Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scale. Tolerability was assessed by treatment-emergent adverse drug reactions (ADRs).
Evaluable were 39 patients on amisulpride and 38 on olanzapine. The groups were comparable at baseline with respect to demographics, illness duration and rating scores. Final BPRS score was lower for olanzapine (33.2 +/- 9.44) than for amisulpride (37.7 +/- 9.67). SAPS and SANS scores and CGI rating improved individually in both arms but remained comparable between groups throughout the study period, but olanzapine reduced SAPS score to a greater extent. ADRs were encountered in 67.5% and 47.5% of patients (p = 0.113) on amisulpride and olanzapine, respectively. Tremor and insomnia were more frequent with amisulpride, while olanzapine caused more weight gain and sedation. No serious ADRs occurred.
Amisulpride, although comparable to olanzapine on some measures, did not match the improvement seen with the latter drug in BPRS and SAPS scores. Despite differences in ADR profiles, overall tolerability was satisfactory for both drugs. In Indian patients, amisulpride should therefore be an alternative to olanzapine to a limited extent, such as when weight gain and sedation are undesirable.
Quantitative MRI assessment of leukoencephalopathy is difficult because the MRI properties of leukoencephalopathy significantly overlap those of normal tissue. This report describes the use of an automated procedure for longitudinal measurement of tissue volume and relaxation times to quantify leukoencephalopathy. Images derived by using this procedure in patients undergoing therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) are presented. Five examinations from each of five volunteers (25 examinations) were used to test the reproducibility of quantitated baseline and subsequent, normal-appearing images; the coefficients of variation were less than 2% for gray and white matter. Regions of leukoencephalopathy in patients were assessed by comparison with manual segmentation. Two radiologists manually segmented images from 15 randomly chosen MRI examinations that exhibited leukoencephalopathy. Kappa analyses showed that the two radiologists' interpretations were concordant (kappa = 0.70) and that each radiologist's interpretations agreed with the results of the automated procedure (kappa = 0.57 and 0.55). The clinical application of this method was illustrated by analysis of images from sequential MR examinations of two patients who developed leukoencephalopathy during treatment for ALL. The ultimate goal is to use these quantitative MR imaging measures to better understand therapy-induced neurotoxicity, which can be limited or even reversed with some combination of therapy adjustments and pharmacological and neurobehavioral interventions.
Cisapride is a prokinetic agent with cholinomimetic and 5-HT4 receptor agonistic properties. It has been proposed that cisapride-induced hypotension is partly mediated by cholinergic system. The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism of cisapride-induced dilatation in the rat isolated perfused kidney.
Left kidneys of Wistar rats were isolated and perfused via renal artery and the perfusion pressure was recorded. Cisapride given as bolus injections (10(-10)-3x10(-5) mol/l) produced dose-dependent dilatations. Perfusion of antagonists or inhibitors was started 30min before the onset of phenylephrine perfusion.
4-Diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide (4-DAMP; blocker of M1, and M3 muscarinic receptors; 10(-7) mol/l) inhibited the responses to the lower doses of cisapride while, dextran (10(-7) mol/l), glibenclamide (inhibitor of ATP-sensitive potassium channels; 10(-5) mol/l) and capsaicin (for neuromediator depletion; 10(-6) mol/l) inhibited those to the higher doses. Dilatations induced by most of the doses of cisapride were inhibited by atropine (non-selective muscarinic receptor antagonist; 10(-7) mol/l), methylene blue (inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase; 10(-5) mol/l), 1H-[1,2,4] oxadiazolo-[4,3-a] Quinoxalin-1-One (ODQ; inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase; 10(-5) mol/l), and NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG; NO synthase inhibitor; 10(-4) mol/l). Inhibition induced by L-NOARG was reversed by L-arginine (10(-3) mol/l). The dilatation induced by cisapride was not affected by GR113808 (5-HT4 receptor antagonist; 10(-7) mol/l) and indomethacin (cyclooxygenase inhibitor; 10(-5) mol/l).
The findings indicated that cisapride caused vasodilatation through the release of nitric oxide (NO) as a result of the release of a substance acting on muscarinic receptors, in the renal vascular bed of the rat. The role of 5-HT4 receptors and prostanoids seemed unlikely.
Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE, EC 3.1.1.8) is important in human cocaine metabolism despite its limited ability to hydrolyze this drug. Efforts to improve the catalytic efficiency of this enzyme have led to a quadruple mutant cocaine hydrolase, "CocH", that in animal models of addiction appears promising for treatment of overdose and relapse. We incorporated the CocH mutations into a BChE-albumin fusion protein, "Albu-CocH", and evaluated the pharmacokinetics of the enzyme after i.v. injection in rats. As assessed from the time course of cocaine hydrolyzing activity in plasma, Albu-CocH redistributed into extracellular fluid (16% of estimated total body water) with a t(1/2) of 0.66h and it underwent elimination with a t(1/2) of 8h. These results indicate that the enzyme has ample stability for short-term applications and may be suitable for longer-term treatment as well. Present data also confirm the markedly enhanced power of Albu-CocH for cocaine hydrolysis and they support the view that Albu-CocH might prove valuable in treating phenomena associated with cocaine abuse.
Sirt6 has been implicated in the regulation of hepatic lipid metabolism and the development of hepatic steatosis. The aim of this study was to address the potential role of Sirt6 in the protective effects of rosiglitazone (RGZ) on hepatic steatosis.
To investigate the effect of RGZ on hepatic steatosis, rats were treated with RGZ (4 mg·kg⁻¹·day⁻¹) by stomach gavage for 6 weeks. The involvement of Sirt6 in the RGZ's regulation was evaluated by Sirt6 knockdown in AML12 mouse hepatocytes.
RGZ treatment ameliorated hepatic lipid accumulation and increased expression of Sirt6, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivtor-1-α (Ppargc1a/PGC1-α) and Forkhead box O1 (Foxo1) in rat livers. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation was also increased by RGZ, accompanied by alterations in phosphorylation of LKB1. Interestingly, in free fatty acid-treated cells, Sirt6 knockdown increased hepatocyte lipid accumulation measured as increased triglyceride contents (p = 0.035), suggesting that Sirt6 may be beneficial in reducing hepatic fat accumulation. In addition, Sirt6 knockdown abolished the effects of RGZ on hepatocyte fat accumulation, mRNA and protein expression of Ppargc1a/PGC1-α and Foxo1, and phosphorylation levels of LKB1 and AMPK, suggesting that Sirt6 is involved in RGZ-mediated metabolic effects.
Our results demonstrate that RGZ significantly decreased hepatic lipid accumulation, and that this process appeared to be mediated by the activation of the Sirt6-AMPK pathway. We propose Sirt6 as a possible therapeutic target for hepatic steatosis.
Based on pre-clinical studies suggesting that magnesium (Mg) reduces cocaine self-administration and potentiates the antinociceptive effects of morphine, we conducted a preliminary randomized clinical trial investigating Mg for the treatment of illicit cocaine and opiate use. Eighteen methadone-maintained patients who used illicit opiates and cocaine received either Mg (732 mg/day) or placebo for 12 weeks. Overall, findings showed that the percentage of urine screens testing positive for opiates in the Mg group (22.6%) was half that of the placebo group (46.4%), p = .04; the difference was even greater in the "medication compliant" sample (Mg: 16.3%, placebo: 47.9%), p = .02. Cocaine craving was lower in the Mg compared to the placebo group, but there was no difference between groups in cocaine use. These preliminary findings suggest that Mg may have a beneficial effect for reducing illicit opiate use. It is possible that a higher dose of Mg than was used in this study may be needed to decrease cocaine use.
Due to the heavy and expanding agricultural use of neurotoxic pesticides suspected to affect dopaminergic neurons, it is imperative to closely examine the role of pesticides in the development of Parkinson's disease (PD). We focus our investigation on pesticide use in California's heavily agricultural central valley by utilizing a unique pesticide use reporting system. From 2001 to 2007, we enrolled 362 incident PD cases and 341 controls living in the Central Valley of California. Employing our geographic information system model, we estimated ambient exposures to the pesticides ziram, maneb, and paraquat at work places and residences from 1974 to 1999. At workplaces, combined exposure to ziram, maneb, and paraquat increased risk of PD three-fold (OR: 3.09; 95% CI: 1.69, 5.64) and combined exposure to ziram and paraquat, excluding maneb exposure, was associated with a 80% increase in risk (OR:1.82; 95% CI: 1.03, 3.21). Risk estimates for ambient workplace exposure were greater than for exposures at residences and were especially high for younger onset PD patients and when exposed in both locations. Our study is the first to implicate ziram in PD etiology. Combined ambient exposure to ziram and paraquat as well as combined ambient exposure to maneb and paraquat at both workplaces and residences increased PD risk substantially. Those exposed to ziram, maneb, and paraquat together experienced the greatest increase in PD risk. Our results suggest that pesticides affecting different mechanisms that contribute to dopaminergic neuron death may act together to increase the risk of PD considerably.
The design, synthesis, and ability to inhibit p38α MAP kinase by a novel series of naphthyridine N-oxides will be described. Some of these compounds showed a significant reduction in the LPS-induced TNFα production in human whole blood. Structure-activity relationship studies revealed that N-oxide oxygen was essential for activity and was probably a determinant factor for its marked selectivity against other related kinases. After an extensive SAR exercise, several compounds from this series were identified as very potent p38α inhibitors. In vivo efficacy of some derivatives was demonstrated to reduce TNFα levels in an acute murine model of inflammation (ED(50) = 0.5 mg/kg in LPS-induced TNFα production when dosed orally 1.5 h prior to LPS administration). The oral efficacy was further demonstrated in a chronic model of adjuvant arthritis in rats with established disease when administered orally (ED(50) < 1 mg/kg).
The clinical efficacy of clozapine, an atypical antipsychotic, in treating levodopa-induced hallucinations was investigated in five patients with Parkinson's disease under open label conditions. Two patients could not tolerate clozapine, even in doses as low as 12.5-25 mg daily, because of extreme sedation. Three patients could tolerate clozapine and experienced improvement or elimination of their hallucinations at doses below 100 mg daily. Despite a significant risk of adverse effects, cautious use of clozapine in low doses may be beneficial for patients with levodopa-induced psychosis who do not respond to more conservative measures.
The effects of i.v.c. injection of human and salmon calcitonin on biochemical and behavioral parameters related to the extrapyramidal motor system, were investigated in male rats. Calcitonin injection resulted in a potentiation of haloperidol-induced catalepsy and a partial prevention of apomorphine-induced hyperactivity. Moreover calcitonin induced a significant decrease in nigral GAD activity but no change in striatal DA and DOPAC concentration or GAD activity. The results are discussed in view of a primary action of calcitonin on the striatonigral GABAergic pathway mediating the DA-related behavioral messages of striatal origin.
Nine patients with hyperprolactinemia and one patient with pituitary microadenona were observed for 6 years. They were induced by administration of domperidone. The clinical characteristic of the 9 patients was summarized and analysed. The results suggest that prescribe domperidone for fertile women should pay more attention to its adverse effect on inducing hyperprolactinemia and even pituitary microadenona.
Rifampin is a drug able to induce adverse reactions involving both the kidney and the hematological system. We observed a case, throughly studied and we deemed worth-while to report it, for some important features that were evident. Transient hemolytic anemia, recoverable acute renal failure, persistent increased titer of anti-platelet antibody lasting also after 3 weeks from the withdrawal of the drug and in spite of corticosteroid therapy, could be explained by the immune mechanisms that are, therefore, postulated.
Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is a common X-linked enzyme abnormality. The clinical phenotype is variable but often predictable from the molecular lesion. Class I variants (the most severe forms of the disease) cluster within exon 10, in a region that, at the protein level, is believed to be involved in dimerization. Here we describe a de novo mutation (C269Y) of a new class I variant (G6PD Aveiro) that maps to exon 8. Mutant and normal alleles were found in both hematopoietic and buccal cells, indicating the presence of mosaicism. The available model of the protein predicts that this lesion lies in proximity to the dimer interface of the molecule. A possible mechanism to explain the severity of the defect is proposed. (Blood. 2000;95:1499-1501)
To determine the effects of long-term transdermal administration (range, 4-30 days; mean +/- SD, 11.1+/-7.2 days) of isosorbide dinitrate, a nitric oxide donor, in preeclamptic women.
We studied uterine and fetoplacental circulation of 12 preeclamptic women with oligohydramnios and an elevated pulsatility index in the uterine arteries.
Transdermal isosorbide dinitrate significantly suppressed the blood pressure of patients. Pulsed Doppler ultrasonography revealed that the average pulsatility index in the uterine arteries was significantly reduced by treatment with isosorbide dinitrate (P < .003). The average pulsatility index in the umbilical artery was also significantly reduced (P < .004). Furthermore, the size of the amniotic fluid pocket increased approximately 4-fold by treatment with isosorbide dinitrate.
Long-term transdermal administration of isosorbide dinitrate improves fetoplacental circulation and may be effective therapy for avoiding maternal hypertension and oligohydramnios in some preeclamptic women.
Although acute interstitial nephritis associated with the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has long been recognized, only recently has its association with 'minimal change' nephrotic syndrome been reported. We report here a case of this pattern of nephrotic syndrome without concurrent interstitial nephritis associated with the use of tolmetin. The clinical picture, laboratory data, course, and relevant histopathologic findings of previous cases in the literature of nephrotic syndrome related to the use of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are reviewed and discussed.
Pruritus, as a chronic lesion caused by sulfur mustard, is a common problem among chemical weapons veterans. Numerous treatments like antihistamines, local anesthetics, and corticosteroids have been prescribed in order to control pruritus in these patients, while long- term and widespread use of each one of them has its own restrictions. Nowadays different mixtures, including Unna's Boot, are being used. They are effective and have limited adverse effects. So in this study we compared this product with corticosteroids. In this double-blind randomized clinical trial in Baqyiatallah hospital, 90 veterans were included and randomly divided into three groups. Subjects of each group received one of the Betamethasone %1 cream, Unna's Boot cream, or placebo cream for three weeks. They used their medication on an itching area of body, one finger tip unit every night. To evaluate the drugs' efficacy we used pruritus score index and Visual Analysis Score index. From 90 patients, 75 patients completely used the medication and the other 15 subjects were excluded from the study. All three drugs caused significant decrease in both pruritus score and VAS (p < .001). Betamethasone and Unna's Boot were significantly more effective than placebo and despite more efficacy of betamethasone rather than Unna's Boot, they did not have any significant differences (p > .05). Pruritus is a chronic lesion in veterans that needs long-term conservation treatment. Regarding definite side effects of local long-term therapy with corticosteroids and nearly equal efficacy of Unna's Boot and betamethasone, Unna's Boot seems to be a better choice in controlling sulfur mustard-related pruritus compared with betamethason.
The purpose of this study was to detect any improvement in left ventricular diastolic dysfunction in hypertensive patients 1 month after cilazapril therapy. Twenty-three patients, 5 men and 18 women (mean age, 53.52 +/- 9.10 years), with mild or moderate hypertension (160 +/- 13/98 +/- 10 mm Hg), and free of other cardiac or systemic diseases, were studied using ultrasonic automated boundary detection (ABD) and pulsed Doppler echocardiography, before and 1 month after a daily dose of 2.5 mg of cilazapril. The following new ABD diastolic indices were determined: the time rate of area change in early diastole (dA/dt)E, that in late diastole (dA/dt)A, and their ratio (dA/dt)E/(dA/dt)A, while Doppler transmitral flow measurements of left ventricular diastolic filling were also simultaneously recorded. The ABD results showed left ventricular diastolic dysfunction (LVDD) in 9 of 23 patients (39%) compared with the ABD values of 12 normal volunteers. Neither method revealed any significant difference before and after treatment in the patient group as a whole. However, in the group of 9 patients with diastolic dysfunction, the ABD ratio (dA/dt)E/(dA/dt)A was significantly improved after cilazapril therapy (1.20 +/- 0.21 versus 1.41 +/- 0.17; P < 0.05). We concluded that a large percentage (39%) of patients with mild or moderate hypertension had reduced diastolic performance of the left ventricle at a stage of the disease when systolic dysfunction and/or hypertrophy were not evident. Significant improvement of diastolic dysfunction in hypertensive patients could be detected by the proposed ABD new diastolic indices 1 month after cilazapril therapy. In conclusion, automatic boundary detection should be a useful non-invasive modality for the early diagnosis of left ventricular diastolic dysfunction, as well as early recognition of its improvement.
Immunohistochemical studies for kidney injury molecule-1 (Kim-1), renal papillary antigen-1 (RPA-1), and renal papillary antigen-2 (RPA-2) were conducted to explore their relationship to inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and nitrotyrosine expression. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to gentamicin (100 mg/kg/day Gen, sc, for 3 days), mercury (0.25 mg Hg/kg, iv, single dose), or chromium (5 mg Cr/kg, sc, single dose) and kidney tissue was examined 24 hours or 72 hours after the last dose of the nephrotoxicant. Another group of kidneys was evaluated 24 hours after rats were administered 3 daily doses (50, 100, 150, 200, or 300 mg/kg/day) of Gen. Gen- and Cr-treated rats exhibited increased immunoreactivity of Kim-1, RPA-1, and RPA-2 largely in the S1/S2 segments and to a lesser extent in the S3 segments of the proximal tubule of the kidney, whereas Hg-treated rats showed increased immunoreactivity of Kim-1, RPA-1, and RPA-2 in the S3 segments. Up-regulation of Kim-1, RPA-1, and RPA-2 expression correlated with injured tubular epithelial cells and also correlated with immunoreactivity of iNOS and nitrotyrosine. It is possible that iNOS activation with nitrotyrosine production in injured nephron segments may be involved in the induction of Kim-1, RPA-1, and RPA-2 following exposure to nephrotoxicants.
Carboplatin loaded osmotic mini-pumps were implanted in 24 9L malignant glioma-bearing rats to investigate the implications of direct intracerebral microinfusion. Carboplatin using 0.1 mg/ml (low dose group) or 1.0 mg/ml (high dose group) with eight rats in each group, or 5% D-glucose (control group) in eight rats were infused at 1 microl/hr for 7 days. The tumor volume was serially measured by magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with gadolinium as the enhanced area, and the survival periods and histological findings were also examined. Separately, to examine the effects of intracerebral carboplatin infusion on vascular permeability, tumor-bearing rats received intravenous administration of 2% Evans blue at 21 days after infusion. The high dose group showed transient increase of enhanced volume at 21 days associated with mass effect, and significantly decreased tumor volume at 28 and 35 days compared with the control and low dose groups. The high dose group showed significant longer survival time than the control and low dose groups. Histological examination of the high dose group at 21 days showed the central tumor necrotic area around the infusion site and Evans blue leakage into the surrounding enhanced rim and the necrotic core. Therefore, leakage of plasma fluid into the necrotic area was considered to be the cause of apparent transient swelling. The present study demonstrated quantitatively using MR imaging that intracerebral carboplatin microinfusion significantly inhibited the rapid growth of experimental rat glioma but that the high dose required carries the risk of transient swelling of the target tumor.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder with a strong genetic component. The skewed prevalence toward males and evidence suggestive of linkage to the X chromosome in some studies suggest the presence of X-linked susceptibility genes in people with ASD.
We analyzed genome-wide association study (GWAS) data on the X chromosome in three independent autism GWAS data sets: two family data sets and one case-control data set. We performed meta- and joint analyses on the combined family and case-control data sets. In addition to the meta- and joint analyses, we performed replication analysis by using the two family data sets as a discovery data set and the case-control data set as a validation data set.
One SNP, rs17321050, in the transducin β-like 1X-linked (TBL1X) gene [OMIM:300196] showed chromosome-wide significance in the meta-analysis (P value = 4.86 × 10-6) and joint analysis (P value = 4.53 × 10-6) in males. The SNP was also close to the replication threshold of 0.0025 in the discovery data set (P = 5.89 × 10-3) and passed the replication threshold in the validation data set (P = 2.56 × 10-4). Two other SNPs in the same gene in linkage disequilibrium with rs17321050 also showed significance close to the chromosome-wide threshold in the meta-analysis.
TBL1X is in the Wnt signaling pathway, which has previously been implicated as having a role in autism. Deletions in the Xp22.2 to Xp22.3 region containing TBL1X and surrounding genes are associated with several genetic syndromes that include intellectual disability and autistic features. Our results, based on meta-analysis, joint analysis and replication analysis, suggest that TBL1X may play a role in ASD risk.
We determine the safety and efficacy of propofol sedation for painful procedures in the emergency department (ED).
A consecutive case series of propofol sedations for painful procedures in the ED of a tertiary care pediatric hospital from July 2000 to July 2002 was performed. A sedation protocol was followed. Propofol was administered in a bolus of 1 mg/kg, followed by additional doses of 0.5 mg/kg. Narcotics were administered 1 minute before propofol administration. Adverse events were documented, as were the sedation duration, recovery time from sedation, and total time in the ED.
Three hundred ninety-three discrete sedation events with propofol were analyzed. Procedures consisted of the following: fracture reductions (94%), reduction of joint dislocations (4%), spica cast placement (2%), and ocular examination after an ocular burn (0.3%). The median propofol dose was 2.7 mg/kg. Ninety-two percent of patients had a transient (<or=2 minutes) decrease in systolic blood pressure without clinical signs of poor perfusion. Nineteen (5%) patients had hypoxia, 11 (3%) patients required airway repositioning or jaw-thrust maneuvers, and 3 (0.8%) patients required bag-valve-mask ventilation. No patient required endotracheal intubation.
Propofol sedation is efficacious and can be used safely in the ED setting under the guidance of a protocol. Transient cardiopulmonary depression occurs, which requires vigilant monitoring by highly skilled practitioners. Propofol is well suited for short, painful procedures in the ED setting.
Anthracyclin-based regimens and all-transretinoic acid (ATRA, tretinoin) as differentiating agent are commonly utilized for the treatment of acute promylelocytic leukemia (APL). There are many adverse effects that may be seen during the use of ATRA in patients with APL. Of these, ATRA-induced myositis is rarely described in adults and rare in the children with APL. Herein, we report an 11-year-old girl with APL who developed ATRA-induced myositis during induction treatment.
Resveratrol, a constituent of red wine, and γ-tocotrienol, a constituent of palm oil are important for cardioprotection. Although microRNAs are known regulators for genes involved in cardiac remodelling, the regulatory pathway involving microRNA has not been studied so far. We explored the cardioprotection by resveratrol, longevinex and γ-tocotrienol in ischaemia/reperfusion(I/R) model of rat and determined miRNA profile from isolated RNA. Systemic analyses of miRNA array and theirs targets were determined using a number of computational approaches. Resveratrol and γ-tocotrienol, either alone or in combination, modulated the expression pattern of miRNAs close to the control level based on PCA analyses. Differential expression was observed in over 75 miRNAs, some of them, such as miR-21 and miR-20b (anti-angiogenic) were previously implicated in cardiac remodelling. The target genes for the highest differentially expressed miRNA include genes of various molecular functions such as TGFβ1-Smad3 signalling pathway, inflammation and their transcription factors, which may play key role in reducing I/R injury. Administration of antagomiR-20 attenuated I/R induced vascular endothelial growth factor and HIF1α level. All the interventions treated for 3 weeks lead to significant cardioprotection against ischaemia/reperfusion injury. A unique signature of miRNA profile is observed in control heart pretreated with resveratrol or γ-tocotrienol. We have determined specific group of miRNA in heart that have altered during IR injuries. Most of those altered microRNA expressions modulated close to their basal level in resveratrol or longevinex treated I/R rat. Interestingly, resveratrol and γ-tocotrienol resulted in synergestic action.
The influence of adenosine receptor ligands on ketamine-induced locomotor activity was studied in mice. Ketamine-induced hyperactivity (10 mg/kg) was significantly and dose-dependently attenuated by CGS 21680 (selective A(2A) receptor agonist), and NECA (A1/A2 adenosine receptor agonist), but not by CPA (cyclopentyladenosine, selective A1 adenosine receptor agonist). Motor activity produced by subthreshold dose (2.5 mg/kg) of ketamine was significantly increased by DMPX (selective A1 receptor antagonist) and caffeine (A1/A2 adenosine receptor antagonist), but not by DPCPX (selective A1 adenosine receptor antagonist). These results suggest that adenosinergic system is involved in ketamine-induced motor activity and seem to indicate a predominant role of A(2A) adenosine receptor in this effect.
To study the effect of valsartan on bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in rats and its possible mechanism.
Sixty Wistar rats were divided into three groups. In the valsartan group and the model groups, pulmonary fibrosis was induced by intratracheal instillation of bleomycin (BLM), and then the former group received valsartan 16 mg/kg daily, but the latter group received oral normal saline. In the control group, normal saline was given both intratracheally and orally. Five rats in each group were sacrificed 7, 14, 28, and 42 days after intratracheal instillation. Collagen content of the lung tissue was assessed by hydroxyproline concentration. Histological changes of the lungs were evaluated by HE stain and Masson's trichrome stain. Lung expression of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) protein was assessed by immunohistochemistry. The mRNA of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) was detected by in situ hybridization, and the level of HGF protein was further measured by ELISA.
In the valsartan group, alveolitis [(0.88 +/- 0.12) points, (0.79 +/- 0.21) points, (0.75 +/- 0.17) points] decreased significantly 14 days after treatment with BLM and was significantly lower as compared with the model group [(2.05 +/- 0.25) points, (1.38 +/- 0.12) points, (1.19 +/- 0.11) points, P < 0.01]. Pulmonary fibrosis on day 7, 28, 42 [(0.28 +/- 0.03) points vs (0.45 +/- 0.10) points, (1.74 +/- 0.18) points vs (2.08 +/- 0.32) points, (1.91 +/- 0.09) points vs (2.77 +/- 0.15) points, P < 0.05], hydroxyproline concentrations on day 14, 42 [(1.08 +/- 0.13) microg/mg x pro vs (1.45 +/- 0.19) microg/mg x pro, (1.39 +/- 0.20) microg/mg x pro vs (2.19 +/- 0.37) microg/mg x pro, P < 0.01] and protein expression of TGF-beta on day 7, 42 [2.27 +/- 0.30 vs 3.99 +/- 0.43, 2.05 +/- 0.18 vs 2.71 +/- 0.46, P < 0.05] in the valsartan group all reduced significantly as compared with that of the model group. HGF mRNA [1.61 +/- 0.20 vs 1.98 +/- 0.23, 0.52 +/- 0.19 vs 0.28 +/- 0.14, P < 0.05] and its protein expression (204 +/- 18) pg/ml vs (260 +/- 21) pg/ml, (129 +/- 20) pg/ml vs (100 +/- 20) pg/ml, P < 0.05) on day 7 and day 42 in the valsartan group were increased as compared with those of the model group.
Valsartan alleviates BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in rats. Inhibiting the expressions of TGF-beta and stimulating the expression of HGF in lung tissues may be one of the mechanisms.
