A case of lithium-induced diabetes insipidus is reported. At necropsy microscopy shoed unique and extensive damage to cells lining the distal nephron. It is suggested that these changes represent a specific toxic effect of lithium, reported here for the first time in man.
We describe a case of symptomatic hypophosphataemia following an intra-articular glucocorticoid injection.
Lumican (Lum), a small leucine-rich proteoglycan (SLRP) family member, has multiple matricellular functions both as an extracellular matrix component and as a matrikine regulating cell proliferation, gene expression and wound healing. To date, no cell surface receptor has been identified to mediate the matrikine functions of Lum. This study aimed to identify a perspective receptor that mediates Lum effects on promoting wound healing. Transforming growth factor-β receptor 1 (ALK5) was identified as a potential Lum-interacting protein through in silico molecular docking and molecular dynamics. This finding was verified by biochemical pull-down assays. Moreover, the Lum function on wound healing was abrogated by an ALK5-specific chemical inhibitor as well as by ALK5 shRNAi. Finally, we demonstrated that eukaryote-specific post-translational modifications are not required for the wound healing activity of Lum, as recombinant GST-Lum fusion proteins purified from E. coli and a chemically synthesized LumC13 peptide (the last C-terminal 13 amino acids of Lum) have similar effects on wound healing in vitro and in vivo.
The present study investigated whether potassium channel blockade could modify the behavioral effects of the dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist quinpirole in squirrel monkeys. The duration of immobility and/or unusual postures indicative of catalepsy-associated behavior or the duration of scratching, known to be related to the effects of low and high doses, respectively, of quinpirole, were scored during 5-min observation periods in three squirrel monkeys. Saline or incremental doses of quinpirole were administered 10 min before each observation period. Administration of saline did not increase the durations of catalepsy-associated behavior (8% of the observational period) or scratching (< 1% of the observational period). Low doses of quinpirole (0.003-0.03 mg/kg) dose dependently increased the duration of catalepsy-associated behavior to approximately 54% of the observational periods. Higher doses of quinpirole (0.1-0.3 mg/kg) did not increase the duration of catalepsy; rather, these doses increased the duration of scratching to approximately 57% of the observational periods. The differential induction of catalepsy-associated behavior or scratching is believed to be related to, respectively, pre- and postsynaptic activity of quinpirole on dopamine D2/D3 receptors. Pretreatment with the potassium channel blockers apamin, 4-aminopyridine, and amodiaquin attenuated the effects of quinpirole (0.03 mg/kg) on catalepsy-associated behavior, with cataleptic postures maintained for 27, 21, and 24% of the observational periods, respectively. In contrast, pretreatment with potassium channel blockers did not consistently affect the scratching induced by quinpirole. In addition, apamin did not attenuate the catalepsy-associated behavior induced by the postsynaptic D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol (0.01-0.1 mg/kg).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
One hundred six eligible patients with advanced intermediate- or high-grade malignant lymphoma were treated with methotrexate with leucovorin rescue, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dexamethasone (m-BACOD) in a Southwest Oncology Group phase II trial. Patients were stratified by estimated bone marrow reserve, and impaired marrow reserve patients received reduced doses of cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin. The complete remission rate for normal marrow reserve patients was 65%, while the complete remission rate for impaired marrow reserve patients was 29%. With a median follow-up period of 41 months, 64% of complete responders in the normal marrow group are disease-free 3 years after their response. Three-year survival is 61% in the normal marrow reserve group and is 29% in the impaired marrow reserve group. Eighty-seven percent of treatment courses were given in accordance with protocol dosing and schedule. For doxorubicin, relative dose intensities were 0.75 and 0.61 (normal and impaired marrow reserve arms, respectively), for cyclophosphamide, 0.76 and 0.61, and for methotrexate, 0.55 and 0.45. Serum lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) level was the only pretreatment characteristic found to have a significant effect on overall survival. Severe or greater toxicity occurred in 97% and 89% of the normal and impaired marrow reserve groups, respectively, with granulocytopenia the principal toxicity. Treatment-related fatalities occurred in 8% of patients. m-BACOD is an effective but toxic treatment program for intermediate- and high-grade malignant lymphomas.
We studied the role of integrins, primarily, the role of allele distribution of GP3a gene in development of prostatic cancer (PC) and assessment of its prognostic significance. From November 2003 to May 2004 we examined 32 patients with PC: 11 patients with local PC T1-2N0M0; 14 patients with locally advanced cancer T3N0M0 and 7 patients with invasive and/or metastatic cancer T3-4N10-1 or T3-4N0-1M1. The blood from all the patients we studied with PCR for alleles of GP3a gene, PSA. Seventeen patients were found to have alleles PLA1A1, 14(44%)--alleles PLA1A2, 1(3%)--alleles PLA2A2. Alleles PLA1A2 occurred significantly more often than in the population (p < 0.005). The group analysis has found that 8 patients with local PC had alleles PLA1A1, 3 patients--alleles PLA1A2 (27%). We discovered alleles PLA2A2, PLA1A1 and PLA1A2 in 1(7%), 5(36%) and 8(57%) patients with locally advanced PC, respectively. Among patients with metastatic and/or invasive prostatic cancer, there were 4 (57%) and 3 (43%) cases of alleles PLA1A1 and PLA1A2, respectively. Our study demonstrated influence of carriage of PLA2 allele on occurrence of PC risk (5-fold higher) and its invasive forms (10-fold higher and more). Probability to develop local invasion among patients with prostatic cancer--carriers allele PLA1A2 is 6 times higher than among carriers of alleles PLA1A1. A PC course in carriers of alleles PLA1A2 may be characterized by faster development of local invasion and metastasizing vs carriers of alleles PLA1A1. These findings can be used in design of nomograms for prognostication of invasion of clinically small tumors in verification of significance on greater number of the patients.
Guillain-Barré syndrome is a rare complication in the setting of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. We report three children with T cell lymphoma/leukemia in whom this syndrome developed soon after they received unrelated donor transplants. The rapid onset of symptoms raises the concern that the bone marrow transplant conditioning regimen (ie, total body irradiation, cyclophosphamide and cytosine arabinoside) might have precipitated the clinical syndrome of ascending polyneuropathy. Although central nervous system toxicity has been well described with high-dose cytosine arabinoside therapy, peripheral neuropathy of the Guillain-Barré type has been reported only infrequently. We review possible factors contributing to the development of this syndrome in these three patients.
To investigate the efficacy and safety of Enalapril-Folic acid tablets in lowering blood pressure and plasma homocysteine(Hcy) level.
A randomized, double blind, multicenter clinical trial was performed. Subjects with mild-moderate hypertension were randomly assigned to the following three groups: group 1, Enalapril 10.0 mg/d; group 2, Enalapril 10.0 mg+ Folic acid 0.4 mg/d; group 3, Enalapril 10.0 mg + Folic acid 0.8 mg/d. Blood pressure and plasma Hcy level were examined every two weeks, for a total period of 8 weeks.
A total of 480 hypertensives were enrolled. All analyses were performed according to the intention to treat and included all randomized patients. Compared to group 1, both group 2 and group 3 had significantly higher effectiveness in lowering both blood pressure and plasma Hcy level, or in lowering either blood pressure or plasma Hcy level. The proportions of subjects showing obvious reduction in both blood pressure and plasma homocysteine level in group 1, group 2, group 3, were 4.6%, 13.2%, 17.1%, respectively; the proportions of subjects showing obvious reduction in either blood pressure or plasma homocysteine level in group 1, group 2, group 3, were 45.8%, 59.6%, and 65.1%, respectively; Effects on blood pressure, as well as the safety profile were not significantly different among the three regimens.
Enalapril-Folic acid tablets could be used to reduce both blood pressure and plasma Hcy level in mild to moderate hypertensive subjects.
Most drug-associated angioedemas are induced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Recently, the responsibility of immunosuppressive agents given to transplant recipients in the development of angioedema has been discussed.
To describe, in detail, angioedema episodes in renal transplant recipients (RTRs) on sirolimus.
A cross-sectional study in a university hospital. Eighty consecutive RTRs on sirolimus were studied.
Angioedema without urticaria occurred a mean of 5 times in 12/80 (15%) RTRs taking sirolimus. It was predominantly located on the face (83%), with mucous membrane involvement in 7 (58%) patients, and was life threatening in 1. Another putative cofactor for angioedema without urticaria was identified in 9 (75%) patients: drugs (n=8), food allergy or physical activity (n=3). Tacrolimus intake was significantly associated with sirolimus-associated angioedema.
Our results suggested a causal relationship between sirolimus and angioedema in RTRs.
A study of parkinsonian patients suffering from ON-OFF phenomena, who had been on long-term treatment with L-DOPA, to the parenteral administration of apomorphine and physostigmine is reported. All patients, whether of the end-dose failure type or of the randomly occurring variety, when given apomorphine in an OFF phase, showed prompt reversal to an ON phase. Physostigmine given during an ON phase produced the opposite effect with induction of parkinsonian symptoms. These findings are interpreted as indicating that the dopaminergic receptors are available for stimulation during the OFF phase but are not receiving sufficient neurotransmitter, that is, dopamine, to stimulate their activity. The response to physostigmine is indicative of a return of cholinergic supersensitivity after long-term L-DOPA administration, the mechanisms by which this may occur are discussed. Based on these findings, therapeutic strategies are suggested that may overcome this major limitation of the use of L-DOPA in the treatment of parkinsonism.
The use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) has been associated with the occurrence of adverse effects, including cough and angioneurotic edema. Accumulation of kinins has been suggested to play a major role in these adverse effects of ACE inhibitor, although conclusive evidence for such a role is lacking. We investigated whether ACE inhibition increases plasma extravasation in mice (Swiss, C57Bl/6J, and J129Sv/Ev strains) via inhibition of bradykinin metabolism and stimulation of neurogenic inflammatory mechanisms. Intravenous captopril and enalapril increased the extravasation of Evans blue dye in all tissues examined (trachea, stomach, duodenum, and pancreas). This effect was evident 15 minutes after drug administration. The particulate dye Monastral blue identified the sites of captopril-induced leakage in the microvasculature. Pretreatment with the bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist Hoe 140 or with the tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist SR 140333 inhibited captopril-evoked increase in plasma extravasation. In mice in which the gene encoding the bradykinin B2 receptor was disrupted by gene targeting, neither bradykinin nor captopril increased plasma extravasation. Pretreatment with Hoe 140 did not reduce the hypotensive response induced by captopril. The present findings suggest that ACE inhibition increases kinin levels in tissues and/or plasma. These increased kinin levels increase microvascular leakage in mouse airways and digestive tract via the release of tachykinins from terminals of primary sensory neurons. Exaggerated kinin production and the subsequent stimulation of peptide release from sensory nerves may be involved in adverse effects of ACE inhibitors.
The primary goal of the present study was to test whether selective pharmacologic blockade of alpha 1 receptors, and specifically of the subtype alpha 1a, could prevent ventricular fibrillation (VF) during acute myocardial ischemia.
The development of new autonomic interventions is of clinical interest in view of the failure of traditional antiarrhythmic drugs to prevent sudden death. Experimental evidence indicates that alpha 1 receptors, and in particular the subtype alpha 1a, may be involved in the genesis of malignant arrhythmias during acute myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. Despite this evidence, questions have been raised about the actual antifibrillatory efficacy of alpha-adrenergic blockade in the acutely ischemic myocardium. The effects of prazosin and of abanoquil (UK 52,046), a highly selective alpha 1a receptor blocker, were tested and compared with propranolol in a conscious animal preparation for sudden death.
Ten dogs with a 1-month-old anterior wall myocardial infarction were studied. These dogs had all developed, in control conditions, VF during a 2-minute occlusion of the circumflex coronary artery while exercising (n = 9) or lying on the table (n = 1). Afterwards, the dogs underwent additional tests with the following intravenously administered drugs: abanoquil (n = 10; 1 micrograms/kg), prazosin (n = 9; 0.1 mg/kg), and propranolol (n = 10; 1 mg/kg). Internal control analysis was used. All dogs tested had recurrence of VF with both alpha-adrenergic blockers. Propranolol significantly reduced heart rate during ischemia and prevented VF in 5 of 10 dogs tested (P < 0.05). When heart rate was kept constant by atrial pacing (n = 3), 2 of the 3 animals remained protected by propranolol. Just prior to onset of VF, heart rate was not significantly different in the control and in the abanoquil tests (237 +/- 45 and 253 +/- 34 beats/min, respectively), whereas it was higher (P < 0.05) with prazosin (288 +/- 40 beats/min).
Alpha 1 and alpha 1a receptor blockers do not prevent VF secondary to acute myocardial ischemia in the presence of elevated sympathetic activity and heart rate. In the same setting, beta-adrenergic blockade prevents the reflex heart rate increase due to ischemia and provides a significant protection.
The serotonergic 5-HT2B receptor regulates cardiomyocyte development and growth. A putative contribution of this receptor to fibroblast-dependent cardiac function has not been identified.
By mimicking sympathetic stimulation with chronic isoproterenol perfusion in vivo, we found that mice developed a cardiac hypertrophy, which was prevented by exposure to the 5-HT2B receptor antagonists SB206553 or SB215505 or in 5-HT2B receptor-knockout mice. The isoproterenol-induced hypertrophy was associated with an increase in the plasma levels of interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha but not interleukin-6. In contrast, the plasma isoproterenol-induced cytokine increase was not observed in either 5-HT2B receptor-mutant or wild-type mice perfused with isoproterenol+SB206553. We demonstrated that stimulation of wild-type cardiac fibroblasts by isoproterenol markedly increased the production of the interleukin-6, interleukin-1beta, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha cytokines. Strikingly, we found that this isoproterenol-induced cytokine production was abolished by SB206553 or in 5-HT2B receptor-knockout fibroblasts. Serotonin also stimulated production of the 3 cytokines in wild-type fibroblasts, which was effectively reduced in 5-HT2B receptor-knockout fibroblasts.
Our results demonstrate for the first time that 5-HT2B receptors are essential for isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy, which involves the regulation of interleukin-6, interleukin-1beta, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha cytokine production by cardiac fibroblasts.
I report on five patients with tardive blepharospasm seen in a movement disorders clinic, out of 25 tardive dystonia patients. They were young (aged 25-50 yrs); four were men and three had a schizophrenic disorder. The onset was gradual while on maintenance neuroleptics in four and on withdrawal in the fifth. There were no significant antecedent events precipitating the disorder. The disorder was bilateral but asymmetric in two cases. Dyskinetic blinking was often an initial feature and tended to persist after the resolution of the blepharospasm. Orolingual dyskinesia was present in one case and tardive akathisia in two other cases. The symptoms fluctuated in severity with a number of exacerbating and relieving factors. Reduction of neuroleptic dose led to improvement with complete reversal in one of two patients who could be withdrawn off neuroleptic medication. These reports suggest that TB, although uncommon, can be a disabling disorder that may improve considerably with the cessation or dose reduction of the neuroleptic drugs. Its treatment and longitudinal course should be further examined.
The antiarrhythmic drug amiodarone accumulates in many organs of the body. Amiodarone lung disease (ALD) most commonly manifests clinically as an interstitial pneumonitis. The few reports of nodular ALD generally have been in the clinical and radiographic literature. No detailed histopathologic analysis of nodular ALD is available. We report 4 patients with nodular ALD, all of whom had excision of a nodule and none had a preoperative diagnosis of ALD. The radiographic suspicion before excisional biopsy in all 4 cases was malignancy. The initial pathologic suspicion in all 4 cases was either an abscess or vasculitis. In 3 of the 4 cases, where the dosages were known, each patient received 800 mg/d for 7 or more months. All cases have strikingly similar histopathology, with vacuolated histiocytes massed within alveoli to form macroscopic nodules with tissue breakdown. Ultrastructural examination of lung and peripheral nerve in 1 case showed the characteristic inclusions of amiodarone in the cytoplasm of swollen histiocytes. Vacuolated histiocytes filled with these inclusions indicate the effect of the drug, but in these 4 cases there was tissue destruction, which indicated disease. The necrotizing nature of the massed histiocytes in the absence of infection or obstruction suggests the correct etiologic diagnosis even when the history of administration of the drug is not available at initial review.
gamma-Glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT)-positive and glutathione S-transferase (placental-GST-P) positive foci were induced in male Wistar rats by initiation with diethylnitrosamine (DENA), followed by selection and phenobarbital (PB). GGT- and GST-P-positive foci occupied 20-46% and 27-68% of liver parenchyma, respectively, 5-9 weeks after initiation. A high DNA synthesis was found in GGT-positive foci. Decrease in S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) level and SAM/S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH) ratio, and overall DNA hypomethylation occurred in the liver during the development of enzyme altered foci (EAF). These parameters underwent very small and transient changes in the liver of uninitiated rats at the 5th week, when EAF occupied 0.7-1.4% of the liver. At the 9th week, high RNA transcripts of c-myc, c-Ha-ras, and c-Ki-ras were found in the liver of initiated rats, but not in that of uninitiated rats. Immunohistochemical evaluation of c-myc gene product showed overexpression in GST-P-positive cells. SAM treatment of initiated rats caused inhibition of EAF growth, recovery of SAM/SAH ratio and DNA methylation, and decrease in protooncogene expression proportional to the dose and length of treatment. Liver SAM/SAH ratio was positively correlated with DNA methylation, and negatively correlated with transcript levels of the three protooncogenes. Thus, decrease in SAM/SAH ratio and DNA hypomethylation are early features of hepatocarcinogenesis promotion in rats fed a diet containing adequate lipotrope amounts, paralleled by overexpression of growth-related genes and rapid growth. Re-establishment of a physiologic SAM level makes it possible to inhibit protooncogene expression and EAF growth and to prevent late liver lesion development.
The telomeric region of mouse chromosome 12 has previously shown frequent allelic loss in murine lymphoma. The Bcl11b gene has been identified and suggested as a candidate tumor suppressor gene within this region. In this study, we aimed to elucidate whether Bcl11b is mutated in lymphomas with allelic loss, and whether the mutations we detected conferred any effect on cell proliferation and apoptosis.
Mouse lymphomas induced by 1,3-butadiene or 2',3'-dideoxycytidine were analysed for mutations in the Bcl11b gene using single strand conformation analysis and direct DNA sequencing. Effects on cell proliferation by the detected mutations were studied by expressing wild-type and mutant Bcl11b in the cytokine-dependent hematopoietic progenitor cell line FDC-P1, lacking endogenous Bcl11b expression.
Missense and frameshift (FS) mutations were identified in 7 of 47 tumors (15%). Interestingly, all mutations were found between amino acids 778-844 which encode the three C-terminal DNA-binding zinc fingers. In FDC-P1 cells, wild-type Bcl11b suppressed cell proliferation, whereas the mutated versions (S778N, K828T, Y844C and FS823) enhanced proliferation several-fold.
The genetic alterations detected in this study suggest that the three C-terminal zinc fingers of Bcl11b are important for the DNA-binding. Cell proliferation was suppressed by overexpression of wild-type Bcl11b but enhanced by mutant Bcl11b, indicating that these mutations may be an important contributing factor to lymphomagenesis in a subset of tumors.
Dobutamine echocardiography has become widely used in the past decade in the evaluation of patients with suspected coronary artery disease who are unable to undergo exercise treadmill or bicycle testing. The safety of this procedure has been studied in a hospital-based setting. However, no studies thus far have evaluated the safety of this procedure in an office-based setting, remote from a hospital. We performed dobutamine echocardiography on 127 patients in an office-based setting, remote from a hospital. Throughout the course of this study there were no deaths, myocardial infarctions, sustained episodes of ventricular tachycardia, or syncopal episodes associated with dobutamine infusion. The frequency of noncardiac side effects was 29%, the majority of which were nausea, vomiting, and paresthesias. Three patients had nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, none of whom had symptoms. We conclude that dobutamine echocardiography is safe, well tolerated, and useful in an office-based setting.
We compared the renoprotective effect between angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, and a dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker, nicardipine, in a severe form of renal injury in rats. Two-day-old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were injected with streptozotocin or vehicle as control. UNX was performed at 3 weeks of age, and enalapril or nicardipine was administered in drinking water from 7 weeks of age. Uninephrectomy (UNX) markedly exacerbated hypertension and renal injury in the nondiabetic and diabetic SHR. Enalapril and nicardipine comparably reduced blood pressure in UNX diabetic SHR. However, serum creatinine was significantly elevated in the nicardipine-treated group as compared with the enalapril-treated group at 24 weeks of age (nicardipine-treated group, 67 +/- 4 microM; enalapril-treated group, 49 +/- 3 microM; P < 0.01; untreated group 57 +/- 4 microM). Furthermore, the incidence of glomerular sclerosis was similar between untreated and nicardipine-treated groups, whereas it tended to be reduced in the enalapril-treated group. In a separate experiment of diabetic SHR without UNX, enalapril therapy significantly ameliorated hyperglycemia and albuminuria (P < 0.01). This study showed that a renoprotective effect was seen in enalapril but not in nicardipine in UNX diabetic SHR despite the comparable reduction of blood pressure. This suggests that enalapril may be more effective than nicardipine in delaying the progression of a severe form of diabetic nephropathy.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the immune system plays a role in the pathophysiology of autism, and that the adhesion molecules play an important role in the process of inflammation. This study was undertaken to determine whether serum levels of the adhesion molecules in subjects with high-functioning autism are altered as compared with those of normal controls.
Seventeen male subjects with high-functioning autism and 22 male age-matched unrelated healthy control subjects were enrolled. Serum levels of the soluble forms of platelet-endothelial adhesion molecule (PECAM-1), intracellular adhesion molecule (ICAM-1), and vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM-1) were measured.
Levels of PECAM-1, but not ICAM-1, in the subjects with autism were significantly lower than those of control subjects. VCAM-1 showed a weak trend for a lowered level. There was a negative correlation between serum levels of PECAM-1 and head circumference at birth in the autistic subjects.
These results suggest that PECAM-1 plays a role in the pathophysiology of high-functioning autism.
Cinnamaldehyde derivatives isolated from Cinnamomum cassia have been widely used for treating dyspepsia, gastritis, and inflammatory disease as well as cancer. To investigate the anti-tumor activities of several cinnamaldehyde derivatives, we compared the inhibitory effect of cinnamaldehyde derivatives on cell growth and AP-1 transcriptional activity in SW620 human colon cancer cells since AP-1 is a transcriptional factor implicated to control cancer cell growth. Among the derivatives, 2'-hydroxycinnamaldehyde (HCA) most significantly inhibited cancer cell growth and AP-1 transcriptional activity in a dose-dependent manner with an IC50 value of 12.5 and 9 microg/ml, respectively. In further studies on the mechanism, we found that consistent with the inhibitory effect on cell growth, HCA dose-dependently (0-20 microg/ml) inhibited DNA binding activity of AP-1 accompanied with down regulation of c-Jun and c-Fos expressions. HCA also induced apoptotic cell death as well as expression of the apoptosis-regulating gene caspase-3, but inhibited the anti-apoptosis regulating gene bcl-2 in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggested that HCA has the most potent inhibitory effect against human colon cancer cell growth, and AP-1 may be an important target of HCA.
Cancer is often associated with abnormal activation of coagulation leading to a prothrombotic state. Some chemotherapeutic agents used for cancer may induce thrombosis but their biological alterations in the hemostatic system are not yet well understood. This study evaluated alterations of coagulative and fibrinolytic parameters following chemotherapy. In plasma samples of 38 patients (median age: 49 years) receiving CMF (schedule 1-21 or 1-8) for Stage II breast cancer, we evaluated: PT, aPTT, antithrombin III (AT-III), protein C (PC), protein S (PS), thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT), prothrombin fragment F 1 + 2 (F 1 + 2), fibrinogen (Fbg), tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) and D-dimer (D-D). PT, aPTT, and Fbg were determined with routine methods; AT-III, PC, and PS were measured with coagulative tests; PC and PS were also evaluated with immunoenzymatic methods, t-PA, PAI-1, D-D, TAT, and F 1 + 2 were measured with immunoenzymatic methods. All tests were performed immediately before starting therapy and after each cycle. A PC antigen decrease appeared soon after beginning therapy and lasted throughout chemotherapy. The lowest values were present after the first treatment both in the CMF 1-21 group (mean +/- SD = 72.5 +/- 10.8%) and in the CMF 1-8 group (mean +/- SD = 77.2 +/- 6.9%): PC activity was also decreased. PS antigen decreased after the first administration (mean +/- SD = 73.3 +/- 10% in CMF 1-21 group, and 72.5 +/- 4.9% in CMF 1-8 group): PS activity also decreased. PAI-1 antigen levels increased (mean +/- SD = 43.1 +/- 20.4 ng/ml in the CMF 1-21 group, and 37.5 +/- 12.2 ng/ml in CMF 1-8 group) lasting up to the last cycle. CMF provokes a trend toward hypercoagulability; this effect should be considered when chemotherapy is employed in advanced cancer patients at high risk for thrombosis, or in patients with other risk factors.
In a 4-year 7-month-old boy with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency and systemic arthritis a severe haemolytic anaemia occurred after the administration of acetylsalicylic acid. Erythrocyte fragmentation, with haemoglobin condensation zones next to clear zones, was observed on peripheral blood smears. Since viral or bacterial infections were excluded on the basis of the laboratory data, the anaemia was ascribed to aspirin.
To report clinical features of amiodarone-induced optic neuropathy and outline the differentiation of amiodarone optic neuropathy from nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy.
We reviewed data from 73 patients reported to have developed an optic neuropathy while taking amiodarone.
Amiodarone optic neuropathy is characterized by an insidious onset, slow progression, bilateral visual loss, and protracted disk swelling that tends to stabilize within several months of discontinuing the medication. Nonarteritic ischemic optic neuropathy is characterized by acute, unilateral visual loss that is usually complete at onset, with resolution of disk edema over several weeks.
Unique clinical features of amiodarone-induced optic neuropathy may help clinicians diagnose and distinguish between amiodarone-induced optic neuropathy and nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy.
The apolipoprotein E type 4 allele (APOE-epsilon 4) is genetically associated with the common late onset familial and sporadic forms of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Risk for AD increased from 20% to 90% and mean age at onset decreased from 84 to 68 years with increasing number of APOE-epsilon 4 alleles in 42 families with late onset AD. Thus APOE-epsilon 4 gene dose is a major risk factor for late onset AD and, in these families, homozygosity for APOE-epsilon 4 was virtually sufficient to cause AD by age 80.
