To characterize the autoimmune phenomena in patients receiving procainamide, we studied the prevalence of positive direct antiglobulin (Coombs') tests and immune hemolytic anemia in 100 such patients and compared them with 100 age-matched and sex-matched controls. There was a significant increase in the frequency of positive direct antiglobulin tests in patients receiving procainamide (21 vs. 10 per cent, P = 0.05). The mechanism of red-cell sensitization in patients receiving procainamide was the production of red-cell autoantibody, which was serologically indistinguishable from that seen in warm autoimmune hemolytic anemia. In contrast, positive direct antiglobulin tests in control patients were due to the presence of complement components. Red-cell autoantibody production secondary to procainamide was not correlated with a higher-than-expected frequency of antinuclear antibodies or the clinical syndrome of drug-induced lupus erythematosus. In the series of 100 patients receiving procainamide, we identified three cases of immune hemolytic anemia. In two of the three cases, the anemia resolved after the medication was discontinued and did not require steroid therapy. We conclude that procainamide often results in the production of red-cell autoimmune phenomena.
Caspofungin has shown efficacy and very low toxicity in empirical antifungal therapy in refractory invasive Aspergillus infections and invasive candidiasis in neutropenic (or non) patients. To date, there is no data on tolerability of caspofungin in ICU patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate caspofungine tolerability in critical care patients.
Over a 36-month period, 1430 patients were admitted in a general intensive care unit. All patients data were collected in a prospective database. All the clinical or biological side effects reported in the multicentric studies were required. The patients were laminated in two groups, according to the initial hepatic function.
Seventy-three patients were treated with caspofungin (5.1%) and 58% were immunocompromised. Immunosuppression was due to acute leukemia (30%), solid organ transplant (20%) or other causes of immunosuppression. In this group, SAPS2 was higher (51+/-20 versus 44+/-20; p<0.05) as mortality rate was (60% versus 23%). More than 90% of patients were ventilated and 55% needed extrarenal therapy. Caspofungin treatment was initiated for aspergillosis in 12 patients, candidiasis in 33 patients and others indications. Partial or complete response to treatment was 72%. Median duration of caspofungin administration was 11 days, no liver dysfunction or acute renal failure due to caspofungin was reported whatever initial liver function was.
This prospective open study demonstrate the very low toxicity of caspofungin even in critical care patients.
Arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AA-NAT) is a rate-limiting enzyme in melatonin hormone synthesis and participates in daily oscillations of the melatonin level. We studied the association between the AA-NAT gene and delayed sleep phase syndrome (DSPS). Results indicate that there is a significant difference in allele positivity at the single nucleotide polymorphism involved in an amino acid substitution from alanine to threonine at position 129 between patients with DSPS and healthy controls. The frequency of the 129 threonine allele is significantly higher in the patients than in the controls ( P=0.0029). The data suggest that AA-NAT could be a susceptibility gene for DSPS.
Adenosine receptor stimulation induces several effects that could limit ischemia-reperfusion injury. We hypothesize that treatment with the nucleoside uptake inhibitor dipyridamole increases endogenous adenosine and limits ischemia-reperfusion injury in humans.
Ischemia-reperfusion injury was studied in forearm skeletal muscle by technetium Tc 99m-labeled annexin A5 scintigraphy. Ischemia-reperfusion injury was induced by unilateral forearm ischemic exercise. Immediately on reperfusion, annexin A5 labeled with technetium Tc 99m was administered intravenously, and ischemia-reperfusion injury was expressed as the percentage difference in radioactivity between the experimental arm and the control arm 1 and 4 hours after reperfusion. Targeting was quantified in the region of the thenar muscle and forearm flexor muscles. This approach was used in 9 healthy male volunteers after a 1-week treatment with dipyridamole (200 mg, slow release, twice daily) and in 23 control subjects.
Dipyridamole treatment significantly reduced annexin A5 targeting in skeletal muscle compared with the control group (thenar region, 13% +/- 7% versus 22% +/- 15% at 1 hour after reperfusion and 9% +/- 6% versus 27% +/- 13% at 4 hours for dipyridamole and control groups, respectively [P = .01]; flexor region, 4% +/- 8% versus 7% +/- 6% at 1 hour after reperfusion and 1% +/- 4% versus 10% +/- 9% at 4 hours for dipyridamole and control groups, respectively [P = .01]).
One week of oral treatment with the nucleoside uptake inhibitor dipyridamole (200 mg, slow release, twice daily) significantly limits ischemia-reperfusion injury in humans in vivo, as assessed by technetium Tc 99m-labeled annexin A5 scintigraphy of forearm skeletal muscle.
The intracisternal administration of amphotericin B (AmB) and its mono-methyl ester derivative (AME), via direct intraventricular injection (0.01 to 5 mg/ml, 6 microliters) in adult female Wistar rats, revealed that AmB was significantly more toxic than AME, as measured by weight loss, lethargy, death, and central nervous system histopathology. Light and electron microscopy confirmed a greater neurotoxicity for AmB, manifested as edema and modest gliosis extending along and beyond the injection tract. Neuronal degeneration and myelin damage were present in AmB-treated (1 mg/ml) animals but were present only modestly in animals treated with AME at a fivefold greater concentration. Intravenous administration of AmB to adult female Wistar rats as five daily doses of 5 mg/kg of body weight resulted in significant weight loss and some deaths. Histopathologic examination of the brains, spinal cords, and sural nerves of surviving animals revealed neurotoxicity manifested by neuronal degeneration, gliosis, and myelin edema. In sharp contrast, similar treatment with AME at a 10-fold greater dose resulted in neither death nor significant neurotoxicity. The administration of five daily doses of a mixture of AME-AmB (9:1; wt/wt) at 50 mg/kg of body weight resulted in neurotoxicity. These results indicate that AmB exhibits significantly greater in vivo neurotoxicity than AME.
Rifampicin re-administration may cause immunologically mediated acute tubulo-interstitial injury. Retrospectively, 170 consecutive cases with acute renal failure (ARF) following re-treatment with rifampicin (71% males, 29% females, age 21 to 68 years) were analysed, which accounted for 12% of all ARF patients treated by two large dialysis referral centres in Romania, Timisoara and Iasi, between 1974-2001 and 1988-2001, respectively. The most frequent clinical features of rifampicin-induced ARF were: Anuria, gastro-intestinal (abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea) and "flu-like" symptoms. Urine analysis revealed sterile leucocyturia in 54%, proteinuria in 31%, haematuria in 26% and haemoglobinuria in 7% of cases. Haemolytic anaemia was frequent, found in 66% of the patients; half of these had Hct values of < 30%, thrombocytopenia and also more severe renal damage (a longer anuric phase and a slower recovery of the renal function), thus suggesting a severe multi-target autoimmune aggression. The association of hepatic injury--not explained by prior hepatic disease, B or C hepatitis virus infection or history of alcohol abuse--was encountered in 17% of the cases, without a significant influence on the renal and the general outcome. The outcome of rifampicin-induced ARF is generally favourable, with complete recovery of the renal function within 30 days in 52% of the cases and within 90 days in 92% of the cases. The mortality rate was 3.5%, compared to 21% for the overall ARF population treated during the same period (p < 0.05).
To address the frequency of side effects of Ritalin therapy in children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) using the Barkeley Side Effects Questionnaire (BSEQ) in a clinical setting.
Randomized double-blind placebo-controlled cross-over trial.
A large rural tertiary care clinic.
234 consecutive children aged 5 through 15 years who met the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (3rd ed, revised) criteria for ADHD were enrolled. Of these children, 206 had sufficient side effects data for analysis.
0.3 mg/kg per dose and 0.5 mg/kg per dose Ritalin compared to placebo in separate 2-week trials. Each treatment was given three times a day for 7 consecutive days.
Parents, blinded to the treatment assignment, assessed side effects via the BSEQ at baseline and at the end of each of the 4 treatment weeks. Univariate odds ratios (OR) were used to describe the magnitude of differences in observed side effects between Ritalin and placebo weeks of the trial for each of the items on the BSEQ. The frequency of the following side effects significantly increased with Ritalin therapy: insomnia (OR = 3.13, 95% confidence interval [CI] = (1.80,5.42)), appetite disturbance (OR = 19.00, 95% CI = (9.18,39.31)), stomachache (OR = 7.00, 95% CI = (3.29, 14.89)), headache (OR = 5.29, 95% CI = (2.51,11.15)), and dizziness (OR = 7.50, 95% CI = (1.93,29.13)). The frequency of the following side effects significantly decreased with Ritalin therapy: staring and daydreaming (OR = 0.47, 95% CI = (0.27,0.84)), irritability (OR = 0.33, 95% CI = (0.18,0.61)), anxiety (OR = 0.42, 95% CI = (0.23,0.76)), and nailbiting (OR = 0.19, 95% CI = (0.07, 0.53)). The incidence rates of the remaining BSEQ items did not differ significantly between the Ritalin and placebo weeks of the trial.
The BSEQ proved to be clinically effective in tracking Ritalin side effects and should be incorporated into the routine evaluation and monitoring of ADHD patients for whom stimulants are prescribed.
Various aziridine derivatives derived from diamines were studied in several biological systems to evaluate their effects on reproduction and as potential mutagens. Considerable variations in the biological activities of these compounds were seen among animal species and among the varied chemical structures. In general, mutagenic responses paralleled the antifertility effects in mice and houseflies and the anticancer effects in mice. The lack of an antifertility effect by N,N'-bis(aziridinylacetyl)-1,8-octamethylenediamine in the rat was quite unexpected in view of its chemosterilant activity in houseflies and mice.
The effect of fish oil treatment on the activities of antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione-s-transferase, and glutathione, as well as the level of the lipid peroxidation marker thiobarbituric reactive substance was studied in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction (MI). To confirm the induction of MI by isoproterenol, we studied the activities of cardiac marker enzymes like creatinine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase and the level of troponin. The biochemical lesions due to the activation of lipid peroxidation and decrease in antioxidant status are significantly implicated in experimental isoproterenol-induced MI. The results indicate that the protective effect of fish oil is achieved by decreasing the peroxide concentration and normalizing antioxidant defense enzymes.
Chagas' disease is a serious public health problem in Latin America, and no treatment is available for the prevalent chronic stage. Its causative agent, Trypanosoma cruzi, requires specific endogenous sterols for survival, and we have recently demonstrated that squalene synthase (SQS) is a promising target for antiparasitic chemotherapy. E5700 and ER-119884 are quinuclidine-based inhibitors of mammalian SQS that are currently in development as cholesterol- and triglyceride-lowering agents in humans. These compounds were found to be potent noncompetitive or mixed-type inhibitors of T. cruzi SQS with K(i) values in the low nanomolar to subnanomolar range in the absence or presence of 20 microM inorganic pyrophosphate. The antiproliferative 50% inhibitory concentrations of the compounds against extracellular epimastigotes and intracellular amastigotes were ca. 10 nM and 0.4 to 1.6 nM, respectively, with no effects on host cells. When treated with these compounds at the MIC, all of the parasite's sterols disappeared from the parasite cells. In vivo studies indicated that E5700 was able to provide full protection against death and completely arrested the development of parasitemia when given at a concentration of 50 mg/kg of body weight/day for 30 days, while ER-119884 provided only partial protection. This is the first report of an orally active SQS inhibitor that is capable of providing complete protection against fulminant, acute Chagas' disease.
This study was the first to investigate the genetic abnormalities and structural dysplasia of anorectal malformations (ARMs) in male rats induced by di(n-butyl) phthalate (DBP). DBP was administered to timed-pregnant rats to establish the ARM rat model. The incidence of ARMs in male offspring was 39.5%. In neonatal period, decreased body weight and anogenital distance were observed. The general image and histological analysis of male offspring confirmed the presence of ARMs. Anatomical examination of the ARM male rats revealed the dysplasia in solid organs (heart-lung, liver, spleen, and kidney). The decreases of serum testosterone concentration and androgen receptor expression in terminal rectum were indicative of the antiandrogenic effects of DBP. Moreover, significant decreased mRNA expressions of these androgen-related genes such as sonic hedgehog, Gli2, Gli3, bone morphogenetic protein 4, Wnt5a, Hoxa13, Hoxd13, fibroblast growth factor 10, and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 were found in terminal rectum of the ARM male pubs. These results demonstrated that development of ARM rats was impaired by maternal exposure to DBP. The antiandrogenic effects of DBP disturbing the androgen-related signaling networks might play an important role in the occurrence of ARMs. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2014.
Ten cases of protracted diarrheal illness after the oral administration of lincomycin or clindamycin in standard dosages were observed in previously healthy subjects. An abrupt onset of diarrhea, crampy abdominal pain, fever, and leukocytosis was observed one to 12 days after discontinuation of the drug. Proctoscopic examination revealed erythematous friable mucosa covered with small raised, yellowish-white plaques that were sometimes confluent. Barium contrast studies of the colon demonstrated irregular shaggy mucosa, ulcerations, cobblestone appearance, and thumb printing. Rectal bipsy showed acute inflammation with pseudomembranes with focal or superficial ulcerations. All patients had a protracted course but recovered with supportive management. Follow-up barium enemas and proctoscopy were done on all patients and were normal. A history of diarrhea, fever, and mucosal changes seen on proctoscopy in a patient who has recently received one of these antibiotics should raise the possibility of colitis associated with clindamycin and lincomycin therapy.
We investigated the biodistribution, radiolocalization, and radioimmunotherapeutic potential of (131)I-labeled Nd2 in athymic nude mice bearing human pancreatic carcinoma xenografts. (131)I-Nd2 was accumulated at high levels in the tumor, in contrast to blood, liver, spleen, and other normal organs. The tumor was clearly delineated in scintigraphs. The volumes of tumors of mice injected with 7.4 MBq of (131)I-Nd2 were 80% less than those of tumors before injection of radiolabeled Nd2. Fibrous or vacuolar degeneration was seen in histological sections of tumors of 7-week-treated mice. The growth of tumors in mice treated with misonidazole, a hypoxic cell radiosensitizer, and then injected twice with 3.7 MBq of (131)I-Nd2 was suppressed over 7 weeks. Neither leucocytopenia nor thrombocytopenia was severe after injection of radiolabeled Nd2. Thus (131)I-labeled Nd2 may have clinical application in the radioimmunotherapy of pancreatic cancer.
The aim of this double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over design trial was to assess the safety of a multi-vitamin preparation containing nicotinic acid in a physiological dose. Seventy-two healthy volunteers took part in this trial. At six consecutive time-points, we systematically documented blood pressure, pulse, skin temperature and flushing symptoms after an oral dose of up to 50.1 mg nicotinic acid. The results suggest that nicotinic acid in a dosage of 16.7 mg does not cause flushing symptoms. In higher doses up to 50.1 mg, flushing symptoms are sporadically possible. There was no physiologically relevant change regarding the central metabolic parameters blood pressure, pulse and skin temperature.
The consumption of diets rich in plant foods is associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular diseases. This study aimed to evaluate the preventive role of rutin on lipid peroxides and antioxidants in normal and isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. Subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol (150 mg kg(-1)) to male Wistar rats at an interval of 24 h for two days showed a significant increase in the activity of serum cardiac marker enzymes (creatine kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase) and a significant decrease in the activity of these enzymes in the heart. Lipid peroxidative products (thiobarbituricacid reactive substances and lipid hydroperoxides) were significantly increased and enzymic (superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase) and non-enzymic (reduced glutathione and vitamin C) antioxidants showed a significant decrease in isoproterenol-treated rats. Pretreatment with rutin (40 or 80 mg kg(-1)) to isoproterenol-treated rats orally for a period of 42 days daily caused a significant effect. Administration of rutin to normal rats did not have any significant effect on any of the parameters studied. The results of our study show that rutin possesses antioxidant activity in isoproterenol-induced experimental myocardial infarction.
We observed sinoatrial block due to chronic amiodarone administration in a 5-year-old boy with primary cardiomyopathy, Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and supraventricular tachycardia. Reduction in the dosage of amiodarone resulted in the disappearance of the sinoatrial block and the persistence of asymptomatic sinus bradycardia.
Bezafibrate (BF) has been used to treat biliary damage, particularly in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), and its clinical efficacy has been demonstrated. The mechanism of action is thought to involve activation of the PPARalpha-MDR3-phospholipid (PL) secretion pathway. We tried to confirm this hypothesis in patients with hepatobiliary disease.
The levels of serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and alkaline phosphatase, and those of bile components were examined before and after BF administration in patients with obstructive jaundice undergoing percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage (PTBD). Hepatic expression of PPARalpha and MDR3 was quantified by real-time PCR in patients with PBC or non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
In patients with obstructive jaundice, BF decreased the serum levels of biliary enzymes and increased the bile concentration of PL. In patients with PBC or NAFLD, the expression levels of MDR3 were already up-regulated before starting the BF treatment. Although BF treatment did not further up-regulate MDR3 expression in NAFLD patients, PPARalpha expression was significantly increased.
BF enhanced the secretion of PL into bile in cholestatic patients undergoing PTBD. However, in patients with PBC or NAFLD, diseases that represent cholesterol overload, MDR3 was already expressed at a high level to compensate for bile acids overproduction, and its expression was hardly affected by BF. In patients with chronic liver diseases such as PBC, BF may induce clinical effects via mechanisms independent of PL secretion.
Ca2+ is involved in the regulation of a variety of physiological processes, but a persistent increase in free cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations may contribute to cell injury. Dimercaprol (BAL) is a compound used in the treatment of mercury intoxication, but presents low therapeutic efficacy. The molecular mechanism responsible for the BAL toxicity is poorly known. In the present study, the effect of BAL and inorganic and organic mercury on Ca2+ transport by Ca2+-ATPases located in the sarco/endoplasmic reticulum of fast-skeletal muscle and brain was examined. Ca2+ uptake by brain and fast-skeletal muscle microsomes was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by Hg2+. The calculated IC50 for Ca2+ uptake inhibition by HgCl2 was 1.05+/-0.09 microM (n = 8) for brain and 0.72+/-0.06 microM (n = 9) for muscle. The difference was significant at p < 0.01 (data expressed as mean +/- SD). At a low concentration (1 microM), 2,3-dimer-captopropanol had no effect on Ca2+ uptake by brain or muscle vesicles and did not abolish the inhibition caused by Hg2+. A high concentration of BAL (1 mM) nearly abolished the inhibition caused by 1.75 microM HgCl2 or 6 microM CH3HgCl in skeletal muscle. Surprisingly, at intermediate concentrations (40-100 microM) BAL partially inhibited Ca2+ transport in brain but had no effect on muscle. Furthermore, ATP hydrolysis by brain or muscle microsomes was not inhibited by BAL. These results suggest that in brain microsomes BAL affects in a different way Ca2+ transport and ATP hydrolysis. The increase in BAL concentration observed after toxic administration of this compound to experimental animals may contribute to deregulate Ca2+ homoeostasis and, consequently, to the neurotoxicity of BAL.
Retinoids have been studied as chemopreventive agents in clinical trials due to their established role in regulating cell growth, differentiation and apoptosis in preclinical models. Experimental evidence suggests that retinoids affect gene expression both directly, by activating and/or repressing specific genes, and indirectly, by interfering with different signal transduction pathways. Induction of apoptosis is a unique feature of fenretinide, the most widely studied retinoid in clinical trials on breast cancer chemoprevention due to its selective accumulation in breast tissue and to its favourable toxicological profile. In a phase III breast cancer prevention trial, fenretinide showed a durable trend to a reduction of second breast malignancies in premenopausal women. This pattern was associated with a favourable modulation of circulating IGF-I and its main binding protein (IGF-binding protein-3, IGFBP-3), which have been associated with breast cancer risk in premenopausal women in different prospective studies. In a subsequent biomarker study on premenopausal women who had participated in the phase III trial, high IGF-I and low IGFBP-3 baseline levels were found to predict second breast cancer risk, although the magnitude of their changes during treatment did not fulfil the requirements for suitable surrogate end-point biomarkers. In postmenopausal women, fenretinide did not reduce second breast cancer incidence, nor did it induce significant modulation of the IGF system. Similarly, fenretinide was not found to affect risk biomarkers significantly in early postmenopausal women on hormone replacement therapy, who are at increased risk of developing breast cancer. Biomarker studies of fenretinide alone or in combination with different nuclear receptor ligands are being conducted. In particular, clinical trials of fenretinide and tamoxifen have proved to be feasible, and this combination appears to be safe and well tolerated in high-risk women, especially when low-dose tamoxifen is employed. Novel retinoid X receptor-selective retinoids, or rexinoids, have been shown to suppress the development of breast cancer in several animal models with minimal toxicity, and are being intensively studied either alone or in combination with selective oestrogen receptor modulators, both in vitro and in vivo. The rexinoid, bexarotene, has recently been approved for the treatment of patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, and a biomarker trial with bexarotene in women with high breast cancer risk is currently underway.
A genetic predisposition for progressive enlargement of thoracic aortic aneurysms leading to type A dissection (TAAD) is inherited in an autosomal-dominant manner in up to 19% of patients, and a number of chromosomal loci have been identified for the condition. Having mapped a TAAD locus to 3p24-25, we sequenced the gene for transforming growth factor-beta receptor type II (TGFBR2) to determine whether mutations in this gene resulted in familial TAAD.
We sequenced all 8 coding exons of TGFBR2 by using genomic DNA from 80 unrelated familial TAAD cases. We found TGFBR2 mutations in 4 unrelated families with familial TAAD who did not have Marfan syndrome. Affected family members also had descending aortic disease and aneurysms of other arteries. Strikingly, all 4 mutations affected an arginine residue at position 460 in the intracellular domain, suggesting a mutation "hot spot" for familial TAAD. Despite identical mutations in the families, assessment of linked polymorphisms suggested that these families were not distantly related. Structural analysis of the TGFBR2 serine/threonine kinase domain revealed that R460 is strategically located within a highly conserved region of this domain and that the amino acid substitutions resulting from these mutations will interfere with the receptor's ability to transduce signals.
Germline TGFBR2 mutations are responsible for the inherited predisposition to familial TAAD in 5% of these cases. Our results have broad implications for understanding the role of TGF-beta signaling in the pathophysiology of TAAD.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether or not caffeine would exacerbate renovascular hypertension. Therefore, we examined the effects of chronic caffeine administration on arterial blood pressure in rats subjected to either unilateral renal artery clipping (2K-1C rats) or sham-operation. Animals in each group were randomly assigned to receive either 0.1% caffeine in their drinking water or normal drinking water, and systolic blood pressure was monitored for 6 wk. Caffeine markedly exacerbated the severity of hypertension in 2K-1C rats and caused histological changes consistent with malignant hypertension. 6 wk after surgery, systolic blood pressure, plasma renin activity, and creatinine clearance in control 2K-1C rats were 169 +/- 5 mmHg (mean +/- SEM), 4.4 +/- 0.5 ng AI X ml-1 X h-1, and 2.9 +/- 0.2 ml/min, respectively; as compared with 219 +/- 4 mmHg, 31.8 +/- 7.8 ng AI X ml-1 X h-1, and 1.4 +/- 0.3 ml/min, respectively, in 2K-1C rats receiving caffeine (all values were significantly different compared with control 2K-1C). Chronic caffeine administration did not alter systolic blood pressure, plasma renin activity, or creatinine clearance in sham-operated rats or spontaneously hypertensive rats. Chronic treatment with enalapril (a converting enzyme inhibitor) prevented the development of hypertension in control 2K-1C rats and caffeine-treated 2K-1C rats; however, withdrawal of enalapril precipitated a rapid rise in systolic blood pressure in caffeine-treated 2K-1C rats, but not in control 2K-1C rats. These experiments indicate that caffeine specifically exacerbates experimental renovascular hypertension and might worsen the hypertensive process in patients with renovascular hypertension.
Chronic beryllium disease (CBD) is a lung disorder related to beryllium exposure and is characterized by the accumulation in the lung of beryllium-specific CD4+ major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-restricted T lymphocytes. Evaluation of MHC class II genes in 33 CBD cases and 44 controls has shown a negative association with HLA-DPB1*0401 (P < 0.001) and a positive association with HLA-DPB1*0201 (P < 0.05) alleles, which differ at residues 36, 55 to 56, and 69 of the beta 1 chain. Among CBD cases, 97 percent expressed the HLA-DPB1*0201-associated glutamic acid (unaffected population, 30 percent; P < 0.001) at residue 69, a position involved in susceptibility to autoimmune disorders. This suggests that HLA-DP has a role in conferring susceptibility and that residue 69 of HLA-DPB1 could be used in risk assessment for CBD.
After a single per os or a single and repeated subcutan doses of Thiuram necrosis of the liver of different extension was revealed. Changes could be seen by 3--14 days after administration of Thiuram in different doses. In some cases animals died spontaneously. These investigations seems to evidence the fact that Thiuram, which is similar to Disulphiram (Antaethyl-Antabus) used in the therapy of chronic alkoholism in big doses exerts a noxious effect on the liver of white rats.
There is strong evidence for the importance of genetic factors in idiopathic autism. The results from independent twin and family studies suggest that the disorder is caused by the action of several genes, possibly acting epistatically. We have used cDNA microarray technology for the identification of constitutional changes in the gene expression profile associated with idiopathic autism. Samples were obtained and analyzed from 6 affected subjects belonging to multiplex autism families and from 6 healthy controls. We assessed the expression levels for approximately 7,700 genes by cDNA microarrays using mRNA derived from Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B lymphocytes. The microarray data were analyzed in order to identify up- or downregulation of specific genes. A common pattern with nine downregulated genes was identified among samples derived from individuals with autism when compared to controls. Four of these nine genes encode proteins involved in biological processes associated with brain function or the immune system, and are consequently considered as candidates for genes associated with autism. Quantitative real-time PCR confirms the downregulation of the gene encoding SEMA5A, a protein involved in axonal guidance. Epstein-Barr virus should be considered as a possible source for altered expression, but our consistent results make us suggest SEMA5A as a candidate gene in the etiology of idiopathic autism.
To compare the analgesic efficacy and extent of motor block when 0.125% ropivacaine or 0.125% bupivacaine were given in continuous perfusion through an epidural catheter during labor.
We studied 60 ASA I-II women, each carrying a single fetus at full term and in spontaneous labor. The patients were distributed in 2 groups. Women in the ropivacaine group (R) (n = 30) received 8 mL of 0.2% ropivacaine for analgesic induction, followed by a continuous perfusion of 10 mL/h at 0.125%. The bupivacaine group (B) (n = 30) received bupivacaine at the same concentration and infusion rate. The objective of analgesia was to achieve a score less than 3 on a visual analog pain scale. If analgesia was inadequate, a 5 mL bolus of 0.2% ropivacaine or bupivacaine, depending on group, was administered. The motor block was evaluated on an abbreviated Bromage scale and we recorded hemodynamic stability, fetal status, type of delivery and the total dose of local anesthetic.
Analgesia and hemodynamics were similar in both groups. Group R required a larger number of additional boluses, although the difference was not statistically significant. A motor block was observed in 8 patients in group B and 1 in group R (p < 0.05). Fetal status was similar in both groups.
Both drugs were equally effective for controlling the pain accompanying labor, such that ropivacaine offered no advantage over bupivacaine in that regard. Ropivacaine's reduced motor block effect at the doses administered may offer an advantage in some situations, such as when a walking epidural is provided.
Although much has been written on how to manage recurrent pharyngotonsillitis, it remains a controversial topic. The composition of normal commensal oropharynx bacteria may be disrupted by frequently using antimicrobials, by inhibiting sensitive organisms and by allowing resistant organisms to overgrowth. This may cause the recurrence of acute episodes. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of ribosomal immunotherapy in the prophylaxis of recurrent pharyngotonsillitis.
A total of 160 children aged between 5 and 14 years with recurrent pharyngotonsillitis were ramdomized to receive either ribosomal immunotherapy (group A one tablet a day, 8 days a month for 3 months) or a placebo (group B same dosage for the same period).
At the end of the study, each patient treated with Immucytal presented a subjective decrease of symptoms. Compared with group B, group A experienced a significant improvement of some clinical parameters.
The results show that ribosomal immunotherapy causes a significant improvement of both specific and non-specific immunity and may be effective in the prophylaxis of recurrent pharyngotonsillitis and in preventing recurrences without entailing side effects or bacterial resistance.
Coronary spasm plays an important role in the pathogenesis of ischemic heart diseases in general. However, the precise mechanism(s) responsible for coronary spasm remains to be elucidated, and we examined the molecular genetics of coronary spasm.
We searched for the possible mutations in the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) gene in patients with coronary spasm. In this study, we demonstrate the existence of 3 linked mutations in the 5'-flanking region of the eNOS gene (T-786-->C, A-922-->G, and T-1468-->A). The incidence of the mutations was significantly greater in patients with coronary spasm than in the control group (P<0.0001). Multiple logistic regression analysis with forward stepwise selection using the environmental risk factors and the eNOS gene variant revealed that the most predictive independent risk factor for coronary spasm was the mutant allele (P<0.0001). As assessed by luciferase reporter gene assays, the T-786-->C mutation resulted in a significant reduction in eNOS gene promoter activity (P<0.05), whereas neither the A-922-->G nor the T-1468-->A mutation had any affect.
Taken together, these findings strongly suggest that the T-786-->C mutation in the eNOS gene reduces the endothelial NO synthesis and predisposes the patients with the mutation to coronary spasm.
Because obesity-associated hypertension has unique hemodynamic and hormonal profiles, certain classes of antihypertensive agents may be more effective than others as monotherapy. Thus, we compared the efficacy and safety of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril and the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide in a 12-week, multicenter, double-blind trial in 232 obese patients with hypertension. Patients with an office diastolic pressure between 90 and 109 mm Hg were randomized to treatment with daily doses of lisinopril (10, 20, or 40 mg), hydrochlorothiazide (12.5, 25, or 50 mg), or placebo. Mean body mass indexes were similar for all patients. At week 12, lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide effectively lowered office diastolic (-8.3 and -7.7 versus -3.3 mm Hg, respectively; P<.005) and systolic (-9.2 and -10.0 versus -4.6 mm Hg, respectively; P<.05) pressures compared with placebo. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring confirmed that lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide effectively lowered 24-hour blood pressure compared with placebo (P<.001). Significant dose-response differences were observed between treatments. Sixty percent of patients treated with lisinopril had an office diastolic pressure <90 mm Hg compared with 43% of patients treated with hydrochlorothiazide (P<.05). Responses to therapies differed with both race and age. Neither treatment significantly affected insulin or lipid profiles; however, plasma glucose increased significantly after 12 weeks of hydrochlorothiazide therapy compared with lisinopril (+0.31 versus -0.21 mmol/L; P<.001). Hydrochlorothiazide also decreased serum potassium levels by 0.4 mmol/L from baseline. In conclusion, lisinopril was as effective as hydrochlorothiazide in treating obese patients with hypertension. Treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors may show greater efficacy as monotherapy at lower doses compared with thiazide diuretics, may have a more rapid rate of response, and may offer advantages in patients at high risk of metabolic disorders.
This study was performed to assess the effect of treatment with ramipril on the incidence of cardiac events after invasive revascularization in patients with asymptomatic moderate left ventricular dysfunction.
In patients with angina pectoris and left ventricular dysfunction, both invasive revascularization and treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors reduce cardiac mortality and morbidity. Whether there is a benefit from combining the two treatment strategies has never been evaluated prospectively.
After invasive revascularization, 159 patients with preoperative chronic stable angina pectoris, left ventricular ejection fraction between 0.30 and 0.50 and no clinical heart failure were randomly assigned to receive double-blind treatment with either ramipril or placebo and subsequently followed for a median of 33 months.
Ramipril reduced the incidence of the triple-composite end point of cardiac death, acute myocardial infarction or clinical heart failure (risk reduction 58%; 95% confidence interval 7% to 80%, p = 0.031). The incidence of the quadruple-composite end point of cardiac death, acute myocardial infarction, clinical heart failure or recurrent angina pectoris was not altered with ramipril. These findings were consistent across subgroups with respect to left ventricular ejection fraction below or above 0.40, and whether coronary artery bypass grafting or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed.
In patients with angina pectoris and asymptomatic moderate left ventricular dysfunction, long-term treatment with ramipril after invasive revascularization significantly reduced the incidence of the composite end point of cardiac death, acute myocardial infarction or clinical heart failure, indicating that the beneficial effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor treatment may be extended to include treatment of this patient group.
