As malignant neoplasm is a major public health problem, there is a need for the development of a novel modulator that enhances antitumor activity and reduces adverse reactions to antitumor agents. In this study, the effects of some volatile oil components in Humulus lupulus on doxorubicin (DOX) permeability in tumor cells and DOX-induced antitumor activity were examined. In vitro, DOX levels in tumor cells by combined linalool as its component significantly increased in the DOX influx system, and the increased effect by linalool on DOX cytotoxicity was shown. In vivo, the combination of DOX with linalool significantly decreased tumor weight compared with that of DOX alone treated group. The promotion of DOX influx level by combined linalool did not depend on energy, whereas it was suppressed by the absence of Na(+). This promoting effect was suppressed by the presence of S-(4-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine and inhibited dependently on phlorizin concentration. It is considered that linalool promoted DOX influx in tumor cells because of its action on DOX transport through concentrative Na(+)-dependent nucleoside transporter 3, which increased DOX concentration in tumor cells and thus enhanced the antitumor activity of DOX. Therefore, linalool as a food component is anticipated to be an effective DOX modulator.
A case is presented of a reversible intra-Hisian block occurring under amiodarone treatment for atrial tachycardia in a patient without clear intraventricular conduction abnormalities. His bundle recordings showed an atrial tachycardia with intermittent exit block and greatly prolonged BH and HV intervals (40 and 100 msec, respectively). Thirty days after amiodarone discontinuation, His bundle electrograms showed atrial flutter without intra-Hisian or infra-Hisian delay. Amiodarone should be used with caution during long-term oral therapy in patients with or without clear intraventricular conduction defects.
A 62 year old man developed a neuropathy after several months of treatment with amiodarone. The clinical picture was atypical in that it associated a polyradiculoneuritis with cell-protein dissociation and an axial and peripheral cerebellar syndrome. Pathology of muscle and nerve showed dense inclusions in Schwann cell cytoplasm and in pericytes, highly suggestive of fat inclusions. Discontinuation of amiodarone therapy resulted in a slow regression of disorders. Diabetes mellitus developed. Several pathogenic hypotheses are proposed.
Accumulating evidence indicates that mangiferin (MGF), a natural xanthone, by virtue of its antioxidant and antiinflammatory properties is neuroprotective. Here we sought to verify the cytoprotective role of MGF on cultured rat primary mesencephalic cells exposed to 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in vitro, and the MGFs anti-inflammatory potential in mouse model of ketamine-induced schizophrenia in vivo.
3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT)-assay was performed tomeasure cell viability inmesencephalic cell cultures exposed to neurotoxin (6-OHDA, 40 μM). Schizophrenia was induced in mice by ketamine (50 mg/kg, ip, twice a day, for 7 days). The treatment effects of MGF (50 mg/kg, po, for 7 days) were verified on locomotor behavioral changes in open-field test, and on the oxidant stress-related increase in lipid-peroxidation (malondialdehyde) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels in brain tissues.
MGF (10-100 μM) produced no per se effect on cell viability as measured by MTT assay, but significantly prevented the 6-OHDA-induced cell death in a concentration-dependent manner. Acridine orange/ethidium bromide (AO/EtBr) staining confirmed the absence of 6-OHDA-induced morphological changes characteristic of apoptosis/necrosis. In open-field test, ketamine-induced impaired locomotor activity and behavioral changes such as grooming and stereotyped but not rearing were effectively ameliorated by MGF pretreatment. Also, ketamine-associated increase in brain tissue levels of IL-6 and MDA were significantly lowered in MGF-pretreated mice.
Mangiferin has a neurocytoprotective role related, at least in part, to an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory mechanism, which could be explored for more effective therapies of schizophrenia and other neurodegenerative diseases.
Recently, attention has focused on whether particulate air pollution is a specific trigger of myocardial infarction (MI). The results of several studies of single locations assessing the effects of ambient particular matter on the risk of MI have been disparate. We used a multicity case-crossover study to examine risk of emergency hospitalization associated with fine particulate matter (PM) with aerodynamic diameter < 10 microm (PM10) for > 300,000 MIs during 1985-1999 among elderly residents of 21 U.S. cities. We used time-stratified controls matched on day of the week or on temperature to detect possible residual confounding by weather. Overall, we found a 0.65% [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.3-1.0%] increased risk of hospitalization for MI per 10 microg/m3 increase in ambient PM10 concentration. Matching on apparent temperature yielded a 0.64% increase in risk (95% CI, 0.1-1.2%). We found that the effect size for PM10 doubled for subjects with a previous admission for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or a secondary diagnosis of pneumonia, although these differences did not achieve statistical significance. There was a weaker indication of a larger effect on males but no evidence of effect modification by age or the other diagnoses. We also found that the shape of the exposure-response relationship between MI hospitalizations and PM10 is almost linear, but with a steeper slope at levels of PM10 < 50 microg/m3. We conclude that increased concentrations of ambient PM10 are associated with increased risk of MI among the elderly.
The eukaryotic elongation factor 1A2 (eEF1A2) is known to retain oncogenic potential and is recognized as a novel target for cancer prevention and therapy. Resveratrol (trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene), a phytoalexin present in grapes, has been reported to possess chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic activities. In the present study, we examined the growth-inhibitory effects of resveratrol in human ovarian cancer PA-1 cells, considering eEF1A2 as a potential molecular target. Pretreatment with resveratrol attenuated proliferation of serum-starved PA-1 cells stimulated with insulin or serum. Resveratrol also activated caspase-9, -7, and -3 and induced apoptosis in PA-1 cells in the presence of insulin or serum. Insulin or serum stimulation of PA-1 cells resulted in the marked induction of eEF1A2, which was suppressed by pretreatment with resveratrol. Moreover, resveratrol inhibited insulin- or serum-induced soft-agar colony formation in eEF1A2-transfected NIH3T3 cells. An antibody array directed to assess the phosphorylation of protein kinases revealed that treatment with insulin or serum induced the phosphorylation of Akt in PA-1 cells. Pharmacologic inhibition of Akt with LY294002 abrogated insulin- or serum-induced eEF1A2 expression and increased the caspase-3 activity. In another experiment, i.p. administration of resveratrol retarded the growth of PA-1 cell xenograft and the expression of eEF1A2 in athymic nude mice in association with decreased bromodeoxyuridine positivity, reduced expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen, increased the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling and caspase-3 staining, and diminished CD31 positivity. Taken together, eEF1A2 may be considered as a potential molecular target for the antiproliferative effects of resveratrol in PA-1 ovarian cancer cells.
The involvement of water-soluble carotenoids, crocins, as the main and active components of Crocus sativus L. extract in learning and memory processes has been proposed. In the present study, the effect of crocins on sporadic Alzheimer's disease induced by intracerebroventricular (icv) streptozocin (STZ) in male rats was investigated.
Male adult Wistar rats (n = 90 and 260-290 g) were divided into 1, control; 2 and 3, crocins (15 and 30 mg/kg); 4, STZ; 5 and 6, STZ + crocins (15 and 30 mg/kg) groups. In Alzheimer's disease groups, rats were injected with STZ-icv bilaterally (3 mg/kg) in first day and 3 days later, a similar STZ-icv application was repeated. In STZ + crocin animal groups, crocin was applied in doses of 15 and 30 mg/kg, i.p., one day pre-surgery and continued for three weeks. Prescription of crocin in each dose was repeated once for two days. However, the learning and memory performance was assessed using passive avoidance paradigm, and for spatial cognition evaluation, Y-maze task was used.
It was found out that crocin (30 mg/kg)-treated STZ-injected rats show higher correct choices and lower errors in Y-maze than vehicle-treated STZ-injected rats. In addition, crocin in the mentioned dose could significantly attenuated learning and memory impairment in treated STZ-injected group in passive avoidance test.
Therefore, these results demonstrate the effectiveness of crocin (30 mg/kg) in antagonizing the cognitive deficits caused by STZ-icv in rats and its potential in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.
We report the case of a motor impairment associated with bladder dysfunction several days after clopidogrel withdrawal in an arteriosclerotic woman scheduled for thoracotomy under general and thoracic epidural anaesthesia. Even if spinal artery syndrome may have a lot of aetiologies, we believe in a direct link between clopidogrel withdrawal and medulla ischaemia.
A 23-year old woman developed headache and papilledema due to benign intracranial hypertension (BIH) while taking lithium carbonate for only seven months because of manic-depressive disease. Having discarded other causes, drug ingestion was the most likely etiology of the syndrome since it was observed that symptoms improved upon lithium withdrawal and worsened when the treatment was restarted. This report shows that BIH may appear as a side-effect of relatively short-term therapy with lithium and, therefore, funduscopic exams should be performed in every patient receiving this drug.
Topical application of a glucocorticoid is now widely recognized as the first-line therapy for bronchial asthma. However, glucocorticoid treatment is largely ineffective in relation to overproduction of sputum and lung tissue remodeling.
The purpose of the current study was to identify human mast cell (MC) products that are related to goblet cell hyperplasia.
The FcepsilonRI-mediated gene expression profile of MCs was examined by using high-density oligonucleotide probe arrays and RT-PCR. Secretion of a protein, amphiregulin, by the MCs was measured by ELISA. Upregulation of mucin genes in NCI-H292 cells by amphiregulin was evaluated by real-time RT-PCR. The expression levels of amphiregulin on histological sections obtained from 40 subjects with asthma and 6 healthy control subjects were estimated by immunohistochemical staining, and the correlation with the number of goblet cells was studied.
Amphiregulin was secreted by human MCs after aggregation of FcepsilonRI, and its expression was not inhibited by a glucocorticoid (dexamethasone). Amphiregulin upregulated mucin gene expression in airway epithelial cells. Upregulation of amphiregulin expression was observed in MCs of patients with asthma, but not normal control subjects. Furthermore, upregulation of amphiregulin in MCs significantly correlated with the extent of goblet cell hyperplasia in the mucosa of patients with bronchial asthma.
These results suggest that after exposure to antigens, human MCs may induce sputum production via release of amphiregulin. Therefore, amphiregulin may be a new target molecule for treatment of overproduction of sputum in bronchial asthma.
The potencies of two GABAB receptor antagonists P-[3-aminopropyl]- P-diethoxymethyl-phosphinic acid (CGP35348) and the novel compound 3-N[1-(S)-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]amino-2-(S)-hydroxypropyl-P- benzyl-phosphinic acid (CGP55845) have been compared in an in vitro spinal cord preparation. They have been tested as antagonists of baclofen-induced depression of EPSCs of patch-clamped dorsal horn neurons following electrical stimulation of dorsal roots. Mean EC50 values for the depressant action of baclofen were increased by 50- and 140-fold respectively in the presence of CGP35348 (200 microM) (n = 5) and CGP55845 (100 nM) (n = 4). This potency of CGP55845 is > 1000-fold higher than that reported previously for other GABAB receptor antagonists.
A series of 3,7-disubstituted-2(3',4'-dihydroxyphenyl) flavones has been studied as potential cardioprotective agents in doxorubicin antitumor therapy. The influence of substituents on the 3 and 7 position of the flavone nucleus on antioxidant activity cytotoxicity and cardioprotective properties was explored to improve the activity of our lead compound 7-monohydroxyethylrutoside. In the protection against Fe(2+)/vitamin C-induced microsomal lipid peroxidation (LPO assay), IC(50) values ranged from 0.2 to 37 microM. In general, the 3-substituted flavones were the most potent compounds in this assay. The cytotoxicity of the new compounds was tested (up to 250 microM) in hepatocytes. LDH leakage ranged from 2.6-29.2%, whereas the GSH concentrations decreased to 87.3-41.3%. Only four compounds out of this series protected the isolated mouse left atrium against doxorubicin-induced toxicity. Because of the positive inotropic effect of 8d (N-(3-(3',4'-dihydroxyflavon-7-yl)oxypropyl)-N,N,N-trimethylammonium chloride) and 10c (3-hydroxyethoxy-7,3',4'-trihydroxyflavone) on the atrium, compounds 9i (3',4'-dihydroxy-3-glucosylflavone) and 10d (N-(3-(7,3',4'-trihydroxyflavon-3-yl)oxypropyl)-N,N,N-trimethylammonium chloride) were selected to be evaluated as cardioprotective agents in vivo.
Anthracyclines and anthracenediones are important oncotherapeutics; however, their use is associated with irreversible and cumulative cardiotoxicity. A novel aza-anthracenedione, pixantrone (BBR 2778), was developed to reduce treatment-related cardiotoxicity while retaining efficacy. This study evaluates the cumulative cardiotoxic potential of pixantrone compared with equiactive doses of doxorubicin and mitoxantrone in both doxorubicin-pretreated and doxorubicin-naïve mice. CD1 female mice were given doxorubicin 7.5 mg/kg (once weekly for 3 weeks) followed 6 weeks later by either sterile 0.9% saline, doxorubicin 7.5 mg/kg, pixantrone 27 mg/kg, or mitoxantrone 3 mg/kg (once weekly for 3 weeks). A second group of CD1 female mice were given 2 cycles of either sterile 0.9% saline, pixantrone 27 mg/kg, doxorubicin 7.5 mg/kg, or mitoxantrone 3 mg/kg (once weekly for 3 weeks). Animals were sacrificed at different time points for histopathologic examination of the heart. In the doxorubicin-pretreated mice, further exposure to doxorubicin or mitoxantrone resulted in a significant worsening of pre-existing degenerative cardiomyopathy. In contrast, pixantrone did not worsen pre-existing cardiomyopathy in these animals. Only minimal cardiac changes were observed in mice given repeated cycles of pixantrone, while 2 cycles of doxorubicin or mitoxantrone resulted in marked or severe degenerative cardiomyopathy. These animal studies demonstrate the reduced cardiotoxic potential of pixantrone compared with doxorubicin and mitoxantrone. Exposure to pixantrone did not worsen pre-existing cardiomyopathy in doxorubicin-pretreated mice, suggesting that pixantrone may be useful in patients pretreated with anthracyclines.
We report a case of reversible encephalopathy syndrome in a 16-year-old girl with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), who is undergoing during consolidation chemotherapy composed of BH-AC (N4-behenoyl-1-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl cytosine) and idarubicin. On the 6th day of chemotherapy, she was in a drowsy state following generalized tonic clonic seizure lasting 20 minutes. MR images revealed extensive cortical and subcortical white matter brain edema. Alertness returned over the 24 hr following by the discontinuation of BH-AC and intravenous administration of diphenylhydantoin, although she complained of intermittent headaches and visual disturbance. She gradually recovered from these symptoms during subsequent 7 days. Previously noted abnormal signal intensities have nearly disappreared on follow-up MRI obtained on the 22nd day after the first seizure. She was discharged without any neurologic sequela. This case suggests that BH-AC, a derivative of cytosine arabinoside (1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine) could be a cause of reversible encephalopathy syndrome.
We report a case of acute cholestatic hepatitis associated with rash and hypereosinophilia, in which the absence of transfusion, intercurrent viral infection, alcohol consumption or other hepatotoxic drugs are suggestive of ranitidine-induced hepatotoxicity. The pathogenesis of the disorder is unknown, but the lack of a dose-effect relationship, the rarity and unpredictability of the reaction, as well as the clinical signs suggest that hypersensitivity is involved. Physicians should be aware of this rare and idiosyncratic side-effect of ranitidine.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha is a nuclear receptor that mediates gender differences in lipid metabolism. PPARalpha also functions to control inflammatory responses by repressing the activity of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) and c-jun in immune cells. Because PPARalpha is situated at the crossroads of gender and immune regulation, we hypothesized that this gene may mediate sex differences in the development of T cell-mediated autoimmune disease. We show that PPARalpha is more abundant in male as compared with female CD4(+) cells and that its expression is sensitive to androgen levels. Genetic ablation of this gene selectively removed the brake on NF-kappaB and c-jun activity in male T lymphocytes, resulting in higher production of interferon gamma and tumor necrosis factor (but not interleukin 17), and lower production of T helper (Th)2 cytokines. Upon induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, male but not female PPARalpha(-/-) mice developed more severe clinical signs that were restricted to the acute phase of disease. These results suggest that males are less prone to develop Th1-mediated autoimmunity because they have higher T cell expression of PPARalpha.
A 75-year-old woman was admitted with febrile confusion and abdominal pain. She was taking medications that included lanthanum carbonate. Examination, biology, a cerebral scan, and a review of her medications could not explain the confusion. The plain film of the abdomen revealed multiple diffuse calcium-like deposits throughout the digestive tract. The plasma levels of lanthanum were higher than normal. The confusion resolved after discontinuation of the lanthanum carbonate. This case raises the problem of the potential role played by lanthanum tablet residue in the genesis or aggravation of diverticular flare-up and the problem of the potential permeability of the blood-brain barrier with lanthanum use in case of its digestive accumulation, leading to increased serum concentrations.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) acting on the serotonin (5-HT) receptors may affect γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic transmission. The role of 5-HT in the epileptic hippocampus remains controversial since 5-HT has both convulsive and anticonvulsive effects. We investigated the effects of fluoxetine, paroxetine and citalopram on the GABAergic transmission in the normal and pilocarpine-induced epileptic rat hippocampus using electroencephalogram (EEG), paired-pulse inhibition (PPI) and vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT) immunoreactivity. EEG showed spontaneous spike activities in normal rats treated with citalopram, fluoxetine, or paroxetine. PPIs were reduced in normal rats treated with citalopram or fluoxetine, and this reduction was especially prominent in normal rats treated with citalopram. PPIs were markedly reduced in the epileptic rats treated with citalopram, but not in the epileptic rats treated with paroxetine. Normal rats treated with citalopram or paroxetine showed a greater reduction in the relative density of VGAT immunoreactivity in the hippocampus than the normal control rats. Similarly, epileptic rats treated with citalopram or fluoxetine also showed a greater reduction in the relative density of VGAT immunoreactivity in the hippocampus than the epileptic control rats. These findings suggest that SSRI treatment has a slight influence on GABAergic transmission in the hippocampus. SSRI treatment may increase seizure susceptibility in the normal hippocampus and increase the frequency and intensity of seizures in the epileptic hippocampus. However, whether these differential effects result from a direct effect on GABAergic interneurons or via 5-HT subtype receptors remains to be elucidated.
Dexrazoxane (Cardioxane, Zinecard, a cyclic derivative of edetic acid, is a site-specific cardioprotective agent that effectively protects against anthracycline-induced cardiac toxicity. Dexrazoxane is approved in the US and some European countries for cardioprotection in women with advanced and/or metastatic breast cancer receiving doxorubicin; in other countries dexrazoxane is approved for use in a wider range of patients with advanced cancer receiving anthracyclines. As shown in clinical trials, intravenous dexrazoxane significantly reduces the incidence of anthracycline-induced congestive heart failure (CHF) and adverse cardiac events in women with advanced breast cancer or adults with soft tissue sarcomas or small-cell lung cancer, regardless of whether the drug is given before the first dose of anthracycline or the administration is delayed until cumulative doxorubicin dose is > or =300 mg/m2. The drug also appears to offer cardioprotection irrespective of pre-existing cardiac risk factors. Importantly, the antitumour efficacy of anthracyclines is unlikely to be altered by dexrazoxane use, although the drug has not been shown to improve progression-free and overall patient survival. At present, the cardioprotective efficacy of dexrazoxane in patients with childhood malignancies is supported by limited data. The drug is generally well tolerated and has a tolerability profile similar to that of placebo in cancer patients undergoing anthracycline-based chemotherapy, with the exception of a higher incidence of severe leukopenia (78% vs 68%; p < 0.01). Dexrazoxane is the only cardioprotective agent with proven efficacy in cancer patients receiving anthracycline chemotherapy and is a valuable option for the prevention of cardiotoxicity in this patient population.
Wingless (Wnt) signaling pathway regulates a variety of cellular processes including proliferation, differentiation, survival, apoptosis and cell motility. Aberrant activation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway has been observed in approximately one-third of melanomas and this subset has very poor prognosis suggesting that targeting Wnt signaling could be a promising strategy against this subtype. Mel 928 and Mel 1241 melanoma cells representative of cells with constitutive activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway and Mel 1011 representative of cells that lack this pathway were treated with a dietary triterpene lupeol and its effects on growth, proliferation, β-catenin transcriptional activity and Wnt target genes were determined both in vitro and in vivo. Lupeol treatment to Mel 928 and Mel 1241 but not Mel 1011 cells resulted in a dose-dependent (i) decrease in cell viability, (ii) induction of apoptosis, (iii) decrease in colonogenic potential, (iv) decrease in β-catenin transcriptional activity and (v) decrease in the expression of Wnt target genes. Most importantly, lupeol restricted the translocation of β-catenin from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. Lupeol also decreased the growth of Mel 928 but not Mel 1011-derived tumors implanted in the athymic nude mice. The decrease in Mel 928-derived tumor growth was associated with a decrease in the expression of Wnt target genes c-myc, cyclin D1, proliferation markers proliferating cell nuclear antigen and Ki-67 and invasion marker osteopontin. We suggest that lupeol alone or as an adjuvant to current therapies could be developed as an agent for the management of human melanomas harboring constitutive Wnt/β-catenin signaling.
A 41-y-o Pakistani man presented with psychosis, hyperthermia, rhabdomyolysis, and liver dysfunction approximately 6 h after i.v. injection of methamphetamine. Serum concentrations of methamphetamine and amphetamine on admission were 0.30 microg/mL and 0.04 microg/mL, respectively. Total serum bilirubin and alanine aminotransferase concentrations peaked on the 3rd hospital day at 8.6 mg/dL and 4155 IU/L, respectively, and gradually returned to normal with supportive care. The patient had no evidence of infectious hepatitis or intake of other drugs. Histologic examination of a liver biopsy specimen obtained on the 11th d showed confluent necrosis and ballooning degeneration in centrilobular zones. No inflammatory changes were seen in portal tracts. Liver damage can be a complication of illicit methamphetamine use, even in patients without viral infection or intake of other drugs.
We report two cases of central nervous system infection due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis treated with linezolid. The first case was a 72-year old woman with ventriculitis in the presence of intraventricular catheter: therapeutic effectiveness was documented clinically and microbiologically; serum and cerebrospinal fluid levels were measured after the first and fourth doses: trough linezolid concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid were 1.44 and 2.9 mg/L respectively, higher than the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC). The second case was a 27-year old man with post-traumatic cerebral abscess; during 5 days linezolid was not found in his cerebrospinal fluid despite very high serum level peak, and the drug was not detectable in cerebral tissue surgically removed after 14 days of therapy. Linezolid may not reach therapeutic concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid, and, when possible, we suggest that drug levels be monitored.
The bipotent liver progenitor cells, so called oval cells, may participate at the early stages of hepatocarcinogenesis induced by chemical carcinogens. Unlike in mature parenchymal cells, little is known about formation of DNA adducts and other genotoxic events in oval cells. In the present study, we employed spontaneously immortalized rat liver WB-F344 cell line, which is an established in vitro model of oval cells, in order to study genotoxic effects of selected carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). With exception of dibenzo[a,l]pyrene, and partly also benzo[g]chrysene and benz[a]anthracene, all other PAHs under the study induced high levels of CYP1A1 and CYP1B1 mRNA. In contrast, we observed distinct genotoxic and cytotoxic potencies of PAHs. Dibenzo[a,l]pyrene, and to a lesser extent also benzo[a]pyrene, benzo[g]chrysene and dibenzo[a,e]pyrene, formed high levels of DNA adducts. This was accompanied with accumulation of Ser-15 phosphorylated form of p53 protein and induction of apoptosis. Contrary to that, benz[a]anthracene, chrysene, benzo[b]fluoranthene and dibenzo[a,h]anthracene induced only low amounts of DNA adducts formation and minimal apoptosis, without exerting significant effects on p53 phosphorylation. Finally, we studied effects of 2,4,3',5'-tetramethoxystilbene and fluoranthene, inhibitors of CYP1B1 activity, which plays a central role in metabolic activation of dibenzo[a,l]pyrene. In a dose-dependent manner, both compounds inhibited apoptosis induced by dibenzo[a,l]pyrene, suggesting that it interferes with the metabolic activation of the latter one. The present data show that in model cell line sharing phenotypic properties with oval cells, PAHs can be efficiently metabolized to form ultimate genotoxic metabolites. Liver progenitor cells could be thus susceptible to this type of genotoxic insult, which makes WB-F344 cell line a useful tool for studies of genotoxic effects of organic contaminants in liver cells. Our results also suggest that, unlike in mature hepatocytes, CYP1B1 might be a primary enzyme responsible for formation of DNA adducts in liver progenitor cells.
A sequential double blind cross-over trial of tocainide hydrochloride, an oral analogue of lignocaine, is reported. The dosage of tocainide hydrochloride ranged from 200-600 mg daily. Of the 32 patients who completed the trial, 1 had complete relief and 2 had partial relief of their tinnitus whilst taking tocainide. An increased incidence of side-effects in patients taking tocainide was noted, in particular, headache, dizziness, nausea and skin rashes.
Oxytocin has been used for several decades in close proximity to newborns, yet no published information is available regarding complications associated with its accidental administration to a newborn. We describe a case where oxytocin instead of vitamin K was accidentally administered intramuscularly to a premature infant shortly after birth. The patient described remained hemodynamically stable but developed transient hyponatremia as the sole biochemical abnormality.
