Thirty patients with osteoarthritis of knees or hips took part in a double-blind randomized 12-week inter-group clinical trial of diflunisal 250 mg to 375 mg twice daily against aspirin 500 mg to 750 mg four times daily using the double-placebo technique. Changes were assessed in weight-bearing pain and night pain, stiffness after rest, a specified activity, and overall judgements by patient and physician, all graded on a five-point scale. Intermalleolar distance or knee flexion were measured. Side-effects and safety tests were monitored. Diflunisal produced statistically significant responses for all the criteria, when numbers of patients better or worse after 12 weeks were compared using the sign test. Neither the figures for aspirin alone, nor a comparison between the two treatment groups, reached statistical significance. Side-effects and especially dropouts were less on diflunisal. Nine patients on diflunisal but only two on aspirin wanted to continue treatment beyond 12 weeks, though still 'blind' when deciding this. Diflunisal may be a useful, less toxic and longer acting alternative to aspirin in the management of osteoarthritis.
We performed a retrospective study to evaluate the safety, incidence, and management of proteinuria in 31 renal transplant recipients converted to Rapamycin (RAPA). All patients received RAPA immediately after the cessation of the calcineurin inhibitor or the antiproliferative drug. No acute rejection episodes were seen after this regimen. Chronic allograft nephropathy (58.1%) and calcineurin inhibitor toxicity (51.6%), both biopsy-proven, were the major reasons to introduce RAPA. Post-RAPA proteinuria was defined as the appearance of urine protein excretion >300 mg/d or any further increase in protein among those who showed previously elevated levels. We observed an elevated incidence of proteinuria of 48.4%. It started at 5.3 +/- 2.5 months after the conversion and 60% occurred within 6 months. The proteinuria increased from a median of 200 mg/d to 1466 mg/d (P < .001). Age, gender, race, HLA mismatches, time to onset of RAPA, level of previous proteinuria, glomerular filtration rate, use of renin-angiotensin blockers, and etiology of chronic kidney disease were similar between the groups with or without proteinuria. Once it appeared, we suspended the drug in only 4 patients (26.7%), initiated or augmented the dosage of renin-angiotensin blockers in 26.7%, adjusted the RAPA dose in 20.1%, and did not perform a specific measure in 40% (6 of 15). At 15.6 +/- 12.7 months, 91% showed no further increase or reduction in proteinuria. We observed a high prevalence of proteinuria among renal transplant recipients converted to RAPA (48.4%). In addition, RAPA was suspended in only 4 patients and the proteinuria showed a tendency to stabilize or reduce over time.
Sirolimus (SRL) is a new, potent immunosuppressive agent. More recently, proteinuria has been reported as a consequence of sirolimus therapy, although the mechanism has remained unclear. We retrospectively examined the records of 25 renal transplant patients, who developed or displayed increased proteinuria after SRL conversion. The patient cohort (14 men, 11 women) was treated with SRL as conversion therapy, due to chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) (n = 15) neoplasia (n = 8); Kaposi's sarcoma, Four skin cancers, One intestinal tumors, One renal cell carsinom) or BK virus nephropathy (n = 2). SRL was started at a mean of 78 +/- 42 (15 to 163) months after transplantation. Mean follow-up on SRL therapy was 20 +/- 12 (6 to 43) months. Proteinuria increased from 0.445 (0 to 1.5) g/d before conversion to 3.2 g/dL (0.2 to 12) after conversion (P = 0.001). Before conversion 8 (32%) patients had no proteinuria, whereas afterwards all patients had proteinuria. In 28% of patients proteinuria remained unchanged, whereas it increased in 68% of patients. In 40% it increased by more than 100%. Twenty-eight percent of patients showed increased proteinuria to the nephrotic range. Biopsies performed in five patients revealed new pathological changes: One membranoproliferative glomerulopathy and interstitial nephritis. These patients showed persistently good graft function. Serum creatinine values did not change significantly: 1.98 +/- 0.8 mg/dL before SRL therapy and 2.53 +/- 1.9 mg/dL at last follow-up (P = .14). Five grafts were lost and the patients returned to dialysis. Five patients displayed CAN and Kaposi's sarcoma. Mean urinary protein of patients who returned to dialysis was 1.26 (0.5 to 3.5) g/d before and 4.7 (3 to 12) g/d after conversion (P = .01). Mean serum creatinine level before conversion was 2.21 mg/dL and thereafter, 4.93 mg/dL (P = .02). Heavy proteinuria was common after the use of SRL as rescue therapy for renal transplantation. Therefore, conversion should be considered for patients who have not developed advanced CAN and proteinuria. The possibility of de novo glomerular pathology under SRL treatment requires further investigation by renal biopsy.
Phthalates are widely used as plasticizers in everyday products. Yet, studies on the effects of phthalates on female reproductive health are limited. In this study, pregnant C57/Bl6 mice were exposed via oral gavage to corn oil, 100, 500, or 1000mg/kg MEHP from gestational days 17-19. Reproductive lifespan was decreased by one month in the highest F1 exposure group (9.8±0.4 versus 11.1±0.6 months in control F1 females). F1 females exhibited delayed estrous onset at the two higher exposures and prolonged estrus was observed in all MEHP-exposed females. Serum FSH and estradiol were significantly elevated at the highest exposure and altered mRNA expression was found for the steroidogenic genes LHCGR, aromatase, and StAR. At one year of age, mammary gland hyperplasia was observed in high dose MEHP-exposed females. In summary, late gestational exposure to MEHP leads to multiple latent reproductive effects throughout murine life resulting in premature ovarian senescence and mammary hyperplasia.
We have recently shown that estrogen negatively modulates the hypotensive effect of clonidine (mixed alpha2-/I1-receptor agonist) in female rats and implicates the cardiovascular autonomic control in this interaction. The present study investigated whether this effect of estrogen involves interaction with alpha2- and/or I1-receptors. Changes evoked by a single intraperitoneal injection of rilmenidine (600 microg/kg) or alpha-methyldopa (100 mg/kg), selective I1- and alpha2-receptor agonists, respectively, in blood pressure, hemodynamic variability, and locomotor activity were assessed in radiotelemetered sham-operated and ovariectomized (Ovx) Sprague-Dawley female rats with or without 12-wk estrogen replacement. Three time domain indexes of hemodynamic variability were employed: the standard deviation of mean arterial pressure as a measure of blood pressure variability and the standard deviation of beat-to-beat intervals (SDRR) and the root mean square of successive differences in R-wave-to-R-wave intervals as measures of heart rate variability. In sham-operated rats, rilmenidine or alpha-methyldopa elicited similar hypotension that lasted at least 5 h and was associated with reductions in standard deviation of mean arterial pressure. SDRR was reduced only by alpha-methyldopa. Ovx significantly enhanced the hypotensive response to alpha-methyldopa, in contrast to no effect on rilmenidine hypotension. The enhanced alpha-methyldopa hypotension in Ovx rats was paralleled with further reduction in SDRR and a reduced locomotor activity. Estrogen replacement (17beta-estradiol subcutaneous pellet, 14.2 microg/day, 12 wk) of Ovx rats restored the hemodynamic and locomotor effects of alpha-methyldopa to sham-operated levels. These findings suggest that estrogen downregulates alpha2- but not I1-receptor-mediated hypotension and highlight a role for the cardiac autonomic control in alpha-methyldopa-estrogen interaction.
Recent reports show that nifedipine not only causes vasodilation but also exerts beneficial effects on the endothelium of blood vessels. Some clinical trials evaluated nifedipine GITS (gastrointestinal therapeutic system) in patients with coronary artery disease. The investigators found that the treatment with nifedipine improved acetylcholine reactivity in coronary arteries and inhibited increases in coronary plaque volume. Furthermore, the large randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled ACTION (A Coronary Disease Trial Investigating Outcome with Nifedipine GITS) study in patients with stable angina pectoris revealed that the treatment with nifedipine GITS led to significant reductions in the onset of overt heart failure and in the need for coronary angiography or coronary artery bypass graft surgery. These data indicate that a direct action on blood vessels, rather than coronary vasodilating or antihypertensive effects, might be responsible for improved prognosis with nifedipine.
We have demonstrated that in renal failure calcitriol degradation is decreased and that administration of vitamin D metabolites increases the degradation. In this study, we measured intestinal 24- and 26-hydroxylase activities and the effects of chronic infusion (7 days) of vitamin D metabolites on these enzymes' activities in rats with experimental renal failure. The enzymatic activity of intestinal 24-hydroxylase, but not 26-hydroxylase, was significantly lower in renal failure rats compared to control sham operated rats. Replacement of calcitriol (3 ng/day) significantly increased 24-hydroxylase activity by 17% in rats with renal failure (P < 0.01), although the activity remained 15% lower than the controls (P < 0.01). Intestinal 26-hydroxylase activity was not lower in renal failure; however, calcitriol treatment increased the activity beyond that of normal controls. In contrast, administration of 25(OH)D3 (600 ng/day) and 24,25(OH)2D3 (1 microgram/day) reduced the conversion of calcitriol to 1,24,25(OH)3D3 by more than 50% and to 1,25,26(OH)3D3 by more than 38%, respectively. We conclude that calcitriol increased its own degradation in renal failure by increasing the enzymatic activities of both 24- and 26-hydroxylase. However, the mechanisms of increased calcitriol degradation by 25(OH)D3 and 24,25(OH)2D3 in renal failure remain unknown.
Human corticotropin-releasing hormone (hCRH) and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) are known to stimulate ventilation after i.v. administration in humans. In a placebo-controlled, single-blind study we aimed to clarify if both peptides act by altering central chemosensitivity. Two subsequent CO2-rebreathing tests were performed in healthy young volunteers. During the first test 0.9% NaCl was given i.v.; during the second test 200 micrograms of hCRH (n = 12) or 400 micrograms of TRH (n = 6) was administered i.v. Nine subjects received 0.9% NaCl i.v. during both rebreathing manoeuvres. The CO2-response curves for the two tests were compared within the same subject. In the hCRH group a marked parallel shift of the CO2-response curve to the left was observed after hCRH (P < 0.01). The same effect occurred following TRH but was less striking (P = 0.05). hCRH and TRH caused a reduction in the CO2 threshold. The CO2-response curves in the control group were nearly identical. The results indicate an additive effect of both releasing hormones on the hypercapnic ventilatory response in humans, presumably independent of central chemosensitivity.
This study was based on cases accessioned in the Registry of Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Genital Tract in Young Females to ascertain the incidence of diethylstilbestrol (DES)-related cancers by age and year of birth. For accuracy in estimating the size of the reference population for the incidence rates, calculations were restricted to 127 white residents of the United States who were exposed prenatally to DES or other nonsteroidal synthetic estrogens. The disease is exceedingly rare prior to age 14 when the incidence rate begins to rise rapidly. The incidence peaks at age 19 (median 19.2 years) and then drops precipitately. Thus, DES-related clear cell adenocarcinoma is unusual in that nearly all cancers have been diagnosed in a narrow age range of 10 years (14 to 23 years). Women born in 1951 to 1953 have higher incidence rates than those born in the previous or subsequent three-year period. This suggests that the prevalence of pregnancy-related use of DES was at a peak in the early 1950's. The cumulative risk of this type of genital cancer, through age 24, for DES-exposed female subjects is estimated to be in the range of 0.14 to 1.4 per thousand. The wide limits are due to the fact that the number of young women exposed is not known precisly. The low risk of disease and the narrow age range of the cases, relative to the long latency period, suggest that DES is an incomplete carcinogen. Other factors, possibly related to puberty, may be involved in the causation of this disease.
302 cases of diethylstilbestrol (DES)-related clear cell carcinoma accessioned from the Registry of Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Genital Tract in Young Females were evaluated to determine incidence of DES-related cacncers by age and year of birth. Cases included were among subjects born after 1948 and diagnosed before 1975, white, with cancer diagnosed at 10 years of age or older. Of these cases 127 fell into the limits of the study. The incidence of the disease peaks at age 19 and then declines. The cumulative risk of DES-related cancer is .14-1.4/100 for exposed females under 24 years. Women born between 1951-1953 have a higher incidence. However, reporting of U.S. cases to the Registry is somewhat imcomplete and may have influenced a result which is too low. It is suggested that DES is an imcomplete carcinogen both because of the low incidence rate and the narrow age range. The effects of DES seem to be associated with the onset of puberty. A discussion focuses on the validity of the assumptions given that records are so incomplete. The authors claim that sales reports from 1 drug company during the crucial period substantiate the findings.
To examine lesions caused by seizures in the developing brain, seizures were induced by the intraperitoneal injection of kainate and nicotine into juvenile mice. After a week, whole brain sections were examined using histochemistry and the gene expression profiles in the neocortices and hippocampi were analyzed using a DNA microarray. Propidium iodide and Fluoro-Jade C staining revealed that kainate but not nicotine-induced degeneration of the hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Comparative analyses of 12,488 probe sets on the microarray chip revealed the differential expression of 208 and 1243 probe sets in the neocortices and hippocampi of kainate-injected mice, respectively, as well as that of 535 and 436 probe sets in the neocortices and hippocampi of nicotine-injected mice, respectively, the patterns of change were largely drug-specific and region-specific. Among a variety of kainate-modified genes including those representing neurodegeneration and astrogliosis, we identified an increased gene expression of the lysosomal cysteine protease cathepsin S in the hippocampi of kainate-injected mice. Western blot analysis of the hippocampal homogenates revealed that kainate induced a 3.3-fold increase in cathepsin S expression. Immunohistochemistry using cell type-specific markers showed that cathepsin S was induced in microglia, especially those surrounding degenerating pyramidal neurons, but not in neurons themselves or astroglia, in the hippocampal CA1 region of kainate-injected mice. These results indicate that seizures induced by kainate elicit neurodegeneration, astrogliosis, and microglial activation accompanied by the expression of cathepsin S while those induced by nicotine do not.
The clinical heterogeneity of Wilson disease expression cannot be fully explained by the various mutations of the Wilson disease gene. The prion-related protein (PrP) has been shown to bind copper in vitro and might therefore influence Wilson disease.
To examine the effect of the PrP polymorphism at codon 129, resulting in either methionine or valine (M129V), on the clinical phenotype of patients with Wilson disease.
Retrospective cross-sectional study at a university hospital.
A total of 134 patients were grouped according to their PrP M129V genotypes and initial clinical symptoms (hepatic vs neurological).
The onset of symptoms was significantly delayed in patients homozygous for the 129M allele as compared with patients with at least 1 V allele (mean +/- SD age, 20.90 +/- 11.9 years vs 15.5 +/- 7.6 years; P = .003). No significant correlation was found when analyzing the impact of the PrP M129V genotype on the clinical symptoms at initial manifestation (hepatic vs neurological; P = .44).
This study shows for the first time, to our knowledge, that the human PrP polymorphism M129V influences the onset of symptoms in patients with the copper storage disorder Wilson disease.
A postmarketing survey was carried out to determine the efficacy and tolerability of Valette (dienogest 2.0 mg and ethinylestradiol 0.03 mg) in routine gynecological practice.
Valette had excellent contraceptive efficacy (unadjusted Pearl index 0.14), with 11 unplanned pregnancies from a total of 92 146 cycles of exposure, of which at least four were attributable to user failure. Cycle control was good, with spotting and breakthrough bleeding, which affected 5.0% and 3.4% of women, respectively, during the first cycle, becoming less frequent thereafter. Silent menstruation, i.e. the absence of withdrawal bleeding, affected on average 2.0% of women per cycle and 5.9% within the observation period. Valette was well tolerated. The most common adverse drug reactions were mastalgia (1.46% of all users), weight gain (1.11%), headache (0.98%), nausea/vomiting (0.96%), dysmenorrhea (0.35%), decreased libido (0.31%) and depressive moods (0.28%). The dropout rate due to adverse drug reactions was only 3.2%. Only six of the 16 267 women reported events which were considered to be serious adverse drug reactions; all recovered with appropriate treatment.
These results confirm those from previous clinical trials, and demonstrate that Valette is highly effective, very well tolerated and produces excellent cycle control in routine practice.
Hematologic abnormalities such as anemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia are common during combination therapy with pegylated (or standard) interferon and ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C. Ribavirin-induced hemolytic anemia is a common cause of dose reduction or discontinuation. Bone marrow suppression also contributes to the anemia and is the predominant mechanism for interferon-induced neutropenia and thrombocytopenia. Although dose reduction or discontinuation of combination therapy can reverse these abnormalities, they may reduce virologic response. Hematopoietic growth factors may provide a useful alternative for managing these hematologic side effects without reducing the optimal dose of the combination antiviral regimen. Treatment of anemia also may improve patients' health-related quality of life and their adherence to combination antiviral therapy. The impact of growth factors on sustained virologic response and their cost-effectiveness in patients with chronic hepatitis C need further assessment.
To determine the frequency and correlates of impulse control disorders (ICDs) in Parkinson disease (PD).
An unstructured screening interview for ICDs (compulsive gambling, buying, and sexual behavior) followed by a telephone-administered structured interview for screen-positive patients.
Two university-affiliated movement disorders centers.
A convenience sample of 272 patients with idiopathic PD who were screened for psychiatric complications.
Presence of compulsive gambling, buying, or sexual behavior as assessed by the Minnesota Impulsive Disorders Interview.
Eighteen patients (6.6%) with PD met criteria for an ICD at some point during the course of PD, including 11 (4.0%) with an active ICD. Compulsive gambling and compulsive sexual behavior were equally common. In a multivariate model, treatment with a dopamine agonist (P = .01) and a history of ICD symptoms prior to PD onset (P = .02) predicted current ICD. There were no differences between the dopamine agonists in their association with ICDs (P = .21), and daily doses of dopamine agonists were higher in patients with an ICD than in dopamine agonist-treated patients without an ICD (P < .001).
Patients with PD treated with a dopamine agonist should be made aware of the risk of developing an ICD and monitored clinically. Because dopamine agonists are increasingly being used for other indications, future research should assess the dopamine agonist-associated risk for ICDs in other populations.
Increased expression of osteopontin (OPN) associated with interstitial monocyte infiltration has been demonstrated in the early phase of a variety of experimental renal diseases. Whether these changes occur in the chronic phase of progressive glomerular disease is unknown. Chronic puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) was induced in 16 rats by the injection of a single bolus of PA into the internal jugular vein, which results in a triphasic disease characterized by minimal glomerular change and marked proteinuria, peaking at about 10 to 14 d and subsiding by 28 d, followed by a quiescent 4-wk period of no or minimal proteinuria and then the development of progressive focal glomerulosclerosis (FGS) and increasing proteinuria. Fifteen rats injected similarly with normal saline served as controls. At 11 d after injection, PA rats demonstrated significantly greater urinary protein excretion (P = 0.0107), cortical tubular OPN expression (P = 0.0086), and intraglomerular (P = 0.0009) and interstitial (P = 0.0212) monocyte infiltration than did the controls. At 42 d, no significant differences between the two groups with respect to the above parameters were detected. At 98 d, PA rats had FGS and showed a definite trend to increased proteinuria, cortical tubular OPN, and intraglomerular monocyte infiltration. Although the cortical interstitial monocyte count was not elevated in PA rats compared with controls, there were significantly more monocytes around OPN-positive cortical tubules than around OPN-negative ones (P = 0.0011). Cortical tubular OPN expression correlated well with urinary protein excretion (r = 0.932, P < 0.0001), cortical tubular proliferating cell nuclear antigen (r = 0.796, P < 0.0001), and intraglomerular monocyte count (r = 0.552, P = 0.0013). The results are consistent with a monocyte chemoattractant role for OPN and suggest that OPN is upregulated in the chronic phase of PAN and that this increase in expression is a result of glomerular events.
In a collective of 3899 out-patients, the effect of uric acid reduction of benzbromarone was tested. Ten days after beginning of treatment, a uric acid concentration of 5.1 to 5.7 mg/100 ml had been obtained. Three months after beginning of therapy, uric acid values were at 4.9 mg/100 ml, independently of age and sex. As side-effects were observed:diarrhoea in 1% (n = 41) of the treated patients, furthermore, 0,8% (n = 31) complained of gastro-intestinal trouble such as pressure over the stomach, nausea, sensation of fullness and epigastric pain. Only in 2 of the 3899 patients (0.05%) the appearance of a renal colic was observed.
Solanum nigrum (Solanaceae) has been used in traditional folk medicine for its hepatoprotective agent. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of Solanum nigrum extract (SNE) on thioacetamide (TAA)-induced liver fibrosis in mice.
Hepatic fibrosis was produced by TAA (0.2 g/kg, i.p.) three times a week for 12 weeks. Mice in the three TAA groups were treated daily with distilled water and SNE (0.2 or 1.0 g/kg) via gastrogavage throughout the experimental period.
SNE reduced the hepatic hydroxyproline and alpha-smooth muscle actin protein levels of TAA-treated mice. SNE inhibited TAA-induced collagene (alpha1)(I) and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) mRNA levels in the liver. Histological examination also confirmed that SNE reduced the degree of fibrosis caused by TAA treatment.
Oral administration of SNE significantly reduces TAA-induced hepatic fibrosis in mice, probably through the reduction of TGF-beta1 secretion.
After a walk in a wood a 55-year-old teacher was admitted to the emergency unit of a university hospital because of somnolence and excitability. Her rectal temperature was 37.8 degrees C, she had sinus tachycardia (rate of 130/min) but no other significant findings.
With the exception of C-reactive protein (10 mg/dl), MCV (101 fl), MCH (34 pg) and arterial blood gases (pH 7.483, pCO2 35.5 mmHg, base excess 5.1 mmp/l) laboratory tests were within normal limits. Qualitative screening of serum for benzodiazepines, barbiturates and antidepressives was negative. Neurological examination, including lumbar puncture and cranial computed tomography were noncontributory.
10 hours after admission the patient developed signs of an anticholinergic syndrome with mydriasis, dry mouth, tachycardia, hot skin and an atonic bladder. Physostigmine 2 mg completely reversed the neurological and mental symptoms. After gas chromatography, mass-spectrometry of a urine sample showed an atropine molecular fragment with a molecular weight of 271. At intervals of 3 to 5 hours the recurrence of confusion and excitability required 4 further i.v. injection of physostigmine. The patient subsequently became accessible to psychiatric examination and reported that during the walk she had swallowed 8-10 berries of deadly nightshade with suicidal intent.
In case of excitability and confusion as well as somnolence or coma of uncertain aetiology an anticholinergic syndrome caused by ingestion of atropine-containing plants or psychoactive drugs (phenothiazines, butyrophenones, tri- or tetracyclic antidepressants) should be included in the differential diagnosis. If there are suggestive clinical findings (tachycardia, somnolence, coma or threatened respiratory arrest, physostigmine should be given if there are no contraindications.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a late diabetic complication that comprises progressively increasing albuminuria, declining GFR, and increased cardiovascular risk. Only a minority of patients with diabetes (25 to 40%) develop nephropathy, and there is evidence that heritable genetic factors predispose these "at-risk" individuals to DN. Comparing variability among inbred mouse strains with respect to a specific phenotype can model interhuman variability, and each strain represents a genetically homogeneous system with a defined risk for nephropathy. C57BL/6 mice, which are relatively resistant to DN, were mutagenized using N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea and screened for mutants that developed excess albuminuria on a sensitizing type 1 diabetic background contributed by the dominant Akita mutation in insulin-2 gene (Ins2(Akita)). Two of 375 diabetic G1 founders were found to exhibit albumin excretion rates persistently 10-fold greater than albumin excretion rates in nonmutagenized Ins2(Akita) controls. This albuminuria trait was heritable and transmitted to approximately 50% of Ins2(Akita) G2 and G3 progeny, consistent with a simple, dominantly inherited trait, but was never observed in nondiabetic offspring. During the course of 1 yr, albuminuric Ins2(Akita) G2 and G3 progeny developed reduced inulin clearance with elevated blood urea nitrogen and plasma creatinine. Glomerular histology revealed mesangial expansion, and glomerular basement membrane thickening as determined by electron microscopy was enhanced in diabetic mutant kidneys. Hereditary albuminuric N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced mutants were redesignated as Nphrp1 (nephropathy1) and Nphrp2 (nephropathy2) mice for two generated lines. These novel mutants provide new, robust mouse models of DN and should help to elucidate the underlying genetic basis of predisposition to DN.
To assess the incidence of the AIDS dementia complex and the presence of HIV I p24 antigen in cerebrospinal fluid in relation to zidovudine treatment.
Retrospective study of a consecutive series of patients with AIDS from 1982 to 1988.
An academic centre for AIDS.
196 Patients with AIDS and neurological symptoms examined from 1982 to 1988.
Zidovudine treatment, which was introduced to The Netherlands on 1 May 1987 for patients with severe symptoms of HIV infection (Centers for Disease Control groups IVA, B, C, and D).
Diagnosis of AIDS dementia complex and presence of HIV I p24 antigen in cerebrospinal fluid.
The AIDS dementia complex was diagnosed in 40 of the 196 (20%) patients with AIDS. Thirty eight of 107 patients with AIDS (36%) not taking zidovudine developed the AIDS dementia complex compared with two of the 89 (2%) taking the drug (p less than 0.00001). The incidence of the AIDS dementia complex increased to 53% in the first half of 1987, after the introduction of zidovudine in May 1987, decreasing to 10% in the second half of 1987 and to 3% in 1988. Dementia was diagnosed before definition of the AIDS dementia complex (1986) according to DSM-III criteria and there was good agreement between diagnosis before and after 1986. Sixteen of 61 samples of cerebrospinal fluid (26%) from patients with AIDS (10 with the AIDS dementia complex) not taking zidovudine were positive for HIV I p24 antigen, whereas none of 37 cerebrospinal fluid samples from patients with AIDS (two with the AIDS dementia complex) taking zidovudine were positive.
The incidence of AIDS dementia complex in patients with AIDS declined after the introduction of systematic treatment with zidovudine; the AIDS dementia complex might be prevented by inhibiting viral replication in the central nervous system.
We used the qualitative Hanssen technique in albino rats to seek morphologic demonstration of tubular obstruction in two types of acute renal failure: one induced by folic acid and another by methemoglobin. Immediately after the intravenous injection of folic acid, 250 mg/kg body weight, the animals became almost anuric. Two to three hours after the injection, sodium ferrocyanide remained within the proximal convoluted tubules. After the intravenous injection of methemoglobin, 0.5 to 1.0 g/kg body weight, the animals became oliguric but not anuric. Sodium ferrocyanide injected with methemoglobin was seen mainly in distal tubules and collecting ducts 2 to 3 hours after the injection. The degree of tubular dilatation was more marked in the former model than in the latter, in agreement with the degree of oliguria. These morphologic findings were taken to indicate that the above two types of acute renal failure were caused by tubular obstruction rather than by intrarenal vasoconstriction and subsequent cessation of glomerular filtration. (Am J Pathol 87:323-330, 1977).
Mefloquine is a drug of choice for malaria prophylaxis in Africa because of the spread of chloroquine resistant plasmodium falciparum. On the other hand there are some reports about severe neuropsychiatric side effects associated with the intake of mefloquine medication. In our paper we present a case-report of a patient suffering for the first time from an acute paranoid psychosis induced by mefloquine prophylaxis.
Increased dispersion of ventricular recovery time is believed to be a substrate for serious ventricular arrhythmias. Class III antiarrhythmic drugs probably operate by decreasing dispersion through homogeneous prolongation of recovery time. A single surface QT value gives no information on recovery time dispersion but interlead variation in QT may be relevant. QTc dispersion was measured in 67 patients post myocardial infarction randomized to treatment with either sotalol or placebo. QTc dispersion was calculated as the difference between the maximum and minimum QTc in any surface electrocardiogram lead. Both maximum QTc and QTc dispersion varied considerably following infarction but throughout the 6-month follow-up period maximum QTc was significantly greater (P less than 0.05) and QTc dispersion significantly less (P less than 0.05) in patients on sotalol compared with placebo. These findings are in accord with expected changes in ventricular recovery time and provide strong support for the hypothesis that surface electrocardiogram QT variation reflects regional differences in ventricular recovery time.
We have previously shown that transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) receptor and TGF-beta type II receptor (T beta R-II) are produced in lactotropes, and that TGF-beta 1 inhibits the growth of these anterior pituitary cells by an autocrine mechanism. To study the changes of the expression and function of this growth factor during tumorigenesis, we have measured the levels of TGF-beta 1 and T beta R-II mRNAs and proteins in the normal and tumor anterior pituitary cells in vivo and in vitro and have compared the cell growth responses to TGF-beta 1 in normal and tumor pituitary cells in vitro. Treatment with estradiol-17 beta for 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks caused a time-dependent increase in pituitary protein, prolactin, and prolactin mRNA levels and in plasma prolactin levels, suggesting that estrogen enhanced lactotropic proliferation in anterior pituitary glands. The levels of TGF-beta 1 protein and mRNA in anterior pituitary tissues were reduced over time after estrogen treatment during the development of pituitary tumors. The mRNA and protein levels of T beta R-II decreased markedly during the development of pituitary tumors. In addition, two transformed lactotropes, GH3 and PR1 cell lines, showed markedly reduced levels of TGF-beta 1 as well as T beta R-II mRNA. Comparison of the antiproliferative effects of TGF-beta in transformed and normal lactotropes in cultures revealed that the sensitivity of GH3 cells is reduced, and that PR1 cells are virtually resistant to TGF-beta 1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A case of endometrial adenocarcinoma in a patient with Turner's syndrome who had received long term combined oestrogen-progestogen therapy is described.
This is a case report of endometrial adenocarcinoma in a patient with Turner's syndrome who had received estrogen-progestogen therapy for 13 years. At age 22 she was treated for primary amenorrhea and absence of secondary sexual characteristics. Urinary gonadotropin assay exceeded 32 mouse units/24 hours and infantile external genitalia, uterine hypoplasia, and impalpable ovaries were found. Cytogenetic studies confirmed a 45XO karyotype. For 13 years she received stilbestrol cyclically for 21 days with ethisterone, 5 mg twice daily, added for Days 16-21 of each cycle. Secondary sexual characteristics developed. After 13 years anemia developed, the uterus was found to be the size of a 20-week pregnancy, and an endometrial polyp protruding through the cervix showed squamous metaplasia. Following hysterectomy, histologic studies showed well-differentiated adenocarcinoma of the endometrium with some squamous metaplasia and osteoid formation. Metastases were not found. Similar cases treated with stilbestrol alone have been reported. Genetic predisposition is possible with this patient's X chromosome abnormality. However, estrogen therapy is thought to be a causative factor. Those receiving such therapy should have periodic gynecological examinations with curettage even when progestogens are also being used.
Although short-course therapy with new lipid formulations of amphotericin B represents an advance over lengthy traditional treatments in visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar), high cost has rendered these agents largely irrelevant in developing countries where the disease is endemic. Therefore, we tested standard amphotericin B deoxycholate mixed with a commercial fat emulsion as short-course treatment for Indian visceral leishmaniasis in Bihar in 1997/98. Seventy children and adults with splenic aspirate-documented infection, 23 of whom had failed prior antimony (Sb) therapy, received 5 alternate-day infusions of 2 mg/kg. Apparent cure, which required a parasite-free splenic aspirate smear, was assessed 20 days after treatment (day 30); definitive cure was determined at 6 months. Other than anticipated infusion-related fever and/or chills, treatment was safe and well tolerated. One patient required dose modification because of mild, reversible renal insufficiency. Sixty-nine patients (98.6%, CI 92.3-100%) had apparent cures; during follow-up, there were 4 treatment failures (relapses, 3; unrelated death, 1), yielding definitive cures in 65 of 70 patients (92.9%, CI 84.1-97.6%). Including retreatment costs for patients in Bihar (who now often fail initial Sb therapy), the final per patient cost of the tested regimen (US $260) was 59% and 43% less than treatment with Sb or conventional amphotericin B alone, respectively. Short-course treatment with amphotericin B-fat emulsion is active, cost-effective treatment for patients with visceral leishmaniasis including those with Sb-unresponsive infection.
To investigate the hypothesis that tumor promotion by chlorinated aromatic hydrocarbons involves Ah receptor occupation and subsequent induction of cytochromes P-450 1a-1, effects of Aroclor 1254 or 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) were examined in N-nitrosodiethylamine-initiated mice with different Ah receptor phenotype. Levels of cytochromes P-450 1a and 2b were measured by enzyme assay and Western immunoblots. Males of the C57BL/6, DBA/2, or (C57BL/6 x DBA/2)F1 (hereafter referred to as "B6D2F1") strain were initiated with a single i.p. dose of N-nitrosodiethylamine (90 mg/kg body weight), followed by either multiple doses of TCDD (0.05 micrograms/kg) weekly or Aroclor 1254 chronically in the diet (100 ppm) for 20 weeks, and then no treatment for 24 weeks. Lung tumor incidence or multiplicity was not altered by either of the promoters. Liver tumor incidence was similar among the three strains after N-nitrosodiethylamine alone (14, 21, and 21%, respectively). In DBA/2 mice, TCDD neither induced Cyp 1a nor promoted liver tumors. Aroclor caused an 8-fold induction of hepatic Cyp 2b, which was its maximum at the 12-week time point but did not promote tumors. Inductions of hepatic Cyp 1a by TCDD and 1a and 2b by Aroclor were similar in C57BL/6 and B6D2F1 mice, but tumor promotion responses were quite different. Dietary Aroclor significantly promoted liver tumors in C57BL/6 mice (59 versus 14%) but not in B6D2F1 mice (24 versus 21%). Repeated TCDD promoted only in B6D2F1 mice (52 versus 21%) and not in C57BL/6 mice (19 versus 14%). Thus, whereas these data confirm that a functional Ah receptor is required for liver tumor promotion, the degree of activation as measured by induction of Cyp 1a is not directly related to the degree of tumor-promoting capability. Other genetic factors must play a role in mediating the final tumor outcome.
This case report describes the genesis of endometrial carcinoma after prolonged stilboestrol therapy in a patient with gonadal dysgenesis (Turner's syndrome). The varied histological appearance included the presence of cartilage-like material. A review of the literature reveals the need to treat these patients with combined oestrogen/progestogen preparations rather than with continuous unopposed oestrogens.
Gonadal dysgenesis was diagnosed in a 24-year-old patient presenting with primary amenorrhea. Because of her concern over poor breast development, .25 mg/day stilbestrol was prescribed. She was not seen again until 4 years later when she was admitted to hospital for heavy vaginal bleeding of uterine origin. Stilbestrol therapy was stopped. The uterus was enlarged, and curettings showed striking changes in the epithelium and the presence of cartilagelike material. Hysterectomy was performed a month later, and histological examination showed changes similar to those seen earlier but no penetration of the myometrium. The histological features were extremely variable, but the lesion was put in the adenosquamous category. The presence of cartilage in this type of lesion has not been previously reported. The 4-year stilbestrol treatment is shorter than the 5-year-plus average treatment duration reported in other cases of estrogen-induced malignant change. Although it may be suspected that the longer the duration of estrogen treatment, the more likely the chance of myometrial invasion and spread beyond the uterus, no fatal case has been found of such metastases. However, it is now agreed that cyclic estrogen-progestogen therapy for gonadal dysgenesis is safer.
The mechanism of the transient encephalopathy induced by high dose systemic administration of methotrexate (HDMTX) is unknown. Metabolic and vascular hypothesis have been formulated but convincing evidence is lacking. We report the first case of vascular disturbances (thinness of cortical arteries on angiography, reversible fall down of cerebral flow and increase of carotid resistance) in a young Algerian patient treated for an osteogenic osteosarcoma. This observation might lead to the exploration by non invasive and easily repeatable techniques of the cerebral vascular dynamic in patients submitted to HDMTX and thus contributed to the elucidation of the mechanism and to the prevention of these neurological side effect.
