Rodents treated with 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine (DDC) are a model of two hepatic toxic manifestations: porphyria and the appearance of hepatic cytoplasmic protein aggregates (Mallory-Denk Bodies, MDBs). MDBs are induced after long-term DDC feeding, consist primarily of keratins 8 and 18, and contain glutamine-lysine cross-links generated by transglutaminases (TGs). TGs are Ca(2+)-dependent enzymes which catalyze the formation of covalent bonds between proteins and between proteins and polyamines. The aim of the current study was to investigate the time-course of TG hepatic activity in CF1 male mice either acutely or chronically treated with DDC and to correlate this activity with polyamine and porphyrin levels. On day 3 of the treatment, statistically significant increases in TG activity (75%), porphyrin content (6740%) and spermidine levels (73%) were observed. Although not statistically significant, at this time point putrescine levels showed an increase of 52%. The highest TG activity was observed on day 30 (522%), while porphyrin levels were still gradually increasing by day 45 (37,000%). From day 7 of the treatment and until the end of the experiment, putrescine levels remained increased (781%). Spermine levels were not affected by the treatment. The DDC-induced increases in putrescine and spermidine levels herein reported seem to be an early event contributing to the stimulation of liver TG activity, and thus to the promotion of cross-linking reactions between keratin proteins. This in turn would contribute to the formation of protein aggregates, which would lead to the appearance of MDBs. Due to the pro-oxidant and antioxidant properties of polyamines, it is possible to speculate that putrescine and spermidine may also participate at several levels in the oxidative stress processes associated with MDB formation.
Two cases of pentazocine-induced neuromuscular syndrome in addicted patients are reported. Histochemical and histographic analysis of muscle biopsies performed in areas distant from the site of injection, disclosed type II muscle fibre atrophy. In order to clarify the pentazocine myotoxic mechanism, a tissue culture study was performed and the effects of the drug on the extent of myogenesis in human foetal muscle cultures were assayed. The tissue culture studies showed: 1 a complete block of myogenesis in pentazocine-treated human foetal muscle cultures and 2. a delayed fusion process when the pentazocine-treated cultures were pretreated with 10(-5) M D-arabinofuranosylcytosine (ara-C). In conclusion it is suggested that the overgrowth of fibroblasts, supported by tissue culture study, in tissues other than muscle (i.e. nerve) could explain the neurogenic aspects found in these patients.
Capsaicin (trans-8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-nonenamide) is an ingredient of chili peppers with inhibitory effects against cancer cells of different origin. We examined the activity of capsaicin on breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. The drug potently inhibited growth of ER-positive (MCF-7, T47D, BT-474) and ER-negative (SKBR-3, MDA-MB231) breast cancer cell lines, which was associated with G(0)/G(1) cell-cycle arrest, increased levels of apoptosis and reduced protein expression of human epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), HER-2, activated extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) and cyclin D1. In contrast, cell-cycle regulator p27(KIP1), caspase activity as well as poly-ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) cleavage were increased. Notably, capsaicin blocked breast cancer cell migration in vitro and decreased by 50% the size of MDA-MB231 breast cancer tumors growing orthotopically in immunodeficient mice without noticeable drug side effects. in vivo activation of ERK was clearly decreased, as well as expression of HER-2 and cyclin D1, whereas caspase activity and PARP cleavage products were increased in tumors of drug-treated mice. Besides, capsaicin potently inhibited the development of pre-neoplastic breast lesions by up to 80% without evidence of toxicity. Our data indicate that capsaicin is a novel modulator of the EGFR/HER-2 pathway in both ER-positive and -negative breast cancer cells with a potential role in the treatment and prevention of human breast cancer.
Epidemiologic studies demonstrate acute and serious adverse effects of particulate air pollution on respiratory health, especially in people who are susceptible to bacterial infection. However, the underlying mechanism remains to be elucidated. To provide experimental evidence for the epidemiologic data, we determined the effects of diesel exhaust particles (DEP), major participants in particulate pollutants, on lung injury related to bacterial endotoxin in mice. Intratracheal instillation of DEPs synergistically enhanced lung injury related to endotoxin from gram-negative bacteria, which was characterized by neutrophil sequestration, interstitial edema, and alveolar hemorrhage. In the presence of endotoxin, DEPs further activated the nuclear translocation of p65 subunit of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in the lung and increased the lung expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1, interleukin-1beta, macrophage chemoattractant protein-1, keratinocyte chemoattractant (KC), macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha, and Toll-like receptors. DEPs given alone increased the lung expression of Toll-like receptor 4 and the nuclear localization of p50 subunit of NF-kappaB. The combined exposure to DEPs and endotoxin decreased nuclear localization of CCAAT/enhancer binding protein beta. These results provide the first experimental evidence that DEPs enhance neutrophilic lung inflammation related to bacterial endotoxin. The enhancement is mediated by the induction of proinflammatory molecules, likely through the expression of Toll-like receptors and the activation of p65-containing dimer(s) of NF-kappaB, such as p65/p50.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), a natural component of bile, has been synthesized to treat cholestatic liver diseases such as primary biliary cirrhosis. Broad biochemical changes in UDCA-treated patients suggest beneficial effects of UDCA beyond stimulating hepatobiliary secretion and possible efficacy of the medicine in treating cirrhosis of other causes. The aim was to explore the potential benefit of UDCA in controlling immune-mediated hepatic fibrosis.
We applied the rat experimental model of liver fibrosis induced by intraperitoneal injection of porcine serum. UDCA was administered orally during the course of the serum injections.
Compared with the untreated group, the rats treated with UDCA ended with significantly higher body weight, lower liver weight, and lower spleen weight. The treated groups also demonstrated less severe liver fibrosis, with significantly lowered hepatic expression of type I and type III collagens, in terms of both mRNA and proteins. Moreover, serum levels of hyaluronic acid (HA), laminin (LN), type IV collagen (C IV), and type III procollagen (PC III) were also lower in the UDCA-treated animals.
UDCA deters development of immune-mediated liver fibrosis by inhibiting the expression of collagen and other extracelluar matrix components.
A novel series of 1,6-dihydro-2H-indeno[5,4-b]furan derivatives were designed and synthesized as MT(2)-selective ligands. This scaffold was identified as a potent mimic of the 5-methoxy indole core of melatonin, and introduction of a cyclohexylmethyl group at the 7-position of this scaffold afforded an MT(2)-selective ligand 15 (K(i) = 0.012 nM) with high MT(1)/MT(2) selectivity (799). Compound 15 was identified as a potent full agonist for the MT(2) subtype and exhibited reentrainment effects to a new light/dark cycle in ICR mice at 3-30 mg/kg. This result demonstrated the involvement of the MT(2) receptors in chronobiotic activity.
For many non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, the bcl-2 gene has been implicated as a likely proto-oncogene, since it is consistently located at or near the breakpoint sites of t(14;18) chromosomal translocations. To define the role of the protein product of the bcl-2 gene in lymphoid cancers, we used anti-bcl-2 antibodies to perform immunohistochemical studies of frozen sections of 136 tissue specimens affected by lymphoma or non-neoplastic lymphoid disorders. Immunoreactive bcl-2 protein was observed in the neoplastic cells in almost all the follicular lymphomas, whereas no bcl-2 protein was detected in follicles affected by non-neoplastic processes or in normal lymphoid tissue. Every tumor with molecular-genetic evidence of t(14;18) translocation expressed detectable levels of bcl-2 protein, regardless of whether the breakpoint was located in or at a distance from the bcl-2 gene. These data show consistent expression of a proto-oncogenic protein in a large proportion of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas and provide further support of a role for bcl-2 in the pathogenesis of all lymphomas with the t(14;18) karyotypic abnormality. Increased expression of bcl-2 after t(14;18) translocations may be a specific marker for B-cell cancers, and demonstration of the protein with use of anti-bcl-2 antibodies could be useful in the diagnosis of many non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.
Drug-induced eosinophilic lung disease commonly presents as a simple pulmonary eosinophilia-like syndrome consisting of transient pulmonary infiltrates, peripheral eosinophilia, and mild pulmonary symptoms that disappear promptly upon withdrawal of the offending medication. However, a more fulminant presentation most resembling acute eosinophilic pneumonia has been recently described. We present a patient with BAL-confirmed eosinophilic pneumonia (EP) and respiratory failure after a trazodone overdose. This is the first case of EP associated with trazodone and only the third drug-mediated EP reported to precipitate respiratory failure.
Dominant autosomal mutation l(2)M66 DCS induced in Drosophila melanogaster by ethyl-methane-sulfonate was studied. Electron-microscopic studies of asynchronous (fibrillar) and synchronous (tubular) muscles in 24-hour old mutants showed pathological changes in their fine structure. All systems were affected: the fragmentation of the Z-lines, disappearance of protofibrils, degenerative changes of mitochondria, sarcoplasmic reticulum, and the T-system, the appearance of membrane aggregates and lysosomes, the presence of a large amount of glycogen were detected. These changes in the ultrastructure of the flight muscles in mutants are similar to those observed in the process of physiological degeneration of insect muscles.
Identifying the molecular mechanisms responsible for the resistance of gliomas to anticancer treatments is an issue of great therapeutic interest. Δ(9)-Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the major active ingredient of marijuana, and other cannabinoids inhibit tumor growth in animal models of cancer, including glioma, an effect that relies, at least in part, on the stimulation of autophagy-mediated apoptosis in tumor cells. Here, by analyzing the gene expression profile of a large series of human glioma cells with different sensitivity to cannabinoid action, we have identified a subset of genes specifically associated to THC resistance. One of these genes, namely that encoding the growth factor midkine (Mdk), is directly involved in the resistance of glioma cells to cannabinoid treatment. We also show that Mdk mediates its protective effect via the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) receptor and that Mdk signaling through ALK interferes with cannabinoid-induced autophagic cell death. Furthermore, in vivo Mdk silencing or ALK pharmacological inhibition sensitizes cannabinod-resistant tumors to THC antitumoral action. Altogether, our findings identify Mdk as a pivotal factor involved in the resistance of glioma cells to THC pro-autophagic and antitumoral action, and suggest that selective targeting of the Mdk/ALK axis could help to improve the efficacy of antitumoral therapies for gliomas.
Tissue ischemia promotes vasculogenesis through chemokine-induced recruitment of bone marrow-derived endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs). Diabetes significantly impairs this process. Because hyperglycemia increases reactive oxygen species in a number of cell types, and because many of the defects responsible for impaired vasculogenesis involve HIF1-regulated genes, we hypothesized that HIF1 function is impaired in diabetes because of reactive oxygen species-induced modification of HIF1alpha by the glyoxalase 1 (GLO1) substrate methylglyoxal. Decreasing superoxide in diabetic mice by either transgenic expression of manganese superoxide dismutase or by administration of an superoxide dismutase mimetic corrected post-ischemic defects in neovascularization, oxygen delivery, and chemokine expression, and normalized tissue survival. In hypoxic fibroblasts cultured in high glucose, overexpression of GLO1 prevented reduced expression of both the EPC mobilizing chemokine stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) and of vascular epidermal growth factor, which modulates growth and differentiation of recruited EPCs. In hypoxic EPCs cultured in high glucose, overexpression of GLO1 prevented reduced expression of both the SDF-1 receptor CXCR4, and endothelial nitric-oxide synthase, an enzyme essential for EPC mobilization. HIF1alpha modification by methylglyoxal reduced heterodimer formation and HIF1alpha binding to all relevant promoters. These results provide a basis for the rational design of new therapeutics to normalize impaired ischemia-induced vasculogenesis in patients with diabetes.
Evaluation of the treatment of complicated ureteric stones in patients treated with indinavir.
From March 1997 to May 1998, 10 patients (7 males, 3 females, aged 30 to 56 years), treated by triple combination therapy for HIV infection, were drained for stones attributed to indinavir (CRIXIVAN), which had become obstructive and complicated. The duration of treatment with indinavir ranged from 14 days to 2 years. No patient had a history of urological disease. One patient presented with bilateral stones. All patients presented complicated clinical features: fever in 3 cases; severe pain in 8 cases, with delayed excretion more than 4 hours on IVU in 6 cases. All stones were radiolucent except for one slightly radioopaque stone. The stone was situated in the lumbar ureter in 3 cases, iliac ureter in 1 case and pelvic ureter in 8 cases.
In 10 out of 11 cases, a double J stent was inserted, preceded by drainage by simple ureteric catheter (infected urine) in 1 case and by percutaneous nephrostomy (PCN) with antegrade insertion of the stent (failure of the retrograde route) in 1 case. No complementary stone fragmentation or extraction treatment was necessary after this procedure. Stents were left in place for 3 to 7 weeks. In one case, a stone of the lumbar ureter required PCN followed by extracorporeal lithotripsy.
In the case of complications requiring a urological procedure, insertion of a double J stent allows curative treatment of very friable indinavir stones, which are fragmented by passage of the stent.
In 70% of the cases of malignant neoplasms in pediatric patients antiblast therapy is used. The administration of platinum compounds, Cisplatin (CDDP) or Carboplatin (CBDCA), often at high cumulative doses, necessarily implies a certain degree of toxicity which normally takes on secondary significance in the healing of the child. Among the side effects, early and delayed ototoxicity is well known and, in the child, take on particular aspects. While not abandoning the treatment of the base pathology, the therapeutic findings, increasingly comforting in terms of long-term survival, require more accurate evaluation and overall control of the quality of life of these young patients. Since initial cochlear damage can be reversible, auditory function must be carefully monitored in order to prevent the lesions from becoming permanent, in particular prior to the onset of speech. For this reason a retrospective study was made of a group of 26 children affected by malignant neoplasms all of whom had undergone a polychemotherapy protocol with the administration of CDDP in 14 cases and CBDCA in 12 cases. All these young patients were monitored with conventional audiometry. The presence of different variables (antiblastic drug administration schedule, course of the disease, general conditions) only permitted evaluation of a single correlation: between auditory function at the end of the treatment (or after a few cycles of therapy) and the overall dose of CDDP or CBDCA administered. In 16 cases (62%) typical bilateral perceptive deafness was detected progressively involving the hyperacute and acute frequencies. The finding of hearing loss was significantly greater in the patients treated with CDDP (86%) vs. those treated with CBDCA (33%). Moreover, analysis of the results showed that, within certain limits, ototoxicity can depend more on individual sensitivity to the drug than to the total dose administered. The results confirm the well-known ototoxicity of platinum compounds, in particular CDDP. As ever improved therapeutic results are achieved in the treatment of malignant neoplasms in pediatric patients, greater attention can be paid to the quality of life of these young patients after the disease has been healed. Careful monitoring of auditory function can be extremely important in the pursuit this objective; indeed, this makes it possible to adjust antiblast drug administration, particularly in the later stages of treatment, customizing the treatment schedule to individual patient sensitivity.
A multicentre, randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group, dose-titration study was conducted to determine the efficacy and tolerability of telmisartan 40-80 mg once daily compared with losartan 50-100 mg once daily in 180 Taiwanese patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension. After an initial 2-week placebo run-in phase, patients were randomised in a double-blind, double-dummy fashion to receive either telmisartan 40 mg or losartan 50 mg. If blood pressure control (diastolic blood pressure [DBP] <90 mmHg or > or = 10 mmHg reduction in DBP) was achieved after 4 weeks, the dose was maintained for the second 4 weeks of the active treatment phase; if not, the dose was doubled to telmisartan 80 mg or losartan 100 mg, respectively, for the second 4 weeks of double-blind treatment. Telmisartan 40-80 mg (n = 86) was as effective as losartan 50-100 mg (n = 90) in reducing trough seated DBP (11.1 vs. 8.7 mmHg, p = 0.144), and was significantly more effective than losartan in reducing trough seated systolic blood pressure (SBP) (22.1 vs. 16.5 mmHg, p = 0.032) and standing SBP (21.0 vs. 16.3 mmHg, p = 0.033). Significantly fewer patients treated with telmisartan than those treated with losartan required uptitration after 4 weeks' treatment (32.6% vs. 61.5%, p = 0.001). Both telmisartan and losartan were well tolerated.
Novel 14-alkoxy-substituted (e.g. allyloxy, benzyloxy, naphthylmethoxy) morphinan-6-one derivatives were synthesized and biologically evaluated. Compounds 6-9 and 11 displayed affinities in the subnanomolar range to mu opioid receptors which were comparable to 14-O-methyloxymorphone (1) and 14-methoxymetopon (3), and higher than oxymorphone (2). Opioid binding affinity was sensitive to the character and length of the substituent in position 14. In smooth muscle preparations they behaved as potent agonists. Antinociceptive potencies of compounds 6-11 in the hot-plate test after sc administration in mice were considerably greater than the potency of morphine. In the colonic propulsion test, the most potent analgesic compound 7 showed negligible constipating activity at the analgesic dose. These findings provide further evidence that the nature of the substituent at position 14 has a major impact on the abilities of morphinans to interact with opioid receptors. Introduction of a 5-methyl group has no significant effect on in vitro biological activities, but resulted in decreased antinociceptive potency.
A prospective randomized controlled trial was performed to compare the effects of ibuprofen with indomethacin on cerebral hemodynamics measured using near infrared spectroscopy in preterm infants during treatment for patent ductus arteriosus. Infants were randomly assigned to three intravenous doses of either indomethacin (0.20-0.25 mg/kg, 12 hourly) or ibuprofen (5-10 mg/kg, 24 hourly) and also received a dose of saline. The primary end points of the study were the effects of the first dose on cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral blood volume. Fifteen infants received indomethacin and 18 received ibuprofen. The group mean (SD) values for CBF (mL x 100 g(-1) x min(-1)) before and after the first dose of indomethacin were 13.6 (4.1) and 8.3 (3.1), respectively, the change being significant (p<0.001). In contrast, no significant changes in CBF were observed with the first dose of ibuprofen, the respective before and after values being 13.3 (3.2) and 14.9 (4.7) mL x 100 g(-1) x min(-1). The median (interquartile range) value for change in cerebral blood volume (mL/100 g) after the first dose in the indomethacin group was -0.4 (-0.3 to -0.6) and in the ibuprofen group was 0.0 (0.1 to -0.1), the difference between the two groups being significant (p<0.001). Cerebral oxygen delivery changed significantly after the first dose in the indomethacin group but not in the ibuprofen group. Significant reductions in CBF, cerebral blood volume, and cerebral oxygen delivery also occurred after the 24-h dose of indomethacin, but there were no significant changes after the 48-h dose of saline in the indomethacin group or after the 24- and 48-h doses of ibuprofen. The patent ductus arteriosus closure rates after indomethacin and ibuprofen were 93 and 78%, respectively. We conclude that ibuprofen, unlike indomethacin, has no adverse effects on cerebral hemodynamics and appears to mediate patent ductus arteriosus closure.
The negative bathmo- ino and chronotropic effects of sparteine, butylsparteine and pentylsparteine were quantitatively determined in isolated rat atria. The antifibrillatory potency was studied in rats (aconitine arrhythmia), guinea pigs (digoxin arrhythmia) and in cats (spontaneous arrhythmia). In order to appraise the cardiovascular compatibility of these drugs, additional circulatory effects were studied in rats and cats. Acute toxicity following intravenous, intraperitoneal and oral administration was assessed in male and female mice. Pentylsparteine was more potent than sparteine and had a better therapeutic index.
Blood pressure is not adequately controlled in almost 50% of patients with hypertension who are in receipt of antihypertensive therapy. This multicentre, prospective, open-label trial was designed to determine whether or not once-daily telmisartan 80 mg reduced blood pressure during the last 6 h of the 24-h dosing interval in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension who were unresponsive to previous antihypertensive therapy. The study comprised 100 patients (47 males, 53 females) who had failed to respond satisfactorily to prior treatment given for a minimum of 3 months. At screening, 24-h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) was conducted after the patient had been treated with the currently prescribed antihypertensive medication. Following 5 weeks of telmisartan 80 mg treatment, ABPM was repeated. Telmisartan significantly reduced mean systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure (DBP) and pulse pressure compared with previous antihypertensive therapy over each time interval (24-h, morning, night-time and the last 6 h of the dosing interval [2.00 a.m.-8.00 a.m.]) analysed. In addition, more than 90% of patients responded successfully (clinic DBP <90 mmHg or a >10 mmHg reduction in clinic DBP) at the end of telmisartan treatment. In conclusion, telmisartan provides effective blood pressure control throughout the 24-h dosing interval in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension who were unresponsive to previous antihypertensive medication.
A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) within the transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) gene was detected by hybridization-based method using bacterial magnetic particles (BMPs). TGF-beta1 is commonly associated with a single base change resulting in a Leu(10)-->Pro (T(869)-->C) polymorphism and is a genetic marker for susceptibility to osteoporosis. Short (9 bases) and specific probes were designed to detect SNP in TGF-beta1. Detection probes were immobilized on BMPs using cross-linking reagents. TGF-beta1 PCR products (139 bp) were labeled with the fluorescent dye coumarin and hybridized with detection probes on BMPs. Complementary hybridized targets gave over four times higher fluorescent intensities, compared with one base mismatched hybridizations. The SNP genotype was successfully discriminated using this technique.
Tachykinin NK2 receptor antagonists could reduce motility and symptoms during gastrointestinal diseases characterized by local inflammation such as diarrhea or colitis; however, how these conditions change pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic characteristics of NK2 receptor antagonists is unknown. We investigated the effect of the peptide NK2 receptor antagonist nepadutant on spontaneous intestinal motility or [betaAla8]NKA(4-10)-induced colonic and bladder contractions in rodent models of intestinal inflammation (enteritis induced by castor oil and rectocolitis induced by local instillation of acetic acid in rats, enteritis induced by bacterial toxins in mice). In the castor oil model, the oral/intraduodenal bioavailability of nepadutant was also determined. The intrarectal (i.r.) administration of nepadutant (100 nmol/kg) did not reduce [betaAla8]NKA(4-10) (10 nmol/kg i.v.)-induced colonic and bladder contractions in normal animals, but the same dose of nepadutant produced an inhibitory effect in the two organs following rectocolitis; in contrast, nepadutant is equieffective by the intravenous route in normal and colitic animals. In this model, nepadutant (100 nmol/kg i.r. or i.v.) decreased spontaneous colonic hypermotility, without affecting motility in controls. The intraduodenal administration of nepadutant (30 nmol/kg), which was ineffective on [betaAla8]NKA(4-10) (10 nmol/kg i.v.)-induced colonic and bladder contractions in control animals, abolished bladder contractions in castor oil-pretreated animals. In this latter group, the oral and intraduodenal bioavailability of nepadutant showed a 7- to 9-fold increase with respect to controls. Oral administration of nepadutant, in nanomolar or subnanomolar dosage, reduced diarrhea induced by bacterial toxins in mice. It is concluded that intestinal inflammation increases nepadutant absorption in the intestine, enhancing its activity. These results suggest that a drug with a limited oral bioavailability could be used for treating gastrointestinal diseases associated with a local inflammation.
This study examined the role of spinal calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P, and prostaglandins in the development and expression of opioid physical dependence. Administration of escalating doses (5 - 100 mg kg-1, i.p.) of morphine for 7 days markedly elevated CGRP and substance P- immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. Naloxone (2 mg kg-1, i.p.) challenge decreased both CGRP and substance P immunoreactivity and precipitated a robust withdrawal syndrome. Acute intrathecal pre-treatment with a CGRP receptor antagonist, CGRP(8 - 37) (4, 8 microg), a substance P receptor antagonist, SR 140333 (1.4, 2.8 microg), a cyclo-oxygenase (COX) inhibitor, ketorolac (30, 45 microg), and COX-2 selective inhibitors, DuP 697 (10, 30 microg) and nimesulide (30 microg), 30 min before naloxone challenge, partially attenuated the symptoms of morphine withdrawal. CGRP(8 - 37) (8 microg), but no other agents, inhibited the decrease in CGRP immunoreactivity. Chronic intrathecal treatment with CGRP(8 - 37) (4, 8 microg), SR 140333 (1.4 microg), ketorolac (15, 30 microg), DuP 697 (10, 30micro g), and nimesulide (30 microg), delivered with daily morphine injection significantly attenuated both the symptoms of withdrawal and the decrease in CGRP but not substance P immunoreactivity. The results of this study suggest that activation of CGRP and substance P receptors, at the spinal level, contributes to the induction and expression of opioid physical dependence and that this activity may be partially expressed through the intermediary actions of prostaglandins.
Growing genetic evidence is converging in favor of common pathogenic mechanisms for autism spectrum disorders (ASD), intellectual disability (ID or mental retardation) and schizophrenia (SCZ), three neurodevelopmental disorders affecting cognition and behavior. Copy number variations and deleterious mutations in synaptic organizing proteins including NRXN1 have been associated with these neurodevelopmental disorders, but no such associations have been reported for NRXN2 or NRXN3. From resequencing the three neurexin genes in individuals affected by ASD (n = 142), SCZ (n = 143) or non-syndromic ID (n = 94), we identified a truncating mutation in NRXN2 in a patient with ASD inherited from a father with severe language delay and family history of SCZ. We also identified a de novo truncating mutation in NRXN1 in a patient with SCZ, and other potential pathogenic ASD mutations. These truncating mutations result in proteins that fail to promote synaptic differentiation in neuron coculture and fail to bind either of the established postsynaptic binding partners LRRTM2 or NLGN2 in cell binding assays. Our findings link NRXN2 disruption to the pathogenesis of ASD for the first time and further strengthen the involvement of NRXN1 in SCZ, supporting the notion of a common genetic mechanism in these disorders.
Inflammation and oxidative stress exert important roles in intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). Lycium barbarum polysaccharides (LBPs) have shown effective antioxidative and immunomodulatory functions in different models. The purpose of the present study was to assess the effects and potential mechanisms of LBPs in intestinal IRI. Several free radical-generating and lipid peroxidation models were used to assess the antioxidant activities of LBPs in vitro. A common IRI model was used to induce intestinal injury by clamping and unclamping the superior mesenteric artery in rats. Changes in the malondialdehyde (MDA), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, activated nuclear factor (NF)-κB, intracellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, E-selectin, and related antioxidant enzyme levels, polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN) accumulation, intestinal permeability, and intestinal histology were examined. We found that LBPs exhibited marked inhibitory action against free radicals and lipid peroxidation in vitro. LBPs increased the levels of antioxidant enzymes and reduced intestinal oxidative injury in animal models of intestinal IRI. In addition, LBPs inhibited PMN accumulation and ICAM-1 expression and ameliorated changes in the TNF-α level, NF-κB activation, intestinal permeability, and histology. Our results indicate that LBPs treatment may protect against IRI-induced intestinal damage, possibly by inhibiting IRI-induced oxidative stress and inflammation.
VACTERL acronym is assigned to a non-random association of malformations in humans with poorly known etiology. It is comprised of vertebral defects (V), anal atresia (A), cardiac anomaly (C), tracheoesophageal fistula with esophageal atresia (TE), renal dysplasia (R) and limb lesions (L). Here, we report on, for the first time, a female patient with VACTERL association with a 21 base-pair deletion in the exon 1 triplet repeats of HOXD13, a sonic hedgehog (SHH) downstream target. Our data provide the first piece of clinical evidence of the implication of the SHH pathway in VACTERL. Moreover, HOXD13 may not only be implicated in limb malformations but also in the development of gut and genitourinary structures, as predicted from the mouse models.
The tumorigenic activity of benzo[b]fluoranthene, benzo[j]fluoranthene, benzo[k]fluoranthene, and indeno-[1,2,3-cd]pyrene was evaluated in newborn CD-1 mice. The total doses of these non-alternant polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons employed in this study ranged from 0.5 to 2.1 mumol per mouse. The results of this assay indicate that both benzo[b]fluoranthene and benzo[j]fluoranthene exhibit significant tumorigenic activity. In contrast to these results, neither benzo[k]fluoranthene nor indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene were tumorigenic under these assay conditions.
Exposure to airborne particulate matter has been linked to cardiovascular events. Whether this finding reflects an effect of particulate matter exposure on the triggering of events or development of atherosclerosis remains unknown. Using data from the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis collected at baseline (2000-2002), the authors investigated associations of 20-year exposures to particulate matter with measures of subclinical disease (coronary calcium, common carotid intimal-medial thickness, and ankle-brachial index) in 5,172 US adults without clinical cardiovascular disease. Particulate matter exposures for the 20 years prior to assessment of subclinical disease were obtained from a space-time model of Environmental Protection Agency monitor data linked to residential history data for each participant. Intimal-medial thickness was weakly, positively associated with exposures to particulate matter <10 microm in aerodynamic diameter and <2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter after controlling for age, sex, race/ethnicity, socioeconomic factors, diet, smoking, physical activity, blood lipids, diabetes, hypertension, and body mass index (1-4% increase per 21-microg/m(3) increase in particulate matter <10 microm in aerodynamic diameter or a 12.5-microg/m(3) increase in particulate matter <2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter). No consistent associations with other measures of atherosclerosis were observed. There was no evidence of effect modification by sociodemographic factors, lipid status, smoking, diabetes, body mass index, or site. Results are compatible with some effect of particulate matter exposures on development of carotid atherosclerosis.
