The antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) phenytoin, phenobarbital, dimethadione, and carbamazepine cause a similar pattern of malformations in humans, with an increased risk after polytherapy. The teratogenicity has been linked to cardiac rhythm disturbances and hypoxic damage as a consequence of their common potential to inhibit a specific potassium ion current (IKr). The IKr is of major importance for embryonic cardiac repolarization and rhythm regulation. This study investigated whether these AEDs cause irregular rhythm and if various combinations of AEDs result in higher arrhythmia risk than exposure to a single AED.
The effects on heart rhythm of a single AED (monotherapy), and of various combinations (polytherapy) of AEDs, in gestational day 10 C57BL mouse embryos in culture were analyzed and graphically illustrated during a 25 s recording with a digitalization technique.
All of the studied AEDs caused increased intervals between heartbeats (resulting in bradycardia) and large variations in the interval between heartbeats (resulting in irregular rhythm) in a concentration-dependent manner in cultured mouse embryos. Dimethadione caused irregular rhythm at concentrations within and phenytoin slightly above the therapeutic ranges. Polytherapy resulted in more substantial prolongation of the mean interval between heartbeats (>60 ms) than monotherapy at clinically relevant concentrations.
The results suggest that polytherapy more than monotherapy causes substantial prolongation of the cardiac repolarization, a marker associated with high risk of developing irregular rhythm during longer exposure periods (days to months). This supports the idea that the increased risk for malformations following polytherapy is linked to an increased risk for cardiac rhythm disturbances.
Exposure to the environmental pollutant trichloroethylene (TCE) has been linked to autoimmune disease development in humans. Chronic (32-week) low-level exposure to TCE has been shown to promote autoimmune hepatitis in association with CD4(+) T cell activation in autoimmune-prone MRL+/+ mice. MRL+/+ mice are usually thought of as a model of systemic lupus rather than an organ-specific disease such as autoimmune hepatitis. Consequently, the present study examined gene expression and metabolites to delineate the liver events that skewed the autoimmune response toward that organ in TCE-treated mice. Female MRL+/+ mice were treated with 0.5 mg/mL TCE in their drinking water. The results showed that TCE-induced autoimmune hepatitis could be detected in as little as 26 weeks. TCE exposure also generated a time-dependent increase in the number of antibodies specific for liver proteins. The gene expression correlated with the metabolite analysis to show that TCE upregulated the methionine/homocysteine pathway in the liver after 26 weeks of exposure. The results also showed that TCE exposure altered the expression of selective hepatic genes associated with immunity and inflammation. On the basis of these results, future mechanistic studies will focus on how alterations in genes associated with immunity and inflammation, in conjunction with protein alterations in the liver, promote liver immunogenicity in TCE-treated MRL+/+ mice.
This study was designed to investigate the effects of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) on systolic blood pressure (BP) and serum erythropoietin (EPO) concentrations in two strains of rats. We hypothesized that ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat is characterized by increased EPO production.
Male Sprague-Dawley (SD) and Wistar out-bred (Wistar) rats were treated with saline or ACTH (0.2 mg/kg/d). Systolic BP was measured using the tail-cuff method. Serum EPO concentrations were assayed using an ELISA kit for human EPO, which cross-reacts with but underestimates rat EPO. Thymus weight was used as a marker of glucocorticoid activity.
In SD rats, ACTH increased systolic BP (from 109 +/- 4 to 142 +/- 5 mm Hg, P <.0005), significantly greater than in saline-treated rats (P <.01). Systolic BP in ACTH-treated Wistar increased from 120 +/- 3 to 133 +/- 4 mm Hg (P <.05), but was not significantly different from saline-treated Wistar rats. The ACTH-induced increase in systolic BP was greater in SD than in Wistar rats (P <.05). Serum EPO levels were 5.6 +/- 0.4 in SD and 5.9 +/- 0.3 IU/L in Wistar rats, and decreased to undetectable levels with ACTH treatment in 10 of 10 SD and 7 of 10 Wistar rats. The ACTH treatment increased hemoglobin and hematocrit, and decreased thymus weight in both strains.
1) ACTH decreased serum EPO concentrations in both strains; 2) EPO is inversely related to ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat; and 3) Wistar rats are relatively resistant to the BP raising effects of ACTH treatment but not to the ACTH-induced decrease in thymus weight. These data suggest that EPO is not causal in ACTH-induced hypertension.
The reverse transcriptase inhibitor, 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC), causes a dose-limiting peripheral neuropathy in humans, the mechanism of which is unknown. Rabbits given ddC develop peripheral myelinopathy and axonopathy, but it has not been determined if either the myelin or axonal changes are primary or if they occur concurrently.
To characterize sequential development of the ddC-induced neuropathy, 40 rabbits were given either vehicle or ddC by oral intubation at a dose of 35 mg/kg per day for 24 weeks. Electrophysiologic studies, pathologic examination of peripheral and central nervous system and skeletal muscle, and biochemical analysis of the sciatic nerve were performed at baseline (electrophysiology only) and after 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24 weeks of treatment.
Neuropathologic changes in peripheral nerves were first evident at 16 weeks and were more pronounced at 20 and 24 weeks; onset of paresis occurred at week 20, whereas clear electrophysiologic deficits were seen only at week 24. Electrophysiologic changes were prolonged F-waves (measure of proximal motor conduction) and minor changes in distal conduction measurements. Pathologic changes included myelin splitting, intramyelinic edema, demyelination, and remyelination of the largest diameter nerve fibers in the ventral root and sciatic nerve. Axonal degeneration and reduction in axonal diameter were seen. Enlarged mitochondria with abnormal ultrastructure were present in Schwann cells of those animals with a myelinopathy. Mitochondrial abnormalities or other signs of degeneration were not seen in neurons of the dorsal root ganglia or in skeletal muscle. Significant changes were not present in myelin protein composition, myelin lipid composition, or activity of the myelin-specific enzyme 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphohydrolase. Major reductions in levels of protein zero (P0, the homophilic adhesion protein of myelin) were not seen; however, the turnover rate of P0 was reduced as P0 messenger RNA expression in ddC-treated sciatic nerves decreased to 30 to 50% of control values.
The peripheral neuropathy caused by ddC in rabbits is characterized as a myelinopathy of the proximal portion of the nerve fibers and as an axonopathy involving both proximal and distal fibers. The myelinopathy was associated with enlarged and abnormally shaped mitochondria in Schwann cells and is consistent with an effect of ddC on structure and function of Schwann cell mitochondria. Altered Schwann cell metabolism was evident by reduced levels of P0 messenger RNA, loss of homophilic myelin adhesion at the intraperiod line, and subsequent intramyelinic edema. Because axonal degeneration occurred concurrently with the myelin changes, it could not be determined if axonal changes were secondary to serve myelinic edema or if they represented a primary effect of ddC on neurons.
Fc-receptors for IgG (FcgammaR) link cellular and humoral immune responses, controlling the balance between activating and inhibitory immune responses, and are involved in autoimmune diseases. Mercury (Hg) induces an autoimmune condition in genetically (H-2(s,q,f)) susceptible mice characterized by lymphoproliferation, hypergammaglobulinemia and IgG antinucleolar antibodies (ANoA). Here we investigate the role of activating (FcgammaRI, FcgammaRIII) and inhibitory (FcgammaRIIb) Fc-receptors on mercury-induced autoimmunity (HgIA) using DBA/1 mice (H-2(q)) with targeted FcgammaR mutations and wild type (wt) mice. Mice deficient for the FcRgamma-chain or FcgammaRIII and treated with 15 mg/L HgCl(2) showed a delayed and attenuated IgG1, IgG2a and IgG2b ANoA response compared to wt mice. Female Hg-treated FcgammaRIIB(-/-) mice showed a significant increased of IgG2b ANoA development compared to wt mice. The total serum IgG1 response due to Hg was attenuated in FcRgamma(-/-) and FcgammaRIII(-/-) mice compared to wt mice. Hg-treated FcgammaRIIB(-/-) mice showed an increase of both serum IgG1 and IgE compared to wt mice. We conclude that FcgammaRIII is of importance for the rapidity and final strength of the ANoA response and the increase in serum IgG1 in HgIA, while lack of FcgammaRIIb increases the IgG2b ANoA response and the serum IgG1 and IgE response.
5-Fluorouracil(5FU) and oral analogues, such as capecitabine, remain one of the most useful agents for the treatment of colorectal adenocarcinoma. Low toxicity and convenience of administration facilitate use, however clinical resistance is a major limitation. Investigation has failed to fully explain the molecular mechanisms of resistance and no clinically useful predictive biomarkers for 5FU resistance have been identified. We investigated the molecular mechanisms of clinical 5FU resistance in colorectal adenocarcinoma patients in a prospective biomarker discovery project utilising gene expression profiling. The aim was to identify novel 5FU resistance mechanisms and qualify these as candidate biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
Putative treatment specific gene expression changes were identified in a transcriptomics study of rectal adenocarcinomas, biopsied and profiled before and after pre-operative short-course radiotherapy or 5FU based chemo-radiotherapy, using microarrays. Tumour from untreated controls at diagnosis and resection identified treatment-independent gene expression changes. Candidate 5FU chemo-resistant genes were identified by comparison of gene expression data sets from these clinical specimens with gene expression signatures from our previous studies of colorectal cancer cell lines, where parental and daughter lines resistant to 5FU were compared. A colorectal adenocarcinoma tissue microarray (n = 234, resected tumours) was used as an independent set to qualify candidates thus identified.
APRIL/TNFSF13 mRNA was significantly upregulated following 5FU based concurrent chemo-radiotherapy and in 5FU resistant colorectal adenocarcinoma cell lines but not in radiotherapy alone treated colorectal adenocarcinomas. Consistent with APRIL's known function as an autocrine or paracrine secreted molecule, stromal but not tumour cell protein expression by immunohistochemistry was correlated with poor prognosis (p = 0.019) in the independent set. Stratified analysis revealed that protein expression of APRIL in the tumour stroma is associated with survival in adjuvant 5FU treated patients only (n = 103, p < 0.001), and is independently predictive of lack of clinical benefit from adjuvant 5FU [HR 6.25 (95%CI 1.48-26.32), p = 0.013].
A combined investigative model, analysing the transcriptional response in clinical tumour specimens and cancers cell lines, has identified APRIL, a novel chemo-resistance biomarker with independent predictive impact in 5FU-treated CRC patients, that may represent a target for novel therapeutics.
Bipolar disorder (BPD) is associated with high rates of substance abuse. We previously reported favorable results with lamotrigine in 30 patients with BPD and cocaine dependence. This report examines lamotrigine therapy in an additional 32 cocaine dependent patients. Data on these 32 participants are presented as a replication study. In addition, we extend the previous findings by combining data from both groups, and by exploring predictors of response.
Participants received a baseline evaluation and assessment for up to 36weeks with the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD(17)), Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS(18)), and Cocaine Craving Questionnaire (CCQ). Urine samples were obtained, and participants reported drug use during the previous week.
In the replication sample (n=32), significant improvements were observed in HRSD(17), YMRS, BPRS(18), and CCQ (baseline to exit), as well as on dollars/week spent on cocaine. In the extension study, the original sample (n=30) and the replication sample (n=32) were combined for a total of 62 participants in the intent-to-treat sample. HRSD(17), YMRS, BPRS(18), and CCQ scores, as well as dollars spent on cocaine, decreased significantly.
The study has an open-label, uncontrolled design.
Lamotrigine treatment was associated with significant improvements in mood, drug craving, and drug use. Controlled trials are needed.
The purpose of this study was to determine maternal urinary prostacyclin and thromboxane excretion in patients with recent cocaine use, compared to cocaine-free controls, and correlate the findings with Doppler velocimetry.
Seventeen patients admitted with premature rupture of membranes between the gestational ages of 24 and 34 weeks were tested for urinary cocaine metabolites. Eleven patients had positive screening and six patients were negative and served as controls. After initial stabilization, 24-h urine collections were obtained and were assayed for the prostacyclin metabolite 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF(1alpha), and the thromboxane metabolite 2,3-dinor TXB2. These patients underwent uterine and umbilical arterial Doppler velocimetry expressed as the pulsatility index. Statistical analysis was performed by the SPSS statistical package using the non-paired Student t test, and Spearman correlation coefficient with p < 0.05 being considered significant.
Compared with controls, urinary excretion of prostacyclin in pregnant women with recent cocaine use was significantly lower. The pulsatility index of the uterine arteries of the cocaine-positive individuals was higher than in controls and had a significant inverse correlation with prostacyclin metabolite excretion. Umbilical arterial velocimetry was similar in the two groups.
Recent cocaine ingestion in pregnant women decreases production of prostacyclin and negatively affects the pulsatility index of the uterine artery.
Clonidine is being used increasingly for treatment of spasticity in patients with spinal cord injury. Though hypotension, dry mouth, and constipation are well-documented possible adverse effects, the possibility of clonidine-induced bradycardia is less well recognized and is rare. This report describes a patient who developed spasticity following a traumatic spinal cord injury. After clonidine was initiated, the patient's spasticity improved. However, he developed significant bradycardia. Once clonidine was discontinued, the resting heart rate returned to normal. This case illustrates an unusual adverse effect of clonidine. Possible mechanisms by which clonidine decreases spasticity are described, probable mechanisms of induced bradycardia are reviewed, and specific treatment recommendations for the use of clonidine in spinal cord injured patients are presented.
Resveratrol, a naturally occurring dietary compound with chemopreventive properties has been reported to trigger a variety of cancer cell types to apoptosis. Whether resveratrol shows any activity on human nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) cells remained to be determined. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect and mechanism of resveratrol on human NPC cells. Treatment of resveratrol resulted in significant decrease in cell viability of NPC cell lines in a dose- and time-dependent manner. A dose-dependent apoptotic cell death was also measured by flow cytometery analysis. Molecular mechanistic studies of apoptosis unraveled resveratrol treatment resulted in a significant loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential, release of cytochrome c, enhanced expression of Fas ligand (FasL), and suppression of glucose-regulated protein 78 kDa (GRP78). These were followed by activation of caspases-9, -8, -4, and -3, subsequently leading to DNA fragmentation and cell apoptosis. Furthermore, up-regulation of proapoptotic Bax and down-regulation of antiapoptotic Bcl-2 protein were also observed. Taken together, resveratrol induces apoptosis in human NPC cells through regulation of multiple apoptotic pathways, including death receptor, mitochondria, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Resveratrol can be developed as an effective compound for human NPC treatment.
The purpose of this study was to test specific mechanisms of protection afforded the rat extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscle during ischemic tolerance. Two days following five cycles of 10 min ischemia and 10 min reperfusion, heme oxygenase (HO) and calcium-dependent nitric oxide synthase (cNOS) activities were increased 2- and 2.5-fold (p <.05), respectively. Interestingly, calcium-independent NOS (iNOS) activity was completely downregulated (p <.05). The levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase were increased 2-fold (p <.05), while glutathione peroxidase activity remained unchanged from non-preconditioned controls. Using intravital microscopy combined with chromium mesoporphyrin (CrMP), a selective HO inhibitor, and l-NAME, a NOS inhibitor, the roles of HO and cNOS were evaluated. Ischemic tolerance in the EDL muscle, 48 h after the preconditioning stimulus, was characterized by complete protection from both microvascular perfusion deficits and tissue injury after a 2-h period of ischemia. Removal of NOS activity completely removed the benefit afforded microvascular perfusion, while inhibition of HO activity prevented the parenchymal protection. These data suggest that ischemic tolerance within skeletal muscle is associated with the upregulation of specific cytoprotective proteins and that the benefits afforded by cNOS and HO activity are spatially discrete to the microvasculature and parenchyma, respectively.
Increased formation of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is a key part of hyperprostaglandin E syndrome/antenatal Bartter syndrome (HPS/aBS), a renal disease characterized by NaCl wasting, water loss, and hyperreninism. Inhibition of PGE2 formation by cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors significantly lowers patient mortality and morbidity. However, the pathogenic role of PGE2 in HPS/aBS awaits clarification. Chronic blockade of the Na-K-2Cl co-transporter NKCC2 by diuretics causes symptoms similar to HPS/aBS and provides a useful animal model. In wild-type (WT) mice and in mice lacking distinct PGE2 receptors (EP1-/-, EP2-/-, EP3-/-, and EP4-/-), the effect of chronic furosemide administration (7 d) on urine output, sodium and potassium excretion, and renin secretion was determined. Furthermore, furosemide-induced diuresis and renin activity were analyzed in mice with defective PGI2 receptors (IP-/-). In all animals studied, furosemide stimulated a rise in diuresis and electrolyte excretion. However, this effect was blunted in EP1-/-, EP3-/-, and EP4-/- mice. Compared with WT mice, no difference was observed in EP2-/- and IP-/- mice. The furosemide-induced increase in plasma renin concentration was significantly decreased in EP4-/- mice and to a lesser degree also in IP-/- mice. Pharmacologic inhibition of EP4 receptors in furosemide-treated WT mice with the specific antagonist ONO-AE3-208 mimicked the changes in renin mRNA expression, plasma renin concentration, diuresis, and sodium excretion seen in EP4-/- mice. The GFR in EP4-/- mice was not changed compared with that in WT mice, which indicated that blunted diuresis and salt loss seen in EP4-/- mice were not a consequence of lower GFR. In summary, these findings demonstrate that the EP4 receptor mediates PGE2-induced renin secretion and that EP1, EP3, and EP4 receptors all contribute to enhanced PGE2-mediated salt and water excretion in the HPS/aBS model.
Mercury (Hg) is neurotoxic, and children may be particularly susceptible to this effect. A current major challenge is the identification of children who may be uniquely susceptible to Hg toxicity because of genetic disposition. We examined the hypothesis that genetic variants of metallothionein (MT) that are reported to affect Hg toxicokinetics in adults would modify the neurotoxic effects of Hg in children. Five hundred seven children, 8-12 years of age at baseline, participated in a clinical trial to evaluate the neurobehavioral effects of Hg from dental amalgam tooth fillings. Subjects were evaluated at baseline and at 7 subsequent annual intervals for neurobehavioral performance and urinary Hg levels. Following the completion of the clinical trial, we performed genotyping assays for variants of MT isoforms MT1M (rs2270837) and MT2A (rs10636) on biological samples provided by 330 of the trial participants. Regression modeling strategies were employed to evaluate associations between allelic status, Hg exposure, and neurobehavioral test outcomes. Among girls, few significant interactions or independent main effects for Hg exposure and either of the MT gene variants were observed. In contrast, among boys, numerous significant interaction effects between variants of MT1M and MT2A, alone and combined, with Hg exposure were observed spanning multiple domains of neurobehavioral function. All dose-response associations between Hg exposure and test performance were restricted to boys and were in the direction of impaired performance. These findings suggest increased susceptibility to the adverse neurobehavioral effects of Hg among children with relatively common genetic variants of MT, and may have important public health implications for future strategies aimed at protecting children and adolescents from the potential health risks associated with Hg exposure. We note that because urinary Hg reflects a composite exposure index that cannot be attributed to a specific source, these findings do not support an association between Hg in dental amalgams specifically and the adverse neurobehavioral outcomes observed.
The rapid development and expanding applications of nanotechnology have led to enhanced exposure of human body to nanoparticles. It is, therefore, necessary to address the safety issue via rigorous toxicological evaluation and to understand the underlying interaction mechanism. However, only a few studies to date have evaluated the safety of nano-sized materials and their potential adverse effects on biological systems. In this study, we sought to investigate the potential toxicity of aluminum oxide (alumina) nanoparticles in ICR strained mice, focusing on potential neurobehavioral defects and the possible mechanisms. The results demonstrated that nano-alumina impaired neurobehavioral functions, including lengthened escape latency, shorter time spent in the target quadrant and reductions in the number of platform crossing. In addition, it induced cell necrosis and apoptosis, which were likely mediated by the reduction of MMP and ROS, and the induction of the caspase-3 gene. Our results implicated that mitochondrial impairment plays a key role in neurotoxicity of nano-alumina, sequent oxidative damage and neural cell loss, especially necrosis, may be direct causes for the neurobehavioral defects. Collectively, nano-alumina presents a strong pro-cell death effect on ICR mice in vivo, suggesting that nano-alumina may serve as an inducer for neural toxicology. Findings in the present study indicating that surface chemical characteristics and nanoscale sizes of nano-alumina could co-contribute significantly to neurotoxicity. The impaired neurobehavioral patterns indicate that nano-alumina particles are more toxic to the cerebrum than those of nano-carbon with the same nanoparticle size and micro-alumina with the same surface chemical characteristics.
There recently has been a resurgence in the utilization of ketamine, a unique anesthetic, for emergency-department procedures requiring sedation. The purpose of the present study was to examine the safety and efficacy of ketamine for sedation in the treatment of children's fractures in the emergency department.
One hundred and fourteen children (average age, 5.3 years; range, twelve months to ten years and ten months) who underwent closed reduction of an isolated fracture or dislocation in the emergency department at a level-I trauma center were prospectively evaluated. Ketamine hydrochloride was administered intravenously (at a dose of two milligrams per kilogram of body weight) in ninety-nine of the patients and intramuscularly (at a dose of four milligrams per kilogram of body weight) in the other fifteen. A board-certified emergency physician skilled in airway management supervised administration of the anesthetic, and the patients were monitored by a registered nurse. Any pain during the reduction was rated by the orthopaedic surgeon treating the patient according to the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale (CHEOPS).
The average time from intravenous administration of ketamine to manipulation of the fracture or dislocation was one minute and thirty-six seconds (range, twenty seconds to five minutes), and the average time from intramuscular administration to manipulation was four minutes and forty-two seconds (range, sixty seconds to fifteen minutes). The average score according to the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale was 6.4 points (range, 5 to 10 points), reflecting minimal or no pain during fracture reduction. Adequate fracture reduction was obtained in 111 of the children. Ninety-nine percent (sixty-eight) of the sixty-nine parents present during the reduction were pleased with the sedation and would allow it to be used again in a similar situation. Patency of the airway and independent respiration were maintained in all of the patients. Blood pressure and heart rate remained stable. Minor side effects included nausea (thirteen patients), emesis (eight of the thirteen patients with nausea), clumsiness (evident as ataxic movements in ten patients), and dysphoric reaction (one patient). No long-term sequelae were noted, and no patients had hallucinations or nightmares.
Ketamine reliably, safely, and quickly provided adequate sedation to effectively facilitate the reduction of children's fractures in the emergency department at our institution. Ketamine should only be used in an environment such as the emergency department, where proper one-on-one monitoring is used and board-certified physicians skilled in airway management are directly involved in the care of the patient.
We investigated as to whether dosedependent extrapyramidal tolerance of Flupentixol decanoate is inferior to that of Risperidone.
143 Risperidone and 177 Flupentixol decanoate treated patients were consecutively entered into this non - randomized open study and assessed with the Simpson-Angus-Scale regarding presence of rigor. Treatment comparisons of rigor frequency was done by Kaplan-Meier analysis.
The risk of rigor increased with dose on both treatments. EPMS-risk was not increased under treatment with Flupentixol decanoate (mean dose 35.06 +/- 19.7 mg/2 weeks) compared to Risperidone (mean daily dose: 5.2 +/- 2.5 mg/kg) when comparable weight standardized Haloperidol equivalence doses (WHE) were used.
This study offers limited evidence for methodological reasons. Yet, results do not support the view that EPS are more frequent on Flupentixol decanoate than on Risperidone when doses are comparable.
The efficacy of the atypical antipsychotic risperidone was evaluated in the treatment of aberrant behavior (e.g., aggression, self-injury) in 20 individuals with developmental disabilities. A double-blind, crossover design was used to compare risperidone with placebo in a 22-week trial with a 6-month follow-up phase. Based on a 50% reduction in mean Aberrant Behavior Checklist--Community total scores, 50% of the participants were identified as responders. Naturalistic observations of a subset of five individuals showed that for 4 out of 5 participants, risperidone was effective in reducing aberrant behavior. Side effects included weight gain (84% of participants) and sedation (40% of participants). The advantages of conducting a comprehensive analysis of the effects of medication on aberrant behavior are discussed.
The dopamine precursor, L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), remains the most common treatment for Parkinson's disease. However, following long-term treatment, disabling side effects, particularly L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias, are encountered. Conversely, D2/D3 dopamine receptor agonists, such as ropinirole, exert an anti-parkinsonian effect while eliciting less dyskinesia when administered de novo in Parkinson's disease patients. Parkinson's disease and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia are both associated with changes in mRNA and peptide levels of the opioid peptide precursors preproenkephalin-A (PPE-A) and preproenkephalin-B (PPE-B). Furthermore, a potential role of abnormal opioid peptide transmission in dyskinesia is suggested due to the ability of opioid receptor antagonists to reduce the L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in animal models of Parkinson's disease. In this study, the behavioural response, striatal topography and levels of expression of the opioid peptide precursors PPE-A and PPE-B were assessed, following repeated vehicle, ropinirole, or L-DOPA administration in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease. While repeated administration of L-DOPA significantly elevated PPE-B mRNA levels (313% cf. vehicle, 6-OHDA-lesioned rostral striatum; 189% cf. vehicle, 6-OHDA-lesioned caudal striatum) in the unilaterally 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease, ropinirole did not. These data and previous studies suggest the involvement of enhanced opioid transmission in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and that part of the reason why D2/D3 dopamine receptor agonists have a reduced propensity to elicit dyskinesia may reside in their reduced ability to elevate opioid transmission.
Inorganic arsenic (iAs) is a human urinary bladder, skin and lung carcinogen. iAs is metabolized to methylated arsenicals, with trivalent arsenicals more cytotoxic than pentavalent forms in vitro. In this study, cytotoxicity and gene expression changes for arsenite (iAs(III)), monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)) and dimethylarsinous acid (DMA(III)) were evaluated in three human cell types, urothelial (1T1), keratinocyte (HEK001) and bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells, corresponding to target organs for iAs-induced cancer. Cells were exposed to arsenicals to determine cytotoxicity and to study gene expression changes. Affymetrix chips were used to determine differentially expressed genes (DEGs) by statistical analysis. Lethal concentrations (LC50) for trivalent arsenicals in all cells ranged from 1.6 to 10μM. MMA(III) and DMA(III) had 4-12-fold greater potency compared to iAs. Increasing concentrations of iAs(III) induced more genes and additional signaling pathways in HBE cells. At equivalent cytotoxic concentrations, greater numbers of DEGs were induced in 1T1 cells compared to the other cells. Each arsenical altered slightly different signaling pathways within and between cell types, but when altered pathways from all three arsenicals were combined, they were similar between cell types. The major signaling pathways altered included NRF2-mediated stress response, interferon, p53, cell cycle regulation and lipid peroxidation. These results show a similar process qualitatively and quantitatively for all three cell types, and support a mode of action involving cytotoxicity and regenerative proliferation.
Cyproterone acetate is a powerful antiandrogen used in the treatment of the paraphilias for at least a decade. Studies have reported it effective in reducing the recidivism rates of sexual crimes perpetrated by men. It acts through competitive inhibition of the androgen receptors blocking the effects of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone. Systematic clinical study of its effectiveness and its clinical effects on sexual behavior is lacking, however. In the current study 19 paraphilic men who had also recidivated in a variety of sexual crimes were treated with cyproterone acetate and placebo in a double-blind crossover design. The use of active drug was associated with a significant reduction of some aspects of sexual behavior, particularly sexual fantasies. There were also significant effects on levels of circulating sex hormones and some effects on physiological measurements and self-reports of sexual arousal.
Diuron [3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea] is a herbicide that induced urothelial tumors in the urinary bladder of Wistar rats fed 2500ppm during a long-term study. The currently suggested non-genotoxic mode of action (MOA) of diuron encompasses in succession urothelial necrosis induced by direct cytotoxicity, regenerative cell proliferation and sustained urothelial hyperplasia that increases the likelihood of neoplasia development. This study evaluated the dose-response profile of urothelial histological and ultrastructural lesions induced by diuron. Sixty male Wistar rats were fed ad libitum diuron mixed in the diet at 0, 60, 125, 500, 1250, or 2500ppm for 20 weeks. The incidences of urothelial simple hyperplasia and the cell proliferation index were significantly increased in the diuron-fed 1250 and 2500ppm groups. By scanning electron microscopy, the incidences and severity of lesions were significantly increased in the 500 and 1250ppm groups. The incidences of urothelial hyperplasia in the kidney pelvis were significantly increased in the 500, 1250 and 2500ppm groups. The present study documents the dose-response influence of diuron on the rat urothelium, with a no observed effect level (NOEL) at 125ppm; 1250ppm was as effective as 2500ppm at inducing urothelial lesions.
The rare occurrence of methotrexate (MTX)-induced vasculitis has been associated mainly with high or intermediate MTX doses. We report herein a case of cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis (LCV) following treatment with low-dose oral MTX (7.5 mg/week) for rheumatoid arthritis. The histological findings of a cutaneous lesion were consistent with drug-induced vasculitis. The clinical and histological findings, including the temporal relationship between MTX intake and the onset of vasculitis, and the results of withdrawal and rechallenge tests, suggest a causal relationship, and indicate a drug-induced LCV due to MTX. The role of MTX in the induction of the vasculitis was further supported by a positive mast cell degranulation (MCD) test.
A 99mTc-MDP bone scan performed on a 34-yr-old female for suspected osteomyelitis of the proximal tibia revealed focally increased activity in both tibial tuberosities due to enthesopathies secondary to chronic isotretinoin therapy. Physicians should be aware that isotretinoin therapy can cause abnormal bone scans and not mistake these abnormalities for other diseases such as osteomyelitis. Second, bone scans may be helpful in diagnosing and following isotretinoin bone toxicity.
Mice irradiated with a dose of 4,78 Gy X-radiation were treated 3 or 5 days with a thrice-daily dose of chloramphenicol of 160 or 320 mg/kg. Observation of the incorporation of 59Fe into the heme fraction suggested that chloramphenicol has a depressive effect on erythropoiesis in the spleen of nonirradiated animals, and clearly proved this in irradiated ones. Depression in the bone marrow of nonirradiated animals was not observed, in irradiated animals a depressive effect was shown, though less strong than in the spleen. As benefits these findings there is an accentuation of postirradiational anemia after chloramphenicol treatment of irradiated animals, and signs of incipient anemia in nonirradiated animals. All the effects mentioned were repaired within 14 days of the end of chloramphenicol treatment.
Trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type I (TRPS I) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder clinically characterized by sparse and slow-growing hair, pear-shaped nose, elongated philtrum, thin upper lip, and bone deformities, in particular, cone-shaped epiphyses of the phalanges. Very recently, the responsible gene TRPS1 has been cloned on human chromosome 8q24.
We describe a mother and her 2 daughters and a female patient with a sporadic case of TRPS I. In the familial case, mutation analysis showed an insertional mutation at position 2480 of the TRPS1 gene leading to a premature translational stop. Careful clinical examination showed craniofacial and radiologic features typical of TRPS I, including short stature, in all 3 affected individuals. Additionally, they presented with a receded triangular medio-occipital hairline, which has not been described in TRPS I so far. In the sporadic case, we identified a single base deletion at position 2110 of the TRPS1 gene leading to frameshift and premature translational stop at codon 766. The patient presented with the typical TRPS I phenotype but was of normal stature.
The TRPS I is characterized by variable clinical expression of the triad of hair, craniofacial, and skeletal abnormalities. New genetic approaches, including mutation analysis, now allow identification of carriers of the TRPS1 gene mutations.
Today, the major problem in organ transplantation is not acute graft rejection but chronic graft deterioration. In addition to alloantigen-specific events, alloantigen independent factors like donor age, previous diseases, consequences of brain death, and perioperative events of ischemia/reperfusion injury have a major impact on long-term graft function. The induction of the stress protein heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) protects cells from injury and apoptosis. Here, we tested the protective effects of HO-1 induction in a clinically relevant kidney transplant model. Induction of HO-1 expression following cobalt-protoporphyrin (CoPP) treatment in organ donors prolonged graft survival and long-term function remarkably following extended periods of ischemia. Positive effects were observed with both optimal and marginal grafts from old donor animals. Structural changes characteristic for chronic rejection, as well as graft infiltration by monocytes/macrophages and CD8+ T cells, were substantially reduced following HO-1 induction. Up-regulation of HO-1 expression before organ transplantation was also associated with reduced levels for tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha mRNA, increased levels for interferon (IFN)-gamma, and bcl-x, and insignificant differences for CD25, interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, IL-6, and IL-10 mRNA levels. The significant improvement of long-term graft function following induction of HO-1 expression in donor organs suggests that this strategy may be a novel clinical treatment option with particular relevance for transplantation of marginal organs.
