The TIMI phase II pilot study enrolled 288 patients with acute myocardial infarction who were treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) within 4 hours of symptom onset and who were assigned to coronary angioplasty of the infarct-related vessel 18 to 48 hours after rt-PA treatment. The patients were followed to ascertain (1) vital status; (2) whether they suffered a recurrent myocardial infarction; (3) whether they received coronary angioplasty or bypass grafting; and (4) whether they were rehospitalized for a cardiac event. Risk factors for these events or combination of these events were identified and reported. The estimated 6-week, 6-month, and 1-year cumulative event rate of death or myocardial infarction was 9.1 +/- 1.7%, 12.9 +/- 2.0%, and 13.6 +/- 2.0%, respectively. With the exception of repeat hospital admissions, most of the above cardiac events occurred early during the patients' follow-up course. Cox proportional hazard analyses revealed that continuing chest pain after rt-PA administration, history of congestive heart failure, low systolic blood pressure at the time of initial evaluation, and history of hypertension increased the risk of death or recurrent myocardial infarction, while a history of chest discomfort at baseline evaluation and older age was predictive of future hospitalization or a revascularization procedure.
Fifty elderly depressed patients were randomly assigned to double-blind treatment, using a flexible dose schedule, with either mianserin 20-60 mg or imipramine 75-150 mg. Medication was continued for four weeks. Eleven patients withdrew from the study. At the end of treatment there were no significant differences between mianserin and imipramine in antidepressant efficacy. A significantly greater number of side-effects occurred in the imipramine group (dry mouth, days 7 and 14; faintness, dizziness, weakness, day 21). When treating elderly depressed patients mianserin may be preferred to imipramine because of a lower incidence of induced side-effects.
Acetaminophen (paracetamol--P) and Nimesulide (N) are widely used analgesic-antipyretic/anti-inflammatory drugs. The rate of adverse hypersensitivity reactions to these agents is generally low. On the contrary non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are commonly involved in such reactions. Celecoxib (CE) is a novel drug, with high selectivity and affinity for COX-2 enzyme.
We evaluated the tolerability of CE in a group of patients with documented history of adverse cutaneous reactions to P and N associated or not to classic NSAIDs.
We studied 9 patients with hypersensitivity to P and N with or without associated reactions to classic NSAIDs. The diagnosis of P and N-induced skin reactions was based in vivo challenge. The placebo was blindly administered at the beginning of each challenge. After three days, a cumulative dosage of 200 mg of CE in refracted doses were given. After 2-3 days, a single dose of 200 mg was administered. All patients were observed for 6 hours after each challenge, and controlled again after 24 hours to exclude delayed reactions. The challenge was considered positive if one or more of the following appeared: erythema, rush or urticaria-angioedema.
No reaction was observed with placebo and eight patients (88.8%) tolerated CE. Only one patient developed a moderate angioedema of the lips.
Only one hypersensitivity reaction to CE was documented among 9 P and N-highly NSAIDs intolerant patients. Thus, we conclude that CE is a reasonably safe alternative to be used in subjects who do not tolerate P and N.
Diltiazem hydrochloride was administered at a dose of 180 mg/day for 12 weeks to 10 essential hypertensive patients with slightly or moderately decreased renal plasma flow (RPF) in order to study its antihypertensive effect as well as the effects on cardiac and renal functions. The administration of diltiazem hydrochloride produced significant decreases in systolic pressure, diastolic pressure, and mean blood pressure. Right and left ventricular ejection fractions, max. dv/dt, and min. dv/dt assessed by cardiac pool scintigraphy were slightly increased, but these changes were not statistically significant. The glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and RPF were slightly increased, while renovascular resistance (RVR) was significantly reduced. No consistent tendency was observed in changes in plasma renin activity (PRA) and plasma aldosterone level. From these results, it was suggested that diltiazem hydrochloride is a potent antihypertensive drug which has no adverse effects on cardiac and renal functions in the treatment of essential hypertensive patients with slightly or moderately decreased RPF.
Glucagon relieves calcium channel blocker-induced hypotension in animal studies. There are no published case reports of glucagon relieving hypotension in patients with calcium channel blocker poisoning. We describe a patient who developed hypotension after ingestion of 900 mg nifedipine. Therapy with IV lactated Ringer's solution and calcium chloride alone did not relieve his hypotension. However, hypotension rapidly resolved after the addition of IV glucagon therapy. This is the first case report of glucagon therapy at least temporally associated with relief of hypotension in a patient with calcium channel blocker poisoning. More research is needed to determine the appropriate role for glucagon in treating patients with calcium channel blocker poisoning.
This phase II study evaluated the combination of semaxanib, a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor-2, and thalidomide in patients with metastatic melanoma to assess the efficacy, tolerability, pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) characteristics of the combination.
Patients with metastatic melanoma, who had failed at least one prior biologic and/or chemotherapeutic regimen, were treated with escalating doses of thalidomide combined with a fixed dose of semaxanib.
Twelve patients were enrolled and received 44 courses of semaxanib at the fixed dose of 145 mg/m2 intravenously twice-weekly in combination with thalidomide, commencing at 200 mg daily with intrapatient dose escalation as tolerated. Treatment with semaxanib was initiated 1 day before thalidomide in the first course, permitting the assessment of the PKs of semaxanib alone (course 1) and in combination with thalidomide (course 2). The principal toxicities included deep venous thrombosis, headache, and lower extremity edema. Of ten patients evaluable for response, one complete response lasting 20 months and one partial response lasting 12 months were observed. Additionally, four patients had stable disease lasting from 2 to 10 months. The PKs of semaxanib were characterized by drug exposure parameters comparable to those observed in single-agent phase II studies, indicating the absence of major drug-drug interactions. Maximum semaximib plasma concentration values were 1.2-3.8 microg/ml in course 1 and 1.1-3.9 microg/ml in course 2. The mean terminal half-life was 1.3 ( +/- 0.31) h. Biological studies revealed increasing serum VEGF concentrations following treatment in patients remaining on study for more than 4 months.
The combination of semaxanib and thalidomide was feasible and demonstrated anti-tumor activity in patients with metastatic melanoma who had failed prior therapy. Further evaluations of therapeutic strategies that target multiple angiogenesis pathways may be warranted in patients with advanced melanoma and other malignancies.
We inform about a case of occupational allergic contact dermatitis (OACD) to methyldibromoglutaronitrile (MDBGN) in industrial hand degreasing moist toilet paper. To our knowledge, this is the first published case of OACD to MDBGN in industrial hand degreasing toilet papers. A cause-effect relationship seems to be clearly established. We believe that physicians must keep in mind that MDBGN is a strong allergen either mixed or as a single component of industrial moist toilet papers. MDBGN must be taken into account for OACD at an appropriate work environment.
We report a case of coeliac axis thrombosis and splenic infarction presenting in a girl of 14 years who had been on the oral contraceptive pill (OCP), Marvelon (ethinyloestradiol 30 microg plus desogestrel 150 microg, Organon, Cambridge, UK), for 3 weeks. She had no other risk factors for thrombo-embolism. Diagnosis was made with duplex Doppler ultrasound and confirmed with dynamically-enhanced comput-ed tomography and magnetic resonance angiography, thus avoiding the need for percutaneous arteriography. Though mesenteric thrombo-embolic disease is recognised in association with use of the combined OCP, it has not previously been reported to affect the coeliac axis. Paediatricians and surgeons should be aware of the risks to young girls on the OCP, and consider it in their differential diagnosis of the acute abdomen.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level, are believed promising biomarkers for several diseases as well as a novel target of drugs, including cancer. In particular, miRNAs might allow detection of early stages of carcinogenesis. The present study was conducted to provide concrete evidence using chemical-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rat as a model. We thereby observed aberrant fluctuation of circulating miRNAs in the serum of rats not only with neoplastic lesions such as hepatocellular adenoma (HCA) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but also with preneoplastic lesions, such as foci of hepatocellular alteration (FHA). Additional qRT-PCR analysis revealed gradual elevation of some circulating miRNAs (i.e., let-7a, let-7f, miR-34a, miR-98, miR-331, miR-338 and miR-652) with progress of hepatocarcinogenesis. Interestingly, increased levels of let-7a, let-7f and miR-98 were statistically significant even in the serum of rats at very early stages. These findings provide the first evidences that circulating miRNAs have the potential to predict carcinogenesis at earlier stages, preneoplastic lesions than with previous biomarkers and that they might be utilized to monitor the progress of tumor development.
Obesity is reaching epidemic proportions worldwide and it is correlated with various comorbidities, among which the most relevant are diabetes mellitus, arterial hypertension, and cardiovascular diseases. Obesity management is a modern challenge because of the rapid evolution of unfavorable lifestyles and unfortunately there are no effective treatments applicable to the large majority of obese/overweight people. The current medical attitude is to treat the complications of obesity (e.g. dyslipidemia, hypertension, diabetes, and cardiovascular diseases). However, the potential of treating obesity is enormous, bearing in mind that a volitional weight loss of 10 kg is associated with important risk factor improvement: blood pressure -10 mmHg, total cholesterol -10%, LDL cholesterol -15%, triglycerides -30%, fasting glucose -50%, HDL cholesterol +8%. Drug treatment for obesity is an evolving branch of pharmacology, burdened by severe side effects and consequences of the early drugs, withdrawn from the market, and challenged by the lack of long-term data on the effect of medications on obesity-related morbidity and mortality, first of all cardiovascular diseases. In Europe three antiobesity drugs are currently licensed: sibutramine, orlistat, and rimonabant; important trials with clinical endpoints are ongoing for sibutramine and rimonabant. While waiting for their results, it is convenient to evaluate these drugs for their effects on body weight and cardiometabolic risk factors. Sibutramine is a centrally acting serotonin/noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor that mainly increases satiety. At the level of brown adipose tissue, sibutramine can also facilitate energy expenditure by increasing thermogenesis. The long-term studies (five) documented a mean differential weight reduction of 4.45 kg for sibutramine vs placebo. Considering the principal studies, attrition rate was 43%. This drug not only reduces body weight and waist circumference, but it decreases triglycerides and uric acid as well and it increases HDL cholesterol; in diabetics it improves glycated hemoglobin. Sibutramine has conflicting effects on blood pressure: in some studies there was a minimal decrease, in some others a modest increase. In all the studies this drug increased pulse rate. Sibutramine is not recommended in patients with uncontrolled hypertension, or in case of history of cardio- and cerebrovascular disease. Orlistat is a pancreatic lipase inhibitor that reduces fat absorption by partially blocking the hydrolysis of dietary triglycerides. A recent meta-analysis evaluated 22 studies lasting for at least 12 months, in obese patients with a mean body mass index of 36.7 kg/m2, where orlistat was associated with hypocaloric diet or behavioral interventions: the net average weight loss was 2.89 kg (confidence interval 2.27-3.51 kg). Considering the principal studies, attrition rate ranged from 33 to 57%. Orlistat significantly decreases waist circumference, blood pressure, total and LDL cholesterol, but has no effect on HDL and triglycerides. This drug significantly reduced the incidence of diabetes only in subjects with impaired glucose tolerance. The major adverse effects with orlistat are mainly gastrointestinal (fatty and oily stool, fecal urgency, oily spotting, fecal incontinence) and attenuate over time. Orlistat should be avoided in patients with chronic malabsorption and cholestasis. Rimonabant is a selective antagonist of cannabinoid type 1 receptor. This drug, by inhibiting the overactivation of the endocannabinoid system, produces anorectic stimuli at the central nervous level, but also has effects on the peripheral systems involved in metabolism control, such as liver, adipose tissue, skeletal muscles, endocrine pancreas, and gastrointestinal apparatus, influencing many processes partially unknown. An ample experimental program named RIO (Rimonabant In Obesity) involved about 6600 obese or overweight patients to identify the effects of rimonabant in weight loss and associated cardiometabolic abnormalities, over and beyond a caloric restriction of 600 kcal in the treatment and placebo arms. In the four double-blind RIO trials published (Rio-North America, RIO-Europe, RIO-Lipids, RIO-Diabetes), rimonabant 20 mg significantly (p <0.001) reduced weight by 6.3-6.9 kg in the non-diabetic groups vs placebo (-1.5-1.8 kg), whereas in the diabetic subjects enrolled in RIO-Diabetes, weight loss was 5.3 vs 1.4 kg in the placebo group. Attrition rate at 1 year ranged between 40 and 50%, similar to the studies with sibutramine or orlistat. Similarly to weight loss, also waist circumference was significantly reduced by rimonabant. As for cardiometabolic parameters, rimonabant induced a significant increase in HDL cholesterol and a significant decrease in triglycerides. Even if no significant LDL reduction was achieved, the RIO-Lipids study showed a significant decrease in small dense LDL particles, more atherogenic, in rimonabant-treated subjects. Non-diabetic treated patients improved basal insulin and indirect indexes of insulin resistance, while in the RIO-Diabetes study, the only one including diabetics, glycated hemoglobin improved by 0.7% in the active treatment arm vs placebo. The effects on HDL cholesterol and glycated hemoglobin seem in a large percentage unrelated to weight loss. These effects have been confirmed by another trial, named SERENADE, evaluating the treatment in naive diabetic patients. Rimonabant is not recommended in patients with a history of depressive disorders or suicidal ideation and with uncontrolled psychiatric illness, and is contraindicated in patients with ongoing major depression or ongoing antidepressive treatment. In conclusion, despite an enormous advancement in basic research to understand the pathogenetic mechanisms at the base of obesity, the pharmacological research did not reach the therapeutic opportunities available for other chronic conditions, like hypertension and dyslipidemia. However, the few molecules available for clinical practice (sibutramine, orlistat, rimonabant) have shown, when properly used, to contribute to reduce body weight and undoubtedly improve cardiometabolic risk factors. With this preamble, according to current guidelines and pharmacoeconomic studies, patients who might benefit from antiobesity treatment are those with a body mass index > or =30 or 27-29.9 kg/m2 with major obesity-related comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia, obstructive sleep apnea, and metabolic syndrome.
The French Society of Pediatric Oncology MDH82 study demonstrated the effectiveness of 20 Gy irradiation of involved fields after doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) or mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone/ABVD chemotherapy in children with localized Hodgkin's disease (HD). The response to primary chemotherapy was the only predictor of survival. To reduce long-term treatment complications without compromising efficacy, the MDH90 study was based on a new chemotherapy regimen devoid of both alkylating agents and anthracycline, followed by 20 Gy of radiotherapy (RT) for good responders.
From January 1990 to July 1996, 202 children were enrolled from 30 institutions. Good responders to four cycles of vinblastine, bleomycin, etoposide (VP16), and prednisone (VBVP) were given 20 Gy of RT and no further therapy. Poor responders were given vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone, and doxorubicin. After a second evaluation, good responders were given 20 Gy of RT, and poor responders were given 40 Gy of RT.
One hundred seventy-one patients (85%) were good responders to VBVP, 27 (15%) were poor responders, and four did not respond. With a median follow-up of 74 months (range, 25 to 117 months), the 5-year overall survival rate (mean +/- SD) is 97.5% +/- 2.1%, and the event-free survival rate (mean +/- SD) is 91.1% +/- 1.8%. Significant predictors of worse event-free survival in multivariate analysis were hemoglobin < 10.5 g/L, "b" biologic class, and nodular sclerosis.
These results suggest that most children with clinical stage I and II HD can be treated with chemotherapy devoid of alkylating agents and anthracycline, followed by low-dose RT.
A case report of imipramine-induced syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion in a 54-year-old woman is presented along with a review of the literature on antidepressant-induced SIADH. The clinical and laboratory presentation, diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of antidepressant-induced SIADH also are discussed.
We introduced continuous intravenous infusion of amphotericin-B (AMPH-B) to extremely low birthweight (ELBW) infants (< 1000 g) with or without renal failure as a single agent for treating definite or probable systemic candidiasis. The species of Candida isolated from blood or tracheal aspirate or urine were C. albicans in seven infants, C glabrata in two, C. tropicalis in one and C. parapsilosis in one. The minimal inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of AMPH-B required against these isolates were less than 0.2 micrograms/mL except for that against one strain of C. albicans (0.78 microgram/mL). Serum AMPH-B levels were 0.31-0.78 (0.51 +/- 0.14) micrograms/mL when doses of 0.2-0.55 (0.32 +/- 0.11) mg/kg per day were being administered. The serum level was higher than the MIC of each isolate in all but one infant who died of disseminated intravascular coagulation and Candida pneumonia. Another infant died of congenital heart disease. The other nine infants survived. The serum level showed no correlation with the daily dose. The ratio of the serum level to the daily dose (L/D ratio) showed a significant correlation to serum creatinine (r = 0.787) and the linear regression curve followed the equation: L/D ratio = 0.223 x serum creatinine + 1.11 (P < 0.01). Few adverse effects due to AMPH-B were noted. Our data may give a simple reference to serum AMPH-B levels during continuous intravenous infusion from the dose and the serum creatinine level.
Gentamicin can cause proximal tubule necrosis. We have shown that inhibition of PT Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity is rapidly induced by gentamicin. We have now investigated whether manipulations known to attenuate the negative effects of gentamicin on renal excretory capacity, i.e. high calcium intake and L-thyroxine treatment, will also attenuate gentamicin-induced inhibition of Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity and ameliorated signs of proximal tubule damage. Rats were gentamicin- or vehicle-treated for 7 days. Sub-groups were given 4% calcium (Ca) supplements or L-thyroxine 20 micrograms 100 g-1 body weight daily. Gentamicin significantly reduced the glomerular filtration rate and increased the urinary excretion of the proximal tubule lysosomal enzyme, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase. Gentamicin significantly reduced proximal tubule Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity, measured in single permeabilized proximal tubule segments. Sodium excretion was inversely correlated to proximal tubule Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity. Both calcium and L-thyroxine alleviated all gentamicin-induced side-effects on renal function as well as on proximal tubule Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity. Calcium and L-thyroxine had no significant effect on renal function. L-thyroxine, but not calcium, increased proximal tubule Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity in control rats. Renal cortical tissue gentamicin concentration was not influenced by calcium but was significantly lowered by L-thyroxine. Two procedures which, via different mechanisms, afford protection from gentamicin-induced changes in renal function also give protection from gentamicin-induced inhibition of Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity. This suggests that loss of integrity of the Na+,K(+)-ATPase enzyme contributes to gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity.
To establish a model for functional hyperemia in the rat visual cortex, cortical blood flow responses to flash stimulation were measured with the laser Doppler flow (LDF) technique at various levels of halothane anesthesia. The concentration-dependent effect of halothane on arterial pressure and its consequent effect on the hyperemic response were also investigated. Using a stroboscopic light source, 10 flashes at 1 min intervals were delivered to the left eye of 12 Sprague-Dawley rats. LDF responses were measured bilaterally in the monocular primary visual cortex (V1M) at steady state halothane concentrations between 0.4 and 1.4%. In six rats, methoxamine (MX) was infused to prevent halothane-induced hypotension; the remaining rats did not receive MX. In all rats, LDF response to flash commenced within 1s and peaked at 2.5s in the contralateral V1M, but not in ipsilateral V1M. The maximum LDF response was 25% at 0.5% halothane and 12% at 1.4% halothane. In rats without MX infusion, mean arterial pressure (MAP) fell from 138 to 90 mmHg when halothane increased from 0.4 to 1.4%. MX infusion prevented the hypotension, but did not influence the LDF response, suggesting that the halothane's effect was direct rather than pressure-mediated. We demonstrate for the first time, a robust functional hyperemic response to discrete flash stimuli in the primary visual cortex of halothane-anesthetized albino rats that can be measured with LDF over a wide range of halothane concentrations and is not fully suppressed at surgical levels of halothane anesthesia.
Tropisetron can decrease inflammatory cell responses and alleviate organ damage caused by trauma-hemorrhage, but the mechanism of these effects remains unknown. The p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase/hemeoxygenase-1 (p38 MAPK/HO-1) pathway exerts anti-inflammatory effects on different tissues. The aim of this study was to investigate whether p38 MAPK/HO-1 plays any role in the tropisetron-mediated attenuation of hepatic injury after trauma-hemorrhage. Male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent trauma-hemorrhage (mean blood pressure maintained at approximately 35-40 mmHg for 90 min), followed by fluid resuscitation. During resuscitation, several treatment regimens were administered: four doses of tropisetron alone (0.1, 0.3, 1, 3 mg/kg body weight), or a single dose of tropisetron (1 mg/kg body weight) with and without a p38 MAPK inhibitor (SB-203580, 2 mg/kg body weight) or HO antagonist (chromium-mesoporphyrin, 2.5 mg/kg body weight). Various parameters were measured, and the animals were sacrificed at 24 h post-resuscitation. The results showed that trauma-hemorrhage increased the following parameters: plasma concentrations of aspartate (AST) and alanine aminotransferases (ALT), hepatic myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, and levels of cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-1 and -3 (CINC-1 and CINC-3), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and macrophage inflammatory protein-1α (MIP-1α). These parameters were significantly improved in the tropisetron-treated rats subjected to trauma-hemorrhage. Tropisetron treatment also increased hepatic p38 MAPK and HO-1 expression compared with vehicle-treated trauma-hemorrhaged rats. Co-administration of SB-203580 or chromium-mesoporphyrin with tropisetron abolished the tropisetron-induced beneficial effects on the above parameters and hepatic injury. These results suggest that the protective effect of tropisetron administration on alleviation of hepatic injury after trauma-hemorrhage is likely mediated through p38 MAPK-dependent HO-1 expression.
Clinical studies suggest that colonic luminal hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S), produced by sulfate-reducing bacteria or through other pathways, might be involved in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Nonetheless, this hypothesis has been poorly investigated by basic studies using laboratory animals. We thus focused on two enzymes, cystathionine-gamma-lyase (CSE) that generates H(2)S from l-cysteine, and rhodanese that directly or indirectly detoxifies H(2)S, particularly in relation to the colitis induced by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) in mice. CSE was a major H(2)S-forming enzyme in colonic and renal homogenates from mice and rats, and the rhodanese activity was also detectable in both tissues. Colitis-related symptoms including decreased body weight gain, diarrhea, hematochezia and shortening of colon length were observed in the mice drinking DSS. Those symptoms were not or only slightly attenuated by repeated administration of a CSE inhibitor. CSE activity and protein levels in the colonic tissue did not notably change in the mice with colitis. In contrast, the activity and protein/mRNA levels of rhodanese in the colon, but not kidney, significantly decreased nearly in parallel with the development of colitis, followed by elevation of rhodanese activity in red blood cells (RBCs). These data show that rhodanese, but not CSE, is associated with DSS-induced colitis in mice, leading to a hypothesis that impaired detoxification of H(2)S due to down-regulation or suppression of colonic rhodanese is involved in IBD. The delayed enhancement of rhodanese activity in RBCs, a possible compensative event, might be available as a disease marker for IBD.
We report here two cases of dyserythropoietic anaemia associated with long-term linezolid use that share striking similarities to chloramphenicol-associated myelotoxicity.
Cocaine abuse and addiction can be characterized by a persisting use of cocaine in the face of adverse consequences. In the present study we focus on one specific element of adverse consequences: the making of errors. The aim of this study was to determine whether cocaine-dependent persons have error-processing deficits as measured using error-related negativity (ERN) and error positivity (Pe). Event-related potentials (ERPs) during an Eriksen flanker task were recorded from cocaine-dependent patients and a control group. Cocaine-addicted patients showed reduced ERN and Pe components as compared to a control group. On the behavioral level, patients showed reduced post-error accuracy improvement. The present findings reveal that cocaine addiction is associated with reduced error processing and impaired behavioral correction of errors after an error is made. These deficits may be associated with a compromised dopamine system. It is argued that these cognitive deficits may contribute to the maintenance of the cocaine addiction.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is the most commonly used anticancer drug for colorectal cancer (CRC). In this study, we aimed to clarify the prognostic value of the expression of the 5-FU metabolic enzyme genes, including orptate phosphoribosyl transferase (OPRT), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), thymidylate synthetase (TS) and thymidylate phosphorylate (TP) genes in CRC patients treated with oral 5-FU-based adjuvant chemotherapy. We examined 103 CRC patients with Dukes' stage B and C who underwent oral 5-FU-based adjuvant chemotherapy. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor specimens from primary CRC tissues were dissected by laser-captured microdissection and quantification of mRNA levels of OPRT, DPD, TS and TP were measured by real-time reverse transcription (RT) PCR. The relationship between these 5-FU metabolic enzyme gene levels and disease-free and overall survival rates were examined. The disease-free and overall survival curves of the OPRT mRNA high-expression group were significantly longer than that of the OPRT mRNA low-expression group. The disease-free and overall survival curves of the DPD mRNA high-expression group were significantly shorter than that of the DPD mRNA low-expression group. In contrast, there were no significant differences between the TS or TP mRNA high- expression and low-expression groups in the disease-free and overall survival curves. In a multivariate Cox regression analysis, it was demonstrated that the OPRT mRNA level is an independent prognostic variable for disease-free and overall survival. These results suggest that the OPRT mRNA is a useful indicator in the prediction of disease-free and overall survival in Dukes' B and C stage CRC patients treated with oral 5-FU-based adjuvant chemotherapy.
The antibody-drug conjugate trastuzumab-DM1 (T-DM1) combines the biologic activity of trastuzumab with targeted delivery of a potent antimicrotubule agent, DM1, to human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-overexpressing cancer cells. Based on results from a phase I study that showed T-DM1 was well tolerated at the maximum-tolerated dose of 3.6 mg/kg every 3 weeks, with evidence of efficacy, in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer (MBC) who were previously treated with trastuzumab, we conducted a phase II study to further define the safety and efficacy of T-DM1 in this patient population.
This report describes a single-arm phase II study (TDM4258g) that assessed efficacy and safety of intravenous T-DM1 (3.6 mg/kg every 3 weeks) in patients with HER2-positive MBC who had tumor progression after prior treatment with HER2-directed therapy and who had received prior chemotherapy.
With a follow-up of ≥ 12 months among 112 treated patients, the objective response rate by independent assessment was 25.9% (95% CI, 18.4% to 34.4%). Median duration of response was not reached as a result of insufficient events (lower limit of 95% CI, 6.2 months), and median progression-free survival time was 4.6 months (95% CI, 3.9 to 8.6 months). The response rates were higher among patients with confirmed HER2-positive tumors (immunohistochemistry 3+ or fluorescent in situ hybridization positive) by retrospective central testing (n = 74). Higher response rates were also observed in patients whose tumors expressed ≥ median HER2 levels by quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction for HER2 expression, compared with patients who had less than median HER2 levels. T-DM1 was well tolerated with no dose-limiting cardiotoxicity. Most adverse events (AEs) were grade 1 or 2; the most frequent grade ≥ 3 AEs were hypokalemia (8.9%), thrombocytopenia (8.0%), and fatigue (4.5%).
T-DM1 has robust single-agent activity in patients with heavily pretreated, HER2-positive MBC and is well tolerated at the recommended phase II dose.
Pregnant mice were treated with a single subcutaneous injection of either cyproterone acetate (CA) or medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA). In the first experiment the animals received 5-900 mg/kg of the hormone before implantation (day 2 of pregnancy). CA treatment on day 2 caused a dose-dependent decrease in fetal weight and a significant dose-dependent increase in the rates of cleft palate and urinary tract abnormalities. Exencephaly and heart abnormalities were also significantly more frequent, but this increase was not dose-dependent. MPA treatment on day 2 was followed by sporadic increases in dead and resorbed fetuses, a decrease in fetal weight and an increase in the rates of cleft palate, and malformed or abnormally developed fetuses. None of these effects, however, was dose-dependent. In the second experiment the mice were given one single injection (30 mg/kg) of CA or MPA on any one of days 1-12 of gestation. Treatment with CA on one day between days 1 and 12 revealed that the specific sensitivity for abnormalities of the urinary tract was on days 5 and 6, for the respiratory tract on days 8 and 9, and for cleft palate on days 10 and 11. Treatment with MPA on one day between days 1 and 12 only revealed a high rate of respiratory and urinary tract abnormalities on day 9. After treatment with MPA cleft palate was again significantly more frequent in all treated groups, however, days of peak sensitivity were not detected. The long half-life of CA (60 hours) explains the teratogenic effect of high doses of this progestin after treatment on day 2 and also the pattern of abnormal development found after treatment with a single dose of CA on one of the days between day 1 and day 12.
Heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) chaperones and maintains the molecular integrity of a variety of signal transduction proteins, including the nucleophosmin-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (NPM-ALK) oncogenic protein, a genetic abnormality that is frequently observed in anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) cells. Here we demonstrate that HSP90 is overexpressed in primary and cultured ALK-positive and ALK-negative ALCL cells, and we evaluate the potential role of the small molecule inhibitor of HSP90, 17-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG) in treating ALCL.
The antiproliferative effect of 17-AAG-cultured cells was determined by MTS assay. Apoptosis and cell-cycle arrest were determined by Annexin-V/propidium iodide and propidium iodide staining, respectively, and fluorescein-activated cell sorting analysis. Expression of HSP90 was evaluated by immunohistochemistry, and molecular changes were determined by Western blot.
Treatment of cultured ALCL cells with 17-AAG induced cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis, irrespective of ALK expression. At the molecular level, 17-AAG induced degradation of ALK and Akt proteins, dephosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase, and degraded the cell-cycle regulatory protein cyclin D1 and its cyclin-dependent kinases, CDK4 and CDK6, but had a differential effect on p27 and p53 proteins. Inhibition of extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation by the mitogen activated protein kinase inhibitor U0126 induced cell death in all ALCL cell lines, and sublethal concentration 17-AAG showed synergistic antiproliferative effects when combined with U0126 or doxorubicin.
Our data demonstrate that targeting HSP90 function by 17-AAG may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for ALCL, either as single-agent activity or by combining 17-AAG with conventional or targeted therapeutic schemes.
186 patients with advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma were treated with either a combination of hexamethylmelamine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil (Hexa-CAF) or cyclophosphamide and hexamethylmelamine alternating with doxorubicin and a 5-day course of cisplatin (CHAP-5). Treatment with CHAP-5 resulted in more complete remissions as determined by laparatomy or peritoneoscopy (p = 0.004), better overall response (p = 0.0001), and longer overall survival and progression-free survival (p less than 0.002). Therapy, histological grade, and Karnofsky index were reliable predictors of overall response, whereas therapy, FIGO-stage, and size of residual tumour before chemotherapy were independent predictors for complete remission and for prolonged survival. Peripheral neurotoxicity was a major problem in patients assigned to the CHAP-5-group and was likely to be due to the simultaneous administration of hexamethylmelamine and cisplatin. The CHAP-5 regimen is one of the most effective regimens for the initial treatment of ovarian cancer.
