Methoxychlor, a chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticide, is a persistent environmental contaminant that has been identified in human reproductive tissues. Methoxychlor has been shown to be estrogenic in both in vivo and in vitro studies. As an endocrine disrupter, it may have the potential to adversely affect endocrine, reproductive, and immune systems in animals. The present study evaluated methoxychlor's immunotoxic potential in F0 (dams) and F1 generations of Sprague Dawley rats exposed to an isoflavone-free diet containing methoxychlor at concentrations of 10, 100, and 1000 ppm. In dams, exposure to methoxychlor from gestation day 7 to postpartum day 51 (65 days total exposure) produced a significant increase in the NK activity (1000 ppm) and the percentages of T cells (1000 ppm), helper T cells (1000 ppm) and macrophages (100 and 1000 ppm). In contrast, a decrease in the numbers of splenocytes and B cells was observed at the 100 and 1000 ppm concentrations. In F1 males, exposure to methoxychlor gestationally, lactationally and through feed from postnatal day 22-64 (78 days total exposure) produced an increase in the spleen IgM antibody-forming cell response to sheep red blood cells (100 and 1000 ppm) and the activity of NK cells (1000 ppm). However, there was a decrease in the terminal body weight (1000 ppm), spleen weight (1000 ppm), thymus weight (100 and 1000 ppm), and the numbers of splenocytes (1000 ppm), B cells (100 and 1000 ppm), cytotoxic T cells (1000 ppm) and NK cells (100 and 1000 ppm). In F1 females, exposure to methoxychlor produced a decrease in the terminal body weight (1000 ppm) and the percentages of cytotoxic T cells (10, 100 and 1000 ppm). These results demonstrate that developmental and adult dietary exposure to methoxychlor modulates immune responses in Sprague Dawley rats. Immunological changes were more pronounced in the F1 generation male rats that were exposed during gestation and postpartum, when compared to the F0 and F1 generation females. Increases in antibody-forming cell response and NK cell activity, and altered spleen cell subpopulation numbers were observed in the F1 generation male rats, without similar changes to the F1 generation females.
We followed 37,233 outpatients for 45 days after receiving a prescription for ciprofloxacin to identify any newly diagnosed, important illnesses that might have been caused by the drug. For 29 users the role of ciprofloxacin in the etiology of the illness could not be confidently ruled out (7.79/10,000 persons; 95% CI 5.42-11.18). In only seven was a causal relation to ciprofloxacin considered likely: three skin reactions and one case each of thrombocytopenia, "headache, nausea, and shakes," hallucinations, and palpitations. No fatal illnesses occurred, and all patients recovered after discontinuing the drug. In addition, few cases of photosensitivity were associated with the agent. We conclude that important adverse reactions attributable to ciprofloxacin are uncommon.
Psoriasis is a common chronic and recurrent inflammatory skin disease that can occur due to abnormalities in essential fatty acid metabolism, lymphokine secretion, free radical generation, lipid peroxidation and eicosanoid metabolism, and has been associated with increased frequency of cardiovascular events. The current study was designed to evaluate plasma lipids, susceptibility of LDL to oxidation and oxidant-antioxidant status and their relationships in patients with psoriasis.
The study group included 35 patients with psoriasis (18 females and 17 males), and 35 sex- and age-matched healthy volunteers (16 females and 19 males). From blood samples, their lipids, lipoproteins, acute phase reactants, lipid peroxidation products [lipid hydroperoxide (LHP) and malondialdehyde (MDA)], antioxidant enzymes [glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), glutathione reductase (GR), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT)], total antioxidant status (TAS) and autoantibodies against oxidized low-density lipoprotein (AuAb-oxLDL) levels were determined. Moreover, the susceptibility of copper-induced in vitro oxidation of LDL was examined.
The mean levels of atherogenic lipids (total cholesterol [TC], triacylglycerol [TG] and LDL cholesterol [LDL-C]), acute-phase reactants (CRP, ESR, PMNLs, ceruloplasmin and fibrinogen) and lipid peroxidation products, AuAb-oxLDL levels in patients with psoriasis were found to be significantly higher than those of healthy subjects. On the other hand, TAS and antioxidant enzyme activities (CAT, SOD and GSH-Px in erythrocyte and SOD in plasma) were significantly lower when compared to healthy subjects. The lag times [t(lag)], a measure of resistance to oxidation of LDL, were also lower. The levels of AuAb-oxLDL in patients were correlated with TC, LDL-C, plasma LHP, erythrocyte MDA, oxidized LDL-MDA (oxLDL-MDA), fibrinogen, CRP, PMNL levels and plasma SOD activities (r = 0.69, P < 0.01; r = 0.64, P < 0.01; r = 0.38, P < 0.05; r = 0.65, P < 0.01; r = 0.34, P < 0.05; r = 0.34, P < 0.05; r = 0.53, P < 0.01, r = 0.34, P < 0.05; r = -0.67, P < 0.01, respectively). On the other hand, t(lag) was correlated negatively with the levels of VLDL-TG, VLDL-TC and LDL-TG but positively correlated with the levels of TAS in psoriatics (r = -0.49, P < 0.01; r = -0.49, P < 0.01, r = -0.65, P < 0.05; r = 0.37, P < 0.05).
It was concluded that the psoriatic patients could be considered as a group with an increased atherosclerotic risk because of increased oxidant stress, decreased antioxidant capacity and susceptibility in lipid profile and lipoprotein content to atherogenicity.
Severe depletion of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) by para-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA, 150 mg/kg per day x3) did not alter the hypophagic effect of d-fenfluramine (1-3 mg/kg i.p.) 1 h after food presentation in 24-h food-deprived rats, and moderately and comparably increased the hypophagic effects of its metabolite, d-norfenfluramine (0.35-1.0 mg/kg i.p.), and of the 5-HT1C receptor agonist, 1-(3-chlorophenyl)piperazine (mCPP; 1.5, 2.0 mg/kg i.p.). Chronic treatment with mCPP (2.5 mg/kg i.p. x 14) attenuated the hypophagia induced by d-norfenfluramine (1, 1.5 mg/kg) but not d-fenfluramine (1, 3 mg/kg). 1-(1-Naphthyl)piperazine (3, 8 mumol/kg s.c.), which has greater affinity for 5-HT1C than for 5-HT2 receptors, had no effect on the hypophagia induced by d-fenfluramine (1.25, 2.0 mg/kg), but 1.3 and 3 mumol/kg 1-(1-naphthyl)piperazine largely and comparably attenuated the substantial hypophagic effect of d-norfenfluramine (0.75 mg/kg). The essentially complete hypophagic action of d-norfenfluramine (1.25 mg/kg) was inhibited by 1-(1-naphthyl)piperazine with ID50 = 2.13 mumol/kg. Ketanserin, which binds more weakly than 1-(1-naphthyl)piperazine to 5-HT1C receptors and more strongly to 5-HT2 receptors, attenuated weaker but not stronger hypophagic effects of d-fenfluramine (1.25, 2.0 mg/kg) when given at high dosage (8, 16 mumol/kg s.c.). Ketanserin (16 mumol/kg) also weakly attenuated the hypophagia due to d-norfenfluramine (0.75 mg/kg), but not the essentially complete hypophagia due to d-norfenfluramine (1.25 mg/kg).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We studied the incidence of akathisia in two populations of newly admitted schizophrenic patients: one group was treated with haloperidol and the other group was treated with thiothixene hydrochloride. Within six hours after taking a 5-mg test dose of haloperidol, 40% of the patients experienced akathisia; during maintenance treatment with 10 mg of haloperidol taken at bedtime, 75% of the patients experienced akathisia by the seventh day. With thiothixene hydrochloride (0.22-mg/kg test dose; 0.44-mg/kg maintenance dose), the respective percentages were 20% and 46%. The akathisia experienced after administration of the test of haloperidol dose was not mild or inconsequential; 28% of the patients experienced moderate, 17% of the patients experienced severe, and 22% of the patients experienced very severe akathisia. Akathisia with haloperidol could not be suppressed completely in half of the patients. Treatment-resistant akathisia was experienced as anxiety and depression. We believe these tallies to be important because akathisia causes much misery and often goes undiagnosed.
The renal clearance of cystine, lysine, ornithine, arginine, and glycine has been compared with the simultaneously determined glomerular filtration rate in nine cystinuric patients. Five were studied before and after stabilization on penicillamine therapy, two were studied only while taking penicillamine, and two were studied only in the absence of penicillamine administration. The renal clearances of cysteine-penicillamine and of penicillamine disulfide were also determined in the patients who were taking the drug. Amino acids were determined by quantitative ion exchange chromatography, and the reliability of the method has been evaluated in terms of its reproducibility and of the recovery of known amounts of amino acids added to plasma and to urine. The plasma levels of cystine and of the basic amino acids were less than normal in all the patients. Cysteine-penicillamine and penicillamine disulfide were cleared by the kidney at rates similar to that of cystine. Two of the patients had glycine clearances that were considerably above the normal value. The renal clearance of cystine exceeded the glomerular filtration rate in six of the nine patients. The results form a continuum from values approximately equal to the glomerular filtration rate to values about twice this amount. The renal clearances of cystine and of the basic amino acids vary independently of one another in the disease. The significance of these results is discussed in terms of the nature of the renal tubular transport defect that underlies the disorder.
A previous investigation demonstrated the anticarcinogenicity of acetaminophen (APAP) against colon carcinogenesis in rats induced by 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB). DMAB was selected as a structurally related surrogate for heterocyclic amines, formed during cooking of protein, which are believed to be involved in human colon cancer. The objective of the present study was to ascertain whether the early initiating effects of this colon carcinogen are inhibited by APAP. Six groups of male F344 rats were treated over a 6-week period as follows: (1) vehicle (corn oil) for 6 weeks; (2) APAP in the diet at 1000 ppm daily for 6 weeks; (3) 50 mg/kg DMAB by gavage once a week for the last 4 weeks; (4) 5 mg/kg DMAB as for (3); (5) 1000 ppm APAP for 6 weeks and 50 mg/kg DMAB for the last 4 weeks; and (6) 1000 ppm APAP and 5 mg/kg DMAB as for (5). Colonic tissue was within normal limits in the control and APAP groups. In the APAP only group, apical enterocytic hypertrophy and hyperaemia over the entire surface epithelium was present. In the high-dose DMAB group, in the lower third of the crypts, foci of enlarged glands with hypertrophic cells exhibiting karyomegaly and anisokaryosis (FHE) of 3+ degree of severity were evident in 100% of the animals. Also, there were increases in periglandular fibrocytes, matrix and mononuclear cells (PF). In the low-dose DMAB group both FHE and PF changes with the same degree of severity were reduced. In rats given the low dose of DMAB plus APAP, FHE and PF with the same degree of severity (3+) was absent. Both DMAB exposures increased significantly the replicating fraction of colonic enterocytes in an exposure-related fashion and the replicating fractions were significantly reduced by APAP. In 32P-postlabelling of colon, liver and urinary bladder DNA, high-dose DMAB produced 2-6 distinct dose-related spots reflecting DNA adducts. These spots were reduced or were no longer detectable in all three tissues when APAP was given 2 weeks before and during DMAB exposure. Using immunohistochemical detection of DMAB adducts in the colon, a dose-related colour intensity was present for both doses of DMAB. APAP reduced this by 94-fold. Thus, APAP produced a marked protective effect in colonic enterocytes against several parameters of neoplastic development by the carcinogen.
Cephaloridine produces renal cortical injury, but the precise mechanism responsible for this nephrotoxicity remains unclear. Recently cephaloridine has been shown to deplete reduced glutathione (GSH) concentration selectively in renal cortex. Cephaloridine nephrotoxicity can be potentiated by diethyl maleate (a GSH depletor), but no glutathione conjugate can be detected. Thus, it was of interest to investigate further the mechanism of depletion of renal cortical GSH by cephaloridine. In the present study, cephaloridine markedly decreased GSH in rat and rabbit renal cortex while concomitantly increasing oxidized glutathione (GSSG). Furthermore, cephaloridine increased lipid peroxidation specifically in renal cortical cells. Conjugated diene formation (an index of lipid peroxidation) was increased in renal cortex but not in the liver shortly following administration of cephaloridine. Removal of selenium and/or vitamin E from the diet, which should enhance lipid peroxidation, potentiated cephaloridine nephrotoxicity and enhanced cephaloridine-induced morphological damage in the kidney. These findings are consistent with a major role of lipid peroxidation in the etiology of cephaloridine nephrotoxicity.
To study prognostic factors in previously untreated patients receiving FC regimen (fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide).
We conducted a retrospective analysis of B-CLL patients observed in Hematology Research Center of Russia (Moscow) and Faculty Therapy Clinic of St. Petersburg State Medical University (St. Petersburg). All patients received FC regimen as a first line treatment (fludarabine 50 mg plus cyclophosphamide 250 mg/m2 for 3 days intravenously, repeated every 28 days).
54 patients were included into the study. The median age was 57.5 yrs (range 40-78 yrs). There were 38 males and 16 females. Before the treatment 22% patients had Binet stage A, 41%--stage B and 37%--stage C. 62% patients had unmutated subtype of B-CLL and 38% mutated subtype. 12 patients (22%) received less than 4 cycles of chemotherapy. In 8 patients (15%) there were significant delays between cycles (more than 2 months). In the whole cohort the median overall survival calculated from the time of treatment initiation was 57.4 months, the median progression free survival--24 months, and the median relapse free survival--27 moths. Mutational status of immunoglobulin variable region genes significantly influenced survival. In patients with unmutated subtype the median progression free survival was 23.6 months, while in patients with mutated subset it was not reached: 75% survival at 22.7 months (p = 0.027). Difference in progression free survival by stages (A versus B+C, A+B versus C) was not significant.
Our data show that mutational status of immunoglobulin variable region genes remains a significant prognostic factor in patients receiving combined therapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine.
The contribution of nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) to reserpine-induced Parkinsonism was evaluated in mice. A battery of motor tests revealed that reserpine caused dose-dependent and long-lasting motor impairment. Endogenous N/OFQ sustained this response because N/OFQ peptide (NOP) receptor knockout (NOP(-/-) ) mice were less susceptible to the hypokinetic action of reserpine than wild-type (NOP(+/+) ) animals. Microdialysis revealed that reserpine elevated glutamate and reduced GABA levels in substantia nigra reticulata, and that resistance to reserpine in NOP(-/-) mice was accompanied by a milder increase in glutamate and lack of inhibition of GABA levels. To substantiate this genetic evidence, the NOP receptor antagonist 1-[(3R,4R)-1-cyclooctylmethyl-3-hydroxymethyl-4-piperidyl]-3-ethyl-1,3-dihydro-2H benzimidazol-2-one (J-113397) simultaneously reduced akinesia and nigral glutamate levels in reserpinized NOP(+/+) mice, being ineffective in NOP(-/-) mice. Moreover, repeated J-113397 administration in reserpinized mice resulted in faster recovery of baseline motor performance which was, however, accompanied by a loss of acute antiakinetic response. The short-term beneficial effect of J-113397 was paralleled by normalization of nigral glutamate levels, whereas loss of acute response was paralleled by loss of the ability of J-113397 to inhibit glutamate levels. We conclude that endogenous N/OFQ contributes to reserpine-induced Parkinsonism, and that sustained NOP receptor blockade produces short-term motor improvement accompanied by normalization of nigral glutamate release.
Although the treatment of choice for autoimmune hepatitis is glucocorticoids, their side effects make long-term use undesirable. Therefore, other immunosuppressive agents have been used to replace glucocorticoids in the long-term treatment of autoimmune hepatitis, including azathioprine, a purine analogue. It is derived from 6-mercaptopurine, and these two drugs are often used interchangeably. However, these drugs have different toxicity profiles and may have clinically relevant differences in immunosuppressive activity in individual patients. We report 3 patients with autoimmune hepatitis who either could not tolerate or failed to improve on azathioprine but responded well to 6-mercaptopurine.
Pyrilene acts as a central H-cholinoblocker upon intramuscular injection at a dose of 0.02-0.08 mg/kg, and as an NMDA-blocker, when the dose is increased to 0.2-0.8 mg/kg. Similarly, amantadine exhibits the properties of H-cholinoblocker and NMDA-blocker in the dose intervals 10-15 mg/kg and 120-180 mg/kg, respectively. The activity of MK-801 markedly exceeds that of memantine, although close doses of both NMDA-blockers inhibit the NMDA and corazole effects, as well as the central effects (analgesia and seizure) of nicotine, thus showing no significant selectivity with respect to NMDA. IEM-1754 tested on intact animals exhibited a selective action upon the NMDA receptors, preventing the NMDA-induced analgesia and lethality and the corazole-induced convulsions at doses 10-100 times lower as compared to those preventing nicotine-induced seizure and analgesia.
Accidental intravenous administration of racemic adrenaline (epinephrine) is a rare but potentially lethal complication. We describe a case of a 68-year-old man with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who developed severe dyspnoea at home, and a case of an 81-year-old woman who had an allergic reaction associated with severe dyspnoea. The paramedics accidentally administered racemic adrenaline intravenously in both cases. Both patients suffered from severe cardiac adverse effects but their outcome was eventually favourable. Previous reports of accidental intravenous administration of racemic adrenaline are also reviewed. We discuss the potential risks of using racemic adrenaline, especially in the treatment of geriatric patients, and the possibilities of reducing the risk of accidents in drug administration.
Eighty eight (88) beta-thalassemic patients undergoing regular transfusion- chelation therapy with desferrioxamine (DFO) were studied for ENT problems from 1988 to 1993, as DFO has been implicated for auditory neurotoxicity. The mean age of the patients was 9.66 +/- 3.1 years, their pre-transfusion haemoglobin level was 9 +/- 2 g/dl, serum ferritin level was 2065 +/- 898 ng/ml and the daily DFO dose was 50.7 +/- 9.5 mg/kg for 5 days/week. The ENT study included, ENT examination, pure tone audiometry, speech audiometry, tympanometry, tone decay test and ABR. During this 6-year study 24/88 (27%) patients developed bilateral or ipsilateral sensorineural hearing loss in high tone frequencies, sometimes exceeding 80 dB, which was attributed to DFO toxicity. Therefore, a reduction or temporary withdrawal of DFO followed. After this intervention 12/24 patients recovered almost completely, 7/24 remained stable and 5/24 presented aggravation of their hearing loss. This study confirms the DFO induced auditory neurotoxicity and the necessity of periodical audiology control of beta-thalassemic patients for prompt diagnosis and management of this complication.
Suboptimal seizure duration is commonly encountered in electroconvulsive therapy practice, especially in older patients with higher seizure thresholds. Intravenous caffeine is commonly used to improve seizure duration and quality in such patients and is generally well tolerated aside from occasional reports of relatively benign ventricular ectopy. We describe a patient with no previous history of cardiac disease or arrhythmia who developed sustained bigeminy and 2 brief runs of ventricular tachycardia after caffeine administration. Although intravenous caffeine is generally well tolerated, the clinician should be aware of the potential for unpredictable and serious ventricular arrhythmias.
Dendritic cells (DCs) exhibit the unique capacity to induce T cell differentiation and proliferation, two processes that are crucially involved in allergic reactions. By combining the exclusive potential of DCs as the only professional antigen-presenting cells of the human body with the well known handling advantages of cell lines, cell-based alternative methods aimed at detecting chemical sensitization in vitro commonly apply DC-like cells derived from myeloid cell lines. Here, we present the new biomarkers programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), DC immunoreceptor (DCIR), IL-16, and neutrophil-activating protein-2 (NAP-2), all of which have been detectable in primary human DCs upon exposure to chemical contact allergens. To evaluate the applicability of DC-like cells in the prediction of a chemical's sensitization potential, the expression of cell surface PD-L1 and DCIR was analyzed. In contrast to primary DCs, only minor subpopulations of MUTZ-3 and THP-1 cells presented PD-L1 or DCIR at their surface. After exposure to increasing concentrations of nickel and cinnamic aldehyde, the expression level of PD-L1 and DCIR revealed much stronger affected on monocyte-derived DCs (MoDCs) or Langerhans cells (MoLCs) when compared to THP-1 and MUTZ-3 cells. Applying protein profiler arrays we further identified the soluble factors NAP-2, IL-16, IL-8 and MIP-1α as sensitive biomarkers showing the capacity to discriminate sensitizing from non-sensitizing chemicals or irritants. An allergen-specific release of IL-8 and MIP-1α could be detected in the supernatants of MoDCs and MoLCs and also in MUTZ-3 and THP-1 cells, though at much lower levels. On the protein and transcriptional level, NAP-2 and IL-16 indicated sensitizers most sensitively and specifically in MoDCs. Altogether, we have proven the reciprocal regulated surface molecules PD-L1 and DCIR and the soluble factors MIP-1α, NAP-2 and IL-16 as reliable biomarkers for chemical sensitization. We further show that primary DCs are significantly different in their phenotype and function compared to DC-like cell lines. Since they demonstrated higher absolute values and a broader range in biomarker expression, we propose that MoDCs represent an optimal and robust sensor test system well suited to identify and classify chemicals with an allergic potential.
To report a case of severe and sustained tachycardia that developed asymptomatically on a low dose of clozapine (150 mg daily).
Case report.
Serially monitored 24 h heart rate after the introduction of clozapine showed an increase in the 24 h mean from 87 to 126 bpm, a reduction of pulse variability and anomalies in sleep-wake regulation. Cessation of clozapine was followed by a rapid return to preclozapine activity. Application of the Naranjo Adverse Drug Reaction Probability Scale indicated a probable relationship between clozapine and the sustained tachycardia.
Severe and sustained tachycardia can develop asymptomatically with a relatively low dose of clozapine and a slow titration rate. The severity of the tachycardia may not be revealed in isolated pulse measurements and may escape clinical detection without closer monitoring of heart rate.
Fluoxetine, a specific serotonin reuptake inhibitor, was compared to amitriptyline in the treatment of 51 outpatients with primary major depressive disorder. After a 1-week placebo washout, patients were randomly assigned to 5 weeks of treatment with fluoxetine or amitriptyline. Fluoxetine was found to have a therapeutic effect comparable to that of amitriptyline; however, the fluoxetine treatment group had a better Efficacy Index-Side Effects rating and a lower incidence of anticholinergic autonomic side effects. Four amitriptyline-treated patients had to discontinue the study because of serious side effects, while in the fluoxetine treatment group there were no terminations due to side effects. The amitriptyline-treated patients gained significantly more weight than the fluoxetine-treated patients.
To highlight the importance of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), a potentially fatal adverse effect of heparin therapy.
There are two types of HIT with distinct etiology. Type 1 HIT is a relatively mild thrombocytopenia of early onset that generally resolves with ongoing heparin therapy. Clinical complications are uncommon. Type 2 HIT, which is more severe, is the main focus of this report. Five patients receiving heparin therapy developed type 2 HIT, which in some cases resulted in complications that required limb amputation, or eventuated in death.
In a patient receiving heparin therapy, the development of thrombocytopenia should alert the caregiver to the possible development of HIT. Prompt management of HIT can help prevent complications. HIT usually manifests 5-8 days after starting heparin therapy. The platelet count usually decreases to less than 100 x 10(3)/mm3. It generally normalizes within 5-7 days after discontinuing heparin therapy. In spite of the thrombocytopenia, thrombosis or disseminated intravascular coagulation can occur. The management may be subdivided into three clinical situations: mild-to-moderate asymptomatic thrombocytopenia, severe thrombocytopenia with a platelet count of less than 50 x 10(3)/mm3, and thrombosis or embolism complicating HIT.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is an uncommon but potentially serious, and sometimes lethal, complication of heparin therapy. Therefore, it is important to be aware of the possibility of the development of HIT with heparin therapy, to recognize it early, and to manage it appropriately before the manifestation of adverse effects.
Cerebral ischemia causes an increased expression and activation of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX) and matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9). Recent works demonstrated that the selective 5-LOX inhibitor zileuton down-regulates MMP-9 expression in vascular diseases and cancer. In the present work, we first studied the neuroprotective effect of zileuton on focal cerebral ischemia in rats and further investigated the effect of zileuton on the expression of 5-LOX and MMP-9 in ischemic brain.
Adult Sprague-Dawley rats underwent permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). The rats then received treatment with zileuton 5, 10 or 50 mg/kg or vehicle. Cerebral water content and infarct volume were measured 24 hours after pMCAO. Expression of 5-LOX messenger RNA (mRNA) and MMP-9 mRNA were determined by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. The levels of the proform and the active form of MMP-9 were detected by gelatin zymography.
Oral treatment of zileuton at 10 or 50 mg/kg significantly reduced cerebral water content and infarct volume. It also down-regulated the expression of 5-LOX mRNA and MMP-9 mRNA. Zileuton at 50 mg/kg could inhibit the active form of MMP-9.
These results suggest that selective 5-LOX inhibitor zileuton attenuates ischemic brain damage in rats, which may be partly associated with MMP-9 inhibition.
N-oleoyl-dopamine (OLDA), a product of condensation of oleic acid and dopamine (DA), is a bioactive compound that crosses the blood-brain barrier after systemic administration. The possibility arises that OLDA could have a potential role in treating DA-related disorders, such as Parkinsons disease (PD). In the present study we seek to determine whether OLDA would affect muscle tone and akinesia in two rat models of PD: the reserpine-evoked muscle rigidity and the reserpine- and haloperidol-induced catalepsy. We found that OLDA (20 mg/kg) significantly decreased muscle rigidity induced by reserpine (2.5 mg/kg), measured as an increased mechanical muscle resistance (MMG) in response to a passive extension and flexion of a rat hind limb at the ankle joint. Moreover, OLDA potently decreased the reserpine-enhanced tonic and reflex electromyographic (EMG) activities recorded before and during the movement, respectively. A lower dose of OLDA (10 mg/kg) failed to have appreciable effects. The reference compound L-DOPA (25 mg/kg) also attenuated the reserpine-increased MMG and EMG activities; the effects were, however, observed much later and were less prominent than those characteristic of OLDA. In contrast to the effects on muscle tone, OLDA (20 and 40 mg/kg) did not influence catalepsy induced by either reserpine (1.25 mg/kg) or haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg). In conclusion, the study demonstrates a novel biological action of N-oleoyl-dopamine consisting of lowering the reserpine-induced muscle rigidity. However, the lack of influence on akinesia suggests that the compound has myorelaxant rather than anti-Parkinsonian properties.
To investigate the potential role of synthetic liver X receptors (LXRs) agonists T0901317 in lung of rats with acute lung injury induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS).
Rats infused with LPS served as acute lung injury (ALI) models. Specific mRNA was quantified by semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase (RT-PCR) and protein expression by western blotting. Inflammatory cytokine and MPO activity assays were studied by ELISA. Histopathology analysis was evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin.
The expressions of LXRα and LXRβ were gradually decreased after LPS challenge. T0901317 pretreatment efficiently reduced the production of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6, while elevated the level of IL-10 in BALF of rats with ALI. T0901317 also decreased the number of inflammatory cells and the concentration of total proteins in the BALF. Compared with the LPS group, rats with ALI which were pretreated with T0901317 had lower pulmonary tissue MPO activity and lightened histopathologic changes of lung. Furthermore, the expressions of NF-κB and ICAM-1 were markedly reduced after T0901317 administration.
The expressions of LXRs were significantly decreased and synthetic agonist T0901317 suppresses lung inflammatory responses and lightened histopathologic changes of lung in rats with ALI. The mechanisms of this action for T0901317 may associate with the inhibition of NF-κB activation and downregulation of adhesion molecules ICAM-1 gene.
G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) have long been known as receptors that activate G protein-dependent cellular signaling pathways. In addition to the G protein-dependent pathways, recent reports have revealed that several ligands called "biased ligands" elicit G protein-independent and β-arrestin-dependent signaling through GPCRs (biased agonism). Several β-blockers are known as biased ligands. All β-blockers inhibit the binding of agonists to the β-adrenergic receptors. In addition to β-blocking action, some β-blockers are reported to induce cellular responses through G protein-independent and β-arrestin-dependent signaling pathways. However, the physiological significance induced by the β-arrestin-dependent pathway remains much to be clarified in vivo. Here, we demonstrate that metoprolol, a β(1)-adrenergic receptor-selective blocker, could induce cardiac fibrosis through a G protein-independent and β-arrestin2-dependent pathway. Metoprolol, a β-blocker, increased the expression of fibrotic genes responsible for cardiac fibrosis in cardiomyocytes. Furthermore, metoprolol induced the interaction between β(1)-adrenergic receptor and β-arrestin2, but not β-arrestin1. The interaction between β(1)-adrenergic receptor and β-arrestin2 by metoprolol was impaired in the G protein-coupled receptor kinase 5 (GRK5)-knockdown cells. Metoprolol-induced cardiac fibrosis led to cardiac dysfunction. However, the metoprolol-induced fibrosis and cardiac dysfunction were not evoked in β-arrestin2- or GRK5-knock-out mice. Thus, metoprolol is a biased ligand that selectively activates a G protein-independent and GRK5/β-arrestin2-dependent pathway, and induces cardiac fibrosis. This study demonstrates the physiological importance of biased agonism, and suggests that G protein-independent and β-arrestin-dependent signaling is a reason for the diversity of the effectiveness of β-blockers.
