A regimen of sequential chemoimmunotherapy (SCIT) was studied in a phase I/II study to analyze toxicity, anti-tumor and immunomodulatory effects in patients with previously untreated metastatic cutaneous melanoma. Treatment consisted of dacarbazine (DTIC) 800 mg/m2 administered intravenously (i.v.) on day 1, followed by subcutaneous (s.c.) molgramostim (GM-CSF), 10 times 2.5 micro g/kg on days 2 to 12, s.c. low-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2), 10 times 1.8 MU on days 8 to 18, and s.c. interferon-alpha-2b (IFN-alpha), 5 times 6 MU on days 15 to 20. Dosages were not escalated. Therapy was given in the form of outpatient treatment. Changes in T-lymphocyte phenotype and in soluble mediators were monitored during treatment. A total of 32 patients with stage IV melanoma were enrolled in the study. Treatment was well tolerated, without serious toxicity. In all cases, it could be given as outpatient treatment. Ten subjects out of the 31 patients evaluated showed an objective response, with 4 complete responses (CR) and 6 partial responses (PR); the response rate amounted to 32% (95% CI: 16-49%). Median survival of all patients was 8 months, with those patients who responded to treatment living longer than the non-responding group. Survival rate at 1 year was 22%. Monitoring of the effects of treatment revealed increased numbers of activated T-lymphocytes, both in the CD4 and in the CD8 subsets. The levels of soluble mediators such as sIL-2R and sCD8 were also increased. Changes were noted as early as the GM-CSF treatment period, and were observed to a further extent during IL-2 treatment. In the present study, it was found that this sequential chemoimmunotherapy regimen consisting of 4 agents (DTIC, GM-CSF, IL-2, IFN-alpha) has acceptable toxicity, can be administered on an outpatient basis, results in increased numbers of activated T-lymphocytes, and induces activity against metastatic melanoma that warrants further investigation.
Two cases of transient paralysis of upper extremity after percutaneous cannulation of the subclavian vein for hemodialysis are presented for the first time. Large amounts of lidocaine used, together with its deep and too lateral administration are responsible for development of this transient complication.
The aim of this study was to examine the influence of a time factor that may lead to inaccurate interpretation of data on the incidence of side effects in a double-blind study with drug cross-over. After a washout period, 58 patients with essential hypertension received either 20 mg of enalapril or 50 mg of atenolol. After two weeks, the dosage was doubled (to 40 mg of enalapril and 100 mg of atenolol) in those patients with diastolic blood pressure higher than 95 mm Hg. After four weeks of active treatment and a second two-week washout period, patients received the alternative antihypertensive agent under the same procedure and time schedule as in the first treatment phase. Four patients dropped out. Side effects were evaluated by questionnaire at weeks 2, 4, 8, and 10. In the 54 patients who completed the study, enalapril and atenolol led to almost identical blood pressure reduction in both treatment phases, indicating that pooling these data is a sound method. However, incidence of side effects was twice as high in phase 1 as in phase 2 and markedly decreased in each treatment phase, with no differences being observed between enalapril and atenolol. These results clearly demonstrate that pooling side effects data from a cross-over study may lead to quite wrong interpretations.
A patient who presented with priapism after ingestion of alfuzosin is described. He presented with recurrent priapism, which was relieved temporarily after physical exercise. It did not subside with pharmacologic management and was managed surgically using Winter's procedure. It remained quiescent for a short period, only to reappear later. After additional conservative management, he was well enough to be discharged. At 12 months of follow-up, he was well, had no penile fibrosis, was able to have unaided intercourse, and had moderately bothersome lower urinary tract symptoms. This case illustrates that no therapeutic drug is without side effects and emphasizes the need to warn patients appropriately.
The nuclear factor (NF)-κB signaling pathway is critical in myeloma cell proliferation, inhibition of apoptosis, and emergence of therapy resistance. The chemotherapeutic drugs, dexamethasone (Dex) and bortezomib (BTZ), are widely used in clinical protocols for multiple myeloma (MM) and inhibit the NF-κB signaling pathway by distinct mechanisms. This study evaluates the efficacy of combination therapy with Dex and BTZ and investigates the mechanistic underpinning of endogenous and therapy-induced NF-κB activation in MM. Human myeloma cells and bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) were used in monocultures and cocultures to determine the cytotoxic effects of Dex and/or BTZ. Our results show that combined treatment of Dex with BTZ enhanced direct apoptosis of drug-sensitive and drug-resistant myeloma cells. In the presence of BMSCs, Dex plus BTZ combination inhibited ionizing radiation-induced interleukin 6 secretion from BMSCs and induced myeloma cytotoxicity. Mechanistically, Dex treatment increased IκBα protein and mRNA expression and compensated for BTZ-induced IκBα degradation. Dex plus BTZ combination inhibited basal and therapy-induced NF-κB activity with cytotoxicity in myeloma cells resistant to BTZ. Furthermore, combination therapy downregulated the NF-κB-targeted gene expression of interleukin 6 and manganese superoxide dismutase, which can induce chemo- and radio-resistance in MM. This study provides a mechanistic rationale for combining the NF-κB-targeting drugs Dex and BTZ in myeloma therapy and supports potential combinations of these drugs with radiotherapy and additional chemotherapeutic drugs for clinical benefit in MM.
In the present study, whether coadministration of huperzine A (HA) and ligustrazine phosphate (LP) could effectively improve the memory deficits in association with ameliorating cholinergic impairment and oxidative stress in the scopolamine-induced amnesia rats was assessed. The effects of treatment with Coa [HA (0.14 mg/kg, i.g.) and LP (110 mg/kg, i.g.)] on amnesia were investigated in Morris water maze. Furthermore, the effects on the activities of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and antioxidant enzymes within the cerebral cortex and hippocampus were evaluated, and the lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde (MDA) was also analyzed. As a result, coadministration of HA and LP for 10 consecutive days could markedly reverse the scopolamine-induced learning and memory impairment determined by the Morris water maze test. Moreover, AChE activity was significantly inhibited, and superoxide dismutases (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities were significantly increased with a remarkable reduction in the level of MDA. In conclusion, coadministration of HA and LP effectively prevented cholinergic impairment and oxidative damage, thereby resulting in improvement of spatial learning memory in rats induced by scopolamine. The results suggested that coadministration of HA and LP might offer a novel poly-therapeutic drug regimen for preventing Alzheimer's disease (AD).
The hemodynamic mechanism by which patients with chronic congestive heart failure (CHF) maintain their blood pressure (BP) in the upright posture is distinct from that of normal and hypertensive individuals. There are little data regarding the effects of chronic vasodilator therapy on the mechanisms controlling this response, especially in the presence of diuretic therapy. Therefore, 10 consecutive patients with severe chronic CHF underwent hemodynamic tilt study following acute and chronic captopril therapy. One patient developed orthostatic hypotension following first-dose captopril, but 6 of 10 had a mean BP decrease of 70 +/- 6 to 56 +/- 3 mm Hg on tilt following chronic captopril. This associated with significant reduction of plasma aldosterone, and was abolished on re-tilt following acute saline infusion. Therefore, during chronic captopril therapy of CHF, a reduction of diuretic dosage may be necessary to prevent orthostatic hypotension.
The chemical legislation of the EU, Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH), stipulates that about 30 000 chemical substances are to be assessed on their possible risks. Toxicological evaluation of these compounds will at least partly be based on animal testing. In particular, the assessment of reproductive toxicity is a very complicated, time-consuming and animal-demanding process. Introducing microarray-based technologies can potentially refine in vivo toxicity testing. If compounds of a distinct chemical class induce reproducible gene-expression responses with a recognizable overlap, these gene-expression signatures may indicate intrinsic features of certain compounds, including specific toxicity. In the present study, we have set out the first steps towards this approach for the reproductive toxicity of phthalates. Male rats were treated with a single dose of either reprotoxic or non-reprotoxic phthalates, and were analyzed 24 h afterwards. Subsequently, histopathological and gene-expression profiling analyses were performed. Despite ambiguous histopathological observations, we were able to identify genes with differential expression profiles between the reprotoxic phthalates and the non-reprotoxic counterparts. This shows that differences in gene-expression profiles, indicative of the type of exposure, may be detected earlier, or at lower doses, than classical pathological endpoints. These findings are promising for 'early warning' biomarker analyses and for using toxicogenomics in a category approach. Ultimately, this could lead to a more cost-effective approach for prioritizing the toxicity testing of large numbers of chemicals in a short period of time in hazard assessment of chemicals, which is one of the objectives of the REACH chemical legislation.
A 47 year-old woman who had a 4-year history of intramuscular pentazocine injections in the lower extremities, developed gradual stiffness and weakness of the lower extremities. The thigh and buttock muscles were "wooden-hard" on palpation. The skin was hard, shiny and hairless. Associated clinical and electrophysiological polyradiculopathy and multiple mononeuropathy of the lower extremities were observed. Imaging studies showed calcification and fibrosis of the involved muscles. Muscle biopsy revealed fibrous myopathy. Caution in longterm usage and early recognition of pentazocine toxicity as a neuromuscular complication are important in order to prevent irreversible drug-induced fibrous myopathy and localized neuropathy.
The cytokines oncostatin M (OSM) and IL-6 promote breast cancer cell migration and metastasis. Both cytokines activate STAT3, a member of the STAT (signal transducers and activators of transcription) family of transcription factors. Through transcriptional regulation of its target genes, STAT3 controls a wide range of cellular processes, including cellular proliferation, oncogenesis, and cancer metastasis. Fascin is an actin-bundling protein involved in cell migration. Elevated levels of fascin expression are found in many metastatic cancers, and inhibition of fascin function by small chemical compounds leads to a block of tumor metastasis. In this work, we demonstrate that fascin is a direct STAT3 target gene in response to OSM and IL-6 in both mouse and human breast cancer cells. We show that NFκB also binds to the fascin promoter in response to cytokine treatment and this binding is STAT3-dependent. Both STAT3 and NFκB are required for the cytokine-induced expression of fascin in cancer cells. Furthermore, we demonstrate that STAT3, in directly controlling fascin expression, is both necessary and sufficient for breast cancer cell migration.
An open study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Zafirlukast (oral leukotriene-receptor antagonist) in patients with mild to moderate asthma was conducted at the out-patient department of the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. A total of 30 patients aged 16-70 years were screened into the trial but 20 patients that fulfilled the inclusion and exclusion criteria were enrolled in a 7-week open study to receive 20mg b.i.d. of "Accolate". Efficacy of treatment was assessed by changes in symptoms, beta-agonist use and pulmonary function tests (PEFR and FEV1). Safety was assessed by adverse experiences, laboratory test results, results of physical examination and chest-x-ray (when necessary). Zafirlukast (Accolate) significantly decreased daytime asthma symptoms scores (28.8%), night-time awakenings (80.76%), morning with asthma (36.4%) and beta-agonist use (31.3%) and significantly increased the mean PEFR values (11.3%); FEV, (17.4%) at end point from their baseline values. Changes in symptoms, beta-agonist use, and pulmonary function occurred within the first week of zafirlukast treatment and continued throughout the trial. Zafirlukast was well tolerated. Headache was reported in two patients. No significant changes were observed in laboratory test results, findings on physical examination. I concluded that zafirlukast produces early and sustained effects in the treatment of mild-to-moderate asthma.
Simultaneous drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia (DIIHA) caused by multiple drugs is rare. We report a case of a patient who developed DIIHA caused by 2 drugs. The patient's serum exhibited agglutination of ceftizoxime- or sulbactam-coated red blood cells (RBCs; via a drug-adsorption mechanism) and of uncoated RBCs in the presence of sulbactam (via an immune-complex mechanism). Although ceftizoxime is known to exhibit a positive reaction by an immune-complex method with or without reactivity with drug-coated RBCs, this patient's antibodies were reactive only against drug-coated RBCs. On the other hand, sulbactam, which is known to cause hemolytic anemia by nonimmunologic protein adsorption, exhibited positive reactions in tests with both drug-coated RBCs and in the presence of sulbactam. This is the first report of DIIHA due to a sulbactam-cefoperazone combination and the fourth report of DIIHA due to ceftizoxime. Owing to the patient's complicated laboratory results, DIIHA was suspected only at a late stage. We propose that for the prompt diagnosis of DIIHA, tests for all possible causative drugs should be conducted by 2 methods.
Advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) contribute to the pathogenesis of diabetic glomerulopathy. The role of AGEs in non-diabetic renal damage is not well characterized. First, we studied whether renal AGE accumulation occurs in non-diabetic proteinuria-induced renal damage and whether this is ameliorated by renoprotective treatment. Secondly, we investigated whether renal AGE accumulation was due to intrarenal effects of local protein trafficking.
Pentosidine was measured (by high-performance liquid chromatography) in rats with chronic bilateral adriamycin nephropathy (AN), untreated and treated with lisinopril. Age-matched healthy rats served as negative controls. Secondly, we compared renal pentosidine in mild proteinuric and non-proteinuric kidneys of unilateral AN and in age-matched controls at 12 and 30 weeks. Intrarenal localization of pentosidine was studied by immunohistochemistry.
Renal pentosidine was elevated in untreated AN (0.14+/-0.04 micromol/mol valine) vs healthy controls (0.04+/-0.01 micromol/mol valine, P<0.01). In lisinopril-treated AN, pentosidine was lower (0.09+/-0.02 micromol/mol valine) than in untreated AN (P<0.05). In unilateral proteinuria, pentosidine was similar in non-proteinuric and proteinuric kidneys. After 30 weeks of unilateral proteinuria, pentosidine was increased in both kidneys (0.26+/-0.10 micromol/mol valine) compared with controls (0.18+/-0.06 micromol/mol valine, P<0.05). Pentosidine (AN, week 30) was also increased compared with AN at week 12 (0.16+/-0.06 micromol/mol valine, P<0.01). In control and diseased kidneys, pentosidine was present in the collecting ducts. In proteinuric kidneys, in addition, pentosidine was present in the brush border and cytoplasm of dilated tubular structures, i.e. at sites of proteinuria-induced tubular damage.
Pentosidine accumulates in non-diabetic proteinuric kidneys in damaged tubules, and renoprotective treatment by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors inhibits AGE accumulation, supporting a relationship between abnormal renal protein trafficking, proteinuria-induced tubular damage and tubular pentosidine accumulation. Future studies, applying specific AGE inhibitors, should be conducted to provide insight into the pathophysiological significance of renal AGEs in non-diabetic renal disease.
Adult male Swiss albino mice when exposed to a chlorinated insecticide hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH or BHC) at 100 mg/mouse/ once oral and i.p. both for acute exposures and 500 ppm and 10 ppm in food for 100 and 400 days respectively for intermediate and chronic exposures. Haematological observations revealed HCH-induced anaemia.
Anti-platelet drugs are used to prevent intra-arterial thrombus formation after rupture of atherosclerotic plaques. Until now, the inhibitory effect of present and future anti-platelet drugs such as aspirin, ADP receptor P2Y(1)/P2Y(12) antagonists and glycoprotein (GP) Ibalpha inhibitors on the interaction of platelets with human plaques is not known. To study those effects we obtained human atherosclerotic plaques by surgical endarterectomy. Plaques induced maximal platelet aggregation in hirudinized platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and blood that was effectively inhibited by aspirin, the P2Y(1) antagonist MRS2179 and the P2Y(12) antagonist AR-C69931MX, but not by GPIbalpha blockade with the mAB 6B4. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by MRS2179 was 74 +/- 37% and 68 +/- 20%, by AR-C69931MX 94 +/- 7% and 80 +/- 6%, and by aspirin 88 +/- 19% and 64 +/- 28%, in PRP and blood, respectively (mean +/- SD; n = 6-12 with plaques from 6 patients). The combination of both ADP receptor antagonists completely inhibited plaque-induced platelet aggregation in hirudinized PRP and blood. Under arterial flow conditions (1,500s(-1)), blockade of platelet GPIbalpha resulted in a strong decrease of plaque-stimulated platelet adhesion/aggregate formation of 77 +/- 5% (mean +/- SD; n = 4). Furthermore, MRS2179, AR-C69931MX and their combination reduced plaque-dependent platelet aggregate formation by 35 +/- 14%, 32 +/- 13% and 58 +/- 12% (mean +/- SD; n = 5), respectively. Aspirin was without significant effect. In conclusion, a GPIbalpha-blocking antibody, as well as P2Y(1) and P2Y(12) receptor antagonists, alone or in combination, reduce in contrast to aspirin human plaque-induced platelet thrombus formation under arterial flow. Although these new anti-platelet agents inhibit platelet thrombus formation after plaque rupture, more efficient platelet blockers are required.
Products containing synthetic cannabinoids are consumed as a surrogate for marihuana due to their non-detectability with commonly used drug tests and their strong cannabimimetic effects. Because data concerning their toxicological properties are scarce, the cytotoxic, genotoxic, immunomodulatory, and hormonal activities of four naphthoylindole compounds (JWH-018, JWH-073, JWH-122 and JWH-210) and of one benzoylindole (AM-694) were studied in human cell lines and primary cells; tetrahydrocannabinol was included as the classical non-endogenous cannabinoid receptor ligand. All compounds induced damage to the cell membranes of buccal (TR146) and breast (MCF-7) derived cells at concentrations of ≥75-100 μM. No cytotoxic responses were seen in other assays which reflect mitochondrial damage, protein synthesis, and lysosomal activities. JWH-073 and JWH-122 induced DNA migration in buccal and liver cells (HepG2) in single cell gel electrophoresis assays, while JWH-210 was only in the latter cell line active. No estrogenic activities were detected in bone marrow cells (U2-OS), but all compounds caused anti-estrogenic effects at levels between 2.1 and 23.0 μM. Furthermore, no impact on cytokine release (i.e., on IL-10, IL-6, IL-12/23p40 and TNFα levels) was seen in LPS-stimulated human PBMCs, except with JWH-210 and JWH-122 which caused a decrease of TNFα and IL-12/23p40. All toxic effects were observed with concentrations higher than those expected in body fluids of users. Since genotoxic effects are in general linear over a wide concentration range and the exposure levels may be higher in epithelial cells than [corrected] in serum, further experimental work is required to find out if DNA damage takes place in drug users.
It is hypothesized that hyperuricemia in males is caused by androgen-induced urate reabsorptive transport system in the kidney. The expression of urate transporter 1 (Urat1), sodium-coupled monocarboxylate transporter 1 (Smct1) and glucose transporter 9 (Glut9) were investigated in orchiectomized mice with or without testosterone replacement. Testosterone enhanced mRNA and protein levels of Smct1 while those of Glut9 were attenuated. Although the mRNA level of Urat1 was enhanced by testosterone, the corresponding levels of Urat1 protein remained unaffected. Thus, the induction of Smct1 by testosterone is a candidate mechanism underlying hyperuricemia in males.
To analyze the incidence, the clinical features, and the factors associated with the development of osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) in patients with multiple myeloma (MM) treated with zoledronic acid.
Sixty-four patients diagnosed with MM and treated with zoledronic acid between August 1996 and March 2006 were included. Demographic data, predisposing factors, the type of antineoplastic therapy received and the infusions of biophosphonate were recorded. The main characteristics of the seven patients with ONJ, including clinical and physical examinations data, diagnostic methods and treatment established were reported.
The overall incidence of ONJ was 7 out of 64 patients (10.93%). A recent oral surgical procedure has been associated with the ONJ (p < 0.0001). The mean of infusions of zoledronic acid before onset of osteonecrosis (standard deviation) was 30 (7.04) in contrast to 19.5 (11.8) cycles (p = 0.03) in the patients who did not present this complication. The cumulative risk increased from 6.7% after 20 treatments with zoledronic acid up to 31.7% at 36 infusions. Three patients exhibited ONJ after discounting zoledronic acid.
The ONJ in patients with MM who underwent dental or oral surgery appears to be associated with long term exposure to zoledronic acid. The long-lasting bone effect of biophosphonate could explain the appearance of osteonecrotic lesions after discontinuing treatment with biphosphonate.
Glioblastoma multiforme is a primary brain tumor associated with extensive invasion into surrounding brain tissue. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and urokinase plasminogen activation (uPA) system are shown to be involved in tumor invasion as they help in degradation of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins and thus assist in the movement of cells. MMP-2 and 9 were shown to be upregulated in gliomas, suggesting their involvement in invasion. Genistein and biochanin A are isoflavones commonly known as phytoestrogens and have some anticancer properties. We hypothesize that these two isoflavones can induce a lowering of tumor invasion by decreasing the activity of matrix degrading enzymes. In this study we investigated the effects of genistein and biochanin A on invasive activity of U87MG cells using the Calbiochem in vitro invasion assay system. Our results suggest that genistein and biochanin A induced a decrease in invasive activity of U87MG cells in a dose-related manner. Genistein also induced a decrease in EGF-stimulated invasion thereby implicating an involvement of EGF-mediated signaling in invasion. Our results also show that treatment of U87MG cells with the two isoflavones induced decreases in the enzymatic activity of MMP-9 and the protein levels of MT1-MMP and uPAR.
The relation between lithium dose, lithium concentrations, and lithium gradients in plasma and the side effects tremor, nausea, abdominal pains, and loose bowels was studied in 19 subjects. Rapidly dissolving lithium carbonate tablets were used. Tremor was related to higher doses, to higher concentrations, and to higher gradients of lithium in plasma. Nausea was related to higher gradients. Abdominal pain and loose bowels showed no relation to doses, levels or gradients. Concentrations of lithium were dose-dependent, while gradients were relatively independent of dose.
The effects of the intraventricularly administered cations (Mn2+, Ca2+, Mg2+ and Li+) against the seizure induced by ouabain (3 microgram) were investigated. Mn2+, Ca2+ and Mg2+ caused definite sedation and decreased locomotor activity. But Li+ was without significant behavioral effect at the doses applied. Among the cations used, Mn2+, Ca2+ and Mg2+ showed significant anticonvulsive effect on the ouabain-induced seizure. In comparison, on the dose and molar-to-molar basis, the potency of anticonvulsive action was in the following order: Mn2+ greater than Ca2+ greater than Mg2+. On the contrary, the higher dose of Li+ potentiated the ouabain-induced seizure. The importance of the increased Ca2+ level in the extracellular space or the inhibition of Ca2+ uptake as the anticonvulsive effect of Ca2+, Mn2+ and Mg2+ was discussed.
This study was designed to investigate the effects of conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) supplementation and endurance exercise training-induced changes on post-heparin lipoprotein lipase (PH-LPL) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activities along with leptin, insulin and lipid levels in plasma by a randomized double blind experiment. Eighteen sedentary male volunteers were randomly divided into CLA and Placebo (PLC) supplementation groups. Both groups underwent daily supplementation of either 3g CLA or 3g placebo for 30 days, respectively, and performed exercise on a bicycle ergometer 3 times per week for 30-40 min at 50% VO2 peak workload. For plasma glucose, insulin and leptin levels and BChE activity fasting blood was used. For PH-LPL measurements, blood was collected 15 min after 50 IU/kg iv heparin injection. In all groups, there is a statistically significant decrease in BChE (p = 0.03, p = 0.02) and leptin (p = 0.002), insulin and HOMA-IR levels (p = 0.02). Exercise with or without CLA supplementation decreased insulin levels and increased insulin sensitivity. PH-LPL activity was increased significantly in both groups, displaying increased fatty acid mobilization. We conclude that though CLA supplementation and exercise can affect these parameters, CLA is not more effective than exercise alone. Hence, a prolonged supplementation regime may be more effective. Taken together in our small study group, our findings display that BChE is a potential marker for synthetic function of liver, fat metabolism, an obesity marker, a function long overlooked.
Although fenarimol is a widely used chlorinated fungicide applied to fruits and vegetables and is a suspected endocrine disrupter, transgenerational studies of low doses of fenarimol exposure are not currently available. The aims of this study are to address the effect of maternal exposure to low doses of fenarimol on the reproductive performance of offspring and to investigate the expression changes of genes associated with this effect. Pregnant mice were orally exposed to low doses (0, 2, 20, and 200 μg/kg body weight) of fenarimol during gestational and lactational periods, and their offspring were assessed. The body and organ weights and anogenital distance (AGD) of mice offspring (F1) maternally exposed to fenarimol were determined, and the reproductive performances of these mice were assessed by mating and ovarian follicular and sperm analyses. Fenarimol-exposed F1 mice had shortened AGDs, increased body weight with altered organ weights, increased number of pups, increased number of ovarian follicles, and enhanced sperm quality. Microarray data showed 82 upregulated and 743 downregulated genes in the ovaries of fenarimol-exposed mice, in which Cyp17a1, Cyp19a1, and ERβ were upregulated. In addition, Nobox, a pivotal gene required for proper folliculogenesis, was significantly increased in the ovaries of F1 mice. In conclusion, maternal exposure to fenarimol promotes normal reproductive function in female mouse offspring by increasing the expression levels of genes crucial for ovarian folliculogenesis, identifying fenarimol as a chemical that stimulates reproductive performance. Thus, consumption of fenarimol-contaminated diets by mothers may possibly alter normal reproductive function of offspring in humans and wildlife.
Oseltamivir phosphate (Ro 64-0796/002) is a pro-drug of the anti-influenza neuraminidase inhibitor, Ro 64-0802, and as Tamiflu, has been developed for the treatment of both A and B strains of the disease. This paper describes an HPLC-MS-MS assay for both compounds in plasma and urine which fulfils all of the criteria for a good analytical method. It is sensitive with limits of quantification of 1 and 10 ng/ml for the pro-drug and active neuraminidase inhibitor, respectively. It is both accurate and precise with typical coefficients of variation from some 5,000 quality control samples of approximately +/-3 and +/-6%, respectively. Extensive stability studies have demonstrated the absence of significant problems associated with the decomposition of either compound, although ex vivo hydrolysis of Ro 64-0796 to Ro 64-0802 in rodent plasma has to be prevented by the use of the esterase inhibitor, dichlorvos.
In this study, we examined the cytotoxic effects of sanguinarine, a phytoalexin with antimicrobial, anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and pro-apoptotic effects, on the blastocyst stage of mouse embryos, subsequent embryonic attachment and outgrowth in vitro and in vivo implantation via embryo transfer. Blastocysts treated with 0.5-2 μM sanguinarine exhibited significantly increased apoptosis and a corresponding decrease in total cell number. Notably, the implantation success rates of blastocysts pretreated with sanguinarine were lower than that of their control counterparts. Moreover, in vitro treatment with 0.5-2 μM sanguinarine was associated with increased resorption of post-implantation embryos and decreased fetal weight. Our results collectively indicate that sanguinarine induces apoptosis and retards early post-implantation development in vitro and in vivo. In addition, sanguinarine induces apoptotic injury effects on mouse blastocysts through intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic signaling processes to impair sequent embryonic development. However, the extent to which sanguinarine exerts teratogenic effects on early human development is not known at present, and further studies are required to establish effective protection strategies against its cytotoxic effects.
