The effects of various beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists on nicotine-induced tail-tremor were investigated in rats. Atenolol (5 and 10 mg/kg, IP), arotinolol (5 and 10 mg/kg, IP), and carteolol (5 and 10 mg/kg, IP), hydrophilic beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists, did not affect the tail-tremor induced by nicotine given at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg SC. However, propranolol (5-20 mg/kg, IP) and pindolol (5-20 mg/kg, IP), nonselective and lipophilic beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists, did suppress the tail-tremor dose dependently. In contrast, metoprolol (5-20 mg/kg, IP), lipophilic and beta 1-selective adrenergic receptor antagonists, did not show such an effect. These results suggest that nicotine-induced tail-tremors may be mediated through central beta 2-adrenergic receptors as an appearance and developmental mechanism.
The A to C transversion in the promoter region of the gene encoding leukotriene C4 synthase (LTC4S) is proposed to be associated with the development of aspirin-induced asthma (AIA).
We investigated the frequency of the polymorphism in Japanese population and its association with clinical characteristics and cysteinyl leukotriene production.
Genotyping of LTC4S gene promoter was performed on 60 patients with AIA, 100 patients with aspirin-tolerant asthma (ATA), and 110 control subjects. We assessed the basal levels of urinary LTE4, the increment of urinary LTE4 on venous aspirin challenge, and LTC4S activity in peripheral blood eosinophils.
The frequency of the variant C allele was significantly higher in patients with AIA (frequency of allele [q] = 0.192) than in patients with ATA (q = 0.110, P =.042). Variant C-allelic carriers experienced asthma at a significantly younger age (31.8 +/- 2.9 years [mean +/- SEM]) than wild-type A homozygotes (41.3 +/- 2.2 years, P =.007). Basal levels of LTE4 and the increment of urinary LTE4 on venous aspirin challenge did not show a difference between wild-type A homozygotes and variant C-allelic carriers. There was no relationship between the polymorphism and the LTC4S activity in eosinophils, although LTC4S activities were significantly higher in patients with AIA than in patients with ATA.
Our findings reveal the lack of functionality of the polymorphism in the LTC4S gene, whereas this polymorphism might have some effect on the development of AIA, probably in linkage disequilibrium with another causatively important mutation.
To identify susceptibility loci for ankylosing spondylitis, we performed a two-stage genome-wide association study in Han Chinese. In the discovery stage, we analyzed 1,356,350 autosomal SNPs in 1,837 individuals with ankylosing spondylitis and 4,231 controls; in the validation stage, we analyzed 30 suggestive SNPs in an additional 2,100 affected individuals and 3,496 controls. We identified two new susceptibility loci between EDIL3 and HAPLN1 at 5q14.3 (rs4552569; P = 8.77 × 10(-10)) and within ANO6 at 12q12 (rs17095830; P = 1.63 × 10(-8)). We also confirmed previously reported associations in Europeans within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region (top SNP, rs13202464; P < 5 × 10(-324)) and at 2p15 (rs10865331; P = 1.98 × 10(-8)). We show that rs13202464 within the MHC region mainly represents the risk effect of HLA-B*27 variants (including HLA-B*2704, HLA-B*2705 and HLA-B*2715) in Chinese. The two newly discovered loci implicate genes related to bone formation and cartilage development, suggesting their potential involvement in the etiology of ankylosing spondylitis.
Systemic capillary leak syndrome (SCLS) is a rare condition characterized by unexplained episodic capillary hyperpermeability due to a shift of fluid and protein from the intravascular to the interstitial space. This results in diffuse swelling, weight gain, and renal shut-down. From the first publication in 1960, only 34 cases have been reported.
To collate enough patients to observe the natural history of the disease and evaluate the efficacy of empiric treatments.
Multicentric retrospective study.
Thirteen patients (6 women and 7 men) were collated with a mean follow-up of 6.4 years. Eight patients are still alive after a mean of 5.6 years (range 1 to 15). Three patients out of the 11 who were not lost to follow-up died; 1 during an attack and 2 because of a progression towards multiple myeloma.
Our series shows an improvement in the prognosis of SCLS due most likely to improved management during attacks. Some patients' disease could evolve into a multiple myeloma. Treatment is still empiric and no prophylactic therapy, including terbutaline associated with aminophylline, has clearly proven its efficacy.
Recent evidence indicates that both leptin and eicosapentaenoic acids (EPA) improve insulin sensitivity. In the present study, we examined the effect of EPA on endogenous leptin expression in 3T3-L1 adipocytes to clarify whether the EPA's effect is exerted through leptin expression. EPA caused a time- and dose-dependent increase of leptin mRNA levels in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Leptin mRNA expression was significantly increased up to 309.4 +/- 17.0% of the control by 24 h (P < 0.01; n = 6). Leptin secretion was also significantly increased up to 193.3 +/- 12.1% of the control by 24 h (P < 0.01; n = 6). EPA is a ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) with the highest affinity to PPARalpha. We examined the effect on leptin expression of clofibrate, a ligand for PPARalpha, bezafibrate, for PPARbeta, or troglitazone, for PPARgamma, to clarify whether these ligands for PPARs could mimic EPA-induced stimulation of leptin expression. Neither clofibrate nor bezafibrate affected leptin mRNA expression, whereas troglitazone significantly suppressed leptin mRNA expression. On the other hand, inhibition by 6-diazo-5-oxo-l-norleucine of the rate-limiting enzyme in hexosamine biosynthesis blunted EPA-induced stimulation of leptin mRNA expression and its secretion. These data suggest that EPA up-regulates leptin gene expression and its secretion probably through a hexosamine biosynthetic pathway.
Intravenous regional anesthesia (i.v.r.) is a safe, effective technique for surgery on the upper extremities, but it provides no postoperative analgesia. The aim of this study was to evaluate the analgesic efficacy of ketorolac during and after surgery with i.v.r. induced by lidocaine.
A double blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Twenty-six patients undergoing elective surgery on the upper extremities under i.v.r. were studied. In the anteroom of the operating theater, an anesthesiologist prepared the anesthetic solution to be administered from two syringes. One contained 3 mg/kg of 0.5% lidocaine (0.6 ml/kg). The second syringe (2 ml) contained 1 ml of 0.9% saline solution for the control group or 1 ml with 30 mg of ketorolac for the treatment group. A second anesthesiologist received the patient in the operating theater and used the syringes provided to induce the blockade. After releasing the pneumatic tourniquets we assessed the appearance of postoperative pain on a visual analog scale over the first 24 hours. The dats were compared using parametric (Student t test) and non parametric tests (Mann-Whitney U test and Fisher's exact test).
No significant differences in the characteristics or hemodynamic parameters analyzed were found between the two groups. Nor did we find any differences in analgesia during surgery. Ten of the 13 patients (77%) in the control group required analgesia within the first two hours, whereas none of the patients in the treatment group required analgesia during that time (p < 0.0001). There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in the total amount administered altogether, both during and after surgery. No local or systemic side effects were observed.
A 62-year-old man was admitted to the hospital in a state of shock with electrocardiographic signs of inferior-wall acute myocardial infarction. He was initially diagnosed of cardiogenic shock. An urgent coronary angiography showed an irregular stenosis of 90% in the right coronary artery. Coronary angioplasty was performed, and a stent was placed in this lesion. In-depth questioning of the family revealed that the patient had taken an oral dose of amoxicillin 15 minutes before the onset of the symptoms. Further tests proved that he was allergic to amoxicillin, and was diagnosed of anaphylactic shock, complicated with acute myocardial infarction. There are several reports of myocardial infarction as a complication of anaphylactic reaction. We have found very few cases related to antibiotics, and none associated with amoxicillin. The most frequently quoted mechanism in these cases is coronary artery spasm due to the mediators of anaphylaxis. In the case reported herein, the irregular lesion suggests that disruption of an atherosclerotic plaque and platelet aggregation have occurred.
Midodrine, a drug used to treat symptomatic orthostatic hypotension, may cause or exacerbate supine hypertension. We describe a case of a patient taking midodrine who exhibited severe hypertension during general anesthesia. Possible preventive measures to avoid this complication are discussed.
The aim of the present work was to clarify the anti-melanogenic mechanism of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Mefenamic acid, diclofenac, and nimesulide were used in this study, and these drugs inhibit melanin synthesis in B16F1 melanoma cells. To elucidate the anti-melanogenic mechanism of NSAIDs, we performed western blotting analysis for melanogenic proteins, such as tyrosinase, TRP-1, and TRP-2. All NSAIDs used in this study inhibited tyrosinase protein level. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that the depigmentation effect of mefenamic acid and nimesulide might be due to the inhibition of tyrosinase gene transcription. These results indicate that NSAIDs inhibit α-MSH-enhanced melanin synthesis, and are candidate anti-melanogenic agents since they might be effective in hyperpigmentation disorders.
We report a case of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium endocarditis that failed to respond to sequential monotherapy with chloramphenicol and quinupristin/dalfopristin but was successfully treated with oral linezolid.
This paper presents results of the radiological study and DTPA therapy for a worker exposed to a plutonium nitrate solution. Plutonium levels were measured in excreta, blood, plasma and wound for several weeks. Plutonium renal clearance ranged from 110-190 ml min(-1) to 3-4 ml min(-1) at different stages of chelation therapy. Plutonium absorption into blood from the injured skin amounted to 4.3%. As a result of intensive therapy, 96% of absorbed plutonium was successfully excreted.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of rolipram, a phosphodiesterase (PDE) 4 inhibitor, in a mouse model of dermatitis induced by repeated application of 2,4,6-trinitro-1-chlorobenzene (TNCB). BALB/c mice were sensitized with 0.3% w/v TNCB applied to the ear on day -7, followed by application three times a week from day 0. Rolipram, prednisolone and cyclosporine A were administered orally once daily from day 0 to 21. Rolipram at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day significantly inhibited the ear thickness and the increase in cytokine levels and enzyme activity in the ear. Interleukin (IL)-4 production was markedly decreased in cervical lymph node cells from animals treated with rolipram at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day. Prednisolone and cyclosporine A significantly reduced ear thickness. These compounds significantly decreased the total cell and lymphocyte number of the cervical lymph nodes. Furthermore, prednisolone markedly suppressed body weight gain, and cyclosporine A significantly increased the serum total IgE concentration compared with that in the vehicle-treated control. Rolipram, unlike prednisolone and cyclosporine A, did not influence body weight and the total IgE concentration in the serum. The present results suggest that the PDE4 inhibitor is a promising oral medicine for the treatment of chronic skin inflammatory diseases.
We investigated the pathogenic mechanism of indomethacin-induced small intestinal lesions, in relation to nitric oxide (NO), superoxide radicals and mast cells. Rats received indomethacin (1-6 mg/kg) s.c. once daily for 3 days, and the small intestine was examined for lesions 24 hr after the final administration of indomethacin. Indomethacin caused hemorrhagic lesions in the small intestine, mostly in the jejunum and ileum, in dose- and time-dependent manners, with concomitant increase of mucosal microvascular permeability. This treatment also caused an increase of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) activity with the expression of its mRNA, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity as well as thiobarbituric acid reactants (TRBAS) in the mucosa, and the changes in iNOS activity preceded those in MPO activity and TRBAS as well as lesion development. These lesions induced by indomethacin were prevented by aminoguanidine (a selective inhibitor of iNOS), dexamethasone (an inhibitor of iNOS mRNA transcription), allopurinol (a xanthine oxidase inhibitor), hydroxyurea (a neutrophil reducing agent) and FR167653 (an inhibitor of interleukin-1/tumor necrosis factor-alpha production) as well as 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2ń. Likewise, the severity of these lesions was also reduced by mast cell stabilizers FPL-52694 and disodium cromoglycate and a lipoxygenase inhibitor TMK-688, but not affected by tripelennamine (a histamine H1-receptor antagonist) or methysergide (a serotonin receptor antagonist). These results suggest that: 1) the pathogenic mechanism of indomethacin-induced small intestinal lesions involves superoxide radicals as well as NO produced by iNOS, 2) the deleterious effect of NO may be accounted for by the cytotoxic action of peroxynitrite, produced from NO in the presence of superoxide radicals, and 3) the mast cells may also be involved in the process of small intestinal ulceration, although the mediator responsible remains undefined.
Triamcinolone-induced alteration of the notochordal-basichondrocranial relationship in the rhesus monkey. Timed-mated pregnant rhesus monkeys received triamcinolone acetonide (10 mg/kg, IM) during early organogenesis. Treated and control embryos and fetuses were removed by hysterotomy on days 35, 42, 50, 60, and 70. All treated cases 42 days or older exhibited craniofacial and brain defects. Microscopic examination showed abnormal notochordal folding and a shortened cranial base in the 35-day embryos prior to any observed CNS involvement. Bends, deviations, focal proliferation, and persistence of the notochord and altered cranial base were observed in older cases. This study supports the hypothesis that encephalocele and related CNS disorders could be secondary to a primary paraxial mesodermal insufficiency.
Hairdressers are frequently exposed to bleaching powder containing persulfates, a group of compounds that may induce hypersensitivity in the airways. The mechanism causing this reaction is not clear. The aim of this study was to identify changes in the nasal lavage fluid proteome after challenge with potassium persulfate in hairdressers with bleaching powder-associated rhinitis. Furthermore, we aimed to compare their response to that of hairdressers without nasal symptoms, and atopic subjects with pollen-associated nasal symptoms. To study the pathogenesis of persulfate-associated rhinitis, the response in protein expression from the upper airway was assessed by time-dependent proteomic expression analysis of nasal lavage fluids. Samples were prepared by pooling nasal lavage fluids from the groups at different time points after challenge. Samples were depleted of high-abundant proteins, labeled with iTRAQ and analyzed by online 2D-nanoLC-MS/MS. Differences in the protein pattern between the three groups were observed. Most proteins with differentially expressed levels were involved in pathways of lipid transportation and antimicrobial activities. The major finding was increased abundance of apolipoprotein A-1, 20 min postchallenge, detected solely in the group of symptomatic hairdressers. Our results suggest there may be differences between the mechanisms responsible for the rhinitis in the symptomatic and atopic group.
Cardiac hypertrophy was induced in rats either by isoprenaline treatment or by experimental abdominal aortic stenosis. In both models, the UTP content increased in the hypertrophying heart, while the ATP level remained depressed. The rate of net synthesis of uracil nucleotides, estimated by phosphate incorporation into alpha-phosphate groups, was largely increased during the first stage of hypertrophy (X 3.6 and 2.6, respectively). At identical stages of hypertrophy, the rate of synthesis of ribosomal RNA, measured after continuous intracardiac infusion of 3H-uridine, was increased by 1.6 and 2.5 times. A comparison of the changes in time course of the levels of UTP and RNA and their turnover suggests that the metabolism of uracil nucleotides and that of ribosomal RNA are closely interrelated. The increase in the rate of synthesis of pyrimidine is interpreted as an adaptational change in nucleotide metabolism in response to the increased requirement of precursors for RNA synthesis. The possible limiting role of pyrimidine nucleotides in the hypertrophic process is discussed.
The ability of combination treatment with erythropoietin (Epo) and heme to rescue hematopoietic activity in mice from the suppressive effect of azidothymidine (AZT) was determined. Exposure of mice to AZT for 5 weeks produced marked anemia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, and weight loss, whereas mice that received Epo and heme for 3 subsequent weeks showed significant alleviation of AZT cytotoxicity. Treatment with Epo (10 U for 5 times/week) stimulated hematopoietic recovery in the AZT-treated animals and reduced the severe anemia and thrombocytopenia by 3 weeks. Administration of a lower Epo dose (1 U Epo) resulted in only a modest retardation of AZT-induced anemia, although, when combined with heme, there was a great improvement in recovery of erythropoiesis. The combination of heme with Epo (10 U) produced the optimum response, resulting in almost normal recovery of bone marrow cellularity as well as recovery of burst-forming units-erythroid (BFU-E) and splenic hematopoietic progenitor content (colony-forming unit-spleen [CFU-S]) by the end of 3 weeks of post-AZT treatment. Treatment with heme alone markedly enhanced the recovery of BFU-E and CFU-S, as well as body weight post-AZT; however, this recovery was not to the extent seen in combination with Epo (10 U). Long-term bone marrow cultures (LTBMCs) established from mice exposed to AZT for 8 weeks showed a marked reduction in cellularity and this was completely alleviated when mice received heme and Epo (10 U) for 3 weeks after 5 weeks of AZT administration. The additive effect of heme and Epo was seen in BFU-E production, as well as in CFU-S production, in LTBMCs. Thus, heme exerts a significant protective effect on hematopoietic progenitors in vivo and may be of potential clinical use in combination with Epo to promote effective erythropoiesis in the setting of AZT therapy.
The effects of 1) isoflurane (ISO)- and halothane (HAL)-induced hypotension to a mean aortic pressure (AoP) of 55 mmHg, and 2) of substituting ISO and HAL for each other at a mean AoP of 55 mmHg on global and regional left ventricular performance (ultrasonic dimension technique) and on coronary hemodynamics (electromagnetic flow probes) were studied in eight open-chest dogs (anesthetized and paralyzed by continuous infusions of fentanyl and pancuronium) with a critical coronary artery stenosis (micrometer-controlled snare) of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). The stenosis reduced resting coronary blood flow by 5% (P less than 0.05) without affecting global or regional myocardial performance. HAL- and ISO-induced hypotension caused comparable decreases in global cardiac function, but regional myocardial dysfunction in the area of stenosis and the reduction in coronary flow through the stenosed LAD were more pronounced during ISO. Substitution of HAL for ISO at constant mean AoP, heart rate, end-diastolic dimensions and pressures, and stroke volume resulted in significant (P less than or equal to 0.05) amelioration of regional myocardial dysfunction (improvement in contraction amplitude, disappearance of paradoxical systolic lengthening and akinesis), a 20% increase in flow through the stenosed LAD, and a 20% decrease in flow through the unobstructed left circumflex coronary artery. These data suggest that, in the presence of a critical coronary artery stenosis: 1) ISO- and HAL-associated hypotension result in comparable decreases in global cardiac function, 2) ISO-associated hypotension is more likely to cause severe regional myocardial dysfunction suggestive of ischemia than equal degrees of HAL-associated hypotension, and 3) the different effects of HAL and ISO on ischemic myocardial segments at equally reduced coronary perfusion pressure are primarily related to their different effects on coronary vasomotor tone.
From July 1987 to June 1988, 1030 pregnant women with hepatitis B were reported to a New York City surveillance program. Among 832 infants under follow-up, the coverage rates for combined hepatitis B immune globulin and vaccine doses 1, 2, and 3 were 84%, 77%, and 59%, respectively. Infants covered by Medicaid and uninsured Black and Hispanic infants were significantly less likely to be completely vaccinated. An estimated 160 cases of chronic hepatitis B infection were prevented among infants enrolled in the program. Strategies are needed to improve vaccine coverage among hard-to-reach groups.
Humans are routinely exposed to low levels of bisphenol A (BPA), a synthetic xenoestrogen widely used in the production of polycarbonate plastics. The effects of long-term exposure to BPA on memory and modification of synaptic structure in hippocampus of adult mice were investigated in the present study. The adult mice were exposed to BPA (0.4, 4, and 40 mg/kg/day) or arachis oil for 12 weeks. In open field test, BPA at 0.4, 4, or 40 mg/kg/day increased the frequency of rearing and time in the central area of the males, while BPA at 0.4 mg/kg/day reduced the frequency of rearing in the females. Exposure to BPA (0.4 or 40 mg/kg/day) extended the average escape pathlength to the hidden platform in Morris water maze task and shortened the step-down latency 24 h after footshock of the males, but no changes were found in the females for these measures. Meanwhile, BPA induced a reduced numeric synaptic density and a negative effect on the structural parameters of synaptic interface, including an enlarged synaptic cleft and the reduced length of active zone and PSD thickness, in the hippocampus of the male mice. Western blot analyses further indicated that BPA down-regulated expressions of synaptic proteins (synapsin I and PSD-95) and synaptic NMDA receptor subunit NR1 and AMPA receptor subunit GluR1 in the hippocampus of the males. These results suggest that long-term exposure to low levels of BPA in adulthood sex-specifically impaired spatial and passive avoidance memory of mice. These effects may be associated with the higher susceptibility of the hippocampal synaptic plasticity processes, such as remodeling of spinal synapses and the expressions of synaptic proteins (e.g. synapsin I and PSD-95) and NMDA and AMPA receptors, to BPA in the adult male mice.
The efficacy of calcium with vitamin D supplementation for preventing hip and other fractures in healthy postmenopausal women remains equivocal.
We recruited 36,282 postmenopausal women, 50 to 79 years of age, who were already enrolled in a Women's Health Initiative (WHI) clinical trial. We randomly assigned participants to receive 1000 mg of elemental [corrected] calcium as calcium carbonate with 400 IU of vitamin D3 daily or placebo. Fractures were ascertained for an average follow-up period of 7.0 years. Bone density was measured at three WHI centers.
Hip bone density was 1.06 percent higher in the calcium plus vitamin D group than in the placebo group (P<0.01). Intention-to-treat analysis indicated that participants receiving calcium plus vitamin D supplementation had a hazard ratio of 0.88 for hip fracture (95 percent confidence interval, 0.72 to 1.08), 0.90 for clinical spine fracture (0.74 to 1.10), and 0.96 for total fractures (0.91 to 1.02). The risk of renal calculi increased with calcium plus vitamin D (hazard ratio, 1.17; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.02 to 1.34). Censoring data from women when they ceased to adhere to the study medication reduced the hazard ratio for hip fracture to 0.71 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.52 to 0.97). Effects did not vary significantly according to prerandomization serum vitamin D levels.
Among healthy postmenopausal women, calcium with vitamin D supplementation resulted in a small but significant improvement in hip bone density, did not significantly reduce hip fracture, and increased the risk of kidney stones. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00000611.).
Disulfiram has been used as a popular adjunct in programs for alcohol rehabilitation. However, in rare cases, disulfiram has been reported to cause fulminant hepatitis. Disulfiram use and its associated complications in adolescents have received minimal attention in the literature. We report the first pediatric case of successful orthotopic liver transplantation for disulfiram-induced fulminant hepatic failure in a 16-year-old girl, who developed an idiosyncratic reaction associated with short-term, low-dose disulfiram use, as evidenced by her liver biopsy and explanted liver. This case report indicates that a high index of suspicion, and aggressive therapeutic interventions are necessary to recognize and manage disulfiram-induced fulminant hepatic failure in adolescents. Success of this case suggests that transplant centers should consider liver transplantation of an adolescent alcoholic patient with fulminant hepatic failure due to non-alcohol-related causes such as disulfiram. Orthotopic liver transplantation should be considered early in the management of disulfiram-induced fulminant hepatic failure.
Few studies have explored the relationship between PM2.5 and lung cancer incidence. Although results are mixed, some studies have demonstrated a positive relationship between PM2.5 and lung cancer mortality. Using an ecologic study design, we examined the county-level associations between PM2.5 concentrations (2002-2005) and lung cancer incidence and mortality in North Carolina (2002-2006). Positive trends were observed between PM2.5 concentrations and lung cancer incidence and mortality; however, the R2 for both were <0.10. The slopes for the relationship between PM2.5 and lung cancer incidence and mortality were 1.26 (95% CI 0.31, 2.21, p-value 0.01) and 0.73 (95% CI 0.09, 1.36, p-value 0.03) per 1 μg/m3 PM2.5, respectively. These associations were slightly strengthened with the inclusion of variables representing socioeconomic status and smoking. Although variability is high, thus reflecting the importance of tobacco smoking and other etiologic agents that influence lung cancer incidence and mortality besides PM2.5, a positive trend is observed between PM2.5 and lung cancer incidence and mortality. This suggests the possibility of an association between PM2.5 concentrations and lung cancer incidence and mortality.
Increased QT and QT dispersion has been linked to arrhythmic death in patients with congenital and acquired long QT syndromes. The repolarization abnormalities were studied in 45 patients with a history of chest pain, somnolence, or disorientation admitted to the hospital for cocaine abuse. Group I was composed of patients with anginal chest pain (n = 23), whereas in group II patients (n = 22), chest pain was absent. Measurements were made of QT and QTc and of QT and QTc dispersion characteristics. Cocaine prolonged the QT, QTc, and QTc dispersion and enhanced the appearance of abnormal U waves. Lethal ventricular arrhythmias were observed in 3 patients. Anginal chest pain may be a marker for myocardial ischemia and, in the presence of abnormal ventricular repolarization, may cause lethal ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death in persons exposed to cocaine.
The myocardial cell nucleus was studied in the rat during its normal growth and under different types of heart overloading. Under overloading of short duration, a disappearance of condensed chromatin and an increase in the nucleolus and nucleolonema were interpreted as representing cell overactivity. With isoproterenol overloading, a first stage of cell necrosis and of its consequences on chromatin and nucleolus was followed by the process of cell repair and overactivity. With overloading of long duration, several different nuclear aspects were encountered: (a) enlarged and distorted nuclei as possible supports of polyploidy; (b) a partial coupling between two adjacent nuclei, interpreted either as nuclear fusion or amitosis; (c) segregation of different proteins, probably due to cell damage. The number of nuclei per myocyte was high (90%) in the adult. It decreased (80%) two days after isoproterenol overloading, as well as in heart hypertrophy of 6-9-months duration. Nuclear size increased under isoproterenol overdosage of 48-h duration. The amount of nuclear DNA also increased two days after isoproterenol overdosage, particularly in mononucleated cells.
Caerulein, cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) and diazepam delayed the onset of seizures produced by harman and thiosemicarbazide (TSC). Caerulein had the potency of diazepam, whereas CCK-8 was less active by a factor of four. The convulsions induced by isoniazid (INH) were very resistant to both caerulein and diazepam; CCK-8 was not tested against isoniazid. Haloperidol did not influence the effect of TSC; it enhanced isoniazid-induced seizures, and antagonized the convulsant effect of harman.
We prospectively evaluated and followed-up 45 patients with syncope in whom conventional cardiovascular and neurological investigations did not reveal the cause. All patients underwent electrophysiologic studies to assess the function of the sinus node and the integrity of atrioventricular conduction. These included the ajmaline test and the inducibility of supraventricular or ventricular tachycardia. Seven patients (15.5%) had evidence of sinus node dysfunction, 8 patients (17.7%) had evidence of infra-His atrioventricular block after ajmaline administration and 5 patients (11.1%) had inducible ventricular tachycardia. The remaining 25 patients (55.5%) had non-diagnostic studies. All patients with sinus node dysfunction and inducible infra-His atrioventricular block were asymptomatic during a mean follow-up period of 14.3 +/- 9.5 months after implantation of a permanent pacemaker. Patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia (except 1 with poor left ventricular function who died) were likewise asymptomatic while receiving laboratory guided anti-arrhythmic drug therapy. Twenty-five patients with non-diagnostic studies who were treated empirically are alive but the symptoms persist in 14 (56%). Provocative electrophysiological studies are of diagnostic and therapeutic utility in a significant number of patients with recurrent syncope of "unknown cause".
The aim of this study was to further investigate the mechanism of development of cardiac lesions occurring under treatment with milrinone in dogs, by using echocardiography for assessing the effects of this drug on cardiac function. Milrinone is a cAMP phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitor having positive inotropic and vasodilatory effects. We treated groups of three dogs with milrinone at a single dose of 0.5 or 1 mg/kg and recorded M-mode and Doppler parameters at different time points before and after treatment. The hearts of the high-dose animals were histopathologically examined. The treatment with milrinone at 1 mg/kg produced mild cardiac lesions at two different locations. In the left ventricle, haemorrhages in the subendocardium and myocardium occurred in all three dogs. In the right atrium, subepicardial haemorrhages occurred in one dog and inflammation of the epicardium was observed in two dogs. These lesions were considered to be related to changes in the cardiac function, which were investigated by echocardiography. Milrinone treatment produced a moderate tachycardia and changes in M-mode parameters indicating an increase in contractility, in particular, a decrease in end-systolic volume, an increase in ejection fraction and an increase in the rate of circumferential fiber shortening. In addition, there was an increase in the maximal aortic flow velocity evaluated by Doppler measurements, which is thought to represent a haemodynamic correlate of an increase in left ventricular contractility. This increase in myocardial work is considered to play a key role in the development of the lesions observed in the left ventricle. Doppler measurements also revealed changes in the right atrioventricular flow, probably resulting from cardiac stimulation produced by milrinone. In particular, there was an increase in the Vmax of the A-wave of the tricuspid flow, suggesting an increase in contractility of the right atrium. This change, by increasing blood flow in atrial wall, may be involved in the induction of the lesions observed in the right atrium. In conclusion, Doppler and M-mode echocardiography are useful tools to assess haemodynamic changes occurring upon treatment with vasodilators or cardiac stimulants in order to further understand the mechanism of development of cardiac lesions produced by such compounds.
