Mesalazine or 5 aminosalicylic acid (5 ASA) is currently a first choice drug in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease. It has been shown that it crosses the placenta and is excreted into breast milk in small quantities.
We present the case of a four month old breast fed infant, with a thrombosis of the superior sagittal sinus secondary to a severe thrombocytosis (1,124,000/mm3). The only interesting antecedent we would draw attention to, is that breast feeding had been suddenly stopped the week before. The mother, suffering Crohn s disease, had been receiving treatment with oral mesalazine throughout her pregnancy and during lactation.
Once other causes of the thrombocytosis had been eliminated, we based our approach on the hypothesis that it was due to prolonged intake of 5 ASA by the mother.
Since 1995, 11 adult patients with oxacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (ORSA) meningitis have been identified at Chang Gung Memorial Hospital-Kaohsiung, in Kaohsiung, Taiwan. The 11 patients were 8 men and 3 women, aged 17-78 years. A postneurosurgical state was an underlying condition for all, and fever and disturbances in consciousness were the most common clinical manifestations. Infection with S. aureus only was found in 8 patients, and mixed infection was found in the other 3. The 8 patients with meningitis caused by S. aureus only were mainly treated with intravenous vancomycin, 2-4 g/day; 4 of these patients died. Although ORSA meningitis is uncommon among adults with culture-proven bacterial meningitis, its incidence has been increasing in recent years. The diagnosis of adult ORSA meningitis can be confirmed only with a positive culture of cerebrospinal fluid, and the choice of initial empirical antibiotics must be guided by the accumulated data concerning the relative frequency of the implicated pathogens found at each institution. Despite the high rate of mortality associated with ORSA meningitis, intravenous vancomycin therapy seems to be one of the best choices for management of this condition in adults.
To report four cases of optic nerve neuropathy in three children treated with periocular carboplatin injections for unilateral or bilateral intraocular retinoblastoma.
Retrospective, observational case series.
