High-dose cyclophosphamide is the nucleus for virtually all high-dose chemotherapy protocols. Non-hematologic dose-limiting toxicity is represented by acute cardiomyopathy, even fatal in a minority of patients. The pathophysiology of such a cardiotoxicity is still poorly understood. Postmortem studies revealed hemorrhagic myocardial cell death, endothelial damage, and interstitial edema. Recently troponins, in particular troponin I, have been found to represent uniquely sensitive and specific markers of myocyte membrane integrity, thus to increase in response to myocardial cell damage in different clinical settings.
We performed a multiparametric monitoring in 16 consecutive breast cancer patients undergoing cyclophosphamide, by means of serial ECGs, cardiac enzymes determinations (creatine phosphokinase, MB mass and troponin I) through 0 to 72 hours, and echocardiography at baseline and after 48 hours.
Neither overt cardiac failure nor enzyme elevation were recorded. Serial ECGs revealed a reduction in QRS voltage and/or ST segment abnormalities in 6 cases. Echocardiography showed an increase in left ventricular diastolic and/or systolic diameters and volumes in 4 cases but without any decrease in fractional shortening and ejection fraction under normal values: in 2 of them abnormalities of diastolic function (E/A mitral Doppler ratio, isovolumic relaxation time and deceleration time) were also recorded.
Our protocol of cyclophosphamide administration did not cause cardiac toxicity by myocardial cell damage, as analyzed by troponin I levels, thus suggesting that myocyte membrane injury is not the first mechanism of it. ECG (i.e. QRS voltages) and echo-Doppler (i.e. E/A ratio) monitoring lead to hypothesize that endothelial injury and interstitial edema with subsequent reduction in left ventricular diastolic compliance may be the first signs of cardiac dysfunction in this clinical setting.
The cardiac toxicity of 5 fluoro-uracil, an antimitotic agent widely used in various protocols, has been known for 16 years. Several cases have been reported in the literature, leading to the suggestion, without formal evidence, that the chief mechanism responsible for this cardiac toxicity is "classical" coronary spasm. However, certain clinical aspects already described may shed doubt on this theory. On the basis of 8 cases, the authors report different clinical pictures all caused by cardiac toxicity of 5FU. It is of interest to note that chest pain with the classically described electrocardiographic changes did not apply in the majority of cases. The commonest pattern was asymptomatic electrocardiographic abnormalities and/or arrhythmias without angina. Among the reported cases, one patient had pain with electrocardiographic abnormalities, recurrent after the withdrawal of 5FU and resistant to maximal medical treatment, despite the absence of any coronary disease or signs of spasm. One patient had a first myocardial infarction, later rechallenge with the drug resulting in failure. In another patient, with known coronary disease, 5FU probably cause cardiogenic shock. In total, some of our cases, as well as other features described in the literature, raise questions as to the pathophysiology of the cardiac toxicity of 5FU.
To study the hemorheology of island flap after ischemia-reperfusion injury and modulation of dexamethasone.
Sixty Wister rats were made ischemia-reperfusion injury model, and divided into two groups randomly(Group I: intraperitoneal injection of normal saline 2 ml/kg as control group; Group II: intraperitoneal injection of dexamethasone 5 mg/kg as experimental group). Flap survived areas were measured and neutrophil necrosis numbers in flaps were counted. Erythrocytes and neutrophil hemorheology were observed.
Area survived flap in group II was larger than that in group I. Neutrophil necrosis numbers were less in group II than in group I (P < 0.05). Whole blood hyposhear viscosity, erythrocyte aggregation, Casson yield stress and nerutrophil adhesion ability were higher in group I than in group II (P < 0.05); and the neutrophil deformability was lower in group I than in group II.
Flap inchemia-reperfusion can increase erythrocyte aggregation index and neutrophil adhesion ability. Dexamethasone can improve these and decrease neutrophil necrosis numbers, so as to prevent flap from ischemia-reperfusion injury.
The behavioral effects of native human corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and its agonists D-Glu-20 (R1) and D-Pro-5 (R2) introduced (0.01 - 1 microg) into the lateral brain ventriculi of Sprague-Dowley rats have been studied in the open field, dark - light, Y-maze, and place preference tests. The different effects of CRH and its agonists on the anxiety level and short-term memory were revealed. D-Glu-20 (an R1 agonist of CRH) acted as an anxiogen in the open field and dark - light tests. D-Pro-5 (an R2 agonist of CRH) did not cause the typical anxiogenic effect, but produced a nonspecific suppression of behavior. D-Pro-5 only in high doses decreased the number of visits into the light box in the dark - light test. At the same time, this compound enhanced the short-term memory to a maximum degree and prevented the memory loss induced by diazepam. The data obtained are in agreement with the published data about differential participation of R1 and R2 receptor systems of CRH in the regulation of emotional and mnestic components of behavior. The anxiogenic action of CRH is connected with the activation of R1 receptors of CRH.
To explore the impact of secondary lymphoid tissue chemokine (SLC) on lymphocyte migration and the significance thereof in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis (UC).
Sixty SD rats were randomly divided into 3 equal groups: model group undergoing dripping of 40% acetone solution of dinitro-chlorobenzene (DNCB) on the back for 2 weeks and then enema of 6% DNCB acetone solution so as to establish models of UC, and then intravenous injection of normal saline (NS) for 5 days; SLC antibody intervention group undergoing intravenous injection of SLC antibody 15 microg x ml(-1) x kg(-1) immediately after the establishing of model; and control group undergoing enema of NS nly and then intravenous injection of NS for 5 days. Six days after the establishing of model venous blood samples were collected from the portal veins of the 3 groups. Lymphocytes were isolated and cultured. RT-PCR was used to detect the mRNA expression of the SLC receptor CCR7. Boyden chamber system was used to examine the migration ability of the lymphocytes exposed to SLC of 20, 40, 60, 80, and 100 ng/ml respectively. ELISA was used to detect the expression of interleukin (IL)-10 and interferon (IFN)-gamma in the supernatants of the lymphocytes of different groups.
RT-PCR showed that the CCR7 mRNA expression level of the model group was (0.792 +/- 0.108), significantly higher than that of the intervention group (0.386 +/- 0.115, P = 0.0429), and the CCR7 mRNA expression levels of these 2 groups were both significantly higher than that of the control group (0.106 +/- 0.029, both P < 0.01). SLC dose-dependently promoted the migration ability of the lymphocytes, but there existed a saturation phenomenon. Exposed to 80 ng/ml SLC the migration level of the lymphocytes of the model group peaked to (85.9 +/- 16.0), 3.7 times as high as that of the control group (20.5 +/- 1.8, P < 0.01), and the migration level of the lymphocytes of the intervention group was 38.2 +/- 6.3, significantly higher than that of the control group too (P < 0.05). SLC enhanced the expression of IFN-gamma of the lymphocytes of the model group, while reduced the IL-10 level, and both effects peaked at the concentration of 80 ng/ml (P = 0.042, P = 0.036).
SLC promotes the lymphocyte migration and boosts the differentiation of lymphocytes, thus participating in the pathogenesis of UC.
Adriamycin, administered to rats for 4 weeks, caused insufficiency of isolated heart contractility with a twofold reduction of cardiac output in surviving animals. The same cumulative dose of adriamycin, administered to rats over 10 weeks, was not associated with any significant reduction of the heart's pumping function. However, heart rate increase by atrial electrostimulation that shortened the diastolic pause to a control level, also reduced the minute and stroke volumes by 38%, as compared to the controls. All animals showed increased diastolic stiffness of the left ventricle that must have interfered with its filling, particularly so in case of low inflow pressure, and disturbed atrial automaticity, as reflected in bradicardia in rats and supraventricular arrhythmia in guinea pigs.
Modeling of NO deficiency by administration of L-NAME to rats led to the development of arterial hypertension and endothelial dysfunction. Pronounced endothelium and cardioprotective effects of impaza under these experimental conditions manifested more markedly during combined administration of the preparation with standard hypotensive preparations enalapril and losartan.
We examined whether the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine) would reverse parkinsonism or potentiate the effects of L-dopa in primates treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). In contrast to its effect in rodent models, treatment with MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) caused bradykinesia and ataxia in parkinsonian primates, but no locomotor stimulation. Coadministration of MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) with L-dopa (20 mg/kg) induced marked dystonia accompanied by bradykinesia and ataxia. Dystonia was not induced by either treatment given alone. These findings indicate that MK-801 should not be advocated as an adjunct to dopamine agonist therapy in Parkinson's disease.
A 66-year-old man had developed a myopathy while undergoing several periods of etofibrate and clofibrate therapy over the past 5 years. Discontinuation of etofibrate treatment failed to reverse his muscle illness which, however, did not progress. A muscle biopsy revealed a chronic myopathy marked by abundant, abnormally structured muscle mitochondria. His mitochondrial myopathy may represent a forme fruste of the Kearns-Sayre syndrome or other types of mitochondrial myopathy, clinically made evident by the etofibrate/clofibrate therapy, or a permanent, adverse side effect of clofibrate treatment. If the latter assumption proves to be correct, it will indicate that clofibrate therapy may induce an acutely painful but reversible neuromuscular illness, or also, though rarely, a chronic mitochondrial myopathy.
Lumbar puncture (LP) is a routine technique performed for a variety of procedures, e.g. diagnosis, administration of drugs, myelography and spinal anaesthesia. Postdural puncture headache is a common complication (30-40% in diagnostic LP). Prevention can be accomplished by using small-gauge needles (< or = 25 G) or pencil-point needles (22 G). Therapy should be carried out in a stepwise approach. The first step is bedrest, use of analgetics, i.v. fluids and an adequate guidance of the patient. The second step comprises special drug therapy. Several methods of pharmacologic management have been presented in the literature, but most of these are case reports. There is a lack of large double-blind placebo-controlled studies. Theophylline, caffeine, ACTH and sumatriptan are potentially promising agents for the treatment of postdural puncture headache. The efficacy of theophylline has been proven in a double-blind and placebo-controlled study. There are a few studies and case reports reporting that caffeine p.o. and i.v. is effective in the treatment of postdural puncture headache, but recurrence of headache after caffeine therapy is frequent. ACTH acts on a complex hormonal system. The treatment with sumatriptan has been reported in only a few case reports. The third step, and one of the most effective treatments of postdural puncture headache, is the epidural blood patch. The success rate ranges between 80 and 97%.
Oxidative stress is considered to be a mechanism involved in lead neurotoxicity. Apoptosis is also thought to relate to lead neurotoxicity. The present study, focused on the hippocampus, was designed to investigate the two possible mechanisms involved in lead neurotoxicity and the potential protective effects of 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) and oligomeric procyanidins (OPC). It was proved that reactive oxygen species and oxidative damage were implicated in the induction of apoptosis induced by lead in the hippocampus. Administration of DMSA attenuated the oxidative stress and apoptosis in addition to having strong chelating and lead-removing capacity. OPC alone had antioxidant protective effects in the hippocampus but no removing capacity for lead in vivo despite showing higher affinity and stronger chelating ability for Pb(2+) than DMSA in vitro. It is suggested that OPC chelates Pb(2+) but does not discharge it from the body and even accumulates Pb(2+) in some organs. At the same time, a reasonable deduction can also be made that the complex of OPC-Pb(2+) prevents or at least weakens the neurotoxicity of Pb(2+). Whether this complex displays toxicity over a long time span should be studied further.
1. Pathological changes to the kidney, such as vascular remodelling, have been found in several models of hypertension and may contribute to the maintenance of hypertension or confer susceptibility to redeveloping hypertension after the original prohypertensive stimulus is withdrawn. 2. To investigate whether noradrenaline-induced hypertension induces persistent, functionally important changes to the kidney, the acute pressure-natriuresis relationship was characterized in anaesthetized rats under controlled neural and hormonal conditions following chronic (14 days) intravenous infusion of noradrenaline (48 microg/kg per h) or vehicle (0.04 mg/mL ascorbic acid and 0.156 mg/mL NaH2PO4 2 H2O in 10 IU/mL heparinized saline). 3. Conscious mean arterial pressure was significantly elevated by infusion of noradrenaline at 48 microg/kg per h (+10 +/- 2 mmHg at Day 14; P < 0.01 vs vehicle group). The acute relationships between arterial pressure and renal blood flow, glomerular filtration rate, Na+ excretion and urine flow were not significantly different between the noradrenaline- and vehicle-infused rats immediately after termination of noradrenaline infusion. 4. In summary, chronic intravenous noradrenaline infusion did not cause persistent changes in renal function, indicating that, in contrast with many models of hypertension, this model does not induce underlying prohypertensive changes to the kidney.
1. The acute effect of amiodarone on haemodynamics (mean arterial pressure and heart rate) and ventricular function (+dP/dt(max) and -dP/dt(max)) was investigated in conscious rats. In addition, the effects of amiodarone on dobutamine stress were determined. 2. Catheters were inserted in rats into the left ventricle and femoral artery and vein. Three groups of rats received 25 or 50 mg/kg, i.v., amiodarone or vehicle (a 1:1:8 mixture of Tween 80:99.5% ethanol:distilled water), followed by dobutamine (10 microg/kg). 3. The hypotensive effect of 50 mg/kg amiodarone was combined with marked bradycardia and attenuation of +dP/dt(max) and -dP/dt(max). A slight, but significant, hypotension was caused by 25 mg/kg amiodarone, without affecting heart rate, +dP/dt(max) and -dP/dt(max). However, although both doses of amiodarone attenuated the tachycardia caused by dobutamine, neither 25 nor 50 mg/kg amiodarone affected the increase in mean arterial pressure or the enhanced response of +dP/dt(max) and -dP/dt(max). 4. In conclusion, amiodarone caused hypotension, bradycardia, negative inotropic (+dP/dt(max)) and lusitropic (-dP/dt(max)) effects in conscious rats. In addition, amiodarone attenuated the tachycardia without affecting the hypertensive, contractile (+dP/dt(max)) and lusitropic (-dP/dt(max)) responses to dobutamine stress.
This study examined the hypothesis that low-concentration apomorphine improves postischemic hemodynamic and mitochondrial function in the isolated rat heart model by attenuating oxidation of myocardial proteins. Control and apomorphine-treated hearts were subjected to 35 min of perfusion, 25 min of normothermic global ischemia, and 60 min of reperfusion. Apomorphine (2 microM) was introduced into the perfusate for 20 min starting from the onset of reperfusion. Apomorphine significantly (p <.05) improved postischemic hemodynamic function: work index of the heart (product of LVDP and heart rate) was twice as high in apomorphine-treated hearts compared to controls at the end of reperfusion (p <.01). After isolation of cardiac mitochondria, the respiratory control ratio (RCR) was calculated from the oxygen consumption rate of State 3 and State 4 respiration. Apomorphine significantly improved postischemic RCR (87% of preischemic value vs. 39% in control, p <.05). Using an immunoblot technique, carbonyl content of multiple unidentified myocardial proteins (mitochondrial and nonmitochondrial) was observed to be elevated after global ischemia and reperfusion. Apomorphine significantly attenuated the increased protein oxidation at the end of reperfusion. These results support the conclusion that apomorphine is capable of preventing ischemia/reperfusion-induced oxidative stress and thereby attenuating myocardial protein oxidation and preserving mitochondrial respiration function.
Studies were conducted to determine if in vivo exposure to dinitrotoluenes (DNT), which is associated with circulatory disorders of atherosclerotic etiology in humans, is associated with alterations of vascular smooth muscle cells (SMC) consistent with the atherogenic process. Sprague-Dawley rats (150-180 g) were injected IP for 5 days/week for 8 weeks with 2,4- or 2,6-DNT (0.5, 5, or 10 mg/kg) or medium chain triglyceride (MCT) oil. Histopathologic evaluation of aortae from animals exposed to either isomer showed dysplasia and rearrangement of SMC at all doses tested. Reduced 3H-thymidine incorporation was observed in primary cultures of aortic SMC from DNT-exposed animals relative to vehicle controls. This inhibitory response was maintained for up to two passages in culture after which a significant increase in thymidine incorporation was observed. Exposure of SMC from naive animals to DNT in vitro (1-100 microM) did not alter the extent of thymidine incorporation in cycling or growth-arrested cultures. In contrast, exposure to 2,4- or 2,6-diaminotoluene (DAT) (1-100 microM), carcinogens which share toxic metabolic intermediates in common with DNT, inhibited replicative DNA synthesis and stimulated unscheduled DNA synthesis in cycling and growth-arrested cultures of SMC, respectively. Our results suggest that modulation of DNA synthesis in aortic SMC by DNT metabolites generated in vivo contribute to the development of vascular lesions.
The CHEK2 protein plays a major role in the regulation of DNA damage response pathways. Mutations in the CHEK2 gene, in particular 1100delC, have been associated with increased cancer risks, but the precise function of CHEK2 mutations in carcinogenesis is not known. Human cancer cell lines with CHEK2 mutations are therefore of main interest. Here, we have sequenced 38 breast cancer cell lines for mutations in the CHEK2 gene and identified two cell lines with deleterious CHEK2 mutations. Cell line UACC812 has a nonsense truncating mutation in the CHEK2 kinase domain (L303X) and cell line SUM102PT has the well-known oncogenic CHEK2 1100delC founder mutation. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the two CHEK2 mutant cell lines expressed neither CHEK2 nor P-Thr(68) CHEK2 proteins, implying abrogation of normal CHEK2 DNA repair functions. Cell lines UACC812 and SUM102PT thus are the first human CHEK2 null cell lines reported and should therefore be a major help in further unraveling the function of CHEK2 mutations in carcinogenesis.
Ovariectomized sheep are a useful model of postmenopausal osteoporosis and other postmenopausal conditions. Estrogen may have a protective effect on the coronary arteries in postmenopausal women. The effects of raloxifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator, on coronary arteries in aged ovariectomized ewes was investigated.
Forty eight aged ewes were randomly assigned to undergo sham surgery (Sham, n = 7), ovariectomy (OVX, n = 10), ovariectomy with estradiol supplementation (OVXE, n = 8), ovariectomy with raloxifene supplementation, 0.02 mg/kg per day (RAL1, n = 10), or ovariectomy with raloxifene supplementation, 0.10 mg/kg per day (RAL2, n = 13). Contrast coronary angiography was performed 6 months after intervention. Diameters of the right main and left anterior descending coronary arteries in the RAL1, RAL2 and Sham groups were not different from each other, but were significantly greater than the OVX and OVXE groups. Intracoronary nitroglycerin did not affect the relationships of the diameters in any group. There were no differences in vascular remodeling between the groups.
The results indicate that raloxifene in this sheep model allows greater dilation of coronary arteries than estrogen. Raloxifene may provide a significant protective functional effect on coronary arteries in postmenopausal heart disease.
Intermedin is a novel member of the calcitonin/calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) family peptide, which has vasodilatory and hypotensive actions identical to those of adrenomedullin and CGRP. Cleavage sites located between 2 basic amino acids at Arg93-Arg94 result in the production of prepro-intermedin95-147, namely intermedin1-53. The bioactive action of intermedin1-53 and its physiological significance are unclear. In this work, we aimed to explore the effects of intermedin1-53 on acute myocardial injury induced by isoproterenol. Myocardial ischemia injury in rats was induced by subcutaneous injection of a high dose of isoproterenol, and the therapeutic effect of intermedin1-53 was observed. Plasma lactate dehydrogenase activity, myocardial and plasma malondialdehyde content were higher in the isoproterenol group than that in controls. Isoproterenol-treated rats showed lower maximal rate of increase and decrease of left-ventricle pressure development (+/-left-ventricle dp/dtmax) and higher left-ventricle end-diastolic pressure (all P<0.01), which suggested severe heart failure and myocardial injury. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that the gene expression of calcitonin receptor-like receptor and receptor-activity-modifying protein (RAMP)1, RAMP2 and RAMP3 in ventricular myocardia were up-regulated by 79% (P<0.01), 48% (P<0.01), 31% (P<0.05) and 130% (P<0.01), respectively, compared with controls. In myocardial sarcolemmal membranes, the maximum binding capacity for [125I]-intermedin1-53 was increased by 118% (P<0.01) in the isoproterenol group compared with controls. Rats treated with low dosage intermedin1-53 (5 nmol/kg/day, 2 days) showed 21% (P<0.05) higher myocardial cAMP content, 18% and 31% higher+left-ventricle dp/dtmax and -left-ventricle dp/dtmax respectively, 288% lower left-ventricle end-diastolic pressure (all P<0.01), and attenuated myocardial lactate dehydrogenase leakage and malondialdehyde formation (all P<0.01). Treatment with high dosage intermedin1-53 (20 nmol/kg/day, 2 days) gave better results than that with low dosage intermedin1-53. These results suggest that the intermedin receptor system was up-regulated in isoproterenol-induced myocardial ischemic injury and intermedin1-53 might play a pivotal cardioprotective role in such injury.
Several lines of evidence support an important role for somatostatin receptors (SSTRs) in pain modulation. The therapeutic use of established SSTR peptide agonists for this indication is limited by their broad range of effects, need for intrathecal delivery, and short half-life. Therefore, the goal of the present study was to investigate the analgesic effect of SCR007, a new, highly selective SSTR2 non-peptide agonist. Behavioral studies demonstrated that paw withdrawal latencies to heat were significantly increased following intraplantar SCR007. Furthermore, both intraperitoneal and intraplantar injection of SCR007 significantly reduced formalin- and capsaicin-induced flinching and lifting/licking nociceptive behaviors. Recordings from nociceptors using an in vitro glabrous skin-nerve preparation showed that SCR007 reduced heat responses in a dose-dependent fashion, bradykinin-induced excitation, heat sensitization and capsaicin-induced excitation. In both the behavioral and single fiber studies, the SCR007 effects were reversed by the SSTR antagonist cyclo-somatostatin, demonstrating receptor specificity. In the single fiber studies, the opioid antagonist naloxone did not reverse SCR007-induced anti-nociception suggesting that SCR007 did not exert its effects through activation of opioid receptors. Analysis of cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) involvement demonstrated that SCR007 prevented forskolin- and Sp-8-Br-cAMPS (a PKA activator)-induced heat sensitization, supporting the hypothesis that SCR007-induced inhibition could involve a down-regulation of the cAMP/PKA pathway. These data provide several lines of evidence that the non-peptide imidazolidinedione SSTR2 agonist SCR007 is a promising anti-nociceptive and analgesic agent for the treatment of pain of peripheral and/or central origin.
1. The effects of a chronic treatment with several quinolone derivatives on on the aminophylline-induced convulsions in the genetically epilepsy-prone rat have been investigated. 2. Two series of experiments have been performed: in the first one animals received the quinolone twice a day for 5 days, then were given aminophylline (80-140 mg.kg-1, i.p.); in the second series of experiments the rats were treated once a day with the quinolone plus 120 mg.kg-1 of aminophylline for 5 days. The changes induced by both treatment protocols on electrocortical activity and on the occurrance of seizures have been evaluated. 3. Enoxacin reduced the dose of aminophylline necessary for the induction of seizures in a higher degree with respect to the other quinolone derivatives. The derivatives which showed minor proconvulsant properties were ofloxacin, ciprofloxacin and cinoxacin. The potentiation of seizures induced by quinolones appeared a dose-dependent phenomenon which was more evident when high doses of quinolones were used. 4. The chronic treatment carried out daily with quinolones and aminophylline suggests that additive neurotoxic effects of both classes of drugs may contribute to the increase of severity of seizure scores. 5. The possible role of GABA-benzodiazepine, excitatory amino acid, purinergic mechanisms as well as the role of pharmacokynetic factors are discussed.
Pharmacological doses of pentagastrin or gastrin are known to stimulate cell proliferation in normal colonic epithelium but the growth-promoting effect of gastrin on colon carcinoma is still controversial. In this study morphological parameters were measured to study the effect of pentagastrin (240 micrograms/kg) on the cell proliferation kinetics in experimental tumours. Colon cancer was produced in rats by weekly injections (20 mg/kg b.wt.) of 1.2-dimethylhydrazine for 24 weeks. Tritiated thymidine was given after administration of pentagastrin or the control solution to the animals. 75% of the animals from the pentagastrin group and 66% of the controls had at least one colon cancer. Autoradiographs of the colonic tumors were performed and the percentage of labeled cells in the cancer cell population was determined after counting 4000 to 16,000 cancer cells per tumor. The labeling index for cancer cells in the pentagastrin-treated group (21.49 +/- 1.76%) was higher (P less than 0.01) than in the control group (14.76 +/- 0.66%). In a second study vincristine sulphate (1 mg/kg) was given to the animals 20 h after administering pentagastrin or the control solution. The percentage of arrested metaphases in the tumours was determined after counting 10,000 to 24,000 cancer cells per histological section. Pentagastrin increased (P less than 0.01) the mean metaphase index by 108% (4.9 +/- 0.44% vs 2.35 +/- 0.32%). These data indicate that cell cycle manipulation of colon cancer is possible with hormonal peptides.
A patient is presented who developed aplastic anemia 3 months after exposure to intravenous chloramphenicol. She died of this disease 4 years later. Other cases of marrow aplasia due to parenteral chloramphenicol are reviewed, in order to emphasize that this complication, although rare, is not restricted to the use of oral chloramphenicol.
1. In the present study, we investigated whether the administration of apocynin, an NADPH oxidase inhibitor, provided brain protection in a rat model of intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH). 2. Rats were divided into sham, ICH untreated, ICH treated with vehicle (ethanol) and ICH treated with apocynin groups. Intracerebral haemorrhage was induced by collagenase injection. Neurological function, haemorrhage volume and brain oedema were measured 24 h after ICH. 3. Intracerebral haemorrhage caused significant neurological deficit associated with brain oedema. Apocynin (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg) failed to reduce brain injury after ICH. Low dose ethanol (0.2 g/kg) improved neurological function and reduced brain oedema (ICH-vehicle vs ICH-untreated, P < 0.05). 4. In conclusion, apocynin has no neuroprotective effect when administered intraperitoneally after ICH.
The aim of the study was an assessment of various risk factors for nephrotoxicity of ifosfamide (IF) in children taking into account the importance of the concentrations of toxic metabolites of the drug excreted with urine and the polymorphism of genes encoding S-glutathione transferases of mi, pi, and theta classes (GSTM1, GSTP1 and GSTT1). The study was carried out in 37 children aged 2-17 years (mean age 8.9 +/- 4.5 years) treated with IF in 3 g/m2 dose for various malignant diseases. For the assessment of the incidence of deletion of GSTM1 and GSTT1 genes PCR method was applied while in the case of GSTP1 gene the polymorphism of A-G codon 105 was detected by the PCR-RFLP method. Before and after each treatment cycle the cumulative ifosfamide dose was calculated and the biochemical indices of renal canalicular and glomerular function were assessed which were graduated according to extended WHO criteria. Additionally, nuclear magnetic resonance 31P NMR method was applied for calculation of the concentrations of ifosfamide nephrotoxic metabolites and of the unchanged drug excreted with urine. The analysis performed demonstrated that in children with GSTP1 gene A-G codon 105 transition, a statistically significantly (p = 0.01) higher urinary excretion of toxic ifosfamide metabolites occurred, that increased with the cumulative drug dose. The age, sex and deletions of GSTM1 and GSTT1 genes exerted no effect on the concentrations of the toxic metabolites excreted with urine. The results of the studies demonstrate that GSTP1 gene mutations are the genetic risk factor for nephrotoxic complications of ifosfamide use.
BPOZ2 is a tumor suppressive mediator in PTEN signaling pathway and plays an important role in cell proliferation. In this study, we investigated the physiology functions of BPOZ2 in CCl(4)-induced liver injury and hepatocyte proliferation afterwards. After acute CCl(4) administration, BPOZ2 null mice exhibited delayed liver injury and impaired hepatocyte proliferation, which was accompanied by altered kinetics of CYP2E1 protein expression, compromised cyclin D1 expression and shortened duration of ERK activation. These results for the first time define that BPOZ2 is an important regulator involved in the injury and repair process induced by acute CC1(4) administration in mouse liver.
To describe onset of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) associated with vinorelbine therapy for advanced breast cancer.
A 50-year-old white woman with a history of advanced breast cancer refractory to other treatment modalities was receiving vinorelbine. Blood chemistries revealed severely depleted sodium and potassium concentrations from a normal baseline within a 7-day period. A recheck of blood chemistries confirmed hyponatremia. The patient was admitted to the hospital and treated for SIADH. After successful treatment, she was given demeclocycline prophylactically and rechallenged with vinorelbine without recurrence of the syndrome.
SIADH has been reported as a complication of treatment with vinca alkaloids. To our knowledge, this is the first report of this syndrome related to vinorelbine therapy.
Because of its structural similarity to the other vinca alkaloids, vinorelbine is believed to be responsible for SIADH in our patient. Clinicians should be aware of the possibility that vinorelbine may cause SIADH and possibly hypokalemia.
Alclometasone dipropionate 0.05% and hydrocortisone 1.0% ointments were applied twice daily for three weeks to bilateral, paired eczematous lesions of children. Study ointments were assigned to left- and right-sided test sites in a randomized, double-blind manner. The potential of these preparations to induce clinically significant cutaneous atrophy was evaluated in 34 children by visual assessment of the test sites under magnification for telangiectasia. Efficacy was evaluated in 32 children by ratings of the severity of erythema, induration, and pruritus and global evaluations of eczema at the test sites. Safety and efficacy evaluations were performed prior to initial application of the study agents and after each week of treatment. Telangiectasia and other signs of cutaneous atrophy were not observed at any test site during the study, and treatment was well tolerated. Only one of the 34 children experienced an adverse effect: a mild, transient urticarial rash occurring with the application of both study ointments during the first week of the study. In general, the ointments were equally effective in relieving the children's signs and symptoms of eczema. After three weeks of therapy, improvement in the total score of ratings of the severity of signs and symptoms averaged 88% at alclometasone-treated sites and 86% at hydrocortisone-treated sites.
A 35-year-old woman was hospitalized for subacute ischemia of the left leg following an intermittent claudication for some weeks. She also presented paleness and coldness of both hands. The radial pulses could not be palpated. Smoking was the only cardiovascular risk factor. Duplex ultrasonography and angiography revealed a left popliteal thrombus combined with low diameter leg arteries and in the upper limbs stenosis of the left radial artery and thrombosis of the right radial artery. Search for a metabolic, embolic or thrombophilic etiology was negative. More minute history taking revealed use of cannabis and recent nasal administration of cocaine. Her condition improved with heparin therapy except for the upper limbs with ischemia of the hands and disabling Raynaud's phenomenon. This report highlights the combined arterial toxicity of drugs often used together by drug addicts. The association of cannabis use and tobacco smoking is not rare in patients with Buerger-like juvenile arteriopathy and cocaine may provoke peripheral vascular disease by embolism or in situ thrombosis. Interrogation of a patient presenting with Buerger-like peripheral arterial disease should insist on detecting use of drugs in association with tobacco smoking.
