The AA. suggest that the myocardial infarction induced by isoproterenol in the rat may be determined by phenomenons of intracoronaric platelets aggregation. The effects on the degree and extension of the infarctual necrotic area have been evaluated in a drug with remarkable platelets antiaggregation activity (ASL). The following parameters are considered: wet and dry weight of the organ, and tissutal CPK levels.
Gemcitabine-induced thrombocytopenic purpura/hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP/HUS) is a well described, albeit rare, complication, which is associated with a high morbidity and mortality. Treatment with standard TTP/HUS therapies such as plasma exchange, and cessation of gemcitabine is often unsuccessful. The purpose of this report is to describe the successful treatment of gemcitabine-induced TTP/HUS with rituximab, a CD20 monoclonal antibody that has been used for the treatment of refractory idiopathic TTP/HUS.
We describe the clinical course and follow-up of a patient who developed gemcitabine-induced TTP/HUS, did not respond to cessation of gemcitabine, administration of plasma exchanges, and intravenous glucocorticoids, but responded to rituximab.
TTP/HUS responded rapidly and resolved completely with two courses (8 doses) of intravenous rituximab. In three of four reported cases (including the current report), rituximab was rapidly effective in resolving chemotherapy-induced TTP/HUS that was refractory to plasma exchanges and glucocorticoids.
Rituximab may be indicated for early treatment of chemotherapy-induced TTP/HUS, particularly when plasma exchange is not rapidly effective.
A 9-year-old girl was managed according to the COPRALL 04 protocol for treatment of a relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Owing to a previous case of disseminated fusariosis, posaconazole was started 5 days before initiation of chemotherapy. Six days after the last dose of vincristine, the child reported symptoms of severe peripheral neuropathy, abdominal cramps, and constipation. After this, she developed fluctuations in her level of consciousness and seizures. After cessation of therapy with posaconazole, a complete resolution of the above occurred within 7 days. This case illustrates the possibility of vincristine toxicity exacerbated by coadministration of posaconazole. As posaconazole is an inhibitor of the isoenzyme CYP3A4, interactions with drugs that are metabolized via this pathway, such as vincristine, can be anticipated. Another possibility is that, like itraconazole, posaconazole may also inhibit P-glycoprotein-mediated vincristine efflux. Although case reports of neurotoxicity owing to possible interaction between itraconazole and vincristine exist in the literature, only 1 case report relating to the possible interaction between posaconazole and vincristine exists. Clinicians should be made aware of this possible drug-drug interaction.
A case of bilateral toxic optic neuropathy that developed in the setting of prolonged oral ciprofloxacin use for the treatment of chronic osteomyelitis is described. The patient experienced progressive, bilateral and symmetrical visual loss, central scotomas and loss of colour vision over a 2-month period. The visual symptoms improved immediately upon cessation of ciprofloxacin with a gradual and near complete recovery over several years.
The syndrome of inadequate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) following treatment with a tricyclic antidepressant is demonstrated using the example of a 70 year-old man admitted for weakness and cognitive disturbances. Because of incontinence he had been periodically treated since 1989 with imipramine (Tofranil) by his family doctor. On admission he was seriously hyponatriemic and had low plasmatic osmolality, significantly lower than urinary osmolality. Creatinine, urea and uric acid in serum were also below normal values. Like other drugs tricyclic antidepressants can rarely induce an increased release of ADH by direct hypothalamic stimuli. In this patient imipramine was terminated and within a few days of reduced fluid intake and substitution of sodium a sustained clinical improvement and normalisation of laboratory parameters was noted. The patient was discharged to his home after three weeks.
Decreased neutrophil (PMN) chemotaxis is thought to contribute to the increased morbidity and mortality from infection in newborn infants. Pentoxifylline, a methylxanthine, has previously been shown to augment PMN chemotaxis in vitro. The authors therefore investigated the effects of pentoxifylline on 1) in vitro PMN chemotaxis, 2) in vivo leukocyte accumulation, and 3) protection against Staphylococcus aureus infection in newborn mice. Using a modified Boyden chamber system, they demonstrated that pentoxifylline significantly enhanced neonatal PMN chemotaxis in a dose-dependent manner. Additionally, pentoxifylline was found to increase PMN accumulation in vivo in a proteose peptone-induced peritonitis model. Finally, the survival rate in experimentally induced S aureus infection was 51% in neonatal mice given pentoxifylline, compared with 17% in a control (nonpentoxifylline) group (P less than 0.01). These data demonstrate pentoxifylline modulation of PMN migration and enhancement of host defense against bacterial infection.
Our previous studies demonstrated that the intra-cisternal (IC) administration of cocaine to fetal rats increased motor activity and decreased responsiveness to perioral stimulation. One explanation for these observations comes from the behavioral pharmacology of stimulant drugs: increased motor activity is often associated with a decrease in its variety. Previous power spectral transformation of this data suggests an alternative explanation: cocaine-induced hyperactivity fixates a new behavioral pattern with complexity equal to that of saline controls. We explore these possibilities using statistical techniques derived from studies of nonlinear dynamical systems, examining patterns of the total motor activity of the individual fetus as counts per 5 s interval on either gestational day E20 or E21 for 20 min following IC injections of saline, 2.5 or 10 mg/kg of cocaine. The results are consistent with a state in which increased spontaneous activity is associated with the emergence of a new dynamical pattern which conserves entropy and provides experimental support for a fundamental conservation-variational relation, hT approximately equal to lambda 1 x DR, that has been proven for abstract models of chaotic dynamical systems. A multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) followed by appropriate analyses of variance (ANOVAs) and pairwise comparisons revealed that, whereas cocaine induced increases in the total amount of motor activity, the rate of increase in the variety of new sequences in activity counts over time did not change with treatment and age conditions. This invariant is quantified by an absence of change in topological entropy, delta hT = 0. The analyses also showed that, in order to maintain hT values, compensatory changes took place in the leading Lyapounov characteristic exponent, lambda 1 (the distance between sequential values 'stretched' along the increasing amplitudes of the variations) such that delta lambda 1 > 0, and the correlation dimension, DR (the hierarchical range of possible values, 'complicated clustering') was reduced, so that delta DR < 0. Our findings are consistent with the idea that the association between cocaine-induced increases in activity and decreases in adaptive response are not due to the dynamical entropy loss of decreased behavioral variety, but are rather the result of competitive interference by a drug-induced, equally complex, new pattern of spontaneous behavior.
The risk for cardiovascular disease is significantly high in diabetes mellitus. Oxidative stress plays a dominant role in the pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus. Bcl-2 gene has a close connection with antagonizing oxidative stress destroy in many diseases including diabetes. Carvedilol, an adrenoceptor blocker, also has antioxidant and free radical scavenger properties. To study the effect of carvedilol on the antioxidant status and expression of Bcl-2 in healthy and diabetic hearts, we investigated carvedilol-administrated healthy and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. After small and large dosage (1 or 10mg/kg/d) carvedilol-administrated for 5 weeks, hemodynamic parameters, the levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and expression of Bcl-2 mRNA in the cardiac tissues of all six groups were measured. Diabetic rats had higher left ventricular end diastolic pressure (LVEDP), lower maximal rate of rise/fall left ventricle pressure development and decline (+/-dP/dtmax). These parameters were improved by administration of carvedilol. Diabetic rats showed elevated MDA level and CAT activity, but lower activities of SOD and GSH-Px. Carvedilol treatment increased activities of antioxidant enzymes and expression of Bcl-2 in healthy rats as well as diabetic rats. These results indicate that carvedilol improves cardiac function via its antioxidant property in diabetic rats partly.
A previous report was made on the carcinogenicity of 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-nitrosourea [(HENU) CAS: 13743-07-2] in rats. Because the cyclic nitrosocarbamate 3-nitroso-2-oxazolidinone (NOZ) is readily produced during the synthesis of HENU and can be confused with HENU, HENU was retested and NOZ was tested for carcinogenicity. Improved syntheses of both compounds are described. They were administered in drinking water to male MRC-Wistar rats for 1 year, starting at 3 or 9 weeks of age. The HENU-treated rats showed incidences of 48% for bone tumors, 32% for intestinal tumors (mostly duodenal adenocarcinomas), and 53% for lymphoma-leukemia. Of the bone tumors, which were evaluated microscopically and radiologically, 68% were osteosarcomas and 32% were osteoblastomas. The skeletal distribution of these tumors was similar to that of human osteosarcoma, with the tumors occurring most frequently in the lower limbs near the knees. Of the hematopoietic tumors, the majority were lymphoblastic lymphoma-leukemia, which showed a diffuse organ distribution resembling human B-cell (Burkitt's-like) lymphoblastic lymphoma-leukemia, and differed from the usual type of convoluted T-cell lymphoma-leukemia induced by other nitrosoureas in rats and mice. NOZ induced intestinal tumors (mostly duodenal adenocarcinomas) in 80% and liver tumors (mostly hepatocellular adenomas) in 53% of the rats.
An aqueous root extract from Nardostachys jatamansi was investigated for its antioxidant and anticataleptic effects in the haloperidol-induced catalepsy rat model of the disease by measuring various behavioral and biochemical parameters. Catalepsy was induced by administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg, ip) in male albino rats. A significant (P < 0.01) reduction in the cataleptic scores were observed in all the drug-treated groups as compared to the haloperidol-treated group; with maximum reduction observed in the Nardostachys jatamansi (250 and 500 mg/kg body weight) administered group. To estimate biochemical parameters: the generation of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS); reduced glutathione (GSH) content and glutathione-dependent enzymes; catalase; and superoxide dismutase (SOD), in the brain were assessed. Haloperidol administration increased generation of TBARS and significantly reduced GSH, which were restored to near normal level with the Nardostachys jatamansi treatment. Catalase and SOD levels were also increased to normal levels, having been reduced significantly by haloperidol administration. Our findings of behavioral studies and biochemical estimations show that Nardostachys jatamansi reversed the haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. We conclude that the antioxidant potential has contributed to the reduction in the oxidative stress and catalepsy induced by haloperidol administration.
Several studies in conscious animals have reported parasympathetic dysfunction in the eyes following exposure to cholinesterase inhibitors. Given the similarities between the autonomic innervation in the eye and the heart, it is possible that parasympathetic dysfunction could also occur in the heart. Therefore, the present study assessed time domain indices of heart rate variability in conscious rats surgically implanted with telemetric transmitters to investigate the hypothesis that multiple exposures to the nerve agent sarin would result in muscarinic receptor desensitization and parasympathetic dysfunction in the heart. Animals exposed to sarin vapor on multiple occasions developed parasympathetic dysfunction in the eye characterized by an attenuated response to light and a diminished miotic response to sarin vapor exposure. However, the same dose of sarin vapor failed to produce any effects on either time domain indices of HRV or the magnitude of the tachycardia induced by atropine, suggesting that autonomic control in the heart was not affected. It is possible that the dose of sarin used in the present study was insufficient to inhibit cardiac acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Additional studies utilizing higher doses of sarin may be able to inhibit cardiac AChE, producing overstimulation of cardiac muscarinic receptors, ultimately resulting in desensitization and parasympathetic dysfunction.
1. Extrapyramidal adverse effects have been reported with the selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants, particularly fluoxetine and paroxetine. 2. Recently, the SSRI sertraline has also been associated with treatment-emergent extrapyramidal syndrome (EPS) side effects. A review of the literature identified thirteen published cases of sertraline-induced EPS, several of which were confounded by the presence of concomitant medications, and few reported quantitative data using rating scales. 3. We present another case of EPS associated with sertraline in which daily ratings were obtained using the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale. 4. This review and case report add to the small but growing literature suggesting that sertraline, like the other SSRI's may cause significant extrapyramidal side-effects. These movement disorders presumably occur through an interaction between serotonergic and dopaminergic pathways, providing an important clinical correlation of interactions between these neurotransmitter systems.
The weakly estrogenic organochlorine pesticide chlordecone can accelerate the development of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in ovariectomized (NZBxNZW)F1 mice, with a shortened time to appearance of autoantibodies and disease similar to that produced by treatment with the sex hormone 17beta-estradiol (E2). It is unclear whether chlordecone and E2 share the same pathways in mediating this effect. The effects of chlordecone and E2 treatment on splenic germinal center (GC) and marginal zone B cells were examined. Both chlordecone and E2 activated splenic B cells and enhanced GC reactions, as shown by upregulated protein expression of GL7, CXCR5, and CXCR4. Both treatments increased B-cell bcl-2 and shp-1 gene expression and enhanced ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 protein levels in GC B cells. Chlordecone reduced total B cell and GC B-cell apoptosis without affecting proliferation, another feature shared by E2 treatment. However, chlordecone treatment did not alter the composition of splenic B-cell subsets in marked contrast to the decrease in transitional B cells and increase in marginal zone B cells seen in E2-treated mice. The differences in effects between chlordecone and E2 indicate that chlordecone is not functioning simply as an estrogen mimic with respect to effects on the immune system. Similarities in the effects of chlordecone and E2 on specific immune functions, such as diminished apoptosis in GC B cells, may provide valuable clues regarding key events in the acceleration of autoimmunity by E2, chlordecone, and other agents.
To achieve absolute risk estimates of venous thromboembolism (VTE) among women on cyproterone acetate plus ethinylestradiol (CPA/EE), and among women on combined oral contraceptives (COCs).
From the Danish National Register of Patients (NRP), 1996 to 1998, the records of 1.1 million Danish women, ages 15 to 44 years, were searched for evidence of VTE. COC use was ascertained through mailed questionnaires. Sales statistics of COCs and CPA/EE were provided through Danish Drug Statistics.
During the time frame of the study, 330 women were found to have had VTE while on COCs. Of these women, 67 were on levonorgestrel-containing COCs. Eleven were on CPA/EE. The corresponding absolute risk of VTE was 3.4 (range, 3.1-3.8) per 10 000 women years among the women on COCs, 4.2 (range, 3.2-5.2) per 10 000 women years among women on levonorgestrel-containing COCs, and 3.1 (range, 1.3-4.9) per 10 000 women years among the women on CPA/EE.
Our results suggest the absolute risk of VTE among Danish women on COCs is similar to that among women taking CPA/EE.
Cleft palate is a common birth defect affecting 1 in 700 births. Transforming growth factor-βs (TGF-βs) are important signaling molecules, and their functions in murine palate development have received great attention. TGF-β3 is expressed exclusively in palatal epithelial cells and mediates epithelial fusion, whereas the importance of TGF-β1 and 2 in palate have not yet been demonstrated in vivo, since inactivation of Tgf-β1 or Tgf-β2 genes in mice did not reveal significant palate defects. We hypothesized that TGF-β1 and TGF-β2 can compensate each other during palate formation. To test this, we generated Tgf-β1 and Tgf-β2 compound mutant mice and found that approximately 40% of [Tgf-β1(+/-); Tgf-β2(-/-)] compound mutant embryos display cleft palate on C57 background. In addition, 26% of Tgf-β2(-/-) embryos on 129 background, but not in C57 or Black Swiss, displayed cleft palate. TGF-β1 and 2 functions are required for murine palate development in strain-dependent manner.
The community members of Libby, MT, have experienced significant asbestos exposure and developed numerous asbestos-related diseases including fibrosis and lung cancer due to an asbestos-contaminated vermiculite mine near the community. The form of asbestos in the contaminated vermiculite has been characterized in the amphibole family of fibers. However, the pathogenic effects of these fibers have not been previously characterized. The purpose of this study is to determine the cellular consequences of Libby amphibole exposure in macrophages compared to another well-characterized amphibole fiber; crocidolite asbestos. Our results indicate that Libby asbestos fibers are internalized by macrophages and localize to the cytoplasm and cytoplasmic vacuoles similar to crocidolite fibers. Libby asbestos fiber internalization generates a significant increase in intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) as determined by dichlorofluorescein diacetate and dihydroethidine fluorescence indicating that the superoxide anion is the major contributing ROS generated by Libby asbestos. Elevated superoxide levels in macrophages exposed to Libby asbestos coincide with a significant suppression of total superoxide dismutase activity. Both Libby and crocidolite asbestos generate oxidative stress in exposed macrophages by decreasing intracellular glutathione levels. Interestingly crocidolite asbestos, but not Libby asbestos, induces significant DNA damage in macrophages. This study provides evidence that the difference in the level of DNA damage observed between Libby and crocidolite asbestos may be a combined consequence of the distinct chemical compositions of each fiber as well as the activation of separate cellular pathways during asbestos exposure.
Fluorouracil-associated cardiotoxic adverse events represent a relevant but underestimated problem in 5-fluorouracil treatment. After right hemicolectomy for adenocarcinoma of the rightsided colonic flexure a 59-year old patient was referred to our hospital for adjuvant chemotherapy according to MOSAIC-protocol with oxaliplatin and 5-fluorouracil. The patient's history was unremarkable for any cardiopulmonary disease and for any cardiovascular risk factors. 24 hours after completing the first cycle the patient was readmitted to our emergency department because of thoracic pain combined with significantly elevated cardiac enzymes and ischaemic changes in ECG. Coronary angiography was performed revealing no coronary artheriosclerosis. Clinical symptoms and pathological ischaemic serum parameters returned to normal range within 12 hours. Diagnosis of 5-FU-induced acute coronary syndrome could be made. Because of the high rate of recurring cardiotoxicity the patient's chemotherapy was modified to an alternative regimen containing raltitrexed instead of 5-fluorouracil. Immediate diagnosis of 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity and differentiation from preexisting coronary heart disease is still a major problem in daily oncological practice.
Repeated airway exposure to wood dust has been reported to cause adverse respiratory effects such as asthma and chronic bronchitis. In our recent study, we found that exposure of mice to oak dust induced more vigorous lung inflammation compared to birch dust exposure. In the present study, we assessed the immunomodulatory effects of repeated intranasal exposure to oak dust both in nonallergic and in ovalbumin-sensitized, allergic mice. Allergen-induced influx of eosinophils and lymphocytes was seen in the lungs of allergic mice. Oak dust exposure elicited infiltration of neutrophils, lymphocytes, and macrophages in nonallergic mice. Interestingly, oak dust-induced lung neutrophilia as well as oak dust-induced production of the proinflammatory cytokine TNF-alpha and chemokine CCL3 were significantly suppressed in allergic mice. On the other hand, allergen-induced expression of IL-13 mRNA and protein was significantly reduced in oak dust-exposed allergic mice. Finally, allergen-induced airway hyperreactivity to inhaled metacholine was significantly suppressed in oak dust-exposed allergic mice. The present results suggest that repeated airway exposure to oak dust can regulate pulmonary inflammation and airway responses depending on the immunological status of the animal.
The antihypertensive effect of slow-release metoprolol was studied in 50 patients suffering from mild to moderate essential hypertension. In a double-blind crossover study, the effect of slow-release metoprolol was compared with conventional metoprolol for efficacy and tolerability in 40 patients. After a 2-week period on placebo, patients received either 200 mg slow-release metoprolol once daily or 200 mg conventional metoprolol once daily for 6 weeks before crossing over to the alternative dosage form for a further 6 weeks. The results showed that both slow-release and conventional metoprolol were equipotent and reduced significantly the pulse rate and also the supine, sitting and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressures. Slow-release metoprolol also reduced the exercise blood pressure in 10 patients following 2-weeks' administration of 200 mg daily in a single dose. Good patient compliance with the medication was observed. No adverse effect attributable to slow-release metoprolol or conventional metoprolol was detected throughout the study.
We present the case history of a 40-year-old man who developed renal artery dissection and thrombosis, probably due to cocaine use. The patient underwent exploratory laparotomy and thrombectomy. He remained asymptomatic and cocaine-free, and warfarin was discontinued 9 months after discharge. Approximately 12 months after discharge he returned to the hospital with symptoms very similar to previous episodes. He was found to have recurrent clot formation in the right renal artery. Further workup revealed a double heterozygous methyltetrahydrofolate reductase A1298C/C677T thermolabile polymorphism with an elevated serum homocysteine.
Isotretinoin is a very effective drug for treating severe recalcitrant nodular acne. A new micronized formulation of isotretinoin has been shown to be clinically equivalent to standard isotretinoin with improved bioavailability and minimal food effect. The safety profile of the micronized formulation has not been described previously.
The objective of this article is to report the incidence and intensity of adverse events found in a comparative, double-blind efficacy study that showed clinical equivalence of the new micronized formulation of isotretinoin and the standard isotretinoin formulation (Accutane).
Six hundred patients with severe recalcitrant nodular acne were treated with micronized isotretinoin (n = 300) under fasted conditions or standard isotretinoin (n = 300) under fed conditions. One cohort received single daily doses of 0.4 mg/kg of micronized isotretinoin without food and the other cohort received 1.0 mg/kg per day of standard isotretinoin in two divided doses with food. Adverse events were monitored during 20 weeks of drug therapy.
The proportion of adverse events in most body systems was generally lower in patients receiving micronized isotretinoin than in those receiving standard isotretinoin.
Micronized isotretinoin appears to have a safety profile similar to that of standard isotretinoin and to carry a lower risk of mucocutaneous events and hypertriglyceridemia.
1,3-Butadiene is a multisite carcinogen in rodents. Incidences of cardiac hemangiosarcomas were significantly increased in male and female B6C3F1 mice that inhaled 1,3-butadiene (BD) for 2 years. Eleven BD-induced cardiac hemangiosarcomas were examined for genetic alterations in ras protooncogenes and in the p53 tumor suppressor gene. Nine of 11 (82%) BD-induced hemangiosarcomas had K-ras mutations and 5 of 11 (46%) had H-ras mutations. All of the K-ras mutations were G-->C transversions (GGC-->CGC) at codon 13; this pattern is consistent with reported results in BD-induced lung neoplasms and lymphomas. Both K-ras codon 13 CGC mutations and H-ras codon 61 CGA mutations were detected in 5 of 9 (56%) hemangiosarcomas. The 11 hemangiosarcomas stained positive for p53 protein by immunohistochemistry and were analyzed for p53 mutations using cycle sequencing of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplified DNA isolated from paraffin-embedded sections. Mutations in exons 5 to 8 of the p53 gene were identified in 5 of 11 (46%) hemangiosarcomas, and all of these were from the 200- or 625-ppm exposure groups that also had K-ras codon 13 CGC mutations. Our data indicate that K-ras, H-ras, and p53 mutations in these hemangiosarcomas most likely occurred as a result of the genotoxic effects of BD and that these mutations may play a role in the pathogenesis of BD-induced cardiac hemangiosarcomas in the B6C3F1 mouse.
Tamoxifen is a potent antagonist of estrogen, and hepatic steatosis is a frequent complication in adjuvant tamoxifen for breast cancer. Recently, aromatase-deficient (ArKO, Ar-/-) mice lacking intrinsic estrogen was developed and the molecular mechanism involved in progression of massive hepatic steatosis in estrogen-deficiency was elucidated; impairment in hepatic fatty acid beta-oxidation of peroxisomes, microsomes and mitochondria. This impairment is latent, but is potentially serious, because hepatic energy supply depends greatly on fatty acid beta-oxidation. Therefore in the present study, we tried to conquer impaired hepatic fatty acid beta-oxidation by administrating bezafibrate, a potent peroxisome proliferator, to Ar-/- mice through activating fatty acid beta-oxidation via the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha mediated signaling pathway. Northern blot analysis of Ar-/- mice liver revealed a significant restoration of mRNA expression of very long fatty acyl-CoA synthetase in peroxisome, peroxisomal fatty acyl-CoA oxidase, and medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase in mitochondria, essential enzymes in fatty acid beta-oxidation by administration of bezafibrate. Severe hepatic steatosis observed in Ar-/- mice regressed dramatically. Consistent findings were obtained in the in vitro assays of fatty acid beta-oxidation activity. These findings demonstrate that bezafibrate is capable of restoring impaired fatty acid beta-oxidation in vivo via the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha mediated signaling pathway and is potent enough to regress severe hepatic steatosis in mice deficient in intrinsic estrogen.
Gemcitabine and cisplatin combination (Gem-Cis) is a commonly used regimen in metastatic breast cancer (MBC), with proven activity in phase II trials. It is mostly used as a salvage regimen for progressive disease refractory to anthracyclines and taxanes, and when liver dysfunction secondary to liver metastasis precludes these drugs. Retrospective review of medical charts was conducted for patients treated with Gem-Cis for MBC in a single institution in Brazil between January 2004 and July 2007. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcomes and toxicity of Gem-Cis in a broad indication, including patients with deteriorated performance status (PS) and liver dysfunction, which were excluded from clinical trials. Fifty-six patients were included. Median age was 52 years, 46.4% were hormone-receptor negative, 57.2% received 3 or more prior chemotherapy lines, and 34 had liver metastasis. The median overall survival (OS) was 7.6 months, the median progression-free survival was 3.3 months, and the response rate was 21.2%. In variable analysis, PS was significantly associated with OS, even after adjusting to other factors. Toxicities included grades 3 or 4 anemia in 19.3%, neutropenia in 21.1%, and thrombocytopenia in 12.3%. Gem-Cis was a relatively active combination in this population that typically carries a poor prognosis. The subgroup of patients with favorable PS experienced longer survival, even when liver metastasis and hepatic dysfunction were a concern. Toxicity was manageable and it was not correlated with PS or liver dysfunction.
A variety of pharmaceutical preparations, which are applied in the management of non-infectious diseases, have shown in vitro some antimicrobial activity. These drugs are called "non-antibiotics". The aim of this study was to detect and characterise the antimicrobial activity of non-antibiotic drugs. selected from the preparations analysed during state control performed at the Drug Institute in Poland. Over 160 pharmaceutical preparations were randomly chosen from different groups of drugs. The surveillance study was performed on standard ATCC microbial strains used for drug control: S aureus, E. coil, P. aeruginosa and C. albicans. It was shown that the drugs listed below inhibited growth of at least one of the examined strains:acyclovir (Awirol 5%, cream), alendronate (Alenato 5 mg, tabl.), alverine (Meteospasmyl 20 mg, caps.), butorphanole (Butamidor 10 mg/ml, amp.), clodronate (Sindronat 400 mg, caps), diclofenac (Olfen 75 mg, amp.), emadastine (Emadine 0.05%, eye dr.), etodolac (Febret 200 mg, caps.), fluvastatine (Lescol 40 mg, tabl.), ketamine (Ketamidor 10%, amp.), levocabastine (Histimet 0.5 mg/ml, eye dr.), losartan (Lorista 50 mg, tabl.), matipranolol (Betaman 0.3% eye dr.), mesalazine (Pentasa 1%, susp.), naproxen (Nalgesin 550 mg, tabl.), oxaprosine (Reumax 600 mg, tabl.), oxymethazoline (Nasivin 0.025%, nose dr.), proxymetacaine (Alcaine 0.5%, eye dr.), ribavirin (Rebetol 200 mg, caps.), rutoside with ascorbic acid (Cerutin 20+200 mg, tabl.), sulodexide (Vessel due F, 250 LSU, caps.), tegaserole (Zelmac 50 mg, tabl.), telmisartan (Pritor 20 mg, tabl.), temosolomide (Temodal 100 mg, caps.), ticlopidine (Ticlid 250 mg, tabl.), tolfenamic acid (Migea rapid 200 mg, tabl.), tramadole (Tramundin 100 mg, tabl.), tropicamide (Tropicamidum 1%, eye dr.). Staphylococcus aureus was susceptible to most of the drugs listed above. Ticlopidine showed activity against S. aureus, E. coli and C. albicans (MICs equal to: 0.45; 0.45 and 0.65 mg/ml, respectively). Oxymetazoline showed activity against S. aureus and E. coli (MICs: 0.005 and 0.025 mg/ml, respectively). Pseudomonas aeruginosa was sensitive to alendronate, clondronate, oxaprozine, ribavirin and tramadole (MICs: 10, 63, 60, 3 and 43 mg/ml, respectively).
We have previously proposed that haloperidol's debilitating extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) may be associated with its quaternary BCPP+ (an MPP+ like species) metabolite formed in vivo. However, recent work on D2 knock out mice suggests that haloperidol's EPS may be related to its potent D2 binding (K(i)=0.9 nM). In this study, we explore this question by synthesizing and testing an analogue (DS-27) that binds to D2 receptors with higher affinity than haloperidol, but cannot form quaternary metabolites. This study suggests that D2 affinity may be the primary underlying mechanism for acute catalepsy induction by haloperidol.
