To determine if endurance exercise training performed prior to administration of the anticancer drugs DOX and GW2974 would be cardioprotective.
Rats remained sedentary or exercise trained for 10 weeks. Following the exercise or sedentary period, rats were randomly assigned to treatment groups. Rats in sedentary and exercise groups received saline or a combination of 10 mg/kg DOX and 30 mg/kg GW2974. Cardiac function was assessed 2, 5, or 10 days following treatments.
Sedentary animals receiving DOX/GW2974 experienced significant cardiac dysfunction. At 2-, 5-, and 10-days post, cardiac function in trained, drug-treated animals was significantly preserved. Additionally, animals exercised prior to DOX/GW2974 injections had significantly lower levels of myocardial lipid peroxidation and caspase-3 and -8 activities compared to their sedentary counterparts.
Exercise training protected against the cardiac dysfunction associated with DOX/GW2974 administration and may be related to an inhibition in apoptotic signaling.
A growing body of evidence indicates that enhanced AMPA-mediated glutamate transmission in the core of the nucleus accumbens is critically involved in cocaine priming-induced reinstatement of drug seeking, an animal model of relapse. However, the extent to which increased glutamate transmission in the other major subregion of the nucleus accumbens, the shell, contributes to the reinstatement of cocaine seeking remains unclear. In the present experiments, administration of the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist CNQX (0, 0.03, or 0.3 mug) into either the core or the shell of the nucleus accumbens before a systemic cocaine priming injection (10 mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently attenuated the reinstatement of drug seeking. Cocaine priming-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking also was associated with increases in GluR2-pSer880 in the nucleus accumbens shell. The phosphorylation of GluR2 by PKC at Ser880 plays an important role in the trafficking of GluR2-containing AMPA receptors from the plasma membrane. The current results showed that administration of a cell-permeable peptide that disrupts GluR2 trafficking (Pep2-EVKI) into either the accumbens core or shell attenuated cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug seeking. Together, these findings indicate that changes in AMPA receptor-mediated glutamate transmission in both the nucleus accumbens core and shell are necessary for the reinstatement of drug seeking induced by a priming injection of cocaine. The present results also demonstrate that the reinstatement of cocaine seeking is associated with increases in the phosphorylation-dependent trafficking of GluR2-containing AMPA receptors in the nucleus accumbens.
The objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of beta-blockade on clinically significant left ventricular outflow tract obstruction in premature infants treated with dexamethasone because of bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
Case reports are presented of three premature infants (mean gestational age 27 weeks) cared for in the intensive care nursery in whom clinically significant septal hypertrophy and left ventricular outflow tract obstruction developed during dexamethasone treatment for bronchopulmonary dysplasia. The infants were treated with oral propranolol. Serial physiologic and echocardiographic parameters were followed. Physiologic data were analyzed with an analysis of variance, with the Kruskal-Wallis test used for nonparametric data. A p value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
Oral administration of the beta-blocker propranolol resulted in clinical and echocardiographic improvement of the left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. One patient had a lower average heart rate and two patients had lower average mean blood pressure values during propranolol treatment, none of which was clinically significant. None of the patients had worsening of the respiratory status.
beta-blockade treatment was well tolerated and may be beneficial in relieving symptomatic steroid-induced left ventricular outflow tract obstruction in premature infants.
The phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase (PI3K) pathway is dysregulated in multiple myeloma (MM); we therefore tested a highly selective class I PI3K inhibitor, GDC-0941, for anti-myeloma activity. Functional and mechanistic studies were first performed in MM cell lines, then extended to primary MM patient samples cultured in vitro. GDC-0941 was then assessed as a single agent and in various combinations in myeloma tumor xenograft models. We show p110 α and β are the predominant PI3K catalytic subunits in MM and that a highly selective class I PI3K inhibitor, GDC-0941, has robust activity as a single agent to induce cell cycle arrest and apoptosis of both MM cell lines and patient myeloma cells. Mechanistic studies revealed an induction of cell cycle arrest at G0/G1, with decreased phospho-FoxO1/3a levels, decreased cyclin D1 and c-myc expression, and an increase in the cell cycle inhibitor, p27kip. Induction of apoptosis correlated with increased expression of the pro-apoptotic BH3-only protein BIM, cleaved caspase 3 and cleaved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). In vitro, GDC-0941 synergized with dexamethasone (Dex) and lenalidomide (combination index values of 0.3-0.4 and 0.4-0.8, respectively); in vivo GDC-0941 has anti-myeloma activity and significantly increases the activity of the standard of care agents in several murine xenograft tumor models (additional tumor growth inhibition of 37-53% (Dex) and 22-72% (lenalidomide)). These data provide a clear therapeutic hypothesis for the inhibition of PI3K and provide a rationale for clinical development of GDC-0941 in myeloma.
Pulmonary vascular response to the inhalation of various concentrations of oxygen (FIO2) was studied under basal conditions and after nicardipine in 10 patients with pulmonary hypertension secondary to chronic bronchitis. Hemodynamic data and blood gases were measured during inhalation of 3 gas mixtures: hypoxia (FIO2 = 0.15), normoxia (FIO2 = 0.21) and hyperoxia (FIO2 = 0.30). Each gas mixture was administered for 20 minutes, initially during an infusion of placebo and then of nicardipine giving a steady plasma concentration of 29 +/- 4 ng/ml. This was obtained by continuous I.V. infusion of 0.06 mg/kg/hour. Under basal conditions with placebo, the heart rate, cardiac output and pulmonary hypertension increased with decreasing concentrations of inhaled oxygen. The systemic blood pressure was unchanged with hypoxia but decreased during hyperoxia. Nicardipine increased the heart rate and the cardiac output but reduced the blood pressure with every inhaled oxygen mixture. The blood pressure was independent of FIO2 and the reduction observed during hyperoxia with placebo no longer occurred with nicardipine. However, the pulmonary hypertension was unaffected. At the dosage used in this study, nicardipine modified the systemic vascular response to oxygen but not the pulmonary vascular response. The vasodilation induced was much greater in the systemic than in the pulmonary circulation. In relation to the absence of significant pulmonary vasodilation, no changes in blood gases, due to a possible pulmonary shunting effect, were observed. At this dosage, nicardipine is ineffective in reducing pulmonary hypertension. However, its systemic hypotensive action may be used in patients with respiratory failure due to chronic bronchitis without deleterious effects on blood gases.
Abrin is a potent plant toxin. It is a heterodimeric protein toxin which is obtained from the seeds of Abrus precatorius plant. At cellular level abrin causes protein synthesis inhibition by removing the specific adenine residue (A4324) from the 28s rRNA of the 60S - ribosomal subunit. In the present study we investigated the role of oxidative stress in neurotoxic potential and demyelinating effects of abrin on brain. The mechanism by which abrin induces oxidative damage and toxicity in brain are relatively unknown. Animals were exposed to 0.4 and 1.0 LD50 abrin dose by intraperitoneal route and observed for 1 and 3 day post-toxin exposure. Oxidative stress occurred in brain due to abrin was confirmed in terms of increased reactive oxygen species (ROS), glutathione depletion and increased lipid peroxidation. Significant increase in blood and brain ROS was observed at day 3, 1 LD50. Abrin induced changes in the neurotransmitters (5-hydroxy tryptamine, norepinephrine, dopamine and monoamine oxidase) levels were evaluated by spectroflourometry. Increase in the levels of 5-HT and NE was observed after abrin exposure. MAO activity was found to be decreased in abrin exposed animals compared to control. Significant inhibition in the activity of acetylcholine esterase enzyme in brain and serum was reported for both the doses and time points. Western blot analysis of iNOS expression indicated that abrin treatment resulted in dose and time dependent increase. Furthermore, protein expression of myelin basic protein (MBP) was down regulated in a dose and time dependent manner. Brain histopathology was carried out and cortical brain region showed demyelination after abrin exposure. Results confirmed that abrin poisoning leads to neurodegeneration and neurotoxicity mediated through oxidative stress, AChE inhibition, lipid peroxidation and decrease in MBP levels.
Breast cancer is the most prevalent women's cancer, with an age-adjusted incidence of 122.9 per 100,000 US women. Cadmium, a ubiquitous carcinogenic pollutant with multiple biological effects, has been reported to be associated with breast cancer in one US regional case-control study. We examined the association of breast cancer with urinary cadmium (UCd), in a case-control sample of women living on Long Island (LI), NY (100 with breast cancer and 98 without), a region with an especially high rate of breast cancer (142.7 per 100,000 in Suffolk County) and in a representative sample of US women (NHANES 1999-2008, 92 with breast cancer and 2,884 without). In a multivariable logistic model, both samples showed a significant trend for increased odds of breast cancer across increasing UCd quartiles (NHANES, p=0.039 and LI, p=0.023). Compared to those in the lowest quartile, LI women in the highest quartile had increased risk for breast cancer (OR=2.69; 95% CI=1.07, 6.78) and US women in the two highest quartiles had increased risk (OR=2.50; 95% CI=1.11, 5.63 and OR=2.22; 95% CI=.89, 5.52, respectively). Further research is warranted on the impact of environmental cadmium on breast cancer risk in specific populations and on identifying the underlying molecular mechanisms.
Hemodynamic effects and histamine release by bolus injection of 0.35 mg/kg of d-tubocurarine were studied in 24 patients. H1- and H2-histamine antagonists or placebo were given before dosing with d-tubocurarine in a randomized double-blind fashion to four groups: group 1--placebo; group 2--cimetidine, 4 mg/kg, plus placebo; group 3--chlorpheniramine, 0.1 mg/kg, plus placebo; and group 4--cimetidine plus chlorpheniramine. Histamine release occurred in most patients, the highest level 2 minutes after d-tubocurarine dosing. Group 1 had a moderate negative correlation between plasma histamine change and systemic vascular resistance (r = 0.58; P less than 0.05) not present in group 4. Prior dosing with antagonists partially prevented the fall in systemic vascular resistance. These data demonstrate that the hemodynamic changes associated with d-tubocurarine dosing are only partially explained by histamine release. Thus prior dosing with H1- and H2-antagonists provides only partial protection.
Autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved biological process that degrades intracellular proteins and organelles including damaged mitochondria through the formation of autophagosome. We have previously demonstrated that pharmacological induction of autophagy by rapamycin protects against acetaminophen (APAP)-induced liver injury in mice. In contrast, in the present study, we found that mice with the liver-specific loss of Atg5, an essential autophagy gene, were resistant to APAP-induced liver injury. Hepatocyte-specific deletion of Atg5 resulted in mild liver injury characterized by increased apoptosis and compensatory hepatocyte proliferation. The lack of autophagy in the Atg5-deficient mouse livers was confirmed by increased p62 protein levels and the absence of LC3-lipidation as well as autophagosome formation. Analysis of histological and clinical chemistry parameters indicated that the Atg5 liver-specific knockout mice are resistant to APAP overdose (500 mg/kg). Further investigations revealed that the bioactivation of APAP is normal in Atg5 liver-specific knockout mice although they had lower CYP2E1 expression. There was an increased basal hepatic glutathione (GSH) content and a faster recovery of GSH after APAP treatment due to persistent activation of Nrf2, a transcriptional factor regulating drug detoxification and GSH synthesis gene expression. In addition, we found significantly higher hepatocyte proliferation in the livers of Atg5 liver-specific knockout mice. Taken together, our data suggest that persistent activation of Nrf2 and increased hepatocyte proliferation protect against APAP-induced liver injury in Atg5 liver-specific knockout mice.
The promoting effect of bile acids on the development of gastric carcinoma was examined in rats treated with N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG). At the first experiment, two hundred and fifteen male Wistar rats were divided into 5 groups; after oral administration MNNG (120 micrograms/ml) for 24 weeks, group 1 received tap water, group 2 administered of chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) solution, group 3 had deoxycholic acid (DCA) solution for the next 12 weeks. Group 4 received CDCA solution and group 5 received DCA solution for 36 weeks without MNNG. At the second experiment, fifty one rats were divided into 3 groups; for the first 12 weeks, group 1 received tap water, group 2 CDCA and group 3 DCA. These 3 groups received MNNG for the next 24 weeks followed by tap water for 12 weeks. The incidence of gastric adenocarcinoma in MNNG-treated rats was significantly higher in group 3 (63.6%) as compared with that in group 1 (36.7%) in the first experiment. No carcinoma lesions was found in groups 4 and 5. In the second experiment, no significant changes was observed among 3 groups. Undifferentiated adenocarcinomas were identified in groups 2 and 3, especially treated with MNNG plus bile acids. The result suggested a promoting effect of bile acids, especially DCA, in stomach carcinogenesis.
We prospectively assessed cardiac and pulmonary function in patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD) treated with ticagrelor, clopidogrel, or placebo in the ONSET/OFFSET (A Multi-Centre Randomised, Double-Blind, Double-Dummy Parallel Group Study of the Onset and Offset of Antiplatelet Effects of AZD6140 Compared With Clopidogrel and Placebo With Aspirin as Background Therapy in Patients With Stable Coronary Artery Disease) study.
Ticagrelor reduces cardiovascular events more effectively than clopidogrel in patients with acute coronary syndromes. Dyspnea develops in some patients treated with ticagrelor, and it is not known whether this is associated with changes in cardiac or pulmonary function.
In all, 123 stable aspirin-treated CAD patients randomly received either ticagrelor (180 mg load, then 90 mg twice daily; n=57), clopidogrel (600 mg load, then 75 mg daily; n=54), or placebo (n=12) for 6 weeks in a double-blind, double-dummy design. Electrocardiography, echocardiography, serum N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide, and pulmonary function tests were performed before (baseline) and 6 weeks after drug administration and/or after development of dyspnea.
After drug administration, dyspnea was reported by 38.6%, 9.3%, and 8.3% of patients in the ticagrelor, clopidogrel, and placebo groups, respectively (p<0.001). Most instances were mild and/or lasted<24 h, although 3 patients discontinued ticagrelor because of dyspnea. Eight of 22 and 17 of 22 ticagrelor-treated patients experiencing dyspnea did so within 24 h and 1 week, respectively, after drug administration. In all treatment groups, and in ticagrelor-treated patients with dyspnea, there were no significant changes between baseline and 6 weeks in any of the cardiac or pulmonary function parameters.
Dyspnea is commonly associated with ticagrelor therapy, but was not associated in this study with any adverse change in cardiac or pulmonary function. (A Multi-Centre Randomised, Double-Blind, Double-Dummy Parallel Group Study of the Onset and Offset of Antiplatelet Effects of AZD6140 Compared With Clopidogrel and Placebo With Aspirin as Background Therapy in Patients With Stable Coronary Artery Disease [ONSET/OFFSET]; NCT00528411).
Recently, we have shown that AhR activation by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) suppresses sensitization to peanut at least in part by inducing a functional shift toward CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) T cells. Next to TCDD, numerous other AhR ligands have been described. In this study, we investigated the effect of three structurally different non-dioxin-like AhR ligands, e.g., 6-formylindolo[3,2-b]carbazole (FICZ), β-naphthoflavone (β-NF), and 6-methyl-1,3,8-trichlorodibenzofuran (6-MCDF), on peanut sensitization. Female C57BL/6 mice were sensitized by administering peanut extract (PE) by gavage in the presence of cholera toxin. Before and during peanut sensitization, mice were treated with FICZ, β-NF, or 6-MCDF. AhR gene transcription in duodenum and liver was investigated on day 5, even as the effect of these AhR ligands on CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) T(reg) cells in spleen and mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs). Mice treated with TCDD were included as a positive control. Furthermore, the murine reporter cell line H1G1.1c3 (CAFLUX) was used to investigate the possible role of metabolism of TCDD, FICZ, β-NF, and 6-MCDF on AhR activation in vitro. TCDD, but not FICZ, β-NF, and 6-MCDF, suppressed sensitization to peanut (measured by PE-specific IgE, IgG1, IgG2a and PE-induced interleukin (IL)-5, IL-10, IL-13, IL-17a, IL-22, and interferon-γ). In addition, FICZ, β-NF, and 6-MCDF treatments less effectively induced AhR gene transcription (measured by gene expression of AhR, AhRR, CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP1B1) compared with TCDD-treated mice. Furthermore, FICZ, β-NF and 6-MCDF did not increase the percentage of CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) T(reg) cells in spleen and mesenteric lymph nodes compared with PE-sensitized mice, in contrast to TCDD. Inhibition of metabolism in vitro increased AhR activation. Together, these data shows that TCDD, but not FICZ, β-NF, and 6-MCDF suppresses sensitization to peanut. Differences in metabolism, AhR binding and subsequent gene transcription might explain these findings and warrant further studies to investigate the role of the AhR in food allergic responses.
We sought to develop a neurosurgical procedure to access the pons with a drug delivery device for chronic therapy and collect preliminary data on the toxicity of direct infusions of carboplatin in primates.
We made midline incisions on five cynomolgus monkeys, identified the inion, made a burr hole 2.5 cm below the inion, and inserted a catheter through the cerebellum into the roof of the pons. Pumps that infused saline for 90 days or carboplatin solutions for 30 to 35 days at 10 microl/d were placed subcutaneously in the low cervical/high thoracic region. Monkeys were assessed by computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, laboratory studies, daily neurological observation, postmortem examinations, and histopathology.
Monkeys infused with saline and 82 microg of carboplatin remained neurologically intact throughout the infusion periods. Serial imaging showed that the catheter tip was in the pons and revealed no evidence of hemorrhage, edema, or migration. Two monkeys infused with up to 850 microg of carboplatin showed hyperintense magnetic resonance imaging signals at Days 15 and 18 and neurological deficits at approximately Week 3. Platinum levels greater than 10 ng/mg tissue were detected over a distance of 1 cm in tissue slices. Histopathology demonstrated significant tissue necrosis around the tip of the catheter.
The pons of monkeys is safely accessed with a catheter for drug delivery by using a posterior midline approach. Clinical observations, radiographic imaging, and laboratory tests of animals infused with saline for 3 months or 0.26 mg/ml of carboplatin for 1 month were unremarkable. Neurotoxicity was seen with dose levels of 2.6 mg/ml of drug for 1 month. This procedure offers opportunities for examining the toxicity of brainstem antitumor therapy in primates.
Linezolid is a bacteriostatic oxazolidinone antibiotic that has been proven to be effective for the treatment of patients with pneumonia, skin and soft tissue infections, and possibly bacteraemia, due to Gram-positive cocci. However, the drug is sometimes used for the treatment of patients with endocarditis due to Gram-positive cocci resistant to other antibiotics.
We carried out a review of the available literature to evaluate whether linezolid is also effective for the treatment of patients with infective endocarditis.
We identified 23 case reports and 3 case series reporting the experience with 56 patients with endocarditis treated with linezolid. Evaluable data for 33 patients who received linezolid and for whom individual patient data were reported were further analysed. Prosthetic valve infective endocarditis accounted for 25% of the reviewed cases. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus were the most commonly isolated cocci (24.2% and 30.3% of cases, respectively). Linezolid alone was administered to 66.7% of patients while the rest received the antibiotic in combination with rifampicin, gentamicin, fusidic acid or amikacin. A total of 63.6% (21/33) of patients with endocarditis were cured after linezolid administration. The overall and endocarditis-related mortality was 33.3% (11/33) and 12.1% (4/33), respectively. Thrombocytopenia developed in 30.8% (8/26) of patients for whom relevant data were available.
The limited available evidence suggests that linezolid may be considered as a therapeutic option for the treatment of patients with endocarditis due to multidrug-resistant Gram-positive cocci. However, further published experience is needed to answer the question of whether a bacteriostatic antibiotic could be proven beneficial for patients with an infection for which bactericidal antibiotics have been traditionally used.
Pancuronium 0.02--0.08 mg kg-1 induced a dose-related increase of heart rate in patients anaesthetized with nitrous oxide supplemented with either fentanyl 0.003 mg kg-1 or fentanyl 0.003 mg kg-1 plus droperidol 0.15 mg kg-1. The tachycardia was more marked following the administration of droperidol.
The efficacy of telavancin, a bactericidal lipoglycopeptide, was compared with vancomycin against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in an immunocompromised murine model of bacteraemia.
Immunocompromised mice were inoculated intraperitoneally with S. aureus ATCC 33591 and treated with two subcutaneous doses (once every 12 h) of vehicle or test compound. Mouse pharmacokinetic data were generated and used to choose doses of telavancin (40 mg/kg) and vancomycin (110 mg/kg) in order to equate clinical exposures. Reduction in bacterial titre (in blood and spleen) and mortality were the two pharmacodynamic endpoints of the study.
Mortality was 100% in animals treated with vehicle or vancomycin but was significantly lower (7%) in telavancin-treated animals. Telavancin produced significantly greater reductions in blood and spleen bacterial titres compared with vancomycin.
The data described here demonstrate that telavancin's in vivo bactericidal activity is superior to that of vancomycin against a single strain of MRSA and results in successful infection resolution and, consequently, improved survival in the murine bacteraemia model.
A 17-year-old Croatian boy with Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS) who developed diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma is presented. The majority of the patients with this rare autosomal recessive disease are of Slavic origin and, in most of them, the disease is caused by NBS1 mutation 657del5, as was found in our patient. Nijmegen breakage syndrome is characterized by microcephaly, growth retardation, abnormal facial appearance, spontaneous chromosomal rearrangements, immunodeficiency, and a high predisposition to cancer development, predominantly lymphoma. Because of increased sensitivity to radiation therapy and chemotherapy, the treatment of malignancies in patients with NBS can be difficult. To our knowledge, our patient is the first with NBS reported in the literature who was successfully treated for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma with the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab in addition to a modified dose of CHOP (cyclophosphamide/doxorubicin/vincristine/prednisone) chemotherapy. He has been in complete remission for 3 years after finishing the treatment.
Several groups have reported that the combination of doxorubicin plus paclitaxel given as a 3-hour intravenous (IV) infusion for up to eight cycles produces a high response rate (> 80%) and complete response rate (> 20%) in metastatic breast cancer, but is also complicated by a 20% incidence of congestive heart failure (CHF). The purpose of this phase II trial was to evaluate the antineoplastic activity of the regimen in a multi-institutional setting and to reduce the incidence of cardiotoxicity by limiting treatment to a maximum of six cycles.
Fifty-two patients with advanced breast cancer received doxorubicin (60 mg/m(2) by IV injection) followed 15 minutes later by paclitaxel (200 mg/m(2) by IV infusion over 3 hours) every 3 weeks for four to six cycles.
Objective responses occurred in 25 of 48 assessable patients (52%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 38% to 66%), including four complete responses (8%; 95% CI, 0% to 16%). The median cumulative doxorubicin dose given was 240 mg/m(2) (range, 132 to 360 mg/m(2)). Eleven patients (21%) were documented as having a decrease in the LVEF below normal, including three patients (6%; 95% CI, 0% to 12%) who developed CHF.
The doxorubicin/paclitaxel regimen that we used is unlikely to produce an objective response rate of more than 70% and a complete response rate of more than 20% in patients with metastatic breast cancer, and proved to be excessively cardiotoxic for use in the adjuvant setting.
To understand the effect of the commercial processing of diatomaceous earths (DEs) on their ultimate surface structure and potential toxicity, we investigated the influence of the industrial processing and the nature of the deposit. Two flux calcined specimens from different deposits, DE/1-FC and DE/2-FC, and the simply calcined sample DE/1-C, from the same deposit as DE/1-FC, were compared in both their bulk and their surface properties. X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis in a heating chamber revealed the presence of cristobalite in all samples, more abundant on the flux calcined ones. The crystal lattice is probably imperfect, as the alpha-beta transition, visible by XRD in DE/1-FC and DE/2-FC, is not detected by differential scanning calorimetry. Progressive etching with HF solutions suggests that most of the crystalline phase is at the core and not at the outer region of the samples. The combined use of spectroscopic (UV-vis and IR) and calorimetric techniques (heat of adsorption of water as a measure of hydrophilicity) reveals that DE/1-FC and DE/2-FC particles have an external layer of glass, absent in DE/1-C, where iron impurities act as network-forming and sodium ions as modifier species, with few patches of a hydrophobic phase, the latter relatable to a heated pure silica phase. When tested on a macrophage cell line (MH-S) in comparison with appropriate positive and negative controls (an active and an inactive quartz dust, respectively), only DE/1-C exhibited a cell damage and activation similar to that of active quartz (measured by lactate dehydrogenase release, peroxidation of membrane lipids and synthesis of NO). It is likely that the presence of a vitreous phase mitigates or even eliminates the cellular responses of silica in DE.
In this investigation skin fold thinning was determined after topical application of several potent corticosteroids in hairless mice using a simple mechanical measuring device. The skin thinning effect of prednicarbate was compared with other corticosteroids (amcinonide, beta-methasone-17-valerate, clobetasol-17-propionate, diflorasone-17,21-diacetate, hydrocortisone-21-acetate). Prednicarbate produced a clear thinning of skin. Like other tested dermatocorticoids prednicarbate caused a significant atrophy of the mouse tail epidermis. By prednicarbate the 3H-thymidine triphosphate incorporation into epidermal DNA was inhibited.
Tacrolimus is a superior immunosuppressive agent and has markedly improved the short-term outcome of renal allografts. Despite the beneficial effects of maintaining immunotolerance in organ transplant recipients, it has well-characterized side effects on renal hemodynamics in the early phase. The mechanism of tacrolimus-induced acute nephrotoxicity is still unclear. The purpose of this study was to elucidate the role of renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in tacrolimus-induced acute nephrotoxicity. We examined the renal mRNA levels of renin in order to elucidate the relationship between plasma renin activity (PRA) and tacrolimus-induced renal dysfunction. Daily administration of tacrolimus (4 mg/kg/day) for 2 weeks in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) significantly increased BUN and plasma creatinine (P-Cr) level, while endogenous creatinine clearance (Ccr) significantly decreased in tacrolimus treated rats. Regarding tubular function data, fractional excretion of Na (FENa) and fractional excretion of K were higher in the tacrolimus treated group. Renin mRNA levels in the renal cortex in tacrolimus treated rats significantly increased when compared to the vehicle-treated rats. Ccr level was inversely proportional to PRA, with a high correlation coeffecient. The rise in PRA significantly correlated with increase in FENa by liner regression. Therefore, the results indicate that RAS is involved in the tacrolimus-induced acute nephrotoxicity.
Eleven patients had neurologic symptoms after taking "look-alike" pills thought to contain amphetamines but actually containing phenylpropanolamine. Phenylpropanolamine, a nonregulated drug, is structurally and functionally similar to amphetamines. Acute onset of headache, psychiatric symptoms, or seizures in young patients may be due to phenylpropanolamine use.
People who take analgesic drugs frequently may be at increased risk of end-stage renal disease (ESRD), but the extent of this risk remains unclear.
We studied 716 patients treated for ESRD and 361 control subjects of similar age from Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, and Washington, D.C. The study participants were interviewed by telephone about their past use of medications containing acetaminophen, aspirin, and other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). For each analgesic drug, the average use (in pills per year) and the cumulative intake (in pills) were examined for any association with ESRD.
Heavier acetaminophen use was associated with an increased risk of ESRD in a dose-dependent fashion. When persons who took an average of 0 to 104 pills per year were used for reference, the odds ratio of ESRD was 1.4 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.8 to 2.4) for those who took 105 to 365 pills per year and 2.1 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.1 to 3.7) for those who took 366 or more pills per year, after adjustment for race, sex, age, and intake of other analgesic drugs. When persons who had taken fewer than 1000 pills containing acetaminophen in their lifetime were used for reference, the odds ratio was 2.0 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.3 to 3.2) for those who had taken 1000 to 4999 pills and 2.4 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.2 to 4.8) for those who had taken 5000 or more pills. Approximately 8 to 10 percent of the overall incidence of ESRD was attributable to acetaminophen use. A cumulative dose of 5000 or more pills containing NSAIDs was also associated with an increased odds of ESRD (odds ratio, 8.8), but the use of aspirin was not.
People who often take acetaminophen or NSAIDs have an increased risk of ESRD, but not those who often take aspirin.
Uterine sarcomas are an extremely rare event. There is no standard therapy for cases of relapse, although chemotherapy is commonly used. We studied the use of a cisplatin-based chemotherapy regimen for uterine sarcomas with an unusually long follow-up. Thirty-nine women with a median age of 50 years (32-71) entered the study. Histologically, leiomyosarcomas (26), carcinosarcomas (8), and stromal sarcomas (5) were represented. Group 1 consisted of patients undergoing adjuvant therapy (for initial disease, eight patients; for pelvic recurrence, two patients); Group 2 consisted of patients with advanced disease (locoregional after initial local therapy, five patients; local recurrence, six patients) or metastatic disease (stage IV, four patients; recurrence, 14 patients). DECAV therapy consisted of doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 d1, dacarbazine (DTIC) 200 mg/m2/d d1-3, vindesine 2 mg/day d1-2, cisplatin 100 mg/m2 d3, and either cyclophosphamide (CPM) 200 mg/m2/d d1-3 (n = 21), or ifosfamide (IFM) 2 g/m2/d d1-3 with mesna every 4 weeks Toxicity included 18 hospital stays for cytopenia (nine patients), including 13 cases of febrile neutropenia. Twenty blood transfusions in 10 patients and 12 platelet transfusions in seven patients were required. One toxicity-related death (hemorrhage) occurred. The overall response rate was 54% (3 complete response, 11 partial response) with a median duration of 13 months (4-36). Median overall survival was 14 month overall, 45 months for Group 1 and 13 months for Group 2. We conclude that the DECAV regimen is clearly active in uterine sarcomas but is too toxic to be recommended routinely.
Young animals are resistant to organophosphate-induced delayed polyneuropathy (OPIDP). The putative target protein in the nervous system for initiation of OPIDP in the adult hen is an enzyme called Neuropathy Target Esterase (NTE), which is dissected by selective inhibitors among nervous tissue esterases hydrolysing phenyl valerate (PV). We report here that the pool of PV-esterases sensitive to paraoxon was different in peripheral nerves of chicks as compared to that of hens while that of brain and spinal cord was not. NTE activity decreased with age in brain, spinal cord and peripheral nerve, but its sensitivity to several inhibitors remained unchanged. In the adult hen more than 70% inhibition of peripheral nerve NTE by neuropathic OPs is followed by deficit of retrograde axonal transport, axonal degeneration and paralysis. Similar NTE inhibition in 40-day-old or younger chicks however is not followed by changes in retrograde axonal transport nor by OPIDP. Chicks aged 60 to 80 days are only marginally sensitive to a single dose of DFP otherwise clearly neuropathic to hens. In vitro and in vivo phosphorylation by DFP and subsequent aging of brain NTE is similar both in chicks and in hens. The recovery of NTE activity monitored in vivo after inhibition by DFP is faster (half-life of about 3 days) in chick peripheral nerves as compared to chick brain, hen brain and hen peripheral nerve (half-life of about 5 days). It is concluded that the reduced sensitivity to OPIDP in chicks is not due to differences in OP-NTE interactions. The resistance might be explained by a more efficient repair mechanism, as suggested by the faster recovery of peripheral nerve NTE activity.
The aim of this study was to assess the association between the loss-of-function cytochrome P450 2C19 (CYP2C19)*2 variant (10 studies, 11,959 patients) or the use of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) (13 studies, 48,674 patients) and ischemic outcomes (major adverse cardiovascular events [MACE]) in patients treated with clopidogrel.
In clopidogrel-treated patients, increased cardiovascular risk has been identified with the loss-of-function CYP2C19*2 allele or the use of PPIs, some of them CYP2C19 inhibitors. To further estimate the effect of a reduction in activity of this enzyme, the authors performed a meta-analysis of the studies available.
The meta-analysis was performed on 23 studies using the odds ratio (OR) as the parameter of efficacy, with a fixed-effect model. The end points were MACE, mortality, or stent thrombosis.
Of the 11,959 patients, carriers of the loss-of-function CYP2C19*2 allele (28% [n = 3,418]) displayed a 30% increase in the risk for MACE compared with noncarriers (9.7% vs. 7.8%; OR: 1.29; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.12 to 1.49; p < 0.001). This single gene variant (CYP2C19*2) was also associated with an excess of mortality (1.8% vs. 1.0%; OR: 1.79; 95% CI: 1.10 to 2.91; p = 0.019; n = 6,225) and of stent thrombosis (2.9% vs. 0.9%; OR: 3.45; 95% CI: 2.14 to 5.57; p < 0.001; n = 4,905). This increased risk was apparent in both heterozygotes and homozygotes and was independent of the baseline cardiovascular risk. PPI users (42% [n = 19,614]) displayed increased risk for MACE (21.8% vs. 16.7%; OR: 1.41; 95% CI: 1.34 to 1.48; p < 0.001) and mortality (12.7% vs. 7.4%; OR: 1.18; 95% CI: 1.07 to 1.30; p < 0.001; n = 23,977) compared with nonusers. The impact of PPI use was, however, significantly influenced by baseline cardiovascular risk, being significant only in high-risk patients.
In this global meta-analysis, reduced CYP2C19 function appears to expose clopidogrel-treated patients to excess cardiovascular risk and mortality. Conflicting results among studies may be explained by differences in types and/or levels of risk of patients.
