The predisposing factors to urinary retention in patients undergoing hip arthroplasty were investigated by a review of the charts of 272 patients. Age, sex, surgeon, choice and duration of anesthesia, volume of fluid replacement, and use of postoperative intramuscular narcotics did not correlate significantly with urinary retention. However, urinary retention increased from 24% to 62% with the use of epidural morphine for postoperative pain management.
This study was designed to investigate the relationship between prenatal pesticide exposures and the generation of leukemia-associated t(8;21)(q22;q22), one of the most common cytogenetic abnormalities in childhood acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) was used to quantitatively detect different pesticides (propoxur and cypermethrin) in meconium from 49 newborn babies from the Philippines. The generation of t(8;21) was determined in the corresponding umbilical cord blood samples by detection of the AML1-ETO fusion transcripts derived from t(8;21) using nested RT-PCR. Levels for the AML1-ETO fusion transcripts were quantitated by real-time RT-PCR in the t(8;21) positive cord blood samples. AML1-ETO fusion transcript forms were characterized by RT-PCR amplification and DNA sequencing.
In the present study using umbilical cord blood samples obtained from infants whose prenatal exposure to the pesticide, propoxur, was determined by meconium analysis, we showed that (i) incidence of t(8;21) in the exposed group was two-fold higher than that in the unexposed group; and (ii) the levels for AML1-ETO fusion transcripts resulting from t(8;21) positively correlated with propoxur concentrations in meconium. Similar heterogeneity in the fusion transcripts was detected in the t(8;21) positive cord blood samples as in our previous study with t(8;21) AML patients.
These results further confirm the prenatal origin of t(8;21) and establish a significant correlation between prenatal pesticide exposures and the generation of t(8;21). They suggest that prenatal pesticide exposures may be causal factors for the generation of leukemia-associated chromosomal translocations.
The use of inhaled corticosteroids compared with leukotriene modifying drugs in the treatment of persistent asthma has not been extensively studied.
To compare the efficacy and safety of a low dose of fluticasone propionate (FP) and zafirlukast in patients previously maintained on inhaled corticosteroids.
Patients (> or = 12 years old; FEV1 = 60% to 85% of predicted) with persistent asthma who were previously treated with low doses of triamcinolone acetonide (TAA) 400 to 800 microg/day or beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) 168 to 336 microg/day were randomized to treatment with FP aerosol 88 microg BID (FP, n = 221) or zafirlukast 20 mg BID (n = 216) over 6 weeks.
Treatment with FP significantly increased the mean change at endpoint (the last post-baseline observation) in FEV1 (0.22 L versus 0.03 L, P < .001), morning PEF (17.8 versus 3.1 L/min, P = .004), evening PEF (16.7 versus 2.6 L/min, P = .002), the percentage of symptom-free days (16.2 versus 7.1%, P = .007), and the percentage of rescue-free days (23.4 versus 9.3%, P < .001), and significantly decreased rescue albuterol use (-0.66 puffs/day versus an increase of 0.27 puffs/day, P < .001) and combined symptom scores (-0.13 versus an increase of 0.08, P < .001) compared with zafirlukast. Treatment with FP maintained the percentage of awakening-free nights (-1.0 +/- 1.0); in contrast, treatment with zafirlukast reduced the percentage of awakening-free nights (-9.0 +/- 1.6, P < .001). A clinically meaningful difference (change of > or = 0.5; P < .001) was observed between FP and zafirlukast in the Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ) global score and for each domain score except activity limitation (change of 0.3, P < .001). Significantly more patients in the zafirlukast group experienced an asthma exacerbation (n = 14) compared with FP-treated patients (n = 5, P = .035). Patients in the zafirlukast group were significantly more likely to be withdrawn due to lack of efficacy (P < .001).
Switching patients from low doses of inhaled corticosteroids to a lower total microgram dose of FP improves pulmonary function, asthma symptoms, and quality of life, while switching to the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast may result in worsening of asthma control. This was indicated by the significant number of zafirlukast-treated patients who were dropped from the study due to lack of efficacy within 6 weeks of discontinuing inhaled corticosteroids.
O(6)-Methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) is a DNA repair protein that removes alkyl-adducts from the O(6)-guanine in DNA and is a crucial defense against O(6)-alkylating agent-induced cytotoxicity. We demonstrated here that two camptothecin (CPT)-resistant cell lines (CPT30 and KB100) were more sensitive to N,N'-bis(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosurea (BCNU) than their parental cells. Enhanced sensitivity to BCNU in these two CPT-resistant cells involved transcriptional repression of the MGMT gene. The mechanism of MGMT gene down-regulation in CPT-resistant cells was not through gene abnormality, mRNA stability, and CpG island hypermethylation. However, the high level of methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) and dimethylation of H3K9 in the promoter region were found in CPT30 and KB100 cells. Furthermore, increased MeCP2 binding on MGMT promoter was also found to be correlated with MGMT gene-silencing in short-term CPT treatment; thus, enhanced BCNU sensitivity was found in CPT-treated cells. Taken together, we suggest that CPT is able to suppress the transcription of the MGMT gene through recruiting of MeCP2 and H3K9 dimethylation, thus causing a synergistic interaction with BCNU. These findings provide a possible explanation regarding why the combination of CPT and BCNU results in a better objective response than single-use alone. In addition, this study supports a new indication for treating patients who are receiving refractory CPT derivatives with BCNU.
To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of ciprofloxacin 20 mg/kg per day (10 mg/kg administered intravenously 12 hourly) in paediatric patients with severe sepsis.
Open and prospective.
Tertiary referral multi-disciplinary ICU.
Twenty patients (two groups - group A: 3 months-1 year; group B 1-5 years).
Timed blood samples were taken for pharmacokinetics after the first dose (D(0)), as well as day 2 (D(2)) and then between days 6-8.
Ciprofloxacin serum levels were measured by high performance liquid chromatography. Demographic and clinical data and all adverse events were noted. Standard pharmacokinetic variables were calculated by non-compartmental methods. Peak concentrations (C(max)) for group A were D(0) 6.1+/-1.2 mg/l, D(2) 9.0+/-1.8 mg/l and D(7) 5.8+/-1.3 mg/l and, for group B, 7.4+/-1.3 mg/l, 7.8+/-1.6 mg/l and 6.4+/-1.3 mg/l, respectively, for the study periods. Concentration 12 h after the start of infusion (C(min)) for all periods were 0.2 mg/l or less. Areas under the curve (AUC, 12 h) were group A: 15.6+/-1.3, 19.2+/-1.63 and 14.1+/-1.4 mg/h per l, and group B: 15.9+/-1.3, 18.0+/-1.7 and 13.2+/-1.26 mg/h per l. One patient presenting with seizures, initially controlled, had another convulsion and a further patient developed seizures whilst on ciprofloxacin. C(max) in these patients were higher than the average C(max). The convulsions of both patients were easily controlled. No other drug-related serious adverse events occurred. No arthropathy was noted. Three patients died of their underlying disease.
There was no accumulation of drug even after 7 days of administration. Our C(max) and AUC were lower than that achieved in a similar adult pharmacokinetic study. To achieve end points of area under the inhibitory curve (AUIC) of 100-150 mg/h per l, 10 mg/kg ciprofloxacin eight hourly would be required for some resistant ICU organisms.
Entecavir (ETV) is a deoxyguanosine analog approved for use for the treatment of chronic infection with wild-type and lamivudine-resistant (LVDr) hepatitis B virus (HBV). In LVD-refractory patients, 1.0 mg ETV suppressed HBV DNA levels to below the level of detection by PCR (<300 copies/ml) in 21% and 34% of patients by Weeks 48 and 96, respectively. Prior studies showed that virologic rebound due to ETV resistance (ETVr) required preexisting LVDr HBV reverse transcriptase substitutions M204V and L180M plus additional changes at T184, S202, or M250. To monitor for resistance, available isolates from 192 ETV-treated patients were sequenced, with phenotyping performed for all isolates with all emerging substitutions, in addition to isolates from all patients experiencing virologic rebounds. The T184, S202, or M250 substitution was found in LVDr HBV at baseline in 6% of patients and emerged in isolates from another 11/187 (6%) and 12/151 (8%) ETV-treated patients by Weeks 48 and 96, respectively. However, use of a more sensitive PCR assay detected many of the emerging changes at baseline, suggesting that they originated during LVD therapy. Only a subset of the changes in ETVr isolates altered their susceptibilities, and virtually all isolates were significantly replication impaired in vitro. Consequently, only 2/187 (1%) patients experienced ETVr rebounds in year 1, with an additional 14/151 (9%) patients experiencing ETVr rebounds in year 2. Isolates from all 16 patients with rebounds were LVDr and harbored the T184 and/or S202 change. Seventeen other novel substitutions emerged during ETV therapy, but none reduced the susceptibility to ETV or resulted in a rebound. In summary, ETV was effective in LVD-refractory patients, with resistant sequences arising from a subset of patients harboring preexisting LVDr/ETVr variants and with approximately half of the patients experiencing a virologic rebound.
Bilateral focal renal cortical necrosis was observed after vasopressin administration in rats pretreated for 10 days with testosterone phenyl propionate. When the androgen-receptor blocking-agent cyproterone acetate was administered together with the testosterone, the subsequent vasopressin treatment did not cause renal cortical necrosis. The results suggest the role of the androgen receptors in the kidney in the induction of the phenomenon.
Male mice were treated with nitrogen mustard (2.25 mg/kg), procarbazine (100 mg/kg) or vincristine (0.67 mg/kg). 5 weeks later they were mated to untreated females and the dominant lethal mutant rate was determined in the offspring by an in vitro analysis. Nitrogen mustard and procarbazine induced dominant lethal mutations to significant levels. Mutations were expressed, throughout early development, especially as a failure to form a trophectoderm outgrowth and to differentiate and proliferate an inner cell mass. Variations in the dominant lethal mutant rate were found from one week to the next, suggesting that differentiated and stem cell spermatogonia have differential sensitivity to mutation induction and cell killing by each drug.
Vasodilators lower the blood pressure by decreasing total peripheral resistance. The hemodynamic changes depend on the mix between arteriolar and venous dilatation. Since the compensatory responses are blunted with sympatholytic agents and diuretics, vasodilators can be applied effectively in the treatment of hypertension. Hydralazine and prazosin are used as step III drugs in combination with beta-adrenergic blockers and diuretics. Only hypertensive patients whose blood pressure is not controlled by standard antihypertensive drugs should receive minoxidil or captopril. Hypertensives receiving minoxidil usually require a loop diuretic such as furosemide, in addition to a beta-blocker. Captopril is usually combined with a thiazide diuretic and frequently also with a beta-adrenergic blocker. For hypertensive emergencies diazoxide must be injected intravenously as a bolus. It is contraindicated in patients with dissecting aortic aneurysm or left ventricular failure. Sodium nitroprusside is effective in most cases of hypertensive crisis and must be administered intravenously under continuous observation.
While the occurrence of autoimmune disorders such as hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia in chronic lymphatic leukemia (CLL) is well recognized, pure red blood cell aplasia (PRCA) complicating CLL is uncommon and intriguing. This is a report of the clinical course of a patient with B cell CLL who developed PRCA unresponsive to immunosuppressive therapy responsive to subsequent treatment with oxymethalone resulting in complete remission of PRCA.
We report a clinical case of a patient with NSCLC who experienced an atrial fibrillation during paclitaxel infusion. Before chemotherapy, his cardiological function was normal. No cardiovascular and/or thyroid associated disease were previously reported. The patient did not receive any drugs with pro-arrhythmic effects. Incidence of cardiovascular toxicity in patients treated with paclitaxel is low, and does not justify strict cardiological monitoring otherwise deserved to patients with preexistent risk factors.
Cardiac dysfunction is one of the major causes of mortality and morbidity throughout the world. Chronic exposure of arsenic (As) mainly leads to cardiotoxic effect. Cardiotoxicity was induced by the sodium arsenite as the source of As (5 mg/kg BW, PO) for 4 weeks. As intoxication significantly (p < 0.05) increased the serum cardiac markers, viz. creatine kinase-MB, lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase and alkaline phosphatase, oxidative stress markers in heart, plasma total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), phospholipids (PL), free fatty acids (FFA), low density lipoprotein cholesterol, very low density lipoprotein cholesterol as well as cardiac lipid profile (TC, TG and FFA) and significantly (p < 0.05) decreased the level of serum high density lipoprotein cholesterol, cardiac PL, mitochondrial enzymes such as ICDH, SDH, MDH, α-KDH and NADH dehydrogenase, levels of enzymatic antioxidant, nonenzymatic antioxidants and membrane-bound ATPases in heart. In addition, As-intoxicated rats showed a significant (p < 0.05) up-regulation of myocardial NADPH (NOX) oxidase sub units such as NOX2 and NOX4 as well as Keap-1 and down-regulation of Nrf2 and HO-1 protein expressions. Pre-administration of silibinin (SB) (75 mg/kg BW) remarkably recovered all these altered parameters to near normalcy in As-induced cardiotoxic rat. Moreover, the light microscopic and transmission electron microscopic study further supports the protective efficacy of SB on the heart mitochondria. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that SB has a potential to extenuate the arsenic-induced cardiotoxicity and dyslipidemia in rat.
Hypoxia is regarded as an important physiological factor that controls nephrogenesis. We investigated whether the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) affects hypoxia-related target genes in developing kidneys. Newborn rat pups were treated with enalapril (30 mg/kg/d) or spironolactone (200 mg/kg/d) for 7 days. Tissue hypoxia was assessed by the uptake of a hypoxyprobe-1, pimonidazole (200 mg/kg), and the expression of hypoxia-responsive genes. In the enalapril group, hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha, HIF-2alpha, and Ets-1 protein expression were not changed, compared to the control group. In the spironolactone group, HIF-1alpha and Ets-1 protein expression were significantly increased by immunoblots and immunohistochemistry, whereas HIF-2alpha protein expression was not changed, compared to the control group. In the enalapril group, the immunoactivity of pimonidazole was not significantly different from that of the controls. However, in the spironolactone group, pimonidazole staining demonstrated that the cortex and medulla underwent severe hypoxia. In summary, our data showed that aldosterone inhibition in the developing kidney augmented the hypoxic responses, and up-regulated the expression of key mediators of hypoxia including HIF-1alpha and Ets-1. Angiotensin II inhibition did not affect hypoxia-related alterations in the developing kidney. The components of RAAS may differentially modulate renal hypoxia and its related target genes in the developing rat kidney.
The ethanolic extracts of leaves of Albizzia lebbeck and flowers of Hibiscus rosa sinesis and the petroleum ether extract of flowers of Butea monosperma exhibited anticonvulsant activity. The bioassay guided fractionation indicated that the anticonvulsant activity lies in the methanolic fraction of chloroform soluble part of ethanolic extract of the leaves of A. lebbeck, acetone soluble part of ethanolic extract of H. rosa sinesis flowers and acetone soluble part of petroleum ether extract of B. monosperma flowers. The fractions protected animals from maximum electro shock, electrical kindling and pentylenetetrazole-induced convulsions in mice. The fractions also inhibited convulsions induced by lithium-pilocarpine and electrical kindling. However, they failed to protect animals from strychnine-induced convulsions. The fractions antagonised the behavioral effects of D-amphetamine and potentiated the pentobarbitone-induced sleep. The fractions raised brain contents of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and serotonin. These fractions were found to be anxiogenic and general depressant of central nervous system.
A possible role of radical oxygen species (ROS) initiated lipid peroxidation in diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (DFP)-induced muscle necrosis was investigated by quantifying muscle changes in F2-isoprostanes, novel and extremely accurate markers of lipid peroxidation in vivo. A significant increase in F2-isoprostanes of 56% was found in the diaphragm of rats 60 min after DFP-induced fasciculations. As possible source of ROS initiating lipid peroxidation, the cytocrome-c oxidase (Cyt-ox) and xanthine dehydrogenase-xanthine oxidase (XD-XO) systems were investigated. Within 30 min of onset of fasciculations Cyt-ox activity was reduced by 50% from 0.526 to 0.263 mumol/mg prot/min and XO activity increased from 0.242 to 0.541 mumol/mg prot/min. Total XD-XO activity was unchanged, indicating a conversion from XD into XO. In rats pretreatment with the neuromuscular blocking agent d-tubocurarine, prevented DFP-induced fasciculations, increases in F2-isoprostanes and changes in Cyt-ox or XD-XO. The decrease in Cyt-ox and increase in XO suggest that ROS are produced during DFP induced muscle fasciculations initiating lipid peroxidation and subsequent myopathy.
Hepatoprotective potential of the aqueous extract of the roots of Decalepis hamiltonii (DHA) against cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced oxidative stress has been investigated in mice. Administration of CP (25mg/kg b.w., i.p) for 10 days induced hepatic damage as indicated by the serum marker enzymes aspartate and alanine transaminases (AST, ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Parallel to these changes CP induced oxidative stress in the liver as evident from the increased lipid peroxidation (LPO), reactive oxygen species (ROS), depletion of glutathione (GSH), and reduced activities of the antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), and glutathione-S-transferase (GST). Treatment with DHA (50 and 100 mg/kg b.w., po) mitigated the CP-induced oxidative stress. Moreover, expression of genes for the antioxidant enzymes, were down-regulated by CP treatment which was reversed by DHA. Our study shows the DHA protected the liver from toxicity induced by CP and therefore, it could be serve as a safe medicinal supplement during cyclophosphamide chemotherapy.
Enterococcus raffinosus is scarcely found in clinical samples and even less frequently as etiologic agent of endocarditis. We are herein presenting one case of mitral prosthetic-valve endocarditis in a 77-y-o male due to a vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus raffinosus isolate, successfully treated with 6 weeks of linezolid, and a two-year follow up.
In a hospital-based case-referent study of systemic sclerosis (SSc) and occupational risk factors (55 cases and 171 referents), an excess risk for SSc was observed in men with previous occupational exposure to solvents and certain chemicals (vinyl chloride, formaldehyde). SSc was associated, even though not significantly, with occupational exposure to solvents and silica among women. The possible role of occupational exposures in the etiology of SSc, as well as the methodological limitations of the present study, are discussed.
We report a panel of severe inflammatory and vascular intraocular disorders occurring during interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) treatment in eight hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected patients. These events include three cases of Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada like (VKH) disease (an association of panuveitis, retinal detachment, ear and meningeal detachment and skin and hair changes), two cases of central retinal vein occlusion, one case of central retinal artery occlusion, one case of severe hypertensive retinopathy and one case of bilateral ischemic optic neuropathy with severe visual impairment. Rare as they are, such severe ophthalmological complications require a close follow-up of HCV-infected patients under IFN-alpha treatment with ophthalmological monitoring if any ocular manifestation occurs.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are common, heritable, but genetically heterogeneous neurodevelopmental conditions. We recently defined a susceptibility locus for ASDs on chromosome 1q41-q42. High-resolution single-nucleotide polymorphisms (126 SNPs) genotyping across the chromosome 1q41-q42 region, followed by a MARK1 (microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 1)-tagged-SNP association study in 276 families with autism from the Autism Genetic Research Exchange, showed that several SNPs within the MARK1 gene were significantly associated with ASDs by transmission disequilibrium tests. Haplotype rs12740310*C-rs3737296*G-rs12410279*A was overtransmitted (P(corrected)= 0.0016), with a relative risk for autism of 1.8 in homozygous carriers. Furthermore, ASD-associated SNP rs12410279 modulates the level of transcription of MARK1. We found that MARK1 was overexpressed in the prefrontal cortex (BA46) but not in cerebellar granule cells, on postmortem brain tissues from patients. MARK1 displayed an accelerated evolution along the lineage leading to humans, suggesting possible involvement of this gene in cognition. MARK1 encodes a kinase-regulating microtubule-dependent transport in axons and dendrites. Both overexpression and silencing of MARK1 resulted in significantly shorter dendrite length in mouse neocortical neurons and modified dendritic transport speed. As expected for a gene encoding a key polarity determinant Par-1 protein kinase, MARK1 is involved in axon-dendrite specification. Thus, MARK1 overexpression in humans may be responsible for subtle changes in dendritic functioning.
Rats were given a continuous subcutaneous infusion of either bupivacaine (n = 18) or placebo (n = 17) for 4 days. On the 5th day the acute seizure threshold to intravenous bupivacaine was determined in both groups. Blood and brain concentrations of bupivacaine at the onset of seizures showed no difference between the two groups, whereas the seizure dose was decreased in the bupivacaine group. The tachyphylaxis observed when bupivacaine is used for a regional nerve blockade does not seem to evolve for the central nervous system effects.
Broad spectrum penicillins such as piperacillin are used extensively in the intensive care unit (ICU) because of their wide bacterial spectrum and low level of toxicity. Although some cases of interstitial nephritis induced by piperacillin have been reported, this problem is thought to be rare. However, in view of the large number of other risk factors for renal disorders that are frequently present in ICU patients, we speculated that ICU patients might be more at risk for renal side effects. We therefore decided to measure serum electrolyte levels in patients before and after piperacillin administration.
Prospective observational study.
University teaching hospital.
Forty-three consecutive patients with normal renal function treated with piperacillin; 40 patients treated with other antibiotics.
Serum levels of magnesium (Mg), potassium (K) and, to a lesser degree, calcium (Ca) decreased significantly in patients treated with piperacillin, but not in patients treated with other antibiotics ( p<0.01). This decrease was especially pronounced in a subgroup of patients concurrently treated with furosemide.
We conclude that treatment with piperacillin may cause or aggravate electrolyte disorders and tubular dysfunction in ICU patients even when serum creatinine levels remain normal.
A 28-year-old man ingested methylene dianilene in potassium carbonate and gamma-butyrolactone. He developed toxic optic neuritis, with severe visual dysfunction (not previously reported in humans), prolonged toxic hepatitis, with disturbed liver-function tests 18 months after the incident, and other more transient effects. The course of his illness is described and the literature on methylene dianilene toxicity is reviewed.
The pain receptor transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) has been reported as one of the key components in the pain pathway. Activation of the receptor causes a Ca2+ influx with secondary effects leading to neurogenic inflammation. Here we report specific activation of TRPV1 by detergent-containing hygiene products measured as intracellular Ca2+ influxes in stably TRPV1-expressing neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Children products marketed as "painless" (containing lower concentration of detergents), and conditioners (without detergents) did not induce specific TRPV1 activation. Furthermore, low concentrations of the detergent sodium lauryl sulfate dose-dependently induced Ca2+ influxes that could be addressed to TRPV1. These results reveal a novel mechanistic pathway for surfactant-induced nociception, which may be an important endpoint in in vitro test batteries as alternatives to Draize's rabbit eye test for classification of eye irritating products.
Amiodarone, a potent antiarrhythmic drug, decreases plasma and tissue triiodothyronine (T3) and increases plasma cholesterol levels, resembling changes seen during hypothyroidism. The increase of serum cholesterol during amiodarone medication is associated with a decreased expression of the hepatic low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor mRNA. To further elucidate the mechanism of amiodarone-induced hypercholesterolemia, we investigated whether the decreased mRNA levels are the result of decreased transcription or increased degradation or both, and whether protein expression is decreased accordingly. Relative to pair-fed controls, amiodarone treatment increased plasma cholesterol by 69% and decreased expression of the mRNA encoding for the hepatic LDL receptor by 45%. To study this decrease in mRNA, we performed a run-on assay, from which it appears that amiodarone acts by decreasing LDL receptor mRNA expression 2.5-fold at the transcriptional level. The decay rate of liver LDL receptor mRNA, measured at different time points after injecting actinomycin D, was not different between amiodarone-treated and control animals (116+/-32 minutes and 84+/-10 minutes, P=.44). Hepatocytes in primary culture isolated from amiodarone-treated and control animals were used to determine specific binding of [125I]-LDL to hepatic LDL receptors. Amiodarone decreased specific LDL binding and Scatchard analysis demonstrated that amiodarone treatment reduced the number of LDL receptors by 69%, without affecting the dissociation constant (Kd). In conclusion, amiodarone-induced hypercholesterolemia can be explained by decreased transcription of the LDL receptor gene, resulting in lower mRNA and protein levels.
A single injection of cocaine increases extracellular glutamate in the rat dorsolateral striatum 1 day after the acute cocaine was administered (McKee and Meshul, 2005). However, the nuclei that facilitate this increase in striatal glutamate remain unknown. We hypothesized that the cocaine-induced increase in striatal glutamate was produced by activation of the ventromedial (VM) nucleus of the thalamus via the thalamo-corticostriatal or thalamostriatal pathways. First, rats received an electrolytic lesion of the VM. One day after a single cocaine or vehicle injection, extracellular glutamate was measured in the dorsolateral striatum using in vivo microdialysis. The motor thalamus lesion blocked the cocaine-induced increase in striatal glutamate and reduced extracellular glutamate to the level of the vehicle-treated group. This study shows a critical role for the VM nucleus of the thalamus in mediating the effects of cocaine on extracellular glutamate levels in the rat dorsolateral striatum.
Bisphenol A (BPA), an environmental endocrine-disrupting chemical, has been extensively evaluated for reproductive toxicity and carcinogenicity. However, little is known about the behavioral and neurochemical effects of BPA exposure. This study examined whether chronic daily exposure to an environmental endocrine-disrupting chemical, bisphenol A [(BPA); 100 microg/kg/day or 500 microg/kg/day, p.o.], from prenatal Day 7 to postnatal Day 36 would lead to changes in anxiety and memory in mice. First, we observed the behavioral alterations of BPA-treated mice using two anxiety-related models, the open field test and elevated plus maze (EPM) test. In the open field test, BPA treatment (100 microg/kg/day) increased movement in the central zone. BPA treatment (500 microg/kg/day) also increased the time spent in the open arms in the EPM test. Second, we measured cognitive ability in the Y-maze test and novel object test. BPA-treated mice showed decreased alternation behavior in the Y-maze at both of doses, indicating working memory impairment. BPA-treated mice (100 microg/kg/day) also showed decreased novel object recognition as expressed by central locomotion and frequency in the central zone, showing recognition memory impairment. Finally, to measure changes in the dopaminergic and NMDAergic systems in the brain, we performed autoradiographic receptor binding assays for dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptors, the NMDA receptor, and the dopamine transporter. BPA treatment increased D(2) receptor binding in the caudate putamen (CPu) but decreased DAT binding. BPA treatment also decreased NMDA receptor binding in the frontal cortex and CA1, CA3, and DG of the hippocampus. Taken together, our results suggest that long-term BPA exposure in mice can induce anxiolytic behaviors, cognitive deficits and changes in the dopaminergic and NMDAergic systems.
Ciprofloxacin or rifampin was significantly (P less than 0.05) more effective than vancomycin or the combination of vancomycin plus gentamicin for the treatment of Staphylococcus epidermidis experimental endocarditis. There were no significant differences in efficacy among any of the combinations of antimicrobial agents that included ciprofloxacin or rifampin. One animal treated with rifampin alone and one treated with the combination of vancomycin, rifampin, and gentamicin were found to be infected with rifampin-resistant strains of S. epidermidis during therapy. Resistant subpopulations of S. epidermidis were not detected during therapy with any other antimicrobial agent used alone or in combination. Ciprofloxacin alone or in combination with rifampin was effective therapy against S. epidermidis experimental endocarditis.
