Dense, granular immunoglobulin deposits have been identified at the epidermo-dermal junction in 4 out of 10 patients who developed toxic reactions to D-penicillamine therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. Three of 4 patients developing a lupus-like syndrome while on penicillamine had similar findings on skin biopsy. Serum immunoglobulin and complement levels decreased significantly in patients treated with penicillamine. It is suggested that, in addition to penicillamine nephropathy, other side effects of this drug may be related to widespread deposition of immune complexes.
Secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHP) is characterized by high bone turnover, which may, in turn, result in increased release of lead from bone stores. This study investigated the effects of intravenous calcitriol on blood lead (BL) levels in patients with SHP.
Intravenous calcitriol therapy was administered for 16 wk to 28 patients who were on maintenance hemodialysis (HD) and had intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) plasma levels of >300 pg/mL. Blood was drawn at baseline and every 4 wk for 16 wk to determine the levels of iPTH; bone remodeling markers, including bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (bAP) and type 5b tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP); and BL.
Of the 28 patients, 25 responded to calcitriol therapy; they exhibited significant decrements in serum iPTH levels by the end of 4 wk of therapy and thereafter. After 16 wk of therapy, these patients had significant reductions in serum iPTH levels (p<0.01) and significant and parallel decreases in the levels of bAP (p<0.01), TRAP (p<0.01), and BL (p<0.01). Further analysis showed a significant positive correlation between the levels of BL and serum iPTH (r=0.34, p<0.01) and BL and serum TRAP (r=0.22, p<0.05). However, there was no significant correlation between the levels of BL and serum bAP.
Elevated levels of BL and serum bone remodeling markers, which are common features of SHP, can be effectively suppressed by calcitriol therapy. This indicates that hyperparathyroidism not only accelerates bone remodeling but may also enhance bone lead mobilization in patients on maintenance HD.
Studies revealing conflicting results on the role of RNASEL polymorphisms Glu265X, Arg462Gln, and Asp541Glu on prostate cancer risk led us to perform a meta-analysis to investigate the association of these polymorphisms and prostate cancer risk.
Relevant studies were selected by searching PubMed from January 1996 to August 2005 using keywords "RNASEL gene AND prostate cancer." For each study, odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (95% CI) was calculated to estimate the gene effect. Pooled estimates of the OR were computed using the random effects model.
Ten studies were included in the meta-analysis. The overall results suggested no major influence of these variants on prostate cancer risk. However, analysis of the Asp541Glu polymorphism by ethnic populations showed that Asp/Glu (familial cases versus control: OR, 1.38; 95% CI, 1.04-1.82; sporadic cases versus control: OR, 1.26; 95% CI, 1.07-1.48; prostate cancer versus control: OR, 1.29; 95% CI, 1.12-1.48) and Asp/Glu + Glu/Glu (familial cases versus control: OR, 1.37; 95% CI, 1.10-1.70; sporadic cases versus control: OR, 1.24; 95% CI, 1.07-1.44; prostate cancer versus control: OR, 1.27; 95% CI, 1.13-1.44) increased prostate cancer risk in Caucasians, thus suggesting a dominant model for the Glu variant.
Compared with the genotype Asp/Asp, the Glu variant at the Asp541Glu polymorphism increases prostate cancer risk by <2-fold in Caucasians, regardless of family history of the disease. This suggests that genuine genetic effects of this polymorphism may account for only a part of prostate cancer in the Caucasian population.
Ergot alkaloids, such as ergotamine, have been associated with numerous vascular complications and with valvular heart disease. The authors describe a man who developed fibrosis of three heart valves during a 5-year treatment with bromocriptine for Parkinson disease. There were no other plausible causes. To our knowledge, such a side effect has never been described with this drug.
Optic neuritis is one of the most common clinical manifestations of multiple sclerosis (MS), a chronic inflammatory disease of the CNS. High-dosage methylprednisolone treatment has been established as the standard therapy of acute inflammation of the optic nerve (ON). The rationale for corticosteroid treatment lies in the antiinflammatory and immunosuppressive properties of these drugs, as shown in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the animal model of MS. To investigate the influence of methylprednisolone therapy on the survival of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), the neurons that form the axons of the ON, we used a rat model of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced EAE. Optic neuritis was diagnosed by recording visual evoked potentials, and RGC function was monitored by measuring electroretinograms. Methylprednisolone treatment significantly increased RGC apoptosis during MOG-EAE. By Western blot analysis, we identified the underlying molecular mechanism: a suppression of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation, which is a key event in an endogenous neuroprotective pathway. The methylprednisolone-induced inhibition of MAPK phosphorylation was calcium dependent. Hence, we provide evidence for negative effects of steroid treatment on neuronal survival during chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease of the CNS, which should result in a reevaluation of the current therapy regimen.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is predominantly the consequence of chronic smoking exposure, but its development may be influenced by genetic variants that affect lung remodelling, inflammation, and defence from oxidant stress. A study was undertaken to determine whether genetic variants within genes encoding the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase may be associated with the development of impaired lung function.
In a case-control study, the allele and genotype frequencies of functional polymorphisms from SOD1 (CuZnSOD), SOD2 (MnSOD), SOD3 (extracellular SOD), and catalase (CAT) were compared in chronic smokers with normal lung function (resistant smokers) and in those with COPD.
Significantly higher frequencies of the G allele and CG/GG genotype of the 213 SOD3 polymorphism were found in resistant smokers (odds ratios (ORs) 4.3 (95% CI 1.5 to 13.3) and 4.2, 95% CI 1.4 to 13.3), Bonferroni corrected p = 0.02 and p = 0.02, respectively) than in those with COPD. There were no differences between the COPD and resistant smokers for the SOD1, SOD2, or CAT polymorphisms tested.
The 213Gly variant of the SOD3 gene may, through antioxidant or anti-inflammatory effects, confer a degree of resistance in some smokers to the development of COPD.
The specific factors predisposing to thrombosis in patients with LAs have not been resolved. With extensive cross-reactivity, and several proposed sites of action, LAs and their effects may be heterogeneous. While the risk of thrombosis with phenothiazine-induced LAs is probably low, the incidence of thrombosis in association with procainamide-induced LAs is uncertain. Procainamide is a commonly used antiarrhythmic drug associated with the induction of autoantibodies, and occasionally with a lupus-like syndrome. Serologic and coagulation profile monitoring may be required to detect patients in whom LAs develop since these individuals may be at increased risk for thrombosis. Monitoring may be especially important in patients who are receiving procainamide and who have atherosclerosis and cardiac disease, since they may be at increased risk for thrombosis of coronary and other arteries. Future prospective studies are needed to investigate whether the development of lupus anticoagulants during procainamide therapy increases the risk of thrombosis.
Up to 22% of pregnant women smoke, which constitutes a major health concern. Nicotine, a cholinergic agonist, causes deleterious effects on brain development. However, most studies investigate its effects during rodents' gestation, which corresponds, in terms of neural development, to the first two trimesters of human gestation. Here, we focused on effects of nicotine on the brain cholinergic system during the third trimester equivalent of human gestation. From the 2nd to the 19th day of lactation, dams were exposed either to nicotine (6 mg/kg/day) or to saline via sc osmotic minipumps. Offspring were sacrificed during exposure (PN15, PN, postnatal) or at 2 days (PN21), 11 days (PN30), or 10 weeks (PN90) of withdrawal. In the cerebral cortex, midbrain, and hippocampus, we assessed nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) binding, [(3)H]hemicholinium-3 (HC-3) binding to the high-affinity choline transporter, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities. Nicotine-exposed offspring presented nAChR upregulation during exposure in all brain regions, reduced HC-3 binding during and 11 days postexposure, and increased HC-3 binding on PN90. Effects on ChAT and AChE were dependent on the brain region and restricted to the withdrawal period: There were increased activities in the midbrain on PN30. In the hippocampus, AChE as reduced on PN30, whereas, for ChAT, the decrease was followed by late-emergent increased activity. These data indicate that maternal nicotine exposure during the third trimester equivalent of human gestation promotes cholinergic system alterations in the offspring's brain. In addition, detrimental effects are observable even long after the exposure has been interrupted.
The most often used antidote to treat poisoning caused by amanitin-containing mushrooms is benzylpenicillin (BPCN). However, a very few reports suggest that other antibiotics such as ceftazidime (CEFT) and rifamycin SV (RIFSV) show better antidote activity against amanitins than BPCN. Given this, there is an ongoing debate as which of three antidotes is optimal for treatment of such poisonings. In this study, the efficacy of BPCN was compared with those of CEFT and RIFSV in human hepatocyte model. The functional integrity and viability of cultured hepatocytes was evaluated using the MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide] assay and by measurements of lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) activity. In the first experimental layout, hepatocytes were simultaneously exposed to α-AMA and tested antidotes, while in the second layout, the cells were exposed for the first 12 h to α-AMA only, and then, the medium containing α-AMA was exchanged to culture medium containing both α-AMA and the antidotes tested. The results demonstrated that simultaneous administration of α-AMA and each of tested antidotes (BPCN, CEFT, RIFSV) effectively protected human hepatocytes; however, in the group dosed with BPCN, the highest hepatocyte viability was observed. In cell cultures from experimental layout II, all tested antidotes were ineffective, which indicates that after the critical dose of α-AMA had been taken up by hepatocytes, further suppression of this process does not protect the cells against injury. Thus, 12 h of exposure of incubated hepatocytes to α-AMA is a sufficient time for such a cellular uptake of a critical dose of this toxin. In summary, it can be concluded that easily accessible and low-cost BPCN should be widely used as an antidote against amanitins. However, the key to successful therapy is a quick implementation of an antidote in order to protect as large as possible portion of the liver parenchyma against the devastating uptake of a critical dose of amanitins.
We previously demonstrated in rats that intravenous infusion of a lipid emulsion increases survival in resuscitation from severe bupivacaine cardiac toxicity. The present studies were undertaken to determine if this method is similarly effective in a non-rodent model using a larger animal.
Bupivacaine, 10 mg/kg, was administered intravenously over 10 seconds to fasted dogs under isoflurane general anesthesia. Resuscitation included 10 minutes of internal cardiac massage followed with either saline or 20% lipid infusion, administered as a 4-mL/kg bolus followed by continuous infusion at 0.5 mL/kg/min for 10 minutes. Electrocardiogram (EKG), arterial blood pressure (BP), and myocardial pH (pHm) and pO2 (pmO2) were continuously measured.
Survival after 10 minutes of unsuccessful cardiac massage was successful for all lipid-treated dogs (n = 6), but with no survivors in the saline controls (n = 6) (P <.01). Hemodynamics, PmO2, and pHm were improved during resuscitation with lipid compared with saline treatment in which dogs did not recover.
We found that infusing a lipid emulsion during resuscitation from bupivacaine-induced cardiac toxicity substantially improved hemodynamics, pmO2, and pHm and increased survival in dogs.
To investigate the serum level and expression of insulin growth factor II (IGF-II) in liver tissues of rats with early experimental hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) and its significance in early diagnosis.
Early experimental hepatocellular carcinomas were induced by diethylnitrosamine (DENA) in 180 male SD rats. Another 20 male SD rats served as control. The IGF-II serum level was measured by ELISA. Immunohistochemistry and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry were used to observe the expression of IGF-II in normal and tumor liver tissues and its ultrastructural location in malignant hepatocytes. The expressions of IGF-II in human hepatoma cell lines HepG2, SMMC7721 and human embryonic liver cell line L-02 were measured by immunocytochemistry. IGF-II mRNA level was studied by in situ hybridization.
IGF-II was expressed in the cytoplasm of both sinusoidal cells in paracancerous cirrhotic liver tissue and malignant hepatocytes in early experimental HCC tissues. Gold particles were seen on the rough endoplasmic reticulum and the mitochondrion in malignant hepatocytes. IGF-II was expressed in the human hepatoma cell lines. The mRNA level of IGF-II was higher in rat liver tumor tissue than in normal rat liver tissue. The serum IGF-II level of the early experimental HCC group was 34.67+/-10.53 ng.ml(-1) and that of the control group was 11.75+/-5.84 ng.ml(-1). The rank sum test was used for statistical analysis. There was a significant difference between the two groups (P<0.01).
During the induction of early experimental HCC by DENA, IGF-II may promote hepatocytic proliferation via a paracrine mechanism in the pre-cancerous stage. When hepatocytes are transformed into malignant cells, they may secrete IGF-II and promote malignant cell proliferation by an autocrine mechanism. IGF-II may be a possible biological marker in the early diagnosis of HCC.
There have been a handful of reports in the literature of a paradoxical decrease in serum high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol in patients on fibrate drugs. The reason for this decline in cardioprotective HDL-cholesterol is not known and may have potential deleterious effects on the patient. This report describes a decrease in serum HDL-cholesterol in a patient on both simvastatin and bezafibrate. This patient also developed abnormal renal function, probably interstitial nephritis. In addition, the literature of fibrate induced serum HDL-cholesterol decline is reviewed and possible mechanisms for this phenomenon discussed.
Atherosclerosis progression is accelerated in diabetes mellitus (DM) by either direct endothelial damage or reduced availability and function of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs). Both alterations are related to increased oxidant damage.
We examined if DM specifically impairs vascular signaling, thereby reducing the recruitment of normal EPCs, and if increases in antioxidant levels by induction of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) can reverse this condition.
Control and diabetic rats were treated with the HO-1 inducer cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP) once a week for 3 weeks. Eight weeks after the development of diabetes, EPCs harvested from the aorta of syngenic inbred normal rats and labeled with technetium-99m-exametazime were infused via the femoral vein to estimate their blood clearance and aortic recruitment. Circulating endothelial cells (CECs) and the aortic expression of thrombomodulin (TM), CD31, and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) were used to measure endothelial damage.
DM reduced blood clearance and aortic recruitment of EPCs. Both parameters were returned to control levels by CoPP treatment without affecting EPC kinetics in normal animals. These abnormalities of EPCs in DM were paralleled by reduced serum adiponectin levels, increased numbers of CECs, reduced endothelial expression of phosphorylated eNOS, and reduced levels of TM, CD31, and phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (pAMPK). CoPP treatment restored all of these parameters to normal levels.
Type II DM and its related oxidant damage hamper the interaction between the vascular wall and normal EPCs by mechanisms that are, at least partially, reversed by the induction of HO-1 gene expression, adiponectin, and pAMPK levels.
Kappa opioid agonists inhibit dopamine release from mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons and attenuate some behavioral effects of cocaine in rodents. Evidence that kappa opioid agonists may act as functional antagonists of cocaine led us to examine their interactions with cocaine's abuse-related effects in rhesus monkeys. In cocaine self-administration studies, four arylacetamides (U50,488, enadoline, (-) spiradoline and PD117302) and four benzomorphans (ethylketocyclazocine [EKC], bremazocine, Mr2033 and cyclazozine) each were administered as continuous infusions over 10 days. EKC, Mr2033, bremazocine, U50,488 and enadoline produced significant dose-dependent and sustained decreases in cocaine self-administration and also decreased food-maintained responding at some doses. Emesis and sedation were occasionally observed during the first two days of kappa agonist treatment, but tolerance developed rapidly to these effects. Cyclazocine, PD117302 and spiradoline did not significantly alter cocaine self-administration. The behavioral effects of EKC and U50,488 were antagonized by both the kappa opioid antagonist nor-binaltorphimine and the non-selective opioid antagonist naloxone. In general, compounds with mixed activity at both kappa and mu opioid receptors (e.g. EKC, Mr2033) decreased cocaine self-administration more consistently and with fewer or less severe undesirable side effects than more selective kappa agonists (e.g. U50,488, spiradoline). Although several kappa agonists decreased cocaine self-administration, EKC and U50,488 did not consistently block the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine in monkeys trained to discriminate cocaine from saline. The extent to which kappa agonist-induced decreases in cocaine self-administration reflect an antagonism of cocaine's abuse-related effect remains to be determined.
We describe rupture of a cerebral arterial aneurysm in a 32 year old hypertensive woman following the introduction of nifedipine treatment. It is suggested this relationship is causal rather than coincidental and mediated through cerebral arterial vasodilatation.
Dynamic fluctuations of biological activities and antigen amounts of antithrombin III (AT-III) in acute cerebrovascular diseases were analyzed and evaluated. (1) AT-III levels assayed by both biological and immunological methods showed a gradual decrease with increasing age, and levels in patients with cerebral thrombosis were lower than those in patients with cerebral hemorrhage. (2) AT-III in cerebral thrombosis decreased slowly after administration of urokinase. After administration of aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid), however, AT-III levels increased presumably due to inhibition of coagulation activities. (3) Both biological activities and antigen amounts of AT-III increased after administration of an AT-III preparation, but the measured value, especially that of biological activity, was dissociated from the expected one, due to changes of the coagulation system after an operation.
Captopril was administered (50 mg orally) to 88 untreated hypertensive patients (70 with essential hypertension, eight with renal arterial disease, 10 with renal parenchymal disease) and to 25 hypertensive patients treated with sympatholytic or beta-blocking agent (20 with essential hypertension, five with renal arterial disease). In the former group, captopril caused a decrease in heart rate (HR) in 18 patients and an increase in only two. As a whole, captopril caused significant decreases in blood pressure without increase in HR. Significant negative correlation was observed between change in HR and plasma renin activity obtained before captopril administration (n = 79, r = -0.425, p less than 0.0001). Hypotensive and chronotropic effects of captopril were almost identical in untreated and treated patients. Hypotensive effects caused by captopril and nifedipine (20 mg orally) were almost identical. Nifedipine caused reflex tachycardia, while captopril caused slight bradycardia. Absence of compensatory tachycardia appears to be related to reduction of endogenous angiotensin II by captopril.U
Selective D1 dopamine agonists represent a potential pharmacotherapy for the treatment of cocaine addiction. Here we report that systemic injections of the novel D1 agonist ABT-431 lack the ability to induce cocaine-seeking behavior, and completely attenuate the ability of cocaine to induce this behavior in rats tested in a reinstatement paradigm. Similar doses suppress the initiation of cocaine self-administration, and produce an extinction-like response pattern in animals that subsequently initiate self-administration, without altering responding maintained by food pellets. There was no tolerance to this effect over 4 days of testing. The results suggest that ABT-431 attenuates the motivation to seek cocaine, and masks the reinforcing effects of cocaine during self-administration. The profile of ABT-431 is similar to the behavioral effects of other structurally distinct D1 agonists, and is consistent with the desired profile of a "methadone-like" compounds for cocaine addiction.
As a hormone in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) mediates stress responses. CRF can also act as a neuromodulator of synaptic transmission outside the HPA axis. A major site of extrahypothalamic expression of CRF and its G-protein-coupled receptors is the amygdala, a key player in affect-related disorders such as anxiety. The laterocapsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC) is important for the modulation of pain affect. This study determined the effects of CRF1 and CRF2 receptor antagonists in CeLC neurons in an arthritis pain model. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made from CeLC neurons in anesthetized adult rats. All neurons responded more strongly to noxious than to innocuous mechanical stimulation (compression) of peripheral tissues, including the knee. Evoked responses and background activity were measured before and during the development of a kaolin/carrageenan-induced knee joint arthritis. Drugs were administered into the CeLC by microdialysis before and/or after arthritis induction. All CeLC neurons showed increased responses to mechanical stimuli ("sensitization") 5-6 h postinduction of arthritis. A selective CRF1 receptor antagonist (NBI27914; 1-100 microM, concentration in microdialysis probe; 15 min) inhibited evoked responses and background activity in arthritis (n = 9) but had no effect under normal conditions before arthritis (n = 9). In contrast, a selective CRF2 receptor antagonist (Astressin-2B; 1-100 microM, 15 min) had no effect in arthritis (n = 7) but increased the neurons' responses under normal conditions (n = 8). These data suggest that CRF1 receptors in the amygdala contribute to pain-related sensitization, whereas the normally inhibitory function of CRF2 receptors is lost in the arthritis pain model.
Selegiline hydrochloride, a selective MAO-B inhibitor is known to improve motor functions in Parkinson's disease (PD). The present study was undertaken to study the effect of selegiline on memory and intelligence of PD patients.
Thirty two patients of PD were divided in two groups: selegiline group (n = 17) received 10 mg selegiline per day and control group (n = 15) did not receive selegiline. Patients receiving trihexyphenidyl and selegiline were excluded. All other treatment remained unchanged. All patients were examined at baseline and after three months for change in UPDRS score, WAIS score, memory test and P300.
Patients in selegiline group had less severe disease (UPDRS score 24.11 +/- 14.07) as compared to controls (UPDRS score 40.53 +/- 18.52). There was significant improvement in UPDRS score (p < 0.05), WAIS (p < 0.001) and memory (p < 0.001) in selegiline group. In the control group there was a significant prolongation of P300 latency (p < 0.05).
The study suggests that selegiline improves memory functions and intelligence in PD patients in addition to motor functions. It also prevents prolongation of P300 latency which is a marker of cognitive function.
Endometrial cancer is the fourth most prominent cancer among all feminine cancers in the Western world. Resveratrol, a natural anti-oxidant found in red wine emerging as a novel anticancer agent, exerts antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic activity in various cancer cell types, but its effect on uterine cancer cells is poorly understood. At the molecular level, resveratrol has been reported to inhibit cyclooxygenase (COX) expression and/or activity; in endometrial cancer cells, COX-2 is overexpressed and confers cellular resistance to apoptosis. The aim of the present study was to determine if resveratrol could exert anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic activity over uterine cancer cells upon inhibition of COX-2 expression and/or activity. Six different human uterine cancer cell lines were used as a model (HeLa, Hec-1A, KLE, RL95-2, Ishikawa and EN-1078D).
High-dose of resveratrol triggered apoptosis in five out of six uterine cancer cell lines, as judged from Hoechst nuclear staining and effector caspase cleavage. In accordance, uterine cancer cell proliferation was decreased. Resveratrol also reduced cellular levels of the phosphorylated/active form of anti-apoptotic kinase AKT. Endogenous COX-2 protein levels were decreased, concomitant with a decrease in production of COX metabolites PGE2 and PGF2alpha, in each uterine cancer cell line expressing detectable levels of COX-1 and/or COX-2 in presence of resveratrol. Although COX expression was identified as a target of resveratrol in uterine cancer cells, inhibition of COX activity or exogenously added PGE2 did not modulate the effect of resveratrol on cellular proliferation.
High-dose of resveratrol exerts tumoricidal activity over uterine cancer cells and regulates COX expression. In these cells, resveratrol would not directly target COX activity, but possibly other enzymes involved in prostaglandin synthesis that act downstream of the COXs.
CASP-3 gene gives rise, by alternative splicing to a caspase-3s variant, to the antagonist apoptotic property of caspase-3. Deregulation of splicing in tumor cells favoring the expression of antiapoptotic variants has been reported to contribute to both tumorigenesis and chemoresistance. Thus, we investigated the role of caspase-3 and its splice variant in breast cancer cells.
Breast tumor cell lines deficient (MCF-7) and proficient (HBL100) for CASP-3 gene were transfected with each transcript and were characterized for their apoptotic response to cyclophosphamide. Expression of the two transcripts were measured by reverse transcription-PCR in 130 breast carcinomas, including 90 locally advanced tumors treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy containing cyclophosphamide, epirubicine, and 5-fluorouracil.
Overexpression of caspase-3s variant in caspase-3-transfected cell lines significantly inhibits apoptosis induced by cyclophosphamide (P < 0.0001 for both cell lines). In breast tissues, only caspase-3 levels were higher in carcinomas than in corresponding adjacent normal tissues (P = 0.0396). Locally advanced carcinomas with high levels of caspase-3 (P < 0.0001) and weak levels of caspase-3s (P = 0.0248) were more sensitive to treatment. Therefore, increase in caspase-3s/caspase3 ratio expression was significantly associated with chemoresistance (P = 0.01). Logistic univariate and multivariate analyses realized according to pathologic response confirm that increased caspase-3s expression was indicative of chemoresistance (P = 0.012 and P = 0.026, respectively).
The results agree with an antagonist function between the two transcripts of caspase-3 and show that their ratio of expression levels may define a subset of locally advanced breast cancer patients who are more likely to benefit from neoadjuvant cyclophosphamide-containing chemotherapy.
Vanadium, a dietary micronutrient, is now proving to be a promising anti-tumour agent. The present study was conducted to ascertain its anti-neoplastic potential against an experimental mammary carcinogenesis. Female Sprague-Dawley rats at 50 days of age were treated with 7,12-dimethylbenz(alpha)anthracene (DMBA; 0.5 mg per 100 g body weight) by a single tail vein injection in an oil emulsion. Vanadium (ammonium monovanadate) at a concentration of 0.5 p.p.m. was supplemented in the drinking water and given ad libitum to the experimental group immediately after the carcinogen treatment and it continued until the termination of the study (24 weeks for histological, immunological and biochemical observations and 35 weeks for morphological findings). It was found that vanadium treatment brought about substantial protection against DMBA-induced mammary carcinogenesis. This was evident from histological findings that showed substantial repair of hyperplastic lesions following supplementation of vanadium alone. There was a significant reduction in incidence (P<0.05), total number, multiplicity (P<0.01), size of palpable mammary tumours and delay in mean latency period of tumour appearance (P<0.001) following vanadium supplementation compared to the DMBA control. The immunohistochemical localization of metallothionein (a prognostic marker for breast cancer) showed reduced expression with vanadium treatment. Further, DNA fragmentation in the mammary tissue of the vanadium-treated group indicated apoptosis. In this group, vanadium also caused a significant decrease in the number (P<0.002) and focal area (P<0.05) of gamma-glutaminetranspeptidase-positive hepatic foci. The results clearly show the anti-neoplastic potential of vanadium.
In this double-blind multicentre study efficacy and safety of amiloride/hydrochlorothiazide (A/HCTH) combination and furosemide plus potassium supplementation (FUR/P) was compared after four weeks basal period -- FUR/P period. 43 patients entered the double-blind period which lasted for ten weeks. Congestive heart failure was well controlled in both of those treatment groups. There was only one patient (FUR/P-group) whose daily dose had to be increased. According their own evaluation the patients tolerated the A/HCTH combination (48%) better than the FUR/P combination (30%). In the A/HCTH-group one clinically significant case of hypokalaemia was found which caused the therapy to be stopped. In the FUR/P-group two patients discontinued the treatment because of clinical side effects. In the long-term therapy of congestive heart failure hydrochlorothiazide together with potassium-sparing amiloride is a pleasant and effective therapy for patients with normal renal function, but the risk of hypokalaemia must be kept in mind also when using this combination.
CYP2A6 is an enzyme with a high ability to activate a nitrosamine, 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), to its potent and ultimate carcinogen. In the present study, we investigated the relationship between genetic polymorphism of CYP2A6 and lung cancer risk in a case-control study of Japanese subjects. Genotyping of the CYP2A6 gene in both healthy volunteers and lung cancer patients was conducted. The frequency with which the subjects carried homozygotes of the CYP2A6 gene deletion-type mutation (deletion), which causes lack of the enzyme activity, was lower in the lung cancer patients than in the healthy control subjects. The odds ratio (OR) of the group homozygous for the deletion was significantly lower and calculated to be 0.25 (95% CI; 0.08-0.83) when the OR for the population with homozygotes of the CYP2A6 wild-type gene was defined as 1.00. In the allelic-base analysis, there was also a significant decrease in the OR for the deletion allele. These data suggest that deficient CYP2A6 activity due to genetic polymorphism reduces lung cancer risk.
In this study, we investigated the effect of inhaled formaldehyde on learning and memory capacity. After exposure to 0 (control), 1 and 3 mg/m(3) of gaseous formaldehyde respectively, the behavior of mice in a Morris water maze, the expression of NR1, NR2B mRNA and oxidative damage levels in mice brain were analyzed. The water maze performance, the activities of dismutase superoxide (SOD) and levels of glutathione (GSH) decreased significantly in 3 mg/m(3) group (P < 0.01, compared with control group); while malondialdehyde (MDA) contents and expression of NR1 and NR2B genes increased significantly after exposure to 3 mg/m(3) of gaseous formaldehyde (P < 0.05, <0.01, <0.01, compared with control group). These findings indicate that inhaled formaldehyde negatively affects learning and memory at 3 mg/m(3) of gaseous formaldehyde but not at lower levels. Oxidative stress-induced neuron damages in the brain may be the possible mechanism for these effects.
This study indicates that inhaled formaldehyde starts to negatively affect learning and memory at a middle concentration of formaldehyde without interference of other indoor air pollutants. Oxidative damage, and the alteration of NMDA receptor expression, which were induced by formaldehyde inhalation, may be the possible mechanism for gaseous formaldehyde-induced neurotoxicity.
Hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) is overexpressed in many human tumors and their metastases, and is closely associated with a more aggressive tumor phenotype. In this study, we investigated the effect of resveratrol, a natural product commonly found in grapes and various other fruits, on hypoxia-induced HIF-1alpha protein accumulation and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in human tongue squamous cell carcinomas and hepatoma cells. Our results showed that resveratrol significantly inhibited both basal level and hypoxia-induced HIF-1alpha protein accumulation in cancer cells, but did not affect HIF-1alpha mRNA levels. Pretreatment of cells with resveratrol significantly reduced hypoxia-induced VEGF promoter activities and VEGF expression at both mRNA and protein levels. The mechanism of resveratrol inhibition of hypoxia-induced HIF-1alpha accumulation seems to involve a gradually shortened half-life of HIF-1alpha protein caused by an enhanced protein degradation through the 26S proteasome system. In addition, resveratrol remarkably inhibited hypoxia-mediated activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and Akt, leading to a marked decrease in hypoxia-induced HIF-1alpha protein accumulation and VEGF transcriptional activation. Functionally, we observed that resveratrol also significantly inhibited the hypoxia-stimulated invasiveness of cancer cells. These data suggested that HIF-1alpha/VEGF could be a promising drug target for resveratrol in the development of an effective chemopreventive and anticancer therapy in human cancers.
It has been suggested that anesthetics may protect the brain during incomplete cerebral ischemia by inhibition of sympathetic activity. This study evaluated whether physostigmine may increase plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine during carotid occlusion with hypotension and worsen ischemic outcome in rats and if this effect could be reversed by dexmedetomidine, an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist.
Anesthesia was maintained with fentanyl (25 micrograms.kg-1.h-1) combined with 70% N2O ventilation in oxygen. Ischemia was produced by right carotid ligation combined with hemorrhagic hypotension to 30 mmHg for 30 min. Plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine were measured during ischemia. Neurologic outcome was evaluated for 3 days after ischemia. There were three groups: control (n = 10), physostigmine (1 mg/kg intraperitoneal 3 min before the start of ischemia, n = 10), and physostigmine plus dexmedetomidine (100 micrograms/kg intraperitoneally 15 min before the start of ischemia, n = 10). Brain tissue glutamate concentrations were measured by microdialysis in separate studies.
Compared to control rats, physostigmine increased plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine 10-fold and worsened neurologic outcome. The increases in epinephrine and norepinephrine were blocked by dexmedetomidine before treatment, and neurologic outcome was improved. Outcome was not correlated with blood glucose during ischemia (r = 0.11). Ischemia increased brain tissue glutamate from < 100 microM to 400 microM during ischemia. This increase was not altered by physostigmine treatment.
These results suggest that physostigmine worsens ischemic outcome by a mechanism that is associated with increases in plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine.
Nitric oxide (NO) plays an important role in the modulation of glomerular disease. The renal protective effect of resveratrol (RVT), a polyphenolic phytoalexin, was investigated in the 5/6th nephrectomized rats.
Resveratrol (5 mg/kg, PO) was administered for 12 weeks to 5/6th nephrectomized (NX) rats together with and without nitro L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (10 mg/kg, IP). We evaluated the effect of these agents on proteinuria, hypertension, renal function, glomerulosclerosis, and urinary excretion of nitric oxide metabolites.
5/6th NX resulted in elevation in systolic blood pressure (SBP), reduced the urinary excretion of NO metabolites, increased urinary protein excretion, and deranged renal function and glomerulosclerosis. Treatment of animals with resveratrol significantly attenuated the increase in SBP, preserved the normal renal function, reduced the urinary protein excretion, increased the urinary excretion of NO metabolites, and prevented the glomerulosclerosis. Co-administration of animals with L-NAME along with resveratrol prevented the protection observed with resveratrol.
These findings indicate that resveratrol exerts its protective effect in 5/6 NX rats through a nitric oxide pathway.
