Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is a promising agent for the treatment of liver cirrhosis because of its mitogenic and anti-fibrotic effects. We investigated the effect of recombinant human HGF (rh-HGF) on cirrhosis development; its pharmacokinetics and nephrotoxicity in rats with liver cirrhosis induced by 4-week treatment with dimethylnitrosamine (DMN). rh-HGF (0.3 mg/kg) was intravenously administered to rats once a day for 4 weeks in parallel with DMN treatment or twice a day for the last 2 weeks of DMN treatment. Repeated doses of rh-HGF increased the liver weight and serum albumin, and reduced serum ALT. The development of hepatic fibrosis was inhibited more efficiently by extended low-dose treatment with rh-HGF. In cirrhotic rats, serum levels of rh-HGF increased and clearance was decreased, leading to an increase in the area under the plasma-concentration time curve and a decrease in the steady-state volume of distribution. Repeated doses of rh-HGF led to increased urinary albumin excretion, but no rh-HGF-treated animals developed increased serum creatinine levels. Urinary albumin excretion returned to baseline after the cessation of rh-HGF. These results suggest that extended treatment with rh-HGF is required for the attenuation of cirrhosis, and repeated doses of rh-HGF cause adverse effects in extra-hepatic organs. These issues must be resolved before the widespread application of rh-HGF in the treatment of liver cirrhosis.
The present study aims to evaluate the combined protective effects of quercetin and α-tocopherol on isoproterenol-treated myocardial infarcted rats. Male albino Wistar rats were pretreated with a combination of quercetin (10 mg/kg) and α-tocopherol (10 mg/kg) daily for 14 days. After the pretreatment, rats were injected isoproterenol (100 mg/kg) to induce myocardial infarction. Isoproterenol-treated rats showed increased levels of serum troponins and increased intensities of serum lactate dehydrogenase-1 and -2 isoenzyme bands. Isoproterenol treatment also showed significant decreased levels of antioxidant system and significant increased levels of plasma lipid peroxidation, plasma uric acid, and the heart calcium. Furthermore, isoproterenol-treated rat's electrocardiogram showed elevated ST segments. Combined pretreatment with quercetin and α-tocopherol normalized all the biochemical parameters and minimized the alterations in electrocardiogram. Histopathology of myocardium also confirmed the cardioprotective effects of quercetin and α-tocopherol. In vitro studies confirmed the mechanism of action of quercetin and α-tocopherol. Thus, quercetin and α-tocopherol exhibited cardioprotective effects against isoproterenol-induced cardiotoxicity due to their scavenging free radicals, improving antioxidants and maintaining Ca(2+) levels. Our study also showed that combined pretreatment (quercetin and α-tocopherol) was highly effective than single pretreatment (quercetin or α-tocopherol).
The relationships between adipocytokines, sex steroids and the GH/IGF-I axis is poorly studied and subject to controversy in healthy elderly male subjects. We investigated the association between both adiponectin and leptin, and the metabolic syndrome (MetS), lipid parameters, insulin sensitivity, sex steroids and IGF-I in healthy non-diabetic Lebanese men.
In this cross-sectional study, a total of 153 healthy non-diabetic men aged 50 and above (mean age 59.3 +/- 7 years) had a detailed clinical and biological evaluation. Subjects were classified according to the National Cholesterol Education Program criteria of the MetS. Insulin sensitivity was determined by the Quantitative Insulin Sensitivity Check Index (QUICKI).
Subjects with the MetS had lower adiponectin and higher leptin levels (P < 0.0001 for both variables) compared with individuals without the MetS. Adiponectin was significantly correlated with waist size, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and QUICKI (r = -0.33, -0.26, 0.45 and 0.36 respectively, P < 0.0001 for all variables). The relation between adiponectin and HDL cholesterol, triglycerides and QUICKI remained significant after adjustment for age and body mass index (BMI). Also, leptin was strongly correlated with waist size and QUICKI (r = 0.63 and -0.63 respectively, P < 0.001 for both variables). However, its relation to the lipid profile was weak (for cholesterol r = 0.16, P < 0.05; for triglycerides r = 0.17, P < 0.05) and disappeared after adjustment for BMI. Adiponectin was positively correlated with sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) (r = 0.39, P < 0.001) and inversely correlated with free-androgen index (r = -0.24, P < 0.01), estradiol and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (r = -0.165, P < 0.05; r = -0.21, P < 0.01 respectively). This difference remained significant for SHBG after adjustment for age and BMI (r = 0.20, P < 0.005). Finally, leptin was inversely correlated with total testosterone and SHBG (r = -0.44, P < 0.001; r = -0.30, P < 0.001 respectively); the relation with testosterone remained significant after adjustment for BMI. No significant relationship of either adiponectin or leptin with GH or IGF-I values was observed. In a stepwise multiple regression analysis, the independent predictors of adiponectin were HDL cholesterol, QUICKI, age and BMI (P < 0.0001, P = 0.005, P = 0.002 and P = 0.047 respectively) while for leptin, it was QUICKI, waist size and testosterone (P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001 and P = 0.004 respectively). The adjusted R2 values were 0.34 and 0.55.
Our results show that in a healthy elderly male population, both adiponectin and leptin are related to insulin sensitivity, independent of age and BMI. While adiponectin is independently related to triglycerides and HDL cholesterol, the weak relationship of leptin to the lipid profile is completely mediated by BMI. In addition, and more interestingly, both adipocytokines are strongly associated with sex steroids. We speculate that SHBG is regulated by adiponectin and that there is an inhibitory effect of testosterone on the adiponectin gene. Further studies are needed to fully elucidate these relationships.
Cholesterol 24S-hydroxylase (CYP46) catalyzes the conversion of cholesterol to 24S-hydroxycholesterol, the primary cerebral cholesterol elimination product. Only few gene variations in CYP46 gene (CYP46A1) have been investigated for their relevance as genetic risk factors of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and results are contradictory.
We performed a gene variability screening in CYP46A1 and investigated the effect of gene variants on the risk of AD and on CSF levels of cholesterol and 24S-hydroxycholesterol.
Two of the identified 16 SNPs in CYP46A1 influenced AD risk in our study (rs7157609: p=0.016; rs4900442: p=0.019). The interaction term of both SNPs was also associated with an increased risk of AD (p=0.006). Haplotypes including both SNPs were calculated and haplotype G-C was identified to influence the risk of AD (p=0.005). AD patients and non-demented controls, who were carriers of the G-C haplotype, presented with reduced CSF levels of 24S-hydroxycholesterol (p=0.001) and cholesterol (p<0.001).
Our results suggest that CYP46A1 gene variations might act as risk factor for AD via an influence on brain cholesterol metabolism.
Swiss albino male mice, 6-8 weeks old, were treated orally with different doses of uric acid dissolved in water for 7 days. Some of the mice in each group were injected i.p. with cyclophosphamide (25 mg/kg) and killed after 30 h. The blood of all animals was analyzed for uric acid levels. The femoral cells of the mice in different groups were collected and studied. Uric acid was found to be devoid of mitodepressant or clastogenic activity at 10-100 mg/kg/day. Pretreatment with uric acid was found to provide significant protection against cyclophosphamide-induced bone marrow depression and micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes.
Cyclophosphamide (CP), a widely used antineoplastic and immunosuppressant drug, is a prototypical bladder toxin in humans and experimental animals. CP itself is biologically inert. However, following bioactivation, acrolein, a potent tissue alkylator is generated. It is currently accepted that CP activation occurs via oxidative metabolism by the mixed-function oxidase system (MFO). Previous evidence from this laboratory demonstrated that CP can be metabolized by pathways other than MFO. In the current study, it was demonstrated that two inhibitors of the prostaglandin hydroperoxide synthase enzyme system, indomethacin and nordihydroguairetic acid (NDGA), diminish CP-induced bladder toxicity. However, the ability of these inhibitors to provide protection did not appear to be due to interference with CP metabolism. Many of the biologic effects of acrolein have been attributed to interaction with cellular thiols. Indomethacin and NDGA protected against CP-induced losses of soluble thiols in liver and protein thiols in bladder. Additionally, animals pretreated with indomethacin prior to CP appeared to have more glutathione available for conjugation, providing a potential mechanism for its protective effects against CP-induced bladder damage.
Off-patent drugs with previously unrecognized anticancer activity could be rapidly repurposed for this new indication. To identify such compounds, we conducted 2 independent cell-based chemical screens and identified the antimicrobial ciclopirox olamine (CPX) in both screens. CPX decreased cell growth and viability of malignant leukemia, myeloma, and solid tumor cell lines as well as primary AML patient samples at low-micromolar concentrations that appear pharmacologically achievable. Furthermore, oral CPX decreased tumor weight and volume in 3 mouse models of leukemia by up to 65% compared with control without evidence of weight loss or gross organ toxicity. In addition, oral CPX prevented the engraftment of primary AML cells in nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency mouse models, thereby establishing its ability to target leukemia stem cells. Mechanistically, CPX bound intracellular iron, and this intracellular iron chelation was functionally important for its cytotoxicity. By electron paramagnetic resonance, CPX inhibited the iron-dependent enzyme ribonucleotide reductase at concentrations associated with cell death. Thus, in summary, CPX has previously unrecognized anticancer activity at concentrations that are pharmacologically achievable. Therefore, CPX could be rapidly repurposed for the treatment of malignancies, including leukemia and myeloma.
The present study investigated the effect of dextromethorphan and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) pre-treatment on the development of cocaine- and lidocaine-induced seizures. The dopaminergic action of cocaine was also studied. The NMDA antagonist dextromethorphan and the non-NMDA (AMPA/kainate) antagonist DNQX both significantly decreased the intensity of the seizure response to intravenous convulsant doses of cocaine and lidocaine individually (20 mg/kg) and in combination (5 mg/kg each). The incidence of seizures in rats receiving cocaine or lidocaine individually was significantly reduced by pre-treatment with dextromethorphan but not DNQX. Haloperidol did not have an effect on the incidence or intensity of seizures induced by cocaine or lidocaine, alone or in combination. The results suggest that local anesthetic-induced convulsive seizures are mediated by excitatory glutamate transmission through both NMDA and non-NMDA receptor systems.
We describe the case of a 56-year-old man who was admitted for treatment of a progressive destruction of his hard palate, septum, nasal cartilage, and soft palate that had been caused by chronic cocaine inhalation. Biopsy of the bony septum revealed acute osteomyelitis and an extensive overgrowth of bacteria and Actinomyces-like organisms. There was no evidence of granuloma or neoplasm. The patient received intravenous ampicillin/sulbactam for 6 weeks, followed by lifetime oral amoxicillin. When there was no further evidence that destruction was progressing, the patient underwent nasal reconstruction with a cranial bone graft. The surgery was completed with no complications. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of midfacial osteomyelitis associated with chronic cocaine abuse. The severity of this patient's complications, coupled with the success of his reconstructive surgery, makes this case particularly interesting. We believe that it is important for physicians to understand that septal perforation in a cocaine abuser should not be underestimated because it could result in a secondary bone infection. Nasoseptal destruction secondary to intranasal cocaine abuse is a result of cocaine's vasoconstrictive properties, and a decrease in the oxygen tension of intranasal tissue can facilitate the growth of anaerobic pathogens.
Theophylline is a useful drug for the treatment of asthma. The Asthma Prevention and Management Guidelines (JGL) recommend use of sustained-release theophylline products as controllers and of injectable aminophylline products as relievers. The Global Initiative for Asthma: Global Strategy for Asthma Management and Prevention, the NHLB/WHP Workshop Report 1995 (GINA, 1995) and guidelines in Western countries recommend sustained-release theophylline, but not as positively as in the JGL. The aim of this survey was to determine the occurrence of serious adverse reactions.
The survey was conducted in 66 institutions staffed by physicians certified by the Japanese Society of Allergology (JSA). The target diseases were asthma and COPD including chronic bronchitis and pulmonary emphysema, which are indications for use of sustained-release theophylline products in Japan.
3,921 patients were included in the safety evaluation. No serious adverse reactions were observed among the patients in this survey, although 54 patients (1.38%) exhibited non-serious adverse reactions. The incidence of adverse reactions was found to be high in patients who had begun use of sustained-release theophylline products at the time of registration in this survey, and in patients who were concomitantly taking macrolide antibiotics.
The present survey demonstrates that sustained-release theophylline is safe, as long as used appropriately, although adverse reactions tend to develop early after initiation of administration.
Several lines of evidence suggest that oxidative stress plays a role in the mechanisms of action of methamphetamine (MAP) in the human brain. Given the role of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) in the protection against oxidative stress, genes encoding the GSTs have been considered as candidates for association studies of MAP abuse. This study was undertaken to investigate the role of the functional polymorphism of GSTP1 gene exon 5 (Ile105Val) in the pathogenesis of MAP abuse. Genotyping for GSTP1 gene polymorphism exon 5 (Ile105Val) in 189 MAP abusers and 199 normal controls was performed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP). Association between GSTP1 gene polymorphism and clinical features (prognosis of psychosis (transient-type and prolonged-type), spontaneous relapse (positive and negative), and poly-substance abuse) of MAP abusers was evaluated. Significant differences in the frequency of both alleles (P = 0.026, odds ratio: 1.70, 95% confidence intervals (CI) 1.06-2.72) and genotypes (P = 0.029) between MAP abusers and controls were detected. In particular, a significant difference in both genotype frequency (P = 0.013) and allele frequency (P = 0.014, odds ratio: 1.84, 95% CI 1.13-2.97) between MAP abusers with psychosis (transient-type and prolonged-type) and controls was detected. Our findings suggest that the polymorphism (Ile105Val) on exon 5 of the GSTP1 gene may contribute to a vulnerability to psychosis associated with MAP abuse in Japanese population.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) is active in recurrent platinum-refractory ovarian and peritoneal cancer as demonstrated in a prospective-randomized trial. Dose-limiting toxicity in the US Food and Drug Administration-approved application schedule of PLD (50 mg/m2 every 4 weeks) was serious palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia (PPE). This phase II trial was aimed at reduction of the frequency of serious PPE without loss of efficacy by modifying both the application schedule and the total dose of PLD administered as palliative single-agent chemotherapy. Fifty patients were enrolled into this phase II trial. PLD was given via 30-min intravenous infusion at a dose of 20 mg/m2 every 2 weeks. Primary endpoint of the trial was the best response to chemotherapy. Secondary goals were progression-free survival, overall survival, and toxicity. Four complete responses and 16 partial responses were found resulting in an overall best response rate of 40.0%. The median progression-free survival in the intention-to-treat-population was 4.1 months [95% confidence interval (CI), 2.8-5.4 months], whereas the overall survival was 16.5 months (95% CI, 12.3-20.7 months). Although 17 (34.0%) patients developed some PPE, only one progressed to grade 3 (NCI-CTC version 2.0; 1998). No grade 4 toxicity occurred. PLD 20 mg/m2 biweekly is highly active in patients with recurrent platinum-refractory ovarian and peritoneal cancer. The frequency of grade 3 and grade 4 PPE was remarkably reduced in this trial, as compared with the frequency of serious PPE observed in patients who were administered the dose schedule of 50 mg/m2 every 4 weeks.
Sildenafil and apomorphine are oral agents for the improvement of erection hardness. The aim of the study was a direct comparison of the two compounds under clinical routine conditions.
131 previously untreated men with erectile dysfunction (ED) were enrolled in a cross-over trial and randomly allocated to 50 mg sildenafil or 2 mg apomorphine. Dose-adaptation was allowed as required.
Improvements in rigidity, the capacity to get and maintain an erection, and sexual confidence were statistically significantly larger with sildenafil (p <0.0001). 90% of the men were satisfied with sildenafil as compared to 46% with apomorphine. At study end, 95% of the patients preferred sildenafil. Both agents were well tolerated.
In this cross-over comparison under clinical routine conditions men reported superior efficacy of sildenafil vs apomorphine together with a statistically significantly higher treatment satisfaction.
Noxious C-fibre stimulation produces increased sensitivity within the injured area (primary hyperalgesia), and a surrounding zone of secondary hyperalgesia. As significant changes in nociceptive processing occur during development, we compared C-fibre induced primary and secondary hyperalgesia in rat pups aged 3, 10 and 21 postnatal (P) days. Hyperalgesia was measured by electromyography flexion reflex recordings following mustard oil or capsaicin at the site of (primary hyperalgesia), or distant to (secondary hyperalgesia) hindpaw mechanical stimuli. Primary hyperalgesia was induced at all postnatal ages, whereas secondary hyperalgesia could not be demonstrated at P3 but was evident at P10 and P21. At P3, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) protein is present in the dorsal horn, but hindpaw capsaicin produced minimal ERK activation restricted to the fourth lumbar segment. At P21, capsaicin induced intense phosphoERK expression in the superficial dorsal horn throughout several lumbar segments, consistent with the spread of secondary hyperalgesia. Intrathecal administration of the MEK (ERK kinase) inhibitor PD98059 prevented mustard oil and capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia at P21, but had no effect on primary hyperalgesia at P3 or P21. These results provide evidence that primary and secondary hyperalgesia are differentially modulated during development. Furthermore, since ERK activation is required for secondary hyperalgesia, phosphoERK expression can be used to map the spatial distribution of neuronal activation in the spinal cord. Understanding changing responses to injury in the developing nervous system is important for clinical paediatric practice, and will enhance our ability to target the most effective site with a developmentally appropriate analgesic regime.
The 22q13.3 deletion syndrome (MIM 606232) is characterised by neonatal hypotonia, normal to accelerated growth, absent to severely delayed speech, global developmental delay, and minor dysmorphic facial features. We report the molecular characterisation of the deletion breakpoint in two unrelated chromosome 22q13.3 deletion cases.
The deletions were characterised by FISH, checked for other abnormalities by array-CGH, and confirmed by Real-Time PCR, and finally the breakpoints were cloned, sequenced, and compared.
Both cases show the cardinal features of the 22q13.3 deletion syndrome associated with a deletion involving the last 100 kb of chromosome 22q13.3. The cases show a breakpoint within the same 15 bp repeat unit, overlapping the results obtained by Wong and colleagues in 1997 and suggesting that a recurrent deletion breakpoint exists within the SHANK3 gene. The direct repeat involved in these 22q13 deletion cases is presumably able to form slipped (hairpin) structures, but it also has a strong potential for forming tetraplex structures.
Three cases with a common breakpoint within SHANK3 share a number of common phenotypic features, such as mental retardation and developmental delay with severely delayed or absent expressive speech. The two cases presented here, having a deletion partially overlapping the commercial subtelomeric probe, highlight the difficulties in interpreting FISH results and suggest that many similar cases may be overlooked.
A study of anti-Parkinsonism agents in prolonged phenothiazine therapy seeks to clarify some anecdotal misconceptions. Antiparkinsonian agents do not appear to affect the therapeutic efficiency of phenothiazines, nor does using them on a "demand" basis increase the problems of control of parkinsonian side effects. Older patients, however, appear to require the extended usage of antiparkinsonian agents rather more than some studies would suggest. Sustained release antiparkinsonian agents may yet further simplify the management of schizophrenia.
To evaluate tumour response rate and toxicities of gemcitabine and carboplatin in chemonaive subjects with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer.
A phase II study.
Gynaecologic oncologic unit.
Twenty chemonaive International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage IIIc and stage IV subjects with ovarian cancer.
Tumour response, disease free and overall survival and toxicity.
Intravenous gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 on day 1 and day 8 and carboplatin at area under centre (AUC) = 5 on day 1 were administered three weekly for six cycles. Subjects who received more than three cycles of chemotherapy were eligible for assessment of tumour response, while all the cycles of chemotherapy were assessed for toxicities.
The mean age of the subjects was 57.3 years, and the median follow up was 38.7 months. Of the 18 eligible subjects analysed, 11 (61.1%) showed a complete clinical response, and the overall response rate was 83.3% (15/18). The median overall survival was 29.2 [95% (confidence interval) CI 22.8-35.6] months, and the median progression-free survival was 11.6 (95% CI 4.7-18.5) months. WHO grade 3 anaemia, neutropenia and thrombocytopenia was 7.6, 9.5 and 0%, respectively, on day 8, and 15.5, 12.2 and 15.5%, respectively, on day 15. Two subjects required a total of three hospital admissions for neutropenic sepsis, and two required five hospital admissions for platelet transfusion for severe thrombocytopenia.
Chemonaive advanced ovarian cancer showed a high response rate to combined gemcitabine and carboplatin chemotherapy. The subjects developed moderate adverse reactions. Phase III study to evaluate the role of combined gemcitabine and carboplatin as first-line chemotherapy in ovarian cancer is warranted.
The authors report the development of thrombocytopenia purpura in one patient with seropositive and erosive rheumatoid arthritis treated successfully for 11 months with D-penicillamine. Anti-platelet-bound antibodies were present, but also: anti-erythrocyte antibodies with hemolytic anemia (then defining Evans's syndrome): higher level of antinuclear antibodies; intermittent neutropenia. The responsibility of D-penicillamine is discussed, but thrombocytopenia purpura evolved for itself. Glucocorticoids alone, intravenous immunoglobulin, vincristine did not induced remission, which at least occurred under the association danazol-glucocorticoids, without toxicity, especially on the liver function.
Dynorphin peptides and the kappa-opioid receptor are important in the rewarding properties of cocaine, heroin, and alcohol. We tested polymorphisms of the prodynorphin gene (PDYN) for association with cocaine dependence and cocaine/alcohol codependence. We genotyped six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), located in the promoter region, exon 4 coding, and 3' untranslated region, in 106 Caucasians and 204 African Americans who were cocaine dependent, cocaine/alcohol codependent, or controls. In Caucasians, we found point-wise significant associations of 3'UTR SNPs (rs910080, rs910079, and rs2235749) with cocaine dependence and cocaine/alcohol codependence. These SNPs are in high linkage disequilibrium, comprising a haplotype block. The haplotype CCT was significantly experiment-wise associated with cocaine dependence and with combined cocaine dependence and cocaine/alcohol codependence (false discovery rate, q=0.04 and 0.03, respectively). We investigated allele-specific gene expression of PDYN, using SNP rs910079 as a reporter, in postmortem human brains from eight heterozygous subjects, using SNaPshot assay. There was significantly lower expression for C allele (rs910079), with ratios ranging from 0.48 to 0.78, indicating lower expression of the CCT haplotype of PDYN in both the caudate and nucleus accumbens. Analysis of total PDYN expression in 43 postmortem brains also showed significantly lower levels of preprodynorphin mRNA in subjects having the risk CCT haplotype. This study provides evidence that a 3'UTR PDYN haplotype, implicated in vulnerability to develop cocaine addiction and/or cocaine/alcohol codependence, is related to lower mRNA expression of the PDYN gene in human dorsal and ventral striatum.
Renal transplant patients die prematurely of cardiovascular disease and LV hypertrophy is now recognised as an important adverse prognostic indicator. This study investigated the factors implicated in the development of echocardiographic abnormalities (including LV hypertrophy) and the possible differential effects of treatment with cyclosporin and azathioprine. A cross-sectional study was undertaken in 46 patients randomly assigned to immunosuppressant treatment with either cyclosporin or azathioprine at 1 year post-transplantation: patients were studied not less than 5 years after assignment to cyclosporin (CyA) - or azathioprine (Aza)-based treatment regimens. Although clinic blood pressure control was not different in the two treatment groups, 24 hour ambulatory BP (ABP), particularly night-time BP, was significantly higher in the CyA group. There was a trend for both left ventricular hypertrophy (61 vs. 43%) and carotid wall thickening (43 vs. 26%) to be more common in the CyA group though this failed to achieve statistical significance. Left ventricular mass was determined by ABP, rather than clinic BP, and was also associated with increased QT dispersion. Multivariate analysis identified that 24 hour ambulatory systolic blood pressure (ASBP) and time on renal replacement therapy (RRT) were the major determinants of LV mass. Thus, despite the absence of differences in clinic BP measurements, CyA treatment was associated with higher rates of cardiovascular functional and structural abnormalities. This small scale study has identified cardiovascular functional and structural abnormalities in renal transplant patients, particularly in those receiving CyA-based immunosuppressive therapy. However, rather than reflecting a direct effect of CyA they are related to increased 24 ABP (but not clinic BP). These data suggest that ABP should be used to monitor and target antihypertensive therapy in this high risk patient group. Moreover, the future use of non-calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressant therapy may have benefits on blood pressure control and LV mass.
Cyproheptadine is an antihistamine and serotonin antagonist given to children for allergies, migraine headaches, and growth problems. A 5-year-old boy began to have episodes of violent behavior after the initiation of cyproheptadine therapy. After cyproheptadine was discontinued, the aggression ceased over the course of a few weeks. Although there are other causal explanations possible in this case, cyproheptadine seems the most likely cause of the violent behavior, especially in view of the literature on the relation between serotonin and aggression.
Schistosoma haematobium is associated with chronic bladder damage and may subsequently induce bladder cancer in humans, thus posing a serious threat where the parasite is endemic. Here we evaluated aberrant promoter DNA methylation as a potential biomarker to detect severe bladder damage that is associated with schistosomiasis by analyzing urine specimens.
A quantitative methylation-specific PCR (QMSP) assay was used to examine the methylation status of seven genes (RASSF1A, RARβ2, RUNX3, TIMP3, MGMT, P16, ARF) in 57 urine samples obtained from volunteers that include infected and uninfected by S. haematobium from an endemic region. The Fishers Exact Test and Logistic Regression analysis were used to evaluate the methylation status with bladder damage (as assessed by ultrasound examination) in subjects with S. haematobium infection.
RASSF1A and TIMP3 were significant to predict severe bladder damage both in univariate (p = 0.015 and 0.023 respectively) and in multivariate (p = 0.022 and 0.032 respectively) logistic regression analysis. Area under the receiver operator characteristic curves (AUC-ROC) for RASSF1A and TIMP3 to predict severe bladder damage were 67.84% and 63.73% respectively. The combined model, which used both RASSF1A and TIMP3 promoter methylation, resulted in significant increase in AUC-ROC compared to that of TIMP3 (77.55% vs. 63.73%.29; p = 0.023).
In this pilot study, we showed that aberrant promoter methylation of RASSF1A and TIMP3 are present in urine sediments of patients with severe bladder damage associated with S. haematobium infection and that may be used to develop non-invasive biomarker of S. haematobium exposure and early molecular risk assessmentof neoplastic transformation.
Cocaine use is common among individuals with schizophrenia and schizoaffective illness, with a prevalence ranging from 15-60% of patient samples. It is hypothesized that some schizophrenic cocaine abusers may use cocaine as an attempt to improve anhedonic symptoms or combat neuroleptic side-effects. Flupenthixol (FLX) has the distinct advantage of being both a neuroleptic medication and a potential treatment for cocaine abuse. We evaluated the efficacy of FLX in this dually diagnosed population in an open pilot study consisting of a 4-week inpatient phase and a 6-week outpatient phase. Eight individuals were initially cross-tapered off their neuroleptic medication and were given FLX in a dose of 40 mg of the decanoate every 2 weeks. Psychiatric symptomatology was assessed weekly, using the Positive and Negative Symptom Scale (PANSS) and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). Medication side-effects were monitored weekly, using the Simpson Neurological Rating Scale and the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS). Substantial improvement in psychiatric symptomatology was noted when preadmission scores were compared to scores obtained during the last week of study enrollment. On the PANSS, positive symptom scores and negative symptom scores decreased by 31% and 29%, respectively. Similarly, BDI scores decreased by 57%. Comparing preadmission urine results to those for the last 6 weeks of enrollment in the study showed that cocaine-positive urines decreased by 28%, although most of the patients had a reduction of >75%. Missed clinic visits decreased by 26%. Thus, FLX was well-tolerated by schizophrenic cocaine abusers, suggesting that FLX may be useful for the treatment of this dually diagnosed population.
Both beta- and alpha-adrenergic mechanisms are important in the control of blood pressure; alpha-mediated vasoconstriction is responsible for the regulation of vascular tone, and beta-mediated responses stimulate the heart directly and indirectly by liberating renin and affecting vascular smooth muscle tone. beta-Adrenergic blocking drugs have long been established in the treatment of hypertension. The development of drugs which combine this action with an alpha-blocking effect represents an additional mode of action to lower the blood pressure. Numerous studies have demonstrated that labetalol intravenously or orally gives a rapid fall of blood pressure in essential and renal hypertension. It has also been used intravenously in phaeochromocytoma, tetanus, clonidine withdrawal, and as an adjunct to halothane to produce hypotensive anaesthesia. Intravenously, labetalol is probably best given as a graded infusion or as repeated small bolus injections to assure a smooth fall of blood pressure. Many long term studies have shown it to be effective orally in prolonged treatment of hypertension with studies of over 5 years, showing that tolerance does not develop. Labetalol can be used in combination with diuretics and other drugs when necessary. It can be employed to control the blood pressure in all grades of hypertension. A dosage of 100mg twice daily will often be adequate to control mild hypertension and the use of even lower doses has been reported. However, the dosage can be markedly increased in severe hypertension and while such doses are relatively exceptional, several trials have employed over 2 g per day for the more resistant cases. Studies have demonstrated that blood pressure control with labetalol is equivalent to that with beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs plus vasodilators, or methyldopa. Labetalol has been used in patients with severe renal impairment and a number of studies suggest that it may now be the drug of choice in raised blood pressure of pregnancy. Side effects can be divided into those related to beta-blockade, those related to alpha-blockade and those not clearly related to either effect. It has been suggested that the side effects attributable to the beta-blocking component are less obtrusive than those seen with pure beta-blocking drugs without alpha-activity because the alpha-blockade modifies the consequences of beta-blockade. Heart failure has been reported, but for haemodynamic reasons would be expected to be less common; careful patient selection should avoid any risk. Similarly labetalol may worsen asthma even if the risks are probably less than with non-selective beta-blockade alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
