Astemizole is a new H1 histamine-receptor antagonist that has a long elimination half-life and high H1-receptor affinity. This double-blind study evaluated the safety and efficacy of astemizole in the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria (more than or equal to 3 months). Seventeen male and 34 female adult patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria entered the 2-month study. After a 48- to 72-hour washout, half the subjects were prerandomized to receive astemizole (10 mg), and the other half received placebo. Placebo-treated patients who were unable to complete the full 8 weeks because of uncontrolled chronic urticaria symptoms were entered into a 2-month open astemizole trial. Treatment with astemizole, as measured at the end point of each patient's treatment and compared to placebo, resulted in significant improvement of pruritus, erythema, number of wheals, frequency of urticarial attacks, and control of urticaria (p less than or equal to 0.03). The overall response to astemizole was significantly better than for placebo, according to both the investigator's and the patient's global evaluations (p less than 0.01) and as indicated by dropouts caused by treatment failure with placebo (p = 0.005). Six of 26 (24%) of the placebo-treated patients in the double-blind study had good to excellent results on the basis of global assessments. Thirteen of 16 patients with placebo-treatment failures who received astemizole in the open trial improved significantly from baseline symptoms of pruritus, erythema, and number of wheals (p less than or equal to 0.05). No significant side effects were reported except mild sedation in three astemizole-treated subjects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Phenoxybenzamine has been extremely effective in treating patients with vesical dysfunctions, its minimal side effects include anejaculation and delay and difficulty in ejaculation. Fifteen men were treated with phenoxybenzamine (PBZ) for premature ejaculation. Eight patients reported a subjective improvement of the time from penetration to ejaculation. PBZ is a well tolerated drug. The only side effect of the treatment was dry ejaculation. The Authors suggest its use in selected patients.
This study examined the association between brain electrical activity, measured using quantitative electroencephalography (QEEG), and performance on measures of episodic memory in a sample of nine methamphetamine-dependent individuals who were evaluated after 4 days of monitored abstinence and 10 non-drug-using comparison subjects. In methamphetamine users, but not in comparison subjects, increased theta power was correlated with poorer performance on the delayed recall subtests of the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test and the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test (p<0.05). There was no association between alpha, beta, and delta power and performance on the memory tests. These results complement previous findings by demonstrating that the electrophysiological abnormalities associated with methamphetamine dependence are likely to affect behavior in an observable and important manner (i.e., memory deficits) when users are not intoxicated.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are an important group of environmental pollutants, known for their mutagenic and carcinogenic activities. Many PAHs are aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) ligands and several recent studies have suggested that PAHs or their metabolites may activate estrogen receptors (ER). The present study investigated possible estrogenic/antiestrogenic effects of abundant environmental contaminants benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), benz[a]anthracene (BaA), fluoranthene (Fla) and benzo[k]fluoranthene (BkF) in vivo, using the immature rat uterotrophic assay. The present results suggest that BaA, BaP and Fla behaved as estrogen-like compounds in immature Wistar rats, when applied for 3 consecutive days at 10mg/kg/day, as documented by a significant increase of uterine weight and hypertrophy of luminal epithelium. These effects were likely to be mediated by ERalpha, a major subtype of ER present in uterus, as they were inhibited by treatment with ER antagonist ICI 182,780. BaA, the most potent of studied PAHs, induced a significant estrogenic effect within a concentration range 0.1-50mg/kg/day; however, it did not reach the maximum level induced by reference estrogens. The proposed antiestrogenicity of the potent AhR agonist BkF was not confirmed in the present in vivo study; the exposure to BkF did not significantly affect the uterine weight, although a weak suppression of ERalpha immunostaining was observed in luminal and glandular epithelium, possibly related to its AhR-mediated activity. The PAHs under study did not induce marked genotoxic damage in uterine tissues, as documented by the lack of Ser-15-phoshorylated p53 protein staining. With the exception of Fla, all three remaining compounds increased CYP1-dependent monooxygenation activities in liver at the doses used, suggesting that the potential tissue-specific antiestrogenic effects of PAHs mediated by metabolization of 17beta-estradiol also cannot be excluded. Taken together, these environmentally relevant PAHs induced estrogenic effects in vivo, which might affect their toxic impact and carcinogenicity.
Bromofosfamides, the group of novel compounds closely related to ifosfamide, are currently in the stage of advanced preclinical evaluation. Ifosfamide, although itself the effective antineoplastic drug useful in situations which have proved refractory to cyclophosphamide therapy, has the side-effect toxicities caused by its metabolities that pose clinically a very real problem. One of their manifestations is the severe urinary tract toxicity which now could be adequately managed by conjunctive administration of mesna (sodium 2-mercaptoethane sulphonate). In this study we have compared the magnitude of urotoxic effects elicited by ifosfamide and two bromofosfamide compounds--racemate and S(-) isomer of chlorobromofosfamide (ClBrs)--selected previously on the base of their superior antitumor activity in advanced animal tumor models. The urotoxic effects, expressed by the increase of urinary bladder weight and histopathologically defined organ wall edema, were estimated in healthy mice 24 h following single intraperitoneal or oral administrations of tested compounds which were applied in amounts equal to curative, sublethal or lethal doses. It was found that the expression of toxic effects revealed by both ClBrs was statistically significantly lower as compared to ifosfamide. Mesna coadministration prevented urotoxic effects almost completely in mice treated with ifosfamide or racemic ClBr. Somewhat lower efficacy of uroprotection with mesna was observed in the case of S(-) isomer of ClBr.
Epilepsy-aphasia syndromes (EAS) are a group of rare, severe epileptic encephalopathies of unknown etiology with a characteristic electroencephalogram (EEG) pattern and developmental regression particularly affecting language. Rare pathogenic deletions that include GRIN2A have been implicated in neurodevelopmental disorders. We sought to delineate the pathogenic role of GRIN2A in 519 probands with epileptic encephalopathies with diverse epilepsy syndromes. We identified four probands with GRIN2A variants that segregated with the disorder in their families. Notably, all four families presented with EAS, accounting for 9% of epilepsy-aphasia cases. We did not detect pathogenic variants in GRIN2A in other epileptic encephalopathies (n = 475) nor in probands with benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (n = 81). We report the first monogenic cause, to our knowledge, for EAS. GRIN2A mutations are restricted to this group of cases, which has important ramifications for diagnostic testing and treatment and provides new insights into the pathogenesis of this debilitating group of conditions.
Knowledge of mechanism of action of a toxicant can greatly improve the accuracy of risk estimation by replacing with data the many default assumptions of risk assessment. Results from studies on comparative pharmacokinetics, metabolism, cell biology, and molecular biology have been successfully applied to problems of interspecies extrapolation, interindividual differences in susceptibility, and the relevance of high-dose findings for low-dose risk estimation. Examples are provided. Extremely rapid progress in understanding the molecular control of embryonic pattern formation and organogenesis has the potential to significantly improve the accuracy of risk assessment, especially by providing a sounder basis for characterizing interspecies differences, individual susceptibility, and multifactorial (gene-environment) etiologies of abnormal development. However, it will be necessary to quantitate toxicant-induced changes at the molecular level and to determine the level of change needed to perturb higher levels of biological organization at which adverse effects are manifested. It will also be important for risk assessment methodology to evolve so that it can better and more routinely accommodate mechanistic information. There is great potential for the recent and coming advances in knowledge of the molecular and cellular basis of abnormal development to be applied to risk assessment. Consideration should be given to shifting some of the resources now allocated to hazard screening to investigating the mechanisms of chemically induced abnormal development.
Two cases are reported of hemolytic crisis and acute anuria after intermittent rifampicin medication. Immunologic tests demonstrate that the hemolysis was of the drug-induced heteroimmune type whereas the pathogenesis of the anuria was uncertain. For both complications the prognosis is good.
This prospective, randomized, double-blinded study evaluated the antiemetic efficacy of granisetron and droperidol in 80 ASA physical status I children, aged 4-10 years, undergoing strabismus surgery or tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy. After anaesthetic induction, the patients received either granisetron (40 micrograms.kg-1, n = 40) or droperidol (50 micrograms.kg-1, n = 40) intravenously. The incidence of vomiting during the first 24h after anaesthesia was 15% and 38% after administering granisetron and droperidol, respectively (P = 0.02). The requirement for rescue antiemetic therapy for the treatment of two or more episodes of vomiting was 0% with granisetron and 18% with droperidol (P = 0.001). In conclusion, granisetron was superior to droperidol in reducing the incidence and frequency of postoperative vomiting in paediatric patients.
Idiopathic focal epilepsy (IFE) with rolandic spikes is the most common childhood epilepsy, comprising a phenotypic spectrum from rolandic epilepsy (also benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes, BECTS) to atypical benign partial epilepsy (ABPE), Landau-Kleffner syndrome (LKS) and epileptic encephalopathy with continuous spike and waves during slow-wave sleep (CSWS). The genetic basis is largely unknown. We detected new heterozygous mutations in GRIN2A in 27 of 359 affected individuals from 2 independent cohorts with IFE (7.5%; P = 4.83 × 10(-18), Fisher's exact test). Mutations occurred significantly more frequently in the more severe phenotypes, with mutation detection rates ranging from 12/245 (4.9%) in individuals with BECTS to 9/51 (17.6%) in individuals with CSWS (P = 0.009, Cochran-Armitage test for trend). In addition, exon-disrupting microdeletions were found in 3 of 286 individuals (1.0%; P = 0.004, Fisher's exact test). These results establish alterations of the gene encoding the NMDA receptor NR2A subunit as a major genetic risk factor for IFE.
Puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis is characterized by increased renal excretion of plasma proteins. We employed this experimental model to study the urinary clearance of dextran sulfate.
The dextran sulfate eliminated by the urine was determined using a metachromatic assay. Polysaccharide fragments were analyzed by chromatographic and electrophoretic procedures. Disaccharide composition of the glomerular heparan sulfate was assessed using digestion with specific lyases.
In normal rats dextran sulfate is partially degraded to lower molecular weight fragments and only then eliminated by the urine. Surprisingly, in puromycin aminonucleoside-induced glomerulosclerosis the molecular size of the fragments of dextran sulfate found in the urine is the same or even lower than in control animals in spite of the marked proteinuria. Furthermore, urinary excretion of dextran sulfate decreases in the experimentally induced nephrosis. This observation cannot be totally attributed to a reduced number of physiologically active nephrons since the glomerular filtration rate decreases approximately 32% after puromycin aminonucleoside administration while the urinary excretion of 8 kDa-dextran sulfate decreases 3-fold. The glomerular heparan sulfate shows reduced sulfation when compared with normal animals. Possibly puromycin aminonucleoside decreases the activity of kidney endoglycosidases, which reduce the molecular size of the sulfated polysaccharide, leading to a decrease in its renal clearance. Reduced sulfation of the glomerular heparan sulfate in the puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis does not alter the size of the dextran sulfate eliminated by the kidney, as suggested for protein.
Each pathological process induces a particular modification in the kidney, which in turn can affect the renal selectivity to specific macromolecules in different ways.
The prospective study was conducted to determine whether standard regimen ABVD used in the treatment of Hodgkin's disease is accompanied by the presence of early and chronic myocardial impairment. The study comprised 52 patients (30 male and 22 female) aged 34+/-15 years (range 18-71; median 30) with Hodgkin's disease and the control group with 40 healthy volunteers (21 male and 19 female) aged 40+/-8 years (range 20-70; median 38). The maximal administered cumulative dose (CD) of doxorubicin was 297+/-50 mg/m2 (range 150-450; median 300). Radiotherapy of the mediastinum was delivered to 27 (52%) patients with a mean dose 41+/-4 Gy (range 30-46; median 42). Echocardiography was performed at baseline and before each course of chemotherapy. The control examination was done at one month after the treatment and after one year. The stress echocardiography was performed at one-year control. Significant change of ejection fraction (EF) during the treatment was observed only in 10 (18%) patients (7 male/3 female) aged 29+/-13 years (range 18-56; median 22). The mean toxic CD of doxorubicin was 170+/-33 mg/m2 (range 100-200; median 175) and the mean time of the onset EF decline was 13.3+/-3 weeks (range 8-16; median 14). These changes were asymptomatic, and all patients completed the treatment successfully. Four patients (8%) demonstrated significant asymptomatic decline of EF after the chemotherapy. When compared the value of EF after one-year examination, a stable significant decline of EF in the sub-group with early toxicity was found. Despite a difference in the rest EF, the exercise increment of EF did not reveal any significant difference among tested groups and the contractile reserve of the left ventricle in patients was not impaired. The present data shows that the treatment of Hodgkin's disease with the standard ABVD regimen is accompanied with mild early and chronic asymptomatic changes of the left ventricular function. These changes were not reversible during one-year follow-up.
Infective endocarditis is a rare complication affecting solid organ transplant recipients. Staphylococcus aureus is a common cause of infective endocarditis accounting for about 30% of cases. We present a case of nosocomial methicillin-resistant S. aureus endocarditis with persistent bacteremia, in a patient following orthotopic liver transplantation. We were unable to eradicate this infection with primary linezolid therapy or with secondary treatment with combined vancomycin and rifampicin, but successfully treated it with daptomycin, in addition to tricuspid and aortic valve replacement.
Severe and malignant hyperthermia is a frequently reported factor in emergency department (ED) visits and fatalities in which use of amphetamine drugs, such as (+/-)3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), (+/-)3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA) and (+)methamphetamine (METH), is confirmed. Individuals who use "ecstasy" are also often exposed, intentionally or otherwise, to several of these structurally-related compounds alone or in combination. In animal studies the degree of (subcritical) hyperthermia is often related to the severity of amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity, suggesting health risks to the human user even when emergency medical services are not invoked. A clear distinction of thermoregulatory risks posed by different amphetamines is therefore critical to understand factors that may produce medical emergency related to hyperthermia. The objective of this study was therefore to determine the relative thermoregulatory disruption produced by recreational doses of MDMA, MDA and METH in nonhuman primates. Body temperature and spontaneous home cage activity were monitored continuously in six male rhesus monkeys via radiotelemetric devices. The subjects were challenged intramuscularly with 0.56-2.4 mg/kg MDMA, 0.56-2.4 mg/kg MDA and 0.1-1.0 mg/kg METH. All three amphetamines significantly elevated temperature; however the time course of effects differed. The acute effect of METH lasted hours longer than MDA or MDMA and a disruption of nighttime circadian cooling was observed as long as 18 h after 1.0 mg/kg METH and 1.78-2.4 mg/kg MDA, but not after MDMA. Activity levels were only reliably increased by 0.32 mg/kg METH. It is concluded that while all three substituted amphetamines produce hyperthermia in rhesus monkeys, the effects do not depend on elevated locomotor activity and exhibit differences between compounds. The results highlight physiological risks posed both by recreational use of the amphetamines and by current trials for clinical MDMA use.
The question of whether schizophrenic-like disorders are neurodevelopmental or degenerative in origin has been argued since the time of Kraepelin. The authors provide evidence for the existence of two etiologically distinct endophenotypes of the psychoses contained within the rubric of familial non-affective psychosis (schizophrenia), one atrophic and the other neurodevelopmental. The atrophic psychosis, identified by progressive ventricular enlargement throughout adult illness, evidences progressive impairment of interests, relationships, and withdrawal from latency through adolescence, with emergence of trait-like negative symptoms which are only marginally responsive to conventional neuroleptics. This psychosis also exhibits delayed response of positive symptoms during neuroleptic treatment, and may also proceed to a praecox dementia in later life. In contrast, a putative neurodevelopmental psychosis, associated with static ventricles during the course of adult illness, also demonstrates preadolescent impairments, but impairments which do not progress to marked negative symptoms. Conventional neuroleptics appear to have little effect (except sedation) on positive symptoms, but appear to induce negative symptomatology and partial disengagement from the burden of persistent psychotic thought processes in such static ventricle psychoses. Thus, separate patterns of illnesses with different prodromal features, different treatment response patterns, and different patterns of residual (negative) symptoms appear to characterize patients with psychosis who have expanding as opposed to stable cerebral-ventricles at doses of neuroleptic at 10 mg haloperidol equivalents/day.
A case of penicillamin-induced severe polyradiculopathy in rheumatoid arthritis is presented. The neuropathy was of demyelinating type, purely motor, proximal and clinically fully reversible when the drug ceased. In case of a progressive neuropathy, during penicillamin treatment, this adverse effect should be born in mind, and discontinuation of the drug considered.
The aim of the present study was to find out whether blockade of adenosine A(2A) receptors by a selective antagonist, SCH 58261, influenced parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity. Muscle tone was examined using a combined mechano- and electromyographic method which simultaneously measured muscle resistance (MMG) of a rat hindfoot to passive extension and flexion in the ankle joint and electromyographic activity (EMG) of the antagonistic muscles of that joint: gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior. Muscle rigidity produced by reserpine (5 mg/kg + alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, 250 mg/kg) was antagonized by SCH 58261 (0.1-5 mg/kg). SCH 58261 (5 mg/kg) also reduced reserpine-enhanced tonic and reflex EMG activities in both the gastrocnemius and the tibialis muscles. Moreover, SCH 58261 in doses of 1 and 5 mg/kg abolished muscle resistance induced by haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg). However, only the highest dose of SCH 58261 (5 mg/kg) decreased tonic EMG activity enhanced by haloperidol. Administration of L-DOPA (75 and 100 mg/kg) dose-dependently decreased the muscle resistance as well as tonic EMG activity evoked by haloperidol. Combined administration of SCH 58261 (0.1 mg/kg) and L-DOPA (50 mg/kg) in doses which did not affect the haloperidol-induced muscle rigidity produced a pronounced synergistic effect. The ability of SCH 58261 to diminish the parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity and to potentiate the effect of L-DOPA in this model seems to indicate a therapeutic value of this compound in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
To determine the effect of nitroglycerin on coronary blood flow velocity during controlled hypotensive anesthesia in humans.
Internally controlled prospective study.
Single university hospital.
Twenty American Society of Anesthesiologists class I and II patients undergoing general anesthesia for surgical resection of a malignancy.
General anesthesia was induced with thiopental, fentanyl, and succinylcholine and maintained with isoflurane and vecuronium. Transesophageal echocardiography was used to evaluate left ventricular wall motion and blood flow velocity in the left anterior descending coronary artery. Intravenous nitroglycerin was used to reduce systolic arterial pressure to 60 to 70 mmHg. Intravenous albumin 5% was administered to maintain pulmonary capillary wedge pressure >5 mmHg.
The left anterior descending coronary artery was visualized clearly in 16 of 20 patients. At a mean nitroglycerin dose of 16+/-14 microg/kg/min, peak diastolic left anterior descending flow velocity increased significantly from 32.5+/-10.3 cm/sec to 44.7+/-14.6 cm/sec (p = 0.0103). None of the patients developed any ST-segment changes.
During nitroglycerin-induced hypotensive anesthesia, coronary blood flow as assessed by peak diastolic left anterior descending flow velocity is preserved or increased in most patients. Increases in left anterior descending flow velocity are predictably achieved only at nitroglycerin doses >5 microg/kg/min. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography is useful in monitoring coronary flow velocity responses to controlled hypotensive anesthesia.
Epileptic encephalopathies are severe brain disorders with the epileptic component contributing to the worsening of cognitive and behavioral manifestations. Acquired epileptic aphasia (Landau-Kleffner syndrome, LKS) and continuous spike and waves during slow-wave sleep syndrome (CSWSS) represent rare and closely related childhood focal epileptic encephalopathies of unknown etiology. They show electroclinical overlap with rolandic epilepsy (the most frequent childhood focal epilepsy) and can be viewed as different clinical expressions of a single pathological entity situated at the crossroads of epileptic, speech, language, cognitive and behavioral disorders. Here we demonstrate that about 20% of cases of LKS, CSWSS and electroclinically atypical rolandic epilepsy often associated with speech impairment can have a genetic origin sustained by de novo or inherited mutations in the GRIN2A gene (encoding the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor α2 subunit, GluN2A). The identification of GRIN2A as a major gene for these epileptic encephalopathies provides crucial insights into the underlying pathophysiology.
The renal effects of amphotericin B alone and in combination with cyclosporin A, tobramycin, fosfomycin, D-glucaro-1,5-lactam and verapamil were studied in rats. The parameters for nephrotoxicity were urinary loss of tubular cells and malate dehydrogenase, as well as creatinine clearance. Repeated intraperitoneal injections of amphotericin B led to an increase of urinary tubular cell elimination and malate-dehydrogenase. After co-administration of amphotericin B and cyclosporin A, the urinary loss of tubular cells increased and creatinine clearance was reduced. A combination of amphotericin B and tobramycin reduced tubular cell elimination but the creatinine clearance improved. When verapamil was combined with amphotericin B, endogenous creatinine clearance increased, though the loss of tubular cells was elevated. Furthermore, fosfomycin reduced the loss of tubular cells and improved renal functional parameters in combination with amphotericin B. In addition, D-glucaro-1,5-lactam was found to reduce the urinary loss of tubular cells induced by amphotericin B.
Magnetic resonance imaging at high spatial resolution and histochemical staining were applied to monitor the influence of tamoxifen versus estrogen on the growth, endothelial density, and extent of necrosis in tumors of MCF7 human breast cancer cells implanted in nude mice. Concomitantly with tamoxifen growth arrest, a highly significant decrease, by more than 2-fold, in the endothelial density of viable tumor regions had occurred, together with a significant increase in the extent of necrosis. The results suggest that the antiestrogenic activity of tamoxifen in breast cancer, which results in enhanced necrosis and tumor regression, is due to the inhibition of angiogenesis and of endothelial growth, thus reducing vascularization and impairing tumor perfusion.
We undertook a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study to compare the use of alfentanil 1 mg and lidocaine 40 mg for the reduction of pain during injection of propofol. Eighty-nine patients were randomly allocated to one of three groups: Group L, lidocaine 40 mg added to 180 mg propofol; Group A, alfentanil 1 mg 30 s prior to propofol; or Group P, placebo (normal saline). The incidence of pain in the placebo group was 67%. Both treatment groups had a significantly lower incidence of pain than the placebo group (P < 0.002). There was no significant difference in the incidence of pain between the groups receiving lidocaine or alfentanil (13% and 24%, respectively). There was no significant difference in the induction dose of propofol between the groups. Fifty-two percent of patients who experienced pain at induction had recall of that pain in the recovery room. Alfentanil 1 mg and lidocaine 40 mg are both effective in reducing pain during injection of propofol.
Adolapin was isolated by a two-step procedure: gel filtration and chromatography on CM cellulose. The molecular mass of the polypeptide as determined by SDS electrophoresis and amino acid composition proved to be 11500 and 11092 respectively. Adolapin exhibited a potent analgesic effect demonstrated by the "writhing" test (ED50-0,016mg/kg) and by the Randall-Sellito's test (ED50-0,013 mg/kg). The anti-inflammatory activity of adolapin was most marked with regard to carrageenin, prostaglandin and adjuvant rat hind paw edemas and adjuvant polyarthritis. The adolapin effects are presumably due to its capacity to inhibit the prostaglandin synthase system, following a biphasic dose-response relationship. It is likely that central mechanisms are also involved in the analgetic action of adolapin.
Although the possible behavioral neurotoxic effects of in utero exposure to cocaine have been the subject of numerous experiments, only a limited number of different types of animal models of cocaine exposure, critical periods, or long-term effects of such exposures have been investigated. In the present experiment, the effects of multiple daily SC exposures to cocaine (20 mg/kg/dose x 5 doses per day) were investigated when administered to gravid Sprague-Dawley CD rats on embryonic days E7-12 or E13-18 compared to weight-matched, vehicle injected, pair-fed controls. Effects of exposure were assessed on general development, olfactory orientation behavior, early locomotion, startle reactivity, spontaneous motor activity, and learning on two different tasks (Morris and Cincinnati water mazes). The multiple cocaine dosing regimen produced maternal peak serum concentrations of cocaine 3 times higher than that of a single dose (approximately 1550 vs. approximately 550 ng/mL). Early-exposed cocaine offspring had lower olfactory orientation scores and reduced postweaning rearing and hole-poke motor activity, whereas late-exposed cocaine offspring had increased postweaning locomotor, rearing, and hole-poke activity. On the Morris hidden platform maze, the cocaine early-exposed females had longer latencies on acquisition than controls. On the Cincinnati multiple-T water maze, the early-exposed cocaine females and the late-exposed cocaine males had increased errors, whereas the early-exposed cocaine males had reduced errors. The effects on measures of learning, when taken together, and in light of their being in the early-exposed group, suggest that embryonic cocaine exposure may have subtle effects on cognition in the offspring as adults. Such effects represent a form of neurotoxicity not previously associated with prenatal cocaine exposure.
We report here a boy with epilepsy and congenital heart defect, complicated postoperatively by complete atrioventricular (A-V) block caused by an adverse effect of carbamazepine (CBZ). He had been taking CBZ for 7 years to treat complex partial seizures. He also had endocardial cushion defect and first-degree A-V block, and underwent cardiac surgery at the age of 17 years. The postoperative course was unremarkable except transient complete left bundle branch block occuring one day after the surgery. Oral CBZ (400 mg per day) was continued. Five days after the surgery, bradycardia (20 beats per minute) suddenly developed, and electrocardiography (ECG) showed complete A-V block. Pervenous pacing was begun, and the heart rate gradually recovered. CBZ was discontinued on the suspicion that it caused the arrhythmia, although its serum level was estimated to be within the therapeutic range (4 to 5 microg/ml). He underwent pervenous pacing for 12 days. He was discharged 27 days after the surgery, when ECG returned to first-degree A-V block. In this case, the cardiac conduction system was affected by an adverse effect of CBZ, in combination with the preoperative first-degree A-V block and the effects of cardiac surgery, resulting in complete A-V block. Although reports of similar cases are scarce, caution should be made in prescribing CBZ to patients who either have cardiac conduction abnormalities or undergo cardiac surgery.
Arsenic in drinking water causes increased mortality from several cancers, ischemic heart disease, bronchiectasis, and other diseases. This paper presents the first evidence relating arsenic exposure to pulmonary tuberculosis, by estimating mortality rate ratios for Region II of Chile compared with Region V for the years 1958-2000. The authors compared mortality rate ratios with time patterns of arsenic exposure, which increased abruptly in 1958 in Region II and then declined starting in 1971. Tuberculosis mortality rate ratios in men started increasing in 1968, 10 years after high arsenic exposure commenced. The peak male 5-year mortality rate ratio occurred during 1982-1986 (rate ratio = 2.1, 95% confidence interval: 1.7, 2.6; P < 0.001) and subsequently declined. Mortality rates in women were also elevated but with fewer excess pulmonary tuberculosis deaths (359 among men and 95 among women). The clear rise and fall of tuberculosis mortality rate ratios in men following high arsenic exposure are consistent with a causal relation. The findings are biologically plausible in view of evidence that arsenic is an immunosuppressant and also a cause of chronic lung disease. Finding weaker associations in women is unsurprising, because this is true of most arsenic-caused health effects. Confirmatory evidence is needed from other arsenic-exposed populations.
To study the effects of BSO, GSH, Vit-C and DMPS on the nephrotoxicity of mercury.
The rats in groups 1, 2 and 3 were sc injected with 0.75, 1.5 and 2.5 mg/kg HgCl2, respectively. Fourth group rats were ip injected with 0.5 mmol/kg BSO and 4h later sc administrated with 0.75 mg/kg HgCl2. The rats in groups 5, 6 and 7 were ip injected with 3 mmol/kg GSH, 4 mmol/kg Vit-C, 200 micromol/kg DMPS, respectively, and 2 h later sc administrated with 2.5 mg/kg HgCl2. Eighth group rats were sc injected with saline as a control. Mercury concentrations in the liver, renal cortex and urine, urinary NAG, ALP, LDH activities, protein and BUN contents were determined.
Urinary NAG, ALP activities, protein and BUN contents in the rats of BSO pretreatment group were significantly higher than that of 0.75 mg/kg HgCl2 alone group and control group. As compared with 2.5 mg/kg HgCl2 alone group, urinary NAG, ALP, LDH activities, urinary protein and BUN contents decreased significantly.
BSO pretreatment could enhance the renal toxicity of mercury and GSH, Vit-C and DMPS pretreatment had antagonistic effects on nephrotoxicity of mercury.
