The fundamental imperative of adjuvant treatment of early breast cancer is to improve long-term survival and minimize toxicity. The inclusion of docetaxel in adjuvant chemotherapy regimens has improved patient survival in comparison to anthracycline-containing regimens, even if the incidence of acute side effects has increased in some studies. However, late or persistent toxic effects are becoming more important due to an increasing proportion of patients remaining disease free after treatment for early breast cancer. Several studies have recently reported that docetaxel-containing regimens without anthracyclines are equally active, and have no apparent cardiotoxicity. At present, docetaxel-based combinations represent an appropriate choice in the adjuvant treatment of HER2-negative breast cancer, and several studies are ongoing aiming at a better evaluation of the efficacy of this agent in order to optimize its role.
To investigate the long-term effects of developmental exposure to methylmercury (MeHg), pregnant mice were exposed to at 0.5 mg MeHg/kg/day via drinking water from gestational day 7 until day 7 after delivery. The behavior of offspring was monitored at 5-15 and 26-36 weeks of age using an automated system (IntelliCage) designed for continuous long-term recording of the home cage behavior in social groups and complex analysis of basic activities and learning. In addition, spontaneous locomotion, motor coordination on the accelerating rotarod, spatial learning in Morris water maze, and depression-like behavior in forced swimming test were also studied. The analysis of behavior performed in the IntelliCage without social deprivation occurred to be more sensitive in detecting alterations in activity and learning paradigms. We found normal motor function but decreased exploratory activity in MeHg-exposed male mice, especially at young age. Learning disturbances observed in MeHg-exposed male animals suggest reference memory impairment. Interestingly, the forced swimming test revealed a predisposition to depressive-like behavior in the MeHg-exposed male offspring. This study provides novel evidence that the developmental exposure to MeHg can affect not only cognitive functions but also motivation-driven behaviors.
Evaluation of the nongenotoxic potential early during the development of a drug presents a major challenge. Recently, two genes were identified as potential molecular markers of rodent hepatic carcinogenesis: transforming growth factor-beta stimulated clone 22 (TSC-22) and NAD(P)H cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase (CYP-R) (1). They were identified after comparing the gene expression profiles obtained from the livers of Sprague-Dawley rats treated with different genotoxic and nongenotoxic compounds in a 5 day repeat dose in vivo study. To assess the potential of these two genes as acute markers of carcinogenesis, we investigated their modulation during a long-term nongenotoxic study in the rat using a classic initiation-promotion regime. Clofibric acid (CLO), which belongs to the broad class of chemicals known as peroxisome proliferators, was used as a nongenotoxic hepatocarcinogen. Male F344 rats were given a single nonnecrogenic injection of diethylnitrosamine (0 or 30 mg/kg) and fed a diet containing none or 5000 ppm CLO for up to 20 months. Necropsies of five rats per groups were performed at 18, 46, 102, 264, 377, 447 (control, DEN, and DEN + CLO rats), 524, and 608 days (for the CLO and control rats). Gross macroscopic and microscopic evaluation and gene expression profiling (on Affymetrix microarrays) were performed in peritumoral and tumoral liver tissues. Bioanalysis of the liver gene expression data revealed that TSC-22 was strongly down-regulated early in the study. Its underexpression was maintained throughout the study but disappeared upon CLO withdrawal. These modulations were confirmed by real-time polymerase chain reaction. However, CYP-R gene expression was not significantly altered in our study. Taken together, our results showed that TSC-22, but not CYP-R, has the potential to be an acute early molecular marker for nongenotoxic hepatocarcinogenesis in rodents.
Impaired epithelial expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) has been described in animal colitis models and briefly in patients with ulcerative colitis, but the functional significance in humans is not well defined. We examined PPARgamma expression and functional activity in human colonic epithelium and explored the potential of topical treatment with rosiglitazone (a PPARgamma ligand) in patients with ulcerative colitis.
Spontaneous and rosiglitazone-mediated PPARgamma and adipophillin expression (a gene transcriptionally activated by PPARgamma) were measured by reverse transcriptase PCR in colonic biopsies and isolated epithelial cells from patients with ulcerative colitis and controls. Fourteen patients with active distal ulcerative colitis were randomized to either rosiglitazone (4 mg) or mesalazine (1 g) enema treatment once daily for 14 days.
PPARgamma expression was fourfold reduced in epithelial cells from inflamed compared with uninflamed mucosa and controls. Adipophillin levels were decreased in parallel. Rosiglitazone induced a concentration-dependent increase in adipophillin levels and restored PPARgamma activity in epithelial cells from inflamed mucosa in vitro. Rosiglitazone enema treatment was well tolerated and reduced the Mayo ulcerative colitis score from 8.9 to 4.3 (P<0.01), similar to the effect of mesalazine. Rosiglitazone increased adipophillin levels in the epithelial cells of the patients, indicating PPARgamma activation in vivo.
Roziglitasone enemas improve impaired PPARgamma activity in inflamed colonic epithelium and have beneficial clinical effect in patients with active distal ulcerative colitis. These findings raise interest in further studies of PPARgamma ligands that exhibit their anti-inflammatory effect locally in the gut to avoid possible systemic side effects.
Ten patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) were treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). Eight of 10 patients achieved complete remission (CR), and among the 8 newly diagnosed cases, 7 achieved CR. Five of 8 CR cases remained in CR after 8 to 30 months. Except for hypotension and a large gastric ulcer resulting from hyperhistaminemia, the adverse effects of ATRA were generally mild. Severe thrombotic tendency occurred in a patient treated with ATRA combined with tranexamic acid. Intensive chemotherapy consisting of daunorubicin (DNR) and other agents was scheduled for the patients who achieved CR with ATRA.
1. A long-term, open clinical trial of verapamil therapy was conducted in ninety-three patients with coronary artery disease, selected on the basis of having stable angina pectoris and of being unsuitable for treatment with beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs. 2. Two-thirds of the patients (fifty-eight patients) obtained a good relief which was sustained over a period of 1 y. There were few major adverse reactions and the drug was generally well tolerated. The main limiting factor in dosage was hypotension. No adverse effects were observed in patients with obstructive airways disease, controlled cardiac failure and lower limb arteriosclerosis. 3. Verapamil was considered to be a major advance in the chronic therapy of angina pectoris.
We report a 3 year-old girl with a myoclonic epilepsy. A fatal hepatic failure occurred after 3 months of valproate (VPA) therapy. In this patient, a defect of cytochrome c oxidase (COX) was demonstrated in her circulating lymphocytes. The enzyme was also found to be deficient in post-mortem liver and in cultured skin fibroblasts. However, a fully functional respiratory chain was found in muscle. VPA administration apparently triggered the hepatic failure, given this patient's background of partial COX deficiency.
To establish the maximum tolerated dose of paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) as a radiosensitizing agent and to determine its optimal therapeutic dose when combined with conventionally fractionated radiotherapy in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, a phase I/II study was undertaken in 16 treatment-naive patients. Beginning at 40 mg/m2/wk with doses escalated in 10 mg/m2 increments until dose-limiting toxicity was encountered, paclitaxel was administered over 3 hours to successive three-patient cohorts. Radiotherapy (2 Gy/d x 5 d/wk; maximum total dose, 50 Gy) was delivered after the paclitaxel infusion. Treatment continued for 5 successive weeks. All 16 patients are evaluable for response and toxicity. Hematologic toxicity was low, with red blood cells and platelets remaining stable and leukocyte decreases (mean, 60%) attributed to radiotherapy. Nonhematologic toxicity included grade 2/3 esophagitis and neurologic sequelae. Responses were noted at all paclitaxel dose levels, including two complete and five partial responses, but the median time to progression was only 5 months. Paclitaxel may be combined safely with radiotherapy without major toxicity, and the radiosensitizing effect of paclitaxel was evident at all doses.
We have previously reported that transient myocardial ischemia induced during exercise or dipyridamole challenge leads to the release of increased amounts of hydrogen peroxide into circulating blood. It would indicate that the temporary functional changes within myocardial cells may constitute there a sterile inflammatory area. Therefore we decided to evaluate the chemotactic properties of plasma in patients undergoing dipyridamole provocative test, as a sign of released inflammatory mediators. The ischemia occurrence was evaluated with 99mTc-SestaMIBI followed by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).
Blood samples were obtained from the peripheral vein of 42 patients (18 men and 24 women, mean age 61 years). Plasma chemotactic activity was determined by the use of the Boyden chamber method: immediately before dipyridamole challenge (time 0), 7, and 30 min after drug infusion. The migration of control polymorphonuclear neutrophils towards evaluated plasma samples was estimated.
Chemotaxis of control PMNs towards plasma isolated from patients without signs of myocardial ischemia 7 min after dipyridamole administration was significantly diminished in comparison with baseline values (p=0.003). Plasma obtained 7 min after dipyridamole infusion from patients manifesting signs of myocardial ischemia by SPECT attracted control PMNs significantly more intensively in comparison to plasma isolated at time 0 (p=0.0005).
The obtained results indicate that transient myocardial ischemia induced by dipyridamole challenge leads to generation of chemotactic factors detectable in peripheral blood plasma.
Individual susceptibility to arsenic-induced carotid atherosclerosis might be associated with genetic variations in arsenic metabolism. The purpose of this study is to explore the interaction effect on risk of carotid atherosclerosis between arsenic exposure and risk genotypes of purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP), arsenic (+3) methyltransferase (As3MT), and glutathione S-transferase omega 1 (GSTO1) and omega 2 (GSTO2). A community-based case-control study was conducted in northeastern Taiwan to investigate the arsenic metabolic-related genetic susceptibility to carotid atherosclerosis. In total, 863 subjects, who had been genotyped and for whom the severity of carotid atherosclerosis had been determined, were included in the present study. Individual well water was collected and arsenic concentration determined using hydride generation combined with flame atomic absorption spectrometry. The result showed that a significant dose-response trend (P=0.04) of carotid atherosclerosis risk associated with increasing arsenic concentration. Non-significant association between genetic polymorphisms of PNP Gly51Ser, Pro57Pro, As3MT Met287Thr, GSTO1 Ala140Asp, and GSTO2 A-183G and the risk for development of carotid atherosclerosis were observed. However, the significant interaction effect on carotid atherosclerosis risk was found for arsenic exposure (>50μg/l) and the haplotypes of PNP (p=0.0115). A marked elevated risk of carotid atherosclerosis was observed in subjects with arsenic exposure of >50μg/l in drinking water and those who carried the PNP A-T haplotype and at least either of the As3MT risk polymorphism or GSTO risk haplotypes (OR, 6.43; 95% CI, 1.79-23.19). In conclusion, arsenic metabolic genes, PNP, As3MT, and GSTO, may exacerbate the formation of atherosclerosis in individuals with high levels of arsenic concentration in well water (>50μg/l).
We assessed ANG II type 1 (AT(1)) and type 2 (AT(2)) receptor (R) expression and functional recovery after ischemia-reperfusion with or without AT(1)R/AT(2)R blockade in isolated working rat hearts. Groups of six hearts were subjected to global ischemia (30 min) followed by reperfusion (30 min) and exposed to no drug and no ischemia-reperfusion (control), ischemia-reperfusion and no drug, and ischemia-reperfusion with losartan (an AT(1)R antagonist; 1 micromol/l), PD-123319 (an AT(2)R antagonist; 0.3 micromol/l), N(6)-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA, a cardioprotective adenosine A(1) receptor agonist; 0.5 micromol/l as positive control), enalaprilat (an ANG-converting enzyme inhibitor; 1 micromol/l), PD-123319 + losartan, ANG II (1 nmol/l), or ANG II + losartan. Compared with controls, ischemia-reperfusion decreased AT(2)R protein (Western immunoblots) and mRNA (Northern immunoblots, RT-PCR) and impaired functional recovery. PD-123319 increased AT(2)R protein and mRNA and improved functional recovery. Losartan increased AT(1)R mRNA (but not AT(1)R/AT(2)R protein) and impaired recovery. Other groups (except CHA) did not improve recovery. The results suggest that, in isolated working hearts, AT(2)R plays a significant role in ischemia-reperfusion and AT(2)R blockade induces increased AT(2)R protein and cardioprotection.
Difficulties in achieving a reduction in morbidity and mortality in patients with diabetes are a result of the complexity of the disease and its intertwined relationship with hypertension and renal impairment. In the recently published Action in Diabetes and Vascular disease: PreterAx and DiamicroN-MR Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial, treatment of patients with diabetes with the fixed combination perindopril/indapamide on top of background treatments provided clinically and statistically significant reductions in blood pressure (from 145/81 to 136/73 mmHg), all-cause mortality (-14%), cardiovascular mortality (-18%), major cardiovascular events (-9%), renal events (-21%) and new-onset microalbuminuria (-21%) when compared with placebo. As the ADVANCE trial included both hypertensive and normotensive patients, its results suggest that systematically treating all patients with diabetes with perindopril/indapamide, independently of their baseline blood pressure, may have significant long-term value that can be explained partly by the reversal of end-organ damage to the kidney and the heart. Considering that patients with both hypertension and diabetes are characterized by generalized macro- and microvascular disease, the results of the ADVANCE trial, taken together with results of other perindopril/indapamide hypertension studies, support a broad use of perindopril/indapamide treatment for the long-term improvement of prognosis in hypertensive patients as well as in patients with diabetes.
BDE-85 is a congener of a class of flame-retardant compounds called polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). Although there are some studies on other congeners of PBDEs, there are none on the toxicity potential of this penta-BDE member. This study, therefore, reports the oxidative status and sciatic nerve conduction properties following BDE-85 treatment in rodents. The oxidative stress markers, lipid hydroperoxides, and the activities of antioxidant enzymes, namely superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), and catalase, in the exposed mice liver and brain tissues showed tissue-specific alterations following intraperitoneal injection of 0.25 mg/kg body weight of BDE-85 for 4 days. The results indicate a significant disruption in the oxidant/antioxidant equilibrium and setting in of oxidative stress. Isolated sciatic nerves of rats exposed to 5 µg/mL or 20 µg/mL of BDE-85 showed a significant reduction in nerve conduction velocity and compound action potential amplitudes, indicating physiological damage to the sciatic nerves.
This phase I dose-escalation study was undertaken to determine the maximum tolerated doses of paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) and ifosfamide that could be administered without growth factors to previously untreated patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Forty patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer were treated with a 3-hour infusion of paclitaxel and a 1-hour infusion of ifosfamide, repeated every 3 weeks. Groups of three patients each entered at escalating dose levels in a traditional phase I design. Starting doses were paclitaxel 100 mg/m2 and ifosfamide 3 g/m2; all patients received premedication with dexamethasone and diphenhydramine, and some also received a 5-HT3 blocker. Dose escalation was permitted only after full toxicity assessment had been completed for two cycles for all patients at a dose level. Dose escalation of paclitaxel continued to 225 mg/m2 without dose-limiting toxicity, but further escalation was not attempted because of the known likelihood of neurotoxicity above this dosage. Instead, ifosfamide was increased to 4 g/m2 for the final dose level. At these doses, dose-limiting myelosuppression was not seen, and there was only one episode of febrile neutropenia in 162 treatment cycles. Drug-related ifosfamide toxicities included gross hematuria and confusion in one patient each; paclitaxel-related symptoms included flu-like syndrome in most patients, arthralgia and/or myalgia in eight and 25 patients, respectively, and paresthesia in 14 patients. Despite premedication, 15 patients experienced grade 1 hypersensitivity reactions. Partial response was seen in 21% of patients (confidence interval, 9.3% to 36.5%), and the median duration of response was 5.9+ months (range, 3 to 14 months). The median survival was 9.1 months (range, 1 to 12 months). In summary, outpatient paclitaxel given over 3 hours and single-dose ifosfamide given over 1 hour may be combined safely without hematopoietic growth factors for the treatment of patients with non-small cell lung cancer. The recommended doses for phase II study are paclitaxel 225 mg/m2 and ifosfamide 4 g/m2, every 3 weeks.
This review describes studies with two paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ)-containing treatments for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In an ongoing study, 100 patients with previously untreated stage IIIB or IV NSCLC received combination therapy comprised of paclitaxel 225 mg/m2 via 1-hour infusion and carboplatin, dosed to an area under the concentration-time curve of 6.0. Both drugs were given intravenously and cycles were repeated every 21 days. Patients with objective responses or stable disease after two courses continued for a maximum of 10 treatment courses. Of the 100 patients, 36% had an objective response, including three complete responses. An additional 33% had stable disease/minor response. The regimen was well tolerated. Grade 3/4 peripheral neuropathy, which usually appeared during or after the fourth treatment course, was noted in 18% of patients. An earlier study evaluated combined-modality therapy in 33 patients with unresectable stage IIIA or IIIB NSCLC. Two courses of intravenous induction chemotherapy were initially administered (paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 via 1-hour infusion, day 1; cisplatin 60 mg/m2, day 2; and etoposide 100 mg/m2, days 1 to 3). After two courses, radiation therapy was initiated at 1.8 to 2.0 Gy daily (median total dose, 60 Gy). Patients also received chemotherapy concurrent with radiation: paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 over 1 hour on day 1, cisplatin 5 mg/m2 days 2 to 5 and 8 to 12, and etoposide 25 mg/m2 days 1 to 5 and 8 to 12. Cycles were repeated every 21 days. Of the 29 patients who completed therapy, 41% achieved complete responses and 41% had partial responses. Median survival exceeds 14 months, and 30% of patients continue progression free 12 to 29 months after completion of therapy. Grade 3/4 esophagitis was observed in 51% of participants and usually occurred during the final 2 weeks of combined-modality therapy. The combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin is active and well tolerated in patients with advanced NSCLC, and paclitaxel-based combined-modality therapy produced a high rate of complete and partial responses and encouraging survival data. Continued investigation and refinement of these regimens is ongoing.
A 48-year-old woman with a history of chronic intranasal cocaine abuse presented with unilateral proptosis associated with severe visual loss from optic neuropathy in the right eye. Imaging showed extensive bone and soft tissue destruction in the paranasal region and an orbital mass. Initial biopsies suggested a low-grade neoplasm. The correct diagnosis was established only on repeat biopsy, which revealed marked pleomorphism and nonspecific chronic inflammation with irregular collagen bundles containing thick-walled blood vessels. This case emphasizes that intranasal cocaine abuse may clinically, radiographically, and histopathologically mimic a neoplasm or a necrotizing vasculitis.
Although banned in the 1970s, significant levels of the organochlorine pesticide heptachlor are still present in the environment raising concern over potential human exposure. In particular, organochlorine pesticides have been linked to an increased risk of Parkinson's disease. Studies from our laboratory and others have demonstrated that exposure of laboratory animals to heptachlor alters the levels and function of the dopamine transporter (DAT), an integral component of dopaminergic neurotransmission and a gateway for the dopaminergic neurotoxin MPTP. In this study, we examined the effects of developmental exposure to heptachlor on DAT, and other key components of the dopaminergic system, including the vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC). Female C57BL/6J mice received 0 or 3mg/kg heptachlor in peanut butter every 3 days for 2 weeks prior to breeding and throughout gestation and lactation until the offspring were weaned on postnatal day (PND) 21. On postnatal day 28, DAT, VMAT2, and TH levels were increased by 100, 70, and 30%, respectively, with no change in AADC levels or total dopamine levels. The ratio of DAT:VMAT2 was increased 29%. Since an increase in the DAT:VMAT2 ratio appears to predict susceptibility of brain regions to Parkinson's disease (PD) and results in increased toxicity of MPTP, these results suggest that alterations of the dopaminergic system by developmental heptachlor exposure may increase the susceptibility of dopamine neurons to toxic insult.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is increasingly recognized as a neurodegenerative disorder strongly associated with environmental chemical exposures. Recent epidemiological data demonstrate that environmental risk factors may play a dominant role as compared to genetic factors in the etiopathogenesis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Identification of key genetic defects such as alpha-synuclein and parkin mutations in PD also underscores the important role of genetic factors in the disease. Thus, understanding the interplay between genes and environment in PD may be critical to unlocking the mysteries of this 200-year-old neurodegenerative disease. Pesticides and metals are the most common classes of environmental chemicals that promote dopaminergic degeneration. The organochlorine pesticide dieldrin has been found in human PD postmortem brain tissues, suggesting that this pesticide has potential to promote nigral cell death. Though dieldrin has been banned, humans continue to be exposed to the pesticide through contaminated dairy products and meats due to the persistent accumulation of the pesticide in the environment. This review summarizes various neurotoxic studies conducted in both cell culture and animals models following dieldrin exposure and discusses their relevance to key pathological mechanisms associated with nigral dopaminergic degeneration including oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, protein aggregation, and apoptosis.
Three factors leading to the development of postoperative deep venous thrombosis (DVT) are the hypercoagulable state, stasis, and vein wall injury, which occur in patients undergoing surgical procedures. Vein wall injury is thought to occur as a smooth muscle response to surgical trauma in veins distant from the operative site. Heparin and dihydroergotamine (DHE) were combined in an attempt to decrease the hypercoagulable factor and minimize stasis. We believe that by maintaining venous smooth muscle tone, the degree of endothelial damage is also diminished. Low-dose heparin acts through its effect of factor Xa and activation of antithrombin III; DHE selectively increases venous smooth muscle tone to accelerate venous blood flow velocity and minimize venous pooling. The European experience with combination DHE-heparin prophylaxis shows that this combination is more effective than either agent alone, and studies on orthopedic patients have shown that DHE/5,000 is effective in preventing postoperative DVT in this high-risk group. In the US, the Multicenter Trial evaluated postoperative DVT in general surgical patients. The combination of DHE/5,000 was statistically more effective in the prophylaxis of postoperative DVT than placebo (p = 0.0011). The interim results of an ongoing Multicenter Trial on the prophylaxis of postoperative DVT in patients undergoing total hip replacement indicate that DHE/5000 has significant prophylactic efficacy compared to placebo. It is proposed that the mechanism of action of the DHE-heparin combination is synergistic, since all 3 limbs of Virchow's triad are potentially affected.
We have reported that streptozotocin-induced insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in 25% reduced renal mass rats is associated with low-renin, volume-expanded hypertension and that the development of the hypertension can be prevented with insulin. In this study we examined the effect of insulin after the animals had developed sustained hypertension. Normotensive 25% reduced renal mass rats were treated with streptozotocin and, as expected, developed insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and hypertension. After 4 weeks of sustained hypertension, neutral protamine Hagedorn insulin (6 to 8 IU/d) was administered subcutaneously for 4 weeks. As expected, insulin treatment decreased plasma glucose and increased body weight gain relative to untreated diabetic rats. On the other hand, insulin treatment did not reverse the hypertension and albuminuria. It also did not normalize extracellular fluid volume and plasma renin activity. Furthermore, insulin treatment did not reverse the increase in plasma Na+,K(+)-ATPase inhibitory activity (determined by both radioimmunoassay and bioassay) and the inhibition of myocardial microsomal Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity observed in the untreated diabetic hypertensive rats. 5'-Nucleotidase, a membrane marker, was not different between insulin-treated and untreated diabetic rats. These results show that insulin, given as here described, does not reverse the insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus hypertension in 25% reduced renal mass rats once it is established, perhaps because it does not reverse the albuminuria, volume expansion, increase in endogenous digitalis-like substance, and inhibition of cardiovascular muscle cell Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity.
We report a newborn infant with multiple congenital anomalies (anotia and Taussig-Bing malformation) due to exposure to isotretinoin within the first trimester. In this paper we aim to draw to the fact that caution is needed when prescribing vitamin A-containing drugs to women of childbearing years.
Severe bradycardia associated with profound systemic arterial hypotension was observed in 3 patients following sublingual nitroglycerin administration. All patients had clinical evidence of active ischemic heart disease. In 1 patient, third-degree heart block was observed several hours later, requiring pacemaker therapy. Radionuclide ventriculography in 1 patient during the bradycardia revealed no significant change in regional wall motion or in left or right ventricular ejection fraction. Review of the literature shows no consistent predictors as to which patients are at risk for developing this syndrome. Possible pathophysiologic mechanisms are discussed. These case reports illustrate an unpredictable and serious complication of nitroglycerin administration, and emphasize the need for caution in use of this drug for ischemic heart disease.
It has been shown that reactive oxygen species are involved in chronic puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) induced nephrotic syndrome (NS) and that a 20% soy protein diet reduces renal damage in this experimental model. The purpose of the present work was to investigate if a 20% soy protein diet is able to modulate kidney nitrotyrosine formation and the activity of renal antioxidant enzymes (catalase, glutathione peroxidase, Cu,Zn- or Mn-superoxide dismutase) which could explain, at least in part, the protective effect of the soy protein diet in rats with chronic NS induced by PAN. Four groups of rats were studied: (1) Control rats fed 20% casein diet, (2) Nephrotic rats fed 20% casein diet, (3) Control rats fed 20% soy protein diet, and (4) Nephrotic rats fed 20% soy protein diet. Chronic NS was induced by repeated injections of PAN and rats were sacrificed at week nine. The soy protein diet ameliorated proteinuria, hypercholesterolemia, and the increase in serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen observed in nephrotic rats fed 20% casein diet. Kidney nitrotyrosine formation increased in nephrotic rats fed 20% casein diet and this increase was ameliorated in nephrotic rats fed 20% soy protein diet. However, the soy protein diet was unable to modulate the antioxidant enzymes activities in control and nephrotic rats fed 20% soy protein diet. Food intake was similar in the two diet groups. The protective effect of a 20% soy protein diet on renal damage in chronic nephropathy induced by PAN was associated with the amelioration in the renal nitrotyrosine formation but not with the modulation of antioxidant enzymes.
