Fluctuations in performance in levodopa-treated Parkinsonians pose frequent and difficult problems of managment. Controlled trials with two recently introduced drugs, bromocriptine and L-deprenyl, have been performed in an attempt to clarify their use in Parkinsonian oscillations. Bromocriptine, partially substituted for levodopa, was helpful in 4 of 6 patients with early morning dystonia, but did not benefit 9 patients with end-of-dose deterioration and 5 patients with "on-off changes. L-Deprenyl 10mg daily gave substantial benefit to 19 of 39 patients with end-of-dose deterioration, but to only 1 of 10 patients with "on-off' phenomena. Neither L-deprenyl nor bromocriptine helped patients disabled by freezing episodes or levodopa-induced involuntary movements.
Notch pathway signaling plays a fundamental role in normal biological processes and is frequently deregulated in many cancers. Although several hypotheses regarding cancer subpopulations most likely to respond to therapies targeting the Notch pathway have been proposed, clinical utility of these predictive markers has not been shown. To understand the molecular basis of gamma-secretase inhibitor (GSI) sensitivity in breast cancer, we undertook an unbiased, de novo responder identification study using a novel genetically engineered in vivo breast cancer model. We show that tumors arising from this model are heterogeneous on the levels of gene expression, histopathology, growth rate, expression of Notch pathway markers, and response to GSI treatment. In addition, GSI treatment of this model was associated with inhibition of Hes1 and proliferation markers, indicating that GSI treatment inhibits Notch signaling. We then identified a pretreatment gene expression signature comprising 768 genes that is significantly associated with in vivo GSI efficacy across 99 tumor lines. Pathway analysis showed that the GSI responder signature is enriched for Notch pathway components and inflammation/immune-related genes. These data show the power of this novel in vivo model system for the discovery of biomarkers predictive of response to targeted therapies, and provide a basis for the identification of human breast cancers most likely to be sensitive to GSI treatment.
This paper reviews the effect of chronic lithium therapy on serum calcium level and parathyroid glands, its pathogenesis, and treatment options. We examined the case of a lithium-treated patient who had recurrent hypercalcemia to better understand the disease process.
Primary hyperparathyroidism is a rare but potentially life-threatening side effect of long-term lithium therapy. Careful patient selection and long-term follow-up can reduce morbidity.
As much as 15% of lithium-treated patients become hypercalcemic. By routinely monitoring serum calcium levels, healthcare providers can improve the quality of life of this patient group.
Sodium valproate and clonazepam were given in combination to 17 refractory epileptic patients and their progress was reviewed clinically and by EEG's. Even though plasma concentrations of sodium valproate and conventional anticonvulsants were monitored and adjusted according to individual requirements, combination therapy consisting of valproate and clonazepam was ineffective in controlling seizures in the majority of patients. A further 40 patients receiving clonazepam were reviewed in relation to adverse reactions. 22 patients in this group suffered from undesirable effects attributable to clonazepam. These effects were managed by cessation of the drug or a reduction in the dose. The commonest side effects were drowsiness, loss of concentration, irritability and aggression.
To compare intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVT) versus natural course in refractory diabetic macular edema.
In a prospective interventional case series, twenty five eyes with refractory DME which had been allocated to the sham group of a previous clinical trial underwent new examination and optical coherence tomography about 9 months after their first enrollment. Twenty eyes that met the inclusion criteria, visual acuity (VA) < 20/50 and central macular thickness (CMT) > 200 microm, were treated by 4 mg IVT. Evaluations were repeated at 2 and 4 months post-injection to imitate the similar examination intervals after sham injection. Corrected visual acuity and macular thickness changes following IVT were compared to the corresponding changes after sham injection (the natural course).
Visual acuity changes within and between each period were not statistically significant. Visual acuity decreased 0.08 & 0.09 logMAR by 2 months and 0.06 & 0.04 logMAR by 4 months after sham and IVT injections, respectively. The changes of macular thickness after IVT and sham intervention were not meaningful either. However, the difference between thickness changes by 4 months (52+/-50 microm increase after sham vs. 262+/-115 microm reduction after IVT) was significant (P=0.014).
Concerning macular thickness, IVT has beneficial effect on refractory diabetic macular edema as opposed to observation. However, considering visual acuity, it does not induce significant difference in comparison to the natural course of the disease.
EC131, a new folate receptor (FR)-targeted drug conjugate, was prepared by covalently attaching the vitamin folic acid (FA) to a potent microtubule-inhibiting agent, maytansinoid DM1, via an intramolecular disulfide bond. When tested on cells in culture, EC131 was found to retain high affinity for FR-positive cells and to provide FR-specific cytotoxicity with an IC(50) in the low nanomolar range. The activity of EC131 was completely blocked in the presence of an excess of free FA, and no activity was detected against FR-negative cells. When evaluated against s.c. FR-positive M109 tumors in BALB/c mice, EC131 showed marked antitumor efficacy. Furthermore, this therapeutic effect occurred in the apparent absence of weight loss or noticeable organ tissue degeneration. In contrast, no significant antitumor activity was observed in EC131-treated animals that were codosed with an excess of FA, thus demonstrating the targeted specificity of the in vivo activity. EC131 also showed marked antitumor activity against FR-positive human KB tumors, but not against FR-negative A549 tumors, in nude mice with no evidence of systemic toxicity during or after the therapy. In contrast, therapy with the free maytansinoid drug (in the form of DM1-S-Me) proved not to be effective against the KB model when administered at its maximum tolerated dose (MTD). Taken together, these results indicate that EC131 is a highly potent agent capable of producing therapeutic benefit in murine tumor models at sub-MTD levels.
A healthy young woman underwent arthroscopy of the right knee, for which she was given an enflurane anaesthetic. The anaesthetic was uneventful, but she started to show myoclonic jerky movements involving multiple muscle groups, except those innervated by the cranial nerves, while recovering from the anaesthetic. These jerky movements settled to the left side of her body. It was also associated with significant right frontal and retro-orbital headache. Serial neurological assessments were entirely negative. These symptoms took more than 48 hours to disappear. She recovered from this anaesthetic complication completely. An anaesthetic complication of this nature and duration has not been reported before in association with enflurane.
This article describes three patients who developed parkinsonism when fluoxetine was added to their existing medication (neuroleptics or carbamazepine). Based on published pharmacological and neuroanatomical research we postulate a serotonin-dopamine antagonism to be operative in the development of drug-induced parkinsonism. Alternatively, the possibility of a pharmacokinetic interaction remains.
We report the case of a 75-year-old woman who was hospitalized for serum aminotransferase elevation. She had taken 1 g/d of salicylate therapy (Aspegic 1000) for 5 years, clorazepate for 10 years, naftidrofuryl for 8 months and quinapril for 3 months. Liver histology showed cirrhosis and granulomatous hepatitis. Discontinuation of salicylate therapy resulted in normalization of liver tests, although other drug administration was pursued. This observation suggests that salicylate therapy can induce cirrhosis.
Two- and three-dimensional analyses of nicotine-induced eye movements were performed in 53 subjects to evaluate whether they were primarily of vestibular or ocular motor origin. Nicotine-induced nystagmus was detected in 27 subjects (51%); in 25 of these (93%) it was modulated by otolith input. Three-dimensional analysis of nicotine-induced nystagmus revealed that it violates Listing's law. Taken together, these findings suggest that nicotine induces an imbalance in the vestibulo-ocular reflex.
Undoubtedly ovarian cancer is a vexing, incurable disease for patients with recurrent cancer and therapeutic options are limited. Although the polycomb group gene, Bmi-1 that regulates the self-renewal of normal stem and progenitor cells has been implicated in the pathogenesis of many human malignancies, yet a role for Bmi-1 in influencing chemotherapy response has not been addressed before. Here we demonstrate that silencing Bmi-1 reduces intracellular GSH levels and thereby sensitizes chemoresistant ovarian cancer cells to chemotherapeutics such as cisplatin. By exacerbating ROS production in response to cisplatin, Bmi-1 silencing activates the DNA damage response pathway, caspases and cleaves PARP resulting in the induction apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells. In an in vivo orthotopic mouse model of chemoresistant ovarian cancer, knockdown of Bmi-1 by nanoliposomal delivery significantly inhibits tumor growth. While cisplatin monotherapy was inactive, combination of Bmi-1 silencing along with cisplatin almost completely abrogated ovarian tumor growth. Collectively these findings establish Bmi-1 as an important new target for therapy in chemoresistant ovarian cancer.
Lamivudine is the most widely prescribed drug of choice for chronic hepatitis B infection, which is a common health problem in China. Generally, the administration of lamivudine has been well tolerated. The authors report two cases of acute dystonic reactions (ADRs) as a side effect of lamivudine. ADR induced by drug treatment can be a side effect of treatment with antipsychotic drugs and other drugs; however, there have been no reports of lamivudine-induced ADR in the English literature. The authors think that although lamivudine is widely used and well tolerated, it can cause ADRs, which are reversible after drug withdrawal.
The MECP2 gene mutations cause Rett syndrome (RTT) (OMIM: 312750), an X-linked dominant disorder primarily affecting girls. Until RTT was considered lethal in males, although now approximately 60 cases have been reported. Males with MECP2 mutations present with a broad spectrum of phenotypes ranging from neonatal encephalopathy to nonsyndromic mental retardation (MR). Four boys (aged, 3-11 y) were evaluated for MR. Patient 1 had autistic features. Patients 2 and 3 were brothers both presenting with psychomotor delay. Patient 4 showed dysmorphic features and behavioral problems reminiscent of FXS. All patients had a normal 46, XY karyotype and three were tested for FXS with negative results. MECP2 gene analysis of exons 3 and 4 was performed using methods based on the PCR, including Enzymatic Cleavage Mismatched Analysis (ECMA) and direct sequencing. Patient 1 presented somatic mosaicism for the classic RTT p.R106W mutation and patient 4 carried the p.T203M polymorphism. Analysis of the mothers in both cases revealed normal DNA sequences. Patients 2 and 3 had a novel deletion (c.1140del86) inherited from their unaffected mother. MECP2 gene mutations may be considered a rare cause of MR in males although great phenotypic variation hinders genotype-phenotype correlation.
Fipronil is described as a thyroid disruptor in rat. Based on the hypothesis that this results from a perturbation of hepatic thyroid hormone metabolism, our goal was to investigate the pathways involved in fipronil-induced liver gene expression regulations. First, we performed a microarray screening in the liver of rats treated with fipronil or vehicle. Fipronil treatment led to the upregulation of several genes involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics, including the cytochrome P450 Cyp2b1, Cyp2b2 and Cyp3a1, the carboxylesterases Ces2 and Ces6, the phase II enzymes Ugt1a1, Sult1b1 and Gsta2, and the membrane transporters Abcc2, Abcc3, Abcg5, Abcg8, Slco1a1 and Slco1a4. Based on a large overlap with the target genes of constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) and pregnane X receptor (PXR), we postulated that these two nuclear receptors are involved in mediating the effects of fipronil on liver gene expression in rodents. We controlled that liver gene expression changes induced by fipronil were generally reproduced in mice, and then studied the effects of fipronil in wild-type, CAR- and PXR-deficient mice. For most of the genes studied, the gene expression modulations were abolished in the liver of PXR-deficient mice and were reduced in the liver of CAR-deficient mice. However, CAR and PXR activation in mouse liver was not associated with a marked increase of thyroid hormone clearance, as observed in rat. Nevertheless, our data clearly indicate that PXR and CAR are key modulators of the hepatic gene expression profile following fipronil treatment which, in rats, may contribute to increase thyroid hormone clearance.
Sophocarpine, a tetracyclic quinolizidine alkaloid, is one of the most abundant active ingredients in Sophora alopecuroides L. Our previous studies have showed that sophocarpine exerts anti-inflammatory activity in animal models. In the present study, anti-inflammatory mechanisms of sophocarpine were investigated in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced responses in RAW 264.7 cells. Furthermore, the cytotoxicity of sophocarpine was tested. The results indicated that sophocarpine could increase the LDH level and inhibit cell viability up to 800μg/ml, and which was far higher than that of the plasma concentration of sophocarpine in clinical effective dosage. The results also demonstrated that sophocarpine (50 and 100μg/ml) suppressed LPS-stimulated NO production and pro-inflammatory cytokines secretion, including tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6). These were associated with the decrease of the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Furthermore, sophocarpine inhibited LPS-mediated nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation via the prevention of inhibitor κB (IκB) phosphorylation. Sophocarpine had no effect on the LPS-induced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2), whereas it attenuated the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase and c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK). Our data suggested that sophocarpine exerted anti-inflammatory activity in vitro, and it might attribute to the inhibition of iNOS and COX-2 expressions via down-regulation of the JNK and p38 MAP kinase signal pathways and inhibition of NF-κB activation.
Experimental evidence has been obtained to support the view that late necrosis in the brain, after irradiation, is a consequence of damage to the vascular system. Rats were locally irradiated to the brain with a single dose of 25 Gy of X-rays and their response was compared with rats given the same treatment after administration of the radioprotector, Gammaphos. Time-dependent changes in endothelial cell number were determined for up to 65 weeks after irradiation. The complex pattern of changes in endothelial cell number, seen after irradiation alone, was not found in animals receiving Gammaphos prior to irradiation. The initial marked loss of endothelial cells, seen after 24 h in unprotected animals, was effectively prevented by the pre-administration of Gammaphos. The subsequent slow decline in endothelial cell density in Gammaphos treated animals was insufficient to induce an abortive attempt at endothelial cell re-population. This occurred between 26 and 52 weeks after irradiation in unprotected animals. By 65 weeks after irradiation <10% of animals receiving Gammaphos showed necrosis on histological evaluation. This compared with approximately 50% of the animals showing necrosis that had not received the radioprotector. Since the radioprotector is restricted to the vasculature of the brain these data indicate that endothelium is the primary target cell population, damage to which leads to the development of late radiation-induced necrosis in the brain.
Discharge times after ambulatory surgery are determined by postoperative complications and in particular by the presence and severity of nausea and vomiting. Sevoflurane has become a popular agent for day-case surgery despite little evidence of clear advantages over current alternatives. We compared this agent with isoflurane in day-case patients undergoing knee arthroscopy in order to quantify the incidence of complications associated with each agent. One hundred and eighty patients received a standardised anaesthetic induction with propofol and fentanyl followed by maintenance with either isoflurane or sevoflurane. Standardised postoperative analgesic and anti-emetic drugs were prescribed. Any intra-operative cardiovascular or respiratory instability was recorded. After surgery, nausea, vomiting and pain were assessed. Almost all patients made an uneventful recovery and were discharged as scheduled. There was a significantly higher incidence of complications in the sevoflurane group. These included the presence of nausea and vomiting, and cardiovascular and respiratory complications. We found nothing to commend the routine use of sevoflurane rather than isoflurane in the context of day case anaesthesia.
The distribution of domperidone (DOM), a peripheral dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist, to the brain is restricted by P-glycoprotein (P-gp) at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and for this reason, DOM rarely causes parkinsonian symptoms, such as extrapyramidal side effects (EPS), unlike other dopamine D(2) antagonists. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether cyclosporin A (CsA), a P-gp inhibitor, potentiates EPS induced by DOM. The intensity of EPS was assessed in terms of the duration of catalepsy in mice. D(1), D(2) and mACh receptor occupancies at the striatum were measured in vivo and in vitro. Moreover, the distribution of DOM to the brain was investigated by using an in situ brain perfusion technique. The intensity of DOM-induced catalepsy was significantly potentiated by the coadministration of CsA. The in vivo occupancies of D(1), D(2) and mACh receptors, as well as the brain distribution of DOM, were increased by CsA. These results suggest that CsA increases the brain distribution of DOM by inhibiting P-gp at the BBB, and potentiates catalepsy by increasing the occupancies of the D(1) and D(2) receptors. The risk of DOM-induced parkinsonism may be enhanced by the coadministration of CsA.
Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene (IP) is a major environmental pollutant which is carcinogenic on mouse skin and in rat lung. Unlike benzo(a)pyrene, IP is a nonalternant polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon which is devoid of a bay region. IP was mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium TA100 in the presence of a 9000 X g supernatant from the livers of Aroclor-pretreated rats. Using a similar activation system, the major metabolites of IP were isolated and identified by comparison with synthetic reference standards. trans-1,2-Dihydro-1,2-dihydroxy-IP, 8-, 9-, and 10-hydroxy-IP, 8- and 9-hydroxy-trans-1,2-dihydro-1,2-dihydroxy-IP, and IP-1,2-quinone are among the metabolites formed in vitro. The 1,2-epoxide of indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene is a potent direct-acting mutagen. 8- and 9-hydroxy-IP were mutagenic with metabolic activation. 1-,2-, and 6-hydroxy-IP and the trans-1,2-dihydrodiol had no significant mutagenic activity in S. typhimurium TA100 with metabolic activation. These data suggest that the K-region oxides of IP and of 8- and 9-hydroxy-IP are ultimately responsible for its mutagenic activity.
Serial echocardiographic examinations were made to study the changes in left ventricular (LV) function and wall mass in 35 patients with thalassemia followed up for 5.5 +/- 2 years (mean +/- SD). Twenty patients received deferoxamine sulfate for 2.0 +/- 0.6 years (drug group) and 15 patients did not (nondrug group). Repeated blood transfusions were used to maintain the pretransfusion hemoglobin levels at 9 g/dL (90 g/L). Deferoxamine therapy improved LV function and decreased LV wall mass. Percentage shortening of LV diameter improved in the drug group (5.0% +/- 3.9%) and deteriorated in the nondrug group (-6.8% +/- 5.6%). Similarly, the maximum velocity of LV posterior wall motion improved in the drug group (16.1 +/- 20.1 mm/s) and deteriorated in the nondrug group (-18.3 +/- 19.0 mm/s). Left ventricular wall mass decreased in the drug group when compared with the nondrug group. In a subset of the drug group, pathologic natural deterioration in LV systolic function was reversed by treatment. Correlation studies indicated that frequent blood transfusions together with chelation therapy reduced LV dilatation and wall thickness, but blood transfusions alone did not have the same effect. Thus, treatment of patients with thalassemia with modest blood transfusions and deferoxamine can prevent deterioration and may even improve their LV systolic function, associated probably with arrest and reversal of the pathologic process that increases LV wall mass.
Nicardipine is a potent arteriolar vasodilator with a negligible negative inotropic effect. Although intravenous administration of this drug has been reported to be effective in the treatment of heart failure, the optimal dose by this route is not clear. This study was designed to determine the optimum dose for the intravenous infusion of nicardipine in the treatment of heart failure. In Trial 1, nicardipine was administered intravenously at a dose of 0.5 microgram/kg per min to 14 patients with acute heart failure. The dose was increased to 1.0 microgram/kg per min in 13 cases with marked improvement at 2 h. In Trial 2, nicardipine was administered in a double-blind manner to 53 patients at 3 different rates of infusion for 2 h: 1.0 (Group 1, n = 19), 2.0 (Group 2, n = 15), and 3.0 (Group 3, n = 19) micrograms/kg per min. Neither heart rate nor mean right atrial pressure changed in any of the 3 groups. Favorable hemodynamic effects were evident in all groups beginning 30 min after the start of infusion, with an increase in cardiac index (control vs 2 h after infusion, L/min per m2) (Group 1: 2.2 +/- 0.4 vs 3.1 +/- 0.8, Group 2: 2.2 +/- 0.4 vs 2.9 +/- 0.5, Group 3: 2.3 +/- 0.3 vs 3.1 +/- 0.7, all p < 0.01 compared to the control) and a decrease in diastolic pulmonary artery pressure (Group 1: 26 +/- 10 vs 19 +/- 7, Group 2: 27 +/- 10 vs 20 +/- 8, Group 3: 26 +/- 7 vs 18 +/- 5 mmHg, all p < 0.01). The decrease in systolic pressure was greatest in Group 3 (Group 1: 141 +/- 31 vs 119 +/- 18, Group 2: 149 +/- 25 vs 118 +/- 17, Group 3; 147 +/- 27 vs 107 +/- 14 mmHg, all p < 0.01 compared to control, and p < 0.05 between Groups 1 and 3). The intravenous drip infusion of nicardipine is effective in the treatment of heart failure by inducing an increase in cardiac output and a decrease in pulmonary artery wedge pressure. The optimal dose in this study was 1.0 microgram/kg per min.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of GSTM1, GSTT1, and GSTP1 gene polymorphism on urinary excretion of unchanged ifosfamide, 2-dechloroethylifosfamide (2DCIF), and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide (3DCIF) with regard to the incidence of ifosfamide-related nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity in children. The study comprised 76 children (38 girls, 38 boys) ages 9.84 to 210 months who were being treated for various malignant diseases with ifosfamide. The children were enrolled after identification of genotype coding for three classes of glutathione S-transferases (GSTM1, GSTT1, and GSTP1) at the initial stage of diagnosis. (P) nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy was used to analyze the urinary excretion of unchanged ifosfamide, 2DCIF, and 3DCIF metabolites on consecutive days after the end of the 3-hour infusion of ifosfamide. In children with polymorphic locus of the GSTP1 gene compared with children with homozygous wild alleles, increased urinary excretion of 3DCIF (P=0.029) and decreased creatinine clearance was found (Mann-Whitney P=0.03; median 81.1 mL/min/1.73 m vs. 105.0 mL/min/1.73 m, respectively). The authors' multidimensional analysis model revealed that besides the total ifosfamide dose and co-administration of other toxic drugs, polymorphic locus of GSTP1 gene may be one of the factors determining a higher toxicity of the cytostatic agent. The model was construed at P=0.029. Moreover, no correlation was found between the GSTM1 or GSTT1 genotype and ifosfamide toxicity and the urinary excretion of its metabolites. The results of this analysis indicate that individual reactions to ifosfamide can depend on inherited genetic polymorphisms, especially associated with the GSTP1 gene coding detoxifying enzyme.
Palmar-Plantar erythrodyasesthesia syndrome has been reported as a temporary complication of 5-fluorouracil therapy consisting of a debilitating erythema and tenderness of the skin of hands and feet. The syndrome has previously been observed to respond rapidly to either temporary cessation of chemotherapy or pyridoxine with little residual disability. We report a case which was characterized by persistent morbidity necessitating prolonged discontinuation of treatment.
