To determine gene(s) disrupted in a patient with partial frontal lobe epilepsy and cognitive impairment with concomitant de novo balanced chromosomal translocation t(2;13)(q24;q31).
Fluorescence in situ hybridization and array comparative genomic hybridization were used to map the locations of chromosomal translocation breakpoints.
SLC4A10 (OMIM 605556), a sodium bicarbonate transporter gene with high expression in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, was disrupted by the translocation breakpoint on chromosome 2q24. The breakpoint on chromosome 13q31 was in a 1-megabase (Mb)-gene desert. Genomewide array comparative genomic hybridization confirmed the absence of additional chromosomal abnormalities.
SLC4A10 is the third SLC4 base transporter family member to be implicated in human cognition and epilepsy.
Two patients with prosthetic valve endocarditis due to methicillin-resistant Gram-positive cocci (Staphylococcus epidermidis and Micrococcus spp.) are described. They were successfully treated with rifampicin combined first with an aminoglycoside and later with co-trimoxazole or co-trimoxazole plus vancomycin. The addition of rifampicin to these antibiotics resulted in enhanced serum bactericidal activity. High doses of rifampicin (1200-1800 mg) for 7-8 weeks did not cause any serious side-effect. Surgery was not required. During surveillance for more than 2 years endocarditis did not recur.
Invasive fungal infections are on the rise. Amphotericin B and azole antifungals have been the mainstay of antifungal therapy so far. The high incidence of infusion related toxicity and nephrotoxicity with amphotericin B and the emergence of fluconazole resistant strains of Candida glabrata egged on the search for alternatives. Echinocandins are a new class of antifungal drugs that act by inhibition of beta (1, 3)-D- glucan synthase, a key enzyme necessary for integrity of the fungal cell wall.Caspofungin was the first drug in this class to be approved. It is indicated for esophageal candidiasis, candidemia, invasive candidiasis, empirical therapy in febrile neutropenia and invasive aspergillosis. Response rates are comparable to those of amphotericin B and fluconazole. Micafungin is presently approved for esophageal candidiasis, for prophylaxis of candida infections in patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) and in disseminated candidiasis and candidemia. The currently approved indications for anidulafungin are esophageal candidiasis, candidemia and invasive candidiasis.The incidence of infusion related adverse effects and nephrotoxicity is much lower than with amphotericin B. The main adverse effect is hepatotoxicity and derangement of serum transaminases. Liver function may need to be monitored. They are, however, safer in renal impairment. Even though a better pharmacoeconomical choice than amphotericin B, the higher cost of these drugs in comparison to azole antifungals is likely to limit their use to azole resistant cases of candidial infections and as salvage therapy in invasive aspergillosis rather than as first line drugs.
The antiarrhythmic efficacies of the competitive angiotensin II (AII) antagonist losartan, losartan's more potent noncompetitive AII antagonist human metabolite EXP3174 and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril were assessed in a canine model of recent myocardial infarction.
Multiple hemodynamic and electrophysiologic effects of AII may contribute to cardiac electrical instability. In the recent Losartan Heart Failure Study, Evaluation of Losartan in the Elderly (ELITE), a 722-patient trial primarily designed to assess effects on renal function, an unexpected survival benefit was observed with losartan compared with captopril, with the lower mortality using losartan primarily confined to a reduction in sudden cardiac death.
Intravenous losartan (1 mg/kg + 0.03 mg/kg/min), EXP3174 (0.1 mg/kg + 0.01 mg/kg/min), captopril (1 mg/kg + 0.5 mg/kg/h) or vehicle were infused in anesthetized dogs with recent (8.1 +/- 0.4 days) anterior myocardial infarction. Electrolytic injury of the left circumflex coronary artery to induce thrombotic occlusion and posterolateral ischemia was initiated 1 h after the start of treatment.
Losartan, EXP3174 and captopril elevated plasma renin activities and comparably and significantly reduced mean arterial pressure. No significant electrocardiographic or cardiac electrophysiologic effects were noted with any treatment. Incidences of acute posterolateral ischemia-induced lethal arrhythmias were: vehicle, 7/9 (77%); losartan, 6/8 (75%); EXP3174, 2/8 (25%; p < 0.05 vs. vehicle control); captopril, 7/10 (70%). There were no among-group differences in time to onset of acute posterolateral ischemia or underlying anterior infarct size.
EXP3174, but not losartan nor captopril, reduced the incidence of lethal ischemic ventricular arrhythmia in this preparation. The antiarrhythmic efficacy of EXP3174 may be due to an attenuation of deleterious effects of local cardiac AII formed during acute myocardial ischemia or, alternatively, a non-AII-related activity specific to EXP3174. These findings suggest that in humans, metabolic conversion of losartan to EXP3174 may afford antiarrhythmic protection.
The aim of this article was to investigate the correlation between expression of O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) in osteosarcoma and the curative effect of alkylating agent (Cis-diaminodichloroplatinum, CDDP). 42 male patients and 34 female patients with a median age of 17 years (9 to 43 years) were eligible for this study. According to histopathological types, there were 3 cases of telangiectatic osteogenic sarcoma, 22 cases of osteoblastic, 11 cases of chondroblastic and 16 cases of fibroblastic sarcoma. Immunohistochemical method was used to detect the expression of MGMT protein. The correlations between MGMT expression and the curative effect of CDDP on osteosarcoma have been investigated. It was shown by immunohistochemical staining that among 76 osteosarcoma biopsy specimens, 52 (68%) cases were positive, 27 (35%) cases were weak positive, 18 (24%), cases were moderate positive, and 7 (9%) cases were strong positive. There were no significant differences in MGMT expression among different pathological types of tumors (p>0.5). After CDDP chemotherapy, among pathologic specimens in which MGMT expression was positive, necrosis rates were as follows: grade I, 5 cases (38%); grade II, 7 cases (25%); grade III, 15 cases (21%); grade IV, 2 cases (23%). Osteosarcoma necrosis rate was low when the expression of MGMT protein was positive, whereas necrosis rate was high when there was a low level of MGMT expression (p<0.01). There was a significant negative correlation between the level of MGMT expression in osteosarcoma tissue and osteosarcoma necrosis rate after cisplatin chemotherapy.
Aerotoxic syndrome is assumed to be caused by exposure to tricresyl phosphate (TCP), an antiwear additive in jet engine lubricants and hydraulic fluid. CBDP (2-(ortho-cresyl)-4H-1,2,3-benzodioxaphosphoran-2-one) is the toxic metabolite of triortho-cresylphosphate, a component of TCP. Human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE; EC 3.1.1.8) and human acetylcholinesterase (AChE; EC 3.1.1.7) are irreversibly inhibited by CBDP. The bimolecular rate constants of inhibition (k(i)), determined under pseudo-first-order conditions, displayed a biphasic time course of inhibition with k(i) of 1.6 × 10(8) M(-1) min(-1) and 2.7 × 10(7) M(-1) min(-1) for E and E' forms of BChE. The inhibition constants for AChE were 1 to 2 orders of magnitude slower than those for BChE. CBDP-phosphorylated cholinesterases are nonreactivatable due to ultra fast aging. Mass spectrometry analysis showed an initial BChE adduct with an added mass of 170 Da from cresylphosphate, followed by dealkylation to a structure with an added mass of 80 Da. Mass spectrometry in (18)O-water showed that (18)O was incorporated only during the final aging step to form phospho-serine as the final aged BChE adduct. The crystal structure of CBDP-inhibited BChE confirmed that the phosphate adduct is the ultimate aging product. CBDP is the first organophosphorus agent that leads to a fully dealkylated phospho-serine BChE adduct.
Homovanilic acid (HVA) was determined in the lumbar CSF of 12 patients with Huntington's disease and 12 with Sydenham's chorea before and after probenecid administration. The means of HVA concentration (basal and after probenecid) were lower in those with Huntington's disease than in controls, and were even lower in a sub-group characterised by increased tone and slowness of voluntary movement. There was no correlation between CSF HVA values and the severity of abnormal movements, nor with length of the illness and age of the patients with Huntington's disease. The mean basal HVA concentration did not differ from controls in those with Sydenham's chorea but the accumulation with probenecid was significantly lower. These results suggest a decrease in cerebral dopamine release in both forms of chorea.
Metabolic syndrome is a low-grade inflammatory state in which oxidative stress is involved. Naringin, isolated from the Citrussinensis, is a phenolic compound with anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory activities. The aim of this study was to explore the effects of naringin on metabolic syndrome in mice. The animal models, induced by high-fat diet in C57BL/6 mice, developed obesity, dyslipidemia, fatty liver, liver dysfunction and insulin resistance. These changes were attenuated by naringin. Further investigations revealed that the inhibitory effect on inflammation and insulin resistance was mediated by blocking activation of the MAPKs pathways and by activating IRS1; the lipid-lowering effect was attributed to inhibiting the synthesis way and increasing fatty acid oxidation; the hypoglycemic effect was due to the regulation of PEPCK and G6pase. The anti-oxidative stress of naringin also participated in the improvement of insulin resistance and lipogenesis. All of these depended on the AMPK activation. To confirm the results of the animal experiment, we tested primary hepatocytes exposed to high glucose system. Naringin was protective by phosphorylating AMPKα and IRS1. Taken together, these results suggested that naringin protected mice exposed to a high-fat diet from metabolic syndrome through an AMPK-dependent mechanism involving multiple types of intracellular signaling and reduction of oxidative damage.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiac hypertrophy, although its mechanism of action remains largely unknown. To determine the effect of PPARα activation on endothelin-1 (ET-1)-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and explore its molecular mechanisms, we evaluated the interaction of PPARα with nuclear factor of activated T-cells c4 (NFATc4) in nuclei of cardiomyocytes from neonatal rats in primary culture. In ET-1-stimulated cardiomyocytes, data from electrophoretic mobility-shift assays (EMSA) and co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) revealed that fenofibrate (Fen), a PPARα activator, in a concentration-dependent manner, enhanced the association of NFATc4 with PPARα and decreased its interaction with GATA-4, in promoter complexes involved in activation of the rat brain natriuretic peptide (rBNP) gene. Effects of PPARα overexpression were similar to those of its activation by Fen. PPARα depletion by small interfering RNA abolished inhibitory effects of Fen on NFATc4 binding to GATA-4 and the rBNP DNA. Quantitative RT-PCR and confocal microscopy confirmed inhibitory effects of PPARα activation on elevation of rBNP mRNA levels and ET-1-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. Our results suggest that activated PPARα can compete with GATA-4 binding to NFATc4, thereby decreasing transactivation of NFATc4, and interfering with ET-1 induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy.
The repercussion of the heated dispute on cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) selective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) led to the national and international withdrawal of several of the recently introduced coxibs. Further debate and research have highlighted risks of the classical NSAIDs too. There is much controversy about the cardiovascular safety of a nonselective NSAID naproxen (NAP) and its possible cardioprotective effect.
The study was undertaken to determine the cardiovascular effects of NAP on doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy in rats.
Male albino rats received a single i.p. injection of normal saline (normal control group) and doxorubicin (DOX) 15 mg/kg (toxic control group). Naproxen was administered alone (50 mg/kg/day, p.o.) and in combination with DOX and DOX + trimetazidine (TMZ) (10 mg/kg/day, p.o.) for 5 days after 24 h of DOX treatment. DOX-induced cardiomyopathy was assessed in terms of increased activities of serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), tissue thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and decreased activities of myocardial glutathione, superoxide dismutase and catalase, followed by transmission electron microscopy of the cardiac tissue.
Doxorubicin significantly increased oxidative stress as evidenced by increased levels of LDH and TBARS and decreased antioxidant enzymes levels. Both biochemical and electron microscopic studies revealed that NAP itself was cardiotoxic and aggravated DOX-induced cardiomyopathy and abolished the protective effect of TMZ in rats.
This study indicates that NAP has the potential to worsen the situation in patients with cardiovascular disease. Therefore, it should be used cautiously in patients with compromised cardiac function.
Various factors involved in the development of liver fibrosis, including hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), cholinergic nervous activity and fibrogenetic cytokines. The present study aims to investigate the role of cholinergic regulation in the promoting of liver fibrogenesis relating to bone morphogenetic protein-6 (BMP-6) and/or transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGFbeta1). We treated carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) into rats for eight weeks to induce liver fibrosis and arranged these rats for cholinergic denervation, hepatic branch vagotomy or atropine administration. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) staining showed the distribution of cholinergic nerve around fibrosis scaring septa. The immunohistochemical staining for alpha smooth muscle actin (alphaSMA) indicated the less HSCs in CCl(4) treated rat liver with cholinergic denervation as compared to the sham-operated CCl(4) treated rats. It seems that cholinergic nerve not only innervates around the fibrosis area but also promotes HSCs. We also detected TGFbeta1 and BMP-6 expressions using RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. The obtained results show that cholinergic denerveration decreases BMP-6 and TGF-beta1 expressions in CCl(4) induced liver fibrosis of rats. In conclusion, cholinergic nerve may influence HSCs in addition to the lowering of BMP-6 and TGF-beta1 gene expressions to modify liver fibrosis.
To investigate the subcellular localization of Ca(v)2.2 calcium channel in the mouse central nervous system (CNS), and changes of Ca(v)2.2 at acute and chronic stages during and after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (PISE), in order to find out the roles it may play in epileptogenesis.
Combined immunocytochemistry at both light and electron microscopic levels with real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), cell transfection approach were used in this study.
N-type calcium channel Ca(v)2.2 subunit was distributed in different regions of the mouse CNS. It was mainly localized in the nuclei in different types of neurones and in astrocytes. At acute stages during and after PISE, Ca(v)2.2 expression decreased in the stratum pyramidale of CA3 area and in the stratum granulosum of the dentate gyrus, but increased in the stratum lucidum of CA3 area and in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. At chronic stage at 2 months after PISE, increased expression of Ca(v)2.2 in both the strata granulosum and molecular of the dentate gyrus was observed.
Ca(v)2.2 is a nuclear protein in neurones and astrocytes in the mouse CNS. Its translocation occurs at acute stages during and after PISE. The increased expression of Ca(v)2.2 in both the strata granulosum and moleculare of the dentate gyrus at chronic stage at 2 months after PISE may be involved in the occurrence of spontaneously recurrent seizures.
Dose-dense, every-2-week adjuvant chemotherapy using doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide (AC; 60/600 mg/m2 every 2 weeks x four cycles) followed by paclitaxel (175 mg/m2 every 2 weeks x four cycles), requiring filgrastim on days 3 through 10 of each cycle has been shown to improve survival compared with every-3-week treatment schedules but is associated with greater risk of RBC transfusion (13%). The role of long-acting hematopoietic growth factors in facilitating every-2-week chemotherapy and minimizing hematologic toxicity has not been established.
Women with stage I to III breast cancer received dose-dense AC --> paclitaxel as neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy. Patients received pegfilgrastim 6 mg subcutaneous (SQ) on day 2 of each cycle. Darbepoetin alfa was initiated at 200 microg SQ every 2 weeks for hemoglobin < or = 12 g/dL, and administered thereafter, according to a preplanned algorithm. The primary end points were to evaluate the percentage of patients with febrile neutropenia and the percentage of patients requiring RBC transfusion.
Among 135 women treated on this single arm study, there were two cases of febrile neutropenia (incidence 1.5%). No patients received RBC transfusion. Darbepoetin alfa therapy was initiated in 92% of patients. The modest leukocytosis seen during paclitaxel cycles was attributable, in part, to corticosteroid premedication. Other toxicity and dose-delivery were similar to dose-dense AC --> paclitaxel in Cancer and Leukemia Group B 9741.
Pegfilgrastim and darbepoetin alfa are effective and safe in facilitating every-2-week AC --> paclitaxel, minimizing rates of febrile neutropenia and RBC transfusion.
In a group of 43 smelter workers exposed to inorganic arsenic dust for 13-45 years, nerve conduction velocities (NCVs) were significantly lower in two peripheral nerves as compared with matching referents. With multivariate data analysis, a significant negative correlation was found between cumulative absorption of arsenic and NCV in four examined nerves and the sural amplitude. Clinical symptoms of neuropathy and other symptoms related to arsenic exposure were moderate, though the difference between the groups was significant. The mean total absorption of arsenic was calculated to be less than 5 g, and the maximal absorption about 20 g. These data indicate that the adverse effect of arsenic on the peripheral nerves is dependent on long-term exposure rather than on short-term fluctuations in exposure levels.
[(3)H]Ethynylbicycloorthobenzoate ([(3)H]EBOB), a high affinity radioligand for the noncompetitive blocker site of the GABA(A) receptor, is used here for quantitative autoradiography to determine regional binding in mouse brain and the effects on this binding of administering toxic doses of endosulfan, fipronil, and avermectin B(1a) (AVM). Animals were euthanized 4-8 min after 1 LD50 or 2 LD50 doses of the two channel blockers and 32 min after 1 LD50 or 4 LD50 doses of the channel activator AVM. Specific binding of [(3)H]EBOB was determined for 20-microm brain sections as the difference in labeling on incubation with 2 nM [(3)H]EBOB either alone (total binding) or with 5 microM alpha-endosulfan (nonspecific binding). The highest specific labeling was observed for layers I and IV of the cerebral cortex, the globus pallidus, and the medial septal nucleus/nucleus of the vertical limb of the diagonal band. Dose-dependent inhibition by endosulfan was highest in the nucleus accumbens and least in the cerebellum and periaqueductal gray matter. Fipronil had much less effect on binding even at severely toxic doses. AVM increased [(3)H]EBOB binding in most regions and was the only one of the three agents inhibiting in vitro [(3)H]strychnine binding to the glycine receptor. In summary, the noncompetitive blocker site was strongly inhibited with dose dependence and regional selectively by alpha-endosulfan but was generally poorly inhibited or activated by fipronil and was activated by avermectin.
A new class of amidine-oxime reactivators of organophosphate (OP)-inhibited cholinesterases (ChE) were designed, synthesized, and tested. These compounds represent a novel group of oximes with enhanced capabilities of crossing the blood-brain barrier. Lack of brain penetration is a major limitation for currently used oximes as antidotes of OP poisoning. The concept described herein relies on a combination of an amidine residue and oxime functionality whereby the amidine increases the binding affinity to the ChE and the oxime is responsible for reactivation. Amidine-oximes were tested in vitro and reactivation rates for OP-BuChE were greater than pralidoxime (2-PAM) or monoisonitrosoacetone (MINA). Amidine-oxime reactivation rates for OP-AChE were lower compared to 2-PAM but greater compared with MINA. After pretreatment for 30 min with oximes 15c and 15d (145 μmol/kg, ip) mice were challenged with a soman model compound. In addition, 15d was tested in a post-treatment experiment (145 μmol/kg, ip, administration 5 min after sarin model compound exposure). In both cases, amidine-oximes afforded 100% 24 h survival in an animal model of OP exposure.
Autism is a highly heritable neurodevelopmental syndrome with a complex genetic etiology for which no disease genes have yet been definitively identified. We ascertained three subjects with autism spectrum disorders and chromosome 2q37.3 terminal deletions, and refined the deletion breakpoint regions using polymorphism mapping and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) probes. We then genotyped polymorphic markers downstream from the breakpoint region in a sample of autism affected sibling pair families. Both the chromosomal breakpoints and linkage analyses focused our attention on the gene centaurin gamma-2 (CENTG2), an attractive candidate gene based also on its function and pattern of expression. We therefore assessed CENTG2 for its involvement in autism by (1) screening its exons for variants in 199 autistic and 160 non-autistic individuals, and (2) genotyping and assessing intra-genic polymorphisms for linkage and linkage disequilibrium (LD). The exon screen revealed a Ser --> Gly substitution in one proband, an Arg --> Gly substitution in another, and a number of additional variants unique to the autism families. No unique variants were found in the control subjects. The genotyping produced strong evidence for linkage from two intronic polymorphisms, with a maximum two-point HLOD value of 3.96 and a posterior probability of linkage (PPL) of 51%. These results were contradicted, however, by substantially weaker evidence for linkage from multi-point analyses and by no evidence of LD. We conclude, therefore, that 2q37.3 continues to be a region of interest for autism susceptibility, and that CENTG2 is an intriguing candidate gene that merits further scrutiny for its role in autism.
It is not clear why some methamphetamine (MAMP) abusers develop psychotic symptoms, while others use MAMP regularly over long periods and remain unscathed. We tested the hypotheses that those users who develop MAMP-induced psychosis (MIP) have greater familial loading for psychotic disorders than users with no psychosis. Four hundred forty-five MAMP users were recruited from a psychiatric hospital and a detention center in Taipei, and were assessed with the Diagnostic Interview for genetic studies (DIGS-C) and the Family Interview for genetic study (FIGS-C). Morbid risk (MR) for psychiatric disorders in first-degree relatives was compared between those MAMP users with a lifetime diagnosis of MAMP psychosis and those without. The relatives of MAMP users with a lifetime diagnosis of MAMP psychosis had a significantly higher MR for schizophrenia (OR = 5.4, 95% CI: 2.0-14.7, P < 0.001) than the relatives of those probands who never became psychotic. Furthermore, the MR for schizophrenia in the relatives of the subjects with a prolonged MAMP psychosis (MIP-P) was higher than in the relatives of those users with a brief MAMP psychosis (MIP-B) (OR = 2.8, 95% CI: 1.0-8.0, P = 0.042). The greater his or her familial loading for schizophrenia, the more likely a MAMP user is to develop psychosis, and the longer that psychosis is likely to last.
Thirty-seven patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer were treated with mFOLFOX6 or mFOLFOX6 with a Bevacizumab regimen between September 2008 and March 2009. Then, we evaluated persistent neuropathy using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (ver. 3). As a result of the research, grade 1-3 sensory neuropathy was observed in 5.6% after 3 cycles, 44. 4% after 5 cycles, 83. 3% after 8 cycles, and 83. 4% after 10 cycles. The average dose of L-OHP (mg/m2) until persistent sensory neuropathy appeared was grade 1: 399.7+/-157. 0 (17/ 37 patients); grade 2: 418.0+/-214. 1 (5/37 patients); and grade 3: 498.0+/-152. 8 (3/37 patients). As has been shown in international clinical trials, the severity and frequency of L-OHP-induced neurotoxicity are associated with the cumulative dose and duration of L-OHP administration. Further research is necessary to develop strategies for preventing or treating this side effect.
A 66-year-old woman with small-cell lung cancer was administered chemo-radiotherapy consisting of cisplatin (CDDP) and etoposide (ETP). From day 3, she developed vomiting and hyponatremia that persisted despite fluid infusion and cortico-steroid administration. On day 7, the hyponatremia worsened (serum sodium level, 109 mEq/L), leading to disturbed consciousness and convulsions. The serum sodium level gradually increased after intravenous administration of hypertonic saline; on day 22, the serum sodium level was almost normal without any neurological implication. We diagnosed this clinical condition as renal salt-wasting syndrome (RSWS) on the basis of dehydration and high urinary sodium excretion at the onset. In the second course of chemotherapy, CDDP was replaced with carboplatin (CBDCA); consequently, hyponatremia was not observed. Hyponatremia that develops after the administration of CDDP may be due to not only the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of anti diuretic hormone (SIADH) but also RSWS. When RSWS is suspected, hypertonic saline should be administered.
High pulmonary artery flow rates can result in severe reperfusion injury after lung transplantation. Our hypothesis was that selective activation of the adenosine A(2A) receptor with a highly specific analog (ATL-146e) would inhibit leukocyte activation and decrease reperfusion injury after high-flow reperfusion.
Using our isolated, ventilated, blood-perfused rabbit lung model, all groups (n = 8 per group) underwent lung harvest, 4 hours of cold storage, and blood reperfusion for 30 minutes. Measurements of pulmonary artery pressure (in millimeters of mercury), arterial oxygenation (in millimeters of mercury), myeloperoxidase, peak inspiratory pressure, and wet/dry weight ratio were obtained. Groups 1 (high flow) and 2 (high flow ATL-146e) underwent reperfusion at 120 mL/min for 30 minutes. Groups 3 (controlled high flow) and 4 (controlled high flow ATL-146e) underwent controlled reperfusion with an initial reperfusion of 60 mL/min for the first 5 minutes, followed by a rate of 120 mL/min for 25 minutes. During reperfusion, groups 2 and 4 received ATL-146e at 4 microg. kg(-1). min(-1).
ATL-146e significantly improved lung physiologic measurements under both high-flow (group 1 vs group 2) and controlled high-flow (group 3 vs group 4) conditions after 30 minutes.
The adenosine A(2A) receptor analogue ATL-146e significantly decreases the severity of reperfusion injury in the setting of both high-flow and controlled high-flow reperfusion.
Targeting of anti-tumor drugs to the urinary bladder for the treatment of bladder carcinoma may be useful, since these agents generally have a low degree of urinary excretion and are highly toxic elsewhere in the body. The anti-tumor drug doxorubicin was coupled to the low-molecular weight protein lysozyme via the acid-sensitive cis-aconityl linker. All free amino groups of the lysozyme were used for drug attachment to achieve intact excretion of the doxorubicin-aconityl-lysozyme conjugate into the bladder. In the bladder, the cytotoxic drug should be regenerated through acidification of the urine. First, the doxorubicin-aconityl-lysozyme conjugate was tested in rats for its target specificity and general toxicity. Wistar rats were injected intravenously with 2 mg/kg free doxorubicin or 10 mg/kg lysozyme-conjugated doxorubicin. Total urinary excretion of doxorubicin was about 10 times higher if the drug was coupled to lysozyme (39 +/- 3% versus 4.4 +/- 0.4%). Free doxorubicin had no detectable toxic effects on heart, liver and lung but caused severe renal damage (proteinuria, N-acetylglucosaminidase excretion and glomerulosclerosis). None of the rats injected with doxorubicin-lysozyme conjugate showed such renal toxicity. Second, we tested whether doxorubicin could be released from the conjugate in the bladder through acidification of the urine and if the released doxorubicin could still exert a cytotoxic effect. Doxorubicin-aconityl-lysozyme (2 mg/kg conjugated doxorubicin, i.v.) was administered in rats with acidified urine (pH 6.1 +/- 0.1) and in rats with a high urinary pH (8.2 +/- 0.4). Ten times more doxorubicin was released from the conjugate in the group with acidified urine (15 +/- 7% versus 1.7 +/- 0.1%). In agreement with this, cytotoxicity was also higher in the low pH group (IC50 of 255 +/- 47 nM versus 684 +/- 84 nM doxorubicin). In conclusion, a specific delivery of doxorubicin to the urinary bladder combined with a reduced toxicity of doxorubicin in the kidneys can be achieved by coupling this anti-tumor drug to the low-molecular weight protein lysozyme via an acid-labile linker. A release of cytotoxic doxorubicin in the urinary bladder can be achieved by acidification of the urine. This technology, after further optimization, may provide an interesting tool for the treatment of bladder carcinoma.
The endocannabinoid system has been shown to modulate key cell-signaling pathways involved in cancer cell growth. In this study, we show that cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) antagonist Rimonabant (SR141716) inhibited human breast cancer cell proliferation, being more effective in highly invasive metastatic MDA-MB-231 cells than in less-invasive T47D and MCF-7 cells. The SR141716 antiproliferative effect was not accompanied by apoptosis or necrosis and was characterized by a G1/S-phase cell cycle arrest, decreased expression of cyclin D and E, and increased levels of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27KIP1. We have also shown that SR141716 exerted a significant antiproliferative action, in vivo, by reducing the volume of xenograft tumors induced by MDA-MB-231 injection in mice. On the other hand, at the concentration range in which we observed the antiproliferative effect in tumor cells, we did not observe evidence of any genotoxic effect on normal cells. Our data also indicate that the SR141716 antiproliferative effect requires lipid raft/caveolae integrity to occur. Indeed, we found that CB1 receptor (CB1R) is completely displaced from lipid rafts in SR141716-treated MDA-MB-231 cells, and cholesterol depletion by methyl-beta-cyclodextrin strongly prevented SR141716-mediated antiproliferative effect. Taken together, our results suggest that SR141716 inhibits human breast cancer cell growth via a CB1R lipid raft/caveolae-mediated mechanism.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A is an important mediator of angiogenesis in almost all solid tumors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of VEGF-A expression on tumor growth, perfusion, and chemotherapeutic efficacy in orthotopic 9L gliosarcomas.
Stable 9L cell lines underexpressing and overexpressing VEGF-A were generated. Anatomic, susceptibility contrast, and continuous arterial spin-labeling magnetic resonance imaging were used to quantify the volume, blood volume, and blood flow of tumors orthotopically grown from these and wild-type 9L cells. Histologic, immunohistochemical, and quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analyses were also done on excised tumors. Finally, the effects of carmustine chemotherapy were also evaluated.
Orthotopic tumors underexpressing VEGF-A had slower growth rates (increased median survival), greater blood flow, vessel density, and VEGF-D expression, but no statistical difference in blood volume and chemotherapeutic sensitivity, compared with tumors with wild-type levels of VEGF-A. Tumors overexpressing VEGF-A had faster growth rates, greater blood volume, vessel density, and blood flow but no statistical difference in VEGF-D expression and chemotherapeutic sensitivity compared with wild-type VEGF-A-expressing tumors.
Blood volume and blood flow are independent and different biomarkers of tumor perfusion. Therefore, both should be measured when characterizing the efficacy of antiangiogenic therapies. Underexpression of VEGF-A does not result in complete inhibition of angiogenesis. Moreover, these tumors have a different perfusion phenotype, suggesting that angiogenesis is mediated by an alternative pathway. The results indicate that VEGF-D is a plausible alternative mediator of this angiogenesis.
