1. Prazosin had a marked inhibitory effect on post-synaptic alpha-receptors in the pithed rat, as measured by the blood pressure response to the cumulative administration of clonidine. 2. Prazosin had no inhibitory effect, however, on the pre-synaptic alpha-receptor, as measured by the clonidine-induced reduction in the tachycardia produced by stimulation of the cardiac nerves. 3. These results suggest that prazosin has a selective antagonistic affinity for post-synaptic alpha-receptors.
To analysis the relationship between glucocorticosteroids (GCS) usage and side effects in the treatment of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
All clinical records of probable SARS patients in Beijing were collected and input into an Epi6 database, in which 1 291 patients had entire information and met the clinical criteria of SARS. The usage of GCS and GCS associated side effects were analyzed retrospectively.
Patients accepted GCS therapy were 83.96% (n=1 084), whereas 16.04%(n=207) did not take GCS. The average dosage of GCS was 160 mg/d in the first week, and then reduced to 80 mg/d and 40 mg/d in the second and the third weeks, respectively. Initial blood glucose, systolic pressure (SBP), and diastolic pressure (DBP) were no significant difference between GCS group and non-GCS group. The highest blood glucose during the treatment in GCS group was markedly higher than that in non-GCS group [(8.68+/-4.80) mmol/L vs (6.39+/-3.71) mmol/L, P<0.05)]. The highest blood glucose and average blood glucose after initiation of GCS therapy were elevated in GCS group. The levels of blood glucose were correlated with the initial, maximum, and cumulative GCS dosages. Average blood glucose was increased markedly in groups with MP(Initial) > or =80 mg/d (Methyprednisonlone), MP(Maximal) > or =160 mg/d, or MP(Cumulative) > or = 3000 mg. The blood glucose grew up significantly in the first and the second weeks in the treatment with GCS, and then returned to normal level gradually. Hyperglycemia duration in the group with MP(Cumulative) > or =3000 mg persisted longer than that in the other groups (P< 0.05). The lowest serum potassium during the treatment and the duration of hypokalemia in GCS group were significantly different from that in non-GCS group [(3.66+/-0.50) mmol/L vs (4.01+/-0.51) mmol/L, P< 0.001 ;1(1, 75) days vs 1(1, 9) days, P<0.05, respectively]. Average serum potassium and the duration of hypokalemia were related to the dosages of GCS. Serum potassium reached its nadir in the first week of GCS treatment and then grew up in the second week. In groups with MP(Initial) > or =320 mg/d, MP(Maximal) > or =320 mg/d, and MP(Cumulative) > or =3000 mg, the level of serum potassium was lower and the duration of hypokalemia was longer than that in other groups. They began to returned to normal level in the third week. Administration of GCS prolonged the time of hypocalcemia[19 (1, 74) days in GCS group vs 8 (1, 32) days in non-GCS group, P< 0.05]. The duration of hypocalcemia was prolonged according to the increasing of the maximal or the cumulative dosage of GCS. However, the duration of hypocalcemia in group with MP(Cumulative) <999 mg was similar to that in non-GCS group (P > 0.05). After GCS administration, SBP and DBP were increased gradually, and reached their peaks in the fourth week [SBP(117.2+/-14.0) mm Hg and DBP (72.5+/-9.1) mm Hg vs SBP (120.0+/-12.5) mm Hg and DBP (74.5+/-8.7) mm Hg, P< 0.05, 1 mm Hg=0.133 kPa].
Hyperglycemia and hypokalemia are correlated with GCS dosage and duration. Administration with GCS influences SBP, DBP, and duration of hypocalcemia. Appropriate low dosage of GCS (MP(Initial) and MP(Maximal) < 159 mg/d, MP(Cumulative)< 2999 mg) causes few changes of blood glucose, serum potassium, and blood calcium. It is important to monitor laboratory findings during the treatment with GCS.
Deferoxamine is a chelating agent used in the treatment of transfusional iron overload and more recently in the diagnosis and treatment of increased aluminum body stores in chronic renal failure patients. High dose chronic and short-term treatment has been associated with ocular toxicity. We present a case of irreversible visual loss that occurred with a single small "challenge" dose of deferoxamine.
A case of reversible cardiogenic shock linked to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was observed. Recognizing the increasing use of 5-FU, the authors tried to map this syndrome.
They reviewed 134 additional case reports, retrieved information from literature searches, focused on clinical features, and discussed possible pathophysiologic findings and prevention of this syndrome.
Although angina and electrocardiographic changes were common and reproducible (approximately 90% each), coronary artery disease was found in a few patients. A total of 33 patients had severe left ventricular dysfunction, 28 without evidence of myocardial infarction. The symptoms were responsive to conservative management (90%).
Cardiac toxicity is a little known complication of 5-FU therapy, with an unknown but significant incidence. It is highly treatable.
There is much interest in the relationship of hypertension to hyperinsulinemia. Six male volunteers received cortisol, 50 mg orally four times daily, for 5 days. Plasma insulin concentration increased from 11.8 +/- 3.0 mU/L to 16.1 +/- 4.0 mU/L (P = .034). Fasting glucose increased from 4.7 +/- 0.3 to 5.8 +/- 0.1 mmol/L (P = .001). The insulin-to-glucose ratio was unchanged. Octreotide has been reported to lower blood pressure in obese, hyperinsulinemic, hypertensive patients. The hypothesis that cortisol-induced hypertension might be secondary to steroid-induced hyperinsulinemia was examined by determining whether reversal of hyperinsulinemia by octreotide would reverse cortisol-induced hypertension. Five healthy men were given two subcutaneous injections of 0.05 mg of octreotide before and on the fifth day of cortisol administration. Cortisol increased blood pressure, weight, plasma glucose concentration, and white cell count, with decreases in plasma potassium concentration and packed cell volume. Plasma cortisol concentrations were unchanged following octreotide in the control period but decreased after cortisol treatment. Insulin concentrations were reduced profoundly after octreotide, both in the control period (12.5 +/- 3.7 mU/L, falling to 1.1 +/- 0.3 mU/L at 30 min) and on cortisol (22.3 +/- 4.5 to 2.3 +/- 0.5 mU/L at 30 min). Octreotide did not lower pressure before or after cortisol treatment. Thus, octreotide was effective in lowering plasma insulin concentrations but di not lower blood pressure in normal subjects with cortisol-induced hypertension. These data do not support the notion that steroid-induced hyperinsulinemia is responsible for steroid-induced hypertension.
Lenalidomide, an analog of thalidomide, is an effective new treatment for multiple myeloma. Both compounds are associated with an increased risk of venous thromboembolism, particularly when used in combination with high-dose dexamethasone. As new trials with lenalidomide are being planned and performed, investigators are placing high importance on reducing the risk of thrombosis by incorporating an antithrombotic agent into the therapeutic regimen. Low-molecular-weight heparin, warfarin, and aspirin have all been suggested as candidate drugs for thromboprophylaxis, but none of these agents have been evaluated in randomized clinical trials. A body of opinion has evolved that aspirin is very effective in preventing venous thrombosis in myeloma patients treated with lenalidomide. If correct, this view has important implications, because aspirin is inexpensive and is safer and more convenient than anticoagulants. On the other hand, aspirin is less effective than anticoagulants for preventing venous thrombosis in other high-risk groups, and therefore might not be the most appropriate choice for preventing of venous thrombosis in myeloma patients. This commentary examines the strength of the evidence supporting the effectiveness of aspirin in preventing venous thrombosis in multiple myeloma patients treated with lenalidomide. It is concluded that the evidence that aspirin is efficacious in preventing venous thrombosis in myeloma patients is based on "before/after" and retrospective studies, with potential for bias and confounders. There is, therefore, a critical need to incorporate a randomized comparison of aspirin with an anticoagulant in future trials evaluating lenalidomide in multiple myeloma.
As an experimental analogue of human focal glomerular sclerosis (FGS), adriamycin (ADR)-induced nephropathy is well-characterized in rats. Previously, this model has not been fully established in mice. The extension of this model to the mouse would be useful in the application of genetic and monoclonal antibody technology to characterize mechanisms of progressive renal disease. Herein, we describe a stable and reproducible murine model of chronic proteinuria induced by ADR.
Male BALB/c mice were intravenously injected with a single dose of ADR (10 to 11 mg/kg). Seven mice were sacrificed at weeks 1, 2, 4, and 6. Renal function, quantitative morphometric analysis, and electron microscopic studies were performed. Peripheral CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were evaluated using flow cytometric analysis of splenocytes. The leukocytic inflammatory pattern was analyzed by immunohistochemical examination.
Overt proteinuria was observed from day 5 and remained significantly elevated throughout the study period. A focal increase in reabsorption droplets in tubular cells appeared at weeks 1 and 2, and numerous intraluminal casts were present after two weeks. Glomerular vacuolation and mild FGS appeared at week 4. At week 6, extensive focal and even global glomerular sclerosis, associated with moderate interstitial expansion and severe inflammation, were observed. A prominent macrophage infiltration appeared within both interstitium and glomeruli at week 2, followed by accumulation of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in interstitium but not glomeruli. There were almost no B lymphocytes seen at any time.
This model should be useful in unraveling the pathogenesis of glomerular and interstitial inflammation and fibrosis in chronic proteinuric renal disease.
Incomplete virological response to adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) has been observed in patients with lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and may be associated with developing resistance and disease progression. We therefore investigated whether the efficacy of viral suppression could be improved by replacing ADV with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF). Twenty patients with chronic HBV infection (18 HBeAg+), viral breakthrough during lamivudine therapy, and persistent viral replication (>10(4) copies/mL) after 15 months of ADV monotherapy (range 4-28 months) were treated with TDF 300 mg daily and were retrospectively analyzed. A screening for nucleoside/nucleotide analogue resistance mutations within the HBV polymerase gene was performed in all patients by direct sequencing. Within a median of 3.5 months, application of TDF led to undetectable HBV DNA in 19 of 20 patients, as demonstrated by suppression of HBV DNA below the detection limit of 400 copies/mL. Initially elevated ALT levels had normalized in 10 of 14 patients by the end of follow-up (median 12 months, range 3-24 months). Four patients lost HBeAg, after 3, 4, 5, and 16 months, and one patient seroconverted to anti-HBs after 16 months of TDF therapy. Lamivudine-associated mutations (rtV173L, rtL180M, rtM204V/I) could be detected in 6 patients at baseline of TDF, but this obviously did not influence the response. ADV-resistant mutations were not detected. No side effects were reported. In conclusion, these preliminary observations strongly suggest that TDF might be a highly effective rescue drug for HBV-infected patients with altered responsiveness to treatment with lamivudine and ADV.
Chronic arsenic exposure in humans is associated with cancers of the skin, lung, bladder and other tissues. There is evidence that folate deficiency may increase susceptibility to arsenic effects, including skin lesions. K6/ODC mice develop skin tumors when exposed to 10ppm sodium arsenite for 5 months. In the current study, K6/ODC mice maintained on either a folate deficient or folate sufficient diet were exposed to 0, 1, or 10ppm sodium arsenite in the drinking water for 30 days. Total RNA was isolated from skin samples and gene expression analyzed using Affymetrix Mouse 430 2.0 GeneChips. Data from 24 samples, with 4 mice in each of the 6 treatment groups, were RMA normalized and analyzed by two-way ANOVA using GeneSpring. Top gene ontology (GO) categories for genes responding significantly to both arsenic treatment and folate deficiency include nucleotide metabolism and cell organization and biogenesis. For many of these genes, folate deficiency magnifies the response to arsenic treatment. In particular, expression of markers of epidermal differentiation, e.g., loricrin, small proline rich proteins and involucrin, was significantly reduced by arsenic in the folate sufficient animals, and reduced further or at a lower arsenic dose in the folate deficient animals. In addition, expression of a number of epidermal cell growth/proliferation genes and cellular movement genes was altered. These results indicate that arsenic disrupts the normal balance of cell proliferation and differentiation, and that folate deficiency exacerbates these effects, consistent with the view that folate deficiency is a nutritional susceptibility factor for arsenic-induced skin tumorigenesis.
The efficacy of single doses (1.2 g) of soluble aspirin and aspirin tablets was determined in a randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel study in 90 patients (45 females) with postoperative pain after removal of impacted lower third molars. Also investigated was the relationship between plasma aspirin esterase activity and overall pain scores after both aspirin preparations. Patients reported significantly less pain (p less than 0.001) after treatment with aspirin than after treatment with placebo. However, patients receiving soluble aspirin reported both an earlier onset and a longer duration of pain relief than those who received aspirin tablets. A significant correlation was observed between plasma aspirin esterase activity and overall pain scores after both soluble aspirin (r = 0.57, p less than 0.01) and aspirin tablets (r = 0.51, p less than 0.02). It is concluded that soluble aspirin is the preferred aspirin formulation for treating postoperative pain after third molar surgery and that plasma aspirin esterase activity is determinant of a patient's analgesic response to aspirin in postoperative dental pain.
Posthoc analysis of the MORE osteoporosis treatment trial assessed risk-benefit profile of raloxifene in 7705 postmenopausal women. A major disease outcomes global index resulted in annual rates of 1.39% and 1.83% in the raloxifene and placebo groups, respectively (HR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.62-0.92), compatible with a favorable risk-benefit profile for raloxifene for treating postmenopausal osteoporosis.
The Women's Health Initiative (WHI) trial reported overall risks that exceeded benefits from use of estrogen-progestin in healthy postmenopausal women. The objective of this posthoc analysis of the Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation (MORE) trial was to assess the safety profile of raloxifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator indicated for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis, using the global index method from the WHI trial.
A total of 7705 postmenopausal women (mean age, 67 years) were enrolled in the MORE osteoporosis treatment trial and randomly assigned to receive placebo or one of two doses of raloxifene (60 or 120 mg/day) for 4 years. A global index of clinical outcomes, defined as described for the WHI trial (the earliest occurrence of coronary heart disease, stroke, pulmonary embolism, invasive breast cancer, endometrial cancer, colorectal cancer, hip fracture, or death because of other causes) was applied to the MORE trial data. Physicians blinded to treatment assignment adjudicated events. Intention-to-treat survival analysis of time-to-first-event was performed using a proportional hazards model.
The annualized rate of global index events was 1.83% in the placebo group and 1.39% in the combined raloxifene dose groups (hazard ratio [HR], 0.75; 95% CI, 0.62-0.92). Analyzing individual dose groups separately yielded the same results (HR for 60 mg/day, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.60-0.96: HR for 120 mg/day, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.59-0.95). Subgroup analyses showed no significant interactions between age or hysterectomy status and the effect of raloxifene on the global index (interaction p > 0.1), whereas the global index risk reduction seemed to be greater in obese women compared with nonobese women (interaction p = 0.03). The significant 25% reduction in global index is compatible with a favorable risk-benefit safety profile when raloxifene is used for osteoporosis treatment in postmenopausal women. These results require confirmation in ongoing clinical trials.
Oxidative stress-related parameters in rat brain and liver were evaluated following acute (60 mg/kg i.p., 2 and 24 h after dosing) or short-term (1000 ppm in the diet for 90 days) lindane administration. Both treatments elicited a significant accumulation of lindane in brain and liver, with convulsions observed in short-term and 24-h lindane-treated rats. In these conditions, lindane exposure did not alter brain lipid peroxidation, assessed as thiobarbituric acid reactants formation and spontaneous chemiluminescence, parameters that were enhanced in the liver. The activities of antioxidant enzymes in the brain (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase) were not modified by acute lindane treatment, while brain glutathione content was significantly reduced by 13%. It is concluded that lindane does not alter the oxidative stress status of the brain as occurs in liver, regardless of the time of exposure of rats to either acute or short-term administration of the insecticide.
Serious concerns have been expressed about potential risks of engineered nanoparticles. Regulatory health risk assessment of such particles has become mandatory for the safe use of nanomaterials in consumer products and medicines; including the potential effects on reproduction and fertility, are relevant for this risk evaluation. In this study, we examined effects of silver particles of nano- (20nm) and submicron- (200nm) size, and titanium dioxide nanoparticles (TiO(2)-NPs; 21nm), with emphasis on reproductive cellular- and genotoxicity. Ntera2 (NT2, human testicular embryonic carcinoma cell line), and primary testicular cells from C57BL6 mice of wild type (WT) and 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase knock-out (KO, mOgg1(-/-)) genotype were exposed to the particles. The latter mimics the repair status of human testicular cells vs oxidative damage and is thus a suitable model for human male reproductive toxicity studies. The results suggest that silver nano- and submicron-particles (AgNPs) are more cytotoxic and cytostatic compared to TiO(2)-NPs, causing apoptosis, necrosis and decreased proliferation in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The 200nm AgNPs in particular appeared to cause a concentration-dependent increase in DNA-strand breaks in NT2 cells, whereas the latter response did not seem to occur with respect to oxidative purine base damage analysed with any of the particles tested.
Cadmium is reported to accumulate in human eye tissues suggesting its implication in diverse ocular pathology. Using an in vitro cell culture model we investigated the effects of cadmium on human lens epithelial cells (HLECs) (HLE-B3). We observed cadmium-induced dose- as well as time-dependent decline in HLECs viability which was exacerbated significantly upon reduction of intracellular glutathione levels by buthionine sulfoximine (BSO). There was a dose-dependent significant increase in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release from HLECs suggesting cadmium-induced alteration of membrane integrity as well as necrotic cell death. The decline in cell viability was also due to apoptosis of the HLECs as determined by quantifying % apoptotic cells as well as PARP cleavage. Moreover, release of apoptosis inducing factor (AIF) into the cytosol was also detected. Cadmium was also observed to increase oxidative stress, lipid peroxidation and activation of MAPK pathway in HLECs. Antioxidants like N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and alpha-Tocopherol significantly prevented cadmium-induced toxicity in HLECs. Our findings suggest that cadmium-induced elevated oxidative stress as well as activation of MAPK signaling cascade eventually led to cell death of HLECs through apoptosis as well as necrosis. The loss of HLECs by cadmium could possibly explain its implication in cataract development particularly associated with smoking.
High levels of cadmium (Cd) in paddy soil and rice, and a concurrent increase in urinary Cd of inhabitants in the Mae Sot District, Tak Province, Thailand first emerged in 2003. Risk factors such as occupation, sources of staple food and drinking water as well as biomarkers of adverse renal effects of the increased body burden of Cd were investigated in 795 residents, 30 years or older, whose urinary Cd levels were between 0.02 and 106mug/g creatinine. Farmers who consumed their own rice and residents who sourced drinking water from wells and/or the river demonstrated increased urinary Cd. Age-adjusted mean urinary cadmium for male and female subjects who consumed well water was 5.7mug/g vs. 6.1mug/g creatinine while the corresponding value for male and female subjects who did not consume well water was 3.7mug/g vs. 4.8mug/g creatinine, respectively. Increased urinary levels of beta(2)-microglobulin and N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase were observed with the increase in urinary Cd, indicating tubular dysfunction and renal damage associated with increase in Cd body burden. Consumption of well water and rice grown in the contaminated area increase the body burden of Cd. Cessation of exposure is essential to prevent and possibly recover from Cd toxicity, especially among the residents whose kidney damage and malfunction may be reversible.
Eight out of ten of patients with analgesic nephropathy were regular and usually heavy laxative takers compared with 12 out of 200 controls from the general population and four out of 70 patients attending a renal clinic. The finding that regular laxative taking was greatly increased in patients with analgesic nephropathy suggests that this condition may often be due to the combined abuse of both laxatives and analgesics. In a series of 40 patients with rheumatoid arthritis all were found to have normal renal function and no patient took laxatives regularly. This finding would explain why analgesic nephropathy is so uncommon in patients with rheumatoid arthritis despite the fact that they are regular and heavy analgesic takers.
Indications for endomyocardial biopsy (EMB) in pediatric patients include cardiomyopathy and postheart transplant rejection surveillance. There have been few reports of the use of the internal jugular venous approach for right ventricular EMB in pediatric patients. In this study, we report our experience with 100 consecutive EMBs in pediatric patients using this approach. Indications for EMB were cardiomyopathy of unknown etiology in four patients, adriamycin cardiomyopathy in three patients, postheart transplant rejection surveillance in five patients, right ventricular outflow tract tumors in one patient, and sustained ventricular tachycardia in one patient. Histologic diagnoses of biopsy specimens included interstitial fibrosis, vasculopathy, hypertrophy, anthracycline cardiotoxicity, and various degrees of allograft rejection. All EMBs were performed successfully and without complications. We conclude that right ventricular EMB using the right internal jugular venous approach can be performed safely and successfully in pediatric patients as young as 2 months of age and repeatedly in patients as young as 8 years old.
Lung cancer is the most common cause of death from cancer worldwide, and its incidence is increasing in East Asian and Western countries. To identify genetic factors that modify the risk of lung adenocarcinoma, we conducted a genome-wide association study in a Japanese cohort, with replication in two independent studies in Japanese and Korean individuals, in a total of 2,098 lung adenocarcinoma cases and 11,048 controls. The combined analyses identified two susceptibility loci for lung adenocarcinoma: TERT (rs2736100, combined P = 2.91 × 10⁻¹¹), odds ratio (OR) = 1.27) and TP63 (rs10937405, combined P = 7.26 × 10⁻¹²), OR = 1.31). Fine mapping of the region containing TP63 showed that a SNP (rs4488809) in intron 1 of TP63 showed the most significant association. Our results suggest that genetic variation in TP63 may influence susceptibility to lung adenocarcinoma in East Asian populations.
In temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), the nature of the structures involved in the development of the epileptogenic circuit is still not clearly identified. In the lithium-pilocarpine model, neuronal damage occurs both in the structures belonging to the circuit of initiation and maintenance of the seizures (forebrain limbic system) as well as in the propagation areas (cortex and thalamus) and in the circuit of remote control of seizures (substantia nigra pars reticulata). In order to determine whether protection of some brain areas could prevent the epileptogenesis induced by status epilepticus (SE) and to identify the cerebral structures involved in the genesis of TLE, we studied the effects of the chronic exposure to Vigabatrin (gamma-vinyl-GABA, GVG) on neuronal damage and epileptogenesis induced by lithium-pilocarpine SE. The animals were subjected to SE and GVG treatment (250 mg/kg) was initiated at 10 min after pilocarpine injection and maintained daily for 45 days. These pilo-GVG rats were compared with rats subjected to SE followed by a daily saline treatment (pilo-saline) and to control rats not subjected to SE (saline-saline). GVG treatment induced a marked, almost total neuroprotection in CA3, an efficient protection in CA1 and a moderate one in the hilus of the dentate gyrus while damage in the entorhinal cortex was slightly worsened by the treatment. All pilo-GVG and pilo-saline rats became epileptic after the same latency. Glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) immunoreactivity was restored in pilo-GVG rats compared with pilo-saline rats in all areas of the hippocampus, while it was increased over control levels in the optical layer of the superior colliculus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Thus, the present data indicate that neuroprotection of principal cells in the Ammon's horn of the hippocampus is not sufficient to prevent epileptogenesis, suggesting that the hilus and extra-hippocampal structures, that were not protected in this study, may play a role in the genesis of spontaneous recurrent seizures in this model. Furthermore, the study performed in non-epileptic rats indicates that chronic treatment with a GABAmimetic drug upregulates the expression of the protein GAD67 in specific areas of the brain, independently from the seizures.
The interaction of dopamine and glutamate in limbic brain regions mediates behaviors associated with psychostimulants, which act in part to increase dopamine signaling at both D1 receptors (D1Rs) and D2 receptors. Many addictive behaviors are a result of learned associations, and NMDA receptor activation has been shown to be important for these behaviors. We hypothesized that if NMDA receptor activation in dopamine receptor-containing cells is required for the addictive properties of psychostimulants, then mice with reduced NMDA receptor activity in D1R-containing cells would have attenuated long-term behavioral changes to these drugs. We generated a mouse line in which D1R-containing cells express an NR1 NMDA receptor subunit containing a mutation in the pore that reduces calcium flux. Mice expressing the mutant NMDA receptors in D1R-containing cells have normal basal activity and display similar increases in locomotor activity when treated with acute amphetamine or cocaine. However, the mutant mice fail to display locomotor sensitization to repeated cocaine administration. In addition, these mice also have a decreased ability to form a conditioned place preference to cocaine. These data suggest that intact NMDA receptor signaling in D1R-containing cells is required for the manifestation of behaviors associated with repeated drug exposure.
The farnesoid-x-receptor (FXR) is a bile acid sensor expressed in the liver and gastrointestinal tract. Despite FXR ligands are under investigation for treatment of cholestasis, a biochemical condition occurring in a number of liver diseases for which available therapies are poorly effective, mice harboring a disrupted FXR are protected against liver injury caused by bile acid overload in rodent models of cholestasis. Theonellasterol is a 4-methylene-24-ethylsteroid isolated from the marine sponge Theonella swinhoei. Here, we have characterized the activity of this theonellasterol on FXR-regulated genes and biological functions.
Interrogation of HepG2 cells, a human hepatocyte cell line, by microarray analysis and transactivation assay shows that theonellasterol is a selective FXR antagonist, devoid of any agonistic or antagonistic activity on a number of human nuclear receptors including the vitamin D receptor, PPARs, PXR, LXRs, progesterone, estrogen, glucorticoid and thyroid receptors, among others. Exposure of HepG2 cells to theonellasterol antagonizes the effect of natural and synthetic FXR agonists on FXR-regulated genes, including SHP, OSTα, BSEP and MRP4. A proof-of-concept study carried out to investigate whether FXR antagonism rescues mice from liver injury caused by the ligation of the common bile duct, a model of obstructive cholestasis, demonstrated that theonellasterol attenuates injury caused by bile duct ligation as measured by assessing serum alanine aminostrasferase levels and extent of liver necrosis at histopathology. Analysis of genes involved in bile acid uptake and excretion by hepatocytes revealed that theonellasterol increases the liver expression of MRP4, a basolateral transporter that is negatively regulated by FXR. Administering bile duct ligated mice with an FXR agonist failed to rescue from liver injury and downregulated the expression of MRP4.
FXR antagonism in vivo results in a positive modulation of MRP4 expression in the liver and is a feasible strategy to target obstructive cholestasis.
Paromomycin, an aminoglycoside, is known to cause several side effects like nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity like other aminoglycosides but tetany has not been reported. Three cases of tetany were detected in the patients of kala-azar treated with paromomycin. They were promptly treated with intravenous 10 per cent calcium gluconate and tetany was relieved immediately and treatment with paromomycin continued with oral calcium supplement. After completion of 21 days treatment with paromomycin patients' splenic aspirates were free of parasites. Paromomycin may cause temporary tubular damage leading to calcium wasting in urine and hypocalcaemia resulting in tetany. Prompt detection of symptoms and intravenous calcium gluconate treatment promptly reverse the situation.
Nephrotoxicity is the major adverse effect of amphotericin B (AmB), often limiting administration of full dosage. Selective distal tubular epithelial toxicity seems to be responsible for the profound potassium wasting that is a major clinical side effect of treatment with AmB. Potassium depletion also potentiates the tubular toxicity of AmB. This study was designed to assess the ability of spironolactone to reduce potassium requirements and to prevent hypokalemia in neutropenic patients on AmB treatment.
In this study 26 patients with various hematological disorders were randomized to receive either intravenous AmB alone or AmB and oral spironolactone 100 mg twice daily when developing a proven or suspected fungal infection.
Patients receiving concomitant AmB and spironolactone had significantly higher plasma potassium levels than those receiving AmB alone (P = 0.0027). Those patients receiving AmB and spironolactone required significantly less potassium supplementation to maintain their plasma potassium within the normal range (P = 0.022). Moreover, urinary potassium losses were significantly less in patients receiving AmB and spironolactone than those receiving AmB alone (P = 0.040).
This study showed that spironolactone can reduce potassium requirements and prevent hypokalemia by reducing urinary potassium loss in neutropenic patients on AmB treatment.
Seventeen patients with malignant disease developed a complex metabolic syndrome of 2-8 weeks' duration characterized by hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia and hypokalemia following administration of the aminoglycoside group of antibiotics. Gentamicin, Tobramycin, Amikacin, and Sisomicin were all involved. Other features noted were hypoalbuminemia, hypophosphatemia, and hypouricemia. Low immunoreactive parathyroid hormone (i-PTH) levels in the presence of hypocalcemia and absence of hyperplastic changes in the parathyroid gland examined at postmortem confirmed a diagnosis of hypoparathyroidism. Immunoreactive calcitonin levels (i-CT) were not elevated. Renal tubular wasting of potassium and magnesium was documented in six patients and excessive urinary loss of sodium, phosphate, and uric acid was noticed. Twelve patients died before recovering from the metabolic stress and five patients developed progressive renal impairment. A possible potentiating action of chemotherapeutic agents, especially Adriamycin, is suggested.
The records of 53 patients treated with Adriamycin, 17 of whom developed congestive heart failure and 36 of whom received a similar total dose of Adriamycin without developing congestive heart failure, were analyzed for factors associated with Adriamycin cardiomyopathy. The risk of cardiomyopathy was significantly greater in patients who developed a larger than or equal to 30% decrease in limb-lead QRS voltage. Concurrent cyclophosphamide and mediastinal radiotherapy lowered the cumulative Adriamycin dose necessary for the development of cardiac toxicity. Uncontrolled hypertension also appears to be a risk factor in potentiating the development of Adriamycin cardiomyopathy at lower doses. Congestive heart failure was more likely to be fatal if it developed shortly after the last dose of Adriamycin. These findings can be utilized to increase the safety of Adriamycin therapy in the future.
