Tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) is a widely used brominated flame retardant that is persistent in the environment and detected in human serum and breast milk. TBBPA is microbiologically transformed in anaerobic environments to bisphenol A (BPA) and in aerobic environments to TBBPA dimethyl ether (TBBPA DME). Despite the detection of TBBPA DME in the environment, the resulting toxicity is not known. The relative toxicity of TBBPA, BPA and TBBPA DME was determined using embryonic exposure of zebrafish, with BPA and TBBPA DME exhibiting lower potency than TBBPA. TBBPA exposure resulted in 100% mortality at 3 (1.6mg/L) and 1.5μM (0.8mg/L), whereas BPA and TBBPA DME did not result in significant embryonic mortality in comparison to controls. While all three caused edema and hemorrhage, only TBBPA specifically caused decreased heart rate, edema of the trunk, and tail malformations. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) expression was measured due to the role of these enzymes in the remodeling of the extracellular matrix during tissue morphogenesis, wound healing and cell migration. MMP-2, -9 and -13 expression increased (2-8-fold) after TBBPA exposure followed by an increase in the degradation of collagen I and gelatin. TBBPA DME exposure resulted in only a slight increase (less than 2-fold) in MMP expression and did not significantly increase enzymatic activity. These data suggest that TBBPA is more potent than BPA or TBBPA DME and indicate that the trunk and tail phenotypes seen after TBBPA exposure could be due in part to alteration of proper MMP expression and activity.
The synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES) is a potent perinatal endocrine disruptor. In humans and experimental animals, exposure to DES during critical periods of reproductive tract differentiation permanently alters estrogen target tissues and results in long-term abnormalities such as uterine neoplasia that are not manifested until later in life. Using the developmentally exposed DES mouse, multiple mechanisms have been identified that play a role in its carcinogenic and toxic effects. Analysis of the DES murine uterus reveals altered gene expression pathways that include an estrogen-regulated component. Thus, perinatal DES exposure, especially at low doses, offers the opportunity to study effects caused by weaker environmental estrogens and provides an example of the emerging scientific field termed the developmental origin of adult disease. As a model endocrine disruptor, it is of particular interest that even low doses of DES increase uterine tumor incidence. Additional studies have verified that DES is not unique; when other environmental estrogens are tested at equal estrogenic doses, developmental exposure results in increased incidence of uterine neoplasia similar to that caused by DES. Interestingly, our data suggest that this increased susceptibility for tumors is passed on from the maternal lineage to subsequent generations of male and female descendants; the mechanisms involved in these transgenerational events include genetic and epigenetic events. Together, our data point out the unique sensitivity of the developing organism to endocrine-disrupting chemicals, the occurrence of long-term effects after developmental exposure, and the possibility for adverse effects to be transmitted to subsequent generations.
In vitro observations and studies in murine experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) have shown protective effects of sodium channel blockers on central nervous system axons and improved clinical status when treatment is continued throughout the period of observation. Several clinical studies of sodium channel blockers are under way in patients with multiple sclerosis. Here we asked whether a protective effect would persist after withdrawal of a sodium channel blocker.
We studied a mouse model of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced EAE treated with phenytoin or carbamazepine.
Both phenytoin and carbamazepine significantly improved the clinical course of the disease. Withdrawal of phenytoin resulted in acute exacerbation, accompanied by a significantly increased inflammatory infiltrate within the central nervous system and the death of nearly 60% of EAE mice. There were no clinical worsening or deaths in control mice after withdrawal of phenytoin. Withdrawal of carbamazepine led to acute worsening of EAE symptoms, increased inflammatory infiltrate, and was associated with the death of 8% of mice.
These results, together with results showing effects of sodium channel blockers in immune cells, raise questions about the long-term effects of sodium channel blockers in neuroinflammatory disorders, and suggest that clinical studies of sodium channel blockers in these disorders should be planned carefully.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation is the frequent complication after cytotoxic chemotherapy in HBsAg-positive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) patients. Pre-chemotherapy viral load may be a risk factor and HBeAg-positive status is associated with increased viral load. The aim of this study was to investigate the long-term treatment outcome of lamivudine in preventing HBV reactivation and its associated morbidity according to HBeAg status. Twenty-four adult HBsAg-positive NHL patients were taken 100 mg of lamivudine daily before the initiation of chemotherapy. The median duration of lamivudine therapy was 11.5 months (range: 1-54 months) and the median number of chemotherapy cycles was 6 (range: 1-16 cycles). The steroid containing chemotherapy regimens were used in 18 patients (75%), and the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody containing chemotherapy regimen was used in 6 patients (25%). Four patients received autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation without resultant HBV reactivation. Hepatitis related to HBV reactivation was developed in 1 patient among 14 HBeAg-positive patients and no one among 10 HBeAg-negative. One patient developed HBV reactivation after lamivudine withdrawal, and 4 patients developed the YMDD (tyrosine-methionine-aspartate-aspartate) mutation during lamivudine therapy. There were no statistical differences in HBV reactivation rate during chemotherapy according to the HBeAg status. Our results demonstrate that lamivudine should be considered preemptively before the chemotherapy for all HBsAg-positive NHL patients to prevent HBV reactivation, regardless of pre-chemotherapy HBeAg status. Finally, compared with the chronic hepatitis B patients, similar rate of HBV reactivation after lamivudine withdrawal and development of YMDD mutation was observed in NHL patients.
The response over time of the QT interval and the Transmural Dispersion of Repolarization (TDR) to Isoproterenol infusion (ISO) in an 85 year-old-man with severe and syntomatic bradycardia, in the setting of an Amiodarone-induced Long QT Syndrome (LQTS) is the subject of this communication. ISO shortened the QT and decreased the TDR. We propose that ISO increased the generation of signals from the beta-Adrenergic Receptor (beta-AR) restoring the components of the hKCNQ1 macromolecular complex, thereby enhancing the I(Ks) function; shortening of the QT interval, reduction of the TDR and normalization of the T wave morphology was then possible. In Amiodarone-induced LQTS, the increase in I(Ks) activity promoted by beta-AR stimulation is prominent; at the same time, during I(Kr) block, I(Ks) activation limits excessive QT prolongation. Clinically, severe and syntomatic bradycardia was the main concern: ISO activation of the beta-AR proved useful both to increase heart rate and to reduce QT prolongation. A slow heart rate, associated to a prolonged QT interval and to a big TDR, are not sufficient to develop Torsades de Pointes in Amiodarone-induced LQTS.
We compared d-tubocurarine and rocuronium for the prevention of succinylcholine-induced fasciculations and postoperative myalgia (POM) and evaluated the influence of both drugs on the speed of onset and recovery of succinylcholine.
Seventy-five women undergoing surgery of short duration were studied. They were randomized to one of three groups: group SAL received normal saline followed three minutes later by 1.0 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine; group ROC received 0.05 mg.kg-1 rocuronium + 1.5 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine; group DTC received 0.05 mg.kg-1 d-tubocurarine + 1.5 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine. Single-twitch stimulation was applied to the ulnar nerve every 10 sec and the EMG response of the adductor pollicis was recorded. Fasciculations were assessed by a blinded observer on a scale of 0-3. Patients were asked 24 and 48 hr later to rate POM using a scale of 0-10.
The interval needed for twitch height to decrease to 10% of initial value after succinylcholine was longer in group ROC (58 +/- 20 sec) (mean +/- SD) compared with group SAL (44 +/- 13 sec) (P < 0.05). Recovery to 20% occurred faster in group ROC (324 +/- 83 sec) than in groups SAL (456 +/- 103 sec) and DTC (450 +/-132 sec) (P < 0.05). Fasciculations were more intense in groups SAL than in groups ROC and DTC (P < 0.001). Patients rated POM as less intense 24hr postoperatively only in group ROC (1.2 +/- 2.4) compared with group SAL (3.3 +/- 3.5) (P < 0.05).
Rocuronium prevents succinylcholine-induced fasciculations and POM. Rocuronium also delays the onset of succinylcholine and shortens its duration compared with d-tubocurarine.
The in ovo carcinogenicity assay (IOCA) was used to examine whether the noncarcinogens epsilon-caprolactam (CAP), D-mannitol (MAN) and nitrosoproline (NPRO) induce toxicity and subsequently morphological changes in embryonic turkey livers compared with the carcinogen diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Various doses of the test compounds were injected into fertilized turkey or quail eggs prior to incubation. Embryonic livers were collected 3-4 days before hatching and processed for histology. The positive control DEN induced hepatocyte altered foci (HAF) and karyomegalic hepatocytes, whereas histological analysis of livers from embryos exposed to CAP, MAN and NPRO did not show such histological changes. The effects of the tested compounds on liver were further examined in hepatocytes cultured from exposed turkey and quail embryos. As observed in ovo, megalocytes as well as karyomegalic hepatocytes were present in hepatocyte cultures established from DEN-exposed turkey embryos, but not from embryos exposed to CAP, MAN or NPRO. It is concluded that CAP, MAN and NPRO do not induce histological changes in embryonic liver of the type produced by the carcinogen DEN, correlating with findings for these compounds in rodent studies.
Osteosarcomas are primary bone tumors of osteoblastic origin that mostly affect adolescent patients. These tumors are highly aggressive and metastatic. Previous reports indicate that gain of function of a key osteoblastic differentiation factor, Runx2, leads to growth inhibition in osteosarcoma. We have previously established that Runx2 transcriptionally regulates expression of a major proapoptotic factor, Bax. Runx2 is regulated via proteasomal degradation, and proteasome inhibition has a stimulatory effect on Runx2. In this study, we hypothesized that proteasome inhibition will induce Runx2 and Runx2-dependent Bax expression sensitizing osteosarcoma cells to apoptosis. Our data showed that a proteasome inhibitor, bortezomib, increased Runx2 and Bax in osteosarcoma cells. In vitro, bortezomib suppressed growth and induced apoptosis in osteosarcoma cells but not in nonmalignant osteoblasts. Experiments involving intratibial tumor xenografts in nude mice demonstrated significant tumor regression in bortezomib-treated animals. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that bortezomib inhibited cell proliferation and induced apoptosis in osteosarcoma xenografts. These effects correlated with increased immunoreactivity for Runx2 and Bax. In summary, our results indicate that bortezomib suppresses growth and induces apoptosis in osteosarcoma in vitro and in vivo suggesting that proteasome inhibition may be effective as an adjuvant to current treatment regimens for these tumors. Published 2009 UICC. This article is a US Government work and, as such, is in the public domain in the United States of America.
Congenital obstructive uropathy is associated with significant morbidity and mortality in the human neonate. The pathophysiology of congenital obstructive uropathy is poorly understood. There are very few experimental models of prenatal obstruction of the urinary tract, except in the fetal lamb or inbred rats. Prenatal exposure to Adriamycin in a rat model leads to a spectrum of malformations including urinary tract anomalies. We hypothesized that Adriamycin administration during a particular time frame could yield a high incidence of urinary tract anomalies and therefore designed this study to investigate the rates of urinary tract anomalies at different windows of Adriamycin injection in rat embryos. Adriamycin (1.75 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally to pregnant rats at different times from days 6 to 10 of gestation. Control animals were given saline. Embryos recovered on gestational day 21 by cesarean section were examined for urinary tract anomalies, and malformations were noted. Sections were then processed for paraffin embedding, sectioned at 5 mum, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin for histological examination. Anomalies of the urinary tract occurred maximally following Adriamycin administration on days 7, 8, and 9 of gestation (91.6%) compared with 16% of controls. The most common urinary tract anomaly in the Adriamycin group was bilateral megaureters with a hypoplastic bladder (81%). Other anomalies included unilateral or bilateral ureterohydronephrosis with a normal-sized bladder, duplex kidney, and unilateral or bilateral renal agenesis. In conclusion, the critical embryologic window for the development of bilateral megaureters with a small bladder in the Adriamycin rat model occurs following Adriamycin administration on gestational days 7-9. This simple experimental model of bilateral megaureter may allow further research into the pathophysiology of this condition.
Chloroquine, an anti-malaria drug, is known to cause myopathy with rimmed vacuole formation. Although it disrupts the lysosomal degradation of proteins, the precise mechanism underlying muscle fiber degeneration has remained unclear. We investigated the temporal profiles of muscle fiber degeneration in chloroquine-treated rats, paying special attention to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and autophagy. Male Wistar rats were intraperitoneally injected with chloroquine diphosphate at a dosage of 50 mg/kg body weight every day. We examined the localization and levels of proteins related to ER stress and autophagy in soleus muscle by means of immunohistochemistry and Western blotting at 3, 5, and 7 weeks after the beginning of the treatment. At 3 weeks, the levels of LC3-II and amyloid-beta (Abeta) were increased. At 5 weeks, an unfolded protein response took place. At 7 weeks, rimmed vacuole formation became obvious. Interestingly, SERCA2, a Ca2+ -pump ATPase located in the endoplasmic/sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane was up-regulated at 5 weeks after treatment, but declined to the control level by 7 weeks. Taken together, these findings suggest that Abeta accumulation (at 3 weeks) caused by the disruption of lysosomal enzymes precedes an unfolded protein response (at 5 weeks). Next, activation of autophagy occurs (at 7 weeks), probably using sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane, the amount of which was increased. Chloroquine-treated rats could be useful for investigating the pathogenesis of diseases related to Abeta accumulation.
The renin-angitensin system (RAS) plays an important role as a growth factor in cardiac development. Angiotensin converting enzyme is involved in converting angiotensin I to angiotensin II (Ag-II). The effects of Ag-II are mediated by two primary receptors, type 1 (AT1) and type 2 (AT2). Ag-II stimulates transforming growth factor-beta1(TGF-beta1) and acts as a potent stimulant of myocyte growth and fetal contractile protein gene transcription. The aim of this study was to determine the expression of Ag-II receptor subtypes and TGF-beta1 in the hypoplastic heart of nitrofen-induced congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). CDH was induced in pregnant rats following administration of 100 mg nitrofen on day 9.5. The fetuses were divided into three groups: normal controls (n=16), nitrofen-treated without CDH (n=16), and nitrofen-induced CDH (n=16). Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction was performed to evaluate mRNA expression of AT1, AT2, and TGF-beta1. Levels of mRNA were expressed as a ratio of the band density divided by that of beta-actin. AT1 and AT2 mRNA expressions were significantly decreased in CDH heart compared with controls (0.43+/-0.33 vs. 1.0+/-0.48 and 0.62+/-0.23 vs. 1.4+/-0.43, respectively). TGF-beta1 mRNA expressions were also significantly decreased in CDH heart compared with controls (0.38+/-0.17 vs. 0.72+/-0.26). No significant difference was found between the hearts of controls and nitrofen-treated rats without CDH. The decreased expression of AT1, AT2, and TGF-beta1 mRNA in the hypoplastic heart suggests that the downregulation of RAS may be involved in the pathogenesis of cardiac hypoplasia in nitrofen-induced CDH.
Exposure to air pollution has been associated with higher C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, suggesting an inflammatory response. Not much is known about this association in pregnancy.
We investigated the associations of air pollution exposure during pregnancy with maternal and fetal CRP levels in a population-based cohort study in the Netherlands.
Particulate matter (PM) with an aerodynamic diameter ≤ 10 μm (PM10) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels were estimated at the home address using dispersion modeling for different averaging periods preceding the blood sampling (1 week, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and total pregnancy). High-sensitivity CRP levels were measured in maternal blood samples in early pregnancy (n = 5,067) and in fetal cord blood samples at birth (n = 4,450).
Compared with the lowest quartile, higher PM10 exposure levels for the prior 1 and 2 weeks were associated with elevated maternal CRP levels (> 8 mg/L) in the first trimester [fourth PM10 quartile for the prior week: odds ratio (OR), 1.32; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.08, 1.61; third PM10 quartile for the prior 2 weeks: OR, 1.28; 95% CI: 1.06, 1.56]; however, no clear dose-response relationships were observed. PM10 and NO2 exposure levels for 1, 2, and 4 weeks preceding delivery were not consistently associated with fetal CRP levels at delivery. Higher long-term PM10 and NO2 exposure levels (total pregnancy) were associated with elevated fetal CRP levels (> 1 mg/L) at delivery (fourth quartile PM10: OR, 2.18; 95% CI: 1.08, 4.38; fourth quartile NO2: OR, 3.42; 95% CI: 1.36, 8.58; p-values for trend < 0.05).
Our results suggest that exposure to air pollution during pregnancy may lead to maternal and fetal inflammatory responses.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that some of the proliferative effects of steroid hormones on cancer cells are mediated by the Raf proto-oncogenes. The human breast cancer cell line MCF-7 is estrogen-receptor (ER) positive (+). NCI/ADR-RES is a human cell line lacking the estrogen receptor (ER-) that was initially named MCF-ADR. Raf-1, A-Raf and B-Raf kinase activities were examined in cell lines treated with beta-estradiol for 24 hours. Increases in Raf-1 and A-Raf activities were observed after treatment with beta-estradiol in the ER (+) MCF-7 cells but not in the ER (-) NCI/ADR-RES cells. In contrast, no significant changes in B-Raf activity were observed. Thus beta-estradiol can induce Raf-1 and A-Raf activities in ER (+) cells. In addition, beta-estradiol caused cell cycle progression in MCF-7 cells and an increased proliferative response to beta-estradiol was observed in MCF-7, which overexpressed constitutively-active Raf-1 (MCF/DeltaRaf-1). Increased mRNA levels of the ligand for the c-erb-B2 receptor, amphiregulin (ARG) were observed after beta-estradiol treatment of MCF-7 cells whereas constitutively higher levels of ARG and its receptor, c-erb-B2 mRNAs were detected in MCF/DeltaRaf-1 cells. These findings suggest that targeting Raf may prove efficacious in breast cancer therapies.
A facilitatory effect of the sympathetic neurotransmitter noradrenaline on nociceptor discharge may sometimes contribute to pain and hyperalgesia in inflammatory and neuropathic pain syndromes. Our previous studies have shown that noradrenaline heightens sensitivity to heat in skin sensitized by the topical application of capsaicin, and that this effect persists during arterial occlusion (Drummond, P.D., Noradrenaline increases hyperalgesia to heat in skin sensitized by capsaicin, Pain, 60 (1995) 311-315; Drummond, P.D., Independent effects of ischaemia and noradrenaline on thermal hyperalgesia in capsaicin-treated skin, Pain, 67 (1996) 129-133). In the present study, the hyperalgesic effects of arterial occlusion and the vasodilators nitroprusside and isoprenaline were investigated in the capsaicin-treated skin of healthy subjects, to determine whether adrenergic vasoconstriction contributes to thermal hyperalgesia. Thermal hyperalgesia intensified during arterial occlusion; however, sites of noradrenaline iontophoresis were more sensitive to heat than elsewhere in the capsaicin-treated skin, even when noradrenaline was administered during arterial occlusion. Nitroprusside inhibited adrenergic hyperalgesia except during arterial occlusion, suggesting that the analgesic effect of nitroprusside was mediated by vasodilatation. The beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoprenaline did not antagonize the vasoconstrictive or hyperalgesic effects of noradrenaline, and did not influence thermal hyperalgesia elsewhere in the capsaicin-treated skin. These findings favour an ischaemic mechanism of adrenergic hyperalgesia in skin sensitized by capsaicin. An additional mechanism, independent of skin perfusion, is needed to account for the development of adrenergic hyperalgesia during arterial occlusion.
A meta-analysis was made of studies addressing occupational exposure to vinyl chloride in relation to cancer mortality.
Two recently updated multicenter cohort studies and six smaller studies were identified. For selected neoplasms, standardized mortality ratios (SMR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) were abstracted (or calculated from raw data). In cases of lack of heterogeneity (P-value > or = 0.01), meta-analyses were conducted using a random-effects model.
With SMR values ranging from 1.63 to 57.1, all six studies for which these ratios could be obtained suggested an increased risk of liver cancer. For four of these studies, excesses persisted when known cases of angiosarcoma of the liver (ASL) were excluded. The meta-SMR for liver cancers other than ASL (based on the 2 large cohorts) was 1.35 (95% CI 1.04-1.77). The meta-SMR for lung cancer was 0.90 (95% CI 0.77-1.00, based on 5 studies), although higher SMR values were reported in early studies. The meta-SMR for brain cancer, based on 5 studies, was 1.26 (95% CI 0.98-1.62). For soft tissue sarcomas, the meta-SMR based on 4 studies was 2.52 (95% CI 1.56-4.07). The meta-SMR for lymphatic and hematopoietic neoplasms in the 2 large studies was 0.90 (95% CI 0.75-1.01), although 3 of the smaller studies reported significant excesses.
Apart from the known risk of ASL, workers exposed to vinyl chloride may experience an increased risk of hepatocellular carcinoma and soft-tissue sarcoma; however, these results may have been influenced by the underdiagnosis of true ASL. Increased mortality from lung and brain cancers and from lymphatic and hematopoietic neoplasms cannot be excluded; mortality from other neoplasms does not appear to be increased.
Ten patients with CDC stage III of infection by HIV were treated with AZT at doses of 300 mg/day (100 mg tid). There were 5 males and 5 females, the median age being 40.5 yr' (range 26-46). Seventy percent of them had transfusion-associated HIV infection and the rest had been infected by the sexual route. A positive clinical response was observed in 100% of the group after 16-24 weeks of treatment: the Karnofsky performance status increased from 64% to 94% (p less than 0.01), the white blood cell count raised from 3.7 to 6.0 K/microL (p less than 0.01), the number of helper lymphocytes (CD4+) also raised significantly from 248.2 to 470.7/uL (p less than .01). Only two patients required red blood cells transfusions. The life expectancy at 82 weeks was 90%. Toxicity was both moderate and transitory. It is concluded that low doses of AZT (300 mg/day) produce similar clinical results as doses of 1200-1500 mg/day. A larger study is needed to support our preliminary findings.
Bromocriptine therapy for macroprolactinoma induced cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) rhinorrhea in three patients. The tumor had extended well beyond the sella turcica and caused bony erosion in all the cases. All three patients responded to bromocriptine therapy rapidly. CSF fistula occurred concomitantly with the reduction of tumor size and caused meningitis in two of the patients. Withdrawal of bromocriptine resulted in cessation of the leakage. One of the patients underwent transsphenoidal repair. Two patients refused surgery. This potentially lethal complication encountered in these three cases demonstrates the need for close supervision of macroprolactinoma patients with skull base erosion placed under bromocriptine therapy.
Subacute combined degeneration (SCD) is known as myelopathy due to vitamin B12 deficiency. SCD always involves the posterior and lateral columns of the spinal cord, with the neuropathologic change showing vacuolation of the white matter. We describe 2 patients who presented with ataxic gait, impaired proprioception over limbs, and even mental change due to vitamin B12 deficiency. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the cervical spine showed increased signal intensity on T2-weighted imaging, and laboratory data showed low serum vitamin B12 level. The 2 patients were treated with vitamin B12 injection intramuscularly. There was clinical improvement after treatment along with normalization of the MRI.
Clinical methods for the early detection of doxorubicine (adriamycin; ADR) -induced cardiotoxicity have not been established. This study prospectively investigated whether atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and cardiac troponin T (TnT) are predictors for ADR-induced cardiotoxicity, and examined the correlations between the serum concentrations of these biomarkers and the functional alternations associated with ADR-induced myocardial damage.
Male Wistar rats were injected weekly with 2 mg/kg of ADR via the tail vein for 8 weeks to induce cardiotoxicity. Echocardiograms of each ether anesthetized rat were taken at 6, 8, 10 and 12 weeks after the first administration of ADR, and blood samples collected from the tail vein were used to quantify plasma ANP and BNP, and serum TnT after echocardiography. Plasma BNP and serum TnT significantly increased from 6 to 12 weeks (81.5 to 173.3 pg/ml (p<0.001), <0.01 to 1.09 ng/ml (p<0.05), respectively) with deterioration of left ventricular % fractional shortening (%FS) (58.6% to 36.8%). The %FS significantly correlated with TnT (r=-0.51, p<0.001) and BNP (r=-0.75, p<0.0001); however, the increase of TnT was antecedent to the increase of BNP and the deterioration of %FS.
Plasma BNP and serum TnT concentrations, especially TnT, measured by this highly sensitive method are useful predictors for ADR-induced cardiomyopathy.
Methoxychlor (MXC) and its metabolites bind to estrogen receptors (ESRs) and increase ovarian atresia. To test whether ESR alpha (ESR1) overexpressing (ESR1 OE) antral follicles are more sensitive to atresia compared to controls, we cultured antral follicles with vehicle, MXC (1-100 μg/ml) or metabolites (0.1-10 μg/ml). Results indicate that MXC and its metabolites significantly increase atresia in ESR1 OE antral follicles at lower doses compared to controls. Activity of pro-apoptotic factor caspase-3/7 was significantly higher in ESR1 OE treated antral follicles compared to controls. ESR1 OE mice dosed with MXC 64 mg/kg/day had an increased percentage of atretic antral follicles compared to controls. Furthermore, pro-caspase-3 levels were found to be significantly lower in ESR1 OE ovaries than controls dosed with MXC 64 mg/kg/day. These data suggest that ESR1 OE ovaries are more sensitive to atresia induced by MXC and its metabolites in vitro and in vivo compared to controls.
To determine the effectiveness of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) for acute gouty arthritis and pseudogout in a population of patients with multiple coexisting medical problems.
We retrospectively reviewed our experience with parenteral ACTH 40 or 80 units intravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous tid with tapering in the treatment of 38 patients. Thirty-three patients had documented acute gout and 5 patients had documented acute pseudogout. A total of 43 episodes of acute crystal induced synovitis were treated. The indications for using ACTH included congestive heart failure, chronic renal insufficiency, gastrointestinal bleeding, or no response to NSAID:
All episodes of pseudogout resolved in an average of 4.2 days. Of the episodes of acute gout, 97% resolved in an average of 5.5 days. Although mild hypokalemia, hyperglycemia, fluid retention and rebound arthritis occurred as adverse effects, none was severe and all were easily controlled.
ACTH is a safe and effective treatment for acute gout and pseudogout, especially in patients with multiple medical problems.
A 20-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for treatment of verapamil sensitive idiopathic left ventricular tachycardia (ILVT). During the electrophysiologic study (EPS), no sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) could be induced both at baseline and after infusion of isoproterenol. However, sustained clinical VT could be easily induced with single ventricular extrastimulation following intravenous administration of pilsicainide, a class Ic sodium channel blocker. The arrhythmia was ablated with radiofrequency catheter ablation.
The infiltration of mononuclear leukocytes into glomeruli or the interstitium is a feature in most forms of glomerular diseases. CC chemokines, mostly chemoattractants for mononuclear leukocytes, are molecules that are potentially responsible for the recruitment of these cells in the kidney. We previously reported that the gene expression of six CC chemokines-MCP-1, MCP-3, MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta, RANTES, and TCA3-was enhanced in a rat model of crescentic glomerulonephritis, the most severe form of glomerulonephritis. In this study we analyzed their gene expression in a model of another type of kidney disease, acute nephrosis accompanied by tubulointerstitial lesions, which is induced by an injection of puromycin aminonucleoside. Because leukocyte infiltration in this model is much more prominent in the interstitium than in glomeruli, we analyzed their gene expression in the renal cortex. On day 3, when the level of urinary protein was slightly but significantly increased but the number of interstitial leukocytes was unchanged, the enhanced expression of mRNAs for MCP-1, MCP-3, and TCA3 was observed. On day 5, the numbers of interstitial monocytes and lymphocytes significantly increased, and the levels of the mRNA expression of the above chemokines were still higher than the control animals, whereas the levels of mRNAs for MIP- 1alpha, MIP-1beta, and RANTES were not higher or were only slightly higher than the control ones. These results suggest that multiple CC chemokines may play a role in the recruitment of leukocytes in this model and that the expression pattern of CC chemokines depends on the type of kidney injury.
Para-phenylenediamine (PPD) is known to be a common sensitizer of allergic contact dermatitis and contact urticaria. To clarify the mechanism of contact hypersensitivity (CHS) to PPD, we established a mouse model of PPD-induced CHS. BALB/c mice were immunized for 3 consecutive days by painting topically a 2.5% PPD solution on their shaved abdominal skin. On days 5, 7 or 9 after the initial application, the mice were challenged by applications of a 2.5% PPD solution. Maximal ear swelling was determined at 24 h but another statistically significant and smaller ear swelling was observed 1 h after challenge with PPD in a hapten-specific manner. Adoptive cell transfer experiments demonstrated that the ear swelling of the adoptive cell transferred mice displayed an early response at 6 h and a late response from 12 h to 24 h when the recipient mice were challenged immediately after transfer. Both MoAbs and complement treatment of the transferred cells demonstrated that the phenotype of the early response cells which elicited a response at 6 h after challenge was Thy1(+), B220(+), alphabeta TCR(-), gammadelta TCR(-), CD3(-), CD4(-), CD5(+) and CD8(-). The in vitro treatment of effector cells with MoAbs against not only alphabeta TCR but also gammadelta TCR, together with complement, was found to diminish substantially the late response, elicited 12-24 h after challenge. Gammadelta T cells reconstituted the ability of alphabeta T cells to transfer 24 h CHS responsiveness. The phenotype of the gammadelta T cells that assist CHS effector alphabeta T cells was CD3(+), CD4(-) and CD8(+) and these regulatory gammadelta T cells were neither Ag-specific nor MHC-restricted. Furthermore, gammadelta T cells from normal spleen could also assist alphabeta T cells in adoptive transfer of the 24 h CHS response in a non-MHC-restricted manner. RT-PCR demonstrated that alphabeta T cells strongly expressed mRNA IFN-gamma, whereas gammadelta T cells expressed not only IFN-gamma but also IL-4 and IL-10. These data indicate that not only early response cells and alphabeta T cells but also Th2 type gammadelta T cells may play an important role in the elicitation of CHS to PPD.
The opioid antagonist naloxone is widely used in the emergency treatment of nontraumatic coma. Although it is uncommon for serious side effects to result from administration of opiate antagonists, we report that naloxone can have epileptogenic effects in the context of encephalitis. In an experimental model of viral encephalitis, rats infected with Borna disease virus developed myoclonic, generalized clonic, or atonic seizures; behavior arrest; and staring spells when treated with naloxone. These findings suggest a novel neuropharmacologic link, through opioid peptide systems, between epilepsy and encephalitis and disclose a potential contraindication to use of opioid antagonists in nontraumatic coma.
Prescribers are warned to be vigilant for potential cytochrome P450 mediated drug interactions; guidelines separately highlight risks of toxicity associated with zuclopenthixol acuphase. We previously examined potential cytochrome P450 interactions with zuclopenthixol and here describe dangerous side effects in a patient receiving zuclopenthixol acuphase and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine at high dose.
We present the case of a patient established on fluoxetine 80 mg/day who subsequently received injected zuclopenthixol acuphase 100 mg.
Following zuclopenthixol acuphase administration, dangerous extra-pyramidal side effects were observed, including severe laryngeal dystonia necessitating emergency medical treatment.
Our observations of symptoms of zuclopenthixol toxicity are consistent with a cytochrome P450 2D6/3A4 interaction with fluoxetine. Previous evidence demonstrating this interaction included only patients taking fluoxetine up to 60 mg/day. This case extends the evidence base. In patients taking high dose fluoxetine, we advise marked reductions in the prescribed dose of zuclopenthixol acuphase.
