BAG-1 (bcl-2-associated athanogene) enhances oestrogen receptor (ER) function and may influence outcome and response to endocrine therapy in breast cancer. We determined relationships between BAG-1 expression, molecular phenotype, response to tamoxifen therapy and outcome in a cohort of breast cancer patients and its influence on tamoxifen sensitivity in MCF-7 breast cancer cells in vitro. Publically available gene expression data sets were analysed to identify relationships between BAG-1 mRNA expression and patient outcome. BAG-1 protein expression was assessed using immunohistochemistry in 292 patients with invasive ductal carcinoma and correlated with clinicopathological variables, therapeutic response and disease outcome. BAG-1-overexpressing MCF-7 cells were treated with antioestrogens to assess its effects on cell proliferation. Gene expression data demonstrated a consistent association between high BAG-1 mRNA and improved survival. In ER+ cancer (n=189), a high nuclear BAG-1 expression independently predicted improved outcome for local recurrence (P=0.0464), distant metastases (P=0.0435), death from breast cancer (P=0.009, hazards ratio 0.29, 95% CI: 0.114-0.735) and improved outcome in tamoxifen-treated patients (n=107; P=0.0191). BAG-1 overexpression in MCF-7 cells augmented antioestrogen-induced growth arrest. A high BAG-1 expression predicts improved patient outcome in ER+ breast carcinoma. This may reflect both a better definition of the hormone-responsive phenotype and a concurrent increased sensitivity to tamoxifen.
To study the human teratogenic potential of vaginal metronidazole treatment during pregnancy.
The analysis of cases with different congenital abnormalities and their matched controls in the population-based data set of the large Hungarian Case-Control Surveillance of Congenital Abnormalities (HCCSCA), 1980-1996.
Pregnant women (38,151) who had newborn infants without any congenital abnormalities (control group), 22,843 pregnant women who had newborn infants or fetuses with congenital abnormalities.
Twenty-two congenital abnormality groups.
The prevalence of vaginal metronidazole treatment during pregnancy was 1.7% in the case group (388 pregnant women), while it was 1.5% in the control group (570 pregnant women) [crude prevalence odds ratio (POR) with 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.1, 1.0-1.3]. Comparisons of cases and their matched controls showed an association between vaginal metronidazole treatment during the second and third months of gestation and congenital hydrocephalus (adjusted POR with 95% CI: 10.7, 1.1-104.5), however, based only on five cases. The evaluation of medically recorded metronidazole treatment did not confirm this association.
Our finding can only be regarded as a signal for the possible association between vaginal treatment with metronidazole during pregnancy and congenital hydrocephalus.
Skeletal muscle atrophy results from an imbalance in protein degradation and protein synthesis and occurs in response to injury, various disease states, disuse, and normal aging. Current treatments for this debilitating condition are inadequate. More information about mechanisms involved in the onset and progression of muscle atrophy is necessary for development of more effective therapies. Here we show that expression of the mouse ether-a-go-go related gene (Merg1a) K+ channel is up-regulated in skeletal muscle of mice experiencing atrophy as a result of both malignant tumor expression and disuse. Further, ectopic expression of Merg1a in vivo induces atrophy in healthy wt-bearing mice, while expression of a dysfunctional Merg1a mutant suppresses atrophy in hindlimb-suspended mice. Treatment of hindlimb-suspended mice with astemizole, a known Merg1a channel blocker, inhibits atrophy in these animals. Importantly, in vivo expression of Merg1a in mouse skeletal muscle activates the ubiquitin proteasome pathway that is responsible for the majority of protein degradation that causes muscle atrophy, yet expression of a dysfunctional Merg1a mutant decreases levels of ubiquitin-proteasome proteolysis. Thus, expression of Merg1a likely initiates atrophy by activating ubiquitin-proteasome proteolysis. This gene and its product are potential targets for prevention and treatment of muscle atrophy.
The cardioprotective properties of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, quinapril and enalapril were studied in a rat model of heart failure. Seventy-five rats were divided into five groups and administered quinapril or enalapril at 2 and 20 mg/kg/day (groups Q2, Q20, E2 and E20) or vehicle alone (group V, all groups n = 15). Although both ACE inhibitors improved survival rate and ventricular function in a dose-dependent manner, the left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and expression level of transforming growth factor-beta1 mRNA were the lowest in group Q20. These results suggest that quinapril may confer greater protection than enalapril against injury from the renin-angiotensin system in heart failure.
Three techniques for deliberate hypotension (mean arterial pressure, 60 to 70 mmHg) were prospectively compared in adults undergoing posterior spine fusion. Patients received either IV sodium nitroprusside, sodium nitroprusside with oral captopril pretreatment, or IV nitroglycerin. Patient groups were comparable in age, sex, weight, baseline hemodynamic and laboratory parameters, duration of surgery, and duration of hypotension. Absolute blood loss was significantly less in the group receiving nitroglycerin; however, there were no differences between groups when corrected for operative exposure (milliliter per spine segment exposed). Nitroprusside was effective in producing target blood pressure in all patients. Nitroglycerin was ineffective in two patients and two other patients required greater than 20 micrograms/kg/min. Both groups receiving nitroprusside developed significant postinfusion increases in arterial pressure. Blood pressure fell significantly after induction of anesthesia in patients receiving captopril. Cardiac index, heart rate, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, intrapulmonary shunt, and arterial blood gases were comparable and did not change significantly in any group. Systemic vascular resistance fell during infusion in all groups and remained depressed after infusion in patients receiving nitroglycerin. Plasma renin activity was significantly increased in the group receiving captopril due to loss of feedback inhibition of renin release and rose significantly during infusion in those patients receiving nitroprusside alone. There were no complications. Nitroprusside with and without captopril pretreatment was associated with postoperative increases in arterial pressure, although not to hypertensive levels, probably due to loss of captopril activity after single-dose administration. The use of nitroglycerin was limited by lack of potency. There was no demonstrable clinical advantage for any of the three techniques.
This study tested the hypotheses that a) the dream content of crack cocaine abusers in Trinidad and Tobago changes during abstinence, and b) the change in dream content can be used to predict treatment outcome. The sample comprised 46 consecutive patients who completed a 3-month residential treatment program and were followed up after 6 months. Dreams and associated emotions were recorded during the first month of inpatient treatment and at 6 months follow-up. Forty-one (89.1%) patients reported drug dreams during the first month, mainly of using the drug. Twenty-eight (60.9%) had drug dreams at 6 months follow-up, mainly of using or refusing the drug. There was an abstinence rate of 56.5% at 6 months. A better treatment outcome was associated with having drug dreams at 6 months follow-up (p < .05) and dreams of refusing the drug (p < .05). Findings support the need to further explore the progression of dreams during treatment as a predictive tool.
An established exposure-response relationship exists between water arsenic levels and skin lesions. Results of previous studies with limited historical exposure data, and laboratory animal studies suggest that diet may modify arsenic metabolism and toxicity. In this study, we evaluated the effect of diet on the risk of arsenic-related skin lesions in Pabna, Bangladesh. Six hundred cases and 600 controls loosely matched on age and sex were enrolled at Dhaka Community Hospital, Bangladesh, in 2001-2002. Diet, demographic data, and water samples were collected. Water samples were analyzed for arsenic using inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy. Betel nut use was associated with a greater risk of skin lesions in a multivariate model [odds ratio (OR) = 1.67; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.18-2.36]. Modest decreases in risk of skin lesions were associated with fruit intake 1-3 times/month (OR = 0.68; 95%CI, 0.51-0.89) and canned goods at least 1 time/month (OR = 0.41; 95% CI, 0.20-0.86). Bean intake at least 1 time/day (OR = 1.89; 95% CI, 1.11-3.22) was associated with increased odds of skin lesions. Betel nut use appears to be associated with increased risk of developing skin lesions in Bangladesh. Increased intake of fruit and canned goods may be associated with reduced risk of lesions. Increased intake of beans may be associated with an increased risk of skin lesions. The results of this study do not provide clear support for a protective effect of vegetable and overall protein consumption against the development of skin lesions, but a modest benefit cannot be excluded.
The consequences of prematurity and prenatal cocaine exposure on early neurobehavior and physical growth were examined longitudinally in a sample of 20 cocaine-exposed and 20 non-exposed preterm neonates. The magnitude of the difference in physical growth acceleration related to prenatal cocaine exposure increased with increasing birth gestational age, whereas growth rate differences in irritability decreased. In contrast, prenatal cocaine exposure, independent of prematurity, was related to reduced attention skills at 36 weeks conceptional age and increased rates of neurobehavioral change. The effects of prenatal cocaine exposure differed with respect to the degree of prematurity, depending on the nature of the outcome examined, suggesting differing windows of vulnerability for different outcome domains. The usefulness of a developmental growth perspective was demonstrated.
Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) is effective in reducing vascular outcome events in patients with atherosclerosis: a relative risk reduction of about 30% for stroke, 22% for stroke and death, and 15% for vascular mortality. It is probable that low and high dose aspirin are similar in efficacy. Complications are more frequent with high dose aspirin than with low doses. Four randomised trials evaluating sulfinpyrazone vs placebo, and 3 trials evaluating sulfinpyrazone vs aspirin, showed more cerebrovascular events in the sulfinpyrazone group than in the aspirin and placebo groups. One small trial comparing dipyridamole with placebo in patients with cerebrovascular disease found no difference between the 2 groups in outcome. No other studies have compared dipyridamole alone with placebo or aspirin. The European Stroke Prevention Study II is currently in progress and is comparing dipyridamole + aspirin, dipyridamole, aspirin, and placebo. In the first year, the Ticlopidine Aspirin Stroke Study (TASS) showed a 42% risk reduction for stroke and death using the efficacy analysis and a 47% risk reduction for stroke and stroke death. Ticlopidine was more effective than aspirin in reducing stroke in both males and females. Apart from a reversible severe neutropenia in 0.86% of patients, ticlopidine-related adverse effects were relatively benign and reversible. The Canadian-American Ticlopidine Study (CATS) compared ticlopidine with placebo in patients with completed major strokes. The cumulative event rates for the primary outcome events of stroke, myocardial infarction and vascular death, using the efficacy approach, show clear evidence of separation almost immediately after randomisation, consistent with a constant risk reduction of about 30% in the ticlopidine group. These data provide strong evidence that ticlopidine conveys a clinically important reduction in the risk of thromboembolic events in patients with a history of completed thromboembolic stroke. In conclusion, aspirin is effective in preventing atherothrombotic morbidity and mortality. It reduces the overall vascular event rate by about 25%. Sulfinpyrazone and dipyridamole appear to add nothing important over aspirin alone. Ticlopidine is more effective than aspirin in preventing stroke. The modest, reversible risk of neutropenia, affecting less than 1% of patients, makes the benefit: risk ratio a reasonable one.
An effective treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), intravenous (IV) methotrexate (MTX) has a notable toxic effect on the CNS, with leukoencephalopathy (LE) being the most common form. The purpose of this study was to use objective quantitative MR imaging to prospectively assess potential risk factors on the temporal evolution of LE in patients treated for ALL.
We evaluated the longitudinal prevalence of LE in 45 children treated for ALL in a single institutional protocol including seven courses of IV MTX and no cranial irradiation. Differences in signal intensity on T2-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) images between hyperintense regions and normal-appearing genu were used to quantitatively detect LE. Cox proportional regression was used to estimate the effect of covariates (e.g., sex, MTX dose, age at diagnosis) on the prevalence of LE. After influential factors were identified, a generalized linear model was determined to predict the probability of LE in new patients. The model was necessary to facilitate statistical testing between examinations.
Increasing exposure, which corresponding to more courses and higher doses of IV MTX, influenced the prevalence of LE. The prevalence of LE was significant reduced approximately 1.5 years after the completion of IV MTX.
Higher doses and more courses of IV MTX placed patients at a higher risk for LE; many of the changes resolved after the completion of therapy. The effect of these changes on neurocognitive functioning and quality of life in survivors remains to be determined.
The interrelationship between the breakdown of the blood-brain barrier according to the Evans-blue passage and an abrupt increase in blood pressure (DeltaP) was studied in rats subjected to adrenaline-induced acute hypertension and also pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures. Arterial blood pressure was increased by adrenaline, then immediately i.v. nifedipine was injected and subsequently decreased to the control value in the acute hypertensive group. Arterial blood pressure was increased by pentylenetetrazol, then immediately GABA (gamma-aminobutiric acid) was injected and the blood pressure was decreased to the control value in the seizure group. The animals were divided into five groups. Group I: control; Group II: acute hypertension; Group III: acute hypertension + nifedipine; Group IV: seizure; Group V: seizure + GABA. The Evans-blue dye content was found to be 0.25 +/- 0.01 mg% in the whole brain in the control animals, and 0.803 +/- 0.1 mg% in the acute hypertensive group. This difference between these groups was found to be significant: P< 0.01. In the nifedipine group (Group III) the Evans-blue content was 0.30 +/- 0.1 mg% in the whole brain; and there was no significant difference between control values and nifedipine-treated animals (P> 0.5). The Evans-blue content was 1.6 +/- 0.2 mg% in the whole brain during seizure, and decreased to 0.36 +/- 0.1 mg% after GABA injection was administered. There was also no significant difference between the control value and the GABA-treated animals (P> 0.5). These results have shown that an abrupt increase in blood pressure (DeltaP) did not change the blood-brain barrier permeability in both acute hypertension and seizures.
Astragalin (kaempferol-3-O-glucoside), a newly found flavonoid from leaves of persimmon or Rosa agrestis, is known to have antiatopic dermatitis and antioxidant activity. However, the effect of astragalin on the inflammatory response is not well defined. Nitric oxide (NO) produced from the activated macrophages is well known as a mediator of inflammation. Transcription factor (NF)-κB mediates the inducible expression of a variety of genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses including inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and cytokines/chemokines. In the present study, we examined the inhibitory effects of astragalin on the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory mediators. Astragalin significantly reduced LPS-induced expression of iNOS, COX-2 and cytokines/chemokines, and production of NO in J774A.1 mouse macrophages. Astragalin inhibited LPSinduced activation of NF-κB as indicated by inhibition of degradation of IκBα, nuclear translocation of NF-κB, and NF-κB dependent gene reporter assay. The inhibitory effects of astragalin on the inflammatory mediators are comparable with quercetin, a well known flavonoid possessing antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity. Using the mouse peritoneal macrophages, we confirmed the inhibitory effect of astragalin on NO production and NF-κB activation. Taken together, our results indicate that astragalin inhibits expression of proinflammatory mediators through the inhibition of NF-κB in macrophages.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is the most common tumor predisposition disorder affecting 1/3500 worldwide. Patients are at risk of developing benign (neurofibromas) and malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNST). The AXL receptor tyrosine kinase has been implicated in several kinds of cancers, but so far no studies have investigated the role of AXL in NF1 related tumorigenesis. Recently, the soluble fraction from the extracellular domain of AXL (sAXL) has been found in human plasma, and its level was correlated to poor prognosis in patients with renal cancer. Compared to normal human Schwann cells, a significantly high expression level of AXL was found in three of the four MPNST cell lines and two of the three primary MPNST tissues. Similarly, the level of sAXL in conditioned media corresponded to the protein and mRNA levels of AXL in the MPNST cell lines. Furthermore, in two different human MPNST xenograft models, the human sAXL could be detected in the mouse plasma. Its level was proportionate to the size of the xenograft tumors, while no human sAXL was detect prior to the formation of the tumors. Treatment with a newly developed photodynamic therapy, prevented further tumor growth and resulted in drastically reduced the levels of sAXL compared to that of the control group. Finally, the level of sAXL was significantly increased in patients with plexiform tumors compared to patients with only dermal neurofibromas, further supporting the role of sAXL as a marker for NF1 related tumor burden.
We investigated the effect of repeated high volume plasma exchange with fresh donor plasma in 11 patients with fulminant hepatic failure, all initially in stage 3 or 4 encephalopathy. A daily exchange of a volume equal to the extracellular volume (20% of body weight) on three consecutive days was intended. We obtained an average of 2.6 exchanges each with a mean volume equal to 16% of the body weight. Five patients (46%, 95% confidence limits 17%-77%) survived, all with acetaminophen induced liver failure. Four of the 6 non-survivors showed a temporary improvement in cerebral function. Two of the patients woke up completely. The 6 non-survivors maintained a stable condition with a systolic blood pressure > 110 mm Hg for a mean of 6.9 days after initiating plasma exchange. Plasma exchange may be considered in acute liver failure in patients with residual liver function before transplantation is finally decided. In addition, plasmapheresis may be used to keep patients with definite liver failure clinically stable until a transplant can be performed.
The purpose of our study was to investigate in vitro the potential cancer preventive properties of several phytochemicals, i.e. grape seed extract (GSE), resveratrol (RES), ursolic acid (URA), ellagic acid (ELA), lycopene and N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) to define the mechanisms by which these compounds may inhibit murine skin carcinogenesis. We measured quenching of peroxyl, superoxide and hydroxyl radicals by these phytochemicals. We also used adenosine triphosphate (ATP) bioluminescence, Caspase-Glo 3/7 and P450-Glo (CYP1A1 and CYP1B1) assays to study antiproliferative, proapoptotic and CYP-inhibiting effects of the phytochemicals. We next determined their effects on a 4 week inflammatory hyperplasia assay using 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene-induced murine skin carcinogenesis model to further understand their mechanism of action. Three murine keratinocyte cell lines, i.e. non-tumorigenic (3PC), papilloma-derived (MT1/2) and squamous cell carcinoma-derived (Ca3/7) cell lines, were used in in vitro assays. We have found that GSE, ELA and RES are potent scavengers of peroxyl and superoxide radicals. Statistically significant effects on activities of caspase-3 and -7 were observed only after GSE and URA treatments. All tested compounds protected cells from hydrogen peroxide-induced DNA damage. Using a short-term complete carcinogenesis assay, we have found that all selected compounds caused marked decreases of epidermal thickness and (except RES) reduced percentages of mice with mutation in codon 61 of Ha-ras oncogene. In conclusion, differential effects of tested phytochemicals on events and processes critical for the growth inhibition of keratinocytes in vitro and in vivo indicate that combinations of tested compounds may, in the future, better counteract both tumor initiation and tumor promotion/progression.
A series of potent phthalazinone-based human H(1) and H(3) bivalent histamine receptor antagonists, suitable for intranasal administration for the potential treatment of allergic rhinitis, were identified. Blockade of H(3) receptors is thought to improve efficacy on nasal congestion, a symptom of allergic rhinitis that is currently not treated by current antihistamines. Two analogues (56a and 56b) had slightly lower H(1) potency (pA(2) 9.1 and 8.9, respectively, vs 9.7 for the clinical gold-standard azelastine, and H(3) potency (pK(i) 9.6 and 9.5, respectively, vs 6.8 for azelastine). Compound 56a had longer duration of action than azelastine, low brain penetration, and low oral bioavailability, which coupled with the predicted low clinical dose, should limit the potential of engaging CNS-related side-effects associated with H(1) or H(3) antagonism.
Vitamin K is a family of fat-soluble compounds including phylloquinone (vitamin K1), menaquinone (vitamin K2) and menadione (vitamin K3). Recently, it was reported that vitamin K, especially vitamins K1 and K2, exerts a variety of biological effects, and these compounds are expected to be candidates for therapeutic agents against various diseases. In this study, we investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of vitamin K3 in in vitro cultured cell experiments and in vivo animal experiments. In human embryonic kidney (HEK)293 cells, vitamin K3 inhibited the tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha-evoked translocation of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB into the nucleus, although vitamins K1 and K2 did not. Vitamin K3 also suppressed the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB and production of TNF-alpha in mouse macrophage RAW264.7 cells. Moreover, the addition of vitamin K3 before and after LPS administration attenuated the severity of lung injury in an animal model of acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), which occurs in the setting of acute severe illness complicated by systemic inflammation. In the ARDS model, vitamin K3 also suppressed the LPS-induced increase in the serum TNF-alpha level and inhibited the LPS-evoked nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB in lung tissue. Despite marked efforts, little therapeutic progress has been made, and the mortality rate of ARDS remains high. Vitamin K3 may be an effective therapeutic strategy against acute lung injury including ARDS.
Two well-documented cases of bilateral retinal artery and choriocapillaris occlusions with blindness following head and neck soft-tissue injection with methylprednisolone acetate in combination with lidocaine, epinephrine, or penicillin are reported. One case had only a unilateral injection. The acute observations included hazy sensorium, superior gaze palsy, pupillary abnormalities, and conjunctival hemorrhages with edema. Follow-up changes showed marked visual loss, constricted visual fields, optic nerve pallor, vascular attenuation, and chorioretinal atrophy. The literature is reviewed, and possible causes are discussed.
The metastatic lymph node 64 (MLN64), which is localized in the human chromosome 17, encodes a protein with strong homology with steroidogenic acute regulatory protein. Its overexpression in human breast carcinomas and MLNs led to the hypothesis that this protein could be involved in intraneoplastic steroidogenesis. In the present study, we investigated the expression of MLN64 in prostate cancer, another hormone-dependent tumor, and compared its expression with that of CYP17, the gene encoding for the key enzyme of androgen synthesis. We investigated by RT-PCR the expression of MLN64 and CYP17 in 60 prostatic tumors and compared their expression with the stage of disease and the appearance of relapses in a follow-up of 24 months. We found MLN64 and CYP17 expressed in all samples examined, with significantly higher expression in neoplastic tissues with respect to normal tissues (NTs). Moreover, only in neoplastic but not in NTs, a positive linear correlation was found between MLN64 and CYP17 gene expression. MLN64 and CYP17 expression seems to correlate with high stage, high Gleason score and short relapse-free time. These data, for the first time, demonstrate the presence of MLN64 and CYP17 expression in both normal and neoplastic prostatic tissues. The biological role of MLN64 in human prostate and, particularly, in neoplastic tissue is still unclear. Our findings concerning MLN64 and CYP17 gene expression and their significant positive correlation in human prostate cancer may suggest their possible role in intraneoplastic autonomous steroidogenesis.
A double-blind cross-over trial of the effects of baclofen and placebo was carried out in 20 female patients suffering from neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia. After 14 days of treatment 15 patients showed improvement of baclofen, whereas none showed improvement on placebo; baclofen was thus significantly more effective than placebo. Baclofen is a GABA-like drug which passes through the blood-brain barrier and which reduces the neuroleptic-induced increase of dopamine turn-over. In tardive dyskinesia is found dopaminergic hypersensitivity, and baclofen is supposed to exert its action by inhibiting the dopamine activity. Side effects, although temporary, were observed in the form of sedation, muscular hypotonia, dizziness, vomiting, and muscular rigidity. One patient developed a depression. Baclofen or other gabergic drugs used in the treatment of dyskinesias do not increase the dopaminergic hypersensitivity, which is part of the pathogenesis of these conditions; gabergic therapy must therefore be preferred to treatment with dopamine receptor blocking drugs.
This study looks at the association of depression and serum ferritin level.
Case-control study.
University hospital.
Two hundred and five female medical students of Free University of Medical Sciences in Tehran were selected for the study (mean age; 24.5+/-1.6 years). Of these, 13 subjects were excluded and finally 192 subjects took part in the study.
A questionnaire was filled in by each participant for the diagnosis of depression to be made. Based on the Beck score, the students were grouped as depressed and healthy (67 depressed students and 125 healthy controls). The participants were evaluated in terms of hemoglobin (Hgb) level, serum ferritin, ESR (erythrocyte sedimentation rate), CRP (C-reactive protein), folic acid, vitamin B12 and Hgb simultaneously.
The prevalence of depression in the study population was 34.7%. The mean ferritin level in students with depression was significantly lower than the healthy ones (P<0.001). By changing the status from normal ferritin level to low ferritin level, odds of depression was increased by 1.92 (P<0.05).
The study implies a possible association between depression and decreased ferritin level before the occurrence of anemia.
Free University of Medical Sciences.
3,3',4,4',5-Pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB126) cause multiple adverse effects in organisms including animals and humans. Although PCB toxicities are linked to oxidative damage in rodents, the mechanism in early life stages of zebrafish is not clear. To explore the developmental toxicity mechanism of PCB126, three paradigms (toxicological phenotypes, biochemical changes, and molecular changes) were studied in 3-h postfertilization (hpf) zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos exposed to different PCB126 concentrations (0, 16, 32, 64, and 128 μg/L) until 168 hpf. Developmental malformations, including pericardial and yolk sac edema, impaired lower jaw growth, spinal curvature, head edema and failure to inflate the swim bladder were observed, some as early as 72 hpf. Mortality was not apparent in early stages but significantly increased in a dose-dependent manner from 144 hpf onward. A dose-dependent significant increase in malformation rate was observed from 72 hpf onward with up to 100% at 132 hpf in embryos exposed to 128 μg/L of PCB126. Higher doses of PCB126 significantly decreased the copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZn-Sod), catalase (Cat), and glutathione peroxidase (Gpx) enzyme activities at 96, 132 hpf, but markedly declined from thereafter. PCB126 at 128 μg/L significantly increased the malondialdehyde content at 72, 96, and 132 hpf. The transcriptional gene expression of antioxidant enzymes Cat and Gpx was upregulated in embryos exposed to 64 μg/L of PCB126 at 24 and 96 hpf. Sod1 messenger RNA (mRNA) was low in embryos exposed to 32 μg/L at 72 and 96 hpf but was induced in embryos exposed to 64 and 128 μg/L doses at 132 hpf. Collectively, the results suggest oxidative stress as a major factor in the induction of multiple developmental abnormalities in early life stages of zebrafish exposed to PCB126. However, the relationship between the antioxidant enzyme activity and the mRNA expression was not clear and the potential reasons for this are discussed. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2014.
Exacerbation of seizures by carbamazepine (CBZ) has been well documented in children. These were mainly generalized convulsions and only rarely was an increase in previous focal convulsions observed. We report an adult epileptic patient, who had an increased frequency of focal seizures following treatment with CBZ. The exacerbation occurred with high CBZ blood levels, but there were no other signs of encephalopathy. Lowering the dose of CBZ was followed by dramatic clinical improvement. This report points to the possibility that increased focal seizure frequency under CBZ treatment in adults may imply drug effect, rather than worsening of the underlying disease.
To investigate whether initial valproate (VPA) monotherapy for the treatment of epilepsy causes visual field defects and visual dysfunction.
In a cross-sectional study, visual fields were examined with the kinetic Goldmann and automated Humphrey perimeters, contrast sensitivity function with the Pelli-Robson letter chart and colour vision with the Standard Pseudoisochromatic Plates Part 2 (SPP 2) and Farnsworth-Munsell 100 Hue test (FM 100) in eighteen epilepsy patients (aged 18--50 years, 30.2.+/-10 years, mean+/-S.D.) treated with initial valproate monotherapy for 2--20 years (8.4+/-5.1 years).
None had vigabatrin-type, concentric visual field defect with the kinetic Goldmann or automated Humphrey perimetries. In the Humphrey perimetry, the mean deviation for the group was within normal limits varying from -2.53 to 0.59 dB (-0.74+/-0.80 dB) in the right eye and from -2.66 to 0.67 dB (-0.78+/-0.82 dB) in the left eye. In the FM 100 test, acquired colour vision deficiency was found in two out of 18 patients (11%, 95% CI: 0--25%). However, the mean total error score was lower in the patient group than in the control group. All patients had normal contrast sensitivity function.
The use of VPA in the treatment of epilepsy is not associated with visual field defects similar to vigabatrin, but may induce abnormalities in colour vision.
Although levobupivacaine (LBUP) is less cardiotoxic than racemic bupivacaine (RBUP), the resuscitation from the LBUP-induced cardiovascular collapse (CVC) has not been easy as expected. Following the recent reports that proposed the resuscitative action of insulin for the RBUP-induced CVC, a controlled trial was performed to assess the feasibility of insulin for the LBUP-induced CVC. Fourteen dogs were randomly allocated into two groups: the RBUP and LBUP groups. Each group received continuous intravenous infusions of RBUP or LBUP until the mean arterial pressure (MAP) reached 40 mmHg. Then, an intravenous bolus of insulin (2 U/kg) was administered. Both groups were successfully resuscitated. At CVC, a decrease of cardiac output and an increase of systemic vascular resistance were observed but to a lesser degree in the LBUP group (p<0.05). After insulin injection, the MAP further declined to under 40 mmHg for several minutes, which was more protracted in the LBUP group (p<0.05). The CVCs induced by LBUP or RBUP in anesthetized dogs could be successfully resuscitated by insulin. Compared with RBUP, however, the less degree of vasoconstriction by LBUP and the innate vasodilatory property of insulin yielded a delayed increment of MAP during the immediate resuscitation period in the LBUP-induced CVC.
We examined the effects on female CD-1 mice of fetal exposure to low doses of the drug diethylstilbestrol (DES) (0.1 microg/kg/day) and the insecticide methoxychlor (MXC) (10 microg/kg/day) as well as 1000-fold higher doses: 100 microg/kg/day DES and 10,000 microg/kg/day MXC. Pregnant females were administered these chemicals on gestation days 12-18. At 7-8 months of age, female offspring were ovariectomized and implanted for 7 days with a Silastic capsule containing estradiol. Relative to controls, females exposed to the 0.1 microg DES dose showed significantly heavier uteri, while females exposed to the 100 microg DES dose showed significantly lighter uteri. Females exposed prenatally to the 10 microg/kg dose of MXC had significantly heavier uteri relative to females exposed to the 10,000 microg/kg dose of MXC, but neither group differed significantly from controls. Liver weight for females exposed to both doses of DES was significantly greater than controls. Using a microarray approach to analyze DNA methylation, an increase in ribosomal DNA (rDNA) methylation was observed. Sequence data and Southern analysis indicate an increase in 18S rDNA and 45S pre-rDNA methylation in uterine samples exposed prenatally to low and high doses of DES. We thus found opposite effects of fetal exposure to a low and a high dose of DES on the uterine response to estradiol (inverted-U dose-response relationship). In contrast, there was a monotonic dose-response relationship found for prenatal DES exposure on both liver weight and ribosomal DNA hypermethylation.
We report an unusual and severe vasculitic disorder following co-trimoxazole, given orally for a urinary tract infection. The vasculitis was manifest solely as thrombophlebitis migrans and involving only veins without evidence of polyarteritis nodosa, or underlying malignancy.
Post-mortem studies in human brain of patients with Parkinson's disease have greatly contributed to our understanding of the disease. However, few human brain studies have focused on levodopa-induced dyskinesias, which considerably limit the beneficial effect of levodopa (LD) in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. We have taken advantage of the fact that some patients develop dyskinesias and other do not to compare biochemical markers between them. In post-mortem samples from LD-treated parkinsonian patients, increased preproenkephalin expression in the putamen and increased GABA(A) receptors content in the internal globus pallidus (GPi) are found in dyskinetic parkinsonian patients compared to non-dyskinetic patients. These data are consistent with previous observations in MPTP monkeys developing dyskinesias following LD or dopamine agonist treatment. This combination of data in an animal model and in humans strongly suggests that increased enkephalinergic activity in the putamen and increased sensitivity of GABA(A) receptors in the GPi are implicated in the pathogenesis of LD-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease.
Tonic-clonic seizures followed intravenous fluorescein injection for fundus angiography in a 47-year-old male. Despite precautions this adverse reaction recurred on re-exposure to intravenous fluorescein.
