It has been reported that the presence of gammadelta T cells in kidney is associated with kidney damage in human IgA nephropathy and in rat models of chronic renal injury, including Adriamycin nephropathy (AN), but the functional role of gammadelta T cells in this setting is unknown. This study examined the functional role of gammadelta T cells in tissue injury in a murine model of AN. Murine AN was induced in BALB/c mice by a single injection of Adriamycin. gammadelta T cells as a proportion of CD3(+) T cells were significantly increased in AN kidneys (16.8 +/- 3.9%) but not in lymph nodes (1.3 +/- 0.8%; P < 0.001). The proportion of gammadelta T cells in AN kidney correlated positively with serum creatinine and glomerular sclerosis. The Vgammadelta T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire in kidney showed expansion of a subset of cells that expressed Vgamma6/Vdelta1 genes and that used canonical TCR Vgamma6/Vdelta1 sequences in the CDR3 region of the TCR. gammadelta T cells that were sorted from the kidneys expressed TGF-beta but not IL-4, IL-10, or IFN-gamma. gammadelta T cells also expressed the activating receptor NKG2D and the NKG2D adaptor molecule DAP12. RAE-1, a ligand of NKG2D, was upregulated in AN kidney. Depletion of gammadelta T cells using anti-TCR gammadelta antibody resulted in worsening of serum creatinine, glomerulosclerosis, and interstitial inflammation. These studies indicate the involvement of the gammadelta T cell in innate recognition and regulation of inflammation in AN.
The economic, environmental, and human health impacts of the deepwater horizon (DWH) oil spill have been of significant concern in the general public and among scientists. This study employs parallel experiments to test the effects of crude oil from the DWH oil well, chemical dispersant Corexit 9500A, and dispersant-oil mixture on growth and reproduction in the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans. Both the crude oil and the dispersant significantly inhibited the reproduction of C. elegans. Dose-dependent inhibitions of hatched larvae production were observed in worms exposed to both crude oil and dispersant. Importantly, the chemical dispersant Corexit 9500A potentiated crude oil effects; dispersant-oil mixture induced more significant effects than oil or dispersant-alone exposures. While oil-alone exposure and dispersant-alone exposure have none to moderate inhibitory effects on hatched larvae production, respectively, the mixture of dispersant and oil induced much more significant inhibition of offspring production. The production of hatched larvae was almost completely inhibited by several high concentrations of the dispersant-oil mixture. This suggests a sensitive bioassay for future investigation of oil/dispersant impacts on organisms. We also investigated the effects of crude oil/dispersant exposure at the molecular level by measuring the expressions of 31 functional genes. Results showed that the dispersant and the dispersant-oil mixture induced aberrant expressions of 12 protein-coding genes (cat-4, trxr-2, sdhb-1, lev-8, lin-39, unc-115, prdx-3, sod-1, acr-16, ric-3, unc-68, and acr-8). These 12 genes are associated with a variety of biological processes, including egg-laying, oxidative stress, muscle contraction, and neurological functions. In summary, the toxicity potentiating effect of chemical dispersant must be taken into consideration in future crude oil cleanup applications.
An animal model of organ-specific chemical carcinogenesis has been used to study environmental effects on the incidence of human colorectal adenocarcinoma. Wistar/Furth weanling rats underwent connection of their urinary and fecal streams (ureterosigmoidostomy), connection of their urinary and fecal streams with proximal fecal diversion (rectal bladder), or sham operations. Age-matched, unoperated control and operated animals then received either no carcinogen, 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) 20 mg/kg body weight, s.c. once weekly for 16 weeks, N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolylformamide (FANFT) 0.2% of the feed for 16 weeks, or DMH + FANFT concurrently. Thirty-three weeks after carcinogen exposure, surviving animals were killed and examined for bowel and urinary bladder tumors. The incidence of adenocarcinoma of the colon adjacent to the junction between bladder and bowel was significantly higher in animals after ureterosigmoidostomy compared with animals whose fecal stream had been proximally diverted (14/22 vs. 0/34, P less than 0.001). This effect was not dependent upon chemical carcinogen exposure. Nonexposed animals still developed a significantly higher incidence of colon adenocarcinomas adjacent to their bladder-bowel junctions as compared with animals with proximal fecal diversion (5/8 vs. 0/13, P less than 0.01). In unoperated or sham operated animals, adenocarcinomas of the bowel occurred in 33% of DMH-treated animals and transitional cell carcinomas of the urinary bladder in 33% of the FANFT-treated animals. After concurrent exposure to both carcinogens, no increased incidence of bladder tumors was noted when compared with FANFT treatment alone. However, the number of animals with one or more adenocarcinomas of the bowel (22/30 vs. 17/50, P less than 0.001), the mean number of tumors per animal (2.1 +/- 0.2 vs. 1.1 +/- 0.1, P less than 0.01), and the invasiveness of the tumors were all increased after DMH + FANFT as compared with DMH exposure alone. The carcinogenic potential of direct bladder to bowel connection with intact fecal and urinary streams, and the potentiation by FANFT of DMH-induced colon carcinogenesis may have implications in the genesis of human colorectal cancer.
The rarest and least understood of the muscarinic receptors is the M5 subtype. Recombinant methods were used to create mutant mice with a deletion in the third intracellular loop of the M5 receptor gene. Salivation induced by the nonselective muscarinic agonist pilocarpine (1 mg/kg s.c.) was reduced in homozygous mutants from 15 to 60 min after injection as compared with wild-type mice. After 18-h food and water deprivation, drinking was increased in homozygous mutants, but feeding was not increased. The mutant and wild-type mice had similar responses in tests of open-field exploration, seizures induced by pilocarpine (300 mg/kg) or hypothermia induced by pilocarpine (1-3 mg/kg). These results indicate that M5 muscarinic receptors are important for fluid intake and suggest that M5 receptors are involved in slow secretory processes.
Human and animal studies have shown that Na(v)1.7 sodium channels, which are preferentially expressed within nociceptors and sympathetic neurons, play a major role in inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Inherited erythromelalgia (IEM) has been linked to gain-of-function mutations of Na(v)1.7. We now report a novel mutation (V400M) in a three-generation Canadian family in which pain is relieved by carbamazepine (CBZ).
We extracted genomic DNA from blood samples of eight members of the family, and the sequence of SCN9A coding exons was compared with the reference Na(v)1.7 complementary DNA. Wild-type Na(v)1.7 and V400M cell lines were then analyzed using whole-cell patch-clamp recording for changes in activation, deactivation, steady-state inactivation, and ramp currents.
Whole-cell patch-clamp studies of V400M demonstrate changes in activation, deactivation, steady-state inactivation, and ramp currents that can produce dorsal root ganglia neuron hyperexcitability that underlies pain in these patients. We show that CBZ, at concentrations in the human therapeutic range, normalizes the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation of this inherited erythromelalgia mutation in Na(v)1.7 but does not affect these parameters in wild-type Na(v)1.7.
Our results demonstrate a normalizing effect of CBZ on mutant Na(v)1.7 channels in this kindred with CBZ-responsive inherited erythromelalgia. The selective effect of CBZ on the mutant Na(v)1.7 channel appears to explain the ameliorative response to treatment in this kindred. Our results suggest that functional expression and pharmacological studies may provide mechanistic insights into hereditary painful disorders.
Inhaled particles are associated with pulmonary and extrapulmonary effects. Also, acute renal failure (ARF) is associated with increased mortality, related to pulmonary complications. Here, we tested the possible potentiating effect of diesel exhaust particles (DEP) in an animal model of ARF induced by a single ip injection of cisplatin (CP, 6 mg/kg) in rats. Six days later, the rats were intratracheally instilled with either DEP (0.5 or 1 mg/kg) or saline (control) and renal, systemic, and pulmonary variables were studied 24 h thereafter. CP increased the serum concentrations of urea and creatinine and reduced glutathione (GSH) concentration and superoxide dismutase activity in renal cortex. CP caused renal tubular necrosis; increased urine volume, protein concentrations, and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) activity; and decreased urine osmolality. The combination of DEP and CP aggravated the CP-induced effects on serum urea and creatinine, urine NAG activity, and renal GSH. The arterial O(2) saturation and PO(2) were significantly decreased in CP + DEP versus CP + saline and CP + DEP versus DEP. The number of platelets was reduced in DEP compared to saline-treated rats and CP + DEP versus DEP alone or CP + saline. Increases in macrophage and neutrophils numbers in bronchoalveolar lavage were found in DEP versus saline group and CP + DEP versus CP. Histopathological changes in lungs of DEP-treated rats were aggravated by the combination of CP + DEP. These included marked interstitial cell infiltration and congestion. We conclude that the presence of DEP in the lung aggravated the renal, pulmonary, and systemic effects of CP-induced ARF.
Safety and effectiveness are the goals in treating patients with arrhythmias. In an open prospective study, we observed the efficacy and safety of up to 2 mg intravenous ibutilide, a new class III antiarrhythmic agent in haemodynamically stable patients presenting in the emergency department (ED) with symptoms of recent-onset (<48 h) atrial fibrillation/flutter. Arrhythmia termination within 90 min, haemodynamic parameters and proarrhythmic effects were assessed. Non-responders to the ibutilide infusion underwent external electrical cardioversion. We included 51 patients. In 31 patients therapeutic intervention with intravenous ibutilide was successful within 90 min (61%). In another seven patients conversion to sinus rhythm occurred after 90 min without any other intervention (14%). Blood pressure remained stable and no relevant proarrhythmic effects were observed. The 13 patients who did not respond to ibutilide treatment underwent successful external electrical cardioversion. The overall conversion rate was 100%. Forty-seven patients (92%) were discharged within a median of 9 h and managed as outpatients. In conclusion, in haemodynamically stable patients with recent-onset atrial fibrillation/flutter intravenous ibutilide and external electrical cardioversion for conversion to sinus rhythm turned out to be effective and safe. The short duration of admission makes this strategy attractive for use in the ED.
Three groups of new-born rats were studied: Group Li/Li treated with Li for 16 weeks, group Li/C treated for 8 weeks followed by 8 weeks without Li, and Group C/C 16 weeks old controls. Both Li-treated groups showed severe reduction of renal function, particularly group Li/Li, where the mean GFR was reduced by 80%. Plasma urea, creatinine, and osmolality were increased, blood hemoglobin and hematocrit were reduced, whereas plasma Na, K, and standard bicarbonate were unchanged. Na clearance was maintained and fractional Na excretion thus increased. Fractional Li excretion was also increased, indicating inhibition of proximal tubular salt and water reabsorption. Renal concentrating ability was markedly reduced. When Li was withdrawn, plasma urea levels remained unchanged or continued to rise, and the concentrating defect persisted. The results demonstrate that Li administration to new-born rats causes irreversible chronic renal failure which may progress even in the absence of Li. This model of chronic renal failure has several characteristics in common with chronic renal failure in humans.
Exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) causes functional deficits in neuroendocrine systems. We used an immortalized hypothalamic GT1-7 cell line, which synthesizes the neuroendocrine peptide gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), to examine the neurotoxic and endocrine disrupting effects of PCBs and their mechanisms of action. Cells were treated for 1, 4, 8, or 24 h with a range of doses of a representative PCB from each of three classes: coplanar (2,4,4',5-tetrachlorobiphenyl: PCB74), dioxin-like coplanar (2',3,4,4',5' pentachlorobiphenyl: PCB118), non-coplanar (2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl: PCB153), or their combination. GnRH peptide concentrations, cell viability, apoptotic and necrotic cell death, and caspase activation were quantified. In general, GnRH peptide levels were suppressed by high doses and longer durations of PCBs, and elevated at low doses and shorter timepoints. The suppression of GnRH peptide levels was partially reversed in cultures co-treated with the estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780. All PCBs reduced viability and increased both apoptotic and necrotic cell death. Although the effects for the three classes of PCBs were often similar, subtle differences in responses, together with evidence that the combination of PCBs acted slightly different from individual PCBs, suggest that the three tested PCB compounds may act via slightly different or more than one mechanism. These results provide evidence that PCB congeners have endocrine disrupting and/or neurotoxic effects on the hypothalamic GnRH cell line, a finding that has implications for environmental endocrine disruption in animals.
Idiosyncratic drug hepatotoxicity represents a major problem in drug development due to inadequacy of current preclinical screening assays, but recently established rodent models utilizing bacterial LPS co-administration to induce an inflammatory background have successfully reproduced idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity signatures for certain drugs. However, the low-throughput nature of these models renders them problematic for employment as preclinical screening assays. Here, we present an analogous, but high-throughput, in vitro approach in which drugs are administered to a variety of cell types (primary human and rat hepatocytes and the human HepG2 cell line) across a landscape of inflammatory contexts containing LPS and cytokines TNF, IFN gamma, IL-1 alpha, and IL-6. Using this assay, we observed drug-cytokine hepatotoxicity synergies for multiple idiosyncratic hepatotoxicants (ranitidine, trovafloxacin, nefazodone, nimesulide, clarithromycin, and telithromycin) but not for their corresponding non-toxic control compounds (famotidine, levofloxacin, buspirone, and aspirin). A larger compendium of drug-cytokine mix hepatotoxicity data demonstrated that hepatotoxicity synergies were largely potentiated by TNF, IL-1 alpha, and LPS within the context of multi-cytokine mixes. Then, we screened 90 drugs for cytokine synergy in human hepatocytes and found that a significantly larger fraction of the idiosyncratic hepatotoxicants (19%) synergized with a single cytokine mix than did the non-hepatotoxic drugs (3%). Finally, we used an information theoretic approach to ascertain especially informative subsets of cytokine treatments for most highly effective construction of regression models for drug- and cytokine mix-induced hepatotoxicities across these cell systems. Our results suggest that this drug-cytokine co-treatment approach could provide a useful preclinical tool for investigating inflammation-associated idiosyncratic drug hepatotoxicity.
To observe the effect of Yugan Granule (YGG) in treating patients of chronic hepatitis B infected with basic core promoter (BCP) mutant HBV.
BCP mutation was detected by microwell liquid hybridization combined with enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and 46 patients were confirmed to be the mutant positive (Group A), and 69 the mutant negative (Group B). All patients were treated by YGG and the clinical symptoms and laboratory parameters before and after treatment were observed.
The scores of symptoms and serum levels of alanine transaminase (ALT) and total bilirubin (TBil) were decreased markedly in both groups after treatment. The HBeAg negative conversion rate in Group A was 60%, obviously higher than that in Group B (30%, P < 0.05), while HBV-DNA negative conversion rate between the two groups had the insignificant difference. The overall efficacy was similar in the two groups.
YGG could remarkably alleviate the symptoms, reduce serum levels of ALT and TBil, and showed the effect of anti-HBV with the same efficacy both to BCP mutant and wild strain HBV infected patients.
Recent studies have suggested a link between particulate matter (PM) exposure and increased mortality and morbidity associated with pulmonary and cardiovascular diseases; accumulating evidences point to a new role for air pollution in CNS diseases. The purpose of our study is to investigate PM10sum effects on lungs and extra pulmonary tissues. Milano PM10sum has been intratracheally instilled into BALB/c mice. Broncho Alveolar Lavage fluid, lung parenchyma, heart and brain were screened for markers of inflammation (cell counts, cytokines, ET-1, HO-1, MPO, iNOS), cytotoxicity (LDH, ALP, Hsp70, Caspase8-p18, Caspase3-p17) for a putative pro-carcinogenic marker (Cyp1B1) and for TLR4 pathway activation. Brain was also investigated for CD68, TNF-α, GFAP. In blood, cell counts were performed while plasma was screened for endothelial activation (sP-selectin, ET-1) and for inflammation markers (TNF-α, MIP-2, IL-1β, MPO). Genes up-regulation (HMOX1, Cyp1B1, IL-1β, MIP-2, MPO) and miR-21 have been investigated in lungs and blood. Inflammation in the respiratory tract of PM10sum-treated mice has been confirmed in BALf and lung parenchyma by increased PMNs percentage, increased ET-1, MPO and cytokines levels. A systemic spreading of lung inflammation in PM10sum-treated mice has been related to the increased blood total cell count and neutrophils percentage, as well as to increased blood MPO. The blood-endothelium interface activation has been confirmed by significant increases of plasma ET-1 and sP-selectin. Furthermore PM10sum induced heart endothelial activation and PAHs metabolism, proved by increased ET-1 and Cyp1B1 levels. Moreover, PM10sum causes an increase in brain HO-1 and ET-1. These results state the translocation of inflammation mediators, ultrafine particles, LPS, metals associated to PM10sum, from lungs to bloodstream, thus triggering a systemic reaction, mainly involving heart and brain. Our results provided additional insight into the toxicity of PM10sum and could facilitate shedding light on mechanisms underlying the development of urban air pollution related diseases.
Plasma levels of growth factors may be important in determining the extent of liver regeneration in patients with fulminant hepatic failure and in this study human hepatocyte growth factor and biliprotein (bilirubin covalently bound to albumin) were determined in patients with fulminant hepatic failure, mainly as a result of acetaminophen overdose. Admission values for plasma human hepatocyte growth factor were significantly raised, although with a wide range in acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure (median 7.4 ng/ml, range 0.45-48.4 ng/ml, n = 34) and in fulminant hepatic failure from other causes (3.8 ng/ml, 1.72-25.1 ng/ml, n = 9) as compared to normal subjects (0.24 ng/ml, 0-0.5 ng/ml, n = 30). Higher plasma human hepatocyte growth factor was observed in patients who died (10.1 ng/ml, 3.8-48.4 ng/ml, n = 19) than in those who survived (4.3 ng/ml, 0.45-25.1 ng/ml, n = 22, p < 0.02), which may reflect lack of hepatic clearance in the former group. The median plasma biliprotein on admission (13.2 mg/l, range 6.3-100.7 mg/l, n = 43) was significantly increased compared to normal subjects (1.3 mg/l, 0-4.1 mg/l, n = 7, p < 0.001) with no difference between patients who survived or died, although when plasma biliprotein results were expressed as a percentage of the total bilirubin, the values were slightly higher in survivors (median 14.4%, range 10.8-40.5%, n = 23) compared to those who died (12.1%, 7.7-20.9%, n = 20, p = 0.004).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A case of acute athetosis in a child was found to be related to phenytoin toxicity. Symptoms were intermittent and coincided with drug administration. More common toxic effects were not noted on initial evaluation of the patient.
The aim of this study was designed to investigate the possible beneficial effects of the thymoquinone (TQ) in streptozotocine (STZ)-induced diabetes in rats. The rats were randomly allotted into one of three experimental groups: A (control), B (diabetic untreated), and C (diabetic treated with TQ); each group contain ten animals. B and C groups received STZ. Diabetes was induced in two groups by a single intra-peritoneal (i.p) injection of STZ (50 mg/kg, freshly dissolved in 5 mmol/l citrate buffer, pH 4.5). Two days after STZ treatment, development of diabetes in two experimental groups was confirmed by measuring blood glucose levels in a tail vein blood samples. Rats with blood glucose levels of 250 mg/dl or higher were considered to be diabetic. The rats in TQ treated groups were given TQ (50 mg/kg body weight) once a day orally by using intra gastric intubation for 12 weeks starting 2 days after STZ injection. Treatment of TQ reduced the glomerular size, thickening of capsular, glomerular and tubular basement membranes, increased amounts of mesangial matrix and tubular dilatation and renal function as compared with diabetics untreated. We conclude that TQ therapy causes renal morphologic and functional improvement after STZ-induced diabetes in rats. We believe that further preclinical research into the utility of TQ treatment may indicate its usefulness as a potential treatment in diabetic nephropathy.
Two patients with long-standing idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), without individual or family histories of affective disorders, developed bipolar mood disorders. Both were treated with lithium and clozapine, and one responded favorably. These may be the first reported cases in which mania was treated with clozapine in PD patients.
The glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Administered to healthy volunteers, a subanesthetic dose of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine leads to psychopathological symptoms similar to those observed in schizophrenia. In patients with schizophrenia, ketamine exacerbates the core symptoms of illness, supporting the hypothesis of a glutamatergic dysfunction. In a counterbalanced, placebo-controlled, double-blind study design, healthy subjects were administered a continuous subanesthetic S-ketamine infusion while differences in BOLD responses measured with fMRI were detected. During the scanning period, subjects performed continuous overt verbal fluency tasks (phonological, lexical and semantic). Ketamine-induced psychopathological symptoms were assessed with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). Ketamine elicited psychosis like psychopathology. Post-hoc t-tests revealed significant differences between placebo and ketamine for the amounts of words generated during lexical and semantic verbal fluency, while the phonological domain remained unaffected. Ketamine led to enhanced cortical activations in supramarginal and frontal brain regions for phonological and lexical verbal fluency, but not for semantic verbal fluency. Ketamine induces activation changes in healthy subjects similar to those observed in patients with schizophrenia, particularly in frontal and temporal brain regions. Our results provide further support for the hypothesis of an NMDA receptor dysfunction in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
The effects of metabolic syndrome on bladder function and M2,3-muscarinic receptor expression were studied using the fructose fed obese rat.
Male Wistar rats were divided into 2 groups, including group 1-normal control rats and group 2-6-week fructose fed rats. In vivo cystometry using anesthesia was performed. In vitro the bladder was divided into the urothelium and muscle layer by microdissection. Tissue M2,3-muscarinic receptor protein levels were measured by Western blotting. Expression of the mRNAs that encode M2,3-muscarinic receptors was estimated using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction.
Premicturition unstable bladder contractions suggestive of detrusor overactivity were noted in 62.5% of fructose fed rats but in no controls. M2,3-muscarinic receptor protein and mRNA expression was noted in the urothelium and muscle layer of the rat bladder. In control rats the M2-to-M3-muscarinic receptor protein expression ratio was 1:0.68 in urothelium and 1:0.28 in the muscle layer, and that for mRNA expression was 1:0.32 and 1:0.36, respectively. Compared to controls bladder M2,3-muscarinic receptor protein expression in the urothelium and muscle layer of 8 preparations each was significantly increased in fructose fed rats by 89% and 90% for M2-muscarinic receptor (each p <0.001), and by 35% and 93% for M3-muscarinic receptor (p <0.01 and <0.001, respectively). Correspondingly M2,3-muscarinic receptor mRNA expression in the fructose fed rat bladder urothelium and muscle layer of 8 preparations each was also significantly increased by 31% and 49% for M2-muscarinic receptor (each p <0.01), and by 121% and 117% for M3-muscarinic receptor (each p <0.001, respectively).
Metabolic syndrome induces increased expression of M2,3-muscarinic receptor mRNA and protein in the urothelium as well as the muscle layer of the bladder in 6-week fructose fed rats. The receptor alterations are associated with functional evidence of detrusor overactivity.
Pituitary apoplexy can occur spontaneously or following anterior pituitary stimulation tests. Apoplexy is a rare complication of Cushing's disease. We report a 19-year-old woman who was admitted to the National Institutes of Health for evaluation of possible Cushing's syndrome. Her symptoms and initial laboratory work were suggestive of Cushing's disease. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a macroadenoma of the pituitary gland. As part of her evaluation she received corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH). Two days later she developed severe headache, accompanied by nausea and vomiting, followed by meningismus, ptosis and diplopia. A diagnosis of pituitary apoplexy was made and she was treated conservatively with dexamethasone. Her neurological symptoms resolved shortly afterwards. By the time of discharge her anterior pituitary function was suppressed. All symptoms and signs of Cushing's syndrome resolved thereafter. This is the first case to demonstrate that CRH administration can induce pituitary apoplexy in a patient with Cushing's disease. Therapy with glucocorticoids was effective in our case, suggesting that conservative treatment can be successfully and safely applied in certain cases with pituitary apoplexy.
Large-dose methylprednisolone has been advocated to lessen neurologic deficits in spinal cord injury for nearly a decade despite confounding statistical results in the Second National Acute Spinal Cord Injury Study (NASCIS-2). Recent retrospective studies found lack of significant functional improvement, increases in the incidence of infectious complications and an increase in ventilated and intensive care days in steroid-treated groups. We report on five cases with severe hyperglycemia and nonketotic metabolic acidosis in otherwise non-diabetic patients with multiple blunt injuries and an associated spinal cord injury. Those adverse effects were induced by epinephrine and aggravated by methylprednisolone. We conclude that high-dose methylprednisolone should be avoided in multiple injured or otherwise compromised patients potentially needing catecholamine support.
With the recent increase in the use of antithrombotic therapy, intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) has been found to be a common complication. We determined whether the use of oral antithrombotic therapy and the patients' preexisting comorbidities were predictive of cerebellar hemorrhage (CH; previously reported to be associated with anticoagulants) as compared to other ICH, and whether antithrombotic therapy affected the clinical severity of CH.
A study of 327 consecutive patients hospitalized in our institute within 3 days after the onset of ICH, including 38 patients with a CH.
CH accounted for 12% of all ICH, 75% of which occurred in patients on warfarin therapy with an international normalized ratio (INR) for prothrombin time >2.5 (p < 0.0001), and 33% of which occurred in patients on ticlopidine therapy (p = 0.017). Warfarin therapy with an INR >2.5 and high blood glucose on admission were independently predictive of CH as compared to other ICH. In addition, previous ischemic stroke (p = 0.002) and heart diseases (p = 0.018) were more prevalent in patients with CH than in those with other ICH. The number of major arteriosclerotic comorbidities and risk factors was also independently predictive of CH risk.
We confirmed that warfarin therapy with an INR >2.5 is associated with CH. Patients with CH frequently had arteriosclerotic comorbidities requiring antithrombotic therapy that can complicate their acute management.
We report cases of amoxycillin- and flucloxacillin-induced liver damage associated with an acute vanishing bile duct syndrome. Ductopenia was present at the time of first liver biopsy, 3 weeks and 3 months after administration of the two drugs, respectively. Ductopenia apparently occurred as the primary lesion, with no evidence of accompanying portal tract inflammation. Subsequent biopsies showed a persistent paucity of ducts, accompanied by increasing features of chronic cholestasis. Biochemical dysfunction persists at 2 year's follow-up and late prognosis remains guarded.
Autism is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder with a complex genetic aetiology. The wingless-type MMTV integration site family member 2 (WNT2) gene has been considered as a candidate gene for autism. We conducted a case-control study and followed up with a transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) analysis to confirm replication of the significant results for the first time. We conducted a case-control study of nine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within the WNT2 gene in 170 patients with autism and 214 normal controls in a Japanese population. We then conducted a TDT analysis in 98 autistic families (trios) to replicate the results of the case-control study. In the case-control study, three SNPs (rs3779547, rs4727847 and rs3729629), two major individual haplotypes (A-T-C and G-G-G, consisting of rs3779547, rs4727847, and rs3729629), and global probability values of the haplotype distributions in the same region (global p=0.0091) showed significant associations with autism. Furthermore, all of these significant associations were also observed in the TDT analysis. Our findings provide evidence for a significant association between WNT2 and autism. Considering the important role of the WNT2 gene in brain development, our results therefore indicate that the WNT2 gene is one of the strong candidate genes for autism.
Hurler syndrome is the most severe form of a lysosomal storage disease caused by loss of the enzyme alpha-L-iduronidase (encoded by the IDUA gene), which participates in the degradation of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) within the lysosome. In some populations, premature stop mutations represent roughly two-thirds of the mutations that cause Hurler syndrome. In this study we investigated whether the aminoglycoside gentamicin can suppress stop mutations within the IDUA gene. We found that a Hurler syndrome fibroblast cell line heterozygous for the IDUA stop mutations Q70X and W402X showed a significant increase in alpha-L-iduronidase activity when cultured in the presence of gentamicin, resulting in the restoration of 2.8% of normal alpha-L-iduronidase activity. Determination of alpha-L-iduronidase protein levels by an immunoquantification assay indicated that gentamicin treatment produced a similar increase in alpha-L-iduronidase protein in Hurler cells. Both the alpha-L-iduronidase activity and protein level resulting from this treatment have previously been correlated with mild Hurler phenotypes. Although Hurler fibroblasts contain a much higher level of GAGs than normal, we found that gentamicin treatment reduced GAG accumulation in Hurler cells to a normal level. We also found that a reduced GAG level could be sustained for at least 2 days after gentamicin treatment was discontinued. The reduction in the GAG level was also reflected in a marked reduction in lysosomal vacuolation. Taken together, these results suggest that the suppression of premature stop mutations may provide an effective treatment for Hurler syndrome patients with premature stop mutations in the IDUA gene.
To determine the type of atrial fibrillation induced by use of 2 pacing protocols during fentanyl and pentobarbital anesthesia before and after administration of atropine and to determine the organization of electrical activity in the left and right atria during atrial fibrillation in German Shepherd Dogs.
7 German Shepherd Dogs.
Extrastimulus and pacedown protocols were performed before and after atropine administration. Monophasic action potential spectral entropy and mean dominant frequency were calculated during atrial fibrillation.
Atrial fibrillation occurred spontaneously in 6 of 7 dogs. All 7 dogs had atrial fibrillation induced. Sustained atrial fibrillation occurred in 13 of 25 (52%) episodes induced by the extrastimulus protocol and in 2 of 12 episodes of atrial fibrillation induced by pacedown. After atropine administration, sustained atrial fibrillation did not occur, and the duration of the nonsustained atrial fibrillation (6 episodes in 2 dogs of 1 to 26 seconds) was significantly shorter than before atropine administration (25 episodes in 7 dogs of 1 to 474 seconds). The left atrium (3.67 +/- 0.08) had lower spectral entropy than the right atrium (3.81 +/- 0.03), indicating more electrical organization in the left atrium. The mean dominant frequency was higher in the left atrium in 3 dogs.
Atrial fibrillation developed spontaneously and was induced in German Shepherd Dogs under fentanyl and pentobarbital anesthesia. Electrical activity was more organized in the left atrium than in the right atrium as judged by use of spectral entropy.
We explored the mechanisms underlying the differential effects of two olfactory toxicants, the herbicide 2,6-dichlorobenzonitrile (DCBN) and the anti-thyroid drug methimazole (MMZ), on olfactory receptor neuron (ORN) regeneration in mouse olfactory epithelium (OE). DCBN, but not MMZ, induced inflammation-like pathological changes in OE, and DCBN increased interleukin IL-6 levels in nasal-wash fluid to much greater magnitude and duration than did MMZ. At 24h after DCBN injection, the population of horizontal basal cells (HBCs; reserve, normally quiescent OE stem cells) lining the DMM became severely depleted as some of them detached from the basal lamina, and sloughed into the nasal cavity along with the globose basal cells (GBCs; heterogeneous population of stem and progenitor cells), neurons, and sustentacular cells of the neuroepithelium. In contrast, the layer of HBCs remained intact in MMZ-treated mice, as only the mature elements of the neuroepithelium were shed. Despite the respiratory metaplasia accompanying the greater severity of the DCBN lesion, residual HBCs that survived intoxication were activated by the injury and contributed to the metaplastic respiratory epithelium, as shown by tracing their descendants in a K5CreEr(T2)::fl(stop)TdTomato strain of mice in which recombination causes HBCs to express TdTomato in advance of the lesion. But, contrary to published observations with MMZ, the HBCs failed to form ORNs. A role for IL-6 in suppressing ORN regeneration in DCBN-treated mice was rejected by the failure of the anti-inflammatory drug dexamethasone to prevent the subsequent respiratory metaplasia in the DMM, suggesting that other factors lead to HBC neuro-incompetence.
