In continuation with our studies to uncover cancer chemopreventive effects of non-toxic natural colorants and other products of biologic and synthetic origin, we tested several Food and Drug Administration-approved synthetic colorants for antitumor promoting potential by the in vitro Epstein-Barr virus early antigen activation in Raji cells in response to the tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Among 29 such colorants used in foods, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics and evaluated in vitro, six of the 10 most effective had an azo group. Three structurally unrelated colorants tested in this assay were also studied in vivo for chemoprevention of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced TPA-promoted mouse skin carcinogenesis. The results indicate that tartrazine, indigo carmine and erythrosine are potent inhibitors of skin tumor promotion in mice treated with DMBA and TPA.
Ten percent of newly diagnosed myeloma patients treated with any type of chemotherapy develop deep venous thrombosis (DVT). Thalidomide has proven activity in refractory multiple myeloma (MM), and although single-agent thalidomide has minimal prothrombogenic activity, its combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy is associated with a significantly increased risk of DVT. We analyzed the incidence of DVT in 232 MM patients who received a combination of chemotherapy and thalidomide on 2 protocols that differed only by the inclusion of doxorubicin in one. DT-PACE (dexamethasone/thalidomide/cisplatin/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide/etoposide) was offered to patients with preceding standard dose therapy, but no prior autotransplantation, while DCEP-T (dexamethasone/cyclophosphamide/etoposide/cisplatin/thalidomide) was administered for relapse after transplantation. If there were signs or symptoms suggestive of DVT, patients received additional investigations, including Doppler ultrasonography, followed by venography if indicated. Only patients on DT-PACE but not DCEP-T experienced an increased incidence of DVT. A statistical association between the incidence of DVT and combination chemotherapy including doxorubicin (P =.02) was observed; this association was confirmed on multivariate analysis. MM patients treated with thalidomide and doxorubicin have a high risk of developing DVT.
It is often stated that halothane hepatitis in children is nonexistent or extremely rare. This syndrome occurred in seven children aged between 11 months and 15 years, one of whom, a 3 1/2 year old boy, died with fulminant hepatic failure. All the children had received multiple halothane anaesthetics (range 2-6, median 3). In all cases other causes of liver diseases were excluded, and in all but one the diagnosis was confirmed serologically by antibodies to halothane altered liver cell membrane antigens. These findings suggest that halothane hepatitis occurs in children, and the risk of halothane hepatitis should therefore be considered when choosing which agents to use in children who require multiple anaesthetics.
Luteinizing hormone (LH) stimulates the interstitial Leydig cells to produce testosterone, which is essential for spermatogenesis. Abnormalities in the function of LH may affect the process of spermatogenesis and thus result in infertility. The aim of this study was to determine the association of three known variants of LH (Gln54Arg [Trp8Arg; Ile15Thr] and Gly102Ser) with male infertility. A total of 145 infertile men and 200 healthy fertile men were recruited and screened for the presence of these three LH variants. The Gln54Arg variant could not be detected in either of the groups studied. Twelve infertile (8.2%) and 15 fertile (7.5%) men were found to carry the [Trp8Ile; I15Thr] variant, but its occurrence did not show any significant difference between the patient and control groups. The Gly102Ser variant was detected in five patients with infertility (3.4%), but not in the control subjects (P = 0.013). This study showed that the Gln54Arg and [Trp8Ile; I15Thr] variants in the LHbeta gene were not associated with male infertility, whereas the Gly102Ser variant might be implicated in infertility in some Singapore Chinese men.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder with approximately 2% of people over age 65 suffering from this disease. Risk factors for PD involve interplay between still poorly defined genetic and non-genetic contributors, but appear to converge upon cellular pathways that mediate protein misfolding and oxidative stress that lead to dopaminergic neuron loss. The identification of either new or repurposed drugs that exhibit benefit in slowing the age-dependent neuronal damage that occurs in PD is a significant goal of much ongoing research. We have exploited the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans as a model system by which the neuroprotective capacity of acetaminophen could be rapidly evaluated for efficacy in attenuating dopamine (DA) neurodegeneration. Using three independent and established neurodegenerative models in C. elegans, we assayed for acetaminophen-dependent rescue in response to: (1) over-expression of the PD-associated protein, alpha-synuclein; (2) acute exposure to 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA); (3) excess intracellular DA production due to over-expression of the DA biosynthetic enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). These data suggest that acetaminophen significantly protected C. elegans DA neurons from stressors related to oxidative damage, but not protein misfolding. Taken together, these studies imply an activity for acetaminophen in the attenuation of DA neuron loss that, following essential corroborative analyses in mammalian systems, may represent a potential benefit for PD.
The clinical histories of two patients are presented, who both developed haemorrhagic anuria after a short course of therapy with the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, acetazolamide (Diamox). The clinical findings, in particular the radiological changes, are illustrated in this potentially fatal condition. The therapeutic success of immediate relief of the ureteric obstruction is emphasized and it is hoped that this report will act as a reminder of the importance of this agent as a cause of anuria.
The short term cardiac side-effects of AZT (3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine, zidovudine) was studied in rats to understand the biochemical events contributing to the development of AZT-induced cardiomyopathy. Developing rats were treated with AZT (50 mg/kg/day) for 2 wk and the structural and functional changes were monitored in the cardiac muscle. AZT treatment provoked a surprisingly fast appearance of cardiac malfunctions in developing animals characterized by prolonged RR, PR and QT intervals and J point depression. Electron microscopy showed abnormal mitochondrial structure but the cardiomyocyte had normal myofibers. The AZT treatment of rats significantly increased ROS and peroxynitrite formation in heart tissues as determined by the oxidation of nonfluorescent dihydrorhodamine123 and dichlorodihydro-fluorescein diacetate (H2DCFDA) to fluorescent dyes, and induced single-strand DNA breaks. Lipid peroxidation and oxidation of cellular proteins determined from protein carbonyl content were increased as a consequence of AZT treatment. Activation of the nuclear poly-ADP-ribose polymerase and the accelerated NAD+ catabolism were also observed in AZT-treated animals. Western blot analysis showed that mono-ADP-ribosylation of glucose regulated protein (GRP78/BIP) was enhanced by AZT treatment, that process inactivates GRP78. In this way moderate decrease in the activity of respiratory complexes was detected in the heart of AZT-treated animals indicating a damaged mitochondrial energy production. There was a significant decrease in creatine phosphate concentration resulting in a decrease in creatine phosphate/creatine ratio from 2.08 to 0.58. ATP level remained close to normal but the total extractable ADP increased with 45%. The calculated free ATP/ADP ratio decreased from 340 to 94 in the heart of AZT-treated rats as a consequence of increased free ADP concentration. It was assumed that the increased free ADP in AZT-treated cardiomyocyte may help cells to compensate the defective ATP production in damaged mitochondria by activating the ATP synthesis in undamaged mitochondria. Southern blot analysis did not show decreased quantity of mtDNA deriving from AZT-treated rat hearts indicating that under our experimental conditions AZT-induced heart abnormalities are not the direct consequence of the mtDNA depletion. These data show that ROS-mediated oxidative damages, activated ADP-ribosylation reactions and accelerated NAD+ catabolism play basic roles in the development of AZT-induced cardiomyopathy in our animal model and indicated that these ROS-mediated processes can be important factors in the development of myopathy and cardiomyopathy in zidovudine-treated AIDS patients.
The usefulness of transgenic E(mu)-pim-1 mice over-expressing the pim-1 oncogene in lymphoid tissues, as sensitive test organisms was studied in a short-term carcinogenicity study. The mice were fed standard diet Altromin 1314 supplemented either with 0.03% 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) for 7 months or with 0.03% 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) for 6 months. PhIP and IQ are heterocyclic amines formed during cooking of meat and fish and are mutagenic to bacteria and cultured mammalian cells. PhIP is a potent mouse lymphomagen, while IQ is a liver carcinogen and also causes lung tumors and tumors of the forestomach in mice. We found that transgenic E(mu)-pim-1 mice are highly susceptible to PhIP induced lymphomagenesis but do not respond to the IQ treatment. PhIP feeding of E(mu)-pim-1 mice not only increased the total number of T-cell lymphomas but also decreased the latency time compared to either transgenic or wild-type controls. The effect was most pronounced in the treated female E(mu)-pim-1 mice, which showed a higher incidence of PhIP induced T-cell lymphomas than transgenic males and a strongly reduced latency period after PhIP treatment compared to non-transgenic mice. Our results suggest that the transgenic E(mu)-pim-1 mouse may be a useful model for short-term carcinogenicity screening of potential genotoxic carcinogens having the lymphoid system as target tissue. The carcinogen IQ which does not have the lymphoid system as a target was not recognized in this model.
The possible involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) in amnesia induced by scopolamine was investigated. An inhibitory (passive) avoidance task was used for memory assessment in male Wistar rats. The results revealed that intra-NAc administration of a nonselective muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist, scopolamine (1 and 2 g/rat) impaired memory consolidation in the animals when tested 24 h later. Post-training intra-NAc administration of NMDA (0.005 and 0.01 g/rat) also impaired memory consolidation, whereas post-training intra-NAc administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (0.5, 1 and 1.5 g/rat) did not. Intra-NAc co-administration of an ineffective dose of NMDA with ineffective doses of scopolamine (0.25 and 0.5 g/rat) after training had no significant effect on memory consolidation, but intra-NAc injections of effective doses of NMDA (0.005 and 0.01 g/rat) prevented the amnesic effect of an effective dose of scopolamine (2 g/rat). In contrast, intra-NAc co-administration of MK-801 (0.5, 1 and 1.5 g/rat) along with an effective dose of scopolamine (2 g/rat) did not prevent the effect of the latter drug. It can be concluded that NMDA receptors in the NAc are involved in the modulation of memory consolidation that was affected by scopolamine.
1,2,4,5-Tetrachlorobenzene (TeCB) and 1,4-dichlorobenzene (DCB) are important environmental contaminants that have been used extensively for a variety of industrial applications. Limited data are available in the literature regarding the carcinogenicity of TeCB. DCB has been shown to cause renal adenocarcinomas in rats and hepatic adenomas and carcinomas in mice at high doses in a 2-year study. In the studies presented here, we report that TeCB can promote the formation of preneoplastic foci and DCB cannot in a medium-term initiation/promotion assay. These results suggest that TeCB is a liver tumor promoter and that DCB is not at fairly low doses (0.1 and 0.4 mmol/kg per day).
A 69-year-old somnolent woman developed severe heart failure, aggravated by recurrent episodes of ventricular tachycardia. The patient showed central and peripheral edema. 24 hours earlier, she had suffered cerebral seizures that were successfully terminated by phenytoin. For 13 years, persistent atrial fibrillation had been frequency-controlled with antiarrhythmic drugs (verapamil and glycosides) and treated by oral anticoagulation. In addition, there had been long-term anti-depressant therapy with the tetracyclic agent maprotiline.
Torsade de pointes tachycardia was documented in the electrocardiograms. In addition, the QT interval was extensively prolonged (QTc = 0.70 sec). Neither electrolyte disturbances nor acute cardiac ischemia were seen. Echocardiography revealed a highly reduced ejection fraction of 25 % and a moderately dilated left ventricle. Angiography showed a collateralized occlusion of the right and plaques of the left coronary artery.
Repeated torsade de pointes tachycardia resulted in hemodynamic compromise and were terminated by defibrillations. After intravenous magnesium and xylocaine administration as well as with termination of maprotiline and antiarrhythmic co-medication, QT prolongation decreased. In addition, the recurrent torsade de pointes tachycardia stopped. Subsequently, however, there were several bradycardia episodes, QT duration remained long. Accordingly, a VVI pacemaker was implanted. Up to now, the patient is doing well.
With antidepressant therapy, a risky constellation including comorbidity and interactions with potentially arrhythmogenic drugs may lead to QT prolongation. Medication that delays conduction or causes bradycardia may generally favour torsade de pointes tachycardia. In case of indispensable multi-drug therapy, regular clinical as well as electrocardiographic monitoring with special emphasis on QT interval is mandatory.
Workers engaged in a molded plastics operation were studied to determine the etiology of yellow staining reactions involving the skin, nails, and hair. A walk-through survey of the facility, medical interviews, physical examinations, and blood and urine tests were performed. 4,4'-Methylenedianiline (MDA), a component chemical of the manufacturing process, produced intense yellow discoloration of nitrocellulose paper in the laboratory and appeared to volatilize readily under ambient conditions. Thirty-five (65%) of 54 process workers showed varying degrees of staining while 11 workers employed in other parts of the factory showed no staining. Yellow staining was restricted to areas of the body where direct contact with MDA appeared likely. Laboratory studies did not provide evidence of systemic toxic effect. Because MDA is a known hepatotoxin for man, with carcinogenic properties in animal test systems, it is important to recognize yellow staining as a cutaneous marker of exposure to this chemical.
To elucidate abnormalities in the renal microvasculature that could account for the functional disturbances occurring in two well-established models of acute renal failure, we gave rats a single intramuscular injection of glycerol (50%, 10 ml/kg) or daily subcutaneous doses of gentamicin (100 mg/kg/day). Afferent arteriolar diameters were determined by measuring methacrylate vascular casts with SEM. The filtration barrier was examined by both SEM and TEM. The EF area was quantitated. By 3 hr, the glycerol treatment markedly decreased PADs and DADs (PAD 19.1 to 12.0 micrometers, DAD 13.8 to 7.4 micrometers, p less than 0.05). The changes were similar for both inner and outer cortical regions. By 3 days the vasoconstriction was alleviated; however, renal failure persisted. At that time, however, EF area was decreased to 43% of normal. After 10 days of gentamicin treatment, only minimal vasoconstriction occurred in the outer cortex; however, EF area was decreased to a similar degree as observed with the 3-day glycerol-treated animals. There are two phases to glycerol-induced acute renal failure. The first phase (described as readily reversible) is characterized by intense vasoconstriction. The second phase, which is not immediately reversible, is associated with a decreased EF area. Smaller outer cortical afferent arterioles and a decreased fenestral diameter and density of the glomerular endothelium are seen only after gentamicin-induced renal failure is well established (after 10 days of treatment).
Chronic use of levodopa, the most effective treatment for Parkinson's disease, causes abnormal involuntary movements named dyskinesias, which are linked to maladaptive changes in plasticity and disturbances of dopamine and glutamate neurotransmission in the basal ganglia. Dyskinesias can be modeled in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions by repeated administration of low doses of levodopa (6 mg/kg, s.c.). Previous studies from our lab showed that sub-chronic treatment with the cannabinoid agonist WIN55,212-2 attenuates levodopa-induced dyskinesias at doses that do not interfere with physiological motor function. To investigate the neurochemical changes underlying WIN55,212-2 anti-dyskinetic effects, we used in vivo microdialysis to monitor extracellular dopamine and glutamate in the dorsal striatum of both the hemispheres of freely moving 6-hydroxydopamine-treated, SHAM-operated and intact rats receiving levodopa acutely or chronically (11 days), and studied how sub-chronic WIN55,212-2 (1 injection x 3 days, 20 min before levodopa) affected these neurochemical outputs. Our data indicate that: (1) the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion decreases dopamine turnover in the denervated striatum; (2) levodopa injection reduces extracellular glutamate in the side ipsilateral to the lesion of dyskinetic rats; (3) sub-chronic WIN55,212-2 prevents levodopa-induced glutamate volume transmission unbalances across the two hemispheres; and (4) levodopa-induced dyskinesias are inversely correlated with glutamate levels in the denervated striatum. These data indicate that the anti-dyskinetic properties of WIN55,212-2 are accompanied by changes of dopamine and glutamate outputs in the two brain hemispheres of 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats.
The ability of vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) to stimulate erythroid progenitor cells was investigated in an attempt to identify ways to ameliorate zidovudine (azidothymidine, AZT)-induced anemia. In vitro, alpha-tocopherol acid succinate (ATS), upon incubation with murine bone marrow cells at concentrations of up to 4 micrograms/ml, caused a dose-dependent increase in erythroid colony-forming unit (CFU-E)-derived colonies. This increase was equivalent to the effect demonstrated by 50 mU of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEpo) or 200 U of recombinant interleukin 3 (rIL-3). For in vivo studies, anemia was produced in CD-1 male mice by administering AZT in drinking water (1.5 mg/ml). Treatment with vitamin E (50 mg/kg body weight) or Epo (0.4 U per mouse) was initiated 24 h later and continued for five consecutive days. Seventh day bone marrow cells from femurs were assayed for CFU-E-derived colonies. Both vitamin E and Epo significantly increased the number of CFU-E-derived colonies by 75% and 86% of control, respectively, indicating that these agents were approximately similar in protecting the bone marrow from AZT-induced toxicity.
One hundred patients with phlebographically proved acute deep vein thrombosis of the legs were prospectively randomised into two treatment groups to compare the safety and efficacy of subcutaneous calcium heparin versus intravenous sodium heparin administered by constant infusion pump. The dose of heparin was determined by daily measurement of the kaolin cephalin clotting time. Treatment was maintained for up to 14 days, after which phlebography was repeated. Of 49 patients who received subcutaneous calcium heparin, two showed an increase in thrombus size, while eight showed complete lysis. In the 47 patients who received intravenous sodium heparin thrombus increased in size in 13 while only one showed evidence of complete lysis. These differences were significant. There were no significant differences between the two groups in the incidence of serious complications, although almost half of those receiving intravenous heparin had some minor problem with the constant infusion pump and just over half of those receiving subcutaneous heparin had some bruising at the injection site. This study showed that subcutaneous calcium heparin was more effective in helping lyse existing thrombus and preventing its propagation than intravenous sodium heparin.
We have reported a case of autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism PARK6 with a 30-year history. She developed tremor of right lower limb at the age of 23. At the age of 28, she received a clinical diagnosis of early-onset Parkinson's disease. She showed clinical improvements by the treatment with trihexyphenidyl, but symptoms showed slow progression over the subsequent years. L-DOPA therapy was introduced at the age of 42, and five years later, L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia developed. Dystonia, diurnal fluctuation and sleep benefit were absent. She carried a homozygous missense mutation in PINK1 gene, and was diagnosed as PARK6. The brain MRI did not show apparent abnormality. 18F-FDG-positron emission topography (PET) displayed normal uptake in the brain, suggesting normal glucose metabolism. PET imaging with a dopamine D2 receptor ligand 11C-raclopride revealed that postsynaptic 11C-raclopride uptake was normal in the bilateral putamen. After the introduction of pramipexisol, she showed clinical improvements. L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia disappeared with the gradual tapering and withdrawal of L-DOPA. In this PARK6 case, postsynaptic D2 receptors of the nigro-striatal dopaminergic neurons were thought to be maintained despite a long disease history.
In experiments on anaesthetized rats, Losartan was found to cause an obvious decrease in the ABP in normotensive rats. The cerebral blood flow differed independence on cerebral vascular resistance and the ABP level. The autoregulation of the cerebral blood flow remained unaltered. In hypertensive rats Losartan caused a significant decrease in the ABP as compared with normotensive rats. A shift of lower limits of the cerebral blood flow autoregulation towards a lower ABP level, was observed.
This paper evaluates the effects of certain herbicides on Leishmania spp., their mechanism of action, and the evolutionary origin of the relevant susceptible leishmanial targets. We demonstrated that a relatively nontoxic herbicide, fenarimol, successfully interferes with a leishmanial target, which is probably a relic of an ancient ancestor. Fenarimol impairs the function of leishmanial 14alpha-sterol demethylase, a key enzyme in the sterol biosynthetic pathway. Therefore, fenarimol or its derivatives may be candidates for development of anti-leishmanial drugs. Of the herbicides that have the capability to act as potential inhibitors of the metabolism of Leishmania spp., fenarimol was found as the most active substance against both promastigotes and amastigotes in culture. In addition, it ameliorated lesions caused by Leishmania major in mice. Light microscopy demonstrated rounding of the parasite shape. Increase of osmophilic vacuoles and autophagosomal structures were observed by transmission electron microscopy. Biochemical studies demonstrated that fenarimol inhibited sterol biosynthesis. Docking of fenarimol to the modeled catalytic binding site of 14alpha-lanosterol demethylase of L. major showed a geometrical fit. Fenarimol is stabilized via hydrophobic interactions with the residues that surround it and interactions with the heme ring. These results provide support to the hypothesis that fenarimol inhibits leishmanial sterol biosynthesis. Overall, the findings suggest an additional source of substances for development of anti-leishmanial drugs.
Skeletal muscle dysfunction contributes to exercise limitation in COPD. The role of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) system in muscle dysfunction is ill defined. Reduced levels of endothelial NOS (eNOS) and elevated levels of inducible NOS (iNOS) in the skeletal muscle of COPD patients have been recently reported. We hypothesized that resistance exercise training (R) and/or testosterone supplementation (T) would alter the transcription and expression of the NOS isoenzymes in COPD skeletal muscle.
Vastus lateralis biopsies were obtained before and after a 10-week intervention in 40 men with severe COPD(age 67.7 ± 8.3, FEV(1) 41.4 ± 12.6% predicted): placebo + no training (P) (n = 11), placebo + resistance training (PR) (n = 8), testosterone + no training (T) (n = 11) and testosterone + resistance training (TR) (n = 10) groups. eNOS, nNOS and iNOS mRNA and protein levels were measured in each sample. mRNA and protein levels were measured using real-time PCR and enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay, respectively.
eNOS mRNA increased in the TR group compared to P and T groups (P < 0.001). eNOS protein was increased in TR and T groups after intervention (P < 0.05) but not in the PR group. nNOS protein increased in the PR, T, and TR groups (P < 0.05). iNOS protein decreased only in the TR group (P = 0.01).
Resistance training and testosterone supplementation increased eNOS and nNOS proteins and decreased iNOS protein in the skeletal muscles of men with COPD. These changes in NO system might explain some of the favorable effects of these therapies.
A case of selective peripheral motor polyneuropathy caused by excessive intake of dapsone is described. The condition was characterized by a peripheral muscle weakness in all limbs, normal sensitivity and present, although weak, muscle reflexes. Neurophysiologically, low amplitude muscle responses, prolonged distal latencies and reduced motor conduction velocities were found together with electromyographic signs of denervation. Sensory neurography was normal. The patient showed a complete clinical recovery and a marked neurophysiological restitution after termination of the excessive drug intake. The patient was found to acetylate dapsone at a slow rate. The case is compared with those previously reported in the literature.
A 16-year-old schoolgirl presented with acute promyelocytic leukemia. 10 days after induction chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cytosine arabinoside together with heparinisation for the accompanying disseminated intravascular coagulopathy, she developed ventricular fibrillation. Following successful cardiac resuscitation a gated blood pool scan showed a left ventricular ejection fraction of 49%. Despite this event the patient was subsequently rechallenged with doxorubicin without any adverse cardiac effect. The exact mechanism for this delayed doxorubicin-associated cardiac arrhythmia is not clear, but electrolyte disturbance and heparin-doxorubicin interaction may have played a contributory role.
Human exposure to phthalic acid diesters occurs through a variety of pathways as a result of their widespread use in consumer products and plastics. Repeated doses of di-n-butyl phthalate (DBP) from gestation day (GD) 12 to 19 disrupt testosterone synthesis and male sexual development in the fetal rat. Currently little is known about the disposition of DBP metabolites, such as monobutyl phthalate (MBP) and its glucuronide conjugate (MBP-G), during gestation after repeated exposure to DBP. In order to gain a better understanding of the effect of repeated dosing on maternal and fetal metabolism and distribution, pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were given a single dose of 500 mg/kg DBP on GD 19 or daily doses of 50, 100, and 500 mg/(kg day) from GD 12 to 19 via corn oil gavage. Dose-response evaluation revealed a non-linear increase in maternal and fetal plasma concentrations of MBP. Maternal and fetal MBP levels were slightly lower in animals after 8 days of dosing at 500 mg/(kg day). Fetal plasma MBP levels closely followed maternal plasma, while the appearance and elimination of MBP-G in fetal plasma were significantly delayed. MBP-G accumulated over time in the amniotic fluid. Inhibition of testosterone was rapid in fetal testes when exposed to DBP (500 mg/(kg day)) on GD 19. Within 24h, the level of inhibition in the fetus was similar between animals exposed to a single or multiple daily doses of 500 mg/(kg day). Examination of testosterone time-course data indicates a rapid recovery to normal levels within 24h post-dosing at DBP doses of 50 and 100 mg/(kg day), with a rebound to higher than normal concentrations at later time-points. MBP kinetics in fetal testes allows direct comparison of active metabolite concentrations and testosterone response in the fetal testes.
Animal inhalation studies and theoretical models suggest that the pattern of formation of benzene metabolites changes as exposure to benzene increases. To determine if this occurs in humans, benzene metabolites in urine samples collected as part of a cross sectional study of occupationally exposed workers in Shanghai, China were measured.
With organic vapour monitoring badges, 38 subjects were monitored during their full workshift for inhalation exposure to benzene. The benzene urinary metabolites phenol, catechol, hydroquinone, and muconic acid were measured with an isotope dilution gas chromatography mass spectroscopy assay and strongly correlated with concentrations of benzene air. For the subgroup of workers (n = 27) with urinary phenol > 50 ng/g creatinine (above which phenol is considered to be a specific indicator of exposure to benzene), concentrations of each of the four metabolites were calculated as a ratio of the sum of the concentrations of all four metabolites (total metabolites) and were compared in workers exposed to > 25 ppm v < or = 25 ppm.
The median, 8 hour time weighted average exposure to benzene was 25 ppm. Relative to the lower exposed workers, the ratio of phenol and catechol to total metabolites increased by 6.0% (p = 0.04) and 22.2% (p = 0.007), respectively, in the more highly exposed workers. By contrast, the ratio of hydroquinone and muconic acid to total metabolites decreased by 18.8% (p = 0.04) and 26.7% (p = 0.006), respectively. Similar patterns were found when metabolite ratios were analysed as a function of internal benzene dose (defined as total urinary benzene metabolites), although catechol showed a more complex, quadratic relation with increasing dose.
These results, which are consistent with previous animal studies, show that the relative production of benzene metabolites is a function of exposure level. If the toxic benzene metabolites are assumed to be derived from hydroquinone, ring opened products, or both, these results suggests that the risk for adverse health outcomes due to exposure to benzene may have a supralinear relation with external dose, and that linear extrapolation of the toxic effects of benzene in highly exposed workers to lower levels of exposure may underestimate risk.
Anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy is a major problem in anti-cancer therapy. The only approved agent for alleviating this serious dose limiting side effect is ICRF-187 (dexrazoxane). The current thinking is that the ring-opened hydrolysis product of this agent, ADR-925, which is formed inside cardiomyocytes, removes iron from its complexes with anthracyclines, hereby reducing the concentration of highly toxic iron-anthracycline complexes that damage cardiomyocytes by semiquinone redox recycling and the production of free radicals. However, the 2 carbon linker ICRF-187 is also is a catalytic inhibitor of topoisomerase II, resulting in the risk of additional myelosuppression in patients receiving ICRF-187 as a cardioprotectant in combination with doxorubicin. The development of a topoisomerase II-inactive iron chelating compound thus appeared attractive. In the present paper we evaluate the topoisomerase II-inactive 3 carbon linker bisdioxopiperazine analog ICRF-161 as a cardioprotectant. We demonstrate that this compound does chelate iron and protects against doxorubicin-induced LDH release from primary rat cardiomyocytes in vitro, similarly to ICRF-187. The compound does not target topoisomerase II in vitro or in cells, it is well tolerated and shows similar exposure to ICRF-187 in rodents, and it does not induce myelosuppression when given at high doses to mice as opposed to ICRF-187. However, when tested in a model of chronic anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy in spontaneously hypertensive rats, ICRF-161 was not capable of protecting against the cardiotoxic effects of doxorubicin. Modulation of the activity of the beta isoform of the topoisomerase II enzyme by ICRF-187 has recently been proposed as the mechanism behind its cardioprotection. This concept is thus supported by the present study in that iron chelation alone does not appear to be sufficient for protection against anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy.
