1 Dexamethasone blocked endotoxin-induced diarrhoea in mice, but not that induced by arachidonic acid or prostaglandin E2. 2 Indomethacin blocked endotoxin and arachidonic acid-induced diarrhoea, but not that induced by prostaglandin E2. 3 Codeine blocked all three forms of diarrhoea. 4 The above data, when considered in relation to literature reports that endotoxin induces prostaglandin synthesis, suggest that dexamethasone blocks diarrhoea by preventing the release of arachidonic acid, the substrate for prostaglandin biosynthesis. 5 The activities of indomethacin and dexamethasone in castor oil diarrhoea support the above conclusion and their inactivity in 5-hydroxytryptophan-induced diarrhoea confirms the absence of 'codeine-like' direct effects on the gut. 6 Other glucocorticoids (hydrocortisone, prednisolone) were also able to block endotoxin diarrhoea, but oestradiol, testosterone and progesterone did not. 7 The inhibitory action of dexamethasone on endotoxin diarrhoea could not be blocked by the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, nor by the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, progesterone. Thus, involvement of glucocorticoid receptor-mediated gene activation could not be demonstrated.
Tocopherols and tocotrienols constitute the vitamin E family. Although alpha-tocotrienol is the most neuroprotective form of vitamin E proved to be effective against stroke, alpha-tocopherol is the most abundant in nature and is used most often for disease prevention/treatment. A recent metaanalysis of human studies suggested that alpha-tocopherol supplementation increases all-cause mortality. Therefore, we investigated the effects of alpha-tocopherol ( approximately 44 mg/kg body weight; equivalent to 2,600 mg/human/day) on the central nervous system (CNS) of stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP). SHRSP treated with high dose alpha-tocopherol had significantly higher blood pressure than untreated controls fed a basal diet that contained approximately 4 mg tocopherols/kg body weight, but neither group experienced a change in degree of lipid peroxidation in serum or CNS tissue. Biochemical/immunohistochemical analyses demonstrated that expressions of phosphorylated neurofilament H protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein and cathepsin D in the CNS tissue were significantly enhanced in alpha-tocopherol-supplemented rats, whereas expressions of SOD2 and Bcl-xL were diminished in response to alpha-tocopherol supplementation. Similarly, the frequency of cathepsin D-positive cells, corresponding mostly to microglial cells, was significantly increased in alpha-tocopherol-supplemented rats. Alpha-tocopherol supplementation also increased the number of lysosomes and lipofuscin granules in perikarya of both hippocampal pyramidal and Purkinje cells. Furthermore, alpha-tocopherol supplementation increased the frequency of glial filaments and lipofuscin granules in astrocytes and lysosomes in microglial cells that were frequently occupied with phagocytosed inclusion structures. The present results are the first to suggest that a very high dose of alpha-tocopherol supplementation increases blood pressure in SHRSP rats and influences the CNS tissue in a manner that seems adverse.
Although several lines of investigation demonstrate that many heavy metals are cytotoxic to host defense cells, the mechanism of killing is poorly understood. The major focus of this investigation was to determine if organic mercuric compounds kill human lymphocytes by inducing the cells to undergo apoptosis and to evaluate possible flow cytometric systems for assessing cell death. T-cells were exposed to 0.6-5 microM MeHgCl, EtHgCl, or PhHgCl for up to 24 hr and then analyzed by flow cytometry. Mercury-treated cells exhibited increased Hoechst 33258 and 33342 fluorescence while maintaining their ability to exclude the vital stain 7-AAD. Furthermore, T-cells exposed to mercury exhibited changes in light scatter patterns that included decreased forward light scatter and increased side scatter. The light scatter and fluorescent changes were consistent with changes that cells display during apoptosis. To further evaluate cell death and to distinguish between apoptosis and necrosis, merocyanine 540 staining and annexin V binding to the plasma membrane as well as DNA fragmentation were assessed. Mercury-treated cells exhibited increased merocyanine 540 fluorescence and annexin V binding along with changes in nuclear morphology consistent with the notion of apoptosis. Conventional agarose gel electrophoresis failed to demonstrate low-molecular-weight DNA bands; however, when probed by flow cytometry using both nick translation and a modified TUNEL assay, patterns consistent with nuclear fragmentation were evident. We noted that the percentage of T-cells undergoing apoptosis was dependent upon the amount of serum present in the medium; as serum concentrations were increased from 0 to 10%, cell death declined. Apoptosis (33%) was observed within 1 hr of exposure to MeHgCl; maximum cell death (67%) occurred after 24 hr exposure. Induction of apoptosis was dependent on the mercury concentration and independent of the hydrophobicity of the mercury ligand. Finally, we assessed mercury-dependent apoptosis in activated T-cells. When treated with mitogen, mercury failed to induce apoptosis in these cells. Indeed, there was no evidence of either apoptosis nor necrosis in these populations. It was concluded that the activation process prevented development of a metabolic state that was required for induction of apoptogenic genes.
The mechanistic understanding of low-level sarin-induced neurotoxicity after single or repeated doses has yet to be explored at a cellular level. Using the microarray (Affymetrix-GeneChips) transcription profiling approach, the present study examined gene expression in human SH-SY5Y cells exposed to single (3 and 24 h) or repeated (2 x 24 h) doses of sarin (5 microg/mL) to delineate the possible mechanism. Two hundred twenty-four genes whose expression was significantly (P < 0.01) altered by at least 3-fold were selected by GeneSpringGX analysis. The comparative gene expression data confirmed the transcriptional changes to be related to dose and exposure time of sarin. The effect of a single noncytotoxic sarin dose on gene transcription was variable, whereas repeated doses over 48 h persistently down-regulated genes linked to neurodegenerative mechanisms. Thirty persistently altered genes were validated using real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Similar qRT-PCR profiles obtained in sarin-treated SH-SY5Y and HCN-1A cells confirmed the cell-independent alterations in expression levels. Genes (ETS2, APOE, PSEN1, DDC, and CD9) implicated mainly in the regulation of sarin-induced neuropathogenesis were further confirmed by Western blot and double-immunofluorescence assays. The regulome pathway suggests a new feasible mechanism by which sarin increases ETS2 expression and takes control over other genes involved in the neurodegenerative pathway. The overall data delineate an in vitro experimental model suitable for studying the neuropathology of cells and may provide novel insights into therapeutic interventions.
A 22-year-old Malay soldier developed dapsone hypersensitivity syndrome 12 weeks after taking maloprim (dapsone 100 mg/pyrimethamine 12.5 mg) for anti-malarial prophylaxis.
He presented with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy and multiple-organ involvement including serositis, hepatitis and thyroiditis. Subsequently, he developed congestive heart failure with a reduction in ejection fraction on echocardiogram, and serum cardiac enzyme elevation consistent with a hypersensitivity myocarditis.
Maloprim was discontinued and he was treated with steroids, diuretics and an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor.
He has made a complete recovery with resolution of thyroiditis and a return to normal ejection fraction 10 months after admission.
In summary, we report a case of dapsone hypersensitivity syndrome with classical symptoms of fever, rash and multi-organ involvement including a rare manifestation of myocarditis. To our knowledge, this is the first case of dapsone-related hypersensitivity myocarditis not diagnosed in a post-mortem setting. As maloprim is widely used for malaria prophylaxis, clinicians need to be aware of this unusual but potentially serious association.
Maturin acetate (MA) is one of main constituents in Psacalium peltatum. The cytotoxic effects of MA on tumorigenic cells were evaluated using the MTT assay. The in vitro immunostimulatory effects of maturin acetate (MA) were evaluated on the viability of murine splenocytes and macrophages, and human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). The effects of MA on the production of nitrous oxide, pinocytosis and lysosomal enzyme activity were assayed in murine macrophages RAW 264.7. The effects of MA on the NK cell activity were also assayed. The in vivo immunostimulatory activities of MA were evaluated on BALB/c mice immunosuppressed with cyclophosphamide (CY). MA lacks cytotoxic activity against human cancer cells (IC50>200 μM). In the absence of LPS, MA 10 μM or higher stimulated significantly (P≤0.05), compared to untreated cells (-LPS), the viability of murine macrophages and splenocytes. In the absence of LPS, MA 10 μM or higher stimulated significantly (P≤0.05), compared to untreated cells (-LPS), the lysosomal enzyme activity and pinocytosis. In immunosuppressed mice, MA increases significantly (P≤0.05), compared to CY-treated mice, the production of IL-2 and IL-15 and IFN-γ. In conclusion, MA exerts immunostimulatory activities in vitro and in vivo.
Tremor is among the acute effects of nicotine exposure. Published studies have focused on smoking-related postural (static) hand tremor rather than kinetic tremor (tremor during hand use), and gender differences in smoking-related tremor have not been examined. In a group of adults who were sampled from a population (mean+/-S.D.=65.7+/-11.5 years, range=18-92 years), the investigator assessed whether the severity of postural and kinetic tremors differed in smokers versus non-smokers, and whether this difference was influenced by gender. Twenty-seven (9.9%) of 273 subjects were current smokers. Greater tremor was observed in smokers than non-smokers during a variety of activities (drawing a spiral, using a spoon, finger-nose-finger maneuver, all p<0.05) and smokers had a higher total tremor score than non-smokers (5.15+/-3.06 versus 3.41+/-2.88, p<0.01), even after adjusting for age, caffeine intake and other potential confounding factors. The difference between smokers and non-smokers in terms of hand tremor was more apparent in women than in men. In women, the number of cigarettes smoked on the day of testing was weakly correlated with the total tremor score (r=0.17, p=0.03). In summary, smokers had more kinetic hand tremor than non-smokers. This difference between smokers and non-smokers was more apparent in women than in men. These results suggest that smoking habits should be considered carefully in order to avoid over- or underestimating the effects of occupational and non-occupational exposures to other tremor-producing neurotoxins.
Because of adverse publicity regarding increased risk of endometrial cancer in women receiving estrogen therapy, a 2-year prospective study was conducted in 1976 to determine the incidence of endometrial cancer in postmenopausal women. A retrospective study for the year 1975 was also added. A postmenopausal survey card for each patient recorded the patient's visit and clinical data, as well as hormone therapies (estrogen, progestogen, androgen). Postmenopausal women never treated with hormones were also provided survey cards. A total of 2088 patient-years of estrogen use was recorded during the combined 3-year study period (1975-77). 8 of the estrogen users had a diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the endometrium for an annual incidence rate of 3.8/1000 women. 2 endometrial cancers were detected in the estrogen-progestogen users for a cancer incidence rate of 0.5/1000 (3792 patient-years of observation); this finding suggests that progestogen provides better protection against endometrial cancer compared to estrogens. This difference between estrogen users and estrogen-progestogen users was statistically significant (p ? 0.01). 1 endometrial malignancy occurred among estrogen vaginal cream users, giving an incidence of 1.7/1000. The patient used Premarin vaginal cream (1 gm thrice weekly) for 7 months before the cancer was diagnosed. No endometrial cancer was diagnosed in both the progestogen and androgen groups. Overall, 14 endometrial cancers out of 8170 years of observation were diagnosed in this clinic; annual incidence rate for the study period was 1.7/1000. 199 women with endometrial hyperplasia (a precancerous lesion) were treated with progestogens for 3 to 6 months. The hyperplastic endometrium returned to normal in 96.5%. It was suggested that all postmenopausal women with intact uterus be given the Progestogen Challenge Test and that progestogens be given to the women each month as long as bleeding follows. This should prevent the development of endometrial cancer in most women.
Evidence suggests that lead and selected genes known to modify the toxicokinetics of lead--namely, those for the vitamin D receptor (VDR) and delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD)--may independently influence blood pressure and hypertension risk. We report the relations among ALAD and VDR genotypes, three lead dose measures, and blood pressure and hypertension status in 798 Korean lead workers and 135 controls without occupational exposure to lead. Lead dose was assessed by blood lead, tibia lead measured by X-ray fluorescence, and dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA)-chelatable lead. Among lead workers, 9.9% (n = 79) were heterozygous for the ALAD(2) allele, and there were no ALAD(2) homozygotes; 11.2% (n = 89) had at least one copy of the VDR B allele, and 0.5% (n = 4) had the BB genotype. In linear regression models to control for covariates, VDR genotype (BB and Bb vs. bb), blood lead, tibia lead, and DMSA-chelatable lead were all positive predictors of systolic blood pressure. On average, lead workers with the VDR B allele, mainly heterozygotes, had systolic blood pressures that were 2.7-3.7 mm Hg higher than did workers with the bb genotype. VDR genotype was also associated with diastolic blood pressure; on average, lead workers with the VDR B allele had diastolic blood pressures that were 1.9-2.5 mm Hg higher than did lead workers with the VDR bb genotype (p = 0.04). VDR genotype modified the relation of age with systolic blood pressure; compared to lead workers with the VDR bb genotype, workers with the VDR B allele had larger elevations in blood pressure with increasing age. Lead workers with the VDR B allele also had a higher prevalence of hypertension compared to lead workers with the bb genotype [adjusted odds ratio (95% confidence interval) = 2.1 (1.0, 4.4), p = 0.05]. None of the lead biomarkers was associated with diastolic blood pressure, and tibia lead was the only lead dose measure that was a significant predictor of hypertension status. In contrast to VDR, ALAD genotype was not associated with the blood pressure measures and did not modify associations of the lead dose measures with any of the blood pressure measures. To our knowledge, these are the first data to suggest that the common genetic polymorphism in the VDR is associated with blood pressure and hypertension risk. We speculate that the BsmI polymorphism may be in linkage disequilibrium with another functional variant at the VDR locus or with a nearby gene.
Tumor establishment and penetration consists of a series of complex processes involving multiple changes in gene expression and protein modification. Proteome changes of tumor tissue were investigated after intraperitoneal administration of a high concentration of ascorbic acid in BALB/C mice implanted with CT-26 cancer cells using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. Eighteen protein spots were identified whose expression was different between control and ascorbic acid treatment groups. In particular, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit 1, nucleophosmin, latexin, actin-related protein 2/3 complex subunit 5, M2-type pyruvate kinase, vimentin, tumor protein translationally-controlled 1, RAS oncogene family Ran, plastin 3 precursor, ATPase, Rho GDT dissociation inhibitor β, and proteasome activator subunit 2 expression were quantitatively up-regulated. The increase in the level of these proteins was accompanied by an increase in mRNA level. The cytoskeleton protein actin, vimentin, and tumor protein translationally-controlled 1 showed quantitative expression profile differences. A change in actin cytoskeleton distribution, functionally relevant to the proteome result, was observed after treatment with ascorbic acid. These results suggest a previously undefined role of ascorbic acid in the regulation of cytoskeleton remodeling in tumor tissues.
Exposure to mustard gas frequently results in long-term respiratory complications. However the factors which drive the development and progression of these complications remain unclear. The Renin Angiotensin System (RAS) has been implicated in lung inflammatory and fibrotic responses. Genetic variation within the gene coding for the Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE), specifically the Insertion/Deletion polymorphism (I/D), is associated with variable levels of ACE and with the severity of several acute and chronic respiratory diseases. We hypothesized that the ACE genotype might influence the severity of late respiratory complications of mustard gas exposure.
208 Kurdish patients who had suffered high exposure to mustard gas, as defined by cutaneous lesions at initial assessment, in Sardasht, Iran on June 29 1987, underwent clinical examination, spirometric evaluation and ACE Insertion/Deletion genotyping in September 2005.
ACE genotype was determined in 207 subjects. As a continuous variable, FEV1 % predicted tended to be higher in association with the D allele 68.03 +/- 20.5%, 69.4 +/- 21.4% and 74.8 +/- 20.1% for II, ID and DD genotypes respectively. Median FEV1 % predicted was 73 and this was taken as a cut off between groups defined as having better or worse lung function. The ACE DD genotype was overrepresented in the better spirometry group (Chi2 4.9 p = 0.03). Increasing age at the time of exposure was associated with reduced FEV1 %predicted (p = 0.001), whereas gender was not (p = 0.43).
The ACE D allele is associated with higher FEV1 % predicted when assessed 18 years after high exposure to mustard gas.
Increased serum inorganic phosphorus associated with elevated serum calcium has been demonstrated to coincide with the onset of agitation and mania in periodic psychoses and bipolar disorders. We tested the hypothesis that unexplained transient hyperphosphatemia (UTHP) is more common in patients with psychiatric disorders than in controls with medical or surgical conditions. We studied 100 patients admitted to a psychiatric ward and 100 controls admitted to a medical-surgical ward. All subjects (patients and controls) underwent acute admission to the same general hospital. The serum phosphorus was measured upon admission and, if elevated, followed during the hospital course. Twenty patients (20%) with psychiatric disorders had unexplained hyperphosphatemia compared with four medical-surgical controls (4%). UTHP occurred in six patients with psychiatric disorders and no controls. Hypophosphatemia did not occur in subjects with psychiatric disorders. This study shows an increased incidence of UTHP in acutely ill, hospitalized patients with psychiatric disorders relative to acutely ill, hospitalized controls with medical-surgical conditions. These data extend previous findings by linking UTHP to acute psychiatric disturbances across varied psychiatric diagnoses independent of hypercalcemia. Potential explanations include trazodone administration and transient hypocalcemia.
Tiagabine, in excess dosing scenarios, has been rarely documented to cause status epilepticus. We describe such a case that was not responsive to benzodiazepines, but only to propofol infusion.
This study investigated the hypothesis that, in benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), upregulated oestrogen receptors (ER) and the action of androgens differentially regulate expression of stromal growth factors. Eight human prostatic stromal cell strains were subjected to a procedure to upregulate their ER by exposing them to 1 micromol 17beta-estradiol for 10 days followed by passage and growth in the absence of steroids. Four of the cell strains instead received 100 nmol dihydrotestosterone for 48 h. Immunoexpression of ERalpha, AR and six growth factors was quantified by flow cytometry in each case. Expression of ERalpha was significantly increased in six of eight cell strains. Expressions of six growth factors (FGF-2, FGF-7, IGF-1, TGF-beta1 NGF and e NOS) were elevated but only for FGF-7 was it significant. There was a significant positive correlation between the change in ERalpha and the change in FGF-2 and FGF-7, but not the other growth factors. Exposure to dihydrotestosterone reduced expression of ERalpha and all six growth factors, compared with oestrogen-treated cells but not significantly. It is concluded that upregulated ERalpha in prostatic stroma may have a greater modulating influence on synthesis of certain growth factors than the direct action of androgens and, by enhancing synthesis of FGF-2 and FGF-7, could play a significant role in the development of BPH.
The present study was conducted to compare the time-related cardiorespiratory changes occurring after the injection of Mesobuthus tamulus (BT; 1 mg/kg) venom and capsaicin (1.2 ng/kg) in the peripheral end of femoral artery in urethane anaesthetised rats. Blood pressure (BP), electrocardiogram (for heart rate; HR) and respiratory movements were recorded for 60 min after venom/capsaicin intra-arterially. Minute ventilation (MV) was computed by using appropriate calibrations. After intraarterial injection of BT venom, there was immediate (within 2 sec) increase in respiratory rate (RR) and MV which reached to 40% within 30 sec, followed by a 40% decrease in RR without any change in MV. Further, there was sustained increase in RR (50%) and MV (65%) up to 60 min. The BP began to increase at 40 sec, peaking at 5 min (50%) and remained above the initial level up to 60 min. The bradycardiac response began after 5 min which peaked (50% of the initial) at 25 min and remained at that level up to 60 min. In capsaicin treated group, there was immediate hyperventilatory (increase in RR and MV) changes within 2 sec which returned to the initial level within 2 min and remained at that level up to 60 min. The capsaicin-induced hypotensive response began within 5 sec which returned to the initial level by 5 min and remained at that level throughout. Capsaicin did not produce any change in HR. These observations suggest that intraarterial injection of BT venom produces prolonged cardiorespiratory alterations as compared to the capsaicin-induced responses.
As an index of delayed hypersensitivity in vitro halothane macrophage migration inhibition factor tests (halothane-MIF tests) were performed on peripheral blood lymphocytes from five patients with halothane hepatitis. Twenty-two subjects exposed to halothane, but with no evidence of jaundice, five 'healthy' hospital anaesthetists, nine jaundiced subjects without halothane exposure, and 10 healthy subjects with no history of exposure to halothane were also tested. The halothane-MIF test was positive in four of the five patients with halothane-induced hepatitis; the negative result was in a patient on steroid treatment. The test was negative in all other subjects. Our findings suggest that the halothane-MIF test may be of value in the diagnosis of halothane-induced hepatitis and as a screeening procedure for the identification of susceptible subjects.
Prenatal exposure to perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) is correlated with birth defects and adverse health effects. However, the mechanisms remain largely unknown. In current study, the embryonic stem cell test (EST) was performed to evaluate the embryotoxicity of PFOS, and embryonic stem cells (ESCs)-derived cardiomyocytes were used as a model of the early stages of heart development to determine the developmental toxicity of PFOS. One validated endpoint and three molecular endpoints were observed to ensure accurate evaluation of toxicity. According to the criteria of the EST, PFOS was classified as weak embryotoxic. In addition, a cascade of genes related to normal cardiac development was examined at three different time points to monitor cardiogenesis. We found that PFOS significantly interfered with gene expression during cardiogenesis, especially on Nkx2.5 and Myl4. Further, PFOS reduced ATP production in ESCs-derived cardiomyocytes, together with PFOS induced apoptosis, could explain the reduction in beating ability. PFOS-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulated within cells, which was accompanied by an interfering expression of apoptosis-related genes, ultimately leading to apoptosis. In conclusion, PFOS altered the expression of crucial genes, reduced ATP production, induced ROS, and stimulated apoptosis during the early stages of cardiogenesis; these effects may result in poor developmental outcomes.
Four patients with renal transplants developed hepatic veno-occlusive disease after immunosuppressive therapy with azathioprine. Severe progressive portal hypertension developed in all patients, with the clinical presentation varying from a mild viral-like syndrome to rapidly fulminant liver failure and death. The disease was associated with cytomegalovirus infection but not with the dose of azathioprine, the type or duration of transplant, or the type of underlying kidney disease. In view of the high mortality rate associated with veno-occlusive disease (a combined 55% in our four patients and in five reported in the literature) and wide spectrum of clinical presentation in patients with renal transplants, a high index of suspicion is required and aggressive intervention indicated.
Epidemiology studies suggest that soy consumption confers protection against human prostate cancer. To identify the soy component(s) that may be responsible for this chemopreventive activity, studies were conducted to determine the influence of a soy isoflavone mixture (PTI G-2535; 45% genistein, 22% daidzein, 2% glycitein) and a soy-derived protease inhibitor (Bowman-Birk Inhibitor Concentrate; BBIC) on prostate carcinogenesis in rats. Prostate cancers were induced in male Wistar-Unilever rats by a sequential regimen of cyproterone acetate and testosterone propionate, followed by a single intravenous injection of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) and chronic androgen stimulation. In separate studies, PTI G-2535 and BBIC were administered continuously at 0 (control), 200, or 2000 mg/kg diet, beginning 1 wk post-MNU. PTI G-2535 and BBIC both conferred modest, but statistically significant and dose-related protection against carcinogenesis in the dorsolateral+anterior prostate. These data demonstrate that both the isoflavone and protein (protease inhibitor) components of soy can inhibit prostate carcinogenesis in the rat. However, the modest individual activities of soy isoflavones and BBIC suggest that while both components may contribute to the chemopreventive activity of soy, combination administration (or exposure to whole soy) may be more effective in prostate cancer prevention than is administration of either component alone.
It is known that many male juvenile delinquents commit violent crimes while intoxicated with flunitrazepam (FZ), often in combination with alcohol or other drugs. We have also noted the combined abuse of FZ with, for example, alcohol in male forensic psychiatric patients. Our objective was to study violent behavior, impulsive decision-making, and amnesia in male forensic psychiatric patients who were intoxicated predominantly with FZ, to increase knowledge of the abuse of FZ in vulnerable subjects. We studied five forensic psychiatric patients, all of whom were assessed in 1998. All of the subjects reported earlier reactions to FZ, including hostility and anterograde amnesia. At the time of their crimes they were all intoxicated with FZ, often in combination with alcohol or other drugs, such as amphetamine or cannabis. In contrast to their behavior based on their ordinary psychological characteristics, their crimes were extremely violent, and the subjects lacked both the ability to think clearly and to have empathy with their victims. Our observations support the view that FZ abuse can lead to serious violent behavior in subjects characterized by vulnerable personality traits, and that this effect is confounded by the concurrent use of alcohol or other drugs. It is evident that FZ causes anterograde amnesia. Previous research and the results presented herein allow us to draw the following conclusion: on the basis of the neuropsychopharmacologic properties of FZ, legal decisions, such as declaring FZ an illegal drug, are needed in countries where it is now legal.
To document the nature, distribution, and frequency of dystonic symptoms in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP).
Charts and videotapes of all clinically diagnosed patients with PSP seen between 1983 and 1993 were reviewed and the occurrence, nature, and distribution of all dystonic symptoms were recorded.
Of 83 identified cases 38 had some dystonic features. Twenty (24%) had blepharospasm (one was induced by levodopa), 22 (27%) had limb dystonia (one was induced by electroconvulsive therapy and another by levodopa), 14 (17%) had axial dystonia in extension, one had oromandibular dystonia induced by levodopa, and two had other cranial dystonias. Six patients had limb dystonia as an early or presenting feature, sometimes leading to misdiagnosis of cortical-basal ganglionic degeneration. All three patients who had postmortem confirmation of the diagnosis had other concurrent disease. One patient with bilateral limb dystonia and blepharospasm had evidence of previous hydrocephalus and severe arteriosclerotic changes. One with arm dystonia also had cerebrovascular disease and one with hemidystonia also had rare swollen chromatolytic neurons in the frontotemporal cortex.
Dystonia is a common manifestation of PSP. Limb dystonia is particularly common and may indicate the presence of concurrent disease. When dystonia occurs in PSP, dopaminergic medication should be cautiously reduced or discontinued to rule out the possibility of treatment induced symptoms.
Doxylamine succinate was administered as an admixture in the feed to male and female Fischer 344 rats for either 14 or 90 days. The 14-day study included dose levels of 0, 100, 250, 500, 1000, or 2000 ppm doxylamine. Except for a 7% decrease in final body weight in female rats in the 2000 ppm group, there were no significant clinical observations made in the 14-day study. Microscopic lesions judged to be treatment-related were limited to cytoplasmic vacuolization in the livers. The lesions were more numerous in the higher dose groups of males and present only in the 2000 ppm group of females. Dose levels of 0, 162, 405, 1012, 2530, and 6325 ppm doxylamine were administered in the 90-day study. There were no deaths during the study. Final body weights were decreased 13.3% in males of the 6325 ppm group and 5.2, 10.1, and 14.4% in females in the 1012, 2530, and 6325 ppm groups, respectively. Liver/brain weight ratios were increased in all treated male groups and in the two highest dose groups of females. Other organ weight changes were decreases and believed to result from general reduction in weight gain in those groups where the decreases occurred. Treatment-related histological changes were identified in the liver and parotid salivary gland. Cytoplasmic vacuolization or fatty change of the liver was found in all groups of males but was more severe in the higher dose groups. In females, these liver lesions were observed only in the two highest dose groups. A dose-related change in the parotid salivary gland, consisting of cytomegaly with basophilic and coarsely granular or vacuolated cytoplasm, was observed.
The extensive molecular genetic heterogeneity seen with inherited eye disease is a major barrier to the development of gene-based therapeutics. The underlying molecular pathology in a considerable proportion of these diseases however are nonsense mutations leading to premature termination codons. A therapeutic intervention targeted at this abnormality would therefore potentially be relevant to a wide range of inherited eye diseases. We have taken advantage of the ability of aminoglycoside drugs to suppress such nonsense mutations and partially restore full-length, functional protein in a zebrafish model of choroideraemia (chm(ru848); juvenile chorio-retinal degeneration) and in two models of ocular coloboma (noi(tu29a) and gup(m189); congenital optic fissure closure defects). In vitro cell-based assays showed significant readthrough with two drugs, gentamicin and paromomycin, which was confirmed by western blot and in vitro prenylation assays. The presence of either aminoglycoside during zebrafish development in vivo showed remarkable prevention of mutant ocular phenotypes in each model and a reduction in multisystemic defects leading to a 1.5-1.7-fold increase in survival. We also identified a significant reduction in abnormal cell death shown by TUNEL assay. To test the hypothesis that optic fissure closure was apoptosis-dependent, the anti-apoptotic agents, curcumin and zVAD-fmk, were tested in gup(m189) embryos. Both drugs were found to reduce the size of the coloboma, providing molecular evidence that cell death is required for optic fissure remodelling. These findings draw attention to the value of zebrafish models of eye disease as useful preclinical drug screening tools in studies to identify molecular mechanisms amenable to therapeutic intervention.
Lamivudine (LMV)-adefovir pivoxil (ADV) combination therapy suppresses the replication of LMV-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV), although its efficacy in suppressing HBV varies among patients. This study analyzed the clinical, virological, and pharmaceutical factors that influence the effect of the combination therapy. Patients negative for hepatitis B virus e antigen (HBeAg) and with low HBV DNA titers immediately prior to the combination therapy effectively cleared serum HBV DNA (P=0.0348 and P=0.0310, respectively). The maximum concentration of ADV in serum (ADV Cmax) was higher in patients who showed HBV DNA clearance (P=0.0392), and the cumulative clearance rates of HBV DNA were significantly higher in patients with ADV Cmax equal to or greater than 24 ng/ml (P=0.0284). HBeAg negativity and lower HBV DNA at the start of the combination therapy and higher ADV Cmax were found to be independent factors for serum HBV DNA clearance. Serum creatinine increased significantly during the combination therapy, and the ADV Cmax was higher in patients with low creatinine clearance rates. In conclusion, higher serum concentrations of ADV are associated with a good response to therapy based on clearance of HBV DNA in serum. However, care should be taken to prevent worsening of renal function due to high ADV serum concentrations.
