The aim of this study was to examine whether (+)-2-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]-hexane-2,6-dicarboxylate monohydrate (LY354740), a selective agonist of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors, possesses antiparkinsonian properties. Parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity was induced by pretreatment with haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.). It was measured as increased resistance developed by the rat's hind leg to passive extension and flexion. LY354740 (5 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) dose-dependently diminished the haloperidol-induced muscle rigidity. The present results suggest that LY354740 counteracts the muscle rigidity in an animal model of parkinsonism.
Azathioprine is a frequently used immunosuppressant for managing inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In recent years the hepatotoxic profile of thiopurines has been recognised. We report the case of a 40-year-old man with Crohn's disease treated with azathioprine. After taking azathioprine (2.2 mg/kg daily) for two years, his liver function tests were found to be elevated. Moreover, a myelodepression was established as platelet and leucocytes counts were lowered. The 6-thioguaninenucleotide level was 738 picomoles/8 x 10(8) per red blood cell, which is well above the proposed upper limit of efficacy and associated with an increased risk of developing a myelodepression. Genotyping of the enzyme thiopurine methyltransferase revealed no mutant alleles. The ultrasonography and CT scan showed signs of portal hypertension (spleen 17 cm and widened splenic vein). A liver biopsy was performed and an incomplete septal liver cirrhosis was found. An upper endoscopy revealed oesophageal varices (grade 2 to 3). Autoimmune and viral liver diseases were ruled out by laboratory parameters. After cessation of therapy, all laboratory parameters normalised. Therefore, azathioprine is believed to be the causative factor for inducing the liver cirrhosis. Continuous monitoring of patients taking thiopurines is mandatory. The role of 6-thioguaninenucleotide levels in inducing myelotoxicity and hepatotoxicity is discussed.
Cyclophosphamide cystitis with a high grade of vesicoureteral reflux can lead to rapid renal deterioration. Conventional ureteral reimplantation is inadvisable and urinary diversion, although providing a temporary solution, could lead to long-term complications, particularly in children. We present a case of cyclophosphamide cystitis with vesicoureteral reflux and upper tract deterioration managed successfully with ileocecocystoplasty. This method of management should be considered early in such a patient.
To compare the incidence of seizures in dogs with intervertebral disk disease after iopamidol or iomeprol myelography, and to assess whether the incidence of seizures differed between the 2 agents when severity of neurological deficits, location of cord compression, duration of anesthesia, site of myelogram, volume of contrast, and concentration of contrast were evaluated.
Retrospective study.
Veterinary teaching hospital.
One hundred and sixty-one client-owned dogs with intervertebral disk disease.
Subarachnoid injection of contrast medium.
One hundred and sixty-one dogs with intervertebral disk disease were subjected to myelography using iopamidol (n=74) or iomeprol (n=87). Cranial myelography was performed in 31 dogs, caudal myelography in 125 and both cranial and caudal myelography in 5. Seizures occurred in 23 of 161 (14%) dogs. There was no significant difference overall between iopamidol and iomeprol myelography. However, in dogs with thoracolumbar disk extrusion and paraplegia, seizures occurred more frequently after caudal myelography using iopamidol compared with iomeprol.
Both iomeprol and iopamidol are suitable for myelography in dogs. Iomeprol is recommended for caudal myelography in paraplegic dogs with thoracolumbar disk extrusion due to the higher incidence of seizures in this group when iopamidol was used.
Acrylamide is an industrial chemical used in polymer manufacture. It is also formed in foods processed at high temperatures. It induces chromosome aberrations and micronuclei (MN) in somatic cells of mice, but not rats, and mutations in transgenic mice. This study evaluated the low-dose MN response in mouse bone marrow and the shape of the dose-response curve. Mice were treated orally with acrylamide for 28 days using logarithmically spaced doses from 0.125 to 24 mg/kg/day, and MN were assessed in peripheral blood reticulocytes (RETs) and erythrocytes by flow cytometry. Liver glycidamide DNA adducts and acrylamide and glycidamide N-terminal valine hemoglobin adducts were also determined. Acrylamide produced a weak MN response, with statistical significance at 6.0 mg/kg/day, or greater, in MN-RETs and at 4.0 mg/kg/day or greater in MN normochromatic erythrocytes (NCEs). The MN responses at the lower doses were indistinguishable from the concurrent and historical controls. The adducts increased at a much different rate than the MN. When the MN-NCE values were compared to administered dose, the response was consistent with a linear model. However, when hemoglobin or DNA adducts were used as the dose metric, the response was significantly nonlinear, and models that assumed a threshold dose of 1 or 2 mg/kg/day provided a better fit than a linear model. The MN-RET dose-response had greater variability than the MN-NCE response and was consistent with linearity and with a threshold at 1 or 2 mg/kg/day, regardless of the dose metric. These data suggest a threshold for acrylamide in the MN test.
A total of 100 miners exposed to antimonate dust concentrations considerably exceeding the MAC were examined, and 16% of the subjects appeared to have chronic bronchitis. No pneumoconioses were diagnosed. The chronic bronchitis was characterized by mild slow course with I degree of ventilation disturbances. Antimonate ore turned out to induce toxic effects and activate some protective mechanisms: phagocytosis, immune response, inhibition of proteases.
We investigated the renal protective effect of nifedipine (2-nitrophenyl derivative BAY a 1040) in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs, 8 weeks of age). Diabetic SHRs were treated with 40 mg/kg/day of nifedipine or efonidipine as controls for 16 weeks. Dosage of nifedipine or efonidipine was chosen after preliminary studies demonstrated that it showed moderate antihypertensive action (more than a 20% decrease in systemic blood pressure after treatment). In the diabetic SHR, the excretion of urinary albumin was increased and reached 4.41 +/- 0.08 mg/day at 24 weeks. The levels of urinary albumin in the diabetic SHR after treatment with nifedipine were significantly less than those in the diabetic SHR at 24 weeks (p < 0.01). Levels of the ratio of creatinine clearance to body weight were significantly decreased in the diabetic SHR after treatment with nifedipine. In light microscopy, the ratio of glomerular tufts to Bowman's areas was significantly decreased compared with those in the diabetic SHRs (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that nifedipine inhibits the development of albuminuria and glomerular enlargement in STZ-induced diabetic SHRs. There was no significant difference in the changes in antihypertensive or antialbuminuric effects between nifedipine and efonidipine. Thus, nifedipine, as well as efonidipine, may become a useful antihypertensive drug with a renal protective effect.
A study was undertaken in 24 Chinese patients on maintenance continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis, using bezafibrate in its sustained-release form to correct lipid abnormalities. Six patients who received 400 mg/day developed severe muscle weakness with grossly elevated creatine phosphokinase activities within 3 weeks. The drug was discontinued and the symptoms disappeared. The remaining 18 patients received 400 mg/week for 8 weeks. There was a significant decrease in serum triglyceride (2.74 +/- 0.33 to 1.86 +/- 0.17 mmol/l at the 4th week and 1.65 +/- 0.4 mmol/l at the 8th week). Concomitantly, serum total cholesterol decreased. Serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol increased significantly (from 1.18 +/- 0.082 to 1.36 +/- 0.060 mmol/l at the 4th week and 1.40 +/- 0.103 mmol/l at the 8th week). Post-heparin lipoprotein and hepatic lipases were measured by a substrate-specific method. The former increased significantly (p = 0.000) after bezafibrate treatment while the latter did not change. All parameters of lipid metabolism returned towards baseline 4 weeks after discontinuation of therapy. The drug was well tolerated at 400 mg/week and there was no significant rise in serum creatine phosphokinase.
Late cardiotoxic effects of doxorubicin are increasingly a problem for patients who survive childhood cancer. Cardiotoxicity is often progressive, and some patients have disabling symptoms. Our objective was to identify risk factors for late cardiotoxicity.
We examined echocardiograms from 120 children and adults who had received cumulative doses of 244 to 550 mg of doxorubicin per square meter of body-surface area for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia or osteogenic sarcoma in childhood, a mean of 8.1 years earlier. Measurements of blood pressure and left ventricular function, contractility (measured as the stress-velocity index), end-diastolic posterior-wall thickness, end-diastolic dimension, mass, and afterload (measured as end-systolic wall stress) were compared with sex-specific values from a cohort of 296 normal subjects.
All echocardiographic measurements were abnormal at follow-up a minimum of two years after the end of therapy, with more frequent and severe abnormalities in female patients. In a multivariate analysis, female sex and a higher cumulative dose of doxorubicin were associated with depressed contractility (P < or = 0.001), and there was an interaction between these two variables. Independent and significant associations were found between a higher rate of administration of doxorubicin and increased afterload (P < or = 0.001), left ventricular dilatation, and depressed left ventricular function; between a higher cumulative dose and depressed left ventricular function (P < or = 0.001); between a younger age at diagnosis and reduced left-ventricular-wall thickness and mass and increased afterload; and between a longer time since the completion of doxorubicin therapy and reduced left-ventricular-wall thickness and increased afterload (P < or = 0.001).
Female sex and a higher rate of administration of doxorubicin were independent risk factors for cardiac abnormalities after treatment with doxorubicin for childhood cancer; the prevalence and severity of abnormalities increased with longer follow-up.
Ribavirin-induced anemia (RIA) is a common adverse effect of chronic hepatitis C treatment. Studies have shown that the use of epoetin decreases the need for ribavirin dose reduction or discontinuation. The primary objective was to calculate the incremental cost of treating hepatitis C in those without versus with RIA, using either the strategy of ribavirin dose reduction/discontinuation or epoetin. The secondary objective was to calculate the incremental cost of using epoetin versus no epoetin to treat RIA, per ribavirin dose reduction/discontinuation averted.
Estimates from the literature and decision-analytic techniques were used to model treatment patterns and estimate the cost of managing RIA in genotype 1, 2, and 3 subjects. Sensitivity analyses were used to address uncertainty.
Clinically significant RIA, a reduction in hemoglobin of > or = 2 g/dL (1.2 mmol/L), developed in 72% of patients in observational studies. The incremental cost of treating chronic hepatitis C decreased when employing the strategy of ribavirindose reduction/discontinuation to treat RIA, and increased by 5.7% (genotype 1) or 34.4% (genotype 2 or 3), when using epoetin. Using one-way sensitivity analyses, the cost of using epoetin per ribavirin dose reduction/discontinuation averted was $39,579-$52,023. Generalizability may be limited to settings in which a similar proportion of patients develop RIA.
The proportional cost of treating hepatitis C when using epoetin to treat RIA is significant in genotype 2 or 3 patients. The cost of using epoetin per ribavirin dose reduction/discontinuation averted is substantial in patients with genotypes 1, 2, or 3; and varies with the probability of response to epoetin. These findings suggest that additional studies are warranted that will determine the effect of epoetin on treatment outcomes and its role as supportive therapy in patients with RIA.
The effects of DL-tetrahydropalmatine (THP; a main active substance of the Chinese herb corydalis), haloperidol (a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist), apomorphine and amphetamine on cardiovascular function and striatal dopamine (DA) release were compared in rats under general anesthesia. Intravenous administration of THP (1-10 mg/kg) or haloperidol (0.5-1.25 mg/kg) produced hypotension, bradycardia and increased DA release in the striatum. On the other hand, amphetamine (0.5-1.25 mg/kg) produced hypertension, tachycardia and increased striatal DA release. However, intravenous injection of apomorphine (0.5-1.25 mg/kg) produced hypotension, bradycardia and decreased striatal DA release. In addition, the THP-induced hypotension was attenuated by pretreatment with spinal transection or amphetamine, while the THP-induced bradycardia was attenuated by pretreatment with bilateral vagotomy or amphetamine. Thus, it appears that THP acts through DA D2 receptor antagonism to induce hypotension and bradycardia in rats.
The effects of fluoxetine and imipramine on the pharmacokinetics and nonpsychiatric side effect profile of quetiapine fumarate were investigated in 26 patients with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or bipolar disorder in a multicenter, two-period, multiple-dose, open-label, randomized trial. Over a 1- to 2-week period, patients were titrated to a 300-mg twice-daily dose of quetiapine. Patients treated for at least 7 days at the target dose entered a combination therapy period, receiving fluoxetine (60 mg daily) or imipramine (75 mg twice daily) for 8 days. Key assessments included pharmacokinetic analysis of quetiapine, the Udvalg for kliniske undersøgelser (UKU) Side Effect Rating Scale, and safety evaluations (e.g., adverse events, electrocardiograms, laboratory tests, and vital signs). Fluoxetine increased the quetiapine area under the plasma concentration time curve during a 12-hour interval (+12%), maximum plasma concentration during the dosing interval (C(ss)(max); +26%), and minimum plasma concentration at the end of the dosing interval (+8%), although it decreased oral clearance (-11%). The change in C(ss)(max) was statistically although not clinically significant. Imipramine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of quetiapine. Overall, scores on the UKU Side Effect Rating Scale improved during combination therapy with either agent, and no statistically significant deterioration was observed for any item. For safety assessments, the only clinically remarkable event was an imipramine-associated complete left bundle branch block in one patient. No unexpected side effects were reported. In conclusion, combination therapy with quetiapine and fluoxetine or imipramine had a minimal effect on quetiapine pharmacokinetics and was well tolerated.
A 6-year-old male castrated Shetland Sheepdog was evaluated because of severe hypokalemia and progressive paresis.
Physical examination revealed fever, tachypnea, mydriasis, hyperemic mucous membranes, severe forelimb paresis, and hind limb paraplegia. The dog had superficial and deep pain sensation in all 4 limbs. Forelimb spinal reflexes were considered normal, but hind limb reflexes were normal to slightly hyperreflexive. The panniculus reflex was considered to be normal, and cranial nerve reflexes were intact. A CBC revealed mild leukocytosis and erythrocytosis, and serum biochemical analysis revealed severe hypokalemia. Thoracic and abdominal imaging did not reveal relevant findings. Blood pressure and ECG findings were within reference limits. Questioning of the owner revealed possible exposure to albuterol via ingestion of medication intended for the owner's horse. Results of serum testing via immunoassay were suggestive of albuterol toxicosis.
Treatment included IV administration of an electrolyte solution and supplemental potassium chloride. The rate of potassium chloride supplementation was slowly decreased as serum potassium concentration increased. No other medical intervention was required, and the dog made a rapid and complete recovery.
Ingestion of albuterol can lead to profound physical and serum biochemical abnormalities. Appropriate historical information should be obtained to identify possible sources and routes of exposure to intoxicants. Albuterol-induced hypokalemia can be successfully managed medically.
1. This report describes two cases of psychotic syndrome from benztropine (Cogentin), which was used to treat haloperidol-induced extrapyramidal side effects. The patients' symptomatology meets DSM III criteria for delirium. Both patients displayed repetitive motor automatisms (stereotypy). 2. Symptomatology appeared one-to-two days after the start of benztropine 2 mg b.i.d. and subsided one-to-several days after benztropine was stopped. Treatment consisted of administration of sedative hypnotic drugs. 3. The literature on anticholinergic-induced psychotic syndromes is surveyed. Particular attention is drawn to the occurrence of stereotypy. 4. It is proposed, on the basis of a review of animal and clinical data, that stereotypies in delirious patients are related to muscarinic blockade in the central nervous system. This model is used to explain repetitive motor automatisms which are seen in Alzheimer's disease. 5. The paper concludes with brief guidelines for the management of anticholinergic delirium.
Peripheral neuropathy represents an important complication of diabetes involving a spectrum of structural, functional and biochemical alterations in peripheral nerves. Recent observations obtained in our laboratory have shown that the levels of neuroactive steroids present in the sciatic nerve of rat raised diabetic by a single injection of streptozotocin (STZ) are reduced and that, in the same experimental model, treatment with neuroactive steroids, such as progesterone, testosterone and their derivatives show neuroprotective effects. On this basis, an interesting therapeutic strategy could be to increase the levels of neuroactive steroids directly in the nervous system. With this perspective, ligands of translocator protein-18 kDa (TSPO) may represent an interesting option. TSPO is mainly present in the mitochondrial outer membrane, where it promotes the translocation of cholesterol to the inner mitochondrial membrane, and, as demonstrated in other cellular systems, it allows the transformation of cholesterol into pregnenolone and the increase of steroid levels. In the diabetic model of STZ rat, we have here assessed whether treatment with Ro5-4864 (i.e., a ligand of TSPO) could increase the low levels of neuroactive steroids in sciatic nerve and consequently to be protective in this experimental model. Data obtained by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry show that treatment with Ro5-4864 was able to significantly stimulate the low levels of pregnenolone, progesterone and dihydrotestosterone observed in the sciatic nerves of diabetic rats. The treatment with Ro5-4864 also counteracted the impairment of NCV and thermal threshold, restored skin innervation density and P0 mRNA levels, and improved Na+,K+-ATPase activity. In conclusion, data here reported show for the first time that a TSPO ligand, such as Ro5-4864, is effective in reducing the severity of diabetic neuropathy through a local increase of neuroactive steroid levels.
Emotional disturbances, depressive mood, anxiety, aggressive behavior, and memory impairment are the common psychiatric features associated with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). The present study was carried out to investigate the role of Bacopa monnieri extract in hippocampus of pilocarpine-induced temporal lobe epileptic rats through the 5-HT(2C) receptor in relation to depression. Our results showed upregulation of 5-HT(2C) receptors with a decreased affinity in hippocampus of pilocarpine-induced epileptic rats. Also, there was an increase in 5-HT(2C) gene expression and inositol triphosphate content in epileptic hippocampus. Carbamazepine and B. monnieri treatments reversed the alterations in 5-HT(2C) receptor binding, gene expression, and inositol triphosphate content in treated epileptic rats as compared to untreated epileptic rats. The forced swim test confirmed the depressive behavior pattern during epilepsy that was nearly completely reversed by B. monnieri treatment.
Subfulminant hepatic failure has not been reported to occur with the histamine-2 receptor antagonists. We report a possible case of nizatidine-induced subfulminant hepatic failure leading to the eventual development of cirrhosis.
The present study was conducted to compare the incidence of transient radicular irritation (TRI) after spinal anesthesia with 5% lidocaine or 0.75% bupivacaine in the supine, prone, and lithotomy surgical positions. A non-rAndomized survey approach was used. The convenience sample consisted of 243 adults receiving spinal anesthesia for elective surgery at 1 of 3 hospitals. Patients were questioned by telephone postoperatively to determine whether they had experienced TRI. Statistical analysis using the Fisher exact test revealed no significant difference in TRI incidence between local anesthetics in the supine or prone position groups. In the lithotomy position group, the incidence of TRI was significantly higher in patients receiving 5% lidocaine. Further, chi 2 testing revealed no significant difference in TRI incidence between surgical position groups when position alone was considered. The findings suggest that TRI after spinal anesthesia occurs more frequently with 5% lidocaine than with 0.75% bupivacaine only when patients undergo surgery in the lithotomy position. Providers need to consider the risks and benefits of 5% lidocaine when selecting an agent for spinal anesthesia, especially with patients undergoing surgery in the lithotomy position. When lidocaine is used, providers should discuss TRI as a risk of spinal anesthesia with patients during preanesthetic counseling.
Most preclinical trials are designed to identify potential torsadogenicity test only for surrogates of torsade de pointes, most commonly prolongation of the heart rate corrected QT interval (QTc). This study was conducted to determine which correction method best accounts for the effects of changes in the RR interval on the QT interval of conscious rabbits. This study was also conducted to validate the use of conscious, sling-trained rabbits to assess the QTc interval, and to evaluate the reliability and accuracy of this preparation in predicting drug-induced QTc prolongation in humans.
ECGs were recorded via bipolar transthoracic ECG leads in 7 conscious rabbits previously trained to rest quietly in slings. The heart rate was slowed with 2.0 mg/kg zatebradine to assess the effects of heart rate on the QT interval. The same ECG and sling preparation was used to evaluate the effects in of three drugs known to be torsadogenic in humans (cisapride, dofetilide and haloperidol), two drugs known to be non-torsadogenic in humans (propranolol and enalaprilat) and a control article (vehicle). All of the test articles were administered intravenously to 4 rabbits, and both RR and QT intervals were measured and the corrected QT values were calculated by an investigator blinded to the test article, utilizing our own algorithm (QTc=QT/(RR)(0.72)) which permitted the least dependency of QTc on RR interval.
The following regression equations were obtained relating QT to RR: QT=2.4RR(0.72), r(2)=0.79, with RR intervals varying between 210 and 350 ms. QTc lengthened significantly in all conscious rabbits given intravenous cisapride, dofetilide and haloperidol (p<0.05), and QTc did not change with DMSO (vehicle control), propranolol or enalaprilat.
Results indicate that a bipolar transthoracic ECG recorded in conscious, sling-trained rabbits may provide an easy and economical methodology useful in predicting QTc lengthening of novel pharmacological entities.
A case of complete atrioventricular block associated with rivastigmine use is presented.
A 67-year-old Turkish woman with Alzheimer's disease was admitted to the hospital because of dizziness and syncope. Her medical history included diagnoses of hypertension (treated with amlodipine 5 mg daily) and diabetes mellitus (treated with nateglinide 120 mg daily). She had been taking both drugs for over five years. She had also been taking rivastigmine 6 mg p.o. daily for five months for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. She had experienced dizziness since the onset of rivastigmine therapy but had not reported it to any health care provider. On admission, she had a blood pressure measurement of 90/60 mm Hg and a pulse rate of 34 beats/min. A 12-lead electrocardiogram revealed complete atrioventricular block. Echocardiography results, blood electrolyte levels, and cardiac biochemical markers were normal. After initial evaluation, a temporary transvenous pacemaker was implanted via the right femoral vein. Amlodipine and rivastigmine were discontinued. On the first day of hospitalization, a coronary angiogram revealed normal coronary anatomy. Two days later, the complete atrioventricular block resolved spontaneously to sinus rhythm. Rivastigmine 6 mg p.o. daily was reinitiated, and complete atrioventricular block recurred on the fourth day of therapy. A VVI permanent pacemaker was implanted on the fifth day of hospitalization. Amlodipine and rivastigmine were reinitiated. The patient continued rivastigmine 6 mg p.o. daily after permanent pacemaker implantation. A three-month follow-up appointment revealed that no further syncope episodes or dizziness had occurred.
A 67-year-old woman developed complete atrioventricular block after receiving rivastigmine for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
We aimed to test whether fisetin could modulate cholesterol homeostasis in rats with diet-induced hypercholesterolemia, and further investigated the underlying mechanisms by which fisetin exerts its cholesterol lowering effect. Blood lipid profile, hepatic cholesterol content, as well as gene expressions in cholesterol metabolism were examined. Elevated levels of total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol, along with hepatic cholesterol content in a high fat group were found to be significantly reduced by fisetin. The high fat diet significantly decreased hepatic mRNA levels of LDLR, SREBP2, HMGCR and PCSK9 in comparison to the control diet, however, fisetin did not further elicit any changes in mRNA levels of the same genes. The high fat diet dramatically increased the transcript levels of CYP7A1, which was subsequently reversed by the fisetin. In HepG2 cells, fisetin was found to increase the levels of a nuclear form of SREBP2 and LDLR. In conclusion, fisetin supplementation displayed hypocholesterolemic effects by modulating the expression of genes associated with cholesterol and bile acid metabolism.
1. Four common side effects of dexedrine use (viz., anorexia, insomnia, stomach pains, and weight loss) were operationalized and quantified for use by parents in monitoring these effects over a 6 week clinical trial. 2. A weighted summary score, reflecting the frequency and intensity of each side effect, was used to determine the magnitude of each effect during treatment. 3. Four hyperactive children taking 2,5 mg twice daily, and six other hyperactive children taking either 5 or 10 mg twice daily, served as subjects. 4. Results indicated that the average weighted summary scores for all effects did not exceed minimal levels as defined in this study, regardless of dosage. 5. The implications, importance, and usefulness of this side effects scale in treating hyperactive children were discussed.
Pyrazinamide hepatotoxicity is considered secondary to a direct and dose-related toxic effect. At currently used doses, pyrazinamide provides effective short-term treatment and is free from serious side effects. We report a case of pyrazinamide-induced hepatitis for which the rechallenge data strongly suggest a hypersensitivity mechanism.
