Dexamethasone (Dex) has anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties against many conditions. There is a potential teratogenic risk, however, for pregnant women receiving Dex treatment. It has been claimed that Dex exposure during pregnancy could affect osteogenesis in the developing embryo, which still remains highly controversial. In this study, we employed chick embryos to investigate the effects of Dex exposure on skeletal development using combined in vivo and in vitro approach. First, we demonstrated that Dex (10(-8)-10(-6)μmol/egg) exposure resulted in a shortening of the developing long bones of chick embryos, and it accelerated the deposition of calcium salts. Secondly, histological analysis of chick embryo phalanxes exhibited Dex exposure inhibited the proliferation of chondrocytes, increased apoptosis of chondrocytes and osteocytes, and led to atypical arranged hypertrophic chondrocytes. The expression of genes related to skeletogenesis was also analyzed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. The expression of ALP, Col1a2 and Col2a1 was decreased in the Dex treated phalanxes. A detectable increase was observed in Runx-2 and Mmp-13 expression. We next examined how Dex affected the different stages of skeletogenesis in vitro. Utilizing limb bud mesenchyme micromass cultures, we determined that Dex exposure exerted no effect on apoptosis but impaired chondrogenic cell proliferation. Interestingly, low dose of Dex moderately prompted nodule formation as revealed by alcian blue staining, but higher doses of Dex significantly inhibited similar chondrogenic differentiation. Dex exposure did not induce apoptosis when the chondrogenic precursors were still at the mesenchymal stage, however, cell viability was suppressed when the mesenchyme differentiated into chondrocytes. Alizarin red staining revealed that the capacity to form mineralized bone nodules was correspondingly enhanced as Dex concentrations increased. The mRNA level of Sox-9 was slightly increased in mesenchymal cell mass treated by low concentration of Dex. Mmp-13 expression was obviously up-regulated by Dex in both mesenchymal cells and primary chondrocyte cultures. And Col10a1 expression was also increased by Dex exposure in chondrocyte. In summary, we have revealed that different concentrations of Dex exposure during early gestation could exert a biphasic effect on vertebrate skeletal development.
The inferior colliculus (IC) is primarily involved in the processing of auditory information, but it is distinguished from other auditory nuclei in the brainstem by its connections with structures of the motor system. Functional evidence relating the IC to motor behavior derives from experiments showing that activation of the IC by electrical stimulation or excitatory amino acid microinjection causes freezing, escape-like behavior, and immobility. However, the nature of this immobility is still unclear. The present study examined the influence of excitatory amino acid-mediated mechanisms in the IC on the catalepsy induced by the dopamine receptor blocker haloperidol administered systemically (1 or 0.5 mg/kg) in rats. Haloperidol-induced catalepsy was challenged with prior intracollicular microinjections of glutamate NMDA receptor antagonists, MK-801 (15 or 30 mmol/0.5 microl) and AP7 (10 or 20 nmol/0.5 microl), or of the NMDA receptor agonist N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA, 20 or 30 nmol/0.5 microl). The results showed that intracollicular microinjection of MK-801 and AP7 previous to systemic injections of haloperidol significantly attenuated the catalepsy, as indicated by a reduced latency to step down from a horizontal bar. Accordingly, intracollicular microinjection of NMDA increased the latency to step down the bar. These findings suggest that glutamate-mediated mechanisms in the neural circuits at the IC level influence haloperidol-induced catalepsy and participate in the regulation of motor activity.
Tranexamic acid (an antifibrinolytic agent) is of proven benefit in the treatment of bleeding in patients with congenital and acquired coagulation disorders. We report the case of a patient with an acquired Factor VIII inhibitor, who was on a prophylactic dose of tranexamic acid because of recurrent bleeding episodes and developed a pulmonary embolism. Although studies using tranexamic acid have not shown a definite increased risk for the development of venous thrombosis, this is the likely cause of the pulmonary embolism in this patient.
Divalproex sodium is an anticonvulsant widely prescribed to treat several types of seizure disorders, including tonic-clonic and simple or complex partial seizures. We describe a 41-year-old man who experienced recurring tonic-clonic seizures after a drug interaction between divalproex sodium and ertapenem, a carbapenem antibiotic. The patient's valproic acid serum concentration was 130 mug/ml approximately 3 months before he started ertapenem 2000 mg/day (20.6 mg/kg/day). On day 7 of ertapenem therapy, the patient was brought to the emergency department with tonic-clonic seizures; his valproic acid serum concentration was 70 microg/ml. His divalproex sodium dosage was increased, and he was released from the emergency department only to return 4 days later with recurring seizures. This time his valproic acid serum concentration was 10.7 microg/ml. Ertapenem was discontinued, and his divalproex sodium dosage was increased further. The patient's valproic acid level rapidly returned to a therapeutic level 2 days after ertapenem discontinuation, and he had no further seizures. Using the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale to determine the probability of the drug interaction, we found that the likelihood of the interaction was probable (score of 7). Similar interactions have been reported between other carbapenem antibiotics and valproic acid. Clinicians should be aware of this potential interaction between divalproex sodium and ertapenem; concurrent administration of these two drugs should be approached with caution. In patients prescribed this combination, the valproic acid serum concentration should be carefully monitored to prevent recurring seizures.
The most important but rare adverse effect of simvastatin is myopathy. In megatrials with simvastatin, the overall incidence of myopathy is 0.025%. We present a case of myopathy presenting as proximal muscle weakness in both upper limbs secondary to simvastatin which reversed spontaneously after cessation of the drug.
Oxymetazoline and xylometazoline are both used as nasal mucosa decongesting α-adrenoceptor agonists during a common cold. However, it is largely unknown which of the six α-adrenoceptor subtypes are actually present in human nasal mucosa, which are activated by the two alpha-adrenoceptor agonists and to what extent. Therefore, mRNA expression in human nasal mucosa of the six α-adrenoceptor subtypes was studied. Furthermore, the affinity and potency of the imidazolines oxymetazoline and xylometazoline at these α-adrenoceptor subtypes were examined in transfected HEK293 cells. The rank order of mRNA levels of α-adrenoceptor subtypes in human nasal mucosa was: α(2A) > α(1A) ≥ α(2B) > α(1D) ≥ α(2C) > α(1B) . Oxymetazoline and xylometazoline exhibited in radioligand competition studies higher affinities than the catecholamines adrenaline and noradrenaline at most α-adrenoceptor subtypes. Compared to xylometazoline, oxymetazoline exhibited a significantly higher affinity at α(1A) - but a lower affinity at α(2B) -adrenoceptors. In functional studies in which adrenoceptor-mediated Ca(2+) signals were measured, both, oxymetazoline and xylometazoline behaved at α(2B) -adrenoceptors as full agonists but oxymetazoline was significantly more potent than xylometazoline. Furthermore, oxymetazoline was also a partial agonist at α(1A) -adrenoceptors; however, its potency was relatively low and it was much lower than its affinity. The higher potency at α(2B) -adrenoceptors, i.e. at receptors highly expressed at the mRNA level in human nasal mucosa, could eventually explain why in nasal decongestants oxymetazoline can be used in lower concentrations than xylometazoline.
Although the prevalence of nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) is high among elderly patients, few data are available regarding the efficacy and toxicity of chemotherapy in this group of patients. Recent reports indicate that single agent therapy with vinorelbine (VNB) or gemcitabine (GEM) may obtain a response rate of 20-30% in elderly patients, with acceptable toxicity and improvement in symptoms and quality of life. In the current study the efficacy and toxicity of the combination of GEM and VNB in elderly patients with advanced NSCLC or those with some contraindication to receiving cisplatin were assessed.
Forty-nine patients with advanced NSCLC were included, 38 of whom were age >/= 70 years and 11 were age < 70 years but who had some contraindication to receiving cisplatin. All patients were evaluable for response and toxicity. Treatment was comprised of VNB, 25 mg/m(2), plus GEM, 1000 mg/m(2), both on Days 1, 8, and 15 every 28 days. Patients received a minimum of three courses unless progressive disease was detected.
One hundred sixty-five courses were administered, with a median of 3. 6 courses per patient. The overall response rate was 26% (95% confidence interval, 15-41%). Two patients attained a complete response (4%) and 11 patients (22%) achieved a partial response. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status improved in 35% of those patients with an initial value > 0, whereas relief of at least 1 symptom without worsening of other symptoms was noted in 27 patients (55%). The median time to progression was 16 weeks and the 1-year survival rate was 33%. Toxicity was mild. Six patients (12%) had World Health Organization Grade 3-4 neutropenia, 2 patients (4%) had Grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia, and 2 patients (4%) had Grade 3 neurotoxicity. Three patients with severe neutropenia (6%) died of sepsis. The median age of those patients developing Grade 3-4 neutropenia was significantly higher than that of the remaining patients (75 years vs. 72 years; P = 0.047).
The combination of GEM and VNB is moderately active and well tolerated except in patients age >/= 75 years. This age group had an increased risk of myelosuppression. Therefore the prophylactic use of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor should be considered with this treatment. New chemotherapy combinations with higher activity and lower toxicity are needed for elderly patients with advanced NSCLC.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of levofloxacin (500 mg orally once daily for 10 to 14 days) in treating adult outpatients with acute bacterial sinusitis.
A total of 329 patients enrolled in the study at 24 centers. All patients had a pre-therapy Gram's stain and culture of sinus exudate obtained by antral puncture or nasal endoscopy. Clinical response was assessed on the basis of signs and symptoms and sinus radiograph or computed tomography results. Microbiologic cure rates were determined on the basis of presumed plus documented eradication of the pre-therapy pathogen(s).
The most common pathogens were Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, and Moraxella catarrhalis. Of 300 clinically evaluable patients, 175 (58%) were cured and 90 (30%) were improved at the post-therapy evaluation, resulting in a clinical success rate of 88%. Thirty-five patients (12%) clinically failed treatment. The microbiologic eradication rate (presumed plus documented) among 138 microbiologically evaluable patients was 92%. Microbiologic eradication rates (presumed plus documented) of the most common pathogens ranged from 93% (M. catarrhalis) to 100% (S. pneumoniae) at the post-therapy visit. All but one of the 265 patients who were cured or improved at post-therapy returned for a long-term follow-up visit; 243 (92%) remained well 4 to 6 weeks after therapy; and 21 (8%) had a relapse of symptoms. Adverse events considered to be related to levofloxacin administration were reported by 29 patients (9%). The most common drug-related adverse events were diarrhea, flatulence, and nausea; most adverse events were mild to moderate in severity.
The results of this study indicate that levofloxacin 500 mg once daily is an effective and safe treatment for acute bacterial sinusitis.
Hereditary angioedema (HAE) due to C1 inhibitor (C1-INH) deficiency is a rare genetic disease characterized by recurrent swellings of the subcutaneous and submucosal tissues that can manifest as cutaneous edema, abdominal pain and laryngeal edema with airway obstruction. These symptoms have a significant impact on patients' quality of life. The reduction in C1-INH function leads to uncontrolled activation of the contact system and generation of bradykinin, the mediator of increased vascular permeability and edema formation. In the past, few treatment options were available; however, several new therapies with proven efficacy have recently become available to treat and prevent HAE attacks, such as plasma-derived and recombinant C1-INHs that replace the deficient protein, bradykinin receptor antagonist (icatibant) that blocks bradykinin activity and kallikrein inhibitor (ecallantide) that prevents bradykinin release. Such therapies can improve disease outcome. This article reviews the therapeutic management of HAE, which involves the treatment of acute attacks and prophylaxis.
High-dose TNF-alpha plus chemotherapy, with or without IFN-gamma, can be safely administered regionally through isolated limb perfusion. This procedure produced between 70% and 80% complete remission in cases of in transit melanoma metastases and between 25% and 36% complete remission in cases of inextirpable soft-tissue sarcomas. Dual targeting is involved; TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma induce apoptosis of angiogenic endothelium, while melphalan induces apoptosis of tumour cells.
Repertoires of grooming behaviors critical to survival are exhibited by most animal species, including humans. Genes that influence this complex behavior are unknown. We report that mice with disruptions of Hoxb8 show, with 100% penetrance, excessive grooming leading to hair removal and lesions. Additionally, these mice excessively groom normal cagemates. We have been unable to detect any skin or PNS abnormalities in Hoxb8 mutants. These observations suggest that the excessive, pathological grooming exhibited by these mice results from CNS abnormalities. Consistent with this interpretation, we demonstrate Hoxb8 expression in regions of the adult mouse CNS previously implicated in the control of grooming. The aberrant behavior observed in Hoxb8 mutants is not unlike that of humans suffering from the OC-spectrum disorder, trichotillomania. Interestingly, Hoxb8 is expressed in regions of the CNS known as the "OCD-circuit."
Reports of the neurologic findings in adults with acquired copper deficiency as well as the development of novel models for Menkes disease have permitted a greater understanding of the role of copper in the central nervous system. A role of mitochondrial copper homeostasis in cellular energy metabolism suggests roles for this metal in cellular differentiation and biochemical adaptation.
Acquired copper deficiency in adults is reported with increasing frequency, often without any identifiable cause. Chemical genetic studies identified a zebrafish model of Menkes disease that can be used for high-throughput therapeutics and revealed a hierarchy of copper distribution during development. Studies in mice reveal that the copper transport protein Ctr1 is essential for intestinal copper absorption and suggest a unique role for copper in axonal extension, excitotoxic cell death and synaptic plasticity in the central nervous system. Lastly, recent biochemical studies indicate a central role for the mitochondrial matrix in cellular copper metabolism.
The recent developments in our understanding of copper deficiency and copper homeostasis outlined in this review provide an exciting platform for future investigations intended to elucidate the role of copper in central nervous system development and disease.
Higher exposure to outdoor air pollution is associated with increased cardiopulmonary deaths, but there is limited evidence about the association between outdoor air pollution and diagnosed cardiovascular disease. Our study aimed to estimate the size of the association between long term exposure to outdoor air pollution and prevalent cardiovascular disease.
We carried out a cross-sectional analysis of data on more than 19,000 white adults aged 45 and older who participated in three representative surveys of the English population in 1994, 1998 and 2003, examining the relationship between self-reported doctor-diagnosed cardiovascular disease and exposure to outdoor air pollutants using multilevel regression techniques and meta-analysis.
The combined estimates suggested that an increase of 1 microg m-3 in concentration of particulate matter less than 10 microns in diameter was associated with an increase of 2.9% (95% CI -0.6% to 6.5%) in prevalence of cardiovascular disease in men, and an increase of 1.6% (95%CI -2.1% to 5.5%) in women. The year-specific analyses showed strongly positive associations in 2003 between odds of cardiovascular disease in both men and women and exposure to particulate matter but not in 1994 or 1998. We found no consistent associations between exposure to gaseous air pollutants and doctor-diagnosed cardiovascular disease.
The associations of prevalent cardiovascular disease with concentration of particulate matter less than 10 microns in diameter, while only weakly positive, were consistent with the effects reported in cohort studies. The results provide evidence of the size of the association between particulate air pollution and the prevalence of cardiovascular disease but no evidence for an association with gaseous pollutants. We found strongly positive associations between particulate matter and cardiovascular disease in 2003 only, which highlights the importance of replicating findings in more than one population.
To ascertain the efficacy and toxicity of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or pentamidine when either is given alone during the entire treatment period for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
Prospective, randomized, noncrossover comparison of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole with pentamidine. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole dosage was adjusted to maintain serum trimethoprim at 5 to 8 micrograms/mL. Pentamidine dosage was reduced by 30% to 50% for an absolute rise in serum creatinine of more than 88 mumol/L (1 mg/dL).
Tertiary care hospital and AIDS clinic.
Thirty-six patients were treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and 34 with pentamidine. Pretreatment clinical features and laboratory test results were similar in the two groups.
Thirty-six recipients of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and 33 recipients of pentamidine completed therapy without crossover. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole caused a rash (44%) and anemia (39%) more frequently (P less than or equal to 0.03, whereas pentamidine caused nephrotoxicity (64%), hypotension (27%), or hypoglycemia (21%) more frequently (P less than or equal to 0.01). The (A - a)DO2 improved by greater than 1.3 kPa (10 mmHg) 8 days earlier for trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole recipients (95% CI for the difference in response, -1 to 17; P = 0.04). Thirty-one (86%) patients treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and 20 (61%) with pentamidine survived and were without respiratory support at completion of treatment (95% CI for the difference in response, 5% to 45%; P = 0.03).
For most patients with AIDS and P. carinii pneumonia, successful treatment with a single agent is possible. Toxicity associated with the two standard treatments is rarely life-threatening and may be diminished if the trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole dosage is modified by pharmacokinetic monitoring and the pentamidine dosage is reduced for nephrotoxicity. Oxygenation improved more quickly and survival was better with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
We report studies of a Croatian boy, a proven case of human S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) hydrolase deficiency. Psychomotor development was slow until his fifth month; thereafter, virtually absent until treatment was started. He had marked hypotonia with elevated serum creatine kinase and transaminases, prolonged prothrombin time and low albumin. Electron microscopy of muscle showed numerous abnormal myelin figures; liver biopsy showed mild hepatitis with sparse rough endoplasmic reticulum. Brain MRI at 12.7 months revealed white matter atrophy and abnormally slow myelination. Hypermethioninemia was present in the initial metabolic study at age 8 months, and persisted (up to 784 microM) without tyrosine elevation. Plasma total homocysteine was very slightly elevated for an infant to 14.5-15.9 microM. In plasma, S-adenosylmethionine was 30-fold and AdoHcy 150-fold elevated. Activity of AdoHcy hydrolase was approximately equal to 3% of control in liver and was 5-10% of the control values in red blood cells and cultured fibroblasts. We found no evidence of a soluble inhibitor of the enzyme in extracts of the patient's cultured fibroblasts. Additional pretreatment abnormalities in plasma included low concentrations of phosphatidylcholine and choline, with elevations of guanidinoacetate, betaine, dimethylglycine, and cystathionine. Leukocyte DNA was hypermethylated. Gene analysis revealed two mutations in exon 4: a maternally derived stop codon, and a paternally derived missense mutation. We discuss reasons for biochemical abnormalities and pathophysiological aspects of AdoHcy hydrolase deficiency.
Pterygium is a proliferative, inflammatory, and invasive ocular surface disease associated with excessive ultraviolet (UV) exposure. This investigation was conducted to identify UV activated signaling pathways in pterygium epithelial cells (PECs) that mediate cytokine and growth factor production and to determine whether these pathways are sensitive to blockade by anti-inflammatory agents such as retinoic acid (RA) and interferon (IFN)-alpha.
PECs were pretreated with or without inhibitors of the ERK1/2, JNK, and p38 (PD98059, SB202190, and SB203580, respectively) mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) or with inhibitors of the tyrosine kinase activity of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR; PD153035) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF; AG1295); exposed to UVB (20 mJ/cm2); and then further treated with the same inhibitors. Media were harvested and analyzed by ELISA for interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Cytokine mRNA was assessed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
Inhibitors of ERK1/2, JNK, and p38 MAPKs significantly abolished the UVB-mediated increase in IL-6, IL-8, and VEGF. PD153035 reduced IL-8, AG1295 repressed IL-6, and both inhibitors partially downregulated VEGF production in UV-exposed PECs. RA and IFN-alpha dose dependently abrogated IL-6 and IL-8 but had no effect on VEGF expression after UV exposure.
The results have identified a stress-induced intracellular pathway and potential cell-surface transmitters that may be relevant to pterygium development. Moreover, two anti-inflammatory/antiangiogenic agents were identified that reduced cytokine production in the study model. Topical application of these drugs may benefit patients with pterygia, potentially reducing the necessity for surgical intervention.
Neuropathic pain results from damage to the peripheral sensory nervous system, which may have a number of causes. The calcium channel subunit alpha(2)delta-1 is upregulated in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in several animal models of neuropathic pain, and this is causally related to the onset of allodynia, in which a non-noxious stimulus becomes painful. The therapeutic drugs gabapentin and pregabalin (PGB), which are both alpha(2)delta ligands, have antiallodynic effects, but their mechanism of action has remained elusive. To investigate this, we used an in vivo rat model of neuropathy, unilateral lumbar spinal nerve ligation (SNL), to characterize the distribution of alpha(2)delta-1 in DRG neurons, both at the light- and electron-microscopic level. We found that, on the side of the ligation, alpha(2)delta-1 was increased in the endoplasmic reticulum of DRG somata, in intracellular vesicular structures within their axons, and in the plasma membrane of their presynaptic terminals in superficial layers of the dorsal horn. Chronic PGB treatment of SNL animals, at a dose that alleviated allodynia, markedly reduced the elevation of alpha(2)delta-1 in the spinal cord and ascending axon tracts. In contrast, it had no effect on the upregulation of alpha(2)delta-1 mRNA and protein in DRGs. In vitro, PGB reduced plasma membrane expression of alpha(2)delta-1 without affecting endocytosis. We conclude that the antiallodynic effect of PGB in vivo is associated with impaired anterograde trafficking of alpha(2)delta-1, resulting in its decrease in presynaptic terminals, which would reduce neurotransmitter release and spinal sensitization, an important factor in the maintenance of neuropathic pain.
The hypolipidemic fibric acid drugs are peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor a (PPAR alpha) ligands. PPAR alpha activated by fibric acids form heterodimers with the 9-cis retinoic acid receptor (RXR). The PPAR/RXR heterodimers bind to peroxisome proliferator response elements (PPRE), which are located in numerous gene promoters and increase the level of the expression of mRNAs encoded by PPAR alpha target genes. Fibric acids decrease triglyceride plasma levels through increases in the expression of genes involved in fatty acid-beta oxidation. Furthermore, they decrease triglycerides by increasing lipoprotein lipase gene expression and by decreasing apolipoprotein C-III gene expression. Fibric acids increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol partly by increasing apolipoprotein A-I and apolipoprotein A-II gene expression. Fibric acids also reduce vascular wall inflammation and the expression of genes involved in different vascular functions (ie, vasomotricity, thrombosis). Fibric acids are used to treat primary hypertriglyceridemia and mixed hyperlipidemia. Some fibric acid molecules are active in essential hypercholesterolemia. Clinical evidence shows that fibric acids reduce coronary atherosclerosis progression in dyslipidemic patients (eg, bezafibrate, gemfibrozil) and in type 2 diabetic patients (fenofibrate). Gemfibrozil decreases coronary morbidity and mortality in patients with low HDL cholesterol, normal triglycerides,and normal low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol plasma levels. Further clinical studies are necessary to investigate if fibric acids decrease cardiovascular mortality in type 2 diabetes and in primary prevention of hypertriglyceridemia and hypolipidemia.
Concurrent exposure to SO(2) and benzo(a)pyrene (B(a)P) resulted in an increased incidence of lung tumors in rodents compared to exposure to B(a)P alone. A synergistic effect on the expression of c-fos and c-jun between SO(2) and B(a)P was observed in lungs after SO(2) and B(a)P exposure. However, tumorigenesis occurs by multiple events that may involve the activation of more than one oncogene, as well as the functional loss of the tumor suppressor gene. In order to further investigate the interactions between SO(2) and B(a)P, male Wistar rats were exposed via intratracheal instillation of B(a)P (3 mg) or SO(2) (56 mg/m(3)) inhalation, alone or together. The mRNA and protein levels of oncogenes (c-myc and H-ras) and tumor suppressor genes (p53, p16, and Rb) were analyzed in lungs by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blot, respectively. The results showed that all treatments increased mRNA and protein expression levels of c-myc, H-ras, and p53, and reduced expression levels of p16 and Rb. In general, the combination of SO(2) and B(a)P was more effective in influencing these expression levels than either agent alone, except for H-ras expression. These findings indicate that multiple cell cycle regulatory proteins play key roles in the toxicity of SO(2) and B(a)P. It might involve the activation of c-fos, c-jun, c-myc, and p53. And the p16-Rb pathway might also participate in the progress. Elucidating the expression patterns of those factors after SO(2) and B(a)P exposure may be critical to understanding the mechanisms of SO(2) cocarcinogenesis and helpful for therapeutic intervention.
This study investigated the hepatoprotective effects of gentiopicroside on d-galactosamine (d-GalN) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced fulminant hepatic failure. Mice were administrated orally with gentiopicroside (40 or 80 mg/kg body weight) at 12h and 1h before d-GalN (700 mg/kg)/LPS (10 microg/kg) injection. Gentiopicroside markedly reduced the increases in serum aminotransferase activities and lipid peroxidation. The glutathione content decreased in d-GalN/LPS alone group, and this decrease was attenuated by gentiopicroside. Increases in serum tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), which were observed in d-GalN/LPS alone group, were significantly reduced by gentiopicroside. Importantly, gentiopicroside attenuated d-GalN/LPS-induced apoptosis of hepatocytes, as estimated by the caspase-3 cleavage, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) cleavage, and DNA fragmentation. d-GalN/LPS-induced caspase-8 and -9 activation was significantly suppressed by gentiopicroside. Moreover, increased cytosolic cytochrome c protein was reduced by gentiopicroside. Also, the increased ratio of Bax and Bcl-2 protein was significantly attenuated by gentiopicroside. After 6h of d-GalN/LPS injection, phosphorylated c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) was significantly increased, whereas phosphorylation JNK and ERK were attenuated by gentiopicroside. Our results suggest that gentiopicroside offers remarkable hepatoprotection against damage induced by d-GalN/LPS related with its anti-apoptotic activities.
A 51 year old woman sustained ventricular fibrillation while receiving perphenazine and protriptyline. After successful resuscitation and clinical stabilization, cardiac electrophysiologic studies were performed before and after the administration of each of these medications. Perphenazine widened the ventricular echo zone and facilitated induction of short salvoes of ventricular tachycardia (repetitive ventricular response). Protriptyline also widened the ventricular echo zone and allowed easy induction of long runs of ventricular tachycardia. Both psychotropic agents increased the incidence of ventricular dysrhythmias in this patient. The electrophysiologic study is a useful technique in determining the interaction between psychotropic drugs and life-threatening arrhythmias; it may provide a means of identifying the patients with cardiac disease in whom administration of these agents may be fatal.
Streptozotocin-induced pancreatic injury is commonly used for creating rodent models of type 1 diabetes which develop renal injury with similarities to human diabetic nephropathy. This model can be established in genetically modified rodents for investigating the role of molecular mechanisms and genetic susceptibility in the development of diabetic nephropathy. In this report, the authors describe and compare the current protocols being used to establish models of diabetic nephropathy in rat and mouse strains using streptozotocin. The authors also list some of the histological criteria and biochemical measurements which are being used to validate these models. In addition, our review explains some of the key aspects involved in these models, including the impact of streptozotocin-dosage, uninephrectomy, hypertension and genetically modified strains, which can each affect the development of disease and the interpretation of findings.
beta-catenin activation, and subsequent upregulation of Wnt-signaling, is an important event in the development of certain human and rodent cancers. Recently, mutations in the beta-catenin gene in the region of the serine-threonine glycogen kinase (GSK)-3beta phosphorylation target sites have been identified in hepatocellular neoplasms from humans and transgenic mice. In this study we examined 152 hepatocellular neoplasms from B6C3F1 mice included in five chemical treatment groups and controls for mutations in the beta-catenin gene. Twenty of 29 hepatocellular neoplasms from mice treated with methyleugenol had point mutations at codons 32, 33, 34 or 41, sites which are mutated in colon and other cancers. Likewise, nine of 24 methylene chloride-induced hepatocellular neoplasms and 18 of 42 oxazepam-induced neoplasms exhibited similar mutations. In contrast, only three of 18 vinyl carbamate-induced liver tumors, one of 18 TCDD-induced liver tumors, and two of 22 spontaneous liver neoplasms had mutations in beta-catenin. Thus, there appears to be a chemical specific involvement of beta-catenin activation in mouse hepatocellular carcinogenesis. Expression analyses using Western blot and immunohistochemistry indicate that beta-catenin protein accumulates along cell membranes following mutation. The finding of mutations in both adenomas and carcinomas from diverse chemical treatment groups and the immunostaining of beta-catenin protein in an altered hepatocellular focus suggest that these alterations are early events in mouse hepatocellular carcinogenesis.
Quantitative 99mTc-dimercaptosuccinic acid (99mTc-DMSA) renal scintigraphy was used to asses ifosfamide-induced changes in renal function in 11 children who received chemotherapy for various malignancies. Serial measurements of absolute 99mTc-DMSA renal uptake, calculated on conjugated views, were performed during and after chemotherapy. Data of 37 studies obtained before and at different cumulative dose levels of ifosfamide were analysed in relation to clinical and biochemical parameters. A highly significant relationship between 99mTc-DMSA uptake and cumulative ifosfamide dose was found (P < 0.001). The most frequently observed abnormal pattern on scintigraphic images was decreased kidney uptake together with increased accumulation in bladder. 99mTc-DMSA uptake was more consistent than beta 2-microglobulin values in urine and more sensitive than quantitative hyperaminoaciduria and tubular resorption of phosphate for the detection of ifosfamide-induced tubular dysfunction. 99mTc-DMSA uptake was decreased in both patients with and patients without clinical toxicity. Persistently reduced 99mTc-DMSA uptake was observed in four patients during follow-up; in one of them, who was asymptomatic after ifosfamide therapy, sudden onset of Fanconi syndrome was observed when he was retreated with carboplatin 1 year later. It is concluded that 99mTc-DMSA renal scintigraphy is a suitable method to assess progressive ifosfamide-induced tubular injury whereas scintigraphic imaging is helpful for interpreting renal uptake changes. The test is able to detect subclinical injury and may potentially predict high risk at retreatment.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) promotes angiogenesis, and elevated levels are found in plaques of psoriasis. Two VEGF polymorphisms, +405 and -460, are associated with early-onset psoriasis and are close to the functional activator protein-1 site (+419) through which retinoids, an established systemic therapy for psoriasis, can block production of VEGF. We report that peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and epidermal keratinocytes (KC) from patients with psoriasis demonstrate differential, genotype-dependent, regulation of VEGF. For PBMCs, VEGF genotype distinguishes two groups of patients with psoriasis - "high and low VEGF producers" (P < 0.001). In contrast, KC production of VEGF is not genotype dependent. However, the effects of all-trans retinoic acid (RA) on cellular expression of VEGF are determined by both cell type and genotype. RA inhibits KC production of VEGF in a genotype-dependent manner (P < 0.005) whereas RA stimulates PBMCs production irrespective of VEGF genotype (P < 0.001). We also report that the -460 VEGF polymorphism appears to have a clinical pharmacogenetic role in predicting response or non-response of psoriasis to acitretin (P = 0.01). In future, determination of VEGF gene polymorphisms and thus individual patient VEGF "signatures" may be used as a prognostic factor for psoriasis susceptibility/severity and as a means for optimizing treatment response.
We attempted to determine whether calcium channel blockers (CCBs) enhance the anti-tumour activity of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (cisplatin) against both cisplatin-sensitive human glioblastoma U87 MG cells and cisplatin-resistant U87-MG-CR cells, the latter of which we developed for resistance to cisplatin. Nifedipine, a dihydropyridine class CCB, significantly enhanced the anti-tumour effect of cisplatin on these two cell types in vitro and in vivo. Our findings also indicated that, in the absence of normal extracellular Ca2+ nifedipine was capable of enhancing the cytotoxicity of cisplatin. In addition, this anti-tumour activity was partially inhibited by actinomycin D and cycloheximide, suggesting that it is possibly dependent upon new RNA and protein synthesis. Interestingly, ultrastructural analysis, DNA fragmentation assay and cell cycle analysis demonstrated that synergism between cisplatin and nifedipine results in apoptosis (programmed cell death) at a relatively low concentration of cisplatin, which when tested alone did not induce apoptosis. Furthermore, we demonstrated that nuclei from these cells lack a Ca(2+)-dependent endonuclease that degrade chromatin in the linker region between nucleosomes. In conclusion, our studies suggest that the non-cytotoxic agent nifedipine is able to synergistically enhance the anti-tumour effects of cisplatin on U87-MG and U87-MG-CR cells lacking a Ca(2+)-dependent endonuclease and subsequently to induce apoptosis via interaction of nifedipine with an as yet uncharacterised functional site other than a calcium channel on target cells.
