Neuroleptic therapy of children and adolescents with Tourette's syndrome (GTS) is associated with unpredictable outcome and adverse drug responses (i.e., extrapyramidal symptoms). Assessing the potential outcomes in GTS from a physiologic marker such as plasma prolactin concentration is important in limiting exposure and optimizing therapy. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, double crossover comparison of pimozide and haloperidol therapy, prolactin, tic severity, and extrapyramidal symptoms were assessed at a 6-week end point. Twenty-six GTS patients (10.5 +/- 2.6 years), experienced clinical response rates of 69% on 3.4 +/- 1.6 mg pimozide and 65% on 3.5 +/- 2.2 mg/day haloperidol. Pimozide responders demonstrate elevated prolactin (26.1 +/- 11.8 ng/mL) versus pimozide nonresponders (10.5 +/- 3.8 ng/mL) (p = .05) and haloperidol treated patients (p = .05). Prolactin may be a marker for tic response to pimozide, and conversely, a potential marker for haloperidol-related incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms during haloperidol therapy.
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs) are sarcomas of Schwann cell lineage origin that occur sporadically or in association with the inherited syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1. To identify genetic drivers of MPNST development, we used the Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposon-based somatic mutagenesis system in mice with somatic loss of transformation-related protein p53 (Trp53) function and/or overexpression of human epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Common insertion site (CIS) analysis of 269 neurofibromas and 106 MPNSTs identified 695 and 87 sites with a statistically significant number of recurrent transposon insertions, respectively. Comparison to human data sets identified new and known driver genes for MPNST formation at these sites. Pairwise co-occurrence analysis of CIS-associated genes identified many cooperating mutations that are enriched in Wnt/β-catenin, PI3K-AKT-mTOR and growth factor receptor signaling pathways. Lastly, we identified several new proto-oncogenes, including Foxr2 (encoding forkhead box R2), which we functionally validated as a proto-oncogene involved in MPNST maintenance.
Up to half of the heritability of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is explained by common variants. Here, we report the identification of a rare, highly penetrant missense mutation in CFI encoding a p.Gly119Arg substitution that confers high risk of AMD (P = 3.79 × 10⁻⁶; odds ratio (OR) = 22.20, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 2.98-164.49). Plasma and sera from cases carrying the p.Gly119Arg substitution mediated the degradation of C3b, both in the fluid phase and on the cell surface, to a lesser extent than those from controls. Recombinant protein studies showed that the Gly119Arg mutant protein is both expressed and secreted at lower levels than wild-type protein. Consistent with these findings, human CFI mRNA encoding Arg119 had reduced activity compared to wild-type mRNA encoding Gly119 in regulating vessel thickness and branching in the zebrafish retina. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that rare, highly penetrant mutations contribute to the genetic burden of AMD.
Adenoid cystic carcinomas (ACCs) are among the most enigmatic of human malignancies. These aggressive salivary gland cancers frequently recur and metastasize despite definitive treatment, with no known effective chemotherapy regimen. Here we determined the ACC mutational landscape and report the exome or whole-genome sequences of 60 ACC tumor-normal pairs. These analyses identified a low exonic somatic mutation rate (0.31 non-silent events per megabase) and wide mutational diversity. Notably, we found mutations in genes encoding chromatin-state regulators, such as SMARCA2, CREBBP and KDM6A, suggesting that there is aberrant epigenetic regulation in ACC oncogenesis. Mutations in genes central to the DNA damage response and protein kinase A signaling also implicate these processes. We observed MYB-NFIB translocations and somatic mutations in MYB-associated genes, solidifying the role of these aberrations as critical events in ACC. Lastly, we identified recurrent mutations in the FGF-IGF-PI3K pathway (30% of tumors) that might represent new avenues for therapy. Collectively, our observations establish a molecular foundation for understanding and exploring new treatments for ACC.
Numerous investigations indicate that the nucleus accumbens (Acb) is an important neural substrate mediating the reinforcing properties of 'natural' rewards (food or water) as well as abused substances. Here, our electrophysiological studies that examined Acb cell firing within seconds of lever press responding for intravenous cocaine vs. water or food reinforcement in rats are reviewed. Initial investigations revealed that a subset of Acb neurons exhibits four types of firing patterns within seconds of the reinforced response for intravenous cocaine during self-administration sessions. Three of those four cell types were also observed during water reinforcement sessions. In a subsequent study, the activity of the same Acb neurons was examined in rats responding on multiple schedules for either two distinct 'natural' reinforcers (water and food), or one of those 'natural' reinforcers and the intravenous self-administration of cocaine. The results showed that the majority of neurons tested exhibited similar, overlapping neuronal firing patterns across the two 'natural' reinforcer conditions. In contrast, the majority of neurons examined displayed differential, nonoverlapping firing patterns relative to operant responding for water (or food) vs. cocaine reinforcement. Additional studies that examined the role of associative factors on Acb cell firing during cocaine self-administration sessions are reviewed. Collectively, these findings illustrate the dynamic nature of Acb cell firing in behaving animals, and provide insight into how Acb neurons process information about goal-directed behaviors for 'natural' reinforcers vs. abused substances.
1. The aim of the present study is to characterize the role of spinal endogenous ATP and P2X receptors in the generation of neurogenic and inflammatory pain. We examined the effects of intrathecal treatment with P2X receptor antagonists on the formalin- and capsaicin-induced nociceptive behaviours in mice. 2. Intrathecal pretreatment with the general P2 receptor antagonist, pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2', 4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS), significantly suppressed both the first and second phases of the formalin-induced nociceptive behaviour. The second phase of the nociceptive response was also suppressed by intrathecal treatment with PPADS after the first phase. Furthermore, pretreatment with the selective antagonist for the P2X1, P2X3 and P2X2+3 receptors, 2',3'-O-(2,4,6-trinitrophenyl)adenosine 5'-triphosphate (TNP-ATP), significantly reduced the first phase, but not the second phase. The second phase was also not suppressed by intrathecal TNP-ATP after the first phase. 3. Capsaicin-induced nociceptive behaviour that has been shown to be a model for neurogenic pain, was also significantly suppressed by intrathecal pretreatment with PPADS or TNP-ATP. 4. Nociceptive behaviour in the first phase of the formalin test and in the capsaicin test were significantly inhibited by intrathecal pretreatment with alpha, beta-methylene ATP (alpha,betameATP: 5 microg mouse-1) 15 min prior to injection of formalin or capsaicin. This treatment has been previously shown to desensitize spinal P2X3 receptor subtypes in vivo. 5. These findings suggest that spinal endogenous ATP may play a role in (1) the formalin- and capsaicin-induced neurogenic pain via the PPADS- and TNP-ATP-sensitive P2X receptors which are also desensitized by alpha,betameATP (perhaps the P2X3 receptor subtype) and (2) formalin-induced inflammatory pain via PPADS-sensitive, TNP-ATP- and alpha,betameATP-insensitive P2X (and/or P2Y) receptors.
This study investigates the antinociceptive and the oedema inhibition properties of the novel non-peptide bradykinin (BK) B2 receptor antagonist, NPC 18884. Given by i.p. or p.o. routes NPC 18884 produced graded and long-lasting (at least 2.5h and 5.0h, respectively, for i.p. and p.o. administration) inhibition of acetic acid-induced abdominal constrictions in mice, with mean ID50 values of 8.3 nmol/kg and 439.9 nmol/kg. NPC 18884 also inhibited kaolin-induced abdominal constrictions (44+/-9% and 48+/-3% of inhibition, for i.p. and p.o. routes, respectively). Given by i.p. or p.o. routes NPC 18884 attenuated both phases of formalin-induced licking, as well as formalin-induced oedema formation. At similar doses NPC 18884 produced significant inhibition of capsaicin-induced nociception. NPC 18884, like HOE 140 given i.p., prevented the nociception caused by BK with mean ID50 values of 0.85 nmol/kg and 0.44 nmol/kg, respectively. Given orally NPC 18884, but not HOE 140, caused graded inhibition of BK-induced nociception (mean ID50 value of 50 nmol/kg). In rats, NPC 18884 given i.p. prevented BK and carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia (mean ID50 values of 6 nmol/kg and 13 nmol/kg), without affecting the hyperalgesia induced by des-Arg9-bradykinin (DABK) or by prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). NPC 18884 given i.p. inhibited the mouse paw oedema induced by tyrosine8-bradykinin or by carrageenan, but had no effect on DABK-induced oedema in mice pre-treated with Escherichia coli endotoxin, or that induced by PGE2. Thus, the novel non-peptide BK B2 receptor antagonist NPC 18884 produces rapid onset, potent and relatively long-lasting oral antinociceptive and oedema inhibition properties. The anti-BK actions of NPC 18884 are quite selective towards the BK B2 receptor-mediated responses.
The safety and pharmacokinetics of netilmicin (6.6 mg/kg) and amikacin (14.5 mg/kg) once daily (od) have been compared to their corresponding conventional schedules thrice daily (tid), and twice daily (bd), in patients (20 per group) suffering from pelvic inflammatory disease. Sensitive criteria of early renal and auditory alterations, namely urinary excretion of phospholipids and audiometry over a wide frequency range (0.25-18 kHz), respectively, were used. The first criterion (phospholipiduria) was validated by an animal study which demonstrated that rats receiving poly-L-aspartic acid, which protects against gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity, are also protected against renal phospholipidosis and phospholipiduria caused by this antibiotic. On that basis, netilmicin od was better tolerated than netilmicin tid. Amikacin caused less phospholipiduria than netilmicin, and, given od, resulted in little increase over baseline (95% CI, 95-147% increase). Reduction in threshold by greater than or equal to 15 dB for frequencies between 10-18 kHz occurred in nine of 19 patients receiving netilmicin tid compared with three or four of 19 or 20 patients treated with netilmicin od or amikacin (od or bd). However, changes at lower frequencies (0.25-8 kHz) were infrequent with all regimens (from 0/19 to 2/20). In conclusion, these very sensitive tests of nephro- and oto-toxicity suggest that od dosing of amikacin or netilmicin is, if anything, safer than bd or tid dosing.
Diabetes is a critical factor for atherosclerosis, as hyperglycemia induces vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation and migration and subsequently contributes to the formation of atherosclerotic lesions. This study investigates whether resveratrol plays a regulatory role in the proliferation and migration of VSMCs under high glucose induction to imitate a hyperglycemic condition.
Resveratrol inhibited the migration of VSMCs in the wound-healing assay and the formation of lamellipodia and filopodia as assessed by atomic force microscopy scanning. Resveratrol suppressed the mRNA expression of c-Src, Rac1, cdc42, IRS-1, MEKK1, MEKK4, and mitogen-activated protein kinase along with the protein levels of c-Src, p-Src, and cdc42 in VSMCs. Resveratrol decreased the level of p-FAK protein under normal glucose conditions. Resveratrol could inhibit the activities of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 2 and MMP 9 as shown by zymography. Moreover, resveratrol also regulated the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway and MMP activities of VSMC migration under the high glucose condition.
The antimigratory effects of resveratrol by reduced MMP expression through the inhibition of Rac1, p-FAK, and lamellipodia formation and the activation of p-AKT and p-ERK1/2 suggest that resveratrol is a potential compound for the treatment of vascular diseases via the regulation of VSMC migration.
Several drugs have been used to prevent or attenuate succinylcholine- induced muscle fasciculations. There are possible advantages to succinylcholine pretreatment. We designed the present study to compare the effectiveness of atracurium versus "mini-dose" (5 mg) succinylcholine pretreatment for the prevention of muscle fasciculations.
Under standard monitoring, 79 patients were randomly assigned to three groups after premedication: Group 1 (n = 26) received normal saline as a placebo, Group 2 (n = 27) received 0.03 mg/kg atracurium, and Group 3 (n = 26) received 5 mg succinylcholine. Thiopental (4 mg/kg) was administered intravenously 90 seconds after pretreatment, followed by intravenous administration of 1.5 mg/kg succinylcholine. An anesthesiologist graded fasciculations based on a four-point scale, from 0 (none) to 3 (severe). All patients were evaluated on the first postoperative day for the presence of postoperative myalgia (POM), the severity of which was graded on a four-point scale, from 0 = no myalgia to 3 = generalized, severe discomfort.
There were no statistical differences among the three groups with respect to sex, weight or age. In Group 1, 3.8% of the patients showed no fasciculations, while 30.8% had mild, 53.8% had moderate and 11.5% had vigorous fasciculations. In Group 2, fasciculations were absent in 74.1% of the patients, while 25.9% of the patients had mild fasciculations. In Group 3, 23.1% patients had no fasciculations, while 42.3%, 30.8% and 3.8% of the patients showed mild, moderate and vigorous fasciculations, respectively, with succinylcholine pretreatment. There was no difference in the presence or severity of myalgia between Groups 1 and 3. Furthermore, the presence of fasciculations was not correlated with POM in Groups 1 and 3, but a significant correlation was found in Group 2.
Our results showed that the incidence and severity of fasciculations were significantly decreased by atracurium pretreatment but not by pretreatment with succinylcholine or placebo (p<0.0001 and p=0.0003 respectively). However, atracurium did not exert significant effects on POM.
Experimental data suggest that aldosterone has harmful effects promoting myocardial fibrosis and disturbing autonomic balance. There has been no evidence of these potential effects in intact man.
We report the findings in 31 patients with stable chronic heart failure (CHF) who were treated with spironolactone (50-100 mg/day) or placebo in addition to diuretics and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition. In a controlled randomised double-blind study, we found that spironolactone treatment reduced circulating levels of procollagen type III N-terminal amino peptide, a marker of vascular collagen turnover, and in addition increased time-domain parameters of heart rate variability (n = 24). These latter parameters suggest a parasympathomimetic effect for additional spironolactone. Spironolactone significantly reduced heart rate (prolonged RR interval) particularly during the dawn hours (06.00-09.00 h). In this unbalanced study it was not possible to provide a detailed diurnal assessment of the impact of spironolactone on heart rate variability, but the preliminary data suggest that there may be an interaction with the autonomic nervous system which varies in time.
These are the first human data to show that use of the aldosterone antagonist, spironolactone, can positively improve time-domain heart rate variability and reduce myocardial collagen turnover, as reflected by further reductions in serum procollagen peptide, despite concurrent ACE inhibitor treatment. Residual aldosterone after ACE inhibitor treatment may therefore have a role promoting arrhythmia and cardiac death by two mechanisms. Effects of additional spironolactone on slowing heart rate (and potentially the detrimental effect of aldosterone) were most prominent between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. when cardiac death is also known to be most prominent.
Rizatriptan (MAXALT), a potent, oral 5-HT1B/1D agonist with a rapid onset of action, is available now for the acute treatment of migraine. This study examined the pharmacokinetic and clinical interaction between rizatriptan 10 mg and the components (ethinyl estradiol [EE] 35 micrograms and norethindrone [NET] 1.0 mg) of a well-established oral contraceptive combination product, ORTHO-NOVUM 1/35. Levels of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), a protein increased by EE to which NET binds, were also examined. In this two-period crossover study, 20 healthy young female subjects received a coadministration of 8 days of rizatriptan treatment (6 days of single-dose 10 mg rizatriptan and 2 days of multiple-dose rizatriptan, 10 mg q 4 hours for three doses, giving a total daily dose of 30 mg on Days 7 and 8) or matching placebo along with their daily dose (one tablet) of ORTHO-NOVUM 1/35 within their oral contraceptive cycle. Plasma was sampled for EE, NET, and SHBG concentrations. Safety evaluations included routine laboratory safety studies, physical examinations, and monitoring for ECG, vital signs, and adverse events. There were no statistically significant differences in any of the pharmacokinetic parameters of EE or NET between the rizatriptan and placebo treatment periods, thus indicating that rizatriptan had no meaningful effect on the disposition of either the EE or the NET component of ORTHO-NOVUM 1/35. The SHBG concentration did not change throughout the entire study. Clinically, coadministration of rizatriptan with ORTHO-NOVUM 1/35 was well tolerated. Blood pressure, heart rate, and temperature showed no consistent trend or clinically important changes. Adverse events following coadministration of rizatriptan with ORTHO-NOVUM 1/35 were similar to those reported when placebo was given with ORTHO-NOVUM 1/35. The findings of this study indicate that there is little potential for dosages as high as 30 mg/day, the maximum recommended dosing schedule, of rizatriptan to alter the plasma concentrations of oral contraceptives.
Reduced DNA repair capability is associated with developing lung cancer, especially in nonsmokers. XPC participates in the initial recognition of DNA damage during the DNA nucleotide excision repair process. We hypothesize that inactivation of XPC by promoter hypermethylation may play an important role in the reduction of DNA repair capability to cause p53 mutation during lung carcinogenesis. In this report we demonstrate that hypermethylation of 17 CpG islands between -175 and -1 of the XPC promoter correlates very well with XPC expression levels in eight lung cancer cell lines. When cells with hypermethylated XPC promoters were treated with the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, XPC expression was de-repressed. Interestingly, XPC hypermethylation was found in 4 of 5 (80%) lung cancer cell lines harbored p53 mutation, but not observed in two lung cancer cells which had a wild-type p53 gene. Among the analysis of the hypermethylation status of 158 lung tumors, XPC hypermethylation is more common in nonsmokers (39 of 94, 41%) than in smokers (14 of 64, 22%; P=0.010). Additionally, XPC hypermethylation is more often with G --> T or G --> C mutations in the p53 gene. To verify whether XPC inactivation is involved in the occurrence of p53 mutation, XPC gene of A549 cells was knockdown by a small interference RNA and then XPC-inactivated cells were treated with benzo[a]pynrene for different passages. Surprisingly, G --> T mutation in p53 gene at codon 215 was indeed detected in XPC-inactivated A549 cells of passages 15 and confirmed by loss of transcription activity of mdm2. These results show that hypermethylation of the XPC promoter may play a crucial role in XPC inactivation, which may partly contribute to the occurrence of p53 mutations during lung tumorigenesis, especially nonsmokers.
To define better the efficacy of vasodilator therapy in the treatment of chronic congestive heart failure, we compared the effects of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate with those of enalapril in 804 men receiving digoxin and diuretic therapy for heart failure. The patients were randomly assigned in a double-blind manner to receive 20 mg of enalapril daily or 300 mg of hydralazine plus 160 mg of isosorbide dinitrate daily. The latter regimen was identical to that used with a similar patient population in the effective-treatment arm of our previous Vasodilator-Heart Failure Trial.
Mortality after two years was significantly lower in the enalapril arm (18 percent) than in the hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate arm (25 percent) (P = 0.016; reduction in mortality, 28.0 percent), and overall mortality tended to be lower (P = 0.08). The lower mortality in the enalapril arm was attributable to a reduction in the incidence of sudden death, and this beneficial effect was more prominent in patients with less severe symptoms (New York Heart Association class I or II). In contrast, body oxygen consumption at peak exercise was increased only by hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate treatment (P less than 0.05), and left ventricular ejection fraction, which increased with both regimens during the 2 years after randomization, increased more (P less than 0.05) during the first 13 weeks in the hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate group.
The similar two-year mortality in the hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate arms in our previous Vasodilator-Heart Failure Trial (26 percent) and in the present trial (25 percent), as compared with that in the placebo arm in the previous trial, (34 percent) and the further survival benefit with enalapril in the present trial (18 percent) strengthen the conclusion that vasodilator therapy should be included in the standard treatment for heart failure. The different effects of the two regimens (enalapril and hydralazine-isosorbide dinitrate) on mortality and physiologic end points suggest that the profile of effects might be enhanced if the regimens were used in combination.
The purpose of the present study was to compare the use of lorazepam plus nitroglycerine (NTG) versus NTG alone in the reduction of cocaine induced chest pain in the emergency department. The secondary objective of the study was to help determine the safety of lorazepam in the treatment of cocaine- associated chest pain. The study was a prospective, randomized, single-blinded, controlled trial conducted at an university-affiliated urban emergency department (ED). All patients who presented with cocaine-associated chest pain were enrolled. Exclusion criteria included age greater than 45 years, documented coronary artery disease, chest pain of more than 72 hours duration, or pretreatment with nitroglycerin. Patients were given either sublingual nitroglycerine (SL NTG) (Group 1) or SL NTG plus 1 mg of lorazepam intravenously (Group 2) every 5 minutes for a total of 2 doses. Chest pain was recorded on an ordinal scale of 0 to 10 at baseline, and then at 5 minutes after each dose. Adverse reactions to medication were also recorded. Twenty-seven patients met the inclusion criteria and were enrolled in the study. The average age of these subjects was 34.1 years, and 67% were men. The NTG-only group consisted of 15 patients and the NTG-plus-lorazepam group consisted of 12 patients. Baseline mean chest-pain scores were 6.87 in Group 1 and 6.54 in Group 2, with no differences between groups. Five minutes after initial treatment, mean scores for the two groups were 5.2 and 3.9, respectively, with a difference in means of 1.24 (95% confidence interval [CI] -0.8-3.8). Five minutes after the second treatment, the mean scores were 4.6 and 1.5, respectively, with a difference in means of 3.1 (95% CI 1.2-5). Kruskal-Wallis testing showed a significant difference in pain relief between the two study groups (P =.003), with greater pain relief noted at 5 and 10 minutes in the NTG-plus-lorazepam group (P =.02 and P =.005, respectively). All patients in the study were admitted to the hospital, but no patient in either group had an acute myocardial infarction or cardiac complications in the ED. No adverse side effects were noted for either group. The early use of lorazepam with NTG was more efficacious than NTG alone, and appears to be safe in relieving cocaine-associated chest pain.
Reports of adverse behavioral reactions to triazolam, a triazolobenzodiazepine ultra-short-acting hypnotic, were examined in the postmarketing surveillance Spontaneous Reporting System of the Food and Drug Administration. Reports for triazolam of confusion, amnesia, bizarre behavior, agitation, and hallucinations were compared with reports of these reactions for temazepam, another short-acting hypnotic. Analysis of individual case reports from marketing through 1985 for triazolam vs temazepam showed 133 vs two for confusion, 109 vs three for amnesia, 59 vs two for bizarre behavior, 58 vs four for agitation, and 40 vs one for hallucinations. Considering extent of use, reporting rates for triazolam were 22 to 99 times those for temazepam, depending on the reaction. Reactions to triazolam tended to occur at higher doses and in older patients. This and an updated analysis of aggregate reports for the first 7 years of marketing of each drug with reporting rates and adjustment for various factors suggest a higher occurrence of these reactions with triazolam, but selection factors cannot be completely ruled out. When treating insomnia, physicians should emphasize sleep hygiene practices as alternatives to drug therapy; if drug therapy is required, they should prescribe hypnotics at the lowest recommended doses for the shortest clinically necessary durations and discontinue medication use should any adverse reactions occur.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common types of cancer worldwide. The initial hepatocellular alterations that precede the appearence of HCC include chronic viral hepatitis/cirrhosis, foci of phenotypically altered hepatocytes and, subsequently, dysplastic hepatocytes that form foci and nodules. These changes cause a discrepancy in the microenvironment of liver cells, which may result in changes in the protein expression profile of the cells. The aim of the present study was to investigate differences between the protein expression profiles at various stages of liver disease in order to better understand the mechanisms of HCC and to identify potential biomarkers for its early diagnosis. The proteins of specific cells were obtained from HCC tissue sections and pre-cancerous lesions using a manual microdissection technique, and were investigated by a two dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) MALDI-TOF MS proteomics approach. Select identified proteins were reconfirmed by immunohistochemistry. A total of 95 differentially expressed proteins, with an over 2-fold disparity in expression levels between cells of varying morphology during the stages of hepatocarcinogenesis, were detected by 2-DE. Among these 95 proteins, 80 were determined to be involved in numerous cell functions, including cell growth and proliferation, protein synthesis and metabolism, apoptosis and signal transduction. These identified proteins, which include stratifin (14-3-3), transgelin 2, heat-shock protein (HSP)70, HSP27, manganese superoxide dismutase, prohibitin, DJ1, α-enolase, peroxiredoxin 6, aldo-keto reductase family member B10, phosphoglycerate kinase 1, α-1-antitrypsin and nm23-H1, may play a role in the development of HCC. Protein expression profiles differed markedly between the HCC tissue samples and pre-cancerous lesions, suggesting that alterations in protein expression occurred frequently during the process of hepatocarcinogenesis. Analysis of the differential expression of proteins related to the development of HCC may help elucidate the molecular mechanisms of the disease. These proteins may also serve as candidate biomarkers for early HCC diagnosis.
Prostate cancer frequently metastasizes to the bone, and the treatment outcome for metastatic prostate cancer has been disappointing so far. Dietary genistein, derived primarily from soy product, has been proposed to be partly responsible for the low rate of prostate cancer in Asians. Our previous studies have shown that genistein elicits pleiotropic effects on prostate cancer cells, but there are no studies documenting comprehensive gene expression profiles and antitumor effects of dietary genistein on human prostate cancer grown in human bone environment. In this study, we investigated the effects of genistein on PC3 prostate cancer cells and experimental PC3 bone tumors created by injecting PC3 cells into human bone fragments previously implanted in severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice (SCID human model). We found that genistein significantly inhibited PC3 bone tumor growth using both prevention and intervention strategies. By using microarray and real-time polymerase chain reaction technology, we found that genistein regulated the expression of multiple genes involved in the control of cell growth, apoptosis, and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. For example, the expression of various metalloproteinases (MMPs) in PC3 bone tumors was inhibited by genistein treatment, whereas osteoprotegerin was upregulated. MMP immunostaining and transfection experiments also demonstrated that MMP-9 expression was inhibited in PC3 cells in vitro and PC3 bone tumors in vivo after genistein treatment. These results, particularly the in vivo results, demonstrate that dietary genistein may inhibit prostate cancer bone metastasis by regulating metastasis-related genes. Genistein may thus be a promising agent for the prevention and/or treatment of prostate cancer.
Increased expression of Na(+)/H(+) exchanger (NHE) and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity have been demonstrated in diabetic nephropathy and are implicated in the development of hypertension. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of a synthetic manganese porphyrin SOD mimic and peroxynitrite scavenger, Mn(III) 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(N-methylpyridinium-2-yl)porphyrin (MnTM-2-PyP) on the expression of NHE and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity in the kidneys of streptozotocin (STZ) diabetic rats. MnTM-2-PyP administration (1 mg/kg/day) started immediately after STZ and lasted 2 months. Glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels were measured in blood. NHE-1 and NHE-3 isoform expression, Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity, and markers of ROS/RNS-induced damage were determined in kidney homogenates. Diabetes caused lipid peroxidation, inactivation of aconitase, and increase of nitrotyrosine, which paralleled an increase in NHE-1 and NHE-3 expression and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity. MnTM-2-PyP treatment had no effect on blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin, but suppressed lipid peroxidation and nitrotyrosine, protected aconitase against inactivation, and reversed the induction of NHE-1 and NHE-3 isoforms. Na(+)/H(+) exchanger is under the control of redox-based cellular transcriptional activity, including members of the SP family of transcription factors. Mn(III) alkylpyridylporphyrins were previously found to inhibit activation of major transcription factors, including SP-1 via scavenging of signaling ROS/RNS. Therefore, our data suggest that, by reducing the levels of ROS/RNS, MnTM-2-PyP might interfere with signaling pathways responsible for NHE up-regulation.
Cocaine abuse represents a worldwide significant forensic issue as it is becoming widely recognized as one of the most dangerous illicit drugs in common use today. Besides cardiovascular complications, psychiatric and neurologic symptoms are the most common manifestations of cocaine toxicity. The latter include seizures, movement disorders and cerebrovascular complications. In chronic cocaine abusers morphological, physiological, and neurochemical abnormalities have been demonstrated by using neuroradiological techniques such as computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography or single photon emission computed tomography. The spectrum of neuropathologic changes encountered in the brains of cocaine abusers is broad, but the major findings consist of ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, subarachnoid and intracerebral hemorrhages and cerebral ischemia. Especially persons with underlying arteriovenous malformation or aneurysm are at risk for such events. Except for a few instances of vasculitis, the etiology of cocaine-related cerebrovascular accidents is still unclear. Besides pharmacologically-induced vasospasm, impaired hemostasis and platelet function and decreased cerebral blood flow have been proposed. At the cellular level, abnormalities in the expression of transcription factors and changes of brain neurotransmitter systems have been reported.
Calcineurin and its downstream effectors nuclear factor of activated T-cells 3 (NFAT3) and zinc finger-containing transcription factor (GATA4) have been implicated in the development of cardiac hypertrophy. The aims of the present study were to investigate alterations in the calcineurin/NFAT3/GATA4 pathway in pressure-overload hypertrophy, and to determine whether adrenergic receptor blockade affects this signaling pathway. In aorta-banded rats compared with sham-operated rats, a significant increase in the phosphorylation levels of calcineurin and GATA4 was observed (both p<0.05), while the NFAT3 phosphorylation level was markedly decreased (p<0.05). Oral administration of either the non-selective β blocker/α-1 blocker carvedilol or the selective β-1 blocker metoprolol, but not the selective α-1 blocker terazosin, significantly suppressed the activated calcineurin/NFAT3/GATA4 pathway (all p<0.05) in addition to inducing a regression of cardiac hypertrophy. Pressure overload-induced up-regulation of c-myc was markedly attenuated by treatment with either carvedilol or metoprolol (both p<0.05). The present findings may expand our understanding of the correlation between sympathetic activity and the calcineurin/NFAT3/GATA4 pathway, and highlight these signal transducers as effective targets in the management of pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy.
The authors report the case of a patient with ajmaline hepatitis. The clinical presentation suggested angiocholitis; serum bilirubin concentration and the activity of alkaline phosphatase were markedly increased; serum transaminase activity was moderately increased; the prothrombin time remained normal. After interruption of the drug, the outcome was favorable, with complete recovery within 2 months. Histologic examination of a liver specimen obtained early after the onset of jaundice showed inflammatory cells in the portal tracts and mild hepatocytic lesions. Electron microscopy disclosed dilatation of the endoplasmic reticulum. The microfilamentous network of the hepatocytes was reduced and disorganized. Biliary canaliculi were enlarged with absent or blunted microvilli. There was evidence for passage of bile products from the biliary caniculi into the space of Disse. These aspects are reminiscent of those observed in animals after the administration of cytochalasin B. It is suggested that ajmaline may, in some patients, trigger an immune response which then alters the microfilamentous network of the hepatocytes, and may, thereby, produce cholestasis.
