Non-oliguric renal failure developed in six elderly women who had been prescribed 1--2 g of mefenamic acid daily for 2--6 weeks for the relief of musculoskeletal pain.
Timolol was used by 37 glaucoma patients from 1 to 18 months. Of those 37 patients, 31 used timolol for three months or longer and 7 used timolol for over one year. Timolol produced sustained reductions in intraocular pressure with continuous administration and did not induce miosis, accommodative spasm, or other annoying side effects. Systemic absorption produced a mild slowing of resting pulse rate. In some patients, timolol's ocular hypotensive effects are additive to miotics and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors.
Potassium bromate (KBrO3 ) is widely used as a food-additive and is a major water disinfection by-product. KBrO3 causes severe toxicity in humans and experimental animals. Bromate is considered a probable human carcinogen and a complete carcinogen in animals. We have investigated the potential role of taurine in protecting against KBrO3 -induced oxidative stress in rat blood. Animals were given taurine for 5 days prior to KBrO3 and then sacrificed. Blood was collected and used to prepare hemolysates and plasma, which were then used for the analysis of several biochemical parameters. Administration of single oral dose of KBrO3 alone induced hepato- and nephro-toxicity as evident by elevated marker levels in plasma. Lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation were increased both in plasma and erythrocytes, suggesting the induction of oxidative stress. KBrO3 increased methemoglobin, nitric oxide, and hydrogen peroxide levels. It also altered the activities of the major antioxidant enzymes and lowered the antioxidant power of blood. Administration of taurine, prior to treatment with KBrO3 , resulted in significant attenuation in all these parameters but the administration of taurine alone had no effect. These results show that taurine is effective in mitigating the oxidative insult induced in rat blood by KBrO3 . © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2014.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a ligand-activated transcription factor, is responsible for mediating a variety of pharmacological and toxicological effects caused by halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). However, recent evidence has revealed that the AhR also has numerous physiological roles aside from xenobiotic metabolism, including regulation of immune and inflammatory signaling as well as normal development and homeostasis of several organs. To investigate the role of the AhR in crystalline silica (SiO(2))-induced inflammation and fibrosis, C57Bl/6 and AhR(-/)(-) mice were exposed to SiO(2) or vehicle. Similarly, C57Bl/6 mice were exposed to SiO(2) and TCDD either simultaneously or sequentially to assess whether AhR activation alters inflammation and fibrosis. SiO(2)-induced acute lung inflammation was more severe in AhR(-)(/-) mice; however, the fibrotic response of AhR(-)(/-) mice was attenuated compared with C57Bl/6 mice. In a model of chronic SiO(2) exposure, AhR activation by TCDD in C57Bl/6 mice resulted in reduced inflammation; however, the fibrotic response was not affected. Bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMM) from AhR(-)(/-) mice also produced higher levels of cytokines and chemokines in response to SiO(2). Analysis of gene expression revealed that BMM derived from AhR(-)(/-) mice exhibit increased levels of pro-interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and Bcl-2, yet decreased levels of signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT)2, STAT5a, and serpin B2 (Pai-2) in response to SiO(2).
Histopathological characteristics of urinary bladder tumors induced in Syrian golden hamsters by 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) were analyzed. DMAB was subcutaneously injected in corn oil at a concentration of 100 mg/kg once a week for 20 weeks and ethinyl estradiol (EE) was administered in the diet at a dose of 0.75 ppm throughout the experiment. A small group of animals was killed at week 20 and all survivors were killed at week 50. Urinary bladder carcinomas were induced in 14 of 18 hamsters (78%; 0.89/animal) in the DMAB+EE group and 11 of 17 (65%; 0.88/animal) in the DMAB alone group in males, and in 11 of 14 (79%; 0.79/animal) in the DMAB+EE group and 4 of 5 (80%; 0.80/animal) in the DMAB alone group in females examined between weeks 20 and 50. All were non-papillary invasive transitional cell carcinomas partly demonstrating glandular and/or squamous differentiation, and most carcinomas developed in the bladder neck. Degree of invasion was clearly correlated with degree of morphological atypism in the transitional cell carcinomas, but not with squamous or glandular differentiation. No sex difference or modifying effect of EE on DMAB urinary bladder carcinogenesis was evident. No bladder carcinomas were observed in non-DMAB-treated animals.
1,2-Dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane is used in cosmetics and other household products. 1,2-Dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane was nominated for study by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences because of its widespread use as a component of numerous over-the-counter health care products. Male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice received 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane (greater than 99% pure) in acetone (2-week and 3-month studies) or 95% ethanol (2-year studies) by dermal administration for 2 weeks, 3 months, or 2 years. Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium, Escherichia coli, and mouse peripheral blood erythrocytes. 2-WEEK STUDY IN RATS: Groups of five male and five female rats were dermally administered 0, 37.5, 75, 150, 300, or 600 mg 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane/kg body weight in acetone, 5 days per week for 16 days. All male and female rats survived to the end of the study. Mean body weights of dosed male and female rats were similar to those of the vehicle controls. Irritation, thickened skin, and ulcers were observed at the site of application in most dosed males and females. The thyroid gland weights of males administered 600 mg/kg were significantly less than those of the vehicle controls. The liver and kidney weights of 300 and 600 mg/kg females were significantly increased. A spectrum of nonneoplastic lesions including epidermal hyperplasia and hyperkeratosis, sebaceous gland hyperplasia, and dermal chronic active inflammation occurred at the site of application in all dosed groups of rats. Necrosis, ulcer, and parakeratosis of the epidermis occurred in most dosed groups of rats. 2-WEEK STUDY IN MICE: Groups of five male and five female mice were dermally administered 0, 75, 150, 300, 600, or 1,200 mg/kg 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane in acetone, 5 days per week for 16 days. All male and female mice survived to the end of the study. The final mean body weight of 300 mg/kg males was significantly less than that of the vehicle controls. Hyperactivity was observed in all dosed groups of mice. Irritation, thickened skin, and ulcers were observed at the site of application in dosed mice. The liver weights of 600 and 1,200 mg/kg males and 1,200 mg/kg females were significantly increased relative to those of the vehicle control groups. The heart weights of 600 and 1,200 mg/kg males and the kidney weights of 150 and 600 mg/kg males were significantly increased. The thymus weights of males administered 300 mg/kg or greater and those of all dosed groups of females were significantly decreased. Skin lesions at the site of application including epidermal hyperplasia, hyperkeratosis, parakeratosis, necrosis, and ulcers; dermal chronic active inflammation; and sebaceous gland hyperplasia occurred in all dosed groups of mice. Necrosis of the dermis occurred in most dosed groups of mice. 3-MONTH STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 10 male and 10 female rats were dermally administered 0, 0.2, 0.6, 2, 6, or 18 mg/kg 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane in acetone, 5 days per week for 14 weeks. All male rats survived to the end of the study. One 2 mg/kg female rat died on day 91. Mean body weights of dosed male and female rats were similar to those of the vehicle controls. Clinical findings of toxicity included thin hair coat in male and female rats and irritation at the site of application in males. At the site of application, the incidences of epidermal hyperplasia in males administered 0.6 mg/kg or greater and females administered 2 mg/kg or greater and the incidences of epidermal hyperkeratosis in all dosed groups of rats were significantly increased. In the dermis at the site of application, the incidences of chronic active inflammation in 6 and 18 mg/kg males and females administered 2 mg/kg or greater and sebaceous gland hyperplasia in males administered 6 or 18 mg/kg were significantly increased. 3-MONTH STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 10 male and 10 female mice were dermally administered 0, 0.2, 0.6, 2, 6, or 18 mg/kg 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane in acetone, 5 days per week for 14 weeks. All mice survived to the end of the study. Mean body weights of dosed male and female mice were similar to those of the vehicle controls. Irritation at the site of application was increased in male mice administered 18 mg/kg. The liver and lung weights of dosed females were generally significantly less than those of the vehicle control group. The incidences of minimal to mild epidermal hyperplasia and hyperkeratosis at the site of application were significantly increased in male and female mice administered 2 mg/kg or greater. The incidence of epidermal necrosis in 18 mg/kg males and the incidences of epidermal parakeratosis in 6 and 18 mg/kg males were significantly increased. In the dermis, the incidences of minimal to mild chronic active inflammation in 18 mg/kg males and in females administered 2 mg/kg or greater and fibrosis in 18 mg/kg males and females were significantly increased. The incidences of sebaceous gland hyperplasia at the site of application were significantly increased in males and females administered 6 or 18 mg/kg. 2-YEAR STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 50 male and 50 female rats were dermally administered 0, 2, 6, or 18 mg/kg 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane in 95% ethanol, 5 days a week for 104 to 105 weeks. Survival of males administered 18 mg/kg was significantly greater than that of the vehicle controls. Body weights of 18 mg/kg males and females were 7% less than those of the vehicle control groups after 1 year. Irritation at the site of application was reported in most males and females administered 6 or 18 mg/kg. There were no increases in the incidences of neoplasms in dosed rats. At the site of application, the incidences of epidermal hyperplasia in males and females administered 6 or 18 mg/kg and the incidences of hyperkeratosis of the epidermis in all dosed groups were significantly increased. The incidences of minimal to mild inflammation in the dermis at the site of application were significantly increased in males administered 6 or 18 mg/kg and in all dosed groups of females. The incidence of epidermal necrosis at the site of application in 18 mg/kg females was significantly increased. The incidences of inflammation of the nose were significantly increased in all dosed groups of male rats. The combined incidence of mammary gland fibroadenoma, adenoma, or adenocarcinoma occurred with a negative trend, and the incidence was significantly decreased in 6 mg/kg female rats. 2-YEAR STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 50 male and 50 female mice were dermally administered 0, 0.6, 2, or 6 mg/kg 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane in 95% ethanol, 5 days a week for 105 weeks. Survival of male and female mice was similar to that of the vehicle controls. Body weights of male and female dosed groups were similar to those of the vehicle control groups. No clinical findings were attributed to administration of 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane. There were no increases in the incidences of neoplasms in dosed mice. At the site of application, the incidences of minimal to mild hyperplasia of the epidermis were significantly increased in 2 and 6 mg/kg males and in all dosed groups of females. The incidences of minimal to mild chronic active inflammation in the dermis were significantly increased in all dosed groups of females.
1,2-Dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane was not mutagenic in any of several strains of Salmonella typhimurium or Escherichia coli when tested with and without hamster and/or rat liver metabolic activation enzymes (S9). In addition, no increase in the frequency of micronucleated erythrocytes was observed in male or female mice treated for 3 months with 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane by dermal application in acetone, indicating no potential for inducing chromosomal alterations in dividing cells in this test system.
Under the conditions of these 2-year dermal studies there was no evidence of carcinogenic activity of 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane in male or female F344/N rats administered 2, 6, or 18 mg/kg. There was no evidence of carcinogenic activity of 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane in male or female B6C3F1 mice administered 0.6, 2, or 6 mg/kg. 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane administration induced nonneoplastic lesions at the site of application in male and female rats and mice.
In the present study, we have examined inhibitory effects of melatonin on the development of pituitary prolactin-producing tumors (prolactinoma) induced by 17-beta-estradiol (E(2)) in vivo. The prolactinomas were established by implanting E(2)-laden silastic capsules subcutaneously in Sprague-Dawley male rats weighing 80 approximately 100 g. Melatonin (0.05, 0.25, 0.50, 1.00, and 2.00 mg/0.1 ml/rat) was administrated subcutaneously at l8:00 h for 90 days, beginning from d 7 prior to tumor induction. Controls were given equal volumes of 4 percent; alcohol in 0.9 percent; saline. Our results showed: (1) In control group and groups given respectively 0.05, 0.25, 0.50, 1.00 and 2.00 mg melatonin, the weight of prolactinoma was 115.0+/-71.0, 85.2+/-41.0, 58.9+/-24.1, 72.7+/-23.6, 79.3+/-56.1, 74.5+/-46.8 mg respectively; the plasma prolactin (PRL) content was 493.46+/-33.3, 373.78+/-26.5, 125.13+/-13.3, 201.79+/-11.2, 418.88+/-41.3, 281.94+/-36.4 ng/ml respectively; the plasma peroxidative lipid content was 1.21+/-0.23, 0.89+/-0.32, 0.92+/-0.27, 0.64+/-0.24, 0.41+/-0.14 and 0.43+/-0.21 delta233/ml respectively. (2) The correlation coefficients between tumor weight and plasma PRL content, tumor weight and plasma peroxidative lipid content, and plasma PRL content and plasma peroxidative lipid content were 0.8738, 0.5550 and 0.2141 respectively. These results indicate: (1) The dosages of 0.25 (P<0.01) and 0.50 (P<0.05) mg, but not 0.05 (P>0.05), 1.00 (P>0.05) and 2.00 (P>0.05) mg, melatonin significantly inhibited the development of the E(2)-induced prolactinoma and the secretion of PRL in comparison with the matched control. (2) The levels of 0.05 approximately 2.00 (P<0.05 approximately 0.00l) mg melatonin showed a dose-dependent antioxidative action. (3) There are positive correlation between tumor weight and plasma PRL content (P<0.05), but no correlation between tumor weight and plasma peroxidative lipid content (P>0.05), and plasma PRL content and plasma peroxidative lipid content (P>0.05). Therefore, our experiments demonstrate that the inhibition of the development of E(2)-induced prolactinoma by adequate dosage of melatonin may be related to the inhibitory effects of MLT on the secretion of PRL, but not to the antioxidative action of MLT.
Clinical course of the disease and the formation of the necrotic focus (as evidenced by precordial mapping from 35 ECG leads) were assessed in 88 patients with acute myocardial infarction, treated with 1,000,000 IU urokinase, in comparison to 41 untreated control patients. Thrombolytic therapy, started within the first 6 hours of myocardial infarction, was associated with a better clinical course of the disease. Urokinase administration after 6 hours from the onset of the symptoms produced no clinical improvement, did not limit the necrotic focus and failed to reduce mortality, as compared to the controls. The assessment of the efficiency of thrombolytic treatment demonstrated an at least 30% increment of venous flow in 45% of patients. Intravenous urokinase administration was accompanied by an activation of blood fibrinolytic system, and there was a tendency to fibrinolysis depression on the day following the administration.
1. Experiments were performed to investigate the contribution of diffusion to the termination of PCN induced convulsive (epileptiform) activity in the awake rat. The basic question was whether convulsive activity terminates at the same critical concentration Ct of PCN independently of the concentration Co of PCN injected into the superficial layer of the foreleg field of the right motor cortex. Different concentrations Co were used, the lowest being 16 IU PCN/0.5 microliters saline, the largest 1000 IU PCN/0.5 microliters saline. The convulsive activity was recorded by means of the electroencephalogram (EEG). 2. Mathematical calculations concerning the diffusion of the substances were performed by using the diffusion equation with a PCN diffusion coefficient D = 3.52 x 10(-4) mm2/s and the tortuosity factor lambda = 1.62. 3. The lowest dose of PCN used was considered as a threshold dose for acute induction of convulsive activity because only 4 out of 9 rats treated with 16 IU PCN developed epileptiform activity. For the range of doses between 16 and 32 IU, the median frequency of convulsive potentials was dose-dependent, and increased from 7.9 to 13.8 pot./min, respectively. For higher doses covering the range between 63 and 1000 IU, there was only an insignificant increase from 19.2 to 22.7 pot./min, respectively. 4. The median period of convulsive activity increased significantly (p less than 0.05 or less than 0.01) and monotonically from 19.5 min in rats treated with 16 IU PCN to 267 min after treatment with 1000 IU PCN. 5. At the end of the convulsive activity, the median critical concentration Ct within the artificial focus ranged from 1.75 to 1.31 IU/0.5 microliters saline in rats treated with 16 to 125 IU PCN, while after induction of convulsive activity with doses of 250, 500 or 1000 IU PCN, Ct gradually increased to 2.01, 2.83, and 3.75 IU/0.5 microliters, respectively. This means that the brain became less sensitive for PCN the longer the epileptiform activity lasted. 6. It is concluded that during long-lasting convulsive activity, the brain takes advantage of its plastic properties by eliciting counteracting mechanisms. These self-protective factors may utilize neuronal networks which needs some time to become effective in the control of the cortical activity.
Chromium picolinate monohydrate is the commercially available form of chromium picolinate. Chromium picolinate is one of a number of compounds that contain chromium in the trivalent state (Cr III), which is the predominant form of chromium in nature. Humans ingest Cr III in food and dietary supplements. The major uses of Cr III in the chemical and manufacturing industries include production of chromium pigments and leather tanning. Chromium picolinate was nominated by the National Cancer Institute and a private individual for testing based on the potential for widespread consumer exposure from use as a dietary supplement. Male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice were exposed to chromium picolinate monohydrate (95% to 96% pure) in feed for 3 months or 2 years. Genetic toxicology studies with chromium picolinate monohydrate were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium and mouse peripheral blood erythrocytes. Genetic toxicology studies with chromium picolinate were conducted in S. typhimurium and rat bone marrow cells. 3-MONTH STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 10 male and 10 female rats were fed diets containing 0, 80, 240, 2,000, 10,000, or 50,000 ppm chromium picolinate monohydrate (equivalent to average daily doses of approximately 7, 20, 160, 800, and 4,240 mg chromium picolinate monohydrate/kg body weight to males and 6, 20, 160, 780, and 4,250 mg/kg to females) for 14 weeks. All rats survived to the end of the study. Mean body weights and feed consumption of all exposed groups of males and females were similar to those of the control groups throughout the study. No exposure-related lesions occurred in males or females. 3-MONTH STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 10 male and 10 female mice were fed diets containing 0, 80, 240, 2,000, 10,000, or 50,000 ppm chromium picolinate monohydrate (equivalent to average daily doses of approximately 17, 50, 450, 2,300, and 11,900 mg chromium picolinate monohydrate/kg body weight to males and 14, 40, 370, 1,775, and 9,140 mg/kg to females) for 14 weeks. All mice survived to the end of the study. Mean body weights and feed consumption of all exposed groups were similar to those of the control groups throughout the study. No exposure-related lesions occurred in male or female mice. 2-YEAR STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 50 male and 50 female rats were fed diets containing 0, 2,000, 10,000, or 50,000 ppm chromium picolinate monohydrate (equivalent to average daily doses of approximately 90, 460, and 2,400 mg/kg to males and 100, 510, and 2,630 mg/kg to females) for 105 weeks. Survival of all exposed groups of males and females was similar to that of the control groups. Mean body weights and feed consumption of exposed groups of males and females were generally similar to those of the controls throughout the study. The incidence of preputial gland adenoma was significantly increased in males exposed to 10,000 ppm and exceeded the historical control ranges. 2-YEAR STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 50 male and 50 female mice were fed diets containing 0, 2,000, 10,000, or 50,000 ppm chromium picolinate monohydrate (equivalent to average daily doses of approximately 250, 1,200, and 6,565 mg/kg to males and 240, 1,200, and 6,100 mg/kg to females) for 105 weeks. Survival of all exposed groups of males and females was similar to that of the control groups. Mean body weights of exposed groups of males were generally similar to those of the controls throughout the study; mean body weights of 50,000 ppm females was 10% less than the control group at 1 year. Feed consumption by exposed groups of males and females was similar to that by the controls throughout the study. No neoplasms or nonneoplastic lesions were attributed to exposure to chromium picolinate monohydrate.
In the standard screening assays conducted by the NTP, chromium picolinate monohydrate showed no clear evidence of genotoxicity. It was not mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98 or TA100 or Escherichia coli strain WP2 uvrA/pKM101 when tested with or without exogenous metabolic activation (S9). No increase in the frequency of micronucleated normochromatic erythrocytes was observed in male B6C3F1 mice administered chromium picolinate monohydrate in feed for 3 months. A small increase in micronucleated normochromatic erythrocytes was seen in female mice at the highest exposure concentration tested, and the results in female mice were considered equivocal. Additional genotoxicity testing was conducted with chromium picolinate (not the monohydrate form of the compound), and results were also negative. No induction of gene mutations was observed in two independent studies conducted in several strains of S. typhimurium with and without S9. No induction of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes was observed in bone marrow of male F344/N rats treated with chromium picolinate by oral gavage three times at 24-hour intervals.
Under the conditions of these 2-year feed studies there was equivocal evidence of carcinogenic activity* of chromium picolinate monohydrate in male F344/N rats based on an increase in the incidence of preputial gland adenoma. There was no evidence of carcinogenic activity of chromium picolinate monohydrate in female F344/N rats or in male or female B6C3F1 mice.
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare disease with a poor prognosis and limited therapeutic options. Mitotane is considered the standard first-line therapy with only 30% of the patients showing objective tumour response. Defining predictive factors for response is therefore of clinical importance. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) has been implicated in the development of one-third of all malignancies. EGFR pathway members in ACC have been investigated, however, without available clinical data and relation to survival.
In this study, mutation status of EGFR and downstream signalling pathways was evaluated in 47 ACC patients on mitotane using direct sequencing, a TaqMan allele-specific assay and immunohistochemistry. Archival formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumour tissue was used for all analyses. Patient data were obtained anonymously, after coupling with the collected tumour tissue.
One BRAF, two EGFR TK domain (c.2590> A, p.864A>T) and 11 TP53, but no PIK3CA or KRAS, mutations were found. No relationship was found between mutation status, immunostaining and mitotane response or survival.
In conclusion, our data suggest that the role of EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors in ACC is limited. Treatment with EGFR monoclonal antibodies on the other hand might be beneficial for a larger group of patients. The possible efficacy of this therapy in ACC should be evaluated in future trials.
Augmenter of liver regeneration (ALR) enhances the proliferation of hepatocytes and accelerates recovery from acute liver failure in animal models. ALR is expressed in both the liver and kidney; however, the specific location of ALR expression and its biological effects in the kidney remain unknown. We aimed to investigate the efficacy of ALR in rats with gentamicin (GM)-induced acute renal failure (ARF). Rats were randomized into the normal group, GM+saline group, GM+vehicle group, and GM+rrALR group. Blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, and urine beta-N-acetyl-D-glucosaminidase were measured, and histological analyses of the kidneys were performed. The expression of ALR protein was determined by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. In vitro incorporation of tritiated thymidine was used to measure the proliferation of renal tubular epithelial cells. In normal rats, the expression of ALR protein was faint in the medulla and absent in the cortex. However, in ARF rats, ALR expression increased significantly in both the renal cortex and medulla. Histological analyses revealed that treatment with recombinant rat ALR (rrALR) reduced the extent of injury of tubular cells in the renal cortex. Serum/urine biochemical parameters also showed that renal dysfunction was improved by the administration of rrALR. Intraperitoneal injection of rrALR enhanced the proliferation of tubular cells in vivo. We also confirmed that rrALR could promote the proliferation of renal tubular cells in vitro. These results indicate that rrALR effectively accelerates kidney recovery after ARF induced by gentamicin, and that the protective effect is associated with enhanced proliferation of renal tubular cells.
We describe a 12-year-old boy in whom primary Staphylococcus aureus thrombophlebitis of the femoral and iliac veins developed without history of trauma and with no association with acute osteomyelitis. The patient responded to therapy with intravenously administered antibiotics for 6 weeks, although oxacillin-associated hepatitis developed during the course of treatment.
Immunomodulatory cytokines, including interleukin-10 (IL-10), may mediate hepatic fibrosis.
We generated transgenic (TG) mice with hepatocyte expression of rat IL-10 (rIL-10) to assess its impact on lymphocyte subsets and activation of hepatic stellate cells following liver injury from carbon tetrachloride (CCl 4 ) or thioacetamide (TAA).
Fibrosis was reduced in the TG animals in both models, which was not explained solely by differences in liver injury. By fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS), there were less CD4+ T cells in naive TG mice, and, following fibrosis induction, CD4+ T cells decreased only in wild-type (WT) mice, whereas increases in CD8+ T cells seen in WT animals were significantly attenuated in TG mice. Subtotal irradiation diminished fibrosis equally in both WT and TG groups, suggesting that rIL-10's antifibrotic effect was lymphocyte mediated. To assess the role of lymphocytes on stellate cell activation, either whole splenic lymphocytes, CD4+, or CD8+ T-cell subsets from WT animals with CCl 4 fibrosis were adoptively transferred to severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) recipients, which led to stellate cell activation and fibrogenic stimulation as assessed by expression of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and collagen I messenger RNA (mRNA) and by immunoblot of alpha-smooth muscle actin. Moreover, serum aminotransferase levels and stellate cell activation mRNA were significantly higher among the CD8+ T-cell recipients.
Transgenic expression of rIL-10 in liver leads to reduced fibrosis and alterations in liver lymphocyte subsets both in untreated liver and following fibrosis induction. In this model, fibrosis may be a CD8+ T-cell-mediated disease that is attenuated by rIL-10.
The EML4 (echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 4)-ALK (anaplastic lymphoma kinase) fusion-type tyrosine kinase is an oncoprotein found in 4 to 5% of non-small-cell lung cancers, and clinical trials of specific inhibitors of ALK for the treatment of such tumors are currently under way. Here, we report the discovery of two secondary mutations within the kinase domain of EML4-ALK in tumor cells isolated from a patient during the relapse phase of treatment with an ALK inhibitor. Each mutation developed independently in subclones of the tumor and conferred marked resistance to two different ALK inhibitors. (Funded by the Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare of Japan, and others.).
Diabetes mellitus is associated with bone loss. Patients with type 2 diabetes are frequently treated with oral antidiabetic drugs such as sulfonylureas, biguanides, and thiazolidinediones. Rosiglitazone treatment has been shown to increase adipogenesis in bone marrow and to induce bone loss. In this study we evaluated the effect of in vivo and in vitro treatment with metformin on bone marrow progenitor cells (BMPCs), as well as the involvement of AMPK pathway in its effects. The in vitro effect of coincubation with metformin and rosiglitazone on the adipogenic differentiation of BMPCs also was studied. In addition, we evaluated the effect of in vivo metformin treatment on bone regeneration in a model of parietal lesions in nondiabetic and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. We found that metformin administration both in vivo and in vitro caused an increase in alkaline phosphatase activity, type I collagen synthesis, osteocalcin expression, and extracellular calcium deposition of BMPCs. Moreover, metformin significantly activated AMPK in undifferentiated BMPCs. In vivo, metformin administration enhanced the expression of osteoblast-specific transcription factor Runx2/Cbfa1 and activation of AMPK in a time-dependent manner. Metformin treatment also stimulated bone lesion regeneration in control and diabetic rats. In vitro, metformin partially inhibited the adipogenic actions of rosiglitazone on BMPCs. In conclusion, our results indicate that metformin causes an osteogenic effect both in vivo and in vitro, possibly mediated by Runx2/Cbfa1 and AMPK activation, suggesting a possible action of metformin in a shift toward the osteoblastic differentiation of BMPCs.
Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMT) is a distinctive mesenchymal neoplasm characterized by a spindle-cell proliferation with an inflammatory infiltrate. Approximately half of IMTs carry rearrangements of the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) locus on chromosome 2p23, causing aberrant ALK expression. We report a sustained partial response to the ALK inhibitor crizotinib (PF-02341066, Pfizer) in a patient with ALK-translocated IMT, as compared with no observed activity in another patient without the ALK translocation. These results support the dependence of ALK-rearranged tumors on ALK-mediated signaling and suggest a therapeutic strategy for genomically identified patients with the aggressive form of this soft-tissue tumor. (Funded by Pfizer and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00585195.).
The calcium channel blocker nifedipine was administered to patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) to determine its efficiency as a pulmonary vasodilator. Since nifedipine has been shown to decrease elevated pulmonary artery pressures in patients with hypoxic pulmonary hypertension, we hypothesized that nifedipine would attenuate acute hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in patients without pulmonary hypertension. We studied 11 clinically stable patients with mild to moderate COPD and normal pulmonary artery pressures using a randomized single-blind cross-over design. The patients were studied before and after nifedipine (20 mg) or placebo, given sublingually, at room air and subsequently during inhalation of a hypoxic gas mixture containing 13% O2, 5% CO2 and 72% N2. During normoxia, nifedipine significantly increased cardiac index from 4.2 +/- 0.3 to 4.9 +/- 0.5 liters/min/m2 (p less than 0.05) and the coefficient of oxygen delivery from 4.15 +/- 0.3 to 4.91 +/- 0.5 (p less than 0.05), whereas placebo treatment did not. During isocapnic hypoxia, a significant increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure (from 15.7 +/- 0.7 to 24.4 +/- 1.2 mm Hg; p less than 0.005) and mean pulmonary vascular resistance index (from 2.6 +/- 0.3 to 4.2 +/- 0.5 mm Hg; p less than 0.005) could be observed. Pretreatment with nifedipine significantly attenuated the hypoxia-induced increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure by 53% and of the mean pulmonary vascular resistance index by 50%. This was accomplished without significant changes in systemic arterial pressure and in the systemic vascular resistance index. Thus, nifedipine acutely dilates the constricted vascular bed associated with hypoxia in these patients with COPD.
Our goal was to investigate the effects of serum from patients with acute liver failure due to paracetamol (acetaminophen) overdose on the function of human hepatocytes in vitro.
Freshly isolated human hepatocytes plated on collagen-coated culture plates were, incubated (24 hours 37 degrees C) in medium containing pooled human sera (0%-80%) obtained from normal individuals or from patients with acute liver failure due to paracetamol overdose. The effects of the sera on cell function were assessed using MTT, [14C]-leucine incorporation, and cytochrome P450 (CYP1A1/2) activity assays.
The overall cellular metabolic activity was significantly greater at all concentrations after exposure to acute liver failure serum compared to normal serum. There were no significant differences in the decreases produced by pooled acute liver failure and normal sera at concentrations up to 80% on the [14C]-leucine incorporation or CYP1A1/2 activity.
The overall cell function/activity of human hepatocytes was not impaired in vitro on exposure to serum from patients with acute liver failure due to paracetamol overdose.
The clinical effect of cisapride on QT intervals was prospectively studied.
Consecutive adult patients were recruited in whom cisapride was indicated for gastroesophogeal reflux, gastric ulcer, duodenal ulcer, diabetic gastroparesis or chronic constipation refractory to laxatives. Exclusion criteria included disorders and medications affecting cardiac conduction, electrolyte homeostasis, drug clearance and membrane stability.
Seventy-five patients were included and followed at 1 to 2 week intervals. Patients took cisapride 5 mg thrice daily for 1 to 4 weeks (lower dose stage), followed by 10 mg thrice daily for another 1 to 4 weeks (higher dose stage). Twelve-lead ECGs were performed before commencing cisapride (group B), at completion of the lower dose stage (group L) and at completion of the higher dose stage (group H).
No patients experienced presyncope or syncope. Seventeen patients failing to comply, and 7 complaining of abdominal discomfort or diarrhea were excluded, leaving 51 participants. Group H's corrected QT interval (QTc) was longer than group B's by 13+/-15 ms (P<0.001), and longer than group L's by 7+/-11 ms (P<0.001). Group L's QTc was longer than group B's by 7+/-21 ms (P<0.05). QT dispersion did not differ significantly among groups. Neither torsade de pointe nor ventricular tachycardia were noted in Holter monitoring of 33 patients during the higher dose stage.
cisapride dose-dependently prolongs the QT interval. Further study is needed to examine the arrhythmogenicity of cisapride in higher doses and for longer durations.
The aim of this double-blind parallel-group study was to compare the effects of doxazosin, a selective alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist with a long plasma half-life, with nitrendipine, a long-acting calcium-entry blocking drug. Following a 4-week placebo period, 26 patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension were randomly allocated to treatment with either doxazosin (n = 12) or nitrendipine (n = 14). Over a period of 10 weeks, doses were titrated to obtain a standing diastolic pressure below 90 mmHg. Thereafter, optimal doses were continued for another 4 weeks. Both drugs were administered once daily; median doses were 4 mg/day for doxazosin and 10 mg/day for nitrendipine. During the titration period three patients in the doxazosin group and one in the nitrendipine group dropped out from the study; one patient on doxazosin was considered a nonresponder. Twenty-one patients completed the study. The percentage of patients showing an adequate hypotensive effect (standing diastolic pressure below 90 mmHg) at the end of the study was similar in the two groups (42% vs. 50% in the intention-to-treat analysis and 56% vs. 54% in the per-protocol analysis). Casual, basal, and standing blood pressure and heart rate did not differ between groups throughout the study; serum lipids and blood glucose remained unchanged. We conclude that doxazosin and nitrendipine given as monotherapy are equally effective in mild to moderate hypertension.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a complex disease involving genetic variants and environmental insults, is among the leading causes of blindness in Western populations. Genetic and histologic evidence implicate the complement system in AMD pathogenesis; and smoking is the major environmental risk factor associated with increased disease risk. Although previous studies have demonstrated that cigarette smoke exposure (CE) causes retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) defects in mice, and smoking leads to complement activation in patients, it is unknown whether complement activation is causative in the development of CE pathology; and if so, which complement pathway is required.
Mice were exposed to cigarette smoke or clean, filtered air for 6 months. The effects of CE were analyzed in wildtype (WT) mice or mice without a functional complement alternative pathway (AP; CFB(-/-) ) using molecular, histological, electrophysiological, and behavioral outcomes.
CE in WT mice exhibited a significant reduction in function of both rods and cones as determined by electroretinography and contrast sensitivity measurements, concomitant with a thinning of the nuclear layers as measured by SD-OCT imaging and histology. Gene expression analyses suggested that alterations in both photoreceptors and RPE/choroid might contribute to the observed loss of function, and visualization of complement C3d deposition implies the RPE/Bruch's membrane (BrM) complex as the target of AP activity. RPE/BrM alterations include an increase in mitochondrial size concomitant with an apical shift in mitochondrial distribution within the RPE and a thickening of BrM. CFB(-/-) mice were protected from developing these CE-mediated alterations.
Taken together, these findings provide clear evidence that ocular pathology generated in CE mice is dependent on complement activation and requires the AP. Identifying animal models with RPE/BrM damage and verifying which aspects of pathology are dependent upon complement activation is essential for developing novel complement-based treatment approaches for the treatment of AMD.
To assess the effects of prophylactic lamivudine on reactivation and mortality following immunosuppressive therapy in hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive patients, we performed a meta-analysis. Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized and nonrandomized prospective controlled trials and retrospective comparative case series were identified through The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register, The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, EMBASE and LILACS. The primary outcomes were virological reactivation, clinical reactivation and mortality. Secondary outcomes included hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related mortality, liver histology, discontinuation or disruption of immunosuppressive therapy, lamivudine-resistant HBV strains and adverse events. A total of 21 studies were included, two of which were randomized controlled trials. Clinical and virological reactivation were significantly reduced in the lamivudine group [odds ratio (OR) 0.09; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.05-0.15 and OR 0.04; 95% CI 0.01-0.14 respectively]. All-cause mortality was significantly reduced in the lamivudine group (OR 0.36; 95% CI 0.23-0.56) which translates to only 11 patients who need to be treated to prevent one death. Lamivudine significantly reduced HBV-related mortality, and discontinuations or disruptions of the immunosuppressive treatment. No adverse effects of lamivudine were recorded, and resistance to lamivudine occurred in low rates. We demonstrated a clear benefit of lamivudine in terms of clinical and virological HBV reactivation, overall mortality, HBV-related mortality and interruptions or discontinuations in the immunosuppressive treatment. Lamivudine should be administered prophylactically to HBsAg-positive patients who are about to receive immunosuppressive therapy.
The nucleotide analogues, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and adefovir dipivoxil, inhibit viral replication and are both effective against the hepatitis B virus (HBV). In our department, tenofovir was prescribed in addition to lamivudine for the treatment of lamivudine resistant chronic hepatitis B. After registration of adefovir, 10 patients were switched to adefovir monotherapy. We studied changes in HBV-DNA and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) in these patients. The median treatment duration with tenofovir was 78 weeks resulting in a median viral load reduction of 5.4 (range 6.8-2.3) log(10) copies/mL compared to baseline (P = 0.005). Two patients had an increase >1 log(10) copies/mL during tenofovir treatment. After the switch to adefovir, six out of 10 patients had an HBV-DNA >4 log(10) copies/mL and the median HBV-DNA increased from 2.8 to 4.5 log(10) copies/mL (P = 0.017). The factors associated with relapse were HBV-DNA PCR positivity at the time of switch and genotype B or D. ALT levels at the beginning of tenofovir treatment also might be a factor. Retreatment with tenofovir (n = 3) resulted in a rapid decline in HBV-DNA. Tenofovir is a potent antiviral drug. Switching to adefovir resulted in viral relapse in 60% of patients and retreatment with tenofovir resulted again in viral decline, which suggests that tenofovir is a more potent antiviral agent.
