Resveratrol (Res) has attracted great interest regarding its effects related to metabolic syndrome, especially for lipid metabolic disorder or insulin resistance; however, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. To explore the effects of Res on insulin sensitivity and the underlying mechanism, insulin-resistant KKA(y) mice were treated with 2 and 4 g/kg diets of Res for 12 weeks. After the treatment, blood glucose, serum insulin, glucose tolerance, and insulin tolerance, as well as other indices such as adiponectin mRNA in epididymal adipose tissues, silent information regulator 1 (Sirt1), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1), and phosphorylated protein kinase B (PKB/AKT) proteins in liver and soleus muscles, were investigated. The results indicate that Res intervention reduces blood glucose and serum insulin levels, improves insulin and glucose tolerance, increases serum adiponectin and adiponectin mRNA levels in epididymal adipose tissues, and more importantly, elevates Sirt1, p-AMPK, p-IRS1, and p-AKT levels in liver and soleus muscles. In conclusion, Res could improve insulin sensitivity and ameliorate insulin resistance in KKA(y) mice, which may be associated with the upregulation of Sirt1 protein in liver and soleus muscles and consequent AMPK activation, as well as insulin-signaling related proteins.
Among persons who receive solid organ transplants, liver transplant recipients have the highest incidence of invasive fungal infection; however, no antifungal prophylaxis has been proven to be effective.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of prophylactic fluconazole in liver transplant recipients.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
University-affiliated transplantation center.
212 liver transplant recipients who received fluconazole (400 mg/d) or placebo until 10 weeks after transplantation.
Fungal colonization, proven superficial or invasive fungal infection, drug-related side effects, and death.
Fungal colonization increased in patients who received placebo (from 60% to 90%) but decreased in patients who received fluconazole (from 70% to 28%). Proven fungal infection occurred in 45 of 104 placebo recipients (43%) but in only 10 of 108 fluconazole recipients (9%) (P < 0.001). Fluconazole prevented both superficial infection (29 of 104 placebo recipients became infected [28%] compared with 4 of 108 fluconazole recipients [4%]; P < 0.001) and invasive infection (24 of 104 placebo recipients became infected [23%] compared with 6 of 108 fluconazole recipients [6%]; P < 0.001). Fluconazole prevented infection by most Candida species, except C. glabrata. However, infection and colonization by organisms intrinsically resistant to fluconazole did not seem to increase. Fluconazole was not associated with any hepatotoxicity. Patients receiving fluconazole had higher serum cyclosporine levels and more adverse neurologic events (headaches, tremors, or seizures in 13 fluconazole recipients compared with 3 placebo recipients; P = 0.01). Although the overall mortality rate was similar in both groups (12 of 108 [11%] in the fluconazole group compared with 15 of 104 [14%] in the placebo group; P > 0.2), fewer deaths related to invasive fungal infection were seen in the fluconazole group (2 of 108 patients [2%]) than in the placebo group (13 of 104 patients [13%]) (P = 0.003).
Prophylactic fluconazole after liver transplantation decreases fungal colonization, prevents superficial and invasive fungal infections, and has no appreciable hepatotoxicity. Although fluconazole prophylaxis is associated with fewer deaths from fungal infection, it does not improve overall survival. Patients receiving prophylactic fluconazole require close monitoring of serum cyclosporine levels to avoid neurologic toxicity.
Most patients experience a significant reduction in pain after rotator cuff repair. However, there is currently no method to predict the level of pain reduction that each patient will experience. This report explores the usefulness of the modified impingement test for prognosis in cases of rotator cuff repair.
The amount of pain reduction after injection of lidocaine into the subacromial space preoperatively correlates with the level of pain reduction after rotator cuff repair.
Cohort study (prognosis); Level of evidence, 2.
Preoperatively, a visual analog scale for pain was measured in 153 patients (59 males and 94 females) with a rotator cuff tear before and after injection of lidocaine into the subacromial space. Subsequently, rotator cuff repair was performed. At least 1 year after surgery, the visual analog scale for pain and satisfaction, Constant score, Simple Shoulder Test, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score, and University of California, Los Angeles shoulder rating scale were evaluated. Correlation analyses were performed between the change in visual analog scale after the modified impingement test and after surgery.
The amount of pain reduction after the modified impingement test was significantly related to improvement of pain postoperatively (P < .001), as measured using the visual analog scale for pain. The change in ASES score was also related to the amount of pain reduction after the modified impingement test (P = .001); however, the other tests showed no statistical significance (P > .05). Univariate regression analysis revealed that a 0.621-unit reduction in postoperative pain on the visual analog scale could be expected for each 1 unit (on a scale of 10) reduction in pain after lidocaine injection preoperatively.
The amount of pain reduction after the modified impingement test preoperatively correlated with the improvement of pain after rotator cuff repair. This simple preoperative test could help patients understand the subjective level of pain reduction that they may experience after rotator cuff repair.
Morphological alterations occasionally found in the myocardium of methamphetamine (MAP) abusers include hypertrophy, atrophy, disarrangement of myofibrils and fibrosis. These cardiac alterations have been thought to be due to an indirect action of MAP via catecholamines released by MAP administration. However, the direct effect of MAP on cardiomyocytes is not clear. In previous studies, we showed that cell size of isolated adult rat ventricular cardiomyocytes (ARCs) exposed to MAP was larger than that of untreated cells in culture supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum (FCS). In this study, to determine further the direct effect of MAP on cardiomyocytes, cultured ARCs were exposed to 0.05, 0.1 and 0.5 mM MAP for 7 days in culture medium without FCS following 6-day normal culture in medium containing FCS. Myocyte size was measured and microtubular (MT) structures which were associated with functional disorder of hearts were immunohistochemically observed using confocal microscopy. The size in treated ARCs significantly increased time- and dose-dependently as compared with untreated cells, but it decreased 7 days after exposure to 0.5 mM MAP. The increases in cell size, however, were lower than that in serum-supplemented cultures. MT structures in intact ARCs appeared as a filamentous network throughout the cytoplasm and around the nucleus. MAP exposure for 3 days promoted MT assembly, but in 7-day treated cells, MT and actin structures were injured. These results suggested that MAP directly induced cellular hypertrophy and might lead to cardiac functional disorder.
We investigated therapeutic effects of 4-methylcatechol (4-MC), a non-amine catechol compound, on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic neuropathy in rats. 4-MC is one of the potent stimulators of endogenous nerve growth factor (NGF) synthesis both in vitro and in vivo. Diabetic rats showed a statistically significant reduction in motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV), mean myelinated axon diameter, and NGF content in the sciatic nerve during the experimental period of 8 weeks. The 4-MC treatment started 4 weeks after the STZ injection resulted in significantly greater NGF content, faster MNCV, and larger mean myelinated nerve fiber diameter and axon diameter than in untreated diabetic rats. These findings suggest that a decreased NGF level in the diabetic sciatic nerves may be involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy and that 4-MC treatment could be useful for diabetic neuropathy.
Although modest hypokalemia is frequently observed in asthmatic patients being treated with bronchodilators, profound hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis are rarely reported in patients receiving high-dose hydrocortisone (HC). We describe a 66-year-old man who complained of generalized muscle weakness, shallow respiration, and palpitations after receiving high-dose intravenous HC (total dose, 2400 mg over 4 days) to treat a severe asthma attack. During this therapy, there was a weight gain of 1.0 kg. An electrocardiogram revealed ventricular arrhythmia with frequent premature ventricular contractions. Hypokalemia was profound, with plasma potassium (K+) concentration of 1.7 mEq/L, and associated with renal potassium wasting, as evidenced by a transtubular potassium concentration gradient of 12; metabolic alkalosis (plasma HCO3-, 37 mEq/L) was also present. When treated with spironolactone, KCl supplementation, and substitution of HC with prednisolone, his plasma K+ concentration rapidly normalized, metabolic alkalosis was corrected, and arrhythmia disappeared within 3 days. Because of unwanted mineralocorticoid side-effects, high-dose HC may cause life-threatening hypokalemia in asthmatic patients. Because of these potential risks, plasma acid-base and electrolyte concentrations should be monitored frequently in any patient treated with high-dose HC.
Long-term survival of cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons requires depolarizing concentrations of potassium (high potassium; 25 mM KCl). A high-potassium culturing condition has been reported to increase the intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) and the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which in turn induces the expression of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) in these neurons. We therefore examined the neurotrophic effect of these two neurotrophins in low-potassium (5 mM) cultures and their neuroprotective capabilities against sodium nitroprusside-induced neurotoxicity in both low- and high-potassium cultures. Neuronal survival and neurotrophic effects were monitored by [3H]ouabain binding and 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assays. In low-potassium cultures, the neurotrophic effect of BDNF approached that found in high-potassium cultures but was much more robust than that of NT-3. In contrast, undifferentiated neurons cultured in high-potassium medium were much less responsive to BDNF and not responsive at all to NT-3. Induction of nitroprusside neurotoxicity occurred more readily in low- than in high-potassium cultures. BDNF, NT-3, and a high potassium concentration, alone or in combination, were unable to protect neurons treated with nitroprusside at 50 or 100 microM. However, the neurotoxicity of a lower dose of nitroprusside (10 microM) was reversed by the combined actions of these two neurotrophins in low-potassium cultures and by BDNF alone in high-potassium cultures. Because nitroprusside neurotoxicity is less robust in high-potassium cultures, high-potassium-induced BDNF expression and subsequent NT-3 expression may participate in its neuroprotection and neurotrophism in these cultures. Also, we found that toxic doses of nitroprusside antagonized KCl- and NMDA-induced rises in [Ca2+]i, suggesting that this effect is related to nitroprusside-induced neurotoxicity.
Dentate granule cell axon (mossy fiber) sprouting is a common abnormality in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Mossy fiber sprouting creates an aberrant positive-feedback network among granule cells that does not normally exist. Its role in epileptogenesis is unclear and controversial. If it were possible to block mossy fiber sprouting from developing after epileptogenic treatments, its potential role in the pathogenesis of epilepsy could be tested. Previous attempts to block mossy fiber sprouting have been unsuccessful. The present study targeted the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway, which regulates cell growth and is blocked by rapamycin. Rapamycin was focally, continuously, and unilaterally infused into the dorsal hippocampus for prolonged periods beginning within hours after rats sustained pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Infusion for 1 month reduced aberrant Timm staining (a marker of mossy fibers) in the granule cell layer and molecular layer. Infusion for 2 months inhibited mossy fiber sprouting more. However, after rapamycin infusion ceased, aberrant Timm staining developed and approached untreated levels. When onset of infusion began after mossy fiber sprouting had developed for 2 months, rapamycin did not reverse aberrant Timm staining. These findings suggest that inhibition of the mTOR signaling pathway suppressed development of mossy fiber sprouting. However, suppression required continual treatment, and rapamycin treatment did not reverse already established axon reorganization.
Intra-accumbens infusion of pertussis toxin (PTX) results in a progressive and persistent locomotor hyperactivity and sensitizes rats to the locomotor-activating effects of cocaine. The present study further defined the hyperactivity resulting from inactivation of accumbens Gi/Go proteins and tested the hypothesis that PTX-induced hyperactivity is mediated by dopamine D1 receptors. PTX (0.15 microg/side) infused bilaterally into the nucleus accumbens of rats resulted in a progressive increase in locomotor activity that peaked at 218% of preinjection activity levels 15 days after injection and persisted for greater than 5 weeks postinjection. Administration of the D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 16 and 23 days after PTX injections dose dependently attenuated PTX-induced hyperactivity. D1 receptor blockade did not significantly alter activity in sham-injected animals. These findings support the hypothesis that the hyperactivity resulting from PTX-mediated inactivation of G(i/o) proteins reflects increased nucleus accumbens D1 receptor activation and suggest that striatal D1 receptors are important mediators of activity-related behavior, such as cocaine-induced hyperactivity.
The dramatic increase in cocaine use over the past decade has led to a concern about its possible teratogenicity. We have identified 6 structural fetal anomalies which we postulate may have cocaine-induced vascular accidents as the teratogenic mechanism: 2 complex choroid plexus cysts, gastroschisis, meconium peritonitis, urethral stenosis, and radial hypoplasia. Two additional anomalous neonates were born to perinatal cocaine users. Eight of 51 (15.7%) cocaine-exposed perinates exhibited anomalies versus 120 of 2,194 (5.4%) perinates without known cocaine exposure during this time period. This represents a 3-fold relative risk (RR = 2.87, OR = 3.22, chi square = 9.68, p < 0.005) for the cocaine-exposed fetus. Subjects were all identified as cocaine users prior to ultrasound-detected anomaly and ultrasonologists were blinded to maternal drug history. The vascular disruption model as the plausible mechanism for cocaine-associated teratogenesis is supported by the type of anomalies reported. In addition, cocaine use was prospectively determined to have occurred at the critical developmental period in each case.
Benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) is known to be carcinogenic and teratogenic. Several epidemiological and animal studies report that BaP causes neurological abnormalities; however, the mechanism of BaP-induced impairment of nervous system development and function, particularly in fish, remains unclear. In this study, Sebastiscus marmoratus embryos were exposed to BaP at environmental levels (0.5, 5 and 25 nmol/L) for 7 days. The results show disruption of the cranial innervation pattern. The expression of calmodulin (CaM) and Ca(2+)/calmodulin dependent kinase II (CaMKII) was decreased in a dose-dependent manner. BaP exposure reduced the levels of ACh and ChAT and promoted the activity of AChE. In addition, BaP exposure decreased NO concentration in all treatments and increased the activity of NOS in the 0.5 and 5 nmol/L groups. These results suggest that BaP could decrease the expression CaM and CaMKII mRNA and NO, which would perturb the cholinergic system and disrupt nervous system development.
The deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC) gene predicts a poor outcome for patients with colorectal carcinoma. This study was designed to investigate whether the expression of the DCC protein also can predict response to adjuvant chemotherapy.
The expression of DCC was evaluated immunohistochemically in 74 paraffin-embedded tumor samples from patients with Stage II (n = 41) and Stage III (n = 33) colorectal carcinomas. Follow-up time was at least 60 (median, 64) months. Follow-up was at least five years for all patients who are alive. End points of the study were recurrence of disease and death. Forty-eight patients received adjuvant therapy of 5-fluorouracil + levamisole; 28 were not treated.
Fifty percent of tumors were deleted in colorectal cancer-positive (DCC+). Proportion of survival and disease-free survival were higher in the DCC+ patients (83 percent) than in deleted in colorectal cancer-negative (DCC-; 54 percent). In the DCC+ group, adjuvant treatment was a strong positive predictive factor for survival and disease-free survival. All DCC+ patients who received adjuvant chemotherapy (CHEMO+) are alive with no evidence of disease, whereas without chemotherapy (CHEMO-) only 54 percent are alive ( P = 0.0001). When stratification was performed by stage, patients in Stage II who were DCC+/CHEMO+ had survival and disease-free survival of 100 percent, whereas in DCC+/CHEMO- survival rate was 75 percent and disease-free survival rate 62 percent ( P = 0.042). Patients in Stage III who were DCC+/ CHEMO+ had survival and disease-free survival of 100 percent, whereas in DCC+/CHEMO- both dropped to zero ( P = 0.0002). On the other hand, in the DCC- tumors, there was no statistical significant relationship between chemotherapy and survival or disease-free survival (DCC-/CHEMO- had 57 percent survival; DCC-/CHEMO+ had 52 percent survival).
DCC is a prognostic factor for colorectal cancer. Positive expression of DCC identifies a subgroup of patients who respond favorably to adjuvant chemotherapy, which resulted in our cases, in 100 percent survival and disease-free survival rates. Without treatment, the survival rate of DCC+ patients dropped significantly. We suggest that DCC immunostaining should be performed routinely. All DCC+ patients should receive adjuvant chemotherapy. For DCC- tumors, a larger cohort of patients should be studied before definitive conclusions can be drawn; however, clinical trials of new drug combinations should focus on DCC- patients.
The effect of nifedipine and interleukin-alpha (IL-1alpha) on the cell proliferation and DNA synthesis was studied in human gingival fibroblasts derived from 5 patients who developed gingival overgrowth (nifedipine responders) and 5 patients who did not develop gingival overgrowth (nifedipine non-responders) in response to nifedipine. Epidermal growth factor was used as a positive control. The fibroblasts derived from nifedipine responders tended to have a numerically greater rate of cell proliferation and DNA synthesis (3H-thymidine incorporation) than those from nifedipine nonresponders in the presence of nifedipine and IL-lalpha. Fibroblasts derived from nifedipine responders showed significantly higher cell proliferation rate in the presence of nifedipine and IL-1alpha, than nifedipine or IL-lalpha alone on both the second and the fourth day of incubation (P < 0.05). A combination of IL-1alpha and epidermal growth factor also showed significantly greater cell proliferation than IL-lalpha alone on the second day (P < 0.05). The DNA synthesis rate with a combination of nifedipine and IL-1alpha was higher than that for nifedipine alone on the second day (P < 0.01), and IL-1alpha alone on the fourth day (P < 0.05) in gingival fibroblasts originating from nifedipine responders. These results suggest that the interaction between nifedipine and gingival inflammation might play an important role in the pathogenesis of nifedipine-induced gingival overgrowth.
We report a case of severe intoxication with extended-release verapamil. In addition to cardiovascular toxicities with hypotension, atrioventricular block and bradycardia, the patient suffered from grand-mal seizure and pulmonary edema 13 and 48 hours respectively, after ingestion of 4.8 g of extended-release verapamil. Adverse reactions after intoxications with extended-release tablets appear delayed with prolonged manifestation of symptoms. Early and repetitive administration of activated charcoal and antegrade whole bowel lavage are crucial, even in primary asymptomatic patients.
The present study examined the effect of chronic exposure to Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) on heroin-induced locomotor sensitisation and Fos-immunoreactivity (Fos-IR). Adult male albino Wistar rats (n=60) were injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) 21 times with vehicle, 0.05, 0.5, or 5.0mg/kg THC (once every 48 h for 41 days). Locomotor activity was assessed for 180 min on pre-exposure days 1, 21, and 41. Following a 2-week washout period, rats were divided into five equal groups (n=12) and injected subcutaneously (s.c.) with vehicle or heroin (0.5mg/kg). Locomotor activity was recorded for 240 min. In drug-naïve rats, heroin significantly increased locomotor activity. THC pre-exposure further increased heroin-induced locomotion. After an interval of 2 weeks, rats pre-exposed to vehicle and 5.0mg/kg THC in the first part of the experiment were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups (n=6) and injected s.c. with vehicle or 0.5mg/kg heroin and perfused 2h later. Fos-IR was examined in several brain regions. Acute heroin increased Fos-IR in drug-naïve rats in the caudate-putamen (CPu; central, medial and dorsomedial regions), nucleus accumbens (NAC; core and shell regions), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), lateral septum, central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA), periaqueductal grey (PAG; dorsolateral, dorsomedial, and lateral), and the Edinger-Westphal nucleus. Pre-exposure to THC significantly increased heroin-induced Fos-IR in the dorsomedial CPu and the NAC (core). Conversely, THC pre-exposure reduced heroin-induced Fos-IR in the BNST, CEA, and the PAG (dorsolateral and lateral). The present study demonstrates that THC pre-exposure increases the locomotor stimulating effects of heroin and provides new evidence for the neural correlates that may underlie cannabinoid and opioid cross-sensitisation.
Diisopropyl fluorophosphate (DFP) causes neurotoxicity related to an irreversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Management of this intoxication includes: (i) pretreatment with reversible blockers of AChE, (ii) blockade of muscarinic receptors with atropine, and (iii) facilitation of GABA(A) receptor signal transduction by benzodiazepines. The major disadvantage associated with this treatment combination is that it must to be repeated frequently and, in some cases, protractedly. Also, the use of diazepam (DZP) and congeners includes unwanted side effects, including sedation, amnesia, cardiorespiratory depression, and anticonvulsive tolerance. To avoid these treatment complications but safely protect against DFP-induced seizures and other CNS toxicity, we adopted the strategy of administering mice with (i) small doses of huperzine A (HUP), a reversible and long-lasting (half-life approximately 5 h) inhibitor of AChE, and (ii) imidazenil (IMI), a potent positive allosteric modulator of GABA action selective for alpha(5)-containing GABA(A) receptors. Coadministration of HUP (50 microg/kg s.c., 15 min before DFP) with IMI (2 mg/kg s.c., 30 min before DFP) prevents DFP-induced convulsions and the associated neuronal damage and mortality, allowing complete recovery within 18-24 h. In HUP-pretreated mice, the ED(50) of IMI to block DFP-induced mortality is approximately 10 times lower than that of DZP and is devoid of sedation. Our data show that a combination of HUP with IMI is a prophylactic, potent, and safe therapeutic strategy to overcome DFP toxicity.
The unique case of severe chronic cholestasis with paucity of bile ducts accompanied by pure red cell aplasia and the Stevens-Johnson syndrome in a 35-year-old woman after ampicillin ingestion is presented. The patient improved gradually and is asymptomatic 4 years later. Sequential histological and clinical follow-up substantiate the course of her disease.
Hypernatraemia over 160 mmol/L is considered to be severe. This case reports a patient who developed extreme hypernatraemia with a serum sodium concentration of 196 mmol/L. The patient was known to have chronic renal impairment and was admitted with acute deterioration of renal function secondary to dehydration. This was considered to be secondary to poor oral fluid intake (related to depression) and lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus with salt-losing nephropathy. The patient had a high urinary sodium excretion but was also in a pure water losing state as evidenced by an inappropriately low urine osmolality for the plasma osmolality and was successfully treated with hypotonic intravenous fluid and desmopressin.
