Diltiazem is widely used to prevent radial artery spasm after coronary bypass grafting (CABG). However, recent in vitro and in vivo studies have shown that nitroglycerin is a superior conduit vasodilator compared to diltiazem. A clinical comparison of these agents in patients undergoing CABG has not been previously performed.
One hundred sixty-one consecutive patients undergoing isolated CABG with the radial artery were prospectively randomized to 24-hour intravenous infusion of nitroglycerin or diltiazem followed by 6-month treatment with a daily dose of isosorbide mononitrate (n = 84) or diltiazem CD (n = 77). Analyses were performed on "intention-to-treat" basis.
Crossovers because of low cardiac output, complete heart block, or sinus bradycardia occurred in 5 patients in the diltiazem group and none in the nitroglycerin group (p = 0.05). Operative mortality (nitroglycerin, 1.2% versus diltiazem, 1.3%), major morbidity (14% versus 16%), perioperative myocardial infarction (1.2% versus 0%), peak serum creatinine phosphokinase MB fraction levels (27 versus 21 U), intensive care unit stay (34+/-19 versus 38+/-30 hours) and total hospital length of stay (4.7+/-1.4 versus 4.7+/-1.3 days) were similar (p = not significant for all). Cardiac pacing was required more often in the diltiazem group (28% versus 13%, p = 0.01). Follow-up longer than 2 months was available in 145 patients (90%). Follow-up mortality (nitroglycerin, 1.2%; diltiazem, 1.3%), myocardial infarction (6%, versus 5%), and reintervention (8% versus 6%) rates and average angina class (1.3+/-0.7 versus 1.1+/-0.4) were similar (p = not significant for all). Thallium stress test obtained in 117 patients showed abnormal perfusion in the radial artery territory in only 4 patients (3%), 2 in each group (p = not significant). Treatment with diltiazem was more costly ($16,340 versus $1,096).
Nitroglycerin is preferable to diltiazem for prevention of conduit spasm. Nitroglycerin is safe, effective, better tolerated, and less costly than diltiazem, and therefore, should be the agent of choice.
Three preterm infants exposed antenatally to indomethacin developed a characteristic syndrome consisting of edema and hydrops with a bleeding disorder at birth, oliguric renal failure during the first 3 postnatal days, and acute pneumoperitoneum resulting from localized ileal perforation(s) at the end of the first week of life. Despite the value of indomethacin for arresting preterm labor, the physician must take into account the potential hazards of drug toxicity.
The main aim of this study was to evaluate whether microRNA (miRNA) profiling could be a useful tool for in vitro developmental neurotoxicity (DNT) testing. Therefore, to identify the possible DNT biomarkers among miRNAs, we have studied the changes in miRNA expressions in a mixed neuronal/glial culture derived from carcinoma pluripotent stem cells (NT2 cell line) after exposure to methyl mercury chloride (MeHgCl) during the process of neuronal differentiation (2-36 days in vitro (DIV1)). The neuronal differentiation triggered by exposure to retinoic acid (RA) was characterized in the control culture by mRNA expression analysis of neuronal specific markers such as MAP2, NF-200, Tubulin βIII, MAPT-tau, synaptophysin as well as excitatory (NMDA, AMPA) and inhibitory (GABA) receptors. The results obtained from the miRNA expression analysis have identified the presence of a miRNA signature which is specific for neural differentiation in the control culture and another for the response to MeHgCl-induced toxicity. In differentiated neuronal control cultures, we observed the downregulation of the stemness phenotype-linked miR-302 cluster and the overexpression of several miRNAs specific for neuronal differentiation (e.g. let-7, miR-125b and miR-132). In the cultures exposed to MeHgCl (400 nM), we observed an overexpression of a signature composed of five miRNAs (miR-302b, miR-367, miR-372, miR-196b and miR-141) that are known to be involved in the regulation of developmental processes and cellular stress response mechanisms. Using gene ontology term and pathway enrichment analysis of the validated targets of the miRNAs deregulated by the toxic treatment, the possible effect of MeHgCl exposure on signalling pathways involved in axon guidance and learning and memory processes was revealed. The obtained data suggest that miRNA profiling could provide simplified functional evaluation of the toxicity pathways involved in developmental neurotoxicity in comparison with the transcriptomics studies.
Some antihistamines, such as mizolastine and ebastine, can prolong the QT interval and provoke severe cardiac arrhythmias. This review examines the effects of two widely used antihistamines, cetirizine and loratadine, on the QT interval. As of mid 2009 very few clinical data had been published on the risk of QT prolongation with cetirizine or loratadine. The very rare reported cases of torsades de pointes linked to loratadine mainly appear to involve drug interactions, especially with amiodarone and enzyme inhibitors. We found no reports of QT prolongation attributed to desloratadine, the main metabolite of loratadine. Two cases of QT prolongation with cetirizine have been published, one of which involved overdose and renal failure. The reports are too vague to conclude that cetirizine was implicated. We found no reports of QT prolongation attributed to levocetirizine. Cetirizine is a metabolite of hydroxyzine, another antihistamine. In the 1960s, a study of patients with psychosis showed a risk of QT prolongation. A case of recurrent syncope with QT prolongation has since been reported, along with rare cases of cardiac arrhythmia. In practice, cetirizine and loratadine are first-line antihistamines. However, caution is needed in certain circumstances. In particular, it is best that patients who have risk factors for torsades de pointes or who are taking certain enzyme inhibitors avoid using loratadine. It is best to avoid using cetirizine in cases of renal failure.
1-Bromopropane (1-BP) intoxication is associated with depression and cognitive and memory deficits. The present study tested the hypothesis that 1-BP suppresses neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus, which is involved in higher cerebral function, in adult rats.
Four groups of 12 male Wistar rats were exposed to 0, 400, 800, 1000 ppm 1-BP, 8 h/day for 7 days. Another four groups of six rats each were exposed to 0, 400, 800 and 1000 ppm 1-BP for 2 weeks followed by 0, 200, 400 and 800 ppm for another 2 weeks, respectively. Another four groups of six rats each were exposed to 0, 200, 400 and 800 ppm 1-BP for 4 weeks. Rats were injected with 5-bromo-2'-deoxy-uridine (BrdU) after 4-week exposure at 1000/800 ppm to examine neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus by immunostaining. We measured factors known to affect neurogenesis, including monoamine levels, and mRNA expression levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR), in different brain regions.
BrdU-positive cells were significantly lower in the 800/1000 ppm-4-week group than the control. 1-Week exposure to 1-BP at 800 and 1000 ppm significantly reduced noradrenalin level in the striatum. Four-week exposure at 800 ppm significantly decreased noradrenalin levels in the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and striatum. 1-BP also reduced hippocampal BDNF and GR mRNA levels.
Long-term exposure to 1-BP decreased neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus. Downregulation of BDNF and GR mRNA expression and low hippocampal norepinephrine levels might contribute, at least in part, to the reduced neurogenesis.
Adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) is a severe chemotherapy-resistant malignancy associated with prolonged infection by the human T cell-lymphotropic virus 1 (HTLV-1) retrovirus. Epidemiology studies strongly indicate that an increase in HTLV-1 virus load is an important factor during the onset of ATL. Therefore, inhibition of the growth/transmission of HTLV-1 infected cells is a promising strategy in preventing the disease. In our previous study, we revealed that arsenic trioxide (As2O3), a drug used to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), exerts an inhibitory effect on syncytium formation between HTLV-1 infected cells and HeLa cells via suppression of HTLV-1 envelope protein gp46 expression at low concentrations. In this study, we analyze the mechanism of action of As2O3 using a proteomics approach. Our results suggest that down-regulation of gp46 might be related to As2O3-induced oxidation of the 71-kDa heat shock cognate protein (HSC70) and the 78-kDa glucose-regulated protein (BiP/GRP78). We postulate that AS2O3 exerts an inhibitory effect on HTLV-1 virus transmission via down-regulation of gp46-production, which might be caused by oxidative modification of various proteins such as chaperones.
The psychotomimetic drug phencyclidine (PCP) induces symptoms closely related to those of schizophrenia in humans. In order to test the hypothesis that cytokines may be involved in the aetiology and treatment of schizophrenia, this study investigated the levels of cytokine mRNAs in rat brain after acute and chronic administration of PCP, in the presence and absence of antipsychotic drugs. The levels of the mRNAs encoding TNF, IL-2, IL-6, TGF 1, 2, 3, IL-3 and GM-CSF were measured in the prefrontal cortex, cortex, hippocampus, ventral and dorsal striatum regions of male hooded Long Evans rats after acute drug administration. Antipsychotic drugs and PCP significantly reduced the levels of TNF in the prefrontal cortex compared to vehicle-treated animals, whilst other cytokines remained unchanged. In addition, significant reductions in the levels of TNF mRNA in the prefrontal cortex still occurred 24h after acute PCP administration. However, levels of TNF mRNA were restored to control values after chronic PCP treatment, whereas increased expression was detected in animals co-administered with haloperidol. Levels of TNF mRNA were also found to be significantly increased in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenic subjects. The relationship between TNF levels and schizophrenia are discussed.
Catechol estrogens may mediate estrogen-induced carcinogenesis because 4-hydroxyestradiol induces DNA damage and renal tumors in hamsters, and this metabolite is formed in the kidney and estrogen target tissues by a specific estrogen 4-hydroxylase. We examined the carcinogenic potential of catechol estrogen in an experimental model previously reported to result in a high incidence of uterine adenocarcinoma after neonatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol. Outbred female CD-1 mice were treated with 2- or 4-hydroxyestradiol, 17beta-estradiol, or 17alpha-ethinyl estradiol on days 1-5 of neonatal life (2 microg/pup/day) and sacrificed at 12 or 18 months of age. Mice treated with 17beta-estradiol or 17a-ethinyl estradiol had a total uterine tumor incidence of 7% or 43%, respectively. 2-Hydroxyestradiol induced tumors in 12% of the mice, but 4-hydroxyestradiol was the most carcinogenic estrogen, with a 66% incidence of uterine adenocarcinoma. Both 2- and 4-hydroxylated catechols were estrogenic and increased uterine wet weights in these neonates. These data demonstrate that both 2- and 4-hydroxyestradiol are carcinogenic metabolites. The high tumor incidence induced by 4-hydroxyestradiol supports the postulated role of this metabolite in hormone-associated cancers.
Thrombophilic disorders that predispose patients to develop blood clots can be life-threatening and result in a large economic burden on healthcare expenditures. Venous Thromboembolism(VTE) (deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) are the third leading cause of death in the United States. Protein C deficiency is a common thrombophilic condition that affects an estimated 1 in 400 Americans. Zymogen Protein C (ZPC) is the precursor to Activated Protein C (APC), a pivotal endogenous anticoagulant in human blood. Patients with protein C deficiency who have roughly half the normal level of protein C are estimated to be at 10-fold increased risk of VTE. We describe the use of protein C concentrate (Ceprotin®, Baxter, Deerfield, IL) in a patient with protein C deficiency and with a previous pulmonary embolism who developed a life-threatening gastrointestinal bleed after polypectomy. The patient is a 75-year-old male at very high risk for deep vein thrombosis and possible lung emboli. He has heterozygous Protein C deficiency (50%) and heterozygosity for the prothrombin gene G20210A mutation. During a routine colonoscopy, a large 3 cm cecal polyp was identified and resected. Eight days post-procedure while performing abdominal exercise he developed a life-threatening GI bleed originating from the polypectomy site as his warfarin was becoming therapeutic on a Low Molecular Weight Heparin (LMWH) periprocedural bridge. The patient's warfarin was reversed with vitamin K, and LMWH and warfarin were discontinued. To prevent thrombosis, he was started on ZPC until anticoagulation could be safely restarted. During endoscopy, the bleeding site was treated with an injection of 1:10,000 dilution of epinephrine, followed by cauterization and placement of endoclips (4 metal staples). Three days after endoscopic repair LMWH was restarted with warfarin. Sixteen months post-bleed, the patient remains on life-long warfarin without further episodes of bleeding or thrombosis. Zymogen Protein C concentrate (Ceprotin®, Baxter Deerfield, IL) should be strongly considered for peri-procedural management of any patient with protein C deficiency and previous thromboembolism.
1. Hearing impairment was investigated in six healthy volunteers who received oral doses of 5, 10 and 15 mg kg-1 quinine single-blind and in random order. 2. The plasma concentration of quinine was followed for 48 h and the time course was fitted by a linear one compartment pharmacokinetic model. 3. Hearing thresholds were measured by pure tone audiometry. There was a delay between impairment in hearing and change in plasma quinine concentration. Thus the method of effect compartment modelling was applied. 4. The effect on hearing (L), measured as a shift in hearing threshold (dB), was used to estimate the rate constant for elimination of drug from the assumed effect compartment (ke0) and two parameters specifying the effect model (gamma and k). The effect model applied was L = 10 (log k + gamma x log Ce) where Ce is the calculated drug concentration in the effect compartment. This model is a logarithmic transform of a power expression equivalent to the Hill equation at the lower end of the effect range. In all experiments where there was a clear effect on hearing, convergence on a set of parameter estimates occurred, but inter- and intraindividual variability was large. The mean value of ke0 was 3.32 +/- 5.93 h-1 s.d., for gamma it was 1.73 +/- 1.14 s.d. and for k it was 0.59 +/- 0.66 s.d.
The role of Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway in the etiology and/or progression of ovarian cancer has been well documented. It was demonstrated that ovarian cancer constantly exhibit constitutive activation of canonical Wnt signaling, usually as a result of oncogenic mutations that stabilize and dysregulate the β-catenin protein. In this study, we transfected an expression vector-based small hairpin RNA (shRNA) targeting to β-catenin encoding gene into human A2780 ovarian cancer cells to investigate the effects of β-catenin knockdown on biological characteristics of ovarian cancer cells. The results showed that β-catenin shRNA expression resulted in decreased β-catenin mRNA and protein expression in the transfected A2780 cells, inhibition of cellular proliferation, decreased capability of clonogenicity in the plating and the soft agar, and increased sensitivities to chemotherapy drugs vincristine, paclitaxel and cisplatin compared to untransfected cells. Importantly, we found that shRNA-mediated knockdown of β-catenin strongly decreases tumour growth of human A2780 ovarian cancer cells in xenografts. These results demonstrate that β-catenin might be an effective therapeutic target for human ovarian cancer treatment.
There is a paucity of research on the psychosocial and behavioral characteristics of individuals who inject methamphetamine (meth). The present study compared injection and non-injection users of meth in terms of background characteristics, drug use patterns, health and social problems, sexual risk behavior, and psychosocial factors. The sample consisted of 194 HIV+Men who have Sex with Men (MSM) who were enrolled in a sexual risk reduction intervention for meth users. Men who injected meth were significantly more likely to be Caucasian, bisexual, homeless, divorced/separated, with lower educational attainment as compared to non-injectors. Injectors also reported more years of meth use, greater frequency and amount of meth use, more social and health problems, including higher prevalence of STDs and Hepatitis C, and more sexual risk behaviors. In terms of psychosocial factors, injection users of meth scored significantly higher on measures of impulsivity and experiences of rejection, and lower on a measure of emotional support. A multivariate logistic regression revealed that educational attainment and experiences of rejection were the factors that best discriminated between injection and non-injection users of meth. The unique characteristics of injection meth users are discussed in relation to the development of effective HIV prevention programs for the target population.
Abuse of the stimulant drug methamphetamine is associated with neural injury and neuropsychological (NP) deficits, while the residual effects of marijuana use remain uncertain. We sought to determine if methamphetamine dependent persons who also met criteria for marijuana abuse or dependence evidenced different NP performance than those with dependence for methamphetamine alone. We examined three groups that did not differ significantly on important demographic factors: (1) subjects with a history of methamphetamine dependence and history of marijuana abuse/dependence (METH+/MJ+, n=27); (2) methamphetamine dependent subjects without history of marijuana abuse/dependence (METH+/MJ-, n=26); (3) a control group with minimal or no drug use (n=41). A comprehensive NP battery was administered and performance was quantified for five cognitive ability areas. The METH+/MJ- group generally demonstrated the greatest NP impairment, with statistically significant differences observed between the METH+/MJ- and control group in learning, retention/retrieval, and a summary score of global NP performance. The METH+/MJ+ group did not differ significantly from the control or METH+/MJ- group on any NP ability. However, there was a significant linear trend in the global NP score suggesting that the METH+/MJ+ performed intermediate to the control and METH+/MJ- groups. Based on these findings, we cannot conclude that there is a protective effect of marijuana use in methamphetamine users; however, marijuana use clearly did not appear to exacerbate methamphetamine neurotoxicity. Further investigations are needed to determine if the emerging literature, suggesting that certain cannabinoids might have neuroprotective actions, is generalizable to community-dwelling substance abusers.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) metabolic enzymes may be involved in the development of human cancer. Genetic polymorphisms have been reported in GSTM1, GSTM3, and GSTT1 with functional alterations and influencing cancer risk.
We analyzed DNA samples from 335 (670 alleles) unrelated individuals, 185 community control subjects, and 150 prostate cancer (PC) patients, for GSTM1, GSTM3, and GSTT1 genotypes using polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
The analysis of the frequencies from the 670 alleles indicates that men carrying two B-alleles (GSTM3) have increased risk for PC (OR = 5.50, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.2-25.8; P = 0.016). Multivariate logistic regression analysis confirmed this association (OR = 5.2, 95% CI 1.1-25.0; P = 0.036). No increased PC risk was observed for men carrying any of the GSTM1 or GSTT1 genotypes (OR = 1.20, 95% CI 0.75-1.90; P = 0.420 for GSTM1 null and OR = 0.87, 95% CI 0.50-1.51; P = 0.550 for GSTM1 null). However, GSTT1 null was overrepresented in men with advanced PC disease (P = 0.038).
Our results indicate that polymorphism in the GSTM3 may be an important biomarker for PC risk, especially in the definition of the genetic risk profile of populations of southern Europe.
1. Chronic ouabain administration increases blood pressure and produces a positive inotropic effect. However, the temporal changes capable of affecting both arterial and ventricular pressures and myosin ATPase activity during the induced hypertension have not been determined. 2. The aim of the present study was to investigate the time-course of the induction of hypertension to define when changes occur in Wistar rats treated with 25 mg/kg per day, s.c., ouabain for 3, 7, 15 or 30 days. 3. In anaesthetized rats, diastolic blood pressure increased after 7 days treatment with ouabain and after 15 and 30 days treatment, increases were observed in systolic blood pressure, left ventricular systolic pressure and myosin ATPase activity. After 15 days treatment, heart rate (HR) also increased, but after 30 days treatment HR returned to control levels. However, only after 30 days treatment did the left ventricular positive and negative first derivatives of intraventricular pressure (dP/dt(max) and dP/dt(min), respectively) increase. Increased arterial and left ventricular systolic pressures and myosin ATPase activity observed after 15 days treatment maintained similar levels as those after 30 days treatment. 4. The results suggest that changes in arterial and left ventricular pressures, HR and myosin ATPase activity induced by chronic ouabain treatment are time dependent, increasing after 15 days treatment. After 30 days treatment, the increase in systolic and diastolic arterial and ventricular pressures remained stable, as did inotropism. Normalization of HR after 30 days treatment suggests that during the period from Day 16 to Day 30 ouabain-induced hypertension is dependent, at least in part, on increased sympathetic activity.
Arsenite (As(III)), an inorganic arsenical, is a known human carcinogen, inducing tumors of the skin, urinary bladder and lung. It is metabolized to organic methylated arsenicals. Oxidative stress has been suggested as a mechanism for arsenic-induced carcinogenesis. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) can be important factors for carcinogenesis and tumor progression. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase is known to produce intracellular ROS, therefore, we investigated the ability of apocynin (acetovanillone), an NADPH oxidase inhibitor, to inhibit the cytotoxicity and regenerative cell proliferation of arsenic in vitro and in vivo. Apocynin had similar effects in reducing the cytotoxicity of As(III) and dimethylarsinous acid (DMA(III)) in rat urothelial cells in vitro. When tested at the same concentrations as apocynin, other antioxidants, such as l-ascorbate and N-acetylcysteine, did not inhibit As(III)-induced cytotoxicity but they were more effective at inhibiting DMA(III)-induced cytotoxicity compared with apocynin. In vivo, female rats were treated for 3 weeks with 100ppm As(III). Immunohistochemical staining for 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) showed that apocynin reduced oxidative stress partially induced by As(III) treatment on rat urothelium, and significantly reduced the cytotoxicity of superficial cells detected by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). However, based on the incidence of simple hyperplasia and the bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling index, apocynin did not inhibit As(III)-induced urothelial cell proliferation. These data suggest that the NADPH oxidase inhibitor, apocynin, may have the ability to partially inhibit arsenic-induced oxidative stress and cytotoxicity of the rat bladder epithelium in vitro and in vivo. However, apocynin did not inhibit the regenerative cell proliferation induced by arsenite in a short-term study.
Diabetic nephropathy is characterized by accumulation of glomerular extracellular matrix proteins, such as fibronectin (FN). Here, we investigated whether sphingosine kinase (SphK)1 pathway is responsible for the elevated FN expression in diabetic nephropathy. The SphK1 pathway and FN expression were examined in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat kidney and glomerular mesangial cells (GMC) exposed to high glucose (HG). FN up-regulation was concomitant with activation of the SphK1 pathway as reflected in an increase in the expression and activity of SphK1 and sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) production in both diabetic kidney and HG-treated GMC. Overexpression of wild-type SphK1 (SphK(WT)) significantly induced FN expression, whereas treatment with a SphK inhibitor, N,N-dimethylsphingosine, or transfection of SphK1 small interference RNA or dominant-negative SphK1 (SphK(G82D)) abolished HG-induced FN expression. Furthermore, addition of exogenous S1P significantly induced FN expression in GMC with an induction of activator protein 1 (AP-1) activity. Inhibition of AP-1 activity by curcumin attenuated the S1P-induced FN expression. Finally, by inhibiting SphK1 activity, both N,N-dimethylsphingosine and SphK(G82D) markedly attenuated the HG-induced AP-1 activity. Taken together, these results demonstrated that the SphK1 pathway plays a critical role in matrix accumulation in GMC under diabetic condition, suggesting that the SphK1 pathway could be a potential therapeutic target for diabetic nephropathy.
Benfluorex is an amphetamine appetite suppressant derived from fenfluramine. In France, about 30 cases of pulmonary arterial hypertension and a similar number of valve disorders, often involving several valves, were reported between 1998 and 2009. Benfluorex has the same adverse effects as those that led to the withdrawal of amphetamine appetite suppressants such as fenfluramine.There is no proven benefit that justifies exposing patients to these risks. The French National Pharmacovigilance Committee simply proposed "to await the results of planned and ongoing studies". However, it would be in patients' best interests to withdraw this drug from the market.
A 65-year-old woman with liver cirrhosis complicated by hepatocellular carcinoma lost consciousness due to torsades de pointes with prolongation of the QT-interval after 10 days of treatment with terfenadine. Before terfenadine administration, she had shown neither symptoms of heart disease nor any electrocardiographic abnormalities. Serum electrolytes were all normal, although the Ca level was near the lower limit of the normal range. After the withdrawal of terfenadine, the QT-interval was normalized and the torsades de pointes disappeared. Since she had liver cirrhosis, the development of torsades de pointes was thought to be attributable to the impairment of hepatic metabolism by terfenadine.
Propofol-mediated sedation for endoscopy is popular because of its rapid onset and recovery profile.
To examine procedure-specific occurrence and risk factors for cardiopulmonary events during propofol-mediated upper endoscopy (EGD) and colonoscopy.
A cohort study using the Clinical Outcomes Research Initiative database was used to determine the frequency of cardiopulmonary events. Clinical Outcomes Research Initiative consisted of 69 practice sites comprising 593 US endoscopists. Multivariate logistic regression analysis used variables, such as age, ASA classification and propofol administration by monitored anaesthesia care or gastroenterologist-administered propofol to determine the risk of cardiopulmonary events.
The overall cardiopulmonary event rate for 5928 EGDs and 11 683 colonoscopies was 11.7/1000 cases. For colonoscopy, ascending ASA classification was associated with an increased risk. Monitored anaesthesia care was associated with a decreased adjusted relative risk (0.5, 95% CI: 0.36-0.72). ASA I and II patients receiving monitored anaesthesia care for EGD exhibited a significantly lower relative risk (ARR 0.29, 95% CI: 0.14-0.64). For subjects with ASA class III or greater, there was no difference in the risk between monitored anaesthesia care and gastroenterologist-administered propofol.
There are procedure-specific risk factors for cardiopulmonary events during propofol-mediated EGD and colonoscopy. These should be taken into account during future prospective comparative trials.
(-)-Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), a major constituent of green tea, has been shown to exhibit anti-cancer activity. Sulindac is also well known as a cancer-preventive agent against colon cancer, but its usage is restricted because of its adverse effects, as exemplified by gastrointestinal bleeding. In the present study, we examined whether a combination of EGCG and sulindac shows synergistic effects for cancer-preventive activity for rat colon carcinogenesis induced by azoxymethane (AOM); we examined the number of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) representing preneoplastic lesions, the argyrophilic nucleolar organizer region (AgNOR) as an indicator of cell proliferation, and the incidence of apoptosis. The AOM treatment induced an average of 46.2+/-4.9 ACF/colon, and sulindac and EGCG significantly reduced the incidence of ACF/colon to 21.4+/-3.4 and 19.5+/-5.8, respectively (P<0.01). The co-treatment with EGCG and sulindac resulted in significantly reduced ACF formation (10.0+/-3.2; P<0.01). The results of the AgNOR analysis indicated that the treatment with EGCG and/or sulindac suppressed AOM-induced cell proliferation. The present results also revealed that the combination of EGCG and sulindac synergistically enhanced apoptosis significantly (P<0.01). Thus, our findings suggest that EGCG with sulindac synergistically suppresses ACF formation by enhancing apoptosis and, therefore, that EGCG is a suitable candidate for use in combination with cancer-preventive agents, such as sulindac, to reduce their adverse effects.
Nitric oxide (NO) is considered as an intracellular messenger in the brain. Its involvement in learning and memory processes has been proposed. Compounds that inhibit NO synthase (NOS), the key synthesizing enzyme, may inhibit cognition, while NO donors may facilitate it. The present study was designed to investigate the effects of the NO donor molsidomine on rats' spatial memory. Thus, the ability of molsidomine (2 and 4 mg/kg, i.p.) in attenuating spatial memory deficits produced either by the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (0.2 mg/kg, s.c.) or by the NOS inhibitor L-NAME (30 mg/kg, i.p.) was assessed. For this aim, the object location test was selected. In the first study, molsidomine (4 mg/kg) counteracted the scopolamine-induced performance deficits in this spatial memory task. Subsequently, pre-training administration of molsidomine (4 mg/kg but not 2 mg/kg) antagonized also the impairing effects produced by L-NAME in the object location paradigm. These results indicate that NO is involved in spatial recognition memory and that an NO component modulates the effects of the cholinergic system on spatial memory.
Wilson disease (WD) is an autosomal recessive inherited disorder of copper metabolism that is caused by mutations in the ATP7B gene. To date, more than 300 mutations have been described in this gene. Molecular diagnostics of WD utilizes restriction enzyme digestion, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification or a direct sequencing of the whole gene. To simplify and speed up the screening of ATP7B mutations, we have developed a genotyping microarray for the simultaneous detection of 87 mutations and 17 polymorphisms in the ATP7B gene based on the arrayed primer extension reaction. The patient's DNA is amplified in four multiplex polymerase chain reactions, fragmented products are annealed to arrayed primers spotted on a chip, which enables DNA polymerase extension reactions with fluorescently labeled dideoxynucleotides. The Wilson microarray was validated by screening 97 previously genetically confirmed WD patients. In total, we detected 43 mutations and 15 polymorphisms that represent a majority of the common mutations occurring in the Czech and Slovak populations. All screened sequence variants were detected with 100% accuracy. The Wilson chip appears to be a rapid, sensitive and cost-effective tool, representing the prototype of a disease chip that facilitates and speeds up the screening of potential WD patients.
Severe renal dysfunction or even acute renal failure necessitating renal replacement therapy are rather infrequent observations in patients following cardiopulmonary resuscitation. A low flow situation alone does not seem to be sufficient for renal breakdown and in addition other factors, such as preexisting renal disease, severe infections or congestive heart failure must be present. We report a patient, in whom during cardiopulmonary resuscitation a central venous catheter was placed which inadvertently was located in the aortic arch. Through this malpositioned line increasing and finally excessive amounts of epinephrine (in total 150 mg) were injected because of inadequate therapeutic response. After finally successful resuscitation the patient developed rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure, which required hemodialyis therapy. Intraarterial infusion of the vasoconstrictor catecholamine obviously caused a critical reduction in renal and skeletal muscle perfusion. Nevertheless, the patient was discharged from hospital in good neurologic condition and with normal renal function.
The aim of this study was to investigate the preventive actions of bezafibrate against non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSC), and fibrogenesis by using a model of NASH and an in vitro model.
Male KK-A(y)/TaJcl (KK-A(y)) mice were fed a methionine and choline-deficient (MCD) diet or a MCD diet containing bezafibrate or pioglitazone for 7 weeks, after which biochemical parameters, pathological changes, and hepatic mRNA levels were assessed. An in vitro HSC model was designed by using a previously described RI-T cell line stimulated by transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1).
MCD diet-fed KK-A(y) mice developed hepatic steatosis, oxidative stress, inflammation, and hepatic fibrosis. Bezafibrate markedly decreased the hepatic content of triglyceride accumulation of fatty droplets within hepatocytes, and increased the expression of hepatic fatty acid beta-oxidative genes in MCD diet-fed KK-A(y) mice. Bezafibrate markedly inhibited the increases in the plasma alanine aminotransferase level and hepatic content of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in this model. Moreover, it dramatically reduced hepatic inflammatory changes and fibrosis concomitantly with marked reductions in the mRNA levels for inflammatory cytokine, chemokine, and profibrogenic genes. Importantly, both bezafibrate and pioglitazone markedly reduced the mRNA levels of profibrogenic and fibrogenic genes in TGF-beta1-stimulated cells.
Bezafibrate improved hepatic steatosis and potently prevented inflammation, oxidative stress, HSC activation, and fibrogenesis in the liver. Moreover, this study was the first to demonstrate that bezafibrate directly inhibits hepatic fibrogenic response induced by TGF-beta1 in vitro. Hence bezafibrate may be a new therapeutic strategy against NASH and hepatic fibrosis.
Voluntary physical activity improves memory and learning ability in rodents, whereas status epilepticus has been associated with memory impairment. Physical activity and seizures have been associated with enhanced hippocampal expression of BDNF, indicating that this protein may have a dual role in epilepsy. The influence of voluntary physical activity on memory and BDNF expression has been poorly studied in experimental models of epilepsy. In this paper, we have investigated the effect of voluntary physical activity on memory and BDNF expression in mice with pilocarpine-induced epilepsy. Male Swiss mice were assigned to four experimental groups: pilocarpine sedentary (PS), pilocarpine runners (PRs), saline sedentary (SS) and saline runners (SRs). Two days after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, the affected mice (PR) and their running controls (SR) were housed with access to a running wheel for 28 days. After that, the spatial memory and the expression of the precursor and mature forms of hippocampal BDNF were assessed. PR mice performed better than PS mice in the water maze test. In addition, PR mice had a higher amount of mature BDNF (14kDa) relative to the total BDNF (14kDa+28kDa+32kDa forms) content when compared with PS mice. These results show that voluntary physical activity improved the spatial memory and increased the hippocampal content of mature BDNF of mice with pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus.
To investigate effects of Sargassum confusum polysaccharide (SP) on the expressions of p53 and Rb genes.
The mice bearing S180 sarcoma were treated with abdominal SP injection at the daily dose of 50, 100 or 200 mg/kg for 10 consecutive days, The mice injected with 0.85% saline served as the negative control group and those with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) injection as the positive control group. The tumor weight was measured to calculate the tumor inhibition rate. RT-PCR and Western blotting were used to detect the expression levels of p53 and Rb genes at the mRNA and protein levels, respectively.
The 10-day SP treatment at 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg resulted in tumor growth inhibition rates of 30.5%, 47.6% and 63.5%, respectively. SP treatment upregulated the mRNA expressions and increased the protein levels of p53 and Rb in the tumors.
SP has inhibitory effect against S180 sarcoma in vivo and can increase the expression levels of p53 and Rb genes at both the mRNA and protein levels.
The retina contains Na+K(+)-ATPase and carbonic anhydrase (CA), enzymes that regulate ion fluxes across cell membranes of photoreceptors. Since inhibition of retinal Na+K(+)-ATPase by digitalis impairs colour vision, we wanted to find out whether this also occurs after inhibition of CA. In a double-masked cross-over study with placebo, 14 male volunteers were given 50 mg q.i.d. of the CA inhibitor methazolamide for 2 weeks. A disturbance of colour discrimination was observed in 8 of the 14 subjects, in the classification phase of Lanthony New Color Test. The presence of the disturbance was not significantly correlated to the degree of acidosis or to other side-effects. Its mechanism could be interpreted as a specific effect of CA inhibition in the retina (or the visual cortex) calculated to more than 99.9%.
