The authors examined parent and child ratings of somatic complaints in 65 children with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) who received four doses (5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg) of methylphenidate (MPH) in the context of a double-blind, placebo controlled, within-subject (crossover) experimental design. Results indicated that parent and child ratings of somatic complaints decreased in a linear fashion from baseline levels as a function of increasing MPH dose and showed minimal variation across MPH conditions. Statistical comparisons of specific somatic complaints indicated minimal agreement between parents and children in contrast to the nearly identical parent-child dose-response curves. The paradoxical findings of fewer somatic complaints associated with MPH, importance of obtaining children's perceptions of MPH treatment, and implications for measuring somatic complaints are discussed.
Aspirin, or acetylsalicylic acid, is widely used to prevent ischemic vascular disease. Clinical and experimental data suggest that a rebound effect occurs 4 or fewer weeks after interruption of aspirin therapy.
To study the discontinuation of aspirin therapy as a risk factor for ischemic stroke (IS).
Case-control study.
Stroke unit.
Three hundred nine patients with IS or transient ischemic attack undergoing long-term aspirin treatment before their index event and 309 age-, sex-, and antiplatelet therapy-matched controls who had not had an IS in the previous 6 months.
We compared the frequency of aspirin therapy discontinuation during the 4 weeks before an ischemic cerebral event in patients and the 4 weeks before interview in controls.
The 2 groups had a similar frequency of risk factors, except for coronary heart disease, which was more frequent in patients (36% vs 18%; P < .001). Aspirin use had been discontinued in 13 patients and 4 controls. Aspirin interruption yielded an odds ratio for IS/transient ischemic attack of 3.4 (95% confidence interval, 1.08-10.63; P < .005) after adjustment in a multivariable model.
These results highlight the importance of aspirin therapy compliance and give an estimate of the risk associated with the discontinuation of aspirin therapy in patients at risk for IS, particularly those with coronary heart disease.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a widely distributed, persistent environmental contaminant that is teratogenic in mice, where it induces hydronephrosis and cleft palate. The incidence of clefting has been shown to be dose dependent after exposure on either gestation Day (GD) 10 or 12, although the embryo is more susceptible on GD 12. TCDD-exposed palatal shelves meet but do not fuse, and programmed cell death of the medial epithelial cells is inhibited. The mechanism of action through which TCDD alters the program of medial cell development has not been examined in earlier studies, and it is not known whether the mechanism is the same regardless of the dose or developmental stage of exposure. In this study, C57BL/6N mice, a strain sensitive to TCDD, were dosed orally on GD 10 or 12 with 0, 6, 12, 24, or 30 micrograms/kg body wt, in 10 ml corn oil/kg. Embryonic palatal shelves were examined on GD 14, 15, or 16. The degree of palatal closure, epithelial surface morphology, and cellular ultrastructure, the incorporation of [3H]TdR, the expression of EGF receptors, and the binding of 125I-EGF were assessed. After exposure on GD 10 or 12, TCDD altered the differentiation pathway of the medial epithelial cells. The palatal shelves were of normal size and overall morphology, but fusion of the medial epithelia of the opposing shelves did not occur. TCDD prevented programmed cell death of the medial peridermal cells. The expression of EGF receptors by medial cells continued through Day 16 and the receptors were able to bind ligand. The medial cells differentiated into a stratified, squamous, keratinizing epithelium. The shift in phenotype to an oral-like epithelium occurred after exposure on either GD 10 or 12. At the lower dose (6 micrograms/kg), fewer cleft palates were produced, but those shelves which did respond had a fully expressed shift in differentiation. Whether the exposure begins on GD 10 or 12 or whether the dosing level produces only a few cleft palates within a litter, TCDD produced cleft palate by altering the differentiation program of the medial cells.
The continuous exposure of esophageal epithelium to refluxate may induce ectopic expression of bile-responsive genes and contribute to the development of Barrett's esophagus (BE) and esophageal adenocarcinoma. In normal physiology of the gut and liver, the nuclear receptor Pregnane × Receptor (PXR) is an important factor in the detoxification of xenobiotics and bile acid homeostasis. This study aimed to investigate the expression and genetic variation of PXR in reflux esophagitis (RE), Barrett's esophagus (BE) and esophageal adenocarcinoma.
PXR mRNA levels and protein expression were determined in biopsies from patients with adenocarcinoma, BE, or RE, and healthy controls. Esophageal cell lines were stimulated with lithocholic acid and rifampicin. PXR polymorphisms 25385C/T, 7635A/G, and 8055C/T were genotyped in 249 BE patients, 233 RE patients, and 201 controls matched for age and gender.
PXR mRNA levels were significantly higher in adenocarcinoma tissue and columnar Barrett's epithelium, compared to squamous epithelium of these BE patients (P<0.001), and RE patients (P=0.003). Immunohistochemical staining of PXR showed predominantly cytoplasmic expression in BE tissue, whereas nuclear expression was found in adenocarcinoma tissue. In cell lines, stimulation with lithocholic acid did not increase PXR mRNA levels, but did induce nuclear translocation of PXR protein. Genotyping of the PXR 7635A/G polymorphism revealed that the G allele was significantly more prevalent in BE than in RE or controls (P=0.037).
PXR expresses in BE and adenocarcinoma tissue, and showed nuclear localization in adenocarcinoma tissue. Upon stimulation with lithocholic acid, PXR translocates to the nuclei of OE19 adenocarcinoma cells. Together with the observed association of a PXR polymorphism and BE, this data implies that PXR may have a function in prediction and treatment of esophageal disease.
Estrogen-related receptor α (ERRα) is an orphan nuclear receptor that has been functionally implicated in the regulation of energy homeostasis. Herein is described the development of diaryl ether based thiazolidenediones, which function as selective ligands against this receptor. Series optimization provided several potent analogues that inhibit the recruitment of a coactivator peptide fragment in in vitro biochemical assays (IC(50) < 150 nM) and cellular two-hybrid reporter assays against the ligand binding domain (IC(50) = 1-5 μM). A cocrystal structure of the ligand-binding domain of ERRα with lead compound 29 revealed the presence of a covalent interaction between the protein and ligand, which has been shown to be reversible. In diet-induced murine models of obesity and in an overt diabetic rat model, oral administration of 29 normalized insulin and circulating triglyceride levels, improved insulin sensitivity, and was body weight neutral. This provides the first demonstration of functional activities of an ERRα ligand in metabolic animal models.
The effect of microinjection into the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) of angiotensin II (Ang II) on baroreceptor control of heart rate (HR) in conscious, freely moving rats was evaluated with a new method of long-term cannulation of the dorsal brainstem areas. Reflex changes in HR were produced by intravenous bolus injections of either phenylephrine or sodium nitroprusside (0.2-25.6 micrograms/kg) both after saline and after unilateral microinjection of Ang II into the NTS (24 ng, 0.2 microliter) and compared with those produced after administration of Ang II into the fourth ventricle (24 ng, 0.2 microliter) or intravenously (1-2 ng/kg/min). Baseline levels of mean arterial pressure (MAP) and HR were not affected by the route of Ang II application but reflex bradycardia during MAP increase was significantly attenuated after injections of Ang II into the NTS. Both the slope and the intercept of the regression line function between delta HR and delta MAP were reduced by 43% from the control value of -1.55 +/- 0.13 beats/min/mm Hg (p less than 0.01) and -14 +/- 5 beats/min (p less than 0.05), respectively. Similar reductions were observed after Ang II administration into the fourth ventricle or intravenously, although microinjections into the cerebellum produced no effect. Endogenous blockade of Ang II by saralasin (22 ng) in the NTS facilitated the bradycardic response (-2.29 +/- 0.91 beats/min/mm Hg). Nitroprusside-induced tachycardia was not altered by Saralasin microinjection into the NTS or by Ang II application to the NTS, fourth ventricle, or intravenously.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Bortezomib, a selective inhibitor of the 20S proteasome with activity in a variety of cancers, exhibits sequence-dependent synergistic cytotoxicity with taxanes and platinum agents. Two different treatment schedules of bortezomib in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin were tested in this phase I study to evaluate the effects of scheduling on toxicities, pharmacodynamics and clinical activity.
Patients with advanced malignancies were alternately assigned to receive (schedule A) paclitaxel and carboplatin (IV d1) followed by bortezomib (IV d2, d5, d8) or (schedule B) bortezomib (IV d1, d4, d8) followed by paclitaxel and carboplatin (IV d2) on a 21-day cycle.
Fifty-three patients (A 25, B 28) were treated with a median of 3 cycles (range 1-8) for schedule A and 3.5 cycles (range 1-10) for schedule B. Grade 3 or higher treatment related hematologic adverse events in all cycles of treatment included neutropenia (A 52%, B 50%), anemia (A 12%, B 7.1%) and thrombocytopenia (A 16%, B 17.9%). Non-hematologic treatment related adverse events were fairly mild (primarily grades 1 and 2). The maximum tolerated dose and the recommended doses for future phase II trials are bortezomib 1.2 mg/m2, paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 and carboplatin AUC = 6 for schedule A and bortezomib 1.2 mg/m2, paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 and carboplatin AUC = 6 for schedule B. Six (21.4%) partial responses (PR) were seen with schedule B. In contrast, only 1 (4%) PR was achieved with schedule A. Similar proteasome inhibition was achieved at MTD for both schedules.
Administration of sequential bortezomib followed by chemotherapy (schedule B) was well tolerated and associated with an encouraging number of objective responses in this small group of patients. Further studies with this administration schedule are warranted.
A prospective evaluation of high-dose ifosfamide (IFO)-related nephrotoxicity in adults and young adults previously treated with cisplatin, methotrexate (MTX) and standard-dose IFO was performed. Eighteen patients (median age 22) with recurrent osteosarcoma were studied: 11 were pretreated with MTX, cisplatin and standard-dose IFO, and seven with MTX and cisplatin. The treatment was comprised of four cycles of high-dose IFO (15 g/m2 over 5 days CI) and mesna at equivalent dose with granulocyte colony stimulating factor support. Renal function was assessed before treatment, after each IFO cycle and after chemotherapy completion. Acute nephrotubular damage was always observed after each IFO cycle with significant changes of renal tubular enzymes N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, alanine aminipeptidase, urinary excretion and reduction of tubular reabsorption of phosphate. The appearance of glycosuria was related to the cumulative dose received. Transient and reversible renal tubular acidosis was observed in three patients. WHO grade I renal toxicity was observed in two patients. After chemotherapy completion, persistent mild glomerular and nephrotubular impairment was observed in one patient who had also received aminoglycoside antibiotics due to febrile neutropenia. Persistent and mild glycosuria was documented in another patient. No significant changes compared to baseline values were observed in the remaining patients. We conclude that a chemotherapy regimen with high-dose IFO in young adults pretreated with MTX, cisplatin and standard-dose IFO is feasible with a mild, usually reversible, nephrotoxicity.
Eker rats heterozygous for a dominant germline mutation in the tuberous sclerosis 2 (Tsc2) tumor suppressor gene were used as a model to study renal carcinogenesis. Eker and corresponding wild-type rats were exposed to genotoxic aristolochic acid (AA) or non-genotoxic ochratoxin A (OTA) to elucidate early carcinogen-specific gene expression changes and to test whether Eker rats are more sensitive to carcinogen-induced changes in gene expression. Male Eker and wild-type rats were gavaged daily with AA (10 mg/kg body weight) or OTA (210 microg/kg body weight). After 1, 3, 7, and 14 days of exposure, renal histopathology, tubular cell proliferation, and Affymetrix gene expression profiles from renal cortex/outer medulla were analyzed. AA-treated Eker and wild-type rats were qualitatively comparable in all variables assessed, suggesting a Tsc2-independent mechanism of action. OTA treatment resulted in slightly increased cortical pathology and significantly elevated cell proliferation in both strains, although Eker rats were more sensitive. Deregulated genes involved in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-AKT-Tsc2-mammalian target of rapamycin signaling, among other important genes prominent in tumorigenesis, in conjunction with the enhanced cell proliferation and presence of preneoplastic lesions suggested involvement of Tsc2 in OTA-mediated toxicity and carcinogenicity, especially as deregulation of genes involved in this pathway was more prominent in the Tsc2 mutant Eker rat.
Cross-sectional studies show that cardiac abnormalities are common in long-term survivors of doxorubicin-treated childhood malignancies. Longitudinal data, however, are rare.
Serial echocardiograms (N = 499) were obtained from 115 doxorubicin-treated long-term survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (median age at diagnosis, 4.8 years; median follow-up after completion of doxorubicin, 11.8 years). Results were expressed as z scores to indicate the number of standard deviations (SDs) above (+) or below (-) the normal predicted value. Median individual and cumulative doxorubicin doses were 30 mg/m2 per dose and 352 mg/m2, respectively.
Left ventricular fractional shortening was significantly reduced after doxorubicin therapy, and the reduction was related to cumulative dose. z scores for fractional shortening transiently improved before falling to -2.76 more than 12 years after diagnosis. Reduced fractional shortening was related to impaired contractility and increasing afterload, consequences of a progressive reduction of ventricular mass, and wall thickness relative to body-surface area. Left ventricular contractility fell significantly over time and was depressed at last follow-up in patients receiving more than 300 mg/m2 of doxorubicin. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures were below normal more than 9 years after diagnosis. Even patients receiving lower cumulative doxorubicin doses experienced reduced mass and dimension. Fractional shortening and dimension at the end of therapy predicted these parameters 11.8 years later.
Cardiac abnormalities were persistent and progressive after doxorubicin therapy. Inadequate ventricular mass with chronic afterload excess was associated with progressive contractile deficit and possibly reduced cardiac output and restrictive cardiomyopathy. The deficits were worst after highest cumulative doses of doxorubicin, but appeared even after low doses.
Antimalarials are the first line in the treatment of chronic and subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (LE). However, some patients show either no or only minor improvement on antimalarial monotherapy. We treated 14 patients (9 with chronic LE and 5 with subacute cutaneous LE) who had poorly responded to chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine with an association of chloroquine and quinacrine. The initial dose was: chloroquine 100 mg 3x/day and quinacrine 65 mg 3x/day. The skin lesions improved significantly or cleared totally in 5 of the 9 patients with chronic LE and in all the 5 patients with subacute cutaneous LE. These findings suggest that a chloroquine-quinacrine combination may sometimes be superior to the usual antimalarial monotherapy, especially for subacute LE. If chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine fails to control chronic or subacute cutaneous LE, chloroquine-quinacrine is worthy to be tried.
The EGFR/PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway is activated in many cancers including glioblastoma, yet mTOR inhibitors have largely failed to show efficacy in the clinic. Rapamycin promotes feedback activation of Akt in some patients, potentially underlying clinical resistance and raising the need for alternative approaches to block mTOR signaling. AMPK is a metabolic checkpoint that integrates growth factor signaling with cellular metabolism, in part by negatively regulating mTOR. We used pharmacological and genetic approaches to determine whether AMPK activation could block glioblastoma growth and cellular metabolism, and we examined the contribution of EGFR signaling in determining response in vitro and in vivo. The AMPK-agonist AICAR, and activated AMPK adenovirus, inhibited mTOR signaling and blocked the growth of glioblastoma cells expressing the activated EGFR mutant, EGFRvIII. Across a spectrum of EGFR-activated cancer cell lines, AICAR was more effective than rapamycin at blocking tumor cell proliferation, despite less efficient inhibition of mTORC1 signaling. Unexpectedly, addition of the metabolic products of cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis rescued the growth inhibitory effect of AICAR, whereas inhibition of these lipogenic enzymes mimicked AMPK activation, thus demonstrating that AMPK blocked tumor cell proliferation primarily through inhibition of cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis. Most importantly, AICAR treatment in mice significantly inhibited the growth and glycolysis (as measured by (18)fluoro-2-deoxyglucose microPET) of glioblastoma xenografts engineered to express EGFRvIII, but not their parental counterparts. These results suggest a mechanism by which AICAR inhibits the proliferation of EGFRvIII expressing glioblastomas and point toward a potential therapeutic strategy for targeting EGFR-activated cancers.
Nitroglycerin, which may be regarded as a prodrug for nitric oxide, induces a mild to moderate headache in healthy subjects. In order to study whether migraine patients are more sensitive to nitric oxide than non-migrainous subjects, four different doses of intravenous nitroglycerin were given in a double blind design to 17 migraine patients, 17 age and sex matched healthy controls and 9 subjects with tension-type headache. The nitroglycerin-induced headache was significantly more severe in migraine sufferers, lasted longer and fulfilled diagnostic criteria for migraine more often. We have previously shown a similar supersensitivity to histamine which in human cerebral arteries activates endothelial H1 receptors and causes endothelial production of nitric oxide. Migraine patients are thus supersensitive to exogenous nitric oxide from nitroglycerin as well as to endothelially produced nitric oxide. It is suggested that nitric oxide may be partially or completely responsible for migraine pain.
The positive inotropic effect produced by Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase inhibition has been used for the treatment of heart failure for over 200 years. Recently, administration of toxic doses of ouabain has been shown to induce cardiac myocyte apoptosis. However, whether prolonged administration of non-toxic doses of ouabain can also promote cardiac myocyte cell death has never been explored. The aim of this study was to assess whether non-toxic doses of ouabain can induce myocyte apoptosis and if so, to examine the underlying mechanisms. For this purpose, cardiac myocytes from rat and cat, two species with different sensitivity to digitalis, were cultured for 24h in the presence or absence of 2 microM (rat) and 25 nm-2 microM ouabain (cat). Cell viability and apoptosis assays showed that ouabain produced, in the rat, a 43+/-5% decrease in cell viability due to apoptosis (enhanced caspase-3 activity, increased Bax/Bcl-2 and TUNEL-positive nuclei) and necrosis (LDH release and trypan blue staining). Similar results were obtained with 25 nM ouabain in the cat. Ouabain-induced reduction in cell viability was prevented by the NCX inhibitor KB-R7943 and by the CaMKII inhibitors, KN93 and AIP. Furthermore, CaMKII overexpression exacerbated ouabain-induced cell mortality which in contrast was reduced in transgenic mice with chronic CaMKII inhibition. However, KN93 failed to affect ouabain-induced inotropy. In addition, whereas ERK(1/2) inhibition with PD-98059 had no effect on cell mortality, PI3K inhibition with wortmannin, exacerbated myocyte death. We conclude that ouabain triggers an apoptotic cascade that involves NCX and CaMKII as a downstream effector. Ouabain simultaneously activates an antiapoptotic cascade involving PI3K/AKT which is however, insufficient to completely repress apoptosis. The finding that KN93 prevents ouabain-induced apoptosis without affecting inotropy suggests the potential use of CaMKII inhibitors as an adjunct to digitalis treatment for cardiovascular disease.
The onset of a dermatomyositis-like rash and persistent skin ulcers during long-term treatment with hydroxyurea is a very rare event that has not been fully described in the literature. The fact that these lesions have a typical clinical presentation and course, and that complete resolution can only be achieved by immediate withdrawal of the drug, means that dermatologists should be aware of this condition in order to avoid a delay in diagnosis. We present the case of a 76-year-old woman who developed a dermatomyositis-like eruption associated with chronic ulcers on the lower limbs during long-term treatment with hydroxyurea.
A reduction in glomerular capillary endothelial pore size and density has been reported in several models of acute renal failure. It has been suggested that these changes underlie the decrease in glomerular filtration rate and altered glomerular capillary hemodynamics measured in various experimental models of acute renal failure. We have thoroughly quantitated the surface characteristics of glomerular capillaries in control rats and in rats with either mercuric chloride-induced acute renal failure (2 mg/kg body wt) evaluated at 6 and 24 h after administration of the nephrotoxin or with gentamicin (G)1-induced acute renal failure evaluated after 8-9 d of 40 mg/kg body wt twice a day. Despite reductions in glomerular filtration rate in the experimental groups, no significant differences were observed between control (C) and any experimental group with respect to percent areas occupied by fenestrated endothelium (C = 53.6 +/- 2.7%; 6 h HgCl2 = 50.9 +/- 1.9%; 24 h HgCl2 = 53.9 +/- 5.7%; G = 56.7 +/- 2.4%), by cytoplasmic ridges (C = 31.2 +/- 1.5%; 6 h HgCl2 = 29.8 +/- 1.9%; 24 h HgCl2 = 30.6 +/- 3.1%; G = 26.5 +/- 1.5%), nonfenestrated endothelium (C = 15.5 +/- 4.0%; 6 h HgCl2 = 19.3 +/- 2.0%; 24 h HgCl2 = 15.6 +/- 4.3%; G = 16.9 +/- 2.3%), in the individual pore area expressed in square nanometers (C = 1,494 +/- 75; 6 h HgCl2 = 1,326 +/- 48; 24 h HgCl2 = 1,559 +/- 130; G = 1,340 +/- 101), or in the percentage of total pore area within fenestrated areas that were measured (C = 12.8 +/- 0.8%; 6 h HgCl2 = 11.2 +/- 0.7%; 24 h HgCl2 = 10.9 +/- 0.8%; G = 10.9 +/- 0.7%). These results provide quantitative data on the normal glomerular capillary endothelial surface characteristics and suggest that reductions of glomerular filtration rate in acute renal failure are not always associated with alterations in glomerular endothelial capillaries.
During the initial period of treatment with high-dose medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), 4 of 40 patients with metastatic prostatic carcinoma experienced a marked clinical flare reaction, predominantly with bone pain exacerbation. All 4 patients subsequently had excellent subjective responses to MPA treatment, lasting for several months. The reason for this transient flare reaction is poorly understood but most probably represents a temporary androgenic effect of high-dose MPA on the prostatic cancer cell. The clinician should be aware of the possibility of an initial flare reaction during MPA treatment of advanced prostatic cancer and avoid premature discontinuation of the drug.
A 20-year-old girl with rheumatoid arthritis who has been treated with D-penicillamine for 7 months presented with fulminating Goodpasture's syndrome and a focal necrotising glomerulonephritis. A 35-year-old man who had been taking a low dose of phenytoin for epilepsy presented with nephrotic syndrome and a mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis. CH50, C3 and C4 were low and a high level of immune complexes was detected. Both patients had severe lesions which were unlikely to recover on immunosuppression alone so were treated with intensive plasma exchange. 2 patients are described with serious drug-induced renal disease who recovered with intensive plasma exchange and immunosuppression.
To examine the relationship between quantitative stimulant drug levels, catecholamines, and psychotic symptoms, nineteen patients in a psychiatric emergency service with a diagnosis of amphetamine- or cocaine-induced psychosis were interviewed, and plasma and urine were collected for quantitative assays of stimulant drug and catecholamine metabolite levels. Methamphetamine or amphetamine levels were related to several psychopathology scores and the global hyperkinesia rating. HVA levels were related to global hyperkinesia but not to psychopathology ratings. Although many other factors such as sensitization may play a role, intensity of stimulant-induced psychotic symptoms and stereotypies appears to be at least in part dose-related.
Growth of prostate cancer cells is initially dependent on androgens, and androgen ablation therapy is used to control tumor growth. Unfortunately, resistance to androgen ablation therapy inevitably occurs, and there is an urgent need for better treatments for advanced prostate cancer. Histone deacetylase inhibitors, such as suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA; vorinostat), are promising agents for the treatment of a range of malignancies, including prostate cancer. SAHA inhibited growth of the androgen-responsive LNCaP prostate cancer cell line at low micromolar concentrations and induced caspase-dependent apoptosis associated with chromatin condensation, DNA fragmentation, and mitochondrial membrane depolarization at higher concentrations (>/=5 mumol/L). Gene profiling and immunoblot analyses showed a decrease in androgen receptor (AR) mRNA and protein in LNCaP cells cultured with SAHA compared with control cells, with a corresponding decrease in levels of the AR-regulated gene, prostate-specific antigen. Culture of LNCaP cells in steroid-free medium markedly sensitized the cells to SAHA. Moreover, a combination of low, subeffective doses of SAHA and the AR antagonist bicalutamide resulted in a synergistic reduction in cell proliferation and increase in caspase-dependent cell death. Addition of exogenous androgen prevented the induction of cell death, indicating that suppression of androgen signaling was required for synergy. At the subeffective concentrations, these agents had no effect, alone or in combination, on proliferation or death of AR-negative PC-3 prostate cancer cells. Our findings indicate that SAHA is effective in targeting the AR signaling axis and that androgen deprivation sensitizes prostate cancer cells to SAHA. Consequently, combinatorial treatments that target different components of the AR pathway may afford a more effective strategy to control the growth of prostate cancer cells.
The prevalence of proarrhythmic events during moricizine therapy was studied in 144 patients who were treated for symptomatic ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. The overall incidence of proarrhythmia was 15.3%. (Twenty-two patients exhibited 23 events.) Ventricular fibrillation occurred in six patients (which led to three deaths), incessant ventricular tachycardia occurred in seven, and new sustained ventricular tachycardia in four. Patients with proarrhythmia had significantly lower left ventricular ejection fraction (24% vs 39%; p less than 0.0001), higher prevalence of congestive heart failure (68% vs 36%; p less than 0.005), and higher incidence of previous proarrhythmia (45% vs 9%; p less than 0.0001). No significant difference between the two groups was found in respect to age, arrhythmia at presentation, underlying heart disease, moricizine dose, or concomitant drug therapy.
Branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase (BCKDH) complex catalyses the committed step in the branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) catabolic pathway. In many cases of liver failure, the serum BCAAs/aromatic amino acids ratio (Fisher's ratio) decreases, and BCAAs have been administered to patients with liver failure to correct this ratio. We conducted an animal study to examine whether the effects on hepatic BCKDH complex differ between acute liver failure (ALF) and chronic liver failure (CLF).
ALF and CLF was induced in rats by a single high-dose injection and 21 weeks of repeated low-dose injections of carbon tetrachloride, respectively. Plasma BCAA and branched-chain alpha-keto acid (BCKA) levels, and activities and protein amounts of hepatic BCKDH complex and kinase were measured.
ALF was characterized by elevated plasma BCAA and BCKA levels and decreased hepatic BCKDH activity. CLF was characterized by decreased plasma BCAA and BCKA levels and increased hepatic BCKDH activity. This increase in BCKDH activity in CLF was associated with the decreased BCKDH kinase, which is responsible for the BCKDH inactivation.
The results obtained in the present study suggest that BCAA catabolism is suppressed in ALF and increased in CLF.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a broad-spectrum antiepileptic drug and is usually well-tolerated. Rare serious complications may occur in some patients, including haemorrhagic pancreatitis, bone marrow suppression, VPA-induced hepatotoxicity and VPA-induced encephalopathy. The typical signs of VPA-induced encephalopathy are impaired consciousness, sometimes marked EEG background slowing, increased seizure frequency, with or without hyperammonemia. There is still no proof of causative effect of VPA in patients with encephalopathy, but only of an association with an assumed causal relation. We report 19 patients with VPA-associated encephalopathy in Germany from the years 1994 to 2003, none of whom had been published previously.
Thrombocyte dysfunction and increased bleeding time (BT) are well documented in uraemic patients. However, these patients are frequently medicated with low dose aspirin (ASA) in order to maintain shunt patency and prevent cardiovascular events. Recently, life- threatening gastrointestinal haemorrhage in an uraemic subject taking low dose aspirin has been reported. In this work ASA related bleeding risk in uraemic patients and the effect of haemodialysis on their bleeding tendency was studied by measuring in vitro bleeding time (BT) using the Thrombostat 4000 in 34 uraemic patients on chronic haemodialysis compared to 50 healthy subjects. Our results indicate that low dose aspirin does not influence uraemic thrombopathia 8 to 10h after ingestion but seems to increase bleeding risk shortly after ingestion. Moreover, haemodialysis alters uraemic in vitro BT with regard to the time after ingestion of ASA.
Owing to mutations in the copper-transporting P-type ATPase, ATP7A (or MNK), patients with Menkes disease (MD) have an inadequate supply of copper to various copper-dependent enzymes. The ATP7A protein is located in the trans-Golgi network, where it transports copper via secretory compartments to copper-dependent enzymes. Raised copper concentrations result in the trafficking of ATP7A to the plasma membrane, where it functions in copper export. An important model of MD is the Mottled mouse, which possesses mutations in Atp7A. The Mottled mouse displays three distinct phenotypic severities: embryonic lethal, perinatal lethal and a longer-lived viable phenotype. However, the effects of mutations from these phenotypic classes on the ATP7A protein are unknown. In this study, we found that these classes of mutation differentially affect the copper transport and trafficking functions of the ATP7A protein. The embryonic lethal mutation, Atp7a(mo11H) (11H), caused mislocalisation of the protein to the endoplasmic reticulum, impaired glycosylation, and abolished copper delivery to the secretory pathway. In contrast, the perinatal lethal and viable mutations, Atp7a(moMac) (Macular) and Atp7a(moVbr) (Viable brindle) both resulted in a reduction in copper delivery to the secretory pathway and constitutive trafficking of the ATP7A protein to the plasma membrane in the absence of additional copper. In the case of Viable brindle, this hypertrafficking response was dependent on the catalytic phosphorylation site of ATP7A, whereas no such requirement was found for the Macular mutation. These findings provide evidence that the degree of MD severity in mice is associated with both copper transport and trafficking defects in the ATP7A protein.
