Acute obstructive kidney failure can occur during sulfadiazine treatment of cerebral toxoplasmosis in immunocompromised patients.
Six days after the patient began sulfadiazine treatment for toxoplasmosis, he developed low back pain radiating into the abdomen and kidney failure with obstructive uropathy, followed by anuria. Abdominal computed tomography found bilateral pyelocaliceal distention. Six hours after a hemodialysis session, the pain stopped abruptly and abundant diuresis resumed.
During acute renal failure due to sulfadiazine, simply stopping the drug treatment does not suffice. The massive alkalinization induced by hemodialysis, however, is effective.
A growing body of evidence indicates that oxidative stress is involved in the etiopathogenesis of some psychiatric disorders. In our previous study, we have found that social phobia (SP) seems to be associated with elevated antioxidant enzymes and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, a lipid peroxidation product. In the present investigation, we sought to determine whether the increased radical burden observed in patients with SP would be attenuated with alleviation of symptoms. Thirty-nine patients diagnosed with generalized SP and 39 healthy controls participated in this study. The measurements of MDA, superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and catalase (CAT) were performed before and after a period of 8 weeks of citalopram treatment. In this period, the patients received citalopram but controls did not. The initial dose of citalopram was 20mg, with 20 mg increments occurring every 2 weeks, to a maximum dose of 60 mg, with the mean daily dose of 38.9 +/- 13.3 mg/day. All patients were evaluated by using Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale (LSAS). The mean MDA, SOD, GSH-Px and CAT levels of the patient group at baseline were significantly higher than those of controls. Antioxidant enzymes and MDA levels decrease significantly through citalopram treatment. Significant and positive correlation was observed between decrease in the total LSAS scores, and SOD or CAT levels. In conclusion, our results suggest that, in patients with SP, subchronic treatment with citalopram may decrease antioxidant enzymes and MDA values and that they are state markers of SP because they return to normal values with treatment.
The psychostimulant methamphetamine (MA) is toxic to nigro-striatal dopaminergic terminals in both experimental animals and humans. In mice, three consecutive injections of MA (5 mg/kg, i.p. with 2 h of interval) induced a massive degeneration of the nigro-striatal pathway, as reflected by a 50% reduction in the striatal levels of dopamine (DA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), by a substantial reduction in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase and high-affinity DA transporter immunostaining, and by the development of reactive gliosis. MA-induced nigro-striatal degeneration was largely attenuated in mice lacking alpha1b-adrenergic receptors (ARs). MA-stimulated striatal DA release (measured by microdialysis in freely moving animals) and locomotor activity were also reduced in alpha1b-AR knockout mice. Pharmacological blockade of alpha-adrenergic receptors with prazosin also protected wild-type mice against MA toxicity. These results suggests that alpha1b-ARs may play a role in the toxicity of MA on nigro-striatal DA neurons.
In 1965 the first study of this series reported different effects of neuroleptics in rats, supporting clinical differences. At the one end, haloperidol presented as a potent and specific antagonist of the psychostimulants amphetamine and apomorphine. Haloperidol-like neuroleptics have marked effects on psychomotor agitation, delusions and hallucinations and bind with high affinity to dopamine-D2 receptors. Pipamperone, at the other end, presented with weak "dopamine" antagonism and more striking tryptamine antagonism. Pipamperone is known to improve disturbed sleep, social withdrawal and other symptoms of chronic schizophrenia in the relative absence of extrapyramidal symptoms. These effects have been attributed to central serotonin-S2 antagonism, on the basis of the clinical effects of ritanserin. As shown by the present analysis of relative tryptamine versus apomorphine antagonism of 57 neuroleptics, in comparison to relative S2 vs. D2 binding, there is a continuity in the series. About 30% of the compounds can be considered to act primarily as serotonin antagonists, but few are markedly more potent than pipamperone. In amphetamine-challenged rats pipamperone-like activity is reflected in preferential inhibition of the excessive oxygen consumption rather than of agitation. Risperidone inhibits oxygen consumption (0.016 mg/kg) at the same dose as haloperidol inhibits agitation. Other low-dose effects of risperidone include reversal of amphetamine-induced withdrawal, antagonism of agitation induced by a sequential tryptamine and apomorphine challenge and LSD-antagonism. In dogs, the antiemetic activity of risperidone is characterized by high oral effectiveness which lasts one day and agrees with pharmacokinetic data when allowance is made for the active metabolite 9-hydroxyrisperidone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Activation of SIRT1, an NAD+-dependent deacetylase, prevents retinal ganglion cell (RGC) loss in optic neuritis, an inflammatory demyelinating optic nerve disease. While SIRT1 deacetylates numerous protein targets, downstream mechanisms of SIRT1 activation mediating this neuroprotective effect are unknown. SIRT1 increases mitochondrial function and reduces oxidative stress in muscle and other cells, and oxidative stress occurs in neuronal degeneration. We examined whether SIRT1 activators reduce oxidative stress and promote mitochondrial function in neuronal cells. Oxidative stress, marked by reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, was induced in RGC-5 cells by serum deprivation, or addition of doxorubicin or hydrogen peroxide, and resulted in significant cell loss. SIRT1 activators resveratrol (RSV) and SRTAW04 reduced ROS levels and promoted cell survival in RGC-5 cells as well as primary RGC cultures. Effects were blocked by SIRT1 siRNA. SIRT1 activators also increased expression of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), a mitochondrial enzyme, and promoted deacetylation of PGC-1α, a co-enzyme involved in mitochondrial function. Results show SIRT1 activators prevent cell loss by reducing oxidative stress and promoting mitochondrial function in a neuronal cell line. Results suggest SIRT1 activators can mediate neuroprotective effects during optic neuritis by these mechanisms, and they have the potential to preserve neurons in other neurodegenerative diseases that involve oxidative stress.
To establish a role for insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) in bladder cancer susceptibility, we tested the effect of p-cresidine, a potent bladder carcinogen, in transgenic (TG) mice with human IGF-1 expression in the bladder driven by the bovine keratin 5 promoter (referred to as BK5.IGF-1 TG mice). Indomethacin was also tested to determine if the cyclooxygenase (COX) pathway is a target for bladder cancer prevention in this model. Thirty-three female BK5.IGF-1 TG mice and 29 female nontransgenic littermates were randomized to the following treatments: (1) AIN-76A diet; (2) AIN-76A diet with 0.5% p-cresidine; or (3) AIN-76A diet with 0.5% p-cresidine + 0.00075% indomethacin. BK5.IGF-1 TG mice, with twofold greater total serum IGF-1 than nontransgenic mice, exhibited greatly increased susceptibility to p-cresidine-induced bladder tumors compared to nontransgenic mice. The most common type of bladder tumor in the BK5.IGF-1 TG mice was transitional cell carcinoma, which is the predominant type of bladder cancer observed in developed countries. Indomethacin inhibition of bladder tumor development in BK5.IGF-1 TG mice was not statistically significant. These results present further evidence for the role of IGF-1 in bladder cancer progression. In addition, these transgenic mice provide a useful model for studying the role of the IGF-1 pathway in bladder carcinogenesis and its prevention.
Glomerular distribution of rat plasma fibronectin was examined during the course of puromycin (PAN)- and daunomycin (DM)-induced nephrosis. In control animals, fibronectin was detected in the mesangial matrix and along the glomerular basement membrane (GBM), closely associated with the plasma membrane of glomerular cells. In peripheral loops, immunoprecipitates were preferentially distributed in the laminae rarae externa and interna. Fibronectin was densely precipitated in a glomerulosclerotic lesion induced by DM at 8 weeks after the injection. In peripheral loops, loss and reconstruction of epithelial foot processes occurred in PAN nephrosis but the change was accompanied by negligible perturbation of fibronectin distribution in the lamina rara externa. In contrast, a remarkable decrease of fibronectin was observed in DM nephrosis, unrelated to the presence or absence of foot processes. The decrease in immunoreactivity for fibronectin in the lamina rara externa seemed to have no association with podocyte attachment to or detachment from the GBM. Plasma fibronectin distributed in the lamina rara externa is not directly involved in the modification of podocyte configuration or podocyte attachment, although its spatial distribution may have some functional significance for preserving the ultrastructure of the GBM.
Myeloperoxidase (MPO) is one of the major target antigens of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) in primary systemic vasculitis. It is known that propylthiouracil (PTU) could induce MPO-ANCA-positive vasculitis. The production of anti-MPO antibodies in patients with PTU-induced vasculitis may be different from that in patients with primary microscopic polyangiitis (MPA). One possible reason for this may be differences in epitope recognition. The aim of this study is to compare the epitopes of antibodies to MPO in sera from patients with PTU-induced vasculitis (n = 10) and MPA (n = 10). The sera were collected and used to inhibit monoclonal antibodies against human MPO (3D8 and 6B9) and affinity purified, horseradish peroxidase conjugated human anti-MPO antibodies (Pab1-HRP, Pab2-HRP) in a competitive inhibition enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) system using soluble human MPO as solid phase ligand. The Pab1-HRP and Pab2-HRP were affinity purified from plasma exchanges of a patient with PTU-induced vasculitis and a patient with MPA, respectively. The inhibition rates were evaluated and compared between the PTU and primary MPA groups. In the PTU group all 10 sera could inhibit 3D8: the average inhibition rate was 44.7% +/- 5.0%; 9/10 sera could inhibit 6B9: the average inhibition rate was 35.6% +/- 6.0%. However, in the MPA group all 10 sera could inhibit 3D8 and 6B9; the average inhibition rates were 68.4% +/- 16.1% (P < 0.01) and 62.2% +/- 17.2% (P < 0.01), respectively. Sera in both the PTU and MPA groups could inhibit Pab1-HRP and the inhibition rates were 81.4% +/- 9.4%versus 86.6% +/- 17.2% (P > 0.05). However, the average inhibition rate for Pab2-HRP in the MPA group was significantly higher than that in the PTU group (76.3% +/- 7.8%versus 58.9% +/- 15.5%, P < 0.01). We conclude that anti-MPO antibodies from patients with PTU-induced vasculitis and from patients with primary MPA could recognize more than one epitope on the native MPO molecule. Although the epitopes overlapped between the two groups, the epitopes of anti-MPO antibodies from patients with PTU-induced vasculitis might be more restricted.
The primary defect arising from Zellweger syndrome appears to be linked to impaired assembly of peroxisomes. A human complementary DNA has been cloned that complements the disease's symptoms (including defective peroxisome assembly) in fibroblasts from a patient with Zellweger syndrome. The cause of the syndrome in this patient was a point mutation that resulted in the premature termination of peroxisome assembly factor-1. The homozygous patient apparently inherited the mutation from her parents, each of whom was heterozygous for that mutation.
We employed a canine model of pulmonary embolism, induced by injection of autologous radiolabelled blood clots, to investigate effects of hydralazine and an increase in cardiac output per se on recombinant tissue plasminogen activator-induced thrombolysis. Emboli increased pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) and decreased CO from 2.7 to 1.8 L/min-1. Following embolization, dogs were randomly divided into three groups. Group 1 received .5 mg/kg of rtPA over 30 minutes. Group 2 received the same dose of rtPA and were pretreated with hydralazine to increase CO approximately 50 percent. In the group 3 dogs, CO was increased by opening a systemic A-V fistula. Following embolization, CO remained low in group 1, the mean 2 h time-averaged CO was 1.9 L/min-1. The CO was 2.9 and 3.1 L/min-1 in groups 2 and 3, respectively. Corresponding to the increased flow in groups 2 and 3, rate and extent of pulmonary thrombolysis significantly increased. These results indicate that an increase in CO augments rtPA-induced pulmonary thrombolysis.
This study was designed to determine whether (-)-epigallocatethin-3-O-gallate (EGCG) could reverse caffeine-induced anxiogenic-like effects in animals. In mice, EGCG antagonized the caffeine-induced reduction in both the open arm entry number and time-spent in open arm on elevated plus-maze. In addition, EGCG also antagonized the caffeine-induced reduction in both the central zone distance and central zone time-spent on an open field apparatus, respectively. Electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded from the rat anterior cerebral cortex. Caffeine increased the power density-ratios of fast (FW: 8.00-20.00 Hz) and slow (SW: 0.75-8.00 Hz) frequency spectrum bands in these EEG recordings. However, EGCG reduced the caffeine-induced increase of FW/SW ratios. Thus, EGCG reverses caffeine-induced anxiogenic-like effects. We also provide additional evidence that the EEG FW/SW (or SW/FW) ratios can be a useful tool for the prediction of anxiogenic and/or anxiolytic effects in an animal model.
When cross-sectional surveys are used to evaluate malaria intervention programmes in the community, the prevalence of morbidity is difficult to assess because of the fluctuating nature of malarial fever. We have therefore investigated the impact of bed net usage on 2 surrogate markers of malarial morbidity: (i) elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) (> 8 mg/L) plus detectable parasitaemia, as an indicator of malaria-induced acute-phase response; and (ii) reduced haptoglobin levels (< 180 mg/L), which in this population indicates malaria-induced intravascular haemolysis. Among 1505 Gambian children 1-5 years old, examined on a single occasion at the end of the malarial transmission season, 5% had parasitaemia plus fever, while 24% had parasitaemia plus elevated CRP, and 35% had low haptoglobin. The proportion of children who had parasitaemia plus elevated CRP was significantly lower among those who had slept under insecticide-treated bed nets than among those who did not use a bed net (16% vs. 34%, P < 0.003), and the proportion with low haptoglobin differed similarly (24% vs. 49%, P < 0.003). Use of an untreated bed net had a weaker effect on both indices (22% had parasitaemia plus elevated CRP, 34% had low haptoglobin). CRP and haptoglobin are simple and inexpensive to measure in large numbers of people, and these results suggest that they could be useful for the assessment of malaria intervention programmes.
Both sexes of inbred WF rats at either 8 or 28-60 weeks of age were exposed to 200 rad whole-body radiation, 2.5 or 5.0 mg 17 beta-estradiol (E2), or both agents The female rats treated with E2 alone or with both X-rays and E2 at 8 weeks of age showed a high incidence of mammary carcinomas (MCA), a large increase in pituitary weight, and a rise in serum prolactin (PRL) levels. However, the same treatments to males did not induce MCA despite a moderate increase in both pituitary weight and serum PRL. Ovariectomy prior to E2 treatment failed to modify the occurrence of MCA or pituitary tumors. When X-rays and E2 were given to female rats at 28-60 weeks of age, pituitary weight, serum PRL levels, and the incidence of MCA were unaffected. When the E2 pellet was kept for the first 24 weeks and withdrawn during the last 12 weeks, the incidence of MCA, pituitary weight, and serum PRL was low. It was concluded that: 1) the pituitary glands of young female rats were susceptible to E2 treatment but were insensitive in older females, and 2) the occurrence of MCA in female rats appeared to be promoted by elevated PRL levels secreted by E2-induced pituitary tumors. Mammary tissue of male rats was less sensitive to PRL levels in the development of MCA.
Our objective was to determine whether bezafibrate, a hypotriglyceridemic drug and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-alpha agonist, is ketogenic and increases fatty acid oxidation in humans. We measured fatty acid metabolism and ketone levels in 13 mildly hypertriglycemic adults (67 +/- 11 years old) during 2 metabolic study days lasting 6 h, 1 day before and 1 day after bezafibrate (400 mg of bezafibrate per day for 12 weeks). beta-Hydroxybutyrate, triglycerides, free fatty acids, fatty acid profiles, insulin, and glucose were measured in plasma, and fatty acid beta-oxidation was measured in breath after an oral 50-mg dose of the fatty acid tracer [U-(13)C]linoleic acid. As expected, 12 weeks on bezafibrate decreased plasma triglycerides by 35%. Bezafibrate tended to raise postprandial beta-hydroxybutyrate, an effect that was significant after normalization to the fasting baseline values (p = 0.03). beta-Oxidation of [U-(13)C]linoleic acid increased by 30% (p = 0.03) after treatment. On the metabolic study day after bezafibrate treatment, postprandial insulin decreased by 26% (p = 0.01), and glucose concentrations were lower 2 to 5 h postprandially. Thus, in hypertriglyceridemic individuals, bezafibrate is mildly ketogenic and significantly changes fatty acid metabolism, effects that may be linked to PPARalpha stimulation and to moderately improved glucose metabolism.
Medical complications associated with narcotic addiction include bacterial endocarditis, pneumonia, pulmonary embolism and renal disease. Renal disorders associated with pentazocine abuse are rarely reported. They vary with method of administration, dosage, and duration of abuse. We describe a 33-year-old male addict, using intravenous pentazocine for 6 years. He has nephrotic syndrome with a rapid deterioration of renal function to a uremic stage within 3 weeks. The laboratory data includes: IgG 1270 mg/dl, IgA 369mg/dl, IgM 326mg/dl, C'3 65.2 mg/dl, C'4 16.3 mg/dl, and serum soluble interleukin-2 receptor level (sIL-2R) greater than 6000U/ml. A renal biopsy revealed membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) type I with tubulointerstitial nephritis. Immunofluorescent (IF) study revealed granular deposition of C'3 and IgM in mesangium and the glomerular capillary wall. The pathogenesis of glomerular disease in drug addicts is discussed, and the literature reviewed.
Accelerated atherosclerosis in dialysis patients is characterized by severe vascular calcification, and the magnitude of vascular calcification is associated with increased cardiovascular mortality. Calcification-dependent arterial stiffness is considered to be a major determinant of cardiac failure in uremia. Fetuin-A/alpha(2)-Heremans-Schmid glycoprotein is an abundant serum protein with powerful calcification inhibitory properties. Fetuin-A deficiency was recently linked to cardiovascular mortality in dialysis patients. Fetuin-A knockout (fetuin-KO) mice spontaneously develop widespread soft tissue calcification, including significant myocardial calcification, whereas larger arteries are spared. Therefore, this investigation offers the unique opportunity to study the functional role of isolated myocardial calcification independent of arterial stiffness by assessing the hemodynamics of fetuin-KO mice. Cardiac output in fetuin-KO mice was lower than in wild-type mice (fetuin-KO 1.81 +/- 0.18 versus WT 2.45 +/- 0.29 ml/min per g; P < 0.005), and fetuin-KO mice were refractory to dobutamine stimulation. Left ventricular relaxation was significantly impaired in fetuin-KO hearts with the relaxation index reduced by 23% (P < 0.005). After ischemia, fetuin-KO hearts displayed a continuous decline in left ventricular developed pressure after the initial phase of reperfusion, resulting in 77 +/- 15% of preischemic left ventricular developed pressure (P < 0.05 versus wild-type). In fetuin-KO mice, dystrophic cardiac calcification, with myocardial calcium contents increased 60-fold, was associated with profound induction of profibrotic TGF-beta and downstream collagen and fibronectin mRNA synthesis. In conclusion, independent of arterial stiffness, calcification-associated "myocardial stiffness" characterized by cardiac fibrosis, diastolic dysfunction, impaired tolerance to ischemia, and catecholamine resistance thus may constitute an underestimated cardiovascular risk factor that contributes to cardiac failure in calcification-prone states.
Although 75 years have passed since Buerger's disease was described as a separate nosological, its etiology and pathogenesis are not sufficiently elucidated. According to many authors the disease origin is significantly connected to genetic and environmental factors. Exposure of some patients with special genotype, mainly HLA-A9 and HLA-B5, to environmental factors, mainly nicotine, may be the base of etiology and pathogenesis of Buerger's disease. Discovery of antielastin, anticollagen I and III antibodies, antinicotine and antivascular antigen antibodies in blood of patients, allowed to put forward a theory of immunological character of TO. In Buerger's disease, defined in recent years as an inactive collagenosis, immunological complexes, cell toxins developing during phagocytosis, found in smokers, constitute the main agents responsible for vascular wall damage. Disturbance of prostacyclin I2/thromboxane A2 balance and accelerated platelet aggregation cause spasm of arterioles and in effect lead to higher procoagulant readiness. Some adhesive molecules, for example P and L selectins, play an important role in vascular endothelium damage. Prostaglandin treatment induces an improvement of vascular wall (endothelium) status, and simultaneously improvement of tissue perfusion, expressed by a decrease of selectin and vWF concentrations and of the number of desquamated endothelial cells.
The increasing costs of managing asthma are due in part to the introduction of new medications, such as leukotriene receptor antagonists. These antagonists interfere with the action of leukotrienes, which are implicated in bronchoconstriction and the formation of airway edema in patients with asthma. Leukotriene receptor antagonists must be shown to be clinically and economically effective for their clinical use to be justified.
To assess the clinical and economic effectiveness of zafirlukast, a leukotriene receptor antagonist, in patients with mild-to-moderate asthma who might benefit from regular anti-inflammatory therapy.
Randomized, double-blind, multicenter, placebo-controlled trial.
28 outpatient clinics.
146 patients with mild-to-moderate asthma who were 12 years of age or older, had not smoked cigarettes in the previous 6 months, had a smoking history of less than 10 pack-years, had an FEV1 at least 55% of the predicted value with no upper limit, had demonstrated bronchial hyperresponsiveness, and were symptomatic during the 7-day run-in period. All patients were seen every 2 to 3 weeks for 13 weeks.
103 patients received zafirlukast (20 mg twice daily), and 43 patients received placebo (twice daily). All patients received inhaled beta-agonists as needed.
Data were obtained from medical examinations, patient questionnaires, and daily diaries. The clinical effectiveness outcomes were days per month without asthma symptoms, limitation of activity, use of beta-agonists, sleep disturbance, and episodes of asthma (the latter was a composite measure made up of the first four outcomes plus the occurrence of adverse events). The economic effectiveness outcomes were frequency and type of unscheduled health care contacts, use of beta-agonist inhalers, consumption of nonasthma medications, and days of absence from work or school.
The zafirlukast group had 89% more days without symptoms (adjusted rates, 7.0 compared with 3.7 days per month; P = 0.03), 89% more days without use of beta-agonists (adjusted rates, 11.3 compared with 6.0 days per month; P = 0.001), and 98% more days without episodes of asthma (adjusted rates, 10.1 compared with 5.1 days per month; P = 0.003). They also had 55% (95% CI, 19% to 74%) fewer health care contacts (18.5 compared with 40.7 per 100 per month; P = 0.007) and 55% (CI, 3% to 79%) fewer days of absence from work or school (15.6 compared with 35.0 per 100 per month; P = 0.04). They used 17% fewer canisters of inhaled beta-agonists (P = 0.17) and 19% less nonasthma medication (P < 0.2).
A daily regimen of zafirlukast added to as-needed inhaled beta-agonists is more effective than beta-agonists alone in treating mild-to-moderate asthma. The clinical and economic effectiveness of zafirlukast, a potential alternative to inhaled corticosteroids, provides further impetus to use regular "preventive" therapy in patients with mild-to-moderate asthma.
Tumor promoters are non-mutagenic chemicals which increase the probability of cancer by accelerating the clonal expansion of cells transformed during tumor initiation. Phenobarbital (PB) is an antiepileptic drug which promotes hepatocarcinogenesis in rodents when administered subsequent to an initiating carcinogen like diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Here we have investigated the prevalence and patterns of mutations in two genes, Ha-ras and beta-catenin, both known mutational targets in mouse hepatocarcinogenesis. Liver tumors were generated by a single administration of DEN to 6 week old mice followed by feeding of PB (0.05%) containing or control diet for 39 weeks. Mutations at Ha-ras codon 61 were screened by allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization; beta-catenin mutations were detected by direct sequencing of PCR products spanning exon 2. In tumors from mice treated with DEN alone, the prevalence of Ha-ras mutations was approximately 30% (6/20), while no beta-catenin mutations (0/13) were detectable in tumors of this treatment group. By contrast, Ha-ras mutations were undetectable in tumors from mice treated with DEN/PB (0/32), while approximately 80% (37/46) of tumors from this group showed beta-catenin mutations. These results demonstrate that PB strongly affects the prevalence of mutations in the two cancer-related genes, presumably by positive and negative selection for cells harboring the respective mutation.
Contact allergy is detected in every second child with the symptoms of chronic or recurrent eczema, and in every third child the final diagnosis is allergic contact dermatitis. Haptens responsible for the majority of contact sensitizations in children are substances ubiquitous in our environment, e.g. metals, preservatives, fragrances, propolis, and balsam of Peru. Much concern is provoked by the higher rates of sensitization to fragrances in younger children, compared to adolescents, which may be attributed to the higher exposure nowadays of infants and children to fragrant products. On the other hand, a limitation of exposure to the preservatives thimerosal and Kathon CG has resulted in decreased rates of sensitization to these haptens. Altogether, these observations demonstrate that the rates of contact sensitizations in children reflect changes in their environment, and limitations imposed on the use of haptens with strong sensitizing properties, may be an effective tool in the prevention of contact allergy.
This study investigates the effect of ACE2 activation on leptin-induced changes in systolic blood pressure (SBP), proteinuria, endothelial activation and ACE2 expression during pregnancy in Sprague-Dawley rats. Pregnant rats were given subcutaneous injection of either saline, or leptin, or leptin plus xanthenone (ACE2 activator), or xanthenone (XTN) alone. SBP, serum ACE, ACE2, endothelin-1, E-selectin and ICAM-1 levels were estimated; also their gene expressions were determined in the kidney and aorta respectively. Compared to control, SBP was higher in the leptin-only treated group (P<0.001) and lower in rats treated with xanthenone alone (P<0.01). Proteinuria, markers of endothelial activation were significantly higher than controls in leptin-only treated rats (P<0.05). ACE2 activity and expression were lower in leptin-only treated rats when compared to controls (P<0.05). It seems, leptin administration during pregnancy significantly increases SBP, proteinuria, endothelial activation, but decreases ACE2 level and expression. These effects are prevented by concurrent administration of xanthenone.
To investigate the reactive oxygen species (ROS) content and nuclear transcription factor-kappa B expression (NF-kappaB) in renal tissue of diabetic rats and the effect of Astragalus and Arctium in combination on them.
Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic model rats were established. Astragalus and Arctium in different dosages (low, moderate, high) were combined after orthogonal design and administered respectively to the model rats via gastrogavage for 4 or 8 weeks. Content of ROS in the renal tissue was detected by flow cytometry and expression of functional NF-kappaB p65 was assessed by Western blot at the 4th and 8th weekends (4th week and 8th week).
ROS content of renal tissue in the model rats was 36.55 +/- 7.46% at the 4th week and 31.91 +/- 5.83% at the 8th week, NF-kappaB p65 expression was 165.00 +/- 3.14 at the 4th week and 214.00 +/- 5.11 at the 8th week, all higher than those in normal rats (6.21 +/- 1.83% and 129.00 +/- 1.58 at the 4th week, 6.95 +/- 1.41% and 148.00 +/- 2.32 at the 8th week) respectively. The combined use of Astragalus and Arctium showed decreasing effects on both indexes significantly, and the decreasing effects of the combination with moderate and high dose Astragalus were better than those with low dose, with the details as follows: those of ROS at the 4th week were 11.43 +/- 2.42%, 18.37 +/- 7.58% and 22.10 +/- 4.71% for high, moderate and low dose Astragalus combination respectively (same hereinafter), at the 8th week 12.55 +/-4.40%, 19.15 +/- 6.64% and 23.48 +/- 3.13%; and for NF-kappaB p65 expression at the 8th week, 185.00 +/- 6.99, 183.00 +/- 3.89 and 194.00 +/- 4.98 respectively.
Combined use of Astragalus and Arctium may ameliorate the condition of diabetic nephropathy by inhibiting the activation of the ROS-NF-kappaB signal passage.
The aim of this study was to perform a clinical assessment of the association between oral lichenoid reactions (OLR) and amalgam restorations and to determine the salivary concentrations of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-8 before and after replacement of the amalgam restorations.
The study included 20 patients with OLR and 20 healthy volunteers, who were examined between 2001 and 2005 at the Oral Medicine Unit of the Medical Faculty University of Rijeka. All patients were skin patch tested by an experienced physician. Saliva samples were collected, prepared and analysed for IL-6 and IL-8 concentrations using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Sixteen out of 20 patch-tested patients showed a sensitization to inorganic mercury or amalgam. Total replacement of all amalgam fillings was carried out on 20 patients with fillings based on composite resin, gold, porcelain or a combination of these. Sixteen out of 20 patients showed complete healing of OLR; three patients had marked improvement, whereas one patient showed no improvement. Levels of IL-6 detected before replacement were significantly higher than IL-6 levels following the replacement (P = 0.003). The IL-8 levels measured before replacement procedure were significantly higher than the IL-8 levels after replacement of the fillings (P < 0.001).
On the basis of clinical observations, restorative therapy resulted in tissue healing. Following the replacement of amalgam fillings with fillings based on other restorative materials, levels of both IL-6 and IL-8 shifted towards normal, as measured in healthy subjects.
We sought to determine a potential interaction between statins and antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel. Previous laboratory studies have shown a possible drug-drug interaction of statins metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 and clopidogrel (prodrug metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4), resulting in an impaired inhibitory effect of clopidogrel on platelet aggregation. However, conclusive prospective data assessing this potentially relevant interaction are lacking. In 73 patients, 23 with previous coronary stent thrombosis (ST) (ST group) and 50 without coronary ST (control group), platelet aggregation was measured 3 times in monthly intervals using light transmission aggregometry (adenosine diphosphate [ADP] and arachidonic acid induction). Measurements were carried out with aspirin monotherapy (100 mg/day), dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin plus clopidogrel (75 mg/day), and additional treatment of 20 mg/day of atorvastatin or 40 mg/day of pravastatin. ADP (5 and 20 micromol)-induced platelet aggregation was significantly decreased with clopidogrel (p <0.001) but remained stable under additional treatment with atorvastatin or pravastatin in the 2 groups. Patients with previous ST showed a higher ADP-induced aggregation level than control subjects. This difference was not influenced by clopidogrel or statin treatment. In conclusion, patients with previous ST show a higher aggregation level than control subjects independent of statin treatment. Atorvastatin and pravastatin do not interfere with the antiaggregatory effect of aspirin and clopidogrel. In conclusion, drug-drug interaction between dual antiplatelet therapy and atorvastatin or pravastatin seems not to be associated with ST.
Glutathione peroxidase 3 is a selenium-dependent enzyme playing a critical role in detoxifying reactive oxidative species and maintaining the genetic integrity of mammalian cells. In this report, we found that the expression of glutathione peroxidase 3 (GPx3) was widely inactivated in prostate cancers. Complete inactivation of GPx3 correlates with a poor clinical outcome. Deletions (hemizygous and homozygous) of GPx3 gene are frequent in prostate cancer samples, occurring in 39% of the samples studied. The rate of methylation of the GPx3 exon 1 region in prostate cancer samples reaches 90%. Overexpression of GPx3 in prostate cancer cell lines induced the suppression of colony formation and anchorage-independent growth of PC3, LNCaP, and Du145 cells. PC3 cells overexpressing GPx3 reduced invasiveness in Matrigel transmigration analysis by an average of 2.7-fold. Xenografted PC3 cells expressing GPx3 showed reduction in tumor volume by 4.8-fold, elimination of metastasis (0/16 versus 7/16), and reduction of animal death (3/16 versus 16/16). The tumor suppressor activity of GPx3 seems to relate to its ability to suppress the expression of c-met. The present findings suggest that GPx3 is a novel tumor suppressor gene.
Notch receptors are key regulators of development by controlling cell-fate determination in many multicellular organisms. Genes that are important for normal differentiation play a role in cancer when their normal functions became dysregulated. Notch signaling has been shown to promote and maintain survival of many types of cancers, and we previously have shown that Notch3 plays an important role in lung cancer. In this study, we showed that a high percentage of lung cancer lines expressed Jagged1, Notch receptors, and their transcriptional target genes (HES1, Hey1), suggesting that the Notch pathway plays an important role in lung cancer biology. Thus, inhibition of Notch receptor activation represents a compelling treatment strategy. Notch activation requires proteolytic cleavage of the receptor by gamma-secretase protein complex. In this study, we determined the ability of MRK-003, a gamma-secretase inhibitor, to inhibit Notch3 signaling, growth, and apoptosis of lung cancer cell lines in vitro and in vivo using mouse xenograft models. We also found that MRK-003 inhibited Notch3 signaling, reduced tumor cell proliferation, inhibited serum independence, and induced apoptosis. This drug had no effect when Notch3 expression was knocked down using small interfering RNA (siRNA), suggesting that the observed effects were mediated by specific action on this receptor. In conclusion, these results support the hypothesis that inhibition of Notch activation using a gamma-secretase inhibitor represents a potential new approach for the targeted therapy of lung cancer.
The synthesis and potent inhibitory activity of novel imidazole methyl 3-(4-(aryl-2-ylamino)phenyl)propanoates in a MCF-7 CYP26A1 microsomal assay is described. The induction of CYP26A1 mRNA was used to evaluate the ability of the compounds to enhance the biological effects of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) in a retinoid-responsive neuroblastoma cell line. The most promising inhibitor, 3-imidazol-1-yl-2-methyl-3-[4-(naphthalen-2-ylamino)-phenyl]-propionic acid methyl ester (20), with an IC(50) of 3 nM (compared with liarozole IC(50) of 540 nM and R116010 IC(50) of 10 nM) was further evaluated for CYP selectivity using a panel of CYP enzymes, mutagenicity (Ames screen), and hepatic stability.
Acute renal failure has been associated with parenteral ketorolac tromethamine, but the risk that is associated with this therapy has not been quantified.
To compare the risk for acute renal failure associated with ketorolac with that associated with opioids.
Retrospective cohort study.
35 hospitals in or near Philadelphia.
Patients receiving 10,219 courses of parenteral ketorolac and patients receiving 10,145 courses of parenteral opioids.
Acute renal failure was defined by 1) an increase in the serum creatinine concentration of 50% or more and 2) either an absolute increase of 44.2 mumol/L or more for concentrations that were less than 132.6 mumol/L at baseline or an absolute increase of 88.4 mumol/L or more for concentrations that were 132.6 mumol/L or more at baseline. In addition, a secondary definition required a diagnosis by a physician.
The overall incidence of acute renal failure was 1.1% after therapy with either ketorolac or opioids. Multivariate-adjusted rate ratios comparing ketorolac with opioids for acute renal failure were 1.09 (95% CI, 0.83 to 1.42) overall, 1.00 (CI, 0.76 to 1.33) for less than 5 days of therapy, and 2.08 (CI, 1.08 to 4.00; P = 0.03) for more than 5 days of therapy. Similar results were obtained when the secondary definition of acute renal failure was used.
Overall, acute renal failure was uncommon in this hospitalized population. Compared with opioids, ketorolac administered for 5 days or less did not increase the rate of renal failure. However, among patients who were treated with analgesics for more than 5 days, ketorolac may be associated with an elevated rate of acute renal failure.
