The authors conducted a population-based, case-control study in Kaohsiung, southern Taiwan, Republic of China, to investigate the association between residential petrochemical exposure and leukemia risk among subjects 29 years of age and younger. Between November 1997 and June 2003, 171 cases and 410 controls matched for age and sex were recruited. Since assessment of petrochemical impacts depends on accurate exposure estimates, the authors developed a procedure using geographic information system tools to assign subjects' exposure. The resulting individual-level exposure estimates (the exposure opportunity score) are an integrated exposure measure that accounts for subjects' mobility, length of stay at each residence, distance to petrochemical plant(s), monthly prevailing wind direction, and multiple petrochemical pollution sources. Different conditional logistic regression models were fitted for subjects aged 0-19 and 20-29 years to evaluate separately childhood versus adulthood leukemia. No overall association was observed for the younger age group. However, residential petrochemical exposure was a significant risk factor for leukemia for the older age group. For one unit of increase in the log-transformed exposure opportunity score, the adjusted odds ratio was 1.54 (95 percent confidence interval: 1.14, 2.09). This study illustrates the utility of geographic information system tools for providing refined exposure estimates for residential exposure to petrochemical pollution.
Hepatitis B immune globulin was given intramuscularly to 102 staff members of a dialysis unit within 48 h after the accidental needlestick exposure to blood containing hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection developed in 11 of 56 persons (20%) who had been exposed to blood containing hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg). Among 56 HBeAg-positive inocula, HBsAg-associated deoxyribonucleic acid polymerase activity in the 11 inocula that transmitted HBV infection was significantly higher than that in the remaining 45 inocula that did not (log counts per minute 3.27 +/- 0.57 vs. 2.09 +/- 1.19, p less than 0.001). These 11 HBeAg-positive inocula revealed higher hemagglutination titers of HBsAg (geometric mean 13.5 +/- 1.4 vs. 11.2 +/- 3.2, p less than 0.001). The receptor for polymerized human serum albumin was detected significantly more often in the inocula that transmitted HBV infection than those that did not (10/11 vs. 24/45, p less than 0.05). Based on the results obtained, the failure in protecting all of those exposed to HBeAg-positive blood would be attributable to a high concentration of HBV in some HBeAg-positive inocula and the inability of intramuscular injection to raise a protective level of antibody in the circulation immediately.
Antiretroviral therapy is recommended for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients during pregnancy to reduce the vertical transmission to the newborn. Complications from this therapy are uncommon.
A 38-year-old HIV-positive pregnant woman was treated with lamivudine and zidovudine. At 28 weeks of gestation, her hemoglobin had fallen to 4.6 g/dL with an mean corpuscular volume (MCV) of 126 microm. At 36 weeks the fetal biophysical profile was abnormal. A pale hydropic infant was delivered via emergency cesarean, with a hemoglobin of 2.1 gm and MCV of 131 microm. The newborn hemoglobin normalized after withdrawal of the neonatal retroviral therapy.
Maternal-fetal macrocytic anemia may complicate antiretroviral therapy.
PNU-159548 (4-demethoxy-3'-deamino-3'aziridinyl-4'-methylsulphonyl-daunorubicin), a derivative of the anticancer idarubicin, has a broad spectrum of antitumoral activity in vitro and in vivo attributable to its DNA intercalating and alkylating properties. The present study was conducted to determine the cardiotoxic activity of PNU-159548 relative to doxorubicin in a chronic rat model sensitive to anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy.
Young adult male rats were allocated to the following treatment groups: group 1, PNU-159548 vehicle control (colloidal dispersion); group 2, doxorubicin control (saline); groups 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, PNU-159548 at 0.12, 0.25, 0.50, 0.75, and 1.0 mg/kg, respectively; and group 8, 1.0 mg/kg doxorubicin. Treatments were administered intravenously once weekly for 4 weeks (first sacrifice time) or for 7 weeks (rats killed at weeks 8, 12, 22, 27, or 35). Body weights, organ weights, serum chemistry, hematology, serum troponin-T, and cardiac histopathology were followed throughout the study.
Doxorubicin caused irreversible cardiomyopathy evident at week 4 in some rats and progressing in severity in all rats by week 8. There were also marked myelotoxicity, increased liver and kidney weights, testicular atrophy, and about 20% mortality by week 27 in doxorubicin-treated rats. The deaths were attributed to cardiomyopathy and/or nephropathy. PNU-159548 caused a dose-dependent myelotoxicity, with the dose of 0.5 mg/kg per week being equimyelotoxic to 1.0 mg/kg per week doxorubicin. PNU-159548 also caused an increase in liver weight that was reversible and a non-reversible testicular atrophy but, unlike doxorubicin, had no effect on kidney weight. At equimyelotoxic doses, the cardiotoxicity caused by PNU-159548, expressed as the mean total score, was less than one-twentieth of that induced by doxorubicin, and much less than that predicted on the basis of its content of idarubicin, which is in turn markedly less cardiotoxic than doxorubicin.
The novel cytotoxic antitumor derivative, PNU-159548, is significantly less cardiotoxic than doxorubicin at equimyelosuppressive doses. The combination of intercalating and alkylating activities within the same molecule without the cardiotoxic side effects of anthracyclines makes PNU-159548 an excellent candidate for clinical development in oncology.
Ketamine, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, produces acute impairments of working, episodic and semantic memory along with psychotogenic and dissociative effects when a single dose is given to healthy volunteers. In recreational users, Curran & Morgan (2000) showed that ketamine produced the same acute effects but that 3 days after ingestion, ketamine users showed persisting memory impairment and elevated psychotogenic symptoms compared with controls. To explore whether such persisting effects reflect chronic effects of ketamine use, the present study compared frequent with infrequent users of ketamine on the night of drug use and again 3 days later.
Eighteen frequent and 19 infrequent ketamine users were assessed on each test day on a range of cognitive tasks tapping memory and attentional function and on subjective scales (schizotypal symptomatology, dissociation, mood).
Groups were broadly matched for polydrug use apart from ketamine which frequent users took significantly more often and in larger quantities than infrequent users. Acute effects on day 0 replicated previous findings. On day 3 frequent users showed significant impairments on tasks tapping episodic and semantic memory but there was no evidence of persisting dissociative or schizotypal symptoms.
These findings indicate that frequent use of ketamine produces long-lasting impairments in episodic memory and aspects of retrieval from semantic memory. Such effects accord with animal evidence of the effects of NMDA receptor blockade on memory. Those using, or contemplating using ketamine should be informed of these persisting, detrimental effects of the drug upon human memory.
Myocardial sympathetic activity is increased in heart failure. We tested the hypothesis that norepinephrine (NE) stimulates apoptosis in adult rat ventricular myocytes in vitro.
Myocytes were exposed to NE alone (10 micromol/L), NE+propranolol (2 micromol/L), NE+prazosin (0.1 micromol/L), or isoproterenol (ISO, 10 micromol/L) for 24 hours. NE and ISO decreased the number of viable myocytes by approximately 35%. This effect was completely blocked by the beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol but was not affected by the alpha1-adrenergic antagonist prazosin. NE increased DNA laddering on agarose gel electrophoresis and increased the percentage of cells that were stained by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end-labeling from 5.8+/-1. 0% to 21.0+/-2.3% (P<0.01; n=4). NE likewise increased the percentage of apoptotic cells with hypodiploid DNA content as assessed by flow cytometry from 7.8+/-0.7% to 16.7+/-2.2% (P<0.01; n=6), and this effect was abolished by propranolol but not prazosin. ISO and forskolin (10 micromol/L) mimicked the effect of NE, increasing the percentage of apoptotic cells to 14.7+/-1.9% and 14. 4+/-2.2%, respectively. NE-stimulated apoptosis was abolished by the protein kinase A inhibitor H-89 (20 micromol/L) or the voltage-dependent calcium channel blockers diltiazem and nifedipine.
NE, acting via the ss-adrenergic pathway, stimulates apoptosis in adult rat cardiac myocytes in vitro. This effect is mediated by protein kinase A and requires calcium entry via voltage-dependent calcium channels. NE-stimulated apoptosis of cardiac myocytes may contribute to the progression of myocardial failure.
The effect of clonidine, naphazoline and xylometazoline on analgesia induced by morphine, codeine, fentanyl and pentazocine, and on cataleptic effect of morphine, codine and fentanyl was studied in rats. The biochemical assays on the influence of four analgesics on the brain concentration and turnover of noradrenaline (NA) were also performed. It was found that three drugs stimulating central NA receptors failed to affect the analgesic ED50 of all antinociceptive agents and they enhanced catalepsy induced by morphine and fentanyl. Codeine catalepsy was increased by clonidine and decreased by naphazoline and xylometazoline. The brain concentration of NA was not changed by morphine and fentanyl, but one of the doses of codeine (45 mg/kg) slightly enhanced it. Pentazocine dose-dependently decreased the brain level of NA. The rate of NA turnover was not altered by analgesics except for the higher dose of fentanyl (0.2 mg/kg) following which the disappearance of NA from the brain was diminished. The results are discussed in the light of various and non-uniform data from the literature. It is suggested that in rats the brain NA plays a less important function than the other monoamines in the behavioural activity of potent analgesics.
The present study evaluates the roles of the multidrug resistance-1 P-glycoprotein, Mdr1a/1b, the bile salt export pump (Bsep), and the multidrug resistance-associated protein-2 (Mrp2) in mediating cholestasis induced by estradiol-17beta(beta-D-glucuronide) (E(2)17G). Administration of ¿(3)HE(2)17G (18 nmol/g body weight) gave a similar degree of cholestasis and biliary excretion of E(2)17G-equivalents in wild-type and Mdr1a(-/-)/1b(-/-) mice. When expressed in Sf9 cells, Bsep-mediated adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-dependent transport of taurocholate (TC, 1 micromol/L) in membrane vesicles was 110% +/- 12.5% and 108% +/- 17.3% of control in the presence of 10 and 50 micromol/L E(2)17G, respectively, whereas in rat canalicular membrane, both E(2)17G and the choleretic estradiol-3-beta-D-glucuronide (E(2)3G) inhibited ATP-dependent transport of TC to the same extent. Infusion of ¿(3)HE(2)17G (24 micromol) did not induce cholestasis in Mrp2-deficient TR(-) rats whereas 2 micromol of ¿(3)HE(2)17G inhibited bile flow by 51% in control Wistar rats. The maximal biliary concentration of E(2)17G was 3.5 and 2.5 mmol/L in control and TR(-) rats, respectively. However, 2.2 mmol/L of E(2)17G in bile is associated with inhibition of bile flow in control rats. These data show that (1) Mdr1a/1b are not essential for E(2)17G-mediated cholestasis, (2) direct inhibition of Bsep-mediated bile acid transport is not the mechanism for E(2)17G cholestasis, and (3) accumulation of E(2)17G in bile alone is not sufficient to induce cholestasis. These data indicate that the process of Mrp2-mediated transport of high concentrations of E(2)17G is essential for its induction of cholestasis.
The effect of lithium on the urine concentrating response to antidiuretic hormone (ADH) and the excretion of ADH has been studied in rats and man. The maximum urine osmolarity following 18 h dehydration and Pitressin (5 u) was decreased in three out of four patients during lithium treatment compared to their response to the same test in the absence of lithium. In a fifth patient, tested only during lithium treatment, the urine remained hypotonic to plasma throughout this test. Lithium increased the excretion of ADH in non-polyuric patients from 9-22 mu/24 h in the absence of lithium to 36-202 mu/24 - during lithium treatment. In four patients with lithium-induced polyuria, a diuretic acting on the distal tubules, clorexolone, reduced the polyuria. Lithium increased urine volume and the excretion of ADH in four rats receiving lithium in their diet. The response to exogenous ADH was decreased during lithium administration.
Epidemiological studies indicated that human arsenic exposure can induce urinary bladder cancer. Methylation of inorganic arsenic can generate more reactive and toxic organic arsenical species. In this regard, it was recently reported that the methylated arsenical metabolite, dimethylarsinic acid [DMA(V)], induced urinary bladder tumors in rats. However, other methylated metabolites, like monomethylarsonic acid [MMA(V)] and trimethylarsine oxide (TMAO) were not carcinogenic to the urinary bladder. In order to compare the early effects of DMA(V), MMA(V), and TMAO on the urinary bladder transitional cell epithelium at the scanning electron microscope (SEM) level, we investigated the sub-chronic (13 weeks) toxicological effects of MMA(V) (187 ppm), DMA(V) (184 ppm), TMAO (182 ppm) given in the drinking water to male and female F344 rats with a focus on the urinary bladder in this study. Obvious pathological changes, including ropy microridges, pitting, increased separation of epithelial cells, exfoliation, and necrosis, were found in the urinary bladders of both sexes, but particularly in females receiving carcinogenic doses of DMA(V). Urine arsenical metabolic differences were found between males and females, with levels of MMA(III), a potential genotoxic form, higher in females treated with DMA(V) than in males. Thus, this study provides clear evidence that DMA(V) is more toxic to the female urinary bladder, in accord with sensitivity to carcinogenesis. Important gender-related metabolic differences including enhanced presentation of MMA(III) to the urothelial cells might possibly account for heightened sensitivity in females. However, the potential carcinogenic effects of MMA(III) need to be further elucidated.
To evaluate the contribution of amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptors to the pathogenesis of parkinsonian signs and levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
Motor fluctuations and dyskinesias reflect, in part, altered function of glutamate receptors of the NMDA subtype. The possible role of AMPA receptors, however, has not yet been examined.
The authors compared the ability of an AMPA agonist (CX516) and a noncompetitive AMPA antagonist (LY300164) to alter parkinsonian symptoms and levodopa-induced dyskinesia in MPTP-lesioned monkeys. Eight levodopa-treated parkinsonian monkeys received rising doses of each drug, first in monotherapy and then in combination with low-, medium-, and high-dose levodopa.
CX516 alone, as well as when combined with low-dose levodopa, did not affect motor activity but induced dyskinesia. Moreover, following injection of the higher doses of levodopa, it increased levodopa-induced dyskinesia by up to 52% (p < 0.05). LY300164 potentiated the motor activating effects of low-dose levodopa, increasing motor activity by as much as 86% (p < 0.05), and that of medium-dose levodopa as much as 54% (p < 0.05). At the same time, LY300164 decreased levodopa-induced dyskinesia by up to 40% (p < 0.05).
AMPA receptor upregulation may contribute to the expression of levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Conceivably, noncompetitive AMPA receptor antagonists could be useful, alone or in combination with NMDA antagonists, in the treatment of PD, by enhancing the antiparkinsonian effects of levodopa without increasing and possibly even decreasing levodopa-induced dyskinesia.
Methamphetamine-dependent inpatients (N = 51) were screened for childhood attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) using the Wender Utah Rating Scale upon admission to 30-day inpatient treatment. Baseline assessments included neuropsychological tests of executive function, memory, information processing, verbal fluency, attention, motor skills, and the Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI), a measure of psychiatric symptomatology. The thirty-six participants (70.6%) screening positive for ADHD reported significantly more frequent methamphetamine use prior to baseline. Baseline cognitive functioning was similar between groups, but the presumptive ADHD participants exhibited significantly worse psychiatric symptomatology. At three-week follow- up, 41 participants (80.4%) repeated the neuropsychological battery and BSI. All 10 non-completers screened positive for ADHD. The entire sample improved with abstinence in most neuropsychological domains except memory. The presumptive ADHD group failed to improve on tests of attention. All participants demonstrated significant reductions in psychiatric symptoms with abstinence. Methamphetamine-dependent individuals with ADHD symptoms are common and pose a significant treatment challenge.
This paper examines medical and psychiatric symptoms and disorders associated with reported HIV serostatus among methamphetamine-dependent, treatment-seeking men who have sex with men (MSM) in Los Angeles. Baseline data from a NIDA-funded, randomized clinical trial of behavioral drug abuse therapies included medical examinations and behavioral interviews of the 162 randomized participants. Variables identified as significantly associated with HIV infection were entered into a multivariate, hierarchical logistic regression analysis to optimally predict HIV serostatus. The disturbingly high 61% of the sample with reported HIV-seropositive status represents 3-4 times the prevalence for all MSM in Los Angeles County. HIV infection status strongly associated with prior treatment for methamphetamine dependence; unprotected receptive anal intercourse; history of sexually transmitted infections; and health insurance status. Findings demonstrate the powerful connection between methamphetamine dependence and HIV infection, and strongly suggest a need for development of interventions that function as both substance abuse treatment and HIV prevention for this population.
The corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF) receptor I antagonist, BMS-764459 (evaluated as a potential treatment of affective disorders), was orally dosed to female Sprague-Dawley rats once daily for 2 weeks (vehicle control or 175mg/kg/day). To investigate the mechanism of BMS-764459-related liver weight increases, total liver RNA was isolated and evaluated for mRNA gene expression by microarray analysis (assessing the expression of approximately 24,000 genes) from snap-frozen tissue. Subsequently, mRNA and miRNA (microRNA) were also analyzed 5 years later from FFPE (Formalin Fixed Paraffin Embedded) samples via RT-PCR (about 800 miRNA evaluated). Genomic analyses showed that BMS-764459 induces AhR target genes with additional inductions of CYP2B, CYP3A, and Abcc3 consistent with the gene expression pattern of atypical CYP1A1 inducers. Analysis of miRNA expression identified a number of significantly affected miRNAs. To further evaluate their role in atypical CYP1A1 induction, an in silico evaluation of differentially expressed miRNA was performed and their putative mRNA 3'-UTR (untranslated region) binding sequences were evaluated. MiR-680 and miR-29a were identified as potential regulators and biomarkers of atypical CYP1A1 induction by regulating Abcc3, CYP3A and CYP2B as well as a number of AhR targeted genes.
Fusarium toxins have been arousing public interest in recent years because of their potential health hazards for humans and agricultural livestock. It was hypothesized that selected pro-inflammatory cytokines might serve as sensitive biomarkers of the predicted adverse effects of Fusarium toxins on the basis of their potential ability to induce immune and intestinal alterations comparable to those in human chronic inflammatory infection. Consequently, the aim of this study was to elucidate individual and combined effects of four common Fusarium toxins, deoxynivalenol (DON), nivalenol (NIV), zearalenone (ZEA) and fumonisin B1 (FB1) on the mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL1α, IL1β, IL6, IL8, TNFα and MCP-1) using a porcine jejunal epithelial cell line, IPEC-J2. Based on a dose-response relationship between individual mycotoxins and cell viability (MTT assay) that was previously established, cytotoxic and non-cytotoxic concentrations were selected to investigate combinations of two, three and all four of the mycotoxins. In general, up-regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNA expression occurred for both individual and mixtures of Fusarium toxins at cytotoxic concentrations, whereas significant up-regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNA mostly obtained when the toxins existed in mixtures at non-cytotoxic concentrations and these mixtures were found to cause cytotoxicity from MTT assay determined previously. Therefore, it may be concluded that some of the changes in the mRNA expression of IL1α, IL1β, IL6, IL8, TNFα and MCP-1 could be cytotoxicity-related. It was also noted that additive effects were not always observed for the mixtures. These data suggest that individual or mixtures of Fusarium toxins could cause or exacerbate intestinal inflammation. These also provide a better understanding of the possible effects of Fusarium toxins, alone or in combinations on the immunological defense mechanisms of IECs, which would contribute to the risk assessment of these toxins.
Clonidine (ip) and methoxamine (ivc) inhibit the catalepsy produced by haloperidol or fluphenazine. Naphazoline and xylometazoline antagonize the catalepsy produced by haloperidol, but do not affect significantly that produced by fluphenazine. Phenylephrine did not affect the catalepsy produced by either neuroleptic. The results indicate that drugs stimulating central noradrenergic receptors antagonize the action of compounds blocking the central dopaminergic receptors.
Urothelial cell cultures generated from urinary bladders from a series of N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN)- or N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furanyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT)-treated Fischer 344 rats were examined for activating missense mutations in Ha-ras-1 genes. Our overall objective was to identify oncogene-activating mutations in this system and to determine what altered biological properties correlate with such genetic changes. The urinary bladders from the treated animals showed a spectrum of histopathologies, from simple hyperplasia to transitional cell carcinoma (TCC). Using restriction analysis, oligonucleotide hybridization, and DNA sequencing, we found that approximately 20% (3/14) of the bladder cell cultures had acquired oncogenic single-base substitutions in codon 61 of Ha-ras-1 genes (CAA----AAA or CGA). The donor bladder lesions for these three cultures, which also harbored the same ras-activating mutations, were all classified as stage A or B TCCs. However, four other TCCs also arising in this series were found to have normal Ha-ras genes. Whereas approximately half of the bladder cultures derived from the carcinogen-treated rats were nontumorigenic in athymic mice, the three cultures containing ras oncogenes were all highly tumorigenic (forming tumors within 5 wk of injection into athymic mice). These cultures also displayed a high degree of anchorage-independent growth and NIH 3T3-transforming activity in gene transfer assays. The nontumorigenic cultures were derived from bladder lesions that included three hyperplasias and three stage A TCCs. We conclude that ras-activating missense mutations were present in a malignant subset of bladder lesions induced by BBN or FANFT, but most of the lesions in this system appeared to involve genetic alterations elsewhere. Thus other oncogenes besides activated Ha-ras may apparently be associated with the same bladder histopathologies and transformation markers.
The chloracetanilide herbicide alachlor (2-chloro-2',6'-diethyl-N-(methoxymethyl)acetanilide) induces olfactory mucosal tumors in rats following chronic dietary exposure. Previous reports demonstrated that alachlor exposure was associated with depletion of glutathione (GSH) in liver in vivo and in vitro, but did not address this issue in the target tissue for the carcinogenic response. In this study we investigated a potential oxidative stress pathway in olfactory tissue by examining perturbations in olfactory mucosal antioxidants. Male Long-Evans rats were fed alachlor for up to 10 days (10-126 mg/kg per day), and intracellular reduced GSH and ascorbate levels were measured in olfactory mucosa. Both GSH and ascorbate rapidly decreased in olfactory mucosa following alachlor exposure, with a subsequent increase in both antioxidants to approximately 160% of control levels in the high dose group, and recovery of GSH to control levels in all groups by 10 days. Using Western blot analysis, we found that the modifier subunit of the rate-limiting enzyme in GSH synthesis, glutamate-cysteine ligase, increased in olfactory mucosa and remained elevated (126 mg/kg per day group). Two ascorbate transporters were detected by RT-PCR in olfactory mucosa, but neither appeared to be upregulated by alachlor exposure, and ascorbate synthesis was not stimulated in olfactory mucosa by alachlor treatment. Dietary exposure to alachlor depletes olfactory mucosa antioxidants, which may contribute to DNA damage and tissue-specific tumor formation.
In a representative sample of 392 first hospital admissions for schizophrenia from a population of 1.5 million we assessed the "true" age of onset by a semi-standardized interview "IRAOS". We demonstrated that the mean age at onset of the disease is 3-4 years higher in females than in males, with the lifetime risk being exactly equal. In males, the rates of onset show a steep increase - starting from school age and reaching their maximum value in the age group 15-24 years - followed by a steady decrease. Females reach the first peak with a clear delay between 20 and 29 years. After the decrease, a second smaller peak is observed consistently in females within the age group 45-49 years and over. After having excluded competing explanations, we hypothesized that the effect of oestradiol on the dopaminergic system enhances the vulnerability threshold, which is lowered again during the menopause. Alternatively, we assumed that testosterone reduces the vulnerability threshold and thus furthers the earlier onset of the disease in males. We tested the hypotheses in three animal models by examining the effect of gonadal hormones on haloperidol-induced catalepsy and on apomorphine-induced stereotypies in both neonatal and adult rats. No clear influence by testosterone was shown. Oestradiol caused a significant reduction of both dopamine-agonist and dopamine-antagonist induced behaviour. The effects were stronger in neonatal rats. Since oestradiol caused the dopamine (DA) receptor affinity for sulpiride to be reduced by a factor of 2.8, we assumed that the behavioural changes due to oestradiol were accounted for by a down-regulation of DA receptor sensitivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Mutations in TMPRSS6 gene cause iron-refractory iron deficiency anemia, a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by hypochromic microcytic anemia not responsive to oral iron therapy and partially responsive to parenteral iron administration. Here we report a female infant homozygous for a loss of function mutation in TMPRSS6 gene, who responded to oral iron therapy when supplemented with ascorbic acid.
Occasional or recurrent episodes of orthostatic hypotension were observed in 58 out of 584 hypertensive patients treated with alpha-methyldopa, beta-blockers and clonidine alone or associated with diuretics and/or hydralazine and/or reserpine. They occurred more frequently in the elderly. In none dicardial ischaemia. In only 3 cases it caused drowsiness and in 2 transient T wave inversion. These results suggest that postural hypotension does not contraindicate the continuation of antihypertensive treatment.
This study assessed daily aspirate samples from an indwelling sinus catheter during high-dose, short-course levofloxacin (750 mg daily x 5 days) treatment of acute maxillary sinusitis. Pathogens were isolated from 4 of 18 recruited patients. Bacteriologic eradication occurred within 24 h for 3 patients and 72 h for the 4th.
Lumbosacral spina bifida is a common debilitating birth defect whose multiple causes are poorly understood. Here, we provide the first genetic delineation of cholinergic nicotinic receptor alpha7 (Chrna7) expression and link the ablation of the Chrna7 cell lineage to this condition in the mouse. Using homologous recombination, an IRES-Cre bi-cistronic cassette was introduced into the 3' noncoding region of Chrna7 (Chrna7:Cre) for identifying cell lineages expressing this gene. This lineage first appears at embryonic day E9.0 in rhombomeres 3 and 5 of the neural tube and extends to cell subsets in most tissues by E14.5. Ablation of the Chrna7:Cre cell lineage in embryos from crosses with conditionally expressed attenuated diphtheria toxin results in precise developmental defects including omphalocele (89%) and open spina bifida (SB; 80%). We hypothesized that like humans, this defect would be modified by environmental compounds not only folic acid or choline but also nicotine. Prenatal chronic oral nicotine administration substantially worsened the defect to often include the rostral neural tube. In contrast, supplementation of the maternal diet with 2% choline decreased SB prevalence to 38% and dramatically reduced the defect severity. Folic acid supplementation only trended towards a reduced SB frequency. The omphalocele was unaffected by these interventions. These studies identify the Chrna7 cell lineage as participating in posterior neuropore closure and present a novel model of lower SB that can be substantially modified by the prenatal environment.
Acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) is a rare metabolic disorder of heme biosynthesis characterized by enzymatic defect of porphobiligen desaminase with accumulation and increased excretion of porphyrins and their precursors. Clinical picture is characterized by attacks with a triad of abdominal pain, psychiatric disorder and neurological involvement (central and peripheral). Peripheral nervous system manifestations, often precipitated by porphyrinogenic medications are of poor outcome.
We report a new cases A 13-year-old girl who presented several attacks of AIP and developed acute severe axonal motor neuropathy, three weeks after porphyrinogenic medications (Famotidin, Phenobarbital and Nifedipine).
We stress on the importance of early diagnosis of AIP to prevent serious neurological complications often precipitated by medications and the efficiency of heme arginate treatment when administrated early during the attacks.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a neurogenetic disorder that often causes brain abnormalities leading to epilepsy, developmental delay, and autism. TSC is caused by inactivating mutations in either of the genes encoding the proteins hamartin (TSC1) and tuberin (TSC2). These proteins form a heterodimer that inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) pathway, controlling translation and cell growth. Loss of either protein results in dysregulated mTORC1 activation, an important aspect of TSC pathogenesis. About thirty percent of TSC patients have cerebellar pathology that is poorly understood. To investigate the effects of TSC on the cerebellum, we created a mouse model in which the Tsc2 gene was selectively deleted from Purkinje cells starting at postnatal day 6 (P6). The loss of Tsc2 caused a progressive increase in Purkinje cell size and subsequent death from apoptosis. Purkinje cell loss was predominantly cell type specific and associated with motor deficits. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that both endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and oxidative stress were increased in Tsc2-null Purkinje cells. The cell death and ER stress phenotypes were rescued by treatment with the mTORC1 inhibitor rapamycin. To assess whether the murine Purkinje cell loss has a correlate to the human TSC, we analyzed postmortem cerebellum samples from TSC patients and detected Purkinje cell loss in half of the samples. Our results establish a critical role for the TSC complex in Purkinje cell survival by regulating ER and oxidative stress and reveal a novel aspect of TSC neuropathology.
Troglitazone was removed from the U.S. market because its use was associated with an increased risk of liver failure. We evaluated the clinical features of all cases reported to the Food and Drug Administration and estimated the duration and magnitude of the risk of liver failure associated with continued use of the drug.
Data from cases of liver failure associated with troglitazone use were abstracted and analyzed. The extent of troglitazone use was determined from national marketing data, and the duration of use was estimated with data from a large, multistate, health care company. Survival analysis was performed to estimate monthly incidence rates and the cumulative risk of liver failure.
Ninety-four cases of liver failure (89 acute, 5 chronic) were reported. Of the acute cases, 58 (67%) were women and only 11 (13%) recovered without liver transplantation. Progression from normal hepatic functioning to irreversible liver injury occurred within 1 month in 19 patients who were indistinguishable clinically from the 70 patients who had an unknown time course to irreversibility, except for the post hoc observation that prior cholecystectomy was less common in those with rapid onset. The incidence of liver failure was elevated from the first through at least the 26th month of troglitazone use. Accounting for case underreporting, the number needed to harm from troglitazone use was between 600 to 1500 patients at 26 months.
The progression to irreversible liver injury probably occurred within a 1-month interval in most patients, casting doubt on the value of monthly monitoring of serum aminotransferase levels as a means of preventing troglitazone-induced acute liver failure. The cumulative risk of hepatic failure increased with continued use.
Progressive renal fibrosis is considered to be the final common pathway leading to chronic renal insufficiency. In this study, the authors examined some of the cellular and molecular mechanisms regulating the renal accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins using rats with puromycin amino-nucleoside (PAN) nephrosis as an acute model system. Puromycin aminonucleoside rats developed reversible nephrotic syndrome accompanied by an interstitial infiltrate of monocytes. The number of interstitial fibroblasts expressing ST4 antigen did not increase. During the first 4 days, steady-state mRNA levels for all genes examined remained at or below control levels. At 1 week, nephrotic syndrome and interstitial inflammation were established, and a period of renal cell proliferation occurred, identified by increased histone mRNA levels and localized by tritiated thymine autoradiography to tubular epithelial cells and occasional interstitial cells. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) steady-state mRNA levels were increased eightfold, but returned to control levels by 3 weeks. At week 1, there was a 10- to 20-fold increase in kidney steady-state mRNA levels for genes encoding interstitial matrix proteins collagen I and fibronectin and basement membrane collagen IV. By in situ hybridization, alpha 1(I) procollagen mRNA was localized to interstitial cells. Immunofluorescence microscopy demonstrated focal accumulation of ECM proteins in the tubulointerstitial compartment at 2 and 3 weeks, but by 6 weeks, kidney immunohistology was normal again. Steady-state mRNA levels for the matrix degrading metalloproteinase stromelysin remained at control values, whereas the levels for interstitial collagenase were normal at week 1 and increased twofold to threefold at 2 and 3 weeks. Steady-state mRNA levels for the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMP) increased fivefold at 1 week and returned to baseline values over the next 2 weeks. The results of this study suggest that tubulointerstitial ECM accumulation occurs in rats with acute PAN nephrosis because of the activation of genes encoding several matrix proteins and inhibition of matrix degradation mediated by TIMP. These events are reversed during the phase of recovery from nephrotic syndrome. Increased mRNA levels for TGF-beta, possibly originating from inflammatory interstitial monocytes, are likely to be one of the mediators of the molecular events observed.
To estimate the leukemogenic potential of alkylating agents, we surveyed 70 institutions using these drugs for the frequency of second cancers in patients with advanced ovarian cancer. Thirteen cases of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia occurred among 5455 patients, as compared to 0.62 cases expected (relative risk = 21.0). All 13 had received alkylating agents. Nine also received radiotherapy. The relative risk for patients given chemotherapy was 36.1 and rose to 171.4 for those surviving for two years (rate = 13.75 per 1000 patients per year). To evaluate the role of therapy versus underlying disease, a historical control of 13,309 patients with ovarian cancer in the National Cancer Institute's End Results Program was analyzed. No excess of leukemia was noted in this group, even among 6596 women receiving radiation. The excess of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia, therefore, appears attribute to alkylating agents, although the effect may be enhanced by exposure to radiation, as previously suggested for Hodgkin's disease.
