Aggravation of mitral regurgitation (MR) due to left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (LVOTO) is likely to occur during liver transplantation in cirrhotic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCMP). Moreover, calcium administration following severe hypocalcemia due to inadequate citrate metabolism and massive transfusion may induce MR aggravation with LVOTO in such patients. Herein we have described a cirrhotic patient with HCMP in whom MR was aggravated due to LVOTO resulting from inadvertent rapid administration of calcium during liver transplantation.
This study compared the pain from intradermal infiltration of (1) plain lidocaine, (2) warmed lidocaine, (3) buffered lidocaine, and (4) warmed, buffered lidocaine. A randomized, double-blind, Latin Square design of 20 volunteers was used. Each volunteer was injected with a series of four test solutions on four separate occasions, for 16 total injections each. Each volunteer served as his or her own control. The mean pain scores for the four solutions were: 44.2 for plain lidocaine, 42.2 for warmed lidocaine, 36.7 for buffered lidocaine, and 29.2 for warmed, buffered lidocaine. Buffered lidocaine was statistically less painful than both plain lidocaine and warmed lidocaine. Warmed, buffered lidocaine was significantly less painful than all other solutions, including buffered lidocaine (P < .005). However, warmed lidocaine did not yield pain scores significantly different from plain lidocaine. In this experimental model, warmed lidocaine was not superior to plain lidocaine, but warmed, buffered lidocaine caused significantly less pain than plain lidocaine, buffered lidocaine, or warmed lidocaine. Thus, there may be benefit from heating the buffered lidocaine now in common clinical use.
We present a rare but potentially harmful adverse reaction of propofol. A 50-year-old patient was posted for laparoscopic cholecystectomy, developed generalized convulsions after few seconds of propofol administration at anesthesia induction. Convulsions subsided with intravenous administrations of thiopentone and midazolam. Patient remained hemodynamically stable and surgery was uneventful. Blood sugar, serum electrolytes and arterial blood gas analysis were normal. Postoperatively, there was no evidence of postictal phase, serum electrolytes and postoperative computerized tomographic scanning of the head were normal. Patient had uneventful recovery. The administration of propofol has been associated with abnormal movements collectively termed as seizure-like phenomenon. Despite the claims that propofol may have proconvalsant activity, there is significant amount of evidence to the contrary also. The pathophysiological mechanisms behind the neuroexcitatory symptoms with propofol are unknown. Propofol alters the conscious state, the transition from the conscious state to anesthesia or vice versa may be a particularly vulnerable period and may be prolonged after the end of propofol administration.
We examined the effects of pesticides on the central and peripheral nervous system in the setting of a tobacco farm at a developing country. Maximal motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities (MCV and SCV, respectively) in the median, sural and tibial nerves, postural sway, and brain-evoked potentials (auditory event-related and visual-evoked potentials) were measured in 80 male tobacco farmers and age- and sex-matched 40 controls in Kelantan, Malaysia. Median SCV (finger-wrist) in farmers using Delsen (mancozeb, dithiocarbamate fungicide), who showed significant decrease of serum cholinesterase activities, were significantly lower compared with the controls. Sural SCV in farmers using Fastac (alpha-cypermethrin, pyrethroid insecticide) and median MCV (elbow-wrist) in farmers using Tamex (butralin, dinitroaniline herbicide) were significantly slowed compared with their respective controls. In Delsen (mancozeb, dithiocarbamate) users, the power of postural sway of 0-1 Hz was significantly larger than that in the controls both in the anterior-posterior direction with eyes open and in the right-left direction with eyes closed. The former type of sway was also significantly increased in Tamaron (methamidophos, organophosphorus insecticide) users. In conclusion, nerve conduction velocities and postural sway seem to be sensitive indicators of the effects of pesticides on the central and peripheral nervous system.
To investigate prospectively the frequency and type of infections and the use of antibiotics among patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) on methotrexate (MTX) and patients with RA without MTX.
Every three months for one year 77 patients on MTX and 151 patients without MTX were asked about infections and the use of antibiotics by means of a standardised questionnaire. Medication was checked with the pharmacist.
In the MTX group there were significantly more infections and more antibiotic therapy. The relative risks for patients on MTX of infection or antibiotics use were 1.52 (95% Confidence Interval (CI) 1.04-2.22) and 1.49 (95% CI 1.04-2.13), respectively. The relative risk of MTX for respiratory tract infections was 1.43 (95% CI 0.96-2.14) and for skin infections 2.19 (95% CI 1.45-3.31). The increased risks could only partly be explained by differences in disease severity and were not related to either duration of MTX therapy or use of prednisone. Three patients in the MTX group had herpes zoster versus one in the control group.
Treatment with MTX increases the rate of infection and thus the use of antibiotics but does not lead to serious complications necessitating discontinuation of the drug.
Cefixime (CFIX) was evaluated clinically in pediatric respiratory tract infections, particularly those caused by Haemophilus influenzae: 1. The total number of children in this study treated with CFIX was 232, out of which 215 cases were evaluated for clinical efficacy and 224 cases were investigated for safety. A daily dosage of 3-6 mg/kg/day was given divided into 2 to 3 times daily for 3-15 days. 2. Causative organisms were identified in 146 cases, out of which 128 cases were found to be single microbial infections and 18 cases were mixed infections. In single microbial infections, clinical efficacy was 100% for those caused by H. influenzae/Haemophilus parainfluenzae, and was 95% for Streptococcus pyogenes with an overall efficacy of 96.9%. In mixed infections, the clinical efficacy was 100% for those caused by a combination of H. influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae, and the overall rate was 94.4%. An involvement of H. influenzae was observed in 108 cases with a clinical efficacy rate of 99.1%, and definite involvement of beta-lactamase secreting strains of H. influenzae was found in 32 cases with a clinical efficacy of 96.9%. 3. Bacteriological effect was studied for 164 strains identified in 146 cases, and eradication rates were 89.5% for H. influenzae, 100% for H. parainfluenzae and S. pyogenes, and 71.4% for S. pneumoniae. The overall eradication rate was 91.4%. Superinfection was observed in 21 cases. MICs against 78 strains of H. influenzae were in a range of less than or equal to 0.10 microgram/ml regardless of beta-lactamase production, and far superior to cefaclor and amoxicillin. MICs against S. pyogenes and S. pneumoniae were in ranges of less than or equal to 0.10 microgram/ml and 0.39 micrograms/ml, respectively. 4. Clinical efficacy was 93.0% in 215 cases (excellent: 136, good: 64, fairly good: 10, poor: 5). CFIX attained a high efficacy in the range of 89.4-95.7% in acute pharyngitis, acute tonsillitis, acute bronchitis and acute pneumonia. 5. Safety was monitored in 224 cases and there were only one case of loose stool and another of diarrhea as side effects. There were no abnormal findings in 31 cases of the laboratory test. In conclusion, it was confirmed that CFIX is excellent and safe in the treatment of the respiratory tract infections.
The pathophysiology of tobacco-related diseases is complex and multifactorial. Among the approximately 4,000 compounds in tobacco smoke are carcinogens such as nitrosamines, irritants such as a variety of phenolic compounds, volatiles such as carbon monoxide, and of course nicotine. Nicotine itself has quite complex actions, mediated in part by nicotinic cholinergic receptors that may have extraneuronal, as well as neuronal distribution. This review discusses the mechanisms by which nicotine contributes to tobacco-related disease, with a focus on the surprising new finding that nicotine is a potent angiogenic agent. Nicotine hijacks an endogenous nicotinic cholinergic pathway present in endothelial cells that is involved in physiological, as well as pathological angiogenesis.
The protective effect of tumeric extract (TE) in diet on CCl4-treated rats was studied. Rats were divided into 5 groups: (1) untreated, (2) CCl4 treated, (3) pre-TE for 2 weeks followed by CCl4, (4) TE + CCl4 given concurrently and (5) 5% TE as positive control. The serum levels of bilirubin, cholesterol, aspartate aminotransferase, (AST), alanine amino transferase (AST), (ALT) and alkaline phosphatase were estimated after 1, 2 and 3 months. CCl4 caused a maximum increase (2-3-fold in all the above parameters. As compared to CCl4 group, a short pre-treatment of TE showed reduction in cholesterol, bilirubin, AST, ALT and alkaline phosphatase activity whereas concurrent treatment of TE + CCl4 reduced to a greater extent the levels of all parameters except ALT. To conclude, concurrent treatment of TE gave significant protection against CCl4 though the values did not reach the normal levels.
To evaluate the prognostic role of pretreatment serum levels of soluble CD30 (sCD30) in patients with advanced stage classical Hodgkin's lymphoma (cHL) treated with adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine or equivalent regimens.
We identified 321 previously untreated patients with cHL who presented to the participating centers between 1985 and 2002, and had serum samples available for the determination of sCD30 levels.
With a median follow-up of 72 months, the actuarial 5-year overall survival was 82%, and failure-free survival (FFS) was 71%. The median serum level of sCD30 was 65 U/mL (range: 1-2230), and was significantly higher (P < 0.0001) when compared with a group of 113 healthy controls (4 U/mL, range: 0-20). Increasing level of sCD30 was associated with a continuous worsening of FFS and OS, and patients with sCD30 >or=200 U/mL had a 5-year FFS of 39%. With multivariate analysis, sCD30, Ann Arbor stage, and lactic acid dehydrogenase were significant independent factors in terms of FFS. The association of the above-mentioned three independent prognostic variables could discriminate 22% of patients with 5-year FFS of 40%.
Our data confirm the independent prognostic role of sCD30 in identifying the patients with high risk of treatment failure, and show that its association with other variables can recognize patients with FFS considerably lower than 50%.
Retinoic acid, an analogue of vitamin A, is known to be teratogenic in laboratory animals and has recently been implicated in a few clinical case reports. To study the human teratogenicity of this agent, we investigated 154 human pregnancies with fetal exposure to isotretinoin, a retinoid prescribed for severe recalcitrant cystic acne. The outcomes were 95 elective abortions, 26 infants without major malformations, 12 spontaneous abortions, and 21 malformed infants. A subset of 36 of the 154 pregnancies was observed prospectively. The outcomes in this cohort were 8 spontaneous abortions, 23 normal infants, and 5 malformed infants. Exposure to isotretinoin was associated with an unusually high relative risk for a group of selected major malformations (relative risk = 25.6; 95 per cent confidence interval, 11.4 to 57.5). Among the 21 malformed infants we found a characteristic pattern of malformation involving craniofacial, cardiac, thymic, and central nervous system structures. The malformations included microtia/anotia (15 infants), micrognathia (6), cleft palate (3), conotruncal heart defects and aortic-arch abnormalities (8), thymic defects (7), retinal or optic-nerve abnormalities (4), and central nervous system malformations (18). The pattern of malformation closely resembled that produced in animal studies of retinoid teratogenesis. It is possible that a major mechanism of isotretinoin teratogenesis is a deleterious effect on cephalic neural-crest cell activity that results in the observed craniofacial, cardiac, and thymic malformations.
Claudins are the major proteins of the tight junctions and the composition of claudin subtypes is decisive for the selective permeability of the paracellular route and thus tissue specific function. Their regulation is complex and subject to interference by several factors, including oxidative stress. Here we show that exposure of cultured human proximal tubule cells (RPTEC/TERT1) to the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporine A (CsA) induces an increase in transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), a decrease in dome formation (on solid growth supports) and a decrease in water transport (on microporous growth supports). In addition, CsA induced a dramatic decrease in the mRNA for the pore forming claudins -2 and -10, and the main subunits of the Na(+)/K(+) ATPase. Knock down of claudin 2 by shRNA had no discernable effect on TEER or dome formation but severely attenuated apical to basolateral water reabsorption when cultured on microporous filters. Generation of an osmotic gradient in the basolateral compartment rescued water transport in claudin 2 knock down cells. Inhibition of Na(+)/K(+) ATPase with ouabain prevented dome formation in both cell types. Taken together these results provide strong evidence that dome formation is primarily due to transcellular water transport following a solute osmotic gradient. However, in RPTEC/TERT1 cells cultured on filters under iso-osmotic conditions, water transport is primarily paracellular, most likely due to local increases in osmolarity in the intercellular space. In conclusion, this study provides strong evidence that claudin 2 is involved in paracellular water transport and that claudin 2 expression is sensitive to compound induced cellular stress.
Pseudoephedrine hydrochloride was evaluated at two dosage levels in six normal healthy males, at rest and during submaximal exercise. Although there appeared to be a dose-related rise and during submaximal exercise. Although there appeared to be a dose-related rise in resting heart rate, it was not statistically significant. The drug had no effect on the amount of time required to reach 85 per cent maximal predicted heart rates while on the treadmill or on the amount of time required to recover baseline heart rates. Also, there was no drug effect observed on blood pressure at rest, during exercise, or in the recovery period. There was a significant increase in the frequency of sinus arrhythmias after the 120-mg pseudoephedrine dose. There appeared to be no drug effect on postexercise blood glucose and insulin levels.
It has been shown previously that the endogenous opioid system may be involved in the behavioral effects of nicotine. In the present study, the participation of endogenous enkephalins on nicotine responses has been investigated by using preproenkephalin knock-out mice. Acute nicotine-induced hypolocomotion remained unaffected in these mice. In contrast, antinociception elicited in the tail-immersion and hot-plate tests by acute nicotine administration was reduced in mutant animals. The rewarding properties of nicotine were then investigated using the place-conditioning paradigm. Nicotine induced a conditioned place preference in wild-type animals, but this effect was absent in knock-out mice. Accordingly, in vivo microdialysis studies revealed that the enhancement in dopamine extracellular levels in the nucleus accumbens induced by nicotine was also reduced in preproenkephalin-deficient mice. Finally, the somatic expression of the nicotine withdrawal syndrome precipitated in nicotine-dependent mice by mecamylamine was significantly attenuated in mutant animals. In summary, the present results indicate that endogenous opioid peptides derived from preproenkephalin are involved in the antinociceptive and rewarding properties of nicotine and participate in the expression of physical nicotine dependence.
Severe pain is one of the main problems after harvesting iliac crest transplants. In this randomized double-blind study differences in the peripheral and central effects of opiates for pain treatment in the iliac crest region after augmentation of the severely resorbed maxilla were examined.
In 20 consecutive patients with severe atrophy of the edentulous maxilla, augmentation was performed with the use of iliac crest transplants. In 10 patients a gelatine sponge soaked with a 10 mg morphine hydrochloride solution was placed in the iliac region after harvesting the transplant ipsilaterally for local opiate therapy. In the control group the same opiate was injected into the contralateral glutaeus maximus muscle for systemic therapy. Both groups were followed up for pain intensity every 2 h during the first 48 h and 3 times a day from postoperative days 3-10. Thereafter the patients were followed up 1, 3, 6 and 12 months postoperatively. At each time of control the VAS score, as well as the quality of pain with and without movement and the consumption of NSAIDs were registered.
Lower pain values were registered in the control group within the early postoperative period, whereas the mean VAS score was less from postoperative days 3-10 in the study group (2.3 compared to 1.3 VAS). The consumption of NSAIDs corresponded to the pain scores in both groups during the control periods. There were no statistically significant differences for long term results at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months postoperatively.
The effect of centrally given opiates is more effective in the early postoperative period. In the early rehabilitation period the effect of intraoperatively local peripherally placed opiates is superior to intraoperatively centrally administered opiates.
Inherited defects in DNA mismatch repair (MMR) predispose to a variety of malignancies in humans and in mouse knockout models. In humans, hemizygosity for one of several DNA MMR genes greatly increases an individual's risk for colon and endometrial carcinoma. Hemizygous mice develop gastrointestinal tumors at a low to moderate frequency. Homozygous nulls have higher rates of gastrointestinal tumors and are particularly susceptible to lymphoma. In an effort to model endometrial carcinoma associated with mutation in MMR, we treated mice carrying knockout alleles for Mlh1 or Msh2 with the synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES), a known promoter of uterine endometrial carcinoma. The C57BL/6 mice carrying DNA MMR mutations failed to develop endometrial carcinomas. However, the Mlh1-deficient mice treated with DES tended to become moribund at an early age and had very early onset of lymphoma. Comparison of DES-treated and untreated Mlh1-/- animals suggests the combination of Mlh1 deficiency and DES exposure accelerates lymphomagenesis.
The availability of genetically modified mice has increased the need for relevant mouse models of renal disease, but widely used C57BL/6 mice often show resistance to proteinuria. 129/Sv mice are considered more sensitive to certain renal models. Albumin overload, an important model of proteinuric disease, induces marked proteinuria in rats but barely in C57BL/6 mice. We hypothesized that albumin overload would induce more proteinuria in 129S2/Sv than C57BL/6J mice.
Male and female C57BL/6J and 129S2/Sv mice received bovine serum albumin (BSA) for 11 days. Control groups received saline injections. Injected BSA was immunohistochemically localized to study intrarenal handling of overloaded protein. Renal macrophage infiltration (F4/80 immuno-staining) and glomerular ultrastructure (electron microscopy) were assessed.
The BSA-treated groups were similarly hyperproteinemic at Day 11 (D11). Proteinuria differed widely. In C57BL/6J mice, it remained unchanged in females but significantly, though mildly, increased in males (from 3+/-1 to 8+/-2 mg/day, P < 0.05). In 129S2/Sv, proteinuria was marked in both males and females (4+/-1 to 59+/-14, and 0.6+/-0.2 to 29+/-9 mg/day, respectively, both P < 0.01). Proteinuria was accompanied by tubulo-interstitial macrophage infiltration in 129S2/Sv mice. Injected BSA was visualized within glomeruli in both strains and in the urinary space and tubules of 129S2/Sv but not C57BL/6J mice, indicating much greater glomerular leakage in the former. No glomerular macrophages or ultra-structural differences were detected.
There are major strain differences in the proteinuria and renal inflammatory response of mice to albumin overload, which are not due to structural variation in the filtration barrier but possibly to functional differences in glomerular protein permeability.
Two cases of interstitial pneumonia with cardiac failure developing in patients treated with the new antidepressant venlafaxine are presented. A strong relationship between the development of the patients' illness and the initiation of venlafaxine treatment was identified. The cytochrome P (CYP) 450 system is involved in the metabolism of venlafaxine, suggesting that alterations in the drug metabolic clearance might be, at least in part, responsible for the development of drug-induced damage in these cases. This might occur either as a consequence of a genetic factor or concomitant drug therapy with an inhibitor of the related CYP system. After identifying the causative agent in the first case, withdrawal of the antidepressant together with corticosteroid treatment led to a favorable outcome. In the other case, the multiorgan failure became fatal. These cases highlight a hitherto undescribed association of an adverse lung reaction and heart failure due to venlafaxine.
Our objective was to evaluate the patterns of malformations in children exposed in utero to phenytoin (DPH) and carbamazepine (CBZ) monotherapy, and to compare them prospectively with matched mother-child pairs exposed to nonteratogens, and to separate the effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) from those of epilepsy by collecting groups of untreated epileptics and those treated with DPH and CBZ for conditions other than epilepsy. This was a prospective, controlled, and blinded observational study. Thirty-six mother-child pairs exposed to CBZ monotherapy, 34 pairs exposed to DPH monotherapy, and 9 nonmedicated epileptic women and their children were compared with matched mother-child pairs exposed to nonteratogens. The control mothers were matched for maternal age, time of consultation, obstetric history, and socioeconomic status (SES). One main outcome measures a "blinded" morphological assessment of the offspring. We found that minor anomalies were significantly more common among children of epileptics on either drug (P = 0.01) and among DPH-treated nonepileptic offspring (P = 0.03). Among epileptics, the relative risk for minor anomalies following DPH (2.1) was similar to that after exposure to either DPH (P = 0.006) or CBZ (P = 0.01). Increased rates of hypertelorism were detected among DPH-exposed offspring. High forehead, frontal bossing, malar hypoplasia, epicanthus and micrognathia were associated with untreated epilepsy, as well as with DPH and CBZ treatment.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors combined with higher doses of hydrochlorothiazide (HCT), that is, 25 mg daily, have been recognized as an effective form of antihypertensive therapy. To evaluate the coadministration of 20 mg ramipril with 25 mg HCT, we carried out a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial with two dose schedules of ramipril (20 mg q.d. and 10 mg b.i.d.) and HCT monotherapy arms as comparators in 354 patients with stage 2 hypertension. The clinic blood pressure (BP) was assessed using a semiautomatic digital device and 24-h BP was measured using ambulatory BP recordings at baseline and after 8 weeks of therapy. At baseline, the demographics and baseline BP values were similar in the four treatment groups (age: 51-53 years, 52-58% male, 64-68% non-black, clinic BP: 155-158/103-104 mm Hg). Ramipril-HCT induced significantly greater reductions in both the clinic and ambulatory BP than the HCT and ramipril monotherapy treatments (for example, additional reductions in ambulatory BP on ramipril-HCT ranged from -7.3/-5.2 to -10.3/-7.4 mm Hg compared to the monotherapies, all P<0.001). Reductions from baseline were still numerically greater for the clinic BPs derived from device measurements than those for the BP values derived from 24-h ambulatory BP measurements (changes in clinic diastolic BP ranged from -8.5 to -15.5 mm Hg across treatment groups, whereas changes in ambulatory diastolic BP were -4.7 to -12.0 mm Hg for the same groups). Thus, these data support the use of ambulatory BP monitoring even when automated BP devices are used for the assessment of clinical BP in trials that attempt to differentiate BP responses among active comparator groups. In conclusion, based on its efficacy and tolerability profile the combination of ramipril and HCT was shown to be effective therapy for the treatment of stage 2 hypertension.
We report the case of a 31-year-old man with bipolar disorder who was on a combination therapy of lithium, lamotrigine and escitalopram. Serum lithium level was within therapeutic range. Cerebellar symptoms such as dysarthria, ataxia, and dyskinesia developed in the patient following the pneumonia. Cerebellar syndrome was most likely due to lithium neurotoxicity, which was associated with additional factors such as acute febrile pneumonia, fever and hyponatremia. The reported case suggests that infections may increase the risk of cerebellar toxicity of lithium, even in the therapeutic doses.
Development of novel antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) requires determining the margin between the desired anticonvulsant effect and undesired adverse effects (AE) (therapeutic index). For this purpose, drug-induced "minimal neurological deficits" (e.g., motor dysfunctions) are commonly quantified by simple tests, such as the rotarod test, in normal, i.e., nonepileptic animals. However, increasing evidence shows that chronic brain dysfunction associated with epilepsy may increase susceptibility to the AE of certain AEDs, e.g., N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists. The increased AE potential of such investigational drugs can be predicted by using kindled rats instead of normal rodents in preclinical drug evaluation studies. In the present experiments, we wished to determine whether kindled rats also exhibit an altered susceptibility to neurological adverse effects of standard AEDs, i.e., carbamazepine (CBZ), phenobarbital (PB), valproate (VPA), and diazepam (DZP). Abecarnil, a novel benzodiazepine (BZD) receptor agonist, was included in the study for comparison. All drugs were administered in diverse doses in kindled and nonkindled rats, and all behavioral alterations were scored in the cage and open field. Furthermore, the rotarod test was used to detect and quantify motor impairment induced by drug treatments. Kindled rats were more susceptible than nonkindled rats to motor impairment (ataxia and/or rotarod failures) induced by high doses of AEDs, although differences were noted between the drugs tested. VPA was the only drug that induced stereotyped behavior; it was much more potent in this respect in kindled than nonkindled rats. Abecarnil did not differ substantially in its AE in either subgroup of animals. Our data indicate that epileptogenesis induced by kindling renders the brain more susceptible to certain AE of AEDs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ifosfamide is successfully employed in the treatment of bone and soft tissue sarcomas in children and young adults. Used at high doses (HDI) the drug may cause severe multiorgan toxicity. Peripheral neuropathy is a less well-known side effect that may limit its use. We describe a 16-year-old girl with a Ewing sarcoma who was given post-operative treatment with HDI (15 mg/m(2) infused over 5 days). After the second course she experienced paresthesias in both feet. After the third course she developed signs of severe toxicity in the CNS, kidneys, heart, and severe pain in her feet.
Neurologic and neurophysiologic investigations, including neurographic studies of motor and sensory nerves, EMG, and thermotest, were performed in the acute phase and after 6 and 21 months, respectively. Renal and cardiac function was also assessed.
She developed generalized weakness of the arms and legs and an extremely painful hyperesthesia of the soles. The symptoms improved gradually during follow-up but remained to some extent even after more than 2 years. Serial neurophysiologic investigations indicated classical signs of axonal neuropathy, which tended to improve during follow-up. After 18 months the glomerular filtration rate and the effective renal plasma flow were 30 and 12% of normal, respectively, while other organ functions had returned to baseline.
Symptoms of peripheral neuropathy after HDI may herald severe multiorgan toxicity, if continued. Early administration of anesthetics through the intrathecal route should be considered in case of ifosfamide-induced painful peripheral neuropathy.
Valproic acid (VPA) is commonly used as an antiepileptic drug (AED). Regular screening for renal side effects is uncommon. Fanconi syndrome, a generalized dysfunction of renal proximal tubular cells, occurs with some inborn errors of metabolism. In addition, it can be acquired by exposure to several toxic substances. We report a case of Fanconi syndrome after long-term therapy with VPA.
An 8-year-old severely disabled and developmentally retarded boy with epilepsy was treated with VPA over a period of 7 years. He was hospitalized after a status epilepticus with laboratory findings suggesting a Fanconi syndrome. A PubMed-based worldwide review of the literature revealed that Fanconi syndrome is a rare side effect in children during long-term VPA treatment. We analyzed all 10 previously published cases by comparing age, underlying diseases, medication, and outcome.
Examination revealed metabolic acidosis suggestive of renal tubular malfunction. Based on typical clinical and laboratory findings, an acquired Fanconi syndrome was diagnosed. This was treated with large doses of sodium bicarbonate. After discontinuation of VPA, renal function completely normalized within 2 months.
Fanconi syndrome appears to be a rare but severe consequence of long-term VPA therapy. Therefore patients treated with VPA should be checked regularly for the possible development of VPA-induced Fanconi syndrome.
There has been no study comparing the advantage and disadvantage of various antihypertensive agents during surgery for pheochromocytomas because the study is difficult in clinical setting. In the present experiments using dogs, after increasing the arterial blood pressure with norepinephrine, we decreased it to the baseline with sodium nitroprusside (SNP), adenosine triphosphate (ATP), or phentolamine (PE) and compared the hemodynamic changes. A hyperdynamic state was found with ATP and with PE, but not with SNP. The norepinephrine-induced pulmonary hypertension could be successfully treated with SNP, but not with ATP or PE. The reason for these differences are thought to be the different vasodilative properties on peripheral arteries and veins. We conclude that agents that dilates the arteries and veins should be used to regulate the arterial pressure during surgical removal of a pheochromocytoma.
TREK1 is a widely expressed background potassium channel. Similar to mice treated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), TREK1 knockout mice are resistant to depression-like behavior and have elevated serotonin levels leading to speculation that TREK1 inhibition may contribute to the therapeutic effects of SSRIs. This study examined how chronic fluoxetine administration and a common functional polymorphism in the serotonin-transporter-linked promoter region (5-HTTLPR) influence cortical TREK1 expression in 24 rhesus monkeys. The short rh5-HTTLPR allele as well as female gender were associated with reduced cortical TREK1 protein expression but chronic SSRI administration had no effect. These results suggest that serotonin may influence TREK1, but that chronic SSRI treatment does not result in long lasting changes in cortical TREK1 protein expression. TREK1 gender differences may be related to gender differences in serotonin and require further research.
Almotriptan (LAS 31416) is a new, oral, specific 5-hydroxytryptamine(1B/1D) receptor agonist for the treatment of migraine. The pharmacokinetics and safety of a range of oral doses were assessed in 23 healthy male volunteers. Peak plasma concentrations were reached between 1.5 and 4 h after dosing. The maximum plasma concentration and area under the curve showed dose proportionality over the dose range 5-200 mg. The elimination half-life was constant at approximately 3 h across all dose levels. A substantial proportion of the initial dose was excreted in urine (27%-39%) during 12 h post-dose and the main excretory product was unchanged drug. Three major urinary metabolites were detected, all of which were pharmacologically inactive. The most common events following almotriptan administration were headache, tiredness and mild nausea. Nine events (18%) were classed as probably related to almotriptan and these were all at the highest dose level of 200 mg. The maximum tolerated dose of almotriptan was, therefore, determined as 150 mg. In conclusion, almotriptan is well tolerated following single, oral doses up to 150 mg and has predictable pharmacokinetics.
