Nephrin is a recently identified protein that is a key component of the slit diaphragm. This protein may play a crucial role in maintaining the glomerular filtration barrier, and mutations in the gene for nephrin reportedly lead to congenital nephrosis. However, the expression of nephrin in acquired glomerular disease has not yet been fully clarified. To address this issue, we analysed the expression and localization of nephrin by morphological analysis based on immunoelectron microscopy in normal glomeruli and in glomeruli from proteinuric experimental models.
Twenty rats were divided into three experimental groups (n = 16 total) and a control group (n = 4). Rats in the experimental groups received a single intravenous injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN), and were sacrificed at 1 (n = 4), 2 (n = 6) and 3 weeks (n = 6) post-injection. Nephrin expression was assessed by immunoelectron microscopy using a polyclonal antibody against nephrin and gold particles. It was quantified by counting the gold particles and the slit diaphragms and by measuring the average foot process width in microphotographs.
The average foot process width in the 1 week group (5924.5 +/- 1523.9 nm) was far greater than that of controls (1112.9 +/- 79.8 nm), but decreased thereafter. The average number of total gold particles per unit length (10 000 nm) of the glomerular basement membrane (GBM) underlying the foot processes was reduced at 1 week (26.0 +/- 9.5), compared with controls (335.3 +/- 125.5), but increased thereafter. Also, the average number of junctional gold particles per unit length of the GBM was lower than controls (208.4 +/- 1.7) at 1 week (10.1 +/- 3.5), but increased thereafter. There were no significant differences between the numbers of junctional gold particles per slit diaphragm among the groups, but significant differences were observed in the distributions of gold particles among the groups. Gold particles were more frequently seen in cytoplasm at 1 week.
The present ultrastructural studies showed that nephrin expression and its distribution were altered in PAN-treated rats, and this occurred in parallel with foot process effacement. Nephrin expression returned to normal with improved resolution of the effacement. Nephrin expression was found to be rather preserved in areas without foot process effacement, even in PAN-treated rats. The significance of the above findings in terms of proteinuria and foot process effacement needs further clarification.
1. The effects of N-methyl morphine and N-methyl nalorphine were studied on the hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2 in the rat paw. Morphine and N-methyl morphine injected intraperitoneally (2-8 mg/kg) caused a dose-dependent analgesia. The potency of N-methyl morphine was of the same order of magnitude as its parent compound in causing analgesia. 2. Nalorphine caused a short-lasting analgesia followed by an enhancement of prostaglandin-induced hyperalgesia. In contrast, its analogue, N-methyl nalorphine, injected intraperitoneally, induced analgesia but did not enhance the hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2 or induce hyperalgesia in the control paw. 3. Treatment of the animals with N-methyl nalorphine at a dose which had no apparent analgesic effect antagonized the analgesic effect of morphine or N-methyl morphine. 4. Administration of a low dose of N-methyl nalorphine into the paw totally antagonized the analgesic effect of N-methyl morphine administered either locally into the paw, or intraperitoneally. 5. It is concluded that quaternary analogues of morphine and nalorphine, which do not have central effects because they do not cross the blood-brain barrier, retain the peripheral analgesic effects of the parent compounds.
In a 68-year-old woman, who used lithium carbonate because of longstanding recurring depression, an association was found between hypercalcaemia and the use of lithium. The serum calcium concentration appeared to be significantly correlated with the serum lithium concentration (y = 2.38 + 0.37x; r = 0.36; p = 0.009). There was a significant inverse correlation between the ratio of 24-hour urinary calcium and creatinine excretion and the serum lithium concentration (y = 0.80 - 0.22x; r = 0.43; p = 0.030). The association of hypercalcaemia and use of lithium has been reported before. The finding may be due to an effect of lithium on the parthyroids and (or) on the kidneys.
Carbon nanotubes (CNT) are of great commercial interest. Theoretically, during processing and handling of CNT and in abrasion processes on composites containing CNT, inhalable CNT particles might be set free. For hazard assessment, we performed a 90-day inhalation toxicity study with a multiwall CNT (MWCNT) material (Nanocyl NC 7000) according to Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development test guideline 413. Wistar rats were head-nose exposed for 6 h/day, 5 days/week, 13 weeks, total 65 exposures, to MWCNT concentrations of 0 (control), 0.1, 0.5, or 2.5 mg/m(3). Highly respirable dust aerosols were produced with a proprietary brush generator which neither damaged the tube structure nor increased reactive oxygen species on the surface. Inhalation exposure to MWCNT produced no systemic toxicity. However, increased lung weights, pronounced multifocal granulomatous inflammation, diffuse histiocytic and neutrophilic inflammation, and intra-alveolar lipoproteinosis were observed in lung and lung-associated lymph nodes at 0.5 and 2.5 mg/m(3). These effects were accompanied by slight blood neutrophilia at 2.5 mg/m(3). Incidence and severity of the effects were concentration related. At 0.1 mg/m(3), there was still minimal granulomatous inflammation in the lung and in lung-associated lymph nodes; a no observed effect concentration was therefore not established in this study. The test substance has low dust-forming potential, as demonstrated by dustiness measurements, but nonetheless strict industrial hygiene measures must be taken during handling and processing. Toxicity and dustiness data such as these can be used to compare different MWCNT materials and to select the material with the lowest risk potential for a given application.
Topical application of isotretinoin and adapalene has proved effective in treating acne vulgaris. Both drugs demonstrate therapeutic advantages and less irritancy over tretinoin, the most widely used treatment for acne. They both act as retinoid agonists, but differ in their affinity profile for nuclear and cytosolic retinoic acid receptors.
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of adapalene gel 0.1% and isotretinoin gel 0.05% in the treatment of acne vulgaris of the face, in a randomized open-label clinical trial.
Eighty patients were enrolled and were instructed to apply adapalene gel 0.1% or isotretinoin gel 0.05% once daily over a 12-week treatment period. Efficacy determination included noninflammatory and inflammatory lesion counts by the investigator and global evaluation of improvement. Cutaneous tolerance was assessed by determining erythema, scaling and burning with pruritus.
Adapalene and isotretinoin gels were highly effective in treating facial acne. Adapalene gel produced greater reductions in noninflammatory and inflammatory lesion counts than did isotretinoin gel, but differences between treatments were not statistically significant. Adapalene gel was significantly better tolerated than isotretinoin gel during the whole treatment period.
The two gels studied demonstrated comparable efficacy. When adapalene and isotretinoin were compared, significantly lower skin irritation was noted with adapalene, indicating that adapalene may begin a new era of treatment with low-irritant retinoids.
To ascertain the contribution of systemic hypertension in the progression of renal failure, we have studied the effects of pharmacological treatment of hypertension in rats with the remnant kidney model of renal insufficiency, streptozotocin diabetes, or nephrotoxic serum nephritis. Treatment with the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor enalapril lowered systemic blood pressure in the remnant kidney and diabetic animals, but did not lower blood pressure in rats with nephrotoxic serum nephritis. Proteinuria was reduced in all three models, and creatinine clearance improved in the remnant kidney and diabetic animals, when compared with untreated controls. In the remnant kidney and diabetic models systemic blood pressure was lowered to a similar degree by treatments with a calcium blocker, with no improvement in either proteinuria, or glomerular filtration rate. Further studies of the long-term effects of enalapril have been undertaken in rats with the two kidney one clip model of hypertension. Rats treated with enalapril had a lower blood pressure and improved survival over one year of treatment, compared with untreated rats. After 1 year of treatment however the clipped kidney was small and fibrotic, and non functional. Following withdrawal of enalapril therapy there was no functional improvement of the clipped kidney. The possibility that ACE inhibitors have a specific intra-renal effect reducing the rate of progression of renal disease now needs confirmation in human studies. In renovascular hypertension however, intra-renal changes induced by ACE inhibitors may cause irreversible renal damage.
The aim of this study was to examine the efficacy and safety of topiramate as an adjunct to diet and exercise in drug-naive, obese subjects with type 2 diabetes.
Drug-naive individuals with type 2 diabetes, body mass index (BMI) of > or =27 and <50 kg/m(2) and haemoglobin A(1c) (HbA(1c)) of <10.5% were enrolled into the study. All the individuals participated in a non-pharmacologic weight loss program (Pathways to Change((R)); Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Systems, Piscataway, NJ, USA) throughout the trial. After a 6-week placebo run-in, the subjects were randomized to placebo, topiramate 96 mg/day or topiramate 192 mg/day. Subjects were scheduled for 8-week titration and 52-week maintenance phases. The study was ended early; efficacy data were reported for a predefined modified intent-to-treat (MITT) population (n = 229), with 40 weeks of treatment. All the subjects who provided any safety data were included in the safety population (n = 535).
Baseline mean weight was 103.7 kg, BMI 36 kg/m(2) and HbA(1c) 6.7% across all treatment groups. By the end of week 40, the placebo, the topiramate 96 mg/day and topiramate 192 mg/day groups lost 2.5, 6.6 and 9.1% of their baseline body weight respectively (p < 0.001 vs. placebo, MITT population using last observation carried forward). The decrease in HbA(1c) was 0.2, 0.6 and 0.7% respectively (p < 0.001 vs. placebo, MITT). Topiramate significantly reduced blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion; a weight-loss-independent HbA(1c) improving effect of topiramate was demonstrated. Adverse events were predominantly related to central nervous system (CNS).
Topiramate as an add-on treatment to lifestyle improvements produced significant weight loss and improved glucose homeostasis in obese, drug-naive subjects with type 2 diabetes. These treatment advantages should be balanced against the occurrence of adverse events in the CNS.
Clozapine and 8-OH-DPAT antagonized haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats (ED50 10 and 0.1 mg/kg s.c., respectively). Whereas the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) completely antagonized the inhibitory effect of 8-OH-DPAT, clozapine's effect was not affected. On the other hand, clozapine and 8-OH-DPAT inhibited ultrasonic vocalization in rats (ED50 0.7 and 0.03 mg/kg s.c., respectively), which effects were antagonized by WAY 100635. The lack of catalepsy of clozapine, therefore, cannot be addressed primarily to clozapine's agonistic activity at 5-HT1A receptors.
The case of a 28-year-old epileptic woman, treated for 3 months with carbamazepine and who developed jaundice, fever and exfoliative dermatitis is reported. Biological investigations showed an increase in the activity of serum transaminases and alkaline phosphatases as well as in the blood eosinophilic count. Liver biopsy revealed centrolobular necrosis and cholestasis with portal inflammatory infiltrate. Drug challenge was followed by the rapid recurrence of clinical and biological signs. The definitive outcome was favorable. The analysis of the 12 previously published cases, and particularly the frequency of granulomatous hepatitis, suggests an immunoallergic mechanism for the development of carbamazepine hepatitis.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is a crucial mediator of inflammatory pain sensitization. Here, we demonstrate that inhibition of a specific glycine receptor subtype (GlyR alpha3) by PGE2-induced receptor phosphorylation underlies central inflammatory pain sensitization. We show that GlyR alpha3 is distinctly expressed in superficial layers of the spinal cord dorsal horn. Mice deficient in GlyR alpha3 not only lack the inhibition of glycinergic neurotransmission by PGE2 seen in wild-type mice but also show a reduction in pain sensitization induced by spinal PGE2 injection or peripheral inflammation. Thus, GlyR alpha3 may provide a previously unrecognized molecular target in pain therapy.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) represents an iatrogenic form of malignant catatonia, and simple catatonia has been shown to predispose to NMS.
The authors present the case of a bipolar patient with catatonic features who developed NMS after receiving haloperidol.
Supportive therapy, including rehydration, electrolyte restoration, and blood pressure aids were given, together with antipyretics, antibiotics, and anticoagulants. The patient was also started on bromocriptine and diazepam.
Supportive care, diazepam, and dopamine agonists yielded only partial benefit. However, switching from diazepam to lorazepam, in combination with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) and a long-acting dopamine agonist led to the resolution of NMS.
This case sheds further light on the relationship between catatonia and NMS. As noted in the literature, ECT in combination with lorazepam proved to be safe and effective for NMS.
Glyceryl trinitrate, a prodrug of nitric oxide, induces a mild to moderate headache in healthy subjects, whilst migraineurs develop a more severe headache, resembling spontaneous migraine attacks. In order to investigate whether this increased nitric oxide sensitivity depends upon the frequency of spontaneously occurring migraine attacks, intravenous infusion of glyceryl trinitrate (0.5 microg/kg/min) was given to 15 migraine patients with rare attacks (</=4 attacks/year) of migraine without aura. Fourteen age-matched migraine patients with frequent attacks of migraine without aura (>/=12 attacks/year) and 14 healthy subjects served as controls. No significant difference between the migraine groups for any of several parameters was detected, although the trend was always towards more headaches in frequent migraineurs. Both migraineurs with frequent and rare attacks experienced a headache that was significantly more severe, longer lasting, and fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for migraine without aura more often, compared to the healthy subjects (P = 0.0001). Conclusively, supersensitivity to glyceryl trinitrate in migraineurs seems to be related to a basic - probably genetically determined - pathophysiological mechanism involving nitric oxide, and not to the environmental influences, which to a large extent determine the expression of migraine.
In this study the effect of glyceryl trinitrate on the prostigmine-morphine-induced sphincter of Oddi spasm was evaluated in nine female patients with sphincter of Oddi dyskinesia.
Sphincter of Oddi spasm was induced by prostigmine-morphine administration (0.5 mg prostigmine intramuscularly and 10 mg morphine subcutaneously) and visualized by quantitative hepatobiliary scintigraphy. The entire procedure was repeated during glyceryl trinitrate infusion (Nitrolingual 1 microg/kg/min for 120 min).
Prostigmine-morphine provocation caused significant increases in the time to peak activity (Tmax) over the hepatic hilum (HH: 34.33 +/- 5.05 vs. 22.77 +/- 3.26) and the common bile duct (CBD: 60.44 +/- 5.99 vs. 40.0 +/- 2.88) and in the half-time of excretion (T1/2) over the liver parenchyma (LP: 120.04 +/- 16.01 vs. 27.37 +/- 2.19), HH (117.61 +/- 14.71 vs. 31.85 +/- 3.99) and CBD (158.11 +/- 9.18 vs. 40.1 +/- 6.24), indicating a complete spasm at the level of the sphincter of Oddi. Glyceryl trinitrate infusion completely normalized the prostigmine-morphine-induced alterations in these quantitative parameters (TmaX over the LP: 11.33 +/- 1.13; over the HH: 18.88 +/- 1.48; and over the CBD: 36.22 +/- 1.92; and T1/2 over the LP: 28.21 +/- 1.83; over the HH: 33.42 +/- 3.10; and over the CBD: 41.66 +/- 6.33), suggesting an effective sphincter-relaxing effect of glyceryl trinitrate.
These results provide the first evidence of the effectiveness of glyceryl trinitrate on the morphine-induced sphincter of Oddi spasm in humans. Since glyceryl trinitrate is able to overcome even the drastic effect of morphine, it might be of relevance in the treatment of sphincter of Oddi dyskinesia.
Case reports in which abrupt clozapine discontinuation led to a return of psychosis, autonomic instability, or catatonia have been previously presented in the literature.
The authors report on symptom presentation and resolution in a case of abrupt withdrawal of clozapine medication.
The authors describe the condition and history of the patient, a 49-year-old woman with schizophrenia, the medical support she received, and the re-initiation of her clozapine medication.
Symptoms of catatonia and autonomic instability resolved by Day 4 of treatment.
Patients and their caregivers need to be educated about the effects of abrupt cessation of clozapine administration.
In groups of patients with formaldehyde allergy, many have positive patch tests to quaternium-15. Conversely, of patients allergic to quaternium-15, over half also react to formaldehyde.
To test our hypothesis that patients with stronger patch test reactions to formaldehyde are more likely to react to quaternium-15, attesting to the aetiological role for formaldehyde in such co-reactivity.
Retrospective analysis of all patients patch tested with formaldehyde and quaternium-15 in the European baseline series between 1994 and 2009 (TRUE test).
In a group of 86 patients allergic to formaldehyde, 73% co-reacted to quaternium-15; in the subgroup of 70 women, the percentage was 83. In both groups, more reactions were observed to quaternium-15 in the patients with a ++ reaction compared to the patients with a + reaction to formaldehyde. Conversely, stronger reactions to quaternium-15 were significantly more often associated with formaldehyde sensitivity in a group of 107 patients reacting to quaternium-15 and a subgroup of 88 women. In men, such effects were not observed and only 5 of 16 (31%) men allergic to formaldehyde also reacted to quaternium-15.
In women, but not in men, stronger reactions to formaldehyde lead to more positive quaternium-15 patch tests.
To compare the effectiveness, safety and tolerability of sildenafil and apomorphine in Brazilian patients with erectile dysfunction (ED) of various causes.
In all, 108 patients (mean age 55 years, sd 11) and documented ED for > or =6 months were included in 12 centres in Brazil. The patients were initially followed for 2 weeks and then randomized to initial treatment with apomorphine or sildenafil, taken before sexual intercourse, no more than once a day. The initial dose (2 mg apomorphine and 50 mg sildenafil) could be adjusted (to 3 mg apomorphine, or to 25 or 100 mg for sildenafil) depending on the effectiveness and tolerability during the first 4 weeks of treatment. The patients were re-evaluated after 8 weeks on treatment and, after a wash-out period of 2 weeks (no treatment), received the other study drug (other than that received in the first phase), and then had the same procedures as in the first phase.
In all, 97 patients were evaluated for therapeutic effectiveness, the overall effectiveness being assessed using two questions; sildenafil had a significantly higher proportion of affirmative answers for both (P < 0.001). Likewise, the estimates for the mean (sd) proportion of successful sexual intercourse, of 83.3 (4.7)% vs 40.3 (4.7)% and the total ED Inventory of Treatment Satisfaction score, of 86.7 (2.9) vs 56.9 (2.9) (P < 0.001) were higher for sildenafil. At the end of the study, 93.8% of the patients randomized to initial therapy with apomorphine declared a preference for sildenafil, and 81.3% of those initially treated with sildenafil declared a preference for that drug. The two drugs were well tolerated, and the main adverse events for apomorphine were nausea, vomiting, headache, taste perversion and dizziness; for sildenafil they were headache, flushing or vasodilatation, abdominal pain or dyspepsia and nasal congestion.
Sildenafil is more effective than apomorphine for treating ED, in the domains of erectile function, satisfaction with sexual intercourse and overall satisfaction, and was the drug preferred by most of the patients.
Autism severity is associated with child and maternal MAOA genotypes. We replicated and extended a previously reported association between autism severity and a functional polymorphism in the monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) promoter region, MAOA-uVNTR, in a sample of 119 males, aged 2-13 years, with autism spectrum disorder from simplex families. We demonstrated that (i) boys with the low activity 3-repeat MAOA allele had more severe sensory behaviors, arousal regulation problems, and aggression, and worse social communication skills than males with the high activity allele; and (ii) problems with aggression, as well as with fears and rituals, were modified by the mothers' genotype. Boys with the 4-repeat high activity allele who had homozygous 4-repeat mothers showed increased severity of these behaviors relative to those born to heterozygous mothers. These findings indicate the importance of considering maternal genotype in examining associations of MAOA and other genes with behavior in male offspring.
A digitoxic patient with severe renal failure underwent two hemoperfusion treatments with Amberlite XAD-4 resin. Digoxin clearances calculated from plasma flow rates and plasma digoxin concentrations, as well as from the amount of digoxin eluted from the used columns, were superior to those previously described for peritoneal dialysis, hemodialysis and charcoal hemoperfusion. There was a temporary improvement in the patient's life-threatening digitoxic cardiac rhythm with the first hemoperfusion, and a permanent improvement after the second hemoperfusion. It is submitted that hemoperfusion with this resin may significantly lessen manifestations of digoxin poisoning and may hasten digoxin elimination in digitoxic patients with renal failure.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemias carrying a chromosomal translocation involving the mixed-lineage leukemia gene (MLL, ALL1, HRX) have a particularly poor prognosis. Here we show that they have a characteristic, highly distinct gene expression profile that is consistent with an early hematopoietic progenitor expressing select multilineage markers and individual HOX genes. Clustering algorithms reveal that lymphoblastic leukemias with MLL translocations can clearly be separated from conventional acute lymphoblastic and acute myelogenous leukemias. We propose that they constitute a distinct disease, denoted here as MLL, and show that the differences in gene expression are robust enough to classify leukemias correctly as MLL, acute lymphoblastic leukemia or acute myelogenous leukemia. Establishing that MLL is a unique entity is critical, as it mandates the examination of selectively expressed genes for urgently needed molecular targets.
The effect of drug-induced hypertension and hypotension on neurotransmitter metabolism in the locus coeruleus (LC) of urethane anesthetized rats was studied using in vivo electrochemical methods. Peaks were seen at +0.15 V and +0.28 V. Studies with alpha-methylparatyrosine, fusaric acid and pargyline showed the first peak was produced by extracellular fluid dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) while the second peak was 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). Phenylephrine was infused intravenously to raise the blood pressure by 50 mmHg, nitroprusside IV was used to reduce the blood pressure by 20 mmHg. During phenylephrine hypertension, the electrochemical signal for DOPAC showed an initial small reduction followed by a later significant increase which persisted even after the infusion was stopped. The signal for 5-HIAA rose with the onset of hypertension and remained elevated. Nitroprusside hypotension did not change the DOPAC peak but did lead to an immediate and persistent increase in the electrochemical 5-HIAA peak. To confirm the electrochemical findings, other groups of rats were decapitated during and after hypertensive and hypotensive drug infusions and the LC was assayed for norepinephrine, dopamine, DOPAC, serotonin, and 5-HIAA using HPLC with electrochemical detection. Changes in tissue DOPAC and 5-HIAA concentrations supported the electrochemical electrode observations. The effect of clonidine on the electrochemical recordings from LC was also studied. Clonidine reduced the catechol peak. No change was observed in the 5-HIAA peak during the infusion, but the 5-HIAA peak went up after the infusion was stopped. These experiments show that hypertension, hypotension, and alpha-2 agonists lead to changes in catecholamine and indoleamine metabolism in LC.
Platelet-mediated arterial occlusion is a well-recognized cause of limb loss in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. However, the syndrome of distal ischemic necrosis complicating the deep venous thrombosis (venous limb gangrene) sometimes associated with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia has not been well characterized.
To study the pathogenesis of venous limb gangrene associated with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.
Characterization (based on descriptive and case-control studies) of a novel syndrome of limb loss and hypothesis testing by analysis of plasma samples.
Five university-associated hospitals in one medical community.
Clinical and laboratory records of 158 patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia were reviewed to identify patients with venous limb gangrene (n = 8), limb arterial thrombosis (n = 10), and uncomplicated deep venous thrombosis (n = 58).
Clinical and laboratory factors associated with venous limb gangrene, including thrombin-antithrombin complexes and vitamin K-dependent procoagulant and anticoagulant factors.
Warfarin treatment was more frequently associated with venous limb gangrene than with limb arterial thrombosis (8 of 8 patients compared with 3 of 10 patients; P = 0.004). The anticoagulant effect of warfarin seemed greater in the 8 patients with venous limb gangrene than in the 58 patients who did not develop gangrene (median International normalized ratio, 5.8 compared with 3.1; P < 0.001). Compared with plasma from controls, plasma from patients with venous limb gangrene had a higher ratio of thrombin-antithrombin complex to protein C activity during warfarin treatment. No hereditable abnormalities of the protein C anticoagulant pathway were seen in any patient.
Warfarin treatment of deep venous thrombosis associated with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is a possible cause of venous limb gangrene, perhaps because of acquired failure of the protein C anticoagulant pathway to regulate thrombin generation.
Various pharmacologic interventions that suppressed chemotactic factor activity in the coronary sinus after acute ischemia were analyzed for protective effects on myocardium. Ischemic injury was determined by comparing the slopes of the regression lines derived from 24 hour myocardial creatine kinase content versus S-T segment elevation 15 minutes after coronary ligation. Dogs treated 30 minutes after ligation with cobra venom factor, hydrocortisone or Trasylol showed a marked decrease in chemotactic activity in the coronary sinus. These agents also showed a protective effect on ischemic injury when compared to control. Myocardial biopsy specimens from areas of significant ischemia defined by S-T segment elevations in dogs treated with cobra venom factor were essentially devoid of an inflammatory response whereas those from dogs treated with Trasylol or hydrocortisone showed moderate neutrophil infiltration and minimal tissue exudate.
Autistic disorder or autism is a serious childhood-onset disorder that affects all areas of development, particularly in the areas of language, communication and reciprocal social interaction. Patients with autistic disorder typically demonstrate repetitiveness and a restricted repertoire of behaviour. Additionally, they also have a number of disruptive symptoms that may be reduced by drug treatment, including severe tantrums, hyperactivity and lability. Antipsychotic drugs are the agents that are the most critically studied as treatments for reducing symptoms. Both first- and second-generation antipsychotics have shown safety and efficacy in short- and long-term studies in autism. The most studied antipsychotic drugs include haloperidol and risperidone, although studies of other antipsychotic drugs are underway. Safety concerns associated with treatment include the risk of drug-related dyskinesias, which is greater with the first-generation drugs, and the risk of weight gain and associated metabolic problems (i.e. increases in glucose and lipids), which is greater with second-generation agents. Prescription of antipsychotic drugs requires careful monitoring because of these safety risks and the likelihood of long-term use. Drug administration should be initiated at low dosages and subsequent dosage changes should be based on tolerability and clinical response.
A 12-year-old female with lymphosarcoma responding to treatment including vincristine and cyclophosphamide developed clinical and laboratory findings compatible with the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone. Some additional findings were observed, i.e. uremia, hypopotassemia and alkalosis, that have not so far been recorded in that syndrome. All abnormalities were corrected upon water restriction. A similar episode occurred after a 2nd drug course. It too was corrected upon water restriction. The patient was clinically free from her malignancy in both episodes. It is suggested that our child had probably an expanded form of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone.
Selenium has both nutritional function and toxicity according to its concentration and species. To counteract the toxicity of selenium, scutellarin was investigated. Wistar rats were supplemented with 40 microg Se/kg/d as sodium selenite, 40 microg Se/kg/d with 20 mg/kg/d scutellarin, and 20 mg/kg/d scutellarin, respectively, for 15 d. The mRNA levels and activities of glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and thioredoxin reductase (TR), and the malondialdehyde (MDA) contents were measured. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were detected by chemiluminescence assay, and tissue conformation was investigated by histological study. The results showed significant decreases of mRNA levels and activities of GSH-Px and TR and a significant increase of MDA content in livers of the Se-treated rats (p<0.05, compared with the control). Supplementation of scutellarin to the Se-treated group significantly inhibited the decreases of mRNA levels and activities, and the increase of MDA content (p<0.05, compared with the Se-treated group). Meanwhile, scutellarin-scavenged ROS generated in the mixture of sodium selenite, reduced glutathione, and oxygen. Liver injury was displayed in slices exposed to selenium at the present dose. The groups treated with both selenium and scutellarin or only scutellarin did not show significant tissue damage. Thus, scutellarin had an antagonistic effect against the toxicity of selenium.
Twelve cases of peritonitis caused by Gram-positive bacteria in 11 dialysis patients were treated with teicoplanin. Treatment, which was continued for three weeks, consisted of the addition of teicoplanin to the dialysis fluid. Six patients who were febrile on admission were also given a single intravenous dose of 400 mg teicoplanin. For patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis 20 mg teicoplanin per litre was added to each dialysis bag during the first week of treatment, to alternate bags during the second week, and only to the overnight dwell bag in the third week. For patients on intermittent peritoneal dialysis, 20 mg/l teicoplanin was added at each dialysis session. Resolution of peritonitis occurred in all patients within one to five days (mean 2.2); nine were discharged within this period and the patients continued to treat themselves at home. The other two patients were kept in hospital for reasons unconnected with the peritonitis. Nine patients have remained well at follow-up 2-13 months (mean 6.3) later. Two patients, both of whom had Staphylococcus aureus peritonitis, relapsed three months after the end of treatment. Mean serum teicoplanin concentrations were less than 10 mg/l, except in one patient who was re-treated when he relapsed. No adverse effects were recorded; one patient who developed a conductive hearing loss was found to have otitis media and obstruction due to wax. We conclude that teicoplanin is safe and effective in treating peritonitis in patients on peritoneal dialysis.
The present study was undertaken to determine the interaction of rosiglitazone, a PPAR-gamma agonist with methanolic extract of Momordica charantia L (MC), an herbal drug used widely as an antidiabetic agent. The pharmacodynamic interaction was evaluated in oral glucose tolerance test, streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetes in adult rats and STZ induced diabetes in neonatal rats. Rosiglitazone was given orally at two different doses of 2mg/kg and 5mg/kg and MC was administered at a dose of 500 mg/kg, p.o. The serum glucose level estimation and histopathological studies of pancreas, liver and kidney were carried out. Both rosiglitazone and MC showed hypoglycaemic effect in oral glucose tolerance test. The hypoglycaemic effect observed with combination of rosiglitazone and MC was significantly more compared to either of the drugs given alone. MC also augmented the hypoglycaemic effect of rosiglitazone in both STZ induced diabetes in adult animals and STZ induced diabetes in neonatal rats. Histopathological studies revealed that administration of rosiglitazone with MC increased the volume of islet cell in pancreas and prevented the hepatic damage when compared to control. It was concluded that MC augments hypoglycaemic effect of rosiglitazone. This could be important in reducing the dose of rosiglitazone to achieve enhanced therapeutic effect with minimal adverse effects.
Oxidative stress can induce complex alterations of membrane proteins in red blood cells (RBCs) eventually leading to hemolysis. RBCs represent a good model to investigate the damage induced by oxidizing agents. Literature data have reported that chalcogen compounds can present pro-oxidant properties with potent inhibitory effects on cell growth, causing tissue damage and inhibit a variety of enzymes. In this study, human erythrocytes were incubated in vitro with various chalcogen compounds at 37 degrees C: diphenyl ditelluride (1), dinaphthalen diteluride (2), diphenyl diselenide (3), (S)-tert-butyl 1-diselenide-3-methylbutan-2-ylcarbamate (4), (S)-tert-butyl 1-diselenide-3-phenylpropan-2-ylcarbamate (5), selenium dioxide (6) and sodium selenite (7) in order to investigate their potential in vitro toxicity. After 6h of incubation, all the tested compounds increased the hemolysis rate, when compared to control and compound (2) had the most potent hemolytic effect. The addition of reduced glutathione (GSH) or glucose to the incubation medium enhanced hemolysis caused by chalcogen compounds. The thiol oxidase activity of these compounds was evaluated by measuring the rate of cysteine (CYS) and dithiotreitol (DTT) oxidation. DTT and cysteine oxidation was increased by all the compounds tested. The results suggest a relationship between the oxidation of intracellular GSH and subsequent generation of free radicals with the hemolysis by chalcogen compounds.
