Increasing evidence supports the notion that reduction of cellular expression and activity of antioxidant proteins and the resulting increase of oxidative stress are fundamental causes in the aging processes and neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, we evaluated, in the brains of young and aged rats, the gene expression profiles of two inducible proteins critically involved in the cellular defense against endogenous or exogenous oxidants: heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) and manganese superoxide dismutase-2 (SOD-2). SOD-2 is an essential antioxidant and HO-1 has been reported to be very active in regulating cellular redox homeostasis. Deregulation of these enzymes has been extensively reported to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. To measure the regional distribution of HO-1 and SOD-2 transcript levels in the rat brain, we have developed a real time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction protocol. Although these two genes presented a highly dissimilar range of expression, with SOD-2 >HO-1, both transcripts were highly expressed in the cerebellum and the hippocampus, showing in a different scale a strikingly parallel distribution gradient. To further investigate the regional brain expression of these mRNAs, we performed in situ hybridization using specific riboprobes. In situ hybridization results showed that both transcripts were highly concentrated in the hippocampus, the cerebellum and some specific regions of the brain cortex. We have also quantified, by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, the brain expression of HO-1 and SOD-2 mRNAs in middle aged (12 months) and aged (28 months) rats. We found that the hippocampus of aged rats presents a significant down regulation of SOD2 mRNA expression and a parallel upregulation of HO-1 mRNA compared with young (6 months) and middle-aged rats. Furthermore, in the cerebellum of the aged rats, we detected a parallel significant upregulation of both HO-1 and SOD-2 transcripts. These regional age-dependent differences may help to explain the increased susceptibility to oxidative damage in these two brain areas during aging.
In pithed normotensive rats muscarinic receptors were characterized in heart, urinary bladder and sympathetic ganglia; the selectivity of some classical muscarinic agents for these subtypes was investigated. The potencies in decreasing heart rate, increasing bladder pressure and increasing diastolic blood pressure were measured for the following, intraarterially administered cholinergic agonists: McN-A-343 ([4-m-chlorophenylcarbamoyloxy]-2-butynyltrimethylammonium), pilocarpine, carbachol, oxotremorine, arecoline, acetyl-beta-methylcholine and acetylcholine. The selective M1-antagonist pirenzepine, the mixed M1/M2-antagonist dexetimide and the cardioselective M2-antagonist gallamine were used as tools for identification of the receptors. All data were obtained after intravenous pretreatment with a high dose of atenolol to eliminate tachycardia induced by stimulating sympathetic ganglionic muscarinic receptors. Dexetimide strongly antagonized the bradycardia as well as the increase in bladder pressure induced by pilocarpine, carbachol, oxotremorine, arecoline, acetyl-beta-methylcholine and acetylcholine, whereas pirenzepine was much less effective. Gallamine antagonized the bradycardia, whereas no influence was found on the bladder contraction. Pilocarpine acted as a partial agonist in reducing heart rate as well as in increasing bladder pressure, whereas McN-A-343 was almost ineffective in doses up to 1 mg/kg. The hypertensive response to pilocarpine and carbachol was less pronounced than that produced by McN-A-343. Pirenzepine and dexetimide significantly antagonized the hypertensive response to McN-A-343 and pilocarpine, whereas gallamine was much less effective. The hypertensive response induced by carbachol was totally blocked by hexamethonium. The other agonists used in this study did not produce a significant increase in diastolic blood pressure in doses that produced a maximal effect on heart rate and urinary bladder pressure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Survivin is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family that is specifically overexpressed in cancer tissues. p53 is one of the tumor suppressor genes; its induction in response to DNA damage causes apoptosis and correlates with drug sensitivity. To investigate the possible regulation of survivin by p53, we examined the level of survivin expression in lung cancer cell lines in response to adriamycin. Levels of survivin mRNA and protein in cell lines with wild-type p53 decreased dramatically after p53 induction, but no such reduction of survivin was observed in cell lines with mutated or null p53. Inhibition of wild-type p53 in A549 cells by small interfering (si) RNA significantly upregulated the expression of survivin. Survivin inhibition by siRNA in PC9 cells with mutated p53 significantly depressed cell proliferation. To investigate the sensitivity of cancer cells to adriamycin after inhibition of survivin, we depressed survivin expression using siRNA, and then added adriamycin at an IC50 dose. After a further 48 hr incubation with adriamycin, proliferation was significantly depressed in the cells treated with siRNA targeting survivin, in comparison with siRNA targeting scramble. Furthermore, both TUNEL and pro-caspase3 expression assay showed a significant increase in apoptosis after combined treatment with adriamycin and siRNA targeting survivin. Our results demonstrate that survivin is downregulated by p53, and that siRNA targeting of survivin increases cell sensitivity to adriamycin and promotes apoptosis. siRNA targeting of survivin could be potentially useful for increasing sensitivity to anticancer drugs, especially in drug-resistant cells with mutated p53.
Reduction of postoperative pain is an important goal in the perioperative management of tonsillectomy patients. This is particularly the case for children, who often exhibit resistance to intramuscular or rectal administration of drugs. Peritonsillar bupivacaine infiltration, a relatively safe method of pain control, is in some centers frequently used by otolaryngologists for pain relief. We present the case of a 5-year-old girl who developed bilateral vocal cord paralysis following preoperative peritonsillar bupivacaine infiltration. After an uneventful tonsillectomy and extubation, stridor and respiratory distress developed. Bilateral vocal cord paralysis was seen on laryngoscopy. The patient was reintubated and five hours later was successfully extubated without further sequelae. Anesthesiologists and surgeons should be aware of this uncommon complication than can occur with the use of peritonsillar bupivacaine infiltration for pain control in tonsil surgery.
Colesevelam is a bile acid sequestrant that differs structurally from traditional bile acid sequestrants, allowing it to bind bile acids with greater affinity. Studies have shown that colesevelam significantly reduces low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and, in some cases, significantly increases high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels in adults with primary hypercholesterolemia.
To investigate the safety and efficacy of colesevelam in adults with primary hypercholesterolemia.
This multicenter, open-label, titration-based extension study enrolled subjects who completed one of three multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase II studies with colesevelam. This study consisted of a 4-week washout/dietary stabilization period, a 50-week open-label treatment period, and a 2-week follow-up period.
Ten clinical centers within the US.
Males and females 18 years of age or older who had completed a previous short-term (4- or 6-week) phase II clinical study with colesevelam.
At week 0 (following a 4-week washout of all lipid-lowering medication), subjects initiated treatment with colesevelam at a dosage of 1.5 g/day. Colesevelam was uptitrated to a maximum dosage of 3.75 g/day as necessary to achieve a 15-30% reduction from baseline in LDL-C level. At week 12, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) or niacin (nicotinic acid) could be added if colesevelam 3.75 g/day was not sufficient to result in a 15-30% reduction from baseline in LDL-C level.
The primary efficacy measure was the change in LDL-C level from baseline to week 50 across all treatment regimens. Secondary efficacy parameters included the change and percent change in total cholesterol, HDL-C, and triglyceride levels from baseline to week 50. There were three cohorts analyzed: (i) colesevelam monotherapy (included all subjects who received colesevelam monotherapy, regardless of dose); (ii) all treatment regimens (included all subjects who received colesevelam monotherapy or colesevelam plus low-dose statin or niacin therapy); and (iii) combination therapy (included only subjects who received colesevelam plus low-dose statin therapy). Two additional cohorts were also evaluated: (iv) maximum-dose colesevelam monotherapy (included only subjects who received colesevelam 3.75 g/day monotherapy); and (v) all maximum-dose colesevelam treatment regimens (included all subjects who received colesevelam 3.75 g/day, either as monotherapy or in combination with low-dose statin or niacin therapy).
In total, 272 subjects were screened, 260 enrolled, and 186 completed the study. In total, 255 subjects were included in the intent-to-treat population. The maximum dosage of colesevelam (3.75 g/day) was taken by 50% of subjects (n = 94/188) at week 50; only 38 subjects received low-dose statin or niacin by study end. At week 50, LDL-C levels were significantly (p < 0.001) reduced from baseline across all treatment regimens (by 29.6 mg/dL [from 185.8 to 156.2 mg/dL; 15.0%]). Colesevelam also significantly reduced total cholesterol levels and significantly increased HDL-C and triglyceride levels across all treatment regimens (p < 0.001 for all). Drug-related adverse events were reported by 36.2% of subjects across all treatment regimens (and by 47.4% of subjects who received colesevelam plus low-dose statin or niacin therapy).
In this study, colesevelam was found to be safe and effective for the management of LDL-C levels in adults with primary hypercholesterolemia.
In July 1996 a 43-year-old illiterate Hispanic woman presented with uncontrollable vomiting, palpitations and confusion. In 1994, despite several hospitalisations in other medical centres where a cerebral CT-scan, oesogastroduodenoscopy, colonoscopy and abdominal ultrasound were performed, no satisfactory diagnosis could be found. A psychiatric origin was finally considered. On admission, the laboratory findings showed severe metabolic alkalosis with associated hypokalaemia, confirmatory evidence of vomiting. The ECG showed tremendous P waves (5 mV) in the standard derivations, which can be explained by the hypokalaemia, with multiple supraventricular extrasystoles. Echocardiography and pulmonary scintigraphy ruled out pulmonary hypertension and a pulmonary embolus. After additional discussion with her daughter we discovered that the patient had been treating chronic headaches for years with 4-5 Cafergot-PB suppositories per day. This drug contains 2 mg ergotamine tartrate, 100 mg butalbital, 100 mg caffeine and 0.25 mg belladona alkaloids. As is known, vomiting is a classical symptom of ergotamine intoxication. After rehydration we discovered a megaloblastic anaemia with a folate deficiency compatible with chronic barbiturate intoxication. Folate and iron supplementation allowed a rapid normalisation of the haemoglobin values. Five months after having stopped the Cafergot-PB, the patient was well and did not vomit anymore. The headaches were treated with chlorpromazine with a good result. Despite sophisticated technical means, the diagnosis could only be established after a thorough history taking. This message should be heard in times when high tech medicine tends to obscure the place of a good history taking!
Although TRAIL/Apo2L preferably induces apoptosis in tumour cells without toxicity in normal cells, many tumour cell types display TRAIL/Apo2L resistance. Whether TRAIL/Apo2L in combination with chemotherapy may overcome TRAIL/Apo2L resistance while maintaining tumour selectivity remains to be determined. Here, we report that while ActD, DOX and CDDP sensitised both OS and Ewing's tumour cell lines and normal cells (hOBs, synovial cells, fibroblasts) to TRAIL/Apo2L-induced apoptosis, the combination of etoposide (VP16) and TRAIL/Apo2L was selectively active on tumour cells without affecting normal cells. Sensitisation of OS cells and hOBs to TRAIL/Apo2L did not correlate with a compatible change in the gene expression profile of the receptors for TRAIL/Apo2L determined by quantitative real-time RT-PCR. Also, sensitisation of the TRAIL/Apo2L death pathway did not rely entirely on the chemotherapy-induced, caspase-dependent cytotoxicity. Further, chemotherapy did not cause a compatible change in expression levels of proteins such as Bcl-2, Bcl-x(L), Bax, cIAP2, XIAP and survivin. However, ActD, DOX and CDDP downregulated expression of cFLIP in OS cells as well as expression of p21 in normal hOBs. Interestingly, while VP16 also extinguished cFLIP in OS cells, which were sensitised for TRAIL/Apo2L by VP16, VP16 induced cFLIP and enhanced p21 levels in normal hOBs, which remained refractory to VP16 plus TRAIL/Apo2L. Together, our data reveal that TRAIL/Apo2L combined with certain chemotherapeutic drugs is toxic to bone tumour and normal human cells and suggest that cotreatment with TRAIL/Apo2L and VP16 provides an attractive approach for selective killing of tumour cells while leaving unaffected normal cells.
5-Fluorouracil is an S-phase-specific, synthetic pyrimidine antimetabolite, which is used as a cytostatic agent for a variety of malignant lesions, either singly or in multidrug regimens. Gastrointestinal toxicity and myelosuppression are the most common adverse reactions, but, of late, clinical cardiotoxicity has been reported in both prospective and retrospective studies. We present our experience of clinical cardiotoxicity in five patients.
Oncolytic adenovirus is capable of infecting, replicating in and lysing cancer cells. In adenovirus infection and replication, the wild type E1a gene (wE1a) mediates various genetic events to facilitate viral replication and exert antitumor effect. To enhance its antitumor efficacy and optimize its safety, we manipulated the wE1a gene and designed a 720-bp truncated minimal-E1a (mE1a) by deletions and mutations of amino acid residues. The mE1a gene was incorporated in an adenovirus under the control of hTERT promoter, giving the vector AdDC315-mE1a. A variety of cancer cell lines infected with the virus expressed the mE1a protein and showed considerable down-regulation in Neu protein expression as compared to normal cell lines. mE1a also had a lower binding affinity to the Rb protein, preserving the Rb tumor suppressive function. The mE1a expression allowed efficient adenovirus replication with high and stable replication ratios in cancer cells (about 125- to 8500-fold higher at 48 h and 180- to 10,900-fold higher at 96 h post-infection). Further, the mE1a-supported oncolytic adenovirus induced higher cancer cell apoptosis, stronger cell cycle arrest and more effective antitumor efficacy in hepatocarcinoma xenografts in nude mice. In conclusion, the truncated minimal mE1a can act as a tumor inhibitor gene, and may be used to construct oncolytic adenovirus vectors for use in gene therapy of a variety of cancers.
Dietary flaxseed (FS) inhibited the growth of human breast tumours and enhanced the effectiveness of tamoxifen (TAM) in athymic mice with low oestradiol (E2) levels. The present study determined whether the n-3 fatty acid-rich cotyledon fraction of FS (FC), alone or in combination with TAM, has a similar effect and thus can substitute for FS. In a 2 × 2 factorial design, ovariectomised mice with established oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast tumours (MCF-7) were treated as follows: groups 1 and 2 were fed the basal diet (BD, control) and FC diet (82 g FC/kg), respectively. Groups 3 and 4 with TAM implants (5 mg) were fed the BD and FC diet, respectively. At 8 weeks post-treatment, mice were euthanised, and tumours were analysed by immunohistochemistry and real-time PCR. BD, FC and FC/TAM groups significantly decreased tumour area, but the TAM group did not. Tumour regression in the FC/TAM group was greater compared to the TAM group. FC lowered cell proliferation but had no effect on apoptosis; the opposite was observed with TAM. FC suppressed mRNA expressions of pS2 and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R) and protein expressions of ERα, phosphospecific ERα, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), phosphospecific HER2 (pHER2) and amplified in breast 1 (AIB1), while TAM up-regulated mRNA expressions of Bcl2, progesterone receptor and IGF-1R and protein expression of pHER2, and down-regulated ERβ mRNA. FC modulated the effect of TAM on tumour growth biomarkers. In conclusion, FC reduced the growth of ER+ human breast tumours at low circulating E2, alone and combined with TAM, in part through modulation of ER- and growth factor-mediated signalling pathways; it may substitute for FS in increasing the effectiveness of TAM.
A 44-year-old woman known to be allergic to phenytoin was treated with carbamazepine for 1 month and developed fever, lymphadenopathy, pneumonitis, hepatitis, and a morbilliform eruption. A skin biopsy specimen showed atypical lymphocytes in the dermis that were CD-3+, CD-30+, and L26-. T-cell gene rearrangement studies were negative. A diagnosis of anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome with histologic features of a pseudolymphoma was made and her illness quickly improved after carbamazepine was discontinued. This case was typical of the anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome and demonstrated cross-reactivity among the aromatic anticonvulsants. However, to our knowledge, this represents the first report of a carbamazepine-induced hypersensitivity with histologic features of a cutaneous pseudolymphoma, including CD-30+ cells.
Multivitamin supplementation in pregnant women may reduce the risks of cardiovascular defects, oral clefts, and urinary tract defects in their infants. We evaluated whether the folic acid component of multivitamins is responsible for the reduction in risk by examining the associations between maternal use of folic acid antagonists and these congenital malformations.
We compared data on exposure to folic acid antagonists that act as dihydrofolate reductase inhibitors and to certain antiepileptic drugs for 3870 infants with cardiovascular defects, 1962 infants with oral clefts, and 1100 infants with urinary tract defects with data for 8387 control infants with malformations the risk of which is not reduced after vitamin supplementation. Mothers were interviewed within six months after delivery about their medication use.
The relative risks of cardiovascular defects and oral clefts in infants whose mothers were exposed to dihydrofolate reductase inhibitors during the second or third month after the last menstrual period, as compared with infants whose mothers had no such exposure, were 3.4 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.8 to 6.4) and 2.6 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.1 to 6.1), respectively. The relative risks of cardiovascular defects, oral clefts, and urinary tract defects after maternal exposure to antiepileptic drugs were 2.2 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.4 to 3.5), 2.5 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 4.2), and 2.5 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.2 to 5.0), respectively. Use of multivitamin supplements containing folic acid diminished the adverse effects of dihydrofolate reductase inhibitors, but not that of antiepileptic drugs.
Folic acid antagonists, which include such common drugs as trimethoprim, triamterene, carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and primidone, may increase the risk not only of neural-tube defects, but also of cardiovascular defects, oral clefts, and urinary tract defects. The folic acid component of multivitamins may reduce the risks of these defects.
Tamoxifen is a nonsteroidal anti-estrogenic drug used for adjuvant treatment of breast cancer and recently as a chemopreventative agent for breast cancer and, on an investigational basis, for other cancers. To date there are case reports of hypertriglyceridemia and fatty liver disease in tamoxifen users. Fatty liver is associated with visceral obesity and other components of the metabolic syndrome. Here we evaluated steatosis and adipose tissue distribution by CT scan in a cross-sectional study of 32 women on tamoxifen and 39 control women. Tamoxifen users had more visceral adipose tissue (VAT) and more liver fat than controls. This is the first study to demonstrate that fatty liver and intra-abdominal fat accumulation are common in breast cancer patients receiving tamoxifen. Prospective studies of tamoxifen should monitor metabolic changes in obese women with or without breast cancer.
To determine whether or not cetirizine and loratadine inhibit codeine- induced histamine release in human skin in vivo, we conducted a placebo-controlled double-blind trial in which histamine release was assessed by dermal microdialysis.
A group of ten normal volunteers were studied, each subject visiting the laboratory on three occasions with intervals of at least 2 weeks between visits.
Cetirizine, loratadine (both 10 mg) or placebo was given orally 4 h before provocation of weal and flare responses in the skin by intradermal injection of 25 microliters of 3 or 10 mg/ml codeine 1 mm from the centre of individual 216 microns diameter microdialysis fibres inserted in the dermis.
Dialysate was collected at 2 min intervals for 4 min before and 20 min after codeine injection and histamine assayed spectrofluorometrically. Weal and flare responses to codeine were assessed in the opposite arm.
Histamine concentrations in the microdialysis fibre outflow with 3 and 10 mg/ml codeine were maximal at 2-4 min when 910 +/- 156 and 1194 +/- 304 nM respectively were found in the placebo group. Cetirizine and loratadine did not modify either the kinetics or total histamine release while significantly (p < 0.01) inhibiting weal and flare responses.
Neither cetirizine nor loratadine inhibited codeine-induced histamine release or modified the time course of its release in human skin in vivo when given in clinically used doses which are sufficient to significantly reduce weal and flare responses.
Spontaneous activity of cortical neurons was studied under urethane anesthesia in adult rats 3 months after convulsive status epilepticus induced by lithium-pilocarpine administration at the age of 12 (SE12 group) or 25 (SE25 group) days. Whereas random firing neurons dominated in control animals (61 out of 98 cells), SE25 animals exhibited a significant increase in the incidence of bursting cells (38 out of 59 units). Similar change in SE12 animals did not reach the level of statistical significance. Status epilepticus at an early developmental stage may result in a long-lasting change in functions of surviving cortical neurons.
Dyskeratosis congenita (DC) is a multisystem bone marrow failure syndrome characterized by a triad of mucocutaneous abnormalities and an increased predisposition to malignancy. X-linked DC is due to mutations in DKC1, while heterozygous mutations in TERC (telomerase RNA component) and TERT (telomerase reverse transcriptase) have been found in autosomal dominant DC. Many patients with DC remain uncharacterized, particularly families displaying autosomal recessive (AR) inheritance. We have now identified novel homozygous TERT mutations in 2 unrelated consanguineous families, where the index cases presented with classical DC or the more severe variant, Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson (HH) syndrome. These TERT mutations resulted in reduced telomerase activity and extremely short telomeres. As these mutations are homozygous, these patients are predicted to have significantly reduced telomerase activity in vivo. Interestingly, in contrast to patients with heterozygous TERT mutations or hemizygous DKC1 mutations, these 2 homozygous TERT patients were observed to have higher-than-expected TERC levels compared with controls. Collectively, the findings from this study demonstrate that homozygous TERT mutations, resulting in a pure but severe telomerase deficiency, produce a phenotype of classical AR-DC and its severe variant, the HH syndrome.
A double-blind, cross-over study was performed in 23 consecutive patients with unstable angina at rest in order to compare the efficacy of verapamil (480 mg/day) and propranolol (240 mg/day) in reducing the number of anginal crises and nitroglycerin (NTG) consumption. Twenty patients, 15 men and five women, mean age 59.7 (range 45-68) years completed the study. The mean daily number of attacks was 3.1 in the two-day run-in period and 2.9 in a subsequent two-day placebo period immediately preceding the treatment periods. Propranolol reduced the number of attacks to 1.6 (P less than 0.01 compared to the run-in and placebo periods). Verapamil reduced the crises to 0.2/day (P less than 0.01 compared to the run-in placebo and propranolol periods). The NTG consumption behaved in a similar way. Adverse reactions to verapamil were observed in two patients. Although there are objective difficulties in performing correct trials in these kinds of patients, the results of this study indicate the efficacy of verapamil in preventing anginal pains during the "warm phase' of the unstable form and stress the superiority of this calcium antagonist when compared to propranolol.
Local venous reactions during and after the injection i.v. of diazepam in oil (Diazemuls) and the water-soluble benzodiazepine midazolam (Dormicum) were studied in 100 patients undergoing gastroscopy. Observation time was 2 weeks. Of the patients receiving diazepam in oil, 8% experienced pain on injection and 6% subsequently developed clinical evidence of thrombophlebitis. Corresponding figures for midazolam were 6% and 10% respectively. No significant differences were observed between the effects of the two drugs.
Hepatotoxicity by antituberculous drugs is well known. Nonetheless, severe liver involvement is infrequent. Several series of fulminant hepatitis by antituberculous drugs have recently been reported with a much greater frequency than previously reported. The present study describes the authors' experience which, similar to other groups, has shown a marked increase with respect to previous experience. During 1994 5 patients with acute severe hepatitis associated to antituberculous drugs were admitted to the authors' unit. The mean age of the patients was 43 years (range: 25-62). Two patients were healthy HBsAg carriers, one undergoing enzymatic inducer treatment and was anti-HIV positive. Another patient presented compensated liver cirrhosis by HCV. The 5 cases received combined isoniazid and rifampicin and four had also received pyrazinamide. Four patients presented hepatic encephalopathy. Of these cases, three could not undergo emergency liver transplantation because of contraindications and died due to complications of acute severe liver failure. Another patient evolved favorably following emergency liver transplantation. The only patient who presented good evolution with conservative treatment and who did not present hepatic encephalopathy had discontinued isoniazid because of the finding of slight hypertransaminasemia during a routine analytical control. Several risk factors have been reported for the appearance of hepatotoxicity by antituberculous drugs. The factor of greatest clinical importance for the development of severe hepatotoxicity is probably continuation of the treatment once hepatic dysfunction has initiated. The important increase in cases of severe toxicity urges the need for strict analytical monitoring following initiation of treatment.
Ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity adversely affects the health and well-being of children with cancer. We have recently shown age-dependent nephrotoxicity induced by ifosfamide, with younger children (<3 years) substantially more vulnerable. The mechanisms leading to this age-related ifosfamide-induced renal damage have not been identified. Underlying this work is the hypothesis that renal ontogeny is involved in the expression and activity of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes responsible for IF metabolism to the nephrotoxic chloroacetaldehyde. We evaluated renal CYP3A and 2B22 activity in pigs between the ages of 1 day and adulthood, as well as the metabolism of ifosfamide by renal microsomes to 2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide (2-DCEIF and 3-DCEIF, respectively). Kidney CYP3A messenger RNA expression peaked 15 to 60 days (0.7-76 +/- 0.19 CYP3A/actin ratio; P < 0.001). Subsequently, this level decreased to adult values (0.54 - 0.03 CYP3A/actin ratio; P = 0.04). Similarly, we detected an increase in the ifosfamide-metabolism rate between young (18 +/- 2 pmol/mg protein/min) and adult (12.2 +/- 0.17 pmol/mg protein/min) animals (P = 0.002). Ours is the first documentation of ontogeny of renal CYP3A and of renal ifosfamide metabolism. These data suggest that age-dependent ifosfamide nephrotoxicity is, at least in part, due to ontogeny in the production chloroacetaldehyde.
To test the hypothesis that amphotericin B deoxycholate is less toxic when given by continuous infusion than by conventional rapid infusion.
Randomised, controlled, non-blinded, single centre study.
University hospital providing tertiary clinical care.
80 mostly neutropenic patients with refractory fever and suspected or proved invasive fungal infections.
Patients were randomised to receive 0.97 mg/kg amphotericin B by continuous infusion over 24 hours or 0.95 mg/kg by rapid infusion over four hours.
Patients were evaluated for side effects related to infusion, nephrotoxicity, and mortality up to three months after treatment. Analysis was on an intention to treat basis.
Patients in the continuous infusion group had fewer side effects and significantly reduced nephrotoxicity than those in the rapid infusion group. Overall mortality was higher during treatment and after three months' follow up in the rapid infusion than in the continuous infusion group.
Continuous infusions of amphotericin B reduce nephrotoxicity and side effects related to infusion without increasing mortality.
Cocaethylene is a toxic metabolite of cocaine formed in the presence of ethanol. Though cocaine causes coronary vasoconstriction, cocaethylene's effects on coronaryflow are unknown. The aim of our study was to describe cocaethylene 's effects on coronary flow and cardiac function.
Sixteen alpha-chloralose anesthetized dogs were monitored with Swan-Ganz, arterial and venous catheters, and an electrocardiogram. Dopplerflow probes were placed on the circumflex and left anterior descending coronary arteries. Dogs were allotted 15 mg/kg (n = 10) or 30mg/kg (n = 6) of cocaethylene given as a continuous intravenous infusion. Measurements were made at fixed time intervals during the 60-minute cocaethylene infusion and 2-hour observation period.
The cocaethylene concentrations were maximal at the end of the infusion and cocaethylene was rapidly metabolized to benzoylecognine. One low-dose animal died of ventricular fibrillation. Five high-dose dogs experienced ventricular arrhythmias or pulseless electrical activity (PEA), and three died. In the low-dose group, cocaethylene caused a 38% increase in mean arterial pressure relative to baseline, and increased systemic vascular resistance. In the high-dose group, at maximal cocaethylene concentrations, stroke volume decreased by 42% (p < 0.0002), and circumflex blood flow decreased by 30% (p = 0.03) relative to baseline, when arrhythmias occurred. The PR, QRS, and QTc intervals increased by 48, 209, and 29%, respectively (p < 0.001). As cocaethylene levels declined, circumflex blood flow increased by 77% (p = 0.05) and mean arterial pressure increased 49% (p < 0.01), also relative to baseline.
Cocaethylene caused hypertension and increased systemic vascular resistance. At high concentrations, it decreased myocardial function, slowed cardiac conduction, and was arrhythmogenic. The cocaethylene's toxicity does not appear to be mediated by effects on coronary blood flow.
