Decrease of muscle IGF-I plays a critical role in muscle atrophy caused by glucocorticoids (GCs) because IGF-I gene electrotransfer prevents muscle atrophy caused by GCs. The goal of the present study was to identify the intracellular mediators responsible for the IGF-I anti-atrophic action in GC-induced muscle atrophy. We first assessed the IGF-I transduction pathway alterations caused by GC administration and their reversibility by local IGF-I overexpression performed by electrotransfer. Muscle atrophy induced by dexamethasone (dexa) administration occurred with a decrease in Akt (-53%; P<0.01) phosphorylation together with a decrease in beta-catenin protein levels (-40%; P<0.001). Prevention of atrophy by IGF-I was associated with restoration of Akt phosphorylation and beta-catenin levels. We then investigated whether muscle overexpression of these intracellular mediators could mimic the IGF-I anti-atrophic effects. Overexpression of a constitutively active form of Akt induced a marked fiber hypertrophy in dexa-treated animals (+175% of cross-sectional area; P<0.001) and prevented dexa-induced atrophy. This hypertrophy was associated with an increase in phosphorylated GSK-3beta (+17%; P<0.05) and in beta-catenin content (+35%; P<0.05). Furthermore, overexpression of a dominant-negative GSK-3beta or a stable form of beta-catenin increased fiber cross-sectional area by, respectively, 23% (P<0.001) and 29% (P<0.001) in dexa-treated rats, preventing completely the atrophic effect of GC. In conclusion, this work indicates that Akt, GSK-3beta, and beta-catenin probably contribute together to the IGF-I anti-atrophic effect in GC-induced muscle atrophy.
CCAAT/enhancer binding proteins (C/EBPs) play critical roles in myelopoiesis. Dysregulation of these proteins likely contributes to the pathogenesis of myeloid disorders characterized by a block in granulopoiesis. In one such disease, acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), a promyelocytic leukemia-retinoic acid receptor alpha (PML-RARalpha) fusion protein is expressed as a result of a t(15;17) chromosomal translocation. Treatment of PML-RARalpha leukemic cells with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) causes them to differentiate into mature neutrophils, an effect thought to be mediated by C/EBPs. In this study, we assess the potential for cooperativity between increased C/EBP activity and ATRA therapy. We demonstrate that although both C/EBPalpha and C/EBPepsilon can significantly prolong survival in a mouse model of APL, they are not functionally equivalent in this capacity. We also show that forced expression of C/EBPalpha or C/EBPepsilon in combination with ATRA treatment has a synergistic effect on survival of leukemic mice compared with either therapy alone.
Treatment-resistant schizophrenia poses a major therapeutic challenge. This multicenter, double-blind, randomized study compared the efficacy and safety of aripiprazole and perphenazine in treatment-resistant patients with schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia patients (DSM-IV diagnosis) with a history of antipsychotic resistance underwent 4 to 6 weeks of open-label treatment with olanzapine or risperidone to confirm treatment resistance. Only patients who completed this open-label period and failed to respond (< 20% improvement in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale [PANSS] total score or a Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness score >or= 4) entered the 6-week, double-blind treatment phase. In all, 300 patients with confirmed treatment resistance were randomly assigned to aripiprazole (15-30 mg/day) or perphenazine (8-64 mg/day). The primary outcome measure was change in PANSS score from baseline. The study was conducted between August 30, 2000, and March 18, 2002.
Both aripiprazole and perphenazine treatment were associated with clinically relevant improvements in PANSS total scores from baseline. After 6 weeks, 27% of aripiprazole-treated patients and 25% of perphenazine-treated patients were responders (>or= 30% decrease in PANSS total score or a Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement score of 1 or 2). Perphenazine-treated patients had a higher incidence of extrapyramidal symptom-related adverse events, mean increases (i.e., worsening) in extrapyramidal symptom rating scale scores, and a higher rate of elevated prolactin levels than aripiprazole (57.7% vs. 4.4%, p < .001). Improvements in quality of life considered to be clinically relevant (>or= 20% improvement in Quality of Life Scale score) occurred in 36% of the aripiprazole-treated patients and in 21% of those treated with perphenazine (p = .052).
Aripiprazole and perphenazine, at the doses used here, can improve the symptoms of schizophrenia in treatment-resistant patients who have failed to respond to olanzapine or risperidone.
This is the report on a 45-year-old female, with a history of systemic arterial hypertension and cigarette smoking, submitted to dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography for the investigation of coronary artery disease. At stress peak, the patient reported sudden, highly intense precordial pain. The 12-lead electrocardiogram showed ST segment elevation in DII, DIII, aVF, V5 and V6, and depression in DI, aVL, V2 and V3. Echocardiographic imaging monitoring showed dyskinesia of inferior septum and akinesia of inferior wall. The test was interrupted immediately. The patient was medicated and improved her precordial pain condition as well as wall motion abnormalities. Coronary angiography showed irregular coronary lesions with <50% luminal diameter obstruction. It is a case of coronary spasm induced by alpha-adrenergic stimulation during dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography.
The cerebral frontal cortex of patients who had schizophrenia shows elevated levels of RNA for calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II beta (CaMKIIbeta). In addition, recent research shows that animal models for schizophrenia, such as amphetamine-sensitized rats, consistently show elevated levels of D2 receptors in their high-affinity state (D2(High)), the major target for antipsychotic medication. The present study was done, therefore, to examine whether an alteration in the levels of CaMKIIbeta could lead to altered levels of D2(High) receptors. We found that the CaMKII inhibitor, KN-93, markedly reduced D2(High) states in rat striatum. In addition, we studied heterozygous CaMKIIalpha knock-out mice that show features analogous to schizophrenia. The striata of these mice revealed a 2.8-fold increase in D2(High) receptors. In frontal cortex of the heterozygous CaMKIIalpha knock-out mice, CaMKIIalpha mRNA levels were reduced by 50%, while CaMKIIbeta mRNA levels were unaltered. In striatum, CaMKIIbeta mRNA levels were increased by 29%, suggesting the presence of a new CaMKIIbeta regulatory pathway not previously described. The elevated levels of CaMKIIbeta mRNA in the striatum suggest that this enzyme may increase D2(High) in animals and possibly in schizophrenia itself.
5-[5-(2-Nitrophenyl) furfuryliodine]-1,3-diphenyl-2-thiobarbituric acid (UCF-101) is a protease inhibitor which was reported to protect against ischaemic heart damage and apoptosis. This study evaluated the impact of UCF-101 on steptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic cardiomyocyte dysfunction. Adult FVB mice were made diabetic with a single injection of STZ (200 mg kg(1)). Two weeks after STZ injection, cardiomyocytes from control and STZ-treated mice were isolated and treated with UCF-101 (20 mum for 1 h). Cardiomyocyte contractile properties were analysed, including peak shortening (PS), maximal velocity of shortening/relengthening (+/-dL/dt), time to PS (TPS) and time to 90% relengthening (TR(90)). Steptozotocin-induced diabetes depressed PS and +/-dL/dt and prolonged TPS and TR(90) in cardiomyocytes, all of which were significantly alleviated by UCF-101. Immunoblotting analysis showed that UCF-101 significantly alleviated STZ-induced loss of phospholamban phosphorylation without affecting sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA2a) and phospholamban. Steptozotocin reduced AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation at Thr172 of the catalytic subunit without affecting total AMPK expression, which was restored by UCF-101. Short-term exposure to UCF-101 did not change the expression of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) and Omi stress-regulated endoprotease, high temperature requirement protein A2 (Omi/HtrA2), favouring an apoptosis-independent mechanism. Both the AMPK activator resveratrol and the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine mimicked the UCF-101-induced beneficial effect in STZ-induced diabetic cardiomyocytes. In addition, UCF-101 promoted the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) after 15 min of incubation, while it failed to affect the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) within 120 min in H9C2 myoblasts. Taken together, these results indicate that UCF-101 protects against STZ-induced cardiomyocyte contractile dysfunction, possibly via an AMPK-associated mechanism.
Retro-differentiation of liver parenchyma during neoplastic processes is characterized by the expression of tumor antigens, such as alpha-fetoprotein and the placental isoenzyme of glutathione-S-transferase (GST-P). To investigate whether this may also affect a typical liver function such as bile acid secretion was the aim of this work. Rat hepatocarcinogenesis was induced by diethylnitrosamine (i.p., 200 mg/Kg body weight at day 0) and promoted by two-thirds partial hepatectomy (at day 21) plus 2-acetamidofluorene administration (50 mg/Kg body weight, subcutaneously, twice a week from day 14 to day 35). In order to carry out planimetric measurements of neoplastic tissue after immunohistochemical staining, a novel monoclonal antibody (MAb 14.1.3) against GST-P with no cross-reactivity against the major liver isoform of GST (GST-H) was raised. Analysis of total biliary bile acid output using the 3alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase method indicated that a significant reduction (-26%) occurred during the formation of GST-P-positive foci (12 wk). This was restored to normal values during adenoma formation (16-20 wk), but decreased again during carcinoma transformation (32 wk). These changes were not parallel to that observed in bile flow, which was progressively but slightly decreased throughout the whole period under study. HPLC analysis of bile samples collected for 1 h at different time points during hepatocarcinogenesis revealed that in contrast to what happens during cholestatic disease, a continuous and progressive increase in the cholic acid-to-chenodeoxycholic acid ratio (from 4.4+/-0.5 in control animals to 15.1+/-1.9 in rats with hepatocellular carcinoma) occurs. A significant and transient increase at 16 wk (+120%) in the proportion of bile acids amidated with glycine as compared to those conjugated with taurine was also observed. These results indicate that the mechanisms accounting for the secretion of major bile acids are modified differently at various steps of rat liver tumor development.
We report here the case of a 68-year-old woman who presented severe renal failure following the first cycle of high dose methotrexate (HDMTX) for the treatment of a cerebral malignant lymphoma. Before HDMTX administration, serum creatinine value was normal and three days after HDMTX, it reached 457 micromol/L. Leucovorin rescue, hemodialysis and cholestyramine did not increase MTX clearance. Because of the persistence of renal failure, and the high risk of important hematological side-effects associated with high MTX plasma levels, the patient received carboxypeptidase G2 (CPDG2). This allowed MTX plasma levels to decrease by 80% in 15 minutes. No side effects were observed and renal function normalized rapidly. In some patients, when high-dose leucovorin associated with hemodialysis and cholestyramine are unable to restore normal MTX clearance, CPDG2 should be considered because it may represent a safe and efficient alternative for the management of MTX intoxication.
Erythromelalgia is a rare disorder characterized by recurrent pain attacks, swelling and redness in the distal extremities. The primary forms of the disorder are caused by mutations in voltage-gated sodium channels. Treatment is difficult and controlled therapeutic studies offer little to no guidance. We report on a 12-year-old boy and his first occurrence of primary erythromelalgia. Genetic findings for mutations in the SCN9A gene, which encodes for the α-subunit of sodium channel NaV1.7, were negative. Although initial treatment with sodium nitroprusside was ineffective, subsequent medication with lidocaine and mexiletine, in combination with gabapentin, was successful. Despite negative findings for mutations in the sodium channels, the use of sodium channel blockers should be considered in these patients.
Morphine is the analgesic of choice for moderate to severe cancer pain; however, 10-30% of patients do not tolerate morphine. This study evaluated genetic variation in the mu-opioid receptor, betaarrestin2, stat6 and uridine diphosphate-glucuronysltransferase 2B7 (UGT2B7) genes, in patients who responded to morphine vs those who were switched to alternative opioids. We prospectively recruited and genotyped 162 Caucasian patients (117 controls, 39 switchers). Switchers, were more likely to carry the common allele at 1182 G/A, 5864 G/A, 8622T/C and 11143 G/A in the betaarrestin2 gene (P = 0.021, 0.043, 0.013, 0.043, respectively). Switchers had increased carriage of the T allele (-1714 C/T) and a significant difference in the allelic frequency at 9065 C/T (chi(2) = 3.86, P = 0.049) in the stat6 gene. No differences were seen in genotype or allele frequencies of SNPs in the mu-opioid receptor gene or UGT2B7 gene. This study presents novel data suggesting that variation in genes involved in mu-opioid receptor signalling influence clinical response to morphine.
Controlled hypotension (CH) is an established method to reduce intraoperative bleeding. The aim of the study was to investigate the influence of CH induced by sodium nitroprusside (SN) or esmolol on hepatocellular integrity.
Prospective, randomized, controlled study. 45 patients scheduled for elective endonasal sinus surgery were allocated to one of the following three groups: 1. SN-group (n = 15): CH induced by SN. 2. Esmolol-group: CH induced by esmolol. In both groups mean arterial pressure was kept between 50-55 mmHg. 3. Control group (n = 15): no hypotension was performed (MAP > 70 mmHg). The cytosolic liver enzyme alpha-glutathione S-transferase (alpha-GST) and standard liver enzymes (alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyltransferase) were measured at the following timepoints: preoperative (T0), at the end of surgery (T1), 2 h (T2), 24 h (T3) and 48 h (T4) postoperatively.
alpha-GST concentrations were significantly higher in patients receiving CH (SN: 5.9 +/- 3.4; Esmolol: 6.5 +/- 2.8 microg/L) in comparison with controls (2.5 +/- 1.4 microg/L) at T1. Already at T2 there were no significant differences between the three groups. Standard liver enzymes showed a similar course in all groups.
The small but significant increase of alpha-GST in both hypotension groups suggests that hypotension induces a mild damage of hepatocellular integrity.
The kidney responds to high levels of ANG II, as may occur during malignant hypertension, by increasing sodium and water excretion. To study whether kidney medullary transporters contribute to this response, rats were made hypertensive using ANG II. Within 3 days of being given ANG II, systolic blood pressure (BP) was increased (200 mmHg), vs control (130 mmHg), and remained high through day 14. Kidney inner medullary (IM) tip and base and outer medulla were analyzed for transporter protein abundance. There were significant decreases in UT-A1 urea transporter, aquaporin-2 (AQP2) water channel, and NKCC2/BSC1 Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter. To determine whether the decreases were a response to hypertension, ANG II, or an ANG II-induced increase in aldosterone, rats were given 1) norepinephrine (to increase BP) and 2) ANG II plus spironolactone (to block the mineralocorticoid receptor). Norepinephrine (7 days) increased BP, urine volume, sodium excretion, and decreased urine osmolality and UT-A1, AQP2, and NKCC2/BSC1 abundances, similar to ANG II. ANG II alone or with spironolactone yielded similar increases in BP, urine volume, and urine osmolality, and decreases in UT-A1 and AQP2 proteins in the IM tip. Plasma vasopressin was unaffected by treatment. Water diuresis did not change UT-A1 but decreased AQP2 and NKCC2/BSC1 abundances. We conclude that decreases in UT-A1, AQP2, and NKCC2/BSC1 proteins may contribute to the diuresis and natriuresis that occur following ANG II or norepinephrine-induced acute hypertension and do not appear to involve ANG II stimulation of aldosterone or thirst.
In Ophthalmic practice diazepam is often used a a premedicant. We report a case where administration of diazepam led to a state of acute delirium because of which surgery had to be postponed. The possible mechanisms for this reaction and the treatment is discussed. This side effect of diazepam should be kept in mind while dealing with delirium in the geriatric age group.
In the present study, we examined whether newly synthesized phenylpropenone derivatives, by inhibiting NF-κB activity, would inhibit IL-8 expression, inflammation and abnormal angiogenesis, resulting in amelioration of disease conditions. The phenylpropenone derivatives inhibited NF-κB transcriptional activity, which correlated with their suppressive activity against TNF-α-induced adhesion of U937 human monocytic cells to HT-29 human colonic epithelial cells, an in vitro model of IBD. Among the derivatives, 1,3-diphenylpropenone (DPhP) was most efficacious, and it significantly suppressed TNF-α-induced production of IL-8 which is a proinflammatory and proangiogenic cytokine. The anti-inflammatory activity of DPhP was also confirmed in the trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced rat colitis model. DPhP was protective against the TNBS-induced inflammatory responses, which included weight loss, increased myeloperoxidase activity and mucosal damage. In the colon tissue, DPhP inhibited TNBS-induced NF-κB nuclear translocation, IL-8 and TNF-α expressions, and abnormal angiogenesis. In addition, DPhP also suppressed IL-8-induced angiogenesis, which was revealed by an in vivo assay using chick chorioallantoic membrane. Furthermore, the level of IL-6, a pleiotropic cytokine which is implicated in the pathogenesis of IBD and colitis-associated cancer, was suppressed by DPhP in rat colon tissue and serum. In conclusion, the results suggest that DPhP is a potential dual-acting IBD drug candidate targeting both inflammation and abnormal angiogenesis, possibly through the NF-κB and IL-8 signaling pathway.
Anthracycline chemotherapy in cancer can cause severe, frequently fatal congestive heart failure (CHF), the first-line treatment for which is diuretics and digoxin. We have studied the use of an angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitor added as a third agent.
In an observational study in hospital and as outpatients, 92 patients with advanced breast cancer were treated with epirubicin at a cumulative dose of 360 to 1000 mg/m2 (median 1000). Of 85 evaluable, nine developed life-threatening CHF at 1.5 to 13 months after ending epirubicin. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decreased from normal to 18 to 35%. All received frusemide and digoxin, and then, after transient clinical relief, enalapril or ramipril (initially 1.25 mg orally daily, increasing to 10-15 mg after 4-6 weeks).
Eight of the nine patients deteriorated while on digoxin/diuretic. Within 3 months of starting the ACE inhibitor in these patients, LVEF had increased to normal or near normal. Only one patient died in heart failure. Follow-up ranged from 11 to 42 months (median 26). The ACE inhibitor was well-tolerated, with no first-dose hypotension, except for one patient who discontinued treatment after 6 months because of persistent cough. Two others discontinued treatment with their ACE inhibitor after 22 and 28 months because they felt well. Survival in the nine patients was similar to that of those who did not develop CHF.
Our experience suggests that treatment of anthracycline-induced CHF with an ACE inhibitor should start soon after clinical improvement on digoxin/diuretic regardless of the severity of symptoms rather than waiting for clinical deterioration.
A child with psychotic symptoms and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder who developed extrapyramidal symptoms while on a combination of risperidone, methylphenidate, sertraline, tropisetron and ketorolac is described herein. The extrapyramidal symptoms resolved with the administration of benztropine, an anticholinergic drug. Successful treatment of his psychosis was achieved by decreasing the dose of risperidone, followed by slow upward titration.
In this study, we investigate the toxic effects of tacrolimus (FK506) on the cardiovascular system at the histopathological level in a rat model and whether these effects can be reversed by the blockade of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) by either an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE-inhibitors) or an angiotensin receptor antagonist (ARB).
Thirty-one Wistar rats were divided into four groups. FK506 group was treated with FK506 intraperitoneally (i.p.), FK506+ACE-inhibitors and FK506+ARB groups were treated with either quinapril or valsartan orally in addition to FK506. Control group was treated with saline i.p. Histological and immunohistochemical staining of cardiovascular tissue in the FK506 group showed increased vacuolar degeneration (11.2 vs. 5.8, p=0.008), arterial hyalinosis (10.7 vs. 6.3, p=0.036), transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) (12.2 vs. 4.8, p=0.001) and vascular endothelial growth factor expression (VEGF) (10.7 vs. 6.3, p=0.036), elastic van Gieson (11.5 vs. 5.5, p=0.004), and periodic acid Schiff stain scores (12.5 vs. 4.5, p<0.001) compared to the control group. Immunohistochemical scores showed that expression of TGF-beta is up-regulated, and bone morphogenic protein (BMP-7) is down-regulated with FK506 toxicity. Adding RAS blockade with either an ACE-inhibitor or an ARB could reverse FK506 induced changes. Both FK506+ACE-inhibitors and FK506+ARB groups demonstrated decrease in arterial hyalinosis (22.1 vs. 14.4 (FK506+ACE-inhibitor) and 13.6 (FK506+ARB), p=0.09) and vacuolar degeneration (23.1 vs. 16.1 (FK506+ACE-inhibitor) and 12.4 (FK506+ARB), p=0.006) scores compared to the FK506 group.
Blockade of RAS could reverse the histopathological signs of FK506 induced cardiac toxicity in a rat model.
The ability of 2-mercaptoethane sodium sulfonate to prevent histologic damage to the bladder from cyclophosphamide was studied. Male rats receiving 2-mercaptoethane sodium sulfonate in conjunction with cyclophosphamide had a statistically significant decrease in ulceration, inflammation and edema of the bladder compared to those treated with cyclophosphamide alone. Most bladders of animals given prophylactic 2-mercaptoethane sodium sulfonate with a dose of cyclophosphamide were histologically indistinguishable from controls receiving neither drug. The relevance of these findings to the short and long-term effects of cyclophosphamide on the urothelium is discussed.
Treatment of ductus arteriosus is controversial. The merits and timing of ductus ligation versus indomethacin treatment were compared.
Study parameters for infants with PDA (June 1988 through March 2001) included age, weight, physical findings, echocardiograph, success/complications of treatment, and length of stay (LOS). Statistical analysis was by descriptive univariate analysis.
Two hundred twelve infants were included. Median gestational age was 26 weeks (range, 22-38); weight, 836 g (447 to 2,863). Findings included murmur (94%), congestion (20%), cardiomegaly (15%), bounding pulses (6%), hyperdynamic precordium (4%), and CHF (2%). Echocardiographic measurements were left atrial diameter, 0.92 cm; posterior wall thickness, 0.26 cm; PDA diameter, 2.5 mm; septal thickness, 0.27 cm; aortic root diameter, 0.64 cm; ejection fraction, 39%; left ventricular internal diameter-diastole, 1.3 cm; left ventricular internal diameter-systole, 0.82 cm; right ventricular internal diameter-diastole, 0.51 cm. No measurement, except PDA diameter, was predictive of medical failure or need for reoperation. However, weight less than 1,000 g was highly predictive of medical failure. Additional cardiac anomalies included ASD (69%), VSD (3%), and aortic coarctation (1%). One hundred sixty-seven babies (79%) received indomethacin, closing the PDA in 88 cases (53%, recurrence = 47%). Indomethacin complications (73%) included thrombocytopenia (36%), BUN increase (31%), sepsis (30%), oliguria (25%), hyponatremia (25%), IVH (16%), pulmonary interstitial emphysema (11%), NEC (8%), intestinal perforation (4%), and bleeding (3%). Seventy-seven babies (36%) required operations (92% in the NICU) performed by pediatric surgeons. Ligation criteria included hypoxia, hypercapnia, decreasing compliance, CHF, and contraindications/failure of indomethacin. Complications included pneumothorax (4%), IVH (4%), bleeding (4%), NEC (1%), and wound infection (1%). LOS averaged 82 days.
Although indomethacin therapy is a reasonable treatment alternative, it is associated with significant complications. Ductus ligation may be preferable, especially in very low birth weight babies, because it is associated with low morbidity and almost certain degree of success.
Interferon plus ribavirin (IFN/Rib) therapy is currently standard treatment for chronic hepatitis C. Hemolytic anemia, however, is a serious side effect of this treatment, requiring reductions in or complete withdrawal of ribavirin.
We retrospectively investigated the effect of the Kampo medicine Juzen-taiho-to (TJ-48), which contains bone marrow-stimulating compounds, on anemia in 67 patients with chronic hepatitis C, who received IFN/Rib therapy.
The reduction in hemoglobin levels was significantly ameliorated in TJ-48-treated patients (P<0.05). Consequently, only 13% (4/32) of TJ-48-treated patients received altered doses of ribavirin, while the ribavirin dose had to be reduced or withdrawn in 43% (15/35) of patients in the absence of TJ-48 administration (P<0.001).
These results indicate the possibility that oral administration of TJ-48 supports IFN/Rib therapy without necessitating ribavirin reduction or withdrawal.
This paper presents a discussion of handwriting in the amnestic state through two case reports associated with the phenomenon of anterograde amnesia following the use of therapeutic doses of triazolam, a rapid acting oral sleep inducing benzodiazepine. The fact that an individual executing a contract or signing a document may have no recollection of the writing event has significant implications for the questioned document examiner and other forensic science specialists. Since the issue of amnestic states and handwriting has received little apparent discussion in the forensic science literature, this paper outlines a number of issues of concern to the forensic science specialist.
The hydroalcoholic extract (HE) of the four new species of Phyllanthus, given intraperitoneally, produced significant inhibition of acetic acid-induced abdominal constrictions, with mean ID(50) values of 0.3, 1.8, 7.4 and 26.5 mg/kg for Phyllanthus amarus, Phyllanthus orbiculatus, Phyllanthus fraternus and Phyllanthus stipulatus, respectively. In the formalin test, the four species of Phyllanthus, also produced graded inhibition against both phases of formalin-induced licking, being more active in relation of the late phase. The HE of the Phyllanthus species elicited significant inhibition of the capsaicin-induced neurogenic pain, with mean ID(50) values of 8.9, 6.7, >30 and approximately 30 mg/kg for P. amarus, P. fraternus, P. stipulatus and P. orbiculatus, respectively. Given orally all HE of the Phyllanthus species were less potent and efficacious than when given by intraperitoneally. Results of the present study extend previous data and indicate that all extracts of Phyllanthus plants so far studied exhibit pronounced antinociception when assessed in chemical models of nociception, namely acetic acid-induced writhing, and formalin and capsaicin-induced licking.
Reverse cholesterol transport, although not well understood, is an important mechanism in the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis. Macrophages can eliminate some cholesterol from atherosclerotic lesions by an oxidative mechanism involving sterol 27-hydroxylase. Patients with inherited "cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis" lack sterol 27-hydroxylase (CYP27A1) and develop severe premature atherosclerosis despite normal serum cholesterol concentrations. Thus, it has been speculated that sterol 27-hydroxylase is an anti-atherosclerotic enzyme. Here, we report the case of a 25-year-old patient who presented to our emergency room with an acute non-ST elevation myocardial infarction due to severe coronary heart disease. Lipid analysis revealed dramatically increased 27-hydroxycholesterol and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels. Previous reports suggest that 27-hydroxylase is upregulated to protect peripheral cells from severe cholesterol accumulation, especially in cases of ineffective reverse cholesterol transport due to low HDL-cholesterol levels. Our findings indicate that oxysterols could play an important and so far underestimated role in reverse cholesterol transport.
The predelivery of intravenous alfentanil (a mu opioid agonist) and ketamine (an -methyl d-aspartate antagonist) has recently been shown to decrease the secondary hyperalgesia induced by intradermal capsaicin. The focus of this study was to determine the effects of the postdelivery of intravenous alfentanil and ketamine on intradermal capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia.
Double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, crossover study. Five minutes after an intradermal capsaicin injection, alfentanil and ketamine infusions were administered for a target plasma concentration of 75 ng/ml for alfentanil and 150 ng/ml for ketamine or placebo equivalent using a computer-controlled infusion pump and maintained for the remainder of the study. The investigator recorded the magnitude of the pain score at the time of injection and at 5-minute intervals. Fifteen minutes after the intradermal capsaicin injection, the region of secondary hyperalgesia and flare response was determined.
Alfentanil and ketamine plasma levels targeted after injection of intradermal capsaicin had no significant effect on pain scores, flare response, or secondary hyperalgesia.
Consistent with animal studies on preemptive analgesia, this study demonstrates that alfentanil and ketamine have a differential effect when delivered before and after a painful stimulus. Because of the differential effect seen, future studies on the pharmacology of human experimental pain should evaluate both predrug and postdrug delivery.
Cocaine induced psychosis (CIP) is a common, but not universal side effect of cocaine abuse. Factors underlying the development and severity of CIP remain poorly understood. This study tests the hypothesis that earlier age of initiation of regular use may increase the likelihood of developing CIP, or the severity of CIP symptoms.
Cocaine use history and severity of CIP (if any) were assessed with the Cocaine Experience Questionnaire in 51 abstinent (3 weeks-1 year) cocaine dependent individuals. Subjects were divided into those with high and low CIP severity, and into those with early age of initiation of regular cocaine use, and later age of initiation. Various cutoffs between early and late age of initiation were used, ranging from 15 to 22 years.
From ages 17 through 20, controlling for cumulative duration of use, severity scores were significantly higher for the early initiation group than for the later initiation group (p values ranged from 0.031 to 0.036). Cumulative duration of use, but not age of initiation, significantly predicted initial development of CIP (p=0.044).
The data suggest that early age of initiation of regular cocaine use occurring during vulnerable periods of brain development, may lead to increased severity of CIP.
