Over 26 million people in West Bengal, India, are exposed to very high levels of arsenic through drinking water, leading to several deleterious endpoints including cancers. To elucidate the role of promoter methylation in arsenic-induced dermatological and nondermatological health effects, methylation status of p16 and DAPK genes was determined. A case-control study was conducted involving 72 individuals with arsenic-induced skin lesions (cases) and 50 individuals without skin lesions (controls), having similar arsenic exposure through drinking water. Methylation status was determined by bisulfite conversion of genomic DNA and methylation-specific PCR. Expression of the genes was determined by real-time PCR and Western blot analysis. Associations between the promoter methylation status and nondermatological health effects were determined from epidemiological survey data. Significant hypermethylation was found in the promoters of both DAPK and p16 genes in the cases compared with the controls resulting in downregulation of both the genes in the cases. There was a 3.4-fold decrease in the expression of death-associated protein kinase and 2.2-fold decrease in gene expression of p16 in the cases compared to the controls, the lowest expression being in the cancer tissues. Promoter hypermethylation of the genes was also associated with higher risk of developing arsenic-induced skin lesions, peripheral neuropathy, ocular and respiratory diseases. This study for the first time makes an attempt to correlate epigenetic modifications of the tumor suppressor genes with dermatological and nondermatological health outcomes in a population chronically exposed to arsenic.
The objective was to examine whether a common polymorphism in the dopamine D4 receptor gene (DRD4) might be a potential biomarker for behavioral variation within the autism spectrum disorder clinical phenotype. Children (N=66) were evaluated with a validated mother- and teacher-completed DSM-IV-referenced rating scale. Partial eta-squared (ηp(2) ) was used to gauge the magnitude of group differences: 0.01-0.06=small, 0.06-0.14=moderate and >0.14=large. Children who were 7-repeat allele carriers had more severe oppositional defiant disorder behaviors according to mothers' (ηp(2)=0.10) and teachers' (ηp(2)=0.06) ratings than noncarriers, but the latter was marginally significant (P=0.07). Children who were 7-repeat allele carriers also obtained more severe maternal ratings of tics (ηp(2)=0.07) and obsessions-compulsions (ηp(2)=0.08). Findings for maternal ratings of separation anxiety were marginally significant (P=0.08, ηp(2) =0.05). Analyses of combined DRD4 and dopamine transporter gene (DAT1) genotypes approached significance (P=0.05) for teachers' ratings of oppositional behavior and mothers' ratings of tics. DRD4 allelic variation may be a prognostic biomarker for challenging behaviors in children with autism spectrum disorder, but these exploratory findings remain tentative pending replication with larger independent samples.
In experimental carcinogenesis microcancers are defined as foci of altered hepatocytes showing vascular invasion. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) could be involved in such vascular extension. The aim of our study was to evaluate the in situ VEGF expression in chemically-induced microcancers.
Fourteen C3H male mice were submitted to a diethyl nitrosamine-induced carcinogenesis. Iron-dextran overload was performed in parallel in order to localize all iron-negative lesions. Animals were sacrificed at 24, 39 and 52 weeks of age. Liver sections were histologically (haematoxylin eosin safron (HES), Orcein and Perls' stains) and immunohistochemically (VEGF) studied.
Microcancers represented 8% of 424 lesions that we found as compared to foci (35%), adenomas (51%), and overt cancers (6%). VEGF hepatocyte positivity was found in 74% of lesions, with a more frequent, intense, and homogenous expression in microcancers than in other lesions, especially at 24 and 39 weeks.
In our model, we found a high VEGF expression in microcancer exhibiting progression in vessels. Early overexpression of VEGF, formerly named vascular permeating factor, could act as a permeability factor and favors the development of vascular breakdown in microcancers.
Twenty-two patients with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (HRMDS) were treated with a 10-day course of oral all trans retinoic acid (45 mg/m2) and s.c. low-dose cytosine arabinoside (LDARAc) given at the dose of 20 mg twice per day. The courses were repeated monthly until response or progression, in the case of response, the therapy was administered until relapse. Morphologic diagnoses were refractory anemia with excess blasts (RAEB) in nine, RAEB in transformation (RAEB-t) in nine, and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMMoL) in four patients; in all cases, bone-marrow blast infiltration was greater than 10% (median 20%, range 12-30%). When the international prognostic scoring system was applied, all the cases qualified as intermediate/high-risk categories. Nineteen patients were males and three were females; the median age was 69 years (range 25-90 years); three patients had previously been treated with conventional chemotherapy, and one of them had also undergone autologous bone-marrow transplantation. The criteria of response were defined as follows: (1) complete response: normalization of blood counts and bone-marrow blasts (<5%), and (2) partial response: decrease in bone-marrow blast infiltration by 50%, and two of the following parameters - improvement in hemoglobin level by 1.5 g/dl or decrease by 50% in transfusional requirement, increase by 50% in absolute neutrophil count, and increase by 50% in platelet count. Overall, 7 (32%) of 22 patients achieved a response, with 5 (23%) being classified as complete responders and 2 (9%) as partial responders. Fifteen (68%) patients did not achieve any response, and 14 died of progressive disease or infectious disease. The overall median survival was 8 months (range 1-27 months), whereas the median survival of responders was 16 months (range 8-27 months); the median duration of response was 11 months (range 2-21 months). Moderate to severe hematological toxicity and infections were the most common side effects. In conclusion, it seems that the association of ATRA and LDARA-C may be effective in approximately 30% of HRMDS patients. Optimizing this approach might be pursued by selecting, on a biological basis, those cases more likely to respond or by incorporating other differentiating agents or growth factors.
The case reports of a total of 9,670 patients admitted to a medical department were reviewed manually. From this material, all patients receiving treatment with beta-blockers alone, bendroflumethiazide alone or combinations of these were selected. In addition, a control group was selected. The patients should have received treatment for at least seven days and they should not be "ill". Patients receiving treatment with beta-blockers had higher S-K+ (4.2 mmol/l) and lower standard bicarbonate levels (23 mmol/l) than matched controls. Patients receiving treatment with bendroflumethiazide had low S-K+ (3.6 mmol/l) and high standard bicarbonate (26 mmol/l). Patients receiving treatment with both bendroflumethiazide and beta-blocker had low S-K+ (3.4 mmol/l) and the same standard bicarbonate as patients who received bendroflumethiazide alone. A more limited group chosen according to stricter criteria confirmed the above mentioned results. The investigation demonstrated that treatment with both beta-blocker and bendroflumethiazide caused deterioration of the hypokalaemia induced by bendroflumethiazide despite the higher S-K+ during beta-blockade. This may be due to renal excretion of potassium during beta-blockade.
Clozapine-induced hepatotoxicity is not well known and is usually of no clinical significance. This report describes fatal acute fulminant liver failure caused by clozapine in a 39-year-old man with chronic paranoid schizophrenia. The hepatotoxicity of clozapine is reviewed. Asymptomatic elevation of transaminase levels is observed most commonly, affecting between 30% and 50% of patients. Icteric hepatitis is uncommon, noted in 84 of 136,000 patients (0.06%). Fatal acute fulminant hepatitis has been documented in 2 patients (0.001%). The mechanism of clozapine hepatotoxicity is unknown. Although serious toxicity is rare, prescribers of clozapine should be aware of the hepatotoxic potential.
Previous studies of pregnancy losses and 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT) were limited because they did not include losses prior to clinical detection of pregnancy and because exposures were measured after the pregnancies of interest. The authors examined the association of preconception serum total DDT (sum of DDT isomers and metabolites) concentration and subsequent pregnancy losses in 388 newly married, nonsmoking, female textile workers in China between 1996 and 1998. Upon stopping contraception, subjects provided daily urine specimens and records of vaginal bleeding for up to 1 year or until clinical pregnancy. Daily urinary human chorionic gonadotropin was assayed to detect conception and early pregnancy losses, and pregnancies were followed to detect clinical spontaneous abortions. There were 128 (26%) early pregnancy losses in 500 conceptions and 36 (10%) spontaneous abortions in 372 clinical pregnancies. Subjects were grouped in tertiles by preconception serum total DDT concentration (group 1: 5.5-22.9 ng/g; group 2: 23.0-36.5 ng/g; group 3: 36.6-113.3 ng/g). Compared with group 1, group 2 had adjusted relative odds of early pregnancy losses of 1.23 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.72, 2.10), and group 3 had adjusted odds of 2.12 (95% CI: 1.26, 3.57). The relative odds of early pregnancy losses associated with a 10-ng/g increase in serum total DDT were 1.17 (95% CI: 1.05, 1.29). The small number of spontaneous abortions following clinical detection of pregnancy were not associated with serum total DDT. In this population, there was a positive, monotonic, exposure-response association between preconception serum total DDT and the risk of subsequent early pregnancy losses.
To evaluate our experience with propofol anesthesia delivered by pediatric intensivists in the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) to facilitate elective oncology procedures in children performed by pediatric oncologists.
Elective oncology procedures performed with propofol anesthesia in our multidisciplinary, university-affiliated PICU were prospectively evaluated over a 7-month period. Ambulatory and hospitalized children were prescheduled for their procedure, underwent a medical evaluation, and met fasting requirements before the start of anesthesia. Continuous cardiorespiratory and neurologic monitoring was performed by a pediatric intensivist and a PICU nurse, while the procedure was performed by a pediatric oncologist. Propofol was delivered in intermittent boluses to achieve the desired level of anesthesia. Information studied included patient demographics, procedures performed, induction and total doses of propofol used, the duration of the different phases of the patient's PICU stay, the occurrence of side effects, the need for therapeutic interventions, and the incidence of recall of the procedure.
Fifty procedures in 28 children (mean age: 7.5 +/- 4.3 years) were evaluated. Sixty-one percent of patients had established diagnoses. Fifty-four percent of procedures were lumbar puncture with intrathecal chemotherapy administration and 26% of procedures were bone marrow aspirations with biopsy. Induction propofol doses were 2. 0 +/-.8 mg/kg for ambulatory and hospitalized patients, while total propofol doses were 6.6 +/- 2.3 mg/kg and 7.9 +/- 2.4 mg/kg for ambulatory and hospitalized patients, respectively. Induction time was 1.5 +/-.7 minutes, recovery time was 23.4 +/- 11.5 minutes, and total PICU time was 88.8 +/- 27.7 minutes. Transient decreases in systolic blood pressure less than the fifth percentile for age occurred in 64% of procedures, with a mean decrease of 25% +/- 10%. Intravenous fluids were administered in 31% of these cases. Hypotension was more common in ambulatory patients but was not predicted by propofol dose, anesthesia time, or age. Partial airway obstruction was noted in 12% of procedures while apnea requiring bag-valve-mask ventilation occurred in 2% of procedures. Neither was associated with age, propofol dose, or the duration of anesthesia. All procedures were successfully completed and there were no incidences of recall of the procedure.
Propofol anesthesia is effective in achieving patient comfort and amnesia, while optimizing conditions for elective oncology procedures in children. Although transient hypotension and respiratory depression may occur, propofol anesthesia seems to be safe to use for these procedures in the PICU setting. Recovery from anesthesia was rapid and total stay was brief. Under the proper conditions, propofol anesthesia delivered by pediatric intensivists in the PICU is a reasonable option available to facilitate invasive oncology procedures in children.
We describe a patient with acute mental status changes, which resolved on removal of medication from the reservoir of a Synchromed intrathecal pump. This report highlights the potential adverse mental affects of chronic spinal infusions for pain therapy and discusses pitfalls in toxicology analysis using immunoassay.
Hepatotoxicity due to overdose of the analgesic and antipyretic acetaminophen (APAP) is a major cause of liver failure in adults. To better understand the contributions of different signaling pathways, the expression and role of Ras activation was evaluated after oral dosing of mice with APAP (400-500 mg/kg). Ras-guanosine triphosphate (GTP) is induced early and in an oxidative stress-dependent manner. The functional role of Ras activation was studied by a single intraperitoneal injection of the neutral sphingomyelinase and farnesyltransferase inhibitor (FTI) manumycin A (1 mg/kg), which lowers induction of Ras-GTP and serum amounts of alanine aminotransferase (ALT). APAP dosing decreases hepatic glutathione amounts, which are not affected by manumycin A treatment. However, APAP-induced activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase, which plays an important role, is reduced by manumycin A. Also, APAP-induced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species are reduced by manumycin A at a later time point during liver injury. Importantly, the induction of genes involved in the inflammatory response (including iNos, gp91phox, and Fasl) and serum amounts of proinflammatory cytokines interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) and tumor necrosis factor alpha, which increase greatly with APAP challenge, are suppressed with manumycin A. The FTI activity of manumycin A is most likely involved in reducing APAP-induced liver injury, because a specific neutral sphingomyelinase inhibitor, GW4869 (1 mg/kg), did not show any hepatoprotective effect. Notably, a structurally distinct FTI, gliotoxin (1 mg/kg), also inhibits Ras activation and reduces serum amounts of ALT and IFN-gamma after APAP dosing. Finally, histological analysis confirmed the hepatoprotective effect of manumycin A and gliotoxin during APAP-induced liver damage.
This study identifies a key role for Ras activation and demonstrates the therapeutic efficacy of FTIs during APAP-induced liver injury.
Children with trisomy 21 have a high incidence of congenital heart disease that frequently requires surgical repair. These patients often require multiple and higher dosage sedatives during the postoperative period. Dexmedetomidine is an alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor agonist that has sedative, analgesic, and anxiolytic properties. We report the successful use of dexmedetomidine in patients with trisomy 21 following surgical repair of congenital heart disease.
Aquaporin 7 (AQP7) is an aquaglyceroprotein responsible for the secretion and uptake of glycerol from the adipocyte. The modulation of the expression of this membrane transport protein might play an important role in the susceptibility to the development of obesity. The aim of the present study was to compare the AQP7 gene expression in subcutaneous abdominal fat in lean vs. obese high fat intakers with a similar daily physical activity pattern. Twelve young men, 6 lean (BMI=23.2+/-0.4kg/m(2)) and 6 obese (35.0+/-1.1kg/m(2)) with a similar habitual dietary intake of fat (45.5+/-2.5 vs. 43.5+/-1.7% daily energy from fat for lean and obese, respectively) and physical activity (16.0+/-5.7 vs. 17.2+/-5.1 METsh/week for lean and obese, respectively), were recruited. Subcutaneous abdominal fat biopsies were obtained and total RNA was extracted and purified. Pools of RNA from lean and obese individuals were probed into Affymetrix GeneChip Human U133A. The microarray analysis revealed that AQP7 gene was down-regulated in obese compared to lean subjects. The results of the microarray analysis were confirmed by real-time PCR studies. In summary, our data show that the AQP7 gene is differentially expressed in adipose tissue of lean and obese individuals. The down-regulation of the AQP7 gene could be implicated in the susceptibility to obesity by reducing glycerol release and promoting the accumulation of lipids in the adipose tissue.
Studies in rat aorta have shown that the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter NKCC1 is activated by vasoconstrictors and inhibited by nitrovasodilators, contributes to smooth muscle tone in vitro, and is upregulated in hypertension. To determine the role of NKCC1 in systemic vascular resistance and hypertension, blood pressure was measured in rats before and after inhibition of NKCC1 with bumetanide. Intravenous infusion of bumetanide sufficient to yield a free plasma concentration above the IC(50) for NKCC1 produced an immediate drop in blood pressure of 5.2% (P < 0.001). The reduction was not prevented when the renal arteries were clamped, indicating that it was not due to a renal effect of bumetanide. Bumetanide did not alter blood pressure in NKCC1-null mice, demonstrating that it was acting specifically through NKCC1. In third-order mesenteric arteries, bumetanide-inhibitable efflux of (86)Rb was acutely stimulated 133% by phenylephrine, and bumetanide reduced the contractile response to phenylephrine, indicating that NKCC1 influences tone in resistance vessels. The hypotensive effect of bumetanide was proportionately greater in rats made hypertensive by a 7-day infusion of norepinephrine (12.7%, P < 0.001 vs. normotensive rats) but much less so when hypertension was produced by a fixed aortic coarctation (8.0%), again consistent with an effect of bumetanide on resistance vessels rather than other determinants of blood pressure. We conclude that NKCC1 influences blood pressure through effects on smooth muscle tone in resistance vessels and that this effect is augmented in hypertension.
One hundred and forty-seven patients requiring a hypnotic, took soft gelatine capsules containing 10 mg temazepam (Euhypnos) 10-30 mg at night, for up to twelve weeks. One hundred and thirty-three patients (90-5%) completed twelve weeks on drug. Hypnotic performance was rated Good or Very Good in 90% of their assessments and 93-2% of the assessments recorded no hangover effect. Adverse reactions were occasional headaches and nausea. There were no drug-related accidents. One hundred and forty-two patients (96-6%) said there was no adverse effect on their work. Seven patients who did not complete twelve weeks resumed normal sleep patterns and had no further need for hypnotics.
To evaluate previously reported associations of copy number variants (CNVs) with schizophrenia and to identify additional associations, the authors analyzed CNVs in the Molecular Genetics of Schizophrenia study (MGS) and additional available data.
After quality control, MGS data for 3,945 subjects with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder and 3,611 screened comparison subjects were available for analysis of rare CNVs (<1% frequency). CNV detection thresholds were chosen that maximized concordance in 151 duplicate assays. Pointwise and genewise analyses were carried out, as well as analyses of previously reported regions. Selected regions were visually inspected and confirmed with quantitative polymerase chain reaction.
In analyses of MGS data combined with other available data sets, odds ratios of 7.5 or greater were observed for previously reported deletions in chromosomes 1q21.1, 15q13.3, and 22q11.21, duplications in 16p11.2, and exon-disrupting deletions in NRXN1. The most consistently supported candidate associations across data sets included a 1.6-Mb deletion in chromosome 3q29 (21 genes, TFRC to BDH1) that was previously described in a mild-moderate mental retardation syndrome, exonic duplications in the gene for vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor 2 (VIPR2), and exonic duplications in C16orf72. The case subjects had a modestly higher genome-wide number of gene-containing deletions (>100 kb and >1 Mb) but not duplications.
The data strongly confirm the association of schizophrenia with 1q21.1, 15q13.3, and 22q11.21 deletions, 16p11.2 duplications, and exonic NRXN1 deletions. These CNVs, as well as 3q29 deletions, are also associated with mental retardation, autism spectrum disorders, and epilepsy. Additional candidate genes and regions, including VIPR2, were identified. Study of the mechanisms underlying these associations should shed light on the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
Many chemicals are known to exhibit endocrine activity and affect reproductive functions in vertebrates and invertebrates. Endocrine effects include influences on sexual differentiation of the brain during development and reproductive and non-reproductive behavior in adult offspring. We previously demonstrated that developmental exposure to a mixture of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) which was reconstituted according to the congener pattern found in human breast milk caused feminization of sweet preference as a sexually dimorphic behavior in adult male rats, following decreases in aromatase activity in the brain of newborn male pups. This result may be due to dioxin-like or non-dioxin-like (NDL) PCBs and their respective effects on steroid hormones. The aim of the present experiments was to determine if exposure to highly purified NDL-PCBs (to remove Ah receptor active contaminants) also results in alteration of sweet preference. Pregnant rats were orally exposed to PCB52 (6 dose groups, total dose of 0-3000mg/kg body weight) or PCB180 (6 dose groups, total dose of 0-1000mg/kg body weight). In a further experiment rat dams were treated with equimolar doses of PCB74 or PCB95 (total dose, 760μmol/kg body weight, corresponding to 229mg/kg or 248mg/kg body weight of PCB74 and PCB95, respectively). Adult male and female offspring were given a choice between a bottle of saccharin solution (0.25%) and a bottle of tap water on five consecutive days. Control females consumed approximately twice as much sweetened solution compared with control males, thus, demonstrating sexual dimorphism of this behavior. Only non-significant reduction of sweet preference was found at the top dose level in female offspring after exposure to PCB52. Female offspring exposed to PCB180 exhibited signs of supernormal behavior as illustrated by increased saccharin consumption at intermediate dose levels. Decreased sweet preference was observed in females after developmental PCB74, whereas males were unaffected. Only PCB95 increased saccharin consumption in exposed males, leading to decreased sexual dimorphism of this behavior and behavioral feminization. The results demonstrate that different NDL-PCBs exhibit differential effects on sexually dimorphic behavior and that feminization occurs after removal of Ah receptor active contaminants. Comparison with data from the literature reveals little evidence for a relation to anti-androgenic activity of the studied NDL-PCBs.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) protease inhibitors are prone to drug interactions with other agents. As individuals with HIV infection live longer, the clinical significance of many interactions is becoming recognized. A 51-year-old man with HIV infection who was receiving extended-release nifedipine developed symptomatic orthostasis and heart block after starting antiretroviral therapy that included nelfinavir. He experienced dizziness, fatigue, and hypotension and developed complete heart block with a junctional escape rhythm. Electrocardiogram abnormalities abated within 24 hours of discontinuing antiretroviral therapy. The patient developed orthostatic symptoms after restarting nelfinavir. He was switched successfully to an efavirenz-based regimen. Subsequent administration of antiretroviral therapy containing ritonavir and indinavir with extended-release nifedipine resulted in recurrence of his orthostatic symptoms. Discontinuation of atenolol, and nifedipine dosage reduction by 50% were effective in managing his orthostatic changes. Careful monitoring by clinicians is necessary when concomitant administration of HIV protease inhibitors are prescribed with other agents that are metabolized through the cytochrome P450 system.
Confusion is an adverse drug reaction frequently observed with valproic acid. Some case reports are published in the literature but no systematic study from a sample of patients has been published. We performed this study in order to describe the main characteristics of this adverse drug reaction.
Using the French Pharmacovigilance database, we selected the cases of confusion reported since 1985 with valproic acid.
272 cases of confusion were reported with valproic acid: 153 women and 119 men. Confusion mostly occurred during the two first weeks following valproic acid exposure (39.7%). It was "serious" for almost 2/3 of the patients (62.5%) and its outcome favourable in most of the cases (82%). The occurrence of this ADR was more frequent in patients aged between 61 and 80 years.
This work shows that confusion with valproic acid is a serious, rather frequent but reversible adverse drug reaction. It occurs especially in older patients and during the first two weeks of treatment.
After 180 min of temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion in spontaneously hypertensive rats, the effect of phenylephrine-induced hypertension on ischemic brain injury and blood-brain barrier permeability was determined. Blood pressure was manipulated by one of the following schedules during 120 min of reperfusion: Control, normotensive reperfusion; 90/hypertension (90/HTN), blood pressure was increased by 35 mm Hg during the initial 90 min of reperfusion only; 15/hypertension (15/HTN), normotensive reperfusion for 30 min followed by 15 min of hypertension and 75 min of normotension. Part A, for eight rats in each group brain injury was evaluated by staining tissue using 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride and edema was evaluated by microgravimetry. Part B, for eight different rats in each group blood-brain barrier permeability was evaluated by measuring the amount and extent of extravasation of Evans Blue dye. Brain injury (percentage of the ischemic hemisphere) was less in the 15/HTN group (16 +/- 6, mean +/- SD) versus the 90/HTN group (30 +/- 6), which was in turn less than the control group (42 +/- 5). Specific gravity was greater in the 15/HTN group (1.043 +/- 0.002) versus the 90/HTN (1.036 +/- 0.003) and control (1.037 +/- 0.003) groups. Evans Blue (mug g-1 of brain tissue) was greater in the 90/HTN group (24.4 +/- 6.0) versus the control group (12.3 +/- 4.1), which was in turn greater than the 15/HTN group (7.3 +/- 3.2). This study supports a hypothesis that during reperfusion, a short interval of hypertension decreases brain injury and edema; and that sustained hypertension increases the risk of vasogenic edema.
Amiodarone, a potent antiarrhythmic, iodine-containing agent, is a highly active oxidant exerting cytotoxic effects on thyrocytes at pharmacological concentrations. Patients receiving amiodarone usually remain euthyroid, but occasionally develop thyroid dysfunction. Although there is a general consensus that amiodarone-associated hypothyroidism is iodine induced, the destructive mechanism of thyroid follicles in amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis remains unknown.
To elucidate the mechanism by which amiodarone elicits thyroid dysfunction.
Human thyroid follicles were cultured with thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and amiodarone at therapeutic (1-2 microM) and pharmacological (10-20 microM) concentrations, and the drug-induced effect on whole human gene expression was analyzed by cDNA microarray. Microarray data were confirmed by real-time PCR and Western blot.
Amiodarone at 1-2 muM decreased the expression level of the sodium-iodide symporter (NIS) to nearly half, but did not affect genes participating in thyroid hormonogenesis (thyroid peroxidase, thyroglobulin, pendrin, and NADPH oxidase). Higher concentrations (10-20 microM) decreased the expression of all these genes, accompanied by increased expression of antioxidant proteins such as heme oxygenase 1 and ferritin. When thyroid follicles obtained from a patient with Graves' disease who had been treated with amiodarone were cultured in amiodarone-free medium, TSH-induced thyroid function was intact, suggesting that amiodarone at a maintenance dose did not elicit any cytotoxic effect on thyrocytes. The ultrastructural features of cultured thyroid follicles were compatible with these in vitro findings.
These in vitro and ex vivo findings suggest that patients taking maintenance doses of amiodarone usually remain euthyroid, probably due to escape from the Wolff-Chaikoff effect mediated by decreased expression of NIS mRNA. Further, amiodarone is not cytotoxic for thyrocytes at therapeutic concentrations but elicits cytotoxicity through oxidant activity at supraphysiological concentrations. We speculate that when amiodarone-induced prooxidant activity somehow exceeds the endogenous antioxidant capacity, the thyroid follicles will be destroyed and amiodarone-induced destructive thyrotoxicosis may develop.
We evaluated the effect of chicory (Cichorium intybus L.) seed extract (CI) on hepatic steatosis caused by early and late stage diabetes in rats (in vivo), and induced in HepG2 cells (in vitro) by BSA-oleic acid complex (OA). Different dosages of CI (1.25, 2.5 and 5 mg/ml) were applied along with OA (1 mM) to HepG2 cells, simultaneously and non-simultaneously; and without OA to ordinary non-steatotic cells. Cellular lipid accumulation and glycerol release, and hepatic triglyceride (TG) content were measured. The expression levels of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) were determined. Liver samples were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). Significant histological damage (steatosis-inflammation-fibrosis) to the cells and tissues and down-regulation of SREBP-1c and PPARα genes that followed steatosis induction were prevented by CI in simultaneous treatment. In non-simultaneous treatment, CI up-regulated the expression of both genes and restored the normal levels of the corresponding proteins; with a greater stimulating effect on PPARα, CI acted as a PPARα agonist. CI released glycerol from HepG2 cells, and targeted the first and the second hit phases of hepatic steatosis. A preliminary attempt to characterize CI showed caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid, and chicoric acid, among the constituents.
A case report.
To raise awareness among spinal cord clinicians of the possible carcinogenic effect of phenoxybenzamine and of the rare occurrence of small cell carcinoma in the neuropathic bladder.
Regional Spinal Injuries Centre and District General Hospital, Southport, Merseyside, United Kingdom.
A 28-year-old man sustained a fracture dislocation of L-1 with consequent paraplegia (ASIA impairment scale A). Phenoxybenzamine treatment enabled his indwelling catheter to be discarded in favour of a penile sheath, but it caused unacceptable dizziness and was stopped after 7 years. After 20 years, he developed chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, which was treated with chlorambucil and fludarabine. After 2 years, investigation of bilateral hydronephrosis revealed a primary small cell carcinoma of the bladder with coexistent squamous dysplasia. Uraemia supervened and, declining active treatment, the patient died 3 weeks after diagnosis.
Phenoxybenzamine, a known carcinogen in rodents, is likely also to be carcinogenic in humans, and patients with spinal cord injury who have received the drug for any significant period of time, need close follow-up to allow early detection of cancer. Phenoxybenzamine should not be prescribed on a long-term basis, and should instead be replaced with a selective alpha-blocker.
The present study evaluates protective effects of naringin against paraquat (PQ)-induced acute lung injury (ALI) and pulmonary fibrosis in mice. Survival probability against PQ intoxication was tested by a single intraperitoneal injection of PQ. Results showed that survival rates of mice exposed to PQ only (50 mg/kg within 7 days) were much lower than that in mice daily treatment with NAC or naringin. Moreover, protection against PQ-induced ALI was tested by daily pretreatment mice with saline, NAC or naringin for 3 days before PQ (30 mg/kg, i.p.). Results showed that increase in leukocytes infiltration and overexpressions of TNF-α and TGF-β1 caused by 8h of PQ exposure were dose-dependently ameliorated by naringin. Furthermore, protection against PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis was tested by pretreatment mice with PQ (20 mg/kg, i.p.), and then daily administration with saline, NAC or naringin for prolonged 21 days. Results showed that naringin of 60 and 120 mg/kg significantly reduced PQ-induced upregulations of TNF-α, TGF-β1, MMP-9 and TIMP-1, levels of pulmonary malonaldehyde and hydroxyproline, as well as pulmonary fibrosis deposition, while increased activities of SOD, GSH-Px and HO-1. These results indicated that naringin had effective protection against PQ-induced ALI and pulmonary fibrosis.
