In patients with severe heart failure, prolonged unloading of the myocardium with the use of a left ventricular assist device has been reported to lead to myocardial recovery in small numbers of patients for varying periods of time. Increasing the frequency and durability of myocardial recovery could reduce or postpone the need for subsequent heart transplantation.
We enrolled 15 patients with severe heart failure due to nonischemic cardiomyopathy and with no histologic evidence of active myocarditis. All had markedly reduced cardiac output and were receiving inotropes. The patients underwent implantation of left ventricular assist devices and were treated with lisinopril, carvedilol, spironolactone, and losartan to enhance reverse remodeling. Once regression of left ventricular enlargement had been achieved, the beta2-adrenergic-receptor agonist clenbuterol was administered to prevent myocardial atrophy.
Eleven of the 15 patients had sufficient myocardial recovery to undergo explantation of the left ventricular assist device a mean (+/-SD) of 320+/-186 days after implantation of the device. One patient died of intractable arrhythmias 24 hours after explantation; another died of carcinoma of the lung 27 months after explantation. The cumulative rate of freedom from recurrent heart failure among the surviving patients was 100% and 88.9% 1 and 4 years after explantation, respectively. The quality of life as assessed by the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire score at 3 years was nearly normal. Fifty-nine months after explantation, the mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 64+/-12%, the mean left ventricular end-diastolic diameter was 59.4+/-12.1 mm, the mean left ventricular end-systolic diameter was 42.5+/-13.2 mm, and the mean maximal oxygen uptake with exercise was 26.3+/-6.0 ml per kilogram of body weight per minute.
In this single-center study, we found that sustained reversal of severe heart failure secondary to nonischemic cardiomyopathy could be achieved in selected patients with the use of a left ventricular assist device and a specific pharmacologic regimen.
The two structurally related thienopyridines, ticlopidine and clopidogrel in addition to aspirin, have become the standard regimen for prevention of subacute thrombosis (SAT) after coronary stent implantation. Although both regimens are highly effective, ticlopidine suffers from severe hematologic side effects. Recent trials encourage shorter duration of therapy with these agents. However, the optimal duration of antiplatelet therapy after stenting is still not clear. We report a case of SAT developing 12 days after discontinuation of 2 weeks of aspirin plus ticlopidine therapy. We believe that the present data are still not clear regarding the optimum duration of antiplatelet therapy after stenting.
Carvedilol (BM 14190) is a new antihypertensive compound which combines beta-adrenoceptor blocking and precapillary vasodilating properties but is devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. The acute and long-term effects on blood pressure and regional haemodynamics (forearm plethysmography) were studied with carvedilol 25 mg b.i.d. or 50 mg b.i.d. Comparisons were made with propranolol 80 mg b.i.d. in a randomized double-blind placebo controlled trial comprised of 30 patients with essential hypertension. After a four-week placebo period active therapy was given for four weeks. Carvedilol administered acutely reduced blood pressure at both doses, delta 13/6 mmHg (P less than 0.001/P less than 0.01) and 17/10 mmHg (P less than 0.001/P less than 0.01). Resistance in the forearm fell significantly with the higher dose. This was in contrast to propranolol which only reduced heart rate acutely, and as expected caused a rise in forearm resistance. After four weeks both compounds had reduced blood pressure significantly and to the same extent. Blood flow was still significantly reduced with propranolol in contrast to the findings with carvedilol. We conclude that carvedilol given orally has a useful antihypertensive effect both acutely and during prolonged treatment. It is well tolerated and its haemodynamic profile is attractive.
To compare the effect of a combination of intrathecal (i.t.) sufentanil plus bupivacaine with i.t. sufentanil alone, on the incidence of hypotension and the success of ambulation in parturients.
This was a controlled, double-blind prospective trial involving 50 parturients in early labour who had received combined spinal-epidural analgesia (CSE). They were divided equally into two groups; group A received 10 micrograms i.t. sufentanil while group B received i.t. 10 micrograms sufentanil plus 2.5 mg plain bupivacaine. The blood pressure, pain scores, the highest sensory block and the degree of motor blockade were documented over the first 30 min by an unbiased anaesthetist. The ability and the desire to ambulate was studied 30 min after CSE. The side effects were documented throughout labour.
Group B had a higher incidence of hypotension; (12 vs 3: P < 0.01). Fewer parturients in group B could ambulate (19 vs 25: P < 0.05). Group B also had a higher sensory blockade than group A (median T4 VS T7-8: P < 0.01). Of all the 44 parturients who could ambulate, 13 desired not to do so, usually due to sedation.
The quality of analgesia in all subjects in the study was excellent. Side effects were more common in the i.t. sufentanil-bupivacaine combination group.
Cardiopulmonary arrest developed after injection of bupivacaine hydrochloride, lidocaine, and hyaluronidase in a 78-year-old woman who had previously undergone ipsilateral transcranial orbital surgery with removal of the bone of the orbital roof.
The patient required immediate cardiopulmonary resuscitation and intubation. Mechanical ventilation was necessary for 18 hours before spontaneous respirations resumed.
The patient improved and was discharged on the fifth postanesthetic day.
There were several possible mechanisms by which the local anesthetic could have entered the central nervous system. In patients with orbital roof defects, we recommend that retrobulbar anesthetic agents be used with caution.
The search for an effective, easily stored, affordable uterotonic agent in preventing postpartum hemorrhage is of importance, especially in the developing world. The objective of this study was to randomly compare the effectiveness of rectal misoprostol with Syntometrine in the management of the third stage of labor.
Four hundred and ninety-one low risk women in labor were randomly allocated to receive either misoprostol 400 microgram rectally or Syntometrine 1 ampuole intramuscularly, and postpartum blood loss was estimated as the principal end point. Comparisons were by the chi-square test or Fisher's test and relative risks with 95% confidence intervals for categorical data, and the Mann-Whitney test for ranked continuous variables.
The baseline characteristics in terms of hemoglobin estimation in antenatal clinic, mean age, parity, and duration of labor in the 250 patients who received Syntometrine and 241 patients who received misoprostol were similar. However, there was a significant difference in the pre-delivery blood pressure of the two groups because of the non-protocol exclusion of women with elevated blood pressure allocated to receive Syntometrine. Duration of third stage of labor, blood loss postpartum and hemoglobin estimation post partum were all similar. Postpartum diastolic hypertension was more common in the Syntometrine group (p= 0.002). No other apparent side effect was noted in either group.
Misoprostol rectally for management of the third stage of labor merits further investigation.
The protective effects of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) under lipopolysaccharide (LPS) conditions have been well documented. Here, we investigated whether an effect of HDL on Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) expression and signalling may contribute to its endothelial-protective effects and to improved survival in a mouse model of LPS-induced inflammation and lethality. HDL cholesterol increased 1.7-fold (p<0.005) and lung endothelial TLR4 expression decreased 8.4-fold (p<0.005) 2 weeks after apolipoprotein (apo) A-I gene transfer. Following LPS administration in apo A-I gene transfer mice, lung TLR4 and lung MyD88 mRNA expression, reflecting TLR4 signalling, were 3.0-fold (p<0.05) and 2.1-fold (p<0.05) lower, respectively, than in LPS control mice. Concomitantly, LPS-induced lung neutrophil infiltration, lung oedema and mortality were significantly attenuated following apo A-I transfer. In vitro, supplementation of HDL or apo A-I to human microvascular endothelial cells-1 24 h before LPS administration reduced TLR4 expression, as assessed by fluorescent-activated cell sorting, and decreased the LPS-induced MyD88 mRNA expression and NF-κB activity, independently of LPS binding. In conclusion, HDL reduces TLR4 expression and signalling in endothelial cells, which may contribute significantly to the protective effects of HDL in LPS-induced inflammation and lethality.
A case of acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) developing after cefaclor treatment is reported. Diagnosis was proofed by kidney biopsy and lymphocyte transformation test. The clinical course of the patient with non-oliguric renal failure was favourable. Four weeks after discontinuation of cefaclor treatment the renal function was completely restored and remained stable over the ten-month follow-up period. It is concluded that cefaclor can cause hyperallergic AIN and acute renal failure.
Therapeutic action of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) is delayed from 8 to 12 weeks in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Several different agents have been tested to reduce the SSRI therapeutic latency time. Mirtazapine, an antagonist at alpha2-adrenoceptors, does not enhance serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission directly but disinhibits the norepinephrine activation of 5-HT neurons and thereby increases 5-HT neurotransmission by a mechanism that may not require a time-dependent desensitization of receptors. The present study was undertaken to determine whether the mirtazapine-citalopram combination could induce an earlier and/or greater effect on the 5-HT system in OCD subjects than citalopram alone.
Forty-nine patients with OCD (DSM-IV) without comorbid depression were randomly assigned to a 2-tailed, single-blind, 12-week clinical trial with citalopram (20-80 mg/day) plus placebo or citalopram plus mirtazapine (15-30 mg/day). Assessments were performed weekly with the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (YBOCS), the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression, and the Clinical Global Impressions scale. Data were collected from November 2001 to July 2003.
The citalopram plus mirtazapine group achieved a reduction of at least 35% in YBOCS score and a "much improved" or "very much improved" rating on the Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement scale from the fourth week, while the citalopram plus placebo group obtained these results only from the eighth week. The number of responders was higher in the citalopram plus mirtazapine group at the fourth week of treatment, while no difference between groups in the response rate was noted at the eighth and twelfth weeks of treatment.
We found an earlier onset of response action in OCD symptoms and reduced undesired side effects when mirtazapine was added to citalopram. This augmentation strategy deserves clinical and research consideration through further double-blind, placebo-controlled studies.
Abstract Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF-41) is the primary mediator of adrenocorticotropin secretion from the adenohypophysis. This 41-amino-acid peptide is synthesized in perikarya of the paraventricular nuclei, transported to nerve terminals in the external zone of the median eminence and released into the hypophysial-portal circulation. It is also synthesized in multiple extrahypothalamic and peripheral sites. In addition, immunoreactive (ir) CRF-41 is present in the systemic circulation, raising the possibility that systemic measurements might provide a useful index of hypothalamic irCRF-41 secretion. This hypothesis was tested in several rat models. Neither bilateral destruction of hypothalamic irCRF-41 producing perikarya, nor infundibular stalk transection altered peripheral plasma irCRF-41 concentration. Furthermore, central administration of norepinephrine, an agent previously shown to evoke irCRF-41 secretion into the portal circulation, was without effect on peripheral irCRF-41 concentration. Finally, while increased irCRF-41 levels in both the hypophysial-portal and the peripheral circulation were associated with nitroprusside-induced hypotension, bilateral paraventricular nuclei lesions blocked irCRF-41 secretion into the hypophysial-portal circulation without blunting the rise observed in the peripheral circulation. The source of peripheral irCRF-41 remains undetermined; however, the adrenals may be excluded as bilateral adrenalectomy failed to alter circulating irCRF-41 levels. Therefore, our observations do not support the concept that peripheral irCRF-41 levels provide a useful index of hypothalamic secretion of this peptide into the hypophysial-portal circulation under the conditions tested.
We administered the antiviral agent 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC) to HIV-infected patients with either ARC or AIDS as part of the AIDS Clinical Treatment Group protocol 012 and serially evaluated them with neuropathic symptom questionnaires, neurologic examinations, nerve conduction studies, and quantitative sensory testing (QST). All patients treated with high-dose ddC (0.06 and 0.03 mg/kg every 4 hours) developed a painful, predominantly sensory peripheral neuropathy, with a mean onset of 7.7 weeks, which reached severe intensity over several days. Abnormalities of vibration QST threshold preceded clinical symptoms. Treatment with 0.01 mg/kg every 4 hours produced a similar neuropathy, although of milder severity, later onset (mean, 9.3 weeks), and slower progression. In these patients, the onset of clinical symptoms and QST abnormalities were coincident. Only two of six patients treated with 0.005 mg/kg every 4 hours developed clinical or laboratory evidence of neuropathy; in both cases it was very mild and delayed in onset (26 weeks). All patients treated with high-dose ddC reported progression of symptoms (coasting) for 2 to 3 weeks following discontinuation of therapy. This study documents a painful sensory neuropathy resulting from treatment with ddC. With high-dose treatment, only the rapidity of onset and progression differentiated it from the distal, predominantly sensory neuropathy of AIDS.
Myotonia was induced in rats with clofibrate given in daily subcutaneous injections of 0.4 g/kg. The first myotonic discharges were recorded electromyographically from the extensor digitorum longus, tibialis anterior, and gastrocnemius muscles after 4 days on clofibrate, but from the soleus not until after 11 days. Clofibrate induced myotonic activity in chronically denervated muscle also. During repetitive nerve stimulation the electrical response of the muscle was declining in all myotonic rats. It did so also when repetitive stimulation was applied directly to the muscle, which would seem to suggest a myotonic defect as the cause. Several drugs were tested and diphenylhydantoin proved to inhibit myotonia most effectively. Animals on an extended clofibrate schedule (12 weeks) had ECG abnormalities resembling those seen in patients with myotonic dystrophy.
Involuntary movements--or dyskinesias--are a debilitating complication of levodopa therapy for Parkinson's disease, and is experienced in most patients. Despite the importance of this problem, little was known about the cause of dyskinesia until recently; however, this situation has changed significantly in the past few years. Our increased understanding of levodopa-induced dyskinesia is not only valuable for improving patient care, but also in providing us with new insights into the functional organization of the basal ganglia and motor systems.
3-(2,2,2-trimethyl hydrazinium) propionate (THP) is known as an inhibitor of gamma-butyrobetaine hydroxylase in rat liver tissue. At the same time, THP, administered per os at a dose of 100 mg/kg within 10 days, prevented the isoproterenol-induced (subcutaneously, 50 mg/kg) acylcarnitine accumulation. This effect of THP, accompanied by a distinct decrease of free carnitine in rat myocardium, occurred due to inhibition of carnitine biosynthesis from gamma-butyrobetaine. THP protected the myocardium energetics against isoproterenol action as the drug prevented the acylcarnitine accumulation. Although D,L-carnitine (200 mg/kg, per os, 10 days) inhibited also the isoproterenol-stimulated acylcarnitine accumulation in rat myocardium and fatty acids of blood serum, in did not exhibit any favourable effect on myocardium bioenergetics. Inefficiency of D,L-carnitine as cardioprotective drug may be a result of intensification of fatty acids metabolism occurring simultaneously with isoproterenol-mediated myocardium ischemia. Use of inhibitors of carnitine-dependent oxidation of fatty acids oxidation (as exemplified by THP) in order to correct myocardium metabolism is of importance especially in relation to impairing effects caused by catecholamines.
Zomepirac sodium (Zomax) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent with analgesic properties which was recently released for clinical use in this country. We report here a case of nonoliguric acute renal failure associated with zomepirac sodium therapy. This acute renal failure improved upon cessation of zomepirac treatment. Renal biopsy disclosed the presence of a tubulointerstitial nephritis, which was thought to have been responsible for the acute renal failure in this patient. Clinicians should be aware of the potential nephrotoxicity of zomepirac sodium and use caution in its administration, especially in patients with compromised intravascular volume status, hypertension, or preexistent chronic renal disease.
The authors assessed the relationship between the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) and the development of major depression during IFN-alpha treatment.
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol, and interleukin-6 (IL-6) plasma concentrations were measured in 14 patients with malignant melanoma at regular intervals during the first 12 weeks of IFN-alpha therapy, both immediately before and 1, 2, and 3 hours after IFN-alpha administration. Symptom criteria for major depression were also evaluated at each visit.
ACTH and cortisol responses but not IL-6 responses to the initial administration of IFN-alpha were significantly higher in the seven patients who subsequently developed symptom criteria for major depression than in those who did not. No differences in hormonal or cytokine responses were found between these two groups during chronic IFN-alpha administration.
The HPA axis response to the acute administration of IFN-alpha reveals a vulnerability to IFN-alpha-induced depression, possibly due to sensitization of corticotropin-releasing factor pathways.
Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) has well-established vasodilatory effects, whereas its effects on protein extravasation and its sensory effects are less clear.
Vasoactive effects of PGE(2) were correlated to its ability to evoke pain or itch in healthy volunteers and patients with atopic dermatitis (AD).
Intradermal microdialysis was used to apply PGE(2) (10(-8)-10(-4) M) via microdialysis capillaries in 8 patients and 8 controls. Large pore size membranes (3000 kd) enabled simultaneous analysis of protein extravasation. Itch and pain sensations were measured psychophysically, and superficial blood flow was measured by laser Doppler imaging.
PGE(2) dose dependently provoked intense local vasodilation, weak pruritus, and pain, but no protein extravasation. No differences were found between patients with AD and controls for any parameter.
We conclude that PGE(2) is a potent vasodilator and a weak pruritic agent in normal skin and in patients with AD, but does not provoke increased protein extravasation.
Increased hepatic expression of the Forkhead transcription factor FoxM1B in adult mice accelerates hepatocyte proliferation after partial hepatectomy, while in hepatocytes in intact liver the transgenic (Tg) protein is inactive and has no effect on proliferation. To investigate the influence of FoxM1B on liver tumor formation, we examined the effect of sustained enrichment of FoxM1B in the hepatocytes of mice treated with a diethylnitrosamine (DEN)/phenobarbital tumor induction protocol. Tg enrichment of FoxM1B in hepatocytes did not increase the proliferation rate in normal liver tissue even when the protein was localized to the nucleus. However, it did cause an increase in the proliferation rate and size of preneoplastic and early neoplastic lesions, although having no effects on the total numbers of these lesions. As tumors progressed to hepatocellular carcinomas, the additional Tg FoxM1B protein had no effect on cell proliferation, and there was no increase in tumor burden compared to wild-type animals. This suggests that the artificial enrichment of FoxM1B in the liver, which has been suggested as a gene therapy protocol for liver dysfunction with aging, may not be tumorigenic in that organ.
As with cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, genetic disruption of COX-1 gene or pharmacologic inhibition of its activity has been shown to decrease the number of intestinal polyps in Apc gene-deficient mice. The present study was designed to investigate the combined effects of COX-1 and COX-2 selective inhibitors on spontaneous polyp formation in APC1309 female mice. The animals were treated with 300 or 600 ppm mofezolac (a COX-1 selective inhibitor) alone, 200 or 400 ppm nimesulide (a COX-2 selective inhibitor) alone, 300 ppm mofezolac plus 200 ppm nimesulide, 600 ppm mofezolac plus 400 ppm nimesulide, or 10 ppm indomethacin (a dual-COX inhibitor) in the diet from 7 weeks of age for 4 weeks. Percentage inhibition of polyp area in the intestine was 17% with 600 ppm mofezolac alone and 25% with 400 ppm nimesulide alone, their sum of 42% being almost equal to the 37% observed for the combination treatment. Administration of 300 ppm mofezolac plus 200 ppm nimesulide also significantly decreased polyp area in the intestine by 30%. Moreover, the numbers of polyps more than 2.5 mm in diameter were markedly decreased by combined treatment of both COX inhibitors. With 10 ppm indomethacin, the dual inhibitor, polyp area was also clearly reduced by 46%. Our results indicate that COX-1 and COX-2 may to some extent contribute to polyp formation independently and inhibitor combination treatment thus has particular potential for chemoprevention of colon carcinogenesis.
The fluoroquinolone antibiotics sparfloxacin, grepafloxacin, gatifloxacin, and levofloxacin have been reported to cause torsades de pointes. Pre-existing risk factors increase vulnerability to this life-threatening arrhythmia. In a 65-year-old woman with a history of hypertension, coronary artery disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, and osteomyelitis, QTc interval prolongation (605 ms) and torsades de pointes developed after the initiation of levofloxacin, 250 mg intravenously once daily. The patient was hypokalemic and mildly hypomagnesemic before the initiation of levofloxacin and at the time of occurrence of torsades de pointes. The QTc interval decreased to 399 ms within hours of discontinuation of the levofloxacin, after which she had no further arrhythmias. In this and the majority of other published cases of fluoroquinolone-associated torsades de pointes, patients had at least 1 risk factor for the arrhythmia, and most had multiple risk factors. Fluoroquinolone antibiotics should be avoided whenever possible in patients with pre-existing risk factors for torsades de pointes.
Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is a commonly occurring developmental defect in which midline patterning of the forebrain and midface is disrupted. Sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling is required during multiple stages of rostroventral midline development, and heterozygous mutations in SHH pathway components are associated with HPE. However, clinical presentation of HPE is highly variable, and carriers of heterozygous mutations often lack apparent defects. It is therefore thought that such mutations must interact with more common modifiers, genetic and/or environmental. We have modeled this scenario in mice. Cdon mutant mice have a largely subthreshold defect in SHH signaling, rendering them sensitive to a wide spectrum of HPE phenotypes by additional hits that are themselves insufficient to produce HPE, including transient in utero exposure to ethanol. These variable HPE phenotypes may arise in embryos that fail to reach a threshold level of SHH signaling at a specific developmental stage. To provide evidence for this possibility, here we tested the effect of removing one copy of the negative regulator Ptch1 from Cdon(-/-) embryos and compared their response to ethanol with that of Cdon(-/-);Ptch1(+/+) embryos. Ptch1 heterozygosity decreased the penetrance of HPE in this system by >75%. The major effect of reduced Ptch1 gene dosage was on penetrance, as those Cdon(-/-);Ptch1(+/-) embryos that displayed HPE did not show major differences in phenotype from Cdon(-/-);Ptch1(+/+) embryos with ethanol-induced HPE. Our findings are consistent with the notion that even in an etiologically complex model of HPE, the level of SHH pathway activity is rate-limiting. Furthermore, the clinical outcome of an individual carrying a SHH pathway mutation will likely reflect the sum effect of both deleterious and protective modifier alleles and their interaction with non-genetic risk factors like fetal alcohol exposure.
Our objective was to estimate the effect of addition of low-dose spironolactone to previous antihypertensive therapy in patients with resistant hypertension. Patients had 25 to 50 mg of spironolactone once daily added to the treatment of hypertension that was uncontrolled despite previous treatment with three classes of antihypertensive drugs. The effect on blood pressure was estimated by office measurements together with serum potassium and adverse effects. The data were analyzed retrospectively. A total of 544 patients were identified; 200 were excluded because of secondary hypertension, other indications for spironolactone than hypertension, previous antihypertensive therapy with less than three drugs unless demonstrated intolerance to a third drug, insufficient compliance, and lack of follow-up data. Thus, 344 cases were included in the analysis. The population was 62.1 ± 12.8 years old, 45.1% were males, and 43% had cardiovascular comorbidity. Mean blood pressure before the addition of spironolactone was 169/88 mm Hg. At 1, 3, and 6 months after the addition, blood pressure was decreased by an average of 16.6/7.0, 23.9/9.7, and 26.0/10.7 mm Hg (all P < .001). Serum potassium increased from an average of 3.7 mmol/L to 4.1 mmol/L (P < .001). Spironolactone was discontinued because of hyperkalemia in 4.1% of the cases. A total of 18% of all patients had adverse effects, which in 9.9% led to discontinuation of the drug. A total of 5.2% of the males developed gynecomastia. In conclusion, low-dose spironolactone is highly effective when added to previous treatment of patients with resistant hypertension.
The anesthetic trimecaine is shown to be capable of eliminating the flutter of atria in dogs simulated by an electric stimulation of the myocardium and atrial fibrillation in cats induced with aconitin and precludes ventrical fibrillation in rats arising due to intoxication with calcium chloride. Trimecaine noticeably mitigates the toxic effect of strophanthin. While depressing the automatism of the sinoatrial node the drug does not affect the conduction function.
In the present work was analyzed whether sulforaphane (SFN) may protect against cisplatin (CIS)-induced hepatic damage, oxidant stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. Four groups of male Wistar rats were studied: control, CIS, CIS+SFN and SFN. SFN was given i.p. (500 μg/kg/d × 3 days) before CIS administration (single i.p. injection, 10mg/kg). Rats were sacrificed 3 days after CIS injection to evaluate hepatic damage (histological analysis, liver/body weight ratio and serum activity of aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase), oxidant stress (lipid peroxidation and protein carbonyl and glutathione content), antioxidant enzymes (catalase, glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione-S-transferase and superoxide dismutase) in liver homogenates and isolated mitochondria and mitochondrial function (oxygen consumption using either malate/glutamate or succinate as substrates and the activity of mitochondrial complex I, II, II-III, IV and V). Furthermore it was evaluated if SFN is able to scavenge some reactive oxygen species in vitro. It was found that SFN prevents CIS-induced (a) hepatic damage, (b) oxidant stress and decreased activity of antioxidant enzymes in liver and mitochondria and (c) mitochondrial alterations in oxygen consumption and decreased activity of mitochondrial complex I. It was also found that the scavenging ability of SFN for peroxynitrite anion, superoxide anion, singlet oxygen, peroxyl radicals, hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radicals was very low or negligible. The hepatoprotective effect of SFN was associated to the preservation of mitochondrial function, antioxidant enzymes and prevention of liver and mitochondrial oxidant stress.
This study was designed to evaluate the potential initiating effects of transplacental 3'-azido-2',3'-dideoxythymine (AZT) and the role of ras mutational activation in skin tumors induced in a two-stage mouse skin model. In addition, mouse liver and lung tumors from a transplacental AZT tumorigenicity study reported elsewhere (Olivero et al., J Natl Cancer Inst 89:1602-1608, 1997) were examined for evidence of ras activation. For both tumor studies, pregnant CD-1 mice were given either vehicle or 25 mg of AZT daily on days 12-18 of gestation. In the 1997 study, the offspring were given no further exposure and were killed at 1 yr of age. For the skin tumor study, all mice received twice-weekly topical 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) treatment from weeks 5-35; half of the mice had been exposed to AZT in utero. At weeks 16-18, 30, 31, and 34-41, the skin tumor incidences in mice given AZT and TPA were significantly higher than in mice given TPA alone (P < or = 0.05). At week 41, the average numbers of tumors per mouse were 1.44+/-0.36 (mean +/- standard error of the mean) and 0.57+/-0.13 for mice given AZT plus TPA and TPA alone, respectively (P = 0.006). Mutagenesis in ras exons I and II was determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and dye-terminator cycling sequencing of PCR products. Ha-ras exon I codons 12 and 13 were mutated in 11 of 19 tumors (58%) from mice given AZT and TPA and in one of 15 tumors (7%) from mice given TPA alone (P= 0.004). The only mutation in Ha-ras codon 12 (four in four tumors examined) was a G-->A transition in the second base, and the major mutation in codon 13 (six in seven tumors examined) was a G-->T transversion in the second base. In skin tumors, AZT exposure did not increase the number of Ha-ras codon 61 mutations, and no Ki-ras mutations were observed. Analysis of ras mutations in liver and lung tumors from mice exposed to AZT in utero (Olivero et al., J Natl Cancer Inst 89:16021608, 1997) with no TPA promotion showed no significant AZT-related increases.
