Antimonial compounds are regarded as the treatment of choice for cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL). Systemic administration of these drugs has some side effects including cardio toxicity and electrocardiogram (EKG) changes. The objective of our study was to evaluate EKG changes in the patients with CL treated with systemic glucantime.
One hundred and thirty-one patients were enrolled in this prospective study. All of the selected patients had confirmed CL and were candidates for treatment with systemic glucantime. The patients were treated with systemic glucantime and EKG was performed before, during (weekly) and 1 month after cessation of the treatment. All of the collected data were analysed using SPSS software.
The most common change was prolonged QT interval that was seen in 19% of the patients. ST depression occurred in 6.1% of the patients. Minimal ST elevation occurred in 3% and inverted T was observed in 7.4% of the patients. Single premature atrial contraction (PAC) and single premature ventricular contraction (PVC) occurred in 0.7% and 2.29% of patients, respectively. Bradycardia was observed in 10.6% and left bundle branch block in 0.7% of the patients. All of these changes reversed after stopping the treatment except 1 case with left bundle branch block that lasted for 1 month after the treatment.
Our results showed that treatment with glucantime can induce many ECG changes as QT prolongation have significant risk. We suggest that ECG monitoring should be performed in high-risk patients undergoing glucantime treatment with special attention to ECG changes mostly prolonged QT interval.
Beta-blocker therapy may delay or completely prevent myocardial ischemia during exercise testing, as assessed by ST-segment shifts, myocardial perfusion defects, or echocardiographic wall motion abnormalities. However, the impact of beta-blocker therapy on these end points during dobutamine stress testing has not been well established. The purpose of this study was to determine the impact of propranolol on dobutamine stress testing with ST-segment monitoring, technetium-99m (Tc-99m) sestamibi single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging, and echocardiography. In 17 patients with known reversible perfusion defects, dobutamine stress tests with and without propranolol were performed in randomized order and on separate days, following discontinuation of oral beta blockers and calcium antagonists. Propronolol was administered intravenously to a cumulative dose of 8 mg or to a maximum heart rate reduction of 25% and dobutamine was infused in graded doses in 3 minute stages until a standard clinical end point or the maximum dose of 40 microg/kg/min was achieved. The dobutamine stress test after propranolol was associated with a lower maximum heart rate (83 +/- 18 vs 125 +/- 17, p <0.001) and rate pressure product (14,169 +/- 4,248 vs 19,894 +/- 3,985, p <0.001) despite a higher infusion dose. The SPECT myocardial ischemia score was also lower (6.9 +/- 5.8 vs 10.1 +/- 7.1, p = 0.047) and fewer echocardiographic segments were abnormal (3.4 +/- 3.0 vs 4.6 +/- 3.4, p = 0.042). In 4 of 17 patients, reversible perfusion defects and echocardiographic wall motion abnormalities were detected during the control but not during the propranolol test. Thus, during dobutamine stress testing, beta-blocker therapy attenuates, and in some cases eliminates, evidence of myocardial ischemia.
The antibiotic trovafloxacin (TVX) has caused severe idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity in people, whereas levofloxacin (LVX) has not. Mice cotreated with TVX and lipopolysaccharide (LPS), but not with LVX and LPS, develop severe hepatocellular necrosis. Mice were treated with TVX and/or LPS, and hepatic gene expression changes were measured before liver injury using gene array. Hepatic gene expression profiles from mice treated with TVX/LPS clustered differently from those treated with LPS or TVX alone. Several of the probe sets expressed differently in TVX/LPS-treated mice were involved in interferon (IFN) signaling and the janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway. A time course of plasma concentrations of IFN-gamma and interleukin (IL)-18, which directly induces IFN-gamma production, revealed that both cytokines were selectively increased in TVX/LPS-treated mice. Both IL-18(-/-) and IFN-gamma(-/-) mice were significantly protected from TVX/LPS-induced liver injury. In addition, IFN-gamma(-/-) mice had decreased plasma concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, IL-18, and IL-1beta when compared to wild-type mice. In conclusion, the altered expression of genes involved in IFN signaling in TVX/LPS-treated mice led to the finding that IL-18 and IFN-gamma play a critical role in TVX/LPS-induced liver injury.
Vancomycin, one of few effective treatments against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, is nephrotoxic. The goals of this study were to (1) gain insights into molecular mechanisms of nephrotoxicity at the genomic level, (2) evaluate gene markers of vancomycin-induced kidney injury, and (3) compare gene expression responses after iv and ip administration. Groups of six female BALB/c mice were treated with seven daily iv or ip doses of vancomycin (50, 200, and 400 mg/kg) or saline, and sacrificed on day 8. Clinical chemistry and histopathology demonstrated kidney injury at 400 mg/kg only. Hierarchical clustering analysis revealed that kidney gene expression profiles of all mice treated at 400 mg/kg clustered with those of mice administered 200 mg/kg iv. Transcriptional profiling might thus be more sensitive than current clinical markers for detecting kidney damage, though the profiles can differ with the route of administration. Analysis of transcripts whose expression was changed by at least twofold compared with vehicle saline after high iv and ip doses of vancomycin suggested the possibility of oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage in vancomycin-induced toxicity. In addition, our data showed changes in expression of several transcripts from the complement and inflammatory pathways. Such expression changes were confirmed by relative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Finally, our results further substantiate the use of gene markers of kidney toxicity such as KIM-1/Havcr1, as indicators of renal injury.
Cocaine dependence first appeared as a diagnostic category in 1987 with the publication of DSM-III-R. While the temporal sequencing of alcohol symptoms has a long history, little such attention has been focused on cocaine dependence. This paper examines the retrospective recall of DSM-III-R cocaine dependence symptom progression among a large sample of cocaine users and the relationship of these symptoms to psychiatric comorbidity.
Using data from the US National Comorbidity Survey, DSM-III-R criterion 'A' cocaine dependence symptoms were sequenced temporally based on age of symptom onset. Each of these numerical symptom strings was examined to determine its prevalence and association to comorbid psychiatric disorders.
Cocaine users represented 16%, of the sample. Although hundreds of symptom sequence permutations are possible, only a few are highly prevalent. Subjects whose early onset symptoms are neuroadaptive (e.g. tolerance and withdrawal) are more likely to develop cocaine dependence than subjects whose early symptoms are characterized by psychosocial consequences. Furthermore, certain temporal patterns were found to increase or decrease the presence or absence of cocaine dependence and psychiatric comorbidity. Finally, psychiatric comorbidity preceded rather than followed cocaine use onset disproportionately.
Like alcohol users, cocaine users follow a limited array of symptom sequence pathways from first use to dependence. By better understanding and examining the temporal progression of drug use symptoms, clinicians might improve screening and assessment activities and determine more effectively the extent of risks associated with continued premorbid drug use and enhance treatment-matching. We encourage clinicians to develop evaluation instruments that specifically ask patients to sequence their cocaine use-related symptoms temporally.
We analyzed 28 thymic epithelial tumors (TETs) using next-generation sequencing and identified a missense mutation (chromosome 7 c.74146970T>A) in GTF2I at high frequency in type A thymomas, a relatively indolent subtype. In a series of 274 TETs, we detected the GTF2I mutation in 82% of type A and 74% of type AB thymomas but rarely in the aggressive subtypes, where recurrent mutations of known cancer genes have been identified. Therefore, GTF2I mutation correlated with better survival. GTF2I β and δ isoforms were expressed in TETs, and both mutant isoforms were able to stimulate cell proliferation in vitro. Thymic carcinomas carried a higher number of mutations than thymomas (average of 43.5 and 18.4, respectively). Notably, we identified recurrent mutations of known cancer genes, including TP53, CYLD, CDKN2A, BAP1 and PBRM1, in thymic carcinomas. These findings will complement the diagnostic assessment of these tumors and also facilitate development of a molecular classification and assessment of prognosis and treatment strategies.
Presentation highlights are provided from the Nineteenth International Congress on Chemotherapy in Montreal. Some of the new data on anti-HIV therapeutics include phase I/II data on Agouron's protease inhibitor AG1343; information on the new protease inhibitor palinavir PRO2000 (a gp120/CD4 binding inhibitor); and liposomal (fat-enclosed) formulations of both foscarnet and exonuclease (a cellular enzyme that destroys viral DNA). Two additional studies from Brazil on the efficacy and safety of roxithromycin for cryptosporidiosis (the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved roxithromycin for sale in the U.S.) are discussed, as is the use of imiquimod treatment for genital warts.
The introduction of intrathecal opioid administration for intractable chronic non-malignant pain and cancer pain is considered as one of the most important breakthroughs in pain management. Morphine, the only opioid approved by FDA for intrathecal administration, has been increasingly utilized for this purpose. For over 3 decades, there have been numerous reports on the non-nociceptive side effects associated with ever increasing long-term intrathecal morphine usage.
To review the literature on side effects due to long-term intrathecal morphine therapy with discussions of alternate treatment options.
English-language publications were identified through MEDLINE search and the bibliographies of identified articles were reviewed.
Most side effects of intrathecal morphine therapy are dose dependent and mediated by opioid receptors. Common ones include nausea, vomiting, pruritus, urinary retention, constipation, sexual dysfunction, and edema. Less common ones include respiratory depression, and hyperalgesia. Catheter tip inflammatory mass formation is a less common complication that may not be mediated by opioid receptors.
The utilization of intrathecal morphine administration for cancer and intractable non-malignant chronic pain represents an important leap forward in pain management. Yet, a wide variety of non-nociceptive side effects may also occur in susceptible patients. The side effects due to intrathecal morphine administration are mostly mediated by opioid receptors. Treatment usually involves the utilization of opioid receptor antagonist, such as naloxone. Patients considering intrathecal opioid pump therapy should be informed and advised about the possible side effects associated with long-term intrathecal morphine administration prior to placement of a permanent morphine infusion pump.
A microwave-assisted digestion method amenable to analysis of small size biological samples (<30 mg dry mass) has been optimized for determining twelve elements (Ag, As, Cd, Co, Cu, Cr, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pb, Se and Zn) by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) in breast cancerous and non-cancerous biopsies. The use of three small volume PTFE closed vials (6-mL capacity) placed inside a conventional microwave vessel allows to drastically diminishing the volume of acid needed for digestion. A Plackett-Burman experimental design was used to evaluate the robustness of the digestion procedure. Effects of nitric acid volume, need for predigestion step, microwave power and digestion time were assessed. No significant effects were found, the digestion method being robust enough to be recommended for a routine practice. The method was successfully validated against CRM BCR 185 (bovine liver), CRM NRCC TORT-2 (lobster hepatopancreas), CRM NRCC DORM-2 (dogfish muscle) and CRM NRCC DOLT-2 (dogfish liver). Procedural detection limits ranged from 0.54 to 40 ng g(-1). Within-batch precision values were less than 3%, whereas between-batch precision values were in the range 2-11%. Forty-seven biopsies from thirty-nine women were analyzed: 20 samples corresponding to mammoplasties from healthy women and 27 samples from patients suffering from cancer pathology, 19 of which corresponded to tumour and 8 to adjacent normal tissue. After applying parametric and non-parametric statistical tests, a significant accumulation of Cu, Mn, Zn and Se in cancerous tissues was demonstrated.
Collapsing focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (cFSGS) is characterized by hyperplasia of glomerular epithelial cells. In a mouse model of FSGS and in a patient with recurrent idiopathic FSGS, we identified the proliferating cells as parietal epithelial cells (PECs). In the present study, we have evaluated the origin of the proliferating cells in cFSGS associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and pamidronate. We performed a detailed study of glomerular lesions in biopsies of two patients with HIV-associated cFSGS and a nephrectomy specimen of a patient with pamidronate-associated cFSGS. Glomeruli were studied by serial sectioning using light and electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry to determine the epithelial cell phenotype. We used Synaptopodin, vascular endothelial growth factor, and CD10 as podocyte markers, CK8 and PAX2 as PEC markers and Ki-67 as marker of cell proliferation. The newly deposited extracellular matrix was characterized using antiheparan sulfate single-chain antibodies. The proliferating cells were negative for the podocyte markers, but stained positive for the PEC markers and the cell proliferation marker Ki-67. The proliferating PAX-2 and CK8 positive cells that covered the capillary tuft were always in continuity with PAX-2/CK8 positive cells lining Bowman's capsule. The matrix deposited by these proliferating cells stained identically to Bowman's capsule. Our study demonstrates that PECs proliferate in HIV and pamidronate-associated cFSGS. Our data do not support the concept of the proliferating, dedifferentiated podocyte.
Vigabatrin (VGB) is a relatively recently introduced antiepileptic drug that enhances the brain levels of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA). Few data on its teratogenic effects appear to have been reported. Our objective was to determine if VGB was teratogenic in the TO mouse. Single doses of 300-600 mg/kg of VGB dissolved in saline were administered intraperitoneally (IP) to groups of TO mice on one of gestation days (GD) 7-12. The controls were saline treated or untreated. No maternal toxic effects were observed in the 300 or 450 mg/kg groups, and the 600 mg/kg dose was totally lethal to the mothers. Fetuses were collected on GD 18. Both 300 and 450 mg/kg doses induced a consistently significant intrauterine growth retardation irrespective of the developmental stage at administration. VGB did not augment the spontaneous incidence of neural tube defects characteristic of this strain, but accelerated destruction of the brain in spontaneous exencephalic embryos. Mandibular and maxillary hypoplasia, arched palate, cleft palate (two cases), limb defects (one case), and exomphalos were observed in the malformed fetuses. The high incidence of exomphalos appears to be a unique result of VGB treatment. Alizarin red-S/alcian blue-stained, skeletons revealed hypoplasia of mid facial bones, stage-dependent increase in the frequency of cervical and lumbar ribs, rib fusion, and sternal and vertebral malformations in the drug-treated fetuses. Middle and distal phalanges of the forepaw and mid phalanges and tarsals of the hindpaw failed to ossify in a significant number of experimental fetuses. Homeotic shift in terms of presacral vertebral number and a high incidence of lumbar and cervical ribs in the treated group are suggestive of treatment-related alterations in gene expression. In view of the paucity of human and animal data on the reproductive toxicologic effects of VGB, the results of the present study assume particular importance and suggest that VGB should be used in pregnancy with extreme caution.
A model of cardiac dysfunction induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) was established by adding hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to the perfusate of isolated, Langendorff-perfused rat hearts, and the mechanism of functional injury was investigated. The following groups were included: 1 (n = 7), control perfusion; 2 (n = 11), perfusion with H2O2 (180 mumol 1(-1) for 10 min followed by recovery for 50 min; 3 (n = 4), control perfusion with N-acetylcysteine (NAC, 100 mumol 1(-1); 4 (n = 7), perfusion with H2O2 and NAC; 5 (n = 4), control perfusion with thiourea (15 mmol 1(-1), 6 (n = 7), H2O2 and thiourea together; 7 (n = 4), control perfusion with catalase (150 U ml-1); 8 (n = 7), catalase and H2O2, 9 (n = 4), control perfusion with deferoxamine (5 mmol 1(-1); and 10 (n = 7), deferoxamine and H2O2. coronary flow (CF), left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP), left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP), and heart rate (HR) were measured. All values are mean +/- SEM. When given alone, catalase, thiourea, NAC and deferoxamine did not influence left ventricular pressures, but NAC, catalase and thiourea increased CF. H2O2 increased CF (maximum 146 +/- 6% of baseline value after 5 min, p < 0.001 compared to group 1), decreased LVDP (minimum 14 +/- 5% of baseline value after 10 min, p < 0.0004), and increased LVEDP (from 0 mmHg to a maximum of 54 +/- 7 mmHg after 5 min recovery, p < 0.0003). All these changes gradually reversed during recovery. Catalase and thiourea both inhibited the H2O2-induced effects, but catalase inhibition was more complete. Neither NAC nor deferoxamine had any effect on H2O2-induced cardiac dysfunction. In conclusion, H2O2 perfusion is a convenient and reversible model of ROS-induced functional injury to isolated rat hearts. H2O2, rather than the hydroxyl radical, seems to be the main injurious ROS in this model.
Maternal smoking correlates highly with parturitional/neonatal death including SIDS; nicotine exposure of fetal rats reproduces the increased mortality when animals are tested postnatally with hypoxia. In the current study, pregnant rats received nicotine infusions simulating smokers' plasma nicotine levels. At 1-2 days postpartum, the nicotine group displayed normal heart rates, EKG waveforms, and respiratory rates in normoxia. With hypoxia (5% O2, 10 min), controls showed initial tachycardia and a subsequent slight decline in heart rate; atrioventricular conduction was gradually impaired and repolarization abnormalities also appeared. The nicotine group showed no tachycardia and heart rate declined rapidly and precipitously within a few minutes after commencing hypoxia; otherwise, EKG alterations mimicked the controls'. Changes in respiration were identical in the two groups: initial tachypnea and subsequent decline. These results suggest that prenatal nicotine affects sinoatrial reactivity to hypoxia without impairing cardiac conduction per se. These mechanisms explain increased hypoxia-induced mortality in animals exposed to prenatal nicotine, and in man could account for increased morbidity/mortality and SIDS. Our results also indicate the need to test adverse effects of fetal drug exposure using conditions that challenge any given physiological system rather than relying solely on changes under basal conditions.
Pancuronium bromide (Pavulon) is used to induce skeletal muscle paralysis in preterm infants, presumably for effective ventilatory support during acute respiratory failure. Twelve infants with respiratory failure were evaluated for sequential changes in pulmonary mechanics during continuous pancuronium administration (0.1 mg/kg every two to three hours) for more than 48 hours. The study weight of the neonates ranged from 980 to 2,950 g, and the postconceptional age ranged from 27 to 41 weeks. Pulmonary compliance, resistance, and resistive work of breathing were determined, using least mean square analysis technique, daily for three days and after discontinuation of pancuronium (even though there was no clinical improvement in ventilatory management). The dynamic pulmonary compliance decreased from 0.38 +/- 0.05 to 0.30 +/- 0.04 mL/cm H2O/kg (mean +/- SE) (P less than .05) and the total pulmonary resistance increased 51% from 115.6 +/- 21.3 to 174.9 +/- 27.3 cm H2O/L/s (P less than .005) during prolonged skeletal muscle paralysis. Upon discontinuation of pancuronium, the dynamic pulmonary compliance increased 43% to 0.43 +/- 0.4 mL/cm H2O/kg (P less than .05) and the total pulmonary resistance decreased by 41% (P less than .005). These data question the advisability of prolonged skeletal muscle paralysis in neonates and suggest the need for further detailed evaluation of the effects of prolonged paralysis on neonatal pulmonary mechanics.
Systemic administration of high doses of the cholinergic agonist pilocarpine induces motor limbic seizures in rats. Susceptibility to the convulsant effects of pilocarpine increases during adult life: the threshold dose for generalized seizures is essentially constant from age 30 to 70 days, but decreases thereafter, particularly beyond age 100 days. The increase in seizure susceptibility continues up to at least age 200 days, (the oldest age studied).
To assess the role of dexamethasone treatment as a cause of systemic hypertension and associated complications, blood pressure was registered prospectively before, during and after a 4-week dexamethasone course in 22 neonates with chronic lung disease. In all patients systolic blood pressure rose significantly during treatment (median rise 34 mm Hg, range 4-->59 mm Hg), without complications attributable to hypertension. In all but one patient blood pressure returned to pretreatment values within 2 weeks after stopping dexamethasone treatment.
Dexamethasone induced hypertension is transient, even after a 4-week course, and is not associated with hypertensive complications, so treatment is not necessary. When hypertension persists after dexamethasone withdrawal other causes should be considered.
Photodynamic therapy is a promising antitumor treatment modality approved for the management of both early and advanced tumors. The mechanisms of its antitumor action include generation of singlet oxygen and reactive oxygen species that directly damage tumor cells and tumor vasculature. A number of mechanisms seem to be involved in the protective responses to PDT that include activation of transcription factors, heat shock proteins, antioxidant enzymes and antiapoptotic pathways. Elucidation of these mechanisms might result in the design of more effective combination strategies to improve the antitumor efficacy of PDT. Using DNA microarray analysis to identify stress-related genes induced by Photofrin-mediated PDT in colon adenocarcinoma C-26 cells, we observed a marked induction of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Induction of HO-1 with hemin or stable transfection of C-26 with a plasmid vector encoding HO-1 increased resistance of tumor cells to PDT-mediated cytotoxicity. On the other hand, zinc (II) protoporphyrin IX, an HO-1 inhibitor, markedly augmented PDT-mediated cytotoxicity towards C-26 and human ovarian carcinoma MDAH2774 cells. Neither bilirubin, biliverdin nor carbon monoxide, direct products of HO-1 catalysed heme degradation, was responsible for cytoprotection. Importantly, desferrioxamine, a potent iron chelator significantly potentiated cytotoxic effects of PDT. Altogether our results indicate that HO-1 is involved in an important protective mechanism against PDT-mediated phototoxicity and administration of HO-1 inhibitors might be an effective way to potentiate antitumor effectiveness of PDT.
Cancer cell microenvironments, including host cells, can critically affect cancer cell behaviors, including drug sensitivity. Although crizotinib, a dual tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) of ALK and Met, shows dramatic effect against EML4-ALK lung cancer cells, these cells can acquire resistance to crizotinib by several mechanisms, including ALK amplification and gatekeeper mutation. We determined whether microenvironmental factors trigger ALK inhibitor resistance in EML4-ALK lung cancer cells.
We tested the effects of ligands produced by endothelial cells and fibroblasts, and the cells themselves, on the susceptibility of EML4-ALK lung cancer cell lines to crizotinib and TAE684, a selective ALK inhibitor active against cells with ALK amplification and gatekeeper mutations, both in vitro and in vivo.
EML4-ALK lung cancer cells were highly sensitive to ALK inhibitors. EGF receptor (EGFR) ligands, such as EGF, TGF-α, and HB-EGF, activated EGFR and triggered resistance to crizotinib and TAE684 by transducing bypass survival signaling through Erk1/2 and Akt. Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) activated Met/Gab1 and triggered resistance to TAE684, but not crizotinib, which inhibits Met. Endothelial cells and fibroblasts, which produce the EGFR ligands and HGF, respectively, decreased the sensitivity of EML4-ALK lung cancer cells to crizotinib and TAE684, respectively. EGFR-TKIs resensitized these cells to crizotinib and Met-TKI to TAE684 even in the presence of EGFR ligands and HGF, respectively.
Paracrine receptor activation by ligands from the microenvironment may trigger resistance to ALK inhibitors in EML4-ALK lung cancer cells, suggesting that receptor ligands from microenvironment may be additional targets during treatment with ALK inhibitors.
There is evidence to suggest that, in acute liver failure (ALF), brain ammonia and proinflammatory cytokines may act synergistically to cause brain edema and its complications (intracranial hypertension, brain herniation). However, the molecular mechanisms involved remain to be established. In order to address this issue, semi-quantitative RT-PCR was used to measure the expression of genes coding for astrocytic proteins with an established role in cell volume regulation in cerebral cortical astrocytes exposed to toxic agents previously identified in experimental and clinical ALF. Such agents include ammonia, the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and combinations of the two. Exposure of cultured astrocytes to recombinant IL-1beta (but not ammonia) resulted in increased expression of aquaporin-4 (AQP-4). Both ammonia and proinflammatory mediators led to decreased expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a cytoskeletal protein, but these effects were not additive. On the other hand, heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression were significantly increased by exposure to both ammonia and proinflammatory mediators and although modest, these effects were additive suggestive of a synergistic mechanism. These findings suggest that worsening of brain edema and its complications in ALF due to proinflammatory mechanisms may result from exacerbation of oxidative stress-related mechanisms rather than upregulation of AQP-4 or decreases in expression of the astrocytic structural protein GFAP.
This study was designed to investigate the prostate cancer-specific tumoricidal effect of the suicide gene, Escherichia coli uracil phosphoribosyltransferase (UPRT), driven by the human prostate-specific membrane antigen promoter/enhancer (PSMA(E/P)) in vitro. When transfected with PSMA(E/P)-EGFP (enhanced green fluorescence protein) (a plasmid construct with the green fluorescence protein gene driven by the PSMA(E/P)), only the androgen-responsive and PSMA-positive prostate cancer cell line, LNCaP, expressed GFP, indicating the specificity of the PSMA(E/P) activity in androgen-sensitive and PSMA-positive prostate cancer cells. Taking advantage of this prostate cancer-specific property of PSMA(E/P), we successfully introduced bacterial UPRT into LNCaP cells where the tumoricidal effect of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was significantly increased when compared with the cells without the exogenous UPRT. We conclude that the efficacy of 5-FU-based chemotherapy in prostate cancers can be significantly improved by targeted expression of the suicide gene UPRT under the control of PSMA(E/P).
The renin-angiotensin system has been shown to contribute to fibrogenesis in varieties of organs, including the liver. Here, we investigated whether the angiotensin II type 1A receptor (AT1A) is implicated in the development of liver fibrosis, using AT1A-deficient and wild-type (WT) mice. After single dose of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)), there were no significant differences between two groups with regard to hepatic inflammation and necrosis. After 4 weeks of treatment with CCl(4), histological examination revealed that AT1A-deficient mice showed less infiltration of inflammatory cells and less severe progression of liver fibrosis compared with WT mice. These findings were accompanied by the hepatic content of hydoxyproline and the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha SMA). The level of transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) messenger RNA was markedly higher in WT mice when compared with AT1A-deficient mice. These results confirm that signaling via AT1A plays a pivotal role in hepatic fibrogenesis.
In the present study, the anticonflict effect of diazepam was significantly abolished by pretreatment with naloxone, beta-funaltrexamine or nor-binaltorphimine but not naltrindole, using a Vogel-type conflict paradigm in mice. However, naloxone alone had a significant proconflict effect, and beta-funaltrexamine alone tended to produce a proconflict effect. Spontaneous drinking behavior was not affected by treatment with diazepam and nor-binaltorphimine. In addition, nor-binaltorphimine had no effect on diazepam-induced motor incoordination, hypothermia or anticonvulsant action, respectively. Moreover, the stable dynorphin analog E2078 ([N-methyl-Tyr1, N-alpha-methyl-Arg7-D-Leu8]dynorphin A-(1-8) ethylamide) and the highly selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist U50,488H (trans-3,4-dichloro-N-(2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexyl)benzenacetamide++ + methanesulfonate hydrochloride) produced a significant anticonflict effect, which was completely antagonized by pretreatment with nor-binaltorphimine. These findings suggested that the kappa-opioid system may play an important role in the anxiolytic effect of benzodiazepine and the regulation of anxiety.
Increased delivery of free fatty acids raises myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO(2)) without influencing mechanical performance. The effects of norepinephrine on MVO(2) and on the size of ischemic injury after acute coronary occlusion were therefore studied before and during inhibition of lipolysis with beta-pyridylcarbinol. In spite of similar mechanical responses to norepinephrine, MVO(2) increased by 57+/-11% before and significantly less, 31+/-6%, (P < 0.01) during inhibition of lipolysis. After coronary occlusion the ischemic injury associated with norepinephrine infusion, as evidenced by epicardial mapping of S-T segment elevation, was larger before (7.9+/-1.1 mV) than during inhibited lipolysis (2.8+/-0.4 mV; P < 0.005). Average S-T segment elevation associated with norepinephrine infusion during inhibited lipolysis (2.8+/-0.4 mV) was even lower (P < 0.05) than during control occlusion alone, before drug administration (4.4+/-0.7 mV). In conjunction with an antilipolytic agent, norepinephrine was shown to reduce the extent and magnitude of the myocardial ischemic injury produced by acute coronary occlusion; this could be due to an improved balance between myocardial oxygen supply and requirement.
Chitinase 3-like 1 (CHI3L1) is a secreted glycoprotein that has pleiotropic activity in aggressive cancers. In our study, we examined the expression and function of CHI3L1 in glioma cells. CHI3L1 was highly expressed in human glioma tissue, whereas its expression in normal brain tissue was very low. CHI3L1 suppression by shRNA reduced glioma cell invasion, anchorage-independent growth and increased cell death triggered by several anticancer drugs, including cisplatin, etoposide and doxorubicin, whereas CHI3L1 overexpression had the opposite effect in glioma cells. Because the invasive nature of glioma cells plays a critical role in the high morbidity of glioma, we have further defined the role of CHI3L1 in the process of glioma invasion. Downregulation of CHI3L1 results in decreased cell-matrix adhesion and causes a marked increase in stress fiber formation and cell size with fewer cellular processes. Furthermore, the expression and activity of matrix metalloproteinase-2 was also decreased in glioma cells in which CHI3L1 was knocked down. Taken together, these results suggest that CHI3L1 plays an important role in the regulation of malignant transformation and local invasiveness in gliomas. Thus, targeting the CHI3L1 molecule may be a potential therapeutic molecular target for gliomas.
Several lines of evidence suggest that the dopaminergic nervous system contributes to methamphetamine (METH) dependence, and there is increasing evidence of antagonistic interactions between dopamine and adenosine receptors. We therefore hypothesized that variations in the A2A adenosine receptor (ADORA2A) gene modify genetic susceptibility to METH dependence/psychosis.
We first analyzed variations in the exons and exon-intron boundaries of the ADORA2A gene in METH dependent/psychotic patients. Then an association analysis between these single nucleotide polymorphisms and METH dependence/psychosis was performed using a total of 171 METH dependent/psychotic patients and 229 controls.
We found 6 variations, of which one single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) was novel. Significant associations were observed between the allelic and genotypic frequencies of the Exon2+751 (rs5751876) SNP and METH dependence/psychosis. These associations were observed especially in females. In the clinical feature analyses, significant associations were observed between the SNP and the patient subgroup using METH alone (i.e., without concomitant use of other substances of abuse).
These results suggest that the ADORA2A gene could be a vulnerability factor for METH dependence/psychosis, especially in females and/or in patients using only METH.
A phase I-II study of weekly low-dose pirarubicin was performed in 19 patients with advanced breast cancer. The goal was to establish the optimal dose intensity, i.e., the maximal dose applicable at tolerable toxicity within the intended schedule. Each of the four different dose groups used (20, 24, 25, and 27 mg/m2) comprised 4-5 patients. In over 47% of patients, objective remissions were obtained (confidence interval 26%; 71%) including one complete and eight partial remissions; the median duration of remission was 41 weeks (range 16-72), and the median time to reach remission was 12 weeks (range 6-36). Efficacy of treatment was more dependent on prior chemotherapy than on pirarubicin dosage. The weekly i.v. push injection of the drug was easily applicable at an outpatient clinic and well tolerated. WHO grade 3 was the highest toxicity observed for leukopenia (3/19), leukopenia associated with infection (1/19), nausea/vomiting (2/19) and alopecia (6/19). More severe myelosuppression was avoided by interrupting the weekly application until recovery of leukocytes to greater than or equal to 3.5 x 10(3)/mm3. No clinical signs of cardiotoxicity were observed. Generally, mild to moderate signs of cardiac dysfunction acquired during therapy were detected by special cardiac monitoring. Only in 3 of 19 patients was a cumulative dose of more than 550 mg/m2 surpassed. This was accepted as the upper limit for conventional anthracycline therapy. The median cumulative dose applied was 325 mg/m2/week (range 58.2-800.0). Because of maldistribution of prognostic factors, no dose-response relationship could be established. With respect to the total time for which each patient was studied, the dose group of 27 mg/m2 achieved the highest dose intensity with a median of 17.4 mg/m2/week (range 13.5-22.4). Therefore, the dosage of 27 mg/m2/week is recommended to be used in further phase II-III trials of weekly applied pirarubicin.
To investigate the efficacy of a Chinese medicine, Yi-gan-kang granule (granules for benefiting the liver), in prophylaxis and treatment of liver fibrosis in rats and its possible mechanism.
One hundred and forty Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into seven groups (20 each): group 1, blank control group without any interference during the study; group 2, CCl4-induced liver fibrosis group; group 3, pig serum-induced liver fibrosis group; group 4, prophylaxis group of CCl4-induced liver fibrosis by Yi-gan-kang; group 5, prophylaxis group of pig serum-induced liver fibrosis by Yi-gan-kang; group 6, treatment group of CCl4-induced liver fibrosis by Yi-gan-kang; group 7, treatment group of CCl4-induced liver fibrosis by Yi-gan-kang. At wk 6, 10, 14 and 20 (baseline for CCl4 or big serum induction), five rats in each group were anesthetized and their livers were removed for pathological studies including immunohistochemical studies for alpha-SMA, type I collagen and in situ hybridization of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) mRNA of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Anti-lipid peroxidation in isolated mitochondria and 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) colorimetric assay for proliferation and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-medicated dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling (TUNEL), flow cytometry and electron microscopy for apoptosis in isolated HSCs were also studied.
The mean number of pseudolobuli at wk 10, 14 and 20 in the prophylaxis group was significantly less than that in the control group (P<0.05 or 0.01). The effect of prophylaxis at wk 14 in CCl4 rats and at wk 10 in pig serum-induced rats was much better than that of treatment group (P<0.01). The thickness (in microm) of fibers both in pig serum-induced prophylaxis and in treatment groups at wk 14 and 20 was significantly less than that in control group (P<0.05). The number of fibers both in prophylaxis and in treatment groups from wk 10 or 14 to 20 was significantly less than that in control group (P<0.05 or P<0.01). The tissue HSC positive rates of type I collagen, alpha-SMA and TIMP-1 mRNA, which represented the active phenotype of HSCs in tissues, remained very high from wk 6 to the end of model making in control group. While in prophylaxis group, they were at a relatively low level. In treatment group, there was a gradual decreasing trend. Time- and dose-dependent effects of anti-lipid peroxidation on isolated mitochondria, cell proliferation and apoptosis in cultured HSCs were also observed during the study.
Yi-gan-kang can effectively inhibit or inverse the course of liver fibrogenesis in CCl4- and pig serum-induced rat models.
Chromosomal mosaicism in human preimplantation embryos is a common cause of spontaneous abortions, however, our knowledge of its etiology is limited. We used multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization painting to investigate whether paternally transmitted chromosomal aberrations result in mosaicism in mouse two-cell embryos. Paternal exposure to acrylamide, an important industrial chemical also found in tobacco smoke and generated during the cooking process of starchy foods, produced significant increases in chromosomally defective two-cell embryos, however, the effects were transient primarily affecting the postmeiotic stages of spermatogenesis. Comparisons with our previous study of zygotes demonstrated similar frequencies of chromosomally abnormal zygotes and two-cell embryos suggesting that there was no apparent selection against numerical or structural chromosomal aberrations. However, the majority of affected two-cell embryos were mosaics showing different chromosomal abnormalities in the two blastomeric metaphases. Analyses of chromosomal aberrations in zygotes and two-cell embryos showed a tendency for loss of acentric fragments during the first mitotic division of embryogenesis, whereas both dicentrics and translocations apparently underwent proper segregation. These results suggest that embryonic development can proceed up to the end of the second cell cycle of development in the presence of abnormal paternal chromosomes and that even dicentrics can persist through cell division. The high incidence of chromosomally mosaic two-cell embryos suggests that the first mitotic division of embryogenesis is prone to missegregation errors and that paternally transmitted chromosomal abnormalities increase the risk of missegregation leading to embryonic mosaicism.
