Traditional drug discovery methods have a limited role in rare cancers. We hypothesized that molecular technology including gene expression profiling could expose novel targets for therapy in adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), a rare and lethal cancer. SPARC (secreted protein acidic rich in cysteine) is an albumin-binding matrix-associated protein that is proposed to act as a mechanism for the increased efficacy of a nanoparticle albumin-bound preparation of the antimicrotubular drug Paclitaxel (nab-paclitaxel).
The transcriptomes of 19 ACC tumors and 4 normal adrenal glands were profiled on Affymetrix U133 Plus2 expression microarrays to identify genes representing potential therapeutic targets. Immunohistochemical analysis for target proteins was performed on 10 ACC, 6 benign adenomas, and 1 normal adrenal gland. Agents known to inhibit selected targets were tested in comparison with mitotane in the 2 ACC cell lines (H295R and SW-13) in vitro and in mouse xenografts.
SPARC expression is increased in ACC samples by 1.56 ± 0.44 (μ ± SD) fold. Paclitaxel and nab-paclitaxel show in vitro inhibition of H295R and SW-13 cells at IC50 concentrations of 0.33 μM and 0.0078 μM for paclitaxel and 0.35 μM and 0.0087 μM for nab-paclitaxel compared with mitotane concentrations of 15.9 μM and 46.4 μM. In vivo nab-paclitaxel treatment shows a greater decrease in tumor weight in both xenograft models than mitotane.
Biological insights garnered through expression profiling of ACC tumors suggest further investigation into the use of nab-paclitaxel for the treatment of ACC.
To investigate the molecular mechanism by which Tanshinone IIA (TSN IIA) prevents left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), we examined the expression of AT1R, TGF-beta1 and Smads gene in the hypertrophic myocardium of hypertensive rats with abdominal aorta constriction. LVH model was established by creating abdominal aorta constriction. Four weeks later, animals were randomly divided into 4 groups with 8 animals in each. One group was used as model control, the other three groups were treated with TSN IIA (20 mg/kg), TSN IIA (10 mg/kg) and valsartan (10 mg/kg), respectively. Another 8 SD rats were subjected to sham surgery and served as blank control. After 8-week treatment, the caudal artery pressure of the animals was measured. The tissues of left ventricle were taken for the measurement of the left ventricular mass index (LVMI) and pathological sectioning and HE-staining were used for determining the myocardial fiber dimension (MFD). The mRNA expression of AT1R, protein expression of TGF-beta1 and activity of Smad-2, 4, 7 were detected by RT-PCR and Western blotting, respectively. Our results showed that (1) the blood pressure of rats treated with TSN IIA, either at high or low dose, was significantly higher than those in the control and valsartan-treated group (P<0.01, P<0.05); (2) LVMI and MFD in TSN IIA and valsartan-treated rats were higher than those in the control group (P<0.05) but significantly lower than those in the model control (P<0.01); (3) the high doses of TSN IIA and valsartan significantly down-regulated the mRNA expression of AT1R and protein expression of TGF-beta1 and Smad-3 in the hypertrophic myocardium (P<0.01), and TGF-beta1 in valsartan-treated animals was more significantly lower than that in rats treated with TSN IIA; (4) the two doses of TSN IIA and valsartan significantly up-regulated the protein expression of Smad-7 in the hypertrophic myocardium (P<0.01), and Smad-7 in the animals treated with high-dose TSN IIA was significantly higher than that in rats treated with valsartan. It is concluded that inhibition of myocardial hypertrophy induced by TSN IIA independent of blood pressure. The underlying mechanism might be the down-regulated expression of AT1R mRNA and Smad-3, increased production of Smad-7, and blocking effect of TSN IIA on TGF beta1/Smads signal pathway in local myocardium.
Wnt-4 is a secreted glycoprotein that is critical for genitourinary development but found only in the most distal collecting duct epithelium in the normal murine adult kidney. Wnt4 expression is induced throughout the collecting ducts in four murine models of renal injury that produce tubulointerstitial fibrosis: folic acid-induced nephropathy, unilateral ureteral obstruction, renal needle puncture, and genetic polycystic kidney disease. Wnt4 activation induced by injury is limited to collecting ducts, with initial activation in the collecting duct epithelium followed by activation in fibrotic lesions surrounding the collecting ducts. The highest cellular Wnt4 expression is in interstitial fibroblasts in the fibrotic lesions that also express high levels of collagen-alpha1(I) mRNA and alpha-smooth muscle actin. In support of a functional role for Wnt-4 in these activated myofibroblasts, Wnt-4 induces stabilization of cytosolic beta-catenin in a cultured myofibroblast cell line. Furthermore, Wnt-4-producing fibroblasts placed under the renal capsule of adult mice induce lesions with tubular epithelial destruction. These observations suggest a role for Wnt-4 in the pathogenesis of renal fibrosis.
Sildenafil is widely used as a primary pharmacological treatment of erectile dysfunction in men with and without underlying cardiovascular disease. Although initial reports of adverse cardiac events were reported soon after Food and Drug Administration approval of this agent, a large body of data suggests that sildenafil does not significantly increase the risk of nonfatal myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular deaths in patients with preexisting ischemic heart disease. We report the case of a 66-year-old man who developed thrombotic occlusion of the left anterior descending artery and presented with acute myocardial infarction after the use of sildenafil. The patient had presented with chest pain syndrome and borderline elevation of serum troponin I levels 1 week before sildenafil use, and a coronary angiogram had demonstrated normal coronary arteries. This case emphasizes the potential of precipitating coronary thrombosis in patients with unstable plaque after sildenafil use, even in patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries.
This investigation determined whether attenuation of the tachycardia produced by dobutamine administration would improve perfusion and function distal to a severe coronary artery stenosis.
Tachycardia adversely affects perfusion and function distal to a coronary artery stenosis. It is not known whether a specific bradycardic agent can improve blood flow and function in an ischemic zone during administration of dobutamine.
The effects of dobutamine (2, 5 and 10 micrograms/kg body weight per min) alone and in combination with zatebradine (0.5 mg/kg), a specific bradycardic agent, on hemodynamic status, segment shortening (ultrasound length transducers) and myocardial perfusion (microspheres) were studied in anesthetized dogs with severe left circumflex coronary artery stenosis.
A 50% reduction in left circumflex coronary artery blood flow (58 +/- 4 to 29 +/- 2 ml/min [mean value +/- SEM]) produced a decrease in systolic shortening in the ischemic zone. Only a dose of dobutamine that did not elevate heart rate (2 micrograms/kg per min) produced an increase in segment shortening in the ischemic zone. High doses of dobutamine (10 micrograms/kg per min) caused an increase in heart rate without improvement in function and a reduction in the subendocardial/subepicardial flow ratio (0.74 +/- 0.06 to 0.48 +/- 0.05). Zatebradine administered in the presence of dobutamine caused a decrease in heart rate, an increase in subendocardial/subepicardial blood flow ratio (0.48 +/- 0.05 to 0.78 +/- 0.09) and allowed an increase in ischemic zone segment shortening. When normalized for changes in heart rate, ischemic zone subendocardial flow increased by 123 +/- 41% (0.39 +/- 0.09 to 0.71 +/- 0.12 ml/100 g per beat). Atrial pacing abolished the effects of zatebradine.
The present data suggest that the perfusion-contraction matching that accompanies a decrease in heart rate results in enhancement of inotropic stimulation of an ischemic zone. The actions of zatebradine are related to an increase in subendocardial blood flow per beat that allows improvement of regional contractile function.
Aripiprazole is a newer atypical antipsychotic agent used for effective treatment of schizophrenia. It significantly reduces unwanted side effects of older typical antipsychotics by targeting, with high affinity, dopamine D2/D3 and serotonin 5-HT1A/5-HT-2A receptors. Its documented mechanism of action makes it an unlikely agent to cause syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). We present the first reported case of SIADH caused by aripiprazole in a patient with history of schizophrenia without other precipitating factors to explain hyponatremia or SIADH.
Thirteen families have been described with an autosomal dominantly inherited dementia named frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17), historically termed Pick's disease. Most FTDP-17 cases show neuronal and/or glial inclusions that stain positively with antibodies raised against the microtubule-associated protein Tau, although the Tau pathology varies considerably in both its quantity (or severity) and characteristics. Previous studies have mapped the FTDP-17 locus to a 2-centimorgan region on chromosome 17q21.11; the tau gene also lies within this region. We have now sequenced tau in FTDP-17 families and identified three missense mutations (G272V, P301L and R406W) and three mutations in the 5' splice site of exon 10. The splice-site mutations all destabilize a potential stem-loop structure which is probably involved in regulating the alternative splicing of exon10. This causes more frequent usage of the 5' splice site and an increased proportion of tau transcripts that include exon 10. The increase in exon 10+ messenger RNA will increase the proportion of Tau containing four microtubule-binding repeats, which is consistent with the neuropathology described in several families with FTDP-17.
Our previous study reported that the blockade of GABAA receptors of the lateral hypothalamus-zona incerta region (LH-ZI) by local injections of bicuculline methiodide inhibited the haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The aim of the present study was to determine (1) whether the blockade of GABAA receptors of the LH-ZI may counteract the catalepsy evoked by SCH 23390 and by sulpiride, and (2) whether the GABAA receptors of the LH-ZI affect the function of the striatal dopaminergic system. Bicuculline methiodide (2.5 and 5 ng/side) injected bilaterally into the LH-ZI inhibited in a dose-dependent manner the catalepsy induced by SCH 23390 administered peripherally (0.2 mg/kg s.c.). SCH 23390 (2 micrograms/side) and sulpiride (1 microgram/side) injected bilaterally into the rostroventral part of the striatum induced potent catalepsy. The catalepsy induced by injection of SCH 23390 (2 micrograms) and sulpiride (1 microgram) into the striatum was inhibited by bicuculline methiodide (2.5 ng and 5 ng) injected into the LH-ZI. Neither bicuculline (5 ng/side) nor muscimol (50 ng/side) injected bilaterally into the LH-ZI changed the levels of dopamine and its intraneuronal metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-acetic acid, or the concentration of noradrenaline and 5-hydroxyindole-acetic acid measured in the striatum and nucleus accumbens by HPLC with an electrochemical detection. It is concluded that GABAA receptors of the LH-ZI are an output station for the catalepsy induced by the blockade of the striatal D2 and D1 dopamine receptors.
The aim of this study was to analyse the 6-months results of focal laser photocoagulation (LC) applied after previous intravitreal injection of triamcinolone in eyes with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy and clinically significant diabetic macular edema (DME).
32 eyes (32 patients) with DME were included in this study. The number of laser treatments was: 1 in 14 eyes, 2 in 11, 3 in 4 eyes, 4 in 2 and 5 in 1 eye. The first LC was performed at a median of 17 days (mean: 20.3 +/- 6.5, range: 14 - 42 days) after triamcinolone injection. The second, if necessary, at a median of 32.5 (mean: 45.6 +/- 36.6, range: 22 - 144) days after injection.
Mean logMAR visual acuity improved from baseline 0.56 (median: 0.48; 95 %-confidence interval [CI]: 0.41 - 0.71) to 0.47 (median: 0.40, CI: 0.36 - 0.58) after 1 month, and 0.49 (median: 0.40, CI: 0.38 - 0.61) at 3 months, and 0.47 (median: 0.40, CI: 0.36 - 0.58) at 6 months (p < 0.0065). Mean central retinal thickness (OCT-CRT) of optical coherence tomography measurements improved from 417 microm (median: 402.5, CI: 375 - 460 microm) at baseline to 301 microm (median: 280, CI: 271 - 331) at 1 month, 318 microm (median: 305, CI: 276 - 360) at 3 months and 348 microm (median: 329.5, CI: 299 - 398 microm) at 6 months (p = 0.0256). A second combination therapy was performed in 1 eye 3 months after the first injection. In 7 / 32 eyes (22 %) further injections and LC were indicated after 6 months. 8 / 32 eyes received newly prescribed antiglaucomatous medication and 4 / 32 eyes cataract surgery during follow-up.
Focal LC after previous injection of triamcinolone results in an early and in most cases persistent functional improvement in eyes with DME.
Recent findings suggest that exposure to disinfection by-products may increase the risk of birth defects. Previous studies have focused mainly on birth defects in general or groups of defects. The objective of the present study was to assess the effect of water disinfection by-products on the risk of most common specific birth defects.
We conducted a population-based cross-sectional study of 396,049 Taiwanese births in 2001-2003 using information from the Birth Registry and Waterworks Registry. We compared the risk of eleven most common specific defects in four disinfection by-product exposure categories based on the levels of total trihalomethanes (TTHMs) representing high (TTHMs 20+ microg/L), medium (TTHMs 10-19 microg/L), low exposure (TTHMs 5-9 microg/L), and 0-4 microg/L as the reference category. In addition, we conducted a meta-analysis of the results from the present and previous studies focusing on the same birth defects.
In multivariate logistic regression analysis the risk of ventricular septal defects (adjusted odds ratio 1.81, 95% confidence interval: 0.98 3.35), cleft palate (1.56. 95% CI: 1.00, 2.41), and anencephalus (1.96, 95% CI: 0.94, 4.07) were elevated in the high exposure compared to the reference category. In the meta-analysis, the summary odds ratio for ventricular septal defects (1.59, 95% CI: 1.21, 2.07) was consistently elevated.
The present study suggests that prenatal exposure to disinfection by-products increases the risk of ventricular septal defects, cleft palate, and anencephalus. The evidence on ventricular septal defects is consistent in the three available studies.
To study the influence of repeated seizures and anti-epileptic drug on phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (pCREB) in rat model of cognitive impairment, and the effect of Caoguo Zhimu Decoction (CZD) on it.
On the basis of epileptic model induced by pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), cognitive impairment model was induced by kindling epilepsy with PTZ everyday, which were then di-vided into the model-1 group, the CZD-1 group, the nimodipine-1 group, and those by injecting large dosage phenytoin sodium were divided into the model-2 group, the CZD-2 group and the nimodipine-2 group. Changes of pCREB protein in rat's hippocampus were detected using immunohistochemistry and Western blotting assay.
The expression of pCREB was higher in the CZD-1 and nimodipine-1 group than in the model group, while it was significantly different in the CZD-2 and nimodipine-2 groups than in the model-2 group.
CZD could relieve the cognitive dysfunction in the epileptic model rats induced by everyday PTZ kindling or by dilantin through increasing the pCREB expression.
This study examined the effects of cocaine use during the second trimester of pregnancy on cerebral neocortical volume and density, and total number of neocortical neurons and glia in offspring. We also evaluated the extent of postnatal recovery of cytoarchitectural abnormalities previously observed in the neocortex of two-month-old primates born from cocaine-treated mothers (Lidow [1995] Synapse 21:332-334). Pregnant monkeys received cocaine orally (20 mg/kg/day) from the 40th to 102nd days of pregnancy (embryonic day [E]40-E102). On E64 and E65, the animals were injected with [(3)H]thymidine. Cerebral hemispheres of the offspring were examined at three years of age. We found a reduction in the neocortical volume and density and total number of neocortical neurons. The observed reduction in neuronal number within the neocortex was not accounted for by the increase in the number of neurons in the white matter of cocaine-exposed animals, because the number of these "extra" neurons was equal to only half that of missing neurons. We detected no significant changes in the number of neocortical glia. The cytoarchitectural abnormalities in the neocortex of prenatally cocaine-exposed three-year-old monkeys closely resembled previously described neocortical abnormalities in similarly exposed two-month-old animals: the neocortex lacked a discernible lamination; the majority of the cells labeled by [(3)H]thymidine injected during neocortical neurogenesis did not reach their proper position within the cortical plate. Therefore, postnatal maturation is not associated with significant improvement in neocortical organization in primates prenatally exposed to cocaine. There was, however, a postnatal recovery of low glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity previously observed in 2-month-old cocaine-exposed animals.
Auditory neurotoxicity occurred in 13 (26%) of 50 evaluable patients receiving long term desferrioxamine chelation. In five of these patients, all of whom were receiving high doses of desferrioxamine, the toxicity caused deafness. These five patients were treated with subcutaneous calcium diethylene triamine pentacetic acid (Ca-DTPA) with zinc supplements instead of desferrioxamine, and their hearing improved during periods of seven to 19 months. Their serum ion concentrations remained unchanged. We suggest that all patients receiving long term desferrioxamine should have audiometric assessments at 6-12 monthly intervals. Ca-DTPA with oral zinc supplements should be considered as alternative to desferrioxamine as an iron chelating treatment in patients with auditory neurotoxicity.
Bupropion is a novel new antidepressant without the undesirable anticholinergic, cardiotoxic, sedative, or sexual side effects of other available antidepressants. However, like many other antidepressants, there is a small risk that patients on bupropion may develop a seizure even at moderate doses and moderate blood levels and even in the absence of any premorbid history or other predisposing factors to epilepsy. The report presents the case of a 25-year-old woman with a 12-year history of agoraphobia and panic attacks treated with bupropion in a research protocol. She was in good physical health, with normal physical and neurological examination, and normal complete blood count, serum mineral analysis-12, and urinalysis laboratory values. She had no premorbid history of epilepsy or neurological illness, nor any other known predisposing factors to epilepsy. On day 28 of the study, immediately after her dose of bupropion was increased from 450 to 600 mg/day, she had a generalized convulsion with tonic and clonic phases, loss of consciousness, and postictal confusion that was reliably witnessed by several observers. The EEG abnormality had cleared 15 days later. Further EEGs after 4 weeks and 10 weeks were normal. Five years later she remains seizure-free, off all antiseizure medication, and without any further complications from this incident. This seizure occurred at a modest blood level of bupropion (83 ng/ml) and at a dose not considered excessive (600 mg/day). Other confounding organic and neurological illness or use of other medication was carefully and systematically ruled out, leaving the bupropion as the most likely explanation for her seizure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy is an animal model that shares many of the clinical and pathophysiological characteristics of temporal lobe or limbic epilepsy in humans. This model of acquired epilepsy produces spontaneous recurrent seizure discharges following an initial brain injury produced by pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Understanding the molecular mechanisms mediating these long lasting changes in neuronal excitability would provide an important insight into developing new strategies for the treatment and possible prevention of this condition. Our laboratory has been studying the role of alterations in calcium and calcium-dependent systems in mediating some of the long-term neuroplasticity changes associated with epileptogenesis. In this study, [Ca(2+)](i) imaging fluorescence microscopy was performed on CA1 hippocampal neurons acutely isolated from control and chronically epileptic animals at 1 year after the induction of epileptogenesis with two different fluorescent dyes (Fura-2 and Fura-FF) having high and low affinities for [Ca(2+)](i). The high affinity Ca(2+) indicator Fura-2 was utilized to evaluate [Ca(2+)](i) levels up to 900 nM and the low affinity indicator Fura-FF was employed for evaluating [Ca(2+)](i) levels above this range. Baseline [Ca(2+)](i) levels and the ability to restore resting [Ca(2+)](i) levels after a brief exposure to several glutamate concentrations in control and epileptic neurons were evaluated. Epileptic neurons demonstrated a statistically significantly higher baseline [Ca(2+)](i) level in comparison to age-matched control animals. This alteration in basal [Ca(2+)](i) levels persisted up to 1 year after the induction of epileptogenesis. In addition, the epileptic neurons were unable to rapidly restore [Ca(2+)](i) levels to baseline following the glutamate-induced [Ca(2+)](i) loads. These changes in Ca(2+) regulation were not produced by a single seizure and were not normalized by controlling the seizures in the epileptic animals with anticonvulsant treatment. Peak [Ca(2+)](i) levels in response to different concentrations of glutamate were the same in both epileptic and control neurons. Thus, glutamate produced the same initial [Ca(2+)](i) load in both epileptic and control neurons. Characterization of the viability of acutely isolated neurons from control and epileptic animals utilizing standard techniques to identify apoptotic or necrotic neurons demonstrated that epileptic neurons had no statistically significant difference in viability compared to age-matched controls. These results provide the first direct measurement of [Ca(2+)](i) levels in an intact model of epilepsy and indicate that epileptogenesis in this model produced long-lasting alterations in [Ca(2+)](i) homeostatic mechanisms that persist for up to 1 year after induction of epileptogenesis. These observations suggest that altered [Ca(2+)](i) homeostatic mechanisms may underlie some aspects of the epileptic phenotype and contribute to the persistent neuroplasticity changes associated with epilepsy.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of naloxone on systemic hemodynamics and reflex function in dogs with congestive heart failure induced by rapid pacing.
We have shown previously that naloxone, an opiate receptor antagonist, improves cardiac output, aortic blood pressure, systolic performance and the baroreflex function in conscious dogs with chronic right-sided congestive heart failure. However, whether endogenous opioids also play a role n mediating the reduction of myocardial and baroreflex function in animals with left heart failure remains controversial.
We administered naloxone (1 mg/kg body weight) and normal saline solution to 15 dogs with pacing-induced congestive heart failure (225 beats/min for 8 weeks) and 11 control dogs. In addition to systemic hemodynamic measurements, the slope of pressure-area relation obtained from echocardiography with intravenous bolus injection of phenylephrine was taken as a load-independent index of myocardial contractility. Baroreflex function was estimated by the slope of the regression line relating systolic aortic pressure and RR interval.
Plasma beta-endorphin levels were elevated in dogs with congestive heart failure. Naloxone administration increased heart rate, mean aortic pressure, first derivative of left ventricular pressure, cardiac output and myocardial contractility in pacing-induced congestive heart failure. These changes correlated significantly with basal plasma beta-endorphin levels and were accompanied by increases in plasma beta-endorphin and catecholamines after naloxone administration. However, unlike the hemodynamic and cardiac effects of naloxone, baroreflex function did not change after naloxone in dogs with congestive heart failure.
The increase in basal plasma beta-endorphin suggests that the endogenous opiate system is activated in left-sided congestive heart failure. Because naloxone improves the systemic hemodynamics and myocardial contractile function under this condition, the endogenous opioids appear to play an important role in mediating the myocardial depression that occurs in heart failure. However, the endogenous opiate system has no apparent effect on the regulation of baroreflex control in heart failure induced by rapid pacing.
The incidence of mesothelioma has gone from almost none to the current 2500-3000 cases per year in the USA. This estimate is an extrapolation based on information available from the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) Program that collects information on approximately 12% of the US population. Mesothelioma is a cancer that is linked to exposure to carcinogenic mineral fibers. Asbestos and erionite have a proven causative role; the possible role of other mineral fibers in causing mesothelioma is being investigated. Asbestos is considered the main cause of mesothelioma in the US and in the Western world. The capacity of asbestos to induce mesothelioma has been linked to its ability to cause the release of TNF-alpha (that promotes mesothelial cells survival), other cytokines and growth factors, and of mutagenic oxygen radicals from exposed mesothelial cells and nearby macrophages. Some investigators proposed that as a consequence of the regulations to prevent exposure and to forbid and/or limit the use of asbestos, the incidence of mesothelioma in the US (and in some European countries) should have started to decline before or around the year 2000, and sharply decline thereafter. Unfortunately, there are no data available yet to support this optimistic hypothesis. Simian virus 40 (SV40) infection and radiation exposure are additional causes, although their contribution to the overall incidence of mesothelioma is unknown. Recent data from several laboratories indicate that asbestos exposure and SV40 infection are co-carcinogens in causing mesothelioma in rodents and in causing malignant transformation of human mesothelial cells in tissue culture. An exciting new development comes from the discovery that genetic susceptibility to mineral fiber carcinogenesis plays a critical role in the incidence of this cancer in certain families. It is hoped that the identification of this putative mesothelioma gene will lead to novel mechanistically driven preventive and therapeutic approaches.
A mentally retarded 23-year-old woman with myoclonic astatic epilepsy developed an abnormal posture of extreme forward flexion, called camptocormia, during valproate monotherapy. Camptocormia occurred concomitantly with an increase of the plasma valproate level from about 330 mumol/l up to 530 mumol/l. Four weeks earlier she had developed hepatopathy during a regimen of carbamazepine, lynestrenol and sodium valproate. Hepatopathy subsided after the cessation of carbamazepine and lynestrenol. Camptocormia improved within a week after the reduction of the plasma valproate level to about 300 mumol/l. Four months later reversible camptocormia was manifested again concomitantly with about the same plasma valproate levels as above. Accordingly, camptocormia is a dose-dependent side effect of valproate.
We compared the pain of infiltration and anesthetic effects of.9% benzyl alcohol with epinephrine, 1% diphenhydramine, and.9% buffered lidocaine.
A prospective, randomized, double-blind study comparing benzyl alcohol, diphenhydramine, and lidocaine was carried out on adult volunteers. Each subject received all 3 injections in a standardized manner. Pain of infiltration was measured on a 100-mm visual analog pain scale and analyzed with a Kruskal-Wallis test. Duration of anesthesia was assessed at 5-minute intervals for a maximum of 45 minutes and compared with the use of survival analysis techniques by a log-rank test. Return of sensation by 45 minutes was evaluated with an exact chi2 test. All tests were 2-tailed, with significance defined as P <.05.
Thirty subjects were enrolled. The diphenhydramine median pain score was 55 mm, compared with 12.5 mm for lidocaine and 5 mm for benzyl alcohol (P =.001). Pairwise comparisons showed that all possible combinations were statistically significant. The 3 anesthetics were different with respect to duration of anesthesia (P <.001). Pairwise comparisons revealed a longer duration of anesthesia for lidocaine than for diphenhydramine or benzyl alcohol, but no significant difference was found between diphenhydramine and benzyl alcohol. Pain sensation returned within the 45-minute study period in only 3 of 30 lidocaine injections, compared with 11 of 30 benzyl alcohol injections and 19 of 30 diphenhydramine injections (P =.001).
Benzyl alcohol is a better alternative than diphenhydramine as a local anesthetic for lidocaine-allergic patients.
During the past decades, the influx of immigrants from hepatitis B virus (HBV) endemic regions has brought significant changes in the prevalence of HBV-associated liver diseases and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in the United States. Our program, which was intended to identify those in need of hepatitis B vaccination, helped us to learn of the natural history of HBV infection in Korean Americans.
Between November of 1988 and May 1990, we screened 6,130 Korean Americans in the eastern United States for HBV infection.
The overall hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) (+) rate was 6.1%, with 8.0% for males and 4.4% for females. The carrier rate peaked in subjects between the ages of 21 and 40 yr. The HBsAg (+) rate for 452 U.S.-born children was lower (2.7%) than that of 623 Korean-born (5.5%). None received hepatitis B immune-globulin or HBV vaccination. The vertical transmission rate was 30.3% in children born to HBsAg (+) mothers and 100% in those born to hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) positive mothers. In contrast, the paternal transmission rate was low; 10.3% in children with HBsAg (+) fathers and 19.2% in those with HBeAg (+) fathers. Another significant observation was the unexpected finding of ongoing liver diseases in incidentally identified carriers. Evaluation of 139 asymptomatic adult carriers revealed that 42% had elevated liver enzymes and 11% had already developed liver cirrhosis.
These findings strongly suggest the need for active HBV screening of immigrants from endemic regions and, most importantly, the need for careful monitoring of the carriers.
The aim of this observational prospective study was to assess the incidence rate and the characteristics of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) induced by amiodarone during the long-term follow-up of 98 French patients. Inclusions were performed between March 1994 and April 1997. Eligible patients were consecutive outpatients for whom amiodarone was initiated for the first time. The treatment had to be taken for at least 6 months if no ADR required its withdrawal. A cohort of 57 men and 41 women, mean age 72.6 years (SD: 8.6), was followed for a mean period of 38 months. The incidence rate of ADRs during the overall follow-up period was 13.91 cases for 100 person-years. Recorded ADRs were 13 hypothyroidism (incidence rate for 100 person-years: 4.61 [95% confidence interval: 4.58-4.63], 5 hyperthyroidism (1.62 [1.60-1.63]), 10 bradycardia and/or conduction ADRs (3.48 [3.46-3.50]), 7 photosensitivity (2.27 [2.25-2.28]), 1 storage disease (0.33 [0.32-0.33]), 3 interstitial pneumonitis (0.97 [0.96-0.98]), 2 peripheral neuropathies (0.65 [0.64-0.66]), 1 tremor (0.32 [0.32-0.33]) and 1 gastrointestinal disturbances (0.32 [0.32-0.33])). Thyroid and cardiac ADRs occurred mainly during the first 6 months. According to the French system of pharmacovigilance, 27 ADRs were "probable/likely" and 14 were "possible." Hypothyroidism, cardiac ADRs, and photosensitivity were the most frequent ADRs. None of the ADRs had a fatal outcome in this study.
Levamisole and 5-fluorouracil have now become the standard chemotherapeutic regimen for patients with Stage III colon carcinoma. A case of multifocal inflammatory leukoencephalopathy secondary to levamisole alone or combination of levamisole and 5-fluorouracil is reported. Magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium demonstrated multifocal contrast-enhancing frontal, parietal, occipital, and periventricular white matter lesions. A stereotactic biopsy revealed reactive gliosis and macrophage infiltration, without evidence of metastatic tumor. Despite continuation of 5-fluorouracil, resolution of contrast-enhancing lesions on magnetic resonance imaging without further neurological sequelae occurred when levamisole was stopped. The patient died with evidence of systemic metastasis 6 months later. Autopsy examination of the brain revealed multifocal demyelinating lesions, with no evidence of metastatic tumor. Immunoperoxidase studies of demyelinated lesions demonstrated infiltrating macrophages strongly positive for Class II antigens, interleukin-6, and interleukin-1 alpha. Surrounding astrocytes were positive for granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Small numbers of perivascular T cells were present. This patient represents the first autopsy documented case of levamisole associated multifocal inflammatory leukoencephalopathy.
Ketamine has demonstrated usefulness as an analgesic to treat nonresponsive neuropathic pain; however, it is not widely administered to outpatients due to fear of such side effects as hallucinations and other cognitive disturbances. This retrospective chart review is the first research to study the safety and efficacy of prolonged low-dose, continuous intravenous (IV) or subcutaneous ketamine infusions in noncancer outpatients. Thirteen outpatients with neuropathic pain were administered low-dose IV or subcutaneous ketamine infusions for up to 8 weeks under close supervision by home health care personnel. Using the 10-point verbal analog score (VAS), 11 of 13 patients (85%) reported a decrease in pain from the start of infusion treatment to the end. Side effects were minimal and not severe enough to deter treatment. Prolonged analgesic doses of ketamine infusions were safe for the small sample studied. The results demonstrate that ketamine may provide a reasonable alternative treatment for nonresponsive neuropathic pain in ambulatory outpatients.
Bortezomib, as a single agent and in combination with dexamethasone, was examined as first-line treatment in 32 consecutive patients with untreated symptomatic multiple myeloma. Patients received bortezomib 1.3 mg/m(2) for a maximum of six 3-week cycles; oral dexamethasone 40 mg was added if a less than partial response (PR) was achieved after two cycles or a less than complete response (CR) was achieved after four cycles. The response rate (CR + PR) was 88%, with undetectable paraprotein (CR) in 6%, and detectable by immunofixation only in 19% [near (n)CR]. All 32 patients completed the first two cycles of bortezomib alone, of whom 3% achieved CR, 9% nCR, and 28% PR. Ten patients received single-agent bortezomib on study, and dexamethasone was added in 22, leading to 15 improved responses. The most common adverse events >/=grade 2 included sensory neuropathy (31%), constipation (28%), myalgia (28%) and fatigue (25%). Sensory neuropathy grade 2 or 3 was reversible within a median of 3 months in five of 10 patients. Bortezomib treatment did not affect stem cell mobilization in eight or transplantation in six patients. Bortezomib alone or in combination with dexamethasone is an effective induction therapy with a high CR and nCR rate and manageable toxicities in previously untreated patients with myeloma.
