Minocycline is a semisynthetic tetracycline derivative that is often used in the treatment of acne vulgaris. A serious but rare adverse effect caused by minocycline therapy is a hypersensitivity syndrome (HS), consisting of fever, skin eruption, and internal organ involvement that begins within 8 weeks of therapy initiation. We report a case of minocycline HS with unique features, namely, associated hypotension, and a rebound of the cutaneous eruption upon discontinuation of systemic steroids.
To investigate the effects of ATRA, acitretin and tazarotene on the growth and apoptosis of human tongue squamous cell carcinoma cell line Tca8113. The effect of retinoids on growth of Tca8113 cells in vitro was examined by MTT assay and Trypan blue exclusion assay. Cell cycle analysis, early apoptosis analysis with double staining with Annexin V-FITC and PI, and active caspase-3 analysis with the staining of FITC-conjugated monoclonal rabbit anti-active caspase-3 antibody were made by flow cytometer. Streptavidin-biotin complex (SABC) immunocytochemical assays were employed for the detections of Bax/Bcl-2 proteins expressions. Our results showed that the retinoids inhibited growth of Tca8113 cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner with maximal inhibition 24 h after treatment of 10(-5) mol/L. 10(-5) mol/L retinoids altered cell cycle distribution of Tca8113 cells, revealing an increase in G0/G1-phase population, a decrease in S-phase population and the inhibition of G1/S switching. 10(-5) mol/L retinoids significantly induced apoptosis of Tca8113 cells (all P < 0.05), elevated the cells population with detectable active caspase-3 (P < 0.05 for all), increased the number of cells forming Bax and decreased the number of cells forming Bcl-2 significantly (all P < 0.05). Acitretin played a most prominent role among the retinoids. It is concluded that the inhibition of cell cycle progress of Tca8113 cells by ATRA, acitretin and tazarotene is one of the possible mechanisms for proliferation arrest of Tca8113 cells elicited by the retinoids. The retinoids mediate apoptosis in Tca8113 cells that may be caspase-dependent through mitochondria pathway. High concentration retinoids inhibit growth of Tca8113 cells in vitro by interfering with proliferation and inducing apoptosis of cells. Acitretin may be an alternative medicine for the prevention and treatment of tongue squamous cell carcinoma.
In the present study, 1 single-dose and 1 multiple-dose models were applied in studying 4'-iodo-4'-deoxydoxorubicin (I-DX) cardiotoxicity. Anthracycline cardiotoxicity has been reproduced in several animals including mice, rats, hamsters, rabbits, dogs, and monkeys. Of these species the rat can be considered the most suitable species for the study of anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy. The cardiotoxicity induced by I-DX in male Sprague-Dawley rats was compared to that of doxorubicin (DX), used as standard positive control. Groups of 36-42 rats were observed for up to 35 wk to follow the progression of the lesions. Cardiomyopathy was evaluated through well-established qualitative/quantitative morphological grading. The new DX derivative proved to be clearly less cardiotoxic than DX with both treatment schedules. Although both models can be considered useful for evaluating and comparing the cardiotoxicity of new anthracycline derivatives and mimicking the transvenous endomyocardial biopsies in humans, the chronic test seems to be more suitable for compounds like I-DX, which possess a low cardiotoxic potential and which could go undetected in the single-dose test.
Elevation of C-reactive protein (CRP) levels in blood was recognized as one of the cardiac disease risk factors. Consumption of wine is shown to reduce the risk from heart disease and improve longevity.
In the present study, we evaluated the effect of various wine polyphenolic compounds and several active synthetic derivatives of resveratrol on the inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta + IL-6)-induced CRP expression in Hep3B cells.
Among the wine phenolics tested, quercetin and resveratrol, in a dose-dependent manner, suppressed cytokine-induced CRP expression. Two of the synthetic derivatives of resveratrol, R3 and 7b, elicited a fiftyfold higher suppressive effect compared with resveratrol. The inhibitory effects of resveratrol and its derivatives on CRP expression were at the level of mRNA production. Investigation of signaling pathways showed that the cytokines induced the phosphorylation of p38 and p44/42 MAP kinases. Inhibitors of p38 and p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation inhibited CRP expression, implicating the involvement of both pathways in cytokine-induced CRP expression. These data revealed a previously unrecognized role of the p44/42 MAPK signaling pathway in CRP expression. Wine polyphenolics or the synthetic compounds of resveratrol did not affect cytokine-activated phosphorylation of these MAPKs.
Wine phenolics inhibit CRP expression; however, to do so, they do not utilize the MAPK pathways.
Ketamine is a well-known anesthetic agent and a drug of abuse. Despite its widespread use and abuse, little is known about its long-term effects on the central nervous system. The present study was designed to evaluate the effect of long-term (1- and 3-month) ketamine administration on learning and memory and associated gene expression levels in the brain. The Morris water maze was used to assess spatial memory and gene expression changes were assayed using Affymetrix Genechips; a focus on the expression of GABA(A) receptors that mediate a tonic inhibition in the brain, was confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR and western blot. Compared with saline controls, there was a decline in learning and memory performance in the ketamine-treated mice. Genechip results showed that 110 genes were up-regulated and 136 genes were down-regulated. An ontology analysis revealed the most significant effects of ketamine were on GABA(A) receptors. In particular, there was a significant up-regulation of both mRNA and protein levels of the alpha 5 subunit (Gabra5) of the GABA(A) receptors in the prefrontal cortex. In conclusion, chronic exposure to ketamine impairs working memory in mice, which may be explained at least partly by up-regulation of Gabra5 subunits in the prefrontal cortex.
The mitogen response of peripheral blood lymphocytes to phytohaemagglutinin is depressed in rats with nephrotic syndrome induced by the administration of the aminonucleoside of puromycin. The mitogen response is normal after the administration of aminonucleoside of puromycin, but before the nephrotic syndrome develops. Nephrotic syndrome serum depresses the mitogen response of normal lymphocytes. This effect is attenuated by treatment of nephrotic rats with indomethacin, independently of any change in plasmas albumin concentration. Indomethacin in vitro has no effect. These studies suggest that the impaired response of nephrotic lymphocytes to phytohaemagglutinin is a secondary consequence of the nephrotic state, probably attributable, at least in part, to increased prostaglandin production in the nephrotic syndrome.
Pharmacological evidence has accumulated showing that glucocorticoids and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) facilitate several responses to different drugs of abuse. Recent findings have attributed a prominent role to the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) in modulating behavior during the addictive process. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of MR blockade on: brain stress system responses to naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal, the somatic signs of abstinence; the effects of morphine withdrawal on noradrenaline (NA) turnover in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), c-Fos expression and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) phosphorylated at Ser31 levels in the nucleus tractus solitarius noradrenergic cell group (NTS-A2); and finally, hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activity. The role of MR signaling was assessed with i.p. pretreatment with the MR antagonist, spironolactone. Rats were implanted with two morphine (or placebo) pellets. Six days later rats were pretreated with spironolactone or vehicle 30min before naloxone. The physical signs of abstinence, NA turnover, TH activation, c-Fos expression and the HPA axis activity were measured using HPLC, immunoblotting and RIA. Spironolactone attenuated the somatic signs of withdrawal that were seen after naloxone administration to chronic morphine treated animals. On the other hand, pretreatment with spironolactone resulted in no significant modification of the increased NA turnover, TH activation, c-Fos expression or HPA axis activity that occurred during morphine withdrawal. These results suggest that somatic signs of opiate withdrawal are modulated by MR signaling. However, blockade of MR did not significantly alter the brain stress system response to morphine withdrawal.
Nephrotoxicity, in the form of transient proteinuria, azotemia, abnormalities of tubular function, and acute renal failure, is the major toxic condition following administration of streptozotocin. The renal morphologic and ultrastructural abnormalities associated with streptozotocin remain poorly defined. We describe a patient with metastatic islet cell tumor of the pancreas who was treated with 16 weekly courses of 1 g/m2 of streptozotocin without marked change in renal function. Following a six-week hiatus without change in renal function, a single course of 1 g/m2 of streptozotocin was administered and resulted in acute renal failure. Light microscopic examination of the kidneys showed irregularly dilated renal tubules lined by low cuboid epithelium. The cells were pleomorphic and showed some mitoses. Nuclei were irregular and variably hyperchromatic. Electron microscopic examination disclosed large aggregates of fine microfilaments in the proximal convoluted tubules and collecting ducts. Microfilament aggregates were both free in the cytoplasm and membrane bound. Microfilaments were proved to be tonofilaments by the demonstration of keratin within the epithelium, using the immunoperoxidase method. These data suggest that squamous metaplasia may be an important part of streptozotocin renal toxicity, and the suggestion is made that they may be an antecedent of neoplastic change.
Thalidomide may have curative effect on tumor because of its function of anti-angiogenesis. The aim of this research was to observe the effect of thalidomide on tumor homograft growth in mouse H22 model and to investigate the mechanisms involved and its curative possibility to hepatoma.
BALB/c mice were inoculated subcutaneously with H22 cells. The first treatment group was injected intraperitoneal everyday with thalidomide 50 mg/kg from the day of inoculation and the second treatment group was injected from the fourth day of inoculation. The diameters of the tumors were measured everyday. On the twelfth day, the mice were sacrificed and the tumors were weighed. The microvessel densities of the tumors were measured by immunohistochemical staining with anti-CD31 monoclonal antibody; CD31 expression, apoptosis, and proliferation were analyzed by flow cytometry. Expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA was examined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
The tumor weight of the first treatment group (2.27+/-0.33 g) was decreased compared with that of control group (2.70+/-0.61 g) (P >0.05); the ratio of inhibition was 15.93%. The tumor weight of the second treatment group (3.32+/-0.47 g) was decreased compared with that of control group (3.42+/-0.60 g) (P >0.05); the ratio of inhibition was 2.92%. The microvessel count (48.40+/-12.90) and CD31 expression (5.59+/-0.75) of the first treatment group were significantly decreased (P< 0.05) in comparison with those of control groups (81.20+/-26.91,7.04+/-0.50) (P< 0.05). The microvessel count (46.4+/-9.71) and CD31 expression (7.29+/-0.48) of the second treatment group were not statistically significant (P >0.05) compared with those of control groups (74.0+/-32.69, 6.80+/-0.68) (P >0.05). The apoptosis indices of the two treatment groups (17.20+/-7.80,15.33+/-4.10) were significantly increased, compared with control groups (4.37+/-1.98,4.87+/-1.91) (P< 0.05), while there was no significant difference of VEGF mRNA expression between the two treatment groups and control groups (P >0.05). The relative quantities of VEGF mRNA of the two treatment groups were 0.50+/-0.13 and 0.51+/-0.06 (control groups:0.48+/-0.11 and 0.64+/-0.11) (P >0.05), respectively.
Thalidomide can significantly induce apoptosis and inhibit angiogenesis in mouse H22 model when it is used at the beginning of carcinogenesis, but it has no obvious anti-angiogenic efficacy on the grown tumor. Thalidomide cannot inhibit VEGF mRNA expression of grafted H22 tumor in mouse.
Bronchiolitis has been known to be among the main the pathological features of lung lesions in Mustard Gas (MG) exposed patients. The purpose of this research was to evaluate the efficacy of interferon gamma-1b on the lung function in MG exposed patients with bronchiolitis.
Thirty-six bronchiolitis patients, whose lung lesion had been diagnosed through High Resolution Computerized Tomography (HRCT) of the chest and also pathological study, were divided into two 18-member case and control groups. Both groups were receiving their conventional treatment (inhaled Felixotide and Servent). The case group were treated for 6 months with a combination of 200 microg of interferon gamma-1b (given three times per week subcutaneously) plus 7.5 mg of prednisolone (given once a day), while the control group received their previous conventional medications. Lung function was measured at base line and after 1, 3 and 6 months of treatment.
In case and control groups, Forced Expiratory Volume in first second (FEV1) did not have statistical differences at the base line (49.3 +/- 2.9 and 48.7 +/- 4.1, respectively = 0.6), whereas a significant increase was seen in the case group (66.3 +/- 5.4) compared control group (57.3 +/- 8.6) at the subsequent months (P = 0.001 for the difference between the groups). Similar pattern of increase was observed in Forced Vital Capacity (FVC).
The findings of this study indicate that a 6-month treatment with interferon gamma-1b plus a low-dose prednisolone is associated with an improvement in the lung function in mustard-gas exposed patients with bronchiolitis.
Individual variation in drug response is considered to have multiple origins arising from interactions among susceptible genes and environmental factors. A total of 726 hypertensive patients who took benazepril 10 mg once a day for 15 days and their families from Huoqiu county of Anhui Province, China, were used to study the association between D919G polymorphism of methionine synthase (MTR) gene and the antihypertensive effect of this angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor. Compared to the 919D allele, both population-based ( P=0.010) and family-based association tests (additive model P=0.018, dominant model P=0.025) demonstrated that the 919G allele was associated with a significantly less diastolic blood pressure reduction. No significant association was found between the extent of systolic blood pressure reduction and benazepril therapy. Our finding suggests that the D919G polymorphism of the MTR gene may be a useful genetic marker to predict the antihypertensive effect of short-term benazepril therapy in hypertensive patients of Anhui Province, China.
Oxazepam dissolved in propylene glycol was administered intravenously to dogs. There were no cardiac or general adverse effects. Hemolysis and thrombophlebitis were observed after rapid infusion (5.6 ml in 1 minute), and were shown to be due to the properties of the vehicle. Comparison of plasma concentration time curves after oral and intravenous administration indicated a bioavailability of 70 +/- 15 S.D. %. The decreased availability after oral dose was considered to be due to first pass elimination as the urinary recovery of metabolites was the same after the two routes of administration. This also indicates complete absorption. In a dog with a chronic biliary fistula 15 mg of oxazepam was given intravenously on two occasions. When normal bile flow into the gut was permitted the disposition of oxazepam was similar to that in normal dogs. When bile was withdrawn the elimination of oxazepam was more rapid with an increase of apparent plasma clearance. In this case 32% of the dose was excreted as conjugates in the bile within 3 hours after administration. In the normal dogs 2-20% of the dose given was recovered in the faeces as the parent compound and practically no conjugates were found. These findings indicate enteral hydrolysis of the conjugates, and a marked enterohepatic recycling or oxazepam.
To compare the pharmacologic properties of tamsulosin and alfuzosin in isolated prostatic and iris dilator smooth muscle from pigmented rabbits.
UROsphere Laboratories, Université Paul Sabatier, Toulouse, France.
Prostatic and iris dilator smooth muscle strips were placed in organ baths. A concentration-response curve to phenylephrine was compared before and after incubation with tamsulosin or alfuzosin.
Both drugs were approximately 30 times less potent in iris dilator than prostatic smooth muscle. In the iris, tamsulosin acted as a competitive antagonist starting at the 0.03 microM concentration (pA(2)=7.96). This is in the same range as the maximum plasma concentration after a 0.4 mg dose of tamsulosin in humans (0.025 microM). The antagonistic effect of alfuzosin in the iris was weaker (calculated mean pA(2) value of 5.63+/-0.19). Concentrations with an equipotent antagonistic effect on rabbit iris dilator muscle (3.0 and 10.0 microM) were approximately 100 to 300 times higher than the maximum plasma concentrations after a 10.0 mg dose of alfuzosin in humans (0.032 microM).
Tamsulosin was more effective than alfuzosin at blocking adrenergic contraction of the iris dilator muscle in pigmented rabbits. Both drugs were less potent in the iris than in the prostate, which suggests that an additional iris receptor could be involved. If valid in humans, our results suggest that attainable plasma concentrations of tamsulosin are able to antagonize iris dilator smooth muscle contraction, whereas those of alfuzosin are not. This could explain the higher frequency of intraoperative floppy-iris syndrome in patients treated with tamsulosin than with alfuzosin.
The acute effects on left ventricular function of nisoldipine were studied in six patients 56 +/- 12 hours (range 44 to 72 hours) after the onset of uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction. Nisoldipine was administered as a 4.5 micrograms/kg intravenous bolus over 3 minutes followed by an infusion of 0.2 microgram/kg during 60 minutes. Radionuclide angiography and two-dimensional echocardiography were performed before and during infusion with nisoldipine. The left ventricular ejection fraction increased significantly from 38% +/- 10% to 49% +/- 10% (P = 0.028) during nisoldipine infusion. Regional wall motion index was determined both by radionuclide and by two-dimensional echocardiography and showed a significant change during nisoldipine infusion from 1.9 +/- 0.3 to 1.5 +/- 0.3 (p = 0.028, radionuclide angiography) and from 0.7 +/- 0.2 to 0.3 +/- 0.2 (p = 0.043, two dimensional echocardiography). Heart rate increased significantly from 78 +/- 12 min-1 to 92 +/- 13 min-1 (p = 0.028), but mean double product did not change significantly during nisoldipine infusion. It is concluded that nisoldipine significantly improves global and regional left ventricular function in patients shortly after acute myocardial infarction. This beneficial effect may, however, be partially offset by an increase in heart rate. Since mean double product did not change, it is suggested that nisoldipine may improve coronary blood flow in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
Dihydropyridine calcium antagonists increase heart rate due to reflex activation of the sympathetic nervous system, although these effects are less obvious for long-acting agents.
To study the effects of diltiazem retard, a long-acting nondihydropyridine calcium antagonist, on 24h blood pressure, heart rate and autonomic nerve activity in patients with essential hypertension.
Randomized crossover design.
Thirteen patients [five men and eight women, aged 64+/-2 years (mean+/-SEM)] were administered placebo or diltiazem retard (100-200mg once daily) for 4 weeks each. Ambulatory monitoring of blood pressure and heart rate, and electrocardiography were carried out at the end of each period using a multibiomedical recorder (TM-2425). Autonomic nerve activity was evaluated by power spectral analysis of variability of heart rate using the high-frequency component as an index of parasympathetic nerve activity and the ratio of the low-frequency component and the high-frequency component as an index of sympathovagal balance.
Treatment with diltiazem retard significantly decreased 24h average blood pressure and heart rate by 11.6+/-3.6/5.7+/-1.8mmHg and 5.0+/-1.1 beats/min, respectively. The changes in daytime and night-time values were comparable. Diltiazem retard also significantly decreased daytime and 24h low:high-frequency-component ratio (2.0+/-0.2 versus 1.7+/-0.2 and 1. 8+/-0.2 versus 1.6+/-0.2, respectively).
These results indicate that diltiazem retard is effective as a once-daily antihypertensive agent and has favorable effects on heart rate and the autonomic nervous system.
Chromaffin granule transmitters such as chromogranin A and catecholamines have been used in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma, but the diagnostic and prognostic value of chromogranin A have not been explored in malignant pheochromocytoma. We evaluated these transmitters in patients with pheochromocytoma (n=27), both benign (n=13) and malignant (n=14). Patients with benign pheochromocytoma were studied before and after surgical excision (n=6), whereas patients with malignant pheochromocytoma were evaluated before and after combination chemotherapy with regular cycles of cyclophosphamide/dacarbazine/vincristine (nonrandomized trial in n=9). During treatment, patient responses to chemotherapy were divided according to anatomic and clinical criteria: responders (n=5) versus nonresponders (n=4). Plasma chromogranin A rose progressively (P<0.0001) from control subjects (48.0+/-3.0 ng/mL) to benign pheochromocytoma (188+/-40.5 ng/mL) to malignant pheochromocytoma (2932+/-960 ng/mL). Parallel changes were seen for plasma norepinephrine (P<0.0001), though plasma epinephrine was actually lower in malignant than benign pheochromocytoma (P=0.0182). In bivariate analyses, chromogranin A, norepinephrine, and epinephrine discriminated between pheochromocytoma and control subjects (all P<0.0001), whereas in a multivariate analyses, norepinephrine was the best discriminator (P:=0.011). Chromogranin A was significantly different in benign versus malignant pheochromocytoma on both bivariate (P=0.0003) and multivariate (P:=0.011) analyses. After excision of benign pheochromocytoma, chromogranin A (P=0.028), norepinephrine (P=0.047), and epinephrine (P=0.037) all fell to values near normal. During chemotherapy of malignant pheochromocytoma (n=9), plasma chromogranin A (P=0.047) and norepinephrine (P=0.02) fell but not epinephrine. In 5 responders to chemotherapy, there were significant declines in chromogranin A (P=0.03) and norepinephrine (P=0.03) but not epinephrine; in 4 nonresponders, none of the transmitters changed. Plasma chromogranin A varied longitudinally with tumor response and relapse. We conclude that plasma chromogranin A is an effective tool in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma, and markedly elevated chromogranin A may point to malignant pheochromocytoma. During chemotherapy of malignant pheochromocytoma, chromogranin A can be used to gauge tumor response and relapse.
Profound, irreversible ototoxicity has been reported following oral and topical neomycin therapy. Preexisting renal disease is a known risk factor for this adverse effect. In spite of the potential hazards of this drug, it continues to be used widely both orally and topically. This is a report of a severe, permanent hearing deficit that occurred in a patient with chronic renal failure. The patient, who had developed decubitus ulcers, was treated for three weeks with topical 1% neomycin solution applied in gauze-soaked bandages. Regular hemodialysis failed to prevent this adverse effect. Caution should be exercised in selecting patients to receive prolonged neomycin therapy.
Opioid peptides are evolutionary conserved and in teleost fish their specific receptor types have been identified not only on neuroendocrine cells but also on immunocytes. In the present work we have studied the effects of morphine, ligand for the mu3 opioid receptor, on innate immune responses of common carp. Both in vitro and in vivo, during zymosan-induced peritonitis, morphine reduced gene expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines and chemokine receptors. Furthermore, in vitro morphine administration also affects nitric oxide production, chemotaxis and apoptosis of head kidney leukocytes. These results provide evidence for an anti-inflammatory function of morphine and suggest an evolutionary conserved cross-talk between chemokines and opioids.
The number of Hispanic people in the United States with diagnosed diabetes mellitus is projected to increase by 107% by 2020. The author presents the case of a 62-year-old obese Hispanic man, with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), diabetic peripheral neuropathy, background retinopathy, and diabetic nephropathy. The patient also had diagnosed hypertension, peripheral vascular disease, and hyperlipidemia. The treatment plan for this patient included the following medications: pioglitazone hydrochloride (a thiazolidinedione, 30 mg/d); irbesartan (an angiotensin receptor blocker, 150 mg/d titrated to 300 mg/d); hydrochlorothiazide (an antikaliuretic agent, 12.5 mg/d); and aspirin (325 mg/d). Sitagliptin phosphate (a dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor, 50 mg/d) was added to the treatment regimen to improve glycemic control. Simvastatin (20 mg/d) and niacin (1 g/d) were used for lipid management. Therapy also included a low-protein diet and walking program. At 6-month follow-up, the patient showed substantial improvement in his glycosylated hemoglobin level, lipid profile, blood pressure, creatinine clearance rate, and urine albumin level. There were also improvements in his peripheral vascular disease and diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Furthermore, the patient demonstrated encouraging progress in diet and lifestyle modification and in mental attitude.
We examined the peripheral adrenergic mechanisms involved in pain induced by alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine (alpha-methyl-5-HT) plus (+/-)-noradrenaline or prostaglandin E2 and by intraplantar formalin. Agents were injected s.c. into the plantar surface of rats' paws, and the paw lifting and licking response scored. Pain produced by alpha-methyl-5-HT (10 micrograms) plus noradrenaline (10 micrograms) was blocked by pretreatment with the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonists, phentolamine (10 micrograms) and prazocin HCl (alpha 1; 40 micrograms), but not by timolol (beta; 10 micrograms) or idazoxan (alpha 2; 40 micrograms). Phenylepherine, but not clonidine, substituted for noradrenaline to induce pain when combined with alpha-methyl-5-HT. The alpha 1A-adrenoceptor antagonist, WB-4101 (2-(2,6-dimethoxyphenoxyethyl) aminomethyl-1,4-benzodioxane HCl), but not the alpha 1B- adrenoceptor antagonist, chloroethylclonidine, also blocked the pain response produced by alpha-methyl-5-HT plus noradrenaline. Neither of these agents altered pain produced by alpha-methyl-5-HT plus prostaglandin E2 (0.1 microgram). Formalin-induced pain (1%, 50 microliters) was biphasic, and timolol increased the first phase response. The second phase was attenuated by 40% by phentolamine (10 micrograms) injected 10 min before formalin or at the beginning of the second phase; 30 micrograms did not produce a larger effect. Prazosin and WP-4101, but not idazoxan or chloroethylclonidine, also attenuated the second phase. Thus, activation of alpha 1A-adrenoceptors can contribute to pain, but pain induced by alpha-methyl-5-HT plus prostaglandin E2 is independent of adrenergic function, indicating that adrenergic function is not necessary for induction of pain by inflammatory mediators. alpha 1A-Adrenoceptor blockade attenuates pain when administered after development of pain, implying that peripheral adrenergic mechanisms contribute to ongoing maintenance of pain.
A case of delirium with persecutory delusions is reported, which occurred three days after a previously healthy male suffered burns over 30% of his total body surface area. Routine evaluation was negative for other etiology of delirium, and the symptoms spontaneously remitted within seven hours with no sequella. We found that the benefits and potential side effects of intravenous lorazepam are similar to but of longer duration than those of intravenous diazepam. The effects of intravenous lorazepam should be recognized in the differential diagnosis of postburn delirium in patients given this medication.
To determine the effects of long-term lithium therapy, we have studied the renal histology and the renal function of 47 patients with affective disorders who were either currently receiving or had previously received maintenance lithium therapy (lithium patients), and we have compared the results with those of 32 other psychiatric patients with similar affective illnesses who had never taken lithium (prelithium patients). The renal biopsy samples, analyzed by a point-counting technique for interstitial fibrosis, were not different in degree between the lithium and the prelithium patients. Interstitial fibrosis was also not different between prelithium patients and age-matched transplant donor kidney controls, but it was greater in lithium patients when compared with the donor kidney controls (P less than 0.01). The specific distal tubular lesion associated with lithium therapy was present in all the biopsy samples of the patients who were currently receiving lithium therapy. Marked distal nephron dysfunction, as measured by urinary concentrating ability (P less than 0.0001) and urinary acidification (P less than 0.0001), was evident in lithium patients compared with the prelithium patients. These defects were correlated with the duration of lithium therapy. Serum creatinine estimations (P less than 0.01), serum beta-2 microglobulins (P less than 0.01), and 51Cr-EDTA clearances (P less than 0.01) suggested some impairment of GFR in lithium patients compared with prelithium patients. These defects did not correlate with the duration of lithium therapy. From these studies we concluded that the marked distal nephron dysfunction induced by lithium might produce prerenal impairment of GFR because the renal function abnormalities have no structural basis when the degree of interstitial fibrosis of other psychiatric patients is used as a control. Prospective studies are needed to answer the controversial question of whether stable maintenance lithium therapy produces chronic nephrotoxicity.
Rotenone, a pesticide and complex I inhibitor, causes nigrostriatal degeneration similar to Parkinson disease pathology in a chronic, systemic, in vivo rodent model [M. Alam, W.J. Schmidt, Rotenone destroys dopaminergic neurons and induces parkinsonian symptoms in rats, Behav. Brain Res. 136 (2002) 317-324; R. Betarbet, T.B. Sherer, G. MacKenzie, M. Garcia-Osuna, A.V. Panov, J.T. Greenamyre, Chronic systemic pesticide exposure reproduces features of Parkinson's disease, Nat. Neurosci. 3 (2000) 1301-1306; S.M. Fleming, C. Zhu, P.O. Fernagut, A. Mehta, C.D. DiCarlo, R.L. Seaman, M.F. Chesselet, Behavioral and immunohistochemical effects of chronic intravenous and subcutaneous infusions of varying doses of rotenone, Exp. Neurol. 187 (2004) 418-429; T.B. Sherer, J.H. Kim, R. Betarbet, J.T. Greenamyre, Subcutaneous rotenone exposure causes highly selective dopaminergic degeneration and alpha-synuclein aggregation, Exp. Neurol. 179 (2003) 9-16.]. To better investigate the role of mitochondria and complex I inhibition in chronic, progressive neurodegenerative disease, we developed methods for long-term culture of rodent postnatal midbrain organotypic slices. Chronic complex I inhibition over weeks by low dose (10-50 nM) rotenone in this system lead to dose- and time-dependent destruction of substantia nigra pars compacta neuron processes, morphologic changes, some neuronal loss, and decreased tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein levels. Chronic complex I inhibition also caused oxidative damage to proteins, measured by protein carbonyl levels. This oxidative damage was blocked by the antioxidant alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E). At the same time, alpha-tocopherol also blocked rotenone-induced reductions in TH protein and TH immunohistochemical changes. Thus, oxidative damage is a primary mechanism of mitochondrial toxicity in intact dopaminergic neurons. The organotypic culture system allows close study of this and other interacting mechanisms over a prolonged time period in mature dopaminergic neurons with intact processes, surrounding glia, and synaptic connections.
A case of cardiac arrest and subsequent acute myocardial infarction occurring during thallium-201 imaging with oral dipyridamole augmentation is presented. Previous reports emphasizing the safety of this procedure are briefly reviewed and a recommendation for close hemodynamic and arrhythmia monitoring during the study is made. Large doses of oral dipyridamole may be contraindicated in patients with unstable angina.
Zearalenone (ZEN) is a non-steroid estrogen mycotoxin produced by numerous strains of Fusarium which commonly contaminate cereals. After oral administration, ZEN is reduced via intestinal and hepatic metabolism to α- and β-zearalenol (αZEL and βZEL). These reduced metabolites possess estrogenic properties, αZEL showing the highest affinity for ERs. ZEN and reduced metabolites cause hormonal effects in animals, such as abnormalities in the development of the reproductive tract and mammary gland in female offspring, suggesting a fetal exposure to these contaminants. In our previous work, we have suggested the potential impact of ZEN on placental cells considering this organ as a potential target of xenobiotics. In this work, we first compared the in vitro effects of αZEL and βΖΕL on cell differentiation to their parental molecule on human trophoblast (BeWo cells). Secondly, we investigated their molecular mechanisms of action by investigating the expression of main differentiation biomarkers and the implication of nuclear receptor by docking prediction. Conversely to ZEN, reduced metabolites did not induce trophoblast differentiation. They also induced significant changes in ABC transporter expression by potential interaction with nuclear receptors (LXR, PXR, PR) that could modify the transport function of placental cells. Finally, the mechanism of ZEN differentiation induction seemed not to involve nuclear receptor commonly involved in the differentiation process (PPARγ). Our results demonstrated that in spite of structure similarities between ZEN, αZEL and βZEL, toxicological effects and toxicity mechanisms were significantly different for the three molecules.
We investigated the neuroprotective effect of glucosamine (GlcN) in a rat middle cerebral artery occlusion model. At the highest dose used, intraperitoneal GlcN reduced infarct volume to 14.3% ± 7.4% that of untreated controls and afforded a reduction in motor impairment and neurological deficits. Neuroprotective effects were not reproduced by other amine sugars or acetylated-GlcN, and GlcN suppressed postischemic microglial activation. Moreover, GlcN suppressed lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced upregulation of proinflammatory mediators both in vivo and in culture systems using microglial or macrophage cells. The anti-inflammatory effects of GlcN were mainly attributable to its ability to inhibit nuclear factor kappaB (NF-κB) activation. GlcN inhibited LPS-induced nuclear translocation and DNA binding of p65 to both NF-κB consensus sequence and NF-κB binding sequence of inducible nitric oxide synthase promoter. In addition, we found that GlcN strongly repressed p65 transactivation in BV2 cells using Gal4-p65 chimeras system. P65 displayed increased O-GlcNAcylation in response to LPS; this effect was also reversed by GlcN. The LPS-induced increase in p65 O-GlcNAcylation was paralleled by an increase in interaction with O-GlcNAc transferase, which was reversed by GlcN. Finally, our results suggest that GlcN or its derivatives may serve as novel neuroprotective or anti-inflammatory agents.
