This clinical study assessed and compared the potential analgesic and adverse effect of IA apraclonidine with IA clonidine.
Eighty patients scheduled for arthroscopic knee surgery under general anesthesia were randomized to receive, in a double-blind manner, either IA normal saline (group 1), 50 microg IA apraclonidine (group 2), 150 microg IA apraclonidine (group 3), or 150 microg IA clonidine (group 4), all in a volume of 20 mL subsequent to surgery. Visual analog pain scores (VAS), the duration of analgesia as defined by the time to first demand for supplemental analgesics, the subsequent 24-hour consumption of postoperative supplementary analgesics, and patient adverse effects were evaluated.
The patients from groups 3 and 4 demonstrated a longer duration of analgesia and used fewer analgesics in the first postoperative 24 hour period compared with group 1 and 2 patients (P < 0.05). The VAS scores corresponding to the periods 1, 2, and 4 hours postoperatively were significantly lower for group 3 than for group 1 patients. The VAS scores at 1 and 4 hours postoperatively were also lower for group 3 than for group 2 patients (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference in the incidence of side effects among the 4 groups.
The IA application of 150 microg apraclonidine and 150 microg clonidine provide similar degree of postoperative analgesia following knee arthroscopic surgery without any difference in adverse events.
Fosinopril is distinguished from other ACE inhibitors by a pharmacokinetic pecularity in the sense that is can be metabolized either by liver or kidney. This was the rationale of the present research the aim of which was to verify if administered to patients with liver cirrhosis the drug was liable to alter global liver function and ability to metabolize drugs. Eight cirrhotic males, mean age 56 years, also suffering from high blood pressure, were studied. In these patients, liver and kidney function tests (BUN, creatinine blood level, serum and urinary electrolytes, creatinine clearance, calcium and phosphor blood level, transaminases, alkaline phosphatase prothrombin time, cholinesterase, gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase) were carried out at baseline and after 30 days' fosinopril treatment (1 capsule every morning in the fasting state); in addition total functioning liver mass was assessed by the galactose test, and drug-metabolizing capacity by the antipyrine test. Treatment resulted in a significant improvement of pressure values in all patients (p < 0.01) and did not alter liver and kidney function parameters. Besides, no side effects were registered, especially no case of orthostatic hypotension. The antipyrine test was not influenced by fosinopril treatment. Therefore, short-term treatment with this ACE-inhibitor can be concluded to be effective and not to cause additional alterations of liver function in patients with liver cirrhosis.
Hemorrhagic stroke is a frequent cause of morbidity and mortality in Poland. It results from disruption of intracranial vessel wall continuity. We report a case of 66-years-old man with prosthetic aortic valve after three ischemic strokes treated with acenocoumarol who was admitted to hospital with vertigo and motoric aphasia. Computed tomography confirmed a hemorrhagic stroke related to anticoagulant treatment. We discussed the principles of management and therapeutic options in patients requiring long-term anticoagulation suffering from severe hemorrhagic complications.
To determine the safety, maximum tolerated dose, and preliminary efficacy of concomitant interferon-alpha and zidovudine therapy in AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), 56 patients with biopsy-proven KS and documented human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV) infection were enrolled into a phase I study. Interferon-alpha was given intramuscularly at a dose of 9, 18, or 27 mu once a day and zidovudine was administered as 100 or 200 mg every 4 h for 8 weeks followed by a 48-week maintenance period. The major toxicities were anemia, neutropenia, and hepatotoxicity. Neutropenia was dose limiting with 1,200 mg of zidovudine/day and the lowest dose of interferon-alpha (9 mu/day). Hepatotoxicity was dose limiting with 27 mu of interferon and 600 mg of zidovudine/day. Cumulative dose-related anemia or neutropenia was not seen during long-term follow-up. The maximum tolerated doses for the combination were defined as 18 mu daily for interferon-alpha and 600 mg daily for zidovudine. Variable changes in CD4 lymphocytes occurred during the first 8 weeks of therapy. At higher doses of the combination, sustained increases in median CD4 lymphocyte numbers were noted (p less than 0.001). In HIV antigenemic patients, progressive antigen suppression was seen with increasing doses of the combination (p less than 0.005). The overall antitumor response rate was 47%. Tumor regression was associated with better survival benefits (p less than 0.001) and a pretreatment CD4 cell count greater than or equal to 200 cells/mm3 (p = 0.01). In conclusion, intermediate doses of interferon-alpha and lower doses of zidovudine appear to be relatively well tolerated and associated with disease improvement, including survival benefits.
25 patients with essential arterial hypertension were treated with single daily doses of 400 g acebutolol administered for EIGHT weeks in outpatients' departments. The drug proved to be extremely effective in reducing PAS and PAD values in both lying and standing positions. No undesirable side effects were observed except in one case where cardiac insufficiency was controlled by digitalis. It can therefore be concluded that acebutolol is a beta-adrenolytic drug which is reliably effective in the treatment of essential arterial hypertension, well tolerated and easily administered.
The effects of spermine on the acquisition and retention of spatial learning in the Morris water maze were studied. Spermine 25 and 125 nmol i.c.v. did not alter the ability of rats to find a hidden platform in the water maze when administered before training over 5 days. However, the inhibitory effect of the benzodiazepine, diazepam (3 mg/kg i.p., 30 min prior to training), on path length to target was markedly potentiated by the higher dose of spermine, consistent with spermine acting as a functional antagonist at the NMDA receptor. This drug combination did not affect performance on visible platform trials. Administration of doses of 125 and 250 nmol (but not 62.5 nmol) of spermine i.c.v. in the week prior to training (daily for 5 days) dose-dependently inhibited subsequent learning of a platform position in the absence of drug. These higher doses of spermine produced neuronal loss and increased [3H]PK11195 binding indicating microglial activation predominantly in the hippocampus and to a lesser extent in the striatum, septum, thalamus and amygdala. Spermine 125 nmol i.c.v. (daily for 7 days) also abolished retention of a previously learned platform position when administered in an interval between training and retention testing. The inhibitory effects of spermine 125 nmol i.c.v. (daily for 7 days) on subsequent spatial learning were not antagonised by concomitant administration of 30 nmol dizocilpine. These results demonstrate that spermine produces a delayed neurotoxic effect in particular neuronal populations in the brain that selectively impair spatial learning and recall.
Cushing disease, which is caused by the excessive production of ACTH, is a rare and complex endocrine disorder that still represents a major challenge for the physician in terms of accurate diagnosis and efficient treatment. Diagnosing Cushing syndrome and its etiology is an elaborate procedure and no single test is sensitive and specific enough to provide sufficient accuracy. Therefore, an ordered cascade of tests is necessary recommended by a consensus statement in 2002. The proposed diagnostic algorithm will be summarized in the following section. In the absence of efficient drug therapy, transsphenoidal resection of the pituitary adenoma is the treatment of choice for the reduction of ACTH secretion. However, not all patients can be cured by surgery. In the present article, we examine recent studies that have investigated the therapeutic potential of new generations of drugs for the treatment of Cushing disease such as cabergoline and SOM230. The role of nuclear receptors: retinoic acid receptors and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma as new approaches for treating pituitary tumors is also discussed.
To determine how immunosuppressant agents used for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis affect natural killer (NK) cells, we examined the effects of cyclosporine (CSP), tacrolimus (TAC), mycophenolic acid (MPA, an active form of mycophenolate mofetil), and methotrexate (MTX) on the proliferation and cytotoxicity of NK cells. The proliferation of NK cells from healthy individuals in the presence of interleukin (IL)-2 and IL-15 was suppressed to 51% ± 16% of that of the controls with CSP, to 31% ± 19% with TAC, to 14% ± 6% with MPA, and to 87% ± 18% with MTX. Both CSP and TAC increased the proportion of CD16(-)CD56(bright) cells, a NK cell subset capable of secreting high amount of cytokines, and also enhanced NKp30 expression, whereas MPA markedly decreased the proportion of CD16(-)CD56(bright) cells and reduced the expression of all activating NK cell receptors, including NKG2D, NKp30, NKp44, and NKp46. MPA also reduced the cytotoxicity against K562 cells from 61% ± 15% to 17% ± 7% and that against Daudi cells from 44% ± 4% to 4% ± 4%, whereas the other 3 drugs did not diminish these cytotoxicities. The inhibition of NK cell proliferation and cytotoxicity against leukemic cell lines by MPA was partially abolished by the inclusion of guanosine in the culture. Similar to the effect of MPA on T cells, MPA inhibited the down-regulation of p27 on NK cells induced by the incubation of NK cells in the presence of IL-2. These results suggest that MPA is a potent inhibitor of NK cells, and that its inclusion in the GVHD prophylaxis regimen might diminish the graft-versus-leukemia effect of NK cells.
We have retrospectively evaluated and characterized the hypersensitivity reactions associated with carboplatin administration in ovarian cancer patients treated mainly on an outpatient basis at the Laikon Hospital from 1988 to 1998. A total of 240 patients, who had never been exposed to platinum compounds previously, received carboplatin plus cyclophosphamide (n = 58) or paclitaxel (n = 136) intravenously, and intraperitoneal carboplatin plus intravenous cyclophosphamide (n = 46). The median number of carboplatin courses was 6 (range 3-12) and 5 (range 4-6) for the intravenous and intraperitoneal treatment regimens, respectively. Thirty-two of 194 patients (16%) who were on intravenous carboplatin treatment developed symptoms compatible with a hypersensitivity reaction to carboplatin, that was always verified by manifestation of at least similar symptoms on rechallenging. In contrast, in the group of 46 patients on intraperitoneal carboplatin treatment, no hypersensitivity reaction was ever noticed. Hypersensitivity reactions always occurred after administration of the first 4 intravenous courses of carboplatin; 4, 19, 4, and 5 reactions occurred at the 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th courses, respectively. These reactions could be distinguished in: (a) mild hypersensitivity reactions in 20 of 194 patients, which manifested as itching (20 patients) and small area erythema plus erythema of the palms and soles (12 patients), occurring either during intravenous injection when most of the drug scheduled had been administered, or within 3 days, and (b) in severe reactions in 12 of 194 patients, which manifested acutely as itching, diffuse erythroderma, rigor, facial swelling, throat and chest tightness, tachycardia (12 patients) and bronchospasm (2 patients), and hypertension or hypotension in 8 and 4 patients, respectively. With appropriate symptomatic management, discontinuation of carboplatin treatment was not required in patients with mild hypersensitivity reactions, but none of the 12 patients with severe reactions was able to receive a full subsequent dose of carboplatin on rechallenging. However, in 4 of these 12 patients carboplatin was replaced by cisplatin, which was given for 4-6 courses without side effects. These findings indicate that although hypersensitivity reactions are common in general, occurring in almost 1 of every 6 patients treated intravenously with carboplatin, their clinical picture is variable, leading to discontinuation of treatment in only 6% of patients. This is not the case when the intraperitoneal route of carboplatin administration is used when indicated.
This paper describes the author's 10-year experience using streptomycin sulfate in the treatment of Meniere's disease in the following: the classical Schuknecht ablation of the vestibular system in bilateral Meniere's disease (eight patients); the classical Schuknecht ablation of the vestibular system in unilateral Meniere's disease in the only hearing ear (five patients); the intratympanic treatment of unilateral Meniere's disease (four patients); and low dose intramuscular outpatient treatment in unilateral Meniere's disease (five patients). The results of bilateral vestibular ablation were similar to those obtained previously by Schuknecht and others: patients developed profound ataxia with a wide-based gait and oscillopsia, which improved rapidly over a period of months; approximately 30% of patients experienced significant improvement in hearing, which usually deteriorated again after several months; and all patients were relieved of vertigo. Patients with unilateral Meniere's disease in the only hearing ear responded similarly, and hearing was preserved in all cases. Intramuscular streptomycin ablation of the vestibular system is strongly recommended in place of surgery in the only hearing ear in Meniere's disease. Controlled intratympanic injection of streptomycin is not successful as yet because of difficulty in controlling the dose. Low dose subototoxic streptomycin treatment on an outpatient basis offers promise for relief of Meniere's attacks, and may improve hearing in some cases without producing the temporary disabling effects of ataxia and oscillopsia. Streptomycin and similar drugs which may reduce endolymph production may eventually be the treatment of choice for Meniere's disease.
The prevalence of hyperprolactinemia during treatment with conventional antipsychotic drugs or risperidone is under-recognized and requires further investigation. This open-label study was designed to determine the extent of this potential problem in a routine clinical setting.
Four hundred and two adult inpatients or outpatients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder, or schizoaffective disorder were studied in a 1-day, point prevalence trial. Neither clinicians nor patients had any prior knowledge of serum prolactin levels or any potential associated adverse events, and patients were required to have been treated with a conventional antipsychotic drug or risperidone for a minimum of 3 months prior to study entry. Patients taking concomitant medications known to elevate prolactin were excluded. Rigorous assessment of serum prolactin was performed to estimate the prevalence rate of hyperprolactinemia, defined as a level above the upper limit of normal (>18.77 ng/ml for males, and >24.20 ng/ml for females). Patients were stratified within antipsychotic treatment by gender and, for females, by menopausal status.
Serum prolactin was obtained from 147 females (age range: 21-69 years; mean age=44.51 years) and 255 males (age range: 18-66 years; mean age=40.76 years). The prevalence of hyperprolactinemia among women of reproductive age (n=90) was 65.6% (mean serum prolactin=69.0 ng/ml), and among postmenopausal women (n=51), it was 45.1% (mean serum PRL=49.0 ng/ml). The prevalence of hyperprolactinemia across all males (n=255) was 42.4% (mean serum PRL= 32.4 ng/ml). The prevalence of hyperprolactinemia among females taking risperidone (N=42) was 88% versus 47.6% of those taking conventional antipsychotic drugs (N=105), with 48% of those females of reproductive age on risperidone experiencing abnormal menstrual cycles (secondary amenorrhea, oligomenorrhea, or polymenorrhea). Of all premenopausal females with hyperprolactinemia, 31.6% had estradiol levels <or=19.8 pg/ml (which is the mean estradiol level in postmenopausal female patients with normal prolactin). Across both genders, there were trends of low key reproductive hormone levels associated with prolactin elevations. Additionally, there was a trend correlation (p=0.064) between prolactin concentration and the risk of menstrual abnormality among females of reproductive age.
Hyperprolactinemia is very prevalent among women and men treated with conventional antipsychotic medications or risperidone. Due to the adverse effects associated with hyperprolactinemia, this likelihood should be seriously considered when choosing an antipsychotic suitable for the patient.
Urocanase is an enzyme in the histidine pathway encoded by the UROC1 gene. This report describes the first putative mutations, p.L70P and p.R450C, in the coding region of the UROC1 gene in a girl with urocanic aciduria presenting with mental retardation and intermittent ataxia. Computed (in silico) predictions, protein expression studies and enzyme activity assays suggest that none of the mutations can produce a fully functional enzyme. The p.L70P substitution, which probably implies the disruption of an alpha-helix in the N-terminus, would alter its properties and therefore, its function. The p.R450C change would render impossible any interaction between urocanase and its substrate and would loss its enzyme activity. Consequently, these studies suggest that both mutations could alter the correct activity of urocanase, which would explain the clinical and biochemical findings described in this patient.
In earlier reports from this laboratory, it was shown that 3 weeks' pretreatment with desoxycorticosterone acetate (DCA) pellet implantation and saline as drinking fluid caused a nearly 20,000-fold potentiation of the acute cardiotoxicity of isoproterenol. In such animals, the beta-receptor stimulant consistently elicited severe ventricular dysrhythmias, usually leading to ventricular fibrillation (VF) and death. In the present study, a similar enhancement of isoproterenol arrhythmogenic activity after DCA-saline pretreatment was demonstrated also in the guinea pig and albino mouse. It was found, further, that isoproterenol consistently caused an alteration of the total myocardial electrolyte content in DCA-saline-treated rats, consisting of a decrease of magnesium (Mg) and potassium (K) levels and elevation of sodium (Na). In control rats, on the other hand, isoproterenol did not alter the myocardial Mg content and increased K. The emertence of cardiac irregularities and VF could be inhibited by pretreatment with antiarrhythmic drugs. On a molar basis, these agents decreased the incidence of VF in the following descending order: dl-propranolol (100), practolol (39), d-propranolol (34), sotalol (20), quinidine (8), and lidocaine (5). In the presence of any of the listed drugs, except for lidocaine, isoproterenol did not lower Mg levels and had variable effects on those of Na and K. Pretreatment with Mg gluconate was likewise effective in preventing isoproterenol-induced dysrhythmias and death. These findings demonstrate that: a) sensitization of the myocardium by DCA-saline treatment is not species-specific for the rat; b) this phenomenon can be a useful method for the screening of antiarrhythmic drugs; and c) isoproterenol-induced dysrhythmias may be associated with myocardial electrolyte alterations involving especially Mg depletion.
Alterations of glomerular basement membrane (GBM) anionic (charge sites, CSs) in the development of proteinuria in a model of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome in man (puromycin aminonucleoside nephrotic syndrome [PAN] in the rat) were assessed quantitatively and sequentially early after disease induction. GBM CSs (known to consist mainly of heparan sulfate-rich proteoglycans) were stained in vivo and, in a separate group of animals by an in vitro method, with the cationic marker polyethyleneimine (PEI) studied by electron microscopic examination. Four hours after administration of PAN, there was a significant decrease in GBM lamina rara externa CSs: 18 +/- 0.7 versus 22.0 +/- 2.2 per 1000 nm GBM in controls by PEI injection and 17.2 +/- 2.7 versus 21.1 +/- 1.6 per 1000 nm GBM in controls by PEI in vitro staining. This CS alteration coincided with changes in glomerular epithelial cell morphologic characteristics (increased cytoplasmic organelles and rough endoplasmic reticulum) and preceded the detection of foot process broadening (at 24 hours) and increased urinary albuminuria (suggested at 12-24 hours, statistically significant at 36-48 hours). These results suggest that GBM CS-heparan sulfate proteoglycan alterations consisting of either decreased number and/or less anionic charge occur early in PAN and support a role for glomerular epithelial cell maintenance of GBM CS for normal glomerular function.
Opioids are increasingly used in the treatment of chronic non-malignant pain. The aim of this open-label, randomised, parallel group study was to compare analgesia and side-effects of two commonly used opioid analgesics, tramadol and dihydrocodeine, in long-acting formulations in 60 osteoarthritis patients with strong pain despite NSAID's. Dose titration based on effect was performed with the respective immediate release solutions given additionally to tramadol 100 mg bid and dihydrocodeine 60 mg bid during the first 4 days of the 1 month treatment. Electrical sensation and pain thresholds over the osteoarthritic joint and at a distant location and gastrointestinal transit times were performed before and during treatment. Thirty patients with pain controlled by NSAID's alone formed the comparator group. Pain intensities at rest and during movement decreased highly significantly with tramadol and dihydrocodeine from median pre-treatment verbal ratings of over 3 (0=none, 4=unbearable) to 1 and below from the second treatment day onwards (ANOVA P<0.0001). Pain at rest was significantly lower with tramadol (ANOVA P=0.04), but ratings were similar during movement. Mean (95% CI) daily doses on days 1 and 28 were 209 (198-220) mg and 203 (191-206) mg of tramadol, and 129 (122-136) mg and 130 (121-134) mg of dihydrocodeine, respectively. Minor side-effects were more common with tramadol (P=0.04). Changes in bowel functions and symptoms were minor with both treatments, but the frequency of defaecation was lower and stools were harder with dihydrocodeine. Orocaecal transit time remained unchanged and similar to controls with both analgesics. Colonic transit times only increased significantly during treatment with dihydrocodeine. Sensation and pain thresholds were lower pre-treatment in both groups than in controls and increased during treatment. These antinociceptive effects were more marked in the tramadol group and distant from the osteoarthritic joint. We conclude rapid pain relief was achieved with both long-acting tramadol and dihydrocodeine with NSAID's in strong osteoarthritis pain. Minimal dose titration was required and side-effects were minor. Tramadol interfered less with intestinal function and showed greater antinociceptive action.
A bioassay-directed chemical analysis which consists of mammalian cell bioassays (comet assay, CBMN assay and EROD-microbioassay) in conjunction with analytical measurements was performed to identify the most biologically active compounds of the diesel exhaust particulate matters (DEPs) on mutagenic activity. These bioassay systems were suitable to estimate the mammalian genotoxic potentials of pollutants present in low concentrations in limited environmental samples, as is the case with DEPEs. The results from mutagenic assay showed that the aromatic and slightly polar fraction of DEPs induced chromosomal damage and DNA breakage in a non-cytotoxic dose. It was also revealed that indirect-acting mutagens may mainly contribute to the mutagenic effect of aromatic fraction via the enzyme metabolism system. In the aromatic fraction, several indirect-acting mutagenic PAHs such as dibenzo(a,h)anthracene, chrysene, and 1,2-benzanthracene were detected by GC-MS and the complex mixture effect of this fraction was quantified in terms of its biological-TCDD equivalent concentration (bio-TEQ) which was 32.82 bio-TEQ ng/g-DEPs by EROD-microbioassay. Conclusively, we confirmed that indirect-acting mutagens contained in aromatic fraction may be important causatives of the genotoxicity of extracts of DEPs by integrating the results obtained from a mammalian cell bioassay-directed fractionation.
The influence of cholinergic and anticholinergic agents on the catalepsy and antinociceptive action of morphine, codeine, fentanyl and pentazocine was studied in rats. Anticholinergic drugs scopolamine (3 and 6 mg/kg) and slightly atropine (1 mg/kg) enhanced morphine-induced catalepsy. Benztropine did not change this action of morphine. Cholinergic physostigmine (0.2 and 0.4 mg/kg) showed marked and dose-dependent antagonism toward morphine catalepsy, but pilocarpine, in doses of 2 and 4 mg/kg, failed to influence it. Catalepsy induced by codeine and fentanyl was nearly not influenced by cholinergic and anticholinergic agents. In the hot plate test, cholinergic influences on antinociceptive activity of analgesics are slight, but sometimes it may be observed the similar interaction as in morphine catalepsy: anticholinergic agents enhance, and cholinergic agents antagonize these effects. Present results indicate that some cholinergic and anticholinergic agents influence morphine catalepsy, and this influence is opposite to that observed in neuroleptic-induced catalepsy. Failure of the cholinergic influences on fentanyl- and codeine-induced catalepsy suggests that the mechanisms of cataleptogenic activity of morphine and other analgesics are not the same.
A variety of neurologic disorders may develop in patients with chronic renal failure. Drug toxicity must be thought of in the differential diagnosis of these disorders. We report a case with renal failure developing serious neurotoxicity after metronidazole use.
Bone morphogenetic protein-4 (BMP-4), a member of the transforming growth factor-Beta(TGF-Beta) family, is overexpressed in different prolactinoma models and induces the development of these lineage adenomas. SMAD proteins activated by growth factors of the TGF-Beta and BMP family interact with estrogen receptors to stimulate the proliferation of prolactin and growth hormone-secreting cells. Furthermore, BMP-4 presents differential expression in normal and adenomatous corticotropes and inhibitory action on corticotropinoma cell proliferation. Moreover, BMP-4 mediates the antiproliferative action of retinoic acid in these cells. The present review highlights not only the crucial and opposite role of BMP-4 in the progression of pituitary adenomas but also that BMP-4 and retinoic acid interaction might serve as a potential new mechanism target for therapeutic approaches for Cushing disease.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra zona compacta and in other subcortical nuclei associated with a widespread occurrence of Lewy bodies. The causes of cell death in Parkinson's disease are still poorly understood, but a defect in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and enhanced oxidative stress has been proposed. We have examined 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1)-induced apoptosis in control and metallothionein-overexpressing dopaminergic neurons, with a primary objective to determine the neuroprotective potential of metallothionein (MT) against peroxynitrite-induced neurodegeneration in PD. SIN-1 induced lipid peroxidation and triggered plasma membrane blebbing. In addition, it caused DNA fragmentation, alpha-synuclein induction, and intramitochondrial accumulation of metal ions (copper, iron, zinc, and calcium), and it enhanced the synthesis of 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine. Furthermore, it downregulated the expression of Bcl-2 and poly(adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase, but upregulated the expression of caspase-3 and Bax in dopaminergic (SK-N-SH) neurons. SIN-1 induced apoptosis in aging mitochondrial genome knockout cells, alpha-synuclein-transfected cells, metallothionein double-knockout cells, and caspase-3-overexpressed dopaminergic neurons. SIN-1-induced changes were attenuated with selegiline or in metallothionein-transgenic striatal fetal stem cells. SIN-1-induced oxidation of dopamine (DA) to dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DopaL) was attenuated in metallothionein-transgenic fetal stem cells and in cells transfected with a mitochondrial genome, and was enhanced in aging mitochondrial genome knockout cells, in metallothionein double-knockout cells, and caspase-3 gene-overexpressing dopaminergic neurons. Selegiline, melatonin, ubiquinone, and metallothionein suppressed SIN-1-induced downregulation of a mitochondrial genome and upregulation of caspase-3 as determined by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. These studies provide evidence that nitric oxide synthase activation and peroxynitrite ion overproduction may be involved in the etiopathogenesis of PD, and that metallothionein gene induction may provide neuroprotection.
The therapeutic use of angiogenic factors shows promise in the treatment of critical limb ischemia; however, its potential for myonephropathic metabolic syndrome (MNMS), a fatal complication caused by arterial reconstruction, has not been elucidated. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of recombinant Sendai virus-mediated gene transfer of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) directly compared with that of a radical scavenger, MCI-186, in a rat model of MNMS. MNMS was surgically induced by aortic occlusion below renal arteries for 4 h, followed by 6 h of reperfusion. Administration of MCI-186 (twice; iv 5 min before induced ischemia and ip 5 min before reperfusion; 10 mg/kg, respectively), but not FGF-2 gene transfer (once, 48 h before induced ischemia), dramatically prevented the increase of serum biochemical markers as well as the edema of the gastrocnemius muscle. The effect of MCI-186 was accompanied by the marked suppression of the neutrophilic infiltration into the local (muscle) and remote (lung) organs. Although serum and muscular levels of a neutrophil-chemoattractant (growth-related oncogene/cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-1) were not affected by any treatment, the serum level of soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 was decreased by treatment with MCI-186 but not by treatment with FGF-2. These results suggest the distinct mechanism of MNMS from critical limb ischemia without reperfusion. Therefore, radical scavenging should be paid more attention than therapeutic angiogenesis when arterial circulation is reconstructed.
The efficacy of pergolide as adjunct to levodopa therapy was compared to that of bromocriptine in 12 parkinsonian patients with fluctuating motor disability and levodopa-induced dyskinesias (mean age of onset, 50.6 +/- 8 years; Hoehn and Yahr stage between II and IV; mean basal UPDRS motor score, 30.6 +/- 8.6), in a double-blind crossover study. After an 8-day habituation to each agonist, an acute challenge of a supraliminal dose of levodopa ("levodopa test") was performed in association with either 1 mg pergolide or 10 mg bromocriptine. The delay to onset and the duration of therapeutic benefit, the percentage improvement in motor disability, and the severity of onset and peak-dose dyskinesias were evaluated. Both agonists significantly increased the duration of therapeutic benefit, but pergolide more so than bromocriptine (p = 0.02). Pergolide also tended to reduce the severity of dyskinesias and was globally perceived by the patients to be more efficacious than bromocriptine on parkinsonian symptoms and fluctuations. This study illustrated the usefulness of the "levodopa test" in evaluating, objectively, the effects of dopamine agonists.
The fetotoxic effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors when used during the second half of pregnancy are well known. The more recently developed angiotensin II receptor antagonists appear to yield similar fetal abnormalities. We report a premature infant born to a 41-year-old mother with a long history of infertility who had received losartan therapy for hypertension throughout an undetected pregnancy. Ultrasound examination 2 days prior to delivery identified a single fetus at 29 weeks gestation, anhydramnios, and an empty fetal bladder. The neonatal course was complicated by oliguria, hyperkalemia, marked renal dysfunction, respiratory failure, joint contractures, and a large anterior fontanelle with widely separated sutures. Hypotension (mean arterial pressure<25 torr) on day 1 responded to volume expansion, dopamine, and hydrocortisone. Serum creatinine reached a maximum of 2.7 mg/dL on day 6 and decreased to 0.4 by day 56. No formal urinalysis was performed, but the urine was reported to be visually clear throughout the course. Although a renal ultrasound on day 2 was normal, a follow-up study at 7 months revealed bilateral generalized parenchymal echogenicity, consistent with medical renal disease. Since then, weight and length have been at the 5th percentile or less, with apparent renal tubular acidosis necessitating the addition of sodium citrate supplements. This case emphasizes the importance of maintaining a high index of suspicion for potential pregnancy when contemplating the use of a drug of this class, and considering serial testing for pregnancy when using such drugs, even in patients with a longstanding history of infertility.
Pregnant mice were injected intraperitoneally with cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) on days 13.5 and 14.5 of pregnancy. The brains of their offspring were studied histologically and histochemically. In addition to dysgenic microcephaly, nodular structures consisting of cells with a relatively homogeneous morphology were observed in the depths of the cerebral cortex. The cell clusters were first seen around postnatal day 4, and had a cellular continuity with the disarrayed pyramidal cell layer in the CA 1 region of the hippocampus. Golgi-Cox staining showed a number of pyramidal-shaped cells in the clusters. Morphologically, they resembled the pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus. Immunohistochemical examination, using anti-serotonin or anti-tyrosine hydroxylase antibodies, also indicated similarities between the cell clusters and the pyramidal cell layer. It is, therefore, proposed that the cell clusters consisted of heterotopic pyramidal cells of the hippocampus. A few synaptic structures could already be detected in the heterotopic cell clusters on postnatal day 3 by electron microscopy. This early establishment of synaptic contact with related neurons may have caused the heterotopic localization of the pyramidal cells.
The aim of the study was to define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of raltitrexed plus carmofur, and to evaluate the tolerability and efficacy of this combination in metastatic colorectal cancer.
Twenty-eight patients (23 receiving first-line therapy, 5 receiving second-line therapy) entered the study; 16 were chemonaive. Raltitrexed (Tomudex) 1.5-3.0 mg/m(2) was given as a 15- to 30-min intravenous infusion on day 1 of a 21-day cycle followed by carmofur 300-400 mg/m(2) orally 3 times daily on days 2-14. Therapy was given until disease progression or dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) occurred.
A total of 170 cycles of therapy were administered. The MTD was reached at the raltitrexed dose of 3.0 mg/m(2) and the carmofur dose of 400 mg/m(2). DLTs included grade 3-4 diarrhea, fatigue, anorexia, mucositis, anemia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, neurological symptoms and febrile neutropenia. Eleven of the 22 evaluable first-line patients achieved a partial response (response rate 50%, 95% confidence interval 29-71%), 8 had stable disease and 3 had disease progression. One of the 5 patients who received second-line therapy responded.
The recommended dose of this combination therapy for further evaluation is raltitrexed 3.0 mg/m(2) plus carmofur 300 mg/m(2). This combination has unique but manageable toxicity and promising efficacy in metastatic colorectal cancer.
Cardiovascular effects of the essential oil of Croton zehntneri (EOCZ) were investigated in conscious rats. In these preparations, intravenous (i.v.) injections of EOCZ (1-20 mg kg(-1)) and its main constituents anethole and estragole (both at 1-10 mg kg(-1)) elicited brief and dose-dependent hypotension and bradycardia (phase I) that were followed by a significant pressor effect associated with a delayed bradycardia (phase II). The initial hypotension and bradycardia (phase I) of EOCZ were unchanged by atenolol (1.5 mg kg(-1), i.v.) or L-NAME (20 mg kg(-1), i.v.) pretreatment, but were respectively reversed into pressor and tachycardic effects by methylatropine (1 mg kg(-1), i.v.) pretreatment. The subsequent pressor effect and the delayed bradycardia (phase II) remained unaffected by atenolol, but were abolished by L-NAME and methylatropine pretreatment, respectively. In rat endothelium-containing aorta preparations, the vasoconstrictor responses to phenylephrine were enhanced and reduced, respectively, by the lower (1-30 microg mL(-1)) and higher (300-1000 microg mL(-1)) concentrations of EOCZ. Only the enhancement of phenylephrine-induced contraction was abolished by either the incubation with L-NAME (50 microM) or in the absence of the endothelium. These data show, for the first time, that i.v. administration EOCZ induces an initial hypotension followed by a pressor response, two effects that appear mainly attributed to the actions of anethole and estragole. The EOCZ-induced hypotension (phase I) is mediated by a cholinergic mechanism and seems to result mainly from the concomitant bradycardia. The pressor response of EOCZ (phase II) seems to be caused by an indirect vasoconstrictive action of EOCZ most likely through inhibition of endothelial nitric oxide production.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of bezafibrate on insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion in 30 non-obese Japanese type 2 diabetic patients with hypertriglyceridemia (serum triglycerides > 150 mg/dL). Insulin sensitivity was measured with homeostasis model assessment insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) proposed by Matthews et al. HOMA-B-cell function, proposed by Matthews et al validated against minimal model-derived insulin secretion, was used to assess pancreatic insulin function. Twenty-two patients were treated with glibenclimide and the rest were treated with diet alone. All patients were treated with bezafibrate (400 mg/d) for 3 months. There were no changes in diet and the dose of any medications used throughout the study. Fasting glucose, insulin, triglycerides, HDL cholesterol, and total cholesterol levels were measured before and after treatment of bezafibrate. After treatment of bezafibrate for 3 months, serum triglyceride levels significantly decreased from 277 +/- 30 to 139 +/- 9 mg/dL (P <.001) and serum HDL cholesterol levels increased significantly from 45 +/- 2 to 52 +/- 2 mg/dL (P =.003). Serum cholesterol level was unchanged during the study (198 +/- 7 v 201 +/- 7 mg/dL, P =.383). Fasting glucose (163 +/- 8 v 139 +/- 6 mg/dL, P =.006) significantly decreased after the treatment with bezafibrate. HbA1c levels decreased, although not statistically significant (7.50 +/- 0.25 v 7.17% +/- 0.19%, P =.147). On the other hand, fasting insulin (9.3 +/- 0.7 v 7.3 +/- 0.5 microU/mL, P =.010) and HOMA-IR (3.61 +/- 0.24 to 2.53 +/- 0.20, P <.001) levels decreased significantly after the treatment with bezafibrate. In contrast, HOMA-B-cell function did not change during the study (41.4 +/- 5.5 v 41.8 +/- 4.7, P =.478). There was no significant difference in body mass index (BMI) levels before and after the therapy (23.0 +/- 0.4 v 23.1 +/- 0.4 kg/m(2), P =.483). From these results, it can be concluded that bezafibrate reduces serum triglycerides, insulin resistance, and fasting blood glucose levels in non-obese Japanese type 2 diabetic patients.
