A 38-year-old woman was treated for mutism with clozapine. After a week liver function disturbances developed, which disappeared when the treatment was discontinued. Histopathological investigation of a liver biopsy specimen revealed extensive liver cell necrosis. So far two patients have been described with cholestatic jaundice induced by clozapine, and one patient with toxic hepatitis due to clozapine.
High frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is known to ameliorate the signs and symptoms of advanced Parkinson's disease.
We studied the effect of high frequency STN stimulation in 23 patients.
Twenty-three patients suffering from severe Parkinson's disease (Stages III-V on Hoehn and Yahr scale) and, particularly bradykinesia, rigidity, and levodopa-induced dyskinesias underwent bilateral implantation of electrodes in the STN. Preoperative and postoperative assessments of these patients at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months follow-up, in "on" and "off" drug conditions, was carried out using Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, Hoehn and Yahr staging, England activities of daily living score and video recordings.
After one year of electrical stimulation of the STN, the patients' scores for activities of daily living and motor examination scores (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale parts II and III) off medication improved by 62% and 61% respectively (p<0.0005). The subscores for the akinesia, rigidity, tremor and gait also improved. (p<0.0005). The average levodopa dose decreased from 813 mg to 359 mg. The cognitive functions remained unchanged. Two patients developed device-related complications and two patients experienced abnormal weight gain.
Bilateral subthalamic nucleus stimulation is an effective treatment for advanced Parkinson's disease. It reduces the severity of "off" phase symptoms, improves the axial symptoms and reduces levodopa requirements. The reduction in the levodopa dose is useful in controlling drug-induced dyskinesias.
Ranitidine frequently is used for preventing peptic ulceration after renal transplantation. This drug occasionally has been associated with acute interstitial nephritis in native kidneys. There are no similar reports with renal transplantation. We report a case of ranitidine-induced acute interstitial nephritis in a recipient of a cadaveric renal allograft presenting with acute allograft dysfunction within 48 hours of exposure to the drug. The biopsy specimen showed pathognomonic features, including eosinophilic infiltration of the interstitial compartment. Allograft function improved rapidly and returned to baseline after stopping the drug.
Ras proteins have been found mutated in about one-third of human tumors. In vitro, Ras has been shown to regulate distinct and contradictory effects, such as cellular proliferation and apoptosis. Nonetheless, the effects that the wild-type protein elicits in tumorigenesis are poorly understood. Depending on the type of tissue, Ras proto-oncogenes appear to either promote or inhibit the tumor phenotype. In this report, we treated wild-type and N-ras knockout mice with 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA) to induce fibrosarcomas and found that MCA is more carcinogenic in wild-type mice than in knockout mice. After injecting different doses of a tumorigenic cell line, the wild-type mice exhibited a shorter latency of tumor development than the knockouts, indicating that there are N-ras-dependent differences in the stromal cells. Likewise, we have analyzed B-cell lymphomas induced by either N-methylnitrosourea or by the N-ras oncogene in mice that over-express the N-ras proto-oncogene and found that the over-expression of wild-type N-ras is able to increase the incidence of these lymphomas. Considered together, our results indicate that Ras proto-oncogenes can enhance or inhibit the malignant phenotype in vivo in different systems.
The effects of methyleugenol, an essential oil isolated from Asiasari radix, on antinociception were examined using the formalin test in mice. Oral administration of 10 mg/kg methyleugenol significantly decreased the duration of licking and biting behavior in the second phase without affecting that of the first phase, as did diclofenac, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. Methyleugenol also inhibited pain-related behaviors induced by intrathecal injection of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA), while diclofenac did not affect these behaviors. These effects of methyleugenol were suppressed by bicuculline, a gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) antagonist. Muscimol, a GABA(A) agonist, displays the same action as methyleugenol with respect to the formalin test and NMDA-induced behaviors. Methyleugenol did not affect cyclooxygenase-1 and -2 activities. These results suggest that the antinociceptive effect of methyleugenol on the second phase of formalin-induced pain may be due to the inhibition of NMDA receptor-mediated hyperalgesia via GABA(A) receptors.
Cocaine-related cues have been hypothesized to perpetuate drug abuse by inducing a craving response that prompts drug-seeking behavior. However, the mechanisms, underlying neuroanatomy, and specificity of this neuroanatomy are not yet fully understood.
To address these issues, experienced cocaine users (N=17) and comparison subjects (N=14) underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging while viewing three separate films that portrayed 1 ) individuals smoking crack cocaine, 2) outdoor nature scenes, and 3) explicit sexual content. Candidate craving sites were identified as those that showed significant activation in the cocaine users when viewing the cocaine film. These sites were then required to show significantly greater activation when contrasted with comparison subjects viewing the cocaine film (population specificity) and cocaine users viewing the nature film (content specificity).
Brain regions that satisfied these criteria were largely left lateralized and included the frontal lobe (medial and middle frontal gyri, bilateral inferior frontal gyrus), parietal lobe (bilateral inferior parietal lobule), insula, and limbic lobe (anterior and posterior cingulate gyrus). Of the 13 regions identified as putative craving sites, just three (anterior cingulate, right inferior parietal lobule, and the caudate/lateral dorsal nucleus) showed significantly greater activation during the cocaine film than during the sex film in the cocaine users, which suggests that cocaine cues activated similar neuroanatomical substrates as naturally evocative stimuli in the cocaine users. Finally, contrary to the effects of the cocaine film, cocaine users showed a smaller response than the comparison subjects to the sex film.
These data suggest that cocaine craving is not associated with a dedicated and unique neuroanatomical circuitry; instead, unique to the cocaine user is the ability of learned, drug-related cues to produce brain activation comparable to that seen with nondrug evocative stimuli in healthy comparison subjects.
Recent etiological study in twins (Tanner et al. 1999) strongly suggests that environmental factors play an important role in typical, non-familial Parkinson's disease (PD), beginning after age 50. Epidemiological risk factor analyses of typical PD cases have identified several neurotoxicants, including MPP(+) (the active metabolite of MPTP), paraquat, dieldrin, manganese and salsolinol. Here, we tested the hypothesis that these neurotoxic agents might induce cell death in our nigral dopaminergic cell line, SN4741 (Son et al. 1999) through a common molecular mechanism. Our initial experiments revealed that treatment with both MPP(+) and the other PD-related neurotoxicants induced apoptotic cell death in SN4741 cells, following initial increases of H(2)O(2)-related ROS activity and subsequent activation of JNK1/2 MAP kinases. Moreover, we have demonstrated that during dopaminergic cell death cascades, MPP(+), the neurotoxicants and an oxidant, H(2)O(2) equally induce the ROS-dependent events. Remarkably, the oxidant treatment alone induced similar sequential molecular events: ROS increase, activation of JNK MAP kinases, activation of the PITSLRE kinase, p110, by both Caspase-1 and Caspase-3-like activities and apoptotic cell death. Pharmacological intervention using the combination of the antioxidant Trolox and a pan-caspase inhibitor Boc-(Asp)-fmk (BAF) exerted significant neuroprotection against ROS-induced dopaminergic cell death. Finally, the high throughput cDNA microarray screening using the current model identified downstream response genes, such as heme oxygenase-1, a constituent of Lewy bodies, that can be the useful biomarkers to monitor the pathological conditions of dopaminergic neurons under neurotoxic insult.
To describe the correlation between visual field loss and the duration, dosage, and total amount of vigabatrin (VGB) medication in a group of patients with epilepsy. Co-medication of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and compliance were also studied.
Ninety-two patients (53 male and 39 female) taking VGB medication in the past or the present, attending the Outpatient Epilepsy Clinic in Utrecht, were examined with the Goldmann perimeter. The amount of visual field loss was calculated by the Esterman grid method and by a new method, with which the percentage surface loss of the visual field is measured. A complete drug history was compiled, specifying the amount and duration of VGB medication. Concomitant AED medication was noted. Serum levels of AEDs were determined.
Linear regression showed the total amount of VGB as the most significant parameter to predict visual field loss (p < 0.001). Further, men were more affected than women (p = 0.026). Compliance was good, and other AEDs did not influence the results.
Because prolonged use of VGB medication is correlated with the amount of visual field loss, VGB should be prescribed only when there are no alternatives. In such cases, we recommend an examination of the peripheral visual field before starting therapy and a repeated examination every 6 months.
The effects of the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY 100635 on recognition memory were investigated in two different amnestic models in the rat by using the object recognition task. WAY 100635 at 1 mg/kg, but not at 0.3 mg/kg, counteracted scopolamine-induced performance deficits in the acquisition version of this behavioral paradigm. At the same dose, WAY 100635 antagonized extinction of recognition memory in the normal rat, suggesting that it affected acquisition, storage and retrieval of information. These results support and extend prior findings that interactions between the serotonergic and cholinergic systems are relevant to cognition and indicate that WAY 100635 modulates different aspects of recognition memory.
Dexmedetomidine (Precedex), an alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist is frequently and safely used as sedative agent during surgical procedures. We report a case of a 76-year-old woman who developed cardiac arrest from the use of dexmedetomidine during pacemaker lead extraction procedure.
The key events responsible for mouse liver tumors induced by a pesticide (viz., pronamide) were investigated in a series of studies employing molecular, biochemical, cellular, and apical endpoints. Based on these studies, it was demonstrated that the liver tumors were mediated by a mode of action (MoA) involving nuclear receptors (NRs) through the following key events: (1) CAR and PPAR-α receptor activation, (2) increased hepatocellular proliferation, eventually leading to (3) hepatocellular tumors. Specifically, gene expression analysis indicated robust, simultaneous coactivation of the CAR and PPAR-α NRs, as indicated by the induction of hepatic Cyp2b10 and Cyp4a10 transcripts, in response to dietary administration of pronamide to mice. The presence of hepatocellular hypertrophy and peroxisome proliferation was indicative of the activation of these two NRs at carcinogenic dose levels. Demonstrated induction of Cyp2b10 gene and protein, however, was not accompanied by enhancement of the corresponding enzyme activity (7-pentoxyresorufin-O-dealkylase (PROD)), suggesting that pronamide administration resulted in mechanism-based (suicide) inhibition of the enzyme in vivo. This was confirmed with an in vitro assay for suicide inhibition, where pronamide and/or its metabolites irreversibly inhibited Cyp2b10-mediated PROD activity. Analysis of hepatocellular proliferation via BrdU incorporation indicated a clear dose- and duration-related induction of S-phase DNA synthesis only in animals treated at and above the carcinogenic dose level. The available MoA data were evaluated for weight-of-evidence based upon the Bradford Hill criteria, followed by a human relevance framework. The conclusion from this evaluation is that pronamide-induced mouse liver tumors occur via an NR-mediated MoA involving CAR and PPAR-α activation and this MoA is not relevant to humans based on qualitative/quantitative differences between mice and humans.
The UPL rat is a newly developed hereditary cataract model. We previously found that Ca2+ concentrations in UPL rat lenses increase with the development of cataract, and that the administration of disulfiram and aminoguanidine ameliorates the increase in Ca2+ and the development of cataract in UPL rats. In this study, we determined the expression and activity of plasma membrane Ca2+-ATPase (PMCA) in lenses of normal and UPL rats. We also determined the ATP content in UPL rat lenses and the effects of disulfiram and aminoguanidine administration. Expression of PMCA mRNA in UPL rat lenses, determined by a reverse transcription-PCR method, increased during the development of cataract. Ca2+-ATPase activity in UPL rat lenses also increased with the progression of lens opacification. On the other hand, ATP decreased markedly in UPL rat lenses, and the administration of disulfiram and aminoguanidine attenuate the ATP decrease. These results suggest that an ATP decrease cause cataract development and an increased Ca2+ may upregulate PMCA expression in UPL rat lenses. Disulfiram and aminoguanidine attenuate the decrease in ATP, resulting in a delay in cataract development.
High doses of isoniazid increase hypotension induced by vasodilators and change the accompanying reflex tachycardia to bradycardia, an interaction attributed to decreased synthesis of brain gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). In the present study, the possible enhancement by isoniazid of bradycardia induced by beta-adrenoceptor antagonists was determined in rats anaesthetised with chloralose-urethane. Isoniazid significantly increased bradycardia after propranolol, pindolol, labetalol and atenolol, as well as after clonidine, but not after hexamethonium or carbachol. Enhancement was not observed in rats pretreated with methylatropine or previously vagotomised. These results are compatible with interference by isoniazid with GABAergic inhibition of cardiac parasympathetic tone. Such interference could be exerted centrally, possibly at the nucleus ambiguus, or peripherally at the sinus node.
As a late mediator of inflammation, high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) protein up-regulates pro-inflammatory cytokines in several inflammatory diseases. Further, high plasma levels of HMGB1 correlate with poor prognosis and increased mortality in patients with severe inflammation. Oleanolic acid (OA), a triterpenoid known for its anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer properties, is commonly present in several medicinal plants but the effects of OA on HMGB1-mediated pro-inflammatory responses of human endothelial cells is not well-studied. In this study, we investigated this question by monitoring the effect of OA on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-mediated release of HMGB1 and the HMGB1-mediated modulation of inflammatory responses in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). OA potently inhibited the release of HMGB1 by HUVECs as well as down-regulated HMGB1-dependent adhesion and migration of the monocytic cell line THP-1 to activated HUVECs. OA also down-regulated the cell surface expression of the receptor of HMGB1, thereby inhibiting HMGB1-dependent pro-inflammatory responses by inhibiting activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and production of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) by HMGB1. Given these results, OA showed anti-inflammatory activities and could be a candidate as a therapeutic agent for various inflammatory diseases through the inhibition of the HMGB1 signaling pathway.
UV radiation from the sun is a potent environmental risk factor in the pathogenesis of skin damage. Much of the skin damage caused by ultraviolet A (UVA) irradiation from the sun is associated with oxidative stress. The aim of this study was to investigate the protective role of ellagic acid (25-75 μM), a natural antioxidant, against UVA (5-20 J/cm(2))-induced oxidative stress and apoptosis in human keratinocyte (HaCaT) cells and to reveal the possible mechanisms underlying this protective efficacy. Ellagic acid pre-treatment markedly increased HaCaT cell viability and suppressed UVA-induced ROS generation and MDA formation. Moreover, ellagic acid pre-treatment prevented UVA-induced DNA damage as evaluated by the comet assay. Ellagic acid treatment also significantly inhibited the UVA-induced apoptosis of HaCaT cells, as measured by a reduction of DNA fragmentation, mitochondria dysfunction, ER stress, caspase-3 activation, and Bcl-2/Bax deregulation. Notably, the antioxidant potential of ellagic acid was directly correlated with the increased expression of HO-1 and SOD, which was followed by the downregulation of Keap1 and the augmented nuclear translocation and transcriptional activation of Nrf2 with or without UVA irradiation. Nrf2 knockdown diminished the protective effects of ellagic acid. Therefore, ellagic acid may be useful for the treatment of UVA-induced skin damage.
It is suspected that exposure to low levels of formaldehyde induces or aggravates airway inflammation mediated by immunological and neurological reactions. To clarify the effect of this exposure on allergic inflammatory responses, we exposed female C3H/He mice to 0, 80, 400, or 2000ppb formaldehyde for 12 weeks. When mice were immunized with ovalbumin (OVA) and then exposed to formaldehyde, the numbers of total bronchoalveolar lavage cells, macrophages, and eosinophils in the mice exposed to 2000ppb formaldehyde were significantly increased compared to 0ppb controls. However, the production of interleukin-1beta from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of these mice decreased significantly. Immunization with OVA significantly increased the production of nerve growth factor, but exposure to 80 and 400ppb formaldehyde significantly reduced the nerve growth factor levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of the immunized mice. In in vitro study, markedly increased lipopolysaccharide-stimulated interferon-gamma production in culture supernatants of spleen cells from 2000ppb formaldehyde-exposed, nonimmunized mice, and significantly increased OVA-stimulated monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 production in culture supernatants of spleen cells from 400 and 2000ppb formaldehyde-exposed, immunized mice were observed. Exposure to 400ppb formaldehyde induced significant decreases in anti-OVA IgG1 and IgG3 antibody productions in plasma, whereas anti-OVA IgE antibody production was not affected. In addition, the levels of nerve growth factor in plasma of 80 and 400ppb formaldehyde-exposed, immunized mice significantly decreased compared to 0ppb control, immunized mice. These results provide the first experimental evidence that low levels of long-term formaldehyde inhalation can induce differential immunogenic and neurogenic responses in allergic mice.
We report a patient who presented with malignant hypertension and renal failure. He was treated with lisinopril, spironolactone, and nifedipine retard for blood pressure control. Subsequent renal function showed further deterioration, but it then improved after withdrawal of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE I). The diagnosis of classical polyarteritis nodosa was established with aneurysmal dilatation demonstrable in the renal vasculature. His renal impairment improved further following immunosuppressive therapy and the disease has remained inactive 4 years after first presentation. This is the first reported case of acute renal failure associated with the use of ACE I in polyarteritis nodosa.
Patients with Down's syndrome (DS) show elevated levels of copper, zinc-containing superoxide dismutase (SOD1) and appear to have increased lipid peroxidation and oxidative damage to DNA as well as elevated glutathione peroxidase activity. Increasing SOD1 levels by gene transfection in NT-2 and SK-N-MC cell lines also led to a rise in glutathione peroxidase activity, but this was nevertheless accompanied by decreased proliferation rates, increased lipid peroxidation and protein carbonyls, and a trend to a rise in 8-hydroxyguanine and protein-bound 3-nitrotyrosine. Transfection of these cell lines with DNA encoding two mutant SOD1 enzymes (G37R and G85R) associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS), produced similar, but more severe changes, i.e. even lower growth rates, higher lipid peroxidation, 3-nitrotyrosine and protein carbonyl levels, decreased GSH levels, raised GSSG levels and higher glutathione peroxidase activities. Since G85R has little SOD activity, these changes cannot be related to increased O(2)(-) scavenging. In no case was SOD2 (mitochondrial Mn-SOD) level altered. Our cellular systems reproduce many of the biochemical changes observed in patients with DS or ALS, and in transgenic mice overexpressing mutant SOD1. They also show the potentially deleterious effects of SOD1 overexpression on cellular proliferation, which may be relevant to abnormal development in DS.
Pefloxacin, a fluorinated 4-quinolone, has recently been advocated as a first-line treatment for minimal-change nephropathy (MCN) or focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). To further evaluate this issue we have utilized an animal model resembling human MCN, namely adriamycin-induced nephrotic syndrome in Wistar male rats.
Adriamycin at a dose of 7 mg/kg was injected intravenously to all rats at day zero. Rats were divided into two groups: group A (n = 20) given only water served as the control group while group B (n = 19) was administered pefloxacin at 150 mg/kg. At days 7, 14, 21 and 28, the rats were placed in metabolic cages and daily proteinuria determined.
The nephrotic syndrome developed in all rats within 7 days of adriamycin administration. At day 7, proteinuria in group B was 173 +/- 78 vs 423 +/- 626 mg/day in group A, P < 0.02, but thereafter at days 14, 21 and 28, no significant difference in urinary protein excretion was noted.
These results suggest that in this animal model of NS mimicking human MCN, pefloxacin's antiproteinuric effect is only of a mild and transitory nature. In view of the above data and the overall results in human patients (detailed herein), the use of pefloxacin as definitive treatment of the NS cannot be recommended.
Dysphoria and depression have been cited as side effects of the opioid antagonist naltrexone. We aimed to assess whether depressive symptoms are a clinically relevant side effect in a population receiving naltrexone as a treatment for opioid dependence.
We carried out a randomized controlled, open-label trial comparing rapid opiate detoxification under anesthesia and naltrexone treatment with continued methadone maintenance at the Alcohol and Drug Service, Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital, Brisbane, Australia. The study subjects were patients stabilized on methadone maintenance treatment for heroin dependence who wished to transfer to naltrexone treatment. The Beck Depression Inventory, State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and Opiate Treatment Index subscales for heroin use and social functioning were used at baseline and follow-up assessments at 1, 2, 3 and 6 months.
Forty-two participants were allocated to receive naltrexone treatment, whereas 38 continued methadone maintenance as the control condition. Participants who received naltrexone did not exhibit worsening of depressive symptoms. In participants attending all follow-up assessments, there was a trend for those receiving naltrexone to exhibit an improvement in depression over time compared with the control group. Participants who were adherent to naltrexone treatment exhibited fewer depressive symptoms than those who were nonadherent.
These results suggest that depression need not be considered a common adverse effect of naltrexone treatment or a treatment contraindication and that engaging with or adhering to naltrexone treatment may be associated with fewer depressive symptoms.
A single cerebroventricular injection of ethacrynic acid (EA), a Cl(-)-ATPase inhibitor, induces generalized tonic-clonic convulsions in mice. To clarify whether such convulsive stimulus triggers a long-lasting rearrangement of the neural circuitry culminating in seizure susceptibility, we examined molecular, cellular and behavioral changes following the EA-induced seizure. The expression of immediate early gene c-fos mRNA as an index for cellular activation increased biphasically, with an early transient increase at 60 min and a late prolonged increase on the 10th to 14th day post-EA administration, most remarkably in the hippocampus and pyriform cortex. On the 14th day post-EA seizure, subconvulsive dose of kainic acid (5-17.5 mg/kg) caused severe (stage 5) seizure in 77% of the mice, with 70% mortality. In addition, the expression of nerve growth factor (NGF) also showed biphasic increases with close spatiotemporal correlation with c-fos expression. Moreover, the number of cell somata and the density of axon fibers of parvalbumin (PARV)-positive cells, a subpopulation of GABAergic interneurons, decreased in area dentata, CA1 and CA3 on the 7th and 14th day post-EA seizure. In area dentata and CA1, the density of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)-positive cells also decreased on the 14th day. Thus, the transient EA-induced seizures appear to develop seizure susceptibility by causing damage of a subpopulation of inhibitory interneurons along with increases in the expression of c-fos and NGF in limbic structures.
In this study, we applied bioluminescent imaging-guided transcriptomic analysis to evaluate and identify the therapeutic potentials and novel mechanisms of silymarin on carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced liver fibrosis. Transgenic mice, carrying the luciferase genes driven by nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), were given with CCl(4) and/or silymarin. In vivo NF-κB activity was evaluated by bioluminescent imaging, liver fibrosis was judged by Sirius red staining and immunohistochemistry, and gene expression profiles of silymarin-treated livers were analyzed by DNA microarray. CCl(4) enhanced the NF-κB-dependent hepatic luminescence and induced hepatic fibrosis, while silymarin reduced the CCl(4)-induced hepatic luminescence and improved CCl(4)-induced liver fibrosis. Microarray analysis showed that silymarin altered the transforming growth factor-β-mediated pathways, which play pivotal roles in the progression of liver fibrosis. Moreover, we newly identified that silymarin downregulated the expression levels of cytoskeleton organization genes and mitochondrion electron-transfer chain genes, such as cytochrome c oxidase Cox6a2, Cox7a1, and Cox8b genes. In conclusion, the correlation of NF-κB-dependent luminescence and liver fibrosis suggested the feasibility of NF-κB bioluminescent imaging for the evaluation of liver fibrosis progression and therapeutic potentials. Moreover, our findings suggested that silymarin might exhibit anti-fibrotic effects in vivo via altering the expression of genes involved in cytoskeleton organization and mitochondrion electron-transfer chain.
Omeprazole and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) are aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonists that inhibit the invasion of breast cancer cells through inhibition of CXCR4 transcription. Treatment of highly invasive Panc1 pancreatic cancer cells with TCDD, omeprazole, and seven other AhR-active pharmaceuticals showed that only omeprazole and tranilast, but not TCDD, inhibited invasion in a Boyden chamber assay. Similar results were observed in MiaPaCa2 cells, another quasimensenchymal pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (QM-PDA) pancreatic cancer cell line, whereas invasion was not observed with BxPC3 or L3.6pL cells, which are classified as classical (less invasive) pancreatic cancer cells. It was also observed in QM-PDA cells that TCDD, omeprazole, and tranilast did not induce CYP1A1 or CXCR4 and that treatment with these compounds did not result in nuclear uptake of AhR. In contrast, treatment of BxPC3 and L3.6pL cells with these AhR ligands resulted in induction of CYP1A1 (by TCDD) and nuclear uptake of AhR, which was similar to that observed for Ah-responsive MDA-MB-468 breast and HepG2 liver cancer cell lines. Results of AhR and AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt) knockdown experiments in Panc1 and MiaPaCa2 cells demonstrated that omeprazole- and tranilast-mediated inhibition of invasion was AhR-dependent but Arnt-independent. These results demonstrate that in the most highly invasive subtype of pancreatic cancer cells (QM-PDA) the selective AhR modulators omeprazole and tranilast inhibit invasion through a nongenomic AhR pathway.
DIOXIN TOXIC EQUIVALENCY FACTOR EVALUATION OVERVIEW: Polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) have the ability to bind to and activate the ligand-activated transcription factor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). Structurally related compounds that bind to the AhR and exhibit biological actions similar to TCDD are commonly referred to as "dioxin-like compounds" (DLCs). Ambient human exposure to DLCs occurs through the ingestion of foods containing residues of DLCs that bioconcentrate through the food chain. Due to their lipophilicity and persistence, once internalized they accumulate in adipose tissue resulting in chronic lifetime human exposure. Since human exposure to DLCs always occurs as a complex mixture, the Toxic Equivalency Factor (TEF) methodology has been developed as a mathematical tool to assess the health risk posed by complex mixtures of these compounds. The TEF methodology is a relative potency scheme that ranks the dioxin-like activity of a compound relative to TCDD that is the most potent congener. This allows for the estimation of the potential dioxin-like activity of a mixture of chemicals, based on a common mechanism of action involving an initial binding of DLCs to the AhR. The toxic equivalency of DLCs was nominated for evaluation, because of the widespread human exposure to DLCs and the lack of data on the adequacy of the TEF methodology for predicting relative potency for cancer risk. To address this, the National Toxicology Program conducted a series of 2-year bioassays in female Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats to evaluate the chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity of DLCs and structurally-related polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and mixtures of these compounds. 3,3',4,4',5-Pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB 126) was produced commercially before 1977 for the electric industry as a dielectric insulating fluid for transformers and capacitors. Manufacture and use of the chemical was stopped because of increased PCB residues in the environment, but it continues to be released into the environment through the use and disposal of products containing PCBs, as by-products during the manufacture of certain organic chemicals, and during combustion of some waste materials. Bioaccumulation of PCB 126 results in persistent levels in animal and human tissues and the biological responses to PCB 126 are similar to those of TCDD, a known human carcinogen. PCB 126 was selected for study by the National Toxicology Program as a part of the dioxin TEF evaluation to assess the cancer risk posed by complex mixtures of polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (PCDDs), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), and PCBs. The dioxin TEF evaluation includes conducting multiple 2-year rat bioassays to evaluate the relative chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity of DLCs, structurally related PCBs, and mixtures of these compounds. PCB 126 was included since this is the most potent coplanar PCB that has dioxin-like activities. While one of the aims of the dioxin TEF evaluation was a comparative analysis across studies, in this Technical Report only the results of the PCB 126 study are presented and discussed. Female Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats were administered PCB 126 (99% pure) in corn oil with acetone by gavage for 14, 31, or 53 weeks or 2 years. 2-YEAR STUDY: Groups of 81 female rats were administered 30, 100, 175, 300, 550, or 1,000 ng PCB 126/kg body weight in corn oil:acetone (99:1) by gavage, 5 days per week, for up to 104 weeks; a group of 81 vehicle control female rats received the corn oil/acetone vehicle alone. A group of 28 rats received 10 ng/kg for up to 53 weeks only. Up to 10 rats per group were evaluated at 14, 31, or 53 weeks. A stop-exposure group of 50 female rats was administered 1,000 ng/kg PCB 126 in corn oil:acetone (99:1) by gavage for 30 weeks then the vehicle for the remainder of the study. Mean body weights of 30 and 100 ng/kg rats were similar to those of the vehicle controls during most of the study, mean body weights of 175 and 300 ng/kg rats were less than those of the vehicle controls during year 2 of the study, and mean body weights of 550 ng/kg, 1,000 ng/kg core study, and 1,000 ng/kg stop-exposure rats were less than those of the vehicle controls after week 17. THYROID HORMONE CONCENTRATIONS: Alterations in serum thyroid hormone levels were evaluated at the 14-, 31- and 53- week interim evaluations. In the 550 and 1,000 ng/kg rats, total thyroxine (T4) and free T4 were significantly lower than vehicle controls and serum triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels were significantly higher than vehicle controls at the 14-week interim evaluation. Serum T3 was also significantly higher in the 300 ng/kg rats compared to vehicle controls at 14 weeks. At 31 weeks, T3 was significantly higher at doses of 100 ng/kg or greater compared to vehicle controls. TSH levels were higher in 550 and 1,000 ng/kg rats than in vehicle controls. At 53 weeks, significantly lower serum concentrations of total T4 and free T4 were observed compared to vehicle controls in groups administered 175 ng/kg or greater and 30 ng/kg or greater, respectively. Serum T3 levels were significantly higher at doses of 175 ng/kg or greater compared to vehicle controls. No changes in TSH were observed between vehicle controls and dosed rats at 53 weeks. HEPATIC CELL PROLIFERATION DATA: To evaluate hepatocyte replication, analysis of labeling of replicating hepatocytes with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine was conducted at the 14-, 31-, and 53-week interim evaluations. The hepatocellular labeling index was significantly higher at doses of 300 ng/kg or greater at 14 weeks and 175 ng/kg or greater at 31 weeks compared to vehicle controls. No statistically significant differences were observed between vehicle controls and PCB 126 dosed rats at 53 weeks. However at 53 weeks, a 5.8-fold increase above the vehicle controls was observed in the 1,000 ng/kg group. CYTOCHROME P450 ENZYME ACTIVITIES: To evaluate the expression of known dioxin-responsive genes, CYP1A1 associated 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activity and CYP1A2-associated acetanilide 4-hydroxylase (A-4-H) activity were evaluated at the 14-, 31-, and 53-week interim evaluations. In addition, CYP2B associated pentoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (PROD) activity was also analysed. Hepatic PROD (CYP2B1) and hepatic and pulmonary EROD (CYP1A1) activity were significantly greater in all dosed groups than in vehicle controls at weeks 14, 31, and 53. Hepatic A-4-H (CYP1A2) activity was significantly greater in the 30, 100, 175, 300, 550, and 1,000 ng/kg groups compared to vehicle controls at weeks 14, 31, and 53. DETERMINATIONS of PCB 126 CONCENTRATIONS IN TISSUES: The tissue disposition of PCB 126 was analyzed in the liver, lung, fat, and blood of all rats in vehicle controls and all dosed groups at the 14-, 31-, and 53-week interim evaluations and in 10 rats per group including vehicle controls at the end of the 2-year study (104 weeks). Detectable concentrations of PCB 126 were observed in the liver, fat, lung, and blood. Measurable concentrations of PCB 126 were present in the liver and fat at weeks 31, 53, and 104. Hepatic and fat concentrations increased with increasing doses of PCB 126. Measurable concentrations of PCB 126 were present in vehicle control lung tissue at 53 and 104 weeks. No PCB 126 was observed in the blood from the vehicle control rats. Lung and blood concentrations tended to increase with increasing doses of PCB 126, with a few exceptions. In the stop-exposure group, PCB 126 concentrations in liver and fat were lower than the levels observed in the 30 ng/kg group. In the stop-exposure group, lung tissue PCB 126 concentrations were equivalent to the levels observed in the 30 ng/kg group. In blood from the stop-exposure group, PCB 126 concentrations were equivalent to the levels observed in the 100 ng/kg group. PATHOLOGY AND STATISTICAL ANALYSES: Absolute and relative liver weights were significantly increased at all time points and correlated with increased incidences of hepatocellular hypertrophy. At 2 years, there were significant treatment-related increases in the incidences of cholangiocarcinoma and hepatocellular adenoma. Three hepatocholangiomas were seen in the 1,000 ng/kg core study group and a single incidence of cholangioma each occurred in the 550 and 1,000 ng/kg core study groups. At 2 years, a significant dose-related increase in hepatic toxicity was observed and was characterized by increased incidences of numerous lesions including hepatocyte hypertrophy, multinucleated hepatocytes, diffuse fatty change, bile duct hyperplasia, bile duct cyst, oval cell hyperplasia, necrosis, pigmentation, inflammation, nodular hyperplasia, portal fibrosis, cholangiofibrosis, and toxic hepatopathy. The incidences of these lesions were generally decreased in the 1,000 ng/kg stop-exposure group compared to the 1,000 ng/kg core study group. The lung weights of 1,000 ng/kg rats were generally significantly increased at weeks 14, 31, and 53. At 2 years, treatment related increases in the incidences of cystic keratinizing epithelioma and squamous cell carcinomas were observed. In addition, dose-related increases in the incidences of bronchiolar metaplasia of the alveolar epithelium and squamous metaplasia were also observed. The incidence of gingival squamous cell carcinoma of the oral mucosa was significantly increased in the 1,000 ng/kg core study group at 2 years. Gingival squamous cell carcinoma, although reduced in incidence as compared to the 1,000 ng/kg core study group, was still present in the 1,000 ng/kg stop-exposure group. At 2 years, adenomas and/or carcinomas were present in the adrenal cortex of most core study groups and in the 1,000 ng/kg stop-exposure group. Dose-related effects on the incidences of adrenal cortex atrophy and cytoplasmic vacuolization were also seen. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
A female infant suffered from epilepsy since the neonatal period, which evolved into West syndrome at the age of 2 months. Spasms in series and hypsarrhythmia disappeared after treatment with high-dose phenobarbital; however, single spasms persisted with right-sided predominance, and polyspike activity in the left parieto-temporal areas preceded or coincided with these spasms. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a small calcification in the right occipital area, and positron emission tomography showed hypometabolism over the right hemisphere. Widespread epileptic discharges gradually increased on electroencephalography (EEG) during sleep thereafter. The patient presented with daytime unresponsiveness at 1 year and 6 months, when diffuse, irregular spike and wave activity characterized the waking EEG. Spasms or brief tonic seizures with right-sided predominance were provoked by auditory stimuli during this period, particularly by her mother's voice, with ictal EEG of right posterior predominant fast activity and subsequent desynchronization. The administration of clobazam resulted in the marked improvement of EEG findings and transient disappearance of spasms. Presumably, certain patients with asymmetrical epileptic spasms may be regarded as a unique type of localization-related epilepsy, and can show an unusual course of evolution in comparison to other cases of epilepsy that evolve after West syndrome.
To detect the eventual ototoxicity of aminoglycoside treatments in neonates, we compared brain stem response audiometry (BSRA) recordings in 15 neonates treated i.m. with either Gentamicin or Tobramycin at conventional dosages to those of 14 neonates used as a control group. All babies were housed in incubators and were comparable in gestational age (from 29 to 42 weeks). At day 0, BSRA did not significantly differ in the two groups, 90 dB latencies of the prominent wave V measured at 8.51 +/- 0.99 ms in the treated babies and 7.89 +/- 0.84 ms in the controls (p > 0.10), respectively. After 5 days of aminoglycoside treatment, the latencies of the wave V dwelled on 9.13 +/- 1.90 ms while remaining at 7.75 +/- 1.11 ms in the control group (p < 0.01). At day 10 latencies reached 8.73 +/- 1.47 ms in treated babies as compared t 7.31 +/- 1.06 ms in controls (p < 0.01).
