Coumarin congeners are frequently being prescribed in vascular surgery. The complication most often seen in haemorrhage. A less known complication is necrosis of skin and soft tissues. This rare complication is potentially lethal. The etiology is unclear, a relation with protein C deficiency seems likely. Early treatment with vitamin K and heparin may prevent the skin necrosis. After necrosis has occurred, surgical intervention is usually necessary.
Hyperglycemia is associated with advanced glycation end products (AGEs). Recently, AGEs were found to cause pancreatic damage, oxidative stress, and hyperglycemia through the AGE receptor. Carboxymethyllysine (CML) is an AGE but whether it induces pancreatic dysfunction remains unclear. Graptopetalum paraguayense, a vegetable consumed in Taiwan, has been used in folk medicine and is an antioxidant that protects against liver damage. We investigated the protective properties of G. paraguayense 95% ethanol extracts (GPEs) against CML-induced pancreatic damage. The results indicated that resveratrol, GPE, and gallic acid (the active compound of GPE) increased insulin synthesis via upregulation of pancreatic peroxisome proliferator activated-receptor-γ (PPARγ) and pancreatic-duodenal homeobox-1 (PDX-1) but inhibited the expression of CML-mediated CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-β (C/EBPβ), a negative regulator of insulin production. Moreover, resveratrol and GPE also strongly activated nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) to attenuate oxidative stress and improve insulin sensitivity in the liver and muscle of CML-injected C57BL/6 mice and resulted in reduced blood glucose levels. Taken together, these findings suggested that GPE and gallic acid could potentially be used as a food supplement to protect against pancreatic damage and the development of diabetes.
Salvia chinensia Benth (S. chinensia) is a medical plant that has been traditionally applied for centuries in the treatment of malignant diseases including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the scientific basis underlying its anti-HCC activity has not been fully established. In this study, the chemical profiles of total flavonoids from S. chinensia (TFSC) were explored. Thirteen compounds which constituted the major components of TFSC were separated and identified. Flow cytometry analysis and caspase activity assays showed that TFSC dose-dependently induced HepG2 and Huh-7 HCC cell apoptosis. TFSC was also shown to substantially suppress NF-κB activity in HCC cells. Moreover, TFSC significantly repressed transplanted murine H22 ascitic hepatic cancer cell growth in vivo. Further studies revealed that TFSC induced HCC cell apoptosis and inhibited expressional levels of NF-κB responsive genes in transplanted tumor tissues. In addition, the toxic impact of TFSC on tumor-bearing mice was undetectable. These results indicate that TFSC induces HCC cell apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo. The suppression of cellular NF-κB activity is implicated in the TFSC-mediated HCC cell apoptosis.
Nicotine, the major psychoactive component of cigarette smoke, modulates neuronal activity to produce Ca2+-dependent changes in gene transcription. However, the downstream targets that underlie the long-term effects of nicotine on neuronal function, and hence behaviour, remain to be elucidated. Here, we demonstrate that nicotine administration to mice upregulates levels of the type 2 ryanodine receptor (RyR2), a Ca2+-release channel present on the endoplasmic reticulum, in a number of brain areas associated with cognition and addiction, notably the cortex and ventral midbrain. Nicotine-mediated RyR2 upregulation was driven by CREB, and caused a long-lasting reinforcement of Ca2+ signalling via the process of Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release. RyR2 upregulation was itself required for long-term phosphorylation of CREB in a positive-feedback signalling loop. We further demonstrate that inhibition of RyR-activation in vivo abolishes sensitization to nicotine-induced habituated locomotion, a well-characterised model for onset of drug dependence. Our findings, therefore, indicate that gene-dependent reprogramming of Ca2+ signalling is involved in nicotine-induced behavioural changes.
Inadequate nutrient intake can influence the genome. Since methionine is an essential amino acid that may influence DNA integrity due to its role in the one-carbon metabolism pathway, we were interested in whether methionine imbalance can lead to genotoxic events. Adult female Swiss mice were fed a control (0.3% dl-methionine), methionine-supplemented (2.0% DL-methionine) or methionine-deficient (0% DL-methionine) diet over a 10-week period. Chromosomal damage was assessed in peripheral blood using a micronucleus test, and DNA damage was assessed in the liver, heart and peripheral blood tissues using a comet assay. The mRNA expression of the mismatch repair genes Mlh1 and Msh2 was analyzed in the liver. The frequency of micronucleus in peripheral blood was increased by 122% in the methionine-supplemented group (p<0.05). The methionine-supplemented diet did not induce DNA damage in the heart and liver tissues, but it increased DNA damage in the peripheral blood. The methionine-deficient diet reduced basal DNA damage in liver tissue. This reduction was correlated with decreased mRNA expression of Msh2. Our results demonstrate that methionine has a tissue-specific effect because methionine-supplemented diet induced both chromosomal and DNA damage in peripheral blood while the methionine-deficient diet reduced basal DNA damage in the liver.
The effects of the benzodiazepines diazepam and midazolam on the rigidity produced by systemic administration of morphine (15 mg/kg i.p.) were studied in rats. The rigidity was recorded as a tonic activity from the gastrocnemius-soleus muscle of non-anesthetized rats in the electromyogram. Both diazepam (1-5 mg/kg i.p.) and midazolam (2.5 and 5 mg/kg i.p.), when administered 45 min after morphine, temporarily antagonized the muscular rigidity. When the competitive antagonist Ro 15-1788 (ethyl-8-fluoro-5, 6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazo[1,5a]-[1,4]benzodiazepine-3 -carboxylate) (5 mg/kg i.p.) was administered together with diazepam (5 mg/kg i.p.), it prevented the effect of diazepam, although by itself it did not affect the morphine-induced muscular rigidity. Our results suggest that diazepam, by acting on benzodiazepine receptors, can antagonize the morphine-induced muscular rigidity. The latter phenomenon might serve as a model for some types of muscular rigidity observed in humans.
To find inherited causes of autism-spectrum disorders, we studied families in which parents share ancestors, enhancing the role of inherited factors. We mapped several loci, some containing large, inherited, homozygous deletions that are likely mutations. The largest deletions implicated genes, including PCDH10 (protocadherin 10) and DIA1 (deleted in autism1, or c3orf58), whose level of expression changes in response to neuronal activity, a marker of genes involved in synaptic changes that underlie learning. A subset of genes, including NHE9 (Na+/H+ exchanger 9), showed additional potential mutations in patients with unrelated parents. Our findings highlight the utility of "homozygosity mapping" in heterogeneous disorders like autism but also suggest that defective regulation of gene expression after neural activity may be a mechanism common to seemingly diverse autism mutations.
The water-soluble fullerene derivative gamma-cyclodextrin bicapped C(60) [(gamma-CyD)(2)/C(60), CDF0] has several clinical applications, including use as a drug carrier to bypass the blood ocular barriers or a photosensitizer to treat tumors in photodynamic therapy. We have assessed the potential ocular toxicity of (gamma-CyD)(2)/C(60) and its aggregated derivatives induced by UVA and visible light in vitro in human lens epithelial cells (HLE B-3). Cell viability using the MTS assay demonstrated that 2 microM (gamma-CyD)(2)/C(60) was highly phototoxic to HLE B-3 cells with UVA irradiation, while no effect was observed in the presence of visible light or when maintained in the dark. In contrast, the aggregated derivative (CDF150) showed neither cytotoxicity nor any phototoxic effect even at 30 microM with either UVA or visible light irradiation. In lens cells treated with (gamma-CyD)(2)/C(60), phototoxicity was manifested as apoptosis. Singlet oxygen production measurement using the EPR/TEMP trapping technique determined that (gamma-CyD)(2)/C(60) (CDF0) efficiently produced singlet oxygen. The rate of singlet oxygen production decreased with increased aggregation, with no production by the fully aggregated sample formed after 150 min of heating (CDF150). UVA irradiation of HLE B-3 in the presence of (gamma-CyD)(2)/C(60) resulted in a significant rise in intracellular protein-derived peroxides. The singlet oxygen quenchers sodium azide and histidine each significantly protected lens cells against (gamma-CyD)(2)/C(60) photodamage, but lutein and Trolox (vitamin E) did not. Clearly, singlet oxygen is an important intermediate in the phototoxicity of monomeric (gamma-CyD)(2)/fullerene. Our results also demonstrate that UVA-blocking sunglasses can limit the ocular phototoxicity of this nanomaterial, while nontoxic endogenous antioxidants like lutein or Trolox cannot provide adequate protection.
Adverse cardiac events, typically long QT syndrome, have been reported in patients treated with the gastrointestinal prokinetic agent cisapride.
To analyze cases of cisapride-associated long QT syndrome and ascertain the degree of confidence in the diagnosis of long QT syndrome and the presence of risk factors.
Review of all cases reported to the manufacturer, health authorities, or in the medical literature as of October 1999.
Before review, specific definitions and a classification scheme were agreed upon. Each case was classified by confidence in the long QT syndrome diagnosis and the presence of recognized risk factors (cofactors) or other medical conditions that were listed as contraindications in the June 1998 United States labeling (labeled conditions).
Of 574 cases reviewed, 391 cases of long QT syndrome or isolated QT prolongation were confirmed. Most of these were classified as long QT syndrome with high (145, 37%) or medium (92, 23.5%) confidence in the diagnosis. Recognized cofactors were present in 262 (67%) cases. The proportion of cases with recognized cofactors rose with confidence in the diagnosis (P < 0.001) from 42.2% in the low-confidence group to 68.5% and 82.1% in the medium- and high-confidence groups, respectively. Conversely, the proportion of cases with other labeled conditions decreased with confidence in the diagnosis, from 33.3% for low confidence to 13% and 8.3% for medium and high confidence, respectively. Analysis of cases and prescribing data showed reporting rates decreased in studied months in 1999 compared with the average study period.
In most cases with high or medium confidence in the diagnosis of cisapride-associated long QT syndrome, recognized cofactors for long QT syndrome were present. The risk of cisapride-related long QT syndrome may be minimized by avoiding cofactors.
Problems with sexual function have been a long-standing concern in the treatment of hypertension and may influence the choice of treatment regimens and decisions to discontinue drugs. The Treatment of Mild Hypertension Study (TOMHS) provides an excellent opportunity for examination of sexual function and effects of treatment on sexual function in men and women with stage I diastolic hypertension because of the number of drug classes studied, the double-blind study design, and the long-term follow-up. TOMHS was a double-blind, randomized controlled trial of 902 hypertensive individuals (557 men, 345 women), aged 45 to 69 years, treated with placebo or one of five active drugs (acebutolol, amlodipine maleate, chlorthalidone, doxazosin maleate, or enalapril maleate). All participants received intensive lifestyle counseling regarding weight loss, dietary sodium reduction, alcohol reduction (for current drinkers), and increased physical activity. Sexual function was ascertained by physician interviews at baseline and annually during follow-up. At baseline, 14.4% of men and 4.9% of women reported a problems with sexual function. In men, 12.2% had problems obtaining and/or maintaining an erection; 2.0% of women reported a problem having an orgasm. Erection problems in men at baseline were positively related to age, systolic pressure, and previous antihypertensive drug use. The incidences of erection dysfunction during follow-up in men were 9.5% and 14.7% through 24 and 48 months, respectively, and were related to type of antihypertensive therapy. Participants randomized to chlorthalidone reported a significantly higher incidence of erection problems through 24 months than participants randomized to placebo (17.1% versus 8.1%, P = .025). Incidence rates through 48 months were more similar among treatment groups than at 24 months, with nonsignificant differences between the chlorthalidone and placebo groups. Incidence was lowest in the doxazosin group but was not significantly different from the placebo group. Incidence for acebutolol, amlodipine, and enalapril groups was similar to that in the placebo group. In many cases, erection dysfunction did not require withdrawal of medication. Disappearance of erection problems among men with problems at baseline was common in all groups but greatest in the doxazosin group. Incidence of reported sexual problems in women was low in all treatment groups. In conclusion, long-term incidence of erection problems in treated hypertensive men is relatively low but is higher with chlorthalidone treatment. Effects of erection dysfunction with chlorthalidone appear relatively early and are often tolerable, and new occurrences after 2 years are unlikely. The rate of reported sexual problems in hypertensive women is low and does not appear to differ by type of drug. Similar incidence rates of erection dysfunction in placebo and most active drug groups caution against routine attribution of erection problems to antihypertensive medication.
Transforming growth factor (TGF) beta(1)-Smads signal plays an important role in cardiac remodeling following myocardial infarction (MI). In addition, both angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) and angiotensin II type I receptor blocker (ARB) can effectively prevent left ventricular remodeling. The current study focused on whether the combination of ACEI and ARB is more beneficial for preventing ventricular remodeling and whether Smad proteins mediate this beneficial effect.
MI was induced by ligating the left anterior descending coronary artery in rats. Twenty-four hours after ligation, the survived rats were randomly divided into five groups and treated for 8 weeks: placebo group, ACEI group (benazepril 10 mg.kg(-1).d(-1)), ARB group (irbesartan 50 mg.kg(-1).d(-1)), ACEI + ARB group (benazepril 10 mg.kg(-1).d(-1) + irbesartan 50 mg.kg(-1).d(-1)) and control group (sham-operated rats). After 8 weeks, we examined the following indexes: the ratio of ventricular weight to body weight (VW/BW), left ventricular end diastolic dimension (LVDd), ejection fraction (EF), fractional shortening (FS), ratio of E-wave to A-wave velocity, collagen of noninfarcted zone, the mRNA expression of TGFbeta(1), Smad 2, and Smad 3 by RT-PCR in noninfarcted zone, the protein expression of Smad 2 and Smad 3 in noninfarcted zone by Western blot.
VW/BW significantly increased in the placebo groups compared with that in the control group (P < 0.01). This increase was limited in ACEI, ARB, and combined groups (P < 0.01 compared with placebo group). There was no significant difference among the three actively treated groups. Collagen was increased in placebo group (5.68 +/- 0.5)% compared with that in control group (P < 0.01). ACEI, ARB and combined treatment attenuated this increase of collagen [(4.3 +/- 0.5)%, (3.5 +/- 0.5)%, (3.2 +/- 0.4)%] in comparison with that in placebo group (P < 0.01 respectively). Combined treatment showed more significant effect on collagen deposition. EF and FS significantly decreased, LVDd and E/A significantly increased in placebo group compared with that in control group (P < 0.01 respectively). ACEI, ARB and combined treatment ameliorated these indexes (P < 0.01 compared with placebo group). The mRNA expression of TGFbeta(1), Smad 2, and Smad 3 (0.700 +/- 0.045, 0.959 +/- 0.037 and 0.850 +/- 0.051) increased in placebo group compared with that in control group (P < 0.01). ACEI, ARB and combined treatment normalized the increase (P < 0.01). Furthermore, ARB and combined treatment proved to be more effective in decreasing TGF beta(1) and Smad mRNA expression than ACEI treatment (P < 0.01). The expression of Smad 2 and Smad 3 protein increased in placebo group compared with that in control group (P < 0.01). ACEI, ARB and combined treatment normalized the increase (P < 0.01). Furthermore, ARB and combined treatment proved to be more effective than ACEI alone (P < 0.01).
TGFbeta(1)-Smads signal activation is correlated with ventricular remodeling following MI. ACEI and ARB treatment prevents ventricular remodeling by inhibiting expression of Smad 2 and Smad 3. ARB and combined treatment are more effective than ACEI alone.
Thrombolytic therapy for acute ischemic stroke has been approached cautiously because there were high rates of intracerebral hemorrhage in early clinical trials. We performed a randomized, double-blind trial of intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) for ischemic stroke after recent pilot studies suggested that t-PA was beneficial when treatment was begun within three hours of the onset of stroke.
The trial had two parts. Part 1 (in which 291 patients were enrolled) tested whether t-PA had clinical activity, as indicated by an improvement of 4 points over base-line values in the score of the National Institutes of Health stroke scale (NIHSS) or the resolution of the neurologic deficit within 24 hours of the onset of stroke. Part 2 (in which 333 patients were enrolled) used a global test statistic to assess clinical outcome at three months, according to scores on the Barthel index, modified Rankin scale, Glasgow outcome scale, and NIHSS:
In part 1, there was no significant difference between the group given t-PA and that given placebo in the percentages of patients with neurologic improvement at 24 hours, although a benefit was observed for the t-PA group at three months for all four outcome measures. In part 2, the long-term clinical benefit of t-PA predicted by the results of part 1 was confirmed (global odds ratio for a favorable outcome, 1.7; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.2 to 2.6). As compared with patients given placebo, patients treated with t-PA were at least 30 percent more likely to have minimal or no disability at three months on the assessment scales. Symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage within 36 hours after the onset of stroke occurred in 6.4 percent of patients given t-PA but only 0.6 percent of patients given placebo (P < 0.001). Mortality at three months was 17 percent in the t-PA group and 21 percent in the placebo group (P = 0.30).
Despite an increased incidence of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage, treatment with intravenous t-PA within three hours of the onset of ischemic stroke improved clinical outcome at three months.
Doxorubicinol (dxol) is the major metabolite formed in the hearts of cancer patients being treated with the widely used chemotherapeutic agent, doxorubicin (dox). The well-documented cardiomyopathy associated with dox treatment has been studied in vitro and ex vivo providing evidence that the C-13 hydroxy metabolite, dxol, might play a key role in the development of dox-induced cardiotoxicity. In this report, we have developed transgenic mice with heart-specific expression of human carbonyl reductase (HCBR), an enzyme that metabolizes dox to dxol. Dox was rapidly converted to dxol in the hearts of the transgenic expressers, which led to advanced development of both acute and chronic cardiotoxicity. Acute cardiotoxicity was evident by a 60% increase in serum creatine kinase activity and a 5-fold increase in cardiac damage measured by electron microscopy. Myofibril degeneration was the major damage observed in acute dox toxicity. Electrocardiograph telemetry, survival data, and electron microscopy were monitored during chronic dox-induced cardiotoxicity. HCBR expressers developed cardiotoxicity 6-7 weeks before the nonexpressers. The HCBR expressers survived for 5 weeks compared with 12 weeks for the controls. Electrocardiograph profiles and necropsies showed the cause of death to be the development of cardiomyopathies leading to congestive heart failure. Levels of dxol were four times higher in the HCBR expresser hearts than in the nonexpressers. Electron microscopy data showed swelling and major structural damage of the mitochondria in the HCBR expressers. These data demonstrate that the C-13 hydroxy metabolite of dox advances the development of dox-induced cardiotoxicity in an in vivo system and suggest that heart carbonyl reductase activity may contribute to dox-induced cardiotoxicity in humans.
Fifteen patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery on the lower limbs were give continuous epidural anaesthesia with bupivacaine 0.75%. It was looked after changes in heart frequency, beat volume and changes in heart rhythm. Changes in cardiac output were investigated by ventriculography with 99mTC during 4 periods--10 min before and 10, 20 and 30 min after epidural blockade--the cardiac output was measured by a computer mathematically. Each patient received 2 mg/kg body weight of bupivacaine 0.75%. Besides the observation of blood pressure, heart rate and electrocardiogram the venous plasma levels of bupivacaine were measured up to 60 min after blockade. The results showed no changed in cardiac output. Except for one case with bradycardia--which could be treated with atropine--no changes in heart frequency occurred. Tachy- or bradycardia was not seen at all. Besides rare respiratory sinus arrhythmia no arrhythmia could be detected. The venous plasma levels of bupivacaine increased after 30 min up to 0.81 microgram/ml. The highest concentration measured was 1.45 microgram/ml 10 min after injection of bupivacaine. According to the results of the study the following statement can be given: Following bupivacaine 0.75% (2 mg/kg) given epidurally no changes in cardiac output, no changes in beat frequency, no pathological changes in cardiac rhythm and no specific cardiac toxicity related to bupivacaine 0.75% could be found in this study.
The safety of bupivacaine in respect of its cardiotoxicity has been discussed recently. Especially the concentration of bupivacaine 0.75% has been heavily criticized, first of all in obstetrical anaesthesia. Therefore two groups of patients receiving bupivacaine 0.5% and bupivacaine 0.75% were compared according to complications and side effects related to the local anaesthetic. 749 patients undergoing varicose vein stripping were divided in two groups: 371 patients received bupivacaine 0.5% with adrenalin 1:200,000 and 378 patients bupivacaine 0.75% with POR-8 (0.1 i.U./ml) for epidural anaesthesia. The average age was 46 years (20-71 y.). The average height 168 cm (149-196 cm), and the average weight 72 kg (40-99 kg). There were 68.7% female and 31.3% male patients in these groups. The anaesthesia charts of these patients were evaluated retrospectively. The incidence of hypotension, breadycardia, tachycardia, extrasystoles, vomiting and muscle twirching were taken as side effects. The two groups were compared. The results showed in relation to age, risk-grouping and the dosage/kg no evidence of an increased cardiotoxicity of the higher concentration of bupivacaine. Thus bupivacaine 0.75% does not show any increase in complications or side effects as long as its application is done correctly.
Atypical antipsychotics are commonly prescribed to clinically referred youngsters for treatment of heightened aggressive behavior associated with various psychiatric disorders. Previously, we demonstrated risperidone's anti-aggressive effects using a well-validated animal model of offensive aggression. Paliperidone, the main active metabolite of risperidone, is a potent serotonin-2A and dopamine-2 receptor antagonist with slightly different pharmacodynamic properties compared to risperidone. Given that much of risperidone's therapeutic efficacy is due to its active metabolite, paliperidone may effectively suppress aggression with fewer adverse side effects.
Investigate whether paliperidone administration would reduce heightened aggressive behavior induced by low-dose cocaine exposure in a developmentally sensitive model of offensive aggression.
Male Syrian hamsters (n = 12/group) were administered an acute dose of paliperidone (0.05, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.3 mg/kg) and then tested for aggressive behavior using the resident-intruder paradigm. To investigate the effects of chronic paliperidone administration, a separate set of animals (n = 12/group) was exposed to repeated paliperidone administration (0.1 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) during different developmental periods and varying lengths of time (1-4 weeks).
Experiment 1 results revealed a dose-dependent decrease in bite and attack behaviors with an effective dose observed at 0.1 mg/kg. In Experiment 2, the maximal reduction in aggressive behavior in response to chronic paliperidone treatment was observed in animals treated during the third week of adolescence, and this reduction occurred without concomitant alterations in non-aggressive behaviors.
These results support the specific aggression-suppressing properties of paliperidone and the potential use of this compound in the treatment of maladaptive aggression in clinical settings.
The present study was designed to determine the types of acetylcholine receptors involved in the initiation of epileptic seizures from the zona incerta and surrounding structures by cholinergic stimulation in rats. Unilateral intracerebral microinjection of the mixed muscarinic and nicotinic agonist carbachol (3 micrograms) produced generalized seizures in 12 of 20 rats studied. Local pretreatment with equimolar doses of acetylcholine receptor antagonists was used as a method of determining the receptor type involved in the initiation of cholinergically induced seizures in the rat diencephalon. Pretreatment with the M1 muscarinic receptor antagonist, pirenzepine (7 micrograms), abolished carbachol-induced seizures in 91% of the animals tested. The M2 muscarinic receptor antagonist, methoctramine (12 micrograms) and the nicotinic receptor antagonist, mecamylamine (3 micrograms), were relatively ineffective in antagonizing seizures in 9% and 27%, respectively. The results suggest that M1 muscarinic receptors are preferentially involved in the initiation of generalized epileptic seizures in the basal diencephalon of the rat.
Transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta1) is considered the key mediator in the process of liver fibrosis. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the activity of ribozymes against TGFbeta1 in a cell-free system and activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), and antifibrotic effect in activated HSCs in vitro and in rats.
Three ribozymes targeting against TGFbeta1 mRNA were designed, and then cloned into the U1 snRNA expression cassette. The chimeric ribozymes were selected for the analysis of their performances in activated HSCs through the detection of their cleavage activities in a cell-free system. After ribozyme-encoding plasmids had been transfected into HSC-T6 cells, the effects of ribozymes on activated HSCs were evaluated through the analysis of proliferation, activation and collagen deposition of HSC-T6. The adenoviral vector expressing the ribozymes was constructed, and then delivered into rat models of hepatic fibrosis induced by carbon tetrachloride.
TGFbeta1 expression was efficiently down-regulated in activated HSCs by U1 snRNA chimeric ribozymes which possessed perfect cleavage activity in a cell-free system. Further studies demonstrated that U1 snRNA chimeric ribozymes inhibited the synthesis of collagen I, reduced deposition of collagen I, suppressed BrdU incorporation, but had no effect on desmin and alpha-SMA expression in transfected HSC-T6 cells. Histological analysis demonstrated that the adenoviral vector expressing ribozyme (Rz803) could alleviate fibrotic pathology in rats treated with carbon tetrachloride.
The anti-TGFbeta1 ribozymes could reverse the character of activated HSCs in vitro and improve fibrotic pathology in vivo. It indicated that TGFbeta1 could be considered as a novel candidate for a therapeutic agent against hepatic fibrosis.
Intravenous recombinant (r)-hirudin has a potent antithrombotic effect in aspirin- and heparin-resistant platelet-dependent thrombus formation in baboon models. However, these thrombi reform when therapy is stopped after 60 minutes. To determine if 4 hours of therapy can produce a lasting antithrombotic effect, we investigated the extent of deposition of 111In-labeled platelets onto 0.5-cm2 segments of Dacron vascular grafts for 53 hours. These grafts had been incorporated into exteriorized permanent femoral arteriovenous shunts in baboons. Platelet deposition in eight untreated animals was generally sigmoidal. Maximum platelet deposition, 1.7% +/- 0.9% of injected labeled platelets, was reached after approximately 4 hours. Deposition then gradually decreased to 0.4% +/- 0.2% of injected labeled platelets after 53 hours. After a thrombus was allowed to form for 15 minutes in six animals, intravenous treatment with r-hirudin at a dose of 20 nmol (0.14 mg)/kg-min-1 (aPTT > 300 seconds) was started and maintained for 4 hours. Platelet deposition was interrupted during treatment. After infusion was stopped, platelets accumulated again, but not as much as in the untreated animals. Maximum platelet deposition, 0.7% +/- 0.2% of injected labeled platelets, was significantly less (P < .01), and was reached after approximately 23 hours. Thereafter, deposition decreased to 0.4% +/- 0.2% at 53 hours. The shunts in all of the untreated animals occluded at some stage during the study, while only one shunt occluded in the treated animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 54-year-old man presented with hypertensive crisis. He was found to have bilateral pheochromocytomas and left paraaortic sympathetic paraganglioma. Although he had no family history of paragangliomas or pheochromocytomas, he had been diagnosed with bilateral head and neck paragangliomas 10 years prior. The patient had symptoms of catecholamine excess exacerbated by vanilla ice-cream consumption. Biochemical testing revealed elevated plasma-free metanephrines and chromogranin A levels. Computed tomography showed bilateral carotid body tumors and four reteroperitoneal masses (two in the right adrenal, one in the left adrenal and one in the left paraaortic area). Metaiodobenzylguanidine-SPECT scans showed functional tumors in both the adrenal gland and left paraaortic area. Fluorine 18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography did not show any visceral or skeletal metastasis. We carried out gene mutation analysis for succinate dehydrogenase complex subunit B, and succinate dehydrogenase complex subunit D. The patient was diagnosed with hereditary paraganglioma syndrome type 1 with a previously unreported subunit D mutation in exon 3 (c.198G > A, p.W66X). He was treated with phenoxybenzamine at 10 mg/day and with metoprolol at 12.5 mg/day. His blood pressures as well as symptoms of catecholamine excess were controlled. He then underwent bilateral adrenalectomy and reteroperitoneal dissection. His blood pressure normalized and he discontinued antihypertensive medications after surgery. He is currently on replacement therapy with hydrocortisone and fludrocortisone.
Recent studies have shown an association of short-term exposure to fine particulate matter (PM) with transient increases in blood pressure (BP), but it is unclear whether long-term exposure has an effect on arterial BP and hypertension.
We investigated the cross-sectional association of residential long-term PM exposure with arterial BP and hypertension, taking short-term variations of PM and long-term road traffic noise exposure into account.
We used baseline data (2000-2003) on 4,291 participants, 45-75 years of age, from the Heinz Nixdorf Recall Study, a population-based prospective cohort in Germany. Urban background exposure to PM with aerodynamic diameter ≤ 2.5 μm (PM(2.5)) and ≤ 10 μm (PM(10)) was assessed with a dispersion and chemistry transport model. We used generalized additive models, adjusting for short-term PM, meteorology, traffic proximity, and individual risk factors.
An interquartile increase in PM2.5 (2.4 μg/m(3)) was associated with estimated increases in mean systolic and diastolic BP of 1.4 mmHg [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.5, 2.3] and 0.9 mmHg (95% CI: 0.4, 1.4), respectively. The observed relationship was independent of long-term exposure to road traffic noise and robust to the inclusion of many potential confounders. Residential proximity to high traffic and traffic noise exposure showed a tendency toward higher BP and an elevated prevalence of hypertension.
We found an association of long-term exposure to PM with increased arterial BP in a population-based sample. This finding supports our hypothesis that long-term PM exposure may promote atherosclerosis, with air-pollution-induced increases in BP being one possible biological pathway.
Hyperglycemia facilitates the formation of advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) in type-2 diabetes. Evidence indicates that carboxymethyl-lysine (CML) is highly prevalent in diabetes, resulting in hepatic fibrosis. The current study was designed to evaluate the effects of dimerumic acid (DMA) identified from Monascus-fermented products on receptor for AGEs (RAGE) signal and hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) activation by CML treatment. We found that DMA (50 μM) eliminated collagen generation, mRNA expressions of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), platelet-derived growth factor-β receptor (PDGF-βR), and procollagen 1a1 (proCol-1a1) in CML (100 μg/ml)-treated HSCs, and these effects were similar to allyl isothiocyanate (AITC; 50 μM). In addition, the suppression of α-SMA, PDGF-βR, proCol-1a1 by DMA were abolished while nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) silence in CML-treated HSCs. These findings suggested that DMA and AITC increased Nrf2 and glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL) activities thereby inhibiting oxidative stress caused by CML and showing anti-fibrogentic effect in HSCs.
Amphetamines induce stereotypy, which correlates with patch-enhanced c-Fos expression the patch compartment of caudate putamen (CPu). Methamphetamine (METH) treatment also induces patch-enhanced expression of prodynorphin (PD), arc and zif/268 in the CPu. Whether patch-enhanced activation of any of these genes correlates with METH-induced stereotypy is unknown, and the factors that contribute to this pattern of expression are poorly understood. Activation of mu opioid receptors, which are expressed by the neurons of the patch compartment, may underlie METH-induced patch-enhanced gene expression and stereotypy. The current study examined whether striatal mu opioid receptor blockade altered METH-induced stereotypy and patch-enhanced gene expression, and if there was a correlation between the two responses. Animals were intrastriatally infused with the mu antagonist CTAP (10 microg/microl), treated with METH (7.5 mg/kg, s.c.), placed in activity chambers for 3h, and then sacrificed. CTAP pretreatment attenuated METH-induced increases in PD, arc and zif/268 mRNA expression and significantly reduced METH-induced stereotypy. Patch-enhanced PD and arc mRNA expression in the dorsolateral CPu correlated negatively with METH-induced stereotypy. These data indicate that mu opioid receptor activation contributes to METH-induced gene expression in the CPu and stereotypy, and that patch-enhanced PD and arc expression may be a homeostatic response to METH treatment.
Preeclampsia (PE) and fetal growth restriction (FGR) contribute significantly to fetal and maternal morbidity and mortality. Although the causes of PE and FGR are not fully understood, both conditions are known to be associated with impaired uterine artery blood flow. Resveratrol, a polyphenol found in a number of plants, has been shown to induce relaxation of uterine arteries in vitro as well as improve many pathological conditions associated with PE and FGR. We hypothesized that treatment of endothelial nitric oxide synthase knockout mice (eNOS⁻/⁻) and catechol-O-methyltransferase knockout mice (COMT⁻/⁻) with resveratrol during pregnancy would improve uterine artery blood flow and therefore ameliorate the PE-like phenotype and FGR in these murine models. Pregnant C57BL/6J, eNOS⁻/⁻ and COMT⁻/⁻ mice received either resveratrol supplemented diet (4 g/kg diet) or control diet between gestational day (GD) 0.5 and GD 18.5. Resveratrol supplementation significantly increased uterine artery blood flow velocity and fetal weight in COMT⁻/⁻ but not in eNOS⁻/⁻ mice. There were no effects of resveratrol on litter size and placental weight among the groups. In conclusion, resveratrol increased uterine artery blood flow velocity and fetal weight in COMT⁻/⁻ mice, suggesting potential as a therapeutic strategy for PE and FGR.
As AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) controls protein translation, an anti-hypertrophic effect of AMPK has been suggested. However, there is no genetic evidence to confirm this hypothesis. We investigated the contribution of AMPKalpha2 in the control of cardiac hypertrophy by using AMPKalpha2-/- mice submitted to isoproterenol. The isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy, measured by left ventricular mass and histological examination, was significantly higher in AMPKalpha2-/- than in WT animals. Moreover, the intensification of cardiac hypertrophy found in AMPKalpha2-/- mice can be linked to the abnormal basal overstimulation of the p70 ribosomal S6 protein kinase, an enzyme known to regulate protein translation and cell growth. In conclusion, this work shows that AMPKalpha2 plays a role of brake for the development of cardiac hypertrophy.
Certain sigma receptor ligands have been shown to block locomotor stimulation produced by cocaine at doses that do not have significant behavioral activity when given alone. Using a potent and selective ligand of sigma binding sites, 6-[6-(4-hydroxypiperidinyl)hexyloxy]-3-methylflavone (NPC 16377), we further investigated the influence of sigma ligands on additional behavioral and toxic effects of cocaine in mice. A behaviorally inactive dose of NPC 16377 shifted the dose-effect function for the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine to the right by a factor of 2.5. A higher dose of NPC 16377 produced an insurmountable blockade of this stimulant effect of cocaine. Prior exposure to cocaine enhances the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine (sensitization). NPC 16377 prevented the development of cocaine sensitization without producing behavioral effects of its own. However, NPC 16377 was unable to block the expression of sensitization in mice previously exposed to cocaine. NPC 16377 also did not consistently alter the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine or methamphetamine in rats discriminating either 3 or 10 mg/kg of cocaine, or 1 mg/kg of methamphetamine from saline. The potential phencyclidine-like behavioral effects of NPC 16377 were also evaluated. Unlike the NMDA channel ligand, dizocilpine, NPC 16377 did not increase responding under a fixed-interval schedule of food presentation in rats nor did it substitute for the discriminative stimulus effects of either 1.5 mg/kg of phencyclidine or 0.2 mg/kg of dizocilpine in rats discriminating these drugs from saline. NPC 16377 displayed limited but significant anticonvulsant activity against diazepam-sensitive cocaine convulsions. The lethal effects of higher doses of cocaine were neither significantly blocked nor enhanced in rats or mice with NPC 16377. These findings extend earlier observations on the cocaine-blocking effects of sigma ligands to a novel structure with exceptional selectivity for sigma sites. These data indicate that some sigma ligands may be capable of altering certain behavioral and toxic actions of cocaine without notable behavioral side effects as evidenced in preclinical tests. As such, these compounds may ultimately be useful in the treatment of cocaine abuse.
On February 1, 2011, in response to multiple news reports, the Michigan Department of Community Health (MDCH) contacted the Children's Hospital of Michigan Poison Control Center (PCC) regarding any reports of illness in the state caused by the use of recreational designer drugs sold as "bath salts." Unlike traditional cosmetic bath salts, which are packaged and sold for adding to bath water for soaking and cleaning, the drugs sold as "bath salts" have no legitimate use for bathing and are intended for substance abuse. These products can contain stimulant compounds such as 3,4-methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV) or 4-methylmethcathinone (mephedrone). The PCC told MDCH that, earlier in the day, the PCC had learned that numerous persons had visited the local emergency department (ED) in Marquette County with cardiovascular and neurologic signs of acute intoxication. This report summarizes the subsequent investigation, which identified 35 persons who had ingested, inhaled, or injected "bath salts" and visited a Michigan ED during November 13, 2010-March 31, 2011. Among the 35 patients, the most common signs and symptoms of toxicity were agitation (23 patients [66%]), tachycardia (22 [63%]), and delusions/hallucinations (14 [40%]). Seventeen patients were hospitalized, and one was dead upon arrival at the ED. The coordinated efforts of public health agencies, health-care providers, poison control centers, and law enforcement agencies enabled rapid identification of this emerging health problem. Mitigation of the problem required the execution of an emergency public health order to remove the toxic "bath salts" from the marketplace. Lessons from the Michigan experience could have relevance to other areas of the United States experiencing similar problems.
The cardioprotective effect of amlodipine, a long-acting dihydropyridine derivative, was studied in 2 experimental models of ischemia and reperfusion. Isolated and blood-perfused feline hearts were made globally ischemic for 60 minutes and then reperfused for 60 minutes. Alterations of left ventricular developed pressure and compliance were monitored in both amlodipine-treated hearts and saline-treated control animals. Changes in perfusion pressure indicated that amlodipine significantly reduced myocardial oxygen consumption and coronary vascular resistance. Furthermore, a progressive increase in resting left ventricular diastolic pressure indicated that amlodipine, administered before the onset of global ischemia, attenuated the development of ischemic contracture. Return of contractile function 60 minutes after reperfusion and maintenance of tissue concentrations of electrolytes were significantly better in the amlodipine-treated group than in the control animals. In intact canine hearts, regional myocardial ischemia was induced for 90 minutes, followed by 6 hours of reperfusion. Although the hemodynamic variables and the size of the region of risk did not differ significantly between treated animals and control animals, the infarct size was significantly smaller in the amlodipine-treated group than in the control animals, and a gradual reduction in coronary blood flow was observed in the control group that was prevented in the amlodipine group. A comparison of these findings with those observed with oxygen radical scavengers also is discussed. A detailed report of these studies was published in The American Journal of Cardiology (1989;64:101I-116I). This review is included here to maintain continuity of the symposium for the convenience of the reader.
Carbon tetrachloride (1 ml/kg body weight as a 1:1 mixture of CCl(4) and mineral oil) was orally administered to rats. After 12 h, the activity of plasma ALT (alanine aminotransferase) was significantly higher than that of the control group, and plasma ALT and AST (aspartate aminotransferase) activities significantly increased 24 h after CCl(4) administration. These results indicated that the necrotic process had initiated at about 12 h and developed thereafter. After 6-24 h of CCl(4) administration, the hepatic level of vitamin C, the most sensitive indicator of oxidative stress, decreased significantly, indicating that oxidative stress was significantly enhanced 6 h after CCl(4) intoxication and thereafter. Oral administration of vitamin E (1 ml/kg body weight as a 1:1 mixture of alpha-tocopherol and mineral oil) 12 h before CCl(4) administration caused a significant elevation of liver vitamin E level and ameliorated liver necrosis 24 h after CCl(4) intoxication based on plasma AST and ALT. Vitamin E also significantly restored the hepatic vitamin C concentration 12 and 24 h after CCl(4) intoxication, demonstrating that vitamin E functioned as an antioxidant. The liver vitamin E concentration was not changed by vitamin E supplementation to rats that did not receive CCl(4). This result indicated that vitamin E accumulated in the damaged liver. The activation of JNK, ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK took place 1.5 h after CCl(4) administration. Co-administration of alpha-tocopherol with CCl(4) did not affect these early changes in MAPKs.
Paclitaxel is a commonly used anticancer drug, but it frequently causes peripheral neuropathy. Neurotropin, a non-protein extract from inflamed rabbit skin inoculated with vaccinia virus, has been used to treat various chronic painful conditions. In the present study, we investigated the effect of neurotropin on the paclitaxel-induced neuropathy in rats. Repeated administration of paclitaxel induced mechanical allodynia, cold hyperalgesia, and motor dysfunction. These neuropathies were mostly reversed by the repeated administration of neurotropin. Furthermore, neurotropin ameliorated the paclitaxel-induced axonal degeneration in cultured PC12 and rat dorsal root ganglion cells, and in rat sciatic nerve. In addition, neurotropin did not affect the microtubule aggregation or anti-tumour effect induced by paclitaxel in the tumour cell lines or tumour cells-implanted mice. These results suggest that neurotropin reverses the paclitaxel-induced neuropathy without affecting anti-tumour activity of paclitaxel, and therefore may be useful for the paclitaxel-induced neuropathy in clinical settings.
