Sarcoidosis is a relatively common, chronic, multisystem disease of unknown origin. It most commonly affects young adults and usually manifests with bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy or pulmonary infiltrates. Alternatively, it may present with protean manifestations. It has been documented in all organs of the body, with the exception of the adrenal gland. We describe a male patient who presented with hepatic sarcoidosis, with a sclerosing cholangitis-like picture, but without any pulmonary involvement. He was treated with prednisolone and cyclophosphamide, the latter as a steroid-sparing agent. A few years later, renal adenocarcinoma developed. We postulate that this could be related to cyclophosphamide treatment. We present this case history for two reasons: (1) sarcoidosis, selectively affecting the liver and lymph nodes but not the lung, with its hepatic involvement mimicking sclerosing cholangitis, has not previously been reported: and (2) although long-term cyclophosphamide treatment is known to be associated with malignancy, there is only one previous report of its association with a renal adenocarcinoma.
The incidence of the insulin resistance syndrome has increased at an alarming rate worldwide, creating a serious challenge to public health care in the 21st century. Recently, epidemiological studies have associated the prevalence of type 2 diabetes with elevated body burdens of persistent organic pollutants (POPs). However, experimental evidence demonstrating a causal link between POPs and the development of insulin resistance is lacking.
We investigated whether exposure to POPs contributes to insulin resistance and metabolic disorders.
Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed for 28 days to lipophilic POPs through the consumption of a high-fat diet containing either refined or crude fish oil obtained from farmed Atlantic salmon. In addition, differentiated adipocytes were exposed to several POP mixtures that mimicked the relative abundance of organic pollutants present in crude salmon oil. We measured body weight, whole-body insulin sensitivity, POP accumulation, lipid and glucose homeostasis, and gene expression and we performed microarray analysis.
Adult male rats exposed to crude, but not refined, salmon oil developed insulin resistance, abdominal obesity, and hepatosteatosis. The contribution of POPs to insulin resistance was confirmed in cultured adipocytes where POPs, especially organochlorine pesticides, led to robust inhibition of insulin action. Moreover, POPs induced down-regulation of insulin-induced gene-1 (Insig-1) and Lpin1, two master regulators of lipid homeostasis.
Our findings provide evidence that exposure to POPs commonly present in food chains leads to insulin resistance and associated metabolic disorders.
Diisononyl phthalate (DINP), a principal plasticizer in many polyvinyl chloride products, has been shown to have an adjuvant effect on immunoglobulin (Ig) production in mice. However, the effects of DINP on allergic diseases have not been fully elucidated.
In the present study we investigated the effects of DINP on atopic dermatitis (AD)-like skin lesions induced by Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (Dp) in atopic-prone NC/Nga mice.
Mice were injected intradermally with Dp on their ears and were exposed to DINP (0, 0.15, 1.5, 15, or 150 mg/kg/day) intraperitoneally. We evaluated clinical scores, ear thickening, histologic findings, protein expression of cytokines/chemokines in the ear, and serum levels of Ig and histamine. Furthermore, we investigated the effects of DINP on bone-marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) or splenocytes in vitro. After exposure to DINP (0-100 microM), cells were evaluated for phenotype and function.
DINP aggravated AD-like skin lesions related to Dp. The aggravation was consistent with eosinophilic inflammation, mast cell degranulation, and thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) expression in the ear. DINP enhanced the expression of cell surface activation markers on BMDCs and their production of TARC/CCL17 (thymus- and activation-regulated chemokine) and MDC/CCL22 (macrophage-derived chemokine), as well as their capacity to stimulate Dp-specific T-cell proliferation. DINP also enhanced interleukin-4 production and Dp-stimulated proliferation of splenocytes.
DINP can aggravate AD-like skin lesions related to Dp. The mechanisms of the aggravation might be mediated, at least partly, through the TSLP-related activation of dendritic cells and by direct or indirect activation of the immune cells.
Wilson's disease (WD) is characterized by hepatic copper overload and caused by mutations in the gene encoding the copper-transporting P-type adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) ATP7B. ATP7B interacts with COMMD1, a protein that is deleted in Bedlington terriers with hereditary copper toxicosis. Here we characterized the implications of the interaction between COMMD1 and ATP7B in relation to the pathogenesis of WD.
Glutathione-S-transferase pull-down experiments, co-immunoprecipitations, immunofluorescence microscopy, site-directed mutagenesis, and biosynthetic labeling experiments were performed to characterize the interaction between COMMD1 and ATP7B and the effects of WD causing mutations.
COMMD1 specifically interacted with the amino-terminal region of ATP7B. This interaction was independent of intracellular copper levels and of the expression of the copper chaperone ATOX1. Four WD patient-derived mutations in this region of ATP7B significantly increased its binding to COMMD1. Two of these mutations also resulted in mislocalization and increased degradation rate of ATP7B. Although COMMD1 did not affect copper-induced trafficking of ATP7B, it markedly decreased the stability of newly synthesized ATP7B.
Our data implicate COMMD1 in the pathogenesis of WD and indicate that COMMD1 exerts its regulatory role in copper homeostasis through the regulation of ATP7B stability.
Chronic lithium therapy in patients with affective psychiatric disorders has been implicated as the cause of hypercalcemia and primary hyperparathyroidism. Our objective was to evaluate whether primary hyperparathyroidism was caused by an adenoma or four-gland hyperplasia. The medical records of 15 patients with affective psychiatric disorders who were treated with chronic lithium therapy from 1982 to 1997, all of whom were operated on for primary hyperparathyroidism, were reviewed. Data on age, symptoms, duration of lithium therapy, pre- and postoperative calcium levels, and parathyroid hormone levels were collected. Parathyroid histology for each patient was independently and blindly reviewed. The mean age was 58 +/- 10 years, the mean duration of lithium therapy 10.7 +/- 6 years, and the mean preoperative calcium level 11.7 +/- 0.5 mg/dl. All patients underwent bilateral neck exploration with selective resection of enlarged glands. Of the 15 patients, 14 (92%) had adenomas (11 single, 3 double), and 1 (8%) had four-gland hyperplasia. All patients were rendered eucalcemic, with a postoperative calcium level of 9.2 +/- 0.5 mg/dl ( p < 0.005). All patients resumed their lithium therapy, with 1 of 15 patients developing recurrent hyperparathyroidism 2 years following the first operation; this patient required reexploration, at which time an adenoma was resected. In our experience hyperparathyroidism in patients who have undergone prolonged therapy with lithium is associated with a high incidence of parathyroid adenomas versus four-gland hyperplasia. This suggests that lithium selectively stimulates growth of parathyroid adenomas in susceptible patients, who are best treated with adenoma excision rather than subtotal parathyroidectomy.
Psychotic symptoms that frequently occur in combat-related posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) complicate its pharmacotherapy. We hypothesized that war veterans with psychotic PTSD, resistant to prior antidepressant treatment, would respond well to 6 weeks of treatment with the atypical antipsychotic risperidone, given as a monotherapy.
Twenty-six male war veterans with psychotic PTSD (DSM-IV) completed the 6-week inpatient treatment with risperidone (2-4 mg/day) during the period from November 1999 through December 2002. The primary outcome measure was change from baseline to endpoint (6 weeks) in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total and subscale scores. Secondary outcome measures were changes in PTSD Interview (PTSD-I) and Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness scale (CGI-S) total and subscale scores. Clinical improvement was assessed by CGI-S, CGI-Improvement scale, and Patient Global Impression of Improvement scale, while adverse events were recorded by Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Symptoms Scale.
Treatment with risperidone for either 3 or 6 weeks in an open trial significantly reduced total and subscales scores on the PANSS and on the PTSD-I and CGI-S when compared to baseline scores in patients with psychotic PTSD.
Our preliminary data from the open trial indicate that risperidone decreased most of the psychotic and PTSD symptoms. Psychotic PTSD patients, unresponsive to antidepressant treatment, improved significantly after treatment for either 3 or 6 weeks with risperidone.
Exposure to air pollutants such as ozone (O(3)) induces airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) and airway inflammation. Toll-like receptors (TLR) are first-line effector molecules in innate immunity to infections and signal via adapter proteins, including myeloid differentiation factor-88 (MyD88). We investigated the sensing of ozone by TLR2, TLR4, and MyD88. Ozone induced AHR in wild-type (WT) C57BL/6 mice, but AHR was absent in TLR2(-/-), TLR4(-/-), and MyD88(-/-) mice. Bronchoalveolar lavage neutrophilia induced by ozone was inhibited at 3 h but not at 24 h in TLR2(-/-) and TLR4(-/-) mice, while in MyD88(-/-) mice, this was inhibited at 24 h. We investigated the expression of inflammatory cytokines and TLR2, TLR4, and MyD88 in these mice. Ozone induced time-dependent increases in inflammatory gene expression of keratinocyte chemoattractant (KC) and IL-6 and of TLR2, TLR4, and MyD88 in WT mice. IL-6 and KC expression induced by ozone was inhibited in TLR2(-/-), TLR4(-/-), and MyD88(-/-) mice. Expression of MyD88 was increased in TLR2(-/-) and TLR4(-/-) mice, while induction of TLR2 or TLR4 was reduced in TLR2(-/-) and TLR4(-/-) mice, respectively. TLR2 and TLR4 mediate AHR induced by oxidative stress such as ozone, while the adapter protein MyD88, but not TLR2 or TLR4, is important in mediating ozone-induced neutrophilia. TLR2 and TLR4 may also be important in regulating the speed of neutrophilic response. Therefore, ozone may induce murine AHR and neutrophilic inflammation through the activation of the Toll-like receptor pathway that may sense noninfectious stimuli such as oxidative stress.
A 17-year-old girl with acute pomyelocytic leukemia (APL) went into complete remission following Daunorubicin, Ara-C and ATRA chemotherapy for 1 month. Unfortunately, prolonged administration of ATRA 6 weeks later caused binocular diplopia with left abducent nerve paresis, which gradually disappeared upon withdrawal of ATRA. We propose that it is ATRA induced pseudotumour cerebri and present this case to discuss the relationship between the ATRA and pseudotumour cerebri.
This study evaluated the safety and lipid-altering efficacy of ezetimibe/simvastatin (E/S) coadministered with extended-release niacin (N) in patients with type IIa or IIb hyperlipidemia.
Current guidelines recommend consideration of combination drug therapy to achieve optimal low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering and broader lipid-altering effects when treating hypercholesterolemic patients at high risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular events.
In this 24-week multicenter, randomized, double-blind study, 1,220 type IIa or IIb hyperlipidemic patients were randomized to treatment with E/S (10/20 mg/day) + N (titrated to 2 g/day), or N (titrated to 2 g/day), or E/S (10/20 mg/day). Changes from baseline in LDL-C (primary) and other secondary variables were assessed in the completers and modified intent-to-treat populations.
Coadministered E/S with N resulted in significantly greater reductions in LDL-C, non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, apolipoprotein B, and lipid/lipoprotein ratios, compared with either agent alone (p < 0.001). The combination increased levels of apolipoprotein A-I and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol significantly more than E/S (p < 0.001), and reduced high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels significantly more than N (p = 0.005). A significantly greater percentage of patients discontinued the study in the N (25.0%) and N + E/S (23.3%) groups, compared with E/S (9.6%, p < 0.001) because of clinical adverse experiences (primarily flushing). Incidences of other clinical and laboratory adverse experiences (liver-, muscle-, and gastrointestinal-related) were similar for all groups.
Combination treatment with E/S plus N showed superior lipid-altering efficacy compared with N or E/S in type IIa or IIb hyperlipidemia patients and was generally well tolerated aside from N-associated flushing. This combination offers an effective, broad, lipid-altering therapy with improvements in lipid effects beyond LDL-C in these patients. (To Evaluate Ezetimibe/Simvastatin and Niacin [Extended Release Tablet] in Patients With High Cholesterol.
To illustrate the etiologic role of drugs and chemicals in the development of aplastic anemia, we analyzed 108 cases of aplastic anemia among 3,715 hematologic patients during a ten-year period at the hematology section of Istanbul Medical School. Among these 3,715 patients, 695 had leukemia, a result indicating the relative rarity of aplastic anemia as compared with leukemia. Of the 108 patients, 58.3% were male and 41.7% were female. Their ages ranged from six months to 82 years. Pancytopenia was severe in 42.6% of the patients, and moderate or mild in 57.4%. Bone marrow was hypocellular in 84 patients, normocellular in 16, and hypercellular in eight. In 52 (48.1%) of the patients with aplastic anemia, the following etiologic factors were implicated: benzene (25 patients), antirheumatic drugs (ten), chloramphenicol (four), chloramphenicol plus hepatitis or chromosome anomalies (two), thiamphenicol plus sulfonamide (one), antituberculous drugs (three), daraprim (three), insecticides (two), hepatitis (one), and sulfonamide (one). Data indicate that the degree of bone-marrow cellularity is not always related to functional capacity, and numerous agents may have etiologic roles in the development of aplastic anemia.
In this retrospective investigation into the possible causes of aplastic anemia, the charts of 360 patients with primary or secondary aplastic anemia were analyzed for clinical history, proof of diagnosis, possible etiology, and prognostic criteria. During the period of the study, the proportion of cases of aplastic anemia due to chloramphenicol, benzene, butazone, and sulfonamides decreased, whereas the proportion due to gold salts, penicillamine, amidopyrine, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole increased. No case of secondary aplastic anemia in recent years could be attributed with certainty to thiamphenicol; one possible case of thiamphenicol-induced aplastic anemia could have been due to exposure to other chemicals known to cause aplastic anemia. The disease course and mortality rate for secondary aplastic anemia are similar to those for primary aplastic anemia. The results of this study show the need for more careful investigation into the causes of all cases of aplastic anemia attributed to toxic agents or environmental factors.
Five of seven patients with chronic nonfluent aphasia and hemiparesis due to a focal ischemic infarction developed painful hemidystonia during treatment with a high dose of bromocriptine. All seven patients had cortical damage, but four also had basal ganglia and one thalamic involvement. While lesion location did not differ between dystonic and nondystonic patients, the dystonic patients had more weakness than those without dystonia.
A child with diphenylhydantoin hypersensitivity developed an associated interstitial nephritis. Circulating autoantibody of the IgG class which reacted with normal human tubular basement membrane was linearly deposited along host renal TBM. Cell-mediated immunity to the DPH antigen was also present. In addition, deposits of DPH were demonstrated along the renal TBM. It is suggested that initial alteration of host renal TBM by DPH deposition with secondary immune injury directed at the DPH-TBM antigen may have altered the TBM or uncovered new antigenic sites, rendering it susceptible to further injury on an autoimmune basis.
Carbamazepine (CBZ) has been reported to have an antidiuretic action, though it is not known how it produces this effect. This is a well recognized complication of CBZ therapy in adults. However this syndrome has been rarely observed in childhood. We present an epileptic child with fluid overload due to CBZ treatment who was referred with chest pain and cardiomegaly. Our patient developed fluid retention with cardiomegaly during treatment with CBZ alone at a normal dose and for a short time. To our knowledge this is the first case of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) due to CBZ therapy which has been observed to be associated with cardiomegaly.
Felbamate, a novel dicarbamate anticonvulsant that blocks the glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and protects the hippocampal slice from hypoxic damage, shows remarkably low toxicity in animals and in humans. Since most treatment of human cerebral ischemia will have to be delivered after the insult, we investigated the neuroprotective potency of post hoc felbamate in rat pups with bilateral carotid ligations exposed to an atmosphere of 6.5% O2 for 1 hour. Brain temperature was unaffected by surgery, hypoxia, or felbamate. Neuroprotection was greatest at 300 mg/kg, less effective at 200 and 400 mg/kg, and ineffective at 100 mg/kg. Post hoc felbamate (300 mg/kg) reduced the volume of infarction from 67% +/- 7% of neocortex in unmedicated rats to 32% +/- 8%, 51% +/- 12%, 38% +/- 19%, and 53% +/- 10% when given 0, 1, 2, and 4 hours after hypoxic exposure, respectively. By 6 hours, post hoc protection was no longer significant. Delayed neuronal necrosis in hippocampal granule cells was reduced from 156 +/- 33 neurons to 12 +/- 7 (0 hours, p < 0.01) and 37 +/- 17 (1 hour, p < 0.05). These effects were obtained at plasma concentrations (60 to 120 mg/ml) that have occasionally been reached without serious toxicity in human anticonvulsant trials. These data suggest that, in this animal model, felbamate given after a hypoxic-ischemic insult is effective in reducing cerebral infarction and extremely effective in preventing delayed neuronal necrosis, but that the window of opportunity for post hoc treatment is only 1 to 4 hours.
The influence of beta-blocker propranolol onto atherogenic properties of blood serum and to formation of myointimal thickening in rabbit aorta, which was caused by denudation, were investigated. The preparation was introduced per os in the dose 6 mg/kg. Culture of mouse peritoneal macrophages was used to estimate the atherogenic properties of the serum. Serum of propranolol-treated rabbits induced accumulation of cholesterol in cultivated cells. Propranolol also induced an increase of the thickness of aortic intima, lipid accumulation and increasing of cell's number in myointimal thickening. Thus, atherogenic effect of beta-blocker propranolol was found both in vitro and in vivo.
The detection of myocardial ischemia in patients with preexisting left bundle branch block (LBBB) remains problematic. Pharmacologic hyperemia with dipyridamole is now used routinely in such patients for detection of significant coronary artery disease. Little data exists on the prognostic value of cardiac nuclear scintigraphy in patients with preexisting LBBB. The purpose of our study was to determine the prognostic value of cardiac nuclear scintigraphy in patients with preexisting LBBB.
Ninety-six patients with preexisting LBBB underwent perfusion imaging between July 1987 and June 1995. Thirty-seven underwent planar 201Tl imaging, and 59 underwent SPECT sestamibi imaging. Images were interpreted by consensus of two experienced observers and classified as normal, abnormal low risk and abnormal high risk. Outcomes measured were survival, cardiac and noncardiac death. The final study group included 43 women and 53 men, aged 42-83 (mean 66 +/- 9). Average follow-up was 3.4 +/- 2.1 yr.
Of the 96 patients examined, 31 had normal scans, 39 had low-risk scans and 26 had high-risk scans. At the end of the study period, 27 patients with normal scans were still alive while 2 suffered cardiac death and 2 suffered noncardiac death. Of those with low-risk scans, 36 survived while 2 suffered cardiac death and 1 suffered noncardiac death. Finally, of those with high-risk scans, 17 survived while 8 suffered cardiac death and 1 suffered noncardiac death (chi-square test, p = 0.020).
Dipyridamole imaging is an important prognostic tool for predicting future cardiac events in patients with preexisting LBBB and aids in their risk stratification for coronary artery disease.
Mast cells (MCs) are abundant in fibrotic tissue, although their role in fibrogenesis remains obscure. Recent studies suggest MCs may produce basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). To evaluate the hypothesis that MC bFGF contributes to the fibrotic response in human interstitial lung disease, we studied lung tissue, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and serum in 1) idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, 2) chronic beryllium disease and sarcoidosis, 3) control subjects with no disease or who were beryllium sensitized with normal lung histology. Diseased subjects underwent clinical assessments to stage disease severity. We determined that most bFGF+ cells in lung interstitium are MCs and are most abundant in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Distribution of bFGF+ MCs matched that of extracellular matrix deposition and correlated with the extent of fibrosis morphometrically. Only one bFGF isoform (17.8 kd) was found in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and chronic beryllium disease lung tissues and interacted with heparin-like molecules in the lung. Using a human MC line, we verified that MCs express bFGF mRNA and protein that localizes to cytoplasmic granules. Clinically, bFGF concentrations in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and serum were highest in disease states and correlated with bronchoalveolar lavage cellularity and severity of gas exchange abnormalities, supporting a role for MC bFGF in the pulmonary fibrotic response and its clinical consequence.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) comprise a ubiquitous class of toxic substances associated with carcinogenic and tumor-promoting effects as well as neurotoxic properties in the brain. However, the effects of PCBs on the development of tumor metastases are not fully understood.
We evaluated the hypothesis that exposure to individual PCB congeners can facilitate the development of brain metastases in immunocompetent mice via the disruption of the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB).
C57/Bl6 mice were exposed to individual PCBs by oral gavage, and 48 hr later they were injected with luciferase-labeled K1735 M2 melanoma cells into the internal carotid artery. The development of metastatic nodules was monitored by bioluminescent imaging. In addition, we evaluated the functional permeability of the BBB by measuring permeability of sodium fluorescein across the brain microvessels. Expression and colocalization of tight junction (TJ) proteins were studied by Western blotting and immunofluorescence microscopy.
Oral administration of coplanar PCB126, mono-ortho-substituted PCB118, and non-coplanar PCB153 (each at 150 micromol/kg body weight) differentially altered expression of the TJ proteins claudin-5, occludin, and zonula occludens-1 in brain capillaries. These alterations were associated with increased permeability of the BBB. Most importantly, exposure to individual PCB congeners enhanced the rate of formation and progression of brain metastases of luciferase-tagged melanoma cells.
Our results show for the first time that exposure to individual PCBs can facilitate the formation of bloodborne metastases via alterations of the integrity of the brain capillary endothelium.
Until now, no effective systemic treatment options have been available for patients with unresectable advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In the Sorafenib Hepatocellular Carcinoma Assessment Randomized Protocol (SHARP), patients with unresectable advanced HCC with Child-Pugh liver function class A and who had not received prior systemic therapy, received either oral sorafenib (400 mg twice daily) or placebo until radiological and symptomatic progression. The two groups of patients were well balanced with respect to baseline characteristics. The study was stopped at the second planned interim analysis because of an advantage in the median overall survival (10.7 vs 7.9 months; hazard ratio: 0.69; 95% CI: 0.55-0.87; p < 0.001) and the median time to radiological progression (5.5 vs 2.8 months; p < 0.001) in the sorafenib arm. However, sorafenib was not able to increase the time to symptomatic progression. In terms of toxicity, there were more cases of diarrhea, weight loss, hand-foot skin reaction and hypophosphatemia among the patients receiving sorafenib, the majority of which were of grade 1 or 2 severity. The SHARP trial has demonstrated that sorafenib is effective in prolonging median survival and time-to-progression in patients with advanced HCC and that it is generally well tolerated with a manageable adverse events profile.
We recently reported that the main reason for the documented higher prevalence of arsenic-related skin lesions among men than among women is the result of less efficient arsenic metabolism.
Because smoking has been associated with less efficient arsenic methylation, we aimed to elucidate interactions between tobacco use and arsenic metabolism for the risk of developing skin lesions.
We used a population-based case-referent study that showed increased risk for skin lesions in relation to chronic arsenic exposure via drinking water in Bangladesh and randomly selected 526 of the referents (random sample of inhabitants > 4 years old; 47% male) and all 504 cases (54% male) with arsenic-related skin lesions to measure arsenic metabolites [methylarsonic acid (MA) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA)] in urine using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICPMS).
The odds ratio for skin lesions was almost three times higher in the highest tertile of urinary %MA than in the lowest tertile. Men who smoked cigarettes and bidis (locally produced cigarettes; 33% of referents, 58% of cases) had a significantly higher risk for skin lesions than did nonsmoking men; this association decreased slightly after accounting for arsenic metabolism. Only two women smoked, but women who chewed tobacco (21% of referents, 43% of cases) had a considerably higher risk of skin lesions than did women who did not use tobacco. The odds ratio (OR) for women who chewed tobacco and who had < or = 7.9%MA was 3.8 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.4-10] compared with women in the same MA tertile who did not use tobacco. In the highest tertile of %MA or %inorganic arsenic (iAs), women who chewed tobacco had ORs of 7.3 and 7.5, respectively, compared with women in the lowest tertiles who did not use tobacco.
The increased risk of arsenic-related skin lesions in male smokers compared with nonsmokers appears to be partly explained by impaired arsenic methylation, while there seemed to be an excess risk due to interaction between chewing tobacco and arsenic metabolism in women.
MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) metabolism is a major cause of MDMA-mediated hepatotoxicity. In this study the effects of MDMA and its metabolites on the glutathione system were evaluated. Glutathione (GSH/GSSG) levels and gene expression of glutamate cysteine ligase catalytic subunit (GCLC), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and pregnane X receptor (PXR) were compared in the immortalized human liver epithelial cell line THLE-Neo lacking phase I metabolism and primary rat hepatocytes expressing both phase I and II metabolism. Furthermore, we evaluated the potential protective effects of two antioxidants, N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC) and sulforaphane (SFN) in these cell systems. In THLE-Neo cells, the MDMA metabolite 3,4-dihydroxymetamphetamine (HHMA) significantly decreased cell viability and depleted GSH levels, resulting in an increased expression of GCLC and GST up to 3.4- and 2.2-fold, respectively. In primary rat hepatocytes, cell viability or GSH levels were not significantly affected upon MDMA exposure. GCLC expression levels where not significantly altered either, although GST expression was increased 2.3-fold. NAC counteracted MDMA-induced cytotoxicity and restored GSH levels. Phase II enzyme expression was also reverted. Conversely, SFN increased MDMA-induced cytotoxicity and GSH depletion, while GCLC and GST expression were significantly induced. In addition, PXR expression decreased after HHMA and MDMA exposure, while co-exposure to SFN induced it up to 3.6- and 3.9-fold compared to vehicle-control in the THLE-Neo cells and rat hepatocytes, respectively. Taken together, these data indicate that HHMA is a major factor in the MDMA-mediated hepatotoxicity through interaction with the glutathione system. The results of our study show that for MDMA intoxication the treatment with an antioxidant such as NAC may counteract the potentially hepatotoxicity. However, SFN supplementation should be considered with care because of the indications of possible drug-drug interactions.
Alpha-synuclein is a lipid-binding protein expressed in neurons and oligodendrocytes which is increased in Parkinson's disease. We identified two putative liver X receptor (LXR) response elements in the human alpha-synuclein gene and used synthetic (TO901317, GW3695) and physiological (27-hydroxycholesterol) LXR activators to assess regulation of alpha-synuclein. LXR ligands upregulated alpha-synuclein mRNA by two-five-fold in human SK-N-SH neurons and three-six-fold in human MO3.13 oligodendrocytes. Significant 50% to four-fold induction of alpha-synuclein protein was also detected. Under these conditions, mRNA for LXR-responsive gene ABCA1 was significantly upregulated 15-40-fold and 5-25-fold in neurons and oligodendrocytes, respectively. LXR may, therefore, contribute to the regulation of alpha-synuclein expression in neurons and oligodendrocytes.
The production of man-made nanoparticles for various modern applications has increased exponentially in recent years, but the potential health effects of most nanoparticles are not well characterized. Unfortunately, in vitro nanoparticle toxicity studies are extremely limited by yet unresolved problems relating to dosimetry. In the present study, we systematically characterized manganese (Mn) nanoparticle sizes and examined the nanoparticle-induced oxidative signaling in dopaminergic neuronal cells. Differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) studies revealed that Mn nanoparticles range in size from single nanoparticles (~25 nM) to larger agglomerates when in treatment media. Manganese nanoparticles were effectively internalized in N27 dopaminergic neuronal cells, and they induced a time-dependent upregulation of the transporter protein transferrin. Exposure to 25-400 μg/mL Mn nanoparticles induced cell death in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Mn nanoparticles also significantly increased ROS, accompanied by a caspase-mediated proteolytic cleavage of proapoptotic protein kinase Cδ (PKCδ), as well as activation loop phosphorylation. Blocking Mn nanoparticle-induced ROS failed to protect against the neurotoxic effects, suggesting the involvement of other pathways. Further mechanistic studies revealed changes in Beclin 1 and LC3, indicating that Mn nanoparticles induce autophagy. Primary mesencephalic neuron exposure to Mn nanoparticles induced loss of TH positive dopaminergic neurons and neuronal processes. Collectively, our results suggest that Mn nanoparticles effectively enter dopaminergic neuronal cells and exert neurotoxic effects by activating an apoptotic signaling pathway and autophagy, emphasizing the need for assessing possible health risks associated with an increased use of Mn nanoparticles in modern applications.
Genetic instability, including chromosomal imbalance, is important in the pathogenesis of lymphoproliferative disorders such as non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). DNA synthesis and methylation, which are closely linked to folate metabolism and transport, may be affected by polymorphisms in genes involved in these pathways. Folate metabolism polymorphisms have been linked to acute lymphoblastic leukemia and colorectal cancer. To evaluate whether genetic variation in folate metabolism and transport may have a role in determining the risk of developing NHL, we analyzed several polymorphisms using DNA obtained as part of a large U.K. population-based case-control study of lymphoma. Polymorphisms studied include methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) 677 C >T and 1298 A >C, methionine synthase (MTR) 2756 A>G, serine hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT1) 1420 C >T, thymidylate synthase (TYMS) 1494del6 and 28-bp repeat, and reduced folate carrier (RFC) 80 G >A. Increased risks for NHL [odds ratio (OR), 1.48; 95% confidence intervals (CI), 1.12-1.97], and marginal zone lymphoma (OR, 3.38; 95% CI, 1.30-8.82) were associated with the TYMS 2R/3R variant. Marginal increased risks were also observed for diffuse large B cell lymphoma with the TYMS homozygous 6 bp deletion (OR, 1.61; 95% CI, 0.99-2.60) and for follicular lymphoma with RFC 80AA (OR, 1.44; 95% CI, 0.94-2.22) and TYMS 28-bp repeat 2R/3R (OR, 1.45; 95% CI, 0.96-2.2). We observed no association between NHL and haplotypes for MTHFR or TYMS. These findings are somewhat inconsistent with those of others, but may reflect differences in circulating folate levels between study populations. Thus, further investigations are warranted in larger series with dietary information to determine the roles that genetics and folic acid status play in the etiology of lymphoma.
We hypothesized that flavonoid-induced glutathione (GSH) efflux through multi-drug resistance proteins (MRPs) and subsequent intracellular GSH depletion is a viable mechanism to sensitize cancer cells to chemotherapies. This concept was demonstrated using chrysin (5-25 μM) induced GSH efflux in human non-small cell lung cancer lines exposed to the chemotherapeutic agent, doxorubicin (DOX). Treatment with chrysin resulted in significant and sustained intracellular GSH depletion and the GSH enzyme network in the four cancer cell types was predictive of the severity of chrysin induced intracellular GSH depletion. Gene expression data indicated a positive correlation between basal MRP1, MRP3 and MRP5 expression and total GSH efflux before and after chrysin exposure. Co-treating the cells for 72 h with chrysin (5-30 μM) and DOX (0.025-3.0 μM) significantly enhanced the sensitivity of the cells to DOX as compared to 72-hour DOX alone treatment in all four cell lines. The maximum decrease in the IC(50) values of cells treated with DOX alone compared to co-treatment with chrysin and DOX was 43% in A549 cells, 47% in H157 and H1975 cells and 78% in H460 cells. Chrysin worked synergistically with DOX to induce cancer cell death. This approach could allow for use of lower concentrations and/or sensitize cancer cells to drugs that are typically resistant to therapy.
