The National Research Council has outlined the need for non-mammalian toxicological models to test the potential health effects of a large number of chemicals while also reducing the use of traditional animal models. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is an attractive alternative model because of its well-characterized and evolutionarily conserved biology, low cost, and ability to be used in high-throughput screening. A high-throughput method is described for quantifying the reproductive capacity of C. elegans exposed to chemicals for 48 h from the last larval stage (L4) to adulthood using a COPAS Biosort. Initially, the effects of exposure conditions that could influence reproduction were defined. Concentrations of DMSO vehicle <or=1% did not affect reproduction. Previous studies indicated that C. elegans may be influenced by exposure to low pH conditions. At pHs greater than 4.5, C. elegans reproduction was not affected; however below this pH there was a significant decrease in the number of offspring. Cadmium chloride was chosen as a model toxicant to verify that automated measurements were comparable to those of traditional observational studies. EC(50) values for cadmium for automated measurements (176-192 microM) were comparable to those previously reported for a 72-h exposure using manual counting (151 microM). The toxicity of seven test toxicants on C. elegans reproduction was highly correlative with rodent lethality suggesting that this assay may be useful in predicting the potential toxicity of chemicals in other organisms.
Crude ethanolic extract of Indian medicinal plant, Desmodium gangeticum (A001) and its three fractions-hexane (F002), n-butanol (F003) and aqueous (F004) were evaluated chemoprophylactically and chemotherapeutically against experimental visceral leishmaniasis in hamsters. Ethanolic extract showed 41.2+/-5.3% inhibition of parasite multiplication when administered at a dose of 250 mg/kgx2 on day -7 and +7 of Leishmania donovani challenge. Its n-butanol fraction exhibited better efficacy than the ethanolic extract to the tune of 66.7+/-6.1% inhibition when administered at similar dose schedule. But the other two fractions failed to exert any action prophylactically. F003 also imparted significant (P<0.001) non-specific resistance to peritoneal macrophages against Leishmania infection. F003 also showed moderate antileishmanial activity when tested against established infection of Leishmania donovani in hamsters but the rest three fractions failed to show any significant inhibition of parasite multiplication. These findings revealed that this plant has potential prophylactic and therapeutic efficacy against Leishmania infection and warrants detailed investigations on its possible immunopotentiatory actions.
Respiratory toxicity and lung injury following inhalation exposure to chemical warfare nerve agent soman was examined in guinea pigs without therapeutics to improve survival. A microinstillation inhalation exposure technique that aerosolizes the agent in the trachea was used to administer soman to anesthetized age and weight matched male guinea pigs. Animals were exposed to 280, 561, 841, and 1121 mg/m(3) concentrations of soman for 4 min. Survival data showed that all saline controls and animals exposed to 280 and 561 mg/m(3) soman survived, while animals exposed to 841, and 1121 mg/m(3) resulted in 38% and 13% survival, respectively. The microinstillation inhalation exposure LCt(50) for soman determined by probit analysis was 827.2mg/m(3). A majority of the animals that died at 1121 mg/m(3) developed seizures and died within 15-30 min post-exposure. There was a dose-dependent decrease in pulse rate and blood oxygen saturation of animals exposed to soman at 5-6.5 min post-exposure. Body weight loss increased with the dose of soman exposure. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and blood acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase activity was inhibited dose-dependently in soman treated groups at 24h. BAL cells showed a dose-dependent increase in cell death and total cell counts following soman exposure. Edema by wet/dry weight ratio of the accessory lung lobe and trachea was increased slightly in soman exposed animals. An increase in total bronchoalveolar lavage fluid protein was observed in soman exposed animals at all doses. Differential cell counts of BAL and blood showed an increase in total lymphocyte counts and percentage of neutrophils. These results indicate that microinstillation inhalation exposure to soman causes respiratory toxicity and acute lung injury in guinea pigs.
The optimal treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis is controversial. We report our experience managing Old World cutaneous leishmaniasis in a pediatric refugee clinic. Conventional amphotericin B therapy caused reversible renal failure in 2 of 3 children treated. The choice of treatment for cutaneous leishmaniasis needs to balance the risks of treatment against the likely cosmetic benefits of therapy.
In Parkinson's disease (PD), the long term use of L-DOPA results in major adverse effects including dyskinesia or abnormal involuntary movements. The present study focuses on the effect of the selective alpha(1) adrenoceptor antagonist HEAT (2-[[beta-(-4-hydroxyphenyl)ethyl]aminomethyl]-1-tetralone) in the 6-hydroxydopamine rat model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. We demonstrate that the selective alpha(1) adrenoceptor antagonist HEAT (1 and 2 mg kg(-1)), the alpha(2) adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (9 mg kg(-1)), and the nonselective beta(1)/beta(2) adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol (20 mg kg(-1)) alleviate dyskinetic movements induced by L-DOPA. Furthermore, the adrenoceptor antagonists at the doses used did not influence exploratory behavior in the open field system indicating that the antidyskinetic effect is not due to a reduction in general motor activity. Intrastriatal administration of the selective alpha(1) adrenoceptor agonist cirazoline via reverse in vivo microdialysis did not induce dyskinesia. Additionally, we measured plasma, brain, and CSF levels of HEAT. HEAT is a CNS active compound with a brain/plasma and CSF/plasma ratio of 4.29 and 0.15, respectively, which is appropriate for the investigation of alpha(1)-mediated mechanisms in CNS disorders. In conclusion, these results demonstrated for the first time that a alpha(1) adrenoceptor antagonist reduced L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in a rat model. Further studies assessing the risk benefit in comparison to existing therapies are needed before considering alpha(1) adrenoceptor antagonists as a target for the development of new antidyskinetic compounds.
Nitrosamines are carcinogens formed in the mammalian organism from amine precursors contained in food, beverages, cosmetics and drugs. The potent carcinogen, NNK, and the weaker carcinogen, NNN, are nitrosamines formed from nicotine. Metabolites of the nitrosamines react with DNA to form adducts responsible for genotoxic effects. We have identified NNK as a high affinity agonist for the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7nAChR) whereas NNN bound with high affinity to epibatidine-sensitive nAChRs. Diethylnitrosamine (DEN) bound to both receptors but with lower affinity. High levels of the alpha7nAChR were expressed in human small cell lung cancer (SCLC) cell lines and in hamster pulmonary neuroendocrine cells (PNECs), which serve as a model for the cell of origin of human SCLC. Exposure of SCLC or PNECs to NNK or nicotine increased expression of the alpha7nAChR and caused influx of Ca(2+), activation of PKC, Raf-1, ERK1/2, and c-myc, resulting in the stimulation of cell proliferation. Signaling via the alpha7nAChR was enhanced when cells were maintained in an environment of 10-15% CO(2) similar to that in the diseased lung. Hamsters with hyperoxia-induced pulmonary fibrosis developed neuroendocrine lung carcinomas similar to human SCLC when treated with NNK, DEN, or nicotine. The development of the NNK-induced tumors was prevented by green tea or theophylline. The beta-adrenergic receptor agonist, isoproterenol or theophylline blocked NNK-induced cell proliferation in vitro. NNK and nicotine-induced hyperactivity of the alpha7nAChR/RAF/ERK1/2 pathway thus appears to play a crucial role in the development of SCLC in smokers and could be targeted for cancer prevention.
Long-term feeding of mice with a diet containing griseofulvin results in the formation of Mallory bodies, keratin K8 and K18 containing aggregates in hepatocytes. These bodies are biochemically and morphologically identical to the Mallory bodies that emerge in several human liver disorders. The aim of this study was to examine the contribution of K8 and K18 and actin to Mallory body formation.
Mice were fed griseofulvin over a period ranging from 1 day to 20 months. Hepatocyte morphology was monitored by immunocytochemistry, gene expression by Northern and run-off transcription assays, and protein level by Western blotting.
Griseofulvin feeding induced a series of morphological alterations in hepatocytes that could be grouped into 3 phases: appearance of cholestasis during the first week (phase I), partial hepatocyte recovery at 3 months (phase II), and development of typical Mallory bodies after 3 to 5 months (phase III). All these cellular alterations were associated with perturbations in keratin and actin fibrillar status, coupled with increases in K8, K18 and actin mRNA steady-state level and, in K8 and K18 protein content. The transcriptional activity of the genes was not affected.
Perturbations in keratin and actin gene expression and fibrillar organisation constitute early events in the griseofulvin-induced pathological process that in the long-term leads to Mallory body formation. The higher keratin and actin mRNA levels reflect significant increases in mRNA stability taking place at the early phase of griseofulvin intoxication in hepatocytes.
A case of intermittent right bundle branch block due to digoxin intoxication is presented. The diagnosis was made by repeated electrocardiograms and elevated serum digoxin levels. The mechanism of intermittent right bundle branch block is discussed and the pertinent literature is reviewed.
Increasing doses of pilocarpine, 100-400 mg/kg, were given intraperitoneally to mice and the resulting behavioral, electroencephalographic and neuropathological alterations were studied. No behavioral phenomena were observed in mice treated with the lowest dose of pilocarpine. Occasional tremor and myoclonus of hindlimbs were found in animals which received pilocarpine in a dose of 200 mg/kg. At doses of 300, 325 and 350 mg/kg, pilocarpine produced a sequence of behavioral alterations including staring spells, limbic gustatory automatisms and motor limbic seizures that developed over 15-30 min and built up progressively into a limbic status epilepticus lasting for several hours. The highest dose of pilocarpine, 400 mg/kg, was generally lethal to mice. Pilocarpine produced both interictal and ictal epileptiform activity in the electroencephalogram (EEG). The earliest EEG alterations appeared in the hippocampus and then spread to cortical areas. EEG seizures started 10-15 min after injection of large doses of pilocarpine, 300-350 mg/kg. Ictal periods lasted for 1-2 min, recurred every 5-10 min and were followed by periods of depression of the EEG activity. By 30-45 min paroxysmal activity resulted in a status epilepticus. Examination of frontal forebrain sections with light microscopy revealed a widespread damage to several brain regions including the hippocampus, amygdala, thalamus, olfactory cortex, neocortex and substantia nigra. Scopolamine, 10 mg/kg, and diazepam, 10 mg/kg, prevented the development of convulsive activity and brain damage produced by pilocarpine. The results emphasize that excessive and sustained stimulation of cholinergic receptors can lead to seizures and seizure-related brain damage in mice. It is proposed that systemic pilocarpine in mice provides a useful animal model for studying mechanisms of and therapeutic approaches to temporal lobe epilepsy.
This study was undertaken to determine the association between amiodarone therapy and risk of complications of cardiac surgery in patients in the randomized placebo-controlled, double-blind Canadian Amiodarone Myocardial Infarction Arrhythmia Trial.
Prospectively collected data regarding postoperative complications in 82 patients who underwent cardiac surgery during Canadian Amiodarone Myocardial Infarction Arrhythmia Trial participation were analyzed; 36 patients were randomly assigned to receive amiodarone and 46 were assigned to receive placebo. Of the patients randomly assigned to receive amiodarone, 24 patients continued amiodarone treatment to within 7 days of the operation (active amiodarone group) and 12 patients had the amiodarone discontinued at least 7 days before the operation (discontinued amiodarone group).
The baseline characteristics of the three groups were similar. The risks of ventricular fibrillation, atrial fibrillation, and respiratory complications were similar. The risk of requiring an intra-aortic balloon pump was significantly increased by amiodarone (34.8% vs 16.7% vs 8.7% for active amiodarone, discontinued amiodarone, and placebo groups, respectively, P =.024). There was no significant difference in the use of temporary pacing. Neither the mean duration of stay in the intensive care unit nor the 7- and 30-days mortalities were affected by amiodarone.
Patients receiving long-term amiodarone treatment after myocardial infarction had a higher rate of intra-aortic balloon use after cardiac surgery. There was no increased risk of pulmonary complications, need for pacing, or death.
Flavonoids are polyphenolic compounds which display a vast array of biological activities and are among the most promising anti-cancer agents. The derivative of quercetin, 5,7,3'-trihydroxy-3,4'-dimethoxyflavone (THDF), is a natural flavonoid that inhibits cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in human leukemia cells. Here we show that THDF induces cell-cycle arrest in the M phase and inhibits tubulin polymerization. This was associated with the accumulation of cyclin B1 and p21(Cip1) , changes in the phosphorylation status of cyclin B1, Cdk1, Cdc25C, and MPM-2, and activation of the acidic sphingomyelinase (ASMase). Moreover, desipramine attenuated THDF-mediated cell death, indicating a crucial role of ASMase in the mechanism of cell death. In vivo studies on the athymic nude mouse xenograft model also confirmed that THDF inhibits growth of human leukemia cells and suggest that this compound may have therapeutic value.
We wanted to determine the frequency of side effects and compliance with mefloquine and chloroquine used for antimalarial prophylaxis in children 0 to 13 years compared with side effects in same-age children taking prophylactic chloroquine.
Subjects and treatment were identified by retrospective medical record review for children < or = 13 years not on other medications who visited a travel clinic between November 1997 and January 2000. Parents were interviewed via telephone in January through March 2000 regarding compliance and side effects.
We reviewed 286 records and contacted 190 of 286 parents (66%). Of these, 177 (93%) parents had first-hand knowledge about the child's compliance with the medication regimen and were interviewed. Subjects were 47% male (median age 6.3 years), contacted a median of 12.4 months (range 2.8 to 28 months) following their clinic visit. Of these, 148 (84%) were prescribed mefloquine, and 29, chloroquine with 77% (136/177) taking the prescribed antimalarial. Most children (30 of 41 [73%]) not receiving their prophylaxis traveled unprotected to endemic area. Sixteen subjects (12% of those taking antimalarials) reported side effects. Eleven of 115 subjects (10%) who took mefloquine, and 5 of 22 subjects (23%) who took chloroquine reported a side effect. Side effects for mefloquine included diarrhea, anorexia, vivid dreams, headache, changes in sleep, hallucinations, and vomiting with 2 subjects stopping mefloquine after seeking medical care. Side effects for chloroquine were headache, nausea, and changes in sleep. No child stopped taking chloroquine. Groups reporting or not reporting a side effect were similar for gender, age, travel destination, antimalarial prescribed, and elapsed time from clinic visit to telephone contact.
Side effects from antimalarial drug administration occurred in 10 to 23% of patients who took their medication but rarely resulted in stopping prophylaxis. Prescribed antimalarials were sometimes never given. Appropriate counseling on side effects and reasons for faithful administration should accompany antimalarial prophylaxis.
A 75-year-old woman developed fever, exanthema and nonoliguric renal failure 16 days after the beginning of Piperacillin treatment. Renal biopsy revealed lympho-plasma-cellular acute interstitial nephritis (AIN). A lymphocyte-transformation-test showed significant stimulation of patient's lymphocytes by Piperacillin. Corticosteroid-therapy correlated to clinical and renal improvement. Nevertheless the patient died of foudroyant septicemia caused by E. coli. Our report describes the first immunologically documented case of AIN following Piperacillin treatment.
INTRODUCTION & HYPOTHESIS: Determine if treatment of urge incontinence with tolterodine results in changes in bladder and/or urethral sensation using Current Perception Threshold (CPT) testing.
Women with >or=1 incontinence episode on 7-day diary were treated with 4 mg of long-acting tolterodine for 2-months. At baseline and 2-months, participants had CPT testing of the urethral and bladder at 3 frequencies 2000, 250, and 5 Hz. Baseline and post-treatment measures were compared using Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test.
Seventeen women underwent baseline CPT testing. Four discontinued medication due to side effects and did not have repeated testing. Urethral CPT at 250 Hz was lower after treatment (median 1.3 [Interquartile range .69-2.1] and .75 [.45-1.2], p = .003) and at 5 Hz trended toward a significant decrease (1.1 [1-1.9] and .84 [.32-1.1], p = .06).
Urethral sensitivity improves after 2-months of tolterodine, suggesting it may restore urethral sensory nerves in addition to known motor effects.
Cholestasis has been proposed as a side effect of interpleural bupivacaine. Therefore, the effects of various application techniques on liver enzymes were studied following ethics committee approval and informed patient consent.
Patients following scheduled thoracotomy and laparoscopic cholecystectomy were prospectively studied and randomized to the following application techniques of bupivacaine: Thoracic surgery. T0: Control (systemic analgesia only: patient-controlled analgesia with opioids; n = 26); T1: Repetitive intercostal blocks (10-20 mL 0.5% bupivacaine, 2-4 times per day for 3-6 days; n = 17); T2: Interpleural injections via a catheter placed intraoperatively (20 mL 0.25%, 4-6 times per day for 3-6 days, right: n = 25 or left: n = 12). Laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Intraperitoneal application (single injection). L0: 50 mL saline (Control) (n = 21). L1: 50 mL 0.125% bupivacaine (n = 18); L2: 50 mL 0.25% (n = 20). The serum concentrations of bilirubin, gamma-GT, alkaline phosphatase, leucine amino peptidase, glutamate oxalacetate transaminase, and glutamate pyruvate transaminase were measured preoperatively and on day 1, 3, and 7 postoperatively.
Neither application of plain bupivacaine was associated with significant changes in the postoperative concentration of hepatic enzymes. In particular, there was no difference between left- and right-sided interpleural application. Although increases in hepatic enzyme concentrations were observed in some patients postoperatively, this was similar in the bupivacaine and control groups.
Perioperative interpleural, intercostal, and intraperitoneal administration of bupivacaine was not associated with findings indicative of cholestasis in the early postoperative course.
The p63 gene, a homologue of the tumour-suppressor p53, is highly expressed in the basal or progenitor layers of many epithelial tissues. Here we report that mice homozygous for a disrupted p63 gene have major defects in their limb, craniofacial and epithelial development. p63 is expressed in the ectodermal surfaces of the limb buds, branchial arches and epidermal appendages, which are all sites of reciprocal signalling that direct morphogenetic patterning of the underlying mesoderm. The limb truncations are due to a failure to maintain the apical ectodermal ridge, a stratified epithelium, essential for limb development. The embryonic epidermis of p63-/- mice undergoes an unusual process of non-regenerative differentiation, culminating in a striking absence of all squamous epithelia and their derivatives, including mammary, lacrymal and salivary glands. Taken together, our results indicate that p63 is critical for maintaining the progenitor-cell populations that are necessary to sustain epithelial development and morphogenesis.
Extensive trials have indicated that cancer cells with high glycolytic activity exhibit decreased sensitivity to anticancer agents. Moreover, recent research has proven that specific inhibitors of hexokinase (HK) II, a key glycolytic enzyme, may enhance the activity of anticancer drugs. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect and mechanisms of HK II on chemosensitivity of a colon cancer cell line (LoVo) to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU).
HK II gene expression was downregulated by RNA interference in the colon cancer cell line LoVo, which was detected by Western blot analysis. Then the IC(50) value of 5-FU was determined in LoVo cells via MTT assay. In addition, cell apoptosis and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) were assessed by flow cytometry and caspase-3 activity by its substrate color reaction.
In LoVo cells, HK II downregulation resulted in a decreased IC(50) value of 5-FU and increased apoptosis. Furthermore, HK II downregulation resulted in a decreased MPP and activation of caspase-3.
Our findings suggest that targeting HK II may be beneficial for patients with colon cancer treated with 5-FU.
The clinical and hemodynamic effects of trinitrin (nitroglycerin) have been studied in 5 patients with long-established coronary artery disease who had been receiving long-term beta blockade therapy (propranolol). 5 similar patients not on propranolol acted as controls. Patients on propranolol reported as effective relief of angina with trinitrin as patients not on this therapy. Although the patients on propranolol had an initially lower systolic blood pressure and mean ventricular rate, sublingual trinitrin caused in both groups a similar fall in aortic pressure, pulmonary wedge pressure, oxygen consumption and stroke volume, together with a similar rise in ventricular rate. It was concluded that trinitrin was as effective, both subjectively and objectively, in patients on propranolol as in those without beta blockade and promoted similar side effects.
Forty-seven Italian patients suffering from hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and 58 patients with chronic active hepatitis (CAH) were screened for alpha 1-antitrypsin (alpha 1 AT) levels and types and compared with a previously screened healthy Italian population. Serum alpha 1 AT concentrations were significantly raised among the HCC patients compared to the controls, whereas the CAH group showed no differences. The incidence of non-M phenotypes (MS, MZ and S) is significantly higher in patients with HCC than in the CAH group and the controls. The mean age of HCC patients with a non-M phenotype is significantly lower than the mean age of HCC patients with an M phenotype.
The identification of human inflammatory cells that express inducible nitric oxide synthase and the clarification of the role of inducible nitric oxide synthase in human infectious or inflammatory processes have been elusive. In neutrophil-enriched fractions from urine, we demonstrate a 43-fold increase in nitric oxide synthase activity in patients with urinary tract infections compared with that in neutrophil-enriched fractions from noninfected controls. Partially purified inducible nitric oxide synthase is primarily membrane associated, calcium independent, and inhibited by arginine analogues with a rank order consistent with that of purified human inducible nitric oxide synthase. Molecular, biochemical, and immunocytochemical evidence unequivocally identifies inducible nitric oxide synthase as the major nitric oxide synthase isoform found in neutrophils isolated from urine during urinary tract infections. Elevated inducible nitric oxide synthase activity and elevated nitric oxide synthase protein measured in patients with urinary tract infections and treated with antibiotics does not decrease until 6-10 d of antibiotic treatment. The extended elevation of neutrophil inducible nitric oxide synthase during urinary tract infections may have both antimicrobial and proinflammatory functions.
Most hospitals lack a sufficient supply of atropine to treat, simultaneously, patients poisoned with multiple organophosphorous compound (OC) or nerve agent. The presence of a ubiquitous alternate antidote would prove useful if mass poisoning occurred. Our objective was to evaluate the effect of ophthalmic homatropine (Isopto Homatropine 5%) on survivability in a rat model of significant, acute OC poisoning.
Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized to one of five pre-treatment groups (N = 10 per group). Prior to experimentation, animals were pre-treated with intramuscular (IM) injections of either atropine 5 mg/kg, atropine 10 mg/kg, homatropine 10 mg/kg, or homatropine 20 mg/kg. The control group received 0.3 mL normal saline IM. Five minutes later, 25 mg/kg of dichlorvos was subcutaneously administered. Mortality rates were compared using Fisher's Exact test. Kaplan-Meier survival curves with Logrank analysis was also performed. If alive at 120 minutes, survival was assumed, and the study was terminated.
All rats pre-treated with normal saline, atropine 5 mg/kg, and homatropine 10 mg/kg died. Survival in the homatropine (20 mg/kg) and atropine (10 mg/kg) groups was 30% and 40% respectively. Times to death ranged between 4 and 12 minutes. Overall comparison of time to death revealed a statistically significant improvement for groups pre-treated with homatropine (20 mg/kg) and atropine (10 mg/kg).
Pre-treatment with homatropine (20 mg/kg) was comparable with atropine (10 mg/kg) in preventing lethality in this rat model of acute OC poisoning.
Gemcitabine, a pyrimidine analogue, is a cell cycle-specific antineoplastic agent that is structurally related to cytarabine. Major side effects of the treatment with gemcitabine are hepatic dysfunction, myelosuppression, renal impairment and pulmonary toxicity. Development of atrial fibrillation (AF) during gemcitabine treatment is very rare and was reported in only 2 case reports in the literature.
We report the case of a 65-year-old man who developed AF under gemcitabine therapy for non-small cell lung cancer (stage IIIB). In this patient, AF was intrinsically associated with chemotherapy administration which triggered arrhythmia.
Although AF caused by gemcitabine appears to be rare, patients at risk of developing atrial fibrillation should be closely monitored for this complication.
Treatment options for patients with hormone refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) showed unsatisfactory outcomes. Docetaxel-based combinations could offer more promising and tolerated results. A phase II trial was conducted with the combination of zoledronic acid, docetaxel and estramustine. Eligibility consisted of metastatic prostate adenocarcinoma with objective progression or rising prostate specific antigen levels (PSA) despite androgen deprivation therapy. Zoledronic acid was given at a dose of 4 mg on day 1, docetaxel (25 mg/m2) on days 1, 8 and 15, and estramustine orally at 140 mg two times daily on days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Twenty-seven patients were enrolled between October 2002 and November 2004. Median age was 68 years (53-83 years). A total of 124 cycles were administered with a median of 4.6 cycles per patient (1-8 cycles). The major toxicities were grades 1 to 3 anemia (55%), fatigue (15%), alopecia (11%) and hypocalcemia (11%). Two patients presented with deep venous thrombosis and died from pulmonary embolism. Another third patient died from Stevens-Johnson syndrome and grade 4 hepatic toxicity. Out of the 25 patients assessed for efficacy, 13 (52%) had a biologic response (>50% PSA decline). Three (21%) patients among the 14 with measurable disease had objective response: 1 complete response (CR) and 2 partial responses (PR). Response duration was 2 months for PR and 4 months for CR. A total of 12 patients (48%) experienced clinical benefit with pain reduction. This combination seemed effective; however toxic deaths especially from venous thrombosis counterbalanced the advantage of this regimen.
Myoclonus associated with cyclic antidepressant therapy has been considered to be a rare phenomenon. Ninety-eight patients who were to begin receiving cyclic antidepressant therapy were prospectively evaluated for myoclonus. Thirty patients experienced clinically insignificant drug-associated myoclonus. Nine patients had clinically significant myoclonus. The myoclonus was reversible with the discontinuation of therapy but tended to persist if medication changes were not made. None of the tested clinical variables were able to predict which patients would develop myoclonus.
We report the first successful carotid stent implant in a patient with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome who presented with recurrent neurologic deficits secondary to severe carotid stenosis. Argatroban anticoagulation was used for the carotid stent deployment. We also present laboratory data that document effective procedural anticoagulation.
In January and again in April 1985, a 30-year old woman received 150 mg injections of Depo-Provera for contraception. 3 days after the 2nd injection, she experienced blurred vision in both eyes and was diagnosed as having bilateral papilledema. Her vision improved after treatment with vitamin B1 and other drugs. But optic atrophy of the right eye and papilledema of the left eye remained. In July 1985, after an injection with Depo-Provera, her vision again worsened. The woman received no more Depo-Provera after this time. In early 1987, she was referred to Beijing's Tong Ren Hospital, where she was diagnosed as having bilateral ischemic papillopathy and optic atrophy. There have been few documented cases in medical literature of ocular complications related to use of contraceptives. In 1981, Petursson et al. reported a case of macula edema resulting from oral contraceptives. In animal studies, oral contraceptives have been linked to papilledema and retinal vein obstruction. The case reported here is the 1st to link use of Depo- Provera with ocular complications.
A single oral dose of 1.0 to 2.0 mg prazosin was given to 14 patients with congestive heart failure to assess its effect. Prazosin increased cardiac index (+27.5%) and decreased pulmonary arterial diastolic pressure (-29.1%), systemic vascular resistance (-27.7%), mean blood pressure (-11.8%), and double products (-12.9%). Plasma renin activity (¿.8%) and plasma concentrations of norepinephrine (+67.5%) and cyclic adenosine monophosphate (AMP) (+10.6%) rose. There was a negative correlation between plasma cyclic AMP concentration and the increase of plasma cyclic AMP concentration after prazosin (Y = -0.53X + 18.7). There were no changes in heart rate and plasma cyclic guanosine monophosphate concentration. The effects were maximum at 3 hr and lasted 5 hr. The results indicate that oral prazosin has a beneficial hemodynamic effect in patients with congestive heart failure, and that the pathologic effects of prazosin, "alpha-blocker." induces a rise in plasma renin activity as well as in plasma concentrations of norepinephrine and cyclic AMP.
