The pathogenesis of the motor fluctuations and dyskinesias that complicate levodopa treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD) remains uncertain. To evaluate the relationship between the degree of dopamine neuron loss and the severity of dyskinesias in a rodent model of PD, Sprague-Dawley rats were lesioned unilaterally using different doses of 6-hydroxydopamine injected into the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). All rats received two daily oral doses of levodopa for one month. In most of the animals chronic levodopa administration induced abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), which were in some respects similar to human dyskinesias. We found that a minimum dopamine cell loss of around 95% was required for the development of dyskinesias after one-month of levodopa treatment. Moreover, we observed a positive relationship between the percentage dopaminergic cell loss in the SNc and the severity of levodopa-induced AIMs.
Perfluorononanoic acid (PFNA) is a ubiquitous and persistent environmental contaminant. Although its levels in the environment and in humans are lower than those of perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) or perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), a steady trend of increases in the general population in recent years has drawn considerable interest and concern. Previous studies with PFOS and PFOA have indicated developmental toxicity in laboratory rodent models. The current study extends the evaluation of these adverse outcomes to PFNA in mice. PFNA was given to timed-pregnant CD-1 mice by oral gavage daily on gestational day 1-17 at 1, 3, 5 or 10mg/kg; controls received water vehicle. Dams given 10mg/kg PFNA could not carry their pregnancy successfully and effects of this dose group were not followed. Similar to PFOS and PFOA, PFNA at 5mg/kg or lower doses produced hepatomegaly in the pregnant dams, but did not affect the number of implantations, fetal viability, or fetal weight. Mouse pups were born alive and postnatal survival in the 1 and 3mg/kg PFNA groups was not different from that in controls. In contrast, although most of the pups were also born alive in the 5mg/kg PFNA group, 80% of these neonates died in the first 10 days of life. The pattern of PFNA-induced neonatal death differed somewhat from those elicited by PFOS or PFOA. A majority of the PFNA-exposed pups survived a few days longer after birth than those exposed to PFOS or PFOA, which typically died within the first 2 days of postnatal life. Surviving neonates exposed to PFNA exhibited dose-dependent delays in eye opening and onset of puberty. In addition, increased liver weight seen in PFNA-exposed offspring persisted into adulthood and was likely related to the persistence of the chemical in the tissue. Evaluation of gene expression in fetal and neonatal livers revealed robust activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARα) target genes by PFNA that resembled the responses of PFOA. Our results indicate that developmental toxicity of PFNA in mice is comparable to that of PFOS and PFOA, and that these adverse effects are likely common to perfluoroalkyl acids that persist in the body.
Arsenic (As) is a well known toxicity inducer. Recent investigations, however, showed that it might have some therapeutic application in cancer treatment. These dual roles of arsenic have attracted a renewed research in organ pathophysiology. In this study, we report that As administration (in the form of NaAsO(2) at a dose of 10mg/kg body weight for 2 days, orally) induces apoptosis in testicular tissue of the experimental rats by the activation of caspase-3 and reciprocal regulation of Bcl-2/Bad with the concomitant reduction of mitochondrial membrane potential and increased level of cytosolic cytochrome C. Arsenite has also been shown to induce activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), Akt as well as NF-kappaB (p65) in testicular tissue. In addition, As significantly decreased testicular Delta(5)-3beta-HSD and 17beta-HSD activities and reduced the plasma testosterone level, testicular sperm count and sperm motility. Besides, arsenite exposure increased the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), serum TNF-alpha, As accumulation and lipid peroxidation and decreased the activities of the antioxidant enzymes and glutathione in the testicular tissue. Oral administration of taurine (at a dose of 100mg/kg body weight for 5 days) was found to be effective in counteracting As-induced oxidative stress, attenuation of testicular damages and amelioration of apoptosis in testicular tissue by controlling the reciprocal regulation of Bcl-2/Bad, phospho-ERK1/2, phospho-p38, phospho-Akt and NF-kappaB. Taurine was also found to play similar beneficial role via mitochondrial dependent pathways in As-induced testicular damages leading to apoptotic cell death.
Atypical antipsychotics have been shown to improve disruptive and repetitive behaviors in pervasive developmental disorders (PDDs), but they require assessment of potential side effects. This is the first placebo-controlled trial of olanzapine in the treatment of children and adolescents with PDD. Eleven patients with a diagnosis of either autism, Asperger's syndrome, or PDD not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS) and aged 6-14 years were randomized into an 8-week double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel treatment study with olanzapine. There was a significant linear trend x group interaction on the Clinical Global Impressions- Improvement (CGI-I) and 50% on olanzapine versus 20% on placebo were responders. Olanzapine was associated with significant weight gain (7.5 +/- 4.8 lbs vs. 1.5 +/- 1.5 lbs on placebo). Olanzapine may be a promising treatment for improving global functioning of PDDs, but the risk of significant weight gain remains a concern. Additional studies are needed to determine the efficacy and safety of olanzapine in the treatment of children with PDD.
A variety of phenolic compounds are utilized in industry (e.g., for the production of phenol (PhOH)-formaldehyde resins, paints and lacquers, cosmetics, and pharmaceuticals). They can be toxic to skin, causing rash, dermal inflammation, contact dermatitis, depigmentation, and cancer promotion. The biochemical mechanisms for the dermal toxicity of phenolic compounds are not well understood. We hypothesized that topical PhOH exposure results in the generation of radicals, possibly via redox-cycling of phenoxyl radicals, which may be an important contributor to dermal toxicity via the stimulation of the induction and release of inflammatory mediators. To test this hypothesis, we (1) monitored in vivo the formation of PBN-spin-trapped radical adducts by ESR spectroscopy, (2) measured GSH, protein thiols, vitamin E, and total antioxidant reserves in the skin of B6C3F1 mice topically treated with PhOH, and (3) compared the responses with those produced by PhOH in mice with diminished levels of GSH. We found that dermal exposure to PhOH (3.5 mmol/kg, 100 microL on the shaved back, for 30 min) caused oxidation of GSH and protein thiols and decreased vitamin E and total antioxidant reserves in skin. The magnitude of the PhOH-induced generation of PBN-spin-trapped radical adducts in the skin of mice with diminished levels of GSH (pretreated with BCNU, an inhibitor of glutathione reductase, or BSO, an inhibitor of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase) was markedly higher compared to radical generation in mice treated with PhOH alone. Topical exposure to PhOH resulted in skin inflammation. Remarkably, this inflammatory response was accelerated in mice with a reduced level of GSH. Epidermal mouse cells exposed to phenolic compounds showed the induction of early inflammatory response mediators, such as prostaglandin E 2 and IL-1beta. Since dermal exposure to PhOH produced ESR-detectable PBN spin-trapped signals of lipid-derived radicals, we conclude that this PhOH-induced radical formation is involved in oxidative stress and dermal toxicity in vivo.
In our investigation,we used short-time model of myocardial infarction of rats induced by high dose of isoproterenol (ISP). We investigated cardiac troponin T blood level (cTnT) and histological characteristics of rat myocardium. ISP, single, intraperitoneal dose 250 mg/kg was given to male, adult, Wistar rats (n=12). Rats were distributed depending on their body weight in subgroups: ISP I (BW 260-280g) and ISP II (BW 250-400g).Control group (n=9) was treated with intraperitoneal dose of 0,95% NaCl. Cardiac TnT was measured by electrochemiluminiscence (ECLA) sandwich immunoassay in rat serum 4 hours after ISP application. Rats' hearts were dissected and examined by qualitative histological method (HE). Statistical significance was set at 0,05. There was significant difference in cTnT of ISP II (p=0,0001) vs. control and ISP I (p<0,05) vs. control. Significant difference was between ISP I and ISP II subgroups (p<0.001). The accent of histological changes of myocardium was on nuclei of cell. Cells showed acidophilic changes and nuclei disappearance as signs of coagulative necrosis development. Extensivity of histological changes were different between ISP I and ISP II subgroup. Used dose of ISP induced development of myocardial necrosis in rats. Subendocardial portion of myocardium was more vulnerability than subepicardial portion. Rats of ISP II had more extensive histological changes than these in ISP I. Administered doses of ISP enabled cTnT utilization as a marker of myocardial necrosis.
A growing body of evidence suggests HIV patients are at a greater risk for developing atherosclerosis. However, clinical investigations have generated conflicting results with regard to whether antiretrovirals are independently involved in the development of HIV-associated atherosclerosis. By administering antiretrovirals in an atherogenic mouse model, we determined whether two commonly prescribed antiretrovirals, the protease inhibitor indinavir and the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor AZT, can induce premature atherosclerosis. C57BL/6 mice were administered an atherogenic diet+/-AZT, indinavir, or AZT plus indinavir for 20 weeks. Aortic intima-media thickness (IMT) and cross-sectional area (CSA) were determined. Compared to controls, treatment with AZT, indinavir or AZT plus indinavir, significantly increased aortic IMT and CSA. This suggests that antiretrovirals can directly exacerbate atherogenesis, in the absence of interaction with a retroviral infection. To elucidate the role of oxidant injury in the drug-induced initiation of atherosclerosis, a separate group of mice were treated for 2 weeks with an atherogenic diet+/-AZT, indinavir or AZT plus indinavir. Aortic reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and glutathione/glutathione disulfide (GSH/GSSG) ratios, as well as plasma levels of 8-isoprostanes (8-iso-PGF(2alpha)) and lipids were determined. At 2 weeks, aortic ROS was increased and GSH/GSSG ratios were decreased in all antiretroviral treatment groups. Plasma 8-iso-PGF(2alpha) was increased in the AZT and AZT plus indinavir-treated groups. At 20 weeks, increased ROS production was maintained for the AZT and indinavir treatment groups, and increased 8-iso-PGF(2alpha) levels remained elevated in the AZT treatment group. Cholesterol levels were moderately elevated in the AZT and AZT plus indinavir-treated groups at 2 but not 20 weeks. Conversely, indinavir treatment increased plasma cholesterol at 20 but not 2 weeks. Thus, though effects on plasma lipid levels occurred, with effects of the individual antiretrovirals variable across the treatment period, there was consistent evidence of oxidant injury across both early and late time points. Together with the known metabolic abnormalities induced by antiretrovirals, drug-induced oxidant production may contribute to the development of antiretroviral-associated atherosclerosis.
Poly I:C (polyinosinic acid:polycytidylic acid), an analogue of dsRNA (double-stranded RNA), can lead to apoptosis in human cancer cells and has been used as an adjuvant to treat cancer patients. ATO (arsenic trioxide) is used effectively in the treatment of HCC (hepatocellular carcinoma). We sought to evaluate whether Poly I:C could enhance the potentiation of ATO in HCC. Combination of Poly I:C and ATO synergistically inhibited the growth of SMMC-7721 cells. Treatment with Poly I:C alone or combined with ATO-activated TLR3 (Toll-like receptor 3) pathway, increased ROS (reactive oxygen species) generation and mitochondrial dysfunction. The combined treatment also caused caspase-3, -8, -9 activation. Moreover, the combined therapy caused Bcl-2 and survivin down-regulation, Bax up-regulation and Bid activation. In conclusion, the Poly I:C and ATO combination is potentially a novel and effective approach for the treatment of HCC.
Lung cancer still remains the most frequent type of cancer all around the world and the leading cause of cancer-related death. Even if tobacco use takes a major part in etiology of lung cancer, other explanations like genetic and lifestyle factors, and occupational and/or environmental exposure to carcinogens have to be considered. Hence, in this study, we were interested in the ability of in vitro short-term exposure to air pollution Particulate Matter (PM) to induce genomic alterations in Dunkerque City's PM(2.5)-exposed human epithelial lung cells (L132). The occurrence of MicroSatellite (MS) alterations in 3p multiple critical regions (i.e. 3p14.1, 3p14.2, 3p14.3, 3p21.1, 3p21.31, and 3p21.32) identified as showing frequent allelic losses in benign or malignant lung diseases, was also studied in Dunkerque City's PM(2.5)-exposed L132 cells. Negative (i.e. TiO(2); desorbed PM, dPM), and positive (i.e. benzo[a]pyrene, B[a]P) controls were also included in the experimental design. Loss Of Heterozygosity (LOH) and/or MicroSatellite Instability (MSI) were reported 72h after L132 cell exposure to dPM (i.e. 61.71microg dPM/mL or 12.34microgdPM/cm(2)), PM (i.e. 75.36microgPM/mL or 15.07microgPM/cm(2)), or B[a]P (i.e. 1microM). In agreement with the current literature, such MS alterations might rely on the ability of dPM, PM or B[a]P to induce oxidative stress conditions, thereby altering DNA polymerase enzymes, enhancing DNA recombination rates, and inhibiting DNA repair enzymes. Hence, we concluded that the occurrence of dramatic MS alterations in 3p chromosome multiple critical regions could be a crucial underlying mechanism, which proceeded the lung toxicity in air pollution PM-exposed target L132 cells.
Sertoli cell junctional proteins (SCJP) (viz. adhesion, gap and tight junctions) are important for spermatogenesis and perturbations in expression of these proteins are associated with impairments in process of sperm production. Bisphenol A (BPA) is an endocrine disrupter that has been associated with impaired spermatogenesis. However the mechanistic basis of impaired spermatogenesis is unknown, whether BPA is a Sertoli cell toxicant has not yet been fully investigated.
The present study was undertaken to decipher the effects of neonatal exposure of male rats to BPA on fertility and its effect on the testicular expression of SCJP during development.
Neonatal male rats were s.c. injected with BPA at doses ranging from 0.6 to 10 microg/rat (100-1600 microg/kg bw of BPA) on post-natal days (PNDs) 1-5, and controls received vehicle. Diethylstilbestrol (DES) was used as a positive control. Male fertility was assessed during adulthood and the lowest dose of BPA that was most effective at impairing fertility was determined. Immunohistochemical localization for Connexin 43 (Cx-43, gap junctional), Zona Occludin-1 (ZO-1, tight junctions) and N-cadherin (adherens junction) was carried out on testicular tissue sections obtained from PNDs 15, 30, 45 and 90 of rats exposed to lowest dose of BPA that impaired fertility.
Females mated with male rats that were exposed neonatally to various concentrations of BPA showed a significant increase in post-implantation loss and a decrease in litter size. There were significant changes in sperm count along with hormonal imbalances in the rats exposed neonatally to BPA. The 2.4 microg dose (400 microg/kg bw) of BPA was determined as the lowest dose that was capable of impairing male fertility. A significant reduction in the expression of Cx-43 (PND 45 and 90) and increases in the expression of N-cadherin (PND 45 and 90) and ZO-1 (PND 90) were observed in the testes of rats exposed neonatally to effective dose of BPA. Interestingly, there was an altered expression pattern of Cx43 amongst the sloughed cells in the testes of the experimental rats as compared to controls.
Neonatal exposure of BPA to rats impairs their fertility and has the potential to induce perturbations in SCJP. These perturbations may be one of the contributing factors that lead to impairments in spermatogenesis in the exposed animals and can be used as potential biomarkers to study BPA-induced effects on testes.
A phase II clinical trial of epirubicin, a new anthracycline anticancer antibiotic, was carried out in 41 patients with inoperable or recurrent gastric cancer. Epirubicin was administered by i.v. injection; the dosages were either 40-60 mg/m2 every three weeks (Regimen A) or 20-30 mg/m2/day for 3 days every three weeks (Regimen B). Twenty-one patients were entered into Regimen A, and 20 into Regimen B. Of 31 evaluable patients, 16% (5/31) experienced objective response (PR); i.e., 20% (three of 15) treated with Regimen A and 13% (two of 16) with Regimen B, showing that there was no significant difference in the rate of response between the two regimens. Adverse effects observed were relatively mild in most cases and included anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, anorexia, nausea/vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis and alopecia. Tachycardia and extrasystole were observed in 3 cases but disappeared upon discontinuation of the treatment. In conclusion, epirubicin seemed to have therapeutic activity comparable to that of doxorubicin in gastric cancer while being less toxic than doxorubicin, and is expected to become a better alternative to the latter drug.
The misuse of anabolic androgenic steroids has in several reports been associated with effects resulting in altered behavior. This study used the Morris water maze task to investigate the effect of high doses of the anabolic androgenic steroid nandrolone on spatial learning and memory in male rats. During the experiment, we observed a significantly impaired Morris water maze performance in the nandrolone-treated rats compared with controls. The hippocampus, a brain region associated with cognitive function, was analyzed for mRNA expression of prodynorphin, the precursor of dynorphinergic peptides. The results indicated that the transcription levels of prodynorphin were significantly elevated in the animals treated with nandrolone compared with controls. Thus, the findings suggest that administration of nandrolone to male rats impairs memory function, possibly via dynorphinergic actions.
Observational studies have suggested that psychometric psychosis liability and a functional polymorphism in the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT Val(158)Met) gene moderate the psychosis-inducing effect of cannabis. To replicate and extend this finding, a double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over design was used in which patients with a psychotic disorder (n=30), relatives of patients with a psychotic disorder (n=12), and healthy controls (n=32) were exposed to Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta-9-THC, the principal component of cannabis) or placebo, followed by cognitive assessment and assessment of current psychotic experiences. Previous expression of psychometric psychosis liability was also assessed. Models of current psychotic experiences and cognition were examined with multilevel random regression analyses to assess (i) main effects of genotype and condition, (ii) interactions between condition and genotype, and (iii) three-way interactions between condition, genotype, and psychometric psychosis liability. Carriers of the Val allele were most sensitive to Delta-9-THC-induced psychotic experiences, but this was conditional on prior evidence of psychometric psychosis liability. Delta-9-THC impacted negatively on cognitive measures. Carriers of the Val allele were also more sensitive to Delta-9-THC-induced memory and attention impairments compared to carriers of the Met allele. Experimental effects of Delta-9-THC on cognition and psychosis are moderated by COMT Val(158)Met genotype, but the effects may in part be conditional on the additional presence of pre-existing psychosis liability. The association between cannabis and psychosis may represent higher order gene-environment and gene-gene interactions.
A patient with chest pain was found to have obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. After the first oral dose of propranolol, syncope developed together with atrioventricular block. An electrophysiologic study revealed an intermittent advanced (His-Purkinje) block within the atrioventricular conduction system. Caution is recommended when treatment is initiated in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in whom there is any suspicion of abnormalities in the atrioventricular conduction tissues.
Measurements of subjective feeling in 20 patients receiving fenfluramine alternating with placebo and in 19 patients receiving phentermine alternating with placebo indicated that depression of mood occurred four days after fenfluramine withdrawal but no such depression was seen with phentermine.
In a double-blinded study, we compared conventional dose tetracaine (8 mg), small-dose tetracaine (4 mg) with added fentanyl and epinephrine, and small-dose tetracaine (4 mg) with added fentanyl subarachnoid anesthesia. Forty-five patients scheduled for transurethral resection of prostate (TURP) under subarachnoid anesthesia were randomly assigned to Group 1 (8 mg hyperbaric tetracaine), Group 2 (4 mg hyperbaric tetracaine, 10 microg fen-tanyl, and 0.2 mg epinephrine), and Group 3 (4 mg hyperbaric tetracaine, 10 microg fentanyl, and 0.2 mL saline). Evaluations were performed after spinal anesthesia. Subarachnoid block was successful in all patients except one in Group 1, who required general anesthesia by mask. The median peak sensory levels 10 min after the induction of spinal anesthesia in Group 1 was T8, which was significantly higher than Group 2 and Group 3 (P < 0.05). The time of sensory and motor recovery in Group 3 was less than in Groups 1 and 2 (P < 0.05). Hypotension was observed in four patients in Group 1 and none in Groups 2 and 3. We conclude that small-dose 4-mg hyperbaric tetracaine plus 10 microg fentanyl might provide adequate anesthesia and fewer side effects for TURP when compared with the conventional (8 mg) dose.
Small-dose hyperbaric tetracaine (4 mg with 10 microg fentanyl added) may provide adequate anesthesia and fewer side effects for transurethral resection of the prostate.
Estradiol treatment regulates estrogen receptor (ER) level in normal rat liver. However, little information is available concerning the role of estrogen in regulating liver ER in hepatic fibrosis in rats. The present study was conducted to determine whether estradiol treatment in CCl4-induced liver fibrosis of female and ovariectomized rats altered liver ERalpha and its mRNA expression, and to investigate the possible mechanisms.
Seventy female rats were divided into seven groups with ten rats in each. The ovariectomy groups were initiated with ovariectomies and the sham operation groups were initiated with just sham operations. The CCl4 toxic fibrosis groups received 400 mL/L CCl4 subcutaneously at a dose of 2 mL/kg twice weekly. Estrogen groups were treated subcutaneously with estradiol 1 mg/kg, the normal control group and an ovariectomy group received injection of peanut oil vehicle twice weekly. At the end of 8 weeks, all the rats were killed to detect their serum and hepatic indicators, their hepatic collagen content, and liver ER and ER mRNA expression.
Estradiol treatment in both ovariectomy and sham ovariectomy groups reduced liver levels of ALT (from 658 +/- 220 nkat/L to 311 +/- 146 nkat/L and 540 +/- 252 nkat/L to 314 +/- 163 nkat/L, P<0.05) and AST (from 697 +/- 240 nkat/L to 321 +/- 121 nkat/L and 631 +/- 268 nkat/L to 302 +/- 153 nkat/L, P<0.05), increased serum nitric oxide (NO) level (from 53.7 +/- 17.1 micromol/L to 93.3 +/- 24.2 micromol/L and 55.3 +/- 23.1 micromol/L to 87.5 +/- 23.6 micromol/L, P<0.05) and hepatic nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity (from 1.73 +/- 0.71 KU/g to 2.49 +/- 1.20 KU/g and 1.65 +/- 0.46 KU/g to 2.68 +/- 1.17 KU/g, P<0.05), diminished the accumulation of hepatic collagen, decreased centrolobular necrotic areas as well as the inflammatory reaction in rats subjected to CCl4. The positive signal of ER and ER mRNA distributed in parenchymal and non-parenchymal hepatic cells, especially near the hepatic centrolobular and periportal areas. Ovariectomy decreased ER level (from 10.2 +/- 3.2 to 4.3 +/- 1.3) and ER mRNA expression (from 12.8 +/- 2.1 to 10.9 +/- 1.3) significantly (P<0.05). Hepatic ER and ER mRNA concentrations were elevated after treatment with estradiol in both ovariectomy (15.8 +/- 2.4, 20.8 +/- 3.1) and sham ovariectomy (18.7 +/- 3.8, 23.1 +/- 3.7) fibrotic groups (P<0.05).
The increase in hepatic ER and mRNA expression may be part of the molecular mechanisms underlying the suppressive effect of estradiol on liver fibrosis induced by CCl4 administration.
We observed two patients who developed coma following administration of valproate in dosages of 32 to 40 mg/kg per day. Valproate levels were within the therapeutic range, and results of liver function studies were normal. Both patients had ketosis and adipic aciduria. Plasma free carnitine levels were decreased during coma and after recovery. One patient excreted ethylmalonic acid, butyrylcarnitine, and glutarylcarnitine during and after resolution of coma, suggesting a multiple acyl coenzyme A dehydrogenation defect. Low serum carnitine levels may predispose patients to development of altered consciousness when treated with valproate.
Following loss of functional renal mass due to acute injury, there is significantly increased proliferation of tubular epithelium to replace injured and necrotic cells. In contrast, following uninephrectomy, the contralateral kidney increases in size primarily by hypertrophy, with little cellular proliferation. We and others have demonstrated only modest increases in renal protooncogene expression following uninephrectomy. In this study, we demonstrate markedly elevated expression of the protooncogenes c-fos, c-myc, c-Ki-ras, and c-Ha-ras following acute renal injury induced by a single large parenteral dose of folic acid. The expression of these genes occurs in a sequential pattern similar to that seen in proliferating cells in culture and in regenerating liver. In addition, we demonstrate elevated levels of histone H4 and beta-actin mRNAs consistent with increased cell proliferation. These data suggest that the molecular mechanisms regulating cell proliferation in the kidney are similar to those in regenerating liver and in cultured cells. In addition, it appears that these events are regulated normally after acute renal injury and following uninephrectomy, since in both instances the levels of protooncogene expression correlate with the degree of cell proliferation. This is in direct contrast to a pathologic renal condition, polycystic kidney disease, in which the level of protooncogene expression is out of proportion to the degree of cell proliferation. Further studies of the molecular correlates of acute renal injury may yield insight into the pathogenesis of this and other clinically important renal disorders.
1 BRL 34915 (0.04-1.3 microM) caused concentration-dependent inhibition of spontaneous phasic spasms of the isolated uterus of the term pregnant rat and this effect was not antagonized by propranolol. Spasms evoked by low concentrations of KCl (less than 20 mM) were inhibited by BRL 34915 but those evoked by higher concentrations (greater than 40 mM) were unaffected. 2 In experiments using extracellular electrical recording, BRL 34915 (10 microM) selectively inhibited oxytocin-induced phasic spasms and the associated spike activity but had little effect on the tonic component of the spasms. BRL 34915, as an inhibitor of phasic spasms to oxytocin (0.2 nM), was antagonized by procaine (0.3 and 1 mM). 3 BRL 34915 (10 microM) did not inhibit Ca2+-induced spasm of saponin-skinned thin myometrial strips. 4 Intracellular microelectrode recording from myometrial strips showed that BRL 34915 (10 microM) inhibited action potentials and phasic spasms in the presence of oxytocin (0.2 nM) and produced a hyperpolarization of 5 mV. 5 In single myometrial cells under current or voltage clamp, BRL 34915 (10 microM) had no effect on action potentials and inward current in Ca2+- or Ba2+-containing media in the presence of tetraethylammonium, 4-aminopyridine and caesium chloride. In the absence of these K+-channel inhibitors, BRL 34915 had no effect on resting membrane potential, membrane resistance, action potential, inward current or outward current. 6 BRL 34915 (1 or 10 microM) had no effect on 86Rb efflux from myometrial strips. 86Rb efflux was increased by oxytocin (0.2 and 20 nM). 7 The relaxant profile of BRL 34915 in the rat uterus is similar to that described for other smooth muscles where an action to open membrane K+-channels has been proposed. BRL 34915 inhibited spike production but produced only a small hyperpolarization without a detectable increase in 86Rb efflux. Membrane resistance and transmembrane currents were unaffected. These results suggest that in the uterus the effects of BRL 34915 may be restricted to K+-channels involved in the production of pacemaker activity.
Fomivirsen sodium is a 21-base phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide complementary to the messenger RNA of the major immediate-early region proteins of human cytomegalovirus, and is a potent and selective antiviral agent for cytomegalovirus retinitis. Following intravitreal administration, fomivirsen is slowly cleared from vitreous with a half-life of approximately 55 hours in humans. Preclinical studies show that fomivirsen distributes to retina and is slowly metabolised by exonuclease digestion. Clearance from retina was shown to be similarly slow following loading from the vitreous. The estimated half-life for clearance of fomivirsen from retina was 78 hours in monkeys following a 115-microg dose. Because of the low doses coupled with slow disposition from the eye, measurable concentrations of drug are not detected in the systemic circulation following intravitreal administration. Systemically administered phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides are highly bound to albumin and alpha2-macroglobulin in blood plasma. Because fomivirsen does not compete for oxidative metabolic processes involved in clearance of many xenobiotics, the most likely mechanism for drug interactions may be altered protein binding of a coadministered drug. The extremely low systemic exposure to this oligodeoxynucleotide following intravitreal administration largely negates its potential ability to interact with systemically administered drugs. Even if fomivirsen were able to access the blood, protein binding assays indicate that drugs that are site I and site II binders of albumin (warfarin, ibuprofen, salicylic acid) are not displaced in the presence of phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides of various sequences at concentrations orders of magnitude higher than that seen for fomivirsen. Administration of fomivirsen with numerous systemically administered antiretrovirals (for example zidovudine and zalcitabine) as well as systemically administered anticytomegalovirus agents such as foscarnet and ganciclovir has been reported to be well tolerated. The only reported warning is a recommendation against administration within 2 to 4 weeks of cidofovir treatment due to an increased risk of ocular inflammation.
The aim of this study was to report preliminary data on the effectiveness and tolerability of ramelteon for the treatment of insomnia in youth with autistic disorder (autism).
Two youths, ages 7 and 18 years, with autism and significant insomnia characterized by problems with sleep onset and maintenance received an open-label trial of ramelteon (4-8 mg) over a duration of 16-18 weeks.
Target symptoms of delayed sleep onset and/or frequent nocturnal awakening improved significantly, as determined by Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement (CGI-I) scale ratings of either "much improved" or "very much improved." Ramelteon was well tolerated. No daytime sedation was reported.
This case report illustrates the potential effectiveness and tolerability of ramelteon for sleep disturbances in 2 patients with autism. Further research is needed to verify its safety, tolerability, and efficacy in children and adolescents with autism.
In this study we have evaluated the mechanisms mediating the prolonged hyperalgesia induced by administration of prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, an inhibitor of type IV phosphodiesterase. The Randall-Selitto paw pressure device was employed to measure the effect of intradermal injection of test agents on the time course of the decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold produced by prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram in the hairy skin of the hindpaw of the rat. The intradermal injection of prostaglandin E2 produced a dose-dependent decrease in the nociceptive threshold which lasted approximately 2 h. While rolipram alone had no significant effect on nociceptive threshold, it enhanced and prolonged (> 72 h) prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia. WIPTIDE, a protein kinase A inhibitor, when administered 30 min after prostaglandin E2, or with prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, a time when prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia was at its peak, produced a significant reduction in hyperalgesia. However, at 90 or at 180 min after injection of prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, WIPTIDE was found to be without effect. H-8, a protein kinase G inhibitor, and okadaic acid, a protein phosphatase inhibitor, when administered 30 min after prostaglandin E2, or 180 min after prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, produced no significant effect. However, when administered 90 min after prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, each produced a significant reduction in the hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In this study, we aimed to investigate the biochemical and histopathological protective effects of octreotide and melatonin in an experimental model of spinal cord injury. Fifty- six male albino Wistar rats were divided into four groups. Rats in the G1 group (n=7; control group) did not undergo any treatment except for anesthesia prior to being killed. Rats in the G2 group (n=7) underwent laminectomy and aneurysmal clip application at the T4-5 level. G3 group rats (n=14) were either treated with a 7.5 mg/kg intraperitoneal dose of melatonin (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) immediately after laminectomy, then the same dose again on the day following injury (G3a), or given three equal doses over 10 days to achieve a total dose of 7.5 mg/kg/day (G3b). G4 group rats (n=14) were either treated with a 30microg/kg intraperitoneal dose of octreotide (Sandostatin; Novartis, Istanbul, Turkey) immediately after laminectomy, then the same dose again on the day following injury (G4a), or given three equal doses over 10 days to achieve a total dose of 30miocrog/kg/day (G4b). Rats in the G3 and G4 groups were sacrificed on days 1 and 10 after spinal cord injury (n=7 at each time point) and spinal cord samples were obtained. Tissue malonyldialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) levels were assayed. G3a, G3b and G4b had significantly lower levels of MDA than G2 (p<0.01). G3b had significantly higher SOD and GSH-Px levels than G2 (p<0.01). Histopathologically, melatonin significantly reduced necrosis and degeneration in both the initial and late stages (p<0.01). Octreotide had significant effects on necrosis and degeneration during the late stages, and on edema and congestion in both the initial and the late stages of injury (p<0.01). Melatonin was found to be superior to octreotide with respect to the prevention of congestion, edema, axonal degeneration and necrosis.
Post-mortem studies have reported abnormalities of the cholinergic system in autism. The purpose of this study was to assess the use of galantamine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and nicotinic receptor modulator, in the treatment of interfering behaviors in children with autism.
Thirteen medication-free children with autism (mean age, 8.8 +/- 3.5 years) participated in a 12-week, open-label trial of galantamine. Patients were rated monthly by parents on the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC) and the Conners' Parent Rating Scale-Revised, and by a physician using the Children's Psychiatric Rating Scale and the Clinical Global Impressions scale.
Patients showed a significant reduction in parent-rated irritability and social withdrawal on the ABC as well as significant improvements in emotional lability and inattention on the Conners' Parent Rating Scale--Revised. Similarly, clinician ratings showed reductions in the anger subscale of the Children's Psychiatric Rating Scale. Eight of 13 participants were rated as responders on the basis of their improvement scores on the Clinical Global Impressions scale. Overall, galantamine was well-tolerated, with no significant adverse effects apart from headaches in one patient.
In this open trial, galantamine was well-tolerated and appeared to be beneficial for the treatment of interfering behaviors in children with autism, particularly aggression, behavioral dyscontrol, and inattention. Further controlled trials are warranted.
