Recently, it has been appreciated that in addition to their antinociceptive properties, opioid analgesics also can enhance pain sensitivity (opioid-induced hyperalgesia [OIH]). OIH may enhance preexisting pain and contribute to dose escalation, tolerance, and misuse/abuse of opioids. Better information is needed to determine which opioid or opioid combinations may be least likely to produce OIH and therefore possibly represent better choices for pain management. Herein the authors have examined the hyperalgesic and antinociceptive properties of racemic methadone and its enantiomers alone and in combination with morphine in rats. Methadone is of particular interest because it possesses both micro-receptor agonist and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist activities.
The antinociceptive and hyperalgesic properties of d,l-methadone, l-methadone, and d-methadone were characterized by dose and sex using the thermal tail-flick test (high and low intensity). The responses to l- and d-methadone combinations with morphine were also determined with this model.
Antinociceptive and hyperalgesic effects of d,l-methadone were demonstrated. These effects were related to dose but not to sex. The degree of hyperalgesia was greater with l-methadone compared with d,l-methadone. In contrast, d-methadone (N-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist) did not produce hyperalgesia. Furthermore, d-methadone blocked morphine hyperalgesia, enhanced antinociception, and abolished sex-related differences. This seems to be the result of antagonistic activity of d-methadone at the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor.
The current findings with methadone are supportive of previous findings implicating mu-opioid and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor mechanisms in OIH. Better understanding of OIH may help in choosing the most appropriate opioids for use in the treatment of pain.
The protective effect of melatonin on adriamycin (ADM)-induced cardiotoxicity was investigated in the rat heart. Melatonin is a pineal hormone with free radical scavenging activity on oxidants; therefore it may decrease the ADM-induced oxidative stress and cardiotoxicity so that therapeutic efficacy might be enhanced.
Wistar rats in 4 groups were treated with saline (control), melatonin (MEL), adriamycin (ADM) and melatonin plus adriamycin (MEL+ADM).
Adriamycin given at a single dose of 15 mg/kg significantly increased lipid peroxidation products as measured by thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). Melatonin (5 mg/kg bw) given 2 days before and 7 days after ADM treatment reduced TBARS level. Adriamycin significantly reduced superoxide dismutase activity which was elevated by melatonin treatment. Additionally, ADM significantly increased catalase enzyme activity while melatonin normalized the ADM induced alteration in activity of catalase.
The combined use of ADM and melatonin reduces the threat of cardiomyopathy. Melatonin seems to hold promise as a therapeutic treatment and can be recommended as an adjunct in antitumor therapy as a safe and effective protection against acute ADM-induced cardiotoxicity.
Mutations in the dystrophin gene that lead to the expression of truncated forms of the dystrophin protein cause muscular dystrophies of varying severities both in humans and in mice. We have shown previously that dystrophin-deficient muscle is more susceptible to oxidative injury than is normal muscle. In this report, we have used muscle cells derived from mdx mice, which express no dystrophin, and mdx-transgenic strains that express full-length dystrophin or truncated forms of dystrophin to explore further the relationship between dystrophin expression and susceptibility of muscle to oxidative injury. We show that, when differentiated into myotubes, the relative susceptibility of the cell populations to oxidative stress correlates with the severity of the dystrophy in the strain from which the cells were isolated. The most susceptible populations exhibited the greatest oxidative damage as assessed by protein oxidation. Thus, the relative efficacy of truncated dystrophin proteins to protect muscle from necrotic degeneration in vivo is predicted by their ability to protect muscle cells from free radical mediated injury. These findings support the hypothesis that the dystrophin protein complex may have important regulatory or signaling properties in terms of cell survival and antioxidant defense mechanisms.
Inorganic arsenic (iAs) is an environmental toxicant currently poisoning millions of people worldwide, and chronically exposed individuals are susceptible to arsenicosis or arsenic poisoning. Using a state-of-the-art technique to map the methylomes of our study subjects, we identified a large interactome of hypermethylated genes that are enriched for their involvement in arsenic-associated diseases, such as cancer, heart disease, and diabetes. Notably, we have uncovered an arsenic-induced tumor suppressorome, a complex of 17 tumor suppressors known to be silenced in human cancers. This finding represents a pivotal clue in unraveling a possible epigenetic mode of arsenic-induced disease.
The present report describes the neuropathological change found in the brainstem of four patients who were treated with combined chemotherapy for various types of malignant disease. The change consists of localized axonal swellings, the so-called "axonal spheroids" located predominantly in the medial lemniscus, the fibers from the olivary nuclei and around some of the cranial nerve nuclei. In addition to the brain change, all four patients had shown histological evidence of hepatic injury, although none of the patients exhibited overt clinical or chemical evidence of hepatic insufficiency. Neither did these patients show any clinical neurological deficit that could be related to the pathological findings. The neuroaxonal changes are most likely the result of altered metabolism as a consequence of the chemotherapy.
There is no standard approved treatment for acute hepatitis C and the combination of pegylated interferon-alpha and ribavirin, currently recognized as the standard of care for chronic hepatitis C, has not been evaluated for acute hepatitis C. Adverse events induced by interferon therapy are numerous but myopathy is rare and has not been described with the use of pegylated interferon-alpha. We report the case of a 33-year-old Caucasian man who was successfully treated for acute hepatitis C with the combination of pegylated interferon-alpha2b and ribavirin, and who during treatment developed myopathy which proved reversible.
We have previously shown that, in HEK 293 cells, overexpression of acidic calponin, an actin-binding protein, induces remodeling of actin filaments, leading to a change in cell morphology. In addition, this protein is found in dendritic spines of adult hippocampal neurons. We hypothesized that this protein plays a role in regulating actin-based filaments during dendritic spine plasticity. To assess this hypothesis, the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy was selected because an important reorganization of the glutamatergic network, which includes an aberrant sprouting of granule cell axons, neo-synaptogenesis, and dendritic spine remodeling, is well established in the dentate gyrus. This reorganization begins after the initial period of status epilepticus after pilocarpine injection, during the silent period when animals display a normal behavior, and reaches a plateau at the chronic stage when the animals have developed spontaneous recurrent seizures. Our data show that the intensity of immunolabeling for acidic calponin was clearly increased in the inner one-third of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, the site of mossy fiber sprouting, and neo-synaptogenesis, at 1 and 2 weeks after pilocarpine injection (silent period) when the reorganization was taking place. In contrast, in chronic pilocarpine-treated animals, when the reorganization was established, the levels of labeling for acidic calponin in the inner molecular layer were similar to those observed in control rats. In addition, double immunostaining studies suggested that the increase in acidic calponin levels occurred within the dendritic spines. Altogether, these results are consistent with an involvement of acidic calponin in dendritic spine plasticity.
The standard treatment for advanced, androgen-responsive prostate cancer is androgen deprivation therapy with or without a nonsteroidal antiandrogen, such as bicalutamide. Although maximal androgen blockade exhibits favorable responses in the majority of patients, prostate cancer eventually progresses to an androgen-refractory stage. The mechanism underlying bicalutamide resistance in the course of prostate cancer progression is incompletely understood. However, interleukin-6 (IL-6) plays a critical role in the development and progression of CRPC. Herein, we explored an association between IL-6 and bicalutamide resistance. To study this, series of lower and higher passages of LNCaP cell sublines generated by long-term exposure to IL-6 were used. The cells from higher passages of LNCaP treated with IL-6 developed resistance to bicalutamide treatment compared with parental LNCaP cells. The levels of transcriptional intermediary factor 2 (TIF2) in IL-6-treated LNCaP cells were found to be significantly higher than parental LNCaP cells. Down-regulation of TIF2 expression via short hairpin RNA in IL-6-treated LNCaP cells sensitized these cells to bicalutamide treatment, whereas overexpression of TIF2 in the parental LNCaP cells increased resistance to bicalutamide. Furthermore, overexpression of IL-6 attenuated bicalutamide-mediated blockage of androgen-induced androgen receptor nuclear translocation and recruitment. These results show that overexpression of IL-6 increases the resistance of prostate cancer cells to bicalutamide via TIF2. Overexpression of IL-6 not only plays an important role in prostate cancer progression but also contributes to bicalutamide resistance. Our studies suggest that bicalutamide-IL-6-targeted adjunctive therapy may lead to a more effective intervention than bicalutamide alone.
Deregulated expression of genes encoding members of the S100 family of calcium-binding proteins has been associated with the malignant progression of multiple tumour types. Using a pharmacological expression reactivation approach, we screened 16 S100 genes for evidence of epigenetic regulation in medulloblastoma, the most common malignant brain tumour of childhood. Four family members (S100A2, S100A4, S100A6 and S100A10) demonstrated evidence of upregulated expression in multiple medulloblastoma cell lines, following treatment with the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor, 5'-aza-2'-deoxycytidine. Subsequent analysis revealed methylation of critical CpG sites located within these four genes in an extended cell line panel. Assessment of these genes in the non-neoplastic cerebellum (from which medulloblastomas develop) revealed strong somatic methylation affecting S100A2 and S100A4, whereas S100A6 and S100A10 were unmethylated. Assessed against these normal tissue-specific methylation states, S100A6 and S100A10 demonstrated tumour-specific hypermethylation in medulloblastoma primary tumours (5 out of 40 and 4 out of 35, respectively, both 12%) and cell lines (both 7 out of 9, 78%), which was associated with their transcriptional silencing. Moreover, S100A6 hypermethylation was significantly associated with the aggressive large cell/anaplastic morphophenotype (P=0.026). In contrast, pro-metastatic S100A4 displayed evidence of hypomethylation relative to the normal cerebellum in a significant proportion primary tumours (7 out of 41, 17%) and cell lines (3 out of 9, 33%), which was associated with its elevated expression. In summary, these data characterise complex patterns of somatic methylation affecting S100 genes in the normal cerebellum and demonstrate their disruption causing epigenetic deregulation of multiple S100 family members in medulloblastoma development. Epigenetic events affecting S100 genes have potential clinical utility and merit further investigation as molecular biomarkers for this disease.
Nitric oxide (NO) is an important mediator of gastric mucosal defense. Sildenafil (SILD), a cyclic GMP-specific phosphodiesterase inhibitor, promotes an increase in cGMP concentrations in the gastrointestinal tract. cGMP mediates many of the biological actions of NO. We tested the hypothesis that SILD could increase mucosal defense against indomethacin-induced gastropathy in rats. SILD (1, 4 or 10 mg kg(-1), p.o.) pretreatment significantly reduced (P < 0.01) the gastric damage and the increase in gastric myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity elicited by indomethacin (20 mg kg(-1) p.o.), with the maximal effect at the dose of 10 mg kg(-1). L-NAME (3, 10 or 20 mg kg(-1), i.p.) dose dependently reversed the protective effects of SILD, an effect not seen when L-arginine (L-ARG) (200 mg kg(-1), i.p.) was co-administered with L-NAME. Indomethacin-induced leukocyte adhesion, assessed by intravital microscopy, was decreased (P < 0.01) by SILD, and this effect was reversed by L-NAME cotreatment. Indomethacin elicited a decrease in gastric blood flow and in gastric PGE2 levels. SILD was able to prevent the decrease in gastric blood flow (P < 0.01), without diminishing the inhibitory effect of indomethacin on prostaglandin synthesis. These results indicate that SILD, acting via NO-dependent mechanisms, prevents indomethacin-induced gastropathy, possibly through a reduction of leukocyte adhesion and maintenance of gastric blood flow.
Experiments on male rats exhibiting both high and low resistance to hypoxia have shown that ionol acts as a cardioprotective agent in the adrenalin-induced myocardial dystrophy. This effect is realized through the depression of the lipid peroxidation activity.
Diethylstilbestrol (DES) and bisphenol-A (BPA) are estrogen-like endocrine-disrupting chemicals that induce persistent epigenetic changes in the developing uterus. However, DES exposure in utero is also associated with an increased risk of breast cancer in adult women. Similarly, fetal exposure to BPA induces neoplastic changes in mammary tissue of mice. We hypothesized that epigenetic alterations would precede the increased risk of breast neoplasia after in utero exposure to endocrine disruptors. Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 (EZH2) is a histone methyltransferase that has been linked to breast cancer risk and epigenetic regulation of tumorigenesis. We examined the effect of BPA and DES on EZH2 expression and function in MCF-7 cells and in mammary glands of mice exposed in utero. DES and BPA treatment approximated human exposure. EZH2 functional activity was assessed by measuring histone H3 trimethylation. Treatment of MCF-7 cells with DES or BPA led to a 3- and 2-fold increase in EZH2 mRNA expression, respectively (p < 0.05) as well as increased EZH2 protein expression. Mice exposed to DES in utero showed a >2-fold increase in EZH2 expression in adult mammary tissue compared with controls (p < 0.05). EZH2 protein was elevated in mammary tissue of mice exposed to DES or BPA. Histone H3 trimethylation was increased in MCF-7 cells treated with BPA or DES. Similarly, mice exposed to BPA or DES in utero showed increased mammary histone H3 trimethylation. Developmental programming of EZH2 is a novel mechanism by which in utero exposure to endocrine disruptors leads to epigenetic regulation of the mammary gland.
Affective symptoms are frequently observed in patients with epilepsy. Although the etiology of these behavioral complications remains unknown, it is possible that brain damage associated with frequent or prolonged seizures may contribute to their development. To address this issue, we examined the behavioral sequelae of repeated brief seizures evoked by electroconvulsive shock (ECS) and compared them with those resulting from prolonged status epilepticus (SE) induced with pilocarpine. Using the open-field and elevated plus-maze tests, we detected the presence of behavioral alterations indicative of elevated levels of anxiety in rats that were administered a course of ECS seizures. Fear conditioning was also enhanced in these animals. However, the rats that had experienced SE exhibited less anxiety-like behavior than controls and were severely impaired in fear conditioning. These results support the notion that brain lesions caused by either brief repeated seizures or SE is sufficient to induce some affective disturbances.
Ethionamide has been used for more than 30 years as a second-line chemotherapeutic to treat tuberculosis patients who have developed resistance to first-line drugs, such as isoniazid (INH) and rifampicin. Activation of the pro-drug ethionamide is regulated by the Baeyer-Villiger monooxygenase EthA and the TetR/CamR family repressor EthR, whose open reading frames are separated by 75 bp on the Mycobacterium tuberculosis genome. EthR has been shown to repress transcription of the activator gene ethA by binding to this intergenic region, thus contributing to ethionamide resistance. We have determined the crystal structure of EthR, to 1.7A resolution, revealing a dimeric two-domain molecule with an overall architecture typical for TetR/CamR repressor proteins. A 20A long hydrophobic tunnel-like cavity in the "drug-binding" domain of EthR is occupied by two 1,4-dioxane molecules, a component of the crystallisation buffer. Comparing the present structure to those of the homologues Staphylococcus aureus QacR and Escherichia coli TetR leads to the hypothesis that the hydrophobic cavity constitutes a binding site for an as yet unknown ligand that might regulate DNA-binding of EthR.
The present study was conducted to elucidate the antioxidant role of garlic oil in isoproterenol (IPL)-induced myocardial infarction in rats. In myocardial necrosis induced by isoproterenol, a significant increase in serum iron content with a significant decrease in plasma iron binding capacity, ceruloplasmin activity and glutathione (GSH) level were observed. There was also a significant increase in lipid peroxides levels on isoproterenol administration. Activities of antioxidant enzymes like superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and glutathione reductase (GRD) were decreased significantly in heart with isoproterenol-induced myocardial necrosis. Garlic oil produced a marked reversal of these metabolic changes related to myocardial infarction induced by isoproterenol. In conclusion, garlic oil exerts its effects by modulating lipid peroxidation and enhancing antioxidant and detoxifying enzyme systems.
We describe a subject who developed prolonged penile erections on hydroxyzine. Molecular modelling showed that the hydroxyzine metabolite, norchlorcyclizine, has structural and conformational similarities to the trazodone metabolite, m-chlorophenylpiperazine. This suggests that a common pharmacological mechanism may underlie the ability of trazodone and hydroxyzine to induce erections.
The development of membranous glomerulonephritis in a 51 year old patient suffering from rheumatoid arthritis suggested drug toxicity, and particularly of a recently developed anti-inflammatory agent, diclofenac. The toxicity is discussed in relationship to the biochemical and pharmacological properties of the molecule, the therapeutic setting and the positivity of serological tests for rheumatoid arthritis in this particular case.
Lasofoxifene, a new selective estrogen-receptor modulator (SERM), shows efficacy in vaginal and vulvar atrophy in postmenopausal women. Here, we sought to explore the possible mechanisms of action for this effect in comparison with other SERMs using an immature ovariectomized rat model.
SERMs (lasofoxifene, raloxifene, and tamoxifen) and 17alpha-ethinyl estradiol were administered orally to immature ovariectomized rats daily for 1 or 4 days. Vaginal and uterine tissues were weighed and processed for histomorphometric measurements, vaginal mucopolysaccharide staining, and immunohistochemistry of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine and steroid receptors. Receptor quantification was determined by a novel ultrasensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method.
Lasofoxifene and raloxifene showed a minimal increase in vaginal and uterine weight, epithelial cell proliferation, and epithelial thickness in comparison with estradiol and tamoxifen. Lasofoxifene significantly enhanced vaginal mucus formation in a dose-dependent manner. Vaginal progesterone receptor protein was increased fivefold by estradiol and all three SERMs tested. 17alpha-Ethinyl estradiol caused a significant decrease in estrogen receptor alpha, but no change with other treatments. Only lasofoxifene significantly increased vaginal estrogen receptor beta and androgen receptor protein levels.
These results demonstrated that lasofoxifene stimulated vaginal mucus formation without causing cell proliferation in the rat reproductive tract. These effects may be due to the increased vaginal estrogen receptor beta and androgen receptor levels. This cellular and molecular profile of lasofoxifene in the vagina may account for its efficacy in the treatment of vaginal and vulvar atrophy in postmenopausal women.
KT3-671 (2-propyl-8-oxo-1-[(2'-(1H-tetrazole-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl)methyl]-4,5,6, 7-tetrahydrocycloheptimidazole), a structurally new nonpeptide angiotensin AT1-receptor antagonist, was administered orally and repeatedly to 15-week-old stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats for 7 weeks; and its effects on blood pressure, heart rate, renal function, plasma renin concentration (PRC), plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC) and hypertension-related tissue damage in the brain, heart, kidney and mesenteric artery were investigated. KT3-671 at a dose of 3 or 10 mg/kg, p.o. per day prevented development of hypertension and produced a significant and consistent reduction of blood pressure in a dose-dependent manner. Enalapril at a dose of 10 mg/kg per day produced cardiovascular effects similar to those of KT3-671 at 10 mg/kg. Despite marked reduction in blood pressure, neither KT3-671 nor enalapril affected the heart rate. KT3-671 at 10 mg/kg produced a transient and significant reduction of urinary sodium excretion in the second week, but did not affect renal function at any other time during the experimental period. Both KT3-671 at 10 mg/kg and enalapril at 10 mg/kg produced a significant increase in PRC and showed a tendency to decrease PAC. Repeated administration of KT3-671 reduced the severity of the pathological changes in the kidney. These results suggest that KT3-671 is a potentially useful antihypertensive drug.
Our experience in treating 7 patients with moderate to severe parkinsonism induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is reviewed. Virtually all of the problems typically encountered with dopamine precursor and agonist therapy in treating Parkinson's disease have been observed during a one and one half year follow-up period, including "end-of-dose" deterioration (or "wearing off"), "peak-dose" dyskinesias, "on-off" phenomena, and psychiatric complications. These have occurred much earlier than is typically seen when treating the idiopathic disease. This rapid evolution of therapeutic side-effects favors the view that at least some of the complications of dopamine precursor therapy may be related to severity of disease rather than the length of levodopa therapy. Finally, we suggest that the occurrence of this full array of therapeutic complications in patients with MPTP-induced parkinsonism furthers the analogy between this syndrome ane Parkinson's disease.
A toxic encephalopathy characterized by depressed level of consciousness, marked irritability, and ataxia developed in seven children, 5 years of age and younger, following administration of an antiemetic combination of pentobarbital and pyrilamine maleate. Three of the seven patients were given a dosage of medication and exceeding the manufacture's recommendation. All seven patients recovered without sequelae.
To determine the changes of the electroencephalogram and the changes of the quantity in percentage terms of alpha, beta, theta and delta waves in the electroencephalogram in migraine patients after a carbamazepine treatment. Analyze pain characteristics after the carbamazepine treatment of these patients and the efficiency of the carbamazepine treatment in the prevention of new attacks.
A retrospective-prospective study has been conducted on 40 persons of approximately 42,9 years of age, with normal cranium CT finding, craniogram and fundus. They were divided in two groups: Group A--21 person who prophylactically took a daily dosage of 400 mg Carbamezepin and during acute pain attacks Naproksen; and group B--19 persons who prophylactically took daily dosage of 400 mg Carbamezepin. EEG test was done twice--before and after the medication, in order to check the concentration of different waves in the EEG in percentages. The T-test doesn't show a statistically significant difference between the alpha (p 0,719), beta 1 (p 0,865), beta 2 (p 0,710), theta (p 0,867) and delta (p 0,272) waves for the group A and for the group B alpha (p 0,996), beta 1 (p 0,920), beta 2 (p 0,826), theta (p 0,324) and delta (p 0,820) waves, on the significance level p 0,05 in the EEG at the beginning and the EEG at the end of the examination. The t-test does show a statistically significant difference between the intensity, frequency, duration and relief of pain at the beginning and at the end of the examination for both test groups.
Carbamazepin and Paracetamol do not cause changes in the EEG nor in the quantity in percentage terms of concentration of different waves in the control EEG in patients with vascular headaches. Statistically Carbamazepin and Paracetamol significantly change characteristics of pain and can be used for migraine treatment and prophylaxis.
This study determined the effects, in the rat, of 8-day treatment with arginine-aspartate on haloperidol-induced catalepsy, decrease of locomotor activity and change of striatal dopamine, homovanillic acid (HVA) and dihydroxy-phenylacetic acid (DOPAC) content. Arginine-aspartate was able to attenuate the haloperidol-induced decrease of locomotor activity and to significantly reduce the catalepsy. Moreover, arginine-aspartate treatment itself increased striatal dopamine content and produced a significant decrease of the HVA/dopamine ratio. Pretreatment with arginine-aspartate was able to partially counteract the haloperidol-induced changes of dopamine metabolism: the haloperidol-induced increases of the DOPAC/dopamine and HVA/dopamine ratios were significantly reduced in arginine-aspartate- pretreated rats. These results suggest that the action of arginine-aspartate on haloperidol-induced neurobehavioral effects is probably mediated by interference with striatal dopaminergic innervation.
Pretreatment with anesthetics before but not during hypoxia or ischemia can improve neuronal recovery after the insult. Sevoflurane, a volatile anesthetic agent, improved neuronal recovery subsequent to 10 min of global cerebral ischemia when it was present for 1 h before the ischemia. The mean number of intact hippocampal cornus ammonis 1 (CA1) pyramidal neurons in rats subjected to cerebral ischemia without any pretreatment was 17+/-5 (neurons/mm+/-S.D.) 6 weeks after the ischemia; naïve, non-ischemic rats had 177+/-5 neurons/mm. Rats pretreated with either 2% or 4% sevoflurane had 112+/-57 or 150+/-15 CA1 pyramidal neurons/mm respectively (P<0.01) 6 weeks after global cerebral ischemia. In order to examine the mechanisms of protection we used hypoxia to generate energy deprivation. Intracellular recordings were made from CA1 pyramidal neurons in rat hippocampal slices; the recovery of resting and action potentials after hypoxia was used as an indicator of neuronal survival. Pretreatment with 4% sevoflurane for 15 min improved neuronal recovery 1 h after the hypoxia; 90% of the sevoflurane-pretreated neurons recovered while none (0%) of the untreated neurons recovered. Pretreatment with sevoflurane enhanced the hypoxic hyperpolarization(-6.4+/-0.6 vs. -3.3+/-0.3 mV) and reduced the final level of the hypoxic depolarization (-39+/-6 vs. -0.3+/-2 mV) during hypoxia. Chelerythrine (5 muM), a protein kinase C/protein kinase M inhibitor, blocked both the improved recovery (10%) and the electrophysiological changes with 4% sevoflurane preconditioning. Two percent sevoflurane for 15 min before hypoxia did not improve recovery (0% recovery both groups) and did not enhance the hypoxic hyperpolarization or reduce the final depolarization during hypoxia. However if 2% sevoflurane was present for 1 h before the hypoxia then there was significantly improved recovery, enhanced hypoxic hyperpolarization, and reduced final depolarization. Thus we conclude that sevoflurane preconditioning improves recovery in both in vivo and in vitro models of energy deprivation and that preconditioning enhances the hypoxic hyperpolarization and reduces the hypoxic depolarization. Anesthetic preconditioning may protect neurons from ischemia by altering the electrophysiological changes a neuron undergoes during energy deprivation.
Neuroleptics are extensively used in the treatment of schizophrenia and other affective disorders. Unfortunately their use is often associated with distressing side effects involving the extrapyramidal tract, such as Parkinsonism and tardive dyskinesia. Neuroleptic-induced catalepsy has long been used as a model for extrapyramidal side effects such as Parkinsonian-like bradykinesia associated with antipsychotic use in humans. In the present study, haloperidol (2 mg/kg i.p.) was administered to mice to induce catalepsy and cataleptic response was measured for the next 4 h at 1 h intervals. Haloperidol treatment in mice induced a strong cataleptic state within 1 h of injection, reaching a maximal plateau after 2 h and lasting for 4 h. Vehicle-treated animals did not display catalepsy as they remained less than 5 sec on the bar at each time point. Pretreatment with quercetin dose-dependently (25-100 mg/kg p.o.) reduced the catalepsy score in haloperidol-treated animals. A dose response study of quercetin showed a characteristic U-shaped response curve, with maximum suppression observed at a dose of 100 mg/kg. On increasing the dose of quercetin to 300 mg/kg, no statistically significant difference in catalepsy score was observed compared with the haloperidol-treated group. In conclusion, the findings of the present study strongly suggest that quercetin can be screened as a potential drug candidate or as an adjuvant for the treatment of neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal side effects.
We examined the physiological, molecular, and cellular mechanisms of impaired ion regulation in Atlantic salmon, Salmo salar, smolts following acute acid and aluminum (Al) exposure. Smolts were exposed to: control (pH 6.5, 3.4 micrpg l(-1) Al), acid and low Al (LAl: pH 5.4, 11 microg l(-1) Al), acid and moderate Al (MAl: pH 5.3, 42 microg l(-1) Al), and acid and high Al (HAl: pH 5.4, 56 microg l(-1) Al) for two and six days. At each time-point, smolts were sampled directly from freshwater treatment tanks and after a 24h seawater challenge. Exposure to acid/MAl and acid/HAl led to accumulation of gill Al, substantial alterations in gill morphology, reduced gill Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase (NKA) activity, and impaired ion regulation in both freshwater and seawater. Exposure to acid/MAl for six days also led to a decrease in gill mRNA expression of the apical Cl(-) channel (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator I), increased apoptosis upon seawater exposure, an increase in the surface expression of mitochondria-rich cells (MRCs) within the filament epithelium of the gill, but reduced abundance of gill NKA-positive MRCs. By contrast, smolts exposed to acid and the lowest Al concentration exhibited minor gill Al accumulation, slight morphological modifications in the gill, and impaired seawater tolerance in the absence of a detectable effect on freshwater ion regulation. These impacts were accompanied by decreased cell proliferation, a slight increase in the surface expression of MRCs within the filament epithelium, but no impact on gill apoptosis or total MRC abundance was observed. However, MRCs in the gills of smolts exposed to acid/LAl exhibited morphological alterations including decreased size, staining intensity, and shape factor. We demonstrate that the seawater tolerance of Atlantic salmon smolts is extremely sensitive to acute exposure to acid and low levels of Al, and that the mechanisms underlying this depend on the time-course and severity of Al exposure. We propose that when smolts are exposed to acid and moderate to high Al concentrations, impaired seawater tolerance results from extensive gill Al accumulation, damage to the epithelium, reduced MRC and transport protein abundance, and a synergistic stimulation of apoptosis in the gill upon seawater exposure. When smolts are exposed to acid and low levels of Al, loss of seawater tolerance appears to be independent of these mechanisms and may result instead from a shift in the phenotype of MRCs present in the gill epithelium.
AZ002 (L-threo-(3,4-dihydroxy phenyl)-N-methyl serine methyl ester) is a newly synthesized adrenaline derivative. AZ002 caused relaxation of rat jejunum (beta 3-receptors) (ED50 = 18 microM), but did not affect the atrial rate (beta 1) or tracheal relaxation (beta 2) at a concentration of 0.3 mM. The pA2 values for propranolol in inhibiting the isoproterenol- and AZ002-stimulated relaxation of rat jejunum were 6.27 and 6.33, respectively. Thus, AZ002 is a selective agonist for beta 3-adrenoceptor. AZ002 stimulated lipolysis (ED50 = 10 microM) and glucose uptake (ED50 = 1 microM) in rat adipocytes. In both cases, stimulation was antagonized by high concentrations of the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol, but not by the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist phentolamine. The effect of AZ002 on glucose uptake was synergistic with that of insulin. AZ002 was also assessed in vivo by using genetically obese mice (KK/Ay strain) with hyperglycemia. Administration of AZ002 in the diet for a week decreased blood glucose and non-esterified fatty acids.
