There is increasing recognition of the importance of early environmental exposures in the development of childhood asthma. Outdoor air pollution is a recognized asthma trigger, but it is unclear whether exposure influences incident disease. We investigated the effect of exposure to ambient air pollution in utero and during the first year of life on risk of subsequent asthma diagnosis in a population-based nested case-control study.
We assessed all children born in southwestern British Columbia in 1999 and 2000 (n = 37,401) for incidence of asthma diagnosis up to 34 years of age using outpatient and hospitalization records. Asthma cases were age- and sex-matched to five randomly chosen controls from the eligible cohort. We estimated each individual's exposure to ambient air pollution for the gestational period and first year of life using high-resolution pollution surfaces derived from regulatory monitoring data as well as land use regression models adjusted for temporal variation. We used logistic regression analyses to estimate effects of carbon monoxide, nitric oxide, nitrogen dioxide, particulate matter <or= 10 microm and <or= 2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter (PM10 and PM2.5), ozone, sulfur dioxide, black carbon, woodsmoke, and proximity to roads and point sources on asthma diagnosis.
A total of 3,482 children (9%) were classified as asthma cases. We observed a statistically significantly increased risk of asthma diagnosis with increased early life exposure to CO, NO, NO2, PM10, SO2, and black carbon and proximity to point sources. Traffic-related pollutants were associated with the highest risks: adjusted odds ratio = 1.08 (95% confidence interval, 1.041.12) for a 10-microg/m3 increase of NO, 1.12 (1.071.17) for a 10-microg/m3 increase in NO2, and 1.10 (1.061.13) for a 100-microg/m3 increase in CO. These data support the hypothesis that early childhood exposure to air pollutants plays a role in development of asthma.
To examine possible differences between crack users and crack non-users across Canada.
Cohort study of illicit opioid and other drug users in five cities across Canada.
Vancouver, Edmonton, Toronto, Montreal and Quebec City, Canada.
Regular illicit opioid and other street drug users not in treatment at time of assessment.
Participants (n = 677) were assessed at baseline (2002) by way of an interviewer-administered questionnaire, a psychiatric diagnostic instrument (Composite International Diagnostic Interview), and salivary antibody tests for infectious disease.
Approximately half the sample had used crack in the past 30 days, although prevalence rates differed strongly between study sites. When examined by discriminant analysis, crack users in the study population were more likely to have: no permanent housing, have illegal and sex work income, indicate physical health problems and hepatitis C virus (HCV) antibodies, use walk-in clinics, use heroin and to have been arrested and in detention (in past year). They were less likely to report depressive symptoms, and use Dilaudid (hydromorphone) and alcohol.
These results illustrate crack users' pronounced social marginalization (as expressed by homelessness and high involvement in illegal activities) as well as extensive health problems compared to non-crack users in the Canadian context. The development of targeted interventions-addressing the dynamics of social marginalization-of this population is urgently needed.
Tetramethylenedisulfotetramine (TMDT) is a highly lethal neuroactive rodenticide responsible for many accidental and intentional poisonings in mainland China. Ease of synthesis, water solubility, potency, and difficulty to treat make TMDT a potential weapon for terrorist activity. We characterized TMDT-induced convulsions and mortality in male C57BL/6 mice. TMDT (ip) produced a continuum of twitches, clonic, and tonic-clonic seizures decreasing in onset latency and increasing in severity with increasing dose; 0.4mg/kg was 100% lethal. The NMDA antagonist, ketamine (35mg/kg) injected ip immediately after the first TMDT-induced seizure, did not change number of tonic-clonic seizures or lethality, but increased the number of clonic seizures. Doubling the ketamine dose decreased tonic-clonic seizures and eliminated lethality through a 60min observation period. Treating mice with another NMDA antagonist, MK-801, 0.5 or 1mg/kg ip, showed similar effects as low and high doses of ketamine, respectively, and prevented lethality, converting status epilepticus EEG activity to isolated interictal discharges. Treatment with these agents 15min prior to TMDT administration did not increase their effectiveness. Post-treatment with the GABA(A) receptor allosteric enhancer diazepam (5mg/kg) greatly reduced seizure manifestations and prevented lethality 60min post-TMDT, but ictal events were evident in EEG recordings and, hours post-treatment, mice experienced status epilepticus and died. Thus, TMDT is a highly potent and lethal convulsant for which single-dose benzodiazepine treatment is inadequate in managing electrographic seizures or lethality. Repeated benzodiazepine dosing or combined application of benzodiazepines and NMDA receptor antagonists is more likely to be effective in treating TMDT poisoning.
Iron deficiency and lead exposure remain significant public health issues in many parts of the world and are both independently associated with neurocognitive deficits. Polymorphisms in iron transport pathways have been shown to modify the absorption and toxicity of lead.
We hypothesized that the transferrin (TF) C2 polymorphism modifies the effects of lead and hemoglobin on intelligence.
Children aged 3-7 years (N=708) were enrolled from 12 primary schools in Chennai, India. The Binet-Kamath Scale of Intelligence were administered to ascertain intelligence quotient (IQ). Venous blood was analyzed for lead and hemoglobin levels. Genotyping for the TF C2 polymorphism (rs1049296) was carried out using a MassARRAY iPLEXTM platform. Stratified analyses and interaction models, using generalized estimating equations, were examined to explore interactions between lead, hemoglobin, and TF C2 categories.
A one-unit increase in log blood lead and 1g/dl higher hemoglobin was associated with -77 (95% CI: -136, -18) and 17 (95% CI 14, 21) IQ points, respectively, among children carrying the C2 variant. In comparison, among children who had the homozygous wildtype allele, the same increment of lead and hemoglobin were associated with -21(95% CI: -65, 24) and 28 (95% CI: 15, 40) IQ points, respectively. There was a significant interaction between lead (p=0.04) and hemoglobin (p=0.07) with the C2 variant.
Children who carry the TF C2 variant may be more susceptible to the neurotoxic effects of lead exposure and less protected by higher levels of hemoglobin.
Previously, the authors demonstrated that the triterpenoid glycoside niga-ichigoside F₁ (NIF₁) and its aglycone 23-hydroxytormentic acid (23-HTA) isolated from the unripe fruits of Rubus coreanus (Rosaceae) ameliorate cisplatin-induced toxicity in renal epithelial LLC-PK₁ cells. In the present study, the nephroprotective effects of NIF₁ and 23-HTA were investigated in Sprague-Dawley rats with acute renal injury induced by a single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of cisplatin (7 mg/kg). Pretreatment with 23-HTA (10 mg/kg/d, per os (p.o.)) significantly reduced cisplatin-induced elevations in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine level, whereas NIF₁ (10 mg/kg, p.o.) slightly reduced these levels. In addition, pretreatment with 23-HTA prevented cisplatin-induced hydroxyl radical generation, malondialdehyde (MDA) production, glutathione (GSH) depletion, and cisplatin-induced changes in the activities of oxidant and antioxidant enzymes in rat renal tissues. In addition, histopathological examinations showed that 23-HTA pretreatment reduced cisplatin-induced acute tubular necrosis and histological changes. In contrast, NIF₁ was found to have a slight or no influence on cisplatin-induced oxidative enzymes and acute tubular necrosis. Taken together, these results suggest that protective effect of 23-HTA pretreatment on cisplatin-induced renal damage is associated with the attenuation of oxidative stress and the preservation of antioxidant enzymes.
Population studies suggest that persons with diabetes are more sensitive to the effects of particulate matter (PM) air pollution. However, the biological mechanisms of a possible prothrombotic effect underlying this enhanced susceptibility remain largely unknown.
We hypothesized that exposure to PM causes prothrombotic changes in persons with diabetes, possibly via systemic inflammation.
Our study included 137 nonsmoking adults with diabetes who were outpatients at the University Hospital Leuven. Recent exposure (2 hr before examination) to ambient PM was measured at the entrance of the hospital. Individual chronic exposure to PM was assessed by measuring the area occupied by carbon in airway macrophages obtained by sputum induction. Platelet function was measured ex vivo with the PFA-100 platelet function analyzer, which simulates a damaged blood vessel; we analyzed the function of platelets in primary hemostasis under high shear conditions. Total and differential blood leukocytes were counted.
Independent of antiplatelet medication, an interquartile range (IQR) increase of 39.2 microg/m3 in PM10 (PM with aerodynamic diameter <or= 10 microm) concentration measured 2 hr before the clinical examination (recent exposure) was associated with a decrease of 21.1 sec [95% confidence interval (CI), 35.3 to 6.8] in the PFA-100 closure time (i.e., increased platelet activation) and an increase in blood leukocytes of 512 per microliter of blood (95% CI, 45.2979). Each area increase of 0.25 microm2 (IQR) in carbon load of airway macrophages (chronic exposure) was associated with an increase of 687 leukocytes per microliter of blood (95% CI, 2241,150).
A relevant increase in recent PM exposure was associated with a change in platelet function toward a greater prothrombotic tendency. The magnitude of the change was about two-thirds (in the opposite direction) of the average effect of antiplatelet medication. Diabetic patients showed evidence of proinflammatory response to both recent and chronic exposure to PM air pollution.
MicroRNA (miRNA) is a class of small RNA that functions as a negative regulator of gene expression. Human and mouse genomes encode over 1400 and 700 miRNAs, respectively, and most of the cellular pathways are considered to be modulated by miRNAs. However, the pathophysiological role of miRNAs is still largely unknown. Thus, we investigated the possible involvement of miRNAs in the toxic responses to xenobiotic chemicals. Here, we searched for miRNAs responsible for inducing liver damage in mice exposed to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and found that miR-101a and miR-122 are differentially downregulated by TCDD in a time-dependent manner. Because miRNA exerts multiple actions by repressing its target genes, we quantified the target genes of miR-101a, such as cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), enhancer of zeste homolog 2, and cFos, and found the upregulation of these genes, which suggests that miR-101a downregulates the expressions of these genes in the mouse liver. A COX-2 selective inhibitor, NS-398, suppressed the onset of TCDD-induced liver damage. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that TCDD dysregulates the expression of miR101a and miR122 and that COX-2, a target gene of miR101a, plays a significant role in liver damage in mice exposed to TCDD.
Lygodium flexuosum (Lygodiaceae), a medicinal fern used in Indian traditional medicine against liver disorders.
The rationale of the study was to examine whether the n-hexane extract from plant Lygodium flexuosum affects apoptosis on human hepatoma PLC/PRF/5 and Hep 3B cells.
Chemopreventive activity of the Lygodium flexuosum extract was determined by MTT assay, annexin-V FITC binding to phosphatidyl serine and cleavage of PARP. Subdiploid condition of cells treated with Lygodium flexuosum was analyzed by flow cytometry. Further, used transiently transfected NF-kappaB reporter in PLC/PRF/5 cells to evaluate the inhibitive effect of Lygodium flexuosum extract.
Lygodium flexuosum extract inhibited the cell viability and induced apoptosis in hepatoma cells in a concentration dependent manner as evidenced by apoptotic changes such as flipping of phosphatidyl serine, cleavage of PARP. Cell cycle analysis showed the subG1 apoptotic population in cells treated with higher concentrations of the extract. When activated with exogenous TNF-alpha in transfected hepatoma cells it was observed that NF-kappaB dependent gene expression was inhibited by treatment with Lygodium flexuosum extract in PLC/PRF/5 cells dose-dependently.
This investigation suggests that the Lygodium flexuosum extract has antiproliferative and apoptotic activity in both cancer cells and has inhibitive role in TNF-alpha induced NF-kappaB activation in PLC/PRF/5 cells confirms the potential of the extract as a chemopreventive agent.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD), the most frequent muscular dystrophy, is an autosomal dominant disease. In most individuals with FSHD, symptoms are restricted to muscles of the face, arms, legs, and trunk. FSHD is genetically linked to contractions of the D4Z4 repeat array causing activation of several genes. One of these maps in the repeat itself and expresses the DUX4 (the double homeobox 4) transcription factor causing a gene deregulation cascade. In addition, analyses of the RNA or protein expression profiles in muscle have indicated deregulations in the oxidative stress response. Since oxidative stress affects peripheral muscle function, we investigated mitochondrial function and oxidative stress in skeletal muscle biopsies and blood samples from patients with FSHD and age-matched healthy controls, and evaluated their association with physical performances. We show that specifically, oxidative stress (lipid peroxidation and protein carbonylation), oxidative damage (lipofuscin accumulation), and antioxidant enzymes (catalase, copper-zinc-dependent superoxide dismutase, and glutathione reductase) were higher in FSHD than in control muscles. FSHD muscles also presented abnormal mitochondrial function (decreased cytochrome c oxidase activity and reduced ATP synthesis). In addition, the ratio between reduced (GSH) and oxidized glutathione (GSSG) was strongly decreased in all FSHD blood samples as a consequence of GSSG accumulation. Patients with FSHD also had reduced systemic antioxidative response molecules, such as low levels of zinc (a SOD cofactor), selenium (a GPx cofactor involved in the elimination of lipid peroxides), and vitamin C. Half of them had a low ratio of gamma/alpha tocopherol and higher ferritin concentrations. Both systemic oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction were correlated with functional muscle impairment. Mitochondrial ATP production was significantly correlated with both quadriceps endurance (T(LimQ)) and maximal voluntary contraction (MVC(Q)) values (rho=0.79, P=0.003; rho=0.62, P=0.05, respectively). The plasma concentration of oxidized glutathione was negatively correlated with the T(LimQ), MVC(Q) values, and the 2-min walk distance (MWT) values (rho=-0.60, P=0.03; rho=-0.56, P=0.04; rho=-0.93, P<0.0001, respectively). Our data characterized oxidative stress in patients with FSHD and demonstrated a correlation with their peripheral skeletal muscle dysfunction. They suggest that antioxidants that might modulate or delay oxidative insult may be useful in maintaining FSHD muscle functions.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a serious complication confronted by diabetic patients. Available data indicate that the development of DN is linked to inflammation. In this context, nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) has received much attention. Ellagic acid (2,3,7,8-tetrahydroxy-chromeno[5,4,3-cde]chromene-5,10-dione), found abundantly in plant extracts and fruits, possesses numerous medicinal properties. We investigated the nephroprotective effects of oral treatment of ellagic acid in high fat diet/low dose streptozotocin (HFD/STZ)-induced type 2 diabetic Wistar albino rats. Ellagic acid treatment for 16weeks post induction of diabetes significantly attenuated renal dysfunction and oxidative stress. Ellagic acid significantly inhibited the renal NF-кB activation. Moreover, ellagic acid significantly lowered renal pathology and suppressed transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) and fibronectin expressions in renal tissues. Ellagic acid also significantly reduced the serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, interleukin-1beta (IL-1β), IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α). In cultured rat NRK 52E proximal tubular epithelial cells, ellagic acid treatment inhibited high glucose-induced activation of NF-κB and pro-inflammatory cytokine synthesis. These results suggest that ellagic acid exhibited renal protective effect in diabetic rats partly through antihyperglycemia which was accompanied by attenuation of inflammatory processes via inhibition of NF-κB pathway.
Forty depressed in-patients for whom electro-convulsive therapy had been prescribed were rated before treatment on depression and anxiety scales. Side effects, post-operative agitation and retrograde memory impairment were assessed in each patient after each of several treatments. Results were compared when no tranquillizer was given and when either diazepam or haloperidol was administered intravenously immediately before the anaesthetic. It was found than when ECT was given without tranquillization, the incidence and severity of post-operative agitation and of side effects were significantly greater in those patients with a high level of anxiety before treatment. Both diazepam and haloperidol were found to be effective in subduing agitation and side effects in anxious, depressed patients, but with diazepam recovery time was longer.
The modulation of energetic homeostasis by pollutants has recently emerged as a potential contributor to the onset of metabolic disorders. Diethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) is a widely used industrial plasticizer to which humans are widely exposed. Phthalates can activate the three peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) isotypes on cellular models and induce peroxisome proliferation in rodents.
In this study, we aimed to evaluate the systemic and metabolic consequences of DEHP exposure that have remained so far unexplored and to characterize the underlying molecular mechanisms of action.
As a proof of concept and mechanism, genetically engineered mouse models of PPARs were exposed to high doses of DEHP, followed by metabolic and molecular analyses.
DEHP-treated mice were protected from diet-induced obesity via PPARalpha-dependent activation of hepatic fatty acid catabolism, whereas the activity of neither PPARbeta nor PPARgamma was affected. However, the lean phenotype observed in response to DEHP in wild-type mice was surprisingly abolished in PPARalpha-humanized mice. These species differences are associated with a different pattern of coregulator recruitment.
These results demonstrate that DEHP exerts species-specific metabolic actions that rely to a large extent on PPARalpha signaling and highlight the metabolic importance of the species-specific activation of PPARalpha by xenobiotic compounds.
Myasthenia gravis is a rare neuromuscular disorder associated with a reduction in the availability of acetylcholine receptors at the post-synaptic membranes of skeletal muscles. This is caused by the production of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies at the neuromuscular junction due to an autoimmune insult, leading to a compromised neuromuscular transmission. Verapamil can influence, in a dose-dependent fashion, the neuromuscular transmission in myasthenia gravis.
We report a 71-year-old Caucasian man with myasthenia gravis suffering from a cardiogenic shock following a single dose of verapamil. The patient had uncontrolled atrial fibrillation with a heart rate of 120 beats/min. Atenolol 100 mg was started. The next day, verapamil SR 240 mg was started. Two hours after the first dose of verapamil, the patient complained of weakness and dyspnea with signs of shock; his blood pressure was 70/50 mm Hg and heart rate at 101 beats/min. An echocardiogram showed diffuse hypokinesis of both ventricles with an ejection fraction of 20%. Cardiac catheterization was performed and coronary arteries appeared without significant stenosis, but there was a diffuse hypokinesis. Verapamil was stopped and the patient received intravenous glucagon and calcium chloride. Both the anti-acetylcholine receptor and anti-striated muscle antibodies tested positive. A few hours later, another echocardiogram showed an improvement in the ventricular function, which returned to normal five days later.
Caution is needed when administering verapamil to patients with myasthenia gravis, especially when the anti-acetylcholine receptor and anti-striated muscle antibodies titres are positive.
Sophoricoside (SOPH) is an isoflavone glycoside isolated from the fruits of Sophora japonica. Since its first isolation in 1961, there are rare findings about the effects of SOPH on reproductive system. In the present study, the pregnant mice administrated by different doses of SOPH were used to explore the effect of SOPH on embryo implantation, especially on the endometrial receptivity. The statistical results showed that the number of implanted embryos was gradually declining along the increasing dose of SOPH. When the administrated dose of SOPH was 600 mg/kg per day, great changes were observed in the exposed uterine morphology and up-regulated progesterone receptor (PR) and down-regulated estrogen receptor α (ERα), E-cadherin, matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and integrin β3 were also found in SOPH-exposed uterine. These findings demonstrated that SOPH exposure reduced the number of implanted embryos in a dose-dependent manner and failed the embryo implantation through altering the morphology of uterine and compromising the endometrial receptivity.
Fischer 344 rats were exposed to filtered air (controls) or to 0.12, 0.5, or 1.0 ppm of ozone for 6 h/day, 5 days/week, for 20 months. We examined lung collagen deposition and metabolism in tissue from these animals to determine whether chronic exposure of rats to ozone causes pulmonary fibrosis. We observed excess stainable collagen in the centriacinar region of lungs from the rats exposed to 0.5 or 1.0 ppm of ozone. Biochemical analysis indicated a slight, yet significant, excess collagen deposition in the female rats exposed to 0.5 or 1.0 ppm of ozone. Collagen in the lungs of the females also contained relatively more hydroxylysine-derived crosslinks than did lung collagen from age-matched control animals. No excess of type I procollagen mRNA could be appreciated by in situ hybridization in lungs of the rats exposed to 1.0 ppm of ozone for 20 months, although this mRNA was detected in occasional alveolar interstitial cells at 2 months of exposure to ozone under the same protocol. These findings indicate that chronic exposure of rats to ozone causes mild, persistent fibrosis. The significance of these observations with regard to human health risks of chronically inhaling ozone at ambient levels in polluted air remains to be determined.
Peroxisome proliferators are ubiquitous rodent hepatocarcinogens, known to modulate the activities of xenobiotic-metabolising enzymes such as glutathione S-transferases (GST) and mixed-function oxidase (cytochrome P-450). In addition these compounds induce pleiotropic changes in the liver of rodents even after a short-term treatment. It has been hypothesised that the enzymatic and cellular changes induced by peroxisome proliferators may alter the toxicity of other compounds activated by cytochrome P-450 and detoxified by GST isoenzymes. The effect of nafenopin-induced changes in the liver of rats on the toxicity of an anti-cancer drug cyclophosphamide was studied using cyto- and geno-toxicity parameters in the liver and bone marrow cells. The administration of cyclophosphamide (10 or 20 mg/kg bw) to the rats pre-treated with 80 mg/kg bw of nafenopin for 2 days resulted in significantly increased cytotoxic response in bone marrow cells. However, genotoxicity of cyclophosphamide was increased only in the liver of nafenopin pre-treated rats. Low level of genotoxicity in bone marrow could be accounted for potentiated cytotoxicity of cyclophosphamide. These events coincided with a significant, up to 5-fold, increase in indirect activation-detoxication index for cyclophosphamide, determined as a ratio of ECOD and GST activities, in nafenopin treated rats. This resulted from the induction of ECOD responsible for the formation of reactive metabolites of cyclophosphamide and reduced activity of GST responsible for their detoxication. In addition, mitotic activity of hepatocytes was increased in nafenopin treated rats that might also have an impact on the genotoxicity of cyclophosphamide in this organ.
Man-made vitreous fibers (MMVFs) are noncrystalline inorganic fibrous material used for thermal and acoustical insulation (e.g., rock wool, glass wool, glass microfibers, and refractory ceramic fibers). Neither epidemiologic studies of human exposure nor animal studies have shown a noticeable hazardous effect of glass wools on health. However, MMVFs have been anecdotally associated with granulomatous lung disease in several case reports.
Here, we describe the case of a patient with multiple bilateral nodular opacities who was exposed to glass wool fibers and coating materials for 7 years. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid revealed an increased total cell count (predominantly macrophages) with numerous cytoplasmic particles. Lung biopsy showed peribronchiolar infiltration of lymphoid cells and many foreign-body-type granulomas. Alveolar macrophages had numerous round and elongated platelike particles inside the cytoplasm. X-ray microanalysis of these particles detected mainly oxygen/aluminum/silicon and oxygen/magnesium/silicon, compatible with kaolinite and talc, respectively. No elemental evidence for glass fibers was found in lung biopsy.
The contribution of analytical electron microscopy applied in the lung biopsy was imperative to confirm the diagnosis of pneumoconiosis associated with a complex occupational exposure that included both MMVFs and coating materials.
This case study points out the possible participation of other components (coating materials), beyond MMVFs, in the etiology of pneumoconiosis.
As an agonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARγ), rosiglitazone can prevent acute fatty acid-induced insulin resistance in rats, however, the precise mechanisms by which rosiglitazone alleviates insulin resistance induced by high-fat diet need to be further investigated.
Wistar rats aged 23-24 weeks were divided into three groups: (1) aged control group (OC), (2) high-fat diet (HF) group and (3) high-fat diet plus rosiglitazone maleate tablets (HF + Rosi) treatment group (n = 20 in each group). Insulin sensitivity was evaluated by conscious hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp technique. mRNA levels of fatty acid translocase (FAT/CD36), AMP-activated protein kinase α1 (AMPKα1), AMPKα2 and acetyl CoA carboxylase (ACC) of rat skeletal muscle were determined using real-time PCR, while muscle carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 (CPT-1β) was determined using semi-quantitative PCR. Protein expression levels of FAT/CD36, AMPK phosphorylation (reflecting AMPK activity), P-ACC (inversely related with ACC activity) and muscle CPT-1M in rat skeletal muscles were measured using Western blotting.
Aged rats fed by diet rich in fat for more than 8 weeks led to significant increases of plasma lipids, skeletal muscle intramuscular triglyceride and long-chain fatty acyl-CoA (LCACoA) compared to aged rats fed by normal chow diet (OC) (P < 0.05), which might correlate with the lower (reduced by 42.4%) whole body insulin sensitivity in HF rats. FAT/CD36 protein concentrations and mRNA levels increased in untreated HF aged rats (P < 0.01) and high-fat diet induced a significant decrease in P-AMPK, P-ACC, CPT-1M protein concentrations and AMPKα2 and CPT-1β mRNA levels in rat skeletal muscles (P < 0.05). No change in AMPKα1 mRNA levels was observed in the HF group.
High-fat diet in aged rats results in a lipid accumulation and subsequent insulin resistance, while rosiglitazone can alleviate the insulin resistance by reducing fatty acid uptake as well as enhancing lipometabolism.
Organophosphorus pesticides (OPs) are developmental neurotoxicants but also produce lasting effects on metabolism.
We administered diazinon (DZN) or parathion (PRT) to rats on postnatal days 14 at doses straddling the threshold for systemic signs of exposure and assessed the effects on hepatic and cardiac cell signaling mediated through the adenylyl cyclase (AC) cascade.
In the liver, DZN elicited global sensitization, characterized by parallel up-regulation of AC activity itself and of the responses to stimulants acting at beta-adrenergic receptors, glucagon receptors, or G-proteins. The effects intensified over the course from adolescence to adulthood. In contrast, PRT elicited up-regulation in adolescence that waned by adulthood. Superimposed on these general patterns were effects on glucagon receptor coupling to AC and on responses mediated through the Gi inhibitory protein. The effects on the liver were more substantial than those in the heart, which displayed only transient effects of DZN on AC function in adolescence and no significant effects of PRT. Furthermore, the hepatic effects were greater in magnitude than those in a brain region (cerebellum) that shares similar AC cascade elements.
These findings indicate that OPs alter the trajectory of hepatic cell signaling in a manner consistent with the observed emergence of prediabetes-like metabolic dysfunction. Notably, the various OPs differ in their net impact on peripheral AC signaling, making it unlikely that the effects on signaling reflect their shared property as cholinesterase inhibitors.
1 Fifty-seven patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension, mean age 50 (range 31-69) were randomised to treatment with either captopril or atenolol. Twenty-six patients in each group completed the study. 2 Captopril (25-50 mg three times daily) and atenolol (50-100 mg once daily) caused a highly significant fall in blood pressure both supine and standing. 3 When hydrochlorothiazide (25-50 mg once daily) was added a further fall in blood pressure was observed in both groups. 4 Captopril as single drug caused no significant change in heart rate, while atenolol significantly reduced heart rate both supine and standing. 5 Two patients were excluded from the captopril group, one because of a reversible loss of taste and the other because of dizziness. Three patients were excluded from the atenolol group, two because of bradyarrhythmias and one because of inadequate blood pressure response. 6 Both captopril and atenolol were found to be effective antihypertensive agents, suitable for the treatment of essential hypertension.
Prenatal and postnatal polychlorinated biphenyl (PCBs) exposure has been associated with decrements in fetal and infant growth and development, although exposures during the preconception window have not been examined despite recent evidence suggesting that this window may correspond with the highest serum concentrations.
We assessed maternal serum PCB concentrations at two sensitive developmental windows in relation to birth weight.
Serum samples were collected from 99 women as they began trying to become pregnant (preconception) and after a positive pregnancy test (prenatal); 52 (53%) women gave birth and represent the study cohort. Using daily diaries, women recorded sexual intercourse, menstruation, and home pregnancy test results until pregnant or up to 12 menstrual cycles with intercourse during the estimated fertile window. With gas chromatography with electron capture, 76 PCB congeners were quantified (nanograms per gram serum) and subsequently categorized by purported biologic activity. Serum PCBs were log-transformed and entered both as continuous and categorized exposures along with birth weight (grams) and covariates [smoking (yes/no), height (inches), and infant sex (male/female)] into linear regression.
A substantial reduction in birth weight (grams) was observed for women in the highest versus the lowest tertile of preconception antiestrogenic PCB concentration (beta; = 429.3 g, p = 0.038) even after adjusting for covariates (beta; = 470.8, p = 0.04).
These data reflect the potential developmental toxicity of antiestrogenic PCBs, particularly during the sensitive preconception critical window among women with environmentally relevant chemical exposures, and underscore the importance of PCB congener-specific investigation.
We recently reported that various environmental estrogens induce mast cell degranulation and enhance IgE-mediated release of allergic mediators in vitro.
We hypothesized that environmental estrogens would enhance allergic sensitization as well as bronchial inflammation and responsiveness. To test this hypothesis, we exposed fetal and neonatal mice to the common environmental estrogen bisphenol A (BPA) via maternal loading and assessed the pups' response to allergic sensitization and bronchial challenge.
Female BALB/c mice received 10 microg/mL BPA in their drinking water from 1 week before impregnation to the end of the study. Neonatal mice were given a single 5 microg intraperitoneal dose of ovalbumin (OVA) with aluminum hydroxide on postnatal day 4 and 3% OVA by nebulization for 10 min on days 13, 14, and 15. Forty-eight hours after the last nebulization, we assessed serum IgE antibodies to OVA by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and airway inflammation and hyperresponsiveness by enumerating eosinophils in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, whole-body barometric plethysmography, and a forced oscillation technique.
Neonates from BPA-exposed mothers responded to this "suboptimal" sensitization with higher serum IgE anti-OVA concentrations compared with those from unexposed mothers (p < 0.05), and eosinophilic inflammation in their airways was significantly greater. Airway responsiveness of the OVA-sensitized neonates from BPA-treated mothers was enhanced compared with those from unexposed mothers (p < 0.05).
Perinatal exposure to BPA enhances allergic sensitization and bronchial inflammation and responsiveness in a susceptible animal model of asthma.
The aim of this study was to test the potential neurotoxicity of three antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), carbamazepine (5H-dibenzepine-5-carboxamide), topiramate [2,3:4,5-bis-O-(1-methylethylidene)-beta-d-fructopyranose sulfamate], and levetiracetam [2-(2-oxopyrrolidin-1-yl)butanamide], in the developing rat brain, when given alone or in combinations. The extent of cell death induced by AEDs was measured in several brain regions of rat pups (postnatal day 8) by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling assay 24 h after drug treatment. Carbamazepine alone did not increase neurodegeneration when given in doses up to 50 mg/kg, but it induced significant cell death at 100 mg/kg. When combined with phenytoin, carbamazepine, 50 but not 25 mg/kg, significantly exacerbated phenytoin-induced cell death. Although topiramate (20-80 mg/kg) alone caused no neurodegeneration, all doses exacerbated phenytoin-induced neurodegeneration. Levetiracetam (250-1000 mg/kg) alone did not induce cell death, nor did it exacerbate phenytoin-induced neurodegeneration. Of the combinations examined, only that of levetiracetam (250 mg/kg) with carbamazepine (50 mg/kg) did not induce neurodegeneration. Our data underscore the importance of evaluating the safety of combinations of AEDs given during development and not merely extrapolating from the effects of exposure to single drugs. Although carbamazepine and topiramate alone did not induce neuronal death, both drugs exacerbated phenytoin-induced cell death. In contrast, because cotreatment with levetiracetam and carbamazepine did not enhance cell death in the developing brain, it may be possible to avoid proapoptotic effects, even in polytherapy, by choosing appropriate drugs. The latter drugs, as monotherapy or in combination, may be promising candidates for the treatment of women during pregnancy and for preterm and neonatal infants.
Recently, sustained-release (SR) preparations of valproate (VPA) have been developed to minimize or prevent problems associated with plasma level fluctuations during therapy with conventional preparations. In the present experiments, the anticonvulsant activity of VPA was assessed during prolonged treatment with different administration protocols using the intravenous (i.v.) pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-infusion seizure threshold model in rats. To simulate a controlled-release (CR) preparation, VPA was infused in a constant rate through chronically implanted intrajugular catheters in some of the experiments. In all experiments, the PTZ seizure threshold was repeatedly determined in individual rats with chronically implanted catheters at daily intervals. Injection of saline three times daily in a control group showed that the PTZ seizure threshold was stable throughout the experiment. Acute administration of VPA 200 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.) significantly increased the seizure threshold. During prolonged treatment with three daily doses of 200 mg/kg i.p., anticonvulsant activity markedly increased on the second day of treatment and thereafter compared to the acute effect of VPA, although plasma levels measured at each seizure threshold determination did not differ significantly. This increase in anticonvulsant activity of VPA during prolonged treatment was much less pronounced with one instead of three daily doses. One daily intraperitoneal injection of VPA (200 mg/kg) plus continuous, constant-rate intravenous infusion of 400 mg/kg/day led to a marked increase in anticonvulsant activity similar to that in the experiment with three daily doses, indicating that not the peak levels but the duration of maintenance of active drug concentrations was important for development of enhanced anticonvulsant activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Blood gene expression profiling was investigated as a minimally invasive surrogate approach to detect silica exposure and resulting pulmonary toxicity. Rats were exposed by inhalation to crystalline silica (15 mg/m³, 6 h/day, 5 days), and pulmonary damage and blood gene expression profiles were determined after latency periods (0-16 weeks). Silica exposure resulted in pulmonary toxicity as evidenced by histological and biochemical changes in the lungs. The number of significantly differentially expressed genes in the blood, identified by microarray analysis, correlated with the severity of silica-induced pulmonary toxicity. Functional analysis of the differentially expressed genes identified activation of inflammatory response as the major biological signal. Induction of pulmonary inflammation, as suggested by the blood gene expression data, was supported by significant increases in the number of macrophages and infiltrating neutrophils as well as the activity of pro-inflammatory chemokines observed in the lungs of the silica-exposed rats. A gene expression signature developed using the blood gene expression data predicted the exposure of rats to lower, minimally toxic and nontoxic concentrations of silica. Taken together, our findings suggest the potential application of peripheral blood gene expression profiling as a minimally invasive surrogate approach to detect pulmonary toxicity induced by silica in the rat. However, further research is required to determine the potential application of our findings specifically to monitor human exposure to silica and the resulting pulmonary effects.
Hepatotoxicity consistent with the clinical diagnosis of veno-occlusive disease (VOD) of the liver has been suspected after conventional anti-cancer chemotherapy in children.
To establish the incidence of hepatotoxicity and its relationship with VOD, we analyzed toxicity data obtained on 511 children affected by Wilms tumor and treated according to the SIOP-9 protocol. They all received pre- and postnephrectomy chemotherapy using dactinomycin (AD) and vincristine (VCR) +/- other drugs +/- radiotherapy according to surgical stage and histology.
Sixty-four patients suffered at least one episode of hepatotoxicity and 41 satisfied the criteria for a clinical diagnosis of VOD. In this latter group, toxicity occurred during preoperative treatment in 15 patients and was confirmed histopathologically in 9 of the 16 liver biopsies obtained. There was a higher percentage of children aged less than 1 year at diagnosis in the VOD group than in the other patients (24% vs. 11.4%). The degree of liver damage in the younger patients seems important, as suggested by a higher increase in transaminases. VOD developed in 12% of the 68 irradiated children vs. 7% in the non-irradiated group. Statistical analysis showed an increased risk of VOD in younger patients (p < 0.001) and in those receiving radiotherapy (p < 0.001). All patients recovered after 6-180 days using supportive therapy only.
(1) 8% of children treated according to the SIOP-9 protocol, developed hepatotoxicity consistent with VOD. Excluding patients who received radiotherapy, the incidence was 6%. These figures are much higher than in earlier reports, though different diagnostic criteria were used. (2) Chemotherapy with AD and VCR seems to be a major cause of VOD. (3) Risk factors are young age and concomitant radiotherapy. (4) VOD does not prejudice positive outcome for these patients.
