Three women with suspected contact allergies to topical corticosteroids had positive patch test reactions to amcinonide, triamcinolone acetonide and budesonide, two of them also reacted to tixocortol pivalate. Doubtful patch test results were seen on hydrocortisone and Alfasone cream. On performing a ROAT (repeated open application test) with amcinonide in all women we saw massive erythematous reactions and spreading urticaria. ROAT with Betnesol-V cream was negative. Two of the women, who were older, had multiple sensitization owing to long-term treatment of venous ulcers over many years. The third woman was young and had acquired the allergy through short-term treatment of prurigo with various topical corticosteroids. Contact allergy to topical corticosteroids is frequent and should be borne in mind in daily practice. Especially when chronic dermatitis is difficult to manage, cross reactions between chemically related corticosteroids should be considered.
To describe a patient who developed torsade de pointes while being treated with fluconazole.
A 33-year-old woman with a 5 year history of systemic lupus erythematosus was admitted to the intensive care unit because of respiratory insufficiency due to Candida albicans pneumonia. Therapy with intravenous fluconazole 200 mg/day, with dose later adjusted according to her renal function, was started. Prolongation of the QTc interval and torsade de pointes occurred. Initially, domperidone, which had been initiated the day before fluconazole, was suspected as the possible cause and was discontinued; ultimately, both drugs were discontinued. However, torsade de pointes recurred several weeks later when the patient was treated with fluconazole for a second time and disappeared again on withdrawal of the drug. According to the Naranjo probability scale, this adverse reaction was highly probable.
The risk of torsade de pointes does not correlate in a linear fashion with prolongation of the QTc interval, but an interval beyond 500 msec is considered a significant risk factor. Given that both fluconazole and domperidone are metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system, they may intensify each other's proarrhythmic effects, particularly in patients with concurrent renal dysfunction. These risks are of particular concern in patients whose baseline QTc interval is prolonged for any reason.
From the case history, as well as use of the Naranjo scale, we concluded that fluconazole was the highly probable cause of the development of torsade de pointes in our patient.
In the developing mammalian tooth, the cranial neural crest derived dental mesenchyme consists of the dental papilla and dental follicle. The dental papilla gives rise to odontoblasts and dental pulp and the dental follicle gives rise to the periodontium, including the osteoblasts that contribute to the alveolar process. The alveolar process is a specialized intramembranous bone that forms the primary support structure for the dentition. The Msx1 gene controls many aspects of craniofacial development, as evidenced by craniofacial abnormalities seen in Msx1(-/-) mice, including the arrest of tooth development and the absence of the alveolar bone. Previous studies demonstrated that ectopic expression of Bmp4, a downstream target of Msx1, in the Msx1(-/-) dental mesenchyme rescued alveolar bone formation. Here we confirm an early requirement of BMP activity for alveolar bone formation. We show that the expression of Cbfa1 and Dlx5, two genes encode transcription factors that are critical for bone differentiation, overlaps with that of Msx1 and Bmp4 in the developing tooth and alveolar process. We have demonstrated that Dlx5 and Cbfa1 expression is down-regulated in Msx1(-/-) dental mesenchyme and that Msx1 and Bmp4 expression are unaltered in Cbfa1(-/-) mice. These data place Dlx5 and Cbfa1 downstream from the Msx1/Bmp4 in the genetic pathway that regulates tooth development. Ectopic expression of Bmp4 in Msx1 mutants restores the expression of Dlx5, but not Cbfa1, in the dental mesenchyme, and rescues the expression of both Dlx5 and Cbfa1 in the developing alveolar bone. Therefore, the early expression of Cfba1 in the dental mesenchyme appears dispensable for the development of the alveolar bone. Taken together with in vitro gene induction studies, our results demonstrate that BMP4 controls Dlx5 expression in dental mesenchyme, and functions upstream to both Dlx5 and Cbfa1 to regulate alveolar bone formation during tooth development.
In this prospective, randomized, double-blind, controlled trial, our primary objective was to assess the effect of a 3 : 1 mixture of propofol and thiopental in reducing pain on injection in children. Our hypothesis was that a 3 : 1 mixture of propofol and thiopental (treatment) would reduce the incidence of pain on injection to 20% compared to the expected incidence of 40% in the control group of an 11 : 1 mixture of propofol and 2% lidocaine.
Study subjects were patients 12-17 years old who were scheduled to undergo surgery and general anesthesia. Pain was assessed by a single-blinded observer present in the operating room. The major statistical method used in the analysis was multiple logistic regression.
Among the 164 children analyzed, 96 patients (58.5%) were male. The average age was 14.3 (sd = 1.65). The incidence of pain in the control group was 32.1% (26/81), compared to 25.3% (21/83) in the treatment group. The logistic regression analysis showed that there was not sufficient evidence that the treatment group was better than control group in reducing pain (P = 0.24). There were no significant differences in postoperative recovery time, nausea, vomiting, or blood pressure between the two groups (all P values >0.10).
There was not sufficient evidence to show that a 3 : 1 mixture of propofol and thiopental was better than an 11 : 1 volume admixture of propofol and lidocaine in reducing the incidence of pain on injection to 20%.
Transforming growth factor beta and its intracellular mediators, Smad proteins, play important roles in stimulating collagen gene transcription and, thus, could be the targets for treating hepatic fibrosis. However, intervention of transforming growth factor beta/Smad signaling affects physiological signal transduction as well and may cause serious adverse effects on clinical application. Here we have attempted to suppress hepatic fibrosis by expressing a transforming growth factor beta/Smad antagonist selectively in collagen-producing cells only in the fibrotic liver.
Recombinant adenoviruses expressing either green fluorescent protein or a transforming growth factor beta/Smad signal repressor, YB-1, were injected into mice untreated or treated with carbon tetrachloride. Green fluorescent protein expression was analyzed under a confocal laser scanning microscope. Antifibrotic effects of YB-1 overexpression were examined by luciferase assays and histological examination with transgenic reporter mice.
When the CAG expression unit was used as a control, green fluorescent protein was strongly expressed in a large number of hepatocytes in both normal and carbon tetrachloride-treated liver. In contrast, green fluorescent protein expression driven by a tissue-specific enhancer of the mouse alpha2(I) collagen gene ( COL1A2 ) was detected in activated hepatic stellate cells in carbon tetrachloride-induced fibrotic liver, but not in untreated normal liver. No green fluorescent protein fluorescence was observed in any other organs when the COL1A2 enhancer was used. Adenovirus-mediated YB-1 expression under the control of the COL1A2 enhancer significantly decreased COL1A2 promoter activity after carbon tetrachloride injection and subsequently suppressed the progression of hepatic fibrosis.
These results validate a new concept of the therapy for hepatic fibrosis to achieve cell type-specific gene expression only in the fibrotic liver, with little damage to other organs.
In the treatment of hypertension in renally impaired patients, normalization of blood pressure alone may not be sufficient to prevent significant morbidity to the kidneys. Treatment must reduce pressure in the renal vasculature, otherwise glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow will continue to deteriorate. Isradipine a dihydropyridine calcium-channel blocker, has been investigated as a suitable treatment in this setting. Isradipine maintains glomerular filtration rate, preserves or enhances renal plasma flow, decreases renal vascular resistance, maintains or reduces filtration fraction, and exerts a sustained natriuretic effect, all of which may enable isradipine to slow the rate of progression of renal deterioration. In addition, isradipine may decrease proteinuria and may decrease glomerular capillary pressure by dilating both the efferent and afferent arterioles. Unlike older calcium-channel blockers, isradipine exhibits minimal cardiodepressant activity and is not associated with any negative inotropic effects. It is metabolized in the liver and dosage adjustments may not be necessary when administered to patients with renal insufficiency. Isradipine has a favorable renal effect profile and also has several properties that meet the requirements of other patient populations where an extra measure of antihypertensive safety is required, such as diabetics, dialysis patients, and transplant recipients. Side effects with isradipine are usually mild and transient, occurring in a dose-dependent manner.
Chronic exposure to arsenic is associated with skin lesions. However, it is not known whether reducing arsenic exposure will improve skin lesions.
We evaluated the association between reduced arsenic exposures and skin lesion recovery over time.
A follow-up study of 550 individuals was conducted in 2009-2011 on a baseline population of skin lesion cases (n = 900) previously enrolled in Bangladesh in 2001-2003. Arsenic in drinking water and toenails, and skin lesion status and severity were ascertained at baseline and follow-up. We used logistic regression and generalized estimating equation (GEE) models to evaluate the association between log10-transformed arsenic exposure and skin lesion persistence and severity.
During the study period, water arsenic concentrations decreased in this population by 41% overall, and 65 individuals who had skin lesions at baseline had no identifiable lesions at follow-up. In the adjusted models, every log10 decrease in water arsenic and toenail arsenic was associated with 22% [odds ratio (OR) = 1.22; 95% CI: 0.85, 1.78] and 4.5 times (OR = 4.49; 95% CI: 1.94, 11.1) relative increase in skin lesion recovery, respectively. In addition, lower baseline arsenic levels were significantly associated with increased odds of recovery. A log10 decrease in toenail arsenic from baseline to follow-up was also significantly associated with reduced skin lesion severity in cases over time (mean score change of -5.22 units; 95% CI: -8.61, -1.82).
Reducing arsenic exposure increased the odds that an individual with skin lesions would recover or show less severe lesions within 10 years. Reducing arsenic exposure must remain a public health priority in Bangladesh and in other regions affected by arsenic-contaminated water.
Studies suggest that green tea polyphenols (GTP) or alphacalcidol is promising agent for preventing bone loss. Findings that GTP supplementation plus alphacalcidol administration increased bone mass via a decrease of oxidative stress and inflammation suggest a significant role of GTP plus alphacalcidol in bone health of patients with chronic inflammation.
Studies have suggested that green tea polyphenols (GTP) or alphacalcidol are promising dietary supplements for preventing bone loss in women. However, the mechanism(s) related to the possible osteo-protective role of GTP plus D(3) in chronic inflammation-induced bone loss is not well understood.
This study evaluated bioavailability, efficacy, and related mechanisms of GTP in combination with alphacalcidol in conserving bone loss in rats with chronic inflammation. A 12-week study of 2 (no GTP vs. 0.5% GTP in drinking water) × 2 (no alphacalcidol vs. 0.05 μg/kg alphacalcidol, 5×/week) factorial design in lipopolysaccharide-administered female rats was performed. In addition, a group receiving placebo administration was used to compare with a group receiving lipopolysaccharide administration only to evaluate the effect of lipopolysaccharide.
Lipopolysaccharide administration resulted in lower values for bone mass, but higher values for serum tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), urinary 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine, and mRNA expression of tumor necrosis factor-α and cyclooxygenase-2 in spleen. GTP supplementation increased urinary epigallocatechin and epicatechin concentrations. Both GTP supplementation and alphacalcidol administration resulted in a significant increase in bone mass, but a significant decrease in serum TRAP levels, urinary 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine levels, and mRNA expression of tumor necrosis factor-α and cyclooxygenase-2 in spleen. A synergistic effect of GTP and alphacalcidol was observed in these parameters. Neither GTP nor alphacalcidol affected femoral bone area or serum osteocalcin.
We conclude that a bone-protective role of GTP plus alphacalcidol during chronic inflammation bone loss may be due to a reduction of oxidative stress damage and inflammation.
Higher vancomycin concentrations are thought necessary for treatment of deep-seated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection, yet this may result in greater risk of nephrotoxicity. We evaluated the relationship of serum vancomycin trough concentration with clinical outcomes and nephrotoxicity for patients with deep-seated MRSA infection.
A retrospective cohort study evaluated adults with MRSA pneumonia, endocarditis or osteomyelitis who received vancomycin for > or = 5 days from June 2005 to June 2007. Patients were stratified by mean vancomycin trough level [low (< 15 mg/l), high (> or = 15 mg/l)]. Outcomes were clinical response, mortality, length of stay (LOS) and nephrotoxicity. Three definitions of nephrotoxicity were used: i) rise in serum creatinine (SCr) > or = 0.5 mg/dl; ii) 50% increase in SCr; and iii) 25% decrease in estimated creatinine clearance.
Fifty-five patients experiencing MRSA pneumonia (n = 28), endocarditis (n = 9), osteomyelitis (n = 20) and multiple infections (n = 2) were stratified into low (n = 39) and high (n = 16) groups. High group patients were more likely to be septic (p = 0.01) and have a higher APACHE II score (p = 0.01). After adjustment for APACHE II score, clinical response rates among survivors did not differ significantly. Risk of death was not significantly different between the high (19%) and low (5%) group patients (p = 0.1). LOS did not differ significantly between groups (p = 0.7). Nephrotoxicity occurred in the low and high groups, respectively, for 10 and 31% (p = 0.04) with definition 1, 10 and 31% (p = 0.04) with definition 2, and 13 and 25% (p = 0.1) with definition 3. After adjustment for APACHE II score, odds of nephrotoxicity based on definitions 1 or 2 were increased among the high versus low groups (OR = 3.27, 95% CI: 0.7 - 15.25, p = 0.1), although not statistically significant.
Clinical outcomes did not differ significantly between high and low trough groups for deep-seated MRSA infections. Nephrotoxicity was consistently higher in the high trough group, regardless of the definition used.
Radiolabeled metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG), an analog of norepinephrine (NE), serves as an index of adrenergic neuron integrity and function. Using a rat model of adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy, we tested the hypothesis that abnormal cardiac adrenergic neuron activity may appear and be exacerbated dose-dependently in adriamycin cardiomyopathy. The degree of vacuolar degeneration of myocardial cells was analyzed in relation to the duration of adriamycin treatment (2 mg/kg, once a week). There were no abnormalities or only isolated degeneration in the 1- or 2-wk treatment groups, isolated or scattered degeneration in half of the 3-wk group, frequent scattered degeneration in the 4-wk group, scattered or focal degeneration in the 5-wk group, and extensive degeneration in the 8-wk group. Myocardial accumulation of [125I]MIBG 4 hr after intravenous injection did not differ between the controls and the groups treated 3 wk or less. However, the 4-wk group had a slightly lower accumulation in the right ventricular wall (82% of the control) and significantly lower accumulation in the left ventricular wall (about 66% of the control: p less than 0.05). In the 5-wk group, MIBG accumulation in the right and left ventricular wall was 35% and 27% of that in controls, respectively (p less than 0.001). In the 8-wk group, MIBG accumulation in the right and left ventricular wall was 18% and 14% of that in controls, respectively (p less than 0.001). Thus, MIBG accumulation in the myocardium decreased in an adriamycin dose-dependent manner. The appearance of impaired cardiac adrenergic neuron activity in the presence of slight myocardial impairment (scattered or focal vacuolar degeneration) indicates that MIBG scintigraphy may be a useful method for detection of adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy.
Neuronal nicotinic receptors are comprised of combinations of alpha(2-9) and beta(2-4) subunits arranged to form a pentameric receptor. Currently, the principal central nervous system (CNS) subtypes are believed to be alpha(4)beta(2) and a homomeric alpha(7) receptor, although other combinations almost certainly exist. The identity of the nicotinic receptor subtype(s) involved in the rewarding effects of nicotine are unknown. In the present study, using some recently described subtype selective nicotinic agonists and antagonists, we investigated the role of the alpha(7) nicotinic receptor in the mediation of nicotine-induced hyperactivity and self-administration in rats. The alpha(7) receptor agonists AR-R 17779 and DMAC failed to stimulate locomotor activity in both nicotine-nontolerant and -sensitized rats. In contrast, nicotine and the putative alpha(4)beta(2) subtype selective agonist SIB1765F increased activity in both experimental conditions. In nicotine-sensitized rats, the high affinity (including the alpha(4)beta(2) subtype) nicotinic antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE), but not the selective alpha(7) antagonist methyllycaconitine (MLA), antagonized a nicotine-induced hyperactivity. Similarly, DHbetaE, but not MLA, pretreatment reduced nicotine self-administration. Electrophysiology experiments using Xenopus oocytes expressing the human alpha(7) receptor confirmed AR-R 17779 and DMAC to be potent agonists at this site, and further studies demonstrated the ability of systemically administered AR-R 17779 to penetrate into the CNS. Taken together, these results indicate a negligible role of alpha(7) receptors in nicotine-induced hyperlocomotion and reward in the rat, and support the view for an involvement of a member from the high-affinity nicotinic receptor subclass, possibly alpha(4)beta(2). Issues such as drug potency, CNS penetration, and desensitization of the alpha(7) receptor are discussed.
To test whether exposure to phenobarbital in utero is associated with deficits in intelligence scores in adult men and whether the magnitude of the postnatal effect is mediated by exposure parameters and/or postnatal environmental factors.
Two double-blind studies were conducted on independent samples of adult men prenatally exposed to phenobarbital and matched control samples using different measures of general intelligence. Based on data from control subjects, regression models were built relating intelligence scores to relevant pre-exposure matching variables and age at testing. Models generated predicted scores for each exposed subject. Group mean differences between the individually predicted and observed scores estimated exposure effects.
Copenhagen, Denmark.
Exposed subjects were adult men born at the largest hospital in Copenhagen between 1959 and 1961 who were exposed to phenobarbital during gestation via maternal medical treatment and whose mothers had no history of a central nervous system disorder and no treatment during pregnancy with any other psychopharmacological drug. Study 1 included 33 men and study 2, 81 men. Controls were unexposed members of the same birth cohort matched on a wide spectrum of maternal variables recorded prenatally and perinatally. Controls for studies 1 and 2 included 52 and 101 men, respectively.
In study 1: Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (Danish version); in study 2: Danish Military Draft Board Intelligence Test (Børge Priens Prøve).
Men exposed prenatally to phenobarbital had significantly lower verbal intelligence scores (approximately 0.5 SD) than predicted. Lower socioeconomic status and being the offspring of an "unwanted" pregnancy increased the magnitude of the negative effects. Exposure that included the last trimester was the most detrimental.
Phenobarbital exposure during early development can have long-term deleterious effects on cognitive performance. Detrimental environmental conditions can interact with prenatal biological insult to magnify negative outcomes. Physicians are urged to use increased caution in prescribing such medications during pregnancy.
The parenteral long-acting phenothiazines are drugs frequently used in the treatment of hospitalized and ambulatory psychiatric patients. The usual side effects of these drugs are familiar to psychiatrists. However, the "Neuroleptic malignant syndrome" reported in this paper can give rise to considerable diagnostic difficulty. The clinical characteristics and differential diagnosis of this syndrome are described with a care report. The need for prompt initiation of adequate therapy is stressed.
To ascertain the efficacy of amrinone and epinephrine in reversing bupivacaine-induced cardiovascular depression, we investigated the time course of recovery of cardiac function with 3 doses of both agents after bupivacaine administration.
In sevoflurane-anaesthetized dogs, bupivacaine was infused intravenously at 1 mg.kg-1.min-1 until mean arterial pressure fell to 60 mmHg or less. The 3 doses of amrinone (1, 2, and 4 mg.kg-1) or the 3 doses of epinephrine (2, 5, and 10 micrograms.kg-1) were administered as a bolus in randomized order in each dog.
Amrinone improved maximum left ventricular dP/dt, a time constant of left ventricular isovolemic relaxation and cardiac index persistently and dose-relatedly. Amrinone increased heart rate and decreased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and systemic vascular resistance index. Amrinone at 1 and 2 mg.kg-1 significantly increased mean arterial pressure, but amrinone at 4 mg.kg-1 did not. Epinephrine increased mean arterial pressure, maximum left ventricular dP/dt, and systemic vascular resistance dose-relatedly. The duration of action of epinephrine, peaking at 1 min and subsequently decreasing by 10 min after administration, did not differ among the groups. Epinephrine at all doses failed to improve a time constant of left ventricular isovolemic relaxation and cardiac index. ECG evidence of serious ventricular dysrhythmias was seen in 1 out of 6 dogs after administrating each dose of amrinone and in 3, 3 and 5 out of 6 dogs after administrating 2, 5 and 10 micrograms.kg-1 of epinephrine, respectively.
Bolus amrinone may have a certain efficacy in reversing bupivacaine-induced cardiovascular depression, and improving cardiac contractility and relaxation dose-relatedly. In contrast to amrinone, bolus epinephrine remains indispensable for resuscitation, causing a rapid, massive, transient and dose-related rise in blood pressure. However, the use of amrinone may be limited predominantly by a decrease in systemic vascular resistance, while the use of epinephrine may be limited predominantly by the generation of serious ventricular dysrhythmias and lack of effectiveness on cardiac index and on cardiac relaxation.
Brimonidine is a highly selective alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist with intraocular pressure (IOP) reducing effect. We conducted this study in Taiwan to compare the safety and efficacy ofbrimonidine 0.2% with timolol 0.5% for the treatment of glaucoma.
A prospective, randomized, single-masked, 1-month clinical efficacy and safety trial was conducted from March to September 2000. Forty glaucoma patients were enrolled--29 in the brimonidine group and 11 in the timolol group. Patients instilled their study medications twice daily for 4 weeks, and were followed at baseline visit, weeks 2 and 4. Demographic data, reduction of IOP, safety and adverse events were obtained and analyzed.
Both drugs showed sustained ocular hypotensive efficacy in the study period. At baseline, the mean IOP was 24.48 +/- 2.29 mmHg in the brimonidine group and 23.32 +/- 0.82 mmHg in the timolol group. The IOP readings after treatment were significantly lower than their baseline levels in both groups at all visits (p < 0.001). At peak, the mean decreases from the baseline IOP ranged from 5.22 +/- 0.30 mmHg to 6.96 +/- 0.33 mmHg for brimonidine and from 4.55 +/- 0.49 mmHg to 6.64 +/- 0.53 mmHg for timolol. At trough, the mean decreases from baseline ranged from 3.72 +/- 0.32 mmHg to 4.55 +/- 0.32 mmHg for brimonidine and 3.82 +/- 0.52 mmHg to 4.27 +/- 0.51 mmHg for timolol. No significant between-group differences were seen at peak or trough at all visits. The clinical success rate was 86.2% in the brimonidine group and 81.8% in the timolol group, making no statistically significant difference between them (p = 0.817). 17.2% of patients in brimonidine group and 9.0% patients in timolol group reported mild adverse events. Ocular allergy occurred in 10.3% of patients in brimonidine group. No significant changes in visual acuity, biomicroscopy or ophthalmoscopy were observed in both groups. Mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure remained relatively stable in both groups except in week 2 (p = 0.016) when brimonidine had lower systolic blood pressure. However, brimonidine showed no significant difference in week 4 from baseline. The mean heart rate in the brimonidine group was relatively unchanged over the study period. Patients receiving timolol experienced statistically significant mean heart rate decreases from baseline (p = 0.020) in week 4.
Topically applied twice daily for one month, brimonidine tartrate 0.2% has clinical effectiveness equivalent to timolol 0.5% in Taiwanese patients with glaucoma. It has a safe systemic profile with minimum effect on the heart.
We report a case of a 47-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis who developed ocular myasthenia gravis during penicillamine treatment. Her serum contained elevated titers of acetylcholine receptor antibodies, and her symptoms resolved 8 weeks after discontinuation of penicillamine. We review the clinical and laboratory features of this syndrome of penicillamine-induced myasthenia gravis and discuss its pathophysiology and treatment.
A 36-year-old woman was admitted for initiation of hemodialysis for chronic renal failure. Two days after catheter placement the patient developed a fever that persisted and resulted in subsequent removal of the catheter. Although blood cultures were negative, cultures of the catheter tip were positive for Staphylococcus epidermidis. An initial vancomycin dose was well tolerated, but the patient later experienced numbness and tingling of her lower back accompanied by pain ten minutes after initiation of the second dose. Symptoms abated when the vancomycin infusion was discontinued, and the drug was subsequently well tolerated when reinstituted at a slower infusion rate. Similar symptoms were observed five minutes into a vancomycin infusion a week later that also resolved after decreasing the infusion rate. Patients on hemodialysis receiving vancomycin should be carefully monitored during drug administration for the development of paresthesia and spasmodic lower back pain.
Isoflurane has exceeded halothane and enflurane in usage. A literature search, however, revealed no data comparing the effects on emesis, headache and restlessness of these three agents.
With hospital ethics committee approval and patient consent, a prospective, randomised, double-blind study of 556 patients undergoing ENT and eye surgery was undertaken to evaluate the effects of halothane, isoflurane and enflurane on vomiting, retching, headache and restlessness until 24 h after anaesthesia. Balanced general anaesthesia was administered comprising benzodiazepine premedication, induction with thiopentone-atracurium-morphine (ENT patients) or fentanyl (eye patients), controlled ventilation and maintenance with either halothane 0.4-0.6 vol% (n = 186), isoflurane 0.6-0.8 vol% (n = 184) or enflurane 0.8-1 vol% (n = 186) in nitrous oxide 67% and oxygen.
The three study groups were comparable, and comprised comparable subgroups having ear, nose, throat, intraocular and non-intraocular surgery. During early recovery from anaesthesia, the respective requirements for halothane, isoflurane and enflurane for analgesia (7%, 9% and 10%), frequency of emesis (6%, 8% and 8%), antiemetic requirements (1%, 1% and 2%), restlessness-pain scores and time spent in the recovery ward (27 SD 10, 31 SD 12 and 26 SD 9 min) were similar. During the ensuing 24-h postoperative period, patients who had isoflurane experienced emesis less often than those who had halothane (36% vs 46%, P < 0.025) but did so with similar frequency to those who had enflurane (46% vs 41%). Antiemetic requirements were least in those given isoflurane (isoflurane 12%, halothane and enflurane 23% each, P < 0.005), but headache and analgesic requirements were similar.
Isoflurane induces less postoperative emesis than halothane, but headache is similarly frequent after anaesthesia with any of these agents.
A case is reported of a 16-year-old girl who developed benign intracranial hypertension, with severe bilateral papilledema after minocycline therapy. A lumboperitoneal bypass was carried out in view of the ophthalmologic signs and the pressure of cerebrospinal fluid.
The effect of sodium saccharin (SAC) or L-tryptophan (LT) on urinary bladder carcinogenesis initiated by feeding N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) for 4 weeks as 0.2% of the diet to male F344 weanling rats was evaluated. SAC was fed as 5% of the diet, and LT was 2% of the diet. FANFT fed for 4 weeks followed by 100 weeks of control diet did not produce any carcinomas; one of 25 rats developed a bladder papilloma. Of 26 rats fed SAC for 100 weeks after FANFT, two developed papillomas, and five developed carcinomas (p less than 0.03). Of 26 rats fed LT for 100 weeks after FANFT, three developed papillomas, and two developed carcinomas (p greater than 0.1) Eight rats fed FANFT for 72 weeks all developed bladder carcinomas, but rats fed control diet alone, control diet with SAC, or control diet with LT did not develop any bladder tumors. Scanning electron microscopic examination of Week 104 of the experiment showed the presence of pleomorphic microvilli on the bladder surface of some rats fed SAC of LT whether following 4 weeks of control diet alone or 4 weeks of FANFT. Four weeks of FANFT feeding, a lower dose than used previously in our studies, appears to be a subcarcinogenic level. Under these experimental conditions, the promoting activity of SAC is demonstrated with statistical significance. The results with LT were not statistically significant.
