Chronic amphetamine users may have experience of paranoia and hallucination. It has long been believed that dopamine antagonists, such as chlorpromazine, haloperidol, and thioridazine, are effective for the treatment of amphetamine psychosis.
To evaluate risks, benefits, costs of treatments for amphetamine psychosis.
MEDLINE (1966-2007), EMBASE (1980-2007), CINAHL (1982-2007), PsychINFO (1806-2007), CENTRAL (Cochrane Library 2008 issue 1), references of obtained articles.
All randomised controlled and clinical trials (RCTs, CCTs) evaluating treatments (alone or combined) for people with amphetamine psychosis
Two authors evaluated and extracted the data independently. Dichotomous data were extracted on an intention-to-treat basis in which the dropouts were assigned as participants with the worst outcomes. The Relative Risk (RR) with the 95% confidence interval (95% CI) was used to assess the dichotomous data. The Weighted Mean Difference (WMD) with 95% CI was used to assess the continuous data.
The comprehensive searches found one randomised controlled trial of treatment for amphetamine psychosis meeting the criteria for considering studies. The study involved 58 participants and compared the efficacy and tolerability of two antipsychotic drugs, olanzapine (a newer antipsychotic) and haloperidol (a commonly used antipsychotic medication used as a control condition), in treating amphetamine-induced psychosis. The results show that both olanzapine and haloperidol at clinically relevant doses were efficacious in resolving psychotic symptoms, with the olanzapine condition showing significantly greater safety and tolerability than the haloperidol control as measured by frequency and severity of extrapyramidal symptoms.
Only one RCT of treatment for amphetamine psychosis has been published. Outcomes from this trial indicate that antipsychotic medications effectively reduce symptoms of amphetamine psychosis, the newer generation and more expensive antipsychotic medication, olanzapine, demonstrates significantly better tolerability than the more affordable and commonly used medication, haloperidol.There are other two studies that did not meet the inclusion criteria for this review. The results of these two studies show that agitation and some psychotic symptoms may be abated within an hour after antipsychotic injection.Whether this limited evidence can be applied for amphetamine psychotic patients is not yet known.The medications that should be further investigate are conventional antipsychotics, newer antipsychotics and benzodiazepines. However, naturalistic studies of amphetamine psychotic symptoms and the prevalence of relapse to psychosis in the presence of amphetamine, are also crucial for advising the development of study designs appropriate for further treatment studies of amphetamine psychosis.
Paclitaxel is widely used in cancer chemotherapy for the treatment of solid tumors such as breast, ovarian and lung cancer. However, it sometimes induces moderate to severe muscle pain, and impairs the patients' quality of life. An appropriate method for relieving this pain is not well established. Shakuyaku-kanzo-to, a herbal medicine, is known to relieve menstrual pain, muscle spasm, and muscle pain, and its effectiveness is expected. To ascertain the effectiveness of Shakuyaku-kanzo-to on paclitaxel-induced pain, we investigated the effects of Shakuyaku-kanzo-to and its constituent herbal medicines in a mouse model.
Seven-week-old male ddY mice were used. To make a mouse model of paclitaxel-induced pain, different single, intraperitoneally injected doses of this drug were tested in various groups of mice, and the optimal dose was determined. To estimate the effects of Shakuyaku-kanzo-to, the constituent herbal medicines Shakuyaku and Kanzo, and loxoprofen sodium as a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug on paclitaxel-induced pain, mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia of the hind paw were assessed.
Paclitaxel administered at a dose of 10mg/kg or more produced allodynia and hyperalgesia; the time courses were similar to those of pain after paclitaxel administration in cancer patients. Shakuyaku-kanzo-to significantly relieved the allodynia and hyperalgesia induced by paclitaxel (10mg/kg). Shakuyaku and Kanzo inhibited the allodynia and hyperalgesia to some extent, but not significantly, while loxoprofen sodium was without effects.
A single administration of paclitaxel (10mg/kg) produced allodynia and hyperalgesia in mice, suggesting that it could be used as an animal model resembling the painful conditions observed in humans medicated with this drug. Using this model, Shakuyaku-kanzo-to was shown to relieve paclitaxel-induced painful peripheral neuropathy.
The relation between functional and structural renal changes induced by lithium was studied in rats during long-term treatment and after withdrawal of lithium. Administration of LiCl in the diet for up to 21 weeks caused marked polyuria associated with a significant lowering of renal concentrating ability assessed by dehydration and vasopressin tests. Plasma creatinine and plasma urea were not significantly changed by the treatment. Upon withdrawal of lithium water intake and concentrating ability were normalized within 4--8 weeks. Lithium caused focal light microscopic changes in the distal convoluted tubule and the collecting duct, consisting of nuclear and cellular polymorphism and, after prolonged treatment, dilatation of tubular lumens with tubular cell atrophy. These changes appeared later than the concentrating defect and persisted when lithium was withdrawn after prolonged treatment. No significant correlation was found between the degree of tubular changes and water intake or concentrating ability. It is concluded that the reversible diabetes insipidus induced by lithium in rats cannot be explained directly by the light microscopical changes observed in the distal part of the nephron, although the structural changes may be secondary to the polyuric state induced by lithium.
We have previously shown that corticotropin-releasing hormone plays an important proinflammatory role in the induction of experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis. In this study, we examined the role of apoptosis in the destruction of the retina during experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis, and the role of corticotropin-releasing hormone as a local regulator of Fas and Fas Ligand expression in this condition. We evaluated apoptosis by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling method and Fas and Fas Ligand presence by immunohistochemistry. We examined formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded eye sections from female Lewis rats or B10.A mice immunized with the major pathogenetic epitope (R16 peptide) of the interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein. Female B10.A mice similarly immunized were treated with intraperitoneal injections of the rabbit anti-corticotropin-releasing hormone antibody TS-2 or nonimmune rabbit serum. The percentage of retinal cells undergoing apoptosis and the expression of Fas and Fas Ligand were increased in inflamed retinas in immunized Lewis rats and B10.A mice, compared to controls. Retinas from immunized B10.A mice treated with anti-corticotropin-releasing hormone antibody showed significantly lower apoptosis and Fas and Fas Ligand expression than placebo-treated animals. In conclusion, retinal cells in experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis undergo apoptosis associated with concurrent upregulation of Fas and Fas Ligand. The local presence of corticotropin-releasing hormone appears to be of pivotal importance in this process.
Copper is implicated in metabolic disorders, such as Wilson's disease or Alzheimer's disease. Analysis of signaling pathways regulating cellular survival and function in response to a copper stress is crucial for understanding the pathogenesis of such diseases. Exposure of human skin fibroblasts or HeLa cells to Cu(2+) resulted in a dose- and time-dependent activation of the antiapoptotic kinase Akt/protein kinase B, starting at concentrations as low as 3 microM. Only Cu(II), but not Cu(I), had this effect. Activation of Akt was accompanied by phosphorylation of a downstream target of Akt, glycogen synthase kinase-3. Inhibitors of phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) completely blocked activation of Akt by Cu(2+), indicating a requirement of PI3K for Cu(2+)-induced activation of Akt. Indeed, cellular PI3K activity was strongly enhanced after exposure to Cu(2+). Copper ions may lead to the formation of reactive oxygen species, such as hydrogen peroxide. Activation of Akt by hydrogen peroxide or growth factors is known to proceed via the activation growth factor receptors. In line with this, pretreatment with inhibitors of growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases blocked activation of Akt by hydrogen peroxide and growth factors, as did a src-family tyrosine kinase inhibitor or the broad-spectrum tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein. Activation of Akt by Cu(2+), however, remained unimpaired, implying (i) that tyrosine kinase activation is not involved in Cu(2+) activation of Akt and (ii) that activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway by Cu(2+) is initiated independently of that induced by reactive oxygen species. Comparison of the time course of the oxidation of 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein in copper-treated cells with that of Akt activation led to the conclusion that production of hydroperoxides cannot be an upstream event in copper-induced Akt activation. Rather, both activation of Akt and generation of ROS are proposed to occur in parallel, regulating cell survival after a copper stress.
Dobutamine is a commonly used positive inotrope for the short-term management of heart failure. It is commercially available as a 50:50 mixture of two isomers with unique effects on alpha- and beta adrenergic receptors. In dosages of 2-15 micrograms/kg/minute, dobutamine has been shown to increase cardiac output (mainly through stroke volume), reduce systemic vascular resistance, lower central venous and pulmonary artery wedge pressures, improve renal blood flow, and relieve signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure. At higher dosages it can increase heart rate and induce arrhythmias. Recent evidence indicates that effects of dobutamine last long after the drug has been eliminated from the plasma, and some work has been done on ambulatory use of this agent. Dobutamine has been used successfully in several circumstances, such as after cardiac surgery, in patients with myocardial infarction, and in various shock states. An understanding of the pathophysiology of the underlying disorder is important in deciding which catecholamine to use. With this in mind, monotherapy or combination therapy with inodilators such as dobutamine, or inopressors like dopamine will follow logically.
The organophosphate pesticide, dichlorvos (DDVP), is used commonly to control ectoparasites in laboratory rodents colonies. This compound is relatively nontoxic to Mus musculus at dosages several times the therapeutic level. However, usage of a similar therapeutic level in the white-footed mouse (Peromyscus leucopus) resulted in substantial mortality. To determine whether P. leucopus is more susceptible than M. musculus to the toxic effects of DDVP, both species were exposed to 0, 3 and 6 g of pelleted DDVP per cage. In a subsequent experiment, P. leucopus were exposed to 0 and 1 g of DDVP per cage. Mortality was not observed in M. musculus at any dosage level. P. leucopus exposed to 1, 3 and 6 g of DDVP exhibited mortalities of 3%, 20% and 53%, respectively. Mean serum cholinesterase in P. leucopus exposed to 3 and 6 g of DDVP was 0.35 and 0.21 U/ml as compared to 3.13 U/ml in unexposed mice. The analogous values for M. musculus were 1.60 and 0.79 U/ml while the level in unexposed mice was 6.79 U/ml. In the second experiment, mean serum cholinesterase in P. leucopus exposed to 1 g of DDVP was 0.32 U/ml as compared to 2.33 U/ml in unexposed mice. Histopathology revealed no lesions in the brain, liver or kidneys. The increased susceptibility of P. leucopus to the toxic effects of DDVP was related to the lowered serum cholinesterase. This indicates that DDVP should not be used for control of ectoparasites in P. leucopus.
Of 331 patients in our 3 penicillamine clinics, 312 had been taking chrysotherapy previously. In 232 patients, responses to both drugs could be determined: there was no difference in the response rate to penicillamine when patients in the largest clinic with good and those with poor responses to gold were compared. Adverse reactions to penicillamine were more frequent in patients who had reacted adversely to gold in 2 of the 3 clinics. Proteinuria tended to occur more frequently in patients who had had proteinuria when taking gold than in patients who had not had gold-induced proteinuria.
Phosphodiesterase inhibitor is essential to the pharmacologic management of decompensated heart failure because it increases contractility and decreases afterload of right ventricle. It also improves hemodynamics and increases blood flow of the grafted internal mammary arteries and middle cerebral arteries during coronary artery bypass surgery. However, it induces vasodilation and necessitates the use of vasoconstrictors, such as norepinephrine. We hypothesized that vasopressin could recover hypotension induced by milrinone with less effect on pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) compared to norepinephrine.
Fifty patients, undergoing coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery, were assigned randomly in a double-blind manner to receive either vasopressin or norepinephrine. After baseline hemodynamic measurements, a loading dose of milrinone 50 microg/kg was infused slowly for 20 min followed by continuous infusion of 0.5 microg/(kg min). Immediately after the loading dose of milrinone, hemodynamic variables were measured, and vasopressin (VP group) or norepinephrine (NE groups) was infused. After being titrated until the mean arterial pressure was increased by 20%, hemodynamic variables were measured again.
Milrinone infusion reduced both systemic vascular resistance (SVR, 1218+/-299 dynes/cm5 vs 838+/-209 dynes/cm5, 1345+/-299 dynes/cm5 vs 1011+/-195 dynes/cm5) and PVR (95+/-34 dynes/cm5 vs 72+/-30 dynes/cm5, 119+/-85 dynes/cm5 vs 87+/-33 dynes/cm5) in the VP and NE groups, respectively. Vasopressin and norepinephrine infusion increased both SVR (838+/-209 dynes/cm5 vs 1100+/-244 dynes/cm5, 1011+/-195 dynes/cm5 vs 1446+/-681 dynes/cm5, respectively) and PVR (72+/-30 dynes/cm5 vs 84+/-18 dynes/cm5, 87+/-33 dynes/cm5 vs 139+/-97 dynes/cm5, respectively). The PRV/SVR ratio was decreased after vasopressin infusion (0.10+/-0.03 vs 0.08+/-0.03), while no changes were found after norepinephrine infusion (0.09+/-0.02 vs 0.09+/-0.02).
In the patients undergoing CABG surgery, both norepinephrine and low dose vasopressin were effective in restoring milrinone-induced decrease of SVR. However, only low-dose vasopressin decreased the PVR/SVR ratio that was increased by milrinone. Considering the importance of maintaining systemic perfusion pressure as well as reducing right heart afterload, milrinone-vasopressin may provide better hemodynamics than milrinone-norephinephrine during the management of right heart failure.
Levosimendan is a calcium sensitizer with positive inotropic and vasodilating properties. It increases the sensitivity of troponin C for calcium, opens adenosine triphosphate-dependent potassium K(+) channels and inhibits phosphodiesterase III. Levosimendan is approved for use in cardiac failure but large clinical trials have raised doubts whether levosimendan is superior to β-adrenergic agonists regarding long-term survival of patients. Despite this controversy, there is growing evidence of beneficial effects of levosimendan in ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury due to its effect on K(+) channels. As a consequence, patents on K(+) channel agonists have been granted recently for reducing injury in organs or tissue in transplants and trauma therapy. Moreover, experimental studies and clinical trials have shown that levosimendan effectively inhibits cardiomyocyte apoptosis. The underlying molecular mechanism is currently unclear. However, it is tempting to assume that levosimendan inhibits cardiomyocyte apoptosis due to its beneficial effect on I/R injury. However, the link between these two phenomena has not been well established. This review summarizes experimental studies and clinical trials on the effects of levosimendan in I/R injury and apoptosis also discussing recent patents.
Brain tissue nodules are occasionally seen in the lungs of neural tube defect (NTD) cases. We looked for brain tissue fragments in amniotic fluid of rats with NTD as it is the basis for the aspiration hypothesis.
Eighty-seven pregnant rats were randomly divided into experimental (n=58) and control (n=29) groups. Experimental rats received 100,000 U of vitamin A in 1 mL of corn oil on gestational days 8, 9 and 10, while control rats received corn oil. On gestational days 15, 18, 19, 20 and 21, amniotic fluid was drawn from three control animals and five experimental animals and analysed.
NTD was found in 22.75% of experimental fetuses and in no control fetuses. Brain tissue fragment number and volume fraction increased between gestational days 18 and 20, falling on day 21.
Excessive doses of vitamin A induce a high rate of early fetal death and development of NTD. Brain tissue fragments in the amniotic fluid reflect the evolution from exencephaly to anencephaly and could support the aspiration hypothesis. However, as it is a late event in the rat, this model may not reproduce the brain tissue nodules in the lung.
To investigate the nephroprotective effect of telmisartan, the angiotensin II receptor antagonist, against renal injury induced by cadmium in mice.
Mice received cadmium chloride at a dose of 1.2mg Cd/kg/day, s.c., for nine weeks. Telmisartan treatment (1mg/kg/day, orally) was started one week before cadmium administration and continued for ten weeks.
Telmisartan significantly reduced blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine levels which were increased by cadmium. Also, telmisartan significantly suppressed lipid peroxidation, compensated deficits in the antioxidant defenses [reduced glutathione (GSH) level and catalase activity], decreased the elevations of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), nitric oxide (NO) and cadmium ion concentration, and attenuated the reductions of selenium and zinc ions in renal tissue resulted from cadmium administration. Histopathological examination revealed that cadmium-induced renal tissue damage was ameliorated by telmisartan treatment. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that telmisartan significantly decreased the cadmium-induced overexpression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), Fas ligand (FasL) and caspase-3 in renal tissue.
Telmisartan, through its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory actions, effectively prevented cadmium nephrotoxicity in mice. Hence, telmisartan represents a potential candidate to protect the kidney from the detrimental effect of cadmium toxicity.
As a nitric oxide donor, nitroglycerin can trigger migraine in migraineurs. The headache is not characteristically accompanied by an aura. A patient with no personal or family history of migraine reported the development of a typical visual aura and a throbbing headache while using nitroglycerin for angina pectoris. The possible mechanisms are discussed.
Chronic complex I inhibition caused by rotenone induces features of Parkinson's disease in rats, including selective nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration and Lewy bodies with alpha-synuclein-positive inclusions. To determine the mechanisms underlying rotenone-induced neuronal death, we used an in vitro model of human dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells. In rotenone-induced cell death, rotenone induced Bad dephosphorylation without changing the amount of Bad proteins. Rotenone also increased the amount of alpha-synuclein in cells showing morphological changes in response to rotenone. Because Bad and alpha-synuclein are known to bind to 14-3-3 proteins, we examined the effects of rotenone on these complexes. Whereas a decreased Bad amount bound to 14-3-3 proteins, rotenone increased alpha-synuclein binding to these proteins. Because dephosphorylation by calcineurin activates Bad, we examined the possible involvement of Bad activation in rotenone-induced apoptosis by using the calcineurin inhibitor tacrolimus (FK506). Tacrolimus suppressed two rotenone-induced actions: Bad dephosphorylation and apoptosis. Furthermore, the inhibition of caspase-9, which functions downstream from Bad, completely suppressed rotenone-induced apoptosis. Our findings demonstrate that Bad activation plays a role in rotenone-induced apoptosis of SH-SY5Y cells.
At variance with pilocarpine-induced epilepsy in the laboratory rat, pilocarpine administration to the tropical rodent Proechimys guyannensis (casiragua) elicited an acute seizure that did not develop in long-lasting status epilepticus and was not followed by spontaneous seizures up to 30 days, when the hippocampus was investigated in treated and control animals. Nissl staining revealed in Proechimys a highly developed hippocampus, with thick hippocampal commissures and continuity of the rostral dentate gyri at the midline. Immunohistochemistry was used to study calbindin, parvalbumin, calretinin, GABA, glutamic acid decarboxylase, and nitric oxide synthase expression. The latter was also investigated with NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry. Cell counts and densitometric evaluation with image analysis were performed. Differences, such as low calbindin immunoreactivity confined to some pyramidal cells, were found in the normal Proechimys hippocampus compared to the laboratory rat. In pilocarpine-treated casiraguas, stereological cell counts in Nissl-stained sections did not reveal significant neuronal loss in hippocampal subfields, where the examined markers exhibited instead striking changes. Calbindin was induced in pyramidal and granule cells and interneuron subsets. The number of parvalbumin- or nitric oxide synthase-containing interneurons and their staining intensity were significantly increased. Glutamic acid decarboxylase(67)-immunoreactive interneurons increased markedly in the hilus and decreased in the CA1 pyramidal layer. The number and staining intensity of calretinin-immunoreactive pyramidal cells and interneurons were significantly reduced. These findings provide the first description of the Proechimys hippocampus and reveal marked long-term variations in protein expression after an epileptic insult, which could reflect adaptive changes in functional hippocampal circuits implicated in resistance to limbic epilepsy.
The induction dose requirements of propofol were compared in three age groups in 300 unpremedicated healthy Chinese children: group A, younger than 2 yr (n = 48); group B, 2-5 yr (n = 117); group C, 6-12 yr (n = 135). Patients in each group were allocated randomly to receive one of eight doses of propofol (1.2, 1.4, 1.6, 1.8, 2.0, 2.2, 2.4 and 2.6 mg kg-1). ED50 and ED95 for loss of eyelash reflex (LER) and acceptance of face mask (AFM) were determined using probit analysis. ED50 and ED95 for both LER and AFM were greatest in group A, less in B and smallest in C; ED95 (AFM) for groups A, B and C were 2.88 (2.55-3.36), 2.53 (2.31-2.86), and 2.20 (2.02-2.46) mg kg-1, respectively. This probably represented their effective induction dose. The incidence of apnoea was dose related, but not pain on injection.
Inhaled sympathomimetics, studied extensively for treatment of asthma, have been found to be safe from cardiac arrhythmias. We discuss a case report of albuterol used with a spacer device that induced atrial fibrillation. We review relevant literature.
Pituitary tumors were induced in F344 female rats by chronic treatment with diethylstilbestrol (DES, 8-10 mg) implanted subcutaneously in silastic capsules. Over a range of 1-150 days of DES treatment, pairs of control and DES-treated rats were sacrificed, and their pituitaries dissociated enzymatically into single-cell preparations. The cell populations were examined regarding total cell recovery correlated with gland weight, intracellular prolactin (PRL) content and subsequent release in primary culture, immunocytochemical PRL staining, density and/or size alterations via separation on Ficoll-Hypaque and by unit gravity sedimentation, and cell cycle analysis, after acriflavine DNA staining, by laser flow cytometry. Total cell yields from DES-treated pituitaries increased from 1.3 times control yields at 8 days of treatment to 58.9 times control values by day 150. Intracellular PRL content ranged from 1.9 to 9.4 times control levels, and PRL release in vitro was significantly and consistently higher than controls, after at least 8 days of DES exposure. Beyond 8 days of DES exposure, the immunochemically PRL-positive proportion of cells increased to over 50% of the total population. Increased density and/or size and PRL content were indicated for the majority of the PRL cell population in both types of separation protocols. All these effects of DES were more pronounced among previously ovariectomized animals. The data extend the findings of other investigators, further establishing the DES-induced tumor as a model for study of PRL cellular control mechanisms.
The administration of mercuric chloride (HgCl2), gold compounds, or D-penicillamine to Brown Norway (BN) rats causes a T helper (Th)2 cell-associated autoimmune syndrome characterized by the production of a number of autoantibodies, marked elevation of serum IgE concentration, and tissue injury in the form of a vasculitis and arthritis. We have recently shown that the same compounds in vitro sensitize BN rat peritoneal mast cells for IgE-triggered mediator release and interleukin-4 mRNA production. We wished to test the hypothesis that these agents influence mast cell function via an effect on intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) production/redox balance. Mast cells were obtained from BN rats by peritoneal washout. Incubation with HgCl2, gold compounds or D-penicillamine (the latter only in the presence of copper ions) led to the intracellular production of ROS as shown by the oxidative production of the fluorescent compound 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein. Mast cells were more sensitive than splenocytes to this effect. Direct oxidative stress (exposure to H2O2) produced a similar sensitization for mediator release to that caused by HgCl2. Inhibition of ROS formation by desferrioxamine or catalase diminished the enhancement of IgE-mediated serotonin release caused by HgCl2, as did replenishment of intracellular glutathione. 2-Mercaptoethanol exacerbated the toxicity of HgCl2, perhaps due to the formation of a lipophilic complex that enhanced HgCl2 uptake. Blocking of glutathione synthesis increased the toxicity of HgCl2, but also abolished any sensitizing effect on mediator release. These results support three main predictions of our hypothesis: (1) the compounds known to influence mast cell function all lead to the generation of ROS within the mast cell; (2) direct oxidative stress causes sensitization for mediator release by the mast cell; and (3) modulation of ROS production/redox balance within the mast cell modulates the effects of these compounds on mast cell function. The balance of oxidative/antioxidative influences may play an important role in the modulation of mast cell function, particularly in the context of chemically induced autoimmunity.
Acetaminophen (N-acetyl-p-aminophenol [APAP]) is one of the leading causes of acute liver failure, and APAP hepatotoxicity is associated with coagulopathy in humans. We tested the hypothesis that activation of the coagulation system and downstream protease-activated receptor (PAR)-1 signaling contribute to APAP-induced liver injury. Fasted C57BL/J6 mice were treated with either saline or APAP (400 mg/kg intraperitoneally) and were euthanized 0.5-24 hours later. Hepatotoxicity and coagulation system activation occurred by 2 hours after administration of APAP. Treatment with APAP also caused a rapid and transient increase in liver procoagulant activity. In addition, significant deposition of fibrin was observed in the liver by 2 hours, and the concentration of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in plasma increased between 2 and 6 hours. Pretreatment with heparin attenuated the APAP-induced activation of the coagulation system and hepatocellular injury and diminished hepatic fibrin deposition at 6 hours. Loss of hepatocellular glutathione was similar in APAP-treated mice pretreated with saline or heparin, suggesting that heparin did not diminish bioactivation of APAP. In mice deficient in tissue factor, the principal cellular activator of coagulation, APAP-induced liver injury, activation of coagulation, and hepatic fibrin deposition were reduced at 6 hours. Formation of the tissue factor-factor VIIa complex leads to the generation of thrombin that can activate cells through cleavage of PAR-1. Mice lacking PAR-1 developed less injury and hepatic fibrin deposits at 6 hours in response to APAP than control mice.
Activation of the coagulation system and PAR-1 signaling contribute significantly to APAP-induced liver injury.
In conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats, pergolide (50.0 micrograms/kg s.c.) produced a sustained decrease in tail artery pressure which was blocked by haloperidol (1.0 mg/kg s.c.) pretreatment. In anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats this effect was accompanied by a fall in total peripheral resistance inasmuch as pergolide did not significantly change cardiac output. In anesthetized normotensive rats, pergolide (30.0 micrograms/kg i.v.) also lowered blood pressure. This effect was not significantly modified by adrenalectomy, methysergide, idazoxan (alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist), vagotomy alone or plus ligation of carotid arteries or plus atenolol, but was entirely prevented by domperidone or sulpiride pretreatment and was reverted to a pressor response (due to stimulation of alpha adrenoceptors and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors) by blockade of ganglionic transmission with chlorisondamine. Pergolide given either i.v. or into the cisterna magna or the lateral cerebral ventricle produced changes in blood pressure of the same magnitude. In intact or adrenalectomized rats, i.v. pergolide significantly lowered plasma norepinephrine concentration. Furthermore, in saline but not sulpiride-pretreated pithed rats, pergolide reduced the pressor responses and the accompanying increases in plasma norepinephrine evoked by electrical stimulation of the spinal cord. However, pergolide failed to modify the vascular reactivity to several pressor agents and lacked beta-2 and DA-1 dopamine receptor agonist properties. These results indicate that the decrease in blood pressure produced by pergolide can be accounted for by an inhibition of sympathetic tone resulting from stimulation of peripheral neuronal dopamine receptors. A possible central contribution remains to be substantiated. The pronounced bradycardia produced by pergolide (30.0 micrograms/kg i.v.) in anesthetized intact rats was partly reduced by vagotomy, methylatropine, domperidone, sulpiride, idazoxan, phentolamine or atenolol. The effects of pergolide in vagotomized rats were further diminished by domperidone but they were blocked by the combination of phentolamine or idazoxan plus domperidone. In rats pretreated with atenolol or in rats with the cervical section of spinal cord and the low level of heart rate increased with an isoprenaline infusion, the decrease in heart rate produced by pergolide was abolished by domperidone, methylatropine or idazoxan. In pithed rats, pergolide changed neither the base-line heart rate nor the tachycardia to exogenous norepinephrine nor the bradycardia evoked by carbachol or electrical stimulation of the peripheral cervical vagus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Ethacrynic acid (EA) is unique among diuretics in that it is both an avid alkylating agent and is actively secreted by renal proximal tubular cells. EA might therefore be expected to produce detrimental proximal tubular changes at elevated doses. Because of this possibility, we examined the renal effects of two relatively high doses of EA (i.e., 66 and 151 mumol/kg i.v.) and an equivalent high dose (i.e., 151 mumol/kg) of two nonalkylating relatives of EA [dihydro-EA (EA-H2) and ticrynafen]. Twelve renal function parameters were monitored in pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs for a period of 2 hr after administration of EA, EA-H2 and ticrynafen and renal tissue was acquired at the end of the 2 hr of study for light and electron microscopic evaluation. Both doses of EA produced a profound diuresis of similar magnitude. However, only the larger dose was associated with a concomitant reduction in the glomerular filtration rate, a downward trend in the renal blood flow, a proteinuric response in four of the seven dogs in the treatment group and a reproducible vacuolation of the initial portion of the proximal convoluted tubules (i.e., the S1 cells). EA-H2 induced a small, transient increase in the excretion rates of sodium, chloride and potassium, but failed to elicit a proteinuric response or alter proximal tubular ultrastructure. Ticrynafen, a far more efficacious diuretic agent than EA-H2, likewise failed to trigger a proteinuric response or changes in renal ultrastructure. The combination of acidic (anionic) and alkylating properties of EA is thought to be responsible for the proximal tubular effects observed in this study.
Hirulog (BG8967) is a direct thrombin inhibitor built by rational design using the protein hirudin as a model (Maraganore et al. [1990]; Biochemistry 29: 7095-101). In order to evaluate the therapeutic potential for hirulog in the management of thrombotic disease, the tolerability and anticoagulant activity of the agent were examined in a study of human volunteers. In a randomized, placebo-controlled study (n = .54), the intravenous infusion of hirulog over 15 min showed a rapid, dose-dependent prolongation of activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), prothrombin time (PT), and thrombin time (TT). There was a corresponding dose-dependent increase in plasma hirulog levels. The peptide was rapidly cleared with a half-life of 36 min and a total body clearance rate for the peptide of 0.43 l kg-1 h-1. Similar activity was observed following subcutaneous injection but with sustained pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic behavior. There was a significant correlation between pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic variables for both intravenous (r = 0.8, p < 0.001) and subcutaneous administration (r = 0.7, p = 0.002). To evaluate the possible interactions of aspirin on the tolerability and anticoagulant activity of intravenous hirulog, a cross-over design was employed in eight subjects. Aspirin administration did not modify the peptide's activity. At the administered dose of 0.6 mg kg-1 h-1 for 2 h, hirulog infusion prolonged APTT from 230 to 260% baseline. The infusion of hirulog in subjects who had received aspirin was not associated with any significant changes in the template bleeding time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2,4-Hexadienal, a colorless to yellow liquid with a pungent "green" or citrus odor, is used as a food additive for flavor enhancement, as a fragrance agent, as a starting material or intermediate in synthetic reactions in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, as a fumigant, and as a corrosion inhibitor for steel. 2,4-Hexadienal was nominated for study by the National Cancer Institute because of the potential for carcinogenicity based on its alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehyde structure and the potential link between exposure to lipid peroxidation products in the diet and human malignancies. The commercial product is a mixture containing chiefly trans,trans-2,4-hexadienal in equilibrium with cis,trans-2,4-hexadienal. Male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice received 2,4-hexadienal (89% trans,trans; 11% cis,trans) in corn oil by gavage for 16 days, 14 weeks, or 2 years. Tissues and plasma from dosed rats were examined for malondialdehyde and glutathione concentrations, and DNA adducts were characterized in liver and forestomach samples from dosed rats and mice. Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium, rat and mouse bone marrow cells, and mouse peripheral blood erythrocytes. 16-DAY STUDY IN RATS: Groups of five male and five female rats were administered 0, 3, 9, 27, 80, or 240 mg 2,4-hexadienal/kg body weight in corn oil by gavage, 5 days per week, for 16 days. Three male and three female 240 mg/kg rats died before the end of the study. Mean body weight gains of 240 mg/kg rats were significantly less than those of the vehicle controls. Clinical findings included diarrhea, ataxia, lethargy, and nasal/eye discharge in males, and lethargy, paleness, and abnormal breathing in females in the 240 mg/kg groups. Liver weights of 240 mg/kg females were significantly greater than those of the vehicle controls. Gross and microscopic lesions indicative of forestomach necrosis and ulceration were present in most 240 mg/kg rats, and forestomach epithelial hyperplasia was microscopically evident in most 80 mg/kg rats. 16-DAY STUDY IN MICE: Groups of five male and five female mice were administered 2,4-hexadienal in corn oil by gavage at doses of 0, 3, 9, 27, 80, or 240 mg/kg, 5 days per week, for 16 days. Chemical-related deaths occurred in one male and one female in the 240 mg/kg groups. Female mice in the 240 mg/kg group lost weight during the study. Gross and microscopic lesions indicative of forestomach necrosis and ulceration were present in all 240 mg/kg mice, and forestomach epithelial hyperplasia and hyperkeratosis were microscopically evident in 80 mg/kg mice. 14-WEEK STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 10 male and 10 female rats were administered 2,4-hexadienal in corn oil by gavage at doses of 0, 7.5, 15, 30, 60, or 120 mg/kg, 5 days per week, for 14 weeks. All rats survived to the end of the study. Mean body weights of 30, 60, and 120 mg/kg males were significantly less than those of the vehicle controls. The only clinical finding attributed to 2,4-hexadienal administration was hypersalivation in 30 and 120 mg/kg males and females. The incidences of forestomach hyperplasia and nasal olfactory atrophy or necrosis were significantly increased in 120 mg/kg rats. Nasal lesions occurred in most 120 mg/kg male rats. 14-WEEK STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 10 male and 10 female mice were administered 2,4-hexadienal in corn oil by gavage at doses of 0, 7.5, 15, 30, 60, or 120 mg/kg, 5 days per week, for 14 weeks. No deaths were attributed to administration of 2,4-hexadienal. Mean body weights of males and females were similar to those of the vehicle controls throughout the study. Clinical findings included salivation and anal wetness in males and females. Kidney weights of 60 and 120 mg/kg males and liver weights of 60 mg/kg males and females were significantly greater than those of the vehicle controls. The incidences of forestomach hyperplasia and/or nasal olfactory atrophy or necrosis were significantly increased in 120 mg/kg mice. 2-YEAR STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 50 male and 50 female rats were administered 2,4-hexministered 2,4-hexadienal in corn oil by gavage at doses of 0, 22.5, 45, or 90 mg/kg, 5 days per week, for up to 105 weeks. Survival of all dosed groups of rats was similar to that of the vehicle control groups. The mean body weights of 90 mg/kg males were generally less than those of the vehicle controls throughout the study. The incidences of squamous cell papilloma of the forestomach occurred with positive trends in male and female rats. This neoplasm was found in 58% of males and 34% of females in the 90 mg/kg groups. In the forestomach of male rats, papilloma multiplicity was increased in the 90 mg/kg group, and squamous cell carcinomas were found in one 45 mg/kg male and two 90 mg/kg males. Epithelial hyperplasia of the forestomach occurred in most 45 and 90 mg/kg rats. 2-YEAR STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 50 male and 50 female mice were administered 2,4-hexadienal in corn oil by gavage at doses of 0, 30, 60, or 120 mg/kg, 5 days per week, for up to 105 weeks. Survival of dosed mice was similar to that of the vehicle controls. The mean body weights of all dosed groups were generally similar to those of the vehicle controls throughout the study. The incidences of squamous cell papilloma of the forestomach occurred with positive trends in male and female mice; squamous cell carcinomas were present in 120 mg/kg males and females. Epithelial hyperplasia of the forestomach occurred in many 120 mg/kg mice. Two 120 mg/kg males had uncommon squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity (tongue).
2,4-Hexadienal was mutagenic in S. typhimurium strain TA100 with and without induced hamster or rat liver enzymes; no mutagenic activity was detected with strains TA1535 or TA98, with or without S9. Results of bone marrow tests in male rats and male mice given intraperitoneal injections of 2,4-hexadienal showed a small increase in the induction of micronucleated erythrocytes. However, neither test was repeated, and the test results were judged to be inconclusive. Results of peripheral blood micronucleus tests in male and female mice treated with 2,4-hexadienal by gavage for 14 weeks were negative.
Under the conditions of these 2-year gavage studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity* of 2,4-hexadienal in male and female F344/N rats and male and female B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of squamous cell neoplasms of the forestomach. The occurrence of squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity (tongue) in male B6C3F1 mice may have been related to the administration of 2,4-hexadienal. Hyperplasia of the forestomach in male and female rats and mice was associated with administration of 2,4-hexadienal. Synonyms: Hexa-2,4-dienal; 2,4-hexadienal; 2,4-hexadien-1-al; 2,4-Hx; 1,3-pentadiene-1-carboxaldehyde; 2-propylene acrolein; sorbaldehyde; sorbic aldehyde
The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of misoprostol that is administered in the buccal pouch with the intravaginal route of administration.
One hundred fifty-seven pregnant women with a singleton live gestation, Bishop score of <7, estimated fetal weight of <4500 g, and gestational age of >24 weeks were randomized to receive misoprostol that would be placed either in the buccal pouch or vagina every 6 hours. In the buccal group, after the first 2 doses of 200 microg, the dose was increased to 300 microg for the duration of the study (up to a total of 1600 microg). In the vaginal group, after the first 2 doses of 50 microg, the dose was increased to 100 microg for the duration of the study (up to a total of 500 microg). The primary outcome variable was the interval from the first dose to vaginal delivery. Power calculations indicated the need to enroll 71 patients in each arm of the study, which would allow for the detection of a 4-hour reduction in vaginal birth interval for buccal misoprostol.
The hours from drug administration to vaginal delivery were similar between the buccal and vaginal groups (23.5 +/- 20.8 hours versus 21.3 +/- 13.4 hours), respectively. Thirty-five women (63%) versus 34 women (67%) delivered vaginally within 24 hours (P = not significant). The incidence of tachysystole was higher in the buccal group, 28 occurrences (38%) versus 15 occurrences (19%; P =.01).
Buccal misoprostol is effective for cervical ripening but results in a higher incidence of tachysystole than does intravaginal administration.
