We examined whether subacute arsenic exposure can reduce paracetamol-mediated antipyretic activity by affecting COX pathway and cannabinoid CB1 receptor regulation. Rats were preexposed to elemental arsenic (4 ppm) as sodium arsenite through drinking water for 28 days. Next day pyrexia was induced with lipopolysaccharide and paracetamol's (200 mg/kg, oral) antipyretic activity was assessed. The activities of COX-1 and COX-2, the levels of PGE₂, TNF-α and IL-1β and expression of CB₁ receptors were assessed in brain. Arsenic inhibited paracetamol-mediated antipyretic activity. COX-1 activity was not affected by any treatments. Paracetamol decreased COX-2 activity, levels of PGE₂, TNF-α and IL-1β and caused up-regulation of CB1 receptors. Arsenic caused opposite effects on these parameters. In the arsenic-preexposed rats, paracetamol-mediated effects were attenuated, while CB₁ receptor up-regulation was reversed to down-regulation. Results suggest that elevated COX-2 activity and reduced CB₁ expression could be involved in the arsenic-mediated attenuation of the antipyretic activity of paracetamol.
It was previously shown that nitric oxide produced by inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and peroxynitrite are responsible for cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced cystitis. Since endogenous production of peroxynitrite is known to lead to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) activation, in this study, the aim was to evaluate whether the PARP activation pathway is also included in the pathogenesis of CP-induced bladder ulceration in rats. A total of 48 male albino Wistar rats were divided into 5 groups. Group 1 served as control and was given 2 ml saline; four groups received a single dose of CP (200 mg/kg) with the same time intervals. Group 2 received CP only; Group 3, selective iNOS inhibitor 1400W (20 mg/kg); Group 4, peroxynitrite scavenger ebselen (30 mg/kg); and Group 5, PARP inhibitor 3-aminobenzamide (20 mg/kg). CP injection resulted in severe cystitis with continuous macroscopic hemorrhage, strong edema, inflammation, and ulceration. Moreover, bladder iNOS activation and urine nitrite-nitrate levels were dramatically increased. Histologically, 1400W protected bladder against CP damage and decreased urine nitrite-nitrate levels and bladder iNOS induction. Ebselen has shown similar histologic results with 1400W without changing urinary nitrite-nitrate level and iNOS activity. Furthermore in the 3-aminobenzamide group, beneficial effects had also occurred including decreased ulceration. These results suggest that PARP activation involves pathogenesis of CP-induced bladder ulceration. Furthermore, PARP is not only important for ulceration but also for bladder edema, hemorrhage, and inflammation because of broken uroepithelial cellular integrity.
Indinavir therapy is associated with a continuum of crystal-related syndromes, including nephrolithiasis, renal colic, flank pain without recognizable stone formation, dysuria and asymptomatic crystalluria. A frank nephropathy has been recognized recently as part of the spectrum.
A retrospective analysis of 72 HIV-infected individuals receiving indinavir was performed to identify the frequency and risk factors for indinavir-associated nephropathy and urinary complications. Individuals treated with nucleoside analogues alone served as controls.
Mean serum creatinine levels rose from 1.03 +/- 0.16 mg/dl to 1.11 +/- 0.22 mg/dl at week 12 and 1.15 +/- 0.27 mg/dl at week 24 (both, p < 0.01). Thirteen individuals developed serum creatinine levels > or =1.4 mg/dl. Increased serum creatinine levels were found more frequently in women (p < 0.01) and were associated with pyuria and microhematuria (p < 0.01). Frank renal colic and/or nephrolithiasis (seven patients) and urinary pH were not associated with serum creatinine levels > or =1.4 mg/dl. The mean duration of indinavir treatment, until sterile pyuria occurred, were 22 weeks and 32 weeks until the first rise of serum creatinine levels to > or =1.4 mg/dl. Ten patients showed both findings, pyuria preceded the first rise in serum creatinine levels to > or = 1.4 mg/dl (18 vs. 27 weeks, p = 0.02). Renal biopsy, done in three patients, revealed tubulointerstitial disease with crystals in collecting ducts. In 21 patients, among them 11 with pyuria, indinavir was replaced for various reasons and pyuria disappeared in nine. In these patients mean serum creatinine levels decreased from 1.43 mg/dl at withdrawal of indinavir to 1.04 mg/dl three months later (p < 0.01).
Indinavir therapy is associated with a decrease in renal function which is reversible after withdrawal. In addition, indinavir-associated tubulointerstitial disease does no in patients taking indinavir may help to identify patients being at risk for nephrotoxicity.
Naked mole-rats have no access to obvious sources of vitamin D and therefore have an impoverished vitamin D status. In an investigation into the effects of vitamin D supplementation, inadvertently supraphysiological doses of 130,000 times the normal dose of vitamin D were administered. Within 5 days animals appeared lethargic, with reduced food intake. All but one of the seven animals were killed and blood was collected. Plasma vitamin D metabolites 25(OH)D and 1,25(OH)2D and calcium were determined. Both vitamin D metabolite concentrations exceeded the upper limits of sensitivity of the assays (> 100 ng/ml 25(OH)D and > 210 pg/ml 1,25(OH)2D). Active calcium uptake in the intestine was evident along with concomitant increases in calcium concentration in plasma, bone, and teeth. The remaining animal survived, but showed scab-like formations in the skin around the lower jaw and along the nipple line. X-ray analyses revealed calcium deposition in these cornified regions, although there was no evidence of metastatic calcification in other tissues. Deposition of excess calcium in skin that is regularly sloughed off and in teeth that are continuously worn down and replaced may reduce the vitamin D-induced hypercalcaemia and thus alleviate the effects of vitamin D intoxication.
Acute extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) are a common phenomenon of treatment with conventional antipsychotics. Previous studies found that clozapine has little propensity to cause EPS, while risperidone produces some EPS, but at levels lower than those of conventional antipsychotics.
We compared the prevalence and severity of EPS in patients treated with clozapine, risperidone, or conventional antipsychotics for at least 3 months. Our main hypothesis was that there would be differences between the three treatment groups with regard to akathisia, measured with the Barnes Akathisia Scale, and extrapyramidal motor side effects (rigidity, rigidity factor, tremor, salivation), measured with the Simpson-Angus scale. Secondarily, we were interested in possible differences between the three groups with respect to the anticholinergic comedication and the subjective impression of the patients, measured with the van Putten scale.
We studied 106 patients (41 patients treated with clozapine, 23 patients with risperidone, and 42 patients treated with conventional antipsychotics). The sample was 57.5% male and had a mean +/- SD age of 36.6 +/- 9.3 years. The mean dose of antipsychotics calculated in chlorpromazine equivalents was 425.6 +/- 197.1 mg/day in the clozapine group, 4.7 +/- 2.1 mg/day in the risperidone group, and 476.5 +/- 476.9 mg/day in the group treated with conventional antipsychotics. The point-prevalence of akathisia was 7.3% in the clozapine group, 13% in the risperidone group, and 23.8% in the group treated with conventional antipsychotics. The point-prevalence of rigidity and cogwheeling respectively was 4.9% and 2.4% in the clozapine group, 17.4% and 17.4% in the risperidone group, and 35.7% and 26.2% in the group treated with conventional antipsychotics.
Our results indicate that risperidone is superior to conventional neuroleptics in that it causes fewer EPS. In comparison to clozapine, risperidone produces EPS levels that are intermediate between clozapine and conventional antipsychotic drugs.
Although several studies have reported that symptoms of nicotine dependence can occur after limited exposure to smoking, the majority of research on nicotine dependence has focused on adult smokers. Insufficient knowledge exists regarding the epidemiology and aetiology of nicotine dependence among adolescent smokers. The objective of the present study is to identify the effects of theoretically driven social and individual predictors of nicotine dependence symptom profiles in a population-based sample of adolescent smokers.
A longitudinal study among 6,783 adolescents (12 to 14 years old at baseline) was conducted. In the first and second year of secondary education, personality traits and exposure to smoking in the social environment were assessed. Two and a half years later, adolescents' smoking status and nicotine dependence symptom profiles were assessed. A total of 796 adolescents were identified as smokers and included in the analyses.
At follow-up, four distinct dependence symptom profiles were identified: low cravings only, high cravings and withdrawal, high cravings and behavioural dependence, and overall highly dependent. Personality traits of neuroticism and extraversion did not independently predict nicotine dependence profiles, whereas exposure to smoking in the social environment posed a risk for the initial development of nicotine dependence symptoms. However, in combination with environmental exposure to smoking, extraversion and neuroticism increased the risk of developing more severe dependence symptom profiles.
Nicotine dependence profiles are predicted by interactions between personal and environmental factors. These insights offer important directions for tailoring interventions to prevent the onset and escalation of nicotine dependence. Opportunities for intervention programs that target individuals with a high risk of developing more severe dependence symptom profiles are discussed.
An association between the use of oral contraceptives and the risk of myocardial infarction has been found in some, but not all, studies. We investigated this association, according to the type of progestagen included in third-generation (i.e., desogestrel or gestodene) and second-generation (i.e., levonorgestrel) oral contraceptives, the dose of estrogen, and the presence or absence of prothrombotic mutations
In a nationwide, population-based, case-control study, we identified and enrolled 248 women 18 through 49 years of age who had had a first myocardial infarction between 1990 and 1995 and 925 control women who had not had a myocardial infarction and who were matched for age, calendar year of the index event, and area of residence. Subjects supplied information on oral-contraceptive use and major cardiovascular risk factors. An analysis for factor V Leiden and the G20210A mutation in the prothrombin gene was conducted in 217 patients and 763 controls
The odds ratio for myocardial infarction among women who used any type of combined oral contraceptive, as compared with nonusers, was 2.0 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 2.8). The adjusted odds ratio was 2.5 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 4.1) among women who used second-generation oral contraceptives and 1.3 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.7 to 2.5) among those who used third-generation oral contraceptives. Among women who used oral contraceptives, the odds ratio was 2.1 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.5 to 3.0) for those without a prothrombotic mutation and 1.9 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.6 to 5.5) for those with a mutation
The risk of myocardial infarction was increased among women who used second-generation oral contraceptives. The results with respect to the use of third-generation oral contraceptives were inconclusive but suggested that the risk was lower than the risk associated with second-generation oral contraceptives. The risk of myocardial infarction was similar among women who used oral contraceptives whether or not they had a prothrombotic mutation.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a major safety concern in drug development and clinical pharmacotherapy. However, prediction of DILI is difficult because the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. To establish a novel cell-based screening system to suggest drugs with hepatotoxic potential in preclinical drug development, comprehensive gene expression analyses during in vivo DILI are necessary. Using in vivo mouse DILI models and 4 sets of hepatotoxic positive and non-hepatotoxic drugs, we found that the hepatic mRNA levels of S100A8; S100A9; "NATCH, LRR, and pyrin domain-containing protein 3" (NALP3); interleukin (IL)-1β; and the receptor for advanced glycation endproducts (RAGE) were commonly increased in hepatotoxic drug-administered mice compared to non-hepatotoxic drug-administered mice. To clarify whether these 5 in vivo biomarkers can be applied to a cell-based screening system, we adapted human liver microsomes (HLM) in the presence of NADPH to assess the metabolic activation reaction, and we also adapted human monocytic leukemia cells HL-60, K562, KG-1 and THP-1 to assess the effects on mRNA expression of immune- and inflammatory-related factors. We investigated 30 clinical drugs with different safety profiles with regard to DILI and found that the total sum score of gene expression levels of S100A8, S100A9, RAGE, NALP3 and IL-1β mRNA in HL-60 or K562 cells incubated with HLM, could identify drugs at high risk for hepatotoxicity. We proposed the use of the total sum score of gene expression level for assessing metabolic activation by drug-metabolizing enzymes and immune- and inflammatory-related factors for the risk assessment of DILI in preclinical drug development.
KITL/KIT can elicit diverse sets of signals within lymphoid, myeloid, mast, and erythroid lineages, and exert distinct effects on growth, survival, migration, adhesion, and secretory responses. Presently, we have applied a PY-mutant allele knockin approach to specifically assess possible roles for KIT-PY567 and KIT-PY719 sites, and coupled pathways, during erythropoiesis.
Mouse models used to investigate this problem include those harboring knocked-in KIT(Y567F/Y567F), KIT(Y569F/Y569F), KIT(Y719F,Y719F), and KIT(Y567F/Y567F:Y569F/Y569F) alleles. The erythron was stressed by myelosuppression using 5-fluorouracil, and by phenylhydrazine-induced hemolysis. In addition, optimized systems for ex vivo analyses of bone marrow and splenic erythropoiesis were employed to more directly analyze possible stage-specific effects on erythroid cell growth, survival, development and KIT signaling events.
In Kit(Y567F/Y567F) mice, steady-state erythropoiesis was unperturbed while recovery from anemia due to 5-fluorouracil or phenylhydrazine was markedly impaired. Deficiencies in erythroid progenitor expansion occurred both in the bone marrow and the spleen. Responses to chronic erythropoietin dosing were also compromised. Ex vivo, Kit(Y567F/Y567F) (pro)erythroblast development was skewed from a Kit(pos)CD71(high) stage toward a subsequent Kit(neg)CD71(high) compartment. Proliferation and, to an extent, survival capacities were also compromised. Similar stage-specific defects existed for erythroid progenitors from Kit(Y567F/Y567F:Y569F/Y569F) but not KIT(Y719F/Y719F) mice. Kit(Y567F/Y567F) erythroblasts were used further to analyze KIT-PY567-dependent signals. MEK-1,2/ERK-1,2 signaling was unaffected while AKT, p70S6K, and especially JNK2/p54 pathways were selectively attenuated.
Nonredundant KIT-PY567-directed erythroblast-intrinsic signals are selectively critical for stress erythropoiesis. Investigations also add to an understanding of how KIT directs distinct outcomes among diverse progenitors and lineages.
Norepinephrine (4%) as free base produced a significant fall in intraocular pressure and resistance to outflow. This effect was sustained for up to 20 weeks. No significant difference could be shown between the effect of 2%, 3%, and 4% norepinephrine on the aquious humor dynamics. The effect on pressure and facility was shown in eyes with ocular hypertension and with glaucoma. An additive effect was observed after use of norepinephrine with pilocarpine in the treatment of glaucoma. Crossover studies between epinephrine borate 1% and norepinephrine borate 4% revealed no significant difference. Like epinephrine, norepinephrine produces a conjunctival hyperemia in many patients. However, there is an absence of tachycardia after use of norepinephrine, and one person in this study showed an allergic reaction to epinephrine that cleared promptly and completely when norepinephrine was substituted.
Although aminoglycoside-induced acute renal failure occurs commonly, little is known about the mechanisms which alter renal hemodynamics. In sodium-depleted Sprague-Dawley rats treated with gentamicin, we measured RBF and GFR at the onset of this model of nephrotoxic acute renal failure. After 10 days of sodium chloride depletion, one group of rats received a single injection of gentamicin, 100 mg/kg, while control animals received the gentamicin vehicle. Twenty-four hours later, PCr and UNa/UCr were similar in both groups. CIn was unchanged, but RBF was reduced significantly (12.40 +/- 1.33 vs. 16.89 +/- 1.24 ml/min). Micropuncture studies revealed that although SNGFR was unchanged, end-proximal and early distal flow rates were increased significantly. End-proximal TFCl was reduced significantly in gentamicin-treated animals when compared to controls (130.7 +/- 3.9 vs. 149.5 +/- 4.1 mEq/liter). Early distal TFCl was also reduced significantly (32.4 +/- 2.0 vs. 44.3 +/- 1.4 mEq/liter). In other rats, 24 hr after a second injection of gentamicin, PCr and UNa/UCr were increased significantly and both GFR and RBF were reduced significantly. We conclude that the earliest hemodynamic change in gentamicin-induced acute renal failure is a reduction in RBF which precedes any change in GFR. A single dose of gentamicin also impairs proximal bicarbonate and water reabsorption and reduces end-proximal and early distal chloride concentration.
We recently showed that poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) is activated within atherosclerotic plaques in an animal model of atherosclerosis. Pharmacological inhibition of PARP or reduced expression in heterozygous animals interferes with atherogenesis and may promote factors of plaque stability, possibly reflecting changes in inflammatory and cellular factors consistent with plaque stability. The current study addresses the hypothesis that pharmacological inhibition of PARP promotes atherosclerotic plaque regression. Using a high-fat diet-induced atherosclerosis apolipoprotein E(-/-) mouse model, we demonstrate that administration of the potent PARP inhibitor, thieno[2,3-c]isoquinolin-5-one (TIQ-A), when combined with a regular diet regimen during treatment, induced regression of established plaques. Plaque regression was associated with a reduction in total cholesterol and low-density lipoproteins. Furthermore, plaques of TIQ-A-treated mice were highly enriched with collagen and smooth muscle cells, displayed thick fibrous caps, and exhibited a marked reduction in CD68-positive macrophage recruitment and associated foam cell presence. These changes correlated with a significant decrease in expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1, potentially as a result of a robust reduction in tumor necrosis factor expression. The PARP inhibitor appeared to affect cholesterol metabolism by affecting acyl-coenzymeA/cholesterol acyltransferase-1 expression but exerted no effect on cholesterol influx or efflux as assessed by an examination of the ATP-binding cassette transporter-1 and the scavenger receptor-A expression levels in the different experimental groups. In accordance, PARP inhibition may prove beneficial not only in preventing atherogenesis but also in promoting regression of preexisting plaques.
The severity of parkinsonian motor disability and dyskinesias was evaluated in seven levodopa-responsive patients with Parkinson's disease after an acute challenge with the mixed dopamine agonist apomorphine, before and after low-dose clozapine (50 mg) for 18 +/- 2 days. There was a significant 59% improvement (p < 0.05) of apomorphine-induced dyskinesias without aggravation of parkinsonian motor disability following clozapine treatment. The results suggest that low-dose clozapine, already shown to improve psychotic symptoms, may help to reduce severe levodopa-induced dyskinesias in parkinsonian patients.
Chronic administration of estrogen to the Fischer 344 (F344) rat induces growth of large, hemorrhagic pituitary tumors. Ten weeks of diethylstilbestrol (DES) treatment caused female F344 rat pituitaries to grow to an average of 109.2 +/- 6.3 mg (mean +/- SE) versus 11.3 +/- 1.4 mg for untreated rats, and to become highly hemorrhagic. The same DES treatment produced no significant growth (8.9 +/- 0.5 mg for treated females versus 8.7 +/- 1.1 for untreated females) or morphological changes in Brown Norway (BN) rat pituitaries. An F1 hybrid of F344 and BN exhibited significant pituitary growth after 10 weeks of DES treatment with an average mass of 26.3 +/- 0.7 mg compared with 8.6 +/- 0.9 mg for untreated rats. Surprisingly, the F1 hybrid tumors were not hemorrhagic and had hemoglobin content and outward appearance identical to that of BN. Expression of both growth and morphological changes is due to multiple genes. However, while DES-induced pituitary growth exhibited quantitative, additive inheritance, the hemorrhagic phenotype exhibited recessive, epistatic inheritance. Only 5 of the 160 F2 pituitaries exhibited the hemorrhagic phenotype; 36 of the 160 F2 pituitaries were in the F344 range of mass, but 31 of these were not hemorrhagic, indicating that the hemorrhagic phenotype is not merely a consequence of extensive growth. The hemorrhagic F2 pituitaries were all among the most massive, indicating that some of the genes regulate both phenotypes.
Fifty-seven pregnancies in women with antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) are presented. These were treated with s.c. enoxaparin and low dose aspirin. In fourteen pregnancies warfarin was prescribed between weeks 15-34 (warfarin group). The decision to switch to warfarin depended on a morbidity score, and the patient's consent. Neither teratogenicity nor significant maternal, fetal or neonatal hemorrhage was observed. Despite the higher pretreatment morbidity score of the warfarin group, the live birth rate was high in both groups: 86% in the warfarin group and 87% in the non-warfarin group. There was no significant difference in week of delivery, birth weight, or incidence of thrombosis between the groups. The study demonstrates the efficacy and safety of anticoagulants during pregnancy. The use of LMWH in pregnant women with APS not being moot, warfarin might be justified in selected patients.
Treatment of Parkinson's disease is complicated by a high incidence of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias (LID). Strategies to prevent the development of LID aim at providing more stable dopaminergic stimulation. We have previously shown that deuterium substitutions in the L-DOPA molecule (D3-L-DOPA) yield dopamine that appears more resistant to enzymatic breakdown. We here investigated the effects of D3-L-DOPA on motor performance and development of dyskinesias in a rodent model of Parkinson's disease. Through acute experiments, monitoring rotational behavior, dose-effect curves were established for D3-L-DOPA and L-DOPA. The equipotent dose of D3-L-DOPA was estimated to be 60% of L-DOPA. Subsequently, animals were treated with either the equipotent dose of D3-L-DOPA (5 mg/kg), the equivalent dose of D3-L-DOPA (8 mg/kg), L-DOPA (8 mg/kg) or vehicle. The equivalent dose of D3-L-DOPA produced superior anti-akinetic effects compared to L-DOPA in the cylinder test (p<0.05), whereas the equipotent dose of D3-L-DOPA produced an anti-akinetic effect similar to L-DOPA. Dyskinesias developed to the same degree in the groups treated with equivalent doses of D3-L-DOPA and L-DOPA. The equipotent dose of D3-L-DOPA induced fewer dyskinesias than L-DOPA (p<0.05). In conclusion, our study provides evidence for improved potency and reduced side-effects of L-DOPA by deuterium substitutions in the molecule. These results are of clinical interest since the occurrence of LID is related to the total L-DOPA dose administered. D3-L-DOPA may thus represent a novel strategy to reduce the total dose requirement and yet achieve an effective control of parkinsonian symptoms.
Several epidemiologic studies have demonstrated an association between heavy consumption of nonnarcotic analgesics and the occurrence of chronic renal failure, but it is unclear which is the cause and which is the effect
In a nationwide, population-based, case-control study of early-stage chronic renal failure in Sweden, face-to-face interviews were conducted with 926 patients with newly diagnosed renal failure and 998 control subjects, of whom 918 and 980, respectively, had complete data. We used logistic-regression models to estimate the relative risks of disease-specific types of chronic renal failure associated with the use of various analgesics
Aspirin and acetaminophen were used regularly by 37 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of the patients with renal failure and by 19 percent and 12 percent, respectively, of the controls. Regular use of either drug in the absence of the other was associated with an increase by a factor of 2.5 in the risk of chronic renal failure from any cause. The relative risks rose with increasing cumulative lifetime doses, rose more consistently with acetaminophen use than with aspirin use, and were increased for most disease-specific types of chronic renal failure. When we disregarded the recent use of analgesics, which could have occurred in response to antecedents of renal disease, the associations were only slightly attenuated
Our results are consistent with the existence of exacerbating effects of acetaminophen and aspirin on chronic renal failure. However, we cannot rule out the possibility of bias due to the triggering of analgesic consumption by predisposing conditions.
A 71-year-old man was stable on warfarin (2.25 mg daily) therapy with an international normalized ratio (INR) of 1.8-2.2 after a heart valve replacement surgery. Recently, he consumed the liquid-like herbal product called shengmai-yin (10 mL daily) against medical advice. Seven days after the daily consumption of shengmai-yin, he was admitted to the intensive care unit because of consciousness disturbance [Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score 7] with an INR of 5.08. Head computed topography revealed intracerebral hematoma in the left temporoparietal region. Both warfarin therapy and the herbal product were withdrawn. At the same time, therapy with intravenous vitamin K1 40 mg was started. On the second day of admission, craniectomy was performed to remove the intacerebral hematoma under general anesthesia. He remained confused and restless for 2 days, but then showed progressive recovery in the consciousness level as well as motor and verbal functions. Shengmai-yin contains herbal ingredients that can interact with warfarin. The Drug Interaction Probability Scale (DIPS) indicated that warfarin and shengmai-yin were highly probable causes of intracerebral hematoma. Patients on warfarin therapy should be discouraged from taking herbal medicines, especially preparations that are already known to have antiplatelet and antithrombotic effects.
An 86-year-old man experienced a rash approximately 2 weeks after starting ticlopidine therapy, necessitating discontinuation of the drug. About 1 month later, despite discontinuation, he developed jaundice and liver test abnormalities. These resolved gradually over the next few months. Based on case reports and the drug's pharmacokinetic profile, a high index of suspicion for ticlopidine-induced jaundice is prudent in patients with recent exposure to the agent who have evidence of liver damage.
The objective of this study was to identify work-related asthma (WRA) workers' compensation claims associated with methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI) exposure in the spray-on truck bed lining industry and estimate the asthma incidence rate in this industry.
The authors conducted a descriptive study of workers' compensation claims meeting an established surveillance case definition for WRA.
Eight WRA workers' compensation claims were identified in the truck bed lining industry in Washington State for a claims incidence rate of 200 per 10,000 full-time equivalent. The medical evaluation of the cases was inadequate because none of the truck bed lining cases had medical testing to objectively link their asthma to the workplace.
The rate of work-related asthma in the truck bed lining industry is excessive and suggests a need for significant intervention, including improvements in the clinical assessment provided to MDI-exposed workers.
Many factors could potentially affect the process of arsenic-induced liver fibrosis. The present study was undertaken to examine the effect of high fat diet on arsenic-induced liver fibrosis and preneoplastic changes. Mice were given sodium arsenite (As3+, 200 ppm) or sodium arsenate (As5+, 200 ppm) in the drinking water for 10 months, and provided a normal diet or a diet containing 20% added fat. Serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST), indicative of liver injury, was elevated in both arsenite and arsenate groups, and a high fat diet further increased these levels. Histopathology (H&E and Masson stain) showed that liver inflammation, steatosis (fatty liver), hepatocyte degeneration, and fibrosis occurred with arsenic alone, but their severity was markedly increased with the high fat diet. Total liver RNA was isolated for real-time RT-PCR analysis. Arsenic exposure increased the expression of inflammation genes, such as TNF-alpha, IL-6, iNOS, chemokines, and macrophage inflammatory protein-2. The expression of the stress-related gene heme oxygenase-1 was increased, while metallothionein-1 and GSH S-transferase-pi were decreased when arsenic was combined with the high fat diet. Expression of genes related to liver fibrosis, such as procollagen-1 and -3, SM-actin and TGF-beta, were synergistically increased in the arsenic plus high fat diet group. The expression of genes encoding matrix metalloproteinases (MMP2, MMP9) and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMP1, TIMP2) was also enhanced, suggestive of early oncogenic events. In general, arsenite produced more pronounced effects than arsenate. In summary, chronic inorganic arsenic exposure in mice produces liver injury, and a high fat diet markedly increases arsenic-induced hepatofibrogenesis.
One major side effect of combination antiviral therapy is the development of anemia, which is more severe among the Asian population. We conducted this large-scaled study to explore the incidence, risk factors, and impact on treatment response of anemia in chronic hepatitis C patients receiving combination antiviral therapy.
Four hundred and sixty-six chronic hepatitis C patients were treated with interferon-alpha-2b (IFN-alpha-2b) three or five million units thrice weekly, or pegylated-IFN-alpha-2b 1-1.5 microg/kg weekly plus ribavirin (1000-1200 mg/day) for 24 weeks. Severe anemia was defined as hemoglobin concentration <10 g/dl.
The mean decrease of hemoglobin was 3.9+/-1.3 g/dl. Thirty-nine percent of patients had developed severe anemia during therapy. Stepwise logistic regression analysis revealed that old age (> or =50 years) (odds ratio [OR]=1.935, P=0.001) and baseline hemoglobin level (> or =14 g/dl) (OR=2.975, P<0.001) were significantly correlated with maximal decreases in hemoglobin. Using Cox's regression analysis, pretreatment platelet counts (<150 000/mm(3)) (OR=1.821, P<0.001), old age (> or =50 years) (OR=1.789, P=0.001), female gender (OR=1.739, P<0.001), and low body weight (<65 kg) (OR=1.493, P=0.027) were independent factors contributing to severe anemia. There was a significant linear correlation between the sustained virological response (SVR) rate and the time of severe anemia during therapy (r=0.774, P=0.003), especially among genotype 1 patients (r=0.960, P<0.001).
Careful monitoring of hemoglobin level is necessary in patients who are old, female and have low body weight and platelet counts. Development of severe anemia was significantly correlated with the SVR.
Low-dose diesel exhaust particle (DEP) exposure induces airway inflammation and exaggerates asthmatic responses in mice, but it is unclear whether strains differ in their susceptibility to adverse effects from low-dose DEP exposure. The authors used BALB/c and C57BL/6 mouse strains to search for genetically based differences in response to low-dose DEP (100 microg/m(3)) exposure in terms of airway inflammatory response. The macrophage count in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid soon after DE exposure began was significantly greater in C57BL/6 mice (P < .05) than that in BALB/c mice. The count did not increase significantly in BALB/c mice until later. Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) mRNA expression and protein production in lung tissues soon after exposure began were more marked in BALB/c mice than in C57BL/6 mice, but the reverse was true later on. The increases in interleukin (IL)-1beta and interferon (IFN)-gamma levels in BAL fluid after DE exposure were significant only in BALB/c mice; there were significantly increases in monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, IL-12, IL-10, IL-4, and IL-13 in both strains, but these were more marked in C57BL/6 mice. These interstrain differences in airway inflammatory response after DE exposure were significantly attenuated by antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) treatment. Changes in airway hyperresponsiveness were independent of the airway inflammation induced by low-dose DEP. Thus, in BALB/c mice, innate immunity may play a central role in DE exposure response, whereas in C57BL/6 mice Th2-dominant responses play a central role. Low-dose DEP exposure induces airway inflammatory responses that differ among strains, and these differences may be caused by differences in sensitivity to oxidative stress.
The antinociceptive effect of ribavirin, an antiviral drug, was studied after systemic injection using several pain tests in mice. In the hot-plate test of thermal pain, capsaicin-induced chemogenic pain, formalin test and abdominal stretching assay induced by the i.p. injection of 0.6% acetic acid, ribavirin produced a dose-related reduction in nociceptive responses. The visceral antinociceptive effect of ribavirin was unaffected by co-treatment with yohimbine, atropine or theophylline, but partially reversed by naloxone. Antinociception by ribavirin was augmented by treatment with prazosin, doxazosin, propranolol, guanethidine, glibenclamide, baclofen, indomethacin or cysteamine. Further, the ribavirin induced antinociception was enhanced by D2 receptor antagonists haloperidol, sulpiride, clozapine or domperidone and by the dopamine D2 receptor agonist bromocryptine. Ribavirin did not exhibit depression-like effect, nor it influenced the effect of amitriptyline in the forced swimming test. It did not impair cognitive performance in the Morris water Maze test. The present data demonstrate that ribavirin administered via systemic route possesses visceral and thermal anti-nociceptive properties. The ribavirin analgesic effect was partially reversed by naloxone, an opioid antagonist.
Apart from stroke, epilepsy is the most common neurological disorder with 0.5% of prevalence. The present study was performed in order to determine the monoamine levels, (M(1)-like) muscarinic and (D(1)- and D(2)-like) dopaminergic receptor changes in frontal cortex of adult rats after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). Male Wistar rats were treated with a single dose of pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, s.c.) and the control group received 0.9% saline (s.c.). Both groups were sacrificed 1 h after treatment. The frontal cortex was dissected for neurochemical assays. The results show a downregulation of 27% in M(1) muscarinic receptor density, but in the dissociation constant (K(d)) value remained unaltered. D(1) and D(2) dopaminergic receptor densities and their K(d) values remained unaltered. Monoamine and metabolites levels presented decreases of 44%, 27%, 30% and 42% in dopamine (DA), homovanilic acid (HVA), norepinephrine (NE) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) contents, respectively. Moreover, in serotonin (5-HT) level remained unaltered and the 4-hydroxy-3-methoxy-phenylacetic acid (DOPAC) concentration was augmented by 34%. The results suggest that dopaminergic system in this area studied may not be directly involved in the seizures and status epilepticus, but different monoamines and metabolites can be modified in this cerebral area during seizure process. In conclusion, the neurochemical alterations that occur in frontal cortex of adult rats observed during the establishment of the status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine are decrease in M(1) receptor density concentration and a reduction in DA and NE levels.
