To investigate the prevalence of temporomandibular disorders (TMD), bruxism, and other oral habits among drug addicts compared to a normal, non-addicted, matched control population, and to assess the detrimental effect of long-term drug abuse on the parameters studied.
Subjects included 55 drug-addicted patients (51 males and 4 females) randomly selected from long-term addicts using "hard" narcotics and attending a methadone maintenance center and a control group of 52 normal non-addicted individuals (48 males and 4 females) matched to the addicts for age, gender, and socioeconomic status. A clinical examination and a questionnaire were used. One examiner determined that all questions were correctly understood and answered, and a second examiner performed the clinical examinations and was unaware of the results of the questionnaire.
The addicted group had a high prevalence of orofacial motor behavior (bruxing, clenching) as well as signs and symptoms of TMD (morning headache, joint noises, joint and masticatory muscle tenderness to palpation, and tooth wear) compared to the controls. Active (voluntary) jaw opening was significantly smaller, although within an acceptable range when compared to the controls.
Long-term drug abuse detrimentally affects the stomatognathic system, as expressed in a high prevalence of oral motor behavior and signs and symptoms of TMD.
A 31-year old man, suffering from schizophrenia for 5 years was admitted to the psychiatric ward because of another exacerbation of schizophrenia. Olanzapine treatment was started, in dose 10 mg a day. During treatment mania was observed. First symptoms of hypomania appeared on the 5th day of treatment. Manic symptoms increased, the greatest escalation of mania was observed on the 13th day. Olanzapine dose was reduced to 5 mg a day, and haloperidol was added. Mania retreated. Finally the patient has been treated by haloperidol decanoate 100 mg every two weeks and olanzapine 5 mg a day. The illness has entered a period of remission.
8 patients who developed proteinuria whilst receiving penicillamine for rheumatoid arthritis have been studied. Light microscopy of renal biopsy specimens showed evidence of an extramembranous nephropathy in 6 cases, with epimembranous spikes infrequently described previously in association with penicillamine.
Malignant mesothelioma (MM) is a lethal tumor linked with a prior exposure to asbestos in which limited progress has been made so far using conventional therapies. MM is an example of a "nonimmunogenic" tumor characterized by a fibrous stroma and an absence of infiltrating T lymphocytes. High levels of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) produced by mesothelioma cells have been related to the immune tolerance towards the tumor. In order to evaluate the effect of local delivery of cytokines such as interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) by gene transfer, we characterized and used a murine model, AK7, which appeared very similar to human mesothelioma. AK7 cells expressed low levels of major histocompatibility class I and class II antigens and secreted high levels of latent TGF-beta. The TGF-beta pathway in AK7 cells is operative but inefficient because endogenous TGF-beta is predominantly inactive. Treatment of pre-established AK7 tumors by direct intratumoral injection of an adenovirus vector expressing murine IFN-gamma, Ad.mIFN-gamma, led to significant tumor regression. Peripheral tumor infiltration by CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes in the treated tumors appeared to be because of the induction of an immune response. Tumor relapse was observed, which could be due to local TGF-beta secretion by remaining tumor cells.
A 15-year-old patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and Fusarium infection was treated with voriconazole. She developed asymptomatic bradycardia, QT interval prolongation, and nonsustained, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, which recurred upon rechallenge with the drug. Voriconazole levels and metabolism were within expected normal values. This non-concentration-dependent, voriconazole-associated ventricular tachycardia mandates cardiac rhythm monitoring during voriconazole treatment.
Hyperprolactinemia can reduce fertility and libido. Although central prolactin actions are thought to contribute to this, the mechanisms are poorly understood. We first tested whether chronic hyperprolactinemia inhibited two neuroendocrine parameters necessary for female fertility: pulsatile LH secretion and the estrogen-induced LH surge. Chronic hyperprolactinemia induced by the dopamine antagonist sulpiride caused a 40% reduction LH pulse frequency in ovariectomized rats, but only in the presence of chronic low levels of estradiol. Sulpiride did not affect the magnitude of a steroid-induced LH surge or the percentage of GnRH neurons activated during the surge. Estradiol is known to influence expression of the long form of prolactin receptors (PRL-R) and components of prolactin's signaling pathway. To test the hypothesis that estrogen increases PRL-R expression and sensitivity to prolactin, we next demonstrated that estradiol greatly augments prolactin-induced STAT5 activation. Lastly, we measured PRL-R and suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS-1 and -3 and CIS, which reflect the level of prolactin signaling) mRNAs in response to sulpiride and estradiol. Sulpiride induced only SOCS-1 in the medial preoptic area, where GnRH neurons are regulated, but in the arcuate nucleus and choroid plexus, PRL-R, SOCS-3, and CIS mRNA levels were also induced. Estradiol enhanced these effects on SOCS-3 and CIS. Interestingly, estradiol also induced PRL-R, SOCS-3, and CIS mRNA levels independently. These data show that GnRH pulse frequency is inhibited by chronic hyperprolactinemia in a steroid-dependent manner. They also provide evidence for estradiol-dependent and brain region-specific regulation of PRL-R expression and signaling responses by prolactin.
Inhalation of diesel exhaust (DE), which contains soot particles with adsorbed mutagenic organic compounds, and its virtually mutagen-free soot particle analog, carbon black (CB), produce similar types and prevalences of pulmonary neoplasms in chronically exposed F344 rats. This result suggests that DE-induced neoplasia develops from the effects of a high lung burden of carbonaceous particles rather than from the genotoxicity of organic constituents. In this investigation, pulmonary carcinomas from rats exposed to DE or CB were analyzed for alterations in K-ras and p53 to determine if mutations caused by these agents are also similar. K-ras and p53 were chosen for this study because mutation patterns of these genes in lung neoplasms have been associated with specific exposures. A low frequency (3/50) and variable pattern of activating mutations were identified in codons 12 and 61 of the K-ras gene. Immunoreactive levels of p53 protein, suggesting gene dysfunction, were present in 7/13 squamous cell or adenosquamous carcinomas, regardless of the associated exposure. However, single-strand conformational polymorphism analysis and direct sequencing of p53 did not detect any mutations in these neoplasms. No immunoreactivity or mutations in p53 were observed in adenocarcinomas. The increased level of p53 protein in the squamous carcinomas is not explained by stabilization by the mdm2 gene product, because this protein was not overexpressed based on immunohistochemical analysis. No pattern of mutation was detected that would suggest a differential mechanism of carcinogenicity between DE and CB; however, inactivation of the p53 pathway may have a role in the development of rat lung neoplasms with a squamous cell carcinoma component.
Malignant gliomas are the most common and most aggressive primary brain tumor, and for which differentiation therapy has emerged as a promising candidate strategy. In this study, we used in vitro and in vivo assays to examine the differentiation effects of wogonin, a major active constituent of Scutellaria baicalensis, on glioma C6 and U251 cells. We found that wogonin can suppress cell proliferation and induce G0/G1 arrest under a concentration-dependent manner. Wogonin also triggered significant reduction in the G1 cell-cycle regulatory proteins cyclin D1, cyclin-dependent kinase 2 and 4 along with overexpression of cell-cycle inhibitory proteins p27. Immunofluorescence and western blot analysis indicated that wogonin increased the expression of lineage-specific differentiation marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). In mechanisms, we verified that wogonin significantly diminished the phosphorylated level of protein kinase B (AKT), and maintenance of low β-catenin expression level was dependent on glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β) activation at Ser9. Blocking GSK3β/β-catenin pathway was required for wogonin-induced proliferation inhibition and terminal differentiation by using canonical activator lithium chloride (LiCl) and inhibitor dickkopf-1 (Dkk1). Moreover, intravenous administration of wogonin delayed the growth of C6 glioma in the intracranial tumor model. These findings provide the evidence and mechanistic support for wogonin-based differentiation therapies for malignant glioblastoma. Furthermore, inhibition of GSK3β/β-catenin pathway may be a key and requisite factor in glioma differentiation.
Using automatic erythrocyte aggregometer type MA-1 (Myrenne gmbh, Germany), we investigated the hypothesis that therapeutic effectiveness of quinapril--angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI)--in the treatment of hypertension would correlate with improvement of red blood cell (RBC) aggregability. Experiments were performed on commercially available inbred strain of spontaneously hypertensive male rats (SHR) aged 19-21 weeks. Age-matched normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats genetically related to SHR were used as a control. Aggregability of RBC in hypertensive rats was significantly higher than in control WKY animals. Quinapril (100 microg/kg) administered i.p. for 8 days improved RBC aggregability in normotensive rats but surprisingly not in SHR animals. Beneficial effect of quinapril on RBC aggregation observed in normotensive animals did not occur when this drug was injected in combination with aspirin (1 or 50 mg/kg) or with indomethacin (20 mg/kg) or with L-NAME (10 mg/kg). However, much the same damaging effects on RBC aggregability were observed when aspirin, indomethacin or L-NAME were each administered into normotensive animals without quinapril. In contrast with normotensive rats, aggregability of RBC in SHR was not affected either by quinapril or by indomethacin and by L-NAME, given separately or in combination. The only compound significantly worsening RBC aggregability in SHR was aspirin but this effect was not dose-dependent. Quinapril-induced improvement of RBC aggregability in normotensive rats (but not in SHR) was completely abolished by simultaneous administration of B2 receptor antagonist icatibant and successfully mimicked by 8 days of treatment with bradykinin. In vitro aggregability of RBC isolated from WKY was not affected by previous incubation (30 min at 37 degrees C) with quinapril, indomethacin or L-NAME. Only aspirin (3 mM) significantly increased RBC aggregability as compared to placebo. It is concluded that under physiological conditions quinapril efficiently inhibits RBC aggregability and this effect is modulated by secretion of endothelial mediators, mainly prostacyclin and nitric oxide. In hypertension quinapril, in spite of lowering of arterial blood pressure, is unable to display its beneficial effects on RBC aggregability possibly due to the hypertension-induced/accompanied dysfunction of vascular endothelium. Aspirin revealed unique erythrocyte damaging properties, presumably independent of inhibition of cyclooxygenase but related to a direct membrane protein acetylation.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) and gastrin show a potent influence on gastric secretion and motility, but their role in mucosal integrity has been little studied.
In this study the effects of CCK-8, pentagastrin, and duodenal oleate on acute gastric lesions induced by 100% ethanol were studied in rats.
CCK-8 was about 13 times more potent than pentagastrin in protecting the gastric mucosa against ethanol damage. CCK released by duodenal oleate also protected gastric mucosa against this damage. The protective effects of CCK-8 were almost completely abolished by the blockage of CCK-A receptors with loxiglumide, whereas the protective effect of pentagastrin was completely abolished by L-365,260. The protective effects of CCK, pentagastrin, or duodenal oleate against ethanol injury were accompanied by a marked increase in luminal content of somatostatin, suggesting that this peptide is implicated in this protection. The protective activity of CCK and pentagastrin against ethanol injury was accompanied by a significant increase in gastric blood flow. Inhibition of nitric oxide (NO) synthase with NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester abolished almost completely both gastric protection and hyperemia induced by CCK and pentagastrin. Addition of L-arginine, but not D-arginine, restored the protective and hyperemic effects of CCK and pentagastrin. Pretreatment with the sulfhydryl blocking agent N-ethylmaleimide also abolished the protective and hyperemic effects of CCK and pentagastrin. The hyperemia, but not the protection, afforded by CCK and pentagastrin was reduced after sensory nerve deactivation with capsaicin.
Both exogenous and endogenous CCK and pentagastrin exert protective activity against ethanol damage, and this effect is mediated through separate receptors, NO, and sulfhydryl-sensitive pathway.
Fungal infection is a frequent and often fatal complication in patients undergoing remission induction therapy for acute leukemia. Although candidiasis is the most common infection, mold infections are increasing in frequency. Fluconazole (FLU) is a new antifungal agent that has been used successfully to treat Candida infections and has modest activity against aspergillosis in animal models. Subtherapeutic doses of amphotericin B (AMB) have been considered effective as prophylaxis in these patients. This study was designed to compare the efficacy and toxicity of these agents as antifungal prophylaxis.
Adults with acute leukemia undergoing remission induction chemotherapy randomly were assigned to receive antifungal prophylaxis with AMB (0.5 mg/kg three times weekly) or FLU (400 mg daily). Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole was administered as an antibacterial prophylaxis. Prophylaxis was continued until the patient achieved complete remission or was treated for 8 weeks without antileukemic response. Prophylaxis was discontinued if the patient experienced a possible or proven fungal infection or a serious toxicity.
Overall, 58% of the 36 patients assigned to AMB successfully completed prophylaxis compared with 80% of the 41 patients assigned to FLU (< 0.05). Proven, probable, or possible fungal infections occurred in 31% and 17% of the patients, respectively. The risk of discontinuing prophylaxis due to fungal infection or toxicity increased with time in the study and was significantly greater for AMB (P = 0.02).
At the dose used in this study, AMB was no more effective and was more toxic than FLU for prophylaxis of fungal infections in patients undergoing remission induction chemotherapy for acute leukemia.
The toxicity and carcinogenic potential of theophylline (an alkaloid bronchodilator drug) was investigated in male and female F344/N rats in 16-day, 14-week, and 2-year gavage and feeding studies. In 16-day studies, rats were fed diets containing 0, 500, 1000, 2000, 4000, and 8000 ppm of theophylline or given 0, 12.5 (twice daily), 25 (once daily), 50 (once daily), 50 (twice daily), 100 (once daily), 200 (once daily), 200 (twice daily), and 400 (once daily) mg theophylline/kg body weight in corn oil by gavage. In 14-week studies, rats were fed diets containing 0, 1000, 2000, and 4000 ppm theophylline or given 0, 37.5, 75, and 150 mg/kg body weight theophylline in corn oil by gavage. In 2-year gavage studies, rats were given 0, 7.5, 25, and 75 mg/kg body weight in corn oil. In 16-day gavage studies, treatment-related periarteritis occurred in arteries of the pancreas and adjacent to the mesenteric lymph nodes of early death male and female rats given 400 mg/kg once daily. In the 14-week studies, treatment-related periarteritis occurred at similar sites and in male rats exposed to 75 and 150 mg/kg, and in all exposed female rats (gavage studies), in females exposed to 1000 ppm, and in both sexes exposed to 2000 and 4000 ppm (feeding studies). In the 2-year study, chronic periarteritis was significantly increased only in the males receiving 75 mg/kg of theophylline. The adventitia, media and intima of medium- and large-sized mesenteric arteries were involved. Similar to other vasodilator chemicals, the pathogenesis of theophylline-induced vascular lesions may be a consequence of hemodynamic changes induced in the vascular wall.
Manganese-containing fungicides like Mancozeb have been associated with neurodegenerative conditions like Parkinson's disease. We examined the behavioral damage and differential neuronal vulnerability resulting from Mancozeb exposure using Caenorhabditis elegans, an important mid-trophic level soil organism that is also a powerful model for studying mechanisms of environmental pollutant-induced neurodegenerative disease. The dopamine-mediated swim to crawl locomotory transition behavior is exquisitely vulnerable to Mancozeb, with functional impairment preceding markers of neuronal structural damage. The damage is partially rescued in mutants lacking the divalent metal transporter, SMF-1, demonstrating that some, but not all, of the damage is mediated by manganese. Increasing concentrations of Mancozeb recruit additional behavioral dysfunction, notably serotonin-mediated egg-laying behavior, but without evident serotonergic neuronal structural damage. Thus, measurements of behavioral dysfunction are a sensitive early marker of fungicide toxicity that could be exploited to examine further mechanisms of neuron damage and possible therapeutic interventions. These results also provide important insight into the consequences of fungicide use on the ecological behavior of nematodes.
Febrile seizure (FS) is the most common type of seizure that occurs during early childhood. It has been proposed that atypical FS (prolonged, multiple, or lateralized) results in the development of recurrent complex partial seizures accompanied by Ammon's horn sclerosis or mesial temporal sclerosis, which is the most common of the intractable epilepsy. To elucidate the characteristics of epileptogenesis or acquired epilepsy following FS, we performed prospective long-term studies using hyperthermia-induced seizure model. Rat pups (postnatal 11 day old) were induced to hyperthermia (41-43 degrees C in core temperature) by exposure to a 175 W mercury vapor lamp. Six-nine weeks after hyperthermic seizure, the dentate gyrus showed impairments of paired-pulse inhibitions and excitability ratio. In addition, newly generated granule cells and synaptogenesis were observed in this region. Ten-twelve weeks after hyperthermic seizure, animals (approximately 68%) showed electroencephalographic seizure activity with increased VGLUT-1 immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus. Parvalbumin immunoreactivity was markedly reduced in the hilus. These findings indicate that in this model the epileptogenic changes in the dentate gyrus may be based on the persistent alterations in excitability via neurogenesis, synaptogenesis, and impaired GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition.
Piperonyl butoxide, alpha-[2-(2-butoxyethoxy)ethoxy]-4,5-methylenedioxy-2-propyltol uene, is a widely used pesticide-synergist. Recently, results were reported indicating that piperonyl butoxide is a hepatocarcinogen in rat. Since the underlying mechanism was not elucidated, we examined the effects on rat liver cells in detail. For this purpose male F344 rats were administered piperonyl butoxide mixed in the diet at concentrations of 0 (negative control), 0.05, 0.2 or 2% for 2 days, 1, 2, and 4 weeks. As a positive control, phenobarbital was administered to rats for up to 4 weeks as a 0.1% solution in the drinking water. Increased liver weight, centrilobular hepatocellular hypertrophy due to increased smooth endoplasmic reticulum, decreased numbers and areas of connexin 32-positive spots per hepatocyte, and increased cell proliferation were observed in rats treated with 0.2 and 2% piperonyl butoxide. Similar results were obtained for 0.1% phenobarbital treated rats. Hepatocellular necrosis suggestive of hepatotoxicity was also observed in the 2% piperonyl butoxide group. These results indicate that the promoting mechanism of piperonyl butoxide in hepatocarcinogenesis is similar to that of phenobarbital, involving an ability to induce CYP isoenzymes and inhibit gap junctional intercellular communication. In addition, increased cell proliferation following hepatocellular necrosis may also play a role at high doses.
The objective of the present study was to assess the efficacy and safety of bromocriptine treatment for patients with antipsychotic-drug-induced hyperprolactinemia in clinical practice.
This was an 8-week randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Sixty female schizophrenia patients were enrolled and were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups: bromocriptine 2.5 mg/day, 5 mg/day, 10 mg/day, and placebo. Serum levels of prolactin, estradiol (E2), luteinizing hormone (LH), and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) were evaluated on three occasions (baseline, and 4 and 8 weeks after commencement of the treatment paradigm). Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) and clinical symptoms were assessed using the Simpson-Angus scale and the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), respectively.
Of the 60 subjects who were enrolled, 48 completed the study (n = 14, 13, 11, and 10 in the bromocriptine 2.5 mg/day, 5 mg/day, and 10 mg/day, and placebo groups, respectively). Four patients in the 10-mg/day group, two in the 5-mg/day group, and one in the placebo group resumed menses during the study. The mean level of prolactin significantly decreased from baseline to week 4, and then plateaued, showing no significant change for the remaining 4 weeks of the study. No significant changes in LH, FSH, or E2 levels were observed throughout the 8-week study period, either within or between groups.
Administration of bromocriptine is a safe method for treating antipsychotic-drug-induced hyperprolactinemia without exacerbating either psychotic symptoms or EPS.
The ability of three extensively used anorectic drugs, namely fenfluramine (FN), fluoxetine (FX) and amphetamine (AM), to alter the development of aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1))-induced gamma-glutamyl-positive (GGT(+)) preneoplastic liver foci was investigated in 135 male weanling F344 rats. Following AFB(1) administration, 15 rats were killed, while the rest were divided into four groups and fed diets containing either FN, FX, AM or control diet, with half of the animals in each group subsequently being killed at 4 weeks and half at 10 weeks. All three anorectic drugs as expected suppressed initial food intake, growth rate, body weight gain and food efficiency. They also tended to suppress body fat mass and to decrease plasma levels of T(3) and T(4). FN significantly (P < 0.05) increased GGT(+) foci number/cm(2) and number/cm(3), while FX significantly increased GGT(+) foci number/cm(2) and the volume fraction of foci. Histopathological staining also revealed that FN- and FX-treated animals had more serious morphological alterations in their liver tissue. In contrast, foci development was, if anything, suppressed by AM feeding. These results indicate that serotoninergic drugs (FN and FX), as opposed to dopaminergic drugs (AM), may have tumor promoter activity, at least for liver tissue.
Long-term use of methamphetamine could induce psychosis, but consequences with regards to intelligence have seldom been investigated. Long-term use of alcohol could also result in intellectual deterioration.
The IQ of 34 methamphetamine-induced psychosis (MIP) patients (age, 28.7 +/- 6.1 years) and 34 alcohol-dependent (AD) patients (age, 40.7 +/- 7.3 years) was compared using the Chinese version of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition (WAIS-III).
The average full-scale IQ, verbal IQ, performance IQ, verbal comprehension index, working memory index, perceptual organization index, and processing speed index was 82.3 +/- 10.8, 84.3 +/- 11.9, 81.9 +/- 12.1, 85.5 +/- 11.9, 84.7 +/- 12.5, 85.4 +/- 13.6, and 78.5 +/- 12.7 in MIP patients and 90.5 +/- 12.0, 95.2 +/- 11.3, 86.0 +/- 13.7, 95.5 +/- 11.0, 87.1 +/- 14.5, 96.2 +/- 13.1, and 84.5 +/- 15.0 in AD patients, respectively. There were six MIP patients (17.6%) whose full-scale IQ was <70 and 13 (38.2%) whose full-scale IQ was <85 and >70, while one AD patient had a full-scale IQ <70 (2.9%) and 10 (22%) had full-scale IQ <85 and >70.
Long-term use of methamphetamine can result not only in psychosis, but also in mentality deterioration. Intelligence deterioration is more severe in clinical MIP patients than AD patients. Assessment of the mentality of MIP patients is suggested to help with the implementation of rehabilitative programs for these patients.
The aim of our research was to evaluate the influence of general anesthesia with controlled nitroglycerin-induced hypotension on splanchnic mucosal perfusion using gastric tonometry.
In six patients (1 female, 5 males, median age 46 years, range 32-62) undergoing elective resection of meningiomas, measurements of gastric mucosal perfusion were taken by nasogastric tonometry. Controlled hypotension was initiated after craniotomy and terminated prior to hemostasis procedures. The mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) was maintained 25-30% below initial parameters during controlled hypotension. The adequacy of perfusion was defined by the intramucosal pH (pHi) and the difference between arterial and intramucosal pH (pHGAP). All parameters were analyzed before the induction of controlled hypotension, after the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd hour, and 1 hour after the termination of controlled hypotension.
The MAP decreased during controlled hypotension by ca. 26.5% (min. 21.1%; max 31.6%). The lower MAP was accompanied by a statistically significant increase in heart rate. A significant increase from baseline in regional prCO2 was seen after the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd hour of controlled hypotension. Intramucosal pH values decreased significantly during the same period, from 7.428+/-0.032 to 7.372+/-0.015. Despite these statistically significant differences during controlled hypotension, the pHi values were always greater than 7.35, and the pHGAP values were lower than 0.05, which were recognized as being within the normal range.
Controlled hypotension allows accurate evaluation of the blood flow quality at the level of microcirculation. Mild controlled hypotension slightly alters splanchnic mucosal perfusion, but does not lead to ischemia and hypoxia in tissues.
Violent behaviors are increasingly noted in clinical practice to be associated with cocaine use; however, few studies actually characterize these behaviors. Cocaine addicts who made self-inquiries for themselves to obtain information about the effects, diagnosis, and treatment of cocaine dependence were interviewed. The study examined in a structured telephone interview their violent behaviors associated with cocaine use. The types of violent behavior reported by these cocaine addicts ranged from minor psychological aggressions to major physical acts that included murder and rape. The pharmacological mechanisms underlying the induction of cocaine-associated violence may involve known neurotransmitter systems affected by cocaine. A possible explanation may be that cocaine acts in those areas of the brain, particularly the limbic system, that subserve aggressive and violent behaviors.
New antiepileptic drug (AED) options for generalised seizure types have been adopted for use as treatment for Unverricht-Lundborg disease. Whether this has led to improved seizure control or functional outcome in ULD patients remains obscure. We retrospectively identified all patients seen at Helsinki University Hospital due to Unverricht-Lundborg disease during 2003-2008 in order to determine which AED treatments had been retained for long-term use. The majority of the patients had severe functional disabilities. In the year preceding the last hospital visit, all patients (n=20) were receiving polytherapy and 14 patients had been free of tonic-clonic seizures. During follow-up, improvement in myoclonia had been recorded for the majority of patients with either add-on piracetam, topiramate, or levetiracetam, but valproate was still in use by all patients. Treatment with lamotrigine had been started and retained less often relative to other AEDs. Add-on AED treatment was often associated with significant adverse effects. Unverricht-Lundborg disease patients may benefit from add-on treatment with levetiracetam or topiramate for seizure control. Treatment of eventual comorbidities with other than AEDs is also discussed.
As reviewed in the Part I companion manuscript by Basavaraju and Jones (Arch Environ Contam Toxicol), atherosclerosis and carcinogenesis may share some common mechanisms of toxicological action. On that hypothesis, standardized test data taken from the Registry of Toxic Effects of Chemical Substances (RTECS) were used to compute relative potency factors for chemical compounds associated with increased risk of atherosclerosis to humans. Potencies of the different compounds were computed relative to each of six reference compounds comprised of benzo(a)pyrene, nicotine, cisplatin, adriamycin, estrogen, and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin. Reference-specific potencies were all converted to a common numerical scale adjusted to unit potency for B(a)P. Because the list of compounds contained several antibiotics, amino acids, hormones, chemotherapeutic agents, polynuclear aromatics, alkaloids, metals, and vitamins, the standardized estimates of potency varied significantly depending on which of the six reference compounds are considered as standards of comparison. For the n - 1 other substances. Estimates of relative potency, risk coefficients, and generalized risk equations are estimated for cigarette smoke condensate, dietary cholesterol, ethanol, and carbon disulfide. From data on atherosclerosis as a result of cigarette smoking, a tentative risk was estimated as Increased Relative Risk = S (mg/kg-day)-1 x dose (mg/kg-day) x RP, where the dose is chronic intake per kilogram of body weight per day, RP is the potency of the compound of interest relative to that of benzo(a)pyrene, and S is 0.83, 0.25, 0.20, or 13 depending on whether cigarette smoke, cholesterol, ethanol, or carbon disulfide epidemiological data were used as a standard of comparison.
The efficacy of the topoisomerase I inhibitor CPT-11 [7-ethyl-10-(4-[1-piperidino]-1-piperidino)-carbonyloxycamptothec in] has been evaluated against a panel of human tumor xenografts derived from adult and pediatric malignancies. Tumors included eight colon adenocarcinomas representing intrinsically chemorefractory malignancies, six lines derived from childhood rhabdomyosarcoma (three embryonal and three alveolar) representing a chemoresponsive histiotype, and sublines of rhabdomyosarcomas selected in vivo for resistance to vincristine, melphalan, and the topoisomerase I inhibitor 9-dimethylaminomethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (topotecan). CPT-11 was given by i.v. administration daily for 5 days each week for 2 weeks (one cycle of therapy) or on the same schedule with cycles repeated every 21 days. The maximum tolerated dose for a single cycle of treatment was 40 mg/kg/dose, and for 3 cycles the maximum tolerated dose was 10 mg/kg/dose. Treatment was started against advanced tumors. Against colon adenocarcinomas CPT-11 administered for one cycle at the maximum tolerated dose caused complete or partial regression (> or = 50% reduction in tumor volume) in 5 of 8 lines. One cycle of CPT-11 therapy caused significant inhibition of tumor growth, without 50% regression, in 2 of 3 other colon adenocarcinomas. Rhabdomyosarcoma xenografts derived from untreated patients were highly responsive to CPT-11, which caused complete regression in 5 of 6 lines even at 20 or 10 mg/kg/dose. CPT-11 retained complete activity against rhabdomyosarcomas selected for resistance to vincristine and caused complete regressions in a line selected for resistance to melphalan that was also completely cross-resistant to topotecan. Of note was the observation that CPT-11 was as active against two xenografts selected for primary resistance to topotecan as it was against the respective parental tumors. Preliminary data indicate that CPT-11, like the topoisomerase I inhibitor topotecan, may have increased therapeutic efficacy when administered at a low dose for protracted periods (3 cycles). A comparison of the efficacy of CPT-11 with topotecan is presented.
