Experiments on white mice demonstrated that the appearance of extrapyramidal disturbances depends upon the scheme of haloperidol administration. A long-term use of the preparation leads to development of habituation, while its cessation--to symptoms similar to withdrawal. The development of extrapyramidal disturbances does not increase the antagonism of haloperidol in relation to phenamine, but distinctly increases and prolongs the activizing action of the blood serum of schizophrenic patients on the behaviour of animals.
Methanol (CH3OH) is believed to be teratogenic based on rodent studies. The mouse is more sensitive than the rat, but mechanisms of toxicity and identification of teratogenic metabolites are uncertain.
Rat and mouse whole embryo cultures are used to distinguish toxicity of CH3OH and its metabolites, formaldehyde (HCHO) and formate (HCOONa), which are produced following transit through the visceral yolk sac (VYS), via addition to culture medium, or by direct embryonic exposure through microinjection into the amnion.
Embryonic viability, increased dysmorphogenesis, and decreased growth parameters were altered in a dose-dependent fashion for each compound. Mouse embryos were more sensitive than rat, as indicated by significant decreases in viability at comparable, lower concentrations. HCHO produced dysmorphogenesis and caused embryolethality at nearly 1000-fold lower concentrations (0.004 mg/ml) than seen with either CH3OH or HCOONa. All agents produced incomplete axial rotation and delayed neural tube closure in mice, but only CH3OH elicited similar effects in the rat. Increased growth retardation, blood pooling in the head and VYS, enlarged pericardium, accumulation of necrotic matter in the amnion, and hypoplastic prosencephalon were observed in both species with all compounds. Microinjection of compounds into the amnion produced higher mortality in mouse and rat, compared to equimolar amounts added to the culture medium. CH3OH did not prevent neural tube closure in the rat when microinjected.
HCHO is the most embryotoxic CH3OH metabolite and elicits the entire spectrum of lesions produced by CH3OH. The VYS serves a general protective role against toxicity and inherent differences in the embryonic metabolism of CH3OH may determine species sensitivity.
The effects were examined of high doses of intravenous methylprednisolone (MP; 1 g daily, administered for 5 days) on emotional functions in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients with clinical relapse. Thirty two patients with relapsing-remitting disease were included. The mean age was 39.4 (20-56) years, mean disease duration and mean Expanded Disability Status Scale scores were 6.6 (0.8-28) years and 4.1 (2-6.5), respectively. MS patients were subjected twice to psychological tests: immediately after MP treatment and 6 months later. Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD) and Hopkins Symptom Check List (HSCL) were used. Thirty two control subjects (mean age 37.2 years) with ischialgia, not receiving steroids, underwent the same testing procedure. On the basis of their results in learning tests (Nonverbal Learning Test and Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test) upon admission, MS subjects were allocated into 2 different subgroups: 20 patients were included into cognitively preserved group (cpMS) and 12 patient into the group with cognitive decline (cdMS). Immediately after MP treatment, MS patients (total group) achieved significantly higher scores than controls on the HRSD and two subclasses of the HSCL: depression with inhibition and phobic anxiety. There were no significant differences between cpMS and control subjects in HRSD and HSCL tests. CdMS patients, as compared with controls and cpMS subjects upon admission showed depressed mood, obsessive-compulsive disorder, increased anxiety and interpersonal hypersensitivity. Therapy with MP did not markedly change emotional functions in all MS patients (total group, cpMS, cdMS).
1. Only cdMS patients show emotional disturbances. 2. Therapy with MP does not significantly change the emotional profile of MS patients.
Retinal toxicity as a result of antimalarial therapy has been reported for many years. Retinopathy may be divided into reversible premaculopathy and irreversible true retinopathy. Risk factors for the development of toxicity are daily dosage related to body weight, total drug dosage and the specific drug used. The daily dosage of chloroquine should not exceed 4 mg/kg lean body weight a day. Exceeding the total dosage of 300 g increases the risk. The daily dosage of hydroxychloroquine should not exceed 6.5 mg/kg lean body weight a day with increased risk when the duration of treatment exceeds 8 years (1330 g for a patient of 70 kg). Regular dilated fundus examination, visual field testing using Amsler grid test and automated central 10-2 perimetry (to a red test object) is advised to detect reversible premaculopathy. Hydroxychloroquine toxicity due to excessive cumulative dosage is discussed in case 1. Chloroquine toxicity due to excessive daily dosage is discussed in case 2.
A case report of parkinsonism secondary to chronic abuse of amineptine (3 gr/day) and bromazepam (35 mg/day) in a patient diagnosed of borderline personality disorder is presented. The patient did not take any other drugs and he was not recently on neuroleptic treatment; he recognized the abuse of amineptine, as a stimulant, and the bromazepam abuse, looking for a relief to the excessive anxiety secondary to amineptine. The parkinsonism improved after removing both drugs and taking biperiden and diazepam; lastly the patient was discharged without any medication. The patient did not suffer from other complications associated with amineptine or bromazepam abuse. There are some cases reported of parkinsonism secondary to benzodiazepines but there is none secondary to amineptine. We present a short review of the possible responsible mechanisms, thinking on a complex interaction of both drugs on dopamine and its modulatory systems.
To quantitatively measure the effects of caffeine and propranolol, a nonselective beta-blocking agent, on surgeon hand tremor during simulated vitreoretinal microsurgery.
Seventeen ophthalmic surgeons were tested on 3 separate days. On each day, subjects ingested 200 mg of caffeine, 10 mg of propranolol hydrochloride, or gelatin placebo. The drugs were administered as part of a double-masked, placebo-controlled trial. Hand tremor was measured using the Microsurgery Advanced Design Laboratory Stability, Activation, and Maneuverability tester (MADSAM), a high-resolution, noncontact position tracking system.
The average percent magnitude changes from baseline tremor measurements were +15%, +31%, and -22% for placebo, caffeine, and propranolol groups, respectively. Analysis of variance techniques accounting for effects of individuals, drugs, and day order demonstrated that only drug effects on percent magnitude change of tremor were statistically significant (P = .01, F test). Detailed comparisons of the 2 drug groups with the placebo group revealed that, after adjusting for individual and order effects, only the mean decrease in tremor due to ingestion of propranolol was a statistically significant trend (P = .03, F test). Although caffeine caused a larger mean increase in percent magnitude change in tremor than placebo, this trend was not statistically significant (P = .34, F test). The evaluation of systemic physiologic measurements showed that there were statistically significant drug effects on percent change in systolic (P < .001, F test) and diastolic (P = .002, F test) blood pressure and pulse rate (P = .002, F test). Individual and day order effects were not significant. No adverse side effects were observed or reported in our test subjects.
Physiologic surgeon hand tremor can be decreased by the oral intake of a low dose of propranolol.
Topical beta-blocking agents have been associated with adverse central nervous system (CNS) effects, including depression, emotional lability, and sexual dysfunction. Two studies were done to determine if patients who develop CNS effects while using timolol maleate would improve with betaxolol hydrochloride. In one study, 18 patients with CNS symptoms during timolol therapy were switched to betaxolol. Sixteen of the 18 patients noted symptomatic improvement with betaxolol. The second study involved seven patients with CNS symptoms during timolol therapy who were entered into a double-masked cross-over study. In two patients CNS symptoms resolved with betaxolol; in three patients symptoms improved; and in one patient symptoms worsened with betaxolol. Although factors influencing beta-blocker activity in the CNS are not well understood, there may be some advantage to a selective agent.
A 15-year-old boy with inverted duplication of chromosome 15 was admitted for acute onset of irritability, increasing sleepiness, and worsening of seizures. He had been on valproate and other anti-convulsants. However, he was found to have hyperammonemia within 2 weeks after the addition of low-dose topiramate to valproate. He recovered within 7 days after discontinuation of valproate. Topiramate was tailed off. The reintroduction of valproate monotherapy caused hyperammonemia again without clinical features of encephalopathy. He also developed anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome following the use of phenytoin. We propose the term topiramate-valproate-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy syndrome to include the following features: excessive sleepiness or somnolence, aggravation of seizures, hyperammonemia, and absence of triphasic waves on electroencephalography in any individual on simultaneous topiramate-valproate therapy. The ammonia level ranged from 1.5 to 2 times normal. The serum valproate level might be within the therapeutic range. The possible mechanism is topiramate-induced aggravation of all the known complications of valproate monotherapy. This condition is reversible with cessation of either valproate or topiramate.
Immunotoxicity is an important health hazard of heavy metal exposure. Because the risk of combined exposure in the population cannot be neglected, we examined whether subchronic exposure to a mixture of metals (arsenic, cadmium, lead, mercury, chromium, nickel, manganese, and iron) via drinking water at contemporary Indian groundwater contamination levels and at concentrations equivalent to the WHO maximum permissible limit (MPL) in drinking water can induce immunotoxicity in male rats. Data on groundwater contamination with metals in India were collected from literature and metals were selected on the basis of their frequency of occurrence and contamination level above the MPL. Male albino Wistar rats were exposed to the mixture at 0, 1, 10, and 100 times the mode concentrations (the most frequently occurring concentration) of the individual metals in drinking water for 90 days. In addition, one group was exposed to the mixture at a concentration equal to the MPL of the individual metal and another group was used as positive control for immune response studies. The end points assessed were weights of organs, hematological indices, humoral and cell-mediated immune responses, and histopathology of skin and spleen. The MPL and 1x doses did not significantly affect any of the parameters and none of the doses induced any significant changes after 30 days of exposure. The mixture at 10x and 100x doses increased the relative weight of the spleen, but that of thymus, adrenals, and popliteal lymphnodes were increased with the 100x dose. After 90 days, 10x and 100x doses decreased serum protein and globulin contents and increased the albumin:globulin ratio; the albumin level was decreased only with the 100x dose. After 60 days, the total erythrocyte count (TEC), hemoglobin (Hb) level, and packed cell volume (PCV) were decreased with the 100x dose, whereas after 90 days, 10x and 100x doses reduced the TEC, total leukocyte count, Hb level, PCV, mean corpuscular volume, and mean corpuscular hemoglobin. With the 100x dose, the lymphocyte count was decreased after 60 and 90 days, but the neutrophil number was increased after 90 days. Antibody titer was decreased after 75 days with the 100x dose, but after 90 days, it was decreased with both the 10x and 100x doses. In delayed-type hypersensitivity response, these two doses decreased ear thickness after 24 and 48 h and skin biopsies showed a dose-dependent decrease in inflammatory changes. Histologically, the spleen revealed depletion of lymphoid cells and atrophic follicles with reduced follicular activity with higher doses. The findings suggest that hematopoietic and immune systems are toxicologically sensitive to the mixture, which could lead to anemia and suppression of humoral and cell-mediated immune responses in male rats at 10 and 100 times the mode concentrations of the individual components in contaminated groundwater.
The ability of amiodarone to prevent pathological changes and oxidative stress after isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial injury was investigated in rats. A better understanding of the processes involved in the pathophysiology of myocardial infarction has led to the search for drugs that can limit the extent of myocardial injury. Amiodarone was administered to groups of rats once per day for 30 days. On days 29 and 30, the rats of the ISO control and drug treatment groups were administered 180 mg/kg ISO subcutaneously at an interval of 24 h for two consecutive days. In the control groups, clinical indicators, such as creatine kinase-isoenzymes and troponin-I, were found to be statistically higher than in the drug groups. Parallel to this increase in indicators, a significant decrease in glutathione levels and activities of superoxide dismutase and an increase in malondialdehyde level were detected. Biochemical and histopathologic results in the ISO-induced model of myocardial injury emphasize the beneficial action of amiodarone as a cardioprotective agent.
Among 71 patients, 19 (26.7%) experienced tacrolimus-related complications including 15 neurologic reactions and four problems with nephrotoxicity. Seven of these patients received grafts from cadaveric donors and 12 from living donors. Nine patients were children. The cohort included 5 female and 14 male subjects of mean age 26 +/- 20 (min 6, max 65) years. The common indications for the liver transplantation were cholestatic and metabolic diseases in pediatric patients, and viral hepatitis in adult patients. Blood tacrolimus levels were within the normal range. All patients with neurologic complications received antiepileptic therapy and drug conversion to rapamycin in 4 cases and to cyclosporine (CsA) in 11 cases. Six cases with Wilson disease and all cases with tyrosinemia experienced neurologic complications, which reversed in all but one case. In four cases with nephrotoxicity, we switched to rapamycin. Renal function improved in all cases. Patients with Wilson disease and tyrosinemia were more susceptible to the neurologic side effects of tacrolimus. In these cases we recommend the use of drugs with fewer neurologic side effects. Tacrolimus also has nephrotoxic effects, which can be reversed by converting to rapamycin.
Strain CD-1 female mice exposed prenatally to diethylstilbestrol (DES) (CAS: 56-53-1; alpha,alpha'-diethyl-4,4'-stilbenediol) were mated to unexposed males. Female offspring of these matings were raised to the stage of terminal illness. They were never exposed to DES and so have been referred to as "DES-lineage mice." Ten uterine adenocarcinomas and 5 ovarian cystadenocarcinomas were found in 40 DES-lineage mice. These findings were significantly different from the absence of such tumors in 24 "vehicle-lineage" mice whose mothers had received injections only of oil and alcohol. The types of tumors that commonly occur spontaneously in the CD-1 strain appeared with comparable frequency in the 2 groups of mice. The DES-lineage mice did not show the increased frequency of adenomyosis and squamous metaplasia of the uterus, nor the reduced frequency of corpora lutea seen in mice exposed prenatally to DES.
Resveratrol, a natural polyphenol compound, has broad effects on critical events, including inflammation, oxidation, cancer and aging. However, the function and molecular mechanisms of resveratrol on T cell activation are controversial. In the present study, we found that resveratrol significantly inhibits the activation and cytokine production of T cells in vitro and in vivo. Sirt1 expression was up-regulated in resveratrol-treated T cells. Once Sirt1 was down-regulated in the T cells, the resveratrol-induced inhibition of T cell activation noticeably diminished. The acetylation of c-Jun decreased and its translocation was impeded in the resveratrol-treated T cells. The incidence and severity of collagen-induced arthritis in the resveratrol-treated mice were considerably reduced.
Two women, aged 65 and 43 years, who were suffering from tricyclic-resistant depressions, developed a (hypo)manic state after a few days of lithium addition. In both cases the lithium plasma level was fairly low. For the first woman an increase in the lithium dosage combined with a substitution of the antidepressant resulted in a complete recovery and for the second woman, an increase in the lithium dosage combined with the continued use of the same antidepressant resulted in a recovery to a large extent. In animal experiments lithium addition resulted in a rapid increase in serotonergic neurotransmission, due to an increase in serotonin synthesis and release. This may explain a rapid amelioration of depression as well as the development of (hypo)manic symptoms. Depending on the severity and the persistence of hypomanic symptoms, the antidepressant can be either continued or withdrawn but the lithium dose must be adjusted in order to reach an adequate plasma level of lithium.
Complete ischemia in the left hindlimb was maintained for 3.5 h in 16 rats randomized into two equal groups. One group served as control, the other was treated with pentoxifylline before, during and after the ischemic period. The animals were killed 72 h later, and the anterior tibial muscles were prepared for histological investigation. The most severely damaged muscles had a central core with complete necrosis of all muscle fibers, disintegrated capillaries and no macrophage infiltration. This zone, which was called the area of no resorption, was surrounded by an area of incomplete necrosis with partly resorbed muscle fibers, intact capillaries and marked macrophage infiltration. The muscles were completely intact only in a narrow subfascial zone. The total areas of necrosis and the areas of no resorption were measured as percent of the cross-sectional area of each muscle. There was extensive necrosis in both groups. The infarcted area was 93% in the control group and 89% in the treated group (NS). The corresponding areas of no resorption were 23 and 6% (p = 0.01). The study indicates that pentoxifylline has some protective effect on ischemic muscle damage. However, this effect is marginal compared to moderate hypothermic treatment.
A newborn infant, born to a HBsAg-positive drug addict with HBeAg and DNA-polymerase activity in serum, was treated with repeated very high doses of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIg). The mother turned HBsAg-negative about 8 months after deliver and the HBIg prophylaxis was then discontinued. A check-up of the infant about a year later revealed normal liver function tests but significantly increased levels of antibodies against HBcAg and HBsAg indicating a post subclinical hepatitis B infection, apparently without harm to the infant.
Four patients suffered acute dystonic reactions caused by tetrabenazine. Because dystonic reactions have previously been reported only after dopamine receptor blockade and not with dopamine depletion, it is likely that the ability of tetrabenazine to induce acute dystonia is due to its dopamine receptor blocking properties. Because tetrabenazine can induce acute dystonia even when combined with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, presynaptic dopamine stores may not be necessary for these reactions to occur.
Gestational lead exposure (GLE) produces supernormal scotopic electroretinograms (ERG) in children, monkeys and rats, and a novel retinal phenotype characterized by an increased number of rod photoreceptors and bipolar cells in adult mice and rats. Since the loss of dopaminergic amacrine cells (DA ACs) in GLE monkeys and rats contributes to supernormal ERGs, the retinal DA system was analyzed in mice following GLE. C57BL/6 female mice were exposed to low (27 ppm), moderate (55 ppm) or high (109 ppm) lead throughout gestation and until postnatal day 10 (PN10). Blood [Pb] in control, low-, moderate- and high-dose GLE was ≤ 1, ≤ 10, ~25 and ~40 μg/dL, respectively, on PN10 and by PN30 all were ≤ 1 μg/dL. At PN60, confocal-stereology studies used vertical sections and wholemounts to characterize tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression and the number of DA and other ACs. GLE dose-dependently and selectively decreased the number of TH-immunoreactive (IR) DA ACs and their synaptic plexus without affecting GABAergic, glycinergic or cholinergic ACs. Immunoblots and confocal revealed dose-dependent decreases in retinal TH protein expression and content, although monoamine oxidase-A protein and gene expression were unchanged. High-pressure liquid chromatography showed that GLE dose-dependently decreased retinal DA content, its metabolites and DA utilization/release. The mechanism of DA selective vulnerability is unknown. However, a GLE-induced loss/dysfunction of DA ACs during development could increase the number of rods and bipolar cells since DA helps regulate neuronal proliferation, whereas during adulthood it could produce ERG supernormality as well as altered circadian rhythms, dark/light adaptation and spatial contrast sensitivity.
Antipsychotic response to clozapine varies markedly among patients with schizophrenia. The disposition of clozapine is dependent, in part, on the cytochrome P-450 (CYP) 1A2 enzyme in vivo. In theory, a very high CYP1A2 activity may lead to subtherapeutic concentrations and treatment resistance to clozapine. This prospective case study evaluates the clinical significance of ultrarapid CYP1A2 activity and a recently discovered single nucleotide (C --> A) polymorphism in intron 1 of the CYP1A2 gene (CYP1A2*F) for treatment resistance to clozapine. In addition, we describe the effect of grapefruit juice or low-dose fluvoxamine (25-50 mg/d) coadministration on clozapine and active metabolite norclozapine steady-state plasma concentration and antipsychotic response.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the frequency and course of sexual disturbances associated with clozapine and haloperidol and their potential influence on compliance with medication regimens in patients with schizophrenia.
The authors prospectively investigated 153 patients with schizophrenia who received clozapine (N = 100) or haloperidol (N = 53) in a drug monitoring program.
The frequency of sexual disturbances was lower in female patients than in male patients. There was no statistically significant difference between the patients taking haloperidol and those taking clozapine in the frequency of these disturbances. Clozapine plasma levels had a significant effect on diminished sexual desire and functional disturbances in male patients. Functional disturbances and diminished sexual desire did not have any influence on compliance in patients taking either haloperidol or clozapine.
There was no statistically significant difference between haloperidol and clozapine in regard to their propensity to induce sexual side effects.
Chronic inhibition of the renin angiotensin system prevents increased BP and renal injury in N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) hypertension. However, a relationship between plasma renin activity and the protective effect of chronic angiotensin II (Ang II) blockade has not been established. With this background, this study was undertaken to evaluate how the chronic administration of deoxycortisone acetate (DOCA) modifies the effects of losartan on BP, renal injury, and other variables in L-NAME hypertensive rats. The following groups were used: Control, DOCA, L-NAME, L-NAME + losartan, L-NAME + DOCA, and L-NAME + DOCA + losartan. Tail systolic BP was measured twice a week. After 4-wk evolution, mean arterial pressure and metabolic, morphologic, and renal variables were measured. The final mean arterial pressure values were 116 +/- 6 mmHg for control, 107 +/- 2 mmHg for DOCA, 151 +/- 5 mmHg for L-NAME, 123 +/- 2 mmHg for L-NAME + losartan, 170 +/- 3 mmHg for L-NAME + DOCA, and 171 +/- 5.5 mmHg for L-NAME + DOCA + losartan. Losartan prevented microalbuminuria, hyaline arteriopathy, and glomerulosclerosis of L-NAME hypertension but was ineffective in L-NAME + DOCA-treated rats. Plasma protein was significantly reduced in the L-NAME + DOCA group when compared with control and L-NAME groups, whereas no significant differences were observed in the other groups. Plasma renin activity was suppressed in the DOCA (0.55 +/- 0.2) and L-NAME + DOCA (0.60 +/- 10.2) groups but unsuppressed in the L-NAME + DOCA + losartan group (5.8 +/- 1). The conclusion is that DOCA blocks the preventive effect of losartan on the increased BP and renal injury of L-NAME hypertension, which suggests that DOCA transforms L-NAME hypertension into an Ang II-independent model of hypertension. These data also suggest that losartan prevents L-NAME hypertension by blocking the activity of systemic Ang II.
Members of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta family of cell-signaling molecules have been implicated recently in mammalian left-right (LR) axis development, the process by which vertebrates lateralize unpaired organs (e.g., heart, stomach, and spleen). Two family members, Lefty1 and Lefty2, are expressed exclusively on the left side of the mouse embryo by 8.0 days post coitum. This asymmetry is lost or reversed in two murine models of abnormal LR-axis specification, inversus viscerum (iv) and inversion of embryonic turning (inv). Furthermore, mice homozygous for a Lefty1 null allele manifest LR malformations and misexpress Lefty2. We hypothesized that Lefty mutations may be associated with human LR-axis malformations. We now report characterization of two Lefty homologues, LEFTY A and LEFTY B, separated by approximately 50 kb on chromosome 1q42. Each comprises four exons spliced at identical positions. LEFTY A is identical to ebaf, a cDNA previously identified in a search for genes expressed in human endometrium. The deduced amino acid sequences of LEFTY A and LEFTY B are more similar to each other than to Lefty1 or Lefty2. Analysis of 126 human cases of LR-axis malformations showed one nonsense and one missense mutation in LEFTY A. Both mutations lie in the cysteine-knot region of the protein LEFTY A, and the phenotype of affected individuals is very similar to that typically seen in Lefty1-/- mice with LR-axis malformations.
We tested the hypothesis that small changes in angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) expression can alter the vascular response to injury. Male mice containing one, two, three, and four copies of the Ace gene with no detectable vascular abnormality or changes in blood pressure were submitted to cuff-induced femoral artery injury. Femoral thickening was higher in 3- and 4-copy mice (42.4 +/- 4.3% and 45.7 +/- 6.5%, respectively) compared with 1- and 2-copy mice (8.3 +/- 1.3% and 8.5 +/- 0.9%, respectively). Femoral ACE levels from control and injured vessels were assessed in 1- and 3-copy Ace mice, which represent the extremes of the observed response. ACE vascular activity was higher in 3- vs. 1-copy Ace mice (2.4-fold, P < 0.05) in the control uninjured vessel. Upon injury, ACE activity significantly increased in both groups [2.41-fold and 2.14-fold (P < 0.05) for 1- and 3-copy groups, respectively] but reached higher levels in 3- vs. 1-copy Ace mice (P < 0.05). Pharmacological interventions were then used as a counterproof and to indirectly assess the role of angiotensin II (ANG II) on this response. Interestingly, ACE inhibition (enalapril) and ANG II AT(1) receptor blocker (losartan) reduced intima thickening in 3-copy mice to 1-copy mouse values (P < 0.05) while ANG II treatment significantly increased intima thickening in 1-copy mice to 3-copy mouse levels (P < 0.05). Together, these data indicate that small physiologically relevant changes in ACE, not associated with basal vascular abnormalities or blood pressure levels, do influence the magnitude of cuff-induced neointima thickening in mice.
Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic drug which has been suggested to be beneficial for the treatment of elderly patients with psychotic symptoms. In this study, we assessed the short-term efficacy and the safety of risperidone in geropsychiatric inpatients with psychotic symptoms. The sample population included 110 elderly inpatients with psychotic disorders. Assessment for drug efficacy using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, Sandoz Clinical Assessment-Geriatric scale, and Clinical Global Impression scale was conducted at baseline and also at 4 weeks subsequent to risperidone treatment commencement. Subsequent to commencing risperidone treatment, 80 patients completed a 4-week therapeutic evaluation. Seventy (87.5%) of the 80 patients experienced mild to substantial improvement using the Clinical Global Impression scale. Adverse effects were monitored in all 110 patients. The most commonly detected adverse effects were weakness of legs or walking problems (43/110; 39.1%) and dizziness (32/110; 29.1%). Peripheral edema was noted in 18 (16.4%) patients. Risperidone, in low doses, appeared to have been effective in this sample of patients older than 65 years with psychotic symptoms. The mean dose (2.1 +/- SD 1.4 mg/day) applied was lower then that suggested for young patients and was related to the each specific patient diagnosis. Peripheral edema and walking problems were commonly observed adverse effects for these elderly patients, such problems having not been seen to the same extent in previous studies of young patients.
