1. Paracetamol hepatotoxicity has been found to be potentiated by anticonvulsant drugs in animal experiments; isolated case reports in humans suggest that long-term anticonvulsant therapy may also adversely influence outcome following overdose. 2. We compared the clinical course, after paracetamol overdose, of 18 patients on long-term anticonvulsant therapy with corresponding features in two published series of paracetamol-induced fulminant hepatic failure from this unit: 297 patients seen between 1973 and 1985 and a further 99 between October 1986 and April 1988. 3. Mortality in those patients who were taking anticonvulsants, but who did not receive N-acetylcysteine, was higher than in either of these series (93.3% vs 64.6% and vs 57.9%, P less than 0.025). Although not statistically significant, there were also trends towards more severe coma (grade 3 or 4: 93.3% vs 75.4%, 1986-88), acidosis (pH less than 7.30: 40% vs 22.6%, 1973-85) and coagulopathy (prothrombin time greater than 100 s: 53.3% vs 33.7%, 1973-85). In the small number of patients given N-acetylcysteine, mortality was similar to that in the 1986-88 series (1/3 vs 15/42). 4. We conclude that chronic use of anticonvulsants enhances clinical features of paracetamol toxicity and discuss possible mechanisms by which this could be mediated.
Acute cocaine intoxication has been associated with elevated blood pressure and placental abruption. A retrospective analysis was performed comparing gestational age at the time of placental abruption and response to conventional therapy for elevated blood pressure between patients known to have ingested cocaine and those who were drug free. Data suggest that cocaine ingestion during pregnancy increases the risk of early placental abruption and an elevation of blood pressure that is not as responsive to conventional therapy as pregnancy-induced hypertension.
The neurogranin (NRGN) gene produces a postsynaptic brain-specific protein that regulates calmodulin-Ca(2+) availability in neurons. Acting downstream of the NMDA receptor and upstream of calcineurin and other proteins implicated in schizophrenia, NRGN is a good candidate for association studies in schizophrenia. NRGN expression is regulated during development and is modulated by thyroid hormones and retinoids, molecules essential for the proper development of the central nervous system. Given the genetic complexity of schizophrenia and the potential genetic heterogeneity in different populations, we studied a possible association of NRGN with schizophrenia in 73 Azorean proband-parent triads and in two independent case-control samples from the Portuguese-mainland (244 schizophrenic and 210 controls) and Brazil (69 schizophrenic and 85 mentally healthy individuals). Genotype distribution showed association of the rs7113041 SNP with schizophrenia in males of Portuguese origin, which was confirmed by the analysis of the proband-parent triads. This evidence, implicating NRGN in schizophrenia, introduces another player into the glutamatergic hypothesis of schizophrenia.
Hemodynamic responses to physostigmine were evaluated in eight patients with coma due to overdose with mainly anticholinergic drugs (AC) and in five patients with coma due to overdose with nonanticholinergic drugs (NAC). After correction of hypovolemia, but before administration of physostigmine, AC patients had significantly lower systemic vascular resistances, slightly higher cardiac outputs, and lower mean arterial pressures than NAC patients. Physostigmine produced negligible hemodynamic and, as expected, negligible neurological changes in NAC patients. In AC patients physostigmine produced, also as expected, improved consciousness and in addition significantly increased mean arterial pressure, cardiac output, and cardiac work without significantly affecting systemic vascular resistance.
The interaction of nifedipine and halothane was examined in 19 dogs. Nifedipine (10 micrograms/kg) was infused over 2 min in animals anesthetized with either 1% or 2% halothane. The predominant hemodynamic effect of nifedipine was a short-lived reduction (less than 15 min) in mean blood pressure accompanied by a decrease in systemic vascular resistance. During 2% halothane anesthesia hypotension mean blood pressure was greater (P less than 0.05) 15 and 30 min after nifedipine than during 1% halothane. Nifedipine hypotension was initially (2 min) associated with a 23% increase in heart rate and a 22% increase in cardiac output in animals anesthetized with 1% halothane, but during 2% halothane there was no change in heart rate. Changes in dP/dt and contractile force were minimal after nifedipine in both groups. The clinical implications of this study are that nifedipine given during halothane anesthesia may be associated with significant hypotension and that higher concentrations of halothane attenuate the reflex compensatory increase in heart rate. Doses of halothane and nifedipine must be chosen cautiously when the drugs are used together.
Pretreatment with scopolamine, 3 mg/kg, prevented the acquisition of a passive avoidance task in rats. These amnesic effects of scopolamine could largely be overcome by treatment with 100 mg/kg of the nootropic drug piracetam. In order to identify the brain structures involved, the effects of these drugs on regional energy metabolism were measured throughout the brain, utilizing Sokoloff's 2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic procedures. Scopolamine, 3 mg/kg, reduced glucose utilization in several areas of the cerebral cortex. These effects were largest in the parietal and temporal cortices. Other areas affected included the sensorimotor and cingulate cortices, the ventral and lateral thalamus, and the dendritic neuropil of the CA1, CA2, and CA3 regions of the hippocampus. The regional depressions in glucose metabolism observed following scopolamine treatment in the rat had some resemblance to depressions in glucose metabolism reported for Alzheimer's disease patients in positron emission tomography studies. Piracetam, 100 mg/kg, did not alter the energy metabolism of any of the 41 brain regions examined. However, this dose of piracetam completely reversed the scopolamine-induced depressions in the hippocampus. Piracetam partially but significantly reversed the scopolamine effects in the cingulate cortex. It is concluded that the data provide support for the hippocampal-cholinergic theory of memory as originally formulated by Meyers and Domino in 1964 and give insight into the mechanisms by which nootropics work.
Suxamethonium apnoea developed in a patient who was a homozygote for the atypical gene. Fifty-five members of the patient's family were investigated. Seven further homozygotes were found. Suxamethonium apnoea had been demonstrated previously in one of these. Thirty-two members of the family were heterozygotes.
An 8-year-old child was given perphenazine to prevent vomiting after surgery and developed an acute dystonic reaction; There were features of both tetany and tetanus without any of the classical features of extrapyramidal disturbance. The diagnostic difficulties are discussed. The reaction was treated successfully with i.v. diazepam. The prescribing of anti-emetics after surgery is examined critically with special reference to children.
Nephrotic syndrome (NS) is characterized by renal sodium retention and edema formation. In nephrotic rats the site of enhanced sodium retention has been localized in the cortical collecting duct (CCD). The epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) is the rate-limiting constituent of sodium transport in CCD. Amiloride, an ENaC-blocking drug, corrects the abnormal rate of sodium transport in isolated perfused CCD from puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-treated rats. Therefore, we hypothesized that ENaC functional expression is increased in NS.
Unilateral NS was induced by PAN in Wistar rats and analbuminemic Nagase rats (NAR). Urinary protein excretion, renal abundance of mRNA and protein of ENaC subunits, as well as the ENaC regulatory serum glucocorticoid-inducible kinase (Sgk1) and Nedd4-2, were assessed.
Proteinuria appeared at day 2 in the Wistar rats and NAR. Surprisingly a downregulation rather than the expected upregulation of alpha-, beta- and gamma-ENaC mRNA abundance was observed in both Wistar rats and NAR, when the treated kidney was compared with the untreated kidney. The amount of protein of alpha-, beta- and gamma-ENaC was not affected by the NS. Sgk1 mRNA expression did not change and Nedd4-2 protein expression was only decreased at days 1 and 2 in Wistar rats.
ENaC mRNA and protein expression are not increased in the early phase of unilateral PAN-induced NS. Sgk1, Nedd4-2 and analbuminemia are not important regulatory factors of ENaC protein expression in experimental NS.
This article reports the first case of immune hemolytic anemia possibly associated with the ingestion of suprofen. The patient suffered from massive hemoglobinuria and acute renal failure. Serologic studies of the patient's serum revealed suprofen-dependent red cell antibodies. However, tolmetin-dependent antibodies were also found in the serum, showing the same properties as the suprofen antibodies and an even higher titer. The patient not only had drug-dependent antibodies in the serum, but also had developed autoantibodies, a phenomenon that has been described for several other drugs. The working mechanism by which suprofen and tolmetin caused immune hemolysis had properties of both the immune complex model and the induction of autoimmunity. Although it was unclear whether the immune hemolytic anemia was the result of suprofen, tolmetin, or cross-reacting antibodies, we feel that suprofen should be added to the list of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs associated with a positive direct antiglobulin test.
Previously, we proposed a new model for understanding the Warburg effect in tumorigenesis and metastasis. In this model, the stromal fibroblasts would undergo aerobic glycolysis (a.k.a., the Warburg effect)--producing and secreting increased pyruvate/lactate that could then be used by adjacent epithelial cancer cells as "fuel" for the mitochondrial TCA cycle, oxidative phosphorylation, and ATP production. To test this model more directly, here we used a matched set of metabolically well-characterized immortalized fibroblasts that differ in a single gene. CL3 fibroblasts show a shift towards oxidative metabolism, and have an increased mitochondrial mass. In contrast, CL4 fibroblasts show a shift towards aerobic glycolysis, and have a reduced mitochondrial mass. We validated these differences in CL3 and CL4 fibroblasts by performing an unbiased proteomics analysis, showing the functional upregulation of 4 glycolytic enzymes, namely ENO1, ALDOA, LDHA and TPI1, in CL4 fibroblasts. Many of the proteins that were upregulated in CL4 fibroblasts, as seen by unbiased proteomics, were also transcriptionally upregulated in the stroma of human breast cancers, especially in the patients that were prone to metastasis. Importantly, when CL4 fibroblasts were co-injected with human breast cancer cells (MDA-MB-231) in a xenograft model, tumor growth was dramatically enhanced. CL4 fibroblasts induced a > 4-fold increase in tumor mass, and a near 8-fold increase in tumor volume, without any measurable increases in tumor angiogenesis. In parallel, CL3 and CL4 fibroblasts both failed to form tumors when they were injected alone, without epithelial cancer cells. Mechanistically, under co-culture conditions, CL4 glycolytic fibroblasts increased mitochondrial activity in adjacent breast cancer cells (relative to CL3 cells), consistent with the "Reverse Warburg Effect". Notably, Western blot analysis of CL4 fibroblasts revealed a significant reduction in caveolin-1 (Cav-1) protein levels. In human breast cancer patients, a loss of stromal Cav-1 is associated with an increased risk of early tumor recurrence, metastasis, tamoxifen-resistance, and poor clinical outcome. Thus, loss of stromal Cav-1 may be an effective marker for predicting the "Reverse Warburg Effect" in the stroma of human breast cancer patients. As such, CL4 fibroblasts are a new attractive model for mimicking the "glycolytic phenotype" of cancer-associated fibroblasts. Nutrients derived from glycolytic cancer associated fibroblasts could provide an escape mechanism to confer drug-resistance during anti-angiogenic therapy, by effectively reducing the dependence of cancer cells on a vascular blood supply.
Hyperlipidemia and hypertension, two major risk factors for accelerated atherosclerosis, undoubtedly contribute to the excessive cardiovascular morbidity and mortality experienced by renal transplant recipients. The present survey of posttransplant hyperlipidemia in 500 cyclosporine-treated patients documented a 37.6% incidence of hypercholesterolemia, which occurred within 6 months posttransplant in 82% of patients. An etiologic relation to corticosteroid therapy was suggested by the strong correlation between prednisone doses and cholesterol levels, by the reduced cholesterol levels in patients undergoing steroid withdrawal, and by the reduction in hypercholesterolemia to 13% by 3 years posttransplant when steroid doses were less than 10 mg daily. Hypertriglyceridemia, which was present in 14.7% of the patients, was more severe under CsA-prednisone compared with azathioprine-prednisone therapy. Hypertriglyceridemia, which occurred later in the posttransplant course than hypercholesterolemia, strongly correlated with an excessive percent relative weight and elevated serum creatinine but not with steroid or CsA doses. Increasing age, diabetes mellitus, beta-blockers and nephrotic syndrome contribute to posttransplant hyperlipidemia in the CsA-Pred era as they did in the azathioprine era of immunosuppression.
The mood-altering properties of amphetamine (AMPH) in humans (euphoria and depression) have been postulated to be related to the increases and decreases respectively which this drug produces in the sensitivity of the reward system of the brain. The present study further evaluated this relationship by testing the effects of chronic reserpine (RES), another treatment that produces depression in humans, on self-stimulation responding. Separate groups of animals implanted with stimulating electrodes in the medial forebrain bundle were administered daily injections of saline, d-AMPH (5 mg/kg X 7 days followed by 10 mg/kg X 7 days), or RES (0.05 mg/kg X 18 days). At treatment termination, both drug groups showed a significant elevation of the reinforcement threshold, with no recovery occurring during 18 subsequent days. Thus, drug-induced depression of self-stimulation responding may serve as an animal model for studying the underlying physiological basis for clinical depression, or at the very least, for drug-induced depression.
Hyperuricemia is common in chronic heart failure (CHF), and it is a strong independent marker of prognosis. Upregulated xanthine oxidase (XO) activity and impaired renal excretion have been shown to account for increased serum uric acid (UA) levels in CHF. Therapeutic interventions with allopurinol to reduce UA levels by XO inhibition have been shown to be beneficial. Discussions are ongoing whether UA itself is actively involved or it is a mere marker of upregulated XO activity within CHF pathophysiology. Therefore, the aim of this study was to test the effect of lowering UA by uricosuric treatment without XO inhibition on hemodynamic and metabolic characteristics of CHF. Impaired renal excretion of UA was taken into account.
Serum UA (SUA), urinary UA (uUA) excretion, and renal clearance test for UA (Cl(UA)) were measured in 82 patients with CHF. SUA was significantly increased compared with controls of similar age (control, 5.45+/-0.70 mg/dL; New York Heart Association I, 6.48+/-1.70 mg/dL; New York Heart Association II, 7.34+/-1.94 mg/dL; New York Heart Association III, 7.61+/-2.11 mg/dL; P<0.01). Patients with CHF showed lower uUA excretion and Cl(UA). On multivariate analysis, insulin, brain natriuretic peptide (P<0.01), and creatinine levels (P=0.05) showed independent correlation with SUA. The treatment effect of the uricosuric agent benzbromarone was tested in 14 patients with CHF with hyperuricemia in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized crossover study design. Benzbromarone significantly decreased SUA (P<0.01). Brain natriuretic peptide, left ventricular ejection fraction, and dimensions in echocardiographic assessment did not change after benzbromarone therapy. In contrast, fasting insulin (placebo, 18.8+/-8.9 microU/mL; benzbromarone, 11.0+/-6.2 microU/mL; P<0.05), homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance index (placebo, 5.4+/-2.6; benzbromarone, 3.0+/-1.7; P<0.05), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (placebo, 2.59+/-0.63 pg/mL; benzbromarone, 2.14+/-0.51 pg/mL; P<0.05) improved after benzbromarone, and the changes in tumor necrosis factor-alpha levels were correlated with reduction of SUA (P<0.05).
These results show that UA lowering without XO inhibition may not have an effect on hemodynamic impairment in CHF pathophysiology. To the extent that these data are correct, this finding suggests that upregulated XO activity rather than UA itself is actively involved in hemodynamic impairment in CHF. Clinical Trial Registration- clinical trials.gov. Identifier: NCT00422318.
Overexpression of the receptor tyrosine kinase HER-2/neu is associated with poor prognosis in patients with breast and ovarian cancer. Recent excitement has surrounded the therapeutic effects of HER-2-blocking therapy strategies and has rekindled interest on the molecular mechanisms of HER-2/neu in tumor biology. To study the role of HER-2/neu overexpression in vivo, we used a murine fibroblast cell line (NIH3T3-her2) conditionally expressing human HER-2/neu under control of a tetracycline-responsive promoter. Expression of HER-2 could be down-regulated below detection limit (>625-fold dilution) by exposure of NIH3T3-her2 cells to anhydrotetracycline (ATc). Subcutaneous injection of NIH3T3-her2 cells into nude mice resulted in rapid tumor growth. Mice with mean tumor volumes of 0.2, 0.8, 1.9, and 14.9 cm(3) were treated daily with 10 mg/kg ATc to switch off HER-2/neu expression, producing reductions in tumor size of 100, 98.1, 81.4, and 74.2%, respectively, by 7 days after onset of ATc administration (P = 0.005, Kruskal-Wallis test). Different long-term effects of HER-2 down-regulation were observed when mice with small (0.2 cm(3); n = 7), intermediate (0.8-1.2 cm(3); n = 10) and large (> or =1.9 cm(3); n = 11) tumors received ATc for up to 40 days. Complete remission was observed for 100, 40, and 18% of the small-, intermediate-, and large-sized tumors, respectively (P = 0.003). However, after 20-45 days of ATc administration, recurrent tumor growth was observed for all mice, even in those with previous complete remissions. The time periods for which mean tumor volume could be suppressed to volumes <0.1 cm(3) under ATc administration were 34, 22, 8, and 0 days for tumors with initial volumes of 0.2, 0.8, 1.9 and 14.9 cm(3), respectively (P = 0.005, Kruskal-Wallis test). Interestingly, HER-2 remained below the detection limit in recurrent tumor tissue, suggesting that initially HER-2-dependent tumors switched to HER-2 independence. The "second hits" leading to HER-2-independent tumor growth have not yet been identified. The rapid regression of tumors after down-regulation of HER-2 was explained by two independent mechanisms: (a) a block in cell cycle progression, as evidenced by a decrease in Ki-67 antigen expression from 40% before ATc treatment to 8.3% after 7 days of ATc treatment; and (b) induction of apoptosis as demonstrated by caspase-3 activation and by the terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase (Tdt)-mediated nick end labeling assay (TUNEL). In conclusion, we have shown that switching off HER-2 may disturb the sensitive balance between cell proliferation and cell death, leading to apoptosis and tumor remission. Tumor remission was dependent on the volume of the tumors before down-regulation of HER-2/neu.
The disposition kinetics of hydromorphone generally necessitates oral administration every 4 h of the conventional immediate-release tablet to provide sustained pain relief. This trial examined time course and magnitude of analgesia to experimental pain after administration of sustained-release hydromorphone as compared with that after immediate-release hydromorphone or placebo.
Using a 4 x 4 Latin square double-blind design, 12 subjects were randomized to receive a single dose of 8, 16, and 32 mg sustained-release hydromorphone and placebo. The same subjects had received 8 mg immediate-release hydromorphone before this study. Using an electrical experimental pain paradigm, analgesic effects were assessed for up to 30 h after administration, and venous hydromorphone plasma concentrations were measured at corresponding times.
The hydromorphone plasma concentration peaked significantly later (12.0 h [12.0--18.0] vs. 0.8 h [0.8--1.0]; median and interquartile range) but was maintained significantly longer at greater than 50% of peak concentration (22.7 +/- 8.2 h vs. 1.1 +/- 0.7 h; mean +/- SD) after sustained-release than after immediate-release hydromorphone. Similarly, sustained-release hydromorphone produced analgesic effects that peaked significantly later (9.0 h [9.0--12.0] vs. 1.5 h [1.0--2.0]) but were maintained significantly longer at greater than 50% of peak analgesic effect (13.3 +/- 6.3 h vs. 3.6 +/- 1.7 h). A statistically significant linear relation between the hydromorphone plasma concentration and the analgesic effect on painful stimuli existed.
A single oral dose of a new sustained-release formulation of hydromorphone provided analgesia to experimental pain beyond 24 h of its administration.
The case of a patient who developed acute renal failure, gastrointestinal bleeding, and cardiac arrhythmia after receiving arsenic trioxide for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is described.
An 84-year-old Caucasian woman with a history of osteoarthritis sought medical attention for relapse of her APL, which had initially been diagnosed approximately 30 months earlier. Complete remission was accomplished with three cycles of i.v. daunorubicin for 3 days and oral tretinoin for 28 days. After 19 months in remission, she was noted to have increased bruising and blood test values consistent with APL relapse. Two additional trials of oral tretinoin were unsuccessful, and arsenic trioxide was initiated at a daily dosage of 0.15 mg/kg of actual body weight. Less than 24 hours after receiving arsenic trioxide, the patient had "bile-like emesis" and her hemoglobin level decreased. Upper gastrointestinal bleeding was suspected and managed aggressively with transfusions of platelets and fresh frozen plasma and i.v. desmopressin. She became anuric, and her serum creatinine level more than doubled. Hemodialysis was started due to a sudden increase in potassium and fluid overload that did not respond to i.v. furosemide. One hour after hemodialysis, the patient was found pulseless and unresponsive by nursing staff. The cardiac arrest team rapidly responded and noted atrial fibrillation with a fast ventricular rate. Postresuscitation, the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit. Despite aggressive life-support therapy, the patient remained unresponsive.
An 84-year-old woman developed acute renal failure, gastrointestinal bleeding, and cardiac arrhythmia after receiving arsenic trioxide for the treatment of APL.
Four benzodiazepine tranquillizers were tested for their ability to initiate or promote the development of preneoplastic and neoplastic rat liver lesions. In comparison with the liver carcinogen, N-2-fluorenylacetamide, the benzodiazepines exhibited no initiating activity during a 14-week period of daily administration by gavage. To study the promoting activity, N-2-fluorenylacetamide was used to initiate altered foci and neoplastic nodules in rat liver during 8 weeks and then the benzodiazepines were administered by daily gavage for a period of 12 weeks. The liver tumor promoter phenobarbital had a substantial enhancing effect upon the persistence of nodules but none of the benzodiazepines showed a similar effect. Thus, in the process model systems used, to detect initiating or promoting potential effect, the benzodiazepine tranquillizers failed to exhibit either an initiating or a promoting action.
The effect of Methoxychlor (MXC) on the thymus was examined in rat pups that were delivered from dams receiving MXC at a dietary concentration of 0 or 1500 ppm for a period from pregnancy to lactation. The pups of both sexes were euthanized on postnatal days (PNDs) 7, 14, and 21. Histologically, the thymus showed marked depletion of cortical lymphocytes on PND 7 and also had an increase in lymphophagocytosis in the cortical area on PNDs 14 and 21. Morphometrical analysis disclosed that both cortex and medulla of the thymus from treated pups were reduced in size, but the reduction was more evident in the cortex. A significant increase in transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling-positive cells was detected in the cortex area, corresponding to the presence of lymphophagocytosis. Flow cytometric analysis revealed a significant decrease in the double positive (CD3(int)CD4(+)CD8(+)) immature cells on PND 21. These results have suggested that MXC may impair maturation of thymic lymphocytes in rat pups, which results in enhancement of apoptosis leading to thymic atrophy during the postnatal period.
In the current study, the effects of intra-central amygdala (CeA) administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and its competitive antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5), on morphine state-dependent memory retrieval were investigated. Post-training subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of different doses of morphine (0.5, 2.5, 5 and 7.5 mg/kg) dose-dependently impaired memory. The response induced by post-training morphine (7.5 mg/kg) was reversed by pre-test administration of this drug (5 and 7.5 mg/kg), indicating morphine state-dependent memory retrieval. Pre-test intra-CeA administration of NMDA (0.01 and 0.05 μg/rat) plus an ineffective dose of morphine (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) restored memory impairment caused by post-training morphine (7.5 mg/kg). However, pre-test intra-CeA administration of NMDA (0.005-0.05 μg/rat), alone, was ineffective on post-training morphine-induced amnesia. Furthermore, pre-test intra-CeA administration of the same doses of NMDA had no effect on memory retrieval. Pre-test intra-CeA administration of D-AP5 (0.1-1.0 μg/rat) decreased morphine state-dependent memory retrieval. However, pre-test administration of D-AP5 (0.1-1 μg/rat) alone decreased memory retrieval, but restored post-training morphine-induced amnesia. In conclusion, our results suggest which CeA may be potentially critical for morphine state-dependent memory retrieval and that CeA NMDA receptor mechanism(s) interact with the opiodergic system in the modulation of morphine state-dependent memory retrieval.
To evaluate the role of amphotericin B (AmB) in the biochemical modulation of antineoplastic agents, AmB was administered as a continuous infusion over a period of 52 to 120 h to 14 patients (26 courses) with advanced carcinomas. Continuous infusion amphotericin B (CI-AmB) was delivered at a rate of 0.5 to 0.8 mg/kg/d (19-31 mg/m2/d). The AmB plateau levels assayed by HPLC ranged from 0.7 to 1.9 micrograms/mL and were directly related to the infusion rate. The AmB plasma disposition was biphasic, with mean half-lives of 17 h for the first phase and 11 d for the terminal phase, and a mean residence time of 12 d. Biochemical modulation of antineoplastic agents (lomustine, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide) by CI-AmB was not demonstrated clinically. Acute toxicities of fever and chills were noted in only 3 of the 26 courses. Reversible renal toxicity was observed in 23 courses. Therapeutic antifungal plasma levels were rapidly reached and maintained for the duration of infusion, with a reduction of acute toxicities associated with shorter infusions. These observations provide impetus for further clinical investigation of CI-AmB.
Suppression of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system can prevent atrial fibrillation (AF) by attenuating atrial structural remodelling but the role of aldosterone in AF prevention has not been investigated thoroughly. We explored whether the aldosterone antagonist, spironolactone, could improve atrial structural remodelling in long-term rapid pacing-induced AF.
Three groups of dogs were used, sham-operated, control and spironolactone-treated groups. Dogs in the control and spironolactone groups had right atrial pacing for 6 weeks. The spironolactone group was given spironolactone 1 week before and during the atrial pacing. After 6 weeks of pacing, atrial structural and functional changes were assessed by echocardiography, haemodynamic parameters by cardiac catheterization, histopathological changes by light and electron microscopy and cardiomyocyte apoptosis by TUNEL. Caspase-3, Bcl-2, bax, calpain I, calpastatin, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1 were analysed by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. The inducibility and duration of AF were measured by atrial burst pacing.
After atrial pacing, the proportion of TUNEL positive cells, myolysis, atrial fibrosis and dilatation were all significantly increased and these changes were inhibited by spironolactone. Spironolactone treatment reversed the increased expression of caspase-3, bax, calpain I and MMP-9 and the decreased level of Bcl-2, calpastatin and TIMP-1, induced by chronic atrial pacing. Also spironolactone prevented the increased inducibility and duration of AF, induced by tachypacing.
Treatment with spironolactone prevented myocardial apoptosis, myolysis, atrial fibrosis and dilatation, suggesting a possible beneficial effect of aldosterone antagonism on atrial structural remodelling in AF.
An animal model with four well defined endpoints for studying the cardiotoxicity and neurotoxicity of bupivacaine is described. Five male Wistar rats (264-324 g) were anesthetized, tracheostomized and ventilated, and ECG and EEG leads were placed. Femoral arteries and veins were then cannulated. Twenty minutes before bupivacaine infusion, 0.1 mg/kg pancuronium was given intravenously, and anesthesia was adjusted to halothane 0.5%, 30% O2 and 70% N2O. Bupivacaine infusion was then begun at 2 mg/kg/minute. Bupivacaine doses producing the following endpoints were then determined: (1) first ventricular arrhythmia (ARR), (2) seizures (SZ), (3) isoelectric EEG (ISO EEG), and (4) asystole (ASYS). The doses of bupivacaine (in mg/kg +/- SD) precipitating AAR, SZ, ISO EEG and ASYS were 4.22 +/- 1.87, 7.08 +/- 1.55, 11.05 +/- 5.15 and 20.4 +/- 6.49 mg/kg, respectively. These endpoints were present and readily determined in all animals. The doses of bupivacaine producing ARR and SZ were not significantly different (p greater than 0.05). The doses producing SZ, ISO EEG and ASYS were significantly different from each other (p greater than 0.05, ANOVA and the Duncan test). These results indicate that it is possible to study, in the anesthetized and paralyzed rat that is intensely monitored, many of the variables associated with local anesthetic toxicity currently of clinical interest. The use of a constant local anesthetic infusion allows ready observation of the progression of toxic signs.
Although strong exposure to arsenic has been shown to be carcinogenic, its contribution to lung cancer incidence in the United States is not well characterized. We sought to determine if the low-level exposures to arsenic seen in the U.S. are associated with lung cancer incidence after controlling for possible confounders, and to assess the interaction with smoking behavior.
Measurements of arsenic stream sediment and soil concentration obtained from the USGS National Geochemical Survey were combined, respectively, with 2008 BRFSS estimates on smoking prevalence and 2000 U.S. Census county level income to determine the effects of these factors on lung cancer incidence, as estimated from respective state-wide cancer registries and the SEER database. Poisson regression was used to determine the association between each variable and age-adjusted county-level lung cancer incidence. ANOVA was used to assess interaction effects between covariates.
Sediment levels of arsenic were significantly associated with an increase in incident cases of lung cancer (P<0.0001). These effects persisted after controlling for smoking and income (P<0.0001). Across the U.S., exposure to arsenic may contribute to up to 5,297 lung cancer cases per year. There was also a significant interaction between arsenic exposure levels and smoking prevalence (P<0.05).
Arsenic was significantly associated with lung cancer incidence rates in the U.S. after controlling for smoking and income, indicating that low-level exposure to arsenic is responsible for excess cancer cases in many parts of the U.S. Elevated county smoking prevalence strengthened the association between arsenic exposure and lung cancer incidence rate, an effect previously unseen on a population level.
Paraquat (PQ) is an herbicide used extensively in agriculture. This agent is also suspected to be a risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD) by harming nigro-striatal dopamine neurons. There is likely, genetic-based, individual variability in susceptibility to PQ neurotoxicity related PD. In this study, we measured the delivery of PQ to the brain after three weekly injections of PQ at 5 mg kg(-1), PQ-related neural toxicity after three weekly injections of PQ at 1 mg kg(-1)or 5 mg kg(-1), PQ-related iron accumulation and PQ-related gene expression in midbrain of DBA/2J (D2) and C57BL/6J (B6) inbred mouse strains after a single injection of PQ at 15 mg kg(-1) and 10 mg kg(-1), respectively. Results showed that compared to controls, PQ-treated B6 mice lost greater numbers of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta than D2 mice; however, distribution of PQ to the midbrain was equal between the strains. PQ also significantly increased iron concentration in the midbrain of B6 but not D2 mice. Microarray analysis of the ventral midbrain showed greater PQ-induced changes in gene expression in B6 compared to D2 mice. This is the first study to report genetically-based differences in susceptibility to PQ neurotoxicity and to understanding individual differences in vulnerability to PQ neurotoxicity and its relation to PD in humans.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), which can act as a potential antidepressant in both animals and humans, appears to lower distress involved with cocaine withdrawal. In fact, a role for neurosteroids in modulation of substance-seeking behavior is becoming increasingly clear. Therefore, we tested the effects of DHEA on the self-administration of cocaine (1 mg/kg/infusion) by rats. At maintenance, a relatively low dose of exogenous DHEA (2 mg/kg; i.p.) attenuated cocaine self-administration after several days of chronic treatment. More than 2 weeks (19 days) of daily DHEA injections were required to decrease the cocaine-seeking behavior of rats to less than 20% of their maintenance levels. DHEA does not seem to decrease cocaine self-administration by increasing the reinforcing properties of the drug, as indicated by a cocaine dose-response determination. After being subjected to extinction conditions in the presence of DHEA, rats demonstrated a minimal response to acute exposure to cocaine (10 mg/kg), which indicated a protective effect of DHEA on relapse to cocaine usage. Our results suggest a potential role for the neurosteroid DHEA in controlling cocaine-seeking behavior, by reducing both the desire for cocaine usage and the incidence of relapse.
Vitamin C is a precursor of oxalate and promoter of its absorption, potentially causing hyperoxaluria. Malabsorption causes Calcium (Ca) chelation with fatty acids, producing enteric hyperoxaluria.
A 73-year-old man with both risk factors was hospitalized with serum creatinine of 8.4 mg/dL (versus 1.2 mg/dL four months earlier) (normal 0.6-1.3 mg/dL). Given his oxalate-rich diet, chronic diarrhea, and daily 680 mg vitamin C and furosemide, we postulated Ca oxalate-induced nephropathy, a diagnosis confirmed by documenting hyperoxaluria, and finding of diffuse intraluminal crystals and extensive interstitial fibrosis on biopsy. He was hemodialysed 6 times to remove excess oxalate. Two weeks off vitamin C, his creatinine spontaneously fell to 3.1 mg/dL. Three months later, on low oxalate diet and 100 mg vitamin B6, urine oxalate to creatinine ratio decreased from 0.084 to 0.02 (normal < 0.035), while creatinine fell and stayed at 1.8 mg/dL.
1) High-dose vitamin C can induce hyperoxaluric nephropathy and progressive renal failure, especially if aggravated by diarrhea, oxalate-rich diet, metabolic acidosis, and dehydration. 2) The diagnosis should be suspected in unexplained renal insufficiency when associated with these risk factors. 3) Since prompt treatment could avert end-stage renal disease, we recommend monitoring urinary oxalate in patients on high-dose vitamin C and renal biopsy if necessary.
Clinical trials have explored the use of natural and synthetic retinoids for the prevention of bladder cancer recurrence. Natural retinoids have been shown to inhibit bladder cancer growth. Here, we compared the effects of natural and synthetic retinoids in bladder cancer cells. Bladder cancer cell lines were treated with all-trans-retinoid acid (ATRA), N-4-hydroxyphenyl-retinamide (4-HPR) and 6-[3-(1-adamantyl)-4 hydroxyphenyl]-2-naphthalene carboxylic acid (CD437). Their effects on cell growth, apoptosis, cell cycle, gene expression, and retinoid acid receptors (RARs) and the JWA-retinoid response gene were assessed. Most of the bladder cancer cells were resistant to ATRA (1 and 10 microM). 4-HPR inhibited cell growth by 90% at 10 microM; however, CD437 showed the same effect at 1 microM. 4-HPR and CD437 increased G1 and decreased S phase. The three retinoids differentially affected p53, RARs, and JWA. Only CD437 increased Caspase 3 expression. The results demonstrated that 4-HPR and CD437 were more potent growth inhibitors and apoptosis inducers than ATRA. However, 4-HPR was effective at a concentration at least 10 microM. The in vitro results suggested the higher dose of 4-HPR in chemoprevention trial be considered.
