Cyclin G1 is a transcriptional target of the tumor suppressor p53, and its expression is increased after DNA damage. Recent data show that cyclin G1 can regulate the levels of p53 by a mechanism that involves dephosphorylation of Mdm2 by protein phosphatase 2A. To understand the biologic role of cyclin G1, we have generated cyclin G1-deficient mice. In agreement with previous results, we showed that these mice develop normally, and that proliferation and induction of cellular senescence in cyclin G1-deficient mouse embryo fibroblasts are indistinguishable from wild-type fibroblasts. However, we found that the p53 levels in the cyclin G1-deficient mice are 2-fold higher that in wild-type mice. Moreover, we showed that treatment of mice with the alkylating agent 1,4-bis[N,N'-di(ethylene)-phosphamide]piperazine (Dipin), followed by partial hepatectomy, decreased G1-S transition in cyclin G1-null hepatocytes as compared with wild type. Finally, we found a significant decrease in tumor incidence, mass, and malignancy in both male and female cyclin G1-null mice after treatment with the potent hepatocarcinogen N-diethylnitrosamine. Taken with recent published data, our results suggest that cyclin G1, together with Mdm2, constitute a part of a negative feedback system that attenuates the activity of p53. In conclusion, our data suggest that the decreased tumor susceptibility after loss of cyclin G1 function is caused by the increased tumor suppressor action of p53.
A 73-year-old man with a history of obstructive lung disease who received clenbuterol 20 mg b.i.d. over 5 years developed dyskinetic movements mainly of the respiratory muscles, closely resembling neuroleptic-induced dyskinesias. Despite drug withdrawal, abnormal movements persisted unchanged. Treatment with reserpine successfully controlled the dyskinetic movements. Clinicians should be aware of this potentially harmful effect of long-term clenbuterol therapy.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) induces complete remission in a high proportion of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL); however, the response is sometimes very slow. Furthermore, relapse and resistance to treatment often occur despite continued treatment with ATRA. Thereafter, combination treatment strategies have been suggested to circumvent these problems. The present study demonstrates that caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), a major component of honeybee propolis, enhanced ATRA-induced granulocytic differentiation in HL-60, a human promyelocytic cell line. The differentiation was assessed by Wright-Giemsa stain, nitroblue tetrazolium reduction, and membrane differentiation marker CD11b. In addition, CAPE enhanced ATRA-induced cell cycle arrest at the G1 phase by decreasing the association of cdk2-cyclin E complex. Finally, it was demonstrated that CAPE promoted the ATRA-mediated nuclear transcription activation of RARalpha assessed by EMSA assay and enhanced the expression of target genes including RARalpha, C/EBPepsilon, and p21 protein resulting in the differentiation development of leukemia. It is suggested that CAPE possesses the potential to enhance the efficiency of ATRA in the differentiation therapy of APL.
The relationship between methylmercury (MeHg) exposure and aquaporin (AQP) expression in the brain is currently unknown. To investigate this, we used a common marmoset model of acute MeHg exposure to examine AQP1, AQP4 and AQP11 gene expression. MeHg (1.5 mg Hg/kg/day p.o.) was given to three marmosets for 14 days, followed by 14 days without. All treated marmosets showed slight akinesia before sacrifice. In the frontal lobe, occipital lobe and cerebellum, total mercury concentrations following MeHg administration were 26.7, 31.4, and 22.6 µg/g, respectively. Slight apoptosis was observed in the occipital lobe. Immunohistochemistry showed increased expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein, its mRNA and Iba1 with MeHg, indicating that neuronal injury activated astrocytes and microglia. There was no significant difference between control and MeHg-administered groups in AQP1 protein or AQP11 mRNA in the frontal lobe, occipital lobe or cerebellum. The ratio of AQP4 mRNA expression in MeHg-administered marmosets to the mean AQR4 expression in the controls (n = 3) were 1.3, 1.5 and 1.2, 1.7, 1.9 and 1.5, and 1.5, 1.6 and 1.2 for the frontal lobe, occipital lobe and cerebellum, respectively. Western blotting showed significantly increased AQP4 protein in the occipital lobe and cerebellum with MeHg administration, but no obvious up-regulation in the frontal lobe. Immunofluorescence analysis with double staining revealed low AQP4 expression in the cell body of reactive astrocytes in the MeHg-administered group. These results indicate that AQP4 expression might be stimulated by MeHg exposure in astrocytes in the occipital lobe and cerebellum, suggesting a role for AQP4 in MeHg neurotoxicity via astrocyte dysfunction.
The present study aimed to establish candidate biomarker genes for the early detection of nephrotoxicity in mice, with a particular focus on nephrotoxicity caused by polyene macrolides. Comprehensive gene expression changes were evaluated using microarrays in a mouse model in which acute nephrotoxicity was induced by amphotericin B deoxycholate, trade name Fungizone. The upregulated genes identified through microarray analysis of kidney tissue of Fungizone-treated mice included several genes that have been reported as nephrotoxicity biomarkers in rats, and 14 genes were selected as candidate nephrotoxicity biomarkers. The usefulness of these genes as nephrotoxicity biomarkers in mice was evaluated further through expression profiling under several experimental conditions using real time RT-PCR. Expression of genes encoding kidney injury molecule 1, lipocalin 2, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1, and secreted phosphoprotein 1 was highly upregulated by Fungizone, nystatin, natamycin, amphotericin B methyl ester, and liposomal amphotericin B, and their area under the ROC curve values were more than 0.95. These genes were more sensitive at detecting nephrotoxicity than traditional clinical chemistry and histopathology parameters. This study provides novel evidence that these nephrotoxicity biomarker genes identified are translatable to mice, and that they are useful for early and sensitive detection of nephrotoxicity.
We report a 15-year-old boy who, after the administration of 100 mg i.v. of sulpiride, presented an acute dystonic reaction consisting of oculogyric crises, retrocollis, opysthotonus, and dystonic postures in the left arm and hand. The symptoms were reversed after the injection of biperiden. This side effect has not been described previously. Sulpiride can induce the same extrapyramidal adverse reactions as the classical neuroleptic drugs.
A 47-year-old patient suffering from coronary artery disease was admitted to the CCU in shock with III. AV block, severe hypotension, and impairment of ventricular function. One week prior to admission a therapy with standard doses of metoprolol (100 mg t.i.d. and then 100 mg b.i.d.) had been initiated. Two days before admission diltiazem (60 mg b.i.d.) was prescribed in addition. Analyses of a blood sample revealed unusually high plasma concentrations of metoprolol (greater than 3000 ng/ml) and diltiazem (526 ng/ml). The patient recovered within 1 week following discontinuation of antianginal therapy. Three months later the patient was exposed to a single dose of metoprolol, diltiazem, propafenone (since he had received this drug in the past), and sparteine (as a probe for the debrisoquine/sparteine type polymorphism of oxidative drug metabolism). It was found that he was a poor metabolizer of all four drugs, indicating that their metabolism is under the same genetic control. Therefore, patients belonging to the poor-metabolizer phenotype of sparteine/debrisoquine polymorphism in drug metabolism, which constitutes 6.4% of the German population, may experience adverse drug reactions when treated with standard doses of one of these drugs alone. Moreover, the coadministration of these frequently used drugs is expected to be especially harmful in this subgroup of patients.
Satratoxin H is an important air- and food-borne mycotoxin, which has been implicated in human health damage. Satratoxin H is known to induce apoptosis as well as genotoxicity in PC12 cells. In the present study, we further investigated the mechanism of apoptotic effects of satratoxin H with focus on caspase-3 and poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) pathway. We also examined whether it induces DNA damage in PC12 cells. In the cells treated with satratoxin H, caspase-3 was cleaved in a time-dependent manner. Furthermore, satratoxin H induced cleavage of PARP, one of the downstream molecules of caspase-3. The cleavage was inhibited by SB203580, a p38 MAPK inhibitor, or SP600125, a JNK inhibitor. Satratoxin H, however, had no effect on expression levels of Bax and Bcl-2. Furthermore, the micronucleus assay revealed that satratoxin H induced chromosome break. Also, satratoxin H increased the level of phosphorylation of histone H2A, indicating that it caused DNA double-stranded breaks in PC12 cells. Meanwhile, no genotoxicity was detected with any of treatments carried out in the alkaline comet assay. These results imply that satratoxin H induces genotoxicity by DNA double-stranded break. Our results suggest a considerable potential for the genotoxic risk associated with the presence of satratoxin H.
The benzodiazepine receptor partial inverse agonist sarmazenil exhibits in vivo proconvulsive, but not convulsant, effects in different paradigms in rodents. Intravenous sarmazenil challenge given at several fixed intervals following the termination of repeated treatment with a markedly sedative dose of diazepam in squirrel monkeys was effective in precipitating withdrawal signs, but had no comparable effects in vehicle-treated controls. The precipitated withdrawal reaction was not only robust, but it was consistently observed in all of the diazepam-treated monkeys. Thus, the use of sarmazenil challenge in the precipitated withdrawal paradigm provides a reliable method for assessing the development of physical dependence during repeated treatment with benzodiazepine receptor agonists.
We investigated the efficacy and untoward effects of low doses of propofol for intrathecal morphine-induced pruritus. Twenty gynecological and obstetric surgical patients received spinal anesthesia with 0.5% tetracaine and phenylephrine, as well as 0.2 mg morphine. Seven of them (35%) complained pruritus graded according to the treatment necessary in the postoperative period. Propofol, 10 mg or 20 mg, successfully alleviated the pruritus in 6 patients out of 7. Further treatment was not necessary in 5 of them. One patient was resistant to treatments by 20 mg of propofol and 0.1 mg of naloxone. Three patients transiently fell in sleep even after administering 10 mg of propofol. The authors conclude that low dose propofol is effective in treating intrathecal morphine-induced pruritus, although it may transiently causes hypnosis in postoperative patients.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of midazolam on circulation, respiration, sedation, and liver function of the neonates. The study subjects are 27 neonates (body weight 2.1 to 3.8 kg, gestational age at birth 34 to 41 weeks) who underwent surgery in neonatal period. Of 27, 13 patients received lidocaine (1.5 mg.kg-1) immediately before tracheal intubation (group L), and 14 had midazolam (0.1 mg.kg-1) with lidocaine (group ML). We compared the effects of midazolam in the presence of lidocaine on the following parameters: (1) the incidence of hypotension (systolic blood pressure < 50 mmHg) and bradycardia (heart rate < 100 beats.min-1), (2) the incidence of apnea and desaturation of oxygen (< 80%), (3) the degree of sedation, and (4) the serum levels of bilirubin and unbound bilirubin after surgery. In group L, there were hypotension (1/13) and desaturation (1/13). In group ML, there were desaturation (1/14) and post-operative apnea (1/14). None in both groups developed bradycardia or intracranial hemorrhage. A single-dose of lidocaine induced sedation only in 4 neonates, while combination of midazolam and lidocaine in 11. None had elevation of either total or unbound bilirubin after surgery. In conclusion, the titrated dose of midazolam with lidocaine is useful for anesthetic induction of neonates, although cares should be taken on its adverse effects such as hypotension, desaturation, and post-operative apnea.
The present report is a neuropathologic study of three patients who died from a severe form of necrotizing encephalopathy following intrathecal methotrexate therapy and craniospinal irradiation for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. During the early phase the lesion presented as multifocal coalescing areas of coagulation necrosis in the deep white matter. In the diseased areas the myelin was lost and the axons were severely swollen and fragmented. During the late stage the white matter was reduced to a thin gliotic calcified layer. The pathogenesis of this lesion is unclear, but the preferential involvement of the white matter with sparing of the cortical gray matter and basal ganglia makes it unlikely that direct chemical injury is the cause. The distribution of the lesion suggests a vascular disturbance due to endothelial injury caused by interaction of the methotrexate with tissue infiltrated by leukemic cells and altered by irradiation.
A case of massive cyclophosphamide hemorrhagic cystitis is presented. A 47-year-old woman with Evans syndrome was treated with a total dose of 56.6 g of cyclophosphamide for 2 years. Six months after the cessation of administration, massive hemorrhagic cystitis suddenly occurred following a common cold. Embolization of bilateral internal iliac arteries was ineffective. Therefore we performed transurethral electrocoagulation broadly for bleeding mucosa. The day after operation, bleeding from the bladder remarkably decreased and further transfusions were hardly required.
Rosacea is a chronic skin disease that requires long-term therapy. Oral antibiotics and topical metronidazole successfully treat rosacea. Because long-term use of systemic antibiotics carries risks for systemic complications and adverse reactions, topical treatments are preferred.
To determine if the use of topical metronidazole gel (Metrogel) could prevent relapse of moderate to severe rosacea.
A combination of oral tetracycline and topical metronidazole gel was used to treat 113 subjects with rosacea (open portion of the study). Successfully treated subjects (n = 88) entered a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study applying either 0.75% topical metronidazole gel (active agent) or topical metronidazole vehicle gel (placebo) twice daily (blinded portion of the study).
Subjects were enrolled at 6 separate sites in large cities at sites associated with major medical centers.
One hundred thirteen subjects with at least 6 inflammatory papules and pustules, moderate to severe facial erythema and telangiectasia entered the open phase of the study. Eighty-eight subjects responded to treatment with systemic tetracycline and topical metronidazole gel as measured by at least a 70% reduction in the number of inflammatory lesions. These subjects were randomized to receive 1 of 2 treatments: either 0.75% metronidazole gel or placebo gel.
Subjects were evaluated monthly for up to 6 months to determine relapse rates.
Inflammatory papules and pustules were counted at each visit. Relapse was determined by the appearance of a clinically significant increase in the number of papules and pustules. Prominence of telangiectases and dryness (roughness and scaling) were also observed.
In the open phase, treatment with tetracycline and metronidazole gel eliminated all papules and pustules in 67 subjects (59%). The faces of 104 subjects (92%) displayed fewer papules and pustules after treatment, and 82 subjects (73%) exhibited less erythema. In the randomized double-blind phase, the use of topical metronidazole significantly prolonged the disease-free interval and minimized recurrence compared with subjects treated with the vehicle. Eighteen (42%) of 43 subjects applying the vehicle experienced relapse, compared with 9 (23%) of 39 subjects applying metronidazole gel (P<.05). The metronidazole group had fewer papules and/or pustules after 6 months of treatment (P<.01). Relapse of erythema also occurred less often in subjects treated with metronidazole (74% vs 55%).
In a majority of subjects studied, continued treatment with metronidazole gel alone maintains remission of moderate to severe rosacea induced by treatment with oral tetracycline and topical metronidazole gel.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a known human teratogen. Exposure in pregnancy is associated with approximately three-fold increase in the rate of major anomalies, mainly spina bifida and only rarely anencephaly (NTD), cardiac, craniofacial, skeletal and limb defects and a possible set of dysmorphic features, the "valproate syndrome" with decreased intrauterine growth. This was demonstrated by prospective and retrospective studies. There is also, mainly in the children with the "valproate syndrome", a significant increase in the rate of developmental problems, manifested by decreased verbal intelligence often with communication problems of the autistic spectrum disorder (ASD). VPA is teratogenic in most animal species tested, but the human embryo seems to be the most susceptible. A daily dose of 1000 mg or more and/or polytherapy are associated with a higher teratogenic risk. It seems that several other AEDs potentiate the teratogenic effects of VPA. Thus, when valproate cannot be avoided in pregnancy, the lowest possible effective dose should be prescribed in 2-3 divided doses, preferably as monotherapy. Women exposed to valproate in pregnancy should be given periconceptional folic acid and followed up in a high risk pregnancy clinic. Appropriate ultrasonographic and other examinations, focusing on the possible different anomalies described with this agent, should be carried out. The specific inhibition by VPA of histone deacetylase and changes in gene expression may explain the teratogenicity of this drug. Other possible explanations are: increased fetal oxidative stress induced by VPA, with the brain being more susceptible to oxidative stress in comparison to other fetal organs, or the folic acid inhibitory action of this drug.
Estrogens, including diethylstilbestrol (DES), were used as the primary medical treatment for metastatic prostate cancer for many years but have been superceded in the past two decades by luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonists, primarily because of the cardiovascular toxicity associated with oral estrogen therapy. Recently, a renewed interest in estrogen therapy for prostate cancer in the United States has developed as a result of 3 major issues. First, when measured by declines in prostate-specific antigen of > or = 50%, clinical trials have demonstrated activity of DES, DES-diphosphate, and the estrogenic herbal therapy PC-SPES in 21%-86% of patients treated in phase II trials of androgen-independent prostate cancer patients. Second, the recent description of estrogen receptor (ER)-b has led to a reevaluation of the role of estrogens in normal prostate development and cancer pathogenesis. In contrast to ER-a, ER-b is strongly expressed in normal prostate epithelium. Furthermore, loss of ER-b expression has been demonstrated in prostate cancers, suggesting a possible role for this pathway in the development of cancer. Finally, the issues of cost and safety of estrogens are being reassessed in the current environment of rising health care costs and improved cardiovascular care. In Europe, estrogen therapy is more accepted as a low-cost and effective alternative to LHRH agonists and antiandrogens. Toxicity of DES and other estrogens has also been attenuated by strategies that use lower doses and parenteral routes of administration, thereby avoiding hepatic first-pass metabolism and decreasing the risk of thromboembolism. Nonetheless, there remain many unanswered questions about the role of estrogen therapy in prostate cancer, including differences between specific drugs, optimal dose, timing, and patient selection. Further research is needed.
Most cases with antituberculosis drug-induced hepatitis have been attributed to isoniazid. Isoniazid is metabolized by hepatic N-acetyltransferase (NAT) and cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) to form hepatotoxins. However, the role of CYP2E1 in this hepatotoxicity has not yet been reported. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether the polymorphism of the CYP2E1 gene is associated with antituberculosis drug-induced hepatitis. A total of 318 tuberculosis patients who received antituberculosis treatment were followed prospectively. Their CYP2E1 and NAT2 genotypes were determined using a polymerase chain reaction with restriction fragment length polymorphism method. Twenty-one healthy volunteers were recruited for CYP2E1 phenotype study using a chlorzoxazone test. Forty-nine (15.4%) patients were diagnosed to have drug-induced hepatotoxicity. Patients with homozygous wild genotype CYP2E1 c1/c1 had a higher risk of hepatotoxicity (20.0%; odds ratio [OR], 2.52) than those with mutant allele c2 (CYP2E1 c1/c2 or c2/c2, 9.0%, P =.009). If CYP2E1 c1/c2 or c2/c2 genotype combined with rapid acetylator status was regarded as the reference group, the risk of hepatotoxicity increased from 3.94 for CYP2E1 c1/c1 with rapid acetylator status to 7.43 for CYP2E1 c1/c1 with slow acetylator status. After adjustment for acetylator status and age, the CYP2E1 c1/c1 genotype remained an independent risk factor for hepatotoxicity (OR, 2.38; P =.017). Furthermore, under the administration of isoniazid, the volunteers with CYP2E1 c1/c1 genotype had higher CYP2E1 activity than those with other genotypes had and, hence, might produce more hepatotoxins. In conclusion, CYP 2E1 genetic polymorphism may be associated with susceptibility to antituberculosis drug-induced hepatitis.
This paper reviews the metabolism of new designer drugs of abuse that have emerged on the black market during the last years and is an update of a review published in 2005. The presented review contains data concerning the so-called 2C compounds (phenethylamine type) such as 4-bromo-2,5-dimethoxy-beta-phenethylamine (2C-B), 4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxy-beta-phenethylamine (2C-I), 2,5-dimethoxy-4-methyl-beta-phenethylamine (2C-D), 4-ethyl-2,5-dimethoxy-beta-phenethylamine (2C-E), 4-ethylthio-2,5-dimethoxy-beta-phenethylamine (2C-T-2), and 2,5-dimethoxy-4-propylthio-beta-phenethylamine (2C-T-7), beta-keto designer drugs such as 2-methylamino-1-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)butan-1-one (butylone, bk-MBDB), 2-ethylamino-1-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)propan-1-one (ethylone, bk-MDEA), 2-methylamino-1-(3,4-methylene notdioxy notphenyl)propan-1-one (methylone, bk-MDMA), and 2-methylamino-1-p-tolylpropane-1-one (mephedrone, 4-methyl-methcathinone), pyrrolidino notphenones such as 4-methyl-pyrrolidinobutyrophenone (MPBP) and alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (PVP), phencyclidine-derived drugs such as N (1 phenylcyclohexyl) propanamine (PCPr), N-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-2-ethoxyethanamine (PCEEA), N-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-3-methoxypropanamine (PCMPA), and N-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)-2-methoxyethanamine (PCMEA), tryptamines such as 5-methoxy-N,N-diisopropyl nottryptamine (5-MeO-DIPT), and finally alpha-methylfentanyl (alpha-MF) and 3-methylfentanyl (3-MF). Papers have been considered and reviewed on the identification of in vivo or in vitro human or animal metabolites and the cytochrome P450 or monoamineoxidase isoenzyme-dependent metabolism.
To determine the time it takes for prolactin (PRL) levels to increase after initiation of therapy with haloperidol (a neuroleptic medication) and the pattern and extent of the increase.
Seventeen individuals scheduled to be given treatment with neuroleptic drugs were enrolled. Baseline blood specimens were collected for PRL and TSH levels. Follow-up samples for PRL determinations were obtained every 3 days for 18 days after initiation of haloperidol therapy.
There were 17 subjects: 14 women and three men. Two of the subjects were found to have hyperprolactinemia due to hypothyroidism and were excluded from the basic study. The 15 remaining subjects all had normal baseline PRL levels and normal TSH values. The PRL levels in all 15 showed a similar pattern: a rapid increase in PRL levels in the first 6-9 days, followed by a plateau that remained, with minor fluctuations, throughout the study. The highest mean peak level of PRL was 37.4 ng/mL and the maximum was 77 ng/mL. The two individuals with hypothyroidism had somewhat elevated baseline PRL levels; although they showed the same initial pattern of increase after haloperidol administration, their PRL levels reached values well above 100 ng/mL.
There is a distinct pattern of response of PRL to haloperidol. The PRL level increases for 6-9 days, then plateaus, the peak being between 30 and 50 ng/mL, and always remains below 77 ng/mL. In our study, levels that continued to increase, or increased above 77 ng/mL, indicated the presence of hypothyroidism. The patterns and levels of the increase were uninfluenced by the therapeutic dose of the medication given. Given that the patients in our study with elevated levels of TSH had such high levels of PRL, all patients should have TSH determinations at the initiation of therapy with neuroleptic medications such as haloperidol.
Obesity-induced inflammation contributes to the development of obesity-related metabolic disorders such as insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, fatty liver disease, and cardiovascular disease. In this study, we investigated whether dietary capsaicin can reduce obesity-induced inflammation and metabolic disorders such as insulin resistance and hepatic steatosis. Male C57BL/6 obese mice fed a high-fat diet for 10 weeks received a supplement of 0.015% capsaicin for a further 10 weeks and were compared with unsupplemented controls. Glucose intolerance was estimated by glucose tolerance tests. Transcripts of adipocytokine genes and the corresponding proteins were measured by reverse transcription-PCR and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and macrophage numbers were determined by flow cytometric analysis. Transient receptor potential vanilloid type-1 (TRPV-1), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-alpha, and PPARgamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha) mRNAs were also measured by RT-PCR, and PPARalpha luciferase assays were performed. Dietary capsaicin lowered fasting glucose, insulin, leptin levels, and markedly reduced the impairment of glucose tolerance in obese mice. Levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), and interleukin (IL)-6 mRNAs and proteins in adipose tissue and liver decreased markedly, as did macrophage infiltration, hepatic triglycerides, and TRPV-1 expression in adipose tissue. At the same time, the mRNA/protein of adiponectin in the adipose tissue and PPARalpha/PGC-1alpha mRNA in the liver increased. Moreover, luciferase assays revealed that capsaicin is capable of binding PPARalpha. Our data suggest that dietary capsaicin may reduce obesity-induced glucose intolerance by not only suppressing inflammatory responses but also enhancing fatty acid oxidation in adipose tissue and/or liver, both of which are important peripheral tissues affecting insulin resistance. The effects of capsaicin in adipose tissue and liver are related to its dual action on PPARalpha and TRPV-1 expression/activation.
Vasomotility of normal and stenosed coronary arteries was studied at rest and during supine bicycle exercise in 10 patients with classical exercise-induced angina pectoris receiving 1 mg intracoronary propranolol before the exercise test (propranolol group). Normal and stenotic coronary lumen areas were determined from biplane coronary arteriograms using a computer-assisted system. Measurements were performed at rest, after 1 mg intracoronary propranolol, during supine exercise (89 W for 3.4 minutes) and 5 minutes after 1.6 mg sublingual nitroglycerin administered at the end of the exercise test. The results were compared with previously obtained data on the effect of dynamic exercise on coronary lumen area in 12 patients receiving no medication (control group) and in 6 patients receiving 0.1 mg intracoronary nitroglycerin before the exercise test (nitroglycerin group). In the control group, coronary stenosis area decreased during exercise to 71% of levels at rest (p less than 0.001) whereas normal coronary lumen area increased to 123% of control (p less than 0.01). In the propranolol group both normal (113%, p less than 0.05 versus rest) and stenotic coronary lumen area (122%, p less than 0.05 versus rest) increased during exercise. A similar increase in both normal and stenotic areas was observed during exercise after pretreatment with 0.1 mg intracoronary nitroglycerin (123%, p less than 0.01 and 114%, p = NS versus rest). Sublingual administration of 1.6 mg nitroglycerin at the end of exercise increased coronary stenosis area to 145% (p less than 0.01 versus rest) in the propranolol group and to 115% in the control group (p = NS versus rest). It is concluded that intracoronary administration of propranolol does not potentiate coronary vasoconstriction of the epicardial vessels at rest and during exercise. In contrast, intracoronary propranolol prevents exercise-induced stenosis narrowing either because of reduced myocardial oxygen demand with a lower coronary blood flow resulting in a smaller transstenotic pressure gradient and, thus, a smaller flow-induced fall in stenosis distending pressure; or because of "local" beta-receptor blockade with unopposed distal arteriolar alpha-receptor tone, resulting in a higher poststenotic pressure and, thus, in a greater stenosis distending pressure; or because of a local anesthetic effect of propranolol with a decrease in calcium influx to the coronary smooth musculature.
Breast cancer is an increasingly common malignancy. Several vitamins such as retinoic acid (RA), ascorbic acid (AA), vitamin D and vitamin E are known to prevent the development and progression of breast cancer.
We sought to determine whether RA and AA together (RA+AA) acted synergistically in blocking the proliferation of human breast cancer cells. To elucidate the mechanism by which RA+AA inhibited breast carcinoma proliferation, we then evaluated the gene expression profiles of the treated and untreated cells by radioactive cDNA microarray analysis.
We cultured the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7 for 3 days with 100 nM RA and/or 1 mM AA, counted the cell numbers and harvested the total RNAs for cDNA microarray analysis.
RA, AA and RA+AA reduced MCF-7 cell proliferation by 20.7%, 23.3% and 75.7% relative to the untreated cell proliferation, respectively. The synergistic ratio of RA and AA was 1.72. The MCF-7 gene expression profiles showed that 29 genes were up-regulated and 38 genes were down-regulated after RA+AA treatment. The nature of these genes suggests that the mechanism by which RA and AA act synergistically in inhibiting human breast cancer cell proliferation may involve the expression of genes that induce differentiation and block proliferation, and the up-regulation of antioxidant enzymes and proteins involved in apoptosis, cell cycle regulation and DNA repair.
Combined treatment with RA and AA inhibits the proliferation of human breast cancer cells by altering their gene expression related to antioxidation processes as well as the proliferation inhibitory pathway.
This paper reports the association of acute pancreatitis coincident with cytosine arabinoside (Ara-c) therapy in a single patient on at least two occasions. The patient had previously received L-asparaginase, but the last dose had been given 4 months prior to the onset of pancreatitis. A literature review provided two more cases of pancreatitis associated with Ara-c therapy in patients previously treated with L-asparaginase. In view of th extreme rarity of pancreatitis in patients receiving Ara-c, the possibility arises that prior treatment with L-asparaginase may predispose the pancreas to this complication.
In the present study we investigated the effect of repeated maternal separation on postnatal days 12, 14, 16, and 18 for 6 h/day on Wistar rats on three latent inhibition (LI) paradigms: two-way active avoidance, conditioned emotional response (CER), and conditioned taste aversion (CTA). In addition, hyperactivity induced by d-amphetamine and stereotypies induced by apomorphine were evaluated. In all three LI experiments, the control animals showed only marginal LI, whereas the maternally separated animals showed enhanced LI (only males in CTA). In two-way active avoidance within the nonpreexposed condition maternally separated animals showed improved acquisition of avoidance learning compared with the control animals. Sensitivity in response to amphetamine and apomorphine was not altered by the maternal separation procedure. Thus, maternal separation in this study, contrary to previous reports, but in line with results obtained following early handling before weaning, led to enhancement of the LI phenomenon as assessed in each of the three procedures. As our maternal separation procedure (6 h on days 12, 14, 16, and 18) led to behavioral outcomes that differed from those reported by Ellenbroek and Cools (24 h on day 10), it is suggested that maternal separation regimens that are dissimilar may lead to different and sometimes opposite behavioral effects.
An 85-year-old woman with Parkinson's disease was admitted to our hospital to conduct a further work-up for progressive gait disturbance. She had been on medications for the disease for more than a decade prior to admission. In order to improve her condition, she was newly administered pramipexole, a dopamine agonist, from day 3 in addition to the preceding anti-Parkinson's therapy. However, on day 10, her consciousness level was rapidly deteriorated into delirium(JCS II-10), which was not accompanied by neurological signs and symptoms. Laboratory tests showed severe hyponatoremia with relatively increased urinary sodium excretion, and severe low serum osmolarity with an increased urinary osmolarity. Brain CT and brain MRI showed no specific abnormalities except for those related to aging. Blood concentration of ADH measured at the onset was substantially higher(39.5 pg/ml) than normal (0.3-3.5 pg/ml under normal osmolarity). Diseases causing hyponatremia, such as liver cirrhosis, congestive heart failure, hypotonic dehydration, and malignancy-associated inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH), were all excluded. Under the suspicion of SIADH due to pramipexole, the drug was discontinued and as a result, her consciousness level improved rapidly together with a prompt reduction in ADH level (9.2 pg/ml). To the best of our knowledge, the present case is the first that demonstrates pramipexole-induced SIADH. Since pramipexole is classified as a dopaminergic receptor agonist, this case may provide new insight into a link between ADH and the dopaminergic receptor in the central nervous system.
Hypercalcemia is a potential dosage-related adverse effect of 13-cis-retinoic acid in patients with neuroblastoma. Severe hypercalcemia requiring dosage reduction has been reported in children receiving 13-cis-retinoic acid 200 mg/m2/day and in those with concurrent renal impairment receiving 160 mg/m2/day. A 12-year-old girl without renal dysfunction, diagnosed with neuroblastoma, developed severe hypercalcemia requiring several hospitalizations while receiving 13-cis-retinoic acid 160 mg/m2/day. Her hypercalcemia resolved with hydration, diuretic therapy, and temporary discontinuation of 13-cis-retinoic acid. Despite a 50% dosage reduction to 80 mg/m2/day, severe hypercalcemia recurred with the next treatment cycle. Further treatment with 13-cis-retinoic acid was made tolerable by shortening the duration of the remaining cycles. Serum calcium levels should be monitored in patients with neuroblastoma who receive 13-cis-retinoic acid.
The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH), the most common cause of euvolemic hyponatremia, is due to nonphysiologic release of arginine vasopressin from the posterior pituitary. Hyponatremia induced by SIADH can be caused by several conditions, such as central nervous system disorders, malignancies, various nonmalignant lung diseases, hypoadrenalism, and hypothyroidism. A 67-year-old man developed hyponatremia consistent with SIADH. Although common comorbid conditions associated with SIADH were excluded as possible causes, his medical history and drug regimen were extensive. However, he had been taking spironolactone, amiodarone, and simvastatin for less than 3 months. Amiodarone was discontinued based on a case report suggesting that this drug can cause SIADH-induced hyponatremia. The patient's serum sodium level began to rise within 3 days of discontinuation and returned to normal within 1 month. Although SIADH-induced hyponatremia occurs only rarely, it should be recognized as a possible adverse effect of amiodarone.
