Stereotactic medial posteroventral pallidotomy for treatment of Parkinson's disease attracts increasing attention. We report on the preliminary results of 12 patients at 1 year after microelectrode-guided unilateral pallidotomy. The primary indications were severe bradykinesia and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. After radiofrequency lesioning all patients had immediate improvement of contralateral parkinsonian signs. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the localization of the lesions. At the 1-year follow-up, all patients had sustained benefit. The global improvement was rated as moderate in six cases, and as marked in six other cases. The mean values of various subscores of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) showed highly significant changes in the "off" state (pre/postoperatively): UPDRS Motor score (60.3/31). UPDRS Activities of Daily Living (ADL) score (33.2/18.3), gait/postural stability score (13.8/7.0), and subscores for contralateral rigidity (4.9/2.1), tremor (7.1/1.4) and bradykinesia (11.6/5.3). There was also significant improvement of ipsilateral bradykinesia and rigidity. Furthermore, we found significant changes of the mean values of the UPDRS ADL and motor "on" scores, an increase of the percentage of "on" time with reduced on-off fluctuations, and a decrease of the percentage of levodopa-induced dyskinesias, with marked improvement or complete abolition of contralateral dyskinesias in particular. The preoperative levodopa regimen was maintained, in general, or only slightly modified, if necessary. Two patients had transient complications: one patient suffered postoperative pneumonia and altered mental status; another patient displayed mild Broca's aphasia secondary to a small stroke involving the dorsal thalamus and the adjacent white matter. There were no persistent side effects at the 1-year follow-up. Contemporary unilateral pallidotomy is an effective and promising therapeutical option for surgical treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease.
Several studies have shown that behavioral hyperactivity induced by psychomotor stimulants is prevented by ginseng saponins. In an attempt to investigate whether the effect of ginseng saponins is through their inhibitory action on the enhanced dopaminergic transmission by psychomotor stimulants, we examined the effects of ginseng total saponin (GTS) presynaptically on nicotine-induced dopamine (DA) release in the striatum of freely moving rats using in vivo microdialysis technique and postsynaptically on the in vitro and in vivo binding of [3H]raclopride to DA D2 receptors. Also, we examined the effects of GTS on nicotine-induced locomotor hyperactivity and on nicotine-induced Fos protein expression in the nucleus accumbens and striatum. Systemic pretreatment with GTS (100 and 400 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)) resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of locomotor hyperactivity induced by nicotine. GTS decreased nicotine-induced DA release in the striatum in a dose-dependent manner. However, GTS had no effects on resting levels of locomotor activity and extracellular DA in the striatum. GTS inhibited the in vitro binding of [3H]raclopride to rat striatal membranes with an IC50 of 5.14+/-1.09 microM. High doses of GTS (400 and 800 mg/kg, i.p.) resulted in decreases in the in vivo binding of [3H]raclopride in the striatum. GTS decreased nicotine-induced Fos protein expression in the nucleus accumbens and striatum, reflecting the inhibition by GTS of nicotine-induced enhancement of dopaminergic transmission. The results of the present study suggest that GTS acts not only on dopaminergic neurons directly or indirectly to prevent nicotine-induced DA release but also postsynaptically by binding to DA D2 receptors. This may explain the blocking effect of GTS on behavioral activation induced by nicotine and conceivably by other psychostimulants. Our data raise the possibility that GTS, by attenuating nicotine-induced enhancement of dopaminergic transmission, may prove to be a useful therapeutic agent for nicotine addiction and warrant further investigation on its effect on nicotine's rewarding property.
The increased incidence of vaginal adenosis in young girls whose mot hers were given diethylstilbestrol (DES) during pregnancy has heightened the interest and clinical awareness of this teratogenic process. In these cases, exfoliative cytology is usually negative and Schiller's iodine test is imprecise. Examinations were made of 63 young women (12-23 years old) whose mothers had been given DES during the first trimester of pregnancy. 55 were asymptomatic, 6 had noticed a mucus vaginal discharge, 2 had complained of dyspareunia, and none had been pregnant. Cytology of 3 was atypical. In 24, the usual gynecological examination was reported as normal. In 7, a lesion suggesting adenosis had been observed. Visual examination of the cervix and vagina revealed 3 with atypical gross findings. A circular fold in the vaginal fornices partially covered the cervix in 9 cases. Cervical irregularity was observed in another 9 cases. Erythroplakia (reddish brown areas on the cervix or vagina) seen in 8 patients represented columnar epithelium inflammation, or neoplasia. Gross inspection did not determine the pathology. In 41 (71 percent) gross examination of the cervix and vagina failed to reveal any changes. By colposcopic examination columnar epithelium on the surface of the vagina was found in 24 cases (38 percent). After the acetic acid test, grapelike structures of columnar epithelium were visible. In 57 patients (91 percent), columnar epithelium was found in the vaginal wall; these were classified as vaginal adenosis. In 6 patients, the columnar epithelium was seen only on the periphery of the cervix. The incidence of vaginal adenosis seems to correlate directly with methods of detection as most cases are asymptomatic. The diagnosis is difficult to establish by conventional clinical methods. Colposcopic examination was an accurate method, particularly in cases which were not apparent by other methods. Biopsies may be needed also.
Oxymetazoline nasal spray is a potent alpha 1-adrenergic agonist commonly used to vasoconstrict blood vessels in the nasal mucosa. In this incident, oxymetazoline nasal spray 0.025% was administered to a 2-year-old patient during general anesthesia for nasal endoscopy. Severe hypertension with reflex bradycardia progressed to sinus arrest and was successfully treated with alropine and cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Decreasing the dose of oxymetazoline and pretreatment with an anticholinergic is recommended.
Approximately one-third of breast cancers lack estrogen receptor α (ERα) because of the hypermethylation of the CpG island in the receptor's promoter. These tumors are associated with poorer histological differentiation, a higher growth fraction, are rarely responsive to endocrine therapy and have a worse clinical outcome. Thus, re-expression of ERα in ERα-negative breast cancers may restore the sensitivity of antiestrogen therapy. The ERα-negative breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-435s was treated with different concentrations of arsenic trioxide (As2O3). MS-PCR was used to detect the change in the methylation status of ERα. RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and Western blot analyses were used to detect changes in the mRNA and protein expression of DNA methyl-transferase-1 (DNMT1) and ERα. Cell proliferation was examined using the MTT assay. A xenograft model in nude mice was used to further examine the results we observed in vitro. The ERα gene was demethylated after As2O3 treatment of MDA-MB-435s cells. RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and Western blot analyses revealed that DNMT1 expression was inhibited and ERα was re-expressed in a concentration-dependent manner after As2O3 treatment. The MTT assay showed that cell proliferation was significantly suppressed after exposure to different concentrations of As2O3. Addition of tamoxifen (TAM) further suppressed levels of cell proliferation. In vivo, the xenograft tumor volumes of As2O3-treated mice were smaller than those observed in untreated and TAM-treated mice. Treatment with a combination of As2O3+TAM resulted in further suppression. As2O3 can act as a demethylation agent to restore ERα expression in ERα-negative breast cancer cells and re-sensitize these cells to endocrine therapy in vitro and in vivo.
We report a unique case of acute anaphylaxis after mediastinal irrigation with a dilute bacitracin solution.
The risk for HIV infection attributable to methamphetamine (METH) use continues to increase. The combined effect of HIV and METH in the pathogenesis of HIV encephalitis (HIVE) is unclear, however. To better understand the neuropathology associated with HIV and METH use, the patterns of neurodegeneration were assessed in HIV-positive METH users and in HIV-positive non-METH users. Patients in the study met criteria for inclusion and received neuromedical and postmortem neuropathologic examinations. Immunocytochemical and polymerase chain reaction analyses were performed to determine brain HIV levels and to exclude the presence of other viruses. METH-using patients with HIVE showed significantly lower gp41 scores and less severe forms of encephalitis but a higher frequency of ischemic events, a more pronounced loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity, and a more severe microglial reaction than HIVE non-METH users. Furthermore, in METH-using patients with HIVE, extensive loss of calbindin (CB)-immunoreactive interneurons displaying phylopodial neuritic processes suggestive of aberrant sprouting was observed. Taken together, these studies indicate that the combined effects of METH and HIV selectively damage CB immunoreactive nonpyramidal neurons. In combination, METH and HIV may increase neuronal cell injury and death, thereby enhancing brain metabolic disturbances observed in clinical populations of HIV-positive METH abusers.
Prenatal mercury (Hg) exposure is associated with adverse child neurobehavioral outcomes. As Hg can interfere with placental functioning, and cross the placenta to target fetal brain, prenatal Hg exposure can negatively impact fetal growth and development directly and indirectly.
To examine potential associations between prenatal Hg exposure assessed through infant toenail Hg, placental DNA methylation changes, and newborn neurobehavioral outcomes.
The methylation status of >485,000 CpG loci was interrogated in 192 placental samples using Illumina's Infinium HumanMethylation450 BeadArray. Hg concentrations were analyzed in toenail clippings from a subset of 41 infants; neurobehavior was assessed using the NICU Network Neurobehavioral Scales (NNNS) in an independent subset of 151 infants.
339 loci were identified with an average methylation difference >0.125 between any two toenail Hg tertiles. Variation amongst these loci was subsequently found to be associated with a high-risk neurodevelopmental profile (omnibus p-value=0.007) characterized by the NNNS. Ten loci had p<0.01 for the association between methylation and the high-risk NNNS profile. Six of ten loci reside in the EMID2 gene and were hypomethylated in the 16 high-risk profile infants' placentas. Methylation at these loci was moderately correlated (correlation coefficients range -0.33 to -0.45) with EMID2 expression.
EMID2 hypomethylation may represent a novel mechanism linking in utero Hg exposure and adverse infant neurobehavioral outcomes.
The aggregation of alpha-synuclein is believed to be a critical factor in the etiology of Parkinson's disease. alpha-Synuclein is an abundant neuronal protein of unknown function, which is enriched in the presynaptic terminals of neurons. Although alpha-synuclein is found predominantly in the cytosolic fractions, membrane-bound alpha-synuclein has been suggested to play an important role in fibril formation. The effects of alpha-synuclein on lipid bilayers of different compositions were determined using fluorescent environment-specific probes located at various depths. alpha-Synuclein-membrane interactions were found to affect both protein and membrane properties. Our results indicate that in addition to electrostatic interactions, hydrophobic interactions are important in the association of the protein with the bilayer, and lead to disruption of the membrane. The latter was observed by atomic force microscopy and fluorescent dye leakage from vesicles. The kinetics of alpha-synuclein fibril formation were significantly affected by the protein association and subsequent membrane disruption, and reflected the conformation of alpha-synuclein. The ability of alpha-synuclein to disrupt membranes correlated with the binding affinity of alpha-synuclein for the particular membrane composition, and to the induced helical conformation of alpha-synuclein. Protofibrillar or fibrillar alpha-synuclein caused a much more rapid destruction of the membrane than soluble monomeric alpha-synuclein, indicating that protofibrils (oligomers) or fibrils are likely to be significantly neurotoxic.
Marked hypertension may occur during induction of isoflurane anesthesia. The hemodynamic responses to mask ventilation using isoflurane and subsequent tracheal intubation were evaluated.
In 26 ASA physical status I patients, anesthesia was induced with thiamylal followed by mask ventilation with 0.5% isoflurane in oxygen. Isoflurane concentration was increased to 4% in 2 min, and the trachea was intubated after 3 min of ventilation with 4% isoflurane. Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) were recorded every minute from induction of anesthesia.
In 9 patients, systolic BP before intubation increased significantly to more than 10 mmHg (26 +/- 16%) compared before induction, but decreased (-7 +/- 7%) in the others after a transient slight increase. Tracheal intubation induced a marked increase in BP in all patients, but there was a negative correlation between the isoflurane-induced increase in BP and that induced by intubation. Tachycardia was seen in all patients regardless of the values of BP.
Inhalation of 4% isoflurane during induction of anesthesia induces lasting hypertension in some patients and this pressor response has no relation with the tachycardia. Tracheal intubation induced a larger increase in blood pressure in the isoflurane-induced hypertensive patients, but the increase is within the limits of that seen in patients without pressor response to isoflurane.
Alterations in the expression of the neuropeptide, galanin, were examined in micturition reflex pathways of rat after cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis of variable duration: acute (4 h), intermediate (48 h), or chronic (10 days). In control animals, galanin expression was present in specific regions of the gray matter in the rostral lumbar and caudal lumbosacral spinal cord, including: (1) the dorsal commissure (DCM); (2) superficial dorsal horn; (3) the regions of the intermediolateral cell column (L1-L2) and the sacral parasympathetic nucleus (SPN, L6-S1); and (4) the lateral collateral pathway (LCP) in lumbosacral spinal segments. Densitometry analysis demonstrated significant decreases (P< or =0.01) in galanin immunoreactivity (IR) in these regions of the L1-S1 spinal cord after acute or intermediate CYP-induced cystitis. In contrast, increases (P< or =0.01) in galanin-IR were observed in the DCM, SPN, or LCP regions in the L6-S1 spinal segments in rats with chronic cystitis. No changes in the number of galanin-immunoreactive cells were observed in the L1-S1 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) after CYP-induced cystitis of any duration. A small percentage of bladder afferent cells (Fast-blue-labeled) in the DRG expressed galanin-IR in control rats; this was not altered with cystitis. Galanin-IR was observed encircling DRG cells after chronic cystitis. These changes may contribute to urinary bladder dysfunction, altered sensation, and referred somatic hyperalgesia after cystitis.
Developmental exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) has been associated with cognitive deficits in humans and laboratory animals by mechanisms that remain unknown. Recently, it has been shown that developmental exposure to 2,2',3,4,4',5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (PCB138), a food-relevant PCB congener, decreases the learning ability of young rats. The aim of this study was to characterize the effect of perinatal exposure to PCB138 on the brain proteome profile in young rats in order to gain insight into the mechanisms underlying PCB138 neurotoxicity. Comparison of the cerebellum proteome from 3-month-old unexposed and PCB138-exposed male offspring was performed using state-of-the-art label-free semiquantitative mass spectrometry method. Biological pathways associated with Ca(2+) homeostasis and androgen receptor signaling pathways were primarily disrupted. These perturbations may contribute toward a premature ageing-like proteome profile of the cerebellum that is triggered by PCB138 exposure in males. Our proteomic data provide insights into the phenomena that may be contributing to the PCB138 neurotoxicity effects observed in laboratory rodents and correlate with PCB exposure and decreased cognitive functions in humans. As such, this study highlights the importance of PCB138 as a risk factor in developmental neurotoxicity in laboratory rodents and humans.
Both carvedilol and metoprolol have cardioprotective effects and decrease infarct size in myocardium. We compared effects of carvedilol and metoprolol on insulin resistance and serum lipid levels after myocardial infarction.
Fifty-nine patients aged between 30 and 70 and BMI = 25-30 kg/m2, who were diagnosed with myocardial infarction with ST segment elevation, were considered to be eligible for the study. Patients were randomly allocated to two different therapy protocols. Metoprolol 100 mg bid or carvedilol 25 mg bid was added to their standardized therapy regimen. Baseline to week 4 and 12, fasting blood glucose, serum lipid profile, BMI, C-peptide, insulin and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) were measured.
After 12 weeks of metoprolol therapy HOMA-IR, insulin and C-peptide levels were significantly higher (p < 0.05 for all) and total cholesterol and triglyceride levels decreased significantly (p < 0.05 for all) compared to baseline. After 12 weeks of carvedilol therapy HOMA-IR, insulin and C-peptide (p < 0.05 for all), total cholesterol and triglyceride (p = 0.001 for all) decreased significantly compared to baseline. Carvedilol provided more decrease in total cholesterol and LDL levels than metoprolol (p = 0.043 and p = 0.021, respectively).
In patients after myocardial infarction, carvedilol added to background therapy improved insulin resistance and lipid profile.
The burden of intracerebral hemorrhage associated with oral anticoagulants (OAC-ICH) is growing. However, little is known about the pathophysiology of W-ICH. Herein, we refine a mouse model of OAC-ICH using repetitive T2* MRI to describe kinetics of hematoma enlargement, and establish a benchside point of care INR assay (PoC) for assessment of anticoagulation.
C57/BL6 mice drank warfarin (0.4mg/kg/24h) in their water. ICH was induced by stereotactic injection of collagenase type VII (0.045U) into the left striatum. Hemorrhagic blood volume was quantified by MRI T2* images and on cryosections 48h after ICH induction. Kinetics of hematoma expansion were compared in strongly, moderately, and non-anticoagulated mice using repeated MRI T2* imaging. The PoC INR technique was validated against standard laboratory INR, and tail vein bleeding time (TVBT).
PoC INR correlated with central laboratory measurements (r=0.989; p<0.0001) and with TVBT (r=0.982; p<0.0001). Hematoma volume was 21.2+/-6.7mm(3) in heavily (PoC INR 4-5), 12.3+/-4.8 in moderately (INR 2-3), and 8.6+/-3.3 in non-anticoagulated mice (INR<1.2). Hematoma volume determined from cryosections and T2* MRI correlated well (r=0.922). Strength of anticoagulation was associated with neurologic outcome. Hematoma enlargement occurred mainly during the first 3h in anticoagulated mice.
PoC allows repeated benchside INR measurements in individual mice which reflect the level of anticoagulation. Stronger anticoagulation results in larger hematoma volumes. As hematoma enlargement occurs mainly during the first hours, potential hemostatic therapies should be tested early in this OAC-ICH model.
Drug-induced cholestasis can rarely persist for a considerable time period even after withdrawal of the drug. We report the case of a 55-year-old man with progressive jaundice after oral therapy with 17-alpha-methyltestosterone. Under empiric therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid the condition resolved completely. According to this observation, we suggest a therapeutic trial with ursodeoxycholic acid in cases of prolonged androgen-induced cholestasis.
Prostaglandin E2 is beginning to be used more widely for the induction of labor in this country. The main concern with vaginal administration is the difficulty in stopping uterine hyperactivity. This report is a case where intravenous terbutaline was given as soon as hyperactivity and fetal heart rate deceleration were detected. Using this treatment, hyperactivity was controlled and the fetal heart rate returned to normal. Unfortunately, cesarean section was necessary for fetal distress which developed two and a half hours later when syntocinon was started intravenously to augment the labor.
Head-up tilt test is increasingly being used to evaluate patients with syncope. This study was designed to evaluate the specificity of head-up tilt testing using different tilt angles and isoproterenol infusion doses in normal volunteers with no prior history of syncope or presyncope.
One hundred fifty volunteers were randomized to two groups of 75 each. In group 1, subjects were further randomized to have head-up tilt testing at a 60, 70, or 80 degree angle at baseline followed by repeat tilt testing during a low-dose isoproterenol infusion that increased the heart rate by an average of 20%. In group 2, after having a baseline head-up tilt test at a 70 degree angle for a maximum of 20 minutes, subjects were randomized to have a repeat tilt table testing at a 70 degree angle during a low-dose, 3 micrograms/min, or 5 micrograms/min isoproterenol infusion. In group 1, syncope or presyncope along with hypotension developed in 2 subjects during the baseline test at 60 and 70 degrees of tilt and in 5 subjects during tilting at 80 degrees. The addition of low-dose isoproterenol reduced the specificity minimally from 92% to 88% at both 60 and 70 degrees of tilt but substantially to 60% at an 80 degrees angle. However, 6 of the 10 subjects with a positive test at an 80 degree angle had an abnormal response after 10 minutes of tilt testing. In group 2, using various isoproterenol doses with tilt table testing at a 70 degree angle, low-dose (mean infusion dose, 1.5 +/- 0.45 microgram/min), 3 micrograms/min, and 5 micrograms/min isoproterenol infusions elicited an abnormal response in 1 (4%), 5 (20%), and 14 (56%) of the subjects, respectively. Using multiple logistic regression analysis, head-up tilt testing at an 80 degree angle (P = .01) or during 3 micrograms/min (P = .02) and 5 micrograms/min isoproterenol infusion rates (P < .001) was the most significant predictor of an abnormal response.
Head-up tilt testing at a 60 or 70 degree angle with or without low-dose isoproterenol infusion provides an adequate specificity. Caution is needed, however, in interpreting the results if the head-up tilt test at 80 degrees is extended beyond 10 minutes or if high doses of isoproterenol are used.
The current setting tested the hypothesis that advanced age would be strongly associated with increased incidence and severity of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN).
We prospectively studied 35 cancer patients treated with paclitaxel or cisplatin-based regimens for lung or breast cancer. All patients underwent a detailed clinical and electrophysiological evaluation for screening of CIPN at baseline, at the third, the sixth course of chemotherapy and up to 3 months after its cessation. Means of a modified Peripheral Neuropathy (PNP) score summarized the results of the clinical and electrophysiological study.
Patients were divided according to their age in two groups (mean age difference, p=0.000) to those younger than 65 years (group I, n=18) and those older or equal than 65 years (group II, n=17). According to the clinical, neurological and electrophysiological variables of each patient, the incidence and severity of CIPN was determined and then compared between groups. The incidence of neurotoxicity was similar (p=0.869) between group I (9/18 patients, 50%) and group II (8/17 patients, 52.9%). Likewise, according to the mean PNP scores, the severity of CIPN was similar between age groups (p=0.897). The between-age-groups comparison of electrophysiological data revealed no significant differences in any of the motor or sensory conduction parameters examined.
Our study indicates that elderly cancer patients do not have greater risk of CIPN, whilst advanced age was not associated with worst severity of CIPN.
To examine whether developmental exposure to acrylamide (AA) impairs neuronal development, pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with AA at 0, 25, 50 or 100 ppm in drinking water from gestational day 6 until weaning on postnatal day 21. Offspring were immunohistochemically examined at the end of exposure. We investigated the expression of Reelin (a molecule regulating neuronal migration and positioning) in the hilus of the hippocampal dentate gyrus. As a positive control for direct exposure, AA (50 mg/kg body weight) was administered to pups by intraperitoneal injection 3 times per week during the lactation period. As well as pups directly injected with AA, maternally exposed offspring decreased body weight at 100 ppm; increased dose-dependently the number of Reelin-immunoreactive cells (from 25 ppm AA) and glutamic acid decarboxylase 67-immunoreactive cells (from 50 ppm AA), confirming an increase in γ-aminobutyric acid-ergic interneurons. We also noted decreased apoptosis in the neuroblast-producing subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus of maternally exposed pups at 100 ppm, as well as in directly AA-injected pups. These results suggest that a compensatory regulatory mechanism exists to correct impaired neurogenesis and mismigration caused by maternal exposure to AA during neuronal development. The lowest-observed-adverse-effect level of AA was determined to be 25 ppm (3.72 mg/kg body weight/day).
Hydrodynamic injection of naked plasmid DNA (pDNA) via the tail vein is a safe and effective method of gene transfer to the liver. However, successful gene transfer has yet to be shown for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); therefore, we investigated the feasibility and efficacy of hydrodynamic injection via the tail vein and hepatic artery in a diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced HCC model in rats.
HCC was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by 100 ppm DEN in drinking water. pCMV-SPORT-beta-galactosidase (beta-gal, 400 microg) was injected (i) via the tail vein in a volume of 0.1 ml/g in 30 s or (ii) via the hepatic artery in a volume of 5 or 10 ml at 1 ml/s, either with or without temporary occlusion of the inferior vena cava (IVC) and portal vein (PV). The liver was harvested 24 h after administration, and beta-gal expression was evaluated with X-gal staining and measurement of enzymatic activity in tissue homogenates.
Hydrodynamic injection via the tail vein achieved transgene expression only in non-cancerous tissue (tumor: 0.16 +/- 0.04%, non-tumor: 5.07 +/- 1.66%). Hydrodynamic injection via the hepatic artery was tolerated, but failed to produce efficient transgene expression in tumor and non-tumor cells. On the other hand, concomitant use of temporary IVC/PV occlusion with hydrodynamic injection via the hepatic artery dramatically increased transgene expression in cancer cells, but tumor-selective gene transfer was not achieved with this procedure (tumor: 7.38 +/- 3.66%, non-tumor: 7.77 +/- 1.06%).
High-volume hydrodynamic injection of a pDNA solution via the hepatic artery with IVC/PV occlusion achieved a high level of gene expression in a HCC rat model. This gene transfer technique may have potential in clinical gene therapy for HCC.
The use of conventional amphotericin B is limited by toxicity, side-effects, drug interactions and the need for large infusion volumes, especially for infants. Use of liposomal amphotericin B (AmBisome) in 15 paediatric BMT patients with primary immunodeficiency (PID) was therefore studied. Adverse clinical reactions to AmBisome and biochemical profiles were monitored daily for 2 weeks before, during and after each treatment episode. Fungal cultures were obtained weekly and when patients were pyrexial. There were 18 treatment episodes. Mean daily dose was 5 mg/kg (2-6 mg/kg). Mean duration of treatment was 25 days (5-90 days). Clinical reactions to AmBisome were observed in one infant who had a pyrexia of 38 degrees C. One of the 15 infants had a significant increase in creatinine level while on concomitant nephrotoxic therapy. Four developed mild hypokalaemia on AmBisome which resolved with increased potassium supplementation. AmBisome was well tolerated and without significant renal or hepatic toxicity in severely ill immunodeficient infants receiving multiple nephrotoxic and hepatotoxic drugs such as cyclosporin, vancomycin and foscarnet.
Toxicogenomics (TGx) is employed frequently to investigate underlying molecular mechanisms of the compound of interest and, thus, has become an aid to mode of action determination. However, the results and interpretation of a TGx dataset are influenced by the experimental design and methods of analysis employed. This article describes an evaluation and reanalysis, by two independent laboratories, of previously published TGx mouse liver microarray data for a triazole fungicide, propiconazole (PPZ), and the anticonvulsant drug phenobarbital (PB). Propiconazole produced an increase incidence of liver tumors in male CD-1 mice only at a dose that exceeded the maximum tolerated dose (2500 ppm). Firstly, we illustrate how experimental design differences between two in vivo studies with PPZ and PB may impact the comparisons of TGx results. Secondly, we demonstrate that different researchers using different pathway analysis tools can come to different conclusions on specific mechanistic pathways, even when using the same datasets. Finally, despite these differences the results across three different analyses also show a striking degree of similarity observed for PPZ and PB treated livers when the expression data are viewed as major signaling pathways and cell processes affected. Additional studies described here show that the postulated key event of hepatocellular proliferation was observed in CD-1 mice for both PPZ and PB, and that PPZ is also a potent activator of the mouse CAR nuclear receptor. Thus, with regard to the events which are hallmarks of CAR-induced effects that are key events in the mode of action (MOA) of mouse liver carcinogenesis with PB, PPZ-induced tumors can be viewed as being promoted by a similar PB-like CAR-dependent MOA.
(-)-Trans 9,10-hydroxy-2-propyl-4,5,5a,6,7,11b-hexahydro-3-thia-5- azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene hydrochloride (A-86929) is a potent and selective full agonist at the dopamine (DA) D1-like receptor. Judging by its binding affinities to the D1 and D2 classes of receptors, the compound is approximately 20-fold D1 receptor-selective, whereas relative potencies based on functional in vitro assays indicate that A-86929 is greater than 400-fold D1-selective. A-86929 has moderate to weak (Ki > 1 microM) affinity at other monoaminergic and peptidergic receptors, at ion channels and at monoamine uptake sites. The catechol of A-86929 was bis-acetylated to produce the prodrug, (-)-trans 9,10-acetoxy-2-propyl-4,5,5a,6,7,11-b-hexahydro-3-thia- 5-azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene hydrochloride (ABT-431), which is more chemically stable yet is rapidly converted to the parent compound with a half-life of less than 1 min in plasma. Both A-86929 and ABT-431 produced contralateral rotation in rats bearing unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions, with ED50 values of 0.24 mumol/kg s.c. and 0.54 mumol/kg s.c., respectively. A-86929 and ABT-431 improved behavioral disability scores and increased locomotor activity in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease in a dose-dependent manner (the minimum effective dose was 0.10 mumol/kg s.c.). When administered three times daily for 30 consecutive days to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned marmosets, A-86929 significantly improved disability scores throughout the duration of the study. Current Parkinson's disease therapy includes L-dopa, which stimulates both classes of DA receptors by virtue of its conversion to DA in vivo, and direct-acting D2-selective agonists. Stimulation of the D2 receptor, which is associated with all current DA agonist-based therapies, may contribute to their dose-limiting side effects. An agent such as A-86929 (or its prodrug ABT-431), which selectively stimulates the D1 receptor, may represent a novel mechanism for Parkinson's disease therapy with the potential for an improved side-effect profile and, consequently, improved patient compliance.
Continuous epidural administration of droperidol at 2.5 mg x day(-1) or less was performed in 837 patients after surgery. In 4 of these patients, an extrapyramidal reaction occurred. Patient 1 was a 10-year-old girl who developed the symptom 29 hours after the start of administration, with a total dose of 3.0 mg. Patient 2 was a 16-year-old girl in whom the symptom occurred 24 hours after the start, with a total of 5.3 mg. Patient 3 was a 22-year-old female with the symptom occurring 26 hours after the start, with a total of 5.2 mg. Patient 4 was a 74-year-old female in whom the symptom occurred 24 hours after the start, with a total of 1.3 mg. With respect to the age distribution, the total of 837 patients consisted of 16 patients aged 10 to 19 years, 85 patients aged 20 to 29 years, 91 patients aged 30 to 39 years, 90 patients aged 40 to 49 years, 77 patients aged 50 to 59 years, 148 patients aged 60 to 69 years, 240 patients aged 70 to 79 years, 97 patients aged 80 to 89 years, and 9 patients aged 90 to 99 years. Extrapyramidal reactions related to epidural administration may readily develop at younger ages.
We report a case of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in a young man following intravenous self-administration of epinephrine. Arteriography evidenced normal intracranial vessels, and namely excluded the presence of vascular malformations which could have been implicated in the pathogenesis of ICH. We believe that the main pathogenetic agent in this case was the sudden rise in arterial blood pressure. This report aims at underlying the severe implications of non-medical use of sympathomimetic drugs.
Cisplatin (CDDP) is a major chemotherapeutic drug used in the treatment of human ovarian cancer. Tubeimoside I (TBMS1) has also shown potent antitumor and antitumor-promoting effects, and may offer a promising new approach in the effective treatment of CDDP-resistant human ovarian cancers. This study aimed to investigate the effect of TBMS1 in sensitizing CDDP in CDDP-resistant human ovarian cancer cells (A2780/DDP). A variety of methods were employed to measure cell apoptosis, p38, ERK1/2 and glutathione S-transferase (GST)-π expressions. It was found that TBMS1 combined with CDDP promoted cell apoptosis, decreased proliferation activity and increased cytosolic Ca2+ levels. Bcl-2 protein expression was down-regulated but Bax was up-regulated. Moreover, GST-π mRNA and protein expression were decreased. TBMS1 reduced the resistance of the cells to CDDP-induced cytotoxicity. Both the p38 inhibitor (SB203580) and the ERK1/2 inhibitor (PD98059) effectively blocked this effect. These results suggest that TBMS1 can effectively sensitize CDDP in CDDP-resistant human ovarian cancer cells through the down-regulation of the ERK1/2 and the up-regulation of the p38 signaling pathways.
