Docetaxel, a semi-synthetic taxane may cause a usually mild sensory neuropathy. We describe the clinical characteristics of five patients who developed a more severe neuropathy following treatment with docetaxel.
All patients were treated in phase II studies with 100 mg/m2 docetaxel in three weekly cycles, without steroid administration.
The clinical picture in these patients was dominated by a sensory neuropathy, but in one case severe weakness was present. Another patient developed Lhermitte's sign. Signs and symptoms are usually reversible after discontinuation of docetaxel administration, but in three patients symptoms worsened for some time after the end of treatment before improvement occurred.
Severe docetaxel neuropathy may especially occur following treatment with cumulative dosage over 600 mg/m2; in patients treated with this dosage a moderate or severe neuropathy may not be rare.
To study the anti-hepatoma efficiency of arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) in the treatment of experimental rat hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) induced by 2-acetamidofluorene (2-FAA) and to elucidate the possible mechanisms.
SD rats (2 mo old) had been fed with 2-FAA for 8 wk to induce HCC, and then they were treated with As(2)O(3) or matrine. On d 29, the rats were killed and the liver was weighed and liver tumors were counted. The histological changes of liver tissue were observed under microscope, and the cellular dynamic parameters were studied by flow cytometry. Immunohistochemistry (two-step method) was used to observe the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and micro-vessel density (MVD) on consecutive sections. The pathological parameters were also analyzed, the levels of serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), total bilirubin (TBi), and direct bilirubin (DBi).
The number of liver tumors decreased significantly in groups treated with As(2)O(3), especially in medium-dose (1 mg/kg) group (t = 2.80, P<0.01). As(2)O(3) caused HCC cell death via apoptosis; necrosis was seen and apoptosis was common when the dose was 1 mg/kg. Proliferation index decreased sharply in medium-dose (1 mg/kg) group (7.87+/-4.11 vs 24.46+/-6.49, t = 2087, P<0.01), but not in 0.2 mg/kg group. However, S-phase fraction decreased dramatically in both groups, it reached the bottom level only when the dose was 1 mg/kg compared with control (0.40+/-0.13 vs 3.01+/-0.51, t = 2.97, P<0.01), and it was obviously accompanied with accumulation of cells in G(0)/G(1) (G(0)/G(1) restriction). The expressions of VEGF and MVD in medium-dose (1 mg/kg) group were significantly lower than normal saline group (0.63+/-0.74 vs 2.44+/-0.88, P<0.05; 15.75+/-3.99 vs 47.44+/-13.41, t = 2.80, P<0.01). Compared with normal saline group, medium- and low-dose groups As(2)O(3) and matrine lowered the levels of ALT in serum (61.46+/-9.46, 63.75+/-20.40, 61.18+/-13.00 vs 108.98+/-29.86, t = 2.14, P<0.05), but had no effect on the level of serum AST, TBi, and DBi.
As(2)O(3) had inhibitory effect on growth of experimental HCC in rats induced by 2-FAA, but had no obvious effect on normal hepatic cells. The mechanisms may involve decrease of cell division, accumulation of cells in G(0)/G(1) phase, apoptosis of tumor cells, and inhibitory effect on angiogenesis through blocking VEGF.
A phase III study was performed in patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) to evaluate the effect on response rate and survival of a doubling of the epirubicin dose intensity.
Four hundred fifty-six patients were randomised to receive either epirubicin 100 mg/m2 or 50 mg/m2 in combination with 5-FU (500 mg/m2) and cyclophosphamide (500 mg/m2) (FEC 100 vs. FEC 50) i.v., every 21 days for a maximum of six cycles (eight in case of CR).
Of 456 patients, 390 were evaluable for efficacy. Objective response (CR + PR) was seen in 57% (FEC 100) vs. 41% (FEC 50) of the evaluable patients (P = 0.003). The CR rate was higher in the FEC 100 arm (12% vs. 7%, P = 0.07). FEC 100 produced significantly higher response rates in patients with visceral localisation (50% vs. 34%, P = 0.011) and in patients with more than two metastatic organ sites (64% vs. 37%, P = 0.001). Median time to progression (7.6 vs. 7 months) and overall survival (18 months vs. 17 months) were similar. Myelosuppression was the principal toxic effect, with grade IV neutropenia observed in 57% of the patients treated with FEC 100 vs. 9% of those on FEC 50. Grade IV infection or febrile neutropenia were observed in 8% (FEC 100) vs. 0.4% (FEC 50), but the incidence of septic death was the same in the two arms (two patients each). Cardiac toxicity was similar in the two treatment groups, with 5% vs. 3% of the patients taken off study due to cardiac events, primarily due to a decline in LVEF. Only three patients (two in FEC 100) experienced congestive heart failure.
This trial shows that FEC with epirubicin at 100 mg/m2 can be administered for repeated cycles without bone marrow support with increased, though acceptable, toxicity and with a significant increase of antitumor effect (especially in visceral and/or high-burden disease), but no increased survival.
Lithocholic acid (LCA) is an endogenous compound associated with hepatic toxicity during cholestasis. LCA exposure in mice resulted in decreased serum lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) and sphingomyelin levels due to elevated lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase (LPCAT) and sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase (SMPD) expression. Global metabolome analysis indicated significant decreases in serum palmitoyl-, stearoyl-, oleoyl-, and linoleoyl-LPC levels after LCA exposure. LCA treatment also resulted in decreased serum sphingomyelin levels and increased hepatic ceramide levels, and induction of LPCAT and SMPD messenger RNAs (mRNAs). Transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) induced Lpcat2/4 and Smpd3 gene expression in primary hepatocytes and the induction was diminished by pretreatment with the SMAD3 inhibitor SIS3. Furthermore, alteration of the LPCs and Lpcat1/2/4 and Smpd3 expression was attenuated in LCA-treated farnesoid X receptor-null mice that are resistant to LCA-induced intrahepatic cholestasis.
This study revealed that LCA induced disruption of phospholipid/sphingolipid homeostasis through TGF-β signaling and that serum LPC is a biomarker for biliary injury.
A 55-year-old woman with psoriasis vulgaris was treated with oral 5-methoxypsoralen and UVA photochemotherapy. After 40 treatments over 3 months she became unwell with hepatitis attributable to the psoralen. Six years earlier she developed cholestatic hepatitis to flucloxacillin. A previous history of drug-induced reactions should be sought before prescribing further drugs with similar adverse effects.
Hepatic portal venous gas has traditionally been associated with a grave prognosis and high mortality. However, with the advent of ultrasound and CT, numerous less serious causes have been associated with this dramatic radiological finding. We present a previously unreported association with colchicine toxicity. The patient ingested a large dose of colchicine and was subsequently found to have portal venous gas on CT. The source of gas was felt to be intestinal gas penetrating through the demonstrated bowel injury. No surgical intervention was deemed necessary and the finding resolved spontaneously.
Dapsone hydroxylamine (DDS-NOH), a known metabolite of dapsone, has recently been shown to be a direct-acting hemotoxin responsible in part for dapsone-induced hemolytic anemia in the rat. The effect of DDS-NOH on the morphology, sulfhydryl status, and membrane skeletal proteins of the rat red cell has been investigated. Exposure of rat red cells to a TC50 of DDS-NOH induced transformation of about 50% of the cells to an extreme echinocyte morphology. Reduced glutathione content of the cells was rapidly lost with concomitant increase in the formation of mixed disulfide between glutathione and the soluble protein of the cell. Oxidized glutathione content of the cells did not increase at any time during exposure to DDS-NOH. Examination of the skeletal membrane proteins by SDS-PAGE indicated that DDS-NOH caused the apparent loss of band 4.2, decrease in peaks 1, 2.1, and 3, and the appearance of new bands at about 16, 27, 40, and 54 kDa. Bands 4.1 and 7 appeared unchanged. Treatment of DDS-NOH altered proteins with dithiothreitol, reversed the protein changes, and indicated that the observed alterations were due to the formation of disulfide-linked adducts between hemoglobin and the various skeletal proteins as well as between hemoglobin monomers. The possible significance of the parallel changes in cell morphology and in membrane skeletal proteins for the premature splenic sequestration of the injured rat red cells is discussed.
Inhaled isocyanate binds with cytokeratin (CK) of the epithelial cells, which could induce immune responses.
To elucidate the possible existence of an isocyanate-induced, asthma-associated autoantigen from the bronchial epithelial cells, which may be associated with toluene diisocyanate (TDI)-induced asthma development.
We cultured bronchial epithelial cells with incubation of TDI-human serum albumin (HSA) conjugate. Gene expression profiles of cultured epithelial cells were analyzed using a microarray technique. CK19 protein expression within the epithelial cells was confirmed by IgG immunoblot using monoclonal antibody to CK19. Serum IgG to CK19 and specific IgG and IgE antibodies to TDI-HSA conjugate were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 68 TDI asthma patients (group 1) and compared with 40 allergic asthma patients (group 2) and 80 unexposed healthy controls (group 3).
After TDI exposure, increased expression of CK19 and CK14 genes from the culture bronchial epithelial cells was noted using microarray analysis. IgG immunoblot analysis confirmed increased expression of CK19 after the TDI exposure. The levels of serum IgG to CK19 were significantly higher in the TDI asthma group than in groups 2 and 3 (P=.008). The prevalence of IgG to CK19 was significantly higher in group 1 (38.2%) than group 2 (22.5%) or group 3 (1.3%) (P=.008). Significant associations were noted between IgG to CK19 and specific IgG to TDI-HSA conjugate and transglutaminase (P=.02) but not with specific IgE to TDI-HSA conjugate.
We suggest that TDI exposure can augment CK19 expression from the bronchial epithelial cell, which may involve immune responses as an autoantigen to induce airway inflammation in TDI-induced asthma.
Cases of transient left ventricular apical ballooning during dobutamine stress echocardiography have been described in the literature. Dobutamine may contribute to this phenomenon via excess catecholamine release, similar to the proposed mechanism of apical ballooning syndrome during states of extreme emotional stress. We report the first case of reversible severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction with an apical ballooning pattern during dobutamine stress echocardiography in a patient who had undergone orthotopic heart transplantation.
Nitroglycerin is routinely used during coronary angiography for its vasodilating effects. An unusual case is described in which nitroglycerin induced severe coronary artery spasm. Interpretation of coronary angiograms after nitroglycerin should be made with caution.
Cell adhesion through different adhesion molecules is a crucial event in the inflammatory response. Integrins can only bind and mediate cellular adhesion after their activation by different specific stimuli. The state of beta1 integrin activation can be assessed by a group of monoclonal antibodies (HUTS) that selectively recognize beta1 integrins in their active form. A similar activated epitope in the rat was defined using the anti-human monoclonal antibody HUTS-21, which recognizes an activation-dependent epitope on the beta1 chain. It was found that the divalent cations Mn(2+) and Hg(2+) were able to induce in vitro the activation of beta1 integrins on rat lymphocytes. The Hg(2+) cation induces an autoimmune disease in the Brown Norway rat characterized by synthesis and glomerular deposits of anti-glomerular basement membrane antibodies, proteinuria, and interstitial nephritis. Using the mercury model of nephritis, it was found that the expression of HUTS-21 epitope is induced in vivo in rat lymphocytes, and its appearance is correlated with the other parameters at the onset of the disease. In addition, the administration of HUTS-21 monoclonal antibody to HgCl(2)-treated rats offered evidence of its protective effects (1) against infiltration of renal interstitium by leukocytes, and (2) in the reduction of anti-glomerular basement membrane synthesis and glomerular deposition. Nevertheless, urinary protein values remained unaffected. These results demonstrate a key role of beta1-activated integrins in both leukocyte cell-cell interactions and leukocyte infiltration pathway mechanism, and also indicate that leukocyte migration may have less importance in the development of this disease than previously thought.
Retinoids are under intensive study for the treatment and prevention of cancer. Substantial dose-related toxicities of retinoids are a major obstacle to this work. In a recent retrospective analysis of combined 13-cis-retinoic acid (13cRA) and alpha-tocopherol (AT) in myelodysplasia, 13cRA toxicity was reduced significantly and 13cRA activity was enhanced. These results suggested the need for prospective testing of this new combination. This trial tested the hypotheses that At can reduce toxicity of high-dose 13cRA and does not interfere with 13cRA absorption/activity as reflected by reduced 13cRA serum levels.
This was a phase I trial design in which patients received fixed-dose 13cRA (100 mg/m2/d) plus escalating-dose AT (beginning at 800 IU/d, increased 400 IU/d each month until 2000 IU/d). We collected toxicity data every four weeks from self-report forms, clinical examinations and laboratory studies. AT effects on 13cRA toxicity were determined by comparing maximum toxicity at lowest AT dose with that at highest AT dose. We also measured serum levels of both agents every four weeks.
Of the 45 patients registered, 36 had cancer (active or prior history), 9 had premalignant lesions. Thirty-nine patients could be evaluated for initial-course toxicity; 31 for final course toxicity. Median time on treatment (all patients) was four months (range, 1-9 months); a total of 223 month-long courses of treatment were given. Eighteen percent of patients (7/39) developed grade 3 or 4 toxicity in the initial course. The rates of increase and decrease in 13cRA toxicity associated with increasing AT doses were similar: 36% decreased (11/31), 32% increased (10/31) (P = 0.84). At did not reduce 13cRA serum levels. After initial increases of mean AT plasma levels (17.9 micrograms/ ml at baseline to 45.4 micrograms/ml after first four-week course), subsequent AT plasma increases (< 2-fold) did not keep pace with increased AT doses (2-3-fold). No major activity occurred in the 21 patients with active refractory cancer. The complete response rate in patients with premalignant head-and-neck or lung lesions was 77.8% (7/9), which included two patients previously refractory to 13cRA alone.
Although escalating doses of AT did not reduce 13cRA toxicity, the rate of initial-course (including 800 IU/d of AT) high-grade toxicity was substantially lower than that typical of high-dose 13cRA-alone and similar to that typical of low-dose 13cRA-alone. Indeed, a trial of 13cRA-alone followed by 13cRA plus AT may have detected a significant toxicity difference. We did not design such a trial out of ethical concern for known side effects of high-dose 13cRA. The increase in AT serum levels was not proportional with increasing doses of AT, which may explain the lack of a dose-response effect of AT on 13cRA toxicity. Previous trials have established that 13cRA has an approximate 10% complete response rate in oral premalignancy. Our small trial's 77.8% complete response rate in premalignant lesions suggests that AT may enhance 13cRA clinical activity. Future trials of 13cRA plus AT are needed to define this combinations toxicity profile, clinical activity and pharmacokinetics.
The authors examined 68 patients with different forms of copulative disorders. They studied the efficacy of intracavernous administration of papaverine in the diagnosis and treatment of sexual disorders in males. A new method of diagnosis of sexual disorders of organic (vascular) nature in males was developed and practically employed. The efficacy of intracavernous administration of papaverine in the treatment of different forms of copulative disorders in males is analyzed.
Since 1976, benfluorex has been approved in Europe as a hypolipidemic and hypoglycemic drug, and is commonly used in the treatment of the metabolic syndrome. As a derivative of fenfluramine with an appetite suppressant action, benfluorex is preferentially used in overweight patients. In contrast to fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, to date, benfluorex has not been reported to be associated with frequent cardiovascular side-effects. The present study reports five cases of severe pulmonary arterial hypertension and one case of valvular heart disease occurring in patients exposed to benfluorex. These individuals were middle age, diabetic females with a body mass index ranging 24.2-49 kg x m(-2). No definite causal effect for cardiovascular disease with benfluorex can be drawn from such case reports. However, as benfluorex, like dexfenfluramine and fenfluramine, is metabolised into active metabolite norfenfluramine, further extensive assessment of drug exposure in newly diagnosed pulmonary arterial hypertension or valvular heart disease patients is warranted.
This report describes the clinical and roentgenographic features of a pleuritis seen following the administration of high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX). Among 210 patients who received 3130 courses of HDMTX from 1977 through 1980, the incidence of this clinical entity was 8.5% (n = 18). The sudden onset of chest pain occurred only after the third or fourth HDMTX treatment and usually lasted between three and five days; the pain was often quite severe and led to extensive clinical examination before recognition of the benign transient nature of this syndrome. Roentgenographic examination of the chest revealed thickening of the intralobar pleura, most prominent on the right side. Our observations support the hypothesis that this adverse drug reaction occurs more frequently than assumed, but is often ignored or misinterpreted.
The efficacy and toleration of once-daily amlodipine (5-10 mg o.d.) and captopril (25-50 mg b.i.d.) were compared in 45 patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring was performed at baseline and at the end of the 8-week study period. Clinic blood pressure, heart rate, and adverse events were assessed during a placebo run-in and after 2, 4, and 8 weeks of treatment. Both amlodipine and captopril significantly reduced clinic blood pressure without affecting heart rate. Between-treatment comparisons showed that amlodipine produced a significantly greater reduction in sitting diastolic blood pressure than captopril. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring revealed a sustained reduction in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure throughout a full 24-h period in patients taking amlodipine. In contrast, however, the effects of captopril were no longer evident during the final 3 h of the dosing interval. Both drugs were generally well tolerated, and the incidence of adverse events was similar in each group. This study demonstrates that amlodipine is more effective as a once-daily antihypertensive agent than captopril administered twice daily.
Steroidogenic factor-1 (SF‑1), the product of the NR5A1 gene, is an essential transcription factor that is known to regulate steroidogenesis in ovarian epithelia, including the synthesis of progesterone, a suppressor of ovarian cancer. Expression of the SF‑1 protein, a potential ovarian tumor suppressor, has been demonstrated in normal OSE cells, but is lost in most ovarian tumors and ovarian tumor cell lines. We examined loss of heterozygosity (LOH) and promoter methylation as potential mechanisms that may explain the loss of SF‑1 protein in ovarian tumor tissues. Genotyping of three NR5A1 SNPs in matched tumor/normal tissues identified LOH in 16/36 (44%) of the ovarian tumors successfully analyzed, and somatic mutations (gain of allele) in 10% of the tumors. Furthermore, a methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme method was used to demonstrate statistically significant (p<0.0001) increase in the frequency of NR5A1 gene methylation in ovarian tumors (36/46; 78%) versus normal ovaries (1/11; 9%). These data suggest that the SF‑1 encoding gene exhibits frequent genetic (LOH/base substitution) and epigenetic (methylation) somatic alterations in ovarian tumors. These data also present novel molecular mechanisms that may explain the loss of SF‑1 protein in ovarian tumors, and its potential role in ovarian carcinogenesis.
The genetic and embryotoxic effects of bis(tri-n-butyltin)oxide (TBTO) were evaluated in multiple in vivo and in vitro short-term tests preparatory to its potential wide use as a molluscicide in control of schistosomiasis. When tested in the rec assay in Bacillus subtilis, TBTO was not mutagenic and it did not induce reverse mutations in Klebsiella pneumoniae. Neither in the presence nor in the absecne of rat liver activation system did TBTO produce point mutations in Salmonella typhimurium strains TA1530, TA1535, TA1538, TA97, TA98 or TA100. TBTO was matagenic in strain TA100 in a fluctuation test, but only in the presence of rat liver S9 (Aroclor-induced). TBTO did not induce gene mutations in the yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, mitotic gene conversions in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, nor sister-chromatid exchange in Chinese hamster ovary cells in the presence or absence of rat or mouse liver S9. In the latter cells, structural chromosomal aberrations, endoreduplicated and polyploid cells were induced. TBTO did not induce gene mutations in V79 Chinese hamster cells (to 8-azaguanine-, ouabain- or 6-thioguanine-resistance) in the presence of a rat liver postmitochondrial fraction or in cell (hamster embryo cells and human and mouse epidermal keratinocyte)-mediated assays. In mouse lymphoma cells, TBTO did not induce 6-thioguanine- or BUdR-resistant mutations. As many tumour promoters inhibit metabolic cooperation between V79 Chinese hamster 6-thioguanine-resistant/-sensitive cells, TBTO was tested but showed no such activity. TBTO was examined for the induction of recessive lethal mutations in adult Berlin K male Drosophila melanogaster, either by feeding or by injection. Doses of 0.37 or 0.74 mM did not increase the number of X-linked recessive lethal mutations. An increased number of micronuclei was observed in the polychromatic erythrocytes of male BALB/c mice 48 h after a single oral dose of TBTO (60 mg/kg bw), while a lower dose (30 mg/kg bw) was ineffective. Neither of the two doses had induced micronuclei 30 h after treatment. The reproductive toxicity of TBTO was studied in NMRI mice. In a 10-day toxicity study, the LD50 and LD10 were 74 and 34 mg/kg bw, respectively. An increased frequency of cleft palates was seen in the fetuses of mice (compared with controls, 0.7%) treated orally during pregnancy with 11.7 mg/kg TBTO (7%), 23.4 mg/kg (24%) or 35 mg/kg (48%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A nine year old boy who had received Ceftriaxone for one week because of suspected bacterial meningoencephalitis developed colicky abdominal pain in the right upper quadrant two days after termination of Ceftriaxone treatment. Stones in the gallbladder were identified as cause of the abdominal symptoms. Ceftriaxone has been reported to result in so-called pseudo-lithiasis of the gallbladder in approximatively 45% of treated patients, 19% of which developed clinical symptoms. Generally, the gallstones dissolve spontaneously when Ceftriaxone treatment was of short duration.
Serum levels of mephenytoin (Mesantoin) and its metabolite nirvanol were correlated with effectiveness and side effects in 93 patients. Mean mephenytoin level was 8% of the combined mephenytoin plus nirvanol levels. "Total mephenytoin" level should be used clinically, as neither individual component is as well correlated with clinical phenomena. Serum levels of 25 to 40 mug/ml usually yield improvement in seizure control without discomfort, and three-quarters of patients had fewer seizures. Side effects frequently associated with phenytoin were absent, but drowsiness, an occasional rash, and a single, fatal case of aplastic anemia were found. Performance on psychological tests of cognitive-attentional skills showed a modest improvement during mephenytoin administration. The drug merits wider employment in refractory seizure problems, but vigilant follow-up is required.
Deliberate hypotension was induced with isoflurane in 13 patients, undergoing craniotomy for clipping of aneurysms. Cardiovascular function and gas exchange were monitored before, during, and after hypotension. In all cases, the desired level of hypotension [40 +/- 1 (SEM) mm Hg] was achieved readily with prompt onset (5.7 +/- 1.0 min) and recovery (6.3 +/- 0.7 min). Cardiac output during hypotension (4.6 +/- 0.3 L/min) was not significantly different from the control normotensive value (4.80 +/- 0.3 L/min). Gas tensions during hypotension and during normotension were; PaO2 116 +/- 6 and 111 +/- 8 mm Hg; PaCO2 33 +/- 1 and 34 +/- 1 mm Hg; respectively. No complication could be attributed to the use of isoflurane. We conclude that isoflurane can be employed safely and effectively as a hypotensive agent in neurosurgery.
In a recent phase 3 trial, bortezomib-melphalan-prednisone-thalidomide followed by maintenance treatment with bortezomib-thalidomide demonstrated superior efficacy compared with bortezomib-melphalan-prednisone. To decrease neurologic toxicities, the protocol was amended and patients in both arms received once-weekly instead of the initial twice-weekly bortezomib infusions: 372 patients received once-weekly and 139 twice-weekly bortezomib. In this post-hoc analysis we assessed the impact of the schedule change on clinical outcomes and safety. Long-term outcomes appeared similar: 3-year progression-free survival rate was 50% in the once-weekly and 47% in the twice-weekly group (P > .999), and 3-year overall survival rate was 88% and 89%, respectively (P = .54). The complete response rate was 30% in the once-weekly and 35% in the twice-weekly group (P = .27). Nonhematologic grade 3/4 adverse events were reported in 35% of once-weekly patients and 51% of twice-weekly patients (P = .003). The incidence of grade 3/4 peripheral neuropathy was 8% in the once-weekly and 28% in the twice-weekly group (P < .001); 5% of patients in the once-weekly and 15% in the twice-weekly group discontinued therapy because of peripheral neuropathy (P < .001). This improvement in safety did not appear to affect efficacy. This study is registered at http://www.clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01063179.
