To date, treatment of organophosphate (OP) poisoning shows several shortcomings, and OP-victims might suffer from lasting cognitive deficits and sleep-wake disturbances. In the present study, long-term effects of soman poisoning on learning ability, memory and neurogenesis were investigated in rats, treated with the anticholinergic atropine and the oxime HI-6 for reactivation of soman-inhibited acetylcholinesterase. We also investigated whether sub-chronic treatment with the reported neurogenesis enhancer olanzapine would stimulate neurogenesis and possibly normalize the anticipated long-term deleterious effects of soman intoxication. Animals were treated with HI-6 (125 mg/kg i.p.), followed after 30 min by soman (200 microg/kg s.c.) and atropine sulphate (16 mg/kg i.m.) 1 min thereafter. Soman poisoning led to an elevation of extracellular acetylcholine levels to 1500% over baseline values as assessed by striatal microdialysis. Brain acetylcholinesterase was inhibited over 95%. This was accompanied by short recurrent seizures lasting for 40 min. Osmotic minipumps releasing olanzapine (7.5 mg/kg/day) or vehicle were subcutaneously implanted 24 h post-intoxication. After drug delivery for 4 weeks, newborn cells were BrdU labeled. Learning and memory performance were assessed 8 weeks after soman poisoning, followed by analysis of surviving newborn cells (BrdU) and neurogenesis (doublecortin, DCX). Eight weeks after soman-intoxication a significantly impaired learning ability was found that was paralleled by significantly lower numbers of DCX-positive cells but no changes in the number of BrdU-labeled cells. Apparently, the present Olanzapine regime was ineffective. We conclude that soman poisoning has long lasting effects on learning ability, a finding that was accompanied by impaired neurogenesis. Although we confirm a correlation between impaired neurogenesis and cognitive deficits, establishing the true causal relationship between these processes in OP exposed animals awaits future research.
Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) plays a critical role in tumor invasion and metastasis. Here, we investigate the effect of fibroblast growth factor-1 (FGF-1) on the expression of MMP-9 in ENU1564, an ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced rat mammary adenocarcinoma cell line. We observed that FGF-1 induces a dose-dependent increase in MMP-9 mRNA, protein, and activity in ENU1564 cells. To gain insight into the molecular mechanism of MMP-9 regulation by FGF-1, we investigated the role of components of PI3K-Akt and MEK1/2-ERK signaling pathways in our system since NF-kappaB and AP-1 transcription factor binding sites have been characterized in the upstream region of the MMP-9 gene. We demonstrated that FGF-1 increases Akt phosphorylation, triggers nuclear translocation of NF-kappaBp65, and enhances degradation of cytoplasmic IkappaBalpha. Pretreatment of cells with LY294002, a PI3K inhibitor, significantly inhibited MMP-9 protein expression in FGF-1-treated cells. Conversely, our data show that FGF-1 increases ERK phosphorylation in ENU1564 cells, increases c-jun and c-fos mRNA expression in a time-dependent manner, and triggers nuclear translocation of c-jun. Pretreatment of cells with PD98059, a MEK1/2 inhibitor significantly inhibited MMP-9 protein expression in FGF-1 treated cells. Finally, we observed increased DNA binding of NF-kappaB and AP-1 in FGF-1-treated cells and that mutation of either NF-kappaB or AP-1 response elements prevented MMP-9 promoter activation by FGF-1. Taken together, these results demonstrated that FGF-1-induced MMP-9 expression in ENU1564 cells is associated with increasing DNA binding activities of NF-kappaB and AP-1 and involve activation of a dual signaling pathway, PI3K-Akt and MEK1/2-ERK.
The ability of the nitric oxide (NO) synthesis inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) to induce preterm parturition in the mouse has been previously documented. The present study tested the ability of progestational agents to prevent preterm birth induced by L-NAME.
L-NAME was administered subcutaneously at 90 mg/kg on gestation day 16. Progesterone, medroxyprogesterone acetate and hydroxyprogesterone caproate were administered subcutaneously at 0 (vehicle), 5 or 10 mg/kg on gestation day 16 one hour before L-NAME and on day 17. Parturition was considered preterm if occurring before gestation day 18.
Following treatment with L-NAME alone, 56.5% of the pregnant animals delivered before term. Treatment with progesterone, medroxyprogesterone acetate or hydroxyprogesterone caproate at 5 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg significantly and comparably reduced the rate of preterm birth caused by L-NAME.
Progestational agents are able to reduce preterm births induced by nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibition.
We report the clinical findings of 21 consecutive patients affected by mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma with sclerosis. This type of lymphoma is a recently described histopathologic entity characterized on clinical grounds by distinctive features, which, according to our series, can be summarized as follows: young age (median, 30 years; range, 15 to 42 years), prevalence of females over males (15 v six), rare occurrence of superficial lymph node enlargement (three of 21 patients), and involvement of unusual extranodal sites (kidney six, adrenal cortex two patients). The clinical course appears to be closely related to treatment. In fact, complete remission (CR) was not obtained in the six patients submitted to conventional cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) or CHOP plus bleomycin (CHOP-Bleo) regimens until 1985, as opposed to 13 CRs reached in the 15 patients subsequently treated with more aggressive regimens after 1985 (methotrexate with leucovorin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, and bleomycin [MACOP-B], 12 patients; methotrexate, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dexamethasone [M-BACOD], two patients; and vincristine, cyclophosphamide, fluorouracil, cytarabine, doxorubicin, methotrexate, and prednisone [F-MACHOP], one patient; plus involved-field radiotherapy, 10 patients). Among the 13 patients who achieved a CR, only one relapse was observed at 10 months. The median overall survival of complete responders after an observation period of 11 to 69 months has not yet been reached, and the event-free survival curve indicates that 90% of patients who achieve CR may be potentially cured.
To estimate the rates of common adverse events in patients treated with the proton pump inhibitors omeprazole, lansoprazole and pantoprazole in general practice in England.
In prescription-event monitoring cohort studies, data on dispensed prescriptions prescribed by general practitioners in England soon after each drug was launched were linked to subsequent clinical events recorded by the prescriber. 16 205 patients prescribed omeprazole between June 1989 and June 1990, 17 329 patients prescribed lansoprazole between May and November 1994, and 11 541 patients prescribed pantoprazole between December 1996 and June 1997 were studied.
The commonest adverse events in the omeprazole, lansoprazole and pantoprazole cohorts were diarrhoea (incidence: 0. 18, 0.39 and 0.23 per 1000 days of exposure, respectively); nausea/vomiting (incidence: 0.16, 0.22 and 0.18 per 1000 days of exposure, respectively); abdominal pain (incidence: 0.17, 0.21 and 0. 17 per 1000 days of exposure, respectively); and headache (incidence rates: 0.10, 0.17 and 0.15 per 1000 days of exposure, respectively). The remaining adverse events occurred at rates of less than 0.11 per 1000 days of exposure. There were little absolute differences in the rates of most events between the three proton pump inhibitors. However, diarrhoea was more commonly associated with lansoprazole compared with omeprazole (rate difference: 0.21 per 1000 days of exposure; 95% CI 0.17, 0.25; rate ratio: 2.11; 1.78, 2.51), and there was a clear age-response relationship.
Adverse events occurred relatively infrequently in all three cohorts. There were only small absolute differences in event rates between the three drugs, although these data suggest the hypothesis that lansoprazole is associated with more frequent occurrence of diarrhoea, particularly in the elderly.
Glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a neurotrophic factor known to promote neuronal survival of dopaminergic neurons in the embryonic midbrain as well as contribute to carcinogenesis in many cancers. Its ubiquitous presence in the central nervous system suggests a role in the mitogenesis of high-grade astrocytoma. GDNF is overexpressed in glioblastoma cell lines and human gliomas. GFRalpha1b is the predominant spliced receptor isoform in human gliomas and RET9 is the predominant co-receptor. Significantly there is differential overexpression of the GFRalpha1b spliced isoform compared to the GFRalpha1a spliced variant. Pre-treatment of glioblastoma cell lines with GDNF but not the alternative ligand neurturin, promoted mitogenic behaviour and conferred chemoresistance to 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU). Signaling mapping of BCNU and GDNF suggest that the ability of GDNF to promote Akt activity and inhibit JNK activity may contribute to the increased cellular survival after BCNU chemotherapy.
Ethinylestradiol (EE) induces cholestasis by affecting bile salt-dependent and -independent fractions of the bile flow. The decrease in bile salt-independent flow is thought to be due, in part, to a reduction in the expression of the canalicular transporter Mrp2. The impact of modulation of Mrp2 function by sodium ursodeoxycholate (UDC) in EE cholestasis is unknown. We evaluated the protective effect of UDC on EE-induced impairment of Mrp2 activity in vivo and in isolated hepatocytes, by using the substrate dinitrophenyl S-glutathione (DNP-SG). EE was administered to male Wistar rats at a dose of 5 mg/kg s.c. for 5 days. UDC was coadministered with EE at a dose of 25 mg/kg b.wt. i.p. for the same period. EE alone reduced DNP-SG biliary excretion by 55% when compared with controls. Coadministration with UDC partially restored the alteration. Secretion rate of DNP-SG was decreased by 30% in isolated hepatocytes from EE-treated rats, but, contrary to in vivo results, UDC coadministration did not restore DNP-SG transport, likely as a consequence of bile salt washout resulting from the isolation procedure. As a confirmation, tauroursodeoxycholate hepatocyte preloading significantly increased Mrp2 activity. Western blotting analysis of Mrp2 indicated that EE administration significantly reduced its level in total and plasma membranes and that UDC coadministration failed to revert this alteration. In conclusion, UDC improvement in Mrp2 transport activity in vivo likely derived from a direct enhancement of Mrp2 function rather than from a restoration of its expression levels. This provides a novel mechanism explaining the beneficial effects of UDC in EE-induced cholestasis.
To study the curative effects of pirfenidone (PF) on pulmonary fibrosis induced by paraquat (PQ) in mice and to provide the theoretical basis for clinical treatment.
Ninety adult healthy male ICR mice were randomly divided into six groups: control group, PQ group, 2 mg/kg Dexamethasone group, 25 mg/kg PF group, 50 mg/kg PF group and 100 mg/kg PF group, there were 15 mice in each group. The corresponding volume of normal saline was given to the each mouse in control group according to the weight, after 2 h 0.1% CMC was given to the each mouse of control group one time by intragastric administration, then the CMC was administrated at regular time until sacrifice. All mice for other 5 groups were exposed to 100 mg/kg PQ by intragastric administration. At 2 h after exposure to PQ, 0.02 ml/10 g dexamethasone and 25, 50, 100 mg/kg PF were given to mice for dexamethasone group and for 3 PF groups by intragastric administration each day for 49 days, respectively. The lung coefficient was calculated and pathological changes of lung tissue were observed by HE staining for each mouse. The hydroxyproline (HYP) level in lung tissue was measured for each mouse. The mRNA level of and the protein level of TGF-β(1) in lung tissue for each mouse were determined, and the protein level of TGF-β(1) in the bronchus-alveolus lavage fluid (BALF) of each mouse was detected.
The survival rates on the 3rd day in PQ group, 3 PF groups and dexamethasone group were 53.33%, 46.67%, 73.33%, 86.67% and 80%, respectively. The survival rates on the 3rd day in dexamethasone group, 50 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg PF groups were significantly higher than those of PQ group and 25 mg/kg PF group (P < 0.05). The lung coefficients of 3 PF groups were significantly lower than that of the PQ group (P < 0.05). The lung tissue HYP levels of dexamethasone group and 3 PF groups were 50.95 ± 11.65, 44.52 ± 9.48, 43.27 ± 6.01 and 40.82 ± 5.90 mg/g respectively, which were significantly lower than that (74.27 ± 3.68) of PQ group (P < 0.01). The TGF-β(1) protein levels of BALF in dexamethasone group, 50 and 100 mg/kg PF groups were 22.03 ± 7.27, 27.75 ± 5.84 and 21.31 ± 6.82 ng/ml respectively, which were significantly lower than that (52.52 ± 15.51) ng/ml of PQ group (P < 0.01) The expression level of TGF-β(1) mRNA in 100 mg/kg PF group decreased significantly, as compared with PQ group (P < 0.01).
PF could reduce the collagen deposition and pulmonary fibrosis induced by PQ in mice lungs.
The role of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of liver disease in Wilson disease (WD), a genetic disorder characterized by excess hepatic deposition of copper that generates free radicals, remains unclear. This study investigates oxidative stress on the liver and hepatic antioxidant responses in WD using liver specimens from affected patients showing mild liver damage (group I, n = 3), moderate or greater liver damage (group II, n = 5), and fulminant hepatic failure (group III, n = 5) and from asymptomatic carriers (n = 2). Decreased ratios of reduced glutathione (GSH) to oxidized glutathione (GSSG) and increased thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS), a lipid peroxidation product, were found in every affected patient, especially in group II and III patients. Activities and protein expressions of Mn-dependent superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD), CuZn-dependent superoxide dismutase (CuZn-SOD), and catalase were decreased in all patients, especially in group III patients. Glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity was decreased only in group III patients. Asymptomatic carriers without any clinical manifestations showed normal TBARS level and GSH/GSSG ratio with increases in both GSH and GSSG levels. Their CuZn-SOD, Mn-SOD, and catalase activities were increased. These results suggest that excessive copper-derived oxidants contribute to development and progression of liver disease in WD.
Novel Aza-resveratrol analogs were synthesized, structurally characterized and evaluated for cytotoxic activity against MDA-MB-231 and T47D breast cancer cell lines, which exhibited superior inhibitory activity than parent resveratrol compound. The binding mechanism of these compounds with estrogen receptor-α was rationalized by molecular docking studies which indicated additional hydrogen binding interactions and tight binding in the protein cavity. Induction of Beclin-1 protein expression in breast cancer cell lines after treatment with newly synthesized resveratrol analogs indicated inhibition of growth of these cell lines through autophagy. The study highlighted the advantage of introducing the imino-linkage in resveratrol motif in enhancing the anticancer potential of resveratrol suggesting that these analogs can serve as better therapeutic agents against breast cancer and can provide starting point for building more potent analogs in future.
To determine whether propofol anesthesia differs from thiamylal-enflurane anesthesia in induction characteristics, intraoperative hemodynamics, postoperative side effects, and postoperative psychomotor function recovery.
A randomized, double-blind, two-group study.
A large university hospital with gynecologic outpatient operations performed in an integrated operating room suite.
Sixty adult women (ASA physical status I or II) undergoing an outpatient gynecologic laparoscopic operation with an anesthesia time of approximately 60 minutes.
No pharmacologic premedication. Pretreatment with intravenous droperidol 0.6 mg and sufentanil 0.2 micrograms/kg before induction of anesthesia. Anesthesia was induced with either thiamylal 4 mg/kg (Group 1) or propofol 2.5 mg/kg (Group 2). Anesthesia was maintained with either nitrous oxide (N2O) and enflurane, 2-0.5% inspired concentrations; (Group 1) or with a continuous infusion of propofol 200-100 micrograms/kg/min and N2O (Group 2).
In psychomotor function tests (Trieger dot test and p-deletion test) administered preoperatively and postoperatively, no difference was found between the groups. No difference was found in induction time, although significantly more patients reported pain after the propofol injection, or in intraoperative hemodynamics (mean arterial pressure and heart rate). Immediate recovery time (emergence from anesthesia) and intermediate recovery time (ambulation, oral intake, and discharge time) were significantly shorter after propofol anesthesia. Fewer postoperative side effects, such as nausea and vomiting, were reported after propofol anesthesia.
Induction and maintenance of anesthesia with propofol were comparable to those with thiamylal-enflurane, except patients experienced more pain on injection after propofol. Both immediate and intermediate recovery were more rapid after propofol anesthesia compared with enflurane-based anesthesia.
Nitrates, although important for the management of angina pectoris, cause significant headache in many patients.
In a randomized, double-blind, crossover study, 89 patients with stable angina pectoris were studied to compare two different dosage strategies of isosorbide-5-mononitrate (5-ISMN). Patients were randomized to either 60 mg 5-ISMN once daily (od) for two weeks or to 30 mg 5-ISMN od for one week followed by 60 mg 5-ISMN od for one week. Then, there was a two-week placebo washout, after which the alternative treatment was given. The authors assessed the occurrence of angina pectoris and headache by diary cards while taking into account the number of isosorbide dinitrate sublingual puffs and paracetamole tablets required. Data were assessed for carryover and time effects.
The two dosage regimens were equally efficient for the relief of angina pectoris without development of tolerance. Thirty percent of the patients never experienced headache from the given dosages. In the remainder of them there was a highly significant time effect: the overall numbers of headache attacks in the first period of active treatment versus the second were 2,380 vs 1,400 (P < 0.003). Yet significantly fewer patients had headache on low dosage than on high dosage (45 vs 57, P < 0.02).
(1) Starting on a low dosage was associated with a reduced frequency and severity of headache and did not notably influence the beneficial effect on angina pectoris. (2) One in 3 patients never experienced headache from the given dosages. (3) The overall number of headache attacks in the first period of active treatment was significantly higher than in the second period irrespective of the dosages given.
Adipose tissue plays a central role in the control of energy homeostasis through the storage and turnover of triglycerides and through the secretion of factors that affect satiety and fuel utilization. Agents that enhance insulin sensitivity, such as rosiglitazone, appear to exert their therapeutic effect through adipose tissue, but the precise mechanisms of their actions are unclear. Rosiglitazone changes the morphological features and protein profiles of mitochondria in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. To examine the relevance of these effects in vivo, we studied white adipocytes from ob/ob mice during the development of obesity and after treatment with rosiglitazone. The levels of approximately 50% of gene transcripts encoding mitochondrial proteins were decreased with the onset of obesity. About half of those genes were upregulated after treatment with rosiglitazone, and this was accompanied by an increase in mitochondrial mass and changes in mitochondrial structure. Functionally, adipocytes from rosiglitazone-treated mice displayed markedly enhanced oxygen consumption and significantly increased palmitate oxidation. These data reveal mitochondrial remodeling and increased energy expenditure in white fat in response to rosiglitazone treatment in vivo and suggest that enhanced lipid utilization in this tissue may affect whole-body energy homeostasis and insulin sensitivity.
Possible counterregulatory neurohumoral and hemodynamic responses to carvedilol (a new vasodilating nonselective beta-receptor blocker) were studied in 19 men with essential hypertension (age range, 34-59 years; mean age, 44 years). Intra-arterial pressure, cardiac output (Cardio-green), heart rate, and the vasoactive peptides norepinephrine, epinephrine, and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) were measured at rest supine and sitting and during 100-W bicycle exercise before and 2 h after administration of 25 mg carvedilol. The same protocol was followed after 9 months of chronic carvedilol treatment (mean dose, 52 mg/day). Carvedilol induced both acute and chronic reductions (at rest supine, 11%) in mean arterial pressure, due in part to reduction in cardiac output (5%) and in part to reduction in total peripheral resistance (5%). At rest supine, carvedilol induced a reduction in ANP (27%) that could be viewed as a counterregulatory response to decrease in cardiac output, preventing excessive blood pressure reduction. ANP decreased (18%) when the patient sat up from the supine position and increased (67%) during exercise, but no further change was seen after acute or chronic carvedilol treatment. With the patient in the sitting position, norepinephrine was 110% higher than at rest supine; during 100-W exercise, norepinephrine increased 368%. A further increase (38-86% in the three situations, respectively) was seen after the first dose of carvedilol. Epinephrine showed similar but less marked changes. Neither extracellular fluid volume nor plasma volume (isotope dilution techniques) changed significantly during the study, but the acute blood pressure response to carvedilol was directly related to changes in extracellular fluid volume.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) represents a significant cause of acute renal failure in hospital practice. An increasing number of drugs are known to cause AIN. Due to the lack of prospective, randomized clinical trials, the most effective management is still uncertain, especially the role of steroids in the resolution of interstitial nephritis remains to be further defined. We report on a case with pantoprazole-induced interstitial nephritis and on the effect of steroids during ongoing drug exposure. In spite of ongoing drug exposure, steroids led to almost complete resolution of the inflammatory infiltrates. Early diagnosis of interstitial nephritis by renal biopsy and identification of the causative drug and its withdrawal remains the mainstay of treatment. However, the additional use of steroids has the potential to eradicate inflammatory infiltrates more rapidly and completely and may thus be important to minimize subsequent chronic damage.
In vivo development of daptomycin resistance (DAPr) among Staphylococcus aureus strains, especially methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) strains, in conjunction with clinical treatment failures, has emerged as a major problem. This has raised the question of DAP-based combination regimens to enhance efficacy against such strains. We studied five recent DAP-susceptible (DAPs)/DAPr clinical MRSA strain pairs obtained from patients who failed DAP monotherapy regimens, as well as one DAPs/DAPr MRSA strain pair in which the resistant strain was generated by in vitro passage in DAP. Of note, we identified a DAP-oxacillin (OX) "seesaw" phenomenon in vitro in which development of DAPr was accompanied by a concomitant fall in OX resistance, as demonstrated by 3- to 4-fold decreases in the OX MIC, a susceptibility shift by population analyses, and enhanced early killing by OX in time-kill assays. In addition, the combination of DAP and OX exerted modest improvement in in vitro bactericidal effects. Using an experimental model of infective endocarditis and two DAPs/DAPr strain pairs, we demonstrated that (i) OX monotherapy was ineffective at clearing DAPr strains from any target tissue in this model (heart valve, kidneys, or spleen) and (ii) DAP-OX combination therapy was highly effective in DAPr strain clearances from these organs. The mechanism(s) of the seesaw effect remains to be defined but does not appear to involve excision of the staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec) that carries mecA.
Adult male rats were exposed to 0, 2.5, 5.0 or 10.0 mg endosulfan/kg body weight through oral intubation for 70 d. Decreased sperm counts in the cauda epididymis and reduced intratesticular spermatid counts associated with elevation in the activities of specific testicular marker enzymes (sorbitol dehydrogenase, lactic dehydrogenase, gamma glutamyl transpeptidase, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase) were seen in all the endosulfan-dosed groups. Endosulfan caused impairment in testicular functions by altering activities of the enzymes responsible for spermatogenesis, thereby influencing intratesticular spermatid count and causing low sperm production and sperm deformity.
Phenothiazines are known to produce electrocardiographic repolarization abnormalities. Thioridazine and mesoridazine appear to induce such changes more frequently than other neuroleptics and are also known to induce fatal ventricular arrhythmia. The woman described in this article died after taking her usual dose of thioridazine, 100 mg/d, in combination with a single capsule of Contac. C, a decongestant-antihistamine containing phenylpropanolamine and chlorpheniramine. Phenylpropanolamine, an ephedrine-like drug, was thought to have favoured the initiation by thioridazine of the ventricular arrhythmia that led to the woman's death. It is therefore suggested that ephedrine-like medications not be given to patients receiving thioridazine.
Traditionally, high-potency neuroleptics such as haloperidol have been used with success in the treatment of organic brain syndromes, but they have been associated with significant side effects such as EPS. We present the first case reports of a newer antipsychotic, risperidone, in the treatment of two delirious patients. Risperidone may prove to be an effective alternative to haloperidol in delirious patients, especially the elderly and the severely medically ill, who are more prone to adverse effects. Two case histories are presented, one of a 60-year-old man and the other of a 14-year-old boy in whom delirium was successfully treated with low doses of risperidone.
The efficacy and safety of carvedilol, a beta-blocker with vasodilating properties, were compared at a dosage of 25 to 50 mg once daily with those of atenolol at a dosage of 50-100 mg once daily in a double-blind, randomized, parallel-group, multicenter study. After a single-blind placebo phase of 3 to 6 weeks, 47 patients (median age, 59 years) were randomized to receive carvedilol and 52 patients (median age, 57 years) were randomized to receive atenolol for an 8-week study period. Patients on carvedilol received 12.5 mg for the first 2 days and then 25 mg as a once-daily dosage. The initial dosage of atenolol was 50 mg once daily. The dosage of each treatment could be doubled (to 50 and 100 mg once daily, respectively) at week 4 if the response was inadequate. Sitting and standing blood pressures and heart rates were recorded 24 h after the dose at weeks 4 and 8. Data from 90 of 98 patients who completed the study were eligible for per-protocol analysis. Approximately one-third of the patients in each group required upward dose titration at week 4 because of inadequate response. At week 8, 84% patients receiving carvedilol and 91% receiving atenolol had sitting diastolic blood pressure less than or equal to 90 mm Hg or decreased their blood pressure by greater than or equal to 10 mm Hg (95% confidence intervals for difference between carvedilol and atenolol, +7% and -21%). Safety profiles were similar between treatments. One patient withdrew; a skin rash developed during the fourth week of treatment with atenolol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lanoteplase is a rationally designed variant of tissue plasminogen activator. The aim of this study was to examine the pharmacokinetics and functional activity of a single intravenous bolus dose of lanoteplase with those of a bolus plus two-step infusion of alteplase.
Seven-centre substudy of the InTIME-I angiographic trial in patients presenting within 6 hours of onset of suspected acute myocardial infarction.
A total of 31 patients (28 males, 3 females) enrolled in this substudy [mean age 59 (range 26 to 76) years].
Twenty-three patients randomised to lanoteplase received single bolus doses of 15 kU/kg (n = 5), 30 kU/kg (n = 3), 60 kU/kg (n = 9), or 120 kU/kg (n = 6). Eight patients received alteplase <or=100mg as a bolus followed by a two-stage 90 min infusion. Blood samples were analysed for antigen concentration and plasminogen activator (PA) activity.
The distribution plasma half-life of approximately 35 min for lanoteplase was at least five times longer than that of alteplase. Lanoteplase plasma clearance averaged 3 L/h (50 ml/min), whereas the mean plasma clearance of approximately 24 L/h (400 ml/min) for alteplase approaches hepatic blood flow following acute myocardial infarction. PA activity after lanoteplase 120 kU/kg remained for 6 hours, compared with less than 4 hours after alteplase 100mg.
The longer antigen and activity half-lives, slower clearance and less complicated administration of lanoteplase compared with alteplase suggest that it may offer advantages for use as a single intravenous bolus to achieve reperfusion after myocardial infarction.
alpha-Lobeline inhibits d-amphetamine-evoked dopamine release from striatal slices in vitro, appearing to reduce the cytosolic pool of dopamine available for reverse transport by the dopamine transporter. Based on this neurochemical mechanism of action, the present study determined if lobeline decreases d-methamphetamine self-administration. Rats were surgically implanted with jugular catheters and were trained to lever press on a fixed ratio 5 schedule for intravenous d-methamphetamine (0.05 mg/kg/infusion). To assess the specificity of the effect of lobeline, another group of rats was trained to lever press on a fixed ratio 5 schedule for sucrose reinforcement. Pretreatment of rats with lobeline (0.3-3.0 mg/kg, 15 min prior to the session) decreased responding for both d-methamphetamine and sucrose reinforcement. Following repeated lobeline (3.0 mg/kg) administration, tolerance developed to the decrease in responding for sucrose; however, the lobeline-induced decrease in responding for d-methamphetamine persisted. Furthermore, the lobeline-induced decrease in responding for d-methamphetamine was not surmounted by increasing the unit dose of d-methamphetamine. These results suggest that lobeline produces a nonspecific rate suppressant effect following acute administration, to which tolerance develops following repeated administration. Importantly, the results also suggest that repeated administration of lobeline specifically decreases responding for d-methamphetamine in a noncompetitive manner. Thus, lobeline may be an effective, novel pharmacotherapy for d-methamphetamine abuse.
The insulin-like growth factor I possesses biologic actions that resemble those of insulin. Tissue access of the factor depends on the distribution of the circulating bound factor between its binding protein 3 that remains within the intravascular space and its binding protein I that is able to cross the endothelium. Preliminary results have shown that tissue availability of insulin-like growth factor I is a determinant of glucose regulation in essential hypertension
To investigate whether the tissue availability of circulating insulin-like growth factor I in patients with essential hypertension is related to insulin resistance and whether chronic angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition influences tissue availability of the factor and insulin resistance in these patients.
We studied 29 patients with essential hypertension and 20 age-matched and sex-matched normotensive subjects. The measurements were repeated for 25 patients after 12 months of treatment with lisinopril. Tissue availability of circulating insulin-like growth factor I was assessed by analyzing its distribution between its binding proteins 3 and 1. An insulin resistance index was estimated using the homeostasis model analysis of fasting insulin-glucose interactions. Levels of serum insulin-like growth factor I binding proteins 3 and 1, plasma insulin-like growth factor I, and insulin were determined by specific radioimmunoassays.
Baseline insulin resistance index was significantly higher in the hypertensive patients than it was in the normotensive controls. With the upper 100% confidence limit of the normotensive population as the cutoff point, a subgroup of 12 hypertensives had an abnormally high insulin resistance index. Compared with patients with normal insulin resistance indexes, patients with greater than normal indexes were characterized by lower binding protein 1 levels, similar binding protein 3 levels, lower binding protein 1 : binding protein 3 ratio and similar insulin-like growth factor I levels. The serum binding protein 1 level and the binding protein 1 : binding protein 3 ratio were inversely correlated to the insulin resistance index for the whole group of hypertensives. After treatment with lisinopril hypertensive patients with higher than normal insulin resistance indexes at baseline exhibited normalization of this parameter and significant increases of binding protein 1 levels and binding protein 1 : binding protein 3 ratio, with no significant changes in insulin-like growth factor I levels. These parameters remained unchanged for the remaining patients.
These results suggest that tissue availability of circulating insulin-like growth factor I is a determinant of insulin sensitivity in patients with essential hypertension. Whereas the patients with normal insulin sensitivity exhibit greater than normal tissue access of circulating insulin-like growth factor I, patients with insulin resistance present normal tissue access of the factor. Our findings suggest that the ability of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors to restore insulin sensitivity in essential hypertensives may be related to their ability to facilitate the tissue availability of circulating insulin-like growth factor I.
Nitroglycerin is one of the most widely used drugs in the treatment of angina. However, nitroglycerin fails to relieve angina in patients with syndrome X who have microvessel dysfunction. Microvessel function is impaired in several diseases. In this article, the authors report that despite normal coronary angiograms at control, intracoronary administration of isosorbide dinitrate induced severe coronary slow flow and transient ST-segment elevation with mild chest pain in a patient with congestive heart failure. The authors speculated that functional stenosis and a delay in the dilatation of microvessels less than 100 microm in diameter because of their dysfunction resulted in a severely slow flow after intracoronary administration of isosorbide dinitrate.
Gefitinib is a specific inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) that causes growth delay in cancer cell lines and human tumor xenografts expressing high levels of EGFR. An understanding of the downstream cellular targets of gefitinib will allow the discovery of biomarkers for predicting outcomes and monitoring anti-EGFR therapies and provide information for key targets for therapeutic intervention. In this study, we investigated the role of FOXO3a in gefitinib action and resistance. Using two gefitinib-sensitive (i.e., BT474 and SKBR3) as well as three other resistant breast carcinoma cell lines (i.e., MCF-7, MDA-MB-231, and MDA-MB-453), we showed that gefitinib targets the transcription factor FOXO3a to mediate cell cycle arrest and cell death in sensitive breast cancer cells. In the sensitive cells, gefitinib treatment causes cell cycle arrest predominantly at the G(0)-G(1) phase and apoptosis, which is associated with FOXO3a dephosphorylation at Akt sites and nuclear translocation, whereas in the resistant cells, FOXO3a stays phosphorylated and remains in the cytoplasm. The nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a in response to gefitinib was confirmed in tumor tissue sections from breast cancer patients presurgically treated with gefitinib as monotherapy. We also showed that knockdown of FOXO3a expression using small interfering RNA (siRNA) can rescue sensitive BT474 cells from gefitinib-induced cell-proliferative arrest, whereas reintroduction of active FOXO3a in resistant MDA-MB-231 cells can at least partially restore cell-proliferative arrest and sensitivity to gefitinib. These results suggest that the FOXO3a dephosphorylation and nuclear localization have a direct role in mediating the gefitinib-induced proliferative arrest and in determining sensitivity to gefitinib.
