Two cases of hepatic adenoma and one of focal nodular hyperplasia presumably associated with the use of oral contraceptives, are reported. Special reference is made to their clinical presentation, which may be totally asymptomatic. Liver-function tests are of little diagnostic value, but valuable information may be obtained from both liver scanning and hepatic angiography. Histologic differences and clinical similarities between hepatic adenoma and focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver are discussed.
It has been found that CDKL5 gene mutations are responsible for early-onset epilepsy and drug resistance. We screened a population of 92 patients with classic/atypical Rett syndrome, 17 Angelman/Angelman-like patients and six idiopathic autistic patients for CDKL5 mutations and exon deletions and identified seven novel mutations: six in the Rett subset and one in an Angelman patient. This last, an insertion in exon 11, c.903_904 dupGA, p.Leu302Aspfx49X, is associated with a relatively mild clinical presentation as the patient is the only one capable of sitting and walking alone. Of the six mutations, two are de novo missense changes affecting highly conserved aminoacid residues, c.215 T > C p.Ile72Thr and c.380A > G p.His127Arg (present in a mosaic condition) found in two girls with the most severe clinical presentation, while the remaining are the splicing c.145 + 2 T > C and c.2376 + 5G > A, the c.1648C > T p.Arg550X and the MPLA-identified c.162_99del261 mutation. RNA characterisation of four mutations revealed the aberrant transcript of the missense allele (case 2) and not the stop mutation (case 3), but also allowed the splicing mutation (case 1) and the c.-162_99del261 (case 4) to be categorised as truncating. The obtained data reinforce the view that a more severe phenotype is due more to an altered protein than haploinsufficiency. Furthermore, the mutational repertoire of the CDKL5 gene is shown to be expanded by testing patients with phenotypical overlap to Rett syndrome and applying multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification.
Previous studies showed that aquaporin 2 (AQP2) is elevated in the kidney of the heart failure rat suggesting that an increased amount of AQP2 contributes to water retention in heart failure. We performed the present study to determine whether angiotensin II play a role in causing an increase in the expression of arginine vasopressin (AVP) V2 and AQP2 mRNA in the kidney of the cardiomyopathic hamster. The expression of AVP V2 and AQP2 mRNA in the inner medullary collecting duct (IMCD) was measured by competitive reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) before and after treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril. Our results showed that the expression of AVP V2 (0.53 +/- 0.05 v 1.03 +/- 0.15 amol/microg of total RNA, P <.01) and AQP2 mRNA (0.027 +/- 0.002 v 0.036 +/- 0.002 amol/microg of total RNA, P <.05) in the IMCD of the cardiomyopathic hamster is upregulated. Treating the cardiomyopathic hamster with enalapril for 7 days negated the changes. In situ hybridization experiments confirmed the intensity of the signals for both AVP V2 and AQP2 mRNA was more intense in the IMCD of the cardiomyopathic hamster. Enalapril treatment reduced the signal intensity to a level comparable to the normal hamster. These results suggested that the increases in the expression of AVP V2 and AQP2 mRNA are mediated by angiotensin II.
The relationship of indomethacin pharmacokinetics to clinical and echocardiographic evidence of closure of the patient ductus arteriosus (PDA) is described in 9 preterm infants. PDA closures occurred in 4 infants when peak indomethacin plasma concentrations were 0.71-1.10 micrograms/ml, mean 0.93 +/- 0.16 microgram/ml. With partial or no PDA response to oral treatment, the peak concentrations were 0.20-0.69 microgram/ml, mean 0.57 +/- 0.08 microgram/ml, p less than 0.01. The left atrial size in the study infants correlated inversely with the indomethacin peak concentrations, r = 0.75. The plasma apparent terminal half-life correlated with postnatal age, r = 0.75. All patients with peak concentrations greater than 0.50 microgram/ml had transient oliguria. This study suggests that a minimum indomethacin concentration may be needed to promote PDA constriction.
Accumulating evidence indicates that gap junctions play an important role in the maintenance of normal cell growth, so that genes for the connexin gap junction proteins form a family of tumor-suppressor genes. Although mice from which nine types of connexin gene are deleted have been established, little information from carcinogenesis experiments with these mice is available. We have previously found several mutant forms of connexin 32 (Cx32) to be able to inhibit, in a dominant-negative manner, gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) exerted by wild-type Cx32. By introducing a gene for such a dominant-negative Cx32 mutant expressed under the control of a liver-specific albumin gene promoter, we have generated transgenic mouse lines in which the function of Cx32 is down-regulated only in the liver. Although GJIC was diminished in the transgenic liver as expected, the reduced GJIC did not affect viability nor the number of spontaneous liver tumors. Although susceptibility to diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis was significantly elevated in the transgenic mice, liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy was delayed compared with wild-type mice, suggesting that gap junctions function not only to suppress excessive cell growth but also to promote cell proliferation when necessary for normal function of tissues. Although the phenotype of Cx32-deficient mice was similar to that of the transgenic mice, the former showed more drastically altered phenotypes, i.e. increased BrdU incorporation in the quiescent liver and development of spontaneous liver tumors. We also established 3T3 fibroblasts from embryos lacking the Cx43 gene and characterized their growth. These fibroblasts showed no difference from the wild type in growth characteristics. From these and other studies, we suggest that gap junctions do not necessarily suppress cell growth but support an optimal growth rate.
Angiotensin II plays a pivotal role in the development of diabetic nephropathy, but it remains controversial as to the best approach to effectively block the actions of this hormone in the kidney. The aim of the present study was to explore the effects of long-term treatment (8 months) with a combination of an angiotensin type 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist, irbesartan (15 mg/kg per day), and an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, captopril (100 mg/kg per day), in diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats. Captopril treatment reduced blood pressure (163+/-3 mmHg versus diabetic 201+/-3 mmHg), but not albumin excretion rate (43.8x//1.3 mg/day versus diabetic 46.8x//1.4 mg/day). Irbesartan treatment was associated with a similar reduction in blood pressure (173+/-3 mmHg) to captopril, and albumin excretion rate was reduced (14x//1.5 mg/day). The combination of irbesartan and captopril induced further reductions in blood pressure (140+/-3 mmHg) and albumin excretion rates (4.0x//1.5 mg/day). Gene expression of transforming growth factor beta-1 was reduced by all treatments to a similar level as assessed by in situ hybridization. These results demonstrate the additive hypotensive and anti-albuminuric effects of an ACE inhibitor and an AT1 receptor, suggesting that combination therapy is an approach not only more effective at reducing blood pressure, but also at retarding the development of diabetic nephropathy.
1. We examined whether KRH-594, a new angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist, ameliorates the progression of diabetic nephropathy and hyperlipidaemia in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic unilateral nephrectomized spontaneously hypertensive rats (DM-1K-SHR) or not. 2. The oral administration of KRH-594 (3 and 10 mg/kg per day) and candesartan cilexetil (1 mg/kg per day) for 16 weeks significantly reduced systolic blood pressure, urinary albumin and urinary total protein in DM-1K-SHR. 3. In a histological study, KRH-594 (3 and 10mg/kg per day) and candesartan cilexetil (0.3 and 1 mg/kg per day) dose-dependently improved glomerulosclerosis and the hyalin cast of tubules in DM-1K-SHR kidneys. Both KRH-594 (10 mg/kg per day) and candesartan cilexetil (0.3 and 1 mg/kg per day) dose-dependently inhibited cardiac hypertrophy. 4. KRH-594 (3 and 10 mg/kg per day), but not candesartan cilexetil, dose-dependently reduced the levels of triglyceride, total cholesterol and phospholipids in DM-1K-SHR. 5. These results suggest that KRH-594 improves diabetic complications, such as nephropathy and hyperlipidaemia, with hypertension.
Fuel substrate utilization is highly regulated during cardiac development and with the onset of cardiac hypertrophy. Glucose and lactate are the predominant fuel substrates utilized during cardiac development. Postnatally, a switch occurs so that fatty acids become the chief energy substrate in the nonfed adult mammalian heart. A reversion back towards fetal energy metabolism occurs with the development of cardiac hypertrophy. To evaluate the role of this substrate preference switch in the development of cardiac hypertrophy, the molecular regulation directing these switches is being explored. Thus, we have begun by defining the temporal expression patterns of genes encoding key rate-controlling enzymes directing major fuel substrate metabolism during cardiac development, with pressure-overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy, and following antihypertensive therapy in spontaneously hypertensive rats. The genes encoding the fatty acid and adult enriched rate-controlling glycolytic enzymes are expressed at low levels in the fetal and neonatal rat heart. The genes encoding these enzymes are significantly and coordinately upregulated (> or = 70%) in adult rat hearts compared to the fetal expression patterns. A reciprocal and coordinate downregulation (> or = 40% reduction) of the fatty acid and adult enriched glycolytic enzyme encoding genes are observed with the induction of pressure-overload-induced hypertrophy in spontaneously hypertensive rats compared to Wistar-Furth normotensive control rats. Antihypertensive therapy with carvedilol, a vasodilating alpha- and beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist, attenuates this reversion of the metabolic gene expression pattern towards fetal levels compared to placebo-treated littermate controls. This coordinate developmental and hypertrophy-induced regulation of genes that encode enzymes controlling both fatty acid and glycolytic catabolic pathways in the heart implicates potential mutual/overlapping regulatory signaling proteins within their gene regulatory programs. These gene regulatory pathways need to be identified and modulated in order to characterize the functional role of fuel substrate metabolism in cardiac development and with the induction of cardiac hypertrophy.
The promoter of somatostatin (SST), a primary inhibitor of gastrin-stimulated gastric acid secretion, is hypermethylated in 80% of human colon cancers. The aim of the current study was to investigate whether and at what stage promoter hypermethylation of SST is involved in human esophageal carcinogenesis.
SST promoter hypermethylation was examined by real-time methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (MSP) in 260 human esophageal tissue specimens. Real-time reverse-transcriptase PCR and MSP were also performed on esophageal cancer cell lines before and after treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-dC).
SST hypermethylation showed highly discriminative receiver-operator characteristic curve profiles, clearly distinguishing esophageal squamous cell carcinomas (ESCC) and esophageal adenocarcinomas (EAC) from normal esophagus (NE) (P < .01). Both SST methylation frequency and normalized methylation value (NMV) were significantly higher in Barrett metaplasia without dysplasia or EAC (BE), low-grade and high-grade (HGD) dysplasia occurring in BE, EAC, and ESCC than in NE (P < .01). SST hypermethylation frequency was significantly lower in NE (9%) than in BE (70%), HGD (71.4%), or EAC (71.6%), whereas 14 (53.8%) of 26 ESCCs exhibited SST hypermethylation. There was a significant relation between SST hypermethylation and BE segment length, a known clinical risk factor for neoplastic progression. Demethylation of KYSE220 ESCC and OE33 EAC cells with 5-Aza-dC reduced SST methylation and increased SST mRNA expression. SST mRNA levels in native unmethylated EACs were significantly higher than in native methylated EACs (P < .05).
SST promoter hypermethylation is a common event in human esophageal carcinomas and is related to early neoplastic progression in Barrett esophagus.
Cocaine, the active alkaloid in coca leaf, is widely used as local anesthetic for otolaryngologic procedures. Our patient suffered an acute nontransmural myocardial infarction following clinical use of cocaine as topical anesthesia for nasal surgery, the first such case to be documented, to our knowledge. Although evidence documenting its cardiovascular toxicity is listed in contemporary pharmacologic literature, clinical cardiac injury has been reported to date only with the recreational use of cocaine. Authentic documentation of drug composition when received through the intervention of illicit vendors is always difficult. The literature is reviewed, justifying the use of cocaine as the most popular topical anesthetic in otolaryngologic practice. However, we hope that awareness of this possible complication will create a resurgence of research interest in topical cocaine anesthesia.
We have previously demonstrated super-induced expression of the Grin2c gene encoding the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 2C subunit during the process of liver enlargement induced by phenobarbital, clofibrate, piperonyl butoxide, or lead nitrate. In the present study, hepatic Grin2c gene expression levels were assessed by real-time RT-PCR in male F344 rats fed for 3 days, 4 weeks, and 13 weeks a diet containing either β-naphthoflavone (BNF) (5,000 ppm), indole-3-carbinol (I3C) (2,000 ppm), or acetaminophen (AA) (12,500 ppm until the first 14 days; 10,000 ppm from 15 days on), each of which is capable of inducing hepatocellular hypertrophy. Especially, either the 4-week or the 13-week treatment with each chemical, except for BNF, resulted in a drastic increase in the expression level of the Grin2c gene. DNA microarray analysis using RNAs of 13-week-treated rats showed that in the I3C- and AA-treated rats, the fold-increase rates of the Grin2c gene ranked second and first, respectively, among the genes analyzed. Histopathological analyses indicated that the slight hepatocellular hypertrophy in the periportal area and the hepatocellular necrosis in a portion of the centrilobular area developed in the BNF-treated and AA-treated rats, respectively. In addition, relative liver weight was significantly higher in the rats treated with BNF and I3C than in the control rats. The present findings suggest the possibility that the induction of Grin2c gene expression is not necessarily dependent on only the development of liver enlargement, although the significance of this induction remains unclear.
Epomediol (1,3,3-trimethyl-2-oxabicyclo(2.2.2.)octan-6,7-endo,endo-diol) (EPO) is a terpenoid compound shown to reverse 17 alpha-ethinylestradiol (EE)-induced cholestasis in rat. The effect is related to the restoration of normal liver plasma membrane fluidity values. To further characterize the effect of EPO, bile flow and biliary lipid composition were measured in rats treated either with EE or EE associated with EPO. EE significantly reduced the bile flow; this reduction was prevented by concomitant treatment with EPO with an increase in the bile salt secretion rate. EPO alone showed a choleretic effect. The biliary secretion rate of cholesterol was also significantly reduced by EE while being comparable to controls in EE-EPO-treated animals. Phospholipid (PL) biliary excretion was significantly (P less than 0.002) increased by EE either alone or combined with EPO. After EE treatment, the biliary PL composition showed a reduction in phosphatidylcholine (PC) concentration with a parallel increase in lyso-phosphatidylcholine (LPC) when compared to control animals (PC:LPC ratio 5.0 +/- 2.5 vs 26.8 +/- 9.9, mean +/- SD, P less than 0.005). EPO administration to EE-treated rats restored the biliary PC:LPC ratio to control values (27.6 +/- 10.6). EPO alone did not show any appreciable effect as compared to both control and EE-EPO treated animals. As increased concentrations of LPC have been reported to induce an alteration in the function of membrane lipids and membrane-associated proteins, such as regulatory enzymes for bile acid, cholesterol and phospholipid metabolism, these results suggest that the protective effect of EPO in EE-induced cholestasis may be related to the reversal of the alterations in membrane lipid composition and function induced by EE.
Paclitaxel (Taxol) is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of several tumors. However, its use is often associated with the generation of peripheral neuropathic pain expressed as mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. The molecular mechanism behind this debilitating side effect is obscure, and efficient drugs for its prevention are required. We sought to clarify the cellular changes in the involved nociceptor types underlying paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain and to test for an alleviating effect of gabapentin treatment in a murine model of paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain. We found that a single treatment with paclitaxel (4 mg/kg i.p.) led to a decrease in both thermal and mechanical nociceptive thresholds as well as a reduction in the thresholds for 250-Hz (A delta-fiber) and 2000 Hz (A beta-fiber) but not 5-Hz (C-fiber) sine wave electrical stimuli-induced paw withdrawal. The paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain was completely abrogated by gabapentin (30 mg/kg i.p.) treatment. Furthermore, we found that mRNA and protein levels of the voltage-gated calcium channel (alpha 2)delta-1 subunit (Ca(alpha 2)delta-1), one of the putative targets for gabapentin, was up-regulated in dorsal root ganglions (DRGs), as well as increased expression of Ca(alpha 2)delta-1 protein in medium/large-sized DRG neurons by immunohistochemistry, following paclitaxel treatment. This suggests that paclitaxel induces A-fiber-specific hypersensitization, which may contribute to the functional mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia, and that gabapentin could be a potential therapeutic agent for paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain.
HER2/neu positive breast tumors are difficult to treat. About 25 to 30% of invasive breast tumors overexpress the HER2/neu oncogene. These tumors are aggressive and become resistant to chemotherapeutic drugs. 3'3'-diindolylmethane (DIM), the active metabolite of indole-3-carbinol, a naturally occurring compound found in cruciferous vegetables, has been found to have anti-cancer properties in both humans and animals. DIM has been shown to induce cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in animal breast cancer models. Because HER2/neu overexpression confers resistance to paclitaxel, and DIM has anti-tumor effects, we hypothesized that DIM will enhance the cytotoxic effects of paclitaxel, a common taxane drug, on human Her2/neu breast cancer cells by potentiating its effect on cell cycle and stimulating apoptosis.
The MDA-MB-435eB1 human Her2/neu breast cancer cells were treated with varying concentrations of DIM and paclitaxel. The cells were analyzed at different time points (24, 48, and 72 h). Proliferation was measured by a commercial cell proliferation assay (Promega Procheck Assay). Cell-cycle analysis and apoptosis were determined by flow cytometry. Western blot analysis was performed on to determine the effect of DIM and/or paclitaxel on the proteins involved in apoptosis, and epidermal growth factor-induced activation of HER2/neu and ERK1/2 signaling proteins.
Both DIM and paclitaxel exhibited time and concentration dependent inhibition of cell proliferation. TUNEL assay indicated that the combination also increased the number of apoptotic cells more than either agent alone. The presence of cleaved poly (ADP-Ribose) polymerase (PARP) significantly increased in the combination treatment, whereas Bcl-2 is decreased. DIM alone decreased the activation of the Her2/neu receptor; the combination decreased the activation of ERK1/ERK2.
DIM in combination with paclitaxel synergistically inhibits growth of Her2/neu human breast cancer cells through G2M phase cell-cycle arrest and induction of apoptosis/necrosis. The Her2/neu receptor and its downstream signaling protein ERK1/2 appear to be involved in DIM's affect on cell growth and differentiation, whereas apoptosis appears to be mediated through the mitochondrial pathway (Bcl-2/PARP). It appears DIM, a naturally occurring, nontoxic compound, may be a beneficial addition to a traditional (taxane-based) chemotherapy regimen.
Intrathecal neostigmine injection produces analgesia in volunteers and reduces hypotension from intrathecal bupivacaine in animals. Initial clinical trials with neostigmine studied doses of more than 100 microg, but animal studies suggest that smaller doses may be effective. In addition, all controlled clinical trials of neostigmine have come from one Brazilian university. This multicenter, placebo-controlled trial investigated the effects of 25-75 microg intrathecal neostigmine on analgesia and blood pressure in women undergoing vaginal hysterectomy.
After institutional review board approval was obtained at the three university centers, and after patients gave informed consent, 92 women scheduled for vaginal hysterectomy were randomized to receive an intrathecal injection of 2 ml bupivacaine, 0.75%, in dextrose plus either 1 ml saline or 25, 50, or 75 microg neostigmine. Blood pressure, heart rate, pain and nausea (both assessed by visual analog scale), and intravenous morphine use were recorded during surgery and at specified intervals afterward.
Morphine use was reduced similarly by all doses of neostigmine. Only the 75-microg dose of neostigmine increased the nausea score in the recovery room. The incidence of treatment for nausea was greater in patients receiving neostigmine (61%) than in those receiving saline placebo (29%) and was unaffected by neostigmine dose. Neostigmine did not reduce the incidence of hypotension from bupivacaine.
These data in patients after vaginal hysterectomy suggest that analgesia from intrathecal neostigmine may occur at doses less than 50 microg. In these doses, neostigmine does not reduce spinal bupivacaine-induced hypotension but may increase the need for treatment of nausea.
Previously we showed that 17β-estradiol (E(2)) and/or the xenoestrogen bisphenol A (BPA) alter ventricular myocyte Ca(2+) handing, resulting in increased cardiac arrhythmias in a female-specific manner. In the present study, the roles of estrogen receptors (ER) in mediating the rapid contractile and arrhythmogenic effects of estrogens were examined. Contractility was used as an index to assess the impact of E(2) or BPA on Ca(2+) handling in rodent ventricular myocytes. The concentration-response curve for the stimulatory effects of BPA and E(2) on female myocyte was inverted-U shaped. Detectable effects for each compound were observed at 10(-12) M, and the most efficacious concentrations for each were at 10(-9) M. Sensitivity to E(2) and BPA was not observed in male myocytes and was abolished in myocytes from ovariectomized females. Analysis using protein-conjugated E(2) suggests that these rapid actions are induced by membrane-associated receptors. Analysis using selective ER agonists and antagonists and a genetic ERβ knockout mouse model showed that ERα and ERβ have opposing actions in myocytes and that the balance between ERβ and ERα signaling is the prime regulator of the sex-specific sensitivity toward estrogens. The response of female myocytes to E(2) and BPA is dominated by the stimulatory ERβ-mediated signaling, and the absence of BPA and E(2) responsiveness in males is due to a counterbalancing-suppressive action of ERα. We conclude that the sex-specific sensitivity of myocytes to estrogens and the rapid arrhythmogenic effects of BPA and estradiol in the female heart are regulated by the balance between ERα and ERβ signaling.
The aim of this study was to elucidate the long-term outcome after interferon (IFN) or lamivudine (LMV) treatment in Japanese patients with hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) positive chronic hepatitis B. Inclusion criteria were biopsy proven chronic hepatitis or liver cirrhosis, no history of IFN or LMV treatment. Three hundred twenty-seven patients satisfied above criteria were treated with IFN or LMV. The primary end point of our study was serum clearance of HBeAg and decrease of serum HBV-DNA to < or =5 LEG/ml after the initiation of treatment. This study was a retrospective cohort study. Attainment of serum clearance of HBeAg and decrease of serum HBV-DNA to < or =5 LEG/ml was regarded as response. Two hundred eighty-six patients had got response after the initiation of treatment. The cumulative rate of response was 28.0% in the first year, 56.2% at the 5th year and 82.5% at the 10th year. Response occurred when HBV-DNA load was high level of more than 7 LEG/ml, and serum ALT level was more than 100 IU/L, HBV genotype was B. IFN and LMV were the similar effect on response (P = 0.410). On IFN therapy, cumulative rate of response in patients of <35 years was higher than that in patients > or =35 years (P = 0.002). Our results suggest that (1) IFN and LMV are the similar effect on response, (2) IFN therapy is more effective for younger patients.
The simultaneous i.v. administration of heroin and cocaine, called "speedball," is often reported clinically, and identification of effective pharmacotherapies for polydrug abuse is a continuing challenge. This study compared the effects of treatment using combinations of dopamine and opioid antagonists with each antagonist alone on speedball self-administration by rhesus monkeys. Speedballs (0.01 mg/kg/inj cocaine and 0.0032 mg/kg/inj heroin) and food (1 g banana pellets) were available in four daily sessions on a second-order schedule of reinforcement [FR4 (VR16:S)]. Monkeys were treated for 10 days with saline or ascending 1:10 dose combinations of the dopamine antagonist flupenthixol and the opioid antagonist quadazocine. The combination of flupenthixol (0.018 mg/kg/day) + quadazocine (0.18 mg/kg/day) significantly reduced speedball self-administration in comparison to the saline treatment baseline (p < .05), whereas, the same doses of each antagonist alone had no significant effect on speedball-maintained responding. Treatment with 0.018 mg/kg/day flupenthixol + 0.18 mg/kg/day quadazocine produced a 3-fold rightward shift in the speedball (3:1 cocaine-heroin combination) dose-effect curve. Food-maintained responding was similar during treatment with saline and with flupenthixol + quadazocine combinations. These findings suggest that medication mixtures designed to target both the stimulant and opioid component of the speedball combination, may be an effective approach to polydrug abuse treatment.
Pregnant CD1 mice received 85 ppm arsenite in the drinking water from gestation day 8 to 18, groups (n = 35) of male offspring were subsequently injected on postpartum days 1 through 5 with diethylstilbestrol (DES; 2 microg/pup/day) or tamoxifen (TAM; 10 microg/pup/day), and tumor formation was assessed over 90 weeks. Arsenic alone increased hepatocellular carcinoma (14%), adenoma (23%) and total tumors (31%) compared to control (0, 2 and 2%, respectively). Arsenic alone also increased lung adenocarcinoma, adrenal cortical adenoma and renal cystic tubular hyperplasia compared to control. Compared to arsenic alone, arsenic plus DES increased liver tumor incidence in mice at risk 2.2-fold and increased liver tumor multiplicity (tumors/liver) 1.8-fold. The treatments alone did not impact urinary bladder carcinogenesis, but arsenic plus TAM significantly increased formation of urinary bladder transitional cell tumors (papilloma and carcinoma; 13%) compared to control (0%). Urinary bladder proliferative lesions (combined tumors and hyperplasia) were also increased by arsenic plus TAM (40%) or arsenic plus DES (43%) compared to control (0%) or the treatments alone. Urinary bladder proliferative lesions occurred in the absence of any evidence of uroepithelial cytotoxic lesions. Urinary bladder lesions and hepatocellular carcinoma induced by arsenic plus TAM and/or DES overexpressed estrogen receptor-alpha, indicating that aberrant estrogen signaling may have been a factor in the enhanced carcinogenic response. Thus, in male CD1 mice, gestational arsenic exposure alone induced liver adenoma and carcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, adrenal adenoma and renal cystic hyperplasia. Furthermore, DES enhanced transplacental arsenic-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. In utero arsenic also initiated urinary bladder tumor formation when followed by postnatal TAM and uroepithelial proliferative lesions when followed by TAM or DES.
Using a positron emission tomography (PET) study it was shown recently that in migraine without aura certain areas in the brain stem were activated during the headache state, but not in the headache free interval. It was suggested that this brain stem activation is inherent to the migraine attack itself and represents the so called 'migraine generator'. To test this hypothesis we performed an experimental pain study in seven healthy volunteers, using the same positioning in the PET scanner as in the migraine patients. A small amount of capsaicin was administered subcutaneously in the right forehead to evoke a burning painful sensation in the first division of the trigeminal nerve. Increases of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) were found bilaterally in the insula, in the anterior cingulate cortex, the cavernous sinus and the cerebellum. Using the same stereotactic space limits as in the above mentioned migraine study no brain stem activation was found in the acute pain state compared to the pain free state. The increase of activation in the region of the cavernous sinus however, suggests that this structure is more likely to be involved in trigeminal transmitted pain as such, rather than in a specific type of headache as was suggested for cluster headache.
Elevated fasting and postprandial plasma levels of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TGRLs), i.e. VLDL/remnants and chylomicrons/remnants, are a characteristic feature of insulin resistance and are considered a consequence of this state. The aim of this study was to investigate whether intact TGRL particles are capable of inducing insulin resistance.
We studied the effect of highly purified TGRLs on glycogen synthesis, glycogen synthase activity, glucose uptake, insulin signalling and intramyocellular lipid (IMCL) content using fully differentiated L6 skeletal muscle cells.
Incubation with TGRLs diminished insulin-stimulated glycogen synthesis, glycogen synthase activity, glucose uptake and insulin-stimulated phosphorylation of Akt and glycogen synthase kinase 3. Insulin-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-1, and IRS-1- and IRS-2-associated phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) activity were not impaired by TGRLs, suggesting that these steps were not involved in the lipoprotein-induced effects on glucose metabolism. The overall observed effects were time- and dose-dependent and paralleled IMCL accumulation. NEFA concentration in the incubation media did not increase in the presence of TGRLs indicating that the effects observed were solely due to intact lipoprotein particles. Moreover, co-incubation of TGRLs with orlistat, a potent active-site inhibitor of various lipases, did not alter TGRL-induced effects, whereas co-incubation with receptor-associated protein (RAP), which inhibits interaction of TGRL particles with members of the LDL receptor family, reversed the TGRL-induced effects on glycogen synthesis and insulin signalling.
Our data suggest that the accumulation of TGRLs in the blood stream of insulin-resistant patients may not only be a consequence of insulin resistance but could also be a cause for it.
A 58-year-old man with advanced Parkinson disease underwent battery replacement for a deep brain stimulator and experienced severe bradykinesia and rigidity postoperatively for 36 hours. The patient was administered fentanyl as an anesthetic during the procedure and as an analgesic periodically during the day after surgery. The severe bradykinesia and rigidity persisted despite reactivation of the deep brain stimulator and immediate reinstitution of Parkinson disease medications, but resolved completely several hours after discontinuation of fentanyl.
BIRB-796, a selective inhibitor of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, has entered clinical trials for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. Levels of alanine transaminase, a biomarker of hepatic toxicity in clinical pathology, were found to be increased in Crohn's disease patients treated with BIRB-796. The purpose of the present study was to clarify the molecular mechanism(s) of this hepatotoxicity. A toxicogenomic analysis using a highly sensitive DNA chip, 3D-Gene™ Mouse Oligo chip 24k, indicated that BIRB-796 treatment activated the nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 signaling pathway, which plays a key role in the response to oxidative stress. A reactive intermediate of BIRB-796 was detected by the glutathione-trapping method using mouse and human liver microsomes. The production of this reactive metabolite in the liver may be one of the causes of BIRB-796's hepatotoxicity.
This study was to evaluate the effect of riluzole on methylmercury- (MeHg-) induced oxidative stress, through promotion of glutathione (GSH) synthesis by activating of glutamate transporters (GluTs) in rat cerebral cortex.
Eighty rats were randomly assigned to four groups, control group, riluzole alone group, MeHg alone group, and riluzole + MeHg group. The neurotoxicity of MeHg was observed by measuring mercury (Hg) absorption, pathological changes, and cell apoptosis of cortex. Oxidative stress was evaluated via determining reactive oxygen species (ROS), 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), malondialdehyde (MDAs), carbonyl, sulfydryl, and GSH in cortex. Glutamate (Glu) transport was studied by measuring Glu, glutamine (Gln), mRNA, and protein of glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST) and glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1).
(1) MeHg induced Hg accumulation, pathological injury, and apoptosis of cortex; (2) MeHg increased ROS, 8-OHdG, MDA, and carbonyl, and inhibited sulfydryl and GSH; (3) MeHg elevated Glu, decreased Gln, and downregulated GLAST and GLT-1 mRNA expression and protein levels; (4) riluzole antagonized MeHg-induced downregulation of GLAST and GLT-1 function and expression, GSH depletion, oxidative stress, pathological injury, and apoptosis obviously.
Data indicate that MeHg administration induced oxidative stress in cortex and that riluzole could antagonize this situation through elevation of GSH synthesis by activating of GluTs.
Chronic alcohol consumption produces alcoholic heart muscle disease (AHMD), a prevalent form of congestive heart failure. Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain the damaging effects of alcohol on the heart, but neither the mechanism nor the ultimate toxin has been established. In this study, we use transgenic overexpression of alcohol dehydrogenase to elevate cardiac exposure to acetaldehyde, the major and most reactive metabolite of alcohol. Overexpression of alcohol dehydrogenase by 40-fold produced no detectable deleterious effects to the heart in the absence of alcohol. In the presence of alcohol, transgenic hearts contained 4-fold higher acetaldehyde than control hearts. Chronic alcohol exposure produced many changes similar to AHMD in transgenic hearts. Compared with control hearts, these pathological changes occurred more rapidly and to a greater extent: alcohol-exposed transgenic hearts were almost twice as large as control hearts. They demonstrated ultrastructural damage consistent with AHMD and had much lower contractility than alcohol-exposed control hearts. In addition, the transgenic hearts showed greater changes in mRNA expression for alpha-skeletal actin and atrial natriuretic factor than alcohol-exposed control hearts. Alterations in NAD(+)/NADH levels were insufficient to account for such severe damage in cardiomyopathic hearts. The increased damage produced in transgenic hearts suggests an important role for acetaldehyde in AHMD.
