The renal glomeruli are vulnerable to injury by a number of drugs and other toxic agents. These agents may lead to damage by one of two basic mechanisms: direct, dose-related toxic injury; indirect, immunologically mediated injury, largely dose-independent. Proteinuria is the simplest and most important functional indicator of glomerular injury. It occurs almost immediately in direct toxic injury, but there is a latent period of weeks to months with immunologically mediated processes. Of the two mechanisms, the second is by far the more common in clinical settings. The best studied experimental agent causing direct toxic injury is the aminonucleoside of puromycin. Clinically, perhaps the most important agent is Cyclosporine A. Although this agent is usually thought of primarily as a tubular toxin, it is capable of giving rise to a microangiopathic glomerular lesion similar to that in the hemolytic uremic syndrome. The classic model for immunologic glomerular lesion is Heymann nephritis, which produces a membranous glomerulopathy. Clinically, most drug mediated glomerulopathies also take the form of a membranous nephropathy, usually with a frank nephrotic syndrome. Among the more common offenders are penicillamine, gold salts used in rheumatoid arthritis, and captopril used in hypertension. The other common type of drug-related glomerulopathy occurs as part of a lupus-like syndrome induced by a variety of drugs, including hydralazine, procainamide, and penicillamine. All of these give rise to a variety of antibodies, most prominently antinuclear antibodies, and in the more severe cases there may be lupus-like glomerular lesions as well.
The purpose of this work was to test the effect of inhibition of bone remodeling, through the use of the bisphosphonate, zoledronic acid, on cartilage matrix damage in an animal model of cartilage matrix damage.
New Zealand white rabbits were divided into four groups for treatment purposes: (1) untreated controls; (2) injected into one knee joint with the cartilage matrix degradation enzyme, chymopapain; (3) injected into one knee joint with chymopapain and also given subcutaneous injections of the bisphosphonate, zoledronic acid, three times per week until sacrifice at either day 28 or 56 post-chymopapain-injection; (4) received only the zoledronic acid injections. At sacrifice, the knee joints were examined grossly and histologically, and biochemically for proteoglycan content. Urine samples were analysed, at intervals, for levels of collagen cross-links which are biochemical markers of cartilage and bone.
Animals receiving both intraarticular chymopapain injections and subcutaneous zoledronic acid injections displayed a significantly lower degree of grossly and histologically detectable cartilage degeneration on the tibial articular surfaces (the articular surface displaying the greatest degree of degeneration) than did animals only receiving the chymopapain injections. In addition, urinary levels of collagen cross-links for bone and cartilage were significantly higher in those animals only receiving chymopapain injections.
The bone resorption observed after chymopapain injection into the rabbit knee joint can be inhibited through the use of the bisphosphonate, zoledronic acid. Furthermore, zoledronic acid does not increase the level of cartilage degeneration and appears to provide some level of chondroprotection in this model.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration to mice on day 7 of gestation led to 100% embryonic resorption after 24 h. In this model, nitric oxide is fundamental for the resorption process. Progesterone may be responsible, at least in part, for a Th2 switch in the feto-maternal interface, inducing active immune tolerance against fetal antigens. Th2 cells promote the development of T cells, producing leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), which seems to be important due to its immunomodulatory action during early pregnancy. Our aim was to evaluate the involvement of progesterone in the mechanism of LPS-induced embryonic resorption, and whether LIF can mediate hormonal action. Using in vivo and in vitro models, we provide evidence that circulating progesterone is an important component of the process by which infection causes embryonic resorption in mice. Also, LIF seems to be a mediator of the progesterone effect under inflammatory conditions. We found that serum progesterone fell to very low levels after 24 h of LPS exposure. Moreover, progesterone supplementation prevented embryonic resorption and LPS-induced increase of uterine nitric oxide levels in vivo. Results show that LPS diminished the expression of the nuclear progesterone receptor in the uterus after 6 and 12 h of treatment. We investigated the expression of LIF in uterine tissue from pregnant mice and found that progesterone up-regulates LIF mRNA expression in vitro. We observed that LIF was able to modulate the levels of nitric oxide induced by LPS in vitro, suggesting that it could be a potential mediator of the inflammatory action of progesterone. Our observations support the view that progesterone plays a critical role in a successful pregnancy as an anti-inflammatory agent, and that it could have possible therapeutic applications in the prevention of early reproductive failure associated with inflammatory disorders.
The contrast media-induced renal effects of 3 different low osmolar contrast agents were prospectively evaluated with creatinine, beta-2-microglobulin, and urea in serum before and after femoral arteriography in 110 consecutive patients. Forty-two patients (38%) had at least one of the 2 major risk factors for contrast media-induced nephropathy; diabetes mellitus or renal dysfunction. Six patients (5%) had both risk factors. There were statistically significant increases of S-creatinine (6.5%, p < 0.001) and S-beta-2-microglobulin (7.4%, p < 0.001) but no increase of S-urea, in the total patient material. This effect was independent of preexaminatory renal function, the presence of diabetes mellitus and type of low osmolar contrast agent used in these patients who were properly hydrated before the examination. The amount of administered contrast medium did not correlate with the degree of contrast agent-induced renal function impairment.
Amphetamine abuse and dependence is a global health concern with a collateral increase in medical and social problems. Although some of the neurobiological mechanisms underlying amphetamine dependence and its devastating effects in humans are known, the development of rational and evidence-based treatment is lagging. There is evidence from preclinical studies suggesting that the endogenous opioid system plays a role in mediating some of the behavioral and neurochemical effects of amphetamine in a variety of controlled settings. In the present study we assessed the effects of naltrexone, an opioid antagonist (50 mg) on the subjective physiological and biochemical response to dexamphetamine (30 mg) in 20 amphetamine-dependent patients. Patients received naltrexone/amphetamine followed by placebo/amphetamine, 1 week apart in a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled design. The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of pretreatment with naltrexone on the subjective response to amphetamine, using a Visual Analog Scale. The secondary objective was to investigate the effects of naltrexone on physiological and biochemical responses to amphetamine, as measured by changes in blood pressure, heart rate, skin conductance, and cortisol. Naltrexone significantly attenuated the subjective effects produced by dexamphetamine in dependent patients (p<0.001). Pretreatment with naltrexone also significantly blocked the craving for dexamphetamine (p<0.001). There was no difference between the groups on the physiological measures. The results suggest that the subjective effects of amphetamine could be modulated via the endogenous opioid system. The potential of naltrexone as an adjunct pharmaceutical for amphetamine dependence is promising.
Knowledge of the effect of parenteral nicotine on physiologic gastric hyperemia is limited. This study examined the effect of intravenous nicotine on gastric hyperemia and and secretion induced by pentagastrin.
In starved, urethane-anesthetized rats, gastric corpus blood flow was monitored continuously in a localized area of the mucosa, using laser Doppler flowmetry. The tip of the laser Doppler flow probe was positioned against the mid-gastric corpus mucosa along the greater curvature. Intravenous nicotine (4 or 40 micrograms/kg/min) or vehicle was infused.
The gastric acid secretion stimulated by intravenous pentagastrin, 20 micrograms/kg/min, was completely inhibited by both doses of nicotine. In contrast to previous reports based on the clearance of weak bases for gastric mucosal blood flow measurement, neither dose of nicotine altered the hyperemia induced by pentagastrin.
A dissociated effect of intravenous nicotine on pentagastrin-stimulated gastric acid secretion and hyperemia is documented.
Malignant migrating partial seizures of infancy (MMPSI) is a rare epileptic encephalopathy of infancy that combines pharmacoresistant seizures with developmental delay. We performed exome sequencing in three probands with MMPSI and identified de novo gain-of-function mutations affecting the C-terminal domain of the KCNT1 potassium channel. We sequenced KCNT1 in 9 additional individuals with MMPSI and identified mutations in 4 of them, in total identifying mutations in 6 out of 12 unrelated affected individuals. Functional studies showed that the mutations led to constitutive activation of the channel, mimicking the effects of phosphorylation of the C-terminal domain by protein kinase C. In addition to regulating ion flux, KCNT1 has a non-conducting function, as its C terminus interacts with cytoplasmic proteins involved in developmental signaling pathways. These results provide a focus for future diagnostic approaches and research for this devastating condition.
We performed genomic mapping of a family with autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) and intellectual and psychiatric problems, identifying a disease-associated region on chromosome 9q34.3. Whole-exome sequencing identified a mutation in KCNT1, encoding a sodium-gated potassium channel subunit. KCNT1 mutations were identified in two additional families and a sporadic case with severe ADNFLE and psychiatric features. These findings implicate the sodium-gated potassium channel complex in ADNFLE and, more broadly, in the pathogenesis of focal epilepsies.
Pharmacological actions of (N-dicyclopropylmethyl)-amino-2-oxazoline (S 3341), an agonist of alpha-2 adrenoceptors, were examined in acute animal studies. In the normotensive anaesthetized dog S 3341 (0.3 mg/kg, i.v.) produced an initial transient increase followed by a marked, prolonged fall in mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 20 mmHg. Central actions of S 3341 were demonstrated by administration of low doses into the vertebral artery of the anaesthetized dog. A rapid and marked fall in MAP resulted which was antagonised by piperoxan. Splanchnic discharges were strongly decreased following S 3341 i.v. administration, suggesting a centrally mediated diminution of sympathetic tone. Peripheral actions of S 3341 were observed in the pithed rat where a dose-dependent increase in MAP was noted which was somewhat antagonised by prazosin and largely by prazosin plus yohimbine. S 3341 reduced hypertension and tachycardia due to stimulation of the sympathetic outflow in the pithed rat, an effect also antagonised by piperoxan. These effects were more marked and prolonged than those of clonidine. S 3341 reduced the tachycardia resulting from stimulation of the cardioaccelerator nerve in the anaesthetized, spinalised and bilateraly vagotomised dog, this effect was reversed by piperoxan. S 3341 did no change the tachycardia induced by noradrenaline or tyramine. Plasma renin activity was significantly decreased after S 3341 treatment in dogs on low normal or high sodium diets. In rats S 3341 decreased the rate of discharge of noradrenergic cells located in the locus coeruleus which are believed to be involved in wake/sleep mechanisms. This depression was 63 times less than that of clonidine. At effective hypotensive doses S 3341 produced no sedation (i.e. loss of righting reflex) in 2 day old chicks. In addition the sedative action of clonidine was inhibited by S 3341 pretreatment. In the mouse tail flick model, the antinociceptive effects of S 3341 were 45 times less than those of clonidine. S 3341, an oxazoline derivative, appears to have haemodynamic effects similar to those of other agonists of central alpha-2 adrenoceptors but with fewer side-effects, and therefore could be of interest an as antihypertensive agent.
Oral lichenoid drug eruption (OLE) is a self-restricted inflammatory condition usually secondary to a variety of drugs and dental materials (mercury, gold), and rarely to immunomodulators and new antineoplastic agents such as imatinib mesylate (Glivec). OLE clinical features are reminiscent of lichen planus and include symmetric and asymptomatic, erythematous, reticulated and painful ulcerated plaques. Histological examination reveals perivascular lymphocytic infiltrate and the presence of eosinophils that obscures the dermal-epidermal junction, with acanthosis and mild hyperkeratosis.
A 62-year-old man was treated with Glivec for metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST).
The patient presented with grey-violaceous plaques on both cheek mucosal surfaces and the lateral sides of the tongue and labial mucosa, with a reticular pattern resembling oral lichen planus. These lesions appeared approximately 1 year after therapy and partially subsided in about 10 weeks, to clear after topical corticosteroids and oral omeprazole. The diagnosis of OLE induced by imatinib was confirmed by histological biopsy evaluation; immunohistochemical analysis revealed intense immunoreactivity with only cytokeratins 5/6 and 14 in the epithelium of affected mucosa. All laboratory investigations proved asiderotic anaemia but excluded infectious causes.
It is believed that this patient developed imatinib-induced OLE; this relationship with therapy rather than the underlying disease rules out a paraneoplastic reaction, and negative immunofluorescence excluded autoimmune dermatosis. In addition, we propose that these lesions are correlated with abnormal expression of some cytokeratins directly caused by this drug.
Ketorolac tromethamine (Toradol, Syntex Laboratories Inc, Palo Alto, CA) is a new nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug widely used in emergency departments and during the postoperative period because of its potent analgesic effects and lack of central nervous system activities. We present three new cases of acute renal failure and hyperkalemia secondary to ketorolac. All patients had at least one risk factor making them prone to the development of acute renal failure secondary to the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. In all patients, acute renal failure developed after a moderate dose of ketorolac was administered for the management of postsurgical pain. Acute renal failure and hyperkalemia were transient, and improved after discontinuation of ketorolac treatment.
There is mounting evidence that low levels of some polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) play a role in the pathophysiology of depressive and aggressive disorders, including homicides. There is also evidence derived mostly from the animal literature that PUFAs could play a role in the abuse of substances through their action on central serotonergic and dopaminergic systems that are both known to play a role in reward mechanisms. In this study, we explored the possibility that the relapse rates of cocaine addicts discharged after a period of detoxification on an inpatient unit would be associated with their PUFA status. Thirty-eight patients were enrolled in the study. PUFA status was assessed only at baseline, shortly after admission. Resumption of substance use was assessed 3 months, 6 months and 1 year following discharge. Thirty-two patients remained available for follow-up for the duration of the study. Subjects who relapsed at 3 months had significantly lower baseline levels of total n-6 PUFAs, linoleic acid (LA, 18:2n-6), arachidonic acid (AA, 20:4n-6) and total n-3 PUFAs when compared to non-relapsers by ANCOVAs with age and weight as covariates. Lower baseline total n-6 PUFAs, LA and AA continued to predict relapse 6 months and 12 months following discharge. Age, marital status, educational level, cocaine use parameters or psychopathology did not differ between relapsers and non-relapsers. In conclusion, low PUFA status at baseline was a better predictor of relapse than cocaine use, sociodemographic or clinical parameters. These data suggest, but do not prove, the existence of a causal relationship between n-6 or n-3 status and relapse vulnerability in cocaine addicts, and provide a rationale for the exploration of possible relationships between relapse to addictive disorders and PUFA status in observational and interventional trials.
Propylthiouracil therapy is associated with a variety of adverse reactions. Renal involvement, although rare, has occurred, but neither acute interstitial nephritis nor severe acute renal failure has been reported previously. We report a case of fulminant acute interstitial nephritis with renal failure following treatment with propylthiouracil.
In this study, we examined the relative contribution of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO), two major proinflammatory pathways up-regulated in liver disease, to the progression of hepatic inflammation and fibrosis. Separate administration of 4-[5-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl]benzenesulfonamide (SC-236), a selective COX-2 inhibitor, and CJ-13,610, a 5-LO inhibitor, to carbon tetrachloride-treated mice significantly reduced fibrosis as revealed by the analysis of Sirius Red-stained liver sections without affecting necroinflammation. Conversely, combined administration of SC-236 and 4-[3-[4-(2-methylimidazol-1-yl)-phenylthio]]phenyl-3,4,5,6-tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-carboxamide (CJ-13,610) reduced both necroinflammation and fibrosis. These findings were confirmed in 5-LO-deficient mice receiving SC-236, which also showed reduced hepatic monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 expression. Interestingly, SC-236 and CJ-13,610 significantly increased the number of nonparenchymal liver cells with apoptotic nuclei (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling-positive). Additional pharmacological profiling of SC-236 and CJ-13,610 was performed in macrophages, the primary hepatic inflammatory cell type. In these cells, SC-236 inhibited prostaglandin (PG) E2 formation in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas CJ-13,610 blocked leukotriene B4 biosynthesis. Of note, the simultaneous addition of SC-236 and CJ-13,610 resulted in a higher inhibitory profile on PGE2 biosynthesis than the dual COX/5-LO inhibitor licofelone. These drugs differentially regulated interleukin-6 mRNA expression in macrophages. Taken together, these findings indicate that both COX-2 and 5-LO pathways are contributing factors to hepatic inflammation and fibrosis and that these two pathways of the arachidonic acid cascade represent potential targets for therapy.
The aim of the present study was to compare the efficacy and safety of tiapride versus haloperidol and placebo in the treatment of agitation and aggressiveness in elderly patients with mild or moderate mental impairment.
This international, multicentre, randomized, double blind, three parallel groups study compared efficacy and safety of a 21 -day regimen of tiapride 100-300 mg/day versus haloperidol 2-6 mg/day and placebo in 306 elderly patients with mild or moderate dementia according to DSM III R and behavioural troubles with the Multidimensional Observation Scale for the Elderly Subjects (MOSES) irritability/aggressiveness subscore ranging from 16 to 30.
The percentage of responders (defined as patients with at least a 25% MOSES irritability/aggressiveness subscore decrease between the inclusion and the end of the treatment) was significantly greater in the tiapride (63%, P=0.04) and haloperidol (69%, P=0.004) groups than in the placebo group (49%), with no significant difference between the active drugs. Similar results were observed for the mean MOSES irritability/aggressiveness subscores on D7, D21 and at D(end) which were significantly smaller in the tiapride and haloperidol groups than in the placebo group. The decrease between D0 and D(end) was significantly greater in the tiapride (6.57, P=0.009) and haloperidol groups (6.75, P=0.005) than in the placebo group (4.71). The global improvement CGI was significantly better in the tiapride and haloperidol groups than in the placebo group (P=0.03 and P=0.02). No significant difference was observed between the two active drugs or among the three treatment groups for the Folstein's Mini Mental Status scale (MMS) total score, and there was no notable change during treatment. The number of patients with adverse events, assessed on the Udvalg Kliniske Undersogelser scale (UKU), and the number of UKU symptoms were smaller in the tiapride group (62 patients, 61%, 212 events) than in the haloperidol group (77 patients, 76%, 305 events) and identical to that observed in the placebo group (69 patients, 67%, 234 events). Of interest, the number of patients with at least one extrapyramidal symptom was significantly lower (P=0.003) in the tiapride group (16 patients, 16%) than in the haloperidol group (34 patients, 34%) and similar to that of the placebo group (18 patients, 17%); the difference observed between the haloperidol and placebo groups was significant (P=0.008).
Tiapride is not different from haloperidol in the treatment of agitation and aggressiveness in elderly patients and better tolerated, in particular with significantly fewer extrapyramidal symptoms.
The utility of fluphenazine levels during maintenance treatment of schizophrenia is still unclear.
This study investigated the relationship between fluphenazine levels and a variety of clinical measures during maintenance treatment of schizophrenia.
Fluphenazine levels, side effects, depression and psychosocial outcome were measured at five time points over approximately 1 year in 59 recent onset schizophrenic patients treated with a maintenance dose of injectable fluphenazine decanoate. Negative symptoms were evaluated at the 1-year endpoint.
Fluphenazine levels showed marked intraindividual variability even when measurements were restricted to the second 6 months of treatment, by which time steady state levels should have been achieved. No consistent relationship was found between fluphenazine levels and any of the outcome measures.
The results of this study suggest that fluphenazine plasma levels do not routinely add relevant clinical information beyond that of dose in evaluating potential side effects or negative consequences during maintenance treatment with the decanoate form of the medication.
The purpose of this open-label, uncontrolled study was to evaluate the feasibility of administering off-label buprenorphine in combination with ancillary medications for inpatient short-term detoxification of heroin-dependent patients at a psychiatric facility. A sample of 20 heroin-dependent patients admitted to an urban psychiatric hospital was administered buprenorphine 6, 4, and 2 mg/day during the first, second, and third day of detoxification, respectively, and then observed during the fourth and fifth day. Eighty-five percent of the subjects abused other substances, 75% reported cocaine abuse/dependence, 75% had comorbid mood disorders. All subjects completed the medication phase of the study. No clinically significant adverse events were reported. There was a significant decrease in the Clinical Investigation Narcotic Assessment (CINA) total score between baseline and days 2 through 5. The results suggest that buprenorphine is well tolerated and may be beneficial for medically supervised short-term withdrawal from heroin for hospitalized psychiatric patients.
Amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium, a semisynthetic penicillin-beta-lactamase inhibitor combination drug, is a widely used oral antibiotic. Since the marketing of this drug in 1984, more than nine million prescriptions have been dispensed. Several cases of jaundice and hepatic dysfunction have been observed and reported to the Food and Drug Administration and the pharmaceutical company (Beecham Laboratories). A review of 18 of these cases revealed a predominantly cholestatic syndrome in 7 cases, a mixed hepatocellular-cholestatic picture in 6 cases, a hepatocellular pattern in 4, and in 1 case the injury could not be clearly defined. No fatalities were observed, and all cases had reversal of hepatic dysfunction upon cessation of the drug. Fever was present in 2 patients and eosinophilia in 6 of 10 patients tested, suggesting a hypersensitivity phenomenon contributing to hepatic dysfunction in some of the cases. A percutaneous liver biopsy had been performed in 7 of 18 patients and four of these were reviewed by the authors. Prominent centrizonal cholestasis was seen in all four biopsies. Additionally, 1 patient had periportal and another had midzonal cholestasis. Although infrequent, recognition of an often benign cholestatic syndrome associated with amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium will help avoid unnecessary, invasive, and expensive diagnostic studies and also ameliorate symptoms upon withdrawal of the drug.
Contextual stimuli present during a single lifetime cocaine self-administration experience acquire occasion-setting actions sufficient to persistently elicit cocaine-seeking behavior in rats, with effects lasting nearly 1 year. The goal of this study was to identify neural substrates mediating the acquisition of drug-related conditioning taking place during a single cocaine self-administration experience with focus on the subicular formation, a brain site that has been implicated in associative learning relevant for conditioned reward-seeking including conditioned reinstatement. Male Wistar rats were given 2 h of response-contingent access to intravenous cocaine or saline in the presence of distinct stimuli that served as contextual stimuli associated with the availability and subjective effects of cocaine (S(+)) vs saline (S(-)). Before onset of the sessions, rats received bilateral microinjections of tetrodotoxin (TTX) into the ventral subiculum (VSUB) or dorsal subiculum (DSUB). Following extinction of responding by withholding cocaine, rats were subjected to reinstatement tests in which exposure to the cocaine- (but not saline) associated stimulus produced strong recovery of responding. This effect was completely abolished in rats with transient TTX inactivation of the DSUB during the conditioning session. TTX inactivation of the VSUB during conditioning did not alter the response-reinstating effects of the cocaine cue. The results suggest that functional integrity of the DSUB, but not VSUB, is critical for the acquisition of conditioned cocaine-seeking controlled by contextual stimuli under conditions where such learning occurs during a single conditioning trial.
Three cases of azathioprine-induced complex of liver diseases are described, and their light microscopy and ultrastructural findings are detailed. It was found that the drug produces a spectrum of pathological changes that include veno-occlusive disease, peliosis hepatis, perisinusoidal (Disse space) fibrosis, and nodular regenerative hyperplasia. It is suggested that the explanation for this spectrum is the variable degree of damage to the endothelial cells lining the sinusoids and the terminal hepatic venules. This spectrum is seen almost exclusively in male patients with renal transplant.
Long-term exposure to carbon disulfide (CS(2)) may induce parkinsonian features. There may be confusion in distinguishing between CS(2) parkinsonism and idiopathic parkinsonism, especially for workers who developed parkinsonian features in viscose rayon plants. We performed clinical examinations, and laboratory studies including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and dopamine transporter (DAT) studies with (99m)Tc-TRODAT-1 brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in three workers who had long-term exposure to CS(2). Patient 1 had polyneuropathy, and encephalopathy with tremor; patient 2 had polyneuropathy, and encephalopathy with parkinsonian features; and patient 3 had pure parkinsonian features without polyneuropathy or cerebellar signs. The treatment with l-dopa was effective in patient 3, but non-effective in patient 2. Brain MRI revealed multiple high signal intensities over the subcortical white matter, basal ganglia, and/or even the brainstem in patients 1 and 2, but normal in patient 3. In DAT studies, the bindings were normal in patients 1 and 2 and was decreased in patient 3. We conclude that CS(2) exposure may induce polyneuropathy, and cerebellar dysfunction in addition to parkinsonian features and that brain MRI may show multiple lesions in the cerebral white matter and basal ganglia. In addition, DAT with (99m)Tc-TRODAT-1 brain SPECT may provide a useful information in differential diagnosis between CS(2) parkinsonism and idiopathic parkinsonism.
Ibuprofen is a common nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug that is the most frequent cause of aseptic meningitis induced by drugs. The incidence of this type of aseptic meningitis is increasing, mainly among patients with underlying autoimmune connective tissue disorder, but also among healthy people. We report 2 patients with recurrent meningitis caused by ibuprofen mimicking bacterial meningitis: the first patient a woman with dermatomyositis and the second patient a previously healthy woman who developed autoimmune thyroiditis a few months later. We then review 71 episodes of ibuprofen-related meningitis in 36 patients reported in the literature. Twenty-two patients (61%) presented with an autoimmune connective tissue disorder, mainly systemic lupus erythematosus, and 22 (61%) had recurrent episodes. Most episodes consisted of an acute meningeal syndrome with a predominance of neutrophils in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in 72.2% of episodes and elevated protein in the CSF, so the clinical presentation of this type of aseptic meningitis may be quite similar to that of acute bacterial meningitis. CSF glucose levels are usually normal, which may help to differentiate between these 2 types of meningitis. In some cases the clinical presentation is that of meningoencephalitis with neurologic focal deficits. Although based on the close relation between the administration of ibuprofen and the onset of symptoms, especially if previous episodes have occurred, the diagnosis of ibuprofen-induced aseptic meningitis is a diagnosis by exclusion. If the clinical picture is compatible with bacterial meningitis, empirical antibiotic therapy must be administered until negativity of cultures and other microbiologic tests is determined. Rechallenge to ibuprofen reproduces the symptoms and confirms the diagnosis, but is usually not advised. Whatever the clinical presentation, physicians must consider the possibility of ibuprofen-related meningitis or meningoencephalitis in patients taking ibuprofen, especially if they are suffering from an autoimmune connective tissue disorder. On the other hand, we think it would be appropriate to screen for autoimmune disease in previously healthy patients diagnosed with ibuprofen-related meningitis or meningoencephalitis. Finally, we propose that meningitis due to ibuprofen be included in the list of causes of recurrent aseptic meningitis.
317 patients with suspected or documented infections other than cystitis were randomly assigned to receive gentamicin or tobramycin dosed according to the Sawchuk/Zaske method or a modification of the McHenry method. 196 patients completed 6 days of therapy, had serial determinations of serum creatinine and were evaluated for nephrotoxicity. Within each dosing method group those patients receiving gentamicin and tobramycin had a similar mean age, initial serum creatinine level, total dose, duration of therapy and trough serum aminoglycoside concentration. Nephrotoxicity developed in 5 of 49 (10.2%) given gentamicin via the McHenry method compared to 9 of 49 (18.4%) given tobramycin. Similarily, 4 of 50 (8.0%) given gentamicin via the Sawchuk/Zaske method developed nephrotoxicity compared to 8 of 48 (16.7%) given tobramycin. Within the Sawchuk/Zaske and the modified McHenry dosing method groups, no significant difference was noted in the incidence of nephrotoxicity associated with gentamicin and tobramycin. 34% of patients with elevated trough serum aminoglycoside concentrations developed nephrotoxicity compared to 3.7% of those with nonelevated troughs (p less than 0.0005).
