The hemodynamic effects of isoflurane and halothane when used to control intraoperative hypertension were evaluated in 20 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. The patients were anesthetized with flunitrazepam, fentanyl, pancuronium, and N2O-O2. Control measurements were made after skin incision. When mean arterial pressure increased to 110 mm Hg due to sternal spread or surgical manipulation of the aorta, isoflurane or halothane were used to return arterial pressure to control levels. Using a non-rebreathing system, inspired isoflurane concentrations of 1.5-2.0 vol% or halothane concentrations of 1.0-1.5 vol% were necessary. Measurements were repeated during the hypertensive episode and after treatment with isoflurane or halothane while surgical stimulation continued. Both inhalation anesthetics decreased arterial pressure to baseline values within 5-10 min. The lowering of arterial pressure with halothane was not accompanied by significant decreases in the elevated systemic vascular resistance and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. Cardiac index and stroke volume index decreased markedly when halothane was used (18% and 25%, respectively). In contrast, isoflurane significantly decreased systemic vascular resistance (42%). This reduction of left ventricular afterload was associated with an increase in cardiac index (22%) and a decrease in left ventricular filling pressure. Heart rate did not change significantly. These findings indicate that isoflurane is superior to halothane for controlling intraoperative hypertension during coronary artery bypass surgery.
Metabolic dysregulation (e.g., hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, hyperlipidemia, etc.) is a hallmark of obesity-related diseases such as insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, and fatty liver disease. In this study, we assessed whether dietary capsaicin attenuated the metabolic dysregulation in genetically obese diabetic KKAy mice, which have severe diabetic phenotypes. Male KKAy mice fed a high-fat diet for 2 weeks received a 0.015% capsaicin supplement for a further 3 weeks and were compared with nonsupplemented controls. Dietary capsaicin markedly decreased fasting glucose/insulin and triglyceride levels in the plasma and/or liver, as well as expression of inflammatory adipocytokine genes (e.g., monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and interleukin-6) and macrophage infiltration. At the same time expression of the adiponectin gene/protein and its receptor, AdipoR2, increased in adipose tissue and/or plasma, accompanied by increased activation of hepatic AMP-activated protein kinase, a marker of fatty acid oxidation. These findings suggest that dietary capsaicin reduces metabolic dysregulation in obese/diabetic KKAy mice by enhancing expression of adiponectin and its receptor. Capsaicin may be useful as a dietary factor for reducing obesity-related metabolic dysregulation.
Cocaine has become the most frequently used illicit drug among patients presenting to emergency departments worldwide. Although acute myocardial infarction is the most common reported cardiovascular manifestation in this setting, there are many other potential cardiotoxic effects of cocaine use including coronary artery spasm, arrhythmia, and sudden death. We report the case of a 54 year-old male with angiographically documented reversible coronary arterial spasm leading to severe life-threatening recurrent ventricular arrhythmias and electrocardiographic changes suggesting acute myocardial infarction secondary to cocaine use. Recurrent ventricular arrhythmias of this patient required implantation of a cardioverter-defibrillator which successfully treated following arrhythmia episodes.
A 53-year-old female patient was treated with combined radiochemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) because of adenocarcinoma of the lung. She died after the 2nd day of the first course on fatal myocardial infarction. The histological evaluation of the heart revealed no severe chronic fibrosis. In our opinion the myocardial infarction was partly 5-fluorouracil-related in this case.
Published case reports on this theme were reviewed and discussed.
The review of the literature showed a 5-FU associated cardiotoxicity in 98 cases. Most of the patients were without evidence of pre-existing myocardial disorders. The discussion about the reasons of the 5-FU-associated cardiotoxicity is still going on. Cardiotoxicity will rise up in 1.1% to 4.5% of the patients treated with 5-FU. Patients with a history of cardiac disease were at significantly increased risk for 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity.
In high-risk-patients 5-FU should not be given without electrocardiographic monitoring. The continuous infusion is better than a bolus treatment.
Heterozygous p53 knockout mice were investigated as a potential model for vascular tumor carcinogenesis. Groups of 20 male mice were exposed by gavage for 6 months to the vascular carcinogen urethane at 1, 10, or 100 mg/kg body weight/day. Wild-type and heterozygous p53 knockout control groups were exposed by gavage to the vehicle alone. Another group of 20 male mice received d-limonene by gavage (d-limonene is noncarcinogenic in mice). The high dose of urethane caused early mortality in the majority of mice associated with histopathologic evidence of toxicity and tumors, including a high incidence of benign and malignant vascular tumors, in all animals. At the intermediate dose, toxicity was less marked and 3 of 20 mice had tumors; mice that received the low dose did not have signs of toxicity or neoplasia. The two control groups had no tumors and the d-limonene group had one tumor of the prostate, which was considered spontaneous. We conclude that the p53 knockout mouse is a useful tool for investigating vascular tumorogenesis.
The toxicity of tetrasodium-ethylenediaminetetraacetate (Na-EDTA) was investigated in normal rat kidney cells (NRK-52E, American Type Culture Collection) in culture. Cell death and reduced colony-forming ability were observed at Na-EDTA concentrations < 100 microM, that is at concentrations lower than that required to chelate all the Ca2+ in the growth medium. No toxicity was observed when cells were exposed to 100 microM Zn- or Fe-EDTA, but the same concentration of Cu-EDTA was as toxic as Na-EDTA. Continuous exposure of the cell cultures to 5 microM Na- or Zn-EDTA for up to 7 weeks yielded no indications of toxicity.
The effects of equimolar doses of the triphenylethylene antiestrogens tamoxifen and toremifene on female Sprague-Dawley rat liver were studied in a 52-week toxicity study which included a 13-week recovery period. Liver tumors were found in four out of five rats at the highest dose level of tamoxifen (45 mg/kg per day) after 52 weeks of dosing, and these appeared to be hepatocellular carcinomas in three rats. After the 13-week recovery period all surviving rats in the highest tamoxifen dose group had large liver tumors (diameter up to 2 cm) which appeared to be hepatocellular carcinomas in five out of six rats. No tumor was observed in the toremifene-treated rats (48 mg/kg per day) either after 52 weeks of dosing or after the recovery period. Electron microscopic morphometric analysis after 52 weeks of dosing revealed that at the tamoxifen high dose level, the volume densities of the peroxisomes, mitochondria, and residual bodies were elevated in the nonneoplastic hepatocytes of the rats. In the neoplastic hepatocytes of the tamoxifen-treated rats the volume density of nuclei was slightly elevated. The slight proliferation of peroxisomes and mitochondria might be related to tumor development in the tamoxifen treated rats.
Ependymoblastoma developed in a 28-month-old girl whose epileptic mother took diphenylhydantoin and methylphenobarbitone throughout pregnancy. The child was also shown to be a genetic carrier for ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency, an x-linked inborn error of urea cycle metabolism. The possibility of transplacental carcinogenesis should be considered, as other juvenile embryonic tumors such as neuroblastoma, melanotic neuroectodermal tumor, and mesenchymoma have been reported in offspring after diphenylhydantoin use by the mother during pregnancy.
Tamoxifen has been the mainstay of endocrine therapy for estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. However, approximately 40% of breast cancer patients do not respond to tamoxifen treatment. Further, most tumors eventually acquire tamoxifen resistance. Therefore, it is necessary to develop effective modalities to enhance the efficacy of tamoxifen in breast cancer treatment. In this study, we investigated the mechanism by which breast cancer cells develop resistance against tamoxifen from the viewpoint of tamoxifen-induced apoptosis. Overexpression of the anti-apoptotic molecule survivin rendered the human breast cancer cells MCF-7 resistant to tamoxifen-induced apoptosis. To examine whether the down-regulation of survivin can enhance tamoxifen-induced apoptosis, we introduced siRNA targeting the survivin gene (survivin-siRNA) into MCF-7 cells. Survivin-siRNA transfection not only induced apoptosis without tamoxifen treatment but also augmented the tamoxifen-induced apoptosis. We have previously demonstrated that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (HRIs), which are widely used to reduce the serum cholesterol levels in hypercholesterolemia patients, decreases survivin expression in colon cancer cells. To develop a pharmacological approach for improving the efficacy of tamoxifen treatment, we determined whether HRIs can enhance tamoxifen-induced apoptosis. Lovastatin, an HRI, down-regulated the expression of survivin protein in MCF-7 cells in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, the proportion of apoptotic cells induced by the tamoxifen and lovastatin combination was greater than the theoretical additive effect. These results suggest that survivin may function as a factor inducing resistance against tamoxifen-induced apoptosis, and the combined use of tamoxifen and HRI may be a novel approach to overcome tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer.
1. The contribution of sensory neurons and mast cells to the oedema evoked by adenosine A1 (N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine, CPA, 3 - 30 nmol site(-1)), A2 (5'N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine, NECA, 1 - 10 nmol site(-1)) and A3 receptor agonists (N6-[3-iodobenzyl]-N-methyl-5'-carboxiamidoadenosine, IB-MECA, 0.01 - 3 nmol site(-1)) was investigated in the rat skin microvasculature, by the extravascular accumulation of intravenously-injected (i.v.) 125I-albumin. 2. Intradermal (i.d.) injection of adenosine and analogues induced increased microvascular permeability in a dose-dependent manner (IB-MECA > NECA > CPA > adenosine). The non-selective adenosine receptor antagonist theophylline (5 - 50 nmol site(-1)) markedly inhibited adenosine, CPA or NECA but not IB-MECA-induced plasma extravasation. The A1 receptor antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, 0.3 - 3 micromol kg(-1), i.v.) significantly reduced CPA-induced plasma extravasation whereas responses to adenosine, NECA or IB-MECA were unchanged. The A2 receptor antagonist 3,7-dymethyl-1-proprargylxanthine (DMPX, 0.5 - 50 nmol site(-1)) significantly reduced NECA-induced plasma extravasation without affecting responses to adenosine, CPA and IB-MECA. 3. The tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist (S)-1-[2-[3-(3,4-dichlorphenyl)-1 (3-isopropoxyphenylacetyl) piperidin-3-yl] ethyl]-4-phenyl-1 azaniabicyclo [2.2.2]octane chloride (SR140333), but not the NK2 receptor antagonist (S)-N-methyl-N[4-acetylamino-4-phenyl piperidino)-2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)butyl]-benzamide (SR48968), significantly inhibited the plasma extravasation evoked by higher doses of adenosine (100 nmol site(-1)), CPA (100 nmol site(-1)), NECA (1 nmol site(-1)) and IB-MECA (0.1 - 1 nmol site(-1)). In rats treated with capsaicin to destroy sensory neurons, the response to higher doses of adenosine, CPA and NECA, but not IB-MECA, was significantly inhibited. 4. The effects of adenosine and analogues were largely inhibited by histamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) antagonists and by compound 48/80 pretreatment. 5. In conclusion, our results provide evidence that adenosine A1 and A2, but not A3, receptor agonists may function as cutaneous neurogenic pro-inflammatory mediators; acting via microvascular permeability-increasing mechanisms that can, depending on dose of agonist and purine receptor under study, involve the tachykinin NK1 receptor and mast cell amines.
Many patients remain markedly symptomatic despite optimal current therapy for heart failure. Beta-blockers have often been viewed as contraindicated in this group because of their potential adverse short-term effects on cardiac function.
One hundred thirty-one patients with severe congestive heart failure were enrolled into a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the vasodilating beta-blocker carvedilol. All patients had symptomatic, advanced heart failure while on standard triple therapy, as evidenced by a mean ejection fraction of 0.22, marked reduction in distance traveled in a 6-minute corridor walk test, and severe impairment in quality of life measured by the Minnesota Living With Heart Failure Questionnaire. After a 2-week, open-label test of 6.25 mg twice daily carvedilol, 105 patients were randomized (2:1) to receive either carvedilol (up to 25 mg twice daily, n = 70) or matching placebo (n = 35) for 6 months while background therapy with digoxin, diuretics, and an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor remained constant. Ten patients (8%) did not complete the open-label period because of adverse events and 11.4% in both the carvedilol and placebo groups dropped out in the double-blind phase. The study was terminated early by the Data Safety and Monitoring Board and follow-up evaluation was therefore aborted before the projected number of patients and follow-up time was achieved. Quality of life, which was the primary endpoint, improved similarly in the carvedilol and placebo groups, whereas the global assessment by the physicians and the patient exhibited a better response to carvedilol (P < .05). Hospitalization and mortality rate were too low to evaluate a difference, and exercise time and New York Heart Association classification did not change significantly in response to the drug. Left ventricular ejection fraction rose significantly (+0.09) in the carvedilol group compared with the placebo group (+0.02, P = .004).
The beta-blocker carvedilol can be safely employed in patients with severe heart failure. Improved left ventricular function with a trend for some improvement in symptoms combined with the experience with the drug in the larger population of less severe patients in this multicenter trial suggests that carvedilol may have a favorable long-term effect in heart failure of diverse severity.
To study the renal protective effect of Xinganbao Capsule on rats with adriamycin induced nephropathy (AIN).
Forty male SD rats were randomly divided into four groups, i.e., the normal control group (N), the AIN model group (M), the Benazepril group (B),and the Xinganbao Capsule group (X). AIN rat model was established by left unilateral nephrectomy and repeated caudal vein injection of adriamycin. Gastric perfusion of xinganbao Capsule (at the dose of 500 mg/kg per day) and Benazepril (at the dose of 4 mg/kg per day) was given to rats in the X group and the B group respectively one week after nephrectomy. Rats were sacrificed at the 8th week after medication. The 24-h urinary protein excretion (24 h-UP) and blood biochemical indices were determined. Renal tissues were collected for pathological changes under light and electron microscopes. Expressions of fibronection (FN), collagen IV (COL-IV), and osteopontin (OPN) in renal tissues were detected by immunohistochemistry. mRNA levels of transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta1), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1), and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) were measured by fluorescent Real-time PCR.
When compared with the model group, 24 h-UP, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and serum creatinine (SCr), and blood lipids levels were significantly lowered in the X group. The mesangial matrix percentage was less in the X group than in the M group. Renal FN, COL-IV, and OPN expressions more significantly decreased in the X group than in the M group. Similarly mRNA expressions of TGF-beta1,, TIMP-1, PAl-1 in renal tissues obviously decreased.
Xinganbao Capsule could exert its renal protective action possibly through reducing the urinary protein excretion, correcting lipid metabolic disturbance, inhibiting excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix, decreasing the expression of fibrosis factors, and improving the pathological damage of kidneys in the AIN rat model.
This phase II study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of single-agent gemcitabine in patients with advanced or metastatic biliary tract cancer.
Gemcitabine 1,000 mg/m(2) was administered as an intravenous 30-min infusion on days 1, 8, and 15 for every 28 days.
Forty chemonaive patients with a median age of 61 (range 33-73) were enrolled, and all 40 patients were involved in efficacy and safety analyses. Seven (17.5%) achieved partial response; 15 (37.5%) had stable disease; 17 (42.5%) had progressive disease; and 1 (2.5%) was not evaluated. The median survival time was 7.6 months, and the 1-year survival rate was 25.0%. Grade 3/4 neutropenia occurred in 12 patients (30.0%), leukopenia in five patients (12.5%), and anemia in four patients (10.0%). The most common grade 3/4 nonhematologic toxicities were elevated ALT (15.0%) and elevated gamma-GTP (12.5%). One patient had grade 4 hemolytic uremic syndrome and recovered after discontinuation of gemcitabine.
In single-agent therapy, gemcitabine demonstrated moderate efficacy with manageable toxicity in patients with advanced or metastatic biliary tract cancer. Further evaluations are warranted, including the exact impact of gemcitabine on the management of advanced or metastatic biliary tract cancer.
Delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis, albeit rare, is a severe side effect of heparin exposure. It can occur within one month after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with manifestation of different thrombotic events.
A 59-year-old man presented with weakness, malaise, bilateral lower limb pitting edema and a suspected diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis 18 days after CABG. Heparin infusion was administered as an anticoagulant. Clinical and paraclinical work-up revealed multiple thrombotic events (stroke, renal failure, deep vein thrombosis, large clots in heart chambers) and 48 x103/mul platelet count, whereupon heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was suspected. Heparin was discontinued immediately and an alternative anticoagulant agent was administered, as a result of which platelet count recovered. Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, which causes thrombosis, is a serious side effect of heparin therapy. It is worthy of note that no case of delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis associated with cardiopulmonary bypass surgery has thus far been reported in Iran.
Delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia should be suspected in any patient presenting with arterial or venous thromboembolic disorders after recent heparin therapy, even though the heparin exposure dates back to more than a week prior to presentation; and it should be ruled-out before the initiation of heparin therapy.
A panel of prognostic and predictive biomarkers would contribute to personalized treatment of breast cancer patients. However, many such biomarkers have yet to be identified and evaluated. The aim of this study was to investigate the relevance of 3 such putative biomarkers.
TMEM25, REPS2 and Meis 1 expression was investigated by qRT-PCR, in triplicate, in 103 breast tumour biopsies procured in 1993-1994. Normal breast tissue specimens were also analysed for comparative purposes. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to identify associations between expression of these transcripts as well as patients' clinicopathological and survival data.
TMEM25, REPS2 and Meis 1 transcripts were detected in approximately 52, 78 and 40% of tumour specimens, respectively. Expression of each of the 3 genes was indicative of extended survival times from diagnosis [association between relapse-free survival (RFS) and TMEM25, p = 0.0002; REPS2, p = 0.0287; association between overall survival (OS) and TMEM25, p = 0.001; REPS2, p = 0.0131; Meis 1, p = 0.0255]. Presence of TMEM25 and Meis 1 was associated with oestrogen receptor-positive (TMEM25, p < 0.0005; Meis 1, p = 0.011), lower-grade (TMEM25, p = 0.002; Meis 1, p = 0.001) tumours. Multivariate analysis indicated TMEM25 expression to be an independent prognostic factor for extended RFS (p = 0.011) and OS (p = 0.001). Furthermore, for patients who received adjuvant chemotherapy, significantly longer survival times were achieved if their tumours expressed TMEM25 (OS, p = 0.031; RFS, p = 0.0181) and REPS2 (OS, p = 0.011). While expression of these mRNAs was generally absent from triple-negative breast tumours, statistical significance was not achieved.
Our results suggest that TMEM25, REPS2 and Meis 1 mRNAs may be useful members of a panel of favourable prognostic and predictive markers for breast cancer and an understanding of their function may provide useful information about this disease.
Two children developed severe cognitive and behavioral deterioration suggestive of a degenerative disease while being treated with sodium valproate for idiopathic, localization-related epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed marked central and generalized cortical and cerebellar atrophy. In both patients, clinical symptoms and signs cleared in a few weeks following valproate withdrawal. The magnetic resonance imaging appearance improved within 3 months in 1 of the patients and normalized in both after 6 and 12 months. No metabolic changes were associated with the clinical or imaging abnormalities. Although the mechanism of this rare idiosyncratic complication of valproate therapy is unknown, we advocate discontinuing valproate therapy in all epileptic patients with neuromental deterioration or brain atrophy of unknown etiology.
The use of clonidine alone and in combination to treat a variety of problems has increased in child and adolescent patients. Four cases of adverse experiences with clonidine are described. Clinical guidelines for the use of clonidine in particular and the use of polypharmacy in general are presented.
1. Experiments were designed to study the involvement of alpha-adrenoceptors and dopamine receptors in the hypotensive and bradycardic actions of bromocriptine in rats. 2. Intravenous administration of bromocriptine reduced blood pressure and heart rate which was inhibited by ganglionic blocking agents or by pithing. 3. The fall in blood pressure produced by bromocriptine was not modified by atropine, atenolol, prazosin, yohimbine, bilateral vagotomy or carotid ligation, but was blocked by sulpiride, domperidone and haloperidol. 4. The bradycardia produced by bromocriptine in intact rats was assumed to be mediated by the autonomic nervous system since it was partly reduced by bilateral vagotomy or atenolol, and entirely prevented by pithing. Furthermore, sulpiride but not yohimbine antagonized this effect. 5. In pithed rats, bromocriptine decreased both the pressor response (above 10 micrograms kg-1) and the tachycardia (above 50 micrograms kg-1) elicited by electrical stimulation of spinal cord outflow. Both effects were inhibited by sulpiride or yohimbine. 6. In pithed rats, bromocriptine did not affect the hypertension due to exogenous noradrenaline, phenylephrine, B-HT 920, nor the bradycardia evoked by stimulation of the cardiac muscarinic receptors by carbachol. 7. These results suggest that, in rats, bromocriptine produces hypotension via an action on presynaptic and/or ganglionic dopamine receptors, and causes bradycardia by activation of central dopamine receptors.
Several preparations of testosterone and its esters are being investigated alone or in combination with other gonadotropin-suppressing agents as possible antifertility agents for men. We studied the effectiveness of 7 alpha-methyl-19-nortestosterone (MENT) as an antispermatogenic agent in men. MENT has been shown to be more potent than testosterone and to be resistant to 5 alpha-reduction. For sustained delivery of MENT, we used a system consisting of ethylene vinyl acetate implants containing MENT acetate (Ac), administered subdermally. Thirty-five normal volunteers were recruited in 3 clinics and were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 doses: 1 (12 men), 2 (11 men), or 4 (12 men) MENT Ac implants. The initial average in vitro release rate of MENT Ac from each implant was approximately 400 micro g/day. Implants were inserted subdermally in the medial aspect of the upper arm under local anesthesia. The duration of treatment was initially designed to be 6 months. However, in 2 clinics the duration of treatment was extended to 9 months for the 2-implant group and to 12 months for the 4-implant group. Dose-related increases in serum MENT levels and decreases in testosterone, LH, and FSH levels were observed. Effects on sperm counts were also dose related. None of the subjects in the 1-implant group exhibited oligozoospermia (sperm count, <3 million/ml). Four subjects in the 2-implant group became oligozoospermic, 2 of whom reached azoospermia. Eight subjects in the 4-implant group reached azoospermia, with 1 exhibiting oligozoospermia, whereas 2 were nonresponders. Side effects generally seen with androgen administration, such as increases in erythrocyte count, hematocrit, and hemoglobin and a decrease in SHBG, were also seen in this study and were reversible. Changes in lipid parameters were moderate and transient. Liver enzymes showed small changes. This study demonstrates that MENT Ac, when administered in a sustained release fashion via subdermal implants, can inhibit spermatogenesis over a prolonged period after a single administration and has the potential to be used as a male contraceptive.
Although resveratrol is currently being evaluated in pre-clinical studies as a potential cancer chemopreventive agent and cardiovascular stress-releasing compound, treatment with resveratrol severely delays healing of pre-existing gastric ulcers. Resveratrol treatment can also induce endothelial NOS (eNOS) expression. Here, we have attempted to modulate NO production via eNOS in order to alleviate the pro-ulcer effects of resveratrol.
Gastric ulcers were induced in mice with a single dose of indomethacin. The effects of pretreatment with l-arginine on the pro-ulcer effects of resveratrol in these mice were then assessed. We measured ulcer damage scores (DS), myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, generation of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) and NO, along with a gene expression study.
Resveratrol significantly aggravated damage from indomethacin-induced gastric ulcers, and delayed healing, as shown by increased DS and MPO activity. The mRNA for cyclooxygenase (COX)-1, but not that for COX-2, was inhibited by resveratrol treatment, with reduced synthesis of PGE(2) by gastric tissue. However, resveratrol treatment induced eNOS gene expression and shifted the eNOS/iNOS balance. l-Arginine given before resveratrol in mice with indomethacin-induced ulcers significantly increased tissue NO synthesis and improved ulcer healing.
Exogenous l-arginine increased NO formation via raised levels of eNOS induced by resveratrol and protected against the pro-ulcer effects of resveratrol. Therefore, l-arginine might be useful for alleviation of the pro-ulcer side effects of resveratrol in patients.
This randomized, double-blind, crossover study was undertaken to compare the incidence of headache recurrence after treatment with naratriptan or sumatriptan in migraine patients with a history of frequent headache recurrence (recurrence in > or =50% of successfully treated attacks).
Although the selective 5-hydroxytryptamine, (5-HT1) agonist sumatriptan is effective and well tolerated for acute treatment of migraine in most patients, headache recurrence within 24 hours of initial successful treatment with sumatriptan and other medications has been reported in approximately 35% of patients. The novel 5-HT1 agonist naratriptan possesses pharmacologic and pharmacokinetic characteristics that may address the issue of headache recurrence.
Men and women aged 18 to 65 years with a > or =1-year history of migraine with or without aura were randomly assigned to treat 1 moderate or severe migraine attack in a nonclinical setting with one 2.5-mg naratriptan tablet and 1 attack with one 100-mg sumatriptan tablet. A pain-free interval of > or =24 hours was required between attacks. At 4 hours, patients not using rescue medication and experiencing headache recurrence could take a second, identical dose of study medication to treat recurrence. No more than 2 tablets of study medication were permitted in any 24-hour period.
A total of 253 patients treated > or =1 migrane attack and were included in the safety analysis; the 225 patients who treated both attacks were included in the efficacy analysis. Of the 164 naratriptan-treated and 181 sumatriptan-treated patients experiencing headache relief after > or =1 attack, headache recurrence 4 to 24 hours after treatment was reported by 74 naratriptan-treated patients (45%) and 101 sumatriptan-treated patients (57%; not statistically significant). (One naratriptan- and 3 sumatriptan-treated patients who experienced headache relief did not record recurrence status and were not included in the denominator for the percentage calculation.) In a subset of patients experiencing headache relief after 2 attacks, headache recurrence 4 to 24 hours after initial dosing was reported by 55 naratriptan- and 77 sumatriptan-treated patients (41% and 57%, respectively; P = 0.005). The overall incidence of adverse events was 22% after treatment with naratriptan and 33% after treatment with sumatriptan. This incidence did not increase after use of a second dose of naratriptan (20%) or sumatriptan (31%).
These data suggest that naratriptan is a long-acting and well-tolerated addition to currently available medications for the treatment of acute migraine.
To determine the clinical features of amiodarone induced optic neuropathy, which may help distinguish it from non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy.
Retrospective observational case series of patients diagnosed with amiodarone induced optic neuropathy at the neuro-ophthalmology service from March 1998 to February 2001. Amiodarone was discontinued after discussion with the patient's cardiologist. Visual acuity, colour vision, automated perimetry, and funduscopy were performed on initial and follow up examinations.
Three patients with amiodarone induced optic neuropathy presented with mildly decreased vision, visual field defects, and bilateral optic disc swelling. Upon discontinuing the medication, visual function and optic disc swelling slowly improved in all three patients.
Amiodarone induced optic neuropathy can present with visual dysfunction, and is typically a bilateral process. Upon discontinuation of amiodarone, slow resolution of optic disc swelling occurs and visual function improves in some patients.
Orlistat(Xenical(R), Roche) is considered a safe and effective drug to treat obesity by reduced absorption of 30% digested fat. To date, no serious adverse effects affecting the liver have been published except a case of subacute hepatic failure leading to liver transplantation in a young women with moderate obesity treated with orlistat. We report a case of acute cholestatic hepatitis in a young woman with moderate obesity treated with orlistat: a 33-year-old female admitted for the evaluation of jaundice. Abdominal ultrasonography, ERCP, routine chemistry, viral markers, and a fine needle biopsy of liver were performed. Microscopic findings of the liver biopsy specimen were compatible with acute cholestatic hepatitis. After steroid therapy, liver function was improved.
The influence of supplemental glycine on benzyl acetate (BA; a compound metabolized via the hippurate pathway)-induced toxicity was investigated. Groups of male F344 rats were fed NIH-07 diet containing 0, 20,000, 35,000, or 50,000 ppm BA for up to 28 days. Two additional groups were fed NIH-07 diet with 50,000 ppm BA and 27,000 ppm glycine or 50,000 ppm BA 32,000 ppm L-alanine; supplemental glycine and L-alanine were equimolar. The L-alanine group served as an amino nitrogen control. A third group was fed NIH-07 diet with 32,000 ppm L-alanine and served as an untreated isonitrogenous control BA caused increase in mortality, body weight loss, the incidence of abnormal neurobehavioral signs such as ataxia and convulsions, along with astrocyte hypertrophy and neuronal necrosis in the cerebellum, hippocampus, and pyriform cortex of the brain. These effects were reduced significantly by supplementation with glycine but not with L-alanine. These results suggest that the neurodegeneration induced by BA is mediated by a depletion of the glycine pool and the subsequent excitotoxicity.
