A patient is described who was found to have the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) in association with chlorpromazine ingestion. Electrolyte abnormalities should be considered in patients who demonstrate behavioral changes while on chlorpromazine.
Oxprenolol and propranolol are noncardioselective beta adrenoreceptor blocking agents known to be equally effective in the management of patients with angina pectoris. Both are usually prescribed four times daily. Slow release formulation of oxprenolol administered once daily has been shown to maintain therapeutic effects for 24 hours. In a double-blind crossover study in 23 patients with stable angina pectoris, the effects of 160 mg slow release oxprenolol, administered once daily for 1 month, were compared with those of 40 mg of propranolol given four times daily for a similar period. No adverse effects occurred when patients were switched between treatment schedules. The average number of anginal attacks experienced were 11/month during oxprenolol therapy and 8/month during propranolol therapy (difference not significant). The resting values for heart rate were higher 7 1/2 nd 24 hours after oxprenolol than they were 4 and 12 hours after propranolol (p less than 0.01). The treadmill walking time to the onset of angina and to the development of moderate angina 24 hours after oxprenolol was less than that observed 7 1/2 hours after the drug or 4 and 12 hours after propranolol (p less than 0.01). In contrast, the values for walking time to the onset of angina and to the development of moderate angina at 4 and 12 hours after propranolol were similar. This decreased exercise tolerance 24 hours after oxprenolol was associated with a lesser degree of beta adrenoreceptor blockade than that present after propranolol as documented by higher levels of heart rate (p less than 0.05), systolic blood pressure (p less than 0.05) and rate-pressure product (p less than 0.05) during exercise after oxprenolol therapy. It is concluded that in the doses used, slow release oxprenolol administered once daily does not exert as consistent a beneficial effect on exercise tolerance throughout the dosing schedule as does propranolol given four times daily.
The dose-dependent cardiotoxicities of doxorubicin (DOX) significantly limits its anti-cancer efficacies. One of the ways to augment the efficacies of DOX at a relatively low cumulative dose is to use a chemical sensitizer. Here, we demonstrated that schisandrin B (Sch B) significantly enhanced DOX-induced apoptosis of SMMC7721, a human hepatic carcinoma cell line, and of MCF-7, a human breast cancer cell line. This enhancement was irrelevant to the action of Sch B on P-glycoprotein or other drug-transporters, but associated with the activation of caspase-9 rather than caspase-8. The loss of mitochondria membrane potential was observed when cells were treated with DOX and Sch B combined. On the other hand, at the same experimental conditions, Sch B did not enhance the DOX-induced apoptosis of primary rat cardiomyocytes and primary human fibroblasts. Therefore, it is speculative that Sch B may bring benefit to clinical chemotherapy by reducing significantly the cumulative doses of DOX and its associated cardiotoxicities.
We investigated the effect of botulinum-a toxin injections into the detrusor and external sphincter muscle in patients with overactive bladder (OAB) symptoms.
We included 44 patients - 41 women and three men with a mean age of 66.1 years - who were suffering from OAB symptoms that were refractory to anticholinergic treatment. We injected 200-300 U of BTX-A (Botox) into the detrusor muscle; 22 patients also received external sphincter injections. For outcome analysis, we used a bladder diary, a urodynamic examination, and a questionnaire that consisted of 27 validated questions.
Changes in the bladder diary 4 weeks and 3, 6, and 9 months after BTX-A injection were as follows: Micturition frequency was reduced by 12%, 16%, 13% and 9%, respectively. Average pad use decreased from 4.2 pads per day to at most 2.4 pads per day after 6 months. Urodynamic changes were most distinct after 4 weeks: the volume when the first uninhibited detrusor contraction occurred increased from 149+/-18.2 mL to 263 +/- 24.2 mL, and maximum cystometric bladder capacity increased from 228 +/- 19.2 mL to 305 +/- 19.0 mL. Subjectively, 86% of the patients would choose this procedure for their bladder condition again. Residua 4 weeks after additional injection into the sphincter muscle were distinctly smaller than in the "only detrusor" group.
BTX-A detrusor and sphincter injection is very effective in treating OAB symptoms. For patients who might be expected to have residual urine after injection only into the detrusor, additional injection of low doses of BTX-A into the external sphincter muscle could be one option to reduce that risk.
The effects of cadmium given at different stages during 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB)-induced rat prostate carcinogenesis were investigated using male F344 rats. Animals were given 10 subcutaneous injections of 50 mg/kg body weight of DMAB or the corn oil vehicle at two-week intervals. In addition, cadmium was administered at doses of 0, 10, or 30 mumol/kg body weight as single intramuscular injection on the 1st day of the experiment or one day after the last injection of DMAB at week 20. Two further groups were subjected to administration of cadmium at 10 mumol/kg at week 20 and then 5 mumol/kg at week 40, or 10 mumol/kg at week 20 and then 5 mumol/kg at weeks 30, 40 and 50. At the termination, 60 weeks after the beginning of the experiment, the incidences and multiplicity of ventral prostate carcinomas in the groups given cadmium plus DMAB demonstrated a consistent tendency for increase over control values (groups receiving DMAB or cadmium alone). The numbers of carcinomas per rat and per unit area of prostate section were significantly elevated in the two groups given low doses of cadmium after cessation of DMAB administration. Cadmium alone also induced a few prostate carcinomas. The influence on development of prostate tumors did not appear to be a result of the induced severe testicular atrophy because serum testosterone levels were not affected. The results indicate that cadmium and DMAB can act synergistically to cause rat prostate carcinogenesis.
The Zellweger spectrum of disease, encompassing Zellweger syndrome and the progressively milder phenotypes of neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy and infantile Refsum disease, is due to a failure to form functional peroxisomes. Cell fusion complementation studies demonstrated that these diseases are genetically heterogeneous, with two-thirds of all patients lying within a single complementation group, CG1. Molecular genetic and cell biology studies have shown that PEX1 is deficient in many CG1 patients. However, previous studies have focused on mildly affected patients and there is still no report of two mutant PEX1 alleles in any Zellweger syndrome patient. Furthermore, mutations in the PMP70 gene have also been identified in two Zellweger syndrome patients from CG1, raising the possibility that CG1 patients may represent a mixture of PEX1-deficient and PMP70-deficient individuals. To address the molecular basis of disease in Zellweger syndrome patients from CG1, we examined all 24 PEX1 exons in four patients, including both patients that have mutations in PMP70. PEX1 mutations were detected in all four patients, including a 1-bp insertion (c.2097insT) in exon 13 that was present in three of the four patients. Subsequent studies demonstrated that this mutation is present in one-half of all CG1 patients and correlates with the Zellweger syndrome phenotype. As this mutation leads to a loss of protein function its frequency makes it the most common cause of Zellweger syndrome, helping to explain the high percentage of patients that belong to CG1.
Fibric acid derivatives are used to treat hyperlipidemia and have wide ranging effects on lipid metabolism. The action of these compounds on cholesterol esterification, catalyzed by acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT), has been quite widely studied, but their effect on cholesteryl ester hydrolysis and the enzyme neutral cholesteryl ester hydrolase (nCEH) has been largely ignored. Male rats were therefore fed for 10 d on a standard chow diet supplemented with either clofibrate or bezafibrate, to study their effects on plasma lipid levels and hepatic cholesterol metabolism. Plasma triacylglycerols were not significantly altered by these diets, but bezafibrate significantly lowered plasma cholesterol levels (29.7%, P < 0.01). When expressed per unit weight of DNA, both fibrates reduced the hepatic content of triacylglycerol, cholesterol and cholesteryl esters (40, 18.7, 16.5 and 66.7, 28.6, 34.2% for clofibrate and bezafibrate, respectively). ACAT activity was significantly reduced by both drugs, but clofibrate (65% inhibition) was more effective than bezafibrate (35% inhibition). The most dramatic effect of the diets was a marked increase in the activity of both the microsomal and the cytosolic nCEH. When expressed on a whole liver basis, the effect of bezafibrate on the cytosolic enzyme (13.6-fold increase in activity) was much greater than that of clofibrate (4.8-fold increase). Increases in the activity of a cytosolic protein that inhibits the activity of nCEH were also noted, but these changes were relatively small. The results suggest that the activation of nCEH, in combination with the inhibition in ACAT activity, contributes to a decrease in the cholesteryl ester content of the liver which may influence the secretion of very low density lipoprotein.
To determine the relation between blood folic acid and serum vitamin B12 in neural tube defect pregnancies using data from the MRC Vitamin Study and a literature review of all studies.
Stored blood samples collected as part of a randomised trial of vitamin supplementation in the prevention of neural tube defects were retrieved from affected pregnancies (cases) and unaffected pregnancies (controls). Four controls were matched with each case by centre, maternal age and duration of storage of the blood sample. The samples had been collected from women at entry to the trial, immediately before the women became pregnant, and at around 12 weeks of pregnancy. Our results were combined with those already published from other studies to obtain an overall assessment of blood folic acid and vitamin B12 in relation to neural tube defects.
Blood samples were collected as part of the MRC Vitamin Study. The collaborating centres were in the United Kingdom, Hungary, Israel, Australia, Canada and Russia.
Twenty-seven women with neural tube defect pregnancies and 108 matched controls with unaffected pregnancies.
Serum and red cell folic acid and serum vitamin B12 levels were lower in the cases than in controls at each of the three occasions when blood samples were collected, but no comparison was significant (P > 0.05). A systematic review of all studies from the literature showed that on average, during the 1st trimester of pregnancy, serum folic acid was 0.6 ng/ml lower in neural tube defect pregnancies (P < 0.01), red cell folic acid was 77 ng/ml lower (P < 0.001) and serum vitamin B12 was 38 ng/l lower (P < 0.001). A logistic regression showed no association between serum B12 and neural tube defects after allowing for serum folic acid.
our results are consistent with other evidence that folic acid and vitamin B12 levels are lower in women with neural tube defect pregnancies and consistent with evidence from randomised trials which showed that folic acid is protective.
Decreased expression levels of the glomerular slit membrane proteins, nephrin and podocin, have been reported after the onset of puromycin aminonucleoside (PA) nephrosis. We examined nephrin and podocin expressions prior to the onset of proteinuria of PA nephrosis to elucidate the proteinuria induction mechanism of PA. PA nephrosis was induced by a subcutaneous single injection of 120 mg kg(-1) PA. The mRNA levels of nephrin and podocin in whole kidney total RNA were quantified by the TaqMan real time PCR quantification system. The localization and levels of nephrin and podocin molecules were analyzed by immunofluorescence and Western blotting, respectively. Albuminuria and proteinuria were significant on days 3 and 4 in PA nephrosis rats. The protein levels of nephrin and podocin decreased significantly at day 3. The protein localization of nephrin and podocin changed at day 2 and day 1, respectively. The mRNA level of nephrin increased at day 2 and subsequently decreased at day 4. The podocin mRNA level did not change significantly. In conclusions, the protein level of nephrin and podocin decreased at the onset of albuminuria in the PA nephrosis. However, the first change induced by PA was the change of podocin localization from a linear pattern to a dot-like one prior to the onset of albuminuria.
Quercetin is the most abundant flavonoid present in a broad range of fruit and vegetables. Furthermore, quercetin is available as dietary supplements that are based on its antioxidant, antiproliferative and anti-inflammatory properties. However, concerns have been raised about the potential toxic effects of excessive intake of quercetin, and several studies have demonstrated that flavonoids, included quercetin, can interfere with thyroid function. In a previous report, we showed that quercetin inhibits thyroid-cell growth and iodide uptake. The latter effect was associated with down-regulation of sodium/iodide symporter gene expression. In the present study, we have evaluated the effects of quercetin on the expression of other thyroid-restricted genes, and we show that quercetin decreases the expression of the thyrotropin receptor, thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin genes. We further investigated the inhibitory effects of quercetin on thyroid function in vivo through evaluation of radioiodine uptake in the Sprague-Dawley rat, which was significantly decreased after 14 days of quercetin treatment. These data confirm that quercetin can act as a thyroid disruptor, and they suggest that caution is needed in its supplemental and therapeutic use.
This study was designed to examine the effects of cinnamaldehyde on coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3)-induced viral myocarditis (VMC) and underlying signaling, with a focus on the toll-like receptor (TLR)4-nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB pathway.
The antiviral and myocardial effects of cinnamaldehyde and its metabolite cinnamic acid were evaluated both in vitro and in vivo. Our results showed that cinnamic acid but not cinnamaldehyde reduced the viral titer in CVB3-infected myocardial cells. Our in vivo study demonstrated that intraperitoneal injection of either cinnamaldehyde or cinnamic acid significantly enhanced the survival rate and reduced myocardial viral titer in VMC mice compared with CVB3-infected controls (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference in effectiveness between the cinnamic acid and the cinnamaldehyde groups (P > 0.05). Cinnamaldehyde reduced plasma nitric oxide (NO) content, NF-kappaB, inducible nitric oxide synthase and TLR4 expression and decreased inflammatory cell infiltrate in myocardium from VMC mice 7 days after viral inoculation (P < 0.05). However, these effects were not observed with cinnamic acid treatment. Statistical significance was present between cinnamic acid and cinnamaldehyde in their effects on plasma NO content, NF-kappaB, inducible nitric oxide synthase and TLR4 expression (P < 0.05).
Our data suggest that although cinnamaldehyde has antiviral effects on VMC through its metabolite, cinnamic acid, it directly reduces the inflammation in VMC by inhibiting the TLR4-NF-kappaB signal transduction pathway.
The effect of intravenous cocaine on coronary artery dynamics in 23 closed-chest dogs was examined. To determine dose-related effects, intravenous cocaine was administered in doses of 1, 3, 6, and 9 mg/kg; saline solution was used in control dogs. Heart rate, aortic pressure, and left anterior descending coronary artery cross-sectional area were measured before and for 60 minutes after each injection. Myocardial blood flow was measured with 15 microns radioactive microspheres at baseline and 30 minutes after administration of cocaine or saline solution. Plasma cocaine, benzoyl ecgonine, and norepinephrine concentrations were measured and correlated with physiologic changes. Cocaine caused sustained dose-dependent vasoconstriction of the left anterior descending coronary artery, which was significant at 15 minutes and maximum at 60 minutes (control = 2 +/- 10%; cocaine, 9 mg/kg = 46 +/- 10% cross-sectional area reduction). There was an immediate but transient reduction in aortic pressure and an elevation of heart rate after the 6 and 9 mg/kg doses and no hemodynamic changes with lower doses. Coronary blood flow was reduced 30 minutes after the 3, 6, and 9 mg/kg doses. Two dogs had refractory ventricular tachycardia after injection of cocaine and were not included in the analysis. Results of this investigation demonstrate angiographic evidence of dose-dependent, cocaine-induced epicardial coronary vasoconstriction and deleterious hemodynamic abnormalities at commonly used doses of cocaine. These results demonstrate a mechanism for the development of angina and myocardial infarction associated with cocaine use.
Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) allows the assessment of the water apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), a measure of tissue water diffusivity which is altered during different pathological conditions such as cerebral oedema. By means of DWI, we repeatedly measured in the same rats apparent diffusion coefficient ADC in different brain areas (motor cortex (MCx), somato-sensory cortex (SCx), caudate-putamen (CPu), hippocampus (Hip), mesencephalic reticular formation (RF), corpus callosum (CC) and cerebellum (Cb)) after 1 week, 4 and 12 weeks of lead acetate exposure via drinking water (50 or 500 ppm). After 12 weeks of lead exposure rats received albumin-Evans blue complex administration and were sacrificed 1h later. Blood-brain barrier permeability and water tissue content were determined in order to evaluate their relationship with ADC changes. Chronic exposure to lead acetate (500 ppm) for 4 weeks increased ADC values in Hip, RF and Cb but no in other brain areas. After 12 weeks of lead acetate exposure at 500 ppm ADC is significantly increased also in CPu and CC. Brain areas displaying high ADC values after lead exposure showed also an increased water content and increased BBB permeability to Evans blue-albumin complex. Exposure to 50 ppm for 12 weeks increased ADC values and BBB permeability in the RF and Cb. In summary, chronic lead exposure induces cerebral oedema in the adult brain depending on the brain area and the dose of exposure. RF and Cb appeared the most sensitive brain areas whereas cerebral cortex appears resistant to lead-induced cerebral oedema.
Short-term injection of ferulinolol (0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/kg, i.v.) produced dose-dependent bradycardia responses in pentobarbital-anesthetized Wistar rats, whereas it had no significant effects on the blood pressure. Ferulinolol markedly inhibited the tachycardia effects induced by (-)isoproterenol but did not show any blocking effect on the arterial pressor responses induced by (-)phenylephrine. These findings clearly suggested that ferulinolol had a beta-adrenergic blocking activity; nevertheless, it did not involve an alpha-adrenergic blocking action. In isolated guinea pig tissues, ferulinolol competitively antagonized (-)isoproterenol-induced positive inotropic and chronotropic effects of the atria and tracheal relaxation responses. The parallel shift to the right of the concentration-response curve of (-)isoproterenol suggested that ferulinolol was a beta-adrenoceptor-competitive antagonist. The apparent pA2 values for ferulinolol on right atria, left atria, and trachea were 7.62 +/- 0.05, 7.54 +/- 0.01, and 6.28 +/- 0.11, respectively. Ferulinolol was more potent on the atria than on tracheal tissues, demonstrating that it possessed beta1-adrenoceptor selectivity. The intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA) of ferulinolol and propranolol were determined on isolated atria and trachea from reserpine-treated guinea pig. Propranolol caused significantly negative inotropic and chronotropic effects at > or =1 microM, whereas ferulinolol possessed fewer cardiodepressant activities than propranolol. In reserpine-treated tracheal strips, ferulinolol produced dose-dependent relaxant responses, but propranolol was without effectiveness. Preincubating the preparations with ICI 118,551 (0.1, 1.0, and 10 nM), a beta2-adrenoceptor antagonist, significantly shifted the concentration-relaxation curves of ferulinolol to a region of higher concentrations. These results implied that ferulinolol had a partial beta2-agonist activity. Further, binding characteristics of ferulinolol and various beta-adrenoceptor antagonists were evaluated in [3H]CGP-12177 binding to rat ventricular or lung membranes. The Ki values of ferulinolol, atenolol, metoprolol, and (-)propranolol were 103, 262, 123, and 0.23 nM, respectively, in ventricular membranes, and 2,412, 7,539, 2,186, and 0.72 nM, respectively, in lung membranes. In conclusion, ferulinolol was found to be a highly selective beta1-adrenoceptor antagonist with partial beta2-agonist activity but was devoid of alpha-adrenoceptor blocking action.
Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy 2-deficient (Bscl2(-/-)) mice recapitulate human BSCL2 disease with lipodystrophy. Bscl2-encoded seipin is detected in adipocytes and epithelium of mammary gland. Postnatal mammary gland growth spurt and vaginal opening signify pubertal onset in female mice. Bscl2(-/-) females have longer and dilated mammary gland ducts at 5-week old and delayed vaginal opening. Prepubertal exposure to 500ppm genistein diet increases mammary gland area and accelerates vaginal opening in both control and Bscl2(-/-) females. However, genistein treatment increases ductal length in control but not Bscl2(-/-) females. Neither prepubertal genistein treatment nor Bscl2-deficiency affects phospho-estrogen receptor α or progesterone receptor expression patterns in 5-week old mammary gland. Interestingly, Bscl2-deficiency specifically reduces estrogen receptor β expression in mammary gland ductal epithelium. In summary, Bscl2(-/-) females have accelerated postnatal mammary ductal development but delayed vaginal opening; they display segregated responses in mammary gland development and vaginal opening to prepubertal genistein treatment.
The cardiovascular and left ventricular functional effects of dobutamine (5, 10 and 20 micrograms kg-1 min-1) were examined in conscious, chronically instrumented dogs in the presence and absence of control of heart rate with the specific bradycardic agent, zatebradine. Dobutamine increased heart rate, cardiac output, stroke volume, diastolic coronary blood flow velocity and pressure-work index (calculated myocardial oxygen consumption) and decreased systemic vascular resistance and diastolic coronary vascular resistance. Mean arterial pressure and left ventricular systolic and end-diastolic pressures were unchanged. Dobutamine-induced increases in heart rate and pressure-work index were attenuated by zatebradine. Dobutamine alone increased preload recruitable stroke work slope (63 +/- 6 to 116 +/- 11 mmHg) and +dP/dt. These positive inotropic effects were unaffected by zatebradine. Dobutamine decreased the time constant of isovolumic relaxation (30 +/- 3 to 25 +/- 2 ms). Dobutamine-induced decreases in the time constant of isovolumic relaxation were not altered by zatebradine, indicating that changes in the time constant occurred independent of heart rate. Dobutamine also increased the maximal segment lengthening velocity to a similar degree in zatebradine-treated versus untreated dogs. Control of dobutamine-induced tachycardia by zatebradine decreases myocardial oxygen consumption but does not alter the positive inotropic and lusitropic effects of dobutamine.
Noonan syndrome is a common human autosomal dominant birth defect, characterized by short stature, facial abnormalities, heart defects and possibly increased risk of leukemia. Mutations of Ptpn11 (also known as Shp2), which encodes the protein-tyrosine phosphatase Shp2, occur in approximately 50% of individuals with Noonan syndrome, but their molecular, cellular and developmental effects, and the relationship between Noonan syndrome and leukemia, are unclear. We generated mice expressing the Noonan syndrome-associated mutant D61G. When homozygous, the D61G mutant is embryonic lethal, whereas heterozygotes have decreased viability. Surviving Ptpn11(D61G/+) embryos ( approximately 50%) have short stature, craniofacial abnormalities similar to those in Noonan syndrome, and myeloproliferative disease. Severely affected Ptpn11(D61G/+) embryos ( approximately 50%) have multiple cardiac defects similar to those in mice lacking the Ras-GAP protein neurofibromin. Their endocardial cushions have increased Erk activation, but Erk hyperactivation is cell and pathway specific. Our results clarify the relationship between Noonan syndrome and leukemia and show that a single Ptpn11 gain-of-function mutation evokes all major features of Noonan syndrome by acting on multiple developmental lineages in a gene dosage-dependent and pathway-selective manner.
Paracetamol (acetaminophen) hepatotoxicity, whether due to intentional overdose or therapeutic misadventure, is an indication for liver transplantation in selected cases. However, there is a concern that long-term outcomes may be compromised by associated psychopathology that may predispose patients to further episodes of self-harm or poor treatment adherence. We therefore undertook a retrospective analysis of patients transplanted for paracetamol-induced fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) to determine their long-term outcomes, psychiatric problems, and compliance and whether these issues could be predicted from pretransplant information. Records from patients undergoing liver transplantation for paracetamol-associated liver failure in this unit and 2 comparison groups (patients undergoing liver replacement for FHF from other causes and for chronic liver diseases) were examined. Of 60 patients transplanted for paracetamol-induced FHF between 1989 and 2007, 44 (73%) survived to discharge. Currently, 35 patients (58%) are surviving at an average of 9 years post-transplantation. The incidence of psychiatric disease (principally depression) and 30-day mortality were greatest in the paracetamol group, but for those who survived 30 days, there was no difference in long-term survival rates between the groups. Adherence to follow-up appointments and compliance with immunosuppression were lowest in the paracetamol overdose group. Poor adherence was not predicted by any identifiable premorbid psychiatric conditions. Two patients grafted for paracetamol FHF died from self-harm (1 from suicide and 1 from alcoholic liver disease after 5 years). This study suggests that, notwithstanding the shortage of donor liver grafts, transplantation is an appropriate therapy in selected patients, although close follow-up is indicated.
We report on the electroclinical findings and the results of a molecular genetic study of a patient with typical severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy (TSME) and three with borderline SME (BSME) who showed paroxysmal movement disorders, such as choreoathetosis, dystonia and ballismus, during their clinical course. BSME was defined as a clinical entity that shares common characteristics with TSME but lacks myoclonic seizures associated with ictal EEG changes. When the paroxysmal movement disorders were first observed, all the patients in this study were being treated with polytherapy including phenytoin (PHT), and these abnormal movements disappeared when PHT was discontinued or reduced. However, on other occasions, two of our cases also showed the same abnormal movements even when not being treated with PHT. One patient with TSME and two of the three patients with BSME had SCN1A gene mutations that lead to truncation of the associated protein. We conclude that paroxysmal movement disorders seen in SME patients were closely related to their AED therapy, especially the use of PHT. It is thought that patients with both TSME and BSME have some predisposition toward paroxysmal movement disorders, and that this predisposition is partly related to sodium channel dysfunction, although some other factors might influence the occurrence of this phenomenon.
Although some individuals who abuse methamphetamine have considerable cognitive deficits, no prior studies have examined whether neurocognitive functioning is associated with outcome of treatment for methamphetamine dependence. In an outpatient clinical trial of bupropion combined with cognitive behavioral therapy and contingency management (Shoptaw, S., Heinzerling, K.G., Rotheram-Fuller, E., Steward, T., Wang, J., Swanson, A.N., De La Garza, R., Newton, T., Ling, W., 2008. Randomized, placebo-controlled trial of bupropion for the treatment of methamphetamine dependence. Drug Alcohol Depend 96, 222-232.), 60 methamphetamine-dependent adults completed three tests of reaction time and working memory at baseline. Other variables that were collected at baseline included measures of drug use, mood/psychiatric functioning, employment, social context, legal status, and medical status. We evaluated the relative predictive value of all baseline measures for treatment outcome using Classification and Regression Trees (CART; Breiman, L., Friedman, J.H., Olshen, R.A., Stone, C.J., 1984. Classification and Regression Trees. Wadsworth, Belmont, CA.), a nonparametric statistical technique that produces easily interpretable decision rules for classifying subjects that are particularly useful in clinical settings. Outcome measures were whether or not a participant completed the trial and whether or not most urine tests showed abstinence from methamphetamine abuse. Urine-verified methamphetamine abuse at the beginning of the study was the strongest predictor of treatment outcome; two psychosocial measures (e.g., nicotine dependence and Global Assessment of Functioning) also offered some predictive value. A few reaction time and working memory variables were related to treatment outcome, but these cognitive measures did not significantly aid prediction after adjusting for methamphetamine usage at the beginning of the study. On the basis of these findings, we recommend that research groups seeking to identify new predictors of treatment outcome compare the predictors to methamphetamine usage variables to assure that unique predictive power is attained.
Patient Controlled Analgesia is a useful technic to deliver morphine analgesia via a programmable pump: the patient himself choose to self-administer a bolus dose (usually morphine); the dosage is calculated and prescribed according to the level of pain, limits of dose and period of interdiction are planned. After initial bolus to decrease severe pain (titration), the patient from the age of 6 years can manage his analgesia. This method of administration of the analgesic allows to adapting at best the posology of morphine to the level of pain and has a high safety level. A continuous flow can be prescribed if the pain is severe, but requires a greater level of surveillance of the essential parameters: breath and sedation, in order to avoid any overdose. As for any morphine analgesia, the unwanted effects must be prevented or treated. If the child cannot handle the pump (young age, handicap, tiredness) the nurse or sometimes the relative can activate the delivery of bolus after a specific training. The education of the relatives (parents) and the child is essential. This simple and efficacious method of analgesia requires an adequate training of the nursing staff.
Loss of normal growth control is a hallmark of cancer progression. Therefore, understanding the early mechanisms of normal growth regulation and the changes that occur during preneoplasia may provide insights of both diagnostic and therapeutic importance. Models of dysplasia that help elucidate the mechanisms responsible for disease progression are useful in highlighting potential targets for prevention. An important strategy in cancer prevention treatment programs is to reduce hyperplasia and dysplasia. This study identified abnormal upregulation of cell cycle-related proteins cyclin D1, cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)4, CDK6, and phosphorylated retinoblastoma protein (pRb) as mechanisms responsible for maintenance of hyperplasia and dysplasia following downregulation of the initiating viral oncoprotein Simian virus 40 (SV40) T antigen. Significantly, p53 was not required for successful reversal of hyperplasia and dysplasia. Ligand-induced activation of retinoid X receptor and PPARγ agonists attenuated cyclin D1 and CDK6 but not CDK4 or phosphorylated pRb upregulation with limited reversal of hyperplasia and dysplasia. PD0332991, an orally available CDK4/6 inhibitor, was able to prevent upregulation of cyclin D1 and CDK6 as well as CDK4 and phosphorylated pRb and this correlated with a more profound reversal of hyperplasia and dysplasia. In summary, the study distinguished CDK4 and phosphorylated pRb as targets for chemoprevention regimens targeting reversal of hyperplasia and dysplasia.
Using radioligand binding assays and post-mortem normal human brain tissue, we obtained equilibrium dissociation constants (Kds) for 17 antidepressants and two of their metabolites at histamine H1, muscarinic, alpha 1-adrenergic, alpha 2-adrenergic, dopamine D2, serotonin 5-HT1A, and serotonin 5-HT2 receptors. Several newer antidepressants were compared with older drugs. In addition, we studied some antimuscarinic, antiparkinson, antihistamine, and neuroleptic compounds at some of these receptors. For the antidepressants, classical tricyclic antidepressants were the most potent drugs at five of the seven receptors (all but alpha 2-adrenergic and 5-HT1A receptors). The chlorophenylpiperazine derivative antidepressants (etoperidone, nefazodone, trazodone) were the most potent antidepressants at alpha 2-adrenergic and 5-HT1A receptors. Of ten antihistamines tested, none was more potent than doxepin at histamine H1 receptors. At muscarinic receptors antidepressants and antihistamines had a range of potencies, which were mostly weaker than those for antimuscarinics. From the in vitro data, we expect adinazolam, bupropion, fluoxetine, sertraline, tomoxetine, and venlafaxine not to block any of these five receptors in vivo. An antidepressant's potency for blocking a specific receptor is predictive of certain side effects and drug-drug interactions. These studies can provide guidelines for the clinician in the choice of antidepressant.
A new case of severe bone-marrow aplasia due to Ticlopidine therapy is described. On the basis also of immunologic findings, the drug seems to be the cause of the hematologic syndrome. The presence of an idiopathic hypothyroidism may have favored the immune mediated reaction to the drug.
Glomerular epithelial cell injury is thought to be the primary reason for the development of proteinuria in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN), the rat model of nephrotic syndrome. By comparison mesangial cells are considered resistant to the effects of puromycin. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether puromycin in non cytotoxic concentrations caused mesangial cell dysfunction, with particular reference to cell-extracellular matrix interactions. Mesangial cells, when embedded in collagen gels, contact after exposure to minimal essential medium (MEM) containing fetal bovine serum (FBS). This contractility, measured by determining changes in area of the collagen gel, is inhibited by puromycin in a dose dependent manner from 2.5 micrograms/ml to 160 micrograms/ml. At these concentrations there is no alteration of cell viability as measured by the tetrazolium salt (MTT) method and trypan blue exclusion. Immunocytochemistry with rhodamine phalloidin reveals that actin filaments are not disrupted. The antioxidants, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase as well as diphenylene iodonium (DPI), a flavoprotein inhibitor, not only counteracted the effect of puromycin on gel contraction, but also enhanced gel contraction when added to mesangial cells on their own. Aminotriazole, an inhibitor of endogenous catalase, inhibited mesangial cell-induced gel contraction in a dose dependent manner (5 mM to 40 mM), and this effect was completely reversed by addition of catalase. Mesangial cells preloaded with dihydrorhodamine and exposed to puromycin (5 micrograms/ml to 160 micrograms/ml) exhibited a dose dependent increase in rhodamine 123 fluorescence, indicating production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). This effect was blocked by the addition of DPI.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Shooting, tonic cramps of the neck muscles with jolt-like contractions in the mouth and jaw regions and propulsive movements of both arms developed in a 25-year-old woman who, over a period of six months, had been given nine intramuscular injections of the depot neuroleptic fluspirilene, 1.5 mg each, because of apathy and depression. Treatment with biperiden (up to 20 mg daily) and benzodiazepines was unsuccessful, while tiapride (up to 1000 mg daily) brought about slight improvement and 15 mg haloperidol achieved complete remission. However, distinct parkinsonian features developed. Slow gradual reduction of the haloperidol dose again led to extrapyramidal motor symptoms, even when tiapride or bromocriptine was given as well. After six months' administration of clozapine, up to 500 mg daily, and gradual dose reduction all symptoms fully regressed. This case demonstrates that the risk of extrapyramidal motor abnormalities from "neuroleptic anxiolysis" should not be underestimated.
Transforming growth factor-beta2 (TGF-beta2) stimulates the expression of pro-fibrotic connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) during the course of renal disease. Because sphingosine kinase-1 (SK-1) activity is also upregulated by TGF-beta, we studied its effect on CTGF expression and on the development of renal fibrosis. When TGF-beta2 was added to an immortalized human podocyte cell line we found that it activated the promoter of SK-1, resulting in upregulation of its mRNA and protein expression. Further, depletion of SK-1 by small interfering RNA or its pharmacological inhibition led to accelerated CTGF expression in the podocytes. Over-expression of SK-1 reduced CTGF induction, an effect mediated by intracellular sphingosine-1-phosphate. In vivo, SK-1 expression was also increased in the podocytes of kidney sections of patients with diabetic nephropathy when compared to normal sections of kidney obtained from patients with renal cancer. Similarly, in a mouse model of streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy, SK-1 and CTGF were upregulated in podocytes. In SK-1 deficient mice, exacerbation of disease was detected by increased albuminuria and CTGF expression when compared to wild-type mice. Thus, SK-1 activity has a protective role in the fibrotic process and its deletion or inhibition aggravates fibrotic disease.
Encephalopathy is a rare side effect of third- and fourth-generation cephalosporins. Renal failure and previous disease of the central nervous system predispose to this neurotoxicity. We describe a case of encephalopathy with generalised triphasic waves in a patient with pre-existent cerebrovascular disease who was treated with ceftriaxone for a urinary tract infection. Early recognition of this complication is relevant given that ceftriaxone discontinuation reverted the neurological syndrome.
We compared cranial CTs of 35 habitual cocaine abusers, 16 self-reported 1st-time users, and 54 headache patients using linear planimetric measures. All patients met the following criteria: age 20 to 40 years, no polydrug abuse (including alcohol), HIV seronegativity, normal albumin level, and no history of any other neurologic disease. The sex ratios and ages were not significantly different in the 3 groups. The planimetric measurements and calculated indices of cerebral atrophy were significantly different in the habitual cocaine abusers compared with the 2 other groups of patients. There were no differences between 1st-time cocaine users and controls. Among the habitual cocaine abusers there was a positive correlation between the approximate duration of cocaine abuse and the calculated atrophy indices. The findings suggest that cerebral atrophy develops in chronic cocaine abusers, and the severity correlates with the duration of abuse.
