Little is known regarding the role of hyperglycaemia on histone H3 modifications and, in turn, altering the expression of genes during the development of diabetes-associated complications. In the present study, we have investigated the hyperinsulinaemia/hyperglycaemia-induced epigenetic changes and alteration of Fbn1 (fibrillin 1) and Col3A1 (collagen type III α1) gene expression. Insulin resistance and Type 2 diabetes in male Sprague-Dawley rats was developed by feeding rats an HFD (high-fat diet) and administering a low dose of STZ (streptozotocin). Hyperglycaemia induced deacetylation and dephosphorylation of histone H3 in the heart and kidneys of diabetic rats. Furthermore, mRNA expression of Fbn1 and Col3A1 increased in the kidneys and decreased in the heart under hyperglycaemic/hyperinsulinaemic conditions. Similar to mRNA expression, chromatin immunoprecipitation also showed an increase in the level of histone H3 acetylation of the Fbn1 gene, but not of the Col3A1 gene. Our present findings suggests that the change in expression of the Fbn1 gene is epigenetically regulated, but the expression of the Col3A1 gene may either be independent of epigenetic regulation or may involve other histone modifications. We provide the first evidence regarding the role of hyperglycaemia/hyperinsulinaemia in altering histone H3 modifications, which may result in the alteration of extracellular matrix gene expression.
Aflatoxin B(1) is a potent hepatotoxic and hepatocarcinogenic mycotoxin. Lipid peroxidation and oxidative DNA damage are the principal manifestations of aflatoxin B(1)-induced toxicity that could be counteracted by antioxidants. Many plant constituents have been reported to prevent liver damage associated with lipid peroxidation. In this study, curcumin (polyphenolic antioxidant purified from turmeric) and resveratrol (polyphenol obtained from grapes) were evaluated for possible protection against liver injury induced by aflatoxin B(1) in rats. Adult male Fischer rats were divided into six groups including untreated control, curcumin control (200 mg/kg BW), resveratrol control (10 mg/kg BW) and aflatoxin B(1) (25 microg/kg BW). Other two groups were administered either curcumin or resveratrol along with aflatoxin B(1). The study was carried out for 90 days. At the end of the experiment period, blood and tissue samples were collected from the animals before they were killed. Livers were collected for histopathologic studies and fixed in 10% buffered formalin solution. Serum was used for estimation of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and gamma-glutamyl transferase (gamma-GT) enzymes. The lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) were estimated in liver homogenates. The results revealed that aflatoxin B(1) administration caused liver damage as indicated by statistically significant (P < 0.05) increase in serum ALT, AST and gamma-GT levels. In addition, there were general statistically significant reductions in the activities of GSH, SOD, CAT, GSH-Px, and an increase in lipid peroxidation in the liver of aflatoxin B(1)-treated group compared to the untreated control group. Curcumin showed a significant hepatoprotective activity by lowering the levels of serum marker enzymes, lipid peroxidation and elevating the levels of GSH, SOD, CAT and GSH-Px. However, resveratrol failed to protect from the aflatoxin B(1)-induced liver injury. These findings suggest that curcumin but not resveratrol has a hepatoprotective effect against aflatoxin B(1)-induced liver injury.
Five months after starting nifedipine (Adalat), two patients developed photodistributed facial telangiectasia, which became more noticeable with time. Neither patient complained of photosensitivity or flushing. Both patients reported a significant cosmetic improvement after discontinuing the drug. One commenced the closely related drug amlodipine 3 years later, with recurrence of telangiectasia. The photodistribution of the telangiectasia suggests a significant drug/light interaction.
In a naturalistic study of 23 severely and profoundly mentally retarded adult male patients undergoing slow "diagnostic" neuroleptic taper, it was determined that at least 60% could eventually be managed without psychoactive medication. However, many of these demonstrated a remarkably long, but nonetheless transient, period of worsening. This suggests that behavioral deterioration during drug reduction trials does not always indicate a need for chronic neuroleptic maintenance since these behaviors may return to baseline without pharmacological intervention. On the other hand, 40% demonstrated persistent (> 2 years) behavioral worsening. Those individuals who demonstrated persistent deterioration had been generally well controlled on neuroleptics, were somewhat older, and were receiving a higher baseline dose. Most of these persistently worsened subjects currently require some type of psychoactive medication (although only two have been returned to neuroleptics).
Acute intravenous infusion of ranolazine (Ran), an anti-ischemic/antiangina drug, was previously shown to improve left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) without a concomitant increase in myocardial oxygen consumption in dogs with chronic heart failure (HF). This study examined the effects of treatment with Ran alone and in combination with metoprolol (Met) or enalapril (Ena) on LV function and remodeling in dogs with HF. Dogs (n = 28) with microembolization-induced HF were randomized to 3 mo oral treatment with Ran alone [375 mg twice daily (bid); n = 7], Ran (375 mg bid) in combination with Met tartrate (25 mg bid; n = 7), Ran (375 mg bid) in combination with Ena (10 mg bid; n = 7), or placebo (PL; Ran vehicle bid; n = 7). Ventriculographic measurements of LV end-diastolic volume (EDV) and end-systolic volume (ESV) and LV EF were obtained before treatment and after 3 mo of treatment. In PL-treated dogs, EDV and ESV increased significantly. Ran alone prevented the increase in EDV and ESV seen in the PL group and significantly increased EF, albeit modestly, from 35 +/- 1% to 37 +/- 2%. When combined with either Ena or Met, Ran prevented the increase in EDV, significantly decreased ESV, and markedly increased EF compared with those of PL. EF increased from 35 +/- 1% to 40 +/- 1% with Ran + Ena and from 34 +/- 1% to 41 +/- 1% with Ran + Met. Ran alone or in combination with Ena or Met was also associated with beneficial effects at the cellular level on histomorphometric parameters such as hypertrophy, fibrosis, and capillary density as well as the expression for pathological hypertrophy and Ca2+ cycling genes. In conclusion, Ran prevented progressive LV dysfunction and global and cellular myocardial remodeling, and Ran in combination with Ena or Met improved LV function beyond that observed with Ran alone.
The purpose of this double-blind study was to investigate the incidence of transient neurological symptoms after the use of isobaric lidocaine and isobaric prilocaine for spinal anaesthesia. Seventy patients (ASA 1-2, age between 18 and 70 years) were randomly assigned to two groups of 35 patients each, to receive either isobaric 2% lidocaine 4 ml or isobaric 2% prilocaine 4 ml intrathecally, at the L3-4 interspace. One patient in the prilocaine group could not be included because data were incomplete. On the first postoperative day, patients were evaluated for transient neurological symptoms. Pain was scored on a 10-point scale. Seven patients (20%) in the lidocaine group had transient neurological symptoms with a mean pain score of 5.3, whereas no patient in the prilocaine group had these complaints (p = 0.006). Symptoms disappeared within 4 days. Prilocaine results in a lower incidence of transient neurological symptoms than lidocaine intrathecally and therefore it is more suitable for short surgical procedures.
GABAergic medications appear to reduce the reinforcing effects of cocaine by attenuating cocaine-induced dopamine release. This study evaluated gabapentin and tiagabine compared to placebo in reducing cocaine taking behavior.
A total of 76 treatment seeking, cocaine dependent, methadone-treated, predominately Caucasian male subjects were randomly assigned to tiagabine 24 mg/day (N=25), gabapentin 2400 mg/day (N=26) or placebo (N=25) in a 10-week double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Study medications were slowly increased to their full dosages by the end of week 5 and maintained through week 10. The primary outcome measure was thrice-weekly drug free urine samples.
Treatment retention was significantly less for the gabapentin group relative to the other groups (log rank=5.29, d.f.=1, p=0.02). The proportion of cocaine-free urine samples during weeks 6-10 was significantly larger in the tiagabine treated group (p<0.05). The longitudinal data showed significant change in thrice-weekly cocaine free urines that reached a greater abstinent rate for the tiagabine treated group (22%) compared to gabapentin (5%) or placebo (13%) treated groups. Mixed-effects ordinal regression models showed a significant tiagabine by time interaction compared to gabapentin (Z=2.48, d.f.=1, p=0.01) and placebo (Z=3.90, d.f.=1, p=0.0001). The gabapentin group did not differ from placebo.
Gabapentin showed poor treatment retention and ineffectiveness in reducing cocaine use. Tiagabine significantly reduced cocaine taking behavior compared to placebo or gabapentin among methadone-stabilized cocaine abusers.
4'-deoxydoxorubicin (4'-deoxy-DXR), a new doxorubicin (DXR) analogue with interesting antineoplastic activity, was tested for its cardiotoxicity in guinea pigs and humans. In experiments on isolated guinea pig heart, which is considered a highly predictive model of acute anthracycline cardiotoxicity in humans, 4'-deoxy-DXR was found to be significantly less cardiotoxic than DXR. This effect was correlated with a lower degree of inhibition of the fast-exchanging calcium compartment and of the low affinity sarcolemmal calcium-binding sites. The preliminary study on 4'-deoxy-DXR in humans was conducted on 117 patients affected by advanced malignancies resistant to conventional chemotherapy. The drug was administered by bolus i.v. injection in doses ranging from 10 to 40 mg/m2 in the phase I study and in doses of 35 mg/m2 in the phase II study, which is still ongoing. Cardiologic evaluation consisted of recording of EKG, left ventricular systolic time intervals (STI), echocardiography and radionuclide ejection fraction. Preliminary data indicated a lower percentage of EKG abnormalities in comparison not only with DXR but also with other anthracycline analogues. Analysis of STI recorded 1 h after different doses of 4'-deoxy-DXR failed to show the dose-dependent effect on left ventricular function which has been described for DXR, thus confirming the lower acute cardiotoxic effect. Functional parameters serially measured to evaluate chronic cardiotoxicity in 15 patients who received more than 200 mg/m2 were not significantly different from basal values.
Propofol is an intravenous (i.v.) anaesthetic agent that possesses many of the qualities of an ideal anaesthetic agent. The most significant side-effect associated with propofol is pain on injection. Despite optimal therapy, the incidence of pain on propofol injection remains a problem. This prospective, randomized, double blinded study evaluated the effect of three different treatment strategies in decreasing pain on propofol injection.
We studied 102 adult, ASA I-II patients, scheduled for elective surgical procedures. Combination of i.v. lidocaine and nitrous oxide (N2O) in oxygen (O2) inhalation pre-treatment was compared with either treatment alone in the prevention of pain on propofol injection. A standard propofol injection technique and scoring system, to measure the pain on injection was used.
Demographic variables were similar between the groups. The incidence of no pain on propofol injection was similar in the lidocaine and N2O groups (63.6% vs. 57.5%) (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.17-0.29, P = 0.61). Combination therapy was associated with a greater incidence of no pain on injection (84% vs. 63.6%) (95% CI: 0.06-0.48, P = 0.04).
Combination of i.v. lidocaine and N2O in O2 inhalation pre-treatment is more effective than either treatment alone in decreasing pain on propofol injection.
On gestation day (GD) 6 to GD 19, pregnant Sprague Dawley rats were orally exposed to 0, 0.5, 1, and 2 mg/kg/day to one of the most prevalent polybrominated diphenyl ethers congeners found in humans, 2,2',4,4',5-pentaBDE (BDE-99). All dams were euthanized on GD 20, and live fetuses were evaluated for sex, body weight, and external, internal, and skeletal malformations and developmental variations. The liver from one fetus of each litter was excised for the evaluation of oxidative stress markers and the messenger RNA expression of multiple cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms. Exposure to BDE-99 during the gestational period produced delayed ossification, slight hypertrophy of the heart, and enlargement of the liver in fetuses. A transplacental effect of BDE-99, evidenced by the activation of nuclear hormones receptors that induce the upregulation of CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2B1, and CYP3A2 isoforms, was also found in fetal liver. These isoforms are correlated with the activity level of the enzyme catalase and the levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances. However, teratogenic effects from BDE-99 exposure were not observed. Clear signs of embryo/fetal toxicity, due to a possible hormonal disruption, were evidenced by a large increase in the CYP system and the production of reactive oxygen species in fetal liver.
Administration of carbon tetrachloride determines liver injury, inflammation and oxidative stress, but the molecular mechanisms of damage are only partially understood. In this study, we investigated the development of acute toxic damage in mice lacking monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), a chemokine which recruits monocytes and activated lymphocytes.
Mice with targeted deletion of the MCP-1 gene and wild type controls were administered a single intragastric dose of carbon tetrachloride. Serum liver enzymes, histology, expression of different chemokines and cytokines, and intrahepatic levels of oxidative stress-related products were evaluated.
Compared to wild type mice, peak aminotransferase levels were significantly lower in MCP-1-deficient animals. This was paralleled by a delayed appearance of necrosis at histology. In addition, MCP-1-deficient mice showed a shift in the pattern of infiltrating inflammatory cells, with a predominance of polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Lack of MCP-1 was also accompanied by reduced intrahepatic expression of cytokines regulating inflammation and tissue repair. The increase in tissue levels of reactive oxygen species and 4-hydroxy-nonenal following administration of the hepatotoxin was also significantly lower in animals lacking MCP-1.
Lack of MCP-1 affords protection from damage and development of oxidative stress in a toxic model of severe acute liver injury.
Both morphine and the neuroleptics, haloperidol and oxyperomide, dose-dependently reduce the aggression in rats produced by 20 mg/kg of apomorphine, a dopamine receptor stimulant. The narcotics antagonist, naloxone, prevents this effect of morphine but not the effect of neuroleptics. Dexetimide, a centrally acting antimuscarnic drug, antagonizes the reduction in aggression produced by the neuroleptics, but does not affect morphine's action. The cholinergic agonist, pilocarpine, enhances this action of oxyperomide. These results suggest that a cholinergic component contributes to the anti-agression action of neuroleptics and demonstrates a difference in the mechanism of action between neuroleptics and morphine.
Three patients are presented as illustrative examples of severe necrotizing pancreatitis associated with diuretic therapy. The presumed initiating factor was use of a benzothiadiazine (chlorothiazide, hydrochlorothiazide) or phthalimidine (chlorthalidone) diuretic to control hypertension, after the exclusion of other etiologies. We present these illustrative cases and a collective review, emphasizing that pancreatitis associated with these widely prescribed medications can be fatal and may be more common that previously thought.
Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) can cause atrophy of the immune organs in rodents, but the mechanism underlying this action is not completely understood. In this study, BALB/c mice were fed a regular (RD) or high-fat diet (HFD). They were then exposed to PFOS (0, 5, and 20mg/kg/day) for 14 days. In the RD-exposure group, body weight significantly decreased and the immune organs showed considerable atrophy. Histopathological analyses showed that the corticomedullary junction of the thymus was indistinguishable, and sinus expansion in the spleen was observed. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) results showed that lipofuscin granules and vacuoles appeared in the thymus and spleen. Increased apoptosis of thymocytes was observed. In the HFD group, all of these phenomena were not eliminated. More serious atrophy was seen in the immune organs under TEM. Even more adipocytes were in the lobules of the thymus in the HFD 20mg/kg/day PFOS groups. Expression of the proliferator-activated receptor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta were upregulated in the thymus and spleen in all exposure groups. These results suggest that PFOS may indirectly attack the immune organs by interfering with lipid metabolism, leading to co-senescence of the thymus and spleen. These data may aid understanding of how PFOS affects the immune system.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of high-dose α-lipoic acid in the treatment of diabetic polyneuropathy with regards to sensory symptoms and nerve conduction velocity.
A total of 236 diabetics with symptomatic polyneuropathy were enrolled into this 5-center, randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled study of α-lipoic acid 1800 mg daily (n = 117) or matching placebo (n = 119) for 12 weeks. The primary outcome was total symptom score (TSS). Secondary end points included nerve conduction velocity, individual symptom score, HbA1c and safety parameters. The above parameters were reviewed and recorded at zero point and after treatment for 2, 4, 8, 12 weeks separately.
73.27% patients with symptomatic polyneuropathy improved after treatment with α-lipoic acid for 12 weeks versus 18.27% with placebo. TSS declined by 2.6 ± 2.3 with α-lipoic acid. And it was more than 0.7 ± 1.4 versus placebo (P < 0.05). TSS decreased quickly after treatment with α-lipoic acid for 2 weeks (P < 0.05). And it was better than placebo. Individual symptom scores of pain, extremity numbness, burning sensation or resting abnormal sensations were significantly diminished as compared to those before treatment and placebo group (all P < 0.05). Nerve conduction velocity had no change. HbA1c further decreased at the end of trial after α-lipoic acid treatment (P < 0.05). The incidence rates of adverse effects were 25.4% vs 11.8% in the treatment and control groups. The major manifestation was burning sensation from throat to stomach (12.7%).
Oral treatment with high-dose α-lipoic acid for 12 weeks may improve symptoms in patients with diabetic polyneuropathy. Dose of 600 mg thrice daily for 2 weeks has marked effects with a reasonable safety.
GOAL OF THE WORK: Anemia is a common side effect of chemotherapy. Limited information exists about its incidence and risk factors. The objective of this study was to evaluate the incidence of anemia and risk factors for anemia occurrence in patients with early breast cancer who received adjuvant chemotherapy.
We evaluated risk factors for anemia in pre- and post/perimenopausal patients with lymph node-positive early breast cancer treated with adjuvant chemotherapy in two randomized trials. All patients received four cycles of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC) followed by three cycles of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil (CMF). Anemia incidence was related to baseline risk factors. Multivariable analysis used logistic and Cox regression.
Among the 2,215 available patients, anemia was recorded in 11% during adjuvant chemotherapy. Grade 2 and 3 anemia occurred in 4 and 1% of patients, respectively. Pretreatment hemoglobin and white blood cells (WBC) were significant predictors of anemia. Adjusted odds ratios (logistic regression) comparing highest versus lowest quartiles were 0.18 (P < 0.0001) for hemoglobin and 0.52 (P = 0.0045) for WBC. Age, surgery type, platelets, body mass index, and length of time from surgery to chemotherapy were not significant predictors. Cox regression results looking at time to anemia were similar.
Moderate or severe anemia is rare among patients treated with AC followed by CMF. Low baseline hemoglobin and WBC are associated with a higher risk of anemia.
Sedation is an important aspect of care for critically ill newborns. Proper sedation reduces stress during procedures such as mechanical ventilation. Midazolam, a short-acting benzodiazepine, is widely administered as a sedative in newborn intensive care units but is not without side effects. Three term newborns developed myoclonic-like abnormal movements after receiving midazolam. In one, flumazenil controlled the abnormal movements. Flumazenil is a potent benzodiazepine antagonist that competitively blocks the central effects of benzodiazepines. It can reverse the sedative effects of benzodiazepines occurring after diagnostic or therapeutic procedures or after benzodiazepine overdose. Flumazenil may be considered in cases of abnormal movements associated with midazolam. However, further studies are needed to provide guidelines for the administration of this drug in newborns.
Retinoid X receptor-alpha (RXRalpha) is an obligate partner for several nuclear hormone receptors that regulate important physiological processes in the liver. In this study the impact of hepatocyte RXRalpha deficiency on methionine and choline deficient (MCD) diet-induced steatosis, oxidative stress, inflammation, and hepatic transporters gene expression were examined. The mRNA of sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-regulated genes, important for lipid synthesis, were not altered in wild type (WT) mice, but were increased 2.0- to 5.4-fold in hepatocyte RXRalpha-null (H-RXRalpha-null) mice fed a MCD diet for 14 days. Furthermore, hepatic mRNAs and proteins essential for fatty acid beta-oxidation were not altered in WT mice, but were decreased in the MCD diet-fed H-RXRalpha-null mice, resulting in increased hepatic free fatty acid levels. Cyp2e1 enzyme activity and lipid peroxide levels were induced only in MCD-fed WT mice. In contrast, hepatic mRNA levels of pro-inflammatory factors were increased only in H-RXRalpha-null mice fed the MCD diet. Hepatic uptake transporters Oatp1a1 and Oatp1b2 mRNA levels were decreased in WT mice fed the MCD diet, whereas the efflux transporter Mrp4 was increased. However, in the H-RXRalpha-null mice, the MCD diet only moderately decreased Oatp1a1 and induced both Oatp1a4 and Mrp4 gene expression. Whereas the MCD diet increased serum bile acid levels and alkaline phosphatase activity in both WT and H-RXRalpha-null mice, serum ALT levels were induced (2.9-fold) only in the H-RXRalpha-null mice. In conclusion, these data suggest a critical role for RXRalpha in hepatic fatty acid homeostasis and protection against MCD-induced hepatocyte injury.
A 22-year-old man was hospitalized after unexplained seizure-like activity and unresponsiveness. A urine toxicology screen was negative for salicylates, acetaminophen, alcohol, and drugs of abuse. Medical history was insignificant with the exception of recent (within 2 wks) ingestion of Hydroxycut is a dietary supplement purported to be energy enhancing, muscle building, and fat burning. The agent contains ephedra alkaloids and caffeine, which are both central nervous system stimulants; the etiology of seizure was attributed to their consumption. Due to a significant number of reported adverse events, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) proposed regulations for dietary supplements containing ephedra alkaloids and requested an independent review of case reports linked to these products. Because herbal products are not subject to the same rigorous FDA regulations required for prescription and over-the-counter products, consumers unknowingly risk adverse effects when taking these products. Questioning patients about consumption of herbal products should be part of routine medical visits.
High levels of nitric oxide (NO) are produced by inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in response to activating signals from Th1-associated cytokines and play an important role in cytotoxicity and cytostasis against many pathogenic microorganisms. In addition to its direct effector function, NO serves as a potent immunoregulatory factor. NO produced by gamma interferon-activated macrophages immobilizes and kills Schistosoma mansoni larvae, and several studies have indicated a role for this pathway in protective immunity against this parasite. The potential regulatory influence of NO in immunity to S. mansoni is less well understood. In this study, we have used iNOS-deficient mice to determine the role of NO in mice vaccinated with irradiated cercariae of S. mansoni. We show by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and reverse transcriptase PCR analysis that vaccinated iNOS-deficient mice develop exacerbated type 1 cytokine responses in the lungs, the site where resistance to infection is primarily manifested. In addition, parasite-specific immunoglobulin G2a (IgG2a) and IgG2b antibody responses were significantly increased in vaccinated iNOS-deficient animals and total IgE antibody levels in serum were decreased relative to those in wild-type controls. Surprisingly, since resistance in this vaccine model is largely Th1 dependent and since Th1-related cellular and humoral immune responses were found to be exacerbated in vaccinated iNOS-deficient mice, vaccine-elicited protective immunity against challenge infection was found to be reduced. These findings demonstrate that iNOS plays a paradoxical role in immunity to S. mansoni, both in the effector mechanism of resistance and in the down regulation of the type 1 cytokine response, which is ultimately required for NO production.
KBM5 cells, derived from a patient with blast crisis Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), and imatinib-resistant KBM5 (KBM5-STI571) cells were found to express high levels of survivin. Inhibition of Bcr-Abl by imatinib significantly decreased survivin expression and cell viability in KBM5, but much less so in KBM5-STI571 cells. Inhibition of MEK, downstream of the Bcr-Abl signaling cascade decreased survivin expression and cell viability in both KBM5 and KBM5-STI571 cells. In addition, down-regulation of survivin by a survivin antisense oligonucleotide (Sur-AS-ODN) inhibited cell growth and induced maximal G2M block at 48 hours, whereas cell death was observed only at 72 hours in both KBM5 and KBM5-STI571 cells as shown by annexin V staining. Further, the combination of Sur-AS-ODN and imatinib induced more cell death in KBM5 cells than did either treatment alone. Down-regulating survivin also decreased colony-forming units (CFUs) in blast crisis CML patient samples. Our data therefore suggest that survivin is regulated by the Bcr-Abl/MAPK cascade in Ph+ CML. The facts that down-regulating survivin expression induced cell-growth arrest and subsequent cell death regardless of the cell response to imatinib and enhanced the sensitivity to imatinib suggest the potential therapeutic utility of this strategy in patients with CML, both imatinib sensitive and resistant.
We examined six patients who developed blurring or oscillopsia as a result of downbeat nystagmus while being treated with lithium carbonate. Of these six plus six previously described similar patients, all but two developed downbeat nystagmus insidiously as an isolated disorder in the setting of otherwise satisfactory therapeutic control, without clinical or biochemical evidence of acute lithium intoxication. Only six of these 12 patients were able either to reduce or to stop taking lithium, and in only two of these six did the downbeat nystagmus improve or remit.
Manganese (Mn) is an essential nutrient required for proper growth and maintenance of numerous biological systems. At high levels it is known to be neurotoxic. While focused research concerning the transport of Mn across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is on-going, the exact identity of the transporter(s) responsible is still debated. The transferrin receptor (TfR) and the divalent metal transporter-1 (DMT-1) have long been thought to play a role in brain Mn deposition. However, evidence suggests that Mn may also be transported by other proteins. One model system of the BBB, rat brain endothelial (RBE4) cells, are known to express many proteins suspected to be involved in metal transport. This review will discuss the biological importance of Mn, and then briefly describe several proteins that may be involved in transport of this metal across the BBB. The latter section will examine the potential usefulness of RBE4 cells in characterizing various aspects of Mn transport, and basic culture techniques involved in working with these cells. It is hoped that ideas put forth in this article will stimulate further investigations into the complex nature of Mn transport, and address the importance as well as the limitation of in vitro models in answering these questions.
