Welding generates complex metal aerosols, inhalation of which is linked to adverse health effects among welders. An important health concern of welding fume (WF) exposure is neurological dysfunction akin to Parkinson's disease (PD), thought to be mediated by manganese (Mn) in the fumes. Also, there is a proposition that welding might accelerate the onset of PD. Our recent findings link the presence of Mn in the WF with dopaminergic neurotoxicity seen in rats exposed to manual metal arc-hard surfacing (MMA-HS) or gas metal arc-mild steel (GMA-MS) fumes. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms further, we investigated the association of PD-linked (Park) genes and mitochondrial function in causing dopaminergic abnormality. Repeated instillations of the two fumes at doses that mimic ∼1 to 5 yr of worker exposure resulted in selective brain accumulation of Mn. This accumulation caused impairment of mitochondrial function and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein, indicative of dopaminergic injury. A fascinating finding was the altered expression of Parkin (Park2), Uchl1 (Park5), and Dj1 (Park7) proteins in dopaminergic brain areas. A similar regimen of manganese chloride (MnCl(2)) also caused extensive loss of striatal TH, mitochondrial electron transport components, and Park proteins. As mutations in PARK genes have been linked to early-onset PD in humans, and because welding is implicated as a risk factor for parkinsonism, PARK genes might play a critical role in WF-mediated dopaminergic dysfunction. Whether these molecular alterations culminate in neurobehavioral and neuropathological deficits reminiscent of PD remains to be ascertained.
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the major causative agent of severe lower respiratory tract disease and death in infants worldwide. The epithelial cells of the airways are the target cells for RSV infection and the site of the majority of the inflammation associated with the disease. However, despite five decades of intensive RSV research there exist neither an effective active vaccine nor a promising antiviral and anti-inflammatory therapy. Recently, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma), a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily, has been shown to possess anti-inflammatory properties. Therefore, we hypothesized whether the detrimental increase of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) on RSV-infected lung epithelial cells (A549 and primary normal human bronchial epithelial cells (NHBE)) might be modulated by natural and synthetic PPAR-gamma agonists (15d-PGJ2, ciglitazone, troglitazone, Fmoc-Leu). Our data show that all PPAR-gamma agonists under study significantly down-regulated the RSV-induced expression of ICAM-1 on A549- and NHBE cells in a dose-dependent manner resulting in a reduced beta2 integrin-mediated adhesion of monocytic effector cells (U937) to RSV-infected A549 cell monolayers. In contrast, the PPAR-alpha agonist bezafibrate had no impact on the RSV-induced ICAM-1 expression. The reduced ICAM-1 expression was associated with a diminished ICAM-1 mRNA level and binding activity of nuclear factor-kappaB (p65/p50) in A549 cells. These findings suggest that PPARgamma agonists have beneficial effects in the suppression of the inflammatory response during RSV infection and therefore might have clinical efficacy in the course of severe RSV-infection.
The experiments were performed to determine if indomethacin, a prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor, could reduce albumin extravasation and brain edema in some models of blood-brain barrier dysfunction. The blood pressure was increased by i.v. adrenaline or bicuculline in conscious rats with indwelling catheters in the aorta and jugular vein. 125I-labeled serum albumin and Evans blue-albumin were used as tracers of the blood-brain barrier function. Pretreatment with indomethacin significantly reduced albumin extravasation after the administration of adrenalin but not after bicuculline, i.e. when acute hypertension was combined with a metabolically mediated cerebral vasodilatation. It is argued that the protective effect of indomethacin in adrenaline-induced hypertension probably is related to the vasoconstrictory effect of the drug. Five microliters of air or Lipiodol were injected into the right internal carotid artery in rats anesthetized with pentobarbitone. The albumin content in the injected hemisphere was seven to nine times higher after fat than after air embolism. No significant reduction of tracer extravasation was obtained in rats treated with indomethacin. Rats subjected to fat embolism had a significant homolateral cerebral edema (i.e. increased water content) which was not reduced by pretreatment with indomethacin. By contrast, the water content was significantly increased also in the non-injected side in rats given indomethacin indicating a larger spread of edema fluid in these animals.
1. Accumulating evidence suggests that vitamin D and its analogues are renoprotective. However, the precise mechanisms and the molecular targets by which active vitamin D exerts its beneficial effects remain obscure. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effect of active vitamin D on rats with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephropathy, a model that is characterized by predominant podocyte injury. 2. The PAN nephropathy rats were created by a single intravenous injection of 100 mg/kg PAN. Changes in renal pathology and podocyte numbers were observed. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was performed to examine mRNA expression of nephrin, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-7. Protein expression of nephrin, TGF-beta1, BMP-7 and p-Smad2/3 and p-Smad1/5/8 was examined by immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry and western blotting, respectively. Rats were treated with 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) by gastric gavage at a dose of 2.5 microg/kg per day, starting 2 days before PAN injection and continuing throughout the experiment. 3. A single injection of PAN induced massive proteinuria and elevated serum creatinine on Day 7, both of which were significantly suppressed by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) (1,25(OH)(2)D(3)). Immunofluorescence and real-time PCR of the podocyte-associated protein nephrin revealed reduced and discontinuous staining and this change was reversed by 1,25(OH)(2)D(3). In PAN nephropathy rats, TGF-beta1 and p-Smad2/3 expression was upregulated, whereas that of BMP-7 and p-Smad1/5/8 was downregulated. Treatment with 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) significantly restored BMP-7/Smad signalling while suppressing TGF-beta1/Smad signalling. 4. In conclusion, 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) can ameliorate podocyte damage and proteinuria induced by PAN. The beneficial effects of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) on podocytes may be attributable, in part, to direct modulation of TGF-beta1/BMP-7 signalling.
Recently, we have shown that chronic administration of N-Nitro-L-Arginine Methyl Ester (L-NAME, an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase) precipitates stroke in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP). Enalapril maleate, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor was shown to delay the onset of such stroke. In the present study, five groups of 4-week-old SHRSP were used. Three groups of SHRSP were made diabetic using streptozotocin (100 mg/kg i.p.). One week later, the SHRSP from groups I (non-diabetic) and III (diabetic) chronically received L-NAME (0.5 g/L) in saline as drinking water. Two SHRSP groups, II (non-diabetic) and IV (diabetic) received L-NAME (0.5 g/L) and enalapril maleate (20 mg/L) in saline as drinking water. Control SHRSP (group C; diabetic) received only saline to drink. SHRSP groups I and III developed stroke in 10+/-2 and 11+/-2 days, respectively. The average stroke-free period in groups II and IV was 19+/-2 and 28+/-2 days, respectively. Protective effect of streptozotocin-induced diabetes disappeared when SHRSP drinking L-NAME and enalapril, concurrently received subcutaneous injections of insulin (2 units daily per 100 g rat). Present data suggest that experimental diabetes delays the onset of L-NAME-induced stroke in SHRSP only in the absence of angiotensin converting enzyme activity. In addition, diabetes-induced enhancement of stroke-protective effect of enalapril appears to be independent of reduction in mean and systolic blood pressures.
Nickel is an important economic commodity, but it can cause skin sensitization and may cause lung diseases such as lung fibrosis, pneumonitis, bronchial asthma and lung cancer. With development of nanotechnology, nano-sized nickel (Nano-Ni) and nano-sized titanium dioxide (Nano-TiO₂) particles have been developed and produced for many years with new formulations and surface properties to meet novel demands. Our previous studies have shown that Nano-Ni instilled into rat lungs caused a greater inflammatory response as compared with standard-sized nickel (5 μm) at equivalent mass concentrations. Nano-Ni caused a persistent high level of inflammation in lungs even at low doses. Recently, several studies have shown that nanoparticles can translocate from the lungs to the circulatory system. To evaluate the potential systemic effects of metal nanoparticles, we compared the effects of Nano-Ni and Nano-TiO₂ on matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9 (MMP-2 and MMP-9) gene expression and activity. Our results showed that exposure of human monocyte U937 to Nano-Ni caused dose- and time- dependent increase in MMP-2 and MMP-9 mRNA expression and pro-MMP-2 and pro-MMP-9 activity, but Nano-TiO₂ did not. Nano-Ni also caused dose- and time- related increase in tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1 (TIMP-1), but Nano-TiO₂ did not. To determine the potential mechanisms involved, we measured the expression of hypoxia inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α) in U937 cells exposed to Nano-Ni and Nano-TiO₂. Our results showed that exposure to Nano-Ni caused HIF-1α accumulation in the nucleus. Furthermore, pre-treatment of U937 cells with heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) inhibitor, 17-(Allylamino)-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG), prior to exposure to Nano-Ni significantly abolished Nano-Ni-induced MMP-2 and MMP-9 mRNA upregulation and increased pro-MMP-2 and pro-MMP-9 activity. Our results suggest that HIF-1α accumulation may be involved in the increased MMP-2 and MMP-9 production in U937 cells exposed to Nano-Ni.
To determine the effects of the recently synthesized slow channel calcium blocker nitrendipine on systemic and regional hemodynamics, mean arterial pressure, heart rate, cardiac index and organ blood flow distribution were measured with the combined radioactive reference sample and microsphere techniques before and one hour after its oral administration (1 mg or 10 mg/kg). Twenty-week-old normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) conscious male rats were studied. At the 10 mg dose, nitrendipine exerted a hypotensive effect within 15 minutes, and this effect persisted throughout the study. After one hour, mean arterial pressure fell by 14 percent of pretreatment levels in WKY controls; it fell by 25 percent in SHR (p less than 0.001). This action was mediated by a fall in total peripheral resistance index (p less than 0.01) that was nonuniformly distributed to the organ circulations since blood flow was maintained or increased to brain, heart, kidneys, lungs, and adrenals, but decreased to skin. No change in cardiac index was observed.
Penconazole is a systemic triazole fungicide mainly used on grapes. The UE Maximum Residue Level (MRL) for penconazole is set at 0.2ppm in wine and grapes. In the aim of identifying potential biomarkers of exposure to penconazole and possibly highlighting its endocrine disrupting mode of action, we used a transcriptomics-based approach to detect genes, that are transcriptionally modulated by penconazole, by using an appropriate in vitro model. T-47D cells were treated with commercial penconazole or penconazole contaminated grape extracts for 4h at doses close to the MRL. The whole-genome transcriptomic profile was assessed by using genome 44K oligo-microarray slides. The list of common genes generated by the two treatments could be representative of potential markers of exposure. In order to understand the role of these genes in key events related to adversity, a pathway analysis was performed on a list of genes with the same modulation trend (up or down). The analysis returned a set of genes involved in Thyroid Cancer Pathway, thus confirming a role of penconazole in endocrine disrupting mediated effects and strongly suggesting a possible mode of action in thyroid carcinogenesis.
Between February and May 1984, we conducted a pilot study to examine the methods for a larger study of a previously reported relation between Reye's syndrome and medications. Thirty patients with Reye's syndrome, whose diagnosis was confirmed by an expert panel, and 145 controls were matched for age, race (black or not black), and antecedent illness (respiratory infection, chickenpox, or diarrhea) and selected from the same hospital, emergency room, or school, or identified by random digit dialing. Significantly more cases (93 per cent, 28 of 30) than members of each of the four control groups or all controls combined (46 per cent, 66 of 145) had received salicylates during matched antecedent illnesses (odds ratio of all 30 cases vs. all controls = 16.1; lower 95 per cent confidence limit = 4.6). The prevalence and mean severity score of signs, symptoms, and selected events during the antecedent illness tended to be lower among cases than controls. Thus, differences in the severity of this illness between cases and controls did not explain differences in medication exposures. This pilot study suggests an association between Reye's syndrome and the use of salicylates during an antecedent illness.
Subjective and objective evaluation of pharmacological treatment was made in 105 schizophrenic in-patients. PANSS and Calgary scale as well as Van Putten scale were used. Fifty-four percent of subjects received classic neuroleptics and 46%--new atypical drugs for an average period of 8 weeks. The severity of schizophrenic symptoms during treatment as well as subjective evaluation of first effects of the drug did not differ among subjects treated with classic or atypical drugs. Depressive symptoms decreased significantly during treatment with atypicals but not with classic drugs. Also a significant decrease of depression was found under olanzapine treatment. The severity of neuroleptic-induced side-effects did not differ in both groups. Neurological side effects were more prominent in subjects after 4 weeks of therapy with risperidone, in comparison to patients receiving olanzapine. Forty-seven per-cent of patients showed a dysphoric reaction to the first dose of medication. After treatment with atypical drugs, better subjective evaluation of pharmacotherapy correlated with less severe general and depressive schizophrenia symptoms. Patients' better evaluation of olanzapine treatment correlated with less severe schizophrenic general symptomatology. The subjective evaluation of treatment was better in patients with less severe neurological side-effects of atypical drugs (including olanzapine but not risperidone) and less severe autonomic side-effects of classic drugs. The evaluation of pharmacotherapy made by patients' family members did not correlate with subjects' opinions after distribution of the first dose of the drugs, but correlated significantly with patients' opinion after 8-weeks of treatment. The treatment received by the patients was judged better by the family members if less severe neurological side-effects were present.
Derivatives of Imidazoline usually act to stimulate peripheral alpha2 receptors causing vasoconstriction. In young children, however, they can also stimulate alpha2receptors in the cardiovascular and central nervous systems, possibly causing cardiovascular, neurological, and respiratory depression. These medications do not require medical prescriptions, so often parents use them, bypassing paediatricians. We report here a case of cardiovascular and neurological depression induced by oxymetalzoline in a toddler.
Two patients with presumed herpes simplex encephalitis developed severe non-oliguric acute renal failure shortly after acyclovir infusions. Renal function returned to normal in less than 3 weeks after discontinuation of acyclovir. Renal biopsies done during the acute phase demonstrated interstitial oedema, eosinophils and cellular aggregates in both and granulomata in the second case suggesting acyclovir-induced hypersensitivity interstitial nephritis.
Erythematous changes of the palms with associated oedema, blistering and desquamation were observed in two children during chemotherapy for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, after methotrexate in doses of 1,000 mg/m2. These changes correspondent to those described in the literature as Burgdorf's reaction. In Poland it was never reported as yet.
Diabetic nephropathy is one of the major causes of renal failure, which is accompanied by the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Nrf2 is the primary transcription factor that controls the antioxidant response essential for maintaining cellular redox homeostasis. Here, we report our findings demonstrating a protective role of Nrf2 against diabetic nephropathy.
We explore the protective role of Nrf2 against diabetic nephropathy using human kidney biopsy tissues from diabetic nephropathy patients, a streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy model in Nrf2(-/-) mice, and cultured human mesangial cells.
The glomeruli of human diabetic nephropathy patients were under oxidative stress and had elevated Nrf2 levels. In the animal study, Nrf2 was demonstrated to be crucial in ameliorating streptozotocin-induced renal damage. This is evident by Nrf2(-/-) mice having higher ROS production and suffering from greater oxidative DNA damage and renal injury compared with Nrf2(+/+) mice. Mechanistic studies in both in vivo and in vitro systems showed that the Nrf2-mediated protection against diabetic nephropathy is, at least, partially through inhibition of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and reduction of extracellular matrix production. In human renal mesangial cells, high glucose induced ROS production and activated expression of Nrf2 and its downstream genes. Furthermore, activation or overexpression of Nrf2 inhibited the promoter activity of TGF-beta1 in a dose-dependent manner, whereas knockdown of Nrf2 by siRNA enhanced TGF-beta1 transcription and fibronectin production.
This work clearly indicates a protective role of Nrf2 in diabetic nephropathy, suggesting that dietary or therapeutic activation of Nrf2 could be used as a strategy to prevent or slow down the progression of diabetic nephropathy.
A corticosteroid- and furosemide-induced excessive increase in proteinuria developed in a 34-year-old nephrotic patient with focal glomerulosclerosis. The concentration of urinary protein increased almost in parallel with that of urinary glucose. This finding indicates that corticosteroids and/or furosemide can promote the disturbance of the tubular reabsorption mechanism together with increases in glomerular permeability and glomerular filtration rate.
In the present study, we examined the effect of mexiletine on vincristine-induced thermal hyperalgesia in mice. Mice were intraperitoneally treated with vincristine at a dose of 0.05 mg/kg one day after the measurement of the pre-drug latency in the tail-flick test, and then treated with a dose of 0.125 mg/kg twice a week for 6 weeks. In vincristine-treated mice, a significant decrease in tail-flick latency developed at 6 weeks after treatment. Pretreatment with mexiletine, at doses of 3, 10 and 30 mg/kg, i.p., dose-dependently increased the tail-flick latency in vincristine-treated mice. A significant reduction of the tail-flick latency was observed when the tail-flick latency was examined 60 min after i.t. administration of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 30 nmol), a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, in naive mice. This L-NAME-induced thermal hyperalgesia was dose-dependently attenuated by pretreatment with mexiletine (10 and 30 mg/kg, i.p.), 10 min before the injection of L-NAME. The duration of nociceptive behavioral response induced by fenvalerate, at a dose of 0.1 microg, i.t., was significantly increased by pretreatment with L-NAME (30 nmol, i.t.). Intrathecal pretreatment with L-arginine (300 pmol) significantly reversed the L-NAME-induced enhancement of fenvalerate-induced nociceptive responses. The present study demonstrates that systemic mexiletine can effectively attenuate vincristine-induced thermal hyperalgesia. Furthermore, these results suggest that blockade of nitric oxide-induced enhancement of nociceptive transmission, in which tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channels play an important role, may participate in the antinociceptive effect of mexiletine on vincristine-induced thermal hyperalgesia.
The antihypertensive activity of quinapril was examined in normotensive and various hypertensive animal models. In 2-kidney, 1-clip renal hypertensive rats (2K-RHR), quinapril (0.1 to 1.0 mg/kg, p.o.) had a dose-related and sustained antihypertensive action, which was as potent as that of enalapril and approximately 40 times stronger than that of captopril. Heart rate was not changed by these doses of quinapril. In spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and 1-kidney, 1-clip renal hypertensive rats, quinapril as well as enalapril dose-dependently produced a significant fall in blood pressure. The relative potency and duration of the effect of quinapril was the same as that of enalapril in these models. Quinapril at 30 mg/kg, p.o. lowered blood pressure and increased heart rate in normotensive rats. In contrast, quinapril and enalapril failed to reduce blood pressure in DOCA/salt hypertensive rats. In the repeated dose study, no development of tolerance was observed during the administration period in 2K RHR and SHR. The antihypertensive effects in 2K RHR was greater than those in SHR. Quinapril was more potent and long-lasting than enalapril in 2K RHR and SHR. From these results, quinapril is expected to be useful for the clinical treatment of hypertension.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the participation of central 5-HT(3) receptors in the control of blood pressure and heart rate (HR) of non-stressed and stressed rats. The pharmacological stimulation of brain 5-HT(3) receptors by third ventricle injections of the selective 5-HT(3) receptor agonist m-CPBG induced a significant decrease in blood pressure in non-stressed rats and impaired the hypertensive response induced by restraint stress. The blockade of brain 5-HT(3) receptors by the central administration of the selective 5-HT(3) antagonist ondansetron elicited a significant increase in blood pressure in non-stressed rats. Conversely, the hypertensive response induced by restraint stress was not affected by central administration of ondansetron. Additionally, baroreflex-mediated bradycardia during phenylephrine-induced hypertensive response was preserved in non-stressed animals receiving third ventricle injections of m-CPBG, while the baroreflex-mediated tachycardia that occurs during the hypotensive response induced by the administration of sodium nitroprusside was impaired. It is concluded that the serotoninergic component represented by the brain 5-HT(3) receptors exerts a tonic inhibitory influence on the central control of blood pressure in non-stressed rats, probably by a sympathoinhibitory-related mechanism. On the other hand, during stress, this central 5-HT(3)-dependent inhibitory drive is overwhelmed by the different neurochemical systems that harmonically trigger and sustain the hypertensive response.
The authors report on anemia observed during preoperative paclitaxel and carboplatin chemotherapy in patients with advanced head and neck carcinoma and discuss how the use of recombinant human erythropoietin (r-HuEPO) ameliorates this anemia, reducing the need for subsequent packed red blood cell (PRBC) transfusions.
Response to r-HuEPO was defined as reduced hemoglobin fall during preoperative chemotherapy and reduced transfusion requirements during surgery. Thirty-six patients with advanced head and neck carcinoma were evaluable after treatment with preoperative chemotherapy using paclitaxel and carboplatin. Group 1 was comprised of 14 patients who empirically received r-HuEPO at a dose of 150 U/kg 3 times per week for 3 weeks; in patients deemed nonresponders, the dose was increased to 300 U/kg and 450 U/kg in the subsequent courses. Group 2 was comprised of 22 patients who did not receive r-HuEPO.
During preoperative chemotherapy, the mean hemoglobin fall was 0.5 g/dL in Group 1 (P = 0.40). In Group 2 there was a statistically significant mean hemoglobin fall of 3.3 g/dL (P < 0.0001). There was also a nonstatistically significant trend toward fewer PRBC transfusions: none of 14 patients (0%) in Group 1 versus 4 of 22 patients (18%) in Group 2 (P = 0.141).
A significant fall in hemoglobin and an increase in the need for transfusions were observed in head and neck carcinoma patients receiving carboplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy prior to surgery. Empiric r-HuEPO therapy appeared to prevent anemia and reduced the need for PRBC transfusions.
Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species are overproduced in the cardiovascular system in response to the exposure to doxorubicin, a cardiotoxic anticancer compound. Oxidant-induced cell injury involves the activation of the nuclear enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) and pharmacological inhibition of PARP has recently been shown to improve myocardial contractility in doxorubicin-induced heart failure models. The current investigation, by utilizing an isolated perfused heart system capable of beat-to-beat intracellular calcium recording, addressed the following questions: (1) is intracellular calcium handling altered in hearts of rats after 6-week doxorubicin treatment, under baseline conditions, and in response to oxidative stress induced by hydrogen peroxide exposure in vitro; and (2) does pharmacological inhibition of PARP with the phenanthridinone-based PARP inhibitor PJ34 affect the changes in myocardial mechanical performance and calcium handling in doxorubicin-treated hearts under normal conditions and in response to oxidative stress. The results showed a marked elevation in intracellular calcium in the doxorubicin-treated hearts which was normalized by pharmacological inhibition of PARP. PARP inhibition also prevented the myocardial contractile disturbances and calcium overload that developed in response to hydrogen peroxide in the doxorubicin-treated hearts. We conclude that PARP activation contributes to the development of the disturbances in cellular calcium handling that develop in the myocardium in response to prolonged doxorubicin exposure.
The effect of 1-deamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin (DDAVP) on mean arterial pressure, pulse rate (PR), plasma renin activity (PRA), plasma factor VIIIc and von Willebrand factor were studied in a case of persistent lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (LINDI). 20% decrease in MAP, 22% increase in PR, 100% in PRA, and release of coagulation factors (2- to 3-fold) were noticed after infusion of 0.3 micrograms/kg DDAVP. Urinary prostaglandin (PG) E2 were enhanced. The treatment of this LINDI by PG synthesis inhibitor (PSI) combined with a low osmotic diet (LOD) led to a 51% fall in urine volume, 57% in free water clearance and 75% in sodium clearance. Urinary osmolality rose by 42% but remained low, probably in part because of the LOD. Urinary PGE2 was about one fifth of the initial high value. The results argue for (1) an end-organ resistance to DDAVP confined to the kidneys in LINDI and (2) an effectiveness of indomethacin combined with an LOD.
The alcoholic extract of the latex obtained from Calotropis procera (Asclepidaceae) was evaluated for protection against isoproterenol (20 mg/100 g body wt., s.c.)-induced myocardial infarction in albino rats. The heart damage induced by isoproterenol was indicated by elevated levels of the marker enzymes such as Creatine Kinase-isoenzyme (CK-MB), Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), Serum Glutamate Oxaloacetic Transaminase (SGOT) and Serum Glutamate Pyruvate Transaminase (SGPT) in serum with increased lipid peroxide and reduced glutathione content in heart homogenates. Microscopical examination (histopathology) was also performed on the myocardial tissue. Pretreatment with an ethanolic latex extract of Calotropis procera at a dose of 300 mg/kg body wt., administered orally thrice a day for 30 days, reduced significantly (p < 0.01) the elevated marker enzyme levels in serum and heart homogenates in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction. Histopathological observation revealed a marked protection by the extract in myocardial necrotic damage.
The clinical efficacy, cardiovascular complications and mortality of polyestradiol phosphate (PEP) 160 mg/month i.m. were compared with the luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) analog, buserelin, in a prospective, randomised multicentre study including 147 patients with prostatic cancer. The cumulative non-progression rate at three years was 0.53 in the PEP group and 0.70 in the LHRH group. The mortality from cardiovascular diseases was the same in the two treatment groups. The parenterally given PEP was not associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular complications. The dosage of PEP 160 mg monthly seems, however, to be insufficient in the treatment of prostatic cancer.
The aim of this study was to determine the clinical, pathological and mycotoxicological effects of oral administration of fumonisin B1 (FB1) in rabbits. Eighteen rabbits were randomly assigned to two experimental groups: control group, 0 mg FB1; fumonisin group, 31.5 mg FB1/kg body weight, corresponding to about 630 mg FB1/kg diet. Fumonisin administered as a single oral dose to rabbits resulted in acute toxicity, significantly interfering with body and liver weight. Serum biochemical analysis revealed a significant increase of total protein, alkaline phosphatase (AP), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT), urea and creatinine in the group receiving FB1 compared to control animals, a finding characterizing hepatic and renal injury in this group. Urinary protein concentrations were markedly elevated at 12, 24, 48 and 72 h after dosing, although visible pathological abnormalities were not observed, probably because of rapid repair of the damage. FB1 was detected in feces, with a maximum concentration at 24 h after administration, indicating that the enterohepatic circulation is important in rabbits. FB1 concentrations found in urine were low, with peak elimination at 12 h after intoxication. The highest FB1 concentrations were observed in feces compared to urine and liver, demonstrating that feces are the main routes of excretion.
As disease initiation and propagation still represents a research question in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the cytokines play a central role in the inflammatory articular process including the synovial proliferation and cartilage destruction in RA and understanding the role of these cytokines in turn exploits them as therapeutic targets in RA.
The present study illustrates the beneficial outcome of the Siddha drug Kalpaamruthaa (KA) in reducing the pathological lesions caused by the proinflammatory cytokines in adjuvant induced arthritis (AIA) in rats. KA consists of Semecarpus anacardium nut milk extract (SA), dried powder of Emblica officinalis fruit and honey.
Both SA and KA were administered at dose of 150 mg/kg b.wt. for 14 days after 14 days of adjuvant injection in rats. The protein expressions of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), the levels of acute phase proteins, immunoglobulins and the radiological, histopathological and electron microscopical changes in control and experimental animals were analyzed.
Both SA and KA significantly regulated the inflammation in arthritic joints by reducing extracellular matrix degradation and cartilage and bone destruction via down regulating the levels of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta, as well the levels of acute phase proteins with appreciable increase in the levels of immunoglobulins in arthritic rats. Of both the drugs KA exhibited a profound effect than sole treatment of SA and the enhanced effect of KA might be attributed to the combined effect of the flavonoids, tannins, vitamin C and other phytoconstituents present in the drug.
The identification and characterization of tumor suppressor genes has enhanced our understanding of the biology of cancer and enabled the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic modalities. Whereas in past decades, a handful of tumor suppressors have been slowly identified using techniques such as linkage analysis, large-scale sequencing of the cancer genome has enabled the rapid identification of a large number of genes that are mutated in cancer. However, determining which of these many genes play key roles in cancer development has proven challenging. Specifically, recent sequencing of human breast and colon cancers has revealed a large number of somatic gene mutations, but virtually all are heterozygous, occur at low frequency, and are tumor-type specific. We hypothesize that key tumor suppressor genes in cancer may be subject to mutation or hypermethylation.
Here, we show that combined genetic and epigenetic analysis of these genes reveals many with a higher putative tumor suppressor status than would otherwise be appreciated. At least 36 of the 189 genes newly recognized to be mutated are targets of promoter CpG island hypermethylation, often in both colon and breast cancer cell lines. Analyses of primary tumors show that 18 of these genes are hypermethylated strictly in primary cancers and often with an incidence that is much higher than for the mutations and which is not restricted to a single tumor-type. In the identical breast cancer cell lines in which the mutations were identified, hypermethylation is usually, but not always, mutually exclusive from genetic changes for a given tumor, and there is a high incidence of concomitant loss of expression. Sixteen out of 18 (89%) of these genes map to loci deleted in human cancers. Lastly, and most importantly, the reduced expression of a subset of these genes strongly correlates with poor clinical outcome.
Using an unbiased genome-wide approach, our analysis has enabled the discovery of a number of clinically significant genes targeted by multiple modes of inactivation in breast and colon cancer. Importantly, we demonstrate that a subset of these genes predict strongly for poor clinical outcome. Our data define a set of genes that are targeted by both genetic and epigenetic events, predict for clinical prognosis, and are likely fundamentally important for cancer initiation or progression.
Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis and thus may represent an important therapeutic target in the design of anti-fibrotic strategies for chronic liver disease. We present an innovative therapy based on the assignment of inactivated enzymes acting as scavengers for TIMP-1. Hepatic fibrosis was induced in BALB/c mice by repetitive intraperitoneal CCl4 injection. The animals were treated with proteolytic inactive matrix metalloproteinase-9 mutants (E402Q, H401A, E402H/H411E) using adenovirus-mediated gene transfer. Application of these MMP-9 mutants inhibited fibrogenesis, which was indicated by decreasing portal and periportal accumulation of collagen. Total hydroxyproline of liver tissue, the morphometric stage of fibrosis as well as mRNA expression of marker proteins for hepatic fibrosis in livers of E402Q- and H401A-treated mice were significantly reduced. MMP-9 mutants suppressed transdifferentiation of hepatic stellate cells to the myofibroblast like phenotype in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, adenoviral application of the mutants MMP-9-H401A and -E402Q led to increased apoptosis of activated hepatic stellate cells, thought to be the main promoters of hepatic fibrosis. Application of MMP-9 mutants as TIMP-1 scavengers may provide a new therapeutic strategy for hepatic fibrosis.
This survey summarizes the limited findings related to the ability of endogenously produced and exogenously administered melatonin to modify the response of the heart musculature to pathological situations that are normally accompanied by hypertrophy of the cardiomyocytes and alterations in cardiovascular physiology. Whereas melatonin did not reduce left ventricular hypertrophy in spontaneously hypertensive rats or in nitric oxide-deficient hypertension, it did have other beneficial effects, e.g. it curtailed oxidative damage to the heart that resulted in an attenuation of left ventricular fibrosis. In contrast to the findings in hypertensive rats, melatonin administration was effective in overcoming cardiac enlargement resulting from induced hyperthyroidism or chronic hypoxia exposure. In addition, in these situations, melatonin also conferred protection against free radical-mediated damage at the level of cardiomyocytes. Collectively, the results of the publications summarized herein along with numerous other published reports on other aspects of cardiovascular physiology indicate that, when damage to the heart is a result of free radicals, melatonin is clearly protective. This is not unexpected considering the now well documented potent antioxidative actions of both melatonin and its metabolites. In general, melatonin improves cardiovascular physiology and heart function.
American skullcap (the aerial part of Scutellaria lateriflora L.) has been traditionally used by Native Americans and Europeans as a nerve tonic, sedative, and anticonvulsant. However, despite some previous studies, the quality and safety, the bioactive ingredients, and the pharmacological properties of American skullcap are not fully understood. The aims of this study were to characterize the chemical ingredients of American skullcap and to evaluate its anticonvulsant activity. Twelve phenolic compounds including 10 flavonoids and two phenylethanoid glycosides were isolated and identified from American skullcap and used as marker compounds. An HPLC analytic method for analyzing these marker compounds in commercial American skullcap products from different sources was established and validated. The anticonvulsant activity of American skullcap was determined in rat models of acute seizures induced by pilocarpine and pentylenetetrazol. The results from this study indicate that (1) phenolic compounds, especially flavonoids, are the predominant constituents in American skullcap; (2) American skullcap products have similar constituents, but the content and relative proportions of the individual constituents varies widely; and (3) American skullcap has anticonvulsant activity in rodent models of acute seizures.
