The carboxylic acid NSAID fenclozic acid exhibited an excellent preclinical safety profile and promising clinical efficacy, yet was withdrawn from clinical development in 1971 due to hepatotoxicity observed in clinical trials. A variety of modern in vitro approaches have been used to explore potential underlying mechanisms. Covalent binding studies were undertaken with [(14)C]-fenclozic acid to investigate the possible role of reactive metabolites. Time-dependent covalent binding to protein was observed in NADPH-supplemented liver microsomes, although no metabolites were detected in these incubations or in reactive metabolite trapping experiments. In human hepatocytes, covalent binding was observed at lower levels than in microsomes and a minor uncharacterizable metabolite was also observed. In addition, covalent binding was observed in incubations undertaken with dog and rat hepatocytes, where a taurine conjugate of the drug was detected. Although an acyl glucuronide metabolite was detected when liver microsomes from human, rat and dog were supplemented with UDPGA, there was no detectable UDPGA-dependent covalent binding. No effects were observed when fenclozic acid was assessed for P450-dependent and P450-independent cytotoxicity to THLE cell lines, time-dependent inhibition of five major human cytochrome P450 enzymes, inhibition of the biliary efflux transporters BSEP and MRP2 or mitochondrial toxicity to THLE or HepG2 cells. These data suggest that Phase 1 bioactivation plays a role in the hepatotoxicity of fenclozic acid and highlight the unique insight into mechanisms of human drug toxicity that can be provided by investigations of biotransformation and covalent binding to proteins.
A 9 month old boy with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia developed signs compatible with an extrapyramidal lesion (rough tremor of the skeletal muscles, more pronounced on the left side, with hypotonia and reduced cutaneous reflexes). This problem started 4 days after the second weekly course of chemotherapy with Vincristine (1.5 mg/m2) and Adriamycin (25 mg/m2) and lasted with varying intensity until death 4 weeks later. Toxicity of either drug (or both) to the central nervous system was invoked as a likely explanation and Vincristine was considered to be more likely condidate for that effect.
Intermediate metabolites of tryptophan, 3-hydroxy-L-kynurenine (3-OHKY), 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid (3-OHAA) and anthranilic acid (AA), and an enzyme inhibitor from 3-OHKY to 3-OHAA, isonicotinic acid hydrazide (INH) with or without 3-OHKY at the maximum tolerated dose were injected s.c. to infant CDF1 mice. AA and 3-OHAA were tested transplacentally for tumorigenicity. Animals treated were observed for 1 year. Hepatocellular adenoma was developed at the incidence of 21.7% in male mice administered with 3-OHKY and INH as compared with 5.6% incidence in control males, but no leukemia was induced. Incidences of lung (3.4--15.0%) and liver tumors (4--5%) in other groups treated at infant stage were comparable to that in controls (lung: 11.1%; liver: 5.6%). Other tumors were one angiogenic sarcoma in a female treated with 3-OHAA, and one granulosa cell tumor of ovary in female treated with INH. Transplacentally the 10.3% incidence of liver tumor in male offspring, whose mothers were treated with AA, was slightly higher than that in male control (5.6%). However, the incidences of tumor were apparently in a critical level in these experimental conditions.
Low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) is a well established coronary heart disease (CHD) risk factor. However, the ability of this metabolic risk factor alone to identify individuals at rigk for future CHD events is limited. The raised triglycerides-low high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) dyslipidaemia was shown to be an important cardiovascular risk factor independently of LDL-C levels. Fibric acid derivatives (fibrates) have been used in clinical practice for more than 2 decades as a class of agents known to decrease triglyceride levels while substantially increasing HDL-C levels. Through peroxisome proliferator-activated alpha-receptors, fibrates have a significant impact on the synthesis of several apolipoproteins and enzymes of lipoprotein metabolism as well as on the expression of several genes involved in fibrinolysis and inflammation. Data from recent primary and secondary prevention clinical trials demonstrate the efficacy of fibrate therapy in patients with the raised triglycerides-low HDL-C dyslipidaemia. This review summarizes current data regarding mechanism of action and the metbolic effects of fibrates, as well as results from major clinical trials on the efficacy of this mode of lipid lowering therapy. In addition, recent data from subgroup analyses of the Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention trial, demonstrating several important metabolic and long-term cardiovascular effects of bezafibrate therapy, are detailed.
A 65-year-old man with Brugada-type electrocardiogram (ECG) was admitted to our hospital for chest pain, palpitation and faintness. In the cardiac electrophysiological study, no ventricular tachyarrthymia was induced either at baseline or after pilsicainide (50 mg) infusion. Intravenous administration of pilsicainide exaggerated ST-segment elevation in V(1-4) and converted it to the coved type in V(1), accompanied by severe chest pain. Coronary angiography revealed the vasospasm of the right coronary artery was induced by pilsicainide, not by ergonovine. This is the first case report of coronary vasospasm induced by a pure sodium channel blocker in a patient with Brugada-type ECG.
We report a case of colchicine-induced myopathy, in which the initial presenting and predominant clinical feature was respiratory muscle dysfunction; there was also chronic renal failure and electromyographically-measured myopathy. Discontinuation of colchicine led to marked improvement. Colchicine discontinuation was the only therapy performed (other medications were unchanged), and within 3 weeks the patient had regained motor function and resumed daily activities. Myopathy from primary biliary cirrhosis was ruled out. In contrast to acute colchicine intoxication, chronic colchicine toxicity is related to prolonged use rather than colchicine serum level, so colchicine serum level was not measured and did not affect the decision to discontinue colchicine. Although the diagnosis was not confirmed by muscle biopsy, we believe the typical presentation and the rapid improvement after withdrawing colchicine confirm the diagnosis. We conclude that long-term colchicine therapy, especially in the setting of chronic renal failure, can produce symptomatic respiratory muscle weakness.
Methamphetamine (METH) abuse is a growing health problem, and no treatments for METH dependence have been identified. The powerful addictive properties of METH are mediated by release of dopamine (DA) from nerve terminals in mesolimbic reward pathways. METH stimulates DA release by acting as a substrate for DA transporter (DAT) proteins, thereby triggering efflux of DA from cells into the synapse. We have shown that blocking DAT activity with high-affinity DA uptake inhibitors, like GBR12909, can substantially reduce METH-evoked DA release in vitro, suggesting GBR12909 may have potential as a pharmacotherapy for METH dependence. The purpose of the present study was to examine the neurobiological effects of a long-acting oil-soluble preparation of GBR12909 (1-[2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy]ethyl]-4-(3-hydroxy-3-phenylpropyl) piperazinyl decanoate, or GBR-decanoate). Male rats received GBR-decanoate (480 mg/kg, i.m.) or its oil vehicle, and were tested using a variety of methods one and two weeks later. Ex vivo autoradiography showed that GBR-decanoate decreases DAT binding in DA-rich brain regions. In vivo microdialysis in the nucleus accumbens revealed that GBR-decanoate elevates baseline levels of extracellular DA and antagonizes the ability of METH to evoke DA release. The dopaminergic effects of GBR-decanoate were sustained, lasting for at least two weeks. Rats pretreated with GBR-decanoate displayed enhanced locomotor responses to novelty at one week, but not two weeks, postinjection. Administration of the D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist quinpirole (10 and 100 microg/kg, s.c.) decreased locomotor activity and suppressed plasma prolactin levels; quinpirole-induced responses were not altered by GBR-decanoate. Thus, GBR-decanoate is able to elevate basal synaptic DA levels and block METH-evoked DA release in a persistent manner, without significant perturbation of DA receptor function. The findings suggest that GBR-decanoate, or similar long-acting agents, should be evaluated further as potential treatment adjuncts in the management of METH addiction in humans.
We studied intravenous lidocaine-induced convulsions in rats to determine whether added epinephrine influences the provocation of lidocaine toxicity. Wistar rats (200-250 g) were divided into three groups of ten, depending on the concentration of epinephrine added to lidocaine. Group 1: plain 1.5% lidocaine; Group 2: 1.5% lidocaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine; Group 3: 1.5% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine. After surgical preparation and recovery from anaesthesia, all rats received a continuous i.v. infusion of lidocaine (15 mg.ml-1) at a rate of 4.0 mg.kg-1 x min-1 until generalized convulsions occurred. The epinephrine-treated animals developed acute hypertension after one minute of lidocaine infusion (105 +/- 2 to 141 +/- 2 mmHg in Group 2 and 103 +/- 2 to 151 +/- 2 mmHg in Group 3). The PaO2 values in the epinephrine groups at the onset of convulsions were decreased significantly (88.3 +/- 1.0 to 84.0 +/- 1.5 mmHg in Group 2 P < 0.05 and 86.9 +/- 1.2 to 78.1 +/- 2.4 mmHg in Group 3 P < 0.01). However, these values were still within physiological ranges. Serum potassium concentrations in all groups were decreased P < 0.05, (4.24 +/- 0.09 to 3.52 +/- 0.12 mEq.L-1 in Group 1, 4.02 +/- 0.09 to 3.63 +/- 0.17 mEq.L-1 in Group 2, and 4.15 +/- 0.10 to 3.69 +/- 0.17 mEq.L-1 in Group 3).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 28-day subacute oral toxicity study was performed in Wistar rats with a purified preparation of the commercial pentabromodiphenyl ether (pentaBDE), DE-71. The applied OECD407 protocol was enhanced for endocrine and immune parameters, and to enable benchmark dose analysis. A vehicle control group and 7 dose groups were included, which received 0.27, 0.82, 2.47, 7.4, 22.2, 66.7 or 200 mg pentaBDE/kg bw/d (mkd). The liver appeared to be a key target organ, showing a marked increase of weight and centrilobular hepatocellular hypertrophy, probably due to the observed induction of P450 enzymes, notably CYP1A and CYP2B. A marked decrease of circulating total thyroxine (TT4) and an increase of plasma cholesterol were probably secondary to the liver effects. Furthermore, dose-dependently decreased weight of epididymis, seminal vesicles, and prostate, as well as sperm head deformities in males, and induction of CYP17 activity in adrenals in females were observed, all possibly related to anti-androgenic activity. Finally, we observed a substantial increase of large unstained cells in the blood and a decrease of apolar retinoids in the liver. All these effects had benchmark doses at the lower confidence bound (BMDL) in the low- or mid-dose range, but particular sensitive, potentially adverse effects were TT4 decrease (BMDLs 1.1 in males and 1.8 mkd in females), and decrease of hepatic apolar retinoids (BMDLs 0.5 mkd in males and 2.3 mkd in females). These results contribute to refinement of the hazard identification of pentaBDE and improved risk assessment of human exposure to this industrial chemical and environmental pollutant.
We reported a 77-year-old woman having pure akinesia who presented with antecollis induced by L-threo-3, 4-dihydroxyphenylserine (L-DOPS). At the age of 70, she noticed increasing difficulty in standing up from a seat and moving. Afterward, she developed gait disturbance with difficulty in initiating walking, frozen gait, and postural instability. At 73 years of age, she came to our hospital, because she gradually fell down easily. Neurological examination disclosed mild akinesia with freezing symptom and kinésie paradoxale. No evidence of dementia, supranuclear gaze palsy, pseudobulbar palsy, rigidity, or tremor were present. As she developed akinesia, of which L-dopa therapy achieved little improvement, we clinically diagnosed as having pure akinesia. At age 74, L-DOPS was administered at a dose of 300mg per day and gradually increased up to 900mg per day, because her postural reflex was markedly disturbed and gait showed severe unsteadiness. Amelioration of frozen gait and unsteadiness were recognized, but efficacy of L-DOPS was temporal. It is well known that reported cases of pure akinesia were pathologically diagnosed as having progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) or pallido-nigro-luysian atrophy. Therefore, the present case was suspected as having pathological changes which involved degeneration of the substantia nigra and globus pallidus. After three years of treatment with L-DOPS, at age 77, she was admitted to our hospital for abrupt onset of her dropped head. Hematological examinations were normal, cervical MRI showed no evidence of paracervical muscular atrophy, and electromyography did not demonstrate any abnormal change. In addition, her posterior cervical muscles showed abnormally high tension, so the dropped head was considered due to antecollis. After admission, antecollis disappeared rapidly following discontinuation of L-DOPS. However the mechanism of drug induced dystonia is imperfectly understood on the basis of the clinical course, L-DOPS was considered as possible cause of her antecollis. L-DOPS, artificial precursor of noradrenarine (NA), is thought to increase not only NA level in the CNS, but also inhibit release of acetylcholine. It is suggested that the antecollis of present case results from impairment of a normal dopaminergic-noradorenergic balance caused by increased NA and striatal dopamine deficiency. This is the first case of antecollis induced by L-DOPS in a pure akinesia patient, providing important information on mechanism of drug induced dystonia and indicating caution in the clinical use of L-DOPS.
A behavioral model of dopaminergic function in the rat was used to examine the anticataleptic effects of L-prolyl-L-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG) and peptidomimetic analogs of PLG. Administration of 1 mg/kg PLG intraperitoneally significantly attenuated haloperidol (1 mg/kg)-induced catalepsy (as measured by the standard horizontal bar test), whereas doses of 0.1 and 10 mg/kg PLG did not. Eight synthetic PLG peptidomimetics (Calpha, alpha-dialkylated glycyl residues with lactam bridge constraint [1-4] and without [5-8]) were tested in the same manner (at a dose of 1 microg/kg) and categorized according to their activity, i.e. very active (5), moderately active (2, 3, 4, and 6), and inactive (1, 7, and 8). The catalepsy-reversal action of the diethylglycine-substituted peptidomimetic 5 was examined further and found to exhibit a U-shaped dose-response effect with an optimal dose of 1 microg/kg. The similarity between the effects of PLG and the synthetic peptidomimetics suggests a common mechanism of action. Finally, the synthetic peptidomimetics examined here, particularly peptidomimetic 5, were more effective than PLG in attenuating haloperidol-induced catalepsy.
A patient is presented who developed angiitis associated with intravenous usage of amphetamine. Her disease exacerbated after further amphetamine usage and progressed, over a two-year period, to terminal renal failure. Various etiologic possibilities are discussed, and it is suggested that amphetamine-induced angiitis is a distinct clinical entity that is potentially lethal.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha, a transcription factor of the nuclear receptor superfamily, regulates fatty acid oxidation. We evaluated the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the PPAR-alpha gene (PPARA) with the conversion from impaired glucose tolerance to type 2 diabetes in 767 subjects of the STOP-NIDDM trial in order to investigate the effect of acarbose in comparison with placebo on the prevention of diabetes. In the placebo group, the G (162V) allele of rs1800206 increased the risk for diabetes by 1.9-fold (95% CI 1.05-3.58) and was associated with elevated levels of plasma glucose and insulin. The effect of this allele on the risk of diabetes in the placebo group was enhanced by the simultaneous presence of the risk alleles of the PPAR-gamma2, PPAR-gamma coactivator 1alpha, and hepatic nuclear factor 4alpha genes (odds ratios 2.2, 2.5, and 3.4, respectively). In the acarbose group, subjects carrying the minor G allele of rs4253776 and the CC genotype of rs4253778 of PPARA had a 1.7- and 2.7-fold increased risk for diabetes. Our data indicate that SNPs of PPARA increase the risk of type 2 diabetes alone and in combination with the SNPs of other genes acting closely with PPAR-alpha.
Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) is a natural constituent of dairy products, specific isomers of which have recently been found to have insulin sensitizing and possible antiobesity actions. Chromium is a micronutrient which, as the picolinate (CrP), has been shown to increase insulin sensitivity in animal models, including the JCR:LA-cp rat. We tested the hypothesis that these agents may have beneficial synergistic effects on the micro- and macrovasculopathy associated with hyperinsulinaemia and early type 2 diabetes.
Insulin-resistant cp/cp rats of the JCR:LA-cp strain were treated with mixed isomers of CLA (1.5% w/w in the chow) and/or CrP at 80 microg/kg/day (expressed as Cr) from 4 weeks of age to 12 weeks of age. Plasma insulin, lipid and adiponectin levels, aortic vascular function, renal function and glomerular sclerosis were assessed.
CLA administration reduced food intake, body weight and fasting insulin in JCR:LA-cp rats. Plasma adiponectin levels were significantly elevated in rats treated with both CLA and CrP. Aortic hypercontractility was reduced and the relaxant response to the nitric oxide-releasing agent acetylcholine (Ach) was increased in CrP-treated rats. Striking reductions were also observed in the level of urinary albumin and the severity of glomerular sclerosis in rats treated specifically with CLA.
CLA and CrP have beneficial effects ameliorating several of the pathophysiologic features of an insulin-resistant rat model. These supplements may be useful adjuncts in the management of patients with the metabolic syndrome and warrant further study.
Much of the genetic predisposition to colorectal cancer (CRC) in humans is unexplained. Studying a Caucasian-dominated population in the United States, we showed that germline allele-specific expression (ASE) of the gene encoding transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) type I receptor, TGFBR1, is a quantitative trait that occurs in 10 to 20% of CRC patients and 1 to 3% of controls. ASE results in reduced expression of the gene, is dominantly inherited, segregates in families, and occurs in sporadic CRC cases. Although subtle, the reduction in constitutive TGFBR1 expression alters SMAD-mediated TGF-beta signaling. Two major TGFBR1 haplotypes are predominant among ASE cases, which suggests ancestral mutations, but causative germline changes have not been identified. Conservative estimates suggest that ASE confers a substantially increased risk of CRC (odds ratio, 8.7; 95% confidence interval, 2.6 to 29.1), but these estimates require confirmation and will probably show ethnic differences.
Acute deterioration of renal function occurred shortly after the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, enalapril, was administered to two renal transplant patients who were also receiving cyclosporine. Renal function recovered completely in both cases upon discontinuation of enalapril. Neither patient had evidence of transplant artery stenosis or chronic rejection, conditions known to predispose to renal failure during ACE inhibitor therapy. The possibility that afferent vasoconstriction induced by cyclosporine may have predisposed these patients to renal failure from enalapril is discussed.
There has been a flurry of activity to develop agonists and antagonists for the member of the opioid receptor family, NOP receptor (also known as ORL1), in part to understand its role in pain. Modifications of a hexapeptide originally identified from a combinatorial library have led to the discovery of a high affinity hexapeptide agonist Ac-RY(3-Cl)YRWR-NH2 (Syn 1020). In the following experiments we characterized the anti-nociceptive effects of Syn 1020 in the tail-flick model of acute pain and the diabetic neuropathy model of chronic pain in mice and rats, respectively. Acute antinociception was assessed using the tail-flick assay in mice in which animals received intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) or subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of Syn 1020 alone or with morphine and were tested for tail-flick latencies. In the chronic pain model, diabetic neuropathy was induced by injections of streptozotocin in rats. Tactile allodynia was measured, with von Frey hair filaments, following intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of Syn 1020 or gabapentin (positive control). In mice, i.c.v. injections of Syn 1020 did not have any pro- or anti-nociceptive effects, however, Syn 1020 reversed morphine antinociception with a similar potency as N/OFQ (the natural ligand to NOP). S.c. injections of Syn 1020 in mice also produced analgesic effects. In rats, i.p, injections of Syn 1020 produced anti-allodynic effects. Thus, Syn 1020, a NOP receptor directed peptide, administered systemically has anti-nociceptive activity in both acute and chronic pain models in mice and rats respectively.
Of 19 children treated with high-dose intravenous acyclovir, 7, all of whom had encephalitis, also had a restricted fluid intake. Of these, 3 experienced non-oliguric renal insufficiency (plasma creatinine up to 176, 250 and 351 mumol/l, respectively) which resolved within 1 week of discontinuing acyclovir. Renal function was stable in the remaining 4 patients in this group and in the 12 children treated with acyclovir but without fluid restriction. We suggest the decreased renal function resulted from intratubular acyclovir crystalluria.
Renal failure is an increasingly common condition with limited treatment options that is causing a major financial and emotional burden on the community. Andrographis paniculata is the plant used in Ayurveda for several remedies. Scientific evidence suggests its versatile biological functions that support its traditional use in the Orient. The plant is claimed to possess immunological, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, antithrombotic, and hepatoprotective properties. But, to date, there is no study demonstrating the protective effect of A. paniculata on gentamicin-induced renal failure. The present study aims to highlight the first ever reported, antirenal failure activity of A. paniculata.
Male Wistar albino rats were divided into three groups: normal control, gentamicin control, and aqueous extract of A. paniculata (200 mg/kg, per oral (p.o.))-treated. The nephrotoxic model was induced by gentamicin (80 mg/kg, intraperitoeal (i.p.)). Blood samples were examined for serum creatinine, serum urea, and blood urea nitrogen after the 10 days of treatment.
A gentamicin-induced nephrotoxic animal model was successfully prepared. Aqueous extract of A. paniculata attenuated the gentamicin-induced increase in serum creatinine, serum urea, and blood urea nitrogen levels by 176.92%, 106.27%, and 202.90%, respectively.
The present study reports that the aqueous extract (whole plant) of A. paniculata (Burm. f.) Nees exhibits a significant renoprotective effect in gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity in male Wistar albino rats.
A 7-year-old boy with a history of recurrent acute renal failure and macroscopic haematuria is reported. A renal biopsy performed during the first episode of renal function deterioration showed mesangial glomerulonephritis with C3 mesangial deposits. Macroscopic haematuria associated with respiratory infections recurred four times over the next 14 months, each time in association with acute derangement of renal function. A second biopsy showed acute interstitial nephritis and similar glomerular abnormalities. Retrospectively, a causal relationship between the ingestion of paracetamol and the appearance of the symptoms was observed. No derangement of renal function was present in subsequent episodes of macroscopic haematuria following removal of the offending drug. This is a case of drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis superimposed on a glomerular disease, and suggests the importance of recognizing this association.
Elevated concentrations of unconjugated bilirubin (UCB) are responsible for neonatal jaundice and can eventually lead to kernicterus or death. The molecular mechanism of UCB toxicity is incompletely elucidated. The purpose of this study was to analyze changes in gene regulation mediated by UCB to determine novel pathways that contribute to UCB-mediated toxicity. We employed microarray analysis to determine changes in gene regulation mediated by UCB at both pro- (50 microM) and antioxidant (70 nM) concentrations in Hepa 1c1c7 cells at 1 and 6 h. The changes observed in select genes were validated with qPCR. Using immunoblot analysis, we validated these changes at the protein level for select genes and documented the activation of two proteins involved in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress pathway, eIF2 alpha and PERK. Following treatment with 50 microM UCB, microarray analysis revealed the upregulation of many genes involved in ER stress (ATF3, BiP, CHOP, Dnajb1, and Herp). We demonstrate that upregulation of the proapoptotic transcription factor CHOP results in increased intracellular protein content. It was determined that activation of proteins involved in ER stress was an early event in UCB toxicity as eIF2 alpha and PERK were both phosphorylated and activated by 1 h posttreatment. We also demonstrate that procaspase-12 content, a proposed initiator caspase in ER stress-mediated apoptosis, is decreased by 4 h posttreatment. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that elevated concentrations of UCB (50 microM) are able to activate select components of the ER stress pathway in Hepa 1c1c7 cells, which may contribute to UCB-mediated apoptosis.
Chronic exposure to inorganic arsenic (iAs) is associated with the development of benign and malignant human skin lesions including nonmelanoma skin cancers. The precise arsenical form(s) responsible for this carcinogenic effect are unknown, although trivalent inorganic arsenic (iAs(III)) and two of its toxic metabolites, monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)) and methylarsinous acid (DMA(III)), are attractive candidates. In an effort to better understand and compare their toxic effects in the skin, we compared the global gene expression profiles of normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEKs) exposed to varying noncytotoxic/slightly cytotoxic concentrations of iAs(III), MMA(III), and DMA(III) for 24 h. Exposure to each arsenical treatment group exhibited a dose effect in the number of altered genes and the magnitude of expression change in NHEKs. The most significant gene expression changes associated with iAs(III) and MMA(III) exposure were consistent with several key events believed to be important to As-driven skin carcinogenesis, namely induction of oxidative stress, increased transcript levels of keratinocyte growth factors, and modulation of MAPK and NF-κB pathways. At both comparable arsenical concentrations and comparable NHEK toxicity, greater potential carcinogenic effects were observed in MMA(III)-exposed NHEKs than those exposed to iAs(III), including involvement of more proinflammatory signals and increased transcript levels of more growth factor genes. In contrast, none of these above-mentioned transcriptional trends were among the most significantly altered functions in the DMA(III) treatment group. This study suggests the relative capacity of each of the tested arsenicals to drive suspected key events in As-mediated skin carcinogenesis is MMA(III) > iAs(III) with little contribution from DMA(III).
This paper reports on a case of spasmodic torticollis after longterm treatment with neuroleptics. This form of dystonia is called tardive dystonia to distinguish it from tardive dyskinesia. Its pathophysiology is unknown. Pathological changes are described in the basal ganglia. Increased signal was found on magnetic resonance imaging on both sides of the basal ganglia reflecting structural lesions. These structural changes, together with neuroleptic medication, represent predisposing factors for the manifestation of tardive dystonia.
