In our previous study, the proliferation rate of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cell lines, which poorly expressed p21Waf1, was found to be regulated by p21Waf1 gene transfection using adenovirus vector. In the present study, in order to examine the effect of p21Waf1 gene therapy in esophageal cancer, we used gene gun technology, which proved to be a powerful method to introduce the p21Waf1 gene into esophageal cancer cells. p21Waf1 transfection to KE3 and YES2 cells (weakly expressed p21Waf1 protein cells) showed a high expression of p21Waf1 protein after applying this gene gun technique. In KE3 and YES2 cells, statistical significant growth inhibition was observed after p21Waf1 transfection compared with LacZ transfection (KE3, p=0.0009; YES2, p<0.0001). In in vivo transfection experiments, on day 14, the estimated volume of KE3 tumors subjected to p21Waf1 gene transfection was 95% in comparison with the pretreatment volume on day 0, while the volume of KE3 tumors subjected to LacZ gene therapy increased to 268%. On day 14, the estimated volume of YES2 tumors subjected to either p21Waf1 or LacZ gene therapy increased to 474 and 686%, respectively. In KE3 and YES2 cells, significant growth inhibition was observed after combination therapy using p21Waf1 transfection and anticancer drug 5-fluorouracil (5Fu) compared with 5Fu alone (KE3, p<0.0001; YES2, p<0.0001). In conclusion, p21Waf1 gene therapy using the gene gun technique significantly inhibited the low basal p21Waf1 expressed esophageal cancer cell growth in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, p21Waf1 transfection strongly enhanced the effect of 5Fu suggesting that p21Waf1 may prove beneficial in chemotherapy combined with gene therapy using gene gun technology in patients with esophageal cancer who have a low level of p21Waf1 expressed tumor.
A girl with neuropsychiatric lupus demonstrated Parkinsonian features soon after commencing risperidone. The single photon emission computed tomography scan showed hyperperfusion of the basal ganglia. Symptoms abated with the addition of dopaminergic agents to immunosuppressive therapy. The literature on juvenile Parkinsonism in lupus has been reviewed.
To investigate the association of polymorphisms of DNA double-strand break repair gene XRCC4 and chromosomal damage levels in peripheral blood lymphocyte in workers exposed to 1,3-butadien (BD).
189 BD exposed workers and 83 controls were recruited in this study. Chromosomal damage in peripheral lymphocytes was measured by the cytokinesis-block micronucleus (CBMN) assay. Three haplotpe-tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms in XRCC4 gene, including A245G, T1394G and C1475T, were detected by PCR-RFLP and the XRCC4 haplotypes were estimated by using an extension of Clark algorithm. The associations between haplotype pairs and micronuclei data were assessed by analysis of covariance in the exposed and non-exposed groups.
Multivariate analysis of covariance revealed that the frequencies of CBMN, nucleoplasmic bridge (NPB) and nuclear bud (NBUD) were significantly higher in BD exposed workers [(7.17 +/- 5.41) per thousand, (1.20 +/- 1.43) per thousand and (2.87 +/- 2.44) per thousand, respectively] than in the controls [(3.10 +/- 2.56) per thousand, (0.24 +/- 0.66) per thousand and (1.68 +/- 1.92) per thousand, P < 0.01, respectively]. Rank sum test revealed that in BD exposed workers, the XRCC4 A245G AA genotype exhibited higher NPB frequency than that of AG or GG genotypes significantly (P < 0.05). Stratification analysis showed that the polymorphism of XRCC4 T1394G TT carriers had significantly higher CBMN frequencies than those GG carriers (P < 0.01) in < 39 year workers.
The results suggested that polymorphisms of XRCC4 A245G and T1394G could influence the chromosomal damage levels in BD exposed workers.
When the antidepressant amoxapine is taken in overdose, it can cause metabolic acidosis, brain damage and sometimes death. In previous studies, biochemical evidence has been presented that amoxapine disrupts reactions of membrane-associated multi-enzyme complexes, and mitochondrial energy conservation may be one of the first systems affected. Three in vitro systems were investigated to determine whether general membrane disruption or more specific mitochondrial effects of amoxapine could be responsible for toxicity and for lactic acid accumulation. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, increased amoxapine concentrations led to decreased oxygen uptake associated with decreased survival of cells. In Chinese hamster ovary cells in culture, an initial increase in oxygen uptake was observed up to 10 mug amoxapine/ml and a decrease thereafter. At drug levels that caused an increased oxygen uptake, there was increased lactic acid output by cells, but no observable toxicity. At higher drug levels, the decreased oxygen uptake was accompanied by cell death, reduced lactic acid output and a change in the mitochondrial cristae configuration. Cell death in both of the above systems was attributed to interference with energy conservation. Isolated, beating guinea-pig hearts perfused with 5 mug amoxapine/ml stopped after 13 min, but no lactic acid accumulated. This may be explained by the membrane-stabilizing activity of the drug. In an arrested perfused heart, increased concentrations of amoxapine stimulated oxygen consumption and lactic acid production. Hence, membrane-stabilizing activity alone is not adequate to explain the action of amoxapine on isolated cells, and on the perfused arrested heart, or the clinical pattern of overdose, and disruption of energy conservation in cells is likely to be involved also.
A report of 3 cases of sodium valproate "encephalopathy". The addition of valproate to the treatment in 3 subjects, two adults and one child, all with generalised epilepsy, induced a worsening of the clinical and EEG pattern and in one case disturbances of vigilance as well. The occurrence of this complication in generalised epilepsy and the possibility that EEG alterations are its only manifestation are emphasised.
During recent years, we identified characteristic genetic alterations in sporadic hepatoblastoma (HB). These include loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at the chromosomal region 11p15.5, LOH on chromosome arms 1p and 1q, activating mutations in exon 3 of the beta-catenin gene, as well as overexpression of the c-met oncogene, which encodes the hepatocyte growth factor receptor. We now wanted to evaluate the prognostic relevance of these abnormalities concerning the outcome in a large group of patients.
All but 7 of 56 patients with HB were treated either with primary resection for small tumors, or neo-adjuvant chemotherapy with ifosfamide, cisplatin and doxorubicin (IPA) before delayed surgery in case of extended disease and additional adjuvant IPA therapy in all cases. Seven tumors were primarily resected and adjuvantly treated with different cytotoxic drugs. LOH 11p15.5, LOH 1p, and LOH 1q were detected in tumor tissue in comparison to normal liver and/or peripheral blood leukocytes by PCR based microsatellite analysis. Beta-catenin mutations were analysed with SSCP, deletion screening and direct sequencing. RT-PCR was used for identification of c-met mRNA overexpression. The results were correlated with the tumors' stage, histological type and epithelial differentiation, as well as with the patients' outcome.
Overall disease-free survival after median follow-up of 5 years was 43/56 patients (77%). LOH 11p15.5 was found in 15/56, LOH1p in 11/53, LOH1q in 7/53 and beta-catenin mutations in 25/55 HB. 13/23 HB had a c-met overexpression. LOH 11p15.5 and LOH 1p were significantly more often found in embryonal HB, while there was no correlation of other genetic alterations with histological type or differentiation. Furthermore, statistical analysis revealed no correlation of any of these disorders with initial tumor stage, nor with the patients' outcome.
None of the investigated molecular genetic alterations are suited to serve as a prognostic indicator in HB. Further investigations, especially genetic screening of tumor tissue may reveal prognostic markers for this neoplasm.
To evaluate interactions between the opiate and adrenergic systems in healthy humans, concomitant administration of the opiate antagonist, naloxone hydrochloride, and the alpha 2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, yohimbine hydrochloride, was compared with the administration of placebo and of each drug separately. A synergistic effect of the combination (larger than the sum of the effects of the two drugs separately) was observed on subject ratings of nervousness, anxiety, tremors, palpitations, nausea, hot and cold flashes, and increased plasma cortisol concentrations. In addition, following the combination, each of the male subjects studied reported a full penile erection lasting at least 60 minutes, an effect not reported when each drug was given separately. These results demonstrate that interactions between the opiate the adrenergic systems have important implications for our understanding of the cause and treatment of anxiety disorders and male impotence.
As travel by air and ship becomes increasingly popular, more and more travelers are using transdermal scopolamine to avoid motion sickness. In fact, it has become almost fashionable for ocean travelers to sit on the sun deck with a patch behind the ear. This article describes withdrawal symptoms in a patient who used transdermal scopolamine beyond the recommended 3 days.
To clarify whether reduced cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) activity carries inherent blood pressure risks and to infer whether the increased blood pressure and elevated mortality associated with torcetrapib are idiosyncratic or characteristic of this class of drugs.
We examined the associations among CETP genotype, phenotype, and blood pressure in a cohort of 521 older adults (who have complete data for the variables required in our primary analysis) enrolled between November 1, 1998, and June 30, 2003, in our ongoing studies of genes associated with longevity, including a cohort with a high prevalence of a genotype coding for a reduced activity variant of CETP and low levels of CETP.
The prevalence of hypertension was actually lower among homozygotes for the variant CETP (48% vs 60% among those with wild-type and 65% among heterozygotes; P=.03). Low levels of CETP were associated with reduced prevalence of hypertension (65% in highest tertile, 59% in middle tertile, and 55% in lowest tertile; P=.04) and lower systolic blood pressure (140.8, 138.1, 136.2 mm Hg, respectively; P=.03).
Reduced levels of CETP are associated with lower, not higher, blood pressure. The adverse results with torcetrapib, if mediated through blood pressure, are likely to represent effects of this specific drug, rather than a result of lower CETP levels.
TMC125 is a nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) with potent in vitro activity against wild-type and NNRTI-resistant HIV-1. TMC125 is an inducer of CYP3A and an inhibitor of CYP2C. This trial evaluated the effect of TMC125 on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of methadone. In an open-label, add-on, 1-way interaction trial, 16 male HIV-negative volunteers on stable methadone maintenance therapy received 100 mg TMC125 bid for 14 days. Plasma concentrations and pharmacokinetic parameters of R- and S-methadone isomers were determined on days -1, 7, and 14 and of TMC125 on days 7 and 14. Safety and tolerability were assessed. The LSmeans ratios (90% confidence interval) for AUC(24h), C(max), and C(min) of the pharmacologically active R-methadone were 1.08 (1.02-1.13), 1.03 (0.97-1.09), and 1.12 (1.05-1.19), respectively, on day 7 and 1.06 (0.99-1.13), 1.02 (0.96-1.09), and 1.10 (1.02-1.19), respectively, on day 14 compared with methadone alone. No withdrawal symptoms were observed; dose adjustment of methadone was not required. The concomitant administration of TMC125 and methadone was generally safe and well tolerated. TMC125 has no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of methadone. No dose adjustment for methadone is anticipated when coadministered with TMC125.
The Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway is an essential regulator of embryonic development and appears to play important roles in postnatal repair and cancer progression and metastasis. The teratogenic Veratrum alkaloid cyclopamine is a potent Hh antagonist and is used experimentally both in vitro and in vivo to investigate the role of Hh signaling in diverse biological processes. Here, we set out to establish an administration regimen for cyclopamine-induced teratogenicity in the mouse. The dysmorphogenic concentration of cyclopamine was determined in vitro via mouse whole-embryo culture assays to be 2.0 microM. We administered cyclopamine to female C57BL/6J mice at varied doses by oral gavage, ip injection, or osmotic pump infusion and assessed toxicity and pharmacokinetic (PK) models. Bolus administration was limited by toxicity and rapid clearance. In vivo cyclopamine infusion at 160 mg/kg/day yielded a dam serum steady-state concentration of approximately 2 microM with a corresponding amniotic fluid concentration of approximately 1.5 microM. Gross facial defects were induced in 30% of cyclopamine-exposed litters, with affected embryos exhibiting cleft lip and palate. This is the first report describing the PKs and teratogenic potential of cyclopamine in the mouse and demonstrates that transient Hh signaling inhibition induces facial clefting anomalies in the mouse that mimic common human birth defects.
To present the first documented case report of myopathy persisting for >48 hrs in a patient treated with cisatracurium and concomitant high-dose corticosteroids.
Anecdotal observations in one patient.
Medical-respiratory intensive care unit (ICU) at a tertiary care, university teaching hospital.
A 45-yr-old female admitted status for post-bilateral total knee replacement complicated by aspiration pneumonitis and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
The patient required pressure control ventilation and sedation with midazolam and fentanyl infusions. On ICU day 2, the patient was placed on inverse ratio ventilation and paralyzed with cisatracurium. On ICU day 6, methylprednisolone 125 mg i.v. every 6 hrs was initiated for fibroproliferative ARDS. On ICU day 11, methylprednisolone was reduced to 60 mg i.v. every 6 hrs and tapered over several weeks. Cisatracurium infusion rates ranged from 6.3 to 10.5 microg/kg/min, with an average of 8.0 microg/kg/min.
Train-of-Four was assessed before initiation of therapy and every 4 hrs, thereafter. Train-of-Four values were maintained from 1 to 4 throughout therapy and a value of 4 was recorded when therapy was discontinued. On day 13, neuromuscular blocking agent therapy was discontinued, but severe proximal and distal muscle weakness was observed bilaterally. Creatinine kinase concentrations on 3 and 13 days after discontinuation of the paralytic agent were 181 and 96 units/L, respectively. On day 24, the patient moved her fingertips. On ICU day 30, the patient was weaned from the mechanical ventilator. The patient was transferred to the ward on day 33. Extensive rehabilitation with physical and occupational therapy was required for several months.
Clinicians should remember that irrespective of chemical structural, neuromuscular blocking agents might produce prolonged paralysis in predisposed patients.
Peripheral neuropathy in association with minocycline-induced lupus-like reaction has not previously been reported. We present a case of probable minocycline-induced lupus associated with antiphospholipid antibodies and an ulnar neuropathy which has slowly improved since the discontinuation of minocycline.
The mechanisms by which environmental toxicants alter developmental processes predisposing individuals to adult onset chronic disease are not well-understood. Transplacental arsenic exposure promotes atherogenesis in apolipoprotein E-knockout (ApoE(-/-)) mice. Because the liver plays a central role in atherosclerosis, diabetes and metabolic syndrome, we hypothesized that accelerated atherosclerosis may be linked to altered hepatic development. This hypothesis was tested in ApoE(-/-) mice exposed to 49 ppm arsenic in utero from gestational day (GD) 8 to term. GD18 hepatic arsenic was 1.2 µg/g in dams and 350 ng/g in fetuses. The hepatic transcriptome was evaluated by microarray analysis to assess mRNA and microRNA abundance in control and exposed pups at postnatal day (PND) 1 and PND70. Arsenic exposure altered postnatal developmental trajectory of mRNA and microRNA profiles. We identified an arsenic exposure related 51-gene signature at PND1 and PND70 with several hubs of interaction (Hspa8, IgM and Hnf4a). Gene ontology (GO) annotation analyses indicated that pathways for gluconeogenesis and glycolysis were suppressed in exposed pups at PND1, and pathways for protein export, ribosome, antigen processing and presentation, and complement and coagulation cascades were induced by PND70. Promoter analysis of differentially-expressed transcripts identified enriched transcription factor binding sites and clustering to common regulatory sites. SREBP1 binding sites were identified in about 16% of PND70 differentially-expressed genes. Western blot analysis confirmed changes in the liver at PND70 that included increases of heat shock protein 70 (Hspa8) and active SREBP1. Plasma AST and ALT levels were increased at PND70. These results suggest that transplacental arsenic exposure alters developmental programming in fetal liver, leading to an enduring stress and proinflammatory response postnatally that may contribute to early onset of atherosclerosis. Genes containing SREBP1 binding sites also suggest pathways for diabetes mellitus and rheumatoid arthritis, both diseases that contribute to increased cardiovascular disease in humans.
Acute exposure to chlorine (Cl2) gas causes epithelial injury and airway dysfunction. gammadelta T cells are present in the mucosal surface of the airways and may contribute to the injury/repair response of the epithelium.
C57Bl/6J (wild type) and TCR-delta-/- mice exposed to Cl2 (400 ppm) for 5 minutes underwent measurements of airway responses to i.v. methacholine (MCh) at 1, 3, and 5 days after exposure. Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed to determine epithelial and leukocyte counts, and protein content. Tissue repair was assessed by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) immunoreactivity and by expression of keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) mRNA by real-time PCR.
Wild type mice developed a greater degree of airway hyperresponsiveness to MCh at 1 day post exposure to Cl2 compared with TCR-delta-/- mice. Epithelial cell counts in BAL after Cl2 exposure were greater in TCR-delta-/- mice, but macrophages showed a later peak and granulocyte numbers were lower in TCR-delta-/- than in wild type mice. Both groups had increased levels of total protein content in BAL after Cl2 exposure that resolved after 3 and 5 days, respectively. Epithelial proliferating cell nuclear antigen staining was increased at 1 and 3 days post exposure and was similar in the two groups. KGF mRNA was constitutively expressed in both groups and did not increase significantly after Cl2 but expression was lower in TCR-delta-/- mice.
The severity of airway epithelial injury after Cl2 is greater in TCR-delta-/- mice but the inflammatory response and the change in airway responsiveness to methacholine are reduced. The rates of epithelial regeneration are comparable in both groups.
Parkinson's disease involves intracellular deposits of alpha-synuclein in the form of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites. The etiology of the disease is unknown, however, several epidemiological studies have implicated environmental factors, especially pesticides. Here we show that several pesticides, including rotenone, dieldrin and paraquat, induce a conformational change in alpha-synuclein and significantly accelerate the rate of formation of alpha-synuclein fibrils in vitro. We propose that the relatively hydrophobic pesticides preferentially bind to a partially folded intermediate conformation of alpha-synuclein, accounting for the observed conformational changes, and leading to association and subsequent fibrillation. These observations suggest one possible underlying molecular basis for Parkinson's disease.
Argatroban is a hepatically metabolized, direct thrombin inhibitor used for prophylaxis or treatment of thrombosis in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and for patients with or at risk of HIT undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The objective of this review is to summarize practical considerations of argatroban therapy in HIT. The US FDA-recommended argatroban dose in HIT is 2 microg/kg/min (reduced in patients with hepatic impairment and in paediatric patients), adjusted to achieve activated partial thromboplastin times (aPTTs) 1.5-3 times baseline (not >100 seconds). Contemporary experiences indicate that reduced doses are also needed in patients with conditions associated with hepatic hypoperfusion, e.g. heart failure, yet are unnecessary for renal dysfunction, adult age, sex, race/ethnicity or obesity. Argatroban 0.5-1.2 microg/kg/min typically supports therapeutic aPTTs. The FDA-recommended dose during PCI is 25 microg/kg/min (350 microg/kg initial bolus), adjusted to achieve activated clotting times (ACTs) of 300-450 sec. For PCI, argatroban has not been investigated in hepatically impaired patients; dose adjustment is unnecessary for adult age, sex, race/ethnicity or obesity, and lesser doses may be adequate with concurrent glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition. Argatroban prolongs the International Normalized Ratio, and published approaches for monitoring the argatroban-to-warfarin transition should be followed. Major bleeding with argatroban is 0-10% in the non-interventional setting and 0-5.8% periprocedurally. Argatroban has no specific antidote, and if excessive anticoagulation occurs, argatroban infusion should be stopped or reduced. Improved familiarity of healthcare professionals with argatroban therapy in HIT, including in special populations and during PCI, may facilitate reduction of harm associated with HIT (e.g. fewer thromboses) or its treatment (e.g. fewer argatroban medication errors).
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a sight threating retinal eye disease that affects millions of aging individuals world-wide. Choroid-retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)-neuroretina axis in the posterior compartment of the eye is the primary site of AMD pathology. There are compelling evidence to indicate association of vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF) to AMD. Here, we report the inhibitory actions of resveratrol (RSV) on inflammatory cytokine, TGF-β and hypoxia induced VEGF secretion by human retinal pigment epithelial cells (HRPE). HRPE cultures prepared from aged human donor eyes were used for the studies in this report. HRPE secreted both VEGF-A and VEGF-C in small quantities constitutively. Stimulation with a mixture of inflammatory cytokines (IFN-γ, TNF-α, IL-1β), significantly increased the secretion of both VEGF-A and VEGF-C. RSV, in a dose dependent (10-50 uM) manner, suppressed VEGF-A and VEGF-C secretion induced by inflammatory cytokines significantly. RT-PCR analysis indicated that effects of RSV on VEGF secretion were possibly due to decreased mRNA levels. TGF-β and cobalt chloride (hypoxia mimic) also upregulated HRPE cell production of VEGF-A, and this was inhibited by RSV. In contrast, RSV had no effect on anti-angiogenic molecules, endostatin and pigment epithelial derived factor secretion. Studies using an in vitro scratch assay revealed that wound closure was also inhibited by RSV. These results demonstrate that RSV can suppress VEGF secretion induced by inflammatory cytokines, TGF-β and hypoxia. Under pathological conditions, over expression of VEGF is known to worsen AMD. Therefore, RSV may be useful as nutraceutical in controlling pathological choroidal neovascularization processes in AMD.
Various reactions of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) were experimentally induced by infusion of thrombokinase in rats, by administration of endotoxin in rabbits and pigs and by infusion of adrenaline and thrombin in dogs. Low plasma concentrations of recombinant hirudin (r-hirudin; 20-200 ng/ml) were sufficient for the inhibition of the different triggering mechanisms. The studies on the pharmacological profile of r-hirudin in DIC therapy confirm the efficacy of this specific tight-binding thrombin inhibitor.
The epileptogenic potential of quinolones differs from one product to the other. The rare epileptic seizures induced by gatifloxacin were seen with the intravenous route.
We report two old ladies presenting with generalized status epilepticus after being treated orally with normal doses of gatifloxacin, with a good recovery. Past medical history of convulsion was the only factor found. Brain MR imaging was unremarkable. In one patient, EEG showed continuous bilateral paroxysmal discharges, predominantly frontal.
Caution is warranted when using quinolones in elderly patients, especially those suffering from epilepsy.
Doxorubicin and daunorubicin are effective anticancer agents in children, however, their therapeutic value is limited by myocardial cardiotoxicity. In 14 children (median age 5.0 years, range 3-12) prospective studies were performed using pulsed Doppler echocardiography to assess the changes in left ventricular systolic and diastolic filling dynamics. None of these children developed cardiomyopathy. M-mode echocardiographic systolic parameters and Doppler transmitral flow velocities were analysed at baseline, after a cumulative anthracycline dose of 138 +/- 26 mg/m2 (second examination) and after 240 +/- 15 mg/m2 (third examination). At the second examination the acceleration time/ejection time ratio was significantly reduced (P < 0.01), but this was no longer evident at the third examination. There was no significant change of peak velocity over aortic valve, pre-ejection period and change of velocity over time. In contrast, three diastolic parameters changed significantly; the late over early inflow velocity (P < 0.05), mitral valve late time velocity integral (P < 0.01 at the second and P < 0.05 at the third examination) and the ratio A-TVI/TVI (P < 0.025 and P < 0.01). At the third examination the velocity of the A wave was also significantly increased. CONCLUSION In anthracycline treated children left ventricular diastolic function deteriorates before systolic function. Diastolic function parameters should be used rather than systolic parameters to monitor these patients.
The effect of lithium chloride administration on urinary acidification was studied in dogs. Lithium-treated dogs developed hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis with alkaline urine. Bicarbonate loading resulted in a normal increase in urinary Pco2 in normal dogs but failed to produce the same response in lithium-treated dogs. The bicarbonate titration curve of lithium-treated dogs revealed a small leak of bicarbonate at low plasma levels of bicarbonate; at high plasma levels bicarbonate reabsorption was significantly higher in lithium-treated dogs. This pattern of bicarbonate reabsorption is identical to that described in classic distal renal tubular acidosis. Sodium sulfate administration resulted in a normal urinary acidification ilithium-treated dogs. It is possible that lithium administration induces distal renal tubular acidosis by allowing excessive back-diffusion of acid. This excessive back-diffusion of acid would result in a low urinary Pco2 during bicarbonate loading. Sodium sulfate administration, by increasing the negative intratubular potential, would restrict back-diffusion of hydrogen ion and thereby result in a normal acidification in lithium-treated dogs. We previously demonstrated that postureteral obstruction of the kidney fails to increase urinary Pco2 during bicarbonate loading and to lower urinary pH with sodium sulfate. It is possible that a low urinary Pco2 during HCO3 loading can occur as a consequence of either diminished hydrogen ion secretion (postobstructed kidney) or excessive back-diffusion of acid (lithium administration). Further studies are indicated to determine whether both mechanisms may be found in patients with distal renal tubular acidosis.
The Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd) phenotype is characterized by adult onset neurodegeneration resulting from mutations in Nna1, a gene encoding an intracellular protein with a putative metallocarboxypeptidase domain. As Nna1 is also induced in axotomized motor neurons, the elucidation of its function can shed light on previously unsuspected mechanisms common to degenerative and regenerative responses. Structural modeling revealed that Nna1 and three related gene products constitute a new subfamily of metallocarboxypeptidases with a distinctive substrate-binding site. To test whether the metallocarboxypeptidase domain is functionally essential, transgenic mice were generated that expressed Nna1 or a substrate-binding site mutant of Nna1 selectively in Purkinje cells using the L7/pcp2 promoter. When bred onto a homozygous pcd(3J) background, wild type but not mutant Nna1 rescued ataxic behavior and Purkinje cell loss. Therefore, loss of Nna1 in Purkinje cells leads directly to their degeneration and Nna1's carboxypeptidase domain is essential for survival of these neurons.
Bimatoprost is a safe and well-tolerated intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering drug that was approved in the United States in 2001 for the treatment of glaucoma and ocular hypertension. It is highly efficacious and produces greater mean reductions in IOP than other currently available antiglaucoma drugs. Conjunctival hyperemia is a common side effect of bimatoprost, but the hyperemia is typically mild and transient. No association has been found between signs of inflammation and the presence of hyperemia in bimatoprost-treated patients. Preclinical studies have elucidated the pharmacological mechanism of bimatoprost-related hyperemia and have examined the possible involvement of inflammation. Bimatoprost, as well as the free acid of latanoprost, elicited endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation in the rabbit jugular vein preparation, a quantitative in vitro model for ocular surface hyperemia (OSH). The vasorelaxant responses to either bimatoprost or latanoprost free acid were significantly inhibited by L-NAME, a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor. Similarly, the in vivo OSH responses to topically applied bimatoprost or latanoprost in dog eyes were significantly inhibited by L-NAME. As predicted, prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2))-induced conjunctival hyperemia was not inhibited by L-NAME, since PGE(2) has a direct relaxant effect on the vascular smooth muscle. In-life observations and histopathological assessment of ocular surface tissues following bimatoprost treatment were performed for multiple-dose one month, 6 month, or 12 month safety studies in rabbits, dogs, and non-human primates. Results of these studies showed no evidence of bimatoprost-related inflammation in the ocular surface tissues. In summary, OSH related to bimatoprost treatment in laboratory animals occurs by endothelial-derived nitric oxide-mediated vasodilatation and is not associated with inflammation. These studies suggest that conjunctival hyperemia, a side effect of bimatoprost treatment, results from non-inflammatory, pharmacologically based vasodilatation.
