Previous studies in rats have suggested a causal relationship between progressive pulmonary inflammation and lung fibrosis induced by crystalline silica particles. We report here that, in NMRI mice, the lung response to silica particles is accompanied by a mild and non progressive pulmonary inflammation which is dispensable for the development of lung fibrosis. We found that glucocorticoid (dexamethasone) dramatically reduced lung injury, cellular inflammation and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression (TNF-α, IL-1β and KC) but had no significant effect on silica-induced lung fibrosis and expression of the fibrogenic and suppressive cytokines TGF-β and IL-10 in mice. Other anti-inflammatory molecules such as the COX inhibitor piroxicam or the phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor sildenafil also reduced lung inflammation without modifying collagen, TGF-β or IL-10 lung content. Our findings indicate that the development of lung fibrosis in silica-treated NMRI mice is not driven by inflammatory lung responses and suggest that suppressive cytokines may represent critical fibrotic factors and potential therapeutic targets in silicosis.
Oxidative stress has been implicated as a primary cause of neuronal death in certain neurodegenerative disorders and in aging brains. Natural products have been used in Asian societies for centuries for treating such neurodegenerative disorders as senile dementia. In an effort to identify active neuroprotective compounds from these products, we have employed cultures of rat cortical neurons as our screening system. A methanolic extract from dried roots of Cynanchum wilfordii Hemsley (Asclepiadaceae) significantly mitigated the neurotoxicity induced by H2O2 in this screening system. Activity-guided fractionation using several chromatographic techniques resulted in the isolation of the neuroprotective compound, cynandione A, a biacetophenone. At a concentration of 50 microM, cynandione A significantly reduced neurotoxicity induced by H2O2. Cynandione A significantly attenuated decreases in levels of glutathione, superoxide dismutase, and other enzymes that participate in the cellular defense against oxidative stress. Furthermore, cynandione A alleviated neurotoxicity induced by the excitotoxic neurotransmitter, L-glutamate, the neurotoxicity induced by kainate, but not that mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate. Cynandione A was demonstrated to be a natural antioxidant as it facilitated the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide in vitro; however, no mechanism was uncovered to explain its neuroprotectant effects against glutamate and kainate. Therefore, cynandione A may be efficacious in protecting neurons from oxidative stress mediated via activation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate/kainate receptors since it exerted significant neuroprotective effects on cultured cortical neurons.
A 46 years old patient with IgA nephritis developed an acute renal failure due to enalapril, without renal artery abnormality. A similar impairment of renal function was found during an acute test with 50 mg Captopril.
The neuroleptic malignant syndrome is clinically characterised by the presence of severe muscular rigidity, altered consciousness, hyperthermia and by signs of autonomic dysfunction. A severe form of the syndrome lasting several weeks was observed in a 20-year-old, mentally retarded female patient while under fluphenazine treatment. Cerebrospinal fluid was examined for monoamine metabolites by high-performance liquid chromatography both during the acute and the convalescent phases of the disease. Since the disease carries a considerable mortality, early diagnosis and rapid withdrawal of all neuroleptic medication is of primary importance.
Over the last decade, second and third generation cephalosporins have been the most common drugs causing hemolytic anemia (HA). Of these cases, 20% have been attributed to ceftriaxone. The clinical presentation of ceftriaxone-induced HA is usually abrupt with sudden onset of pallor, tachypnea, cardio-respiratory arrest and shock. Acute renal failure (ARF) has been reported in 41% of such cases with a high fatality rate. We report a pediatric patient with ARF complicating ceftriaxone-induced HA who survived. Ceftriaxone is a commonly used drug, and early recognition of HA and institution of supportive care, including dialysis is likely to improve the outcome.
The effect of diltiazem on long-term outcome in patients with acute myocardial infarction with and without a history of systemic hypertension was investigated in 2,466 patients using the Multicenter Diltiazem Postinfarction Trial data-base. The baseline variables were comparable in the diltiazem and placebo-treated patients within the groups with and without hypertension. The initial 60-mg dose of diltiazem was associated with a significant (p less than 0.001) but modest (3%) reduction in blood pressure and heart rate in both groups with and without hypertension. Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed a meaningful overall reduction in first recurrent cardiac events (cardiac death or nonfatal reinfarction, whichever occurred first) and cardiac death in patients with hypertension treated with diltiazem compared with results in those treated with placebo. Similar effects were not observed in patients without a history of hypertension. When first recurrent cardiac events were used as the end point, the diltiazem:placebo hazard ratio (95% confidence limits) was 0.77 (0.58, 1.01) for the total hypertension group, and 0.67 (0.47, 0.96) and 1.32 (0.83, 2.10) for patients with hypertension with and without pulmonary congestion during the acute infarction, respectively. Similar results were observed using cardiac death as the end point. Beta blockers had a negligible effect on the hypertension-diltiazem relation. These findings suggest that diltiazem may exert a long-term beneficial effect in most patients with hypertension who do not have pulmonary congestion during an acute infarction, and a detrimental effect in the minority who have pulmonary congestion.
Spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage in patients receiving anticoagulant therapy is not uncommon. Sometimes this hemorrhage may be the initial presentation of an occult lesion of the central nervous system, such as a tumour, vascular malformation or infarction. Five such cases, one case of hematomyelia and one case of spinal subdural hematoma have been reported in association with proven lesions of the central nervous system in patients on anticoagulant therapy. One other patient is reported who had malignant melanoma with an asymptomatic brain metastasis. Anticoagulant therapy for deep vein thrombosis resulted in a spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage. Patients who have potential central nervous system disease on the basis of previous clinical neurologic events and those known to harbour a malignant tumour should undergo enhanced computerized axial tomography before long-term anticoagulant therapy is begun. Patients with confirmed lesions of the central nervous system are at risk of suffering hemorrhagic complications and should be monitored very closely during anticoagulation. The indications for continuing long-term anticoagulation in these patients should be reviewed frequently.
Tumor-specific immune tolerance limits the effectiveness of cancer vaccines. In addition, tumor vaccines alone have a limited potential for the treatment of measurable tumor burdens. This highlights the importance of identifying more potent cancer vaccine strategies for clinical testing. We tested immune-modulating doses of chemotherapy in combination with a granulocyte/macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF)-secreting, HER-2/neu (neu)-expressing whole-cell vaccine as a means to treat existing mammary tumors in antigen-specific tolerized neu transgenic mice. Earlier studies have shown that neu transgenic mice exhibit immune tolerance to the neu-expressing tumors similar to what is observed in patients with cancer. We found that cyclophosphamide, paclitaxel, and doxorubicin, when given in a defined sequence with a GM-CSF-secreting, neu-expressing whole-cell vaccine, enhanced the vaccine's potential to delay tumor growth in neu transgenic mice. In addition, we showed that these drugs mediate their effects by enhancing the efficacy of the vaccine rather than via a direct cytolytic effect on cancer cells. Furthermore, paclitaxel and cyclophosphamide appear to amplify the T helper 1 neu-specific T-cell response. These findings suggest that the combined treatment with immune-modulating doses of chemotherapy and the GM-CSF-secreting neu vaccine can overcome immune tolerance and induce an antigen-specific antitumor immune response. These data provide the immunological rationale for testing immune-modulating doses of chemotherapy in combination with tumor vaccines in patients with cancer.
Clonidine, a proposed alpha-noradrenergic receptor stimulant, intensifies the aggression occuring during morphine-withdrawal or following the administration of apomorphine. The possibility of a noradrenergic/dopaminergic interaction in drug-induced aggression is discussed.
Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is associated with high morbidity and mortality. The recent literature contains numerous clinical trials with similar design, endpoints, and patient populations, describing the nephrotoxic effects of various contrast agents, which are higher with ionic vs. nonionic contrast agents. The difference in the incidence of CIN with nonionic contrast agents may be due to the number of benzene rings (monomer vs. dimer), iodine content, osmolality, and viscosity of the individual contrast agents. We evaluated the recently published data from clinical studies with nonionic iodinated contrast agents in patients with preexisting chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) and report the results of pooled analysis of data from recent prospective independent studies of CIN with various nonionic contrast agents. Review of the recent literature revealed that the CIN incidence varies across the studies reviewed and the contrast agents used. The highest incidence of CIN was observed in studies using iohexol or ioxilan. Results of the pooled analysis of nonionic contrast agents (with more than one randomized study) showed a similar incidence of CIN after iodixanol and iopamidol in patients with preexisting CRI, while both agents showed a significantly lower incidence of CIN compared to iohexol. Since iodixanol is more expensive than iopamidol, this observation may be clinically relevant.
To assess the role of the recombinant bacterial enzyme, glucarpidase (carboxypeptidase-G(2)), leucovorin, and thymidine in the management and outcome of patients with high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) -induced nephrotoxicity.
Patients with HDMTX-induced nephrotoxicity received one to three doses of intravenous (IV) glucarpidase and leucovorin rescue. The initial cohort (n = 35) also received thymidine by continuous IV infusion. Subsequently, thymidine was restricted to patients with prolonged exposure (> 96 hours) to methotrexate (MTX) or with substantial MTX toxicity at study entry. Plasma MTX, leucovorin, and 5-methyltetrahydrofolate (5-mTHF) concentrations were measured pre- and postglucarpidase. Toxicities were monitored, and logistic regression analysis was used to assess the relationship of baseline characteristics to the development of severe toxicity and death.
Glucarpidase was administered at a median of 96 hours (receiving thymidine, n = 44) and 66 hours (not receiving thymidine, n = 56) after the start of the MTX infusion. Plasma MTX concentrations decreased within 15 minutes of glucarpidase by 98.7%. Plasma 5-mTHF concentrations also decreased more than 98% after administration of glucarpidase. Of 12 deaths, six were directly attributed to irreversible MTX toxicity. Presence of grade 4 toxicity before administration of glucarpidase, inadequate initial increase in leucovorin dosing, and administration of glucarpidase more than 96 hours after the start of the MTX infusion were associated with development of grade 4 and 5 toxicity.
Early intervention with the combination of leucovorin and glucarpidase is highly effective in patients who develop HDMTX-induced renal dysfunction. Severe toxicity and mortality occurred in patients in whom glucarpidase rescue was delayed and occurred despite thymidine administration.
The introduction of the United Kingdom Medical Research Council's 10th AML trial (MRC AML 10) protocol incorporating high-dose anthracycline therapy has improved outcome of children with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In this study, we review the results of childhood AML therapy in a Singapore university hospital over the last 17 years emphasizing toxicity and outcome.
Retrospective analysis revealed 34 children with AML between 1988 and 2003. Prior to September 1996, therapy consisted of: POG-8498 (n = 10), others (n = 9). From September 1996, all but one of 15 children received MRC AML 10 treatment.
At the time of analysis, 17 had died from disease, and 17 patients were alive among whom 2 had relapsed. MRC AML 10-treated patients (n = 14) had significantly better 3-year overall, event-free, and disease-free survival (74% vs. 35%, 77% vs. 20%, 83% vs. 31%; P = 0.019, P = 0.002, and P = 0.010, respectively) and were likelier to achieve complete remission (CR) than non-MRC AML 10 patients (P = 0.102). Among patients who achieved CR, MRC AML 10-treated patients were significantly more likely to achieve CR after only one cycle of chemotherapy (P = 0.016). Hematologic toxicity was similar among the different regimens (P = 0.9).
These findings suggest that MRC AML 10 treatment results in significantly superior survival, without excess toxicity. Future studies should attempt to elucidate the relative importance of individual MRC AML 10 components and reduce the high cumulative anthracycline dose without compromising outcome.
This study investigated conditions under which methadone patients with urinalysis evidence of persistent multiple drug abuse would respond to take-home incentive procedures. Study subjects submitted > or = 80% opiate and/or cocaine positive urines during a 5-week baseline period (M, W, F urine testing) while maintained on 60 mg methadone. Doses were raised to 80-100 mg methadone under blind conditions and subjects were randomly assigned to receive methadone take-home doses under one of three conditions: (a) earn a 1-day take-home privilege for each opiate and cocaine-free test delivered (daily contingent condition), (b) three negative test results required for the first take-home privilege, with each subsequent negative test earning one take-home dose; a positive test reset the contingency back to three again (weekly contingent condition), or (c) a control group that did not receive take-home privileges (no take-home control). Five of 21 subjects (24%) assigned to a contingent take-home intervention (2 from condition a, 3 from condition b) showed marked reductions in drug use and delivered 4 or more consecutive weeks of drug-free urines during a 16-week intervention. No subject in the control group met these criteria. Percent positive urines decreased by 14% and 18% from baseline in daily and weekly contingency groups, respectively, compared to a decline of 2% in the no take-home control group (planned contrast of means p < .07 and .05, respectively). Thus, the study demonstrated that take-home incentives can be effective for reducing during-treatment use of opiates and cocaine in methadone patients with a poor prognosis related to their persistent multiple drug use.
During repeat exercise testing in 10 patients with stable angina, individual optimal doses of nicardipine were determined. Hemodynamic values and cardiac metabolism were studied during 2 pacing periods carried out before and after this dose (mean 5.3 mg). Postpacing ST-segment depression diminished (1 mm) after nicardipine administration (p less than 0.05), whereas pacing time to onset of angina did not change. Nicardipine administration increased heart rate 16% (p less than 0.005) and reduced systolic (10%) and diastolic (8%) blood pressures (both p less than 0.005). Coronary blood flow increased 16% (p less than 0.05) and coronary vascular resistance decreased 24% (p less than 0.01). Myocardial oxygen consumption was unchanged despite an 11% decrease in rate-pressure product during pacing (p less than 0.02). In the control state before nicardipine administration, metabolic signs of ischemia included release of lactate across the heart in 7 patients, decreased mean free fatty acid and glutamate uptake and alanine release during pacing, together with increased glucose uptake and citrate release during recovery. After nicardipine lactate release decreased in 5 of the 7 patients, pacing no longer changed free fatty acid, glutamate and alanine uptake/release from the level at rest. During recovery glucose uptake was reduced and citrate release was unaffected. The hemodynamic data indicate that nicardipine is a systemic and coronary vasodilator, increasing oxygen supply to the ischemic myocardium. The metabolic results indicate a change in substrate utilization toward that of normal heart, suggesting improved aerobic energy supply.
The objective of this study was to determine the effectiveness of two prophylactic approaches against the anticipated hypotension induced by propofol during rapid-sequence intubation. Thirty-six male or female nonpremedicated ASA class I-II patients aged 21-60 yr undergoing elective outpatient surgery were included in the study. Patients were randomly allocated to receive pre-induction ephedrine sulphate (70 micrograms x kg(-1)iv), pre-induction volume loading (12 ml x kg(-1) Ringer's lactate) or no treatment. Rapid-sequence intubation with cricoid pressure was then performed with propofol (2.5 mg. x kg(-1)) and succinylcholine (1.5 mg x kg(-1). The lungs were subsequently ventilated with 0.25-0.5% isoflurane in a 2:1 N2O/O2 mixture. Vecuronium was given once neuromuscular function had recovered from the succinylcholine. Heart rate and systemic arterial blood pressure were measured non-invasively before induction, after propofol administration and every minute for ten minutes after intubation. Pre-induction volume loading prevented the hypotension observed before surgical stimulation in control and ephedrine groups. Moreover, pre-induction volume loading was not associated with increases in heart rate after intubation as was ephedrine administration. The intubating conditions were excellent to satisfactory in most patients and the overall incidence of adverse events during intubation was mainly due to pain during injection of propofol. The present study showed that preoperative volume loading is more efficacious than pre-induction administration of ephedrine sulphate in maintaining haemodynamic stability during rapid-sequence induction with propofol and succinylcholine. In addition, propofol in combination with succinylcholine provides excellent conditions for rapid-sequence intubation.
Overt mitochondrial diseases associated with mitochondrial DNA mutations are characterized by a decline in mitochondrial respiratory function. Similarly, a progressive decline in mitochondrial respiratory function associated with mitochondrial DNA mutations is clearly evidenced in aged human subjects. This communication is concerned with the development of a rat model for the study of bioenergy decline associated with the ageing process and overt mitochondrial diseases. The model involves the treatment of young rats with AZT to induce skeletal and cardiac myopathies. It has shown that there is a decline in soleus muscle function in vivo and that this decline is mirrored in the capacity of heart sub-mitochondrial particles to maintain bioenergy function. Coenzyme Q10 and several analogs were administered with AZT as potential therapeutics for the re-energization of affected tissues. Coenzyme Q10 and especially decyl Q were found to be therapeutically beneficial by both in vivo improvement in soleus muscle function and in vitro cardiac mitochondrial membrane potential capacity. Sub-mitochondrial particles were also prepared from heart mitochondria of young and aged rats. The particles prepared from the aged rats were found to have a decreased ability to maintain membrane potential as compared to those derived from the young rats.
Chloroquine induces diuresis, natriuresis, and an increase in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in the rat. These responses are modified in rats with analgesic nephropathy induced by long-term paracetamol (acetaminophen) administration. Here, the effects of acute paracetamol treatment on renal function and the response to chloroquine are reported. Under intraval anesthesia (100 mg kg-1) male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 6/group) were infused with 2.5% dextrose for 3 h. After a control hour, they received either vehicle, chloroquine (0.04 mg h-1), paracetamol (priming dose of 210 mg kg-1 followed by 110 mg kg-1h-1) or chloroquine and paracetamol over the next hour. Compared with vehicle, chloroquine infusion resulted in increases in GFR (2.4 +/- 0.3 versus 4.8 +/- 0.6 ml min-1), urine flow (4.2 +/- 0.3 versus 10.4 +/- 0.7 ml h-1), and sodium excretion (47.7 +/- 4.1 versus 171.2 +/- 18.6 micromol h-1) and a reduction in urine osmolality (223.2 +/- 5.9 versus 121.7 +/- 23.9 mOsM kg-1). Paracetamol reduced sodium excretion but had no effect on urine flow, GFR, or urine osmolality. When combined, paracetamol blocked the chloroquine-induced diuresis (3.9 +/- 0.7 ml h-1) and natriuresis (22.6 +/- 8.5 micromol h-1), attenuated the increase in glomerular filtration rate (3.5 +/- 0.2 ml min-1), and raised urine osmolality (280.0 +/- 22.8 mOsM kg-1). The differing effects of acute and long-term paracetamol treatment on basal and chloroquine-mediated renal function suggest that the length of prior exposure to paracetamol, and thus the presence of analgesic nephropathy, is an important determinant of the renal response to chloroquine.
Sildenafil induces vasodilation and is used for treating erectile dysfunction. Although its influence on resting heart function appears to be minimal, recent studies suggest that sildenafil can increase sympathetic activity. We therefore tested whether sildenafil injected into the central nervous system alters the autonomic control of the cardiovascular system in conscious rats. The effect of sildenafil citrate injected into the lateral cerebral ventricle was evaluated in conscious rats by means of the recording of lumbar sympathetic nerve activity (LSNA), spectral analysis of systolic arterial pressure and heart rate variability, spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity, and baroreflex control of LSNA. Intracerebroventricular (ICV, 100 microg /5 microl) administration of sildenafil caused remarkable tachycardia without significant change in basal arterial pressure and was associated with a conspicuous increase (47 +/- 14%) in LSNA. Spectral analysis demonstrated that systolic arterial pressure oscillations in the low frequency (LF) range were increased (from 6.3 +/- 1.5 to 12.8 +/- 3.8 mmHg(2)), whereas the high frequency (HF) range was not affected by ICV administration of sildenafil. Sildenafil increased pulse interval oscillations at LF and decreased them at HF. The LF-HF ratio increased from 0.04 +/- 0.01 to 0.17 +/- 0.06. Spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity measured by the sequence method and the baroreflex relationship between mean arterial pressure and LSNA were not affected by ICV administration of sildenafil. In conclusion, sildenafil elicited an increase in sympathetic nerve activity that is not baroreflex mediated, suggesting that this drug is able to elicit an autonomic imbalance of central origin. This finding may have implications for understanding the cardiovascular outcomes associated with the clinical use of this drug.
Desbutylbupivacaine, a major metabolite of bupivacaine, is known to accumulate during long-term continuous infusion blocks in man. Its acute toxicity in comparison with that of bupivacaine has not been studied. In a lightly anaesthetized rat model, bupivacaine (2 mg/kg/min, N = 10) or desbutylbupivacaine (4 mg/kg/min, N = 10) was infused i.v. until asystole. Arterial blood pressure, ECG and EEG were continuously recorded. The mean doses of bupivacaine producing cardiac toxicity, i.e. arrhythmia (12.4 mg/kg) and asystole (24.0 mg/kg), were approximately half of those of desbutylbupivacaine. Seizure activity on the EEG was observed in only one of the desbutylbupivacaine-infused rats while all rats receiving bupivacaine developed seizures (mean dose 5.2 mg/kg). Desbutylbupivacaine infusion caused a decrease in arterial blood pressure greater than that resulting from bupivacaine infusion. When desbutylbupivacaine 0.67 mg/kg/min was coinfused with bupivacaine 2 mg/kg/min, the cardiovascular toxicity of bupivacaine was clearly potentiated. The EEG parameters were affected in a similar fashion as when bupivacaine alone was infused. In this rat model, desbutylbupivacaine was about half as toxic as bupivacaine judged by cardiac parameters, and clearly less toxic to the central nervous system than bupivacaine.
A trivalent inorganic arsenic, arsenite, has been causing chronic inflammation in humans through the consumption of contaminated well water. The total peripheral blood arsenic concentrations of chronic arsenic-exposed patients, who had inflammatory-like immune responses, are less than 1 microM, thus, nM concentrations may be very important regarding the chronic inflammatory effects by arsenite. However, there are few reports about the biological effects of low concentrations of arsenite in mammalian cells, especially in normal immune effector cells. In this study, we examined whether arsenite has any biological and/or toxicological effects on the differentiation of human peripheral blood monocytes into macrophages using the colony-stimulating factor (CSF) in vitro compared with that of other metallic compounds, and found that arsenite sensitively inhibited the CSF-induced in vitro maturation of monocytes into macrophages at nM levels, and it also induced small, nonadhesive and CD14-positive abnormal macrophage generation from monocytes with granulocyte-macrophage CSF (GM-CSF) at 50-500 nM without cell death. The addition of other metallic compounds, including chromium, selenium, mercury, cadmium, nickel, copper, zinc, cobalt, manganese and other human pentavalent arsenic metabolites, such as inorganic arsenate, monomethylarsonic acid and dimethylarsinic acid, could not induce the same abnormal cell generation from monocytes with CSFs at any concentration and any additional time schedules; they showed only simple cytolethality in monocytes and macrophages at any concentration and any additional time schedules; they showed only simple cytolethality in monocytes and macrophages at n-mM levels accompanied by cell death. This work may have implications in the arsenic-induced chronic inflammation in humans.
The incidence of oral-verapamil-induced hypotension in the presence of concomitant beta-adrenergic blockade by the oral route is quite rare. The major contraindication to the use of intravenous verapamil is recent administration of intravenous beta-blocking agents (i.e., within the past two hours). We report a case of sustained hypotension after administration of parenteral verapamil. Vasopressors were required to support blood pressure for approximately five hours. The patient had been on oral propranolol for the past five years and had taken his last dose of propranolol approximately ten hours before the administration of parenteral verapamil for treatment of a supraventricular tachycardia documented by an electrocardiogram.
Thirty Sprague-Dawley rats were paralysed with pancuronium and their lungs ventilated mechanically with 70% nitrous oxide and 0.5% halothane in oxygen. Bupivacaine 2 mg kg-1 min-1 was infused continuously i.v. until the animals died. At the onset of seizures, animals were given an i.v. bolus of propofol 1 mg kg-1 (n = 10), thiopentone 2 mg kg-1 (n = 10) or lipid vehicle (n = 10). Administration of propofol or thiopentone was repeated each time seizures restarted and lipid vehicle administrations were repeated at 2-min intervals until the electroencephalogram became isoelectric. All animals developed seizures, arrhythmias, isoelectric EEG and asystole. Administration of lipid vehicle induced no obvious changes in ongoing epileptiform activity. The initial doses of thiopentone and of propofol stopped epileptiform activity in all animals, usually within 6 s after administration. The seizure-free period after the initial administration of thiopentone and of propofol lasted, on average, 0.98 min and 1.72 min, respectively. We conclude that propofol may have value in treating seizures induced by bupivacaine.
Alcohol-induced asthma, a phenomenon characteristic of Asians, is due to differences in alcohol metabolism, particularly acetaldehyde metabolism. We investigated the effect of polymorphism in acetylaldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) gene on the response to alcohol challenge testing in a group of Japanese asthmatic subjects and normal subjects.
Subjects were 32 asthmatic subjects and 30 healthy individuals. We measured the change in FEV1 after ingestion of 30 gm of ethanol. Blood ethanol, acetylaldehyde, and histamine concentrations were determined. ALDH2 gene type was established by polymerase chain reaction.
Ethanol provocation test results were positive in 15 (47% responders) asthmatic subjects. The blood ethanol concentration was similar in responders and nonresponders. The fall in FEV1 was associated with a rise in blood acetaldehyde and histamine concentrations. The response to oral ethanol challenge was positive in three (19%) of 16 patients with normal homozygote ALDH2 genotype, 10 (71%) of 14 patients with type mutant heterozygote, and two (100%) of two patients with type mutant homozygote ALDH2 genotype.
Alcohol-induced asthma is probably caused by increased blood acetaldehyde concentration resulting from abnormalities of ALDH2 enzyme activity based on ALDH2 genotype differences.
Malignant gliomas are the most common primary brain tumor and have a poor clinical prognosis. 1, 3-Bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) is an alkylating agent that is commonly used in glioma therapy. However, BCNU chemotherapy often fails due to drug resistance. To gain better understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying the drug resistance of glioma, a BCNU-resistant variant (C6R) of C6 rat glioma cells was selected and characterized. The established C6R cells were resistant to BCNU-induced cell death and cell cycle arrest as confirmed by 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide reduction assay and flow cytometric analysis of DNA content. C6R cells showed an increased expression of common drug resistance-related genes such as O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase and multiple drug resistance 1. In contrast, C6R cells showed a decreased expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein, therefore, displaying shorter cellular processes compared with parental C6 cells. More importantly, in conjunction with the morphological changes, the expression of lipocalin-2 (lcn2), a 25-kDa secreted proapoptotic protein, was markedly reduced in the BCNU-resistant C6R cells. However, there was no significant change in the expression of lcn2 receptors. Addition of recombinant LCN2 protein or introduction of lcn2 cDNA significantly increased the sensitivity of C6 cells and human glioma cells to BCNU or other anticancer drugs, while knockdown of lcn2 expression by antisense cDNA transfection decreased the sensitivity. When lcn2 was re-expressed in C6R cells, the BCNU sensitivity was restored. Lcn2 enhanced BCNU-induced Akt dephosphorylation providing a molecular basis of apoptosis sensitization. These results suggest that LCN2 protein may be involved in glioma drug resistance and may provide a new approach to sensitizing glioblastoma to chemotherapy.
The nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates are drugs used successfully in the treatment of osteoporosis. They act inhibiting farnesyl diphosphate synthase. This mechanism may also produce anti-inflammatory effects. The therapeutic activity of alendronate was tested in vivo using a model of inflammatory bowel disease.
The trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid model of colitis in the rat was used. Rats were treated orally with alendronate and its efficacy compared with that of oral sulphasalazine or vehicle, starting 2 h after colitis induction. The status of the animals was assessed 5 days later.
Alendronate treatment (25 or 75 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) resulted in a decrease in the colonic damage score and loss of body weight (at 25 mg kg(-1) day(-1) only). This was associated to a dramatic reduction in the mRNA levels of interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta), monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) and interleukin 1 receptor antagonist (IL-1 ra). The magnitude of the beneficial effect was comparable to that of sulphasalazine (at a 6-20 fold higher dose). Thus sulphasalazine post-treatment reduced the mRNA levels of IL-1 beta/IL-1 ra and MCP-1 to the same extent as alendronate and additionally lowered colonic alkaline phosphatase activity, but failed to affect body weight loss or colonic damage score. Alendronate failed to exert beneficial effects when administered intraperitoneally.
Oral but not intraperitoneal alendronate significantly protected the colon in experimental rat colitis. Inflammatory bowel disease patients might benefit from exposure to oral alendronate.
Previous research has suggested increased psychopathology in prenatally diethylstilbestrol (DES)-exposed persons. The current study compares the psychiatric histories and social functioning of 27 men with a history of high-dose prenatal DES exposure and their unexposed brothers. We expected DES subjects to show greater lifetime psychopathology and poorer social functioning than controls. Both groups showed high rates of lifetime depression, lifetime alcoholism, and current psychiatric symptoms in excess of community norms. The only diagnosis on which DES subjects exceeded their unexposed brothers was Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). DES-exposed men had almost twice the prevalence of at least one episode of MDD and had significantly more recurrent episodes. The relatively small number of subjects with concomitant lack of statistical power may have contributed to the difficulty obtaining significant effects.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is the most frequent cause of drug-induced liver failure in the US. Metallothionein (MT) expression attenuates APAP-induced liver injury. However, the mechanism of this protection remains incompletely understood. To address this issue, C57BL/6 mice were treated with 100 micromol/kg ZnCl2 for 3 days to induce MT. Twenty-four hours after the last dose of zinc, the animals received 300 mg/kg APAP. Liver injury (plasma ALT activities, area of necrosis), DNA fragmentation, peroxynitrite formation (nitrotyrosine staining), MT expression, hepatic glutathione (GSH), and glutathione disulfide (GSSG) levels were determined after 6 h. APAP alone caused severe liver injury with oxidant stress (increased GSSG levels), peroxynitrite formation, and DNA fragmentation, all of which were attenuated by zinc-induced MT expression. In contrast, MT knockout mice were not protected by zinc. Hydrogen peroxide-induced cell injury in primary hepatocytes was dependent only on the intracellular GSH levels but not on MT expression. Thus, the protective effect of MT in vivo was not due to the direct scavenging of reactive oxygen species. Zinc treatment had no effect on the early GSH depletion kinetics after APAP administration, which is an indicator of the metabolic activation of APAP to its reactive metabolite N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine (NAPQI). However, MT was able to effectively trap NAPQI by covalent binding. We conclude that MT scavenges some of the excess NAPQI after GSH depletion and prevents covalent binding to cellular proteins, which is the trigger for the propagation of the cell injury mechanisms through mitochondrial dysfunction and nuclear DNA damage.
