Leukotrienes are derived from arachidonic acid and serve as mediators of inflammation and immediate hypersensitivity. Leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) and leukotriene C(4) (LTC(4)) act through G protein-coupled receptors LTB(4) receptor (BLTR) and Cys-LTR, respectively. To investigate the physiological role of BLTR, we produced mice with a targeted disruption of the BLTR gene. Mice deficient for BLTR (BLTR(-/-)) developed normally and had no apparent hematopoietic abnormalities. Peritoneal neutrophils from BLTR(-/-) mice displayed normal responses to the inflammatory mediators C5a and platelet-activating factor (PAF) but did not respond to LTB(4) for calcium mobilization or chemotaxis. Additionally, LTB(4) elicited peritoneal neutrophil influx in control but not in BLTR(-/-) mice. Thus, BLTR is the sole receptor for LTB(4)-induced inflammation in mice. Neutrophil influx in a peritonitis model and acute ear inflammation in response to arachidonic acid was significantly reduced in BLTR(-/-) mice. In mice, intravenous administration of PAF induces immediate lethal anaphylaxis. Surprisingly, female BLTR(-/-) mice displayed selective survival (6 of 9; P = 0.002) relative to male (1 of 11) mice of PAF-induced anaphylaxis. These results demonstrate the role of BLTR in leukotriene-mediated acute inflammation and an unexpected sex-related involvement in PAF-induced anaphylaxis.
To investigate the detailed acute cardiotoxicity of the anthracycline antibiotics, adriamycin (ADM) and a tetrahydropyranyl derivative (THP-ADM), Holter ECG was recorded and some of the electrocardiographic parameters were analyzed. The basic rhythm was sinus rhythm in many cases except only one case which developed intermittent atrial fibrillation after the administration of ADM. No effect on the specialized conduction system was observed in either ADM or TH-PADM. In relation to the supraventricular premature beat, no increase of the pre-existing supraventricular extrasystole and fresh appearance of the supraventricular extrasystole were observed after the administration of these drugs. On the other hand, the ventricular premature beat was tended to increase after ADM administration, and the mode of appearance of the ventricular extrasystole was very dangerous and life-threatening. For example, short-run type and R on T type ventricular extrasystole were recorded. THP-ADM induced no significant increase of the ventricular extrasystole. The developed ST-T changes were seen after the administration of these drugs, but the patients complained neither the symptoms of heart failure nor stenocardia. In conclusion. THP-ADM had less cardiotoxicity than ADM.
Colchicine is widely employed for the treatment of gout in renal transplant patients where NSAIDs are contra-indicated and allopurinol prophylaxis is often avoided due to concomitant azathioprine immunosuppression. We report here a case of colchicine-induced myoneuropathy in a renal transplant recipient. Our patient had myalgia, muscle weakness, elevated creatine kinase levels, myopathic changes on electromyography and peripheral neuropathy. Withdrawal of colchicine resulted in recovery within 4 weeks. Renal transplant recipients are likely to be at greater risk of colchicine-induced myoneuropathy due to the unique concurrence of risk factors predisposing to toxicity in such patients. These risk factors include the high incidence of gout in this population, widespread use of colchicine as first-line therapy, impaired renal function and concomitant cyclosporin treatment. The diagnosis should be considered in any renal transplant recipient receiving the drug who develops myopathy. Prompt withdrawal of colchicine therapy should result in rapid clinical and biochemical improvement.
To compare the incidences of tachysystole, hypertonia and fetal heart rate (FHR) abnormalities in women treated by mifepristone plus prostaglandins (PGs), mifepristone alone or PGs alone for an unfavourable cervix.
In this retrospective study, all women between 37 and 42 weeks were eligible for the study if they had undergone cervical ripening prior to labour induction. In group 1, the women were treated with mifepristone plus PGs (n=103). Group 2 women were treated with mifepristone alone (n=96) and group 3 women with PGs alone (n=100). Incidences of tachysystole, hypertonia and FHR abnormalities were compared.
During induction of labour, tachysystole and hypertonia occurred more frequently in women treated with mifepristone. Severe bradycardia and recurrent late decelerations were more frequent after the initiation of oxytocin in groups 1 and 2 than in group 3.
In this study, mifepristone increased the incidences of tachysystole, hypertonia and FHR abnormality.
In breast cancer, maspin, a serine protease inhibitor, can suppress tumor growth and metastasis in vivo and tumor cell motility and invasion in vitro. The clinical significance of maspin expression in breast cancer, especially in the sequence of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS)-invasive cancer-lymph node metastasis is well known in the Western countries, but its status in the rapidly increasing breast cancers in India remains unknown. The present study was designed to determine the clinical significance of maspin expression in invasive ductal carcinomas of breast (IDCs) in North Indian population and modulation of its expression by curcumin. Immunohistochemical analysis of maspin showed loss or reduced cytoplasmic expression in 36 of 59 (61%) tumors. Furthermore, breast cancer cells (MCF-7 (wild type p53) and MDA-MB-231 (mutant p53)) were treated with curcumin and the effect on expression of maspin gene at transcription and translation levels was analyzed by RT-PCR, immunofluorescence and Western blotting. Maspin expression was also correlated with p53 and Bcl-2 levels. Curcumin inhibited cell growth, induced apoptosis and upregulated maspin gene expression in MCF-7 cells and these findings were further correlated with the upregulation of p53 protein and downregulation of Bcl-2, suggesting maspin mediated apoptosis in MCF-7 cells. To our knowledge this is the first report showing the upregulation of maspin expression by curcumin in breast cancer cells and taken together with the clinical data suggests a potential therapeutic role for curcumin in inducing maspin mediated inhibition of invasion of breast carcinoma cells.
Outbred stocks of rats have been used extensively in biomedical, pharmaceutical and/or toxicological studies as a model of genetically heterogeneous human populations. One of such stocks is the Wistar Hannover GALAS rat. However, the colony of Wistar Hannover GALAS rat has been suspected of keeping a problematic mutation that manifests two distinct spontaneous abnormalities, goiter and dwarfism, which often confuses study results. We have successfully identified the responsible mutation, a guanine to thymine transversion at the acceptor site (3' end) of intron 6 in the thyroglobulin (Tg) gene (Tgc.749-1G>T), that induces a complete missing of exon 7 from the whole Tg transcript by mating experiments and subsequent molecular analyses. The following observations confirmed that Tgc.749-1G>T/Tgc.749-1G>T homozygotes manifested both dwarfism and goiter, while Tgc.749-1G>T/+ heterozygotes had only a goiter with normal appearance, suggesting that the mutant phenotypes inherit as an autosomal semi-dominant trait. The mutant phenotypes, goiter and dwarfism, mimicked those caused by typical endocrine disrupters attacking the thyroid. Hence a simple and reliable diagnostic methodology has been developed for genomic DNA-based genotyping of animals. The diagnostic methodology reported here would allow users of Wistar Hannover GALAS rats to evaluate their study results precisely by carefully interpreting the data obtained from Tgc.749-1G>T/+ heterozygotes having externally undetectable thyroidal lesions.
Lead is one of the industrially important heavy metals that causes male reproductive impairment among battery and paint factory workers, but information on the structure-function integrity of human spermatozoa is still limited. Therefore, it was necessary to investigate the effect of lead on sperm structure and functional activity in these workers. Oligozoospermia with concomitant lowering of sperm protein and nucleic acid content and the percentage of sperm DNA hyploidy (P <0.001) suggested the diminution of sperm cell production after occupational lead exposure. Low sperm vitality and hypoosmotic swelling percentage along with high malondialdehyde content and altered seminal plasma ascorbate level (P<0.001) indicating damage of sperm cell surface, might be due to high membrane lipid peroxidation and failure of non-enzymatic antioxidant protection after lead exposure. Alteration of sperm membrane surface was also evidenced from scanning electron microscopy and further authenticated by atomic and lateral force microscopy. Lowering of sperm velocity, gross and forward progressive motility with high stationary motile spermatozoa (P<0.001) suggested retarded sperm activity among the exposed workers, which was supported by high seminal plasma fructose level and reduced activity of sperm ATPase (P < 0.001). Increased incidence of teratozoospermia was also associated with high blood and semen lead level (PbB, PbS) (P<0.001). Therefore, the results suggested that lead not only affects the sperm count, but also damages the sperm structure and membrane integrity, motility and functional activity among the battery and paint factory workers.
Nausea and vomiting remain common and debilitating side effects of therapy with many anticancer drugs. Recent reports have shown that both metoclopramide and dexamethasone are effective drugs for the treatment of severe nausea and vomiting caused by cis-platinum. A double-blind crossover study comparing the antiemetic properties of high-dose oral and intravenous regimens of metoclopramide and dexamethasone in outpatients was carried out. Standardized patient questionnaires and interviews were used to evaluate response. Dexamethasone and metoclopramide protected against more than five episodes of emesis in 48% and 40% of patients, respectively. Nausea persisted for less than six hours in 45% of patients on dexamethasone and in 37% on metoclopramide. The antiemetic efficacy of both regimens was retained through repeated courses of chemotherapy. Side effects were minimal with dexamethasone; however, 33% of patients experienced unacceptable extrapyramidal side effects to metoclopramide. Patient preference was significantly in favor of dexamethasone: 70% of patients chose to continue dexamethasone compared to 22% who preferred metoclopramide and 8% who chose other antiemetics. Dexamethasone was the preferred antiemetic in this patient population due to minimal side effects.
The traditional Chinese medical herb Astragalus, the dried root of Astragalus membranaceus (Fisch.) Bge., has been widely applied to treat patients with cardiovascular disease in China and has profound cardioprotective effects. This study investigated the effect of Astragalus on hemodynamic changes in adriamycin (ADR)-injured rat hearts and its underlying molecular mechanism. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups: control, ADR only, ADR + low dose of Astragalus and ADR + high dose of Astragalus. Rats were injected intraperitoneally with 6 equal doses of ADR (cumulative dose, 12 mg/kg) over a period of 2 weeks. Treatment of Astragalus began 1 day before the onset of ADR injection and was given orally once a day for 50 days (3.3 or 10 g/kg/day). Five weeks after the final injection of ADR, rats treated with ADR only showed a significant inhibition of cardiac diastolic function accompanied by the presence of ascites, a remarkable reduction in body weight and heart weight as well as survival rate compared to the controls. Moreover, SERCA2a mRNA and protein expressions in hearts were obviously downregulated by ADR. However, this impaired cardiac function was significantly improved in both doses of Astragalus feeding groups. The amount of ascites was also reduced in a similar extent in these 2 groups. Only the high dose treatment of Astragalus significantly attenuated the changes of SERCA2a expression in injured hearts and improved survival. These results indicated that Astragalus could improve cardiac function of ADR-injured rat hearts, which was partly mediated by upregulation of SERCA2a expression.
Six patients with severe ocular side effects caused by therapeutical doses of the tuberculostatic drug ethambutol were investigated during the course of recovery with psychophysical and electrophysiological methods. Three patients developed an optic atrophy with permanently reduced vision as a likely consequence of additional risk factors such as diabetes, alcohol abuse, and reduced kidney function. The severity of the neuritis of the optic nerve was not related to the total intake of ethambutol. The likelihood of a permanent ocular damage increased sharply if the visual acuity had dropped below a value of 1/10. permanently prolonged latency of the P-100 component was found in visual evoked potentials even in cases with good recovery from ethambutol-induced damage. The recovery of color vision could be monitored very well with the Farnsworth-Munsell 100-Hue Test which revealed a diffuse impairment of color discrimination with a slight prevalence of the red-green axis. In addition to the known disturbances of the red-green antagonistic neurons, it could be demonstrated by measuring transient tritanopia and spectral sensitivity functions that ethambutol also affects the blue-yellow antagonism at the retinal level.
The effects of hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) on growth performance and immune and oxidative stress in growing/finishing pigs were studied. Seventy-two pigs, with equal numbers of barrows and gilts, of the same genotype (Duroc x Landrace x Large White), were randomly assigned to three groups receiving the same basal diet, exposed to 0, 0.4 and 0.8 mg/kg technical HCH, respectively, for 90 days. Six pigs from each group were randomly picked out and slaughtered on a finishing feeding trial. The result showed that addition of HCH did not affect the growth performance significantly but increased the weight of kidney and thymus significantly. Total serum IgG and IgM were elevated significantly, but there were no significant differences in serum IgA, C3 and C4 among the groups. Addition of HCH to feedstuff reduced superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione S-transferase (GST), glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities in liver, reduced serum catalase (CAT) activity, and increased serum malondialehyde (MDA). Moreover, the activities of serum alanine aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase were increased significantly. Addition of 0.4 mg/kg or 0.8 mg/kg HCH did not affect the growth performance but affected the immune and antioxidant potential.
Because associations have been reported between inhaled ambient ultrafine particles and increased risk of cardiopulmonary disease, it has been suggested that inhaled engineered nanoparticles (NPs) may also induce adverse effects on the cardiovascular system.
We examined the long-term cardiovascular effects of inhaled nickel hydroxide NPs (nano-NH) using a sensitive mouse model.
Hyperlipidemic, apoprotein E-deficient (ApoE-/-) mice were exposed to nano-NH at either 0 or 79 μg Ni/m3, via a whole-body inhalation system, for 5 hr/day, 5 days/week, for either 1 week or 5 months. We measured various indicators of oxidative stress and inflammation in the lung and cardiovascular tissue, and we determined plaque formation on the ascending aorta.
Inhaled nano-NH induced significant oxidative stress and inflammation in the pulmonary and extrapulmonary organs, indicated by up-regulated mRNA levels of certain antioxidant enzyme and inflammatory cytokine genes; increased mitochondrial DNA damage in the aorta; significant signs of inflammation in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid; changes in lung histopathology; and induction of acute-phase response. In addition, after 5-month exposures, nano-NH exacerbated the progression of atherosclerosis in ApoE-/- mice.
This is the first study to report long-term cardiovascular toxicity of an inhaled nanomaterial. Our results clearly demonstrate that long-term exposure to inhaled nano-NH can induce oxidative stress and inflammation, not only in the lung but also in the cardiovascular system, and that this stress and inflammation can ultimately contribute to progression of atherosclerosis in ApoE-/- mice.
The aim of this study is to verify whether there are deletions in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and disorders in oxidative phosphorylation (Ox-phos) complexes in the pathogenesis of secondary Fanconi syndrome (FS). We studied 18 children with tumors who were previously treated with chemotherapy and were off therapy for at least 1 year. All the children had normal renal function at diagnosis. Only 4 children received ifosfamide (IFO) and platinum compounds. We evaluated renal function, Ox-phos activity measured on platelets, and mtDNA extracted from platelets for all patients. Only 2 patients, both treated with IFO and carboplatinum (CARBO) for Wilms' tumor and germ-cell tumor, respectively, developed FS 1 and 3 years after termination of therapy. They had decreased activities of Ox-phos that were statistically significant only for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)-reduced cytochrome-c reductase and cytochrome-c oxidase and specific and unidentified deletions in mtDNA that were not maternally inherited. Our data suggest that treatment with IFO and CARBO might be responsible for deletions in mtDNA, decreased activity of Ox-phos, and impaired rates of transport of D-glucose, phosphate, and amino acids.
The risks of agranulocytosis and aplastic anemia in relation to analgesic drug use were evaluated in a population-based case-control study conducted in Europe and Israel. Analgesic use in the week before the onset of illness was compared between 221 cases of agranulocytosis and 1425 hospital controls. Analgesics significantly associated with agranulocytosis were dipyrone (metamizol sodium), indomethacin, and butazones (phenylbutazone and oxyphenbutazone). For dipyrone, the rate ratio estimate was 23.7 in Ulm, West Germany, West Berlin, and Barcelona, Spain, and the estimated excess risk for any exposure in a one-week period was 1.1 per million. In Israel and Budapest, Hungary, where the rate ratio estimate was 0.8, there was no evidence of excess risk. In all of the regions combined, the rate ratio estimates were 8.9 for indomethacin and 3.8 for butazones, with excess risk estimates of 0.6 and 0.2 per million, respectively. Analgesic use 29 to 180 days before admission was compared between 113 cases of aplastic anemia and 1724 controls. Indomethacin (rate ratio estimate, 12.7), diclofenac sodium (8.8), and butazones (8.7) were significantly associated with aplastic anemia, with estimated excess risks for any exposure in a five-month period of 10.1, 6.8, and 6.6 per million, respectively.
The study was performed to ascertain the value of potassium magnesium citrate, magnesium citrate, and potassium citrate in overcoming thiazide-induced hypokalemia and magnesium loss. Sixty-two healthy subjects were first administered hydrochlorothiazide, 50 mg/d. After 3 weeks of thiazide treatment (or earlier for potassium level </=3.5 mEq/L), they were randomized to receive one of three drugs while continuing to receive thiazide: potassium magnesium citrate (49 mEq of potassium, 24.5 mEq of magnesium), magnesium citrate (24.5 mEq/d of magnesium), or potassium citrate (49 mEq/d of potassium). Outcome measures were changes in serum potassium and magnesium levels and urinary potassium, magnesium, pH, and citrate values. All three drugs increased serum potassium concentration compared with that resulting from thiazide alone. Potassium magnesium citrate increased serum potassium levels from 3.3 +/- 0.2 to 3.8 +/- 0.3 mEq/L (P < 0.001), potassium citrate increased serum potassium levels from 3.4 +/- 0.4 to 3.9 +/-0.3 mEq/L (P < 0.001), and magnesium citrate from 3.4 +/- 0.4 to 3.7 +/- 0.3 mEq/L (P < 0.001). Potassium magnesium citrate led to a significant increase in urinary magnesium levels by the third week of supplementation (from 120 +/- 34 to 149 +/- 58 mg/d; P < 0.01) and produced a small but significant increase in serum magnesium level. Magnesium citrate significantly increased 24-hour urinary magnesium after the first week of supplementation and maintained this increase throughout the study. Potassium magnesium citrate and potassium citrate, but not magnesium citrate, significantly increased urinary pH and citrate values. Potassium magnesium citrate not only corrects thiazide-induced hypokalemia, but also may avert magnesium loss while providing an alkali load.
Torticollis in children must always instigate a search for trauma. Many other etiologies can be found. The authors report a case of postmedicinal atlantoaxial rotatory pseudoluxation (AARP) occurring in a child. This child had fallen down in the morning with head trauma followed by headache. Clinically, a stiff neck with an irreducible right rotation of his neck, and an osteotendinous hyperreflexia were noted. There was a C1-C2 rotatory dislocation with no traumatic lesion on the cervical CT scan. After a few hours, the torticollis spontaneously reduced and then reappeared on the left side. This clinical fluctuation and the absorption of metoclopramide (Primpéran) started in the morning for acute gastroenteritis provided the diagnosis of AARP. This entity was confirmed by the good clinical and radiological follow-up and was caused by the substantial ligament laxity of the craniovertebral junction encountered in children. The analysis of medical imaging and the systematic search for a medicinal cause helped make the right diagnosis.
Synchronous bilateral breast carcinoma (SBBC) and early onset are important characteristics of hereditary cases. The lifetime risk for breast carcinoma in Cowden syndrome (CS) is estimated to be 25-50%. We reported a 44-year-old woman presenting SBBC and characteristic mucocutaneous lesions of CS, confirmed by PTEN gene mutation analysis. Bilateral modified mastectomy and axillary dissection were performed. Histopathologic examination revealed a moderate-differentiated invasive ductal carcinoma with mixed features of luminal A immunophenotype (Estrogen and/or Progesterone Receptors >50% and/or Ki67 < 30% of positive cells). The skin lesions showed the characteristic findings of tricholemmoma. Lack of PTEN expression was observed in all specimens. Sequencing analysis confirmed the presence of PTEN splice-acceptor site mutation in intron 8 (c.1027-2A>G), a germline mutation which had not been previously reported in CS. The patient received adjuvant chemotherapy and tamoxifen for 5 years. After 5 years of follow-up, she persists recurrence-free. SBBC with early onset suggests a hereditary predisposition. Thus, analysis of PTEN expression abnormality, easily assessed by immunohistochemistry, may be of clinical value to screen those patients with CS.
Alaska Native (AN) people have a high prevalence of tobacco use and associated morbidity and mortality when compared with the general USA population. Variations in the CYP2A6 and CYP2B6 genes, encoding enzymes responsible for nicotine metabolic inactivation and procarcinogen activation, have not been characterized in AN and may contribute toward the increased risk.
AN people (n=400) residing in the Bristol Bay region of South Western Alaska were recruited for a cross-sectional study on tobacco use. They were genotyped for CYP2A6*1X2A, *1X2B, *1B, *2, *4, *7, *8, *9, *10, *12, *17, *35 and CYP2B6*4, *6, *9 and provided plasma and urine samples for the measurement of nicotine and metabolites.
CYP2A6 and CYP2B6 variant frequencies among the AN Yupik people (n=361) were significantly different from those in other ethnicities. Nicotine metabolism [as measured by the plasma and urinary ratio of metabolites trans-3'-hydroxycotinine to cotinine (3HC/COT)] was significantly associated with CYP2A6 (P<0.001), but not CYP2B6 genotype (P=0.95) when controlling for known covariates. It was noteworthy that the plasma 3HC/COT ratios were high in the entire Yupik people, and among the Yupik CYP2A6 wild-type participants, they were substantially higher than those in previously characterized racial/ethnic groups (P<0.001 vs. Caucasians and African Americans).
Yupik AN people have a unique CYP2A6 genetic profile that associated strongly with in-vivo nicotine metabolism. More rapid CYP2A6-mediated nicotine and nitrosamine metabolism in the Yupik people may modulate the risk of tobacco-related diseases.
The use of nonionic contrast media should be beneficial in patients with cardiac disease because such media are less chemotoxic. Using iopamidol under heparinization, we treated 4 cases of acute thromboembolic occurrence including occlusion of coronary artery bypass grafts and associated native coronary arteries. While the majority of patients do not experience this complication, care must be taken to avoid major adverse effects.
Linezolid is being used increasingly for life-threatening vancomycin-resistant infections in critically ill patients. Limited data suggest that linezolid is cleared by intermittent hemodialysis. However, information on clearance of linezolid by continuous renal replacement therapy is limited. A patient undergoing continuous venovenous hemodiafiltration (CVVHDF) was evaluated to determine linezolid clearance through CVVHDF.
A 33-year-old man with necrotizing fasciitis and acute-on-chronic renal failure requiring CVVHDF was treated with linezolid, 600 mg every 12 hours, for a vancomycin-resistant urinary tract infection. The study was performed on day 4 of therapy after a 1-hour infusion of linezolid. A series of blood samples and all urine and diafiltrate were collected during a 12-hour period. Linezolid concentrations were determined by using high-performance liquid chromatography assay. Linezolid clearance through CVVHDF was determined by using 2 methods. Method 1 evaluated the amount of drug recovered in diafiltrate. Method 2 evaluated plasma drug concentrations in prefilter and postfilter (PAN-10 Hemofilter; Asahi Medical Co, Tokyo, Japan) samples.
Clearance of linezolid through CVVHDF was 15.6 mL/min by method 1 and 21.6 mL/min by method 2. Total-body clearance was 189 mL/min. The amount of linezolid recovered in diafiltrate was 50 mg (8.3% of the dose).
Clearance of linezolid through CVVHDF in this patient was marginal. It does not appear that supplemental dosing of linezolid is necessary in patients undergoing CVVHDF.
A novel 2,7-disubstituted-pyrrolo[2,1-f][1,2,4]triazine scaffold has been designed as a new kinase inhibitor platform mimicking the bioactive conformation of the well-known diaminopyrimidine motif. The design, synthesis, and validation of this new pyrrolo[2,1-f][1,2,4]triazine scaffold will be described for inhibitors of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK). Importantly, incorporation of appropriate potency and selectivity determinants has led to the discovery of several advanced leads that were orally efficacious in animal models of anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL). A lead inhibitor (30) displaying superior efficacy was identified and in depth in vitro/in vivo characterization will be presented.
Entacapone is a potent, reversible and orally active inhibitor of catechol-O-methyltransferase. This open multicenter study evaluated the efficacy, safety and tolerability of entacapone as adjunct therapy to levodopa/dopa decarboxylase inhibitor (> or = 3 daily doses) in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and end-of-dose motor fluctuations. The 8-week study included 489 patients under conditions of typical daily medical practice. Patients were treated with a 200-mg fixed dose of entacapone administered with each scheduled dose of levodopa to a maximum of 10 doses per day. Other antiparkinsonian medication should have been stable for at least 1 month. The primary efficacy criteria were: (1) Part II (activities of daily living, ADL) of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), (2) the reduction of 'off' time during the daily waking period as assessed by the percentage of patients improving by at least one category at Item 39 of Part IV of the UPDRS. Secondary outcome measures included: (1) the investigator's global assessment of change, (2) quality of life (QoL) was assessed using the Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-39). Adverse events, vital signs and liver enzymes were monitored at weeks 2 and 8. The baseline mean score for ADL was 10.5 (+/-7.04), which decreased to 8.5 (+/-6.37) at the end of the study (p < 0.0001). Compared to baseline, 40.8% of patients experienced a reduction in 'off' time during the waking period; this improvement was highly significant (p < 0.0001). A reduction in the daily dose of levodopa was observed in 35.8% of patients (mean decrease 209 +/- 149 mg). QoL was improved by a mean of 10% in all categories of the PDQ-39 (p < 0.001), except social support and cognition. This improvement was statistically significant (p < 0.001). The dyskinesia score (UPDRS Item 32) was decreased significantly from 2.3 to 2.1 from baseline to end of study (p < 0.001), although 52.7% of patients reported levodopa-induced dyskinesia as an adverse event. There was no case of increased liver enzymes. The study results confirm that the excellent risk/benefit ratio seen in phase III controlled studies can be seen in daily neurological practice. Moreover, the study suggests that the benefits of entacapone are associated with a significant improvement in QoL.
In-vitro sensitisation (inhibiton or stimulation of leucocyte migration) in response to a liver homogenate obtained from rabbits pretreated with halothane was found in eight of twelve patients with halothane-associated hepatitis. Sensitisation was not observed when the homogenates were obtained from animals pretreated with ether. Furthermore, leucocyte migration in response to "halothane homogenate" was normal in eleven patients who had shown no abnormality in liver function after halothane anaesthesia and in thirty patients with other liver diseases. These studies provide direct evidence that sensitisation to halothane-altered liver-cell components is present in those occasional patients in whom severe liver damage develops after halothane anaesthesia.
A series of (arylpiperazinylbutyl)oxindoles as highly potent 5-HT(7) receptor antagonists has been studied for their selectivity toward the 5-HT(1A) receptor and α(1)-adrenoceptor. Several derivatives exhibited high 5-HT(7)/5-HT(1A) selectivity, and the key structural factors for reducing undesired α(1)-adrenergic receptor binding have also been identified. Rapid metabolism, a common problem within this family of compounds, could be circumvented with appropriate substitution patterns on the oxindole carbocycle. Contrary to expectations, none of the compounds produced an antidepressant-like action in the forced swimming test in mice despite sufficiently high brain concentrations. On the other hand, certain analogues showed significant anxiolytic activity in two different animal models: the Vogel conflict drinking test in rats and the light-dark test in mice.
Although true allergic reactions due to systemic corticosteroid therapy are not frequent, they should be kept in mind since allergic reactions to this kind of therapy are possible. We report two cases of specific adverse reactions resulting from systemic corticosteroid therapy which were diagnosed by provocation tests. The corticosteroids involved in each case were paramethasone and betamethasone, and methyl-prednisolone in both of them. Additives and other corticosteroids were studied by skin tests and challenges, with negative results. The structures of paramethasone and betamethasone are similar, with a 16 carbon methyl group in both, and with a fluoride in the alpha position of the 6 carbon in paramethasone, and a fluoride in the beta position of the 9 carbon and a 6 carbon methyl group in betamethasone. Methyl-prednisolone differs from that of other corticosteroids in its 6 carbon methyl group. We report two cases of specific adverse reactions caused by corticosteroids. Positive challenge tests showed a possible immunologic hypersensitivity mechanism in both cases. The patients' reactions demonstrated cross-reactivity between methyl-prednisolone and the corticosteroids having a 16 carbon methyl group, and fluoride or methyl radicals on the 6 carbon.
Autism is a pervasive neurodevelopmental disorder, with a significant role of genetic factors in its development. The neuropilin-2 (NRP2) gene is localized to 2q34, an autism susceptibility locus. NRP2 has been demonstrated to both guide axons and to control neuronal migration in the central nervous system. It has been reported that NRP2 may be required in vivo for sorting migrating cortical and striatal interneurons to their correct destination. We examine the association between the NRP2 gene and autism using a cohort of 169 Chinese Han family trios. Four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped by the polymerase chain reaction-based restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analyses. The transmission disequilibrium tests (TDT) of SNPs and haplotype association were carried out using the TDTPHASE program. We found significant genetic association between autism and two of the SNPs of the NRP2 gene (rs849578: P = 0.017, rs849563: P = 0.027), as well as specific haplotypes, especially those formed by rs849563. Furthermore, haplotypes constructed with all markers showed significant excess transmission in both global and individual haplotype analyses (P = 0.004 and 0.017, respectively). The polymorphisms in the NRP2 gene are associated with autism, implying that the NRP2 gene may render individuals to be predisposed to autism.
Because of its long half-life, there has been concern that chronic amiodarone therapy before heart transplantation may adversely affect early cardiac allograft function and delay patient recovery. We retrospectively analyzed the outcome of the last 50 patients undergoing heart transplantation at our institution (between September 1988 and September 1989). Nineteen patients had been taking amiodarone at the time of transplantation (mean daily dose, 247 +/- 31 mg; mean duration of treatment, 9.0 +/- 2.2 months). These patients did not differ from the remaining 31 patients with respect to age, sex, or cause of disease. Donor organ ischemic time was also similar in the two groups (158 +/- 11 vs 153 +/- 10 minutes, NS). Patients who had received amiodarone before transplantation had significantly lower heart rates at 1 and 4 weeks after transplantation. They required atrial pacing for a longer time after transplantation compared with the remaining patients (7.3 +/- 1.4 vs 3.4 +/- 0.8 days, p less than 0.02). There was, however, no detectable effect of prior amiodarone therapy either on early allograft inotropic function or on clinical outcome. The mean time to hospital discharge was similar in the two groups. We believe that acceptance for heart transplantation should not be regarded as a contraindication to amiodarone therapy.
A proportion of patients with panic disorder (PD) display an increased sensitivity to the anxiogenic/panicogenic properties of caffeine. The aim of this study is to identify probable baseline differences between PD patients who panic and those who do not, after caffeine administration. In a randomized, double-blind, cross-over experiment performed in two occasions 3-7 days apart, 200 and 400 mg of caffeine, respectively, were administered in a coffee form to 23 patients with PD with or without Agoraphobia. Evaluations included the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, the DSM-IV 'panic attack' symptoms (visual analogue scale form), the Symptom Checklist-90-Revised (SCL-90-R), as well as breath-holding (BH) duration, heartbeat perception accuracy and heart rate. Only those patients who did not present a panic attack after both challenges ('no panic group', N=14, 66.7%), and those who presented a panic attack after at least one challenge ('panic group', n=7, 33.3%) were included in the analysis. The panickers, compared to the non-panickers, presented at baseline: significantly higher total score of the SCL-90-R; significantly higher scores on all the SCL-90-R clusters of symptoms, except that of 'paranoid ideation'; significantly lower BH duration. The present preliminary findings indicate that PD patients who panic after a 200 mg or a 400 mg caffeine challenge, compared to the PD patients who do not panic after both of these challenges, may present at baseline significantly higher non-specific general psychopathology--as reflected in the SCL-90-R--and significantly shorter BH duration.
