Retinoschisin is encoded by the gene responsible for X-linked retinoschisis (XLRS), an early onset macular degeneration that results in a splitting of the inner layers of the retina and severe loss in vision. Retinoschisin is predominantly expressed and secreted from photoreceptor cells as a homo-oligomer protein; it then associates with the surface of retinal cells and maintains the retina cellular architecture. Many missense mutations in the XLRS1 gene are known to cause intracellular retention of retinoschisin, indicating that the secretion process of the protein is a critical step for its normal function in the retina. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying retinoschisin's secretion remain to be fully elucidated. In this study, we investigated the role of the F-actin cytoskeleton in the secretion of retinoschisin by treating Weri-Rb1 cells, which are known to secrete retinoschisin, with cytochalasin D, jasplakinolide, Y-27632, and dibutyryl cGMP. Our results show that cytochalasin D and jasplakinolide inhibit retinoschisin secretion, whereas Y-27632 and dibutyryl cGMP enhance secretion causing F-actin alterations. We also demonstrate that high concentrations of taxol, which hyperpolymerizes microtubules, inhibit retinoschisin secretion. Our data suggest that retinoschisin secretion is regulated by the F-actin cytoskeleton, that cGMP or inhibition of ROCK alters F-actin structure enhancing the secretion, and that the microtubule cytoskeleton is also involved in this process.
Meningitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus is an unusual illness that is often associated with bacteremia, contiguous infection and/or a post-neurosurgical state. Until recently, most cases were caused by methicillin-susceptible strains, but there are a few reports of methicillinresistant S aureus strains causing meningitis. A new case of meningitis caused by methicillin-resistant S aureus in a neonatal intensive care nurse who did not have bacteremia or neurosurgery is reported. The patient made a full recovery after treatment with vancomycin and rifampin.
Tiotropium is widely used for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but it is not usually prescribed for patients with micturition disorder, such as benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), because of the potential to increase the risk of acute urinary retention through its anticholinergic effects. However, no data are available to prove a true causal relationship between tiotropium and lower urinary tract dysfunction (LUTD) using quantitative symptomatic scoring or objective parameters evaluated by uroflowmetry.
To clarify the effect of tiotropium on lower urinary tract functions in COPD patients with BPH.
This prospective pilot study comprised 25 male COPD patients with BPH as defined by the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), the quality of life (QOL) index, maximum flow rate (Q-max) in uroflowmetry, and prostate volume. Patients were given tiotropium once a day for 3 months. At baseline and after treatment, lower urinary tract functions were assessed symptomatically by the IPSS and the QOL index, and objectively by urinary parameters, including Q-max, average flow rate (Q-ave), postvoid residual urine volume (PVR), and bladder voiding efficiency (BVE).
Acute urinary retention was not observed in any patients. Subjectively, no significant difference was found in the IPSS or the QOL index between baseline and after tiotropium treatment. Additionally, tiotropium treatment did not change Q-max, Q-ave, time to Q-max, or overall flow time compared to baseline (Q-max (mL/s), 9.66+/-3.63, 9.11+/-3.68 and 10.51+/-3.88, P=0.15; Q-ave (mL/s), 4.20+/-1.76, 4.14+/-1.55, and 4.71+/-1.81, P=0.31; time to Q-max (s), 12.1+/-8.0, 16.2+/-11.4, and 13.0+/-11.3, P=0.10; flow time (s), 39.4+/-19.6, 40.4+/-20.1, and 38.3+/-19.1; baseline, 1 month after treatment and 3 months after treatment, respectively). No significant increase was found in PVR or BVE (PVR (mL), 57.9+/-51.2, 55.4+/-47.2 and 66.1+/-52.7, P=0.36; BVE (%), 75.8+/-18.4, 73.3+/-19.1 and 73.9+/-17.3, P=0.67; baseline, 1 month after treatment, and 3 months after treatment, respectively).
In our preliminary study, tiotropium did not adversely affect lower urinary tract functions in COPD patients with BPH, suggesting the possibility that tiotropium can be safely given to those patients. This warrants future studies in a larger series of COPD patients to validate our observations.
1-Bromopropane (1-BP) was introduced as an alternative to ozone-depleting solvents. However, it was found to exhibit neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and hepatotoxicity in rodents and neurotoxicity in human. However, the mechanisms underlying the toxicities of 1-BP remain elusive. The present study investigated the role of oxidative stress in 1-BP-induced hepatotoxicity using nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-null mice. Groups of 24 male Nrf2-null mice and 24 male wild-type (WT) C57BL/6J mice were each divided into three groups of eight and exposed to 1-BP at 0, 100, or 300 ppm for 8 h/day for 28 days by inhalation. Liver histopathology showed significantly larger area of necrosis in Nrf2-null mice relative to WT mice at the same exposure level. Nrf2-null mice also had greater malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, higher ratio of oxidized glutathione/reduced form of glutathione, and lower total glutathione content. The constitutive level and the increase in ratio per exposure level of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity were lower in the liver of Nrf2-null mice than WT mice. Exposure to 1-BP at 300 ppm increased the messenger RNA levels of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), glutamate-cysteine ligase modifier subunit (GcLm), glutamate-cysteine synthetase (GcLc), glutathione reductase, and NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) in WT mice but not in Nrf2-null mice except for GST Yc2. Nrf2-null mice were more susceptible to 1-BP-induced hepatotoxicity. That oxidative stress plays a role in 1-BP hepatotoxicity is deduced from the low expression levels and activities of antioxidant enzymes and high MDA levels in Nrf2-null mice.
High-dose folinic acid with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is a novel combination chemotherapy used in the treatment of metastatic gastrointestinal cancer. One of the mechanisms of action of 5-FU is its conversion into fluorodeoxyuridylate (FdUMP), which inhibits thymidilate synthetase (TS). The rate of inhibition of TS is augmented by increasing concentrations of folinic acid. On the other hand, it is well known that treatment of animals with high doses of folinic acid results in acute renal failure due to tubular obstruction. In order to find out whether there are similar findings in the clinical setting, we investigated 8 patients (pts.) with metastatic gastrointestinal cancer who were treated with this chemotherapy. We used the following parameters: 1. excretion of four urinary enzymes (LDH, LAP, GGT, NAG); 2. creatinine clearance on days 1 and 5. Therapy consisted of folinic acid 200 mg/m2 i.v. on days 1-5 and 5-fluorouracil 400 mg/m2 on days 1-5. Each treatment cycle was repeated on day 28. We found a constant decrease in the excretion of all 4 enzymes from normal to subnormal values which was statistically significant (p less than .05) during the two treatment cycles. Creatinine clearance decreased about 50% in three patients from normal initial values. In conclusion, during therapy with high-dose folinic acid and 5-fluorouracil we found signs of tubular damage which are similar to those found in folate nephropathy.
Nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a transcription factor that is known to regulate a variety of cytoprotective genes through the antioxidant response element (ARE). This endogenous response is one of the major pathways by which cells are protected from xenobiotic or innate oxidative insults. Furthermore, in neural systems, astrocyte-specific activation of Nrf2 is known to protect neurons. In previous work, our laboratory found that Nrf2 protects from intrastriatal injections of the mitochondrial complex II inhibitor malonate. Here, we extend these results to show that multiple methods of astrocyte-specific Nrf2 overexpression provide protection from neurotoxicity in vivo. GFAP-Nrf2 transgenic mice are significantly more resistant to malonate lesioning. This outcome is associated with an increased basal resistance, but more so, an enhanced Nrf2 response to lesioning that attenuated the ensuing neurotoxicity. Furthermore, striatal transplantation of neuroprogenitor cells overexpressing Nrf2 that differentiate into astrocytes after grafting also significantly reduced malonate toxicity. Overall, these data establish that enhanced astrocytic Nrf2 response and Nrf2 preconditioning are both sufficient to protect from acute lesions from mitochondrial complex II inhibition.
Immune related abnormalities have repeatedly been reported in autism spectrum disorders (ASD), including evidence of immune dysregulation and autoimmune phenomena. NK cells may play an important role in neurodevelopmental disorders such as ASD. Here we performed a gene expression screen and cellular functional analysis on peripheral blood obtained from 52 children with ASD and 27 typically developing control children enrolled in the case-control CHARGE study. RNA expression of NK cell receptors and effector molecules were significantly upregulated in ASD. Flow cytometric analysis of NK cells demonstrated increased production of perforin, granzyme B, and interferon gamma (IFNgamma) under resting conditions in children with ASD (p<0.01). Following NK cell stimulation in the presence of K562 target cells, the cytotoxicity of NK cells was significantly reduced in ASD compared with controls (p<0.02). Furthermore, under similar stimulation conditions the presence of perforin, granzyme B, and IFNgamma in NK cells from ASD children was significantly lower compared with controls (p<0.001). These findings suggest possible dysfunction of NK cells in children with ASD. Abnormalities in NK cells may represent a susceptibility factor in ASD and may predispose to the development of autoimmunity and/or adverse neuroimmune interactions during critical periods of development.
There is no established dosing schedule for once-daily aminoglycoside dosing regimens, and accepted guidelines for monitoring therapy are lacking. We derived a simplified schedule from the Hull and Sarubbi (J. H. Hull and F. A. Sarubbi, Ann. Intern. Med. 85:183-189, 1976) nomogram, for which efficacy and safety in a once-daily dosing regimen were previously demonstrated, and prospectively followed serum aminoglycoside levels in patients. The standard treatment was gentamicin or tobramycin at 4 mg/kg of body weight given intravenously once daily. When the renal function was decreased, the daily dose was reduced, as follows: for an estimated creatinine clearance of between 50 and 80 ml/min, the daily dose was 3.25 mg/kg, for an estimated creatinine clearance of between 30 and 50 ml/min, the daily dose was 2.5 mg/kg, and for an estimated creatinine clearance of below 30 ml/min, the daily dose was 2 mg/kg. A total of 221 patients were studied (184 received gentamicin and 37 received tobramycin). First trough levels above 2 mg/liter were recorded in 11% of the patients, and they all had a baseline creatinine clearance below 50 ml/min, or a substantial decrease in clearance between enrollment and the day that the trough level was obtained. A peak level below 6 mg/liter was recorded in 6% of the patients, and half of them received the lowest daily dose. Twenty-five of the 179 evaluable patients (14%; 95% confidence interval, 9 to 19%) fulfilled the criteria for nephrotoxicity. In a multiple regression analysis, the duration of treatment and the use of other nephrotoxic antibiotics or high-dose furosemide, but not trough levels, were significant risk factors. Since the meaning of low peak levels is unclear and since most studies with multiple daily regimens confirm the lack of an association between trough levels and toxicity, we believe that monitoring of serum drug levels can be restricted to monitoring of trough levels in patients with a creatinine clearance below 50 ml/min or with a deteriorating renal function.
Two neonates suffered from generalized seizures during the course of intravenous morphine sulfate for post-operative analgesia. They received morphine in doses of 32 micrograms/kg/hr and 40 micrograms/kg/hr larger than a group of 10 neonates who received 6-24 micrograms/kg/hr and had no seizures. Plasma concentrations of morphine in these neonates was excessive (60 and 90 mg/ml). Other known reasons for seizures were ruled out and the convulsions stopped a few hours after cessation of morphine and did not reoccur in the subsequent 8 months. It is suggested that post-operative intravenous morphine should not exceed 20 micrograms/kg/ml in neonates.
Twenty-nine patients with tardive dyskinesia (n = 20) or related syndromes [spontaneous dyskinesia (n = 3), levodopa-induced dyskinesia (n = 3), tardive dystonia (n = 3)] were treated with clonidine. Clinical effects of this drug were observed for up to 4 years. Seventy-five percent of patients showed at least moderate improvement, and in 50% of patients, full resolution occurred. In most cases, patients received concomitant medications, including neuroleptics and benzodiazepines. Two patients received clonidine alone, and dyskinesia was only minimally improved; however, when bromocriptine was added, prompt improvement occurred on this combined regimen. On the basis of these findings, we suggest that not only receptor supersensitivity of dopaminergic neurons but also involvement of noradrenergic neurons is important in the pathophysiology of tardive dyskinesia and related syndromes.
We conducted a systematic review of the effects of dexmedetomidine on cardiac outcomes following non-cardiac surgery. We included prospective, randomised peri-operative studies of dexmedetomidine that reported mortality, cardiac morbidity or adverse drug events. A PubMed Central and EMBASE search was conducted up to July 2007. The reference lists of identified papers were examined for further trials. Of 425 studies identified, 20 were included in the meta-analysis (840 patients). Dexmedetomidine was associated with a trend towards improved cardiac outcomes; all-cause mortality (OR 0.27, 95% CI 0.01-7.13, p = 0.44), non-fatal myocardial infarction (OR 0.26, 95% CI 0.04-1.60, p = 0.14), and myocardial ischaemia (OR 0.65, 95% CI 0.26-1.63, p = 0.36). Peri-operative hypotension (26%, OR 3.80, 95% CI 1.91-7.54, p = 0.0001) and bradycardia (17%, OR 5.45, 95% CI 2.98-9.95, p < 0.00001) were significantly increased. An anticholinergic did not reduce the incidence of bradycardia (p = 0.43). A randomised placebo-controlled trial of dexmedetomidine is warranted.
Male Wistar rats were trained with a food rewarded task and treated with single convulsive dose of picrotoxin. Behavioural test for response extinction by non-reinforcement procedure, which was considered as inhibitory learning, was performed 1, 2, 5, or 7 days after the treatment. The results obtained showed that 5 days after seizures, the animals persisted in performing the task, and extinction procedure was hampered. The resistance to response extinction is evidence of delayed influence on inhibitory processes caused by the single seizures. On the contrary, the response extinction was not deteriorated 1, 2 or 7 days after picrotoxin treatment. It is assumed that delayed disturbances of inhibitory learning could result from the deterioration of hippocampal functioning.
The cardiac effects of lithium and carbamazepine are considered rare, but both are known to induce sinus node dysfunction. The author presents the 9-year experience in a state mental hospital with lithium-induced sinus node dysfunction. Four of the five patients were also on carbamazepine. The clinical features of previously reported cases of lithium- and carbamazepine-associated sinus node dysfunction are reviewed. A role for carbamazepine in lithium-induced sinus node dysfunction is discussed.
More than 170 over-the-counter (OTC) preparations contain a sympathomimetic agent as the active ingredient. Nonprescription medicines are consumed commonly in our society. Phenylpropanolamine, an alpha-adrenergic agonist as well as a popular decongestant, is consumed at a massive volume of 5 billion doses annually. Over-the-counter sympathomimetics have been reported to cause hypertension and arrhythmias. Despite the ability to cause these potentially serious adverse effects and the high-volume consumption of these agents, the medical literature until recently has been scant in reporting adverse events. We report symptomatic ventricular arrhythmia and presyncope in a 36-year-old pregnant woman who consumed relatively high doses of two OTC cold remedies simultaneously. Increased physician awareness of the potential side effects associated with OTC sympathomimetics as well as improved level of patient education are needed. Finally, we support the calls for more prominent warning labels on some selected OTC preparations, including OTC sympathomimetics.
A case of hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis precipitated by high-dose intravenous ampicillin sodium is discussed. Cases of hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis attributable to ampicillin sodium have not been reported previously. There have been reports of this phenomenon associated with high doses of penicillin sodium and carbenicillin disodium. The possible mechanism of antibiotic-induced hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis is discussed. It is suggested that most cases of antibiotic-induced hypokalemia respond to oral or intravenous potassium chloride.
Despite the widespread use of over-the-counter (OTC) medications, their utilization is rarely ascertained at hospital admission. Presented here is an interesting case of acute renal failure and hemolytic anemia attributable to a commonly utilized OTC medication. The chronic use of phenazopyridine accounted for all of these findings. Upon discontinuation, everything normalized within one month. Although the differential diagnosis for renal failure and hemolytic anemia is extensive, scleral icterus, normal bilirubin, and orange-colored urine raised the suspicion of phenazopyridine use. This case report highlights overuse of common OTC medications, as well as a lack of knowledge of potential adverse reactions. With history-taking vigilance and patient education, adverse events from OTC medications can be minimized.
Vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1, TRPV1) is a cation-selective ion channel that is expressed on primary afferent neurons and is upregulated following inflammation and nerve damage. Blockers of this channel may have utility in the treatment of chronic nociceptive and neuropathic pain. Here, we describe the optimization from a high throughput screening hit, of a series of 6-aryl-7-isopropylquinazolinones that are TRPV1 antagonists in vitro. We also demonstrate that one compound is active in vivo against capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia and in models of neuropathic and nociceptive pain in the rat.
The purpose of this study was to observe the effects of methadone exposure in utero, with special reference to maternal and neonatal methadone concentrations and neonatal withdrawal. Two groups of mother-infant pairs were studied. In the first group, serum methadone concentrations were determined in infants at 1, 6 and 24 h after delivery. In the second group, blood was obtained at 24, 48, 72 and 96 h after birth. There was no correlation between neonatal serum levels and the intensity of withdrawal symptoms. There was no relationship between maternal methadone dose at delivery or maternal serum levels and neonatal methadone levels. The results of this study may be complicated by the prenatal exposure of the neonates to other drugs of abuse apart from methadone.
Activation of the vanilloid receptor subtype 1 (VR-1) results in release of proinflammatory peptides which initiate an inflammatory cascade known as neurogenic inflammation. We investigated its role in an acute model of surgically induced oesophagitis.
Oesophagitis was induced by pyloric ligation in wild-type and VR-1 deficient mice. A subset of animals were administered the VR-1 antagonist capsazepine, famotidine, or omeprazole one hour before surgery. Five hours after surgery, myeloperoxidase activity (MPO), histological damage scores, intragastric pH, and immunocytochemical analysis of substance P (SP) receptor endocytosis were determined.
Oesophagitis induced knockout mice exhibited significantly lower levels of MPO activity, histological damage scores, and SP receptor endocytosis than wild-type mice. Inflammatory parameters were significantly reduced by acid inhibition and capsazepine in wild-type mice.
We conclude that acute acid induced oesophagitis is reduced in animals lacking VR-1. This suggests that acid induced oesophagitis may act through VR-1 and that inhibition of the receptor may reduce inflammation.
Levofloxacin, the active L-isomer of ofloxacin, has demonstrated strong activity against Staphylococcus aureus both in vitro and in vivo. In a murine model of hematogenous pyelonephritis, the in vivo efficacies of levofloxacin and ciprofloxacin were evaluated against two methicillin-susceptible and two methicillin-resistant S. aureus strains. All four isolates had virtually identical susceptibilities to levofloxacin and ciprofloxacin. Pyelonephritis was induced in carrageenan-primed mice by an intravenous injection of 0.5 ml of 10(7) CFU of methicillin-susceptible S. aureus isolates per ml or 10(8) CFU of methicillin-resistant S. aureus isolates per ml. At 1 h postinfection, the mice were treated orally with levofloxacin or ciprofloxacin once a day or twice a day (total daily dose of 20 to 160 mg/kg of body weight) for 4 days. Mice were euthanized 24 h after the final treatment, and the kidneys were excised and weighed. The kidneys were prepared for histological examination or were homogenized to determine the numbers of CFU per gram of tissue quantitatively. The reduction in the mean log10 number of CFU per gram as a function of total daily dose was recorded. A dose-response analysis showed that levofloxacin was superior to ciprofloxacin for all four isolates at any dose or regimen tested, independent of the methicillin susceptibility of the isolates. By using an inverse prediction technique, the equivalent effective doses of levofloxacin (once a day) were less than those of ciprofloxacin (twice a day) by 5.2 and 3.2 times, respectively, for methicillin-susceptible S. aureus 9039 and 3087. For methicillin-resistant S. aureus 667 and 2878, the equivalent effective doses of levofloxacin (once a day) were less than those of ciprofloxacin (twice a day) by 4.1 and 6.4 times, respectively. In a separate study, histological examination of all infected, untreated mice showed moderate to marked hematogenous pyelonephritis. Levofloxacin-treated mice (40 mg/kg once a day) showed no evidence of pyelonephritis in the kidneys, whereas the kidneys of mice treated with the same dose of ciprofloxacin showed only a reduction in the severity of the lesions. Treatment with ciprofloxacin (80 mg/kg twice a day) demonstrated a histology comparable to that of treatment with levofloxacin (40 mg/kg once a day). Levofloxacin (40 mg/kg once a day) reduced the log10 numbers of CFU per gram by 5 log10; however, ciprofloxacin (80 mg/kg twice a day) reduced the numbers of CFU per gram by only 3 log10. In the present murine model of pyelonephritis, levofloxacin was superior to ciprofloxacin in preventing pyelonephritis and eradicating S. aureus.
Recent reports suggest that short-term pharmacological carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 (Cpt1) inhibition improves skeletal muscle glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. Although this appears promising for the treatment of diabetes, these Cpt1 inhibitors are not specific to skeletal muscle and target multiple Cpt1 isoforms. To assess the effects of inhibiting the Cpt1b isoform we generated mice with a heart- and skeletal muscle-specific deletion of the Cpt1b, Cpt1b(HM-/-). These mice seem to develop normally with similar bodyweights as control mice. However, premature mortality was observed by 15 weeks of age in the Cpt1b(HM-/-) mice. The hearts of Cpt1b(HM-/-) mice were four times the size of controls. Cpt1b(HM-/-) mice were also subject to stress-induced seizures that accompanied an increased risk for premature mortality. Our data suggests that prolonged Cpt1b inhibition poses severe cardiac risk and emphasizes that attempts to improve insulin sensitivity by targeting Cpt1 with current inhibitors is not viable.
In vitro, -polylysine (EPL) strongly inhibited the hydrolysis of trioleoylglycerol emulsified with phosphatidylcholine (PC) and taurocholate by either pancreatic lipase or carboxylester lipase. The EPL concentration required for 50% inhibition of pancreatic lipase, 0.12 microM, was eight times lower than the concentration of orlistat required for the same effect. The 50% inhibition concentration by EPL was affected by emulsifier species: it was increased approximately 150 times, 70 times, and 230 times on gum arabic, phosphatidylserine, and phosphatidic acid emulsion, respectively, compared with PC emulsion. The 50% inhibition concentration by orlistat was little changed by emulsifier species. Gel-filtration experiments suggested that EPL did not bind strongly to pancreatic lipase, whereas orlistat did. To test the effect of EPL on obesity, mice were fed a high-fat diet containing 0.1, 0.2, or 0.4% EPL. EPL prevented the high-fat diet-induced increase in body weight and weight of the liver and visceral adipose tissues (epididymal and retroperitoneal). EPL also decreased plasma triacylglycerol and plasma cholesterol concentrations and liver triacylglycerol content after they had been increased by the high-fat diet. The fecal weights of mice were increased by the high-fat diet containing EPL compared with the high-fat diet alone. Fecal lipid was also increased by the diet containing EPL. These data clearly show that EPL has an antiobesity function in mice fed a high-fat diet that acts by inhibiting intestinal absorption of dietary fat.
To elucidate the hemodynamic effects of prazosin, an antihypertensive agent, in congestive heart failure, we studied 10 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy and severe ventricular dysfunction. After an oral dose of 2 to 7 mg, heart rate was unchanged (P greater than 0.05). One hour after prazosin administration, mean arterial pressure declined from 95 to 78 mm Hg (P less than 0.001); left ventricular filling pressure declined from 30 to 18 mm Hg (P less than 0.001), cardiac index increased from 2.1 to 2.9 liters per minutes per square meter (P less than 0.001), and systemic vascular resistance fell from 2074 to 1156 dynes sec cm-5 (P less than 0.001). In both forearms vascular resistance and venous tone were reduced (86 to 48 mm Hg per ml per 100 g per minute, and 59 to 18 mm Hg per ml, respectively [P less than 0.001]). All responses persisted for a least six hours (P less than 0.01). Prazosin benefits severe congestive heart failure by inducing a sustained fall of both cardiac preload and impedance.
Methamphetamine, a derivative of amphetamine, has been well known to cause mental problems in humans; however, its physical effects are little known. Despite relevant information on the effect of methamphetamine abuse on bone quality being available, data regarding the frequency of osteoporosis in methamphetamine abusers are limited.
We selected 46 hospitalized male methamphetamine abusers and 188 reference male controls in whom any conditions affecting bone metabolism were ruled out. Bone mineral density (BMD) in the lumbar spine was measured by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). We compared the BMD between methamphetamine abusers and controls and evaluated the frequency of osteoporosis in both groups.
The mean BMD value was lower in methamphetamine abusers (mean+/-SD, 0.71+/-0.07 g/cm(2)) than in the controls (mean+/-SD, 0.98+/-0.14 g/cm(2)). The frequency of osteoporosis was 22% according to WHO diagnostic guidelines, and osteopenia at the lumbar spine was 76%. The correlation between the extent of methamphetamine abuse and BMD was very clear.
There was considerable loss of bone mineral in a high percentage of methamphetamine abusers. Our study is the first clinical study to determine the frequency of osteoporosis in male methamphetamine abusers.
Macrophages may play a role in fibrogenesis. The kinetics and distribution of different macrophage populations were investigated immunohistochemically in hepatic lesions following acute hepatocyte injury induced in F344 rats by a single injection of thioacetamide (TAA) (300 mg/kg body weight, intraperitoneally). Hepatocyte degeneration or necrosis induced by TAA occurred mainly in the perivenular areas of hepatic lobules as early as post-injection (PI) days 1 and 3; fibrotic lesion development began in the damaged areas on day 1, and peaked on day 5; thereafter (PI days 7 and 10), the fibrotic areas decreased and were replaced by regenerated hepatocytes on PI days 15 and 20, indicating a remodelling process. In this rat model, the number of macrophages reacting with ED1 antibody (specific for exudate macrophages), ED2 (recognizing cell membrane antigens of resident macrophages, including Kupffer cells) and OX6 (recognizing MHC class II antigens expressed in antigen-presenting macrophages and dendritic cells) began to increase on PI day 1, peaking on PI day 3. The numbers gradually decreased on PI days 5 and 7; however, the statistically significant increase was maintained in respect of ED1-positive cells up to PI day 20, whereas no significant increase in ED2- and OX6-positive cells remained from PI day 10 onwards. Interestingly, of the ED1-, ED2- and OX6-positive cells, the OX6-positive cells were the least numerous. ED1- and OX6-positive cells appeared exclusively in the injured perivenular areas, whereas ED2-positive cells were present mainly in the mid-zonal areas and in smaller numbers in the perivenular areas. These findings indicated differences in kinetics and distribution between macrophage populations appearing in hepatic fibrosis. In addition, RT-PCR revealed that mRNA expression of osteopontin, a factor for induction and maintenance of macrophages in inflammation, was markedly increased on PI days 5, 7 and 10, suggesting a role in the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis.
