 Anagrelide is a selective inhibitor of megakaryocytopoiesis used to treat thrombocytosis in patients with chronic myeloproliferative disorders. The effectiveness of anagrelide in lowering platelet counts is firmly established, but its primary mechanism of action remains elusive.
 Here, we have evaluated whether anagrelide interferes with the major signal transduction cascades stimulated by thrombopoietin in the hematopoietic cell line UT-7/mpl and in cultured CD34(+) -derived human hematopoietic cells. In addition, we have used quantitative mRNA expression analysis to assess whether the drug affects the levels of known transcription factors that control megakaryocytopoiesis.
 In UT-7/mpl cells, anagrelide (1μm) did not interfere with MPL-mediated signaling as monitored by its lack of effect on JAK2 phosphorylation. Similarly, the drug did not affect the phosphorylation of STAT3, ERK1/2 or AKT in either UT-7/mpl cells or primary hematopoietic cells. In contrast, during thrombopoietin-induced megakaryocytic differentiation of normal hematopoietic cultures, anagrelide (0.3μm) reduced the rise in the mRNA levels of the transcription factors GATA-1 and FOG-1 as well as those of the downstream genes encoding FLI-1, NF-E2, glycoprotein IIb and MPL. However, the drug showed no effect on GATA-2 or RUNX-1 mRNA expression. Furthermore, anagrelide did not diminish the rise in GATA-1 and FOG-1 expression during erythropoietin-stimulated erythroid differentiation. Cilostamide, an exclusive and equipotent phosphodiesterase III (PDEIII) inhibitor, did not alter the expression of these genes.
 Anagrelide suppresses megakaryocytopoiesis by reducing the expression levels of GATA-1 and FOG-1 via a PDEIII-independent mechanism that is differentiation context-specific and does not involve inhibition of MPL-mediated early signal transduction events.
An elderly institutionalized woman developed the ventricular arrhythmia torsade de pointes while receiving lithium and thioridazine, 800 mg daily. On hospital admission following a single syncopal episode the electrocardiogram showed sinus bradycardia with first degree AV block, markedly prolonged QT interval, and prominent U waves. Following discontinuation of thioridazine and lithium, episodes of recurrent torsade de pointes gradually subsided. Seven days later the electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm with PR interval of 0.20 seconds and minimal U waves, and the arrhythmia has not recurred.
To report a patient who developed the paradoxical effect of increasing electrical seizure activity and confusion with initiation of valproic acid therapy.
A 25-year-old African-American woman with a hypothalamic hamartoma had an electroencephalogram (EEG) that demonstrated frequent bursts of generalized spike and wave activity. The prevalence of spike and wave activity increased dramatically and the patient became increasingly somnolent as valproic acid was added to carbamazepine and phenobarbital therapy. Her EEG and mental status changes resolved when the valproic acid was discontinued. There was a strong positive correlation between the prevalence of spike and wave activity and the valproic acid concentration, but not between spike and wave activity and the concentrations of carbamazepine or phenobarbital.
Although this is a complex case, it is clear that the addition of valproic acid produced an increase in spike and wave activity. Possible mechanisms and pathophysiologic significance of this paradoxical effect are discussed in light of the differences between this epileptic syndrome and the primary generalized epilepsies.
This study analyzes the biochemical, serological, and virological efficacy and the safety of adefovir dipivoxil in patients with renal disturbances.
Twelve patients with lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) chronic infection were treated for a median time of 15 (3-19) months. The daily dosage was 10 mg initially and then adjusted according to renal function.
Median (range) ALT values remained stable: 55 (13-117) and 37 (17-266) UI/L. After the 12th month, the median decline in serum HBV DNA was from 8.76 (6.3-9.7) to 2.97 (1.15-5.65) log10 Eq/ml (median decline of -5.5 log10). No virologic breakthrough was observed. One of the six HBeAg-positive patients lost HBe Ag but without HBe seroconversion; none had HBs Ag loss. There were no significant clinical and biochemical adverse effects. In the 11 nonhemodialysed patients, the creatinine clearance significantly improved from 70 (30-100) to 88 (38-125) ml/mn (P=0.01) and the mean serum creatinine levels increased only slightly from 114 (91-839) to 130 (81-561) micromol/ml (NS). Serum phosphorus remained stable. The urinary level of protein decreased from 0.16 (0.08-8.63) to 0.12 (0.01-0.74) g/day (NS).
Adefovir dipivoxil is safe for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in patients with varying degrees of renal dysfunction and lamivudine-resistant HBV and results in biochemical and virological efficacy similar to that reported in the general population.
To document a case of severe, progressive myopathy, myalgias, arthralgias, and weakness possibly caused by amlodipine in a patient with benign essential hypertension.
A 52-year-old white woman with asthma and newly diagnosed hypertension was initiated on zafirlukast therapy for asthma and amlodipine therapy for hypertension. Two months later, the patient reported severe, generalized muscle and joint pain, muscle stiffness, and weakness. The zafirlukast was discontinued without resolution of symptoms. Laboratory tests revealed an elevated C-reactive protein. The amlodipine dosage was increased. Her symptoms persisted and further laboratory tests revealed a positive anti-nuclear antibody screen, and negative single- and double-stranded DNA antibody tests. After another amlodipine dosage increase, the patient experienced a sudden onset of left-sided facial numbness, facial weakness, and a severe headache.The patient was admitted to rule out a possible cerebrovascular event or a metabolic neurologic process. Magnetic resonance imaging showed no abnormalities. The patient discontinued the amlodipine and reported complete resolution of the neurologic symptoms after 4 days. One month later, zafirlukast was reinitiated without a return of symptoms.
Amlodipine was not initially suspected as a cause of these symptoms because these effects are not commonly associated with amlodipine therapy. However, due to the temporal relationship and progression of symptoms with increasing amlodipine dosage, drug-related causes were eventually explored. Review of the medical literature suggests myalgias and arthralgias may be adverse effects common to dihydropyridine calcium-channel antagonists.
Bromocriptine therapy may cause regression of prolactinomas and GH producing adenomas, but there is only few reports about the effect of bromocriptine against nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas and there is no reports about its histopathological changes. We report a nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma, which remarkably regressed during and following bromocriptine therapy. A 47-year-old man developed blurred vision on January 20, 1981. He was pointed out of bitemporal hemianopsia and of his left palor optic fundus. His endocrinological condition was panhypopituitarism and no hypersecreting hormones were found. Cranial computerized axial tomography showed huge dumbbell shaped high density mass extending from the enlarged intrasellar area to the floor of the third ventricle. On treatment with bromocriptine, 5 mg daily for 3 days, his visual acuity and field was remarkably improved. Treatment was continued with gradually increased doses of bromocriptine to 15 mg and so, remarkable shrinkage of tumor size about 50% was seen by computerized axial tomography by a month. In addition, by eight months, the tumor reduced to 22%. Transsphenoidal surgery revealed centrally necrotic tumor mass surrounded by peripheral fibrous one. Because of fibrous and hemorrhagic tumour, we could not remove it totally. The pathological specimen was examined by light and transmission electron microscopy. The tumor was diffuse-type chromophobe adenoma partially intersected by hypertrophied fibrous interstitial materials. Some tumor cells were stained faintly eosinophilic. The cytoplasms were shrunken and the tumor cells were clumped. The immunostaining of tumor was negative to all anterior pituitary hormones. The intracytoplasmic organellae, for example, rough endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, were scanty but prominant deformed mitochondria and small secretary granules (the size of about 90-150 nm) were found by transmission electron microscope. We think that the tumor cells had various responsiveness to this drug and the one extreme was destruction of the nucleus, the irreversible change, and the other extreme was some cytoplasmic reduction, the reversible change. The histopathological changes were almost the same as those of prolactinomas treated with bromocriptine. In conclusion, the mechanism of shrinkage of nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas treated with bromocriptine is unclear but it is worth while treating inoperable or recurrent large nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas with bromocriptine.
Two major systems exist for folate cell entry: the reduced folate carrier (RFC) and the folate receptor (FR). Although defective RFC-mediated transport was frequently identified as a mechanism of methotrexate (MTX) resistance in osteosarcoma, the status of FR and its role in this disease are unknown.
mRNA for FR alpha was measured in 107 osteosarcoma specimens using quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and was related to RFC expression. The effect of FR alpha overexpression on MTX resistance and natural folate uptake was studied using FR alpha non-expressing osteosarcoma 143B cells transfected with FR alpha cDNA in comparison with those transfected with sense or antisense RFC in the same genetic background.
Eighty-four samples (78.5%) had detectable FR alpha mRNA, and 29.9% had higher levels than the ovarian cancer cell line SKOV-3. No correlation was found between mRNA levels of FR alpha and RFC (r(2)=0.002). FR alpha overexpression had minor effects on the transport of MTX and sensitivity to this drug. Among the transfected 143B sublines, only the 143B-FR alpha was able to uptake 5-methyltetrahydrofolate when the extracellular concentration was reduced to 2 nmol/L, which conferred a growth advantage in physiologic folate concentrations compared with vector-only-transfected cells. Importantly, this was not similarly achieved by RFC overexpression.
This study suggests that FR alpha plays a role in the uptake of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate when the concentration gradient is insufficient for RFC-mediated transport. FR alpha overexpression is unlikely secondary to the decreased RFC expression in osteosarcoma.
Acetaminophen (APAP), a major cause of acute liver injury in the Western world, is mediated by metabolism and oxidative stress. Recent studies have suggested a role for iron in potentiating APAP-induced liver injury although its regulatory mechanism is not completely understood. The current study was designed to unravel the iron-regulating pathways in mice after APAP-induced hepatotoxicity. Mice with severe injury showed a significant increase in liver iron concentration and oxidative stress. Concurrently, the plasma concentration of hepcidin, the key regulator in iron metabolism, and hepatic hepcidin antimicrobial peptide (Hamp) mRNA expression levels were significantly reduced. We showed that hepcidin transcription was inhibited via several hepcidin-regulating factors, including the bone morphogenetic protein/small mother against decapentaplegic (BMP/SMAD) pathway, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α (C/EBPα), and possibly also via erythropoietin (EPO). Downregulation of the BMP/SMAD signaling pathway was most likely caused by hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α), which was increased in mice with severe APAP-induced liver injury. HIF-1α stimulates cleaving of hemojuvelin, the cofactor of the BMP receptor, thereby blocking BMP-induced signaling. In addition, gene expression levels of C/ebpα were significantly reduced, and Epo mRNA expression levels were significantly increased after APAP intoxication. These factors are regulated through HIF-1α during oxidative stress and suggest that HIF-1α is a key modulator in reduced hepcidin transcription after APAP-induced hepatotoxicity. In conclusion, acute APAP-induced liver injury leads to activation of HIF-1α, which results in a downregulation in hepcidin expression through a BMP/SMAD signaling pathway and through C/EBPα inhibition. Eventually, this leads to hepatic iron loading associated with APAP cytotoxicity.
The aim of this paper is to describe the auditory profile of subjects who were given streptomycin treatment for tuberculosis in the years 2000 and 2001, in Recife, Northeast Brazil. The Injury Notification Database at the Municipal Department of Health was consulted and 78 individuals who had been on streptomycin during the period under study were selected. Forty-two individuals were excluded, of whom five were over 59 years of age and two were under 18 years. Nineteen turned out to be deceased, 13 could not be found, two were serving prison terms and one refused to participate. As a result, only 36 subjects participated in the study. These 36 individuals were interviewed and underwent meatoscopy and audiometry. The mean age of the group under study was 38.8 years old and males predominated (79.4%). Twenty-seven patients (75%) showed hearing impairment, the bilateral sensorineural type (63.9%) being the most frequent, mainly affecting the high frequencies over 4000 Hz. In the light of findings showing a high percentage of hearing impairment complaints among users of streptomycin, this issue seems to warrant an in-depth investigation, as does the implementation of an auditory follow-up routine for patients undergoing such chemotherapy for tuberculosis.
Thrombolytic drugs have been used in recent years as an effective therapeutic option in ischemic stroke. There are several experiences with the administration of thrombolytic therapy in basic and rural hospitals. We are describing our experience with four cases in which this treatment was used in our basic hospital during the last three years. We used a strict protocol described in the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA stroke study. No intracranial hemorrhage or protocol violations were detected. We conclude that this protocol has allowed us to offer safe treatment to our ischemic stroke patients.
The efficacy of MCI-154, a new pyridazinone cardiotonic agent, in improving heart failure was assessed in dog heart-lung preparations in which cardiac function had been severely depressed by pentobarbital. MCI-154 in doses of 10-100 micrograms improved the cardiac function curve and restored it to the control level at 100 micrograms. At this dose, MCI-154 neither produced an increase in heart rate beyond the control value nor induced arrhythmias. The effects of MCI-154 were not affected by atenolol, a cardioselective beta 1-blocker. These results indicate that MCI-154 would be of potential use in the treatment of heart failure.
Sodium arsenite-exposed hepatocytes of rat showed higher production of nitric oxide (NO) and increased lipid peroxidation (LPO) level vis-a-vis activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) were significantly lowered. Subsequently, the cell proliferation index (CPI) and cell viability were also reduced. Treatment with L-ascorbate was found effective in normalizing the arsenic-induced alteration of SOD and CAT activity and LPO level in rat hepatocytes. These observations indicated that L-ascorbate also has potent cytoprotective role as it could reduce the NO production and normalize the cell proliferation and viability of hepatocytes. Therefore, the in vitro study suggested that ascorbic acid is helpful to ameliorate the arsenic-induced cytotoxicity and oxidative stress of rat hepatocytes.
The accumulation of the lipofuscin fluorophores in retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells leads to the blinding degeneration characteristic of Stargardt disease and related forms of macular degeneration. RPE lipofuscin, including the fluorophore A2E, forms in large part as a byproduct of the visual cycle. Inhibiting visual cycle function with small molecules is required to prevent the formation of the retinotoxic lipofuscins. This in turn requires identification of rate-limiting steps in the operation of the visual cycle. Specific, non-retinoid isoprenoid compounds are described here, and shown through in both in vitro and in vivo experiments, to serve as antagonists of RPE65, a protein that is essential for the operation of the visual cycle. These RPE65 antagonists block regeneration of 11-cis-retinal, the chromophore of rhodopsin, thereby demonstrating that RPE65 is at least partly rate-limiting in the visual cycle. Furthermore, chronic treatment of a mouse model of Stargardt disease with the RPE65 antagonists abolishes the formation of A2E. Thus, RPE65 is also on the rate-limiting pathway to A2E formation. These nontoxic isoprenoid RPE65 antagonists are candidates for the treatment of forms of macular degeneration wherein lipofuscin accumulation is an important risk factor. These antagonists will also be used to probe the molecular function of RPE65 in vision.
To report a case of acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) related to administration of vancomycin for the treatment of Staphylococcus aureus sternal wound infection, osteomyelitis, and infective endocarditis.
Reports in the literature regarding vancomycin-induced AIN are scarce. We describe the fifth known case of AIN, in a 64-year-old white man who developed fever, maculopapular rash, acute renal failure, eosinophilia, and eosinophiluria after approximately 1 month of vancomycin treatment. The results of the renal biopsy were consistent with an allergic drug reaction. Four months after his initial episode of AIN, the patient was rechallenged with vancomycin for the treatment of S. aureus septic arthritis. One day after initiation of vancomycin, serum eosinophils started to rise, his urine tested positive for eosinophils, but his serum creatinine remained stable.
Our case report and others from the literature suggest vancomycin causes allergic AIN. Clinicians should be aware of this adverse effect in an era of increasing use of vancomycin for treatment of resistant gram-positive organisms.
Itraconazole is a widely prescribed triazole antifungal drug, often given for long periods. The authors report five cases of tremor related to itraconazole therapy, which occurred within 1-12 months of initiating treatment and resolved gradually following itraconazole withdrawal.
Human papillomavirus (HPV)-16 oncoproteins, E6 and E7, are associated with enhanced tumor angiogenesis in human cervical cancers. The purpose of this study was (a) to investigate whether expression of HPV-16 E6 and E7 oncoproteins induces hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF-1 alpha) and vascular endothelial growth factor expression in cervical cancer cells; and (b) to assess the effect of resveratrol on 16 E6- and E7-induced HIF-1 alpha and VEGF gene expression.
Human cervical cancer cell lines C-33A and HeLa were transiently cotransfected with pSG5-HPV-16 E6 or 16 E7 constructs along with HIF-1 alpha small interfering RNA (siRNA) or nonspecific siRNA. The expression of HIF-1 alpha/VEGF was measured using real-time PCR, Western blot analysis, or ELISA. The in vitro angiogenic activity induced by 16 E6- and E7-transfected cells was examined. The effect of resveratrol on oncoprotein-induced HIF-1 alpha/VEGF expression and in vitro angiogenesis was investigated.
HPV-16 E6- and E7-transfected cervical cancer cells express increased HIF-1 alpha protein and VEGF expression. These stimulatory effects were abrogated by cotransfection with either HIF-1 alpha siRNA or treatment with resveratrol. Blocking extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK 1/2) and phosphoinositide-3-kinase by PD98059 and LY294002, respectively, abolished 16 E6- and E7-induced HIF-1 alpha and VEGF expression. Functionally, we showed that HPV-16 E6- and E7-transfected cervical cancer cells stimulated in vitro capillary or tubule formation, and these angiogenic effects could be abolished either by cotransfection with HIF-1 alpha siRNA or by treatment with resveratrol.
HPV-16 oncoproteins contribute to enhanced angiogenesis in cervical cancer cells via HIF-1 alpha-dependent VEGF expression. Resveratrol suppresses 16 E6- and E7-induced HIF-1 alpha-mediated angiogenic activity and, thus, is a promising chemotherapeutic agent for human cervical cancer.
Nicotine levels in blood and whole brain were measured as a function of sex and age in C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice and compared to the behavioral responses following an intraperitoneal injection of nicotine. The results indicate that blood levels of nicotine alone do not accurately predict either brain levels of nicotine or the behavioral responses to a single injection of nicotine. In general, brain levels of nicotine proved to be a fairly accurate predictor of the behavioral responses to nicotine. The data indicate that the sexes differ in their sensitivity to nicotine. Forty-two-day-old male mice of both strains given comparable doses of nicotine were found to concentrate the drug in the brain more than females. However, there was no corresponding increase in sensitivity to this increased brain concentration as measured by LD50, ED50, latency to tremor or latency to death.
The effects of cholesterol on 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB)-induced rat prostate carcinogenesis were investigated in male F344 rats. Animals were given 10 subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of 50 mg/kg body weight of DMAB at 2-week intervals, each time 2 days after transfer from 1 week on 0.75 ppm of an ethinyl estradiol (EE)-supplemented diet to a basal diet. From week 20, the animals received treatment with cholesterol (2 or 1%, in the diet), saponin (1 or 0.2 mg/rat/week, s.c.), or clofibrate (0.3%, in the diet) for 40 weeks. Although serum cholesterol levels were significantly increased by administration of cholesterol itself, and were decreased by clofibrate, the incidences of atypical hyperplasias and carcinomas of the ventral prostate were very similar with all treatments. Thus, under the present conditions, high or low cholesteremia did not affect rat prostate lesion development.
In the present study it was investigated whether hypertension induced by dopamine or hypotension induced by clonidine could influence the relative blood distribution in a s.c. transplanted prostatic adenocarcinoma in relation to blood flow in normal tissues in rats. The blood flow was measured by using a radioactive microspheres technique. A bolus injection of 5 micrograms clonidine caused a decrease in the systemic blood pressure with 15-45 mm Hg, and blood flow to the central parts of the tumor, decreased with more than 50%. In the prostate, testes and ileo-psoas muscle a similar reaction was seen. During an infusion of 95-120 micrograms/kg/min dopamine, the blood pressure increased with 15-30 mm Hg, but the blood flow to the tumor was unchanged. However, in the testes and kidneys a decreased blood flow was observed. Moreover, mean blood flow to the central parts of the tumor decreased with increase in tumor size. The results further indicated that hyper- or hypotension or concomitantly given vasoactive drugs with the specific cancer treatment can have unwarranted effects on the distribution of cytotoxic drugs and oxygenation of the tumor.
Adducted thumb-clubfoot syndrome is an autosomal-recessive disorder characterized by typical facial appearance, wasted build, thin and translucent skin, congenital contractures of thumbs and feet, joint instability, facial clefting, and coagulopathy, as well as heart, kidney, or intestinal defects. We elucidated the molecular basis of the disease by using a SNP array-based genome-wide linkage approach that identified distinct homozygous nonsense and missense mutations in CHST14 in each of four consanguineous families with this disease. The CHST14 gene encodes N-acetylgalactosamine 4-O-sulfotransferase 1 (D4ST1), which catalyzes 4-O sulfation of N-acetylgalactosamine in the repeating iduronic acid-alpha1,3-N-acetylgalactosamine disaccharide sequence to form dermatan sulfate. Mass spectrometry of glycosaminoglycans from a patient's fibroblasts revealed absence of dermatan sulfate and excess of chondroitin sulfate, showing that 4-O sulfation by CHST14 is essential for dermatan sulfate formation in vivo. Our results indicate that adducted thumb-clubfoot syndrome is a disorder resulting from a defect specific to dermatan sulfate biosynthesis and emphasize roles for dermatan sulfate in human development and extracellular-matrix maintenance.
Cytokines, such as interleukin-1 (IL-1), may play a key role in the pathogenesis of IgA nephropathy (IgAN). This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) in the treatment of a spontaneously occurring experimental IgAN in established phase. ddY mice (12/group) were injected twice daily with 3 mg/kg of IL-1ra, intraperitoneally, for 8 consecutive weeks. The placebo mice were injected with saline only. As normal controls, ddY mice, which were not treated with IL-1ra or saline, were killed at 6 weeks of age. Results showed a significant reduction of proteinuria in the IL-1ra-treated mice, compared with saline-treated mice (urinary albumin/creatinine, 0.24 +/- 0.04 v 0.39 +/- 0.03, P < 0.001). A significant improvement of renal 51Cr-EDTA (ethylenediaminetetra-acetic acid) clearance was observed in the IL-1ra-treated mice (t1/2, 12 +/- 2.7 minutes, compared with saline-treated mice 25 +/- 2.0 minutes, P < 0.001). Similarly, serum levels of creatinine (1.0 +/- 0.4 v 2.4 +/- 0.3 mg/dL, P < 0.001) and urea nitrogen (46 +/- 6 v 58 +/- 2 mg/dL, P < 0.01) were significantly lower in IL-1ra-treated mice than in saline-treated mice. In renal tissue studies, the IL-1ra-treated mice exhibited significantly decreased mesangial cell proliferation, compared with saline-treated mice (P < 0.001), as shown by light and electron microscopy. In addition, the IL-1ra-treated mice showed significantly lower glomerular expression of collagen type IV, fibronectin, laminin, and IL-6 (P < 0.001) than saline-treated mice, although they still showed higher glomerular expression of collagen type IV (P < 0.01), fibronectin (P < 0.01), laminin (P < 0.001), IL-1 (P < 0.001), and IL-6 (P < 0.01) than did normal control mice. Meanwhile, glomerular C3 deposition was significantly lower in IL-1ra-treated mice than in saline-treated mice (P < 0.001). These findings indicate that IL-1ra partially prevented the progression of spontaneously occurring IgAN in this experimental model. Data from these experiments also confirm the pathogenic effects of IL-1 in the established phase of IgAN in ddY mice.
Dietary fat intake may modify Parkinson's disease (PD) risk directly or by altering the response to environmental neurotoxicants including pesticides.
We conducted a case-control study of PD nested in the Agricultural Health Study (AHS), a cohort of pesticide applicators and spouses. We evaluated diet and pesticide use before diagnosis in 89 PD cases, confirmed by movement disorder specialists, or a corresponding date in 336 frequency-matched controls. Associations were evaluated using multivariate logistic regression to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
In the AHS, PD was inversely associated with N-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) (OR 0.4, 95% CI 0.2-0.8 for highest vs. lowest tertile) and the N-3 precursor α-linolenic acid (0.4, 0.2-0.8). In a meta-analysis of nine studies, including the present one, PD was inversely associated with α-linolenic acid (0.81, 0.68-0.96). In the AHS, associations of PD with the pesticides paraquat and rotenone were modified by fat intake. The OR for paraquat was 4.2 (1.5-12) in individuals with PUFA intake below the median but 1.2 (0.4-3.4) in those with higher intake (p-interaction = 0.10). The OR for rotenone was 5.8 (2.3-15) in those with saturated fat intake above the median but 1.5 (0.5-4.2) in those with lower intake (p-interaction = 0.02).
PUFA intake was consistently associated with lower PD risk, and dietary fats modified the association of PD risk with pesticide exposure. If confirmed, these findings suggest that a diet high in PUFAs and low in saturated fats might reduce risk of PD.
A case of unilateral upper limb ischaemia from ergot overdosage is presented. An unusual feature was a median nerve neuropathy suggestive of carpal tunnel syndrome. The arteriographic appearances are demonstrated and management discussed.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and liver cirrhosis (LC) are not well-established vinyl chloride monomer (VCM)-induced diseases. Our aim was to appraise the role of VCM, alcohol intake, and viral hepatitis infection, and their interactions, in the etiology of HCC and LC. Thirteen cases of HCC and 40 cases of LC were separately compared with 139 referents without chronic liver diseases or cancer in a case-referent study nested in a cohort of 1,658 VCM workers. The odds ratios (ORs) and the 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated by common methods and by fitting models of logistic regression. We used Rothman's synergy index (S) to evaluate interactions. By holding the confounding factors constant at logistic regression analysis, each extra increase of 1,000 ppm times years of VCM cumulative exposure was found to increase the risk of HCC by 71% (OR = 1.71; 95% CI, 1.28-2.44) and the risk of LC by 37% (OR = 1.37; 95% CI, 1.13-1.69). The joint effect of VCM exposure above 2,500 ppm times years and alcohol intake above 60 g/day resulted in ORs of 409 (95% CI, 19.6-8,553) for HCC and 752 (95% CI, 55.3-10,248) for LC; both S indexes suggested a synergistic effect. The joint effect of VCM exposure above 2,500 ppm times years and viral hepatitis infection was 210 (95% CI, 7.13-6,203) for HCC and 80.5 (95% CI, 3.67-1,763) for LC; both S indexes suggested an additive effect. In conclusion, according to our findings, VCM exposure appears to be an independent risk factor for HCC and LC interacting synergistically with alcohol consumption and additively with viral hepatitis infection.
We report the occurrence of delayed postoperative coma in five of nine consecutive children following surgery for insertion of baclofen infusion pumps. We suspect that improper technique resulted in an inadvertent administration of an intrathecal baclofen bolus. We suggest ways to minimize this risk.
The effects of ethanol exposure on extracellular adenosine sources in zebrafish were evaluated. In the acute treatment, the embryos were exposed to 2% ethanol on day 1 post-fertilization (dpf). In the chronic treatment, the exposure was continued for 2h/day up to 6dpf. Ecto-5'-nucleotidase activity was assessed by colorimetric method and gene expression determined by RT-qPCR in 7dpf zebrafish. Body length, ocular distance and surface area of the eyes were registered in animals acutely exposed to ethanol and pretreated with AOPCP (5-500nM), an ecto-5'-nucleotidase inhibitor, or dipyridamole (10-100μM), a blocker of nucleoside transport. Both ethanol exposures promoted increased ecto-5'-nucleotidase activity, impaired locomotion and morphology. Ecto-5'-nucleotidase expression was not affected. AOPCP promoted mild prevention of morphological defects caused by acute treatment, while dipyridamole worsened these defects. Early ethanol exposure altered adenosinergic tonus, especially through nucleoside transporters, contributing to morphological defects produced by ethanol in zebrafish.
The incidence and severity of prechemotherapy anemia and chemotherapy-induced anemia experienced by women treated with adjuvant doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC) therapy for stage II and III breast cancer are described.
Medical charts of 310 breast cancer patients who received chemotherapy at eight oncology practices during 1997 through 2001 were reviewed in this historical case series study. Prechemotherapy anemia was defined as a baseline hemoglobin value <12 g/dl. An anemic event during chemotherapy (used to define chemotherapy-induced anemia) was defined as either a drop in hemoglobin level below the threshold (< or = 10 g/dl), the receipt of a blood transfusion(s), or treatment with epoetin alfa.
Overall, 40.0% of patients experienced moderate to severe anemia (i.e., their hemoglobin levels dropped to <10 g/dl) and 31.3% (97/310) were anemic prechemotherapy. Of the patients with mild anemia prechemotherapy, 61.9% developed moderate to severe anemia during chemotherapy. Only 47.4% (46/97) of those patients received epoetin alfa therapy during chemotherapy. Of the patients with normal prechemotherapy hemoglobin levels (> or = 12 g/dl), 88.3% developed some degree of anemia (<12 g/dl) during chemotherapy and 27.7% (59/213) developed moderate to severe anemia (<10 g/dl). Anemic events were experienced by 41.8% (89/213) of the patients with normal prechemotherapy hemoglobin levels.
We conclude that a significant proportion (31.3%) of stage II and III breast cancer patients are anemic prechemotherapy and that the incidence of anemia increases substantially from prechemotherapy through the postchemotherapy period. This evidence appears to warrant earlier evaluation of anemia and an intervention in the prechemotherapy stage.
Accumulating evidence indicates that dopamine (DA) D(3) receptor antagonists appear highly promising in attenuating cocaine reward and relapse in preclinical models of addiction. In the present study, we investigated the effects of the novel D(3)-selective antagonist NGB 2904 (N-(4-[4-{2,3-dichlorophenyl}-1-piperazinyl]butyl)-3-fluorenylcarboxamide) on cocaine self-administration, cocaine-enhanced brain stimulation reward (BSR), and cocaine-triggered reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior in male Long-Evans rats. We found that: (1) acute intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of NGB 2904 (0.1-10 mg/kg) failed to alter cocaine self-administration (0.5 mg/kg/infusion) under fixed-ratio 2 (FR2) reinforcement, but 1 or 5 mg/kg NGB 2904 significantly lowered the break-point for cocaine self-administration under progressive-ratio (PR) reinforcement; (2) cocaine (1, 2, and 10 mg/kg) significantly enhanced electrical BSR (decreased brain reward thresholds), while NGB 2904 significantly inhibited the enhancement of BSR elicited by 2 mg/kg, but not 10 mg/kg of cocaine; (3) NGB 2904 alone neither maintained self-administration behavior nor altered brain reward thresholds; and (4) NGB 2904 significantly inhibited cocaine-triggered reinstatement of extinguished drug-seeking behavior, but not sucrose-plus-sucrose-cue-triggered reinstatement of sucrose-seeking behavior. Overall, these data show that the novel D(3)-selective antagonist NGB 2904 attenuates cocaine's rewarding effects as assessed by PR self-administration, BSR, and cocaine-triggered reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. Owing to these properties and to its lack of rewarding effects (as assessed by BSR and by substitution during drug self-administration), NGB 2904 merits further investigation as a potential agent for treatment of cocaine addiction.
Significant levels of IgG3 and IgG4 and high levels of IgG1 leishmania-specific antibody differentiated the immune states in 10 patients with visceral leishmaniasis from those of virtually all 20 drug-cured and 18 subclinically infected subjects, whereas the level of IgG2 antibody was nondiscriminating. The most extreme "subclinically infected" outlier subsequently developed disease. Overall, the immune states in subclinically infected and drug-cured persons were mutually indistinguishable but were readily distinguished from those of patients. These findings may have implications for the immunologic mechanism underlying drug cure in visceral leishmaniasis.
Initial cardiac failure in anaphylactoid shock is rare, classically related to cardiac anaphylaxis occurring in a highly sensitized patient. However, this anaphylaxis is not always found; the case described here of a histamine shock with ventricular fibrillation after the injection of thiopentone is a good example of this. The severity of the shock may be explained by the presence of a prolapse of the small flap of the mitral valve.
