Clomipramine (25 mg) taken as needed increases ejaculatory latency in men with rapid ejaculation (RE), although only about half the men treated respond to this regimen. It would therefore be clinically advantageous to know the patient's potential responsiveness to an 'as needed' regimen prior to treatment. The present study attempted to identify a priori factors that might enable prediction of patients' response or nonresponse to 'as needed' clomipramine. Variables relevant to rapid ejaculation were examined in 23 men with RE, 12 of whom had responded to clomipramine. Logistic regression indicated that three factors assessed prior to treatment--initial ejaculation latency, overall sexual satisfaction, and ejaculation frequency each week--significantly improved the prediction of responsiveness to this treatment regimen. Specifically, RE men with initial ejaculatory latencies over 60 s, self-reported sexual satisfaction of 5 or higher (on a seven-point scale), and ejaculation frequency of twice or more weekly were more likely to benefit from 25 mg 'as needed' clomipramine. As such, men meeting these criteria might be considered for this treatment regimen. Those not matching these characteristics might better be considered for 20 or 30 mg clomipramine given on a daily basis.
Most studies about functions of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) in the pathogenesis of asthma have been carried out with non-physiological industrial by-products such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin and benzo(a)pyrene. In the present study, effects of 6-formylindolo[3,2-b]carbazole (FICZ), a tryptophan photoproduct postulated as a candidate physiological ligand of AhR, on the pathogenesis of asthma were examined and then underlying mechanisms of its immumodulatory effects were investigated. FICZ significantly reduced pulmonary eosinophilia and Th2 cytokine expression in the lungs. Flow cytometric analysis of mediastinal lymph nodes showed that IL-4 producing cells decreased in FICZ-treated mice compared with PBS control. Next, effects of FICZ on in vitro Th2 differentiation and expression of the Th2 transcription factor GATA-3 were examined. CD4+ T cells were isolated from the spleen and incubated under the Th2 differentiation conditions. FICZ inhibited both Th2 differentiation and the expression of GATA-3. Finally, activation of STAT6, which is necessary for Th2 differentiation, was inhibited by FICZ.
The present study aims to evaluate the preventive effects of vanillic acid on altered ion pumps, ions and Fas-receptor and caspase mediated apoptosis-signaling pathway and cardiomyocyte death in isoproterenol induced myocardial infarcted rats. Male albino Wistar rats were pretreated with vanillic acid (5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg body weight) daily for 10 days. After the pretreatment, isoproterenol (100 mg/kg body weight) was injected into rats at an interval of 24h for 2 days to induce myocardial infarction. Isoproterenol induced rats significantly increased activities/levels of serum cardiac markers, plasma lipid peroxidation products, serum uric acid and significantly decreased plasma non-enzymatic antioxidants. Furthermore, isoproterenol significantly altered the activities/levels of ion pumps and ions in the heart. The myocardial expressions of apoptotic genes such as Fas-receptor, caspases-8, -9, and -3 were increased in isoproterenol induced rats. There was a significant increase in cardiomyocyte apoptosis observed in isoproterenol induced rats. Pretreatment with vanillic acid (5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg body weight) to isoproterenol induced rats showed significant effects on all the biochemical and molecular parameters evaluated. Isolated cardiomyocyte viability by trypan blue exclusion staining also correlated with these biochemical findings. Thus, vanillic acid prevented altered ion pumps, ions and inhibited Fas-receptor and caspase mediated apoptosis-signaling pathway and cardiomyocyte death in isoproterenol induced myocardial infarcted rats. Our study also revealed that pretreatment with vanillic acid at the dose of 10 mg/kg body weight was more effective than 5 mg/kg body weight. The cardioprotective effects of vanillic acid are associated with its antioxidant mechanisms.
To illuminate the natural history of prolonged nephrogenic diabetes insipidus after discontinuation of lithium carbonate treatment and to assess the response to therapy with desmopressin acetate and triamterene-hydrochlorothiazide.
We analyzed sequential determinations of serum and urine osmolality, plasma arginine vasopressin, serum sodium, blood urea nitrogen, calcium, ionized calcium, parathyroid hormone, and 24-hour urine volume during a period of 57 months in a 67-year-old woman.
Our patient experienced persistent polyuria in conjunction with having repeated serum osmolalities between 300 and 323 mOsm/kg and urine osmolalities between 130 and 208 mOsm/kg. Concomitant plasma arginine vasopressin levels were as high as 12.0 pg/mL, consistent with the diagnosis of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Administration of triamterene-hydrochlorothiazide reduced 24-hour urine volume and serum osmolality while increasing urine osmolality. Desmopressin acetate exhibited no effect.
In this report, we describe the eighth documented case of persistent nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, lasting 57 months after cessation of lithium therapy, and demonstrate a palliative effect of triamterene-hydrochlorothiazide.
The aim of this study was to investigate, through the single-cell gel (comet) assay, whether vitamin C is able to protect against renovascular hypertension-induced genotoxicity in multiple organs. A total of 32 male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: negative control (n = 6); animals treated with vitamin C (n = 6); hypertensive rats (n = 10) and hypertensive rats and treated with vitamin C (n = 10). Hypertension was induced as a result of partial obstruction of the left renal artery by means of a silver clip during 6 weeks. Vitamin C was administered at 150 mg/kg during 7 consecutive days before the end of the experimental period. The results showed that vitamin C was able to protect blood cells against hypertension-induced genotoxicity. Brain, liver and heart cells were also protected by vitamin C following hypertension-induced genotoxic damage. Regarding blood pressure, vitamin C reduced the hypertensive state. In conclusion, our results suggest that vitamin C can prevent hypertension-induced DNA damage in blood, liver, brain and heart cells as well as to normalize the blood pressure of rats.
Sexsomnia is a parasomnia characterised by sexual behaviour. A 30-year-old man, with no history of parasomnias or related precipitating factors, developed sexual behaviour during sleep after three weeks of treatment with escitalopram 10 mg daily. The parasomnia disappeared on the sixth day after the escitalopram had been stopped. The temporal relationship between the use of this selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor and the occurrence of the parasomnia suggests a causal relationship, possibly related to increased serotonergic neurotransmission in the raphe nucleus.
On September 16, 2013, the North Carolina Division of Public Health was notified of an elemental (metallic and liquid) mercury spill on a school bus. An elementary student boarded the bus with approximately 1 pound (454 g) of elemental mercury contained in a film canister, which the student had taken from an adult relative who had found it in a neighbor's shed. The canister was handled by several students before the contents spilled on the bus floor. Ten passengers aboard the bus were exposed, including eight students and two staff members. Although elemental mercury is not readily absorbed from skin contact or ingestion, it does vaporize at room temperatures and inhalation of the vapor can be harmful. The bus driver promptly notified school officials. Firefighters and a local hazardous materials team directed decontamination procedures (i.e., changing clothes and washing hands and shoes) for the 10 exposed passengers. The bus was immediately taken out of service and sent for disposal because of its age and the cost of decontamination.
The cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie cardioprotection against I/R by anesthetic-induced preconditioning (APC) require further elucidation. Using isoflurane as a representative anesthetic, we evaluated the hypothesis that APC induces myocardial protection against I/R by attenuation of excessive reactive oxygen species and restoration of mitochondrial bioenergetics through postischemic up-regulation of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) expression and preservation of respiratory enzyme activity. Pentobarbital anesthetized open-chest Sprague-Dawley rats were subject to 30-min left coronary artery occlusion, followed by 120-min reperfusion. Before ischemia, rats were randomly assigned to receive 0.9% saline, two cycles of brief coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion, or a 30-min exposure to 1.0 minimum alveolar concentration isoflurane in the absence or presence of a specific mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel blocker, 5-hydroxydecanoate; a membrane-permeable superoxide scavenger, 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethyl piperidinoxyl; or a NOS inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester. Isoflurane exposure induced an initial increase in myocardial superoxide (O2-), but not NO level. It also significantly decreased infarct size and restored mitochondrial respiratory enzyme activity or ATP production in I/R rat hearts, along with suppression of the O2- surge at reperfusion and increase in MnSOD expression or enzyme activity. These protective effects were abrogated by 5-hydroxydecanoate or 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethyl piperidinoxyl, but not by N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester pretreatment. These results suggest that opening of mitochondrial KATP channel, followed by O2- signaling, induces postischemic augmentation of MnSOD and preservation of mitochondrial respiratory enzyme activities, leading to attenuated cardiac O2- surge and restored ATP production during reperfusion, and underlie APC-induced cardioprotection.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) improves clinical and biochemical indices in primary biliary cirrhosis and prolongs survival free of liver transplantation. Recently, it was suggested that the cytoprotective mechanisms of UDCA may be mediated by protection against oxidative stress, which is involved in the development of cirrhosis induced by chronic cholestasis. The aims of the current study were 1) to identify the mechanisms involved in glutathione depletion, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial impairment during biliary cirrhosis induced by chronic cholestasis in rats; and 2) to determine the mechanisms associated with the protective effects of UDCA against secondary biliary cirrhosis. The findings of the current study indicate that UDCA partially prevents hepatic and mitochondrial glutathione depletion and oxidation resulting from chronic cholestasis. Impairment of biliary excretion was accompanied by decreased steady-state hepatic levels of gamma-glutamyl cysteine synthetase and gamma-cystathionase messenger RNAs. UDCA treatment led to up-regulation of gamma-glutamyl cysteine synthetase in animals with secondary biliary cirrhosis and prevented the marked increases in mitochondrial peroxide production and hydroxynonenal-protein adduct production that are observed during chronic cholestasis. A population of damaged and primarily apoptotic hepatocytes characterized by dramatic decreases in mitochondrial cardiolipin levels and membrane potential as well as phosphatidylserine exposure evolves in secondary biliary cirrhosis. UDCA treatment prevents the growth of this population along with the decreases in mitochondrial cardiolipin levels and membrane potential that are induced by chronic cholestasis. In conclusion, UDCA treatment enhances the antioxidant defense mediated by glutathione; in doing so, this treatment prevents cardiolipin depletion and cell injury in animals with secondary biliary cirrhosis.
Plumbago zeylanica, a traditional Indian herb is being used for the therapy of rheumatism and has been approved for anti-tumor activity. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the biological action are not very well understood. In this study, the anti-invasive activities of P. zeylanica methanolic extract (PME) and pure compound 3β-hydroxylup-20(29)-ene-27,28-dioic acid (PZP) isolated from it are investigated in vitro. PME and PZP were noted to have the ability to induce apoptosis as assessed by flow cytometry. Further, the molecular mechanism of apoptosis induced by PME and PZP was found by the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential with the down regulation of Bcl-2, increased expression of Bad, release of cytochrome c, activation of caspase-3 and cleavage of PARP leading to DNA fragmentation. Importantly, both PME and PZP were observed to suppress MDA-MB-231 cells adhesion to the fibronectin-coated substrate and also inhibited the wound healing migration and invasion of MDA-MB-231 cells through the reconstituted extracellular matrix. Gelatin zymography revealed that PME and PZP decreased the secretion of matrix metalloproteinases-2 (MMP-2) and metalloproteinases-9 (MMP-9). Interestingly both PME and PZP exerted an inhibitory effect on the protein levels of p-PI3K, p-Akt, p-JNK, p-ERK1/2, MMP-2, MMP-9, VEGF and HIF-1α that are consistent with the observed anti-metastatic effect. Collectively, these data provide the molecular basis of the anti-proliferative and anti-metastatic effects of PME and PZP.
The proband, a 43-year-old woman, suffered from right transverse sinus thrombosis during oral contraceptive treatment. A month after stopping the drug, her plasma activities of antithrombin III, protein C, protein S, heparin cofactor II, plasminogen and plasminogen activator inhibitor were normal, but her plasma histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG) level was only 21% of the normal level of 109.5 +/- 51.5% (mean +/- 2 SD). The HRG concentrations in her plasma determined on four different occasions over 6 months were similar. She showed no clinical signs of liver insufficiency or sepsis. Low levels of plasma HRG (20% to 35% of normal) were also found in her aunt, uncle and two daughters. These results suggest that congenital HRG deficiency is inheritary in this family.
Craving phenomena are related to induction of substance-seeking behaviour by stimuli associated with the availability of the drug. We investigated the changes in monoamine metabolism in regions of the brains of rats that, following a period of training of cocaine self-administration, were either killed 2 h after the last session or underwent extinction trials, during which cocaine was withdrawn. During the training, acoustic and visual stimuli announced the availability of cocaine. After 10 d of daily extinction trials, rats were re-introduced into the cage, and a signal associated with cocaine availability was applied to half of the animals. The rats were immediately killed and concentrations of dopamine and serotonin and their metabolites in various brain areas, and the concentration of noradrenaline and MHPG in the brainstem were assessed to calculate their metabolism rate indices. In rats self-administering cocaine, the levels of metabolites of all three amines were depressed, indicating a depression of the activity of monoaminergic systems. In the period of extinction, the dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens and striatum and the level of the noradrenaline metabolite, MHPG, in the brainstem were reduced, suggesting a long-lasting disturbance of the catecholaminergic system, while serotonin levels and metabolism returned to normal values. The presence of the signal associated with previous cocaine availability, which invariably caused the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behaviour annulled the changes observed in the group receiving no stimulus, bringing the concentration values of dopamine, and dopamine and noradrenaline metabolites to yoked-saline control rats. The results suggest that the stabilized self-administration of cocaine depresses the activity of all biogenic amine systems, and the changes in serotonin system are reversible, in contrast to those observed in catecholaminergic systems, which show the signs of a long-lasting impairment. The stimulus associated with cocaine availability activates the catecholaminergic system in animals after extinction procedure.
14 cases of mannitol-induced acute renal failure were reported. The dosage of mannitol used varied widely. In all cases serum Na+, HCO3- were decreased, K+ and BUN increased significantly. Serum osmolality was measured in 5 cases. The osmolal gap was increased greatly, 77.4mOsm/kg. H2O in average. The increase of osmolal gap may play an important role in acute renal failure by causing intensive renal vasocontraction. Monitoring of serum osmolality or osmolal gap can help to prevent mannitol intoxication. The decrease of serum Na+ may be a warning sign of increased osmolal gap. Hemodialysis is the best way for the treatment of mannitol-induced acute renal failure.
The effectiveness and safety of ceftriaxone and cefotaxime in the short-term treatment of primary bacterial meningitis were compared using a prospective, randomized, multicenter study design. Children between the ages of 6 weeks and 16 years received either ceftriaxone as a single dose (100 mg/kg on the first day followed by 75 mg/kg/day) or cefotaxime as four divided doses (200 mg/kg/day) for 4-7 days. A total of 82 patients (44 ceftriaxone, 38 cefotaxime) with documented bacteria in the CSF were studied. In patients receiving ceftriaxone, full recovery occurred in 79.5% while a further 13.7% recovered with neurologic sequelae. Full recovery was observed in 71.1% of children treated with cefotaxime with sequelae in a further 23.6% (no statistically significant differences between drugs). The time to clinical improvement and resolution of fever (3-4 days) was also similar for both drugs. All but 1 of the 82 patients studied had negative CSF cultures within 24 h of the beginning of therapy consistent with the excellent penetration into the CSF (trough concentrations of 2.7 mg/l for both drugs at the end of therapy). No differences were observed in the incidence of clinically significant adverse events. Ceftriaxone and cefotaxime are both effective in the treatment of bacterial meningitis. Ceftriaxone offers an advantage in case of administration since it is administered as a single daily dose.
The effects of shikonin on gastric cancer cells were investigated in this study. Exposure to shikonin reduced the viability of gastric cancer cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. However, apoptosis was not observed in gastric cancer cell treatment with different concentrations of shikonin for 6h. By contrast, treatment with shikonin for 24h significantly induced apoptosis, as evidenced by the results of TUNEL assay and flow cytometry analysis in proportion to the concentration. Disruption of the mitochondrial membrane potential was observed in gastric cancer cells that were treated with shikonin for 6 and 24h. Pretreatment with necrostatin-1 recovered cell death and mitochondrial membrane potential in the 6h shikonin treatment, but not in the 24h shikonin treatment. Western blot results reveal enhanced p38 phosphorylation, downregulated AKT phosphorylation, and increased caspase3 and PARP cleavage in cells that were treated with shikonin for 24h, but not in cells treated for 6h. Shikonin also triggered reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation both in the 6 and 24h treatments. Pretreatment with N-acetylcysteine blocked shikonin-induced cell death. In summary, our findings suggest that shikonin, which may function as a promising agent in the treatment of gastric cancers, sequentially triggered necrosis or apoptosis through ROS generation in gastric cancer cells.
Increased numbers of activated mast cells have been documented close to substance P (SP) containing nerve endings in the bladders of patients with interstitial cystitis (IC), a painful, sterile bladder disorder occurring primarily in females. Many of these patients also suffer from allergies, but common antihistamines do not help. In line with the fact that IC symptoms worsen under stress, we recently showed that bladder mast cells could be activated by the stable acetylcholine (Ach) analogue carbachol and by immobilization stress. Preliminary data from open label studies indicated that the heterocyclic histamine-1 receptor antagonist (H-1r alpha) hydroxyzine reduces IC symptoms. We, therefore, investigated whether hydroxyzine could inhibit carbachol-induced bladder mast cell activation.
Bladder pieces from male Sprague-Dawley rats were perfused with 10(-5) M carbachol, 10(-5) M SP, or 100 microg/ml compound 48/80 (C48/80), with or without preincubation with the designated concentrations of the H-1r alpha. Mast cell activation was assessed by release of exogenous 3H-serotonin and morphological evidence of secretion by light microscopy.
Carbachol at 10(-5) M triggered rat bladder mast cell serotonin release which represented a 65% increase over control. Equimolar concentrations of SP caused a 32% increase, while C48/80 had no effect. The heterocyclic piperazine H-1r alpha hydroxyzine reduced carbachol-induced serotonin release by 25% at 10(-6) M and 34% at 10(-5) M, both of which were statistically significant (P < 0.05). On the contrary, the well known H-1r alpha diphenhydramine had no inhibitory effect, while the mixed H-1r alpha and 5-hydroxytryptamine-receptor antagonist (5-HTr alpha) azatadine actually caused an 11% increase.
Hydroxyzine reduced carbachol-induced serotonin release from rat bladder in vitro through a mechanism which was unrelated to its H-1 receptor antagonistic properties. The ability of hydroxyzine to inhibit bladder mast cell activation by neurogenic stimuli along with its anticholinergic, anxiolytic and analgesic properties, may explain the clinical efficacy of this drug in reducing IC symptoms. Other, nonsedating, hydroxyzine analogues able to inhibit bladder mast cell activation may provide potentially new therapeutic approaches for IC.
Paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy (PN) may be severe and dose-limiting at initial doses > or = 275 mg/M2, but its neurotoxicity at doses < or = 250 mg/M2 has been incompletely characterized. The purposes of this study were to characterize and quantify paclitaxel-induced PN and to determine the utility of quantitative sensory testing (QST).
We prospectively examined clinically and by QST 37 women with metastatic breast cancer, treated with paclitaxel (200-250 mg/m2) (average number of cycles = 7.3 over an average of 20.1 weeks). QST included thermal threshold (TT) and vibration threshold (VT).
Paresthesias appeared in 31 (84%) patients after an average of 1.7 cycles and an average cumulative dose of 371.5 mg/M2. Symptoms occurred after the first or second dose in 26 (84%) patients and then stabilized in 10 (32%), improved in 13 (42%) despite continued treatment, resolved completely in 6 (19%), and were progressive in 2 (7%). Paclitaxel was discontinued in only 1 (3%) patient because of neurotoxicity and no patient required dose reduction because of PN. Thirty-six (97%) developed signs of PN. The most sensitive QST was great toe VT but QST did not predict or identify subclinical PN in any patient. Neurologic syndromes other than PN developed in 12 (32%) patients, and 7 were due to metastatic cancer.
1) Paclitaxel-induced PN is mostly sensory, and begins after the first or second dose. At these doses the neuropathy is mild, and rarely dose-limiting. 2) QST quantified the neuropathy but was less sensitive than the clinical examination. 3) Knowledge of the features of paclitaxel's PN allows it to be differentiated from other neurologic syndromes which may signal tumor progression.
Gemcitabine (GEM) is an alternative chemotherapeutic agent for patients with metastatic bladder cancer. It is believed to be a well-balanced agent, having acceptable toxicity and enhanced antitumor activity. The integration of GEM into the initial chemotherapy plan for these patients is still being developed.
The patient, male, aged 56 years, was suffering from a transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Due to frequent local superficial recurrences, radical cystectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy and continent ileal diversion was performed. Four years after the operation a left inguinal lymphadenopathy was noted and metastatic bladder carcinoma was confirmed on biopsy. Cytotoxic therapy combining GEM and cisplatin and local external irradiation therapy was initiated. The patient developed extensive necrotising vasculitis with muscle damage after the second course of therapy. Chemotherapy was stopped immediately but this was not enough to relieve the symptoms of severe myalgia and swelling, and additional treatment consisting of cyclophosphamide and prednisolone was initiated.
Although GEM seems to be relatively safe, some unexpected complications may occur during treatment. This case is not common, but it reinforces the need for careful attention to any new symptoms that seem to be unassociated with the primary disease. Prompt evaluation of such symptoms should be carried out in patients receiving GEM therapy.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are known to have adverse effects on kidney function. Situations with a stimulated renin-angiotensin system such as volume depletion or pre-existing chronic renal failure predispose to acute renal failure (ARF) via inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis by NSAIDs. To date, NSAIDs are frequently used as antipyretic drugs even in situations predisposing to ARF. Within 20 months, seven children presenting with diarrhoea and/or vomiting and fever were treated with therapeutic doses (11.5-32 mg/kg per day) of ibuprofen for 1 to 3 days before developing ARF. Maximum plasma creatinine levels were 180-650 micromol/l. One patient required emergency dialysis for hyperkalaemia, uraemia, and hyperphosphataemia. After cessation of NSAID treatment and rehydration, all patients recovered completely with a normalised creatinine level after 3 to 9 days. Once the acute phase is controlled, long-term outcome is excellent. Interstitial nephritis, another possible adverse effect of NSAIDs, might require steroid treatment and is the major differential diagnosis. Only histological examination can confirm the exact pathomechanism of ARF after NSAID exposure. If immunological events are responsible for the ARF, the recovery period is usually longer.
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are potentially dangerous in situations with even moderate volume depletion.
Treatment of common skin diseases such as psoriasis is complicated by differences between individuals in response to topical drug treatment and photochemotherapy. Individuality in hepatic expression of drug-metabolising enzymes is an important determinant of systemic drug handling; we investigated whether similar variation in cutaneous gene expression contributes to individuality in response to topical therapies.
We used quantitative real-time RT-PCR to demonstrate the expression in skin of a recently identified cytochrome P450, CYP2S1, in healthy volunteers (n=27) and patients with psoriasis (n=29). We also investigated regulation of CYP2S1 by ultraviolet radiation, psoralen-ultraviolet A (PUVA), and topical drugs used to treat psoriasis.
We found that CYP2S1 is expressed in skin and showed pronounced individuality in constitutive expression of the enzyme and its induction after ultraviolet irradiation or topical drug treatment. Cutaneous expression of CYP2S1 was induced by ultraviolet radiation, PUVA, coal tar, and all-trans retinoic acid; expression was significantly higher in lesional psoriatic skin than in adjacent non-lesional skin (geometric mean 3.38 [95% CI 2.64-4.34] times higher; p<0.0001), which implies that topical drugs are differentially metabolised in psoriatic plaque and non-lesional skin. We showed that all-trans retinoic acid is metabolised by CYP2S1, which has higher cutaneous expression than CYP26, previously described as the specific cutaneous P450 retinoic-acid-metabolising enzyme.
These findings increase our understanding of the interaction between therapeutic agents and the skin and suggest a functional role for CYP2S1 in the metabolism of topical drugs and in mediating the response to photochemotherapy in psoriasis.
The hemodynamic benefits and safety of combined therapy with captopril and hydralazine were studied during invasive hemodynamic monitoring in 14 patients with severe heart failure. In eight patients, the individual effects of both drugs were evaluated before the administration of combined therapy, whereas hydralazine was added to maintenance captopril therapy in the other six patients. In the first group, captopril alone produced a marked decrease in pulmonary wedge pressure (28 +/- 4 to 18 +/- 5 mm Hg) and mean arterial pressure (85 +/- 20 to 69 +/- 13 mm Hg) (both p less than 0.001) without a significant increase in cardiac index. Hydralazine alone produced a marked increase in cardiac index (1.6 +/- 0.4 to 2.7 +/- 0.5 liters/min per m2) (p less than 0.001), but with a minimal decrease in pulmonary wedge pressure (28 +/- 4 to 23 +/- 4 mm Hg) (p less than 0.05) and without a significant change in mean arterial pressure. The combination of captopril and hydralazine produced an increase in cardiac index similar to that of hydralazine alone and decreases in pulmonary wedge pressure and mean arterial pressure similar to those with captopril alone. Most important, when hydralazine was added to captopril in the entire group of 14 patients, cardiac index increased markedly with little additional decrease in mean arterial pressure and no significant increase in heart rate. The one patient who experienced symptomatic hypotension with combination therapy also had dizziness with captopril alone. Seven of the nine patients maintained on long-term treatment experienced symptomatic improvement. Thus, in patients with severe chronic heart failure, the combined use of captopril and hydralazine is feasible and produces acute hemodynamic improvement superior to that from either drug alone.
Bupropion hydrochloride is an effective drug for people who want stop smoking, and its use has recently increased in many countries. The main side effects of this drug are related to its dopaminergic activity and are dose dependent. To date, no cases of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura-hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP-HUS) have been reported in literature. Here we describe a case of a woman who developed a sporadic form of TTP-HUS during a treatment with bupropion for smoking cessation, successfully treated with plasma ex-change therapy. The authors wish to make readers aware of bupropion as a possible cause of this potentially lethal disease.
This article provides an overview of psychopharmacological treatments for repetitive behaviors in autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) in the context of current conceptualizations of this understudied core symptom domain. The available literature on the widely used selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), including fluvoxamine, fluoxetine, citalopram, escitalopram, and sertraline, are reviewed. In addition to SSRIs, research on effects of other pharmacologic interventions such as divalproex sodium, risperidone, and the neuropeptide oxytocin are presented. To date, data are mixed for interventions commonly prescribed in clinical practice and suggest several areas of investigation in advancing research on the medication management of repetitive behaviors.
The antihypertensive effects of intravenous (i.v.) and intracisternal (i.cist.) dl-propranolol were studied in anesthetized hypertensive dogs pretreated with i.cist. administered 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA, 600 micrograms/kg) one week previously. Acute neurogenic hypertension was elicited by sino-aortic denervation (deafferentation). In control (saline-pretreated) dogs, dl-propranolol given i.cist. (50 micrograms/kg) or i.v. (0.3 and 1 mg/kg) decreased both the rise in blood pressure and tachycardia induced by deafferentation. These hypotensive and negative chronotropic actions of i.v. (0.3 mg/kg) propranolol were suppressed by pretreatment with 6-OHDA. At a higher dose (1 mg/kg), i.v. propranolol always corrected hypertension and tachycardia in 6-OHDA-treated dogs as in control animals. After 6-OHDA, i.cist. propranolol (50 micrograms/kg) failed to decrease the rise in blood pressure in debuffered animals. Conversely, the bradycardia induced by i.cist. propranolol was more marked in 6-OHDA-treated dogs than in control animals. These results confirm that the antihypertensive action of propranolol can be partly explained by an action on the central nervous system. They support the hypothesis that the hypotension observed after intracisternal (and also after low does of i.v.) propranolol is dependent on the integrity of central catecholaminergic neurons. These studies suggest that the antihypertensive action of propranolol may be partly due to the blockade of central presynaptic beta-adrenoceptors.
We describe the case of a 26 years old woman in chronic therapy with phenobarbital, carbamazepine, valproic acid (VPA) and clonazepam who showed a hyperammonemic encephalopathy after an increase in dosage of VPA. Similar cases have been reported, but with acute-subacute onset and no correlation with the plasma levels of VPA. Our case suggests the possibility that this toxic effect occurs during chronic treatment too, when the dosage of VPA is increased.
1 Spinal alpha-adrenoreceptors involved in cardiovascular control have been investigated using selective alpha-adrenoreceptor agonists and antagonists in urethane-anaesthetized rats. 2 Intrathecal injections of clonidine, alpha-methylnoradrenaline, guanfacine and M7 at the C7-T1 level reduced blood pressure and heart rate. In contrast, phenylephrine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and procaine had little or no effect. These results suggest the involvement of spinal alpha 2-adrenoreceptors. 3 The fall in blood pressure produced by clonidine appeared to be attributable to a reduction in heart rate and stroke volume. Lower body vascular resistance was unchanged. 4 The clonidine-induced bradycardia was antagonised by prazosin, WB4101, piperoxan or yohimbine. Their relative potencies suggest that alpha 1-rather then alpha 2-adrenoreceptors mediate this response. 5 piperoxan and yohimbine clearly prevented the clonidine-induced fall in blood pressure; prazosin and WB4101 also appeared to antagonise clonidine but these results were complicated by the fact that these antagonists themselves reduced blood pressure. 6 It was difficult to interpret these results simply in terms of alpha 1- or alpha 2-adrenoreceptors. Thus spinal alpha-adrenoreceptors may be different from peripheral alpha 1- or alpha 2-adrenoreceptors.
