Unlike the proven causal association between oral contraceptive (OC) use and hepatic cell adenoma, the link between OCs and hepatocellular carcinoma remains speculative. The case history of a 53-year-old US woman suggests, however, that hepatic cell adenomas may transform into hepatocellular carcinoma. The patient, who had used Ovral continuously since 1966, presented in 1985 with vague abdominal pain and a palpable right upper quadrant mass. Computed tomography revealed a 12 x 8 cm mass in the right hepatic lobe and 2 small lesions in the left lobe. Serum alpha-fetoprotein and ferritin levels were normal and tests for hepatitis B were negative. A needle biopsy of the right lobe mass indicated benign hepatic adenoma. OC use was discontinued and the patient was examined at bimonthly intervals. Although she continued to report vague pain, there were no significant changes in radiologic findings or levels of alpha-fetoprotein over the next 18 months. At the 18-month follow-up visit, the alpha-fetoprotein level showed an increase to 227 mcg/L and had risen to 2300 mcg/L by the 30-month follow-up visit. At this time, computed tomography showed slight enlargement of the right lobe mass and inhomogeneity, while biopsy revealed sclerosing hepatocellular carcinoma. This is the 3rd case reported in the literature in which there is evidence of a transformation of hepatic cell adenomas into hepatocellular carcinoma in longterm OC users. Thus, the premalignant potential of hepatic cell carcinomas in OC users should be considered by physicians who follow such cases.
Thirty asthmatic patients were evaluated to assess the association of therapy with inhalatory corticosteroids and an educational program, EDUCASMA. Spirometric evaluation with Flow-Volume loop (MEDICAL GRAPHIC CPF-S), ambulatory FEP (mini WRIGHT meters) was performed. In regard of initial symptoms patients were qualified as moderate or severe. After two weeks of a screening period, they were randomized into 2 groups: a) beclomethasone; b) budesonide; respective doses in according to the initial status. During the study period (8 wks) they visited the medical Staff six or more times. In each visit the patients received clinical evaluation (i.e. clinical scoring), spirometry (i.e. FEV1), and FEP ambulatory revision. FEP x (mean), FEP delta, FEV1, and clinical scores values were matched at the start and at the end of the follow-up period. Non-parametric statistics were applied (Wilcoxon test) and significative changes were defined (p < 0.05).
1) inhalatory corticosteroids therapy associated with a previous educational program could achieve early improvements of clinical scores; 2) in moderate asthma ambulatory FEP showed objective changes both in beclomethasone and budesonide treatments. It appears to indicate increasing changes very close to the clinical improvement; 3) the short period of our observation and the inflammatory condition of airways in severe asthma, could be explained as probable factors for the minor differences in the FEV1 evaluation; 4) no differences between budesonide and beclomethasone treatment were found.
Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP)-producing gastric cancer (AFPGC), represented by the production of AFP, has a more aggressive behavior than common gastric cancer. The underlying mechanisms are not well understood. Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) is used clinically to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia(APL) and has activity in vitro against several solid tumor cell lines, with induction of apoptosis and inhibition of proliferation the prime effects. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) has an important role in tumorigenesis of various primary cancers and cancer cell by upregulating cell-survival and downregulating tumor suppressor proteins. Here, we found decreased expression of AFP and STAT3 after induction of apoptosis by As(2)O(3) in the AFPGC FU97 cells. Also, the level of the STAT3 target oncogene Bcl-2 was decreased with As(2)O(3), and that of the tumor suppressor Bax was increased. Furthermore, STAT3 expression and depth of invasion and lymph node metastasis were associated. Survival of patients with gastric cancer was lower with AFP and STAT3 double overexpression than with overexpression of either alone. Downregulation of AFP and STAT3 expression plays an important role in As(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis of AFPGC cells, which suggests a new mechanism of As(2)O(3)-induced cell apoptosis. As(2)O(3) may be a possible agent for AFPGC treatment.
The alkaloid Punarnavine isolated from the plant Boerhaavia diffusa Linn. was studied for its anti-metastatic activity using B16F-10 melanoma cells in C57BL/6 mice. Administration of Punarnavine (40mg/kg body weight) prophylactically (95.25%), simultaneously (93.9%) and 10 days after tumor inoculation (80.1%) could inhibit the metastatic colony formation of melanoma in lungs. Survival rate of the metastatic tumor-bearing animals were increased significantly by the administration of Punarnavine in all the modalities compared to the metastasis bearing untreated control. These results correlated with the biochemical parameters such as lung collagen hydroxyl proline, uronic acid, hexosamine, serum sialic acid, serum gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels and histopathological studies. Punarnavine administration could suppress or down regulate the expression of MMP-2, MMP-9 (MMP--matrix metalloproteinase), ERK-1, ERK-2 (ERK--extracellular-signal-regulated kinase) and VEGF in the lung tissue of metastasis-induced animals. Punarnavine could inhibit MMP-2 and MMP-9 protein expression in gelatin zymographic analysis of B16F-10 cells. These results indicate Punarnavine could inhibit the metastatic progression of B16F-10 melanoma cells in mice.
Johne's disease (JD) is a widespread and economically important chronic inflammatory disease of the small intestine of ruminants caused by Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP). Although there are several techniques available for diagnosis of JD, their sensitivity is questionable. New proteome profiling methods, such as serum/plasma protein fingerprinting by 2-Dimensional Fluorescence Difference Gel Electrophoresis (2D-DIGE), may therefore be useful for identifying novel protein biomarkers of MAP infection. In this study, plasma samples were collected from 380 Holstein cows and screened for the presence of MAP infection using the M.pt. Johne's antibody Kit (IDEXX). Five negative (MAP-), and 5 strongly positive (MAP+) cows were selected for proteomic analysis. Highly abundant proteins were depleted from the plasma samples using the ProteoMiner technology (Bio-Rad) to enhance the resolution of low abundance proteins. Plasma samples from MAP-, MAP+, and a pooled internal control were labelled with different fluorescent dyes and separated based on their isoelectrical point (IP) and then their molecular weight. Gel images of the fluorescent plasma protein maps were acquired using a Typhoon scanner and analyzed using the DeCyder software. Proteins that were differentially expressed were excised from the gels, trypsin digested, and subjected to MS/MS analysis for identification. Six proteins were identified as being up-regulated at least 2-fold in MAP+ cows including: transferrin, gelsolin isoforms α & β (actin binding protein - ABP), complement subcomponent C1r, complement component C3, amine oxidase - copper containing 3 (AOC3), and coagulation factor II (thrombin) (p<0.05). Two proteins that were down-regulated approximately 2-fold in the MAP+ cows included coagulation factor XIII -B polypeptide (COAFXIII), and fibrinogen γ chain (FGG) and its precursor.
Brain dysplasias produced by irradiation with gamma rays at various stages of prenatal development cause different post-natal susceptibility to seizures. To detect possible determinants of this difference, patterns of degenerative changes in the dysplastic brains following pilocarpine-induced epilepsy were analysed.
Pregnant Wistar rats were exposed to a 1.0 Gy dose of gamma rays on gestation days 15 (E15) or 17 (E17). On post-natal day 60, their offspring received pilocarpine injections to evoke status epilepticus. Motor manifestations of seizure activity were observed continuously for 6 hours and rated. Six days following the status epilepticus, the rats were anesthetized and T(2)-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) images were obtained. Frontal sections of the brains were immunostained for immunoglobulins G (IgGs) to detect blood-brain barrier damage and IgG cell uptake and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) or S-100-beta protein to visualize astrocytes. Bandeiraea simplicifolia isolectin-B4 (BSI-B4) isolectin histochemistry was also performed to detect microglia/macrophages.
Tissue damages within epileptic brains as observed by light microscopy generally reflected changes in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at similar locations. Brains of rats irradiated on E15 or E17 and showing epileptic symptoms at comparable intensity also displayed different distribution of the pathologic changes. Among other post-epileptic changes, in rats irradiated on E17 as well as controls, the laterodorsal and ventrolateral thalamic nuclei showed signs of severe degeneration. In rats irradiated on E15, the nuclei were free of such changes.
The obtained data point to important differences in the pattern of propagation of epileptic activity in the dysplastic brains suffering from neuronal loss in functionally different structures.
High doses of warfarin cause focal calcification of the elastic lamellae in the media of major arteries and in aortic heart valves in the rat. Aortic calcification was first seen after 2 weeks of warfarin treatment and progressively increased in density at 3, 4, and 5 weeks of treatment. By 5 weeks, the highly focal calcification of major arteries could be seen on radiographs and by visual inspection of the artery. The calcification of arteries induced by warfarin is similar to that seen in the matrix Gla protein (MGP)-deficient mouse, which suggests that warfarin induces artery calcification by inhibiting gamma-carboxylation of MGP and thereby inactivating the putative calcification-inhibitory activity of the protein. Warfarin treatment markedly increased the levels of MGP mRNA and protein in calcifying arteries and decreased the level of MGP in serum. Warfarin treatment did not affect bone growth, overall weight gain, or serum calcium and phosphorus levels, and, because of the concurrent administration of vitamin K, prothrombin times and hematocrits were normal. The results indicate that the improved warfarin plus vitamin K treatment protocol developed in this study should provide a useful model to investigate the role of MGP in preventing calcification of arteries and heart valves.
To estimate the effects of teprenone on protecting gastric mucosa against steroids-induced damage.
Fifty male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into 5 equal groups: normal control group, undergoing gastric infusion of normal saline for 7 days and fasting since the 4 th day for 4 days; model control group, undergoing gastric infusion of normal saline for 7 days and fasting and hypodermal injection of prednisolone 40 mg/kg since the 4 th day for 4 days; low dose teprenone group, undergoing gastric infusion of teprenone 50 mg/kg for 7 days and fasting and hypodermal injection of prednisolone 40 mg/kg since the 4 th day; middle dose teprenone group, undergoing gastric infusion of teprenone 50 mg/kg for 7 days and fasting and hypodermal injection of prednisolone 40 mg/kg since the 4 th day; and high dose teprenone group, undergoing gastric infusion of teprenone 200 mg/kg for 7 days and fasting and hypodermal injection of prednisolone 40 mg/kg since the 4 th day. Samples of gastric mucosa were taken out 24 hours after the last drug administration to calculate the ulcer index and observe the histological changes. Blood samples were collected from the abdominal cardinal vein. The levels of plasma ET-1 and prostaglandin E2 were examined by radioimmunoassay. Serum level of nitric oxide (NO) was determined by Griess method.
In the model control group, the ulcer index, grade of histological lesions and ET-1 level increased significantly compared with the normal control group (44.5 vs. 0, 5.5 vs. 0, and 399 pg/ml +/- 74 pg/ml vs. 279 pg/ml +/- 56 pg/ml, all P < 0.01), the PGE(2) level decreased significantly. (154 pg/mg +/- 83 pg/mg vs 337 pg/mg +/- 112 pg/mg, P < 0.01), and the NO level did not changed significantly. In the 3 teprenone groups, the ulcer index decreased (32.5, 23.0, and 23.0 vs. 44.5, all P < 0.01), grade of histological lesions decreased (3.0, 3.0, and 1.5 vs. 5.5, all P < 0.01), ET-1 level decreased (299 pg/ml +/- 99 pg/ml, 284 pg/ml +/- 85 pg/ml, and 189 pg/ml +/- 32 pg/ml vs. 399 pg/ml +/- 74 pg/ml, P < 0.05, P < 0.01, and P < 0.01), the No level increased (56 micromol/L +/- 16 micromol/L, 62 micromol/L +/- 12 micromol/L, and 83 micromol/L +/- 9 micromol/L vs. 27 micromol/L +/- 5 micromol/L, all P < 0.01), and the PGE(2) level increased (190 pg/mg +/- 58 pg/mg, 196 pg/mg +/- 35 pg/mg, 241 pg/mg +/- 65 pg/mg vs. 154 pg/mg +/- 83 pg/mg, P > 0.05, P > 0.05, and P < 0.05) compared with the model control group.
Teprenone is a beneficial cytoprotective agent of gastric mucosa. Pretreatment with teprenone has gastroprotective effect against steroids-induced mucosal damage to a certain extent with a mechanism related to ET-1, NO, and PGE(2) concentrations in blood or gastric mucosa.
We report an accidental injection of epinephrine before spinal anaesthesia in a 20-year-old patient who subsequently developed immediate myocardial ischemia and global left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction of 20%). Hemodynamic status dramatically improved after nitroglycerin, calcium antagonists, acetyl salicylic acid and unfractionated heparin injections. Over 24 h, patient's ejection fraction fully recovered without kinetic abnormality.
Phthalates are common plasticizers present in medical-grade plastics and other everyday products. They can also act as endocrine-disrupting chemicals and have been linked to the rise in metabolic disorders. However, the effect of phthalates on cardiac metabolism remains largely unknown.
We examined the effect of di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) on the metabolic profile of cardiomyocytes because alterations in metabolic processes can lead to cell dysfunction.
Neonatal rat cardiomyocytes were treated with DEHP at a concentration and duration comparable to clinical exposure (50-100 μg/mL, 72 hr). We assessed the effect of DEHP on gene expression using microarray analysis. Physiological responses were examined via fatty acid utilization, oxygen consumption, mitochondrial mass, and Western blot analysis.
Exposure to DEHP led to up-regulation of genes associated with fatty acid transport, esterification, mitochondrial import, and β-oxidation. The functional outcome was an increase in myocyte fatty acid-substrate utilization, oxygen consumption, mitochondrial mass, PPARα (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α) protein expression, and extracellular acidosis. Treatment with a PPARα agonist (Wy-14643) only partially mimicked the effects observed in DEHP-treated cells.
Data suggest that DEHP exposure results in metabolic remodeling of cardiomyocytes, whereby cardiac cells increase their dependence on fatty acids for energy production. This fuel switch may be regulated at both the gene expression and posttranscription levels. Our findings have important clinical implications because chronic dependence on fatty acids is associated with an accumulation in lipid intermediates, lactate, protons, and reactive oxygen species. This dependence can sensitize the heart to ischemic injury and ventricular dysfunction.
Aberrant N-linked glycans promote the malignant potential of cells by enhancing the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and the invasive phenotype. To identify small molecule inhibitors of N-glycan biosynthesis, we developed a chemical screen based on the ability of the tetravalent plant lectin L-phytohemagglutinin (L-PHA) to bind and crosslink surface glycoproteins with beta1,6GlcNAc-branched complex type N-glycans and thereby induce agglutination and cell death. In this screen, Jurkat cells were treated with a library of off-patent chemicals (n = 1,280) to identify molecules that blocked L-PHA-induced death. The most potent hit from this screen was the cardiac glycoside (CG) dihydroouabain. In secondary assays, a panel of CGs was tested for their effects on L-PHA-induced agglutination and cell death. All of the CGs tested inhibited L-PHA-induced death in Jurkat cells, and the most potent CG tested was digoxin with an EC(50) of 60 +/- 20 nmol/L. Digoxin also increased the fraction of some concanavalin A-binding N-glycans. Using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, digoxin specifically increased GlcNAc(1)Man(3)GlcNAc(2)Fuc(1) and GlcNAc(2)Man(3)GlcNAc(2)Fuc(1) oligosaccharides demonstrating an impairment of the N-glycan pathway. Consistent with this effect on the N-glycan pathway, digoxin inhibited N-glycosylation-mediated processes of tumor cell migration and invasion. Furthermore, digoxin prevented distant tumor formation in two mouse models of metastatic prostate cancer. Thus, taken together, our high throughput screen identified CGs as modifiers of the N-glycan pathway. These molecules can be used as tools to better understand the role of N-glycans in normal and malignant cells. Moreover, these results may partly explain the anticancer effect of CGs in cardiovascular patients.
Urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR) expression is elevated during inflammation, tissue remodeling and in many human cancers. This study investigated the effect of nicotine, a major alkaloid in tobacco, on uPAR expression and cell invasiveness in ECV304 endothelial cells. Nicotine stimulated uPAR expression in a dose-dependent manner and activated extracellular signal-regulated kinases-1/2 (Erk-1/2), c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK). Specific inhibitors of MEK-1 (PD98059) and JNK (SP600125) inhibited the nicotine-induced uPAR expression, while the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580 did not. Expression vectors encoding dominant negative MEK-1 (pMCL-K97M) and JNK (TAM67) also prevented nicotine-induced uPAR promoter activity. The intracellular hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) content was increased by nicotine treatment. The antioxidant N-acetylcysteine prevented nicotine-activated production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and uPAR expression. Furthermore, exogenous H(2)O(2) increased uPAR mRNA expression. Deleted and site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated the involvement of the binding sites of transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) and activator protein (AP)-1 in the nicotine-induced uPAR expression. Studies with expression vectors encoding mutated NF-κB signaling molecules and AP-1 decoy confirmed that NF-κB and AP-1 were essential for the nicotine-stimulated uPAR expression. MAPK (Erk-1/2 and JNK) and ROS functioned as upstream signaling molecules in the activation of AP-1 and NF-κB, respectively. In addition, ECV304 endothelial cells treated with nicotine displayed markedly enhanced invasiveness, which was partially abrogated by uPAR neutralizing antibodies. The data indicate that nicotine induces uPAR expression via the MAPK/AP-1 and ROS/NF-κB signaling pathways and, in turn, stimulates invasiveness in human ECV304 endothelial cells.
Asbestos is known to cause lung diseases in occupationally exposed workers. These properties have restricted its use. Industries have been exploring the possibility of other mineral fibres to replace the asbestos. In this direction, wollastonite has gained great attention owing to its high thermal resistance. In the present paper, the toxicity of three samples of Indian wollastonite was compared to that of chrysotile. Dust suspensions were added to the red blood cell suspensions to obtain a final dust concentration of 1.0-5.0 mg ml-1 in the system. The wollastonite varieties were found to have smaller haemolytic potential in human red blood cells than that of chrysotile in vitro. Chrysotile also was more effective in inducting peroxidative damage of polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) than wollastonites in the present system. The peroxidative damage of PUFA and the haemolysis were both time and dose dependent. A higher value of malonaldehyde (a lipid peroxidation product) formation in low-speed supernatant of haemolysate was observed than in the intact cells. As the free-radical scavengers vitamin E and reduced glutathione prevent haemolysis and lipid peroxidation, these data are consistent with the involvement of lipid peroxidation in the haemolytic process.
Coumarins comprise a broad class of phenolic compounds that influences the formation and scavenging of reactive oxygen species and the processes involving free radical-mediated injury. In light of the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties of esculetin and 4-methylesculetin, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of these compounds in an experimental model of rat colitis induced by trinitrobenzenesulphonic acid (TNBS). For this purpose, macroscopic (diarrhoea, extension of lesion, colonic weight/length ratio and damage score) and biochemical parameters (myeloperoxidase, alkaline phosphatase and glutathione) were evaluated. Our results reveal that these compounds, particularly 4-methylesculetin, may be effective for the treatment of intestinal inflammatory bowel disease. In the acute colitis model, esculetin promoted a reduction in the extension of the lesion accompanied by a reduction in the incidence of diarrhoea and restoration of the glutathione content. Similar effects were produced by the administration of 4-methylesculetin, which also inhibited the myeloperoxidase and alkaline phosphatase activities in the acute intestinal inflammatory process and in the model of colitis relapse. The effect of the esculetin and 4-methylesculetin on the inflammatory process may be related to their antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, as observed in this study. The evidence for better effects of 4-methylesculetin in comparison to those demonstrated by esculetin in both experimental settings could be attributed to the presence of the methyl group at C-4 of 4-methylesculetin.
In order to study the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), and explore therapeutic drug or approaches, the accurate animal model of PD with inexpensive, biocompatible and convenient administration was necessary. The aim of the present work was to investigate a delivery strategy for rotenone microspheres in an animal model of PD. The rotenone microspheres were prepared by solvent evaporation technique. The rotenone microspheres showed high entrapment efficiency (97.4+/-2.2%) with particle size about 100 microm. In vitro release of rotenone microspheres demonstrated different profiles from medium with different pH or concentration of isopropyl alcohol. The most consistent medium with in vivo rotenone levels in rat plasma was PBS (pH 5.8) with 20% isopropyl alcohol, and the cumulated release amount of rotenone over 30 days was 95.4% in it. The rotenone microspheres (9 mg/kg) produced typical PD symptoms in rats, for example, the cataleptic behavior test demonstrated a obviously prolonged descent latency compared with control animals after administration, and the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry tests showed typical histological evidence of selective degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system (striatum and substantia nigra) in rotenone microspheres-treated rats. In addition, this delivery system for rotenone model showed many noticeable advantages such as inexpensive, biocompatible and expedient administration by direct subcutaneous injection. This information suggested that rotenone microspheres as a delivery strategy for setting up an ideal animal model of PD was feasible.
The study compares the i.v. analgesia of tramadol and dipyrone delivered either as continuous infusion or as patient controlled analgesia (PCA).
After approval by the local ethics committee and informed consent 203 patients recovering from abdominal surgery were randomly assigned to pain treatment either by PCA or continuous intravenous infusion. Both groups received the same analgesic drug combination of tramadol (20 mg/ml) and dipyrone (200 mg/ml). The PCA bolus was set to 1 ml, the continuous infusion varied between 0-8 ml/h according to individual needs. Demographic and surgery related data were compared between the treatment groups, as well as pain scores, analgesic consumption and response rates over a 48 hour study period.A patient was assessed as non responder when rescue medication was necessary during the study period or the patient rated analgesia as insufficient during the final interview.
In total,data of 191 patients (infusion-group: 94, PCA-group: 97) could be analyzed. Tramadol consumption was higher in the infusion group compared to the PCA-group (48 hours: 1009.4+/-494.4 vs. 813.0+/-585.3 mg;p<0.001) with no difference in pain scores. In the infusion group, significantly more interventions were necessary to adjust the infusion rate to individual needs (min-max: 1-15 vs. 0-2). The number of non responders amounted to 30 (31.9%) and 18 (18.6%;p=0.03) in the infusion and PCA group, respectively.
PCA with tramadol and dipyrone can be considered an alternative for postoperative pain management and provided a more individualized treatment approach with lower analgesic consumption and more responders compared to a continuous infusion.
We evaluated the effect of alfentanil on hippocampal glucose utilization and histopathology associated with alfentanil-induced seizures. Three separate experiments were performed. First, anesthetized, paralyzed Long-Evans rats (n = 15; 5 rats per group) were mechanically ventilated and randomly assigned to three groups: (a) control, 70% N2O and 30% O2 continued for 1 h; (b) low-dose alfentanil (150 micrograms/kg i.v. bolus), followed by infusion at 15 micrograms.kg-1 x min-1 for 1 h without N2O; or (c) high-dose alfentanil (1000 micrograms/kg i.v. bolus), followed by infusion at 100 micrograms.kg-1 x min-1 for 1 h without N2O. After 1 h, [6-14C]glucose was injected intravenously for autoradiography. With high-dose alfentanil, there was increased glucose utilization in the ventral hippocampus and the lateral septal nucleus. In the second experiment, anesthetized, paralyzed Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 12; 4 rats per group) were mechanically ventilated, underwent insertion of hippocampal depth electrodes, and were randomly assigned to three groups: (a) control, 70% N2O and 30% O2; (b) low-dose alfentanil (150 micrograms/kg i.v. bolus), with 70% N2O and 30% O2; or (c) high-dose alfentanil (1000 micrograms/kg i.v. bolus), with 70% N2O and 30% O2. An epileptiform pattern was observed on hippocampal and subdermal electroencephalographic recordings in both alfentanil groups. In the third experiment, anesthetized, paralyzed Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 20) were mechanically ventilated and assigned to two groups: (a) control, 70% N2O and 30% O2 (n = 5) or 100% O2 (n = 5) continued for 1 h; or (b) alfentanil (2000 micrograms/kg i.v. bolus), followed by infusion at 33.3 micrograms.kg-1 x min-1 for 1 h with 100% O2. After tracheal extubation, the rats recovered overnight. Light-microscopic evaluation revealed hippocampal or amygdaloid damage in 6 of the 10 alfentanil-treated rats. High doses of alfentanil administered to rats can produce limbic system seizure activity with hypermetabolism associated with neuropathologic lesions.
Because mitomycin C reduces the resistance to aqueous outflow normally provided by postoperative subconjunctival fibrosis, we would expect to see more frequent hypotony after trabeculectomy with mitomycin C than after standard trabeculectomy. To evaluate the incidence of hypotony in trabeculectomy with intraoperative mitomycin C use, we performed a retrospective analysis on 52 eyes of 48 patients who underwent trabeculectomy with mitomycin C. Mitomycin C concentration was 0.4 mg/ml in all eyes, and treatment time ranged from 3 1/2 to seven minutes. We defined hypotony as intraocular pressure lower than 5 mm Hg on two examinations at least four weeks apart and six weeks or more postoperatively. Overall, average intraocular pressure was 22.7 +/- 10.7 mm Hg preoperatively and 10.4 +/- 5.0 mm Hg postoperatively (P < .001), a mean reduction in intraocular pressure of 12.3 +/- 11.5 mm Hg (47.0%). Hypotony occurred in 17 of 52 eyes (32.7%). Seven eyes required trabeculectomy revision for hypotony. Hypotonous eyes received longer treatment with mitomycin C intraoperatively, with a mean application time of 5.3 +/- 1.0 minutes for hypotonous eyes and 4.7 +/- 0.8 minutes for nonhypotonous eyes (P = .03). Sixteen of 43 eyes (37.2%) undergoing primary filtration became hypotonous, as compared to one of nine (11.1%) eyes that had previous filtering procedures (chi 2 = 2.30, P = .13). Nine of 17 hypotonous eyes (52.7%) and five of 35 nonhypotonous eyes (14.3%) had loss of two or more lines of Snellen visual acuity. Hypotony occurred in nearly one third of eyes treated with mitomycin C during trabeculectomy in our study. There was a statistically significant (P = .03) association of hypotony with longer application time of mitomycin C, and a trend toward increased incidence of hypotony in primary filtration.
Advanced glycation end products (AGE) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications. The purpose of this study was to examine the novel coumarin-aspirin compound XLF-III-43 in the inhibition of AGE formation in diabetic nephropathy. In vitro analysis showed XLF-III-43 in a dose-dependent manner decreased glucose induced formation of glycation adducts on albumin and inhibited AGE-lysozyme crosslinking. The streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats were used to investigate the beneficial effects of XLF-III-43 treatment on diabetic nephropathy. Administration of XLF-III-43 significantly decreased (P<0.05) blood urea nitrogen and urinary albumin excretion. Moreover, XLF-III-43 ameliorated kidney hypertrophy, mesangial expansion and glomerulosclerosis in diabetic rats relative to untreated model group. These data correlated with decreased both AGE and downstream markers of AGE stress (TGF-beta1, CTGF, fibronectin and collagen IV fibrolysis) in kidneys of diabetic rats. These data support further development of XLF-III-43 for prevention of nephropathy via inhibition of AGE formation consequent to chronic hyperglycemia.
Prevention of cancer remains a primary need and new chemopreventive agents must be developed for this purpose. Towards this goal, a chemoprevention study was conducted to evaluate the activity of resveratrol (Res), a phytoalexin, as an inhibitor of colon carcinogenesis. Wistar male rats were divided into six groups, group 1 were control rats, group 2 were control rats that received Res (8 mg/kg body wt p.o. everyday), rats in groups 3-6 were treated weekly with 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH, 20 mg/kg body wt, s.c. x 15 times). In addition, groups 4, 5 and 6 received Res as in group 2. Modifying effects were assessed using aberrant crypt foci (ACF) and the extent of histopathological lesions as end point markers. At the end of 30 weeks, Res markedly reduced tumor incidence, the degree of histological lesions and also the size of tumors significantly (P < 0.05) as compared with the rats treated with unsupplemented DMH. The number of ACF consisting of more than six aberrant crypts per rat was observed in group 6 (6.2 +/- 1.4), group 5 (7.7 +/- 1.0) and group 4 (8.2 +/- 1.4) which were significantly lower than that of group 3 (22.3 +/- 2.4) (P < 0.05). The most pronounced inhibition of ACF development was noted in rats fed Res for the entire period and also during the post-initiation period. Also, Res administration lowered the number of argyrophilic nucleolar organizing region-associated proteins (AgNORs) per nucleus in non-lesional colonic crypts, which reflects the cell proliferation activity. Oxidative imbalance in DMH-treatment was significantly (P < 0.01) modulated on Res supplementation as indicated by optimal concentration of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and reduced glutathione (GSH). The results of our study suggest Res to be an effective chemopreventive agent, which suppresses DMH-induced colon carcinogenesis at various stages.
The treatment of hypercholesterolemia may be associated with greater noncardiac mortality. This current pilot study sought to determine which behaviors, if any, are associated with decreases in cholesterol level. Twelve subjects received one of two cholesterol-reducing drugs or placebo. Cholesterol and behavioral ratings were measured at baseline, 4, and 52 weeks with standardized scales. Cholesterol levels markedly declined with concomitant significant increases in impulsivity ratings at 4 weeks. At 52 weeks, the increase in impulsivity ratings was no longer apparent, but depression ratings showed a significant improvement. This pilot study, although limited in size, raises the possibility that cholesterol-lowering drugs are associated with mild, time-limited increases in impulsivity and with mild, time-delayed improvements in depression ratings.
