Type II endometrial cancer, which mainly presents as serous and clear cell types, has proved to be the most malignant and recurrent carcinoma among various female genital malignancies. The transcription factor Nrf2 was first described as having chemopreventive activity. Activation of the Nrf2-mediated cellular defense response protects cells against the toxic and carcinogenic effects of environmental insults by upregulating an array of genes that detoxify reactive oxygen species and restore cellular redox homeostasis. However, the cancer-promoting role of Nrf2 has recently been revealed. Nrf2 is constitutively upregulated in several types of human cancer tissues and cancer cell lines. Furthermore, inhibition of Nrf2 expression sensitizes cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs. In this study, the constitutive level of Nrf2 was compared in different types of human endometrial tumors. It was found that Nrf2 was highly expressed in endometrial serous carcinoma (ESC), whereas complex hyperplasia and endometrial endometrioid carcinoma (EEC) had no or marginal expression of Nrf2. Likewise, the ESC-derived SPEC-2 cell line had a higher level of Nrf2 expression and was more resistant to the toxic effects of cisplatin and paclitaxel than the Ishikawa cell line, which was generated from EEC. Silencing of Nrf2 rendered SPEC-2 cells more susceptible to chemotherapeutic drugs, whereas it had a limited effect on Ishikawa cells. Inhibition of Nrf2 expression by overexpressing Keap1 sensitized SPEC-2 cells or SPEC-2-derived xenografts to chemotherapeutic treatments using both cell culture and severe combined immunodeficient mouse models. Collectively, we provide a molecular basis for the use of Nrf2 inhibitors to increase the efficacy of chemotherapeutic drugs and to combat chemoresistance, the biggest obstacle in chemotherapy.
To determine the distribution, extension and severity of injuries produced by the ingestion of caustic substances in the upper gastrointestinal tract, and to assess the relationship of these factors with the type of caustic substance ingested, whether intake was accidental or deliberate and the appearance of strictures or death.
Between 1993 and 1999, 138 patients (74 males and 84 females) who underwent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy in our unit within the first 24 hours after ingestion of caustic substances were included in the study. Mean age was 47 years (14-97 years). The severity of caustic injury was evaluated using the classification of Showkat et al.
The type of caustic substance ingested was as follows: lye in 84 patients (53%), nitric acid in 21 (13%), different caustic mixtures in 43 (27%) and unknown in 10 patients (6%). Lesions were grade I in 51 patients(32%), grade II in 33 (21%) and grade III in 20 (13%). No lesions were seen in 54 patients (34%). Of the 158 patients, gastric injury was found in 91 (57.5%), esophageal burn in 72 (45.5%) and duodenal injury in 28 (18%). Ingestion was accidental in 80 patients (51%) and voluntary in 62 (39%); the reasons for ingestion were unclear in 16 patients (10%). Voluntary ingestion and acid use were associated with greater severity of lesions (p < 0.0005). Eight patients (5.0%) died, 10 patients (6.3%) required emergency surgery, and 7 (4.4%) developed esophageal-gastric strictures that required surgery or endoscopic treatment.
The most common type of caustic substance ingested was lye. In 66% of the patients, lesions were absent or superficial. The more severe injuries, producing strictures and higher mortality, were related to voluntary and nitric acid ingestion. The part of the digestive tract most frequently affected after lye and acid ingestion was the stomach.
We report the clinical spectrum of 3 patients with Parkinson's disease who experienced complex patterns of levodopa-related dystonia. Dystonia was unrelieved by multiple medication regimens but responded well to continuous, duodenal levodopa infusions. Patients were able to remain mobile without severe dystonia despite a very narrow window of benefit between the levodopa concentration necessary to achieve the "on" state and that which caused the onset of dystonic spasms.
We compared the systemic toxicity of bupivacaine, levobupivacaine, and ropivacaine in anesthetized rats. We also compared the ability to resuscitate rats after lethal doses of these local anesthetics. Bupivacaine, levobupivacaine, or ropivacaine was infused at a rate of 2 mg. kg(-1). min(-1) while electrocardiogram, electroencephalogram, and arterial pressure were continuously monitored. When asystole was recorded, drug infusion was stopped and a resuscitation sequence was begun. Epinephrine 0.01 mg/kg was administered at 1-min intervals while external cardiac compressions were applied. Resuscitation was considered successful when a systolic arterial pressure > or =100 mm Hg was achieved within 5 min. The cumulative doses of levobupivacaine and ropivacaine that produced seizures were similar and were larger than those of bupivacaine. The cumulative doses of levobupivacaine that produced dysrhythmias and asystole were smaller than the corresponding doses of ropivacaine, but they were larger than those of bupivacaine. The number of successful resuscitations did not differ among groups. However, a smaller dose of epinephrine was required in the Ropivacaine group than in the other groups. We conclude that the systemic toxicity of levobupivacaine is intermediate between that of ropivacaine and bupivacaine when administered at the same rate and that ropivacaine-induced cardiac arrest appears to be more susceptible to treatment than that induced by bupivacaine or levobupivacaine.
Histone deacetylation and DNA methylation have a central role in the control of gene expression in tumours, including transcriptional repression of tumour suppressor genes and genes involved in sensitivity to chemotherapy. Treatment of cisplatin-resistant cell lines with an inhibitor of DNA methyltransferases, 2-deoxy-5'azacytidine (decitabine), results in partial reversal of DNA methylation, re-expression of epigenetically silenced genes including hMLH1 and sensitisation to cisplatin both in vitro and in vivo. We have investigated whether the combination of decitabine and a clinically relevant inhibitor of histone deacetylase activity (belinostat, PXD101) can further increase the re-expression of genes epigenetically silenced by DNA methylation and enhance chemo-sensitisation in vivo at well-tolerated doses. The cisplatin-resistant human ovarian cell line A2780/cp70 has the hMLH1 gene methylated and is resistant to cisplatin both in vitro and when grown as a xenograft in mice. Treatment of A2780/cp70 with decitabine and belinostat results in a marked increase in expression of epigenetically silenced MLH1 and MAGE-A1 both in vitro and in vivo when compared with decitabine alone. The combination greatly enhanced the effects of decitabine alone on the cisplatin sensitivity of xenografts. As the dose of decitabine that can be given to patients and hence the maximum pharmacodynamic effect as a demethylating agent is limited by toxicity and eventual re-methylation of genes, we suggest that the combination of decitabine and belinostat could have a role in the efficacy of chemotherapy in tumours that have acquired drug resistance due to DNA methylation and gene silencing.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress has been implicated in a variety of cardiovascular diseases. During ER stress, disruption of the complex of protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 15A and catalytic subunit of protein phosphatase 1 by the small molecule guanabenz (antihypertensive, α2-adrenoceptor agonist) and subsequent inhibition of stress-induced dephosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2α (eIF2α) results in prolonged eIF2α phosphorylation, inhibition of protein synthesis and protection from ER stress. In this study we assessed whether guanabenz protects against ER stress in cardiac myocytes and affects the function of 3 dimensional engineered heart tissue (EHT). We utilized neonatal rat cardiac myocytes for the assessment of cell viability and activation of ER stress-signalling pathways and EHT for functional analysis. (i) Tunicamycin induced ER stress as measured by increased mRNA and protein levels of glucose-regulated protein 78 kDa, P-eIF2α, activating transcription factor 4, C/EBP homologous protein, and cell death. (ii) Guanabenz had no measurable effect alone, but antagonized the effects of tunicamycin on ER stress markers. (iii) Tunicamycin and other known inducers of ER stress (hydrogen peroxide, doxorubicin, thapsigargin) induced cardiac myocyte death, and this was antagonized by guanabenz in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. (iv) ER stressors also induced acute or delayed contractile dysfunction in spontaneously beating EHTs and this was, with the notable exception of relaxation deficits under thapsigargin, not significantly affected by guanabenz. The data confirm that guanabenz interferes with ER stress-signalling and has protective effects on cell survival. Data show for the first time that this concept extends to cardiac myocytes. The modest protection in EHTs points to more complex mechanisms of force regulation in intact functional heart muscle.
Arsenic compounds are well-known toxic and carcinogenic agents, and they are widely distributed throughout the earth's crust. These compounds are associated with various human malignancies. It has been reported that there is an elevated risk of bladder cancer in an area highly contaminated with arsenic on the southwest coast of Taiwan. However, the underlying mechanisms of arsenic-associated carcinogenesis are still unclear. The cell cycle regulatory proteins are important indicators in control of cell cycle progression. Moreover, the high expression of Cyclin-D1 and loss of p16 has been associated with a worse prognosis in a variety of human cancers. Therefore, we investigated the effect of arsenic on Cyclin-D1 and p16 expression and evaluated the role of the ERK signaling pathway and DNA methylation in arsenic carcinogenesis. Our study results showed that Cyclin-D1 high expression was found in 56.3% (9/16) of urothelial carcinomas (UC) from a blackfoot disease (BFD) area and 6.3% (1/16) of UC from a non-BFD area (p=0.002). The p16 low expression in 81.2% (13/16) of UC from BFD areas was significantly lower than in non-BFD areas (25.0%; 4/16) (p=0.001). In addition, the Cyclin-D1 increased expression but decreased p16 expression in arsenite-treated SV-HUC-1 cells. However, when cells were pretreated with inhibitors (5-aza-CdR or U0126), the effects of arsenite on Cyclin-D1 and p16 expression were suppressed. Finally, these results indicated that Cyclin-D1 and p16 both might play important roles in carcinogenesis as a result of arsenic.
Increasing evidence from in vivo and in vitro studies has indicated that MT exerts protective effects against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity; however the underlying precise mechanisms still remain an enigma. Therefore, the present study was designed using MT knockout mice in concert with genomic approaches to explore the possible molecular and cellular mechanisms in terms of the genetic network changes. MT-I/II null (MT⁻/⁻) mice and corresponding wild-type mice (MT+/+) were administrated with a single dose of DOX (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or equal volume of saline. Animals were sacrificed on the 4th day after DOX administration and samples were collected for further analyses. Global gene expression profiles of cardiac mRNA from two genotype mice revealed that 381 characteristically MT-responsive genes were identified between MT+/+ mice and MT⁻/⁻ mice in response to DOX, including fos, ucp3, car3, atf3, map3k6, etc. Functional analysis implied MAPK signaling pathway, p53 signaling pathway, Jak-STAT signaling pathway, PPAR signaling pathway, Wnt signaling pathway, etc. might be involved to mediate the protection of DOX cardiomyopathy by MT. Results from the present study not only validated the previously reported possible mechanisms of MT protection against DOX toxicity, but also provided new clues into the molecular mechanisms involved in this process.
Fluorinated and non-fluorinated valproic acid (VPA) analogues with hydroxamic acid moieties were tested for their teratogenic, anticonvulsant and neurotoxic potencies in mice.
Compounds were synthesized from their corresponding acids. The induction of neural tube defects (exencephaly) of the resulting hydroxamates (applied on day 8.25 of gestation) was tested in the offspring of pregnant animals (Han:NMRI mice). The anticonvulsant activity was evaluated in the subcutaneous pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) seizure threshold test and neurotoxicity in the rotorod neurotoxicity test.
All tested hydroxamates showed no or greatly reduced teratogenic potency in mice compared to the free acids. Furthermore all compounds exhibited anticonvulsant activity with ED(50) doses ranging from 0.16 mmol/kg to 0.59 mmol/kg (VPA 0.57 mmol/kg). Neurotoxicity of the hydroxamates was increased compared to VPA. TD(50) doses range from 0.70 mmol/kg to 1.42 mmol/kg (VPA 1.83 mmol/kg).
Hydroxamic acid derivatives of VPA with improved protective index and little or undetectable teratogenic potency compared to the free acids are described. alpha-fluorination of VPA also resulted in loss of teratogenic activity. Such fluorination of the hydroxamic acids also led to compounds with an improved anticonvulsant profile compared to non-fluorinated hydroxamates. The non-chiral 2-Fluoro-VPA-hydroxamic acid was the most promising compound with a protective index (ratio of TD(50) to ED(50)) of 4.4 compared to 3.2 for VPA. This compound combines an improved ratio of anticonvulsant potency/neurotoxicity with the advantage of not being teratogenic in the mouse neural tube defect model used.
Disulfiram is a dithiocarbamate drug used for alcohol aversion therapy that produces a distal sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy in certain individuals. Because carbon disulfide, a disulfiram metabolite, produces a peripheral neuropathy clinically similar to disulfiram, it has been postulated that disulfiram neuropathy results from CS2 release in vivo. The current study evaluated the morphological changes produced by disulfiram and the contribution of CS2-mediated protein cross-linking to disulfiram-induced neuropathy. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered 1% w/w disulfiram in their feed for 2, 4, 5, or 7 wk, and erythrocyte spectrin, hemoglobin, and neurofilament preparations were isolated and the extent of cross-linking assessed by SDS-PAGE, RP-HPLC, and Western blotting, respectively. Spinal cord and peripheral nerve sections were obtained from separate treated animals and assessed by light and electron microscopy. Significant protein cross-linking was only detected in neurofilament preparations obtained after 7 wk of exposure. Morphological changes were observed after 4 wk exposure and consisted of vacuoles within the Schwann cell cytoplasm and segmental demyelination. No neurofilamentous axonal swellings were detected and no significant changes were observed in the CNS. Because disulfiram neuropathy lacks both the morphological changes and intermolecular cross-linking characteristic of CS2, we conclude that disulfiram neuropathy is not mediated by the axonal toxicant CS2; instead, disulfiram appears to be a primary Schwann cell toxicant. Recognition of a diethylcarbamoyl adduct on globin and axonal proteins presents a novel putative neurotoxic mechanism for disulfiram.
Glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) deficiency syndrome is caused by a deficit in glucose transport to the brain during the pre- and postnatal periods. Here, we report two cases of GLUT1 deficiency syndrome diagnosed on the basis of clinical features, reduced GLUT1 activities, and mutations in the GLUT1 gene. Patient 1 had a novel heterozygous 1bp insertion in exon 7 that resulted in a shift of the reading frame and the introduction of a premature stop codon at amino acid position 380. His clinical phenotype appeared to be more severe than that of Patient 2 who had a missense mutation in exon 8 resulting in an arginine-to-tryptophan substitution at amino acid position 333. Patient 1 had no meaningful words and could not walk unassisted, while Patient 2 could speak and walk unassisted. Both the patients developed seizures of various types that have been successfully treated with zonisamide. Although several antiepileptic drugs, including barbiturates, diazepam, chloralhydrate, and valproic acid, have been shown to inhibit GLUT1 function, the present study demonstrated no inhibitory effect of zonisamide on GLUT1-mediated glucose transport. Our data suggested that zonisamide might be preferable if add-on anticonvulsant therapy is required to control the seizures in patients with this disorder.
Naloxone [0.4 mg iv.] increased blood pressure and heart rate of 13 clonidine-treated [0.3 mg per os for 3 days] patients with essential hypertension [reacting group] while it has no such effect in 11 clonidine-treated patients [non-reacting gr.] Clonidine increased plasma beta-endorphin concentration of the reacting patients by 17.53 +/- 1.68 pM/1 and in the non-reacting ones by 5.91 +/- 0.88 pM/1. Significant linear correlation was found between the clonidine-induced increase in plasma beta-endorphin level and the naloxone-induced change in mean blood pressure [r = 0.9572, n:24, p less than 0.001]. In another group of 8 patients clonidine [0.15 mg iv.] decreased mean blood pressure but naloxone, 30 min after the clonidine injection, did not reverse the clonidine hypotension. We suggest that beta-endorphin, released by chr. clonidine therapy, contributes to the anti-hypertensive effect only in the reacting group.
The authors report an acute cerebral and cerebellar syndrome in a patient treated with high-dose cytarabine. Diffuse high-intensity lesions in the central white matter on T2-weighted MR completely reversed with resolution of the clinical syndrome. Although the autopsy revealed cerebellar injury, the cerebral cortex was grossly and microscopically normal, consistent with a reversible process.
The problem of a possible interaction between amiodarone and digoxin is still unsettled. We have recently treated two patients with digoxin intoxication who had received amiodarone for eight and 36 months respectively. Both developed extreme bradycardia requiring temporary pacemakers. The presence of hypothyroidism was confirmed in both cases by laboratory data. Judging by present knowledge concerning the interaction between amiodarone, thyroid function, and digoxin, it is suggested that digoxin intoxication was not the result of its direct interaction with amiodarone. The possibility that amiodarone-induced hypothyroidism precipitated digoxin intoxication seems to be more plausible. Prevention of digitalis toxicity in amiodarone-treated patients would therefore require monitoring of thyroid function every three to six months. Frequent monitoring of digitalis blood levels is also indicated in patients with amiodarone associated hypothyroidism. Early detection of hypothyroidism and digitalis intoxication is necessary in view of the severity of the course of the disease.
We demonstrated the clinical effectiveness of combination therapy with Busulfan and Bestatin in 13 patients with Philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukemia, including 9 in chronic phase and 4 in acute phase. Sequential cytogenetic studies and molecular analysis of the breakpoint cluster regions were performed every 2 months. Complete hematologic remissions were observed in all 13 patients. Five minor cytogenetic responses, 2 partial cytogenetic remissions and 2 complete cytogenetic remissions were observed. All of the 4 patients in early chronic phase achieved cytogenetic remission and in 3 of them there was a complete disappearance of rearranged restrictive fragments of the bcr gene. In contrast, 4 of the 5 patients in late chronic phase failed to achieve cytogenetic remission and only 1 achieved minor cytogenetic response, suggesting excellent effects, particularly in patients with early disease. It is clear from this pilot study that combining Bestatin with Busulfan is an effective way to reduce or eliminate Ph1 positive clone and to maintain this status.
Endotoxemia causes hypotension characterized by vasodilation and resistance to vasopressor agents. The molecular mechanisms responsible for these changes are unclear. The ATP-regulated K+ (K+ATP) channel has recently been found to be an important modulator of vascular smooth muscle tone which may transduce local metabolic changes into alterations of vascular flow. We report here that in endotoxic hypotension, the sulfonylurea glyburide, a specific inhibitor for the K+ATP channel, caused vasoconstriction and restoration of blood pressure. Glyburide also induced vasoconstriction and restoration of blood pressure in the vasodilatory hypotension caused by hypoxic lactic acidosis, while it was ineffective in the hypotension induced by sodium nitroprusside. Thus, vasodilation and hypotension in septic shock are, at least in part, due to activation of the K+ATP channel in vascular smooth muscle, and anaerobic metabolism with acidosis is a sufficient stimulus for channel activation. Because anaerobic metabolism and acidosis are common features in shock of any etiology, sulfonylureas may be effective therapeutic agents in the treatment of shock.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease characterized by a progressive loss of dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra. Accumulating evidence indicates that inhibition of microglia-mediated neuroinflammation may become a reliable protective strategy for PD. Resveratrol, a nonflavonoid polyphenol naturally found in red wine and grapes, has been known to possess antioxidant, anticancer, and anti-inflammatory properties. Although recent studies have shown that resveratrol provided neuroprotective effects against ischemia, seizure, and neurodegenerative disorders, the mechanisms underlying its beneficial effects on dopaminergic neurodegeneration are poorly defined. In this study, rat primary midbrain neuron-glia cultures were used to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying resveratrol-mediated neuroprotection. The results clearly demonstrated that resveratrol protected DA neurons against lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced neurotoxicity in concentration- and time-dependent manners through the inhibition of microglial activation and the subsequent reduction of proinflammatory factor release. Mechanistically, resveratrol-mediated neuroprotection was attributed to the inhibition of NADPH oxidase. This conclusion is supported by the following observations. First, resveratrol reduced NADPH oxidase-mediated generation of reactive oxygen species. Second, LPS-induced translocation of NADPH oxidase cytosolic subunit p47 to the cell membrane was significantly attenuated by resveratrol. Third and most importantly, resveratrol failed to exhibit neuroprotection in cultures from NADPH oxidase-deficient mice. Furthermore, this neuroprotection was also related to an attenuation of the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases and nuclear factor-kappaB signaling pathways in microglia. These findings suggest that resveratrol exerts neuroprotection against LPS-induced dopaminergic neurodegeneration, and NADPH oxidase may be a major player in resveratrol-mediated neuroprotection.
Previous studies demonstrated that leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRAs) are effective in reducing asthma symptoms and the airway response to inhaled leukotriene D4 (LTD4) in asthmatic patients receiving inhaled beta2-agonists alone.
To investigate the efficacy of a single 20-mg dose of the oral LTRA zafirlukast in reducing the airway response to inhaled LTD4 in mild-to-moderate asthmatic patients receiving inhaled beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
In this double-blind, crossover trial, six patients on maintenance ICS (median dose 800 microg/day; range 336 to 1600 microg/day), who had a 20% decrease in FEV1 following inhalation of a maximal concentration of 50 microg/mL LTD4, received either zafirlukast or placebo on each of two study days. Two hours after dosing, patients underwent bronchoprovocation challenges with increasing concentrations of LTD4 (0.1 to 1000 microg/mL) at 10-minute intervals until either the patient's FEV1 decreased by 20% or the maximum concentration of LTD4 was given. Spirometric tests were done just before (baseline) and throughout the challenge phase until the patient's FEV1 returned to within 5% of baseline. Blood samples were collected two hours after dosing to determine plasma concentrations of zafirlukast.
Compared with placebo, zafirlukast produced a 1.82-unit increase in logPC20FEV1 and a 1.88-unit increase in logPD20FEV1, representing a 66-fold higher concentration and a 76-fold higher dose of LTD4, respectively, to produce a 20% decrease in FEV1 (P < .001). Mean time to recovery after challenge was 36.7 versus 51.7 minutes when patients received zafirlukast and placebo, respectively. No correlation between clinical effects and plasma drug levels was observed.
This trial demonstrated that asthmatic patients on maintenance ICS can respond to exogenously administered LTD4 and that zafirlukast reduced the airway response to LTD4 in these patients.
Cyclosporine A (CsA) nephrotoxicity is a nonimmunologic factor of chronic allograft dysfunction (CAD) in kidney transplant recipients. Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) may allow CsA dosage reduction or even complete withdrawal in selected populations with CsA nephrotoxicity or CAD. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of CsA withdrawal after azathioprine (AZA)-MMF conversion in a population of stable renal transplant recipients.
Twenty-eight first cadaver kidney recipients were included. AZA was then discontinued, MMF was introduced and after 4 months CsA was completely withdrawn. All patients underwent inuline clearance measurement and renal biopsy at inclusion and at the end of the follow-up (40 wk).
CsA was completely discontinued in 20 patients. No patient lost his graft during the study period, but 1 patient experienced a reversible acute rejection episode. Inuline clearance improved significantly in the whole series. At the end of follow-up, histological worsening was observed in 50% of patients without any specific risk factor. In these patients, inuline clearance did not improve. Systolic blood pressure, the need for anti-hypertensive drugs and HDL cholesterol improved.
In stable kidney transplant recipients, CsA withdrawal after AZA replacement by MMF switch was safe with regard to acute rejection. It improved blood pressure and the lipid profile, but, in 50% of patients was associated with histologic deterioration.
1. We have previously shown that salbutamol induced hypokalaemia, like adrenaline induced hypokalaemia, is the result of stimulation of a membrane bound beta 2-adrenoreceptor linked to Na+/K+ ATPase. We have also demonstrated that adrenaline induced hypokalaemia is potentiated by therapeutic concentrations of theophylline. 2. In a single-blind study of 14 normal volunteers, we infused salbutamol in doses used in clinical practice and examined the effects of the addition of theophylline alone or combined with (-)-adrenaline on plasma potassium levels, heart rate and blood pressure. The combinations studied were (i) salbutamol + vehicle control adrenaline infusion + placebo theophylline; (ii) salbutamol + vehicle control adrenaline infusion + theophylline; (iii) salbutamol + adrenaline + theophylline. 3. In a randomised, balanced placebo controlled design oral slow release theophylline or placebo was given for 9 days. Subjects were studied twice on the active limb (days 7 and 9) and once on the placebo limb (day 9) and the procedure was identical on each of the 3 study days except for the solutions administered. 4. Theophylline increased salbutamol induced hypokalaemia and in some individuals profound hypokalaemia (less than 2.5 mmol l-1) was observed with these relatively low doses of salbutamol and theophylline. Adrenaline did not further increase the magnitude of the fall in potassium observed. Combining theophylline with salbutamol increased the tachycardia resulting from the salbutamol infusion. Salbutamol infusion caused a fall in diastolic and rise in systolic blood pressure on all 3 study days and this was not altered by either theophylline or adrenaline alone or together.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
ErbB2 and cyclin D1 are interacting oncogenes that are particularly important in breast cancer. We demonstrated previously synergy between two drugs that separately address each oncogene, trastuzumab and flavopiridol. Here we examine the cellular basis for this interaction. Although both drugs are thought to alter cell cycle progression, the combination of trastuzumab and flavopiridol had little effect on G(1) progression or retinoblastoma protein phosphorylation. Instead, trastuzumab-flavopiridol synergistically enhanced apoptosis. Recent data have suggested that transcription elongation mediated by Cdk9 in P-TEFb is a more sensitive flavopiridol target than Cdk4. Supporting this view, we found synergy between 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole riboside and trastuzumab, but not between inhibitors of Cdk4 and trastuzumab. Similarly, a signature set of mRNAs that included the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) responded to the combination of trastuzumab-flavopiridol in a gene expression array analysis. Three lines of evidence confirmed the EGFR is a potential target of flavopiridol-trastuzumab synergy: (a) EGFR protein expression was rapidly and completely lost after combination treatment; (b) a cell line that expresses amplified levels of both erbB2 and the EGFR was resistant to the combined drugs; and (c) treatment with epidermal growth factor prevented any therapeutic effects of flavopiridol and trastuzumab, singly or in combination. Taken together, our results suggest that synergy between flavopiridol and trastuzumab can result from enhanced apoptosis, and that combination effects on EGFR expression are involved in the interaction.
Cadmium is an omnipotent environmental contaminant associated with the development of breast cancer. Studies suggest that cadmium functions as an endocrine disruptor, mimicking the actions of estrogen in breast cancer cells and activating the receptor to promote cell growth. Although acute cadmium exposure is known to promote estrogen receptor-mediated gene expression associated with growth, the consequence of chronic cadmium exposure is unclear. Since heavy metals are known to bioaccumulate, it is necessary to understand the effects of prolonged cadmium exposure. This study aims to investigate the effects of chronic cadmium exposure on breast cancer progression. A MCF7 breast cancer cell line chronically exposed to 10(-7) M CdCl2 serves as our model system. Data suggest that prolonged cadmium exposures result in the development of more aggressive cancer phenotypes - increased cell growth, migration and invasion. The results from this study show for the first time that chronic cadmium exposure stimulates the expression of SDF-1 by altering the molecular interactions between ERα, c-jun and c-fos. This study provides a mechanistic link between chronic cadmium exposure and ERα and demonstrates that prolonged, low-level cadmium exposure contributes to breast cancer progression.
A capacitance sensor which detects vibrations caused by the movements of animals can be used for measuring automatically the clonic convulsions induced by chemical convulsants. This knowledge has been utilized to devise an instrument which has satisfactorily measured the clonic convulsions induced by picrotoxin in rats.
The efficacy of 6 wk of therapy with oral ICI 204,219, a selective leukotriene D4 (LTD4) receptor antagonist, was evaluated in subjects with moderate asthma during a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study. Subjects who entered the trial had been chronically treated for asthma with beta agonist alone or in combination with theophylline. Subjects were randomized to treatment with twice daily doses of ICI 204,219 (5, 10, or 20 mg) or placebo if they had an FEV1 between 40 and 75% of predicted values without bronchodilator therapy and a daytime asthma score > 10 (range 0 to 21 per wk) for 7 consecutive d. Efficacy was evaluated from the results of symptom assessments, pulmonary function tests, and rescue medication use. Of 276 subjects randomized to treatment, 266 (10 mg, n = 66; 20 mg, n = 67; 40 mg, n = 67; placebo, n = 66) were analyzed for efficacy. Diary card assessments showed that treatment with increasing doses of ICI 204,219 linearly improved five efficacy criteria without increasing the number or severity of adverse events. The 40 mg dose was more effective than placebo (p < 0.05) in reducing nighttime awakenings, first morning asthma symptoms, the daytime asthma score, and albuterol use and in increasing evening peak expiratory flow (PEF) rates as well as FEV1. Compared with baseline measurements, the 40 mg dose decreased awakenings by 46%, albuterol use by 30%, and daytime symptoms by 26% and increased FEV1 by 11%. ICI 204,219 improves objective and subjective measures of asthma severity in moderately ill asthmatic subjects and may provide a new treatment option for the disease.
