Intravenous injection of three doses of 50 mg Fe/kg (total dose 150 mg Fe/kg) as iron dextran into rabbits late in pregnancy (days 26, 28, and 30 of gestation) reduced the weight gain of the dams and increased fetal mortality. Three doses of 20 mg Fe/kg also increased fetal mortality, while three doses of 5 mg Fe/kg were without effect. Liver and kidney iron concentrations of the dams and offspring were markedly increased at the time of parturition by treatment with a total dose of 150 mg Fe/kg. At 6 weeks after birth the liver and kidney iron concentrations of offspring from treated dams were comparable to those from control dams. The liver and kidney iron concentrations of the treated dams were significantly reduced from the levels found immediately post-partum. In the rat, four i.v. doses of 200 mg Fe/kg as iron dextran on days 17, 18, 19, and 20 of gestation (total dose 800 mg Fe/kg) produced tremors, reduced body weight gain, and reduced food consumption in the dams. The growth and survival of the offspring were adversely influenced by these effects on the dam. The liver iron concentration in offspring of rats treated with 800 and 400 mg Fe/kg was increased at parturition, but had returned to normal at 4 weeks of age. No iron-induced pathology was evident in the offspring of either rabbits or rats after 14 and 18 weeks, respectively.
Colesevelam hydrochloride is a novel, potent, non-absorbed lipid-lowering agent previously shown to reduce low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. To examine the efficacy and safety of coadministration of colesevelam and atorvastatin, administration of these agents alone or in combination was examined in a double-blind study of 94 hypercholesterolemic men and women (baseline LDL cholesterol > or =160 mg/dl). After 4 weeks on the American Heart Association Step I diet, patients were randomized among five groups: placebo; colesevelam 3.8 g/day; atorvastatin 10 mg/day; coadminstered colesevelam 3.8 g/day plus atorvastatin 10 mg/day; or atorvastatin 80 mg/day. Fasting lipids were measured at screening, baseline and 2 and 4 weeks of treatment. LDL cholesterol decreased by 12-53% in all active treatment groups (P<0.01). LDL cholesterol reductions with combination therapy (48%) were statistically superior to colesevelam (12%) or low-dose atorvastatin (38%) alone (P<0.01), but similar to those achieved with atorvastatin 80 mg/day (53%). Total cholesterol decreased 6-39% in all active treatment groups (P<0.05). High density lipoprotein cholesterol increased significantly for all groups including placebo (P<0.05). Triglycerides decreased in patients taking atorvastatin alone (P<0.05), but were unaffected by colesevelam alone or in combination. The frequency of side effects did not differ among groups. At recommended starting doses of each agent, coadministration of colesevelam and atorvastatin was well tolerated, efficacious and produced additive LDL cholesterol reductions comparable to those observed with the maximum atorvastatin dose.
Hyperlipidemia is frequently developed following renal transplantation and results in worsening of the patient's prognosis. In study 1, the effects of immunosuppressants, cyclosporine (CsA) and tacrolimus on serum lipids were compared in-patients undergoing renal transplantation. The study included 32 cases of renal transplantation recipients who randomized to the CsA treatment group (15 patients) and the tacrolimus group (17 patients). Before and 1 month after the transplantation, we assessed the serum lipid levels, apolipoprotein levels, the concentrations of cholesterol in the respective lipoprotein fractions and the enzyme activities related to lipid-metabolism. The serum lipid levels in both groups were significantly increased at 1 month after renal transplantation. In the CsA group, there were significant increases in cholesterol contents in very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), LDL2 and HDL2 fractions, whereas, in the tacrolimus group, cholesterol content was increased in VLDL and HDL2 fractions. In study 2, 1 month after renal transplantation, 19 patients with hypercholesterolemia (total cholesterol (TC) >200 mg/dl) and hypertriglyceridemia (triglyceride (TG) >150 mg/dl) were treated with simvastatin 5-10 mg/day for 6 months. Simvastatin treatment significantly decreased serum TC (240+/-29-200+/-22 mg/dl, P<0.001), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C; 114+/-20-99+/-17 mg/dl, P<0.05) and TG levels (217+/-103-130+/-38 mg/dl, P<0.01). In addition, there were significant decreases in very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-C; 53+/-20-34+/-15 mg/dl, P<0.001). The Cmax and AUC of simvastatin were increased about eight-fold, when simvastatin was given in combination with CsA. In contrast, no significant changes in simvastatin levels were observed when combination with tacrolimus. Although simvastatin levels were increased with CsA, there were no abnormal changes in renal and liver functions, creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) levels or in incidence of adverse effects.
Myrtenal is a novel class of compound belongs to monoterpenes found predominantly in mint, pepper, etc., and it was shown to have excellent pharmacological activities against many diseases among which cancer is imperative. Hepatocellular carcinoma is a primary malignancy of the hepatocytes, which rapidly leads to death in short periods. The aim of this study was to investigate the possible therapeutic efficiency of myrtenal against diethylnitrosamine-induced experimental hepatocarcinogenesis by analyzing the key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism, lysosomal and mitochondrial TCA cycle enzymes, and also the possible role of tumor suppressor protein p53, and scanning electron microscopic studies. The results revealed that myrtenal significantly ameliorated the altered enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism, lysosomal and mitochondrial enzymes, and interestingly the tumor suppressor protein p53 was found to be significantly accumulated in myrtenal-treated animals, which inevitably confirms that myrtenal has a prominent role in preventing the liver cancer during treatment. Furthermore, the antineoplastic property was well evidenced by the mRNA expression of p53 protein by the reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and immunoblot analysis. The observed anticancer property of myrtenal may be due to the involvement and expression of p53 and influence in the mitochondrial and lysosomal membrane integrity and also interference in the gluconeogenesis process of cancer cells. Our results suggest that myrtenal is very efficient and useful compound in the treatment of liver cancer in future.
The aim of this investigation carried out with guinea pigs was to study the possible effects of a gentamicin treatment on the saccular macula and on its afferent vestibular ganglion neurons.
The gentamicin-induced impairment was analyzed using vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials (VEMPs) elicited by both click and galvanic vestibular stimulations (GVS). Fifty microl of saline or gentamicin solution (40 mg/ml) was dropped over the round window membrane of the right (control) and left (lesion) cochleae, respectively. Four weeks after surgery, the VEMPs elicited with clicks and GVS were evaluated for each animal. Then, the animals were sacrificed in order to perform morphological and anti-Nav1.8 immunocytochemical analyses.
Click- and GVS-VEMPs were obtained in all of the controls, whereas no potentials were obtained from gentamicin-treated animals. Lesions of sensory cells were observed in the saccular macula. In the injured vestibular ganglion, the percentage of voltage-gated sodium channel Nav1.8-like immunoreactive (Nav1.8-LI) neurons was significantly lower (38.9+/-0.7) than that (53.6+/-3.2) calculated in controls.
Gentamicin-induced impairments of the saccular macula and afferents of guinea pigs can be evaluated by recording both click- and GVS-VEMPs. Both tests provide information on the sacculo-collic reflex pathway and could help a clinical diagnosis of gentamicin intoxication by conventional eardrops in the patient with a perforated eardrum.
Epidemiological, animal, and cell studies have demonstrated that nickel compounds are human carcinogens. The mechanisms of their carcinogenic actions remain to be investigated. p63, a close homologue of the p53 tumor suppressor protein, has been linked to cell fate determination and/or maintenance of self-renewing populations in several epithelial tissues, including skin, mammary gland, and prostate. ΔNp63, a dominant negative isoform of p63, is amplified in a variety of epithelial tumors including squamous cell carcinomas and carcinomas of the prostate and mammary glands. The present study shows that nickel suppressed ΔNp63 expression in a short-time treatment (up to 48 h). Nickel treatment caused activation of NF-κB. Blockage of NF-κB partially reversed nickel-induced ΔNp63 suppression. Nickel decreased interferon regulatory factor (IRF) 3 and IRF7, IKKε, and Sp100. Over-expression of IRF3 increased ΔNp63 expression suppressed by nickel. Nickel was able to activate p21, and its activation was offset by the over-expression of ΔNp63. In turn, elevated p63 expression counteracted the ability of nickel to restrict cell growth. The present study demonstrated that nickel decreased interferon regulatory proteins IRF3 and IRF7, and activated NF-κB, resulting in ΔNp63 suppression and then p21 up-regulation. ΔNp63 plays an important role in nickel-induced cell proliferation.
Aripiprazole is a dopamine D2 receptor partial agonist with partial agonist activity at serotonin 5HT1A receptors and antagonist activity at 5HT2A receptors. This multicenter trial examined the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of aripiprazole in patients with acute exacerbation of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.
In this 4-week double-blind study, 404 patients were randomized to 20 mg/d (n = 101) or 30 mg/d (n = 101) of aripiprazole, placebo (n = 103), or 6 mg/d of risperidone (n = 99). Efficacy assessments included Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) scores and Clinical Global Impression scores. Safety and tolerability evaluations included extrapyramidal symptoms and effects on weight, prolactin, and corrected QT (QTc) interval.
Aripiprazole (20 and 30 mg/d) and risperidone (6 mg/d) were significantly better than placebo on all efficacy measures. Separation from placebo occurred at week 1 for PANSS total and positive scores with aripiprazole and risperidone and for PANSS negative scores with aripiprazole. There were no significant differences between aripiprazole and placebo in mean change from baseline in the extrapyramidal symptom rating scales. Mean prolactin levels decreased with aripiprazole but significantly increased 5-fold with risperidone. Mean change in QTc interval did not differ significantly from placebo with any active treatment group. Aripiprazole and risperidone groups showed a similar low incidence of clinically significant weight gain.
Aripiprazole is effective, safe, and well tolerated for the positive and negative symptoms in schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder. It is the first non-D2 receptor antagonist with clear antipsychotic effects and represents a novel treatment development for psychotic disorders.
To assess the optimum light energy needed to induce only superficial bladder wall damage during photodynamic therapy (PDT) as a treatment for bladder cancer. Materials and methods The urinary bladder (with normal epithelium) of 64 female rats was treated with PDT using a continuous-wave argon-ion laser as an energy source and aminolaevulinic acid (ALA)-induced protoporphyrin IX photosensitizer. Four hours after the intravenous administration of ALA (300 mg/kg) the bladders were intravesically exposed to light fluences of 20-80 J/cm2. The control rats received no ALA and were exposed to 20 J/cm2 light. After 1, 3, 7 and 21 days the animals were killed and the morphological changes in bladder wall analysed both macroscopically and using light and scanning electron microscopy.
At the dose of ALA given, a fluence of 20-40 J/cm2 caused mainly superficial damage, whereas 80 J/cm2 produced full-thickness injuries to the bladder wall. The maximum effect of PDT occurred after 1 and 3 days of irradiation. After 3 weeks of PDT the histology showed few full-thickness injuries and only in those treated with 80 J/cm2 light.
These results indicate that PDT can be used to safely induce a selective superficial removal of bladder mucosa with no fibrotic effects on detrusor musculature, when optimum photosensitizing drug and fluences are used. These findings support the use of PDT in the therapy of superficial bladder cancer.
Zellweger syndrome spectrum disorders are caused by mutations in any of at least 12 different PEX genes. This includes PEX16, which encodes an integral peroxisomal membrane protein involved in peroxisomal membrane assembly. PEX16-defective patients have been reported to have a severe clinical presentation. Fibroblasts from these patients displayed a defect in the import of peroxisomal matrix and membrane proteins, resulting in a total absence of peroxisomal remnants.
To report on six patients with an unexpected mild variant peroxisome biogenesis disorder due to mutations in the PEX16 gene. Patients presented in the preschool years with progressive spastic paraparesis and ataxia (with a characteristic pattern of progressive leucodystrophy and brain atrophy on MRI scan) and later developed cataracts and peripheral neuropathy. Surprisingly, their fibroblasts showed enlarged, import-competent peroxisomes.
Plasma analysis revealed biochemical abnormalities suggesting a peroxisomal disorder. Biochemical variables in fibroblasts were only mildly abnormal or within the normal range. Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed the presence of import-competent peroxisomes, which were increased in size but reduced in number. Subsequent sequencing of all known PEX genes revealed five novel apparent homozygous mutations in the PEX16 gene.
An unusual variant peroxisome biogenesis disorder caused by mutations in the PEX16 gene, with a relatively mild clinical phenotype and an unexpected phenotype in fibroblasts, was identified. Although PEX16 is involved in peroxisomal membrane assembly, PEX16 defects can present with enlarged import-competent peroxisomes in fibroblasts. This is important for future diagnostics of patients with a peroxisomal disorder.
Long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease with levodopa is complicated by the emergence of involuntary movements, known as levodopa-induced dyskinesia. It has been hypothesized that increased opioid transmission in striatal output pathways may be responsible for the generation of dyskinesia. In this study, we have investigated the effect of blockade of opioid peptide transmission on levodopa-induced dyskinesia in a primate model of Parkinson's disease-the MPTP-lesioned marmoset. Coadministration of nonselective and mu- or delta-subtype-selective opioid receptor antagonists with levodopa resulted in a significant decrease in dyskinesia. There was no attenuation of the anti-parkinsonian actions of levodopa. These data suggest that specific mu- or delta-opioid receptor antagonists might be applicable clinically in the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.
Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome is a newly characterised and increasingly recognized clinico-radiologic syndrome. Underlying conditions that reportedly trigger this syndrome include hypertensive encephalopathy, eclampsia, renal failure, and immunosuppressive drug therapy with cyclosporine, tacrolimus and interferon alpha. We describe a 51-year-old woman with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with conventional CHOP chemotherapy. Eight days after this treatment she developed severe headache, bilateral visual loss and focal seizures with secondary generalization. Neurologic examination showed confusion, cortical blindness, and left hemiparesis with hyperreflexia and sensory loss. A cranial T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging revealed increased signal intensity in the occipital and frontal lobes in both hemispheres and right parietal lobe. A diagnosis of reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy was made. She presented a favourable outcome with conservative treatment with mannitol and phenytoin. A new cranial scanning showed nearly complete resolution of the abnormalities. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy in a patient treated with standard-dose CHOP. In this patient, we confirm the theoretical pathophysiologic mechanisms suggested explaining how these drugs can cause the syndrome.
We report mefenamic acid-induced non-oliguric renal failure and severe neutropenia occurring simultaneously in two elderly females. The neutropenia was due to maturation arrest of the myeloid series in one patient. Both patients were also hypothyroid, but it is not clear whether this was a predisposing factor to the development of these adverse reactions. However, it would seem prudent not to use mefenamic acid in hypothyroid patients until the hypothyroidism has been corrected.
Ticlopidine is a new prototype antiplatelet drug chemically unrelated to currently available agents. It causes an alteration in platelet membrane reactivity to a variety of aggregating stimuli and a marked prolongation of bleeding time, the mechanism of which remains unclear. Two major phase III multicenter trials, the ticlopidine-aspirin stroke study (TASS) and the Canadian-American ticlopidine study (CATS) reported that the agent may reduce the occurrence of stroke, myocardial infarction, or vascular death in patients of both sexes who have had recent cerebral ischemia. Ticlopidine has been well tolerated in preliminary studies, with the most commonly described adverse effects being rash and gastrointestinal complaints. The most important adverse effect is neutropenia, which was reported in both TASS and CATS, approximating a frequency of 0.9% and 0.8%, respectively. Ticlopidine holds considerable promise as adjunctive therapy in selected patients.
In the present work, we characterize the inflammatory process induced by the topical application of cinnamaldehyde on the skin of mice and verify the participation of transient receptor potential A1 TRPA1 receptors in this process.
We measured mouse ear edema and sensitization/desensitization after topical application of cinnamaldehyde or/and capsaicin. We also quantified cellular infiltration through myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and histological and immunohistochemical analyses and evaluated the expression of TRPV1 and TRPA1 by western blot.
Cinnamaldehyde induced ear edema in mice (1-6μg/ear) with a maximum effect of 4μg/ear. Cinnamaldehyde promoted leukocyte infiltration as detected by increasing MPO activity and confirmed by histological analyses. The edema and cellular infiltration evoked by the application of 4μg/ear of cinnamaldehyde were prevented by topical application of ruthenium red, a non-selective TRP antagonist as well as camphor and HC030031, two TRPA1 receptor antagonists. Cinnamaldehyde-induced edema, but not cellular infiltration, was prevented by topical application of the tachykinin NK1 antagonist, aprepitant, indicating a neuropeptide release phenomenon in this process. Additionally, we observed that repeated topical applications of cinnamaldehyde did not induce changes in sensitization or desensitization with respect to the edema response. Interestingly, repeated treatment with the TRPV1 agonist, capsaicin, abrogated it edematogenic response, confirming the desensitization process and partially decreasing the cinnamaldehyde-induced edema, suggesting the involvement of capsaicin-sensitive fibers.
Our data demonstrate that the topical application of cinnamaldehyde produces an inflammatory response that is dependent on TRPA1 receptor stimulation.
Fully developed cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis is characterized by nearly complete detachment of the urothelium, severe submucosal edema owing to damage to the microvascular bed and focal muscle necroses. The initial response to the primary attack by the cyclophosphamide metabolites seems to be fragmentation of the luminal membrane. This damages the cellular barrier against the hypertonic urine. Subsequent breaks in the lateral cell membranes of the superficial cells and in all the plasma membranes of the intermediate and basal cells, intercellular and intracellular edema and disintegration of the desmosomes and hemidesmosomes lead to progressive degeneration and detachment of the epithelial cells with exposure and splitting of the basal membrane. The morphological changes of the endothelial cells, which become more pronounced in the later stages of the experiment, the involvement of blood vessels regardless of their diameter and the location-dependent extent of the damage indicate a direct type of damage which is preceded by a mediator-induced increase in permeability, the morphological correlate of which is the formation of gaps in the interendothelial cell connections on the venules. These changes can be effectively prevented by mesna. The only sign of a possible involvement is the increase in the number of specific granules with a presumed lysosomal function in the superficial cells.
To explore the occurrence of, and diagnostic and therapeutic procedures for urological side-effects (e.g. micro- and macrohaematuria, and kidney stone formation) in individuals treated with indinavir for the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
The study comprised a retrospective follow-up of 74 individuals infected with HIV-1 and who were treated with indinavir orally at a daily dose of 2.4 g. Data were collected at the outpatient department of our institution between March 1996 and November 1997.
Of the 74 individuals treated with indinavir, 15 (20%) had indinavir-related urological side-effects (19 episodes), most commonly dull flank pain and dysuria. Microhaematuria occurred in 16 of the 19 episodes. Four patients showed urinary tract distension ultrasonographically as a possible indirect sign of urolithiasis and one patient passed a kidney stone. In four patients treatment had to be stopped permanently, but in the remaining 11 patients treatment was continued. Some patients required dose reduction and/or interruption of treatment; only conservative therapeutic measures were required, consisting of rehydration (fluid intake >1.5 L/day) and analgesics.
Urological side-effects of indinavir may be apparent in 20% of patients so treated; some (5%) may require permanent withdrawal. In addition to a history and clinical examination, urine analysis and ultrasonography were the only diagnostic procedures required. Therapy is mainly conservative, using rehydration, analgesics and a brief discontinuation of therapy, according to the severity of the symptoms.
The effects of isoproterenol and dopamine on regional myocardial blood flow were studied in 10 open-chest dogs after acute stenosis of the proximal circumflex coronary artery. Blood flow was determined by the radioactive microsphere technique. Isoproterenol led to a homogenous increase in blood flow in the normal myocardium. In the myocardium with compromised coronary blood flow, isoproterenol led to a relative subendocardial ischemia. This occurred despite increased aortic flow and peak left ventricular dp/dt. Dopamine also increased aortic flow and peak left ventricular dp/dt, but it did not cause regional myocardial ischemia. The findings suggest that dopamine is the preferable inotropic agent in managing low cardiac output in patients with significant coronary artery disease.
Evidence from animal and cell models suggests that pesticides cause a neurodegenerative process leading to Parkinson's disease (PD). Human data are insufficient to support this claim for any specific pesticide, largely because of challenges in exposure assessment. The authors developed and validated an exposure assessment tool based on geographic information systems that integrated information from California Pesticide Use Reports and land-use maps to estimate historical exposure to agricultural pesticides in the residential environment. In 1998-2007, the authors enrolled 368 incident PD cases and 341 population controls from the Central Valley of California in a case-control study. They generated estimates for maneb and paraquat exposures incurred between 1974 and 1999. Exposure to both pesticides within 500 m of the home increased PD risk by 75% (95% confidence interval (CI): 1.13, 2.73). Persons aged < or =60 years at the time of diagnosis were at much higher risk when exposed to either maneb or paraquat alone (odds ratio = 2.27, 95% CI: 0.91, 5.70) or to both pesticides in combination (odds ratio = 4.17, 95% CI: 1.15, 15.16) in 1974-1989. This study provides evidence that exposure to a combination of maneb and paraquat increases PD risk, particularly in younger subjects and/or when exposure occurs at younger ages.
The cardiovascular responses to intravenous doses of epinephrine were assessed in sham-operated, substantia nigra (SN)-lesioned, and SN-stimulated rats under urethane anesthesia. Activation of nigrostriatal dopamine pathways with SN stimulation, although showing no alteration in the epinephrine-induced hypertension, did produce a significant enhancement in reflex bradycardia compared to the controls. In contrast, inhibiting nigrostriatal dopamine pathways with SN lesions led to a significant reduction in the epinephrine-induced bradycardia. Furthermore, local injection of a dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine into the caudate-putamen complex (CP) facilitated reflex bradycardia, while intra-CP injection of dopamine antagonists such as haloperidol and pimozide inhibited it. Moreover, the enhancement in the reflex bradycardia induced by intra-CP administration of apomorphine could readily be abolished by pretreatment with intra-CP administration of either haloperidol or pimozide. Therefore, the present data indicate that a dopaminergic synapse occurs within the caudate-putamen complex which mediates reflex bradycardia in the rat.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the anti-fibrotic effects of the aqueous extract of the Platycodi Radix root (Changkil: CK) on dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced liver fibrosis in rats. DMN treatment for 4 weeks led to marked liver fibrosis as assessed by serum biochemistry, histopathological examination, and hepatic lipid peroxidation and collagen content. CK significantly inhibited DMN-induced increases in serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activities, fibrosis score, and hepatic malondialdehyde and collagen content. CK also inhibited DMN-induced reductions in rat body and liver weights. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and western blot analyses revealed that CK inhibited DMN-induced increases in matrix metalloproteinase-13 (MMP-13), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) mRNA, and collagen type I and α-smooth muscle actin protein. DMN-induced cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) activation was reduced by CK treatment. Furthermore, CK induced activation of nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-mediated antioxidant enzymes such as γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase (γ-GCS), heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), NAD(P)H quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) in HepG2 cells. These results demonstrated that CK attenuates DMN-induced liver fibrosis through the activation of Nrf2-mediated antioxidant enzymes.
Psychotropic drugs (antidepressants, antimanic drugs, antipsychotics, analgesic opioids, and others) are among the most frequently used medicines. Between these drugs and magnesium there are pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions. Erythrocyte magnesium is decreased in patients with severe major depression (MD) vs normal subjects (44 +/- 2.7 mg/L in MD group vs 59.1 +/- 3.2 mg/L in control group, p < 0.01). Therapy with sertraline, 150 mg/day p.o. -21 days or with amitryptiline 3 x 25 mg/day p.o. 28 days increases significantly erythrocyte concentration of magnesium (56.9 +/- 5.22 mg/L after sertraline vs 44 +/- 2.7 mg/L before sertraline, p < 0.01). In patients with acute paranoid schizophrenia, erythrocyte magnesium concentration is decreased vs healthy subjects. Haloperidol, 8 mg/day, p.o. for 21 days or risperidone, 6 mg/day p.o. for 21 days have increased significantly erythrocyte magnesium concentration (46.21 +/- 3.1 mg/L before haloperidol and 54.6 +/- 2.7 mg/L after haloperidol, p < 0.05). Antimanic drugs (mood stabilizers) as carbamazepine, 600 mg/day, p.o., 4 weeks and sodium valproate, 900 mg/day p.o., 4 weeks, increased significantly magnesium in patients with bipolar disorder type I. Increased magnesium status positively correlated with enhancement of the clinical state. The existent data sustain the idea that an increase of erythrocyte magnesium is involved in the mechanism of action of some psychotropic drugs. Magnesium supply decreased the intensity of morphine-induced physical drug dependence. In heroin addicts, the plasma magnesium concentration is decreased.
Potential prognostic biomarkers in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) can be identified by understanding the cellular pathway and molecular changes underlying leukemogenesis. Deregulation of apoptosis is one of the important features of AML and to understand the molecular mechanism underlying apoptosis and its contribution to tumor progression, this study aimed to evaluate anti-apoptotic Bcl2 protein expression in AML and correlate with FLT3 parameters for their role in prognosis of disease.Bcl2 and FLT3 protein expression was quantified by flow cytometry on leukemic blasts in total 174 de novo AML, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and aplastic anemia patients. FLT3 internal tandem duplication (ITD), Tyrosine kinase domain (TKD) point mutations and quantification of mRNA level was carried out using PCR and RT-PCR methods. The incidence of Bcl2 positivity was 71% in AML patients. Bcl2 positivity was significantly associated with CD34+ and CD117+ AML. Bcl2 positivity tended to be associated with reduced DFS while Bcl2 positivity with FLT3 protein positivity was significantly associated with reduced DFS. In multivariate analysis, Bcl2+ and combined Bcl2+/FLT3 protein+ along with high WBC count emerged as poor prognostic factors for reduced DFS and high blast count for predicting reduced OS. In MDS patients, the incidence of Bcl2 expression was high while in aplastic anemia patients, incidence of Bcl2 expression was low.Patients with Bcl2 and FLT3 protein positivity showed significantly reduced DFS suggesting parallel role of these proteins in imparting chemoresistance to the leukemic cells.
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of felodipine extended release (ER) 2.5 mg (F2.5) and 5 mg (F5) once daily with nifedipine Retard 10 mg (N20) and 20 mg (N40) twice daily as additional therapy in patients who remained hypertensive despite treatment with an ACE-inhibitor, beta-blocker or diuretic.
In a multicentre, double-blind parallel study, 61 men and 54 women, aged 35-75, with a supine diastolic blood pressure between 95 and 115 mmHg were randomised to treatment with F2.5, F5, N20 or N40 for 8 weeks, with optional doubling of the dose after 4 weeks. Blood pressure was measured at the office after 0, 4 and 8 weeks and by 24-h ambulatory monitoring (ABPM) after 0 and 4 weeks. Spontaneously reported adverse events and a subjective symptom assessment questionnaire were used for side-effect profiling.
Mean office systolic/diastolic blood pressure was clinically relevantly reduced in all treatment groups after 4 weeks by 8/7, 12/9, 11/9 and 18/11 mmHg for F2.5, F5, N20 and N40, respectively, and after 8 weeks (F2.5-5: 17/11 mmHg: F5-10: 18/14 mmHg; N20-40: 19/14 mmHg; N40-80: 25/14 mmHg) with no statistically significant differences between these groups. The lowest dose of felodipine (F2.5) was the least effective. After 4 weeks the ABPM showed consistent 24-h reductions in blood pressure (4/2; 8/5; 7/5; 10/6 mmHg, respectively) over 24 h for the felodipine ER 5 mg group only and for both nifedipine groups. No statistically significant difference between these groups was found. An office responder does not appear to be identical to an ambulatory one and vice versa. The adverse events, mostly oedema, flushing and headache, were dose-related.
Both felodipine ER and nifedipine Retard are effective "add-on' drugs in patients with monotherapy-resistant hypertension. The blood-pressure-lowering effect is dose-dependent and tolerability is inversely related to efficacy. The results emphasize the benefits of combining two agents with low doses.
Mannitol is widely used because of its osmotic diuretic action and its presumed antioxidant properties. In pre-existent renal dysfunction, however, mannitol may accumulate leading to potentially deleterious effects. We describe a 71-year-old woman with moderate chronic renal failure due to diabetic nephropathy who developed acute anuric renal failure after mannitol administration for post-traumatic reflex sympathetic dystrophy. After haemodialysis symptoms of acute renal failure rapidly disappeared with recovery of pre-existent renal function. Daily measurement of the osmolal gap as a simple and accurate way of monitoring patients receiving mannitol infusion is emphasized. A rapid increase in the osmolar gap should prompt adjustment of the dose or even discontinuation of mannitol, especially in the case of pre-existent risk factors.
To determine whether calcium channel blockade is effective in the prevention of the cascade of events leading to the thin walled, decompensated ventricle observed in ischemic heart failure, inhibition of transsarcolemmal transport of calcium by nisoldipine was examined in rats in which luminal narrowing of the left main coronary artery was utilized to produce global cardiac ischemia. Coronary artery narrowing was produced in rats at 2 months of age and animals were maintained on nisoldipine (10 mg/kg body weight) (CANN) or water (CANW) until time of sacrifice 1 month later. Surgical intervention resulted in a 50% reduction in coronary artery luminal diameter in both experimental groups and was associated with an increase in kidney and lung weights in only CANW animals. Heart weights were also increased in the water treated coronary artery narrowed group. In CANW rats, systemic arterial and left ventricular systolic pressures were reduced whereas left ventricular diastolic pressures were elevated. Peak rates of pressure rise and decay and cardiac output were also reduced in CANW rats. Treatment with nisoldipine prevented the detrimental impact of ischemic heart disease to an extent that all measured parameters in CANN rats were found to be intermediate between unoperated controls and CANW animals. Thus, calcium channel blockade was therapeutic in the prevention of cardiac dysfunction and failure seen after the onset of ischemic heart disease in rats. Furthermore, the detrimental impact of ischemic heart disease was ameliorated by early and continuous treatment with the calcium channel blocker, nisoldipine.
To evaluate renal tubular function in children receiving antiepileptic drugs the urinary activity of two lysosomal enzymes, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and beta-galactosidase, were measured. The enzyme levels were determined before the administration of antiepileptic drugs and 8 months after. Fourteen epileptic children received valproate, and 17 received carbamazepine. The urinary activity of these enzymes in 25 healthy control patients also was examined. Increased N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase activity was found in 50% of patients taking valproate and in 17.6% of patients taking carbamazepine. Increased beta-galactosidase activity was found in 28.5% of patients taking valproate and 11.7% of patients taking carbamazepine compared with the results before treatment. On the basis of these results, it is suggested that patients taking antiepileptic drugs, especially valproate, may demonstrate minor signs of tubular dysfunction. In those patients who use these drugs at increased dosage levels or for long periods, the possibility of tubular dysfunction may be increased, and these dysfunctions may manifest in clinical symptoms.
Although aluminum (Al) is responsible for the etiology of some human diseases, not much is known about the mechanisms of its genotoxic activity. The available data suggest that Al can induce DNA damage by modifying the structure of chromatin through the induction of reactive oxygen species or by damaging lysosomal membranes and liberating DNase. We treated human peripheral-blood lymphocytes with AlCl3 in the G0/G1 phase, in the S/G2 phase, and during the whole cell cycle. The aim of the study was to check if the sensitivity of lymphocytes to Al varied through the cell cycle. A high sensitivity in the S phase would point toward chromatin modification as the major source of DNA damage. Micronuclei (Mn) and apoptosis were assessed as the end points. Cells were treated with 1, 2, 5, 10, and 25 microg/mL AlCl3. Mn induced by 5 microg/mL of AlCl3 were analyzed by FISH for centromeric signal content. After all treatment schemes the frequency of Mn increased initially, but decreased at high AlCl3 concentrations. This drop of Mn frequency could be explained by a strong increase in the frequency of apoptosis. AlCl3 induced both Mn with and without centromeres. The G0/G1 phase of the cell cycle was found to be more sensitive than were the S and G2 phases. This points toward oxidative stress or liberation of DNase as the major source of DNA damage induced by Al.
