Transdermal Fentanyl was released in March 2002 in Japan after the acceptance of the insurance under the office of public health. Transdermal therapy is especially effective for patients having difficulty of oral intakes, and for home care cancer patients who suffer from chronic pain only if the therapy is feasible on the long-term basis. We report our cases for long-term cancer pain management with transdermal fentanyl. A total of 52 long-term patients with chronic cancer pain (28 men and 24 women with an average age of 63.5 years, range 46-74 years) were evaluated. The most prevalent cancers were colorectum (n=14), stomach (n=10), breast (n=8), esophagus (n=6), pancreas (n=6), and others. The duration of the transdermal therapy varied from minimum of 2 days to maximum of 630 days. Two patients on this therapy were longer than 500 days. The transdermal therapy was discontinued 2-37 days for 8 patients due to uncontrolled pain relief. Case report 1: A 72-year-old woman suffering from a relapse of pancreatic cancer with chronic back pain experienced a good pain relief after switching from 60 mg/day sustained oral release morphine to 2.5 mg transdermal fentanyl. During the long-term treatment, the transdermal fentanyl dosage had to be increased. Transdermal therapy was continued until the patient's death on day 601. The last fentanyl dosage was 7.5 mg. Transdermal therapy was given 319/601 days at home and 282/601 days in the hospital. Meanwhile, a little rescue suppository morphine was used as an adjuvant during the duration of transdermal therapy. Case report 2: A 73-year-old man suffered a relapse of rectal cancer. He experienced adequate pain relief with 40 mg oral sustained release morphine, but he was switched to 2.5 mg transdermal fentanyl. Transdermal therapy was continued until today on day 630. At present, fentanyl dosage is 20 mg. The patient has been treated at home for 622/630 days. He was hospitalized only once for 8 days because of dehydrations, and has been treated at home. Only a little rescue powder morphine was needed as an adjuvant during the duration of transdermal therapy. In these 2 cases of long-term cancer pain management, transdermal therapy has resulted in good pain reduction and the side effects with transdermal therapy were not noted. Transdermal fentanyl can be recommended for treatment of palliative cancer pain at home.
A 70-year-old man was admitted for evaluation of retrosternal pain at rest. During infusion of dobutamine (25 micrograms/kg/min) the patient developed angina, ST-segment elevation in the inferior leads, and echocardiographic hypokinesia in the inferior-basal myocardial wall. Coronary angiography revealed insignificant (20-30%) stenosis of the right coronary artery and a normal remaining tree. This case suggests that dobutamine may induce transmural myocardial ischemia in patients with mild coronary lesions, probably by producing occlusive coronary spasm on a substrate of arterial endothelial dysfunction.
Dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) leads to strong hypercontraction, tachycardia, and peripheral vasodilatation. In previous studies systolic obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) was observed as a result of these factors. To evaluate left ventricular function and morphology in patients (pts) with induced systolic LVOT obstruction, we used continuous wave (CW) doppler registrations in combination with quantitative 2-D-echocardiography in 100 pts during routinely performed DSE (5-40 micrograms/kg/min). In addition left ventricular wall thickness was measured. Symptoms were registered using a standardised questionnaire and cardiac arrhythmias were counted over a two minute interval at rest and during the maximal heart rate of each patient. During DSE dynamic flow acceleration with late systolic peak velocity above 2 m/second (s) was considered to represent LVOT obstruction in pts with normal flow profiles in the LVOT before infusion of dobutamine. For invasive studies pts were investigated with femoral catheterisation by the method of Judkins. A greater than 50% stenosis was judged to be significant.
Examinations in 73 pts provided data of sufficient quality for echocardiographic and Doppler sonographic evaluations. 39 pts, 26 men, 13 women, mean age 64 +/- 8 years, developed late systolic flow velocities above 2 m/s and therefore formed the obstructive group (grp A). Grp B consisted of 34 pts, 26 men and 8 women, mean age 66 +/- 10 years, who showed normal time velocity integrals during DSE. In 41 pts invasive data provided information concerning the existence and severity of coronary artery disease. There were no significant differences in the increase of heart rate, the product of maximal systolic blood pressure and maximal heart rate or the percentage of pts, who reached their age corrected submaximal heart rate during DSE. Obstructive pts (group A) showed late systolic dynamic acceleration of systolic flow with a mean maximal speed of 315.4 +/- 139.8 cm/s, which peaked 0.12 +/- 0.04 s after the R-wave. From the velocities we calculated a mean pressure gradient of 47.5 +/- 39.7 mm Hg using the modified Bernoulli equation. Group B patients showed lower and earlier maximal speeds with a mean value of 158.2 +/- 37.6 cm/s, 0.09 +/- 0.04 s after the R-wave, corresponding to a pressure gradient of 10.6 +/- 4.9 mm Hg (p < 0.001). Ejection fractions were higher (p < 0.001) before the test in grp A: 68.2 +/- 8% compared to 55.7 +/- 10.4% in B. This difference increased during peak stress: 74.1 +/- 7.7% compared to 59.5 +/- 12.8%. End diastolic (EDVI) and end systolic volume indexes (ESVI) were lower in grp A (p < 0.001). During DSE, the decrease in ESVI was somewhat stronger for pts in grp A. Left ventricular hypertrophy was more often seen with obstruction. Septal thickness was increased in A: 1.45 +/- 0.34 cm compared to 1.13 +/- 0.27 cm in B (p < 0.001). Left ventricular posterior wall measured 1.03 +/- 0.28 cm in A and 0.83 +/- 0.23 cm in B (p < 0.01). 27 pts in grp B and only 9 in grp A had a history of previous myocardial infarction. Showing no difference at rest, wall motion score indexes raised under DSE in both groups and developed significantly higher scores in grp B at peak stress: 1.30 (1.0-1.90) compared to 1.18 (1.0-1.75) in A. We observed typical chest pain more often in grp B. Unspecific symptoms and arrhythmogenic complications were not statistically different, with the exception of ventricular bigeminy which was more often observed in grp B. A decline in the diastolic blood pressure was observed in pts with very severe obstruction (> 3.5 m/s, p < 0.05). Sensitivity of DSE was 84%, specificity 79%. No significant differences between pts with and without obstruction were observed.
Intraventricular obstructions during DSE are often observed in pts with normal systolic function at rest and during peak stress, especially in the case of left ventricular hypertrophy. (ABSTRACT TRU
To determine whether vasopressin could be effective in treating the hypotension associated with phosphodiesterase III inhibition. Phosphodiesterase III inhibitors are cardiotonic agents that increase myocardial contractility and decrease vascular smooth muscle tone. The vasodilatory effect can be profound, and the resulting hypotension frequently requires the administration of catecholamine pressors.
Retrospective analysis of existing data.
The medical or surgical intensive care unit of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Three consecutive patients receiving milrinone and requiring catecholamine pressors to maintain systolic arterial pressure of > or =90 mm Hg.
Vasopressin was administered to the three patients.
Vasopressin (0.03-0.07 units/min) increased systolic arterial pressure from 90+/-4.7 to 130+/-2.3 mm Hg while reducing the administration of catecholamine pressors.
Vasopressin at very low doses appears to be an effective vasopressor for milrinone-induced hypotension.
The success of methadone in treating opiate addiction has suggested that long-acting agonist therapies may be similarly useful for treating cocaine addiction. Here, we examined this hypothesis, using the slow-onset long-acting monoamine reuptake inhibitor 31,345, a trans-aminotetralin analog, in a variety of addiction-related animal models, and compared it with methadone's effects on heroin's actions in the same animal models. Systemic administration of 31,345 produced long-lasting enhancement of electrical brain-stimulation reward (BSR) and extracellular nucleus accumbens (NAc) dopamine (DA). Pretreatment with 31,345 augmented cocaine-enhanced BSR, prolonged cocaine-enhanced NAc DA, and produced a long-term (24-48  h) reduction in cocaine self-administration rate without obvious extinction pattern, suggesting an additive effect of 31,345 with cocaine. In contrast, methadone pretreatment not only dose-dependently inhibited heroin self-administration with an extinction pattern but also dose-dependently inhibited heroin-enhanced BSR and NAc DA, suggesting functional antagonism by methadone of heroin's actions. In addition, 31,345 appears to possess significant abuse liability, as it produces dose-dependent enhancement of BSR and NAc DA, maintains a low rate of self-administration behavior, and dose-dependently reinstates drug-seeking behavior. In contrast, methadone only partially maintains self-administration with an extinction pattern, and fails to induce reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. These findings suggest that 31,345 is a cocaine-like slow-onset long-acting monoamine transporter inhibitor that may act as an agonist therapy for cocaine addiction. However, its pattern of action appears to be significantly different from that of methadone. Ideal agonist substitutes for cocaine should fully emulate methadone's actions, that is, functionally antagonizing cocaine's action while blocking monoamine transporters to augment synaptic DA.
Standard treatment of glioblastoma multiforme consists of postoperative radiochemotherapy with temozolomide, followed by a 6-month chemotherapy. Serious hematologic complications are rarely reported.
The authors present the case of a 61-year-old female patient with glioblastoma multiforme treated with external-beam radiation therapy and concomitant temozolomide. After completion of treatment, the patient developed symptoms of serious aplastic anemia that eventually led to death due to prolonged neutro- and thrombocytopenia followed by infectious complications.
Lethal complications following temozolomide are, per se, extremely rare, however, a total of four other cases of aplastic anemia have been reported in the literature so far.
We compared ciprofloxacin, rifampin, and gentamicin treatments, alone and in combination, for 5 days in the therapy of experimental aortic valve endocarditis in rats caused by a clinical isolate of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium. The MICs and MBCs of vancomycin, ciprofloxacin, rifampin, and gentamicin were 250 and > 1,000, 3.1 and 6.3, 0.098 and 1.6, and 12.5 and > 50 micrograms/ml, respectively. Infected rats were sacrificed after completing 5 days of therapy. Additional rats within each treatment group were followed for 5 days beyond the last dose of antibiotic therapy. Although survivals in the different groups were not significantly different after 5 days of therapy, survival was significantly better 5 days beyond the last dose of antibiotic therapy in rats treated with rifampin-containing regimens. The combination of ciprofloxacin and gentamicin was bactericidal in vitro and in vegetations from rats with enterococcal endocarditis. Rifampin alone was similarly bactericidal in vivo, but it was not significantly better than rifampin in combination with other antibiotics. Subpopulations resistant to rifampin, but not ciprofloxacin, were detected in the inoculum and in most vegetations during therapy. However, the combination of ciprofloxacin plus both gentamicin and rifampin reduced both the rifampin-susceptible and -resistant population in vegetations of 9 of 10 animals below the level of detection after 5 days of therapy. Nevertheless, a residual enterococcal population apparently remained in numbers of < 2 log10 CFU/g after 5 days of therapy, which resulted in relapse. Perhaps a longer course of therapy would have eliminated this residual population and improved efficacy.
Ascorbic acid (50-200 mg/kg IP) activated gross behaviour and EEG of rats. The behavioural excitation induced by d-amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg SC) was significantly potentiated by ascorbic acid (100-200 mg/kg IP). Catalepsy induced by haloperidol (0.25 mg/kg IP) was attenuated by ascorbic acid (50-200 mg/kg IP) while pentobarbitone (20 mg/kg IP)-induced sleep in rats was dose-dependently antagonised by ascorbic acid (50-400 mg/kg IP). Ascorbic acid (50-400 mg/kg IP) desynchronized the EEG of the frontal cortex and optic cortex while the EMG activity was slightly enhanced in the rat. Ascorbic acid (100 mg/kg IP) potentiated d-amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg SC)-induced EEG desynchronization and EMG activation in the rat. These results indicate that ascorbic acid exerts stimulatory effects in rats. The results also suggest that dopaminergic mechanism may contribute indirectly or directly to the observed behavioural and EEG effects of ascorbic acid.
Hyponatremia secondary to the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone is an uncommon complication of treatment with the new class of antidepressant agents, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The risk of hyponatremia seems to be highest during the first weeks of treatment particularly, in elderly females and in patients with a lower body weight.
A 61-year-old diabetic male was admitted to the hospital because of malaise, progressive confusion, and a tonic/clonic seizure two weeks after starting citalopram, 20 mg/day. On physical examination the patient was euvolemic and had no evidence of malignancy, cardiac, renal, hepatic, adrenal or thyroid disease. Laboratory tests results revealed hyponatremia, serum hypoosmolality, urine hyperosmolarity, and an elevated urine sodium concentration, leading to the diagnosis of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone. Citalopram was discontinued and fluid restriction was instituted. The patient was discharged after serum sodium increased from 124 mmol/L to 134 mmol/L. Two weeks after discharge the patient denied any new seizures, confusion or malaise. At that time his serum sodium was 135 mmol/L.
Because the use of serotonin reuptake inhibitors is becoming more popular among elderly depressed patients the present paper and other reported cases emphasize the need of greater awareness of the development of this serious complication and suggest that sodium serum levels should be monitored closely in elderly patients during treatment with citalopram.
The intrathecal administration of amikacin (AMK) (50--100 mg/day) was effective for 3 cases of postoperative refractory meningitis caused by gentamicin (GM) resistant organisms. The infecting pathogen of case 1 was K. pneumoniae and that of case 2 was S. epidermidis, while no pathogen was cultured in case 3. The causative pathogens in the former were eradicated only with AMK. No therapeutic response was gained with GM, but with AMK in the latter. High tone hearing impairment was observed in case 1 and transient vomiting was observed in case 3. However, these side effects were trivial for the severity of disease. It is suggested in these 3 cases that the high dose intrathecal administration of AMK may be extremely useful in the treatment of postoperative refractory meningitis which has shown no response to GM.
Muscular rigidity was induced by reserpine (10 mg/kg) in rats and the tonic activity of the gastrocnemius muscle was recorded in the electromyogram. Systemic administration of lisuride, an ergoline, resulted in a dose-dependent depression of rigidity. To examine the spinal cord as a site of action for lisuride to depress reserpine-induced rigidity, a method for the chronic catheterization of the lumbar spinal subarachnoid space was used, which allowed the administration of drugs to reserpinized, intact rats without anaesthesia. Lisuride injected into the lumbar spinal subarachnoid space resulted in a longlasting depression of rigidity. These results suggest that the spinal cord is an important site of action of lisuride.
The effect of emulsifier (nonionic surfactant) on the production of adenocarcinoma by methylazoxymethanol acetate in the large intestine of rats was studied. Following emulsifier, sodium lauryl sulfate administration, many cases of undifferentiated adenocarcinoma consisting of anaplastic glandular cells were induced in the experimental groups. Lymphatic invasion by cancer cells was found in 3 cases and metastasized to other organs in 6 cases. On the contrary, the control group (administered methylazoxymethanol acetate only) revealed well-differentiated adenocarcinoma in many cases. This fact may be due to an emulsifier used as a vehicle for the chemical, and the emulsifier might activate the character of promotion to carcinogenisity as a secondary agent. By virtue of the strong penetrating property of the emulsifier, colonial carcinogenesis seems to be enhanced.
The effects of weekly subcutaneous recombinant human erythropoietin (r-hEPO) administration on anemia during chemotherapy including cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil in patients with head and neck carcinomas were examined. Weekly subcutaneous r-hEPO administration in cancer patients has not been investigated previously. Patients were treated with r-hEPO 100 IU/kg (2 patients), 200 IU/kg (6 patients), or 400 IU/kg (5 patients), or placebo, and effectiveness was evaluated by monitoring hemoglobin concentration changes after administration for 8 weeks. Hemoglobin concentrations in all 3 r-hEPO dosage groups were higher than that in the control group during chemotherapy. All r-hEPO doses produced improvements in the anemia induced by chemotherapy; however, the 400 IU/kg dose was most effective. The requirement for blood transfusions decreased in patients receiving r-hEPO therapy, and no significant side-effects were associated with r-hEPO administration. These results suggest that chemotherapy-induced anemia can be prevented by weekly subcutaneous r-hEPO administration.
A healthy 82-year-old woman presented for dacryocystorhinostomy under general anaesthesia. Following the application of intranasal cocaine and subcutaneous injection of felypressin she developed severe hypertension, multiple ventricular ectopic beats and depression of the ST segment on the electrocardiogram. A drug interaction is suspected.
Aluminum maltolate (Al-malt) causes neurodegeneration following in vivo exposure, and apoptosis plays a prominent role. The objective of this study was to define the form of cell death induced by Al-malt and to establish an in vitro model system amenable to mechanistic investigations of Al-malt-induced cell death. Neuro-2a cells, a murine neuroblastoma cell line, were treated with Al-malt for 24 h, following which mode of cell death and alterations in apoptosis-related gene expression were studied. Al-malt concentration-dependently increased cell death. The mode of cell death was a combination of apoptosis and necrosis. Treatment with Al-malt resulted in caspase 3 activation and the externalization of phosphatidyl serine, both indicative of apoptosis. In addition, nuclear condensation and fragmentation were evident. Interestingly, pretreatment with cycloheximide (CHX), a potent protein synthesis inhibitor markedly reduced Al-malt-induced apoptosis, indicating that altered gene expression was critical for this form of cell death. Pretreatment with CHX had no effect on necrosis induced by Al-malt. Analysis of gene expression showed that p53 mRNA was increased following treatment with Al-malt. This increase was accompanied by a marked inhibition of Bcl2 expression and an increase in BAX expression, a pattern of gene expression suggestive of a pro-apoptotic shift. Results show for the first time that p53 is induced by Al in neuron-like cells and suggest that the p53-dependent intrinsic pathway may be responsible for Al-induced apoptosis. Future studies investigating the role of p53 in Al neurotoxicity both in vivo and in vitro are warranted.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a 37-amino acid neuropeptide produced by tissue-specific alternative splicing of the primary transcript of the calcitonin/CGRP gene. CGRP is widely distributed in the central and peripheral neuronal systems and exhibits numerous biological activities in mammals. We examined in the present study whether or not endogenous CGRP released from neuronal systems facilitates neovascularization indispensable to wound healing. In CGRP knockout mice (CGRP-/-), wound-induced angiogenesis and wound closure were significantly suppressed compared with those in wild-type mice. The suppressed healing in CGRP-/- was accompanied by reduction in expressions of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the wound granulation tissues. A CGRP antagonist, CGRP8-37 when infused with mini-osmotic pumps subcutaneously blocked the wound healing processes and reduced the expressions of CD31 and VEGF expression in the wound granulation tissues. Wound healing process was significantly delayed in neuropeptide-depleted mice pretreated with capsaicin, compared with vehicle-treated mice. These results indicate that CGRP derived from neuronal systems may facilitate wound healing and angiogenesis. Targeting of CGRP may be promising in controlling angiogenesis related to pathophysiological conditions.
In a prospective study the effects on the voice of nandrolone decanoate super-imposed on cyclical hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) given to post-menopausal women suffering from a severe form osteoporosis were compared with the effects of HRT alone. Comparing the experimental group with the control group, after one year of medication in the experimental group a higher percentage of patients had: a lower fundamental frequency during speech, a loss of high frequencies and an increase in voice instability and creakiness. The lowering of the frequencies and the increase of instability can be explained by histological changes in the vocal cords and by problems in the adaptation to these histological changes.
Oxidative stress has been increasingly recognized as a possible mechanism in the toxicity and carcinogenicity of various chemicals, including arsenic. Therefore, treatment with antioxidants may afford a protective effect against arsenic-induced cytotoxicity and carcinogenesis. Dimethylarsinic acid (DMAV) has been shown to be a bladder carcinogen in rats when administered at high doses (100 ppm) in the diet or in the drinking water. The main purpose of the present study was to evaluate the effects of co-administration of antioxidants with arsenicals on the rat urinary bladder epithelium in vitro and in vivo. In a previous experiment, treatment with 1000 ppm melatonin for two weeks did not inhibit cell proliferation induced in the rat urothelium by 100 ppm DMAV. In the current study, we examined the effects of five antioxidants that act via different mechanisms, on the in vitro cytotoxicity of various arsenicals, for the purpose of determining which antioxidants might have protective effects against arsenic-induced cytotoxicity. The antioxidants that inhibited cytotoxicity in vitro were then studied also in vivo. Melatonin showed slight inhibition of the cytotoxicity of arsenite, but had no effect on the other arsenicals. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) inhibited the cytotoxicity of monomethylarsonous acid (MMAIII), DMAV, dimethylarsinous acid (DMAIII), and trimethylarsine oxide (TMAO). Vitamin C inhibited cytotoxicity induced by arsenate, arsenite, MMAIII) and DMAIII. Tiron and Trolox had no effect on the cytotoxicity of any arsenical. The in vitro inhibitory effects of NAC and vitamin C on DMAV and on DMAIII, suggested that these antioxidants might afford preventive effects on DMAV-induced bladder cytotoxicity and carcinogenesis in rats. To test this hypothesis, a 10-week rat bioassay was conducted. Melatonin was also included to clarify the results of the previous two-week experiment. The sodium salt of vitamin C (Na-Asc), but not melatonin or NAC, inhibited the proliferative effects of DMAV on the bladder epithelium in rats. These results suggest that oxidative stress is at least in part involved in DMAV-induced rat bladder toxicity and proliferation, and therefore, vitamin C may afford inhibitory effects in DMAV-induced bladder carcinogenesis in rats. Microarray analysis of DMAV-responsive genes revealed that DMAV did not have a consistent modifying effect on gene expression in the rat bladder epithelium, suggesting that proteins and/or lipids may be the targets of damage by DMAV-induced oxidative stress.
Haploinsufficiency of the gene encoding for transcription factor 4 (TCF4) was recently identified as the underlying cause of Pitt-Hopkins syndrome (PTHS), an underdiagnosed mental-retardation syndrome characterised by a distinct facial gestalt, breathing anomalies and severe mental retardation.
TCF4 mutational analysis was performed in 117 patients with PTHS-like features.
In total, 16 novel mutations were identified. All of these proven patients were severely mentally retarded and showed a distinct facial gestalt. In addition, 56% had breathing anomalies, 56% had microcephaly, 38% had seizures and 44% had MRI anomalies.
This study provides further evidence of the mutational and clinical spectrum of PTHS and confirms its important role in the differential diagnosis of severe mental retardation.
Because of possible side effects of herbal medicines containing ephedrine and guarana-derived caffeine, including increased risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, and sudden death, the Food and Drug Administration recently banned the sale of ephedra-containing products, specifically over-the-counter dietary supplements. We report cardiac in 7- and 14-week-old male F344 rats exposed by gavage to ephedrine(25 mg/kg) and caffeine (30 mg/kg) administered in combination for one or two days. The ephedrine-caffeine dosage was approximately 12- and 1.4-fold, respectively, above average human exposure, based on a mg/m2 body surface-area comparison. Several (5/7) of the exposed 14-week-old rats died or were sacrificed in extremis 4-5 h after the first dosing. In these hearts, changes were observed chiefly in the interventricular septum but also left and right ventricular walls. Massive interstitial hemorrhage, with degeneration of myofibers, occurred at the subendocardial myocardium of the left ventricle and interventricular septum. Immunostaining for cleaved caspase-3 and hyperphosphorylated H2A.X, a histone variant that becomes hyperphosphorylated during apoptosis, indicated multifocal generalized positive staining of degenerating myofibers and fragmenting nuclei, respectively. The Barbeito-Lopez trichrome stain revealed generalized patchy yellow myofibers consistent with degeneration and/or coagulative necrosis. In ephedrine-caffeine-treated animals terminated after the second dosing, foci of myocardial degeneration and necrosis were already infiltrated by mixed inflammatory cells. The myocardial necrosis may occur secondarily to intense diffuse vasoconstriction of the coronary arterial system with decreased myocardial perfusion. Our work shows the direct relationship between combined ephedrine and caffeine exposure and cardiac pathology.
We have previously reported that severe glomerulosclerosis progressively develops in the streptozotocin (STZ) diabetic transgenic (mRen-2)27 rat. In this diabetic model, monotherapy with either angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition (ACEI) or angiotensin type 1 (AT(1)) receptor blockade is largely renoprotective. The objective of the present study was to determine if a combination therapy at lower doses than monotherapy would confer greater renoprotection.
At 6 weeks of age, non-diabetic control and STZ diabetic female heterozygous Ren-2 rats were randomized to receive vehicle, the AT(1) receptor blocker valsartan (V, 20 mg/kg/day), the ACEI perindopril (P, 6 mg/kg/day), or a combination of low-dose V+P (V, 3 mg/kg/day plus P, 0.5 mg/kg/day) for 12 weeks.
Systolic blood pressure was lowered with all treatments, but the greatest reductions were observed with V monotherapy and combination V+P therapy. All treatments reduced albuminuria, the decline in glomerular filtration rate, and cortical collagen staining, to the same extent. The glomerulosclerotic index was increased with diabetes and reduced with V and P monotherapy. However, the low-dose combination therapy was more effective than single therapy and reduced severe glomerulosclerosis to levels observed in non-diabetic controls.
Monotherapy with either V or P reduced blood pressure and retarded the decline in renal function and glomerulosclerosis in the diabetic Ren-2 rat. Combination therapy has the additional benefit of requiring only low doses of AT(1) receptor blockade and ACEI to achieve superior renoprotective effects in this diabetic nephropathy model.
To identify risk variants for colorectal cancer (CRC), we conducted a genome-wide association study, genotyping 550,163 tag SNPs in 940 individuals with familial colorectal tumor (627 CRC, 313 advanced adenomas) and 965 controls. We evaluated selected SNPs in three replication sample sets (7,473 cases, 5,984 controls) and identified three SNPs in SMAD7 (involved in TGF-beta and Wnt signaling) associated with CRC. Across the four sample sets, the association between rs4939827 and CRC was highly statistically significant (P(trend) = 1.0 x 10(-12)).
Fifty-one elderly parkinsonian patients (mean age 80 years) on long-term (greater than 5 years) L-dopa therapy were identified from the patients within the three geriatric units in Edinburgh. Side-effects were identified in 57% of patients and tended to be mild in severity. Mean duration of disease was 10.2 years in those with side-effects and 6.7 years in those without (p less than 0.01). Past and present L-dopa side-effects are more likely to be caused by disease progression than by L-dopa therapy. It is therefore recommended that L-dopa should be prescribed at disease onset to elderly Parkinsonian patients.
Inorganic mercury (HgCl2) exposure provokes damage in many organs, especially kidney. Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression, total NOS activity and the profiles of zinc (Zn), copper (Cu) and Hg as well as their distribution when bound to specific intracellular proteins, including metallothioneins (MT), were studied during HgCl2 exposure and after l-arginine treatment in C57BL/6 mouse kidney. HgCl2 exposure modulates differently iNOS expression and NOS activity, increasing iNOS expression but, conversely, decreasing total NOS activity in the mouse kidney. Moreover, during Hg exposure an increased MT production occurs. The kidney damage leads to a loss of urinary proteins, increased plasma creatinine and high Zn mobilization with consequent increased urinary Zn excretion. l-arginine treatment recovers NOS activity and induces a normalization of MT induction, plasma creatinine values and urinary proteins excretion, suggesting that l-arginine may limit kidney damages by Hg exposure.
Vanidilol, [4'-(2-hydroxy-3-(tert-butylamino)propoxy)-3'-methoxyphenyl] -benzaldehyde, newly synthesized from vanillin, is a vanilloid-type beta-adrenoceptor blocker. The beta-adrenoceptor-blocking properties of vanidilol were studied both in vivo and in vitro. Intravenous injection of vanidilol (1.0, 3.0, 5.0 mg/kg) in anesthetized Wistar rats produced a decrease in blood pressure and a dose-dependent bradycardia response. Vanidilol inhibited the tachycardia effects induced by (-)isoproterenol, but had no blocking effect on the arterial pressor responses induced by phenylephrine. In isolated guinea-pig tissues, vanidilol attenuated the (-)isoproterenol-induced positive chronotropic and inotropic effects of the atria and trachea relaxation responses in a concentration-dependent manner. The parallel shift to the right of the concentration-response curve of (-)isoproterenol suggested that the agent was a beta-adrenoceptor competitive antagonist. The apparent pA2 values for vanidilol on the right atria, left atria and trachea were 7.67 +/- 0.03, 7.89 +/- 1.02 and 7.66 +/- 0.15, respectively, denoting that vanidilol was a nonselective beta-blocker. The intrinsic sympathomimetic activity of vanidilol and propranolol was determined on isolated atria and trachea from reserpinized guinea pigs. Propranolol caused significantly negative inotropic and chronotropic effects at 10(-6) mol/l or above, whereas vanidilol possessed less cardiodepressant activities than propranolol. In reserpinized tracheal strips, vanidilol produced dose-dependent relaxant responses, but propranolol was ineffective. Preincubating the preparations with ICI 118,551 (0.1-10 nmol/l), a beta 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, significantly shifted the concentration-relaxation curves of vanidilol to a region of higher concentrations. In isolated guinea-pig thoracic aorta, vanidilol (0.1-10 mumol/l) inhibited the phenylephrine (10(-5) mol/l)-induced tonic contraction in vascular smooth muscle which was related to the block of calcium influx. In 20% saline-perfused rabbits, vanidilol showed a marked delay in intraocular pressure recovery, demonstrating an ocular hypotensive action. Binding characteristics of vanidilol and propranolol were evaluated in [3H]dihydroalprenolol binding to porcine ventricular membranes. Vanidilol was less potent than propranolol in competing for the beta-adrenoceptor-binding sites. On the other hand, vanidilol had a high hydrophilicity in comparison with propranolol. In conclusion, vanidilol exhibited nonselective beta-adrenoceptor blocking, vasorelaxant and ocular hypotensive activities, but was devoid of alpha-adrenoceptor blocking and beta 1-agonist activity. Partial beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist activity and inhibitory activity on calcium influx may share in the vasorelaxant activity.
