This study was undertaken to test the hypothesis of an association between pharmacologic agents used for labor induction, in particular dinoprostone, and postpartum disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC).
A retrospective hospital-based case-control study. Adjusted odds ratios (AOR) were calculated by a conditional logistic regression.
Forty valid cases of postpartum DIC were compared against 197 matched controls. Labor was induced in 17% of controls, and 56% of cases (AOR = 7.2; 95% CI: 2.1-24.6). The association was observed for both dinoprostone (AOR = 6.7; 95% CI: 1.7-26.5) and oxytocin (AOR = 8.4; 95% CI: 1.4-50.9). Other risk factors identified were as follows: a maternal age older than 34 years (AOR = 9.5; 95% CI: 2.4-37.7), complications during pregnancy (AOR = 5.5; 95% CI: 1.3-22.8), and a gestational age of over 40 weeks (AOR = 3.5; 95% CI: 1.1-11.1). Such factors were shown to also have an interaction with the induction of labor. Oxytocin augmentation showed a negative association (AOR = 0.1; 95% CI: 0.02-0.4). The absolute risk attributable to induction was estimated in 5 per 10,000 deliveries.
The pharmacologic induction of labor is associated with an increased risk of postpartum DIC, regardless the substance used. Although the absolute risk seems to be quite low, the obstetricians should not neglect it, in particular for the special risk groups identified.
X-ray fluorescence microscopy was applied for topographic and quantitative elemental analysis within the areas of the rat brain that undergo neurodegenerative changes in consequence of pilocarpine-induced seizures. Significant changes in levels of selected elements were observed in epileptic animals. They included an increased tissue content of Ca in the CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus and in the cerebral cortex. The opposite relation was observed for the Cu level in the dentate gyrus and for Zn in the CA3 region of the hippocampus and in the dentate gyrus.
The hemodynamic and hormonal responses to dobutamine alone and with the addition of amrinone were studied in ten patients with severe heart failure. Dobutamine significantly increased heart rate, cardiac index, and stroke volume index and significantly decreased mean right atrial and systemic arterial pressures and systemic and pulmonary vascular resistance. The addition of amrinone further decreased significantly mean right atrial, pulmonary arterial, and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures and systemic vascular resistance, while heart rate rose. The response of the cardiac index was variable, increasing in seven and decreasing in three patients. Plasma renin activity rose significantly with dobutamine and further increased with amrinone. We conclude that in most patients with severe heart failure, amrinone, when combined with dobutamine, improves hemodynamics. The further increase in heart rate, variable effects on the cardiac index, and marked activation of the renin-angiotensin system suggest caution and potential limitations in the use of this combination.
Fingolimod, a sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor subtype 1, 3, 4 and 5 modulator, has been used for the treatment of patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, but atrioventricular conduction block and/or QT-interval prolongation have been reported in some patients after the first dose. In this study, we directly compared the electropharmacological profiles of fingolimod with those of siponimod, a modulator of sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor subtype 1 and 5, using in vivo guinea-pig model and in vitro human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG) assay to better understand the onset mechanisms of the clinically observed adverse events. Fingolimod (0.01 and 0.1mg/kg) or siponimod (0.001 and 0.01mg/kg) was intravenously infused over 10min to the halothane-anaesthetized guinea pigs (n=4), whereas the effects of fingolimod (1μmol/L) and siponimod (1μmol/L) on hERG current were examined (n=3). The high doses of fingolimod and siponimod induced atrioventricular conduction block, whereas the low dose of siponimod prolonged PR interval, which was not observed by that of fingolimod. The high dose of fingolimod prolonged QT interval, which was not observed by either dose of siponimod. Meanwhile, fingolimod significantly inhibited hERG current, which was not observed by siponimod. These results suggest that S1P receptor subtype 1 in the heart could be one of the candidates for fingolimod- and siponimod-induced atrioventricular conduction block since S1P receptor subtype 5 is localized at the brain, and that direct IKr inhibition may play a key role in fingolimod-induced QT-interval prolongation.
The intravenous injection of colchicine (2 mg/kg body weight) into pregnant rats on the last 4 to 5 days of gestation induced disseminated intravascular coagulation, occluding glomerular capillaries with fibrin thrombi, typical of the generalized Shwartzman reaction. Thrombi did not form earlier than 9 hours after the injection of colchicine, whereas in the endotoxin-induced generalized Shwartzman reaction, thrombi were already observed 2(1/2) hours after the injection of endotoxin. The colchicine-induced generalized Shwartzman reaction could also be produced in hysterectomized "pregnant" rats. A single injection of colchicine into nonpregnant rats did not induce disseminated intravascular coagulation. If, however, fibrinolysis was inhibited with epsilon-aminocaproic acid, the colchicine-induced generalized Shwartzman reaction could also be elicited in nonpregnant rats. In this regard fibrinolysis inhibition represents one mechanism by which pregnancy prepares for the generalized Shwartzman reaction.
Chemical pollutants in the Great Lakes have found their way through the food chain into humans because of their environmental persistence and lipophilicity. Some epidemiological studies have claimed an association between metabolites of 2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-1,1,1-trichloroethane (DDT), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) and breast cancer, but others have reported no such association. We examined various halogenated hydrocarbons for their capacity to inhibit gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) in normal human breast epithelial cells (HBEC) when given as single compounds or as mixtures. The scrape-loading/dye transfer and fluorescent redistribution after photobleaching techniques were used to measure GJIC; immunostaining and Western and Northern analyses were performed on connexin 43 (Cx43) gap junction protein and message to determine how halogenated hydrocarbons might affect GJIC. DDT, dieldrin, and toxaphene inhibited GJIC in a dose-responsive manner after 90 min treatments. Dieldrin suppressed GJIC within 30 min with no recovery after 24 hr. Inhibition of GJIC by DDT and toxaphene was partially restored after 12 hr and fully restored after 24 hr. Several PCB and PBB congeners inhibited GJIC in a dose-responsive and time-dependent manner, but GJIC was almost restored to control values 24 hr after exposure. The highest concentrations of the individual chemicals that did not inhibit GJIC was determined, and mixtures containing two of these chemicals were tested for their ability to inhibit GJIC. Significant inhibition of GJIC was observed when cells were treated with a mixture of DDT and 2,4,5-hexachlorobiphenyl (2,4,5-HCB), dieldrin and 2,4,5-HCB, or dieldrin and 2,4,5-hexabromobiphenyl (2,4,5-HBB). These results indicate that halogenated hydrocarbons, alone or in specific combinations, can alter GJIC at the post-translational level. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that DDT, dieldrin, toxaphene, 2,3,4-HCB, 2,4,5-HCB, and 2,4,5-HBB could have tumor-promoting potential in human breast tissue.
New therapeutic approaches are being developed based on the findings that several genetic abnormalities underlying NSCLC could influence chemosensitivity. In this study, we assessed whether the presence of polymorphisms in ERCC1, XPD, RRM1 and MDR1 genes can affect the efficacy and the tolerability of cisplatin and vinorelbine in NSCLC patients.
Eligible patients had histological confirmed stage IV or IIIB (with malignant pleural effusion) non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) previously untreated with chemotherapy; World Health Organization performance status (PS) 0-1. Patients received intravenous doses of vinorelbine 25 mg/m² on day 1 and 8 and cisplatin 75 mg/m² on day 1, every 21 days, for a maximum of eight cycles.
94 patients were included. Median age was 61 years; 84% were male; WHO performance status (PS) was 0 in 24%; and 88% of patients had stage IV disease. The median number of cycles was 6. Overall median survival was 10.92 months (95% CI 9.0-12.9). Overall median time to progression was 5.89 months (95% CI 5.2-6.6). Results of the multivariate analysis for time to progression showed that ECOG 0 (hazard ratio [HR] ECOG 1 vs. ECOG 0, 1.74; p=0.036), MDR13435CC (HR CT vs. CC, 2.01; p=0.017; HR TT vs. CC, 1.54; p=0.22), and decreasing age (HR of age, 0.97; p=0.016) were the most powerful prognostic factors significantly related to lower risk of progression. Whereas ECOG 0 was the only prognostic factor for survival (HR ECOG 1 vs. ECOG 0, 3.02; p=0.001). There was no significant association between any of the SNPs analysed and the occurrence of vinorelbine and cisplatin-related toxicity.
In our results, the most important prognostic factors associated with lower risk of progression were MDR1 3435 CC genotype, PS 0 and younger age.
Oligohydramnios and neonatal renal failure is reported in a premature infant whose mother had used enalapril in weeks 32-35 of her pregnancy. The infant recovered adequate renal function after peritoneal dialysis. Review of the literature supports our view that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors should not be used in pregnancy; if they are, both mother and fetus should be monitored with extreme care.
Mutations and aberrant post-translational modifications within Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) cause this otherwise protective enzyme to misfold, leading to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The C4F6 antibody selectively binds misfolded SOD1 in spinal cord tissues from postmortem human ALS cases, as well as from an ALS-SOD1 mouse model, suggesting that the C4F6 epitope reports on a pathogenic conformation that is common to misfolded SOD1 variants. To date, the residues and structural elements that comprise this epitope have not been elucidated. Using a chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometry approach, we identified the C4F6 epitope within several ALS-linked SOD1 variants, as well as an oxidized form of WT SOD1, supporting the notion that a similar misfolded conformation is shared among pathological SOD1 proteins. Exposure of the C4F6 epitope was modulated by the SOD1 electrostatic (loop VII) and zinc binding (loop IV) loops and correlated with SOD1-induced toxicity in a primary microglia activation assay. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed Asp(92) and Asp(96) as key residues within the C4F6 epitope required for the SOD1-C4F6 binding interaction. We propose that stabilizing the functional loops within SOD1 and/or obscuring the C4F6 epitope are viable therapeutic strategies for treating SOD1-mediated ALS.
We investigated the renal function perioperatively in 32 female patients who underwent mastectomy with hypotensive general anesthesia induced by nitroglycerin (NG), prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) and NG+PGE1. Urine output in PGE1 group (11 patients) was significantly larger than that in NG group (9 patients). It could be attributed to the increase of glomerular filtration rate. On the other hand, the value of beta 2-microglobulin in urine in NG group and the value of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase in urine in NG+PGE1 group (12 patient) were abnormal in some patients. These changes were not significant, but the disturbance of renal tubule could be possible. In summary, PGE1 was effective in the maintenance of the renal function.
A human lactate dehydrogenase-B mutant gene was isolated from a genomic DNA library constructed from a patient with unstable LDH-B (heart) subunit. The nucleotide sequences of seven protein-coding exons were determined and a single nucleotide substitution of G by A at Arg codon CGC in exon 4 was found. This mutation results in an amino-acid replacement of a conserved arginine by histidine at the residue "173," which is involved in an anion-binding site at the P-axis of LDH subunits.
Orolingual angioedema can occur during thrombolysis with alteplase in stroke patients. However, data about its frequency, severity and the significance of concurrent use of angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACEi) are sparse.
(1), to alert to the potentially life-threatening complication of orolingual angioedema. (2), to present CT-scans of the tongue which exclude lingual hematoma. (3), to estimate the frequency of orolingual angioedema. (4), to evaluate the risk associated with the concurrent use of ACEi.
Single center, databank-based observational study on 120 consecutive patients with i. v. alteplase for acute stroke. Meta-analysis of all stroke studies on alteplase-associated angioedema, which provided detailed information about the use of ACE-inhibitors. Across studies, the Peto odds ratio of orolingual angioedema for "concurrent use of ACEi" was calculated.
Orolingual angioedema occurred in 2 of 120 patients (1.7%, 95% CI 0.2-5.9 %). Angioedema was mild in one, but rapidly progressive in another patient. Impending asphyxia prompted immediate intubation. CT showed orolingual swelling but no bleeding. One of 19 (5%) patients taking ACEi had orolingual angioedema, compared to 1 of 101 (1%) patients without ACEi. Medline search identified one further study about the occurrence of alteplase-associated angioedema in stroke patients stratified to the use of ACEi. Peto odds ratio of 37 (95 % CI 8-171) indicated an increased risk of alteplasetriggered angioedema for patients with ACEi (p <0.001).
Orolingual angioedema is a potentially life-threatening complication of alteplase treatment in stroke patients, especially in those with ACEi. Orolingual hematoma as differential diagnosis can be excluded by CT-scan.
To study the role of changes of matrix metalloproteinase-2, 9 (MMP-2, 9) activity in the development of dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced liver fibrosis in rats.
The rat liver fibrosis model was established by peritoneal injection of DMN (at a dose of 10 mg/kg, 3 times a week, for 4 weeks). The dynamic changes of liver fibrosis were observed at different time points (1d, 2d, 3d, 1 week, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks and 8 weeks). The MMP-2, 9 activity was measured by zymogram method. Liver ultrastructure was observed by electron microscope. The expressions of type IV collagen (CIV), laminin (LN), type I collagen (CI) and alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) were examined by immunohistochemistry. The tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2) content was measured by Western blot method.
The MMP-2, 9 activity (gray value) significantly increased in the 2d and 3d DMN model rats (2d: normal/model group, MMP-2: 54.72+/-4.56/70.76+/-7.63; F = 16.27, P < 0.05; MMP-9: 25.72+/-4.29/51.76+/-15.33, F=13.38, P < 0.05). The positive staining area percentage of CIV in the sinusoidal walls decreased in the 2d, 3d and 1 weeks model rats (2d: normal/model group, 6.06+/-1.35/2.86+/-0.63, F=69.12, P < 0.05), but significantly increased in the 4w model rats (normal/model group, 6.06+/-1.35/8.04+/-1.50, F=14.42, P < 0.05). There was a remarkable negative correlation between the MMP-9 activity and expression of CIV in the sinusoidal walls (r = -0.729, P < 0.05). Positive expressions of LN and CI increased, and the strongest positive staining of them displayed in the 4w model rats. The formation of basement membrane was also observed in the 4 weeks model rats. Expression of TIMP-2 significantly increased in the late stage of fibrosis.
The increase of MMPs activity, especially MMP-9 which degrades the CIV normally distributed under the sinusoidal endothelium is the important factor in the formation of sinusoidal capillarization. The deposition and reconstitution of LN and new synthetic CIV, adding the deposition of CI constitute the high density basement membrane. The increase of TIMP-2 expression in the late stage of the fibrosis may be one of reasons why natural resolution of DMN-induced liver fibrosis is difficult.
Polymorphisms of enzymes involved in histamine biodisposition may affect clinical symptoms in diseases related to histamine, such as asthma or allergic rhinitis (AR).
This study aims to analyse two common polymorphisms in genes coding for histamine-metabolizing enzymes in patients with allergic diseases.
Five-hundred and sixty-five individuals participated in the study, including 270 unrelated patients with asthma and/or AR recruited from a single centre and 295 healthy volunteers. Participants were analysed for the presence of Thr105Ile and His645Asp amino acid substitutions at histamine N-methyltransferase (HNMT) and diamine oxidase (amiloride binding protein 1) enzymes, respectively, by amplification-restriction procedures.
The variant HNMT allele frequencies were slightly higher among patients with asthma [16.0%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 12.0-20.0] and among patients with rhinitis (13.2, 95% CI 10.3-16.1) as compared with healthy subjects (11.5 95% CI 8.9-14.1). The variant ABP1 allele frequencies were similar among patients with asthma (30.8%, 95% CI 25.7-35.9), rhinitis (28.7, 95% CI 24.8-32.6) and healthy subjects (26.8 95% CI 23.2-30.3). Individuals carrying mutated ABP1 alleles presented allergy symptoms with significantly lower IgE levels as compared with individuals without mutated genes, with a significant gene-dose effect (P<0.001). In addition, the percentage of individuals presenting symptoms without eosinophilia was significantly higher among homozygous carriers of ABP1 variant alleles (P<0.020) as compared with the rest of the atopic patients.
There is a lack of association between the allelic variants studied and the risk of developing allergic asthma and rhinitis. However, patients carrying the His645Asp polymorphism of ABP1 are more prone to developing symptoms with lower IgE levels.
Conditioned cue-induced relapse to drug seeking is a major challenge to the treatment of drug addiction. It has been proposed that D-cycloserine might be useful in the prevention of relapse by reducing the conditioned reinforcing properties of drug-associated stimuli through facilitation of extinction. Here we show that intrabasolateral amygdala infusions of D-cycloserine in fact potentiate the reconsolidation of stimulus-cocaine memories to increase cue-induced relapse to drug seeking in rats with an extensive drug self-administration history. This elevation of cocaine seeking was correlated with an increase in the expression of the reconsolidation-associated gene zif268.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1, also known as hereditary motor sensory neuropathy type 1, is an uncommon autosomal dominant disease that causes destruction of peripheral nerves with a varied clinical course, but often leads to muscle weakness. If the peroneal muscle is involved, the patient may develop a characteristic slapping gait. The dose-limiting side effect of the chemotherapeutic agent vincristine is usually its neurotoxicity. We report the case of a 5-year-old patient with leukemia who developed an acute polyneuropathy after treatment with vincristine. Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1 was diagnosed in the patient and, subsequently, in his mother only after vincristine toxicity was observed.
A 70-year-old man developed herpes zoster over the right L5-S2 region for 3 days and was admitted for acyclovir therapy. He had a medical history of rectal cancer status post-colostomy and end-stage renal disease undergoing thrice weekly hemodialysis. Without a prior loading dose, acyclovir 500 mg (7.7 mg/kg) daily was given intravenously in two divided doses. On the third dosage, the patient became confused and agitated and developed insomnia. Within the following 24 h, delirium, visual and auditory hallucinations, disorientation to place and time, as well as impaired recent memory occurred. At the same time, a transient low grade fever (38 degrees C) was noted but resolved spontaneously after ice pillow (Fig. 1). The etiology was vigorously explored. He had no history of any neurological or psychiatric disorders. Drug history was reviewed, but no other medications besides acyclovir were currently being used. Physical examination revealed neither meningeal signs nor focal neurological deficits. Serum blood urea nitrogen, glucose, and electrolytes were within normal limits except for an elevated creatinine level at 6.2 and 5.7 mg/dl (before and after neuropsychotic symptoms, respectively). Complete blood count with differentiation was also unremarkable. Cerebrospinal fluid examination was not possible as the patient's family refused the lumbar puncture. Moreover, an electroencephalograph study and head computed tomography scan disclosed no abnormalities. Acyclovir-induced neurotoxicity was suspected. Therefore, acyclovir was discontinued. Subsequently, serum acyclovir and CMMG were checked by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Serum acyclovir level was 1.6 mg/l (normal therapeutic level, 0.12-10.8 mg/l) and CMMG level was 5 mg/l. Emergent hemodialysis (4-h/session) was given; the neuropsychotic symptoms, including agitation, delirium, and visual and auditory hallucinations, greatly abated after the second session. The patient fully recovered after three consecutive days of hemodialysis; the serum was rechecked and revealed that the acyclovir level was below 0.5 mg/l and the CMMG level was undetectable. At the same time, his herpetic skin lesions resolved well.
Propofol is frequently associated with pain on injection. Previous studies have suggested that chilling of the propofol decreases pain significantly. This prospective, randomised, double-blind trial was designed to assess the effectiveness of cold propofol compared with propofol premixed with lignocaine in minimising pain on injection. Patients were allocated to one of four groups: propofol + lignocaine 0.1 mg.kg-1, propofol + lignocaine 0.2 mg.kg-1, cold propofol and a control group consisting of propofol premixed with normal saline and maintained at room temperature. The results of this study show that cold propofol is associated with a very high incidence of injection pain while lignocaine 0.1 mg.kg-1 premixed with propofol significantly decreases the incidence of pain (p < 0.001). Increasing the dosage of lignocaine above 0.1 mg.kg-1, however, does not significantly decrease the incidence of pain further. The addition of lignocaine also significantly decreases the incidence of excitatory side-effects.
Indomethacin (IND) is the drug of choice for the closure of a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in neonates. This paper describes a simple, sensitive, accurate and precise microscale HPLC method suitable for the analysis of IND in plasma of premature neonates. Samples were prepared by plasma protein precipitation with acetonitrile containing the methyl ester of IND as the internal standard (IS). Chromatography was performed on a Hypersil C(18) column. The mobile phase of methanol, water and orthophosphoric acid (70:29.5:0.5, v/v, respectively), was delivered at 1.5 mL/min and monitored at 270 nm. IND and the IS were eluted at 2.9 and 4.3 min, respectively. Calibrations were linear (r>0.999) from 25 to 2500 microg/L. The inter- and intra-day assay imprecision was less than 4.3 % at 400-2000 microg/L, and less than 22.1% at 35 microg/L. Inaccuracy ranged from -6.0% to +1.0% from 35 to 2000 microg/L. The absolute recovery of IND over this range was 93.0-113.3%. The IS was stable for at least 36 h when added to plasma at ambient temperature. This method is suitable for pharmacokinetic studies of IND and has potential for monitoring therapy in infants with PDA when a target therapeutic range for IND has been validated.
Parkinson's disease is a common disorder that leads to motor and cognitive disability. We performed a genome-wide association study of 2,000 individuals with Parkinson's disease (cases) and 1,986 unaffected controls from the NeuroGenetics Research Consortium (NGRC). We confirmed associations with SNCA and MAPT, replicated an association with GAK (using data from the NGRC and a previous study, P = 3.2 x 10(-9)) and detected a new association with the HLA region (using data from the NGRC only, P = 2.9 x 10(-8)), which replicated in two datasets (meta-analysis P = 1.9 x 10(-10)). The HLA association was uniform across all genetic and environmental risk strata and was strong in sporadic (P = 5.5 x 10(-10)) and late-onset (P = 2.4 x 10(-8)) disease. The association peak we found was at rs3129882, a noncoding variant in HLA-DRA. Two studies have previously suggested that rs3129882 influences expression of HLA-DR and HLA-DQ. The brains of individuals with Parkinson's disease show upregulation of DR antigens and the presence of DR-positive reactive microglia, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs reduce Parkinson's disease risk. The genetic association with HLA supports the involvement of the immune system in Parkinson's disease and offers new targets for drug development.
Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is a heritable connective tissue disorder caused by mutations in the ABCC6 gene. Fragmentation of elastic fibres and deposition of proteoglycans result in a highly variable clinical picture. The altered proteoglycan metabolism suggests that enzymes from this pathway function as genetic co-factors in the severity of PXE. Therefore, we propose the XYLT genes encoding xylosyltransferase I (XT-I) as the chain-initiating enzyme in the biosynthesis of proteoglycans and the highly homologous XT-II as potential candidate genes.
We screened all XYLT exons in 65 German PXE patients using denaturing high performance liquid chromatography and analysed the influence of the variations on clinical characteristics.
We identified 22 variations in the XYLT genes. The missense variation p.A115S (XT-I) is associated with higher serum XT activity (p = 0.005). The amino acid substitution p.T801R (XT-II; c.2402C>G) occurs with significantly higher frequency in patients under 30 years of age at diagnosis (43% v 26%; p = 0.04); all PXE patients with this variation suffer from skin lesions compared to only 75% of the wild type patients (p = 0.002). c.166G>A, c.1569C>T, and c.2402C>G in the XYLT-II gene were found to be more frequent in patients with higher organ involvement (p = 0.04, p = 0.01, and p = 0.02, respectively).
Here we show for the first time that variations in the XYLT-II gene are genetic co-factors in the severity of PXE. Furthermore, the higher XT activity in patients with the exchange p.A115S (XT-I) indicates that this polymorphism is a potential marker for increased remodelling of the extracellular matrix.
A review of the most important findings published during 1997 in cardiovascular papers is presented: Chlamydia pneumoniae was recognised as a potential risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD) and possible pathogenic agent for valvular aortic stenosis. Valvular changes similar to the valvular disease reported after ergotamine and methylsergide were also detected in obese women treated with a combination of phentermine and fenfluramine. In CAD, several new laboratory methods were introduced for early diagnosis, such as serum troponin levels, and arbutamine and adenosine stress echocardiography. Laser transmyocardial revascularisation can be performed in patients unsuitable for PTCA and CABG. In patients with end-stage heart failure, implantable ventricular-assist devices can be used, and dynamic cardiomyoplasty or partial ventriculectomy may be useful temporary measures until a suitable heart donor is available. In pharmacotherapy, fluvastatin was registered as an antiatherosclerotic agent, and mibefradil and moxonidin in hypertension and angina. Digoxin was shown to reduce the number of hospitalisations in patients with CHF but still in sinus rhythm. In the future, several improvements in anti-thrombotic therapy are expected: antithrombins, platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor blockers and tissue factor inhibitors are all potentially more potent than presently available drugs. Also, efforts are under way to introduce genes directly into the cells of the vascular wall to prevent atherosclerosis and restenosis, as well as to transform cardiac mesenchymal cells into the cardiac myocytes of hearts that have suffered large infarctions.
Homozygous tottering mice (tg, autosomal recessive) exhibit frequent spontaneous "absence" seizures accompanied by bilaterally synchronous spike-and-wave or polyspike electrocorticographic discharges. In adult tottering mice, the antiepileptic effects of a single dose of ethosuximide, diazepam, phenobarbital, or phenytoin were assessed using continuous electrocorticographic recording to monitor seizure incidence. The dose chosen for each drug was selected to correspond to an effective antiepileptic dose in standard murine models. Ethosuximide, 150 mg/kg, diazepam, 1.4 mg/kg, and phenobarbital, 25 mg/kg were effective against absence seizures. In contrast, phenytoin at 5, 10, 30, or 60 mg/kg produced no significant reduction in the incidence of absence seizures. These results suggest that absence seizures in the tottering mutant may represent a relatively specific pharmacological model for the identification of drugs effective for clinical absence epilepsy, and emphasize the potential value of this new model for the study of fundamental mechanisms of absence of epilepsy and the actions of antiepileptic drugs.
Narcolepsy is a rare sleep disorder with the strongest human leukocyte antigen (HLA) association ever reported. Since the associated HLA-DRB1*1501-DQB1*0602 haplotype is common in the general population (15-25%), it has been suggested that it is almost necessary but not sufficient for developing narcolepsy. To further define the genetic basis of narcolepsy risk, we performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 562 European individuals with narcolepsy (cases) and 702 ethnically matched controls, with independent replication in 370 cases and 495 controls, all heterozygous for DRB1*1501-DQB1*0602. We found association with a protective variant near HLA-DQA2 (rs2858884; P < 3 x 10(-8)). Further analysis revealed that rs2858884 is strongly linked to DRB1*03-DQB1*02 (P < 4 x 10(-43)) and DRB1*1301-DQB1*0603 (P < 3 x 10(-7)). Cases almost never carried a trans DRB1*1301-DQB1*0603 haplotype (odds ratio = 0.02; P < 6 x 10(-14)). This unexpected protective HLA haplotype suggests a virtually causal involvement of the HLA region in narcolepsy susceptibility.
Amiodarone has proved to be a valuable drug in atrial fibrillation associated with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. When it was administered to a patient with this syndrome in atrial fibrillation, who had previously suffered an inferior myocardial infarction, the ventricular rate accelerated from 170 to 230 beats/minute.This unusual case emphasises the need for full electrophysiological assessment of patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome for whom amiodarone treatment is being considered.
