We report the case of a 72-year-old woman with bipolar disorder treated with lithium for over a year, who suddenly developed disabling Parkinsonism, apparently after a gastroenteric infection. On hospital admission lithium plasma levels were 3.7 mmol/l. After lithium discontinuation, plasma levels decreased to 0.7 mmol/l, but without resolution of neurological symptoms. Biperidene and levodopa-benserazide did not ameliorate her extrapyramidal symptoms. Pramipexole 0.25 mg TID improved dramatically the Parkinsonism and all neurological symptoms resolved in a few days.
This article addresses the issue of miscorrelation between hepatic injury biomarkers and histopathological findings in the drug development context. Our studies indicate that the use of toxicogenomics can aid in the drug development decision-making process associated with such miscorrelated data. BLZ945 was developed as a Colony-Stimulating Factor 1 Receptor (CSF-1R) inhibitor. Treatment of BLZ945 in rats and monkeys increased serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate transaminase (AST). However, liver hypertrophy was the only histopathological liver finding in rats, and there was no change in the livers of monkeys. Longer treatment of BLZ945 in rats for 6 weeks caused up to 6-fold elevation of ALT, yet hepatocyte necrosis was not detected microscopically. Toxicogenomic profiling of liver samples demonstrated that the genes associated with early response to liver injury, apoptosis/necrosis, inflammation, oxidative stress, and metabolic enzymes were upregulated. Studies are ongoing to evaluate the mechanisms underlying BL945-induced ALT and AST elevations.
Spectral analysis of fluctuations in heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP) was applied to assess sympathetic and parasympathetic cardiovascular control mechanisms in patients with unipolar affective disorder before and after treatment with imipramine (IMI) or mirtazapine (MIR). In a double-blind randomized study, 10 patients received treatment with IMI and 10 patients received treatment with MIR. Cardiovascular parameters were studied before and after 4 weeks of treatment: HR and BP (Finapres) were recorded continuously during supine rest (SR) and orthostatic challenge (OC; 60-degrees head-up tilting). During SR and OC, power spectra were calculated for HR and systolic BP. Spectral density was assessed for three frequency bands: low (0.02-0.06 Hz), mid (0.07-0.14 Hz), and high (0.15-0.50 Hz). Before treatment, the depressed patients (N = 20) differed from age-matched controls (N = 20) only in their response to OC: the depressed patients showed more suppression of HR variability (both mid- and high-frequency band fluctuations), indicating stronger vagal inhibition, and a reduced increase of BP variability (mid-frequency band fluctuations), indicating reduced sympathetic activation. After 4 weeks of treatment, patients treated with either antidepressant drug showed significant changes of HR (increase) and HR variability (decrease) during SR and OC; the suppression of mid- and high-frequency fluctuations of HR was larger for IMI than for MIR. The increase in HR and decrease in HR variability may be attributed to the anticholinergic properties of IMI (strong) and MIR (weak), resulting in cardiac vagal inhibition. Whereas MIR had no effect on BP or BP variability, IMI specifically reduced mid-frequency band fluctuations of BP as the result of a suppression of central sympathetic activity. Our data confirm and extend previous observations on the presence of autonomic dysfunctions in unmedicated depressed patients: spectral analysis of HR and BP fluctuations suggested that both parasympathetic and sympathetic mechanisms are involved, specifically during OC. The preexisting autonomic cardiovascular dysfunctions were not normalized by antidepressant drugs. In fact, some of the components of the cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction were further aggravated, depending on the pharmacologic profile of the drug under investigation.
Genetic variations in enzymes of isoniazid metabolism confer an increased risk for antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity in Asian populations. The present study was aimed at investigating the possible association of antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity with polymorphisms at the glutathione S-transferase (GST) gene in a Caucasian population.
A prospective case-control study was nested in a cohort of patients with active tuberculosis who were treated with a combination of isoniazid, rifampicin and pyrazinamide. Cases constituted patients with antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity (n=35), and controls constituted patients without any evidence of this complication (n=60). Homozygous null polymorphisms at GST loci M1 and T1 were analysed from genomic DNA from all participants.
The GSTT1 homozygous null polymorphism was significantly associated with antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity [odds ratio (OR) 2.60, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.08-6.24, P=0.03]. No significant association was observed between the GSTM1 homozygous null polymorphism and antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity (OR 0.73, 95% CI 0.31-1.73, P=0.48).
The GSTT1 homozygous null polymorphism may be a risk factor of antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity in Caucasians.
Although its status as a neuroprotectant is controversial, etomidate is often employed for pharmacologic cerebral protection in aneurysm surgery. One purported advantage of etomidate over thiopental is its hemodynamic stability. This study examined the cardiovascular effects of etomidate given for electroencephalographic (EEG) burst suppression during cerebral aneurysm clipping in humans and the direct effects of etomidate on arteries in vitro. The charts of intracranial aneurysm surgery patients were retrospectively reviewed to determine the dose of etomidate employed, the frequency of concurrent vaspressor administration, and whether hemodynamic changes were associated with etomidate use. Against a background of balanced anesthesia, the dose of etomidate to induce burst suppression was 0.73 +/- 0.49 mg/kg (mean +/- SD) and the maintenance dose was 48 +/- 30 microg/kg/min. Etomidate produced an immediate decrease in mean arterial pressure that was sustained in patients who did not receive vasopressor support. During etomidate administration, 48% of patients (10 of 21) received some form of vasopressor support such as phenylephrine or ephedrine, and 62% of patients (13 of 21) receiving isoflurane had the anesthetic discontinued or its inspired concentration decreased. Etomidate in vitro produced dose-dependent relaxation of human internal mammary arterial rings that had been preconstricted by potassium or norepinephrine. Etomidate, in EEG burst suppression doses, decreases mean arterial pressure in anesthetized patients undergoing cerebral aneurysm surgery. One mechanism of etomidate-induced hypotension may be direct relaxation of vascular smooth muscle, because etomidate directly dilates preconstricted human arteries in vitro.
To explore the efficacy of inductible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) inhibitor 1400W in vivo in blocking the death pathway of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced activated-microglia to preoligodendrocytes (preOLs) in neonatal rats with infective-type periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) induced by LPS.
Two-day-old neonatal rats were randomly divided into: a sham-operated group, an untreated PVL group, and four 1400W-treated PVL groups that were subcutaneously administrated with 20 mg/kg of 1400W at 0 h, 8 hrs, 16 hrs, and 24 hrs after LPS induction, respectively. The brain specimens were obtained 5 days after LPS induction. The pathological assessment of cerebral white matter was performed under a light microscope. Concentrations of nitric oxide (NO) were measured by nitric acid-deoxidize colorimetry. Synthesis of iNOS was determined by Western blot analysis. Peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) level and the amount of preOLs were determined by immunocytochemistry. RETHODS: The obvious injuries of periventricular white matter, massive loss of positive O4-labelled preOLs, and increased levels of NO, ONOO(-) and iNOS were observed in neonatal rats with PVL. Compared to the untreated PVL group, the use of 1400W at 0 h, 8 hrs and 16 hrs after LPS induction significantly improved white matter injuries, reduced the levels of NO, ONOO(-) and iNOS, and increased the amount of O4-labelled preOLs. However, the use of 1400W at 24 hrs after LPS induction did not result in the improvements.
iNOS inhibitor 1400W can effectively block the toxicity of LPS-activated microglia to preOLs and protect cerebral white matter through inhibiting iNOS and reducing the production of NO and ONOO(-). The use of 1400W within 16 hrs after LPS induction may provide cerebral protections in neonatal rats with PVL.
Functional changes in the brains of autistic children due to risperidone treatment and theirs relationship to the symptom clusters are yet unknown. In this autistic disorder case series we aimed to comparatively evaluate the clinical findings before and after risperidone treatment, and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) findings with 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) brain SPECT.
Eleven autistic patients (age range: 6-7 years; 4 girls, 7 boys) received risperidone therapy (1.5-2.5 mg d(-1)) and were followed-up for 3 months. All the patients underwent neurologic examinations, psychometric examinations, and SPECT imaging, both at the start of risperidone treatment and 3 months after the treatment started. Clinical observations, and the observations of parents and teachers were recorded. These results were compared with cerebral perfusion indices obtained from SPECT data.
After 3 months of treatment changes in rCBF were observed in various regions and to varying degrees. We observed relationships between clinical symptoms and pre-therapy rCBF findings, and between clinical improvement and rCBF changes.
Findings in the present case series are the first to demonstrate a relationship between clinical improvement and regional perfusion patterns after risperidone treatment. We think that these findings may contribute to the understanding of the neurofunctional mechanisms and hypothetical models of autism.
Fetuses with intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) induced by prenatal nicotine exposure are susceptible to adult metabolic syndrome. Our goals for this study were to investigate the effects of prenatal nicotine exposure on the fetal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and glucose and lipid metabolism and to explain the susceptibility to adult metabolic syndrome for fetuses with nicotine induced-IUGR. Pregnant Wistar rats were administered 0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/kg nicotine subcutaneously twice a day from gestational day 11 to 20. Nicotine exposure significantly increased the levels of fetal blood corticosterone and decreased the expression of placental 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-2 (11β-HSD-2). Moreover, nicotine exposure significantly increased the expressions of fetal hippocampal 11β-HSD-1 and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and decreased the expressions of fetal hypothalamus corticotropin-releasing hormone, adrenal steroid acute regulatory protein, and cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme. Additionally, increased expressions of 11β-HSD-1 and GR were observed in fetal liver and gastrocnemius muscle, and these tissues also expressed lower levels of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), IGF-1 receptor, and insulin receptor, while expressing increased levels of adiponectin receptor, leptin receptors, and AMP-activated protein kinase α2. Prenatal nicotine exposure causes HPA axis-associated neuroendocrine metabolic alterations in fetal rats. The underlying mechanism may involve activated glucocorticoid metabolism in various fetal tissues.
To assess whether prednisone (PDN) produces anxiety and/or cerebral glial changes in rats.
Male Wistar rats were studied and 3 groups were formed (8 rats per group). The moderate-dose group received 5 mg/kg/day PDN released from a subcutaneous implant. In the high-dose group, implants containing PDN equivalent to 60 mg/kg/day were applied. In the control group implants contained no PDN. Anxiety was assessed using an open field and elevated plus-maze devices. The number of cells and cytoplasmic transformation of astrocytes and microglia cells were assessed by immunohistochemical analyses.
Anxiety was documented in both groups of PDN treated rats compared with controls. The magnitude of transformation of the microglia assessed by the number of intersections was significantly higher in the PDN groups than in controls in the prefrontal cortex (moderate-dose, 24.1; high-dose, 23.6; controls 18.7; p < 0.01) and striatum (moderate-dose 25.6; high-dose 26.3; controls 18.9; p < 0.01), but not in hippocampus. The number of stained microglia cells was significantly higher in the PDN treated groups in the prefrontal cortex than in controls (moderate-dose, 29.1; high-dose, 28.4; control, 17.7 cells per field; p < 0.01). Stained microglia cells were significantly more numerous striatum and hippocampus in the high-dose group compared to controls.
Subacute exposure to PDN induced anxiety and reactivity of microglia. The relevance of these features for patients using PDN remains to be elucidated.
Liver fibrosis with any aetiology, induced by the transdifferentiation and proliferation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) to produce collagen, is characterized by progressive worsening in liver function, leading to a high incidence of death. We have recently reported that all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) suppresses the transdifferentiation and proliferation of lung fibroblasts and prevents radiation- or bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis.
We examined the impact of ATRA on carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced liver fibrosis. We performed histological examinations and quantitative measurements of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and interleukin (IL)-6 in CCl(4)-treated mouse liver tissues with or without the administration of ATRA, and investigated the effect of ATRA on the production of the cytokines in quiescent and activated HSCs.
CCl(4)-induced liver fibrosis was attenuated in histology by intraperitoneal administration of ATRA, and the overall survival rate at 12 weeks was 26.5% without ATRA (n=25), whereas it was 75.0% (n=24) in the treatment group (P=0.0187). In vitro studies disclosed that the administration of ATRA reduced (i) the production of TGF-beta1, IL-6 and collagen from HSCs, (ii) TGF-beta-dependent transdifferentiation of the cells and IL-6-dependent cell proliferation and (iii) the activities of nuclear factor-kappaB p65 and p38mitogen-activated protein kinase, which stimulate the production of TGF-beta1 and IL-6, which could be the mechanism underlying the preventive effect of ATRA on liver fibrosis.
Our findings indicate that ATRA ameliorates liver fibrosis. As the oral administration of the drug results in good compliance, ATRA could be a novel approach in the treatment of liver fibrosis.
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most important cause of lower respiratory tract infection in young children and the leading cause of infant hospitalization worldwide. Uncontrolled response to RSV is mediated by a toll-like receptor (TLR)-mediated immune response. Resveratrol possesses anti-RSV activity and is an inhibitor of the TRIF/TBK1/IRF-3 complex. We hypothesize that resveratrol inhibits the TRIF-dependent pathway through upregulation of SARM post-RSV infection. BALB/c mice were infected with RSV and were injected with resveratrol 1 h postinoculation. SARM short interfering RNA was administered to RSV-infected and resveratrol-treated mice. Lung function was measured by whole-body plethysmography, lung histopathology was examined, and lymphocytes in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were quantified. SARM and TRIF protein expression were detected in the lung by Western blot analyses. The expression of gamma interferon in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). SARM expression was reduced and TRIF expression was increased after infection with RSV. Resveratrol increased SARM expression and decreased TRIF expression after RSV infection. SARM knockdown in resveratrol-treated mice enhanced gamma interferon production, RSV-induced airway inflammation, and airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR). Resveratrol decreased TRIF expression and prevented the RSV-mediated reduction of SARM expression. Resveratrol-mediated inhibition of the TRIF-dependent pathway may be dependent on SARM expression.
Our study provides insights into the regulation of innate immunity in response to RSV infection. The results suggest that resveratrol-mediated alterations in SARM have therapeutic potential against RSV immunopathology caused by deregulation of the TLR-mediated immune response. Ultimately, improved insight into the complex interplay between TLR adaptor proteins and the occurrence of severe RSV infection might lead to novel therapeutic treatment strategies, such as TLR adjuvants.
In subcellular systems, doxorubicin hydrochloride (ADR) leads to the generation of reactive oxygen species such as superoxide anion. Because reactive oxygen species have been shown to be important mediators of glomerular injury in several animal models, we sought to determine whether reactive oxygen species play a significant role in the pathogenesis of ADR-induced nephrotic syndrome in the rat. Rats pretreated with a variety of free radical scavengers (superoxide dismutase conjugated to polyethylene glycol [PEGSOD], catalase, catalase plus PEGSOD, dimethylsulfoxide, desferoxamine, or n-acetyl cysteine) had no significant reduction in proteinuria at 3 weeks after ADR administration when compared with rats receiving ADR in the absence of scavengers. No evidence was seen of increased lipid peroxidation or depletion of reduced glutathione in renal cortex tissue obtained up to 24 hours after administration of ADR. No changes were seen in the renal cortical levels of either enzyme activity or immunoreactive protein for the endogenous antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (either the Mn or CuZn forms) or catalase after ADR. Total and MnSOD activities in glomeruli isolated from rats after ADR administration fell significantly, though CuZnSOD activity was increased. The effect of ADR on cultured rat mesangial or epithelial cells was also evaluated. ADR inhibited growth of both cell types at concentrations of approximately 5 to 10 mumol/L, an order of magnitude below the reported Michaelis-Menten constant for ADR-induced superoxide production. The growth inhibitory effect could not be prevented in either cell type by treatment with PEGSOD, catalase, or PEGSOD plus catalase. This combination of results from in vivo and in vitro studies provides no evidence for an important role of reactive oxygen species in ADR nephrosis and suggests that other known mechanisms of ADR cytotoxicity, such as interference with DNA metabolism, mediate the glomerular injury.
Mutations in the parkin gene are a predominant cause of familial parkinsonism. Although initially described as a recessive disorder, emerging evidence suggest that single parkin mutations alone may confer increased susceptibility to Parkinson's disease. To better understand the effects of parkin mutations in vivo, we generated transgenic Drosophila overexpressing two human parkin missense mutants, R275W and G328E. Transgenic flies that overexpress R275W, but not wild-type or G328E, human parkin display an age-dependent degeneration of specific dopaminergic neuronal clusters and concomitant locomotor deficits that accelerate with age or in response to rotenone treatment. Furthermore, R275W mutant flies also exhibit prominent mitochondrial abnormalities in their flight muscles. Interestingly, these defects caused by the expression of human R275W parkin are highly similar to those triggered by the loss of endogenous parkin in parkin null flies. Together, our results provide the first in vivo evidence demonstrating that parkin R275W mutant expression mediates pathogenic outcomes and suggest the interesting possibility that select parkin mutations may directly exert neurotoxicity in vivo.
The efficacy and safety of combined amiodarone and mexiletine treatment was investigated in 16 patients with chronic complex ventricular arrhythmias previously refractory to conventional antiarrhythmic agents and, in a lesser degree, to mexiletine or amiodarone. Many patients had a poor left ventricular function. Oral amiodarone was started using a loading dose of 600 mg daily for one week, 400 mg daily for one week, and a subsequent dosage of 200 mg daily five times a week. After twenty-one days of this treatment mexiletine was administered in combination (600 mg/day orally), if a 24-hour ambulatory ECG had revealed a partial suppression of the ventricular arrhythmias (14 out of 16 patients). On the fourth day of combined amiodarone and mexiletine treatment, analysis of a 24-hour ambulatory ECG showed a marked diminution of the ventricular ectopic activity compared with the pretreatment period. The average percentages of reduction for PVCs and couplets were 88% and 97%. Total suppression of TV runs/24 hr was achieved in all patients. Ventricular arrhythmias relapse was found in all patients during early mexiletine washout (phase 4) and in 12 patients during late mexiletine washout (phase 5). Amiodarone and mexiletine combination did not appear to reduce left ventricular function. Minor side effects occurred in some patients. Follow-up from 3 months to two years (mean 16 months) showed that maintenance treatment had achieved remarkable antiarrhythmic effects (Holter control). However, sudden cardiac death occurred in two patients with very depressed left ventricular function. We conclude that a combined amiodarone and mexiletine treatment effectively reduces the frequency and grade of PVCs and does not impair left ventricular performance. However, it does not prevent sudden cardiac death in patients with poor left ventricular function.
Quercetin and trans-resveratrol (trans-RSV) are plant polyphenols reported to reduce inflammation or insulin resistance associated with obesity. Recently, we showed that grape powder extract, which contains quercetin and trans-RSV, attenuates markers of inflammation in human adipocytes and macrophages and insulin resistance in human adipocytes. However, we do not know how quercetin and trans-RSV individually affected these outcomes.
The aim of this study was to examine the extent to which quercetin and trans-RSV prevented inflammation or insulin resistance in primary cultures of human adipocytes treated with tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α)-an inflammatory cytokine elevated in the plasma and adipose tissue of obese, diabetic individuals.
Cultures of human adipocytes were pretreated with quercetin and trans-RSV followed by treatment with TNF-α. Subsequently, gene and protein markers of inflammation and insulin resistance were measured.
Quercetin, and to a lesser extent trans-RSV, attenuated the TNF-α-induced expression of inflammatory genes such as interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1β, IL-8, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and the secretion of IL-6, IL-8, and MCP-1. Quercetin attenuated TNF-α-mediated phosphorylation of extracellular signal-related kinase and c-Jun-NH₂ terminal kinase, whereas trans-RSV attenuated only c-Jun-NH₂ terminal kinase phosphorylation. Quercetin and trans-RSV attenuated TNF-α-mediated phosphorylation of c-Jun and degradation of inhibitory κB protein. Quercetin, but not trans-RSV, decreased TNF-α-induced nuclear factor-κB transcriptional activity. Quercetin and trans-RSV attenuated the TNF-α-mediated suppression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and PPARγ target genes and of PPARγ protein concentrations and transcriptional activity. Quercetin prevented the TNF-α-mediated serine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 and protein tyrosine phosphatase-1B gene expression and the suppression of insulin-stimulated glucose uptake, whereas trans-RSV prevented only the TNF-α-mediated serine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1.
These data suggest that quercetin is equally or more effective than trans-RSV in attenuating TNF-α-mediated inflammation and insulin resistance in primary human adipocytes.
Kawasaki disease is a pediatric systemic vasculitis of unknown etiology for which a genetic influence is suspected. We identified a functional SNP (itpkc_3) in the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase C (ITPKC) gene on chromosome 19q13.2 that is significantly associated with Kawasaki disease susceptibility and also with an increased risk of coronary artery lesions in both Japanese and US children. Transfection experiments showed that the C allele of itpkc_3 reduces splicing efficiency of the ITPKC mRNA. ITPKC acts as a negative regulator of T-cell activation through the Ca2+/NFAT signaling pathway, and the C allele may contribute to immune hyper-reactivity in Kawasaki disease. This finding provides new insights into the mechanisms of immune activation in Kawasaki disease and emphasizes the importance of activated T cells in the pathogenesis of this vasculitis.
We identified a SNP in the DPP6 gene that is consistently strongly associated with susceptibility to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in different populations of European ancestry, with an overall P value of 5.04 x 10(-8) in 1,767 cases and 1,916 healthy controls and with an odds ratio of 1.30 (95% confidence interval (CI) of 1.18-1.43). Our finding is the first report of a genome-wide significant association with sporadic ALS and may be a target for future functional studies.
We mapped a high-penetrance gene (CRAC1; also known as HMPS) associated with colorectal cancer (CRC) in the Ashkenazi population to a 0.6-Mb region on chromosome 15 containing SCG5 (also known as SGNE1), GREM1 and FMN1. We hypothesized that the CRAC1 locus harbored low-penetrance variants that increased CRC risk in the general population. In a large series of colorectal cancer cases and controls, SNPs near GREM1 and SCG5 were strongly associated with increased CRC risk (for rs4779584, P = 4.44 x 10(-14)).
Myotonic muscular dystrophy (DM1) is the most common inherited neuromuscular disorder in adults and is considered the first example of a disease caused by RNA toxicity. Using a reversible transgenic mouse model of RNA toxicity in DM1, we provide evidence that DM1 is associated with induced NKX2-5 expression. Transgene expression resulted in cardiac conduction defects, increased expression of the cardiac-specific transcription factor NKX2-5 and profound disturbances in connexin 40 and connexin 43. Notably, overexpression of the DMPK 3' UTR mRNA in mouse skeletal muscle also induced transcriptional activation of Nkx2-5 and its targets. In human muscles, these changes were specific to DM1 and were not present in other muscular dystrophies. The effects on NKX2-5 and its downstream targets were reversed by silencing toxic RNA expression. Furthermore, using Nkx2-5+/- mice, we show that NKX2-5 is the first genetic modifier of DM1-associated RNA toxicity in the heart.
The cardiotoxicity associated with doxorubicin (DOX) therapy limits the total cumulative dose and therapeutic success of active anticancer chemotherapy. Cardiac mitochondria are implicated as primary targets for DOX toxicity, which is believed to be mediated by the generation of highly reactive free radical species of oxygen from complex I of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. The objective of this study was to determine if the protection demonstrated by carvedilol (CV), a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist with strong antioxidant properties, against DOX-induced mitochondrial-mediated cardiomyopathy [Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol. 185 (2002) 218] is attributable to its antioxidant properties or its beta-adrenergic receptor antagonism. Our results confirm that DOX induces oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and histopathological lesions in the cardiac tissue, all of which are inhibited by carvedilol. In contrast, atenolol (AT), a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist lacking antioxidant properties, preserved phosphate energy charge but failed to protect against any of the indexes of DOX-induced oxidative mitochondrial toxicity. We therefore conclude that the cardioprotective effects of carvedilol against DOX-induced mitochondrial cardiotoxicity are due to its inherent antioxidant activity and not to its beta-adrenergic receptor antagonism.
The present study was designed to assess the incidence of pain when methohexitone was administered to 35 depressed patients who had electroconvulsive therapy, and to determine whether the use of lignocaine could modify this, without affecting seizure duration. The same patients were studied during three separate treatment sessions; they received either methohexitone alone or mixed with, or preceded by, lignocaine 10 mg. Six (17%) patients spontaneously complained of pain during injection of methohexitone alone; the use of lignocaine prior to methohexitone reduced this to zero (p less than 0.05). A total of 49% patients reported pain during injection of methohexitone; the use of lignocaine either mixed with, or given prior to, methohexitone significantly reduced this to 23% and 20% respectively (p less than 0.05). Seizure duration was not significantly different during the three treatments.
The effects of long-term indomethacin therapy were studied in rats with chronic nephrosis induced by puromycin of aminonucleoside (PAN). Fifteen PAN rats received indomethacin (2 mg/kg/d) administered by daily gavages, and fifteen received glucose. A control group received indomethacin but no PAN. Three to five animals per group were sacrificed monthly. Proteinuria was similar in both PAN rat groups. Renal function and histology were normal in the control rats. In the PAN animals, renal failure developed earlier in the treated rats than in the others. Histological examination revealed in all PAN rats early tubulo-interstitial lesions and progressive glomerular damage. The pattern of the lesions was identical in both PAN rats, but the glomerular changes developed earlier, were more diffuse and more severe in the indomethacin treated rats. Thus, indomethacin resulted in an accelerated destruction of the glomeruli in experimental nephrosis. Such a deleterious effect remains unexplained, and its relevance to human disease is not demonstrated.
Transcription of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) is activated by viral Tat protein which regulates HIV-long terminal repeat (LTR) transcription and elongation. HIV-1 Tat protein is a substrate for the deacetylase activity of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1). Here we investigate the signaling pathway involved in Tat-induced HIV-1 transactivation through SIRT1. Western blot analysis showed a significant reduction in AMPK activation and downstream acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) activation in response to Tat treatment. NAD(+) levels and SIRT1 activity were also decreased with Tat treatment. SIRT1 activator resveratrol reversed Tat-mediated reduction in AMPK activation and downstream ACC activation; while SIRT1 inhibitor nicotinamide or knockdown of SIRT1 by siRNA potentiated Tat-mediated reduction in AMPK activation and downstream ACC activation. Consistent with this association, AMPK activator AICAR as well as resveratrol inhibited Tat-induced HIV-1 transactivation. On the contrary, AMPK inhibitor compound C, knockdown of AMPK by siRNA as well as nicotinamide or knockdown of SIRT1 by siRNA potentiated Tat-induced HIV-1 transactivation. Collectively, our data provide new insights into understanding of the molecular mechanisms of Tat-regulated transcription, suggesting that targeting SIRT1-AMPK pathway could serve as a new target for the development of new anti HIV-1 agents.
A case of acute severe organophosphate poisoning by deliberate self administration is reported. The patient required intensive therapy for 30 days. Unusual features of the case were the avoidance of atropine, because of the high risk of ventricular fibrillation, and the ineffectiveness of pralidoxime.
In this multicenter, prospective, randomized clinical trial on advanced Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL), the efficacy and toxicity of two chemotherapy regimens, doxorubicin, vinblastine, mechlorethamine, vincristine, bleomycin, etoposide, and prednisone (Stanford V) and mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone, epidoxirubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, lomustine, doxorubicin, and vindesine (MOPPEBVCAD), were compared with doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) as standard therapy to select which regimen would best support a reduced radiotherapy program, which was limited to < or = two sites of either previous bulky or partially remitting disease (a modification of the original Stanford program).
Three hundred fifty-five patients with stage IIB, III, or IV HL were randomly assigned. Three hundred thirty-four patients were assessable for the study and received six cycles of ABVD (n = 122), three cycles of Stanford V (n = 107), or six cycles of MOPPEBVCAD (n = 106); radiotherapy was administered to 76, 71, and 50 patients in these three arms, respectively.
The complete response rates for ABVD, Stanford V, and MOPPEBVCAD were 89%, 76% and 94%, respectively; 5-year failure-free survival (FFS) and progression-free survival rates were 78%, 54%, 81% and 85%, 73%, and 94%, respectively (P < .01 for comparison of Stanford V with the other two regimens). Corresponding 5-year overall survival rates were 90%, 82%, and 89% for ABVD, Stanford V, and MOPPEBVCAD, respectively. Stanford V was more myelotoxic than ABVD but less myelotoxic than MOPPEBVCAD, which had larger reductions in the prescribed drug doses.
When associated with conditioned and limited (not adjuvant) radiotherapy, ABVD and MOPPEBVCAD were superior to Stanford V chemotherapy in terms of response rate and FFS and progression-free survival. Patients were irradiated less often after MOPPEBVCAD, but this regimen was more toxic. ABVD is still the best choice when it is combined with optional, limited irradiation.
To study the apoptosis of alveolar type II cells, alterations of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), VEGF receptor (Flt1) in serum and lung and expression of VEGF mRNA in lung in pulmonary edema mice induced by phosgene.
Twenty-six BALB/C mice were randomly divided into 2 groups: control group, exposed group (13 mice in each group). Mice of exposed group were intoxicated by inhalation of phosgene 11.9 mg/L for 5 minutes. Mice of control group were treated as the same way by inhalation of air. Isolation of mice alveolus type II cells 4 h after intoxication was carried out to observe their apoptosis under electron microscope. Contents of VEGF and Flt1 in lung and serum by ELISA, and expression of VEGF mRNA were determined.
Alveolar type II cells were identified by tannic acid staining and electron microscopy. After exposed to 11.9 mg/L of phosgene for 5 minutes, the apoptotic body in alveolus type II cells was found in exposed group. The contents of VEGF in serum and lung and Flt1 in lung of exposed mice [(134.07 +/- 120.26), (477.76 +/- 98.06), (1,2818.48 +/- 2,304.15) pg/ml] were significantly lower than those of control group [(445.57 +/- 173.30), (1,026.87 +/- 474.56), (21,976.51 +/- 7,421.01) pg/ml, P < 0.05] but the content of Flt1 in serum [(2,369.56 +/- 381.70) pg/ml] was higher than that in control group [(1,898.00 +/- 453.69) pg/ml, P < 0.05]. The expression of VEGF mRNA in pulmonary edema mice was decreased.
Phosgene can induce apoptosis of alveolar type II cells, and decrease in the content of VEGF and Flt1, and expression of VEGF mRNA in lung.
Drug therapy is now the preferred method of treatment for spasticity, and several effective agents have been developed. The safety and efficacy of these drugs has been established in short-term studies. Overall, due to its low incidence of sedation and serious side effects, baclofen appears to be the drug of choice in the treatment of spinal cord-related spasticity. It is, however, not without its side effects due to both its administration and abrupt withdrawal. This case illustrates some significant problems associated with the abrupt withdrawal of long-term baclofen therapy in a patient with multiple sclerosis.
The potential usefulness of adriamycin (ADR) is restricted because of its cardiotoxic side effects. Since free radicals and lipid peroxidation are suggested to be involved in ADR cardiomyopathy, we examined the beneficial effects of probucol, a lipid-lowering drug with strong antioxidant properties.
ADR was administered to rats in six equal intraperitoneal injections over a period of 2 weeks (cumulative dose of 15 mg/kg). After a 3-week posttreatment period, cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure were characterized by ascites, congested liver, depressed cardiac function, elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, and myocardial cell damage. Myocardial glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx) activity was decreased, and lipid peroxidation was increased. Probucol (cumulative dose, 60 mg/kg IP) was administered in six equal injections over a 2-week period on days alternating with ADR treatment. Probucol significantly attenuated the myocardial effects of ADR, improved left ventricular function, and lowered mortality as well as the amount of ascites. Treatment with probucol was also accompanied by an increase in myocardial GSHPx and superoxide dismutase activities, with a concomitant decrease in lipid peroxidation.
These data provide evidence that ADR cardiomyopathy is associated with an antioxidant deficit. Improved cardiac function resulting from treatment with probucol may be related to the maintenance of the antioxidant status of the heart. The study suggests potential usefulness of antioxidant (probucol) therapy in ADR cardiomyopathy.
