This study examined some pharmacodynamic characteristics of two admixtures of propofol and thiopentone. Ninety unpremedicated ASA 1 or 2 patients were group-randomized to receive, in a double-blinded manner, one of the following mixtures for induction of anaesthesia: Group P50: propofol 1% 10 ml/thiopentone 2.5% 10 ml; Group P75: propofol 1% 15 ml/thiopentone 2.5% 5 ml; Group P100: propofol 1% 20 ml/lignocaine 1% 4 ml. An additional 30 randomized but unblinded patients from the same patient cohort received thiopentone 2.5% to provide predictive dose data for groups P50 and P75. Haemodynamic data were collected pre- and post-induction. The required induction dose of both mixtures of propofol and thiopentone found an additive rather than a synergistic interaction with no significant difference between predicted and observed dose. Thiopentone resulted in significantly more rapid induction of anaesthesia than propofol/lignocaine or propofol/thiopentone. The addition of thiopentone to propofol was found to be as efficacious as the mixing of lignocaine with propofol in reducing pain on injection. The fall in systolic blood pressure was significantly less in group P50 compared with groups P75 or P100. Admixture of thiopentone with propofol results in an additive hypnotic effect, a reduction in pain of injection (comparable with addition of lignocaine) and a reduced hypotensive response compared to propofol injection alone during induction.
The environmental pollutant 2,3,7,8-tetracholorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is known to cause a wide variety of toxic effects, including hepatotoxicity, by way of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). Although inducible expression of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A1 and CYP1A2 is associated with liver injury caused by high-dose TCDD, the specific role of the AHR-CYP1 cascade in hepatotoxicity remains unclear. We investigated the effects of AHR activation under conditions of cholestasis. We administered oral TCDD to mice at a dose that can effectively induce Cyp1 gene expression without overt liver toxicity and then ligated their bile ducts. TCDD pretreatment enhanced bile duct ligation (BDL)-induced increases in liver and plasma bile acids, bilirubin, and aminotransferases. Histology of TCDD-pretreated BDL mice revealed massive hepatic necrosis without any increase in number of apoptotic cells. Whereas induction of AHR-target genes by TCDD was observed similarly in sham-operated as well as in BDL mice, TCDD pretreatment of BDL mice altered the expression of hepatic genes involved in bile acid synthesis and transport. Increased plasma proinflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-1β, in BDL mice were further elevated by TCDD pretreatment. Liver injury by TCDD plus BDL, such as increased plasma bile acids, bilirubin and aminotransferases, liver necrosis, and increased tumor necrosis factor production, was exaggerated in Cyp1a1/1a2(-/-) double knockout mice. These findings indicate that TCDD aggravates cholestatic liver damage and that the presence of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 plays a protective role in liver damage caused by TCDD and BDL.
This study investigated the protective effects of isoquinoline alkaloid berberine on the CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity in mice. Berberine was administered as a single dose at 5 and 10mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.), 1h before CCl(4) (10%, v/v in olive oil, 2ml/kg) injection and mice were euthanized 24h later. The rise in serum levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) in CCl(4)-intoxicated mice was markedly suppressed by berberine in a concentration-dependent manner. The decrease in hepatic activity of superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn SOD) and an increase in lipid peroxidation were significantly prevented by berberine. Histopathological changes were reduced and the expression of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) was markedly attenuated by berberine 10mg/mg. The results of this study indicate that berberine could be effective in protecting the liver from acute CCl(4)-induced injury. The hepatoprotective mechanisms of berberine may be related to the free radical scavenging and attenuation of oxidative/nitrosative stress, as well as to the inhibition of inflammatory response in the liver.
Constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) and pregnane X receptor (PXR) are closely related orphan nuclear receptor proteins that share several ligands and target overlapping sets of genes involved in homeostasis and all phases of drug metabolism. CAR and PXR are involved in the development of certain diseases, including diabetes, metabolic syndrome and obesity. Ligand screens for these receptors so far have typically focused on steroid hormone analogs with pharmacophore-based approaches, only to find relatively few new hits. Multiple CAR isoforms have been detected in human liver, with the most abundant being the constitutively active reference, CAR1, and the ligand-dependent isoform CAR3. It has been assumed that any compound that binds CAR1 should also activate CAR3, and so CAR3 can be used as a ligand-activated surrogate for CAR1 studies. The possibility of CAR3-specific ligands has not, so far, been addressed. To investigate the differences between CAR1, CAR3 and PXR, and to look for more CAR ligands that may be of use in quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) studies, we performed a luciferase transactivation assay screen of 60 mostly non-steroid compounds. Known active compounds with different core chemistries were chosen as starting points and structural variants were rationally selected for screening. Distinct differences in agonist versus inverse agonist/antagonist effects were seen in 49 compounds that had some ligand effect on at least one receptor and 18 that had effects on all three receptors; eight were CAR1 ligands only, three were CAR3 only ligands and four affected PXR only. This work provides evidence for new CAR ligands, some of which have CAR3-specific effects, and provides observational data on CAR and PXR ligands with which to inform in silico strategies. Compounds that demonstrated unique activity on any one receptor are potentially valuable diagnostic tools for the investigation of in vivo molecular targets.
The nephrotoxicity, pharmacokinetic and therapeutic activity of fosfomycin were investigated in female wistar-rats. Measures of nephrotoxicity were urinary excretion of tubular cells and of the enzymes MDH, LDH, and GOT. Histological investigations and estimation of serum urea concentration and proteinuria were also evaluated. The doses of 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, and 5000 mg/kg/d were administered in 9 single doses with 12 hours interval. The lowest dose which induced a significantly increased tubular cell excretion was 1000 mg/kg/d and therefore in the same range as the tubulotoxic threshold doses of cephalosporins. Chemotherapy of the chronic estrogen induced pyelonephritis revealed equally favourable results for fosfomycin and cefuroxim at dosages of 2 X 150 mg/kg/d. The pharmacokinetics of fosfomycin at a single dose of 150 mg/kg/d were equivalent to those of cefuroxim. These animal experiments showed fosfomycin to be of value as a therapeutic alternative to cephalosporin antibiotics.
In a single-blinded study, two groups of 10 healthy subjects were given cephapirin or cephalothin by continuous intravenous infusion for 5 days, 0.5 g every 6 hr for the first day and then 1.0 g every 6 hr for 4 days. Eight of the cephalothin subjects and two of the cephapirin subjects developed phlebitis. Phlebitis was more severe in the cephalothin group and developed more rapidly, necessitating vein changes six times more often than in the cephapirin group. The less irritating properties of cephapirin demonstrated in this study indicate it may be the more useful cephalosporin analogue for intravenous therapy.
Administration of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) to rats induces acute nephrosis with hyperlipidemia, and, in some experimental conditions, it results in chronic focal glomerulosclerosis. In this study, we examined the cytotoxicity of serum from rats with PAN-induced nephrosis, since hypercholesterolemia is considered to cause injury to vascular walls in atherosclerosis, the mechanism of which is analogous to that of glomerulosclerosis. About half of the tested sera from nephrotic rats (9 out of 17) were cytotoxic to cultured aortic endothelial cells. The toxic substance(s) was heat-stable and was extracted in the lipid fraction. Serum levels of triglyceride and cholesterol were markedly higher in the group of rats with cytotoxic serum than in the group with noncytotoxic serum. No cytotoxicity was associated with sera from control rats or the corresponding lipid fractions. Cytotoxic sera were also effective against cultured glomerular epithelial and mesangial cells. These results indicate that cytotoxic lipid is produced in rats with PAN nephrosis and the results raise the possibility that the cytotoxic lipid in nephrotic serum might contribute to lipid-mediated glomerular injury which may induce glomerulosclerosis at a subsequent stage.
Tolazoline is used in neonatal intensive care to treat hypoxia secondary to persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn. Its use is often complicated by systemic hypotension. We compared the effect of tolazoline-induced hypotension on organ blood flow, regional brain blood flow, and cerebral metabolism in hypoxic newborn dogs whose mean arterial pressure fell by more than 20% with a second group whose blood pressure fell by less than 20%. Blood flows were measured by the radioactive microsphere technique. We found no changes in organ blood flow, regional brain blood flow, and cerebral metabolism in hypoxic animals whose mean arterial blood pressure decreased less than 20% during tolazoline administration. However, in those animals whose mean arterial blood pressure decreased more than 20%, we found a decrease in cerebral blood flow. As a consequence of decreased cerebral blood flow, cerebral oxygen delivery decreased. However, oxygen extraction increased so that cerebral metabolic rate was preserved.
To investigate the involvement of the sympathoinhibitory effect of imidapril and enalapril in their antihypertensive effect at a clinically reasonable dose, we studied whether some responses induced by the stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) were affected by intravenous administration of imidaprilat and enalaprilat in curarized pithed spontaneously hypertensive rats. Imidaprilat and enalaprilat (both at 100 micrograms/kg, i.v.), which are active metabolites of imidapril and enalapril, respectively, suppressed the pressor responses to electrical stimulation (ES) of the spinal cord (T1-L7) and exogenous noradrenaline (NA). The pressor responses to NA were significantly suppressed after either alpha 1- or alpha 2-adrenoceptors were blocked. Furthermore, imidaprilat (100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) suppressed these reduced responses. When the reduced basal blood pressure was restored by vasopressin infusion, imidaprilat and enalaprilat (both at 100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) did not suppress the responses to ES and exogenous alpha-adrenoceptor agonists. They affected neither basal plasma concentrations of NA and adrenaline nor ES-induced increase of these catecholamines. These results suggest that the suppressive effects of imidaprilat and enalaprilat on the pressor responses to ES and alpha-adrenoceptors agonists are apparently observed in pithed SHR because of a reduction of vascular tone and that imidapril and enalapril do not lower the blood pressure through suppressing SNS.
Octreotide may be a life-saving treatment in the case of an acute carcinoid crisis, but when given as an i.v. bolus in larger doses, it may cause significant effects on the cardiac conduction system. We describe cardiac conduction impairment observed during octreotide administration in a patient undergoing carcinoid tumor surgery. In this patient, i.v. boluses of 100 microg of octreotide resulted in symptomatic bradycardia, Mobitz type II atrioventricular block, and complete heart block. Perioperative physicians especially need to be aware of these potential effects because they may be more likely to occur during surgery because of the larger doses and boluses that are used to treat acute symptoms secondary to tumor manipulation.
In some susceptible patients, i.v. bolus administration of octreotide may cause significant bradycardia and cardiac conduction defects. Therefore, when octreotide is administered as a bolus, it may be advisable to give it slowly while monitoring the electrocardiogram.
The treatment of disseminated melanoma is inadequate. The most active single agents provide brief objective response in 20% of patients, while the combination chemotherapy improves response rates without any apparent survival benefit. Median overall survival is, in fact, 7-9 months and 5 year survival is approximately 6%. Metastatic melanoma with a localization of the disease in the liver and brain are categorized as M1c and have the worst prognosis. Here we describe the history, treatment and favourable clinical outcome in a young man with liver and resected brain metastases who obtained complete remission for 6 years since chemotherapy with dacarbazine, cisplatin and vinblastine.
In 7 patients (ASA class I and II) the pharmacokinetic behaviour after bolus injection of alfentanyl was investigated. The plasma decay curves in each patient could be described in terms of an open two-compartment model. The plasma half-life of alfentanyl in the alpha-phase was about 4 min, the elimination half-life was 70 min. The total volume of distribution was calculated to 33 1. The total plasma clearance amounted to 336 ml/min. Plasma protein binding of alfentanyl was about 92%; binding to human erythrocytes showed values less than 0.1%. The renal excretion of unchanged alfentanyl amounted to only 0.4% of the total dose in a time period of 24h. Clinical observations showed a minor effect on cardiovascular system; apnoea was seen in all patients. Chest wall rigidity was the main unwanted effect in 5 of 7 cases. The onset of action could be observed during the injection of 5 mg alfentanyl. The recovery period was extremely short. Therefore, alfentanyl seems to be of advantage for short surgical interventions; for longer lasting anaesthesia the development of an infusion model may be helpful.
A prospective cohort study was conducted to evaluate the effect of arsenic (As) exposure from drinking water on respiratory symptoms using data from the Health Effects of Arsenic Exposure Longitudinal Study (HEALS), a large prospective cohort study established in Ariahazar, Bangladesh in 2000-2002. A total of 7.31, 9.95 and 2.03% of the 11 746 participants completing 4 years of active follow-up reported having a chronic cough, breathing problem or blood in their sputum, respectively, as assessed by trained physicians.
Cox regression models were used to estimate HRs for respiratory symptoms during the follow-up period in relation to levels of chronic As exposure assessed at baseline, adjusting for age, gender, smoking, body mass index, education and arsenic-related skin lesion status.
Significant positive associations were found between As exposure and respiratory symptoms. As compared with those with the lowest quintile of water As level (<or=7 microg/l), the HRs for having respiratory symptoms were 1.27 (95% CI 1.09 to 1.48), 1.39 (95% CI 1.19 to 1.63), 1.43 (95% CI 1.23 to 1.68) and 1.43 (95% CI 1.22 to 1.68) for the second to fifth quintiles of baseline water As concentrations (7-40, 40-90, 90-178 and >178 microg/l), respectively. Similarly, the corresponding HRs in relation to the second to fifth quintiles of urinary arsenic were 1.10 (95% CI 0.94 to 1.27), 1.11 (95% CI 0.95 to 1.29), 1.29 (95% CI 1.11 to 1.49) and 1.35 (95% CI 1.16 to 1.56), respectively. These associations did not differ appreciably by cigarette smoking status.
This prospective cohort study found a dose-response relationship between As exposure and clinical symptoms of respiratory diseases in Bangladesh. In particular, these adverse respiratory effects of As were clearly evident in the low to moderate dose range, suggesting that a large proportion of the country's population may be at risk of developing serious lung diseases in the future.
Of 109 children treated daily with phenobarbital following the first fibrile convulsion, 42% developed a behavior disorder, usually hyperactivity. Daily phenobarbital therapy was prematurely discontinued in 54% of the children with behavior abnormality (20% of those treated). The behavior disturbance usually appeared within several months, was no correlated with high blood barbiturate levels, disappeared in 73%, and improved in all children when barbiturate therapy was discontinued. No characteristics of the child, the initial febrile seizure, or recurrence of febrile seizures were significantly correlated with the occurrence of the behavior disorder except for behavioral abnormality preceding the initial febrile convulsion. Eighteen percent of the children who received no phenobarbital developed behavior disorder, most often hyperactivity. The behavior disturbance spontaneously disappeared in 52%. Among these children not given phenobarbital, the group with normal behavior had a greater frequency of family history of seizures, especially febrile convulsions, and a lower frequency of preseizure behavior disturbance; abnormalities of pregnancy, labor, delivery, and neonatal period; delayed milestones; long seizures; abnormal results of neurological examination; abnormal EEG; and recurrent febrile seizures.
Glutamate antagonists decrease dyskinesia and augment the antiparkinsonian effects of levodopa in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD). In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial, we investigated the acute effects of placebo and two doses of a NR2B subunit selective NMDA glutamate antagonist, CP-101,606, on the response to 2-hour levodopa infusions in 12 PD subjects with motor fluctuations and dyskinesia. Both doses of CP-101,606 reduced the maximum severity of levodopa-induced dyskinesia approximately 30% but neither dose improved Parkinsonism. CP-101,606 was associated with a dose-related dissociation and amnesia. These results support the hypothesis that glutamate antagonists may be useful antidyskinetic agents. However, future studies will have to determine if the benefits of dyskinesia suppression can be achieved without adverse cognitive effects.
Astrocyte and microglial activation occurs following seizures and plays a role in epileptogenesis. However, the precise temporal and spatial response to seizures has not been fully examined. The pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy was selected to examine glial changes following seizures because morphological changes in the hippocampus closely mimic the human condition. Astrocytic and microglial changes in the hippocampus were examined during the first 5 days after pilocarpine-induced seizures in rats by analyzing GFAP, Iba1 and S100B-immunolabeling in CA1, CA3, and the hilus. Also, 3-dimensional reconstructions of microglial cells from the hilus and granule cell layer were analyzed. Lastly, astrocyte hypertrophy was examined in the hilus using electron microscopy. At 1 day after seizures and continuing throughout the 5 days examined, hypertrophied Iba1-labeled microglial cells and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-labeled astrocytes were observed. At 1 and 2 days after seizures, significantly greater Iba1 immunolabeling was observed in CA1, CA3, and the hilus. In addition, both the area of Iba1 labeled processes and the number of their endings were increased in the hilus beginning at 1 day after seizures. S100B-immunolabeling was significantly elevated in CA3 at 1 day, in CA3 and CA1 at 2 days, and in all three hippocampal regions at 3 days after seizures. Electron microscopy confirmed astrocytic hypertrophy and demonstrated astrocytic cell bodies in the location where glial endfeet normally appear on capillaries. The differential response patterns of astrocytes and microglial cells following pilocarpine-induced seizures may signify their detrimental role in neuroinflammation after seizures.
Technical BHC and the alpha, beta, gamma and delta isomers of BHC are carcinogenic for the liver of mice and rats. Mice given the isomers of BHC developed carcinomas and hyperplastic nodules of the liver as early as 24 weeks. Several strains of mice (dd, ICR-JLC, CL1, DDY, IRC, DBA/Z, C3H/HEN, C57BL/6 were susceptible. Male mice were more susceptible to hepatic carcinogenesis than female mice and they appeared to be more susceptible to alpha-BHC. The incidence of neoplasms of the liver was increased when beta-, gamma-, or delta-BHC were each given together with alpha-BHC. PCB-5 promoted the induction of hepatic neoplasms when administered with beta-BHC. Technical BHC and its isomers are carcinogenic for the liver of male and female Wistar rats. Beta-BHC is carcinogenic for the liver of Osborne-Mendel male rats. Osborne-Mendel rats receiving delta-BHC developed cirrhosis of the liver, portal vein thrombosis, and focal necrosis of the skeletal muscle. Male rats ingesting technical BHC or the beta or delta isomers also had atrophic testes.
Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can precipitate adverse reactions in two apparently different clinical conditions: bronchial asthma and chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU). Recent evidence indicates that the reactions are triggered by the drugs that inhibit cyclooxygenase-1 but not cyclooxygenase-2.
To assess whether patients with CIU and aspirin sensitivity share common eicosanoid alterations with patients who have aspirin-sensitive asthma.
Seventy-four patients with CIU and a history of sensitivity to aspirin and NSAIDs underwent placebo-controlled oral aspirin challenge tests. Concentrations of urinary leukotriene E4 (uLTE4) were measured by ELISA and plasma stable prostaglandin D2 metabolite, 9alpha,11beta prostaglandin F(2) by GC/MS. All measurements were carried out at baseline and after aspirin dosing. Patients were genotyped for the leukotriene C4 synthase (LTC4S) promoter single nucleotide polymorphism.
In 30 of 74 patients, the aspirin challenge was positive, resulting in urticaria/angioedema. In these 30 patients, baseline uLTE4 levels were higher than in nonresponders and the healthy control subjects and increased further (significantly) after the onset of clinical reaction. No such increase occurred in subjects with negative aspirin challenge. Baseline uLTE4 levels correlated with severity of skin reactions. Plasma 9alpha,11beta prostaglandin F(2) levels rose significantly in both aspirin responders and nonresponders, although in the latter group the increase occurred later than in the former. In patients who reacted to aspirin, frequency of (-444)C allele of LTC4S was significantly higher than in patients who did not react.
CIU with aspirin sensitivity is characterized by the eicosanoid alterations, which are similar to those present in aspirin-induced asthma.
To investigate the antitumor action of arsenic trioxide in solid tumors, we carried out quantitative tumor perfusion studies, using locally advanced methylcholanthrene-induced fibrosarcoma grown in BALB/c mice. The tumor perfusion studies were assessed by two separate methods: 99mTc clearance and 86Rb uptake. A single administration of arsenic trioxide (10 mg/kg i.p.) produced a preferential vascular shutdown in the tumor tissue at 2 and 6 h, leading to massive necrosis in the central part of the tumor. The phenomenon was repeatable at intervals of weekly administration of the drug in the same tumor. Normal skin, muscle, and kidney were relatively unaffected by arsenic trioxide. These results suggest that the drug may be investigated as an adjunct to the standard cancer therapeutic modalities.
Sprague-Dawley male rats drank flavored water and subsequent pain responsivity was assessed using a hot plate first after isotonic saline and later after either 2.75 (Experiment 1) or 2.5 (Experiment 2) mg/kg of morphine hydrochloride was injected. A 48-h exposure to any one of several different flavors resulted in a reduction of the analgesic effects of morphine as shown by an attenuation of the increased latency to paw lick caused by the morphine. This effect was independent of the amount consumed. A 26-h exposure to a flavor decreased pain reactivity before and after morphine as shown by an overall increase in latency to paw lick. This effect was not influenced by whether the normally preferred flavor was made aversive by a previous pairing with lithium chloride-induced illness. These findings are consistent with the idea that many flavors, independently of palatability and amount consumed, increase the release and utilization of endogenous opioids.
Acquired cold urticaria is an infrequent physical urticaria that can provoke severe systemic reactions. Histamine is the primary mediator, but leukotrienes are also involved in the pathogenesis. H(1) antihistamines are recommended as first-choice treatment, but their efficacy is sometimes unsatisfactory. On the basis of pathogenic knowledge, it can be hypothesized that a combination therapy with antihistamines and leukotriene receptor antagonists is more effective than each drug given alone. We tested this hypothesis in 2 patients with severe systemic cold urticaria poorly responsive to conventional therapy. The patients underwent 3 consecutive treatment regimens (each of 2 weeks): cetirizine (10 mg once a day); zafirlukast (20 mg twice a day); and their combination. They were clinically evaluated, after each regimen, by means of a visual analog scale and ice-cube test. The combination therapy was superior to the 2 drugs given alone, as testified by subjective and objective evaluations.
The present study was undertaken in order to investigate the muscarinic (M(1)), dopaminergic (D(1) and D(2)) and serotonergic (5-HT(2)) receptors densities in hippocampus and striatum of Wistar rats after status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine. The control group was treated with 0.9% saline. An other group of rats received pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, s.c.) and both groups were sacrificed 1 h after treatment. The results have shown that pilocarpine administration and resulting SE produced a downregulation of M(1) receptor in hippocampus (41%) and striatum (51%) and an increase in the dissociation constant (K(d)) values in striatum (42%) alone. In both areas the 5-HT(2) receptor density remained unaltered, but a reduction (50%) and an increase (15%) in the K(d) values were detected in striatum and hippocampus, respectively. D(1) and D(2) receptor densities in hippocampus and striatum remained unaltered meanwhile K(d) values for D(1) receptor declined significantly, 33% in hippocampus and 26% in striatum. Similarly, K(d) values for D(2) decreased 55% in hippocampus and 52% in striatum. From the preceding results, it is clear that there is a possible relation between alterations in muscarinic receptor density and others systems studied as well as they suggest that changes in dissociation constant can be responsible for the establishment of pilocarpine-induced SE by altering the affinity of neurotransmitters such as acetylcholine, dopamine and serotonine.
The relative costs and benefits of low- and conventional-dose neuroleptic maintenance therapy were evaluated in a double-blind comparison of 5 and 25 mg of fluphenazine decanoate administered every two weeks. Subjects were 50 patients fulfilling DSM-III criteria for schizophrenic disorder who had been successfully maintained with 25 mg or less of fluphenazine decanoate. A one-year survival analysis disclosed that there were no statistically significant differences between the two doses insofar as preventing relapse. Patients receiving the higher dose appeared to feel more uncomfortable, as indicated by higher scores on subscales of the Hopkins Symptom Checklist-90. In addition, patients receiving the higher dose had higher side-effect scores. These findings suggest that a substantial proportion of patients who are presently maintained with 25 mg or less of fluphenazine decanoate every two weeks will do just as well with as little as 5 mg.
There is a vast amount of evidence indicating that Bax plays a major role in the development, maintenance, and survival of neurons and neuron-supporting cells such as glial cells. The high potency of Bax small interfering RNA (siRNA), as shown by many experimental studies, makes it a rational candidate as a co-therapeutic agent in apoptotic cell death. To investigate whether Bax RNA interference (RNAi) may serve as a potential intervention in neural cell death induced by aluminum, we herein established aluminum (Al)-treated gliatoma (C6) cells as a model for evaluating neurotoxic injury on normal glia. Using the cell model, we undertook a different approach by inducing glial cell death with Al and then using Bax gene RNAi to suppress glial cell death. Combining cell viability assays and expression analyses by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and immunocytochemistry, we selected and validated the optimal siRNA from 3 candidate siRNAs for the Bax gene. Sequenced reduction of neural cell death was determined with flow cytometry. Our data identified siRNA1 as the most effective siRNA. The optimal concentration of the transfection agent was 20 nM and the optimal incubation period was 72 h. The transfection and knockdown efficiencies were 95 percent and 62 percent, respectively, which closely correlated with Bax protein expression and also the cell apoptosis intervention. Taken together, Bax is essential for apoptosis induced by aluminum. Inactivation of the Bax gene could be an effective strategy for delaying the onset of apoptosis induced by Al. Our results reveal promising therapeutic potential for Bax gene silencing in Al-induced neurodegeneration.
The expression of the insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) gene (Igf2) in rodents is completely abrogated in almost all adult tissues. A prominent exception are neoplasms in which IGF-II frequently serves as an autocrine growth factor. We have investigated the potential role of Igf2 expression during liver carcinogenesis. After application of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) preneoplastic foci and adenomas emerged in liver tissue of wild-type and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK)-IGF-II transgenic mice. Surprisingly, number and size of preneoplastic foci were not significantly increased in PEPCK-IGF-II mice as compared with wild-type animals. In situ preparation showed that early adenomas expressed Igf2 transcripts. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and restriction enzyme analysis confirmed that DEN treatment had indeed reactivated the hepatic expression of murine Igf2 in control mice in a dose-dependent manner. This re-expression of Igf2 persisted for at least 18 months. Species-specific RT-PCR analyses also revealed the presence of murine Igf2 mRNAs in some PEPCK-IGF-II mice. A similar reactivation of Igf2 was detected in bovine growth hormone transgenic mice which develop hepatocellular neoplasms with high frequency. Our results suggest that reactivation of Igf2 is an early event during hepatocarcinogenesis in mice. Its appearance in two independent animal models suggests that Igf2 may be important at pivotal checkpoints of hepatocarcinogenesis.
The Ala/16Val dimorphism incorporates alanine (Ala) or valine (Val) in the mitochondrial targeting sequence of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), modifying MnSOD mitochondrial import and activity. In alcoholic cirrhotic patients, the Ala-MnSOD allele is associated with hepatic iron accumulation and an increased risk of hepatocellular carcinoma. The Ala-MnSOD variant could modulate the expression of proteins involved in iron storage (cytosolic ferritin), uptake (transferrin receptors, TfR-1 and-2), extrusion (hepcidin), and intracellular distribution (frataxin) to trigger hepatic iron accumulation. We therefore assessed the Ala/Val-MnSOD genotype and the hepatic iron score in 162 alcoholic cirrhotic patients. In our cohort, this hepatic iron score increased with the number of Ala-MnSOD alleles. We also transfected Huh7 cells with Ala-MnSOD-or Val-MnSOD-encoding plasmids and assessed cellular iron, MnSOD activity, and diverse mRNAs and proteins. In Huh7 cells, MnSOD activity was higher after Ala-MnSOD transfection than after Val-MnSOD transfection. Additionally, iron supplementation decreased transfected MnSOD proteins and activities. Ala-MnSOD transfection increased the mRNAs and proteins of ferritin, hepcidin, and TfR2, decreased the expression of frataxin, and caused cellular iron accumulation. In contrast, Val-MnSOD transfection had limited effects. In conclusion, the Ala-MnSOD variant favors hepatic iron accumulation by modulating the expression of proteins involved in iron homeostasis.
