Homozygous members of the mutant Gunn strain of Wistar rats genetically lack the enzyme uridine diphosphate glucuronyl transferase. "High" and "low" dose gavage feeding for 18-34 days of an analgesic mixture containing aspirin, phenacetin and caffeine (APC) confirmed the previously reported susceptibility of these animals to analgesic induced renal papillary necrosis. Heterozygotes do not share the gross enzyme deficiency of homozygotes and, when treated with APC under identical conditions, failed to develop renal papillary necrosis. Groups of homozygotes were dosed by gavage with aspirin, phenacetin and paracetamol for 4 weeks. Renal papillary necrosis was produced by all 3 drugs, the lowest frequency of lesions occurring with phenacetin. It is postulated that the enzyme deficiency of homozygous Gunn rats influences the metabolism of analgesics to favour the excretion of nephrotoxic metabolites. The renal papillary necrosis appearing in these experiments is essentially an acute lesion, differing both in natural history and morphology from the renal papillary necrosis of analgesic nephropathy, suggesting that the pathogeneses of the experimental and human lesions differ.
In 2 separate centers, we observed a notable increase in the incidence of postoperative convulsive seizures from 1.3% to 3.8% in patients having undergone major cardiac surgical procedures. These events were temporally coincident with the initial use of high-dose tranexamic acid (TXA) therapy after withdrawal of aprotinin from general clinical usage. The purpose of this review was to perform a retrospective analysis to examine whether there was a relation between TXA usage and seizures after cardiac surgery.
An in-depth chart review was undertaken in all 24 patients who developed perioperative seizures. Electroencephalographic activity was recorded in 11 of these patients, and all patients had a formal neurological evaluation and brain imaging studies.
Twenty-one of the 24 patients did not have evidence of new cerebral ischemic injury, but seizures were likely due to ischemic brain injury in 3 patients. All patients with seizures did not have permanent neurological abnormalities. All 24 patients with seizures received high doses of TXA intraoperatively ranging from 61 to 259 mg/kg, had a mean age of 69.9 years, and 21 of 24 had undergone open chamber rather than coronary bypass procedures. All but one patient were managed using cardiopulmonary bypass. No evidence of brain ischemic, metabolic, or hyperthermia-induced causes for their seizures was apparent.
Our results suggest that use of high-dose TXA in older patients in conjunction with cardiopulmonary bypass and open-chamber cardiac surgery is associated with clinical seizures in susceptible patients.
Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA), a heterogeneous early-onset retinal dystrophy, accounts for approximately 15% of inherited congenital blindness. One cause of LCA is loss of the enzyme lecithin:retinol acyl transferase (LRAT), which is required for regeneration of the visual photopigment in the retina.
An animal model of LCA, the Lrat-/- mouse, recapitulates clinical features of the human disease. Here, we report that two interventions--intraocular gene therapy and oral pharmacologic treatment with novel retinoid compounds--each restore retinal function to Lrat-/- mice. Gene therapy using intraocular injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus carrying the Lrat gene successfully restored electroretinographic responses to approximately 50% of wild-type levels (p < 0.05 versus wild-type and knockout controls), and pupillary light responses (PLRs) of Lrat-/- mice increased approximately 2.5 log units (p < 0.05). Pharmacological intervention with orally administered pro-drugs 9-cis-retinyl acetate and 9-cis-retinyl succinate (which chemically bypass the LRAT-catalyzed step in chromophore regeneration) also caused long-lasting restoration of retinal function in LRAT-deficient mice and increased ERG response from approximately 5% of wild-type levels in Lrat-/- mice to approximately 50% of wild-type levels in treated Lrat-/- mice (p < 0.05 versus wild-type and knockout controls). The interventions produced markedly increased levels of visual pigment from undetectable levels to 600 pmoles per eye in retinoid treated mice, and approximately 1,000-fold improvements in PLR and electroretinogram sensitivity. The techniques were complementary when combined.
Intraocular gene therapy and pharmacologic bypass provide highly effective and complementary means for restoring retinal function in this animal model of human hereditary blindness. These complementary methods offer hope of developing treatment to restore vision in humans with certain forms of hereditary congenital blindness.
To investigate prospectively the effects of the selective beta 1 adrenoceptor blocker bisoprolol on sexuality of men with hypertension.
In newly diagnosed patients (group I): double-blind, crossover, placebo controlled. In men with hypertension on antihypertensive treatment (group II): crossover design.
Large area in and around Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
Twenty-six men (criteria: between 25 and 70; no disease etc. known to affect sexual functioning) were recruited through their general practitioners. Group I (n = 13) fulfilled the selection criteria, sitting blood pressure systolic > or = 160 mm Hg and/or diastolic > or = 95 mm Hg, measured on 3 different days. Group II (n = 13) patients already on antihypertensive treatment.
Data on blood pressure. Qualitative and quantitative data on sexuality through questionnaires, including personal and sexual history, sexual functioning, sexual satisfaction and erectile difficulties.
Bisoprolol is an effective antihypertensive drug with no detrimental effects on sexuality in newly diagnosed men with hypertension. In men already on antihypertensive medication bisoprolol improved sexuality in some parameters, i.e. firmness of erection during coitus, contentedness with sexual functioning and satisfaction with own sexuality.
Bisoprolol is an effective antihypertensive agent with no sexual side effects.
Pain in diabetes is a common debilitating condition for which pathophysiology remains poorly understood. To evaluate the underlying mechanisms, we used intravenous injection of streptozotocin to produce rapid (24-hour) onset of diabetes (blood glucose > 300 mg/dL and urine glucose > 2,000 mg/dL with polyuria). In this model, mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia and tactile allodynia are detectable by 48 hours after streptozotocin administration in the absence of ketonuria or physical debility. Treatment with insulin attenuated hyperglycemia and prevented the development of mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia. Direct application of streptozotocin to peripheral nerve did not produce hyperalgesia. We conclude that streptozotocin can induce pain independent of a general debility or direct toxic effect of streptozotocin on peripheral nerve and that elevated blood glucose may contribute to the enhanced nociception.
Perinatal Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC) exposure in rats resulted in enhanced morphine self-administration behavior, naloxone-precipitated withdrawal signs or changes in pain sensitivity, which have been related to changes in micro-opioid receptor binding and/or proenkephalin mRNA levels in several brain regions. However, despite exposure of these animals to Delta(9)-THC from fetal ages, the effects were studied only when animals matured, whereas there is no study on possible changes caused by this cannabinoid during the prenatal ontogeny of opioidergic neurons. The purpose of the present study was to examine the changes in proenkephalin mRNA levels, measured by using in situ hybridization, in several brain nuclei of rat fetuses that had been daily exposed to Delta(9)-THC from the 5th day of gestation. Results were as follows. Prenatal Delta(9)-THC exposure altered proenkephalin mRNA levels in most of the brain areas studied at different fetal ages, but the effects were different between sexes. Thus, proenkephalin mRNA levels increased in females, but decreased in males that had been prenatally exposed to Delta(9)-THC. This was observed in the caudate-putamen, hypothalamic paraventricular and ventromedial nuclei and cerebral cortex. No changes were observed, however, in the subventricular zones of the caudate-putamen, neocortex and nucleus accumbens. In summary, prenatal Delta(9)-THC exposure produced a sex-dependent effect in proenkephalin mRNA levels in several brain structures of rat fetuses.
Obesity and its associated metabolic complications can impair the physiologic regulation of fibrinolysis, leading to a hyper coagulable state. We aimed to assess circulating thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI) levels in obese female patients and to test the effects of orlistat-induced weight loss on basal TAFI concentrations. Obese female outpatients age 18 and older, with a body mass index (BMI, calculated as weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters) of at least 30, were included into the study. Thirteen nonobese (median BMI, 22.60 kg/m(2)) age-matched females were taken as controls. Plasma TAFI levels were measured before orlistat administration and after 6 months of orlistat treatment in the obese group and only one measurement was done in the control group. Twenty-seven obese patients were recruited into the study. The median TAFI level of the control group was 124.00; this value was significantly lower than the basal TAFI level of the obese group (p < 0.001). TAFI levels after orlistat therapy were statistically significantly lower than basal TAFI levels (p < 0.001) in the obese group. Hemostatic abnormalities including TAFI alterations represent a link between obesity and vascular thrombosis. Effective interventions should be considered in improving the obesity-associated prothrombotic risk profile.
The authors studied the long-term evolution of levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) after levodopa challenge in two groups of six STN-deep brain stimulation-treated Parkinson disease (PD) patients, one requiring medication after surgery and the other not. A dramatic (96%) reduction of LID severity was obtained in the six postoperatively untreated patients compared to a moderate improvement (47%) in the treated group (p < 0.03). These data support dopaminergic stimulation and striatal desensitization as major determinants of LID in PD.
The pathogenesis of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) still remains obscure. It has been suggested that enhanced opioidergic transmission in striatal output pathways may play a role in the induction of LID. To test this hypothesis, we have investigated the effect of different doses of the opioid receptor antagonists, naloxone and naltrexone on the dyskinetic response to a D1 agonist SKF 82958, a D2 agonist quinpirole and L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-Dopa). We have used six female cynomolgus monkeys rendered parkinsonian by the toxin MPTP and presenting a stable parkinsonian syndrome. All responded to L-Dopa and had developed dyskinesias which were manifested with each dose. The parkinsonian syndrome and dyskinesias were evaluated for each animal and scored after the treatments. Locomotor activity was measured by an electronic motility monitoring system. Our results show that coadministration of naloxone or naltrexone with dopaminergic agents leads to a significant increase in the severity of dyskinesias without noticeable effect on the antiparkinsonian efficacy of the treatment. These results suggest that increased opioidergic transmission in the two major striatal output pathways in monkeys or humans with LID might be an attempt to dampen the effect of abnormal dopaminergic stimulation rather than the cause of dyskinesias.
Cardiac toxicity of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) has been rarely reported. We encountered a case of angina attack caused by 5-FU. A 58-year-old Japanese woman underwent sigmoidectomy for a sigmoid colon carcinoma with multiple liver metastases. Two months after surgery, she received chemotherapy comprising hepatic arterial infusion of 5-FU. During the 2nd chemotherapy session 7 days after the first, she complained of anterior chest pain. Her electrocardiograms showed elevations of the ST segment in almost all leads, confirming the diagnosis of angina pectoris. Soon after the third chemotherapy session the same type of attack occurred again. The close association of the attacks with 5-FU administration suggested that the angina might have been induced by 5-FU. Further attacks were avoided by discontinuing the 5-FU thereafter. The incidence of cardiac toxicity 5-FU has been reported to be 1.6-7.6%. Labianca et al. found 17 cases of 5-FU-associated cardiopathy, 15 of which were angina pectoris, out of 1,083 patients treated with the drug for various kinds of neoplasm. Analysis of 6 domestic cases including ours revealed that all patient lacked a previous history of cardiac disease except one who had an arrhythmia. There seemed to be no dose-dependent correlation with 5-FU-induced angina. Cardiac events were found even in the earlier phase of chemotherapy. Since 5-FU is widely used in the treatment of a number of gastrointestinal malignancies, one should bear in mind its cardiac toxicity, manifested as angina pectoris.
Thirty-five teenage patients with a history of presyncope or syncope underwent a passive head-up tilting to reproduce symptoms of syncope. If tilting alone did not induce syncope, isoproterenol infusion was given to increase heart rate to 150 to 160 beats per minute. In 80% of patients with a history of syncope, identical symptoms could be reproduced during tilting: an abrupt fall in blood pressure combined with profound nodal bradycardia, ranging from 32 to 86 beats per minute. These symptoms were quickly reversed by returning the patient to the supine position. For patients with frequent occurrences of syncope, especially when there was a history of trauma sustained during these episodes, a therapeutic regimen of either beta blockers or 9 alpha-fluorocortisol was begun. The mechanisms of this common cause of syncope in childhood is neurocardiogenic in response to venous pooling and catecholamine-induced tachycardia. The tilt test is an excellent and cost-effective test for the workup of unexplained syncope in childhood.
A 19-year-old man suffering from a first episode of schizophrenia developed a neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) after administration of haloperidol and levomepromazine. After five weeks of neuroleptic treatment he died of an unknown cause. Histological examination of the brain revealed a low melanin content in neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). Since neuromelanin in SN is the end-product of nonenzymatic dopamine degradation, the amount of melanin probably depends on the overall amount of dopamine produced during life. Thus, dopamine production must have been low in the reported case. In addition, ectopic neurons were found in subcortical white matter.
Haematomata caused by blunt trauma may potentially induce a compartment syndrome by raising intra-compartmental pressure. We report a case of acute posterior compartment syndrome following minimal trauma to the leg of an elderly patient on the antiplatelet agent clopidogrel. This case highlights the high index of clinical suspicion required to detect compartment syndrome in those on long term antiplatelet therapy and prompt surgical decompression is recommended.
Severe hyperkalemia may cause weakness that typically is ascending and symmetric. In an isolated case report, hemiplegia occurred after the development of hyperkalemia in a patient with a known central nervous system lesion. We describe a patient requiring long-term hemodialysis who had near-fatal hyperkalemia, hemiplegia, and rhabdomyolysis after abuse of crack cocaine. The hemiplegia resolved after normalization of serum potassium using emergency dialysis. No brain lesion could be identified during computed tomography or by electroencephalography, and the patient had no residual neurologic deficits. We conclude that this patient had hemiplegia secondary to cocaine-induced cerebral vasoconstriction because no structural lesion could be found and that the neurologic deficit was worsened by severe hyperkalemia, which probably resulted from cocaine-induced rhabdomyolysis. Hence, despite the absence of a structural lesion of the brain, severe hyperkalemia, typically associated with symmetric, ascending muscle weakness, may contribute to causing focal weakness in the condition of cocaine-induced vasoconstriction.
Environmental, nutritional or hormonal influences in early life may have long-term effects changing homeostatic processes and physiological parameters in adulthood. NF-kB and Nrf2, two of the main transcription factors regulating genes involved in pro-inflammatory and antioxidant responses respectively, can be modified by various stimuli. NF-kB controls immediate early genes and is required for cardiomyocyte hypertrophic growth, while Nrf2 protects the heart from oxidative stress-induced cardiovascular complications. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of early life permethrin treatment (1/50 of LD50, from 6th to 21st day of life) on the development of cardiotoxicity in 500-day-old rats. Nrf2 and NF-kB gene expression, calcium level and heart surface area were chosen as biomarkers of toxicity. Six candidate reference genes were first examined and GAPDH resulted the most stable one for RT-qPCR. The comparative expression analysis of the target genes showed 1.62-fold increase in Nrf2 mRNA level, while the NF-kB mRNA in treated rats was not significantly changed compared to control ones. A significant decrease in heart surface area was observed in treated rats (296.59 ± 8.09, mm(2)) with respect to the control group (320.86 ± 4.93, mm(2)). Finally, the intracellular calcium influx in heart of early life treated rats increased 4.33-fold compared to the control one. In conclusion, early life pesticide exposure to low doses of permethrin insecticide, has long-term consequences leading to cardiac hypotrophy, increased calcium and Nrf2 gene expression levels in old age.
Diesel exhaust particles (DEP) are reactive oxygen species (ROS)-inducing toxic agents that damage lungs. Thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1) is a thiol protein with antioxidant and redox-regulating effects. In this study, we demonstrate that Trx-1 scavenges ROS generated by DEP and attenuates the lung injury. Intratracheal instillation of DEP resulted in the generation of more hydroxyl radicals in control mice than in human Trx-1 (hTrx-1)-transgenic mice as measured by noninvasive L-band in vivo electron spin resonance. DEP caused acute lung damage with massive infiltration of inflammatory cells in control mice, but much less damage in hTrx-1-transgenic mice. The hTrx-1 transgene protected the mice against DEP toxicity. To investigate further the molecular mechanism of the protective role of Trx-1 against DEP-induced lung injury, we used hTrx-1-transfected L-929 cells and recombinant hTrx-1 (rhTrx-1)-pretreated A-549 cells. DEP-induced ROS generation was suppressed by hTrx-1 transfection or pretreatment with rhTrx-1. Endogenous Trx-1 expression was induced by DEP in control cells. The downregulation of Akt phosphorylation by DEP resulted in apoptosis, which was prevented by Trx-1. Moreover, an Akt inhibitor canceled this protective effect of Trx-1. Collectively, the results suggest that Trx-1 exerts antioxidant effects in vivo and in vitro and that this plays a role in protection against DEP-induced lung damage by regulating Akt-mediated antiapoptotic signaling.
Drynaria fortunei (Kunze) J. Sm. (DF), a Chinese herb commonly used for the treatment of bone fracture, was previously shown to exert anabolic effects on bone. However, its active ingredients as well as the mechanisms of action are far from clear. The present study aimed to characterise the bone anabolic effects of DF flavonoid fraction (DFTF) in ovariectomised (OVX) mice and to determine if DFTF and its isolated compounds exert oestrogen-like effects in rat osteoblast-like UMR-106 cells. Young OVX C57/BL6J mice were treated orally with DFTF (0·087, 0·173 or 0·346 mg/g per d), 17b-oestradiol (2 mg/g per d) or its vehicle for 6 weeks. Serum and urine samples were collected for biochemical marker analysis. Bones were collected for computed tomography analysis. UMR-106 cells were treated with DFTF and isolated compounds naringin, (2S)-5,7,30,50-tetrahydroxy-flavonone 7-O-neohesperidoside (compound 1) and 5,7-dihydroxychromone 7-O-neohesperidoside (compound 2). DFTF exerted dose-dependent effects in improving bone mineral densities as well as bone strength at the femur, tibia and lumbar spine L1 in OVX mice. DFTF and the three isolated compounds stimulated osteoblastic cell proliferation and alkaline phosphatase activities in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, they stimulated the ratio of osteoprotegrin and receptor-activator NF-kB ligand mRNA expression, suggesting their involvement in inhibiting osteoclastogenesis. These stimulatory effects on osteoblastic functions were abolished in the presence of oestrogen receptor (ER) antagonist, ICI 182780. The present results suggested that DFTF is effective in protecting against OVX-induced bone loss in mice, and its actions in regulating osteoblastic activities appear to be mediated by ER.
The use of combined therapy with an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) for treatment of proteinuria has been gaining support. Limited data are available regarding this treatment in the pediatric population. This report describes a case of acute compromise of renal function associated with hypotension in a 7-year-old boy treated with the ACE inhibitor lisinopril and the ARB losartan. It emphasizes the need for close surveillance of renal function and blood pressure during such therapy even in patients with relative preservation of renal function. Further investigation into the utility and safety of dual therapy with an ACE inhibitor plus an ARB in pediatric patients is warranted. Key Words: renal failure, proteinuria, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, ACEI, angiotensin II receptor blocker, ARB.
We present a 28-year-old primigravida woman in whom congestive heart failure developed 3 months after delivery of a neonate. The patient underwent doxorubicin treatment 10 years previously. The combined cardiotoxicity of prior doxorubicin treatment and pregnancy is considered, and the importance of careful follow-up of cardiac function during pregnancy and postpartum in patients previously treated with doxorubicin is stressed.
Lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells generated by high-dose continuous infusion interleukin-2 (IL-2) are able to nonspecifically lyse melanoma and kidney cancer cells. In vitro famotidine enhances cytotoxicity of LAK against tumor cells, possibly by increasing IL-2 uptake at the IL-2 receptor on lymphocytes. Outpatient IL-2 regimens typically have response rates of 15% or less, with most patients eventually experiencing progressive disease. Second-line therapy is, therefore, needed. We treated 11 patients (6 with metastatic melanoma; 5 having metastatic kidney cancer) who had previously experienced progressive disease on prior IL-2 regimens, with a combination of famotidine 20 mg intravenously (i.v.) twice per day and continuous-infusion IL-2 18 MIU/M2/24 hours x 72 hours, followed 24 hours later by a pulse IL-2 dose (18 MIU/M2 over 15 minutes). Cycles were repeated every 3 weeks. Patient characteristics were: 9 males, median age 63 years (range, 57-75), median Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status: 1; most common metastatic sites: lungs, lymph nodes, and soft tissue/subcutaneous (s.c.); median number of cycles received: 4; most common toxicities were fever, nausea/emesis, hypophosphatemia, and hypomagnesemia. Five (5) patients (3 with melanoma, 2 with kidney cancer) have had partial responses. Two (2) patients with kidney cancer have been converted to complete responders with resection of residual disease, remaining without relapse at 5+ and 20+ months. Responding sites are lungs, lymph nodes, abdominal mass, and s.c. Median duration of response was 9.5 months. Median survival was 12 months. This combination has activity in patients with metastatic kidney cancer or melanoma who have received prior IL-2.
We report a 63-year-old man who presented with amoxapine-induced tardive dystonia. At 49 years of age, he developed depression and was administrated 50 mg amoxapine, 4 mg cloxazoram and 3 mg biperiden per day. The daily dose of amoxapine was gradually increased up to 150 mg at 58 years of age. At 61 years of age and after having been taking amoxapine for twelve years, he noticed a rotating left arm and muscle pain in his left shoulder and arm while walking. At 62 years of age, he stopped taking these three drugs. However, the dystonic movements and pain both continued to get worse. Neurological findings revealed no abnormality except for a dystonic posture and movements in the neck and bilateral arms while sitting, standing and walking. Positron emission tomography with C-11 raclopride revealed a mild decrease in the dopamine D 2 receptor numbers in the bilateral striatum. However, two dopamine agonists, pergolide and bromocriptine, worsened his dystonia. In contrast, the daily administration of 2 mg of trihexyphenidyl, an anti-cholinergic agent, markedly ameliorated the dystonia symptoms. As a result, the long-term co-administration of biperiden, an anti-cholinergic agent, may mask the toxicity of amoxapine, which may induce tardive dystonia.
Intracavernous papaverine has found an important place in the management of male erectile failure. The effect of this mode of therapy was studied in 48 patients with psychogenic impotence. The average follow-up for this group of patients ranged from 7 months to 37 months (mean 16.3 months). All the patients in this group were advised sex therapy as an initial mode of therapy. On refusal to undergo sex therapy, they were offered an option of intracavernous papaverine injection. Papaverine appears to break the performance anxiety erectile failure cycle and was noted to have good results. Overall 57.9% patients expressed complete satisfaction with this mode of therapy. One patient (2.1%) developed priapism, which was adequately treated with intracavernous epinephrine. Use of low dosage of papaverine is suggested as an additional mode of therapy in the management of psychogenic impotence.
To determine the cognitive and functional consequences of dual use of cholinesterase inhibitors (ChIs) and the bladder anticholinergics oxybutynin or tolterodine.
Prospective cohort study.
Nursing homes (NHs) in the state of Indiana.
Three thousand five hundred thirty-six Medicaid-eligible NH residents aged 65 and older taking a ChI between January 1, 2003, and December 31, 2004. Residents were excluded if they were taking an anticholinergic other than oxybutynin or tolterodine.
Indiana Medicaid claims data were merged with data from the Minimum Data Set (MDS). Repeated-measures analyses were performed to assess the effects of dual therapy on change in cognitive function measured using the MDS Cognition Scale (MDS-COGS; scored 0-10) and change in activity of daily living (ADL) function using the seven ADL items in the MDS (scored 0-28). Potential covariates included age, sex, race, number of medications, and Charlson Comorbidity Index score.
Three hundred seventy-six (10.6%) residents were prescribed oxybutynin or tolterodine concomitantly with a ChI. In residents in the top quartile of ADL function, ADL function declined an average of 1.08 points per quarter when not taking bladder anticholinergics (ChI alone), compared with 1.62 points per quarter when taking dual therapy, a 50% greater rate in quarterly decline in ADL function (P=.01). There was no excess decline attributable to dual therapy in MDS-COGS scores or in ADL function for residents who started out with lower functioning.
In higher-functioning NH residents, dual use of ChIs and bladder anticholinergics may result in greater rates of functional decline than use of ChIs alone. The MDS-COGS may not be sensitive enough to detect differences in cognition due to dual use.
Mitomycin C (MMC) is a cytotoxic agent that may induce a hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) with severe renal insufficiency. Of all reported patients with terminal renal failure only two survived with chronic hemodialysis. A patient with advanced gastric cancer in complete remission, who developed MMC-induced HUS, is reported; hemodialysis was necessary because of oliguria. Hemolysis subsided, and after addition of captopril renal function recovered partially. The patient is alive 6 months after discontinuation of hemodialysis. Recently she developed brain metastases. Symptoms of hemolysis did not recur. The pathogenesis and treatment of HUS are discussed.
To evaluate the adverse events possibly caused by sumatriptan injection and explore the relationship between chest symptoms along with sumatriptan injection and coronary ischemia among Japanese patients with migraine.
A cumulative total of 112 subcutaneous injections in 62 patients were evaluated. ECG was continuously monitored before and until 5 minutes after injection on 92 occasions.
Sixteen men and 46 women aged from 16 to 60 (mean 39+/-12) years. Their clinical diagnoses were migraine with aura, migraine without aura, cluster headache, and others.
Chest symptoms occurred following 17% of all injections and in 15% of all patients. None of these chest symptoms was accompanied by ECG changes.
Although the risk of coronary ischemia with sumatriptan treatment is commonly stated, our data suggest that chest symptoms following sumatriptan injection are not strongly associated with coronary ischemia in the Japanese population. The mechanism of chest symptoms following sumatriptan administration should be further elucidated.
A 4-month-old infant received an accidental intraocular injection of methylprednisolone while undergoing penetrating keratoplasty for congenital, hereditary endothelial dystrophy. This was not discovered until 4 months later, at which time the intraocular pressure (IOP) was increasing and an early cataract was forming. A lensectomy and vitrectomy were performed when the child was 12 months old. The IOP remained higher than that of the fellow eye, but the recovery was otherwise uneventful. This indicates that intraocular depot steroid may be tolerated, except when there is the occurrence of known pharmacologic side effects.
Hereditary renal carcinomas (RCs) develop in Tsc2 gene mutant (Eker) rats around the age of 1 year. We previously reported that Tsc2 mutations were detected in chemically (N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethylnitrosamine (EHEN) and diethylnitrosamine)-induced non-Eker rat RCs, suggesting an involvement of Tsc2 alteration in rat RC development. In this study, we evaluated the effect of extra copies of the Tsc2 gene on renal and hepatocarcinogenesis that was induced by EHEN in vivo. The incidence of RCs in non-transgenic rats (2/17) is slightly higher than in transgenic rats (0/32), although it is statistically not significant. These results suggest the presence of other target RC gene(s) in chemically (EHEN)-induced renal carcinogenesis. We observed no difference in the numbers and areas of the hepatic glutathione S-transferase placental type positive foci.
We previously reported familial aggregation in flush response to niacin skin patch among schizophrenia patients and their nonpsychotic relatives. However, little is known about whether this abnormal skin response is associated with genetic loading for schizophrenia. This study compared the niacin flush response in subjects from families with only one member affected with schizophrenia (simplex families) with those from families having a sib-pair with schizophrenia (multiplex families). Subjects were patients with schizophrenia and their nonpsychotic first-degree relatives from simplex families (176 probands, 260 parents, and 80 siblings) and multiplex families (311 probands, 180 parents, and 52 siblings) as well as 94 healthy controls. Niacin patches of 3 concentrations (0.001M, 0.01M, and 0.1M) were applied to forearm skin, and the flush response was rated at 5, 10, and 15 minutes, respectively, with a 4-point scale. More attenuated flush response to topical niacin was shown in schizophrenia probands and their relatives from multiplex families than in their counterparts from simplex families, and the differentiation was better revealed using 0.1M concentration of niacin than 0.01M or 0.001M. For the highest concentration of 0.1M and the longest time lag of 15 minutes, a subgroup of probands (23%), parents (27%), and siblings (19%) still exhibited nonflush response. Flush response to niacin skin patch is more impaired in schizophrenia patients and their relatives from families with higher genetic loading for schizophrenia, and this finding has implications for future genetic dissection of schizophrenia.
