Five children, aged 3 to 11 years, treated with carbamazepine for epilepsy, had an acute aberrant reaction characterized by the onset of myoclonic, atypical absence and/or atonic (minor motor) seizures within a few days. When the carbamazepine was discontinued, two of the children returned to their former state very quickly, two had the minor motor seizures resolve in 3 and 6 months, and one had the seizures persist. The child in whom the seizures persisted was later found to have ceroid lipofuscinosis. The other children are doing well on other anticonvulsants.
Twenty-three patients suffering from continuous headache linked with habitual daily use of ergotamine tartrate were studied. Their headaches were classified clinically, and possible side effects of ergotamine medication, plasma levels of ergotamine, and occurrence of withdrawal symptoms after discontinuation of drug abuse were recorded. Seventeen of the patients were clinically diagnosed as suffering from "ergotamine headache", and seven of them complained of coldness in the extremities. Plasma ergotamine levels were measured by using a radioimmunoassay. In almost half of the patients the 1 h plasma levels after the daily dose were below the detection limit of the procedure (0.12 ng/ml). The duration and severity of the withdrawal symptoms did not correlate with the doses and plasma levels of ergotamine. In only 4 of the 21 patients who were followed up for 3 to 6 months did headache symptoms not improve after ergotamine withdrawal. The results indicate that even small (0.5-1.0 mg/day) doses of ergotamine tartrate taken regularly may cause continuous headache symptoms and withdrawal symptoms after discontinuation.
A 17 year-old female with stage IIIc endodermal sinus tumor of the ovary developed transient cortical blindness and severe hypertension after 5 cycles of PVB regimen consisting of cisplatin, vinblastine and bleomycin. Clinical and radiological findings were compatible with Posterior LeukoEncephalopathy (PLE). Her visual acuity and blood pressure completely recovered within a few days after supportive treatment with antihypertensive drug. This condition is unpredictable but it can be reversible without long term sequelae. Most reports suggested that this rare toxicity was from cisplatin therapy. However, the exact pathophysiogenesis of this condition was not known precisely. Prompt reduction in blood pressure and withdrawal of immunosuppressive agents might lead to rapid reversal of this syndrome and prevent permanent brain damage.
Cocaine, a drug of abuse, increases synaptic dopamine levels in the striatum by blocking dopamine reuptake at axon terminals. Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) and its activator p35, proteins involved in phosphorylation of substrates in postmitotic neurons, have been found to be up-regulated after chronic exposure to cocaine. To further examine the effects of Cdk5 and p35 induction on striatal dopamine signaling, we generated two independent transgenic mouse lines in which Cdk5 or p35 was overexpressed specifically in neurons. We report here that increased Cdk5 activity, as a result of p35 but not of Cdk5 overexpression, leads to attenuation of cocaine-mediated dopamine signaling. Increased Cdk5-mediated phosphorylation of dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, molecular mass 32 kDa (DARPP-32) at Thr-75, was accompanied by decreased phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr-34. Increased Cdk5-mediated phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase 1 at Thr-286 was accompanied by decreased activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2. These effects contributed to attenuation of cocaine-induced phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein as well as a lesser induction of c-fos in the striatum. These results support the idea that Cdk5 activity is involved in altered gene expression after chronic exposure to cocaine and hence impacts the long-lasting changes in neuronal function underlying cocaine addiction.
This study examines the significance of epicardial Q waves as a marker of myocardial cell necrosis. Ischaemia was produced in dogs by two methods: coronary artery occlusion sustained for 24 h (Group 1) and occlusion for 1 h followed by reperfusion (Group 2). Q waves did not appear until after 3 h of sustained occlusion, but were present within 40 min of reperfusion. In both groups, Q waves were not transient but persisted for at least 24 h. CPK levels were determined at 24 h in specimens from each lead site. In Group 1, Q sites had 66.6 +/- 5.9% (mean +/- SEM) less CPK than R wave sites (P less than 0.005). In Group 2, Q sites had only 28.2 +/- 4.5% less CPK than R sites. These results suggest that the extent of necrosis was greater at Q sites with sustained occlusion than with reperfusion. A similar relationship existed for the levels of ATP and CP determined at Q and R sites at 24 h. Histological examination by light and electron microscopy confirmed that in both groups, Q sites corresponded to areas of necrosis, while R sites indicated normal myocardium. However, the type of necrosis depended on the pathogenesis. Our results demonstrated that epicardial Q waves were a reliable marker of cell death, but that the morphological picture and extent of cell death depended on the mechanism and manner of injury. These conclusions were tested in a final series (Group 3) in which propranolol was given before and with release of the occlusion (0.5 mg.kg-1 at each time). In 47 sites at risk, in five dogs only two Q waves appeared. In each of these two, cell death was confirmed by evidence of CPK depletion and morphological alteration. In the remaining sites, no CPK depletion occurred. Histological examination revealed only infrequent small islands of subendocardial necrosis. The results confirm the validity of the epicardial electrocardiographic findings and illustrate the role of propranolol in preventing reperfusion necrosis.
The biochemical and histological sequelae resulting from a diet containing 50.20 mg cadmium/kg were studied in Lohmann brown cockerels from hatching until 30 days of age. The additional cadmium chloride (CdCl(2)) to the diet induced the formation of lipid peroxides, which via a chain reaction led to accumulation of malondialdehyde in intestinal mucosa. At the end of the study (after 30 days of cadmium exposure) total protein and metallothionein levels in the intestinal mucosa and the relative ileal and duodenal weight increased. Histological data show that CdCl(2) causes an increase in number of goblet cells and granular lymphocytes in the intestinal mucosa. Down-regulation of the serotonin-positive cells in the cadmium-treated animals was observed. Growth retardation (by 27%) occurred in chicken fed the cadmium-enriched diet for 30 days. Cadmium accumulation in the intestine was markedly higher (154 times) in the cadmium-treated animals compared to the control group. Cadmium induced a decrease in zinc (but not copper) content in intestinal mucosa. We suggest that cadmium uptake triggers an inflammatory and secretory response in chicken small intestine.
We prospectively investigated the effects of rate of carbamazepine (CBZ) withdrawal and CBZ level on seizure type and frequency in 12 epilepsy patients withdrawn completely from antiepileptic drugs prior to entering an investigational monotherapy trial. Patients withdrawn from CBZ rapidly (over 4 days) experienced significantly more generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCSs) and GTCS clusters than did those withdrawn slowly (over 10 days). Complex partial seizure (CPS) frequency did not differ between the two groups. CPSs preceded GTCSs, with GTCSs occurring in the majority of patients after CBZ had been discontinued, at subtherapeutic or absent CBZ levels. Two of six patients who had been tapered rapidly and all six patients who had been tapered slowly were able to enter the investigational monotherapy trial.
A number of neurochemical systems have been implicated in mediating relapse to drug-seeking behavior. Substance P (SP) is a neuropeptide that interacts with some of these systems, suggesting a possible role for SP and its preferred receptor, the neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor, in the mediation of relapse. In this study, we examined whether selective activation of NK-1 receptors induces reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior, and whether endogenous activity at these receptors is involved in mediating cocaine-induced reinstatement. For each experiment, rats were trained to self-administer cocaine for 8--10 days, and following a period of extinction, tests for reinstatement were given. To examine the effects of NK-1 receptor activation on reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior, animals received an intracerebroventricular (ICV) infusion of the selective NK-1 receptor agonist, [Sar(9)Met(O(2))(11)]-SP (0, 1, 3 microg), immediately prior to the test session. To examine the role of endogenous NK-1 receptor activity on cocaine-induced reinstatement, rats were pretreated with ICV infusions of the selective NK-1 receptor antagonists, RP 67580 (0, 0.1, 0.5, 2.5 nmol) or GR 82334 (0, 2, 10, 50 pmol), prior to systemic priming injections of cocaine (10mg/kg or 20mg/kg; i.p.). The results showed that [Sar(9)Met(O(2))(11)]-SP induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior, but that RP 67580 and GR 82334 had no effect on cocaine-induced reinstatement. These findings suggest that while activation of NK-1 receptors is capable of inducing reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior, endogenous activity at these receptors is not involved in mediating the priming effects of cocaine on reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior.
Hyperreactivity on re-exposure of previous allergic contact dermatitis skin areas has been previously demonstrated. This study aimed to investigate in methyldibromoglutaronitrile (MDBGN) allergic patients whether skin with previous allergic dermatitis from MDBGN showed an augmented response on re-exposure by both a patch test challenge and a use test with a liquid soap preserved with MDBGN. MDBGN dermatitis was elicited on the back and arms of sensitized individuals. One month later the previously eczematous areas were challenged with MDBGN. On the back, the test sites were patch-tested with a serial dilution of MDBGN and a use test was performed on the arms with an MDBGN-containing soap. A statistically significant increased response was seen on the areas with previous dermatitis on the back. Eight of the nine patients who developed dermatitis on the arms from the MDBGN-containing soap had an augmented response on areas with prior allergic contact dermatitis. Even though the allergic dermatitis appeared to be healed, an increased reactivity to allergen re-exposure was demonstrated both by patch test and use test challenge.
The effects of AH 21-132, a type III and IV phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitor, on allergic reactions in the airway were studied by comparing them with the effects of rolipram, a type IV PDE inhibitor, and aminophylline, a non-selective PDE inhibitor. The following results were obtained: 1) AH 21-132, rolipram and aminophylline inhibited the antigen-induced contraction of isolated guinea pig tracheal muscle in vitro. 2) AH 21-132 and aminophylline inhibited antigen-induced histamine release from human lung tissue fragments. 3) Antigen-induced accumulation of inflammatory cells including eosinophils and macrophages in mice bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was clearly inhibited by AH 21-132 and rolipram, but not by aminophylline. 4) AH 21-132, rolipram and aminophylline inhibited immediate phase bronchocostriction induced by either an intravenous or an aerosol challenge of antigen in guinea pigs. 5) AH 21-132 and rolipram inhibited the aeroantigen challenge-induced late phase increase in the airway resistance in guinea pigs, but aminophylline did not. These results suggest that AH 21-132 has an anti-allergic effect in the airway and that these actions may be beneficial for the treatment of allergic bronchial asthma.
Women who take folic acid periconceptionally reduce their risk of having a child with a neural tube defect (NTD) by >50%. A variant form of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) (677C-->T) is a known risk factor for NTDs, but the prevalence of the risk genotype explains only a small portion of the protective effect of folic acid. This has prompted the search for additional NTD-associated variants in folate-metabolism enzymes. We have analyzed five potential single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the cytoplasmic, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent, trifunctional enzyme methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase/methenyltetrahydrofolate cyclohydrolase/formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase (MTHFD1) for an association with NTDs in the Irish population. One SNP, R653Q, in this gene appears to be associated with NTD risk. We observed an excess of the MTHFD1 "Q" allele in the mothers of children with NTD, compared with control individuals. This excess was driven by the overrepresentation of QQ homozygotes in the mothers of children with NTD compared with control individuals (odds ratio 1.52 [95% confidence interval 1.16-1.99], P=.003). We conclude that genetic variation in the MTHFD1 gene is associated with an increase in the genetically determined risk that a woman will bear a child with NTD and that the gene may be associated with decreased embryo survival.
Zinc deficiency in rats enhances esophageal cell proliferation, causes alteration in gene expression, and promotes esophageal carcinogenesis. Zinc replenishment rapidly induces apoptosis in the esophageal epithelium thereby reversing cell proliferation and carcinogenesis. To identify zinc-responsive genes responsible for these divergent effects, we did oligonucleotide array-based gene expression profiling analyses in the precancerous zinc-deficient esophagus and in zinc-replenished esophagi after treatment with intragastric zinc compared with zinc-sufficient esophagi. Thirty-three genes (21 up-regulated and 12 down-regulated) showed a > or = 2-fold change in expression in the hyperplastic zinc-deficient versus zinc-sufficient esophageal epithelia. Expression of genes involved in cell division, survival, adhesion, and tumorigenesis were markedly changed. The zinc-sensitive gene metallothionein-1 (MT-1 was up-regulated 7-fold, the opposite of results for small intestine and liver under zinc-deficient conditions. Keratin 14 (KRT14, a biomarker in esophageal tumorigenesis), carbonic anhydrase II (CAII, a regulator of acid-base homeostasis), and cyclin B were up-regulated >4-fold. Immunohistochemistry showed that metallothionein and keratin 14 proteins were overexpressed in zinc-deficient esophagus, as well as in lingual and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma from carcinogen-treated rats, emphasizing their roles in carcinogenesis. Calponin 1 (CNN1, an actin cross-linking regulator) was down-regulated 0.2-fold. Within hours after oral zinc treatment, the abnormal expression of 29 of 33 genes returned to near zinc-sufficient levels, accompanied by reversal of the precancerous phenotype. Thus, we have identified new molecular markers in precancerous esophagus and showed their restoration by zinc replenishment, providing insights into the interaction between zinc and gene expression in esophageal cancer development and prevention.
Carotidynia is characterized by throbbing pain over the carotid artery and may be caused by migraine. We report a case of a 54-year-old woman with recurrent dysphonia associated with carotidynia and other features of atypical migraine that resolved after treatment with dihydroergotamine. To our knowledge, this is the first report of dysphonia associated with migraine.
The objective of this study was to evaluate possible effects of a paclitaxel containing chemotherapy, on the central nervous system (CNS) in women with ovarian cancer.
Twenty-eight women with histologically documented epithelial ovarian carcinoma and treated with a combination chemotherapy consisting of paclitaxel and carboplatin entered the study. Patients were tested with resting EEG (R-EEG) before and after chemotherapy.
Twenty of the 28 patients responded to the chemotherapy (71%). Eleven patients (39%) developed peripheral neurotoxicity. A decrease of beta power and an increase of delta and theta power as well as a deceleration of the total centroid frequency clearly demonstrated a reduced vigilance in patients with ovarian cancer compared to healthy controls. On the other hand, the observed increase of beta power, a decrease of delta and theta power, and an acceleration of the total centroid from pre- to post-treatment demonstrated an improvement of vigilance in patients with ovarian cancer after treatment with paclitaxel/carboplatin.
The results of this study suggest that chemotherapy consisting of paclitaxel and carboplatin does not cause adverse effects on the central nervous system. Improved vigilance was measured in patients with ovarian cancer after chemotherapy.
There is an urgent need to determine whether oversulfated chondroitin sulfate (OSCS), a compound contaminating heparin supplies worldwide, is the cause of the severe anaphylactoid reactions that have occurred after intravenous heparin administration in the United States and Germany.
Heparin procured from the Food and Drug Administration, consisting of suspect lots of heparin associated with the clinical events as well as control lots of heparin, were screened in a blinded fashion both for the presence of OSCS and for any biologic activity that could potentially link the contaminant to the observed clinical adverse events. In vitro assays for the activation of the contact system and the complement cascade were performed. In addition, the ability of OSCS to recapitulate key clinical manifestations in vivo was tested in swine.
The OSCS found in contaminated lots of unfractionated heparin, as well as a synthetically generated OSCS reference standard, directly activated the kinin-kallikrein pathway in human plasma, which can lead to the generation of bradykinin, a potent vasoactive mediator. In addition, OSCS induced generation of C3a and C5a, potent anaphylatoxins derived from complement proteins. Activation of these two pathways was unexpectedly linked and dependent on fluid-phase activation of factor XII. Screening of plasma samples from various species indicated that swine and humans are sensitive to the effects of OSCS in a similar manner. OSCS-containing heparin and synthetically derived OSCS induced hypotension associated with kallikrein activation when administered by intravenous infusion in swine.
Our results provide a scientific rationale for a potential biologic link between the presence of OSCS in suspect lots of heparin and the observed clinical adverse events. An assay to assess the amidolytic activity of kallikrein can supplement analytic tests to protect the heparin supply chain by screening for OSCS and other highly sulfated polysaccharide contaminants of heparin that can activate the contact system.
This study reviews the peripheral effects of methamphetamine on the salivary acini, the pathogenesis of methamphetamine-induced xerostomia, and its anecdotal relationship to dental caries. Methamphetamine is a sympathomimetic central stimulant which is abused for its euphoric effects. Its pharmacological action is exerted indirectly by sustaining high levels of catecholamines in the synaptic cleft and directly by binding to the postsynaptic adrenergic receptors. Methamphetamine abusers report subjective perception of xerostomia, which cannot be explained by the direct peripheral action of methamphetamine on the secretory acini. The drug may cause a decrease in salivary flow rate by centrally inhibiting salivatory nuclei via stimulation of alpha-2 receptors in the brain. Drug mediated dehydration state may influence the perception of dry mouth in abusers. The decreased salivary flow rate, either due to a central inhibitory action of methamphetamine or generalised dehydration, likely contributes to the increased occurrence of dental caries. Five cases of methamphetamine abuse are presented, three of whom experienced rampant dental caries. A direct association between methamphetamine abuse and the occurrence of rampant caries was not clear.
Intracranial blood flow velocity (BFV) changes in migraine have been studied fairly extensively. Although a number of investigations have been performed in migraineurs with nitroglycerin-induced attacks, there has been no reported transcranial study involving such attack treated with zolmitriptan or sumatriptan.
With ultrasound, we studied the BFV and pulsatility index (PI) changes in the middle cerebral artery in 45 symptom free, otherwise healthy, unmedicated patients with migraine without aura, and in 15 age- and sex-matched controls before nitroglycerin, at the time of maximum head pain induced by nitroglycerin and every 30 minutes for 2 hours after zolmitriptan (15 subjects) or sumatriptan (15 subjects) administration. Headache was rated on a 4-point scale.
During headache attacks, BFV decreased significantly (36.7+/-3.3, 38.4+/-3.4, and 37.4+/-4 cm/sec, respectively, in the zolmitriptan, sumatriptan, and nontreated migraine groups, but not in the controls who were migraine free (P <.01). These abnormalities disappeared 1 hour after zolmitriptan or sumatriptan administration (49.7+/-3.7 and 48.9+/-3.9 cm/sec, respectively). There were no significant changes in PI.
Our data indicate that nitroglycerin-induced headache in individuals with migraine without aura is associated with BFV changes that are reversed by administration of an oral triptan.
We have recently reported that melatonin protects against adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy whose pathogenesis may involve free radicals and lipid peroxidation. Melatonin has also been shown to affect zinc turnover. Since zinc may act as an antioxidant, we investigated the role of zinc in the pathogenesis of adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy as well as in the treatment of melatonin against this disorder. Sprague-Dawley rats were given adriamycin (cumulative dose, 15 mg/kg); melatonin (cumulative dose, 84 mg/kg); adriamycin plus melatonin; adriamycin plus probucol, another antioxidant (cumulative dose, 90 mg/kg); or vehicle alone, according to previously-used regimens. Cardioprotective effects of both antioxidants (melatonin and probucol) were confirmed by the parameters of fractional shortening, heart weight, heart/body weight ratio, ascites volume, and mortality. Adriamycin increased both the myocardial and plasma levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and myocardial zinc levels, and decreased plasma zinc levels. The significant negative correlation observed between the myocardial and plasma zinc levels (r = 0.73, P < 0.01) among the samples of adriamycin-treated and control rats suggested an internal redistribution of zinc. Melatonin and probucol were equally effective in inhibiting the increase in myocardial TBARS as well as zinc levels, suggesting that myocardial zinc accumulation might be a protective response against adriamycin-induced oxidative stress. Melatonin also inhibited the adriamycin-induced decrease in plasma zinc levels; probucol was not as effective in doing so. In addition to melatonin's antioxidative effect, it may have the effect of maintaining the plasma zinc levels.
Polygodial, a sesquiterpene isolated from the bark of Drymis winteri given systemically, intraplantarly, or by spinal or supraspinal sites, produced antinociception when assessed in both phases of the formalin test and against capsaicin-induced pain. Polygodial, even at high doses, had no antinociceptive or antihyperalgesic effect when assessed in hot-plate assay or in glutamate-induced hyperalgesia, nor did it significantly interfere with the motor coordination of animals when tested in the rota-rod test. The polygodial antinociception assessed in the formalin test was not affected by i.p. treatment of animals with cyprodime, yohimbine, phaclofen, bicuculine, or nitric oxide precursor or by intrathecal administration of potassium channel blockers such as apamin, charybdotoxin, glibenclamide, or tetraethylammonium. In contrast, polygodial antinociception was significantly attenuated by i.p. treatment of animals with naloxone, naltrindole, 2-(3, 4-dichlorophenyl)-n-methyl-n-[(1S)-1-(3-isothiocynatophenyl)-2-(1- pry rolidinyl)ethyl]acetamide, p-chlorophenylalanine, prazosin, or by i. c.v. treatment with pertussis toxin. In addition, polygodial antinociception was not cross-tolerant to morphine, nor was its effect affected by the adrenalectomy of animals. Together, these results show that polygodial produces pronounced systemic, spinal, and supraspinal antinociception in mice, mainly preventing the neurogenic pain produced by formalin and capsaicin. The mechanism by which polygodial produces antinociception seems likely to involve an interaction with the opioid system, mainly kappa and delta subtypes, depend on the activation of G(i/o) protein sensitive to pertussis toxin, alpha(1)-adrenoceptors, and the serotoninergic system. Collectively, these results suggest that polygodial itself or its derivatives may have potential therapeutic value for the development of new analgesic drugs.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) associated with metoclopramide is rare. NMS probably results from neuroleptic-induced dopamine receptor blockade. We describe a case and have found only seven reports of metoclopramide-induced NMS in the literature.
Doxorubicin (A) and Docetaxel (T) are amongst the most active agents in breast cancer treatment. The impact of drug sequencing is an issue still under evaluation.
To evaluate the feasibility and tolerability of two A and T-based sequential regimens, in which the sequence of drug administration was reversed.
The study included patients pts aged < or = 70 years, with operable node positive breast cancer. Two consecutive groups of patients received one of the following regimens: 1) Sequential A-->T-->CMF: Doxorubicin 75 mg/m2, i.v., day 1, q3wks x 3 cycles, followed by Docetaxel 100 mg/m2, i.v., day 1, q3wks x 3 cycles, followed by i.v. CMF days 1 and 8 q4wks x 3 cycles. 2) Sequential T-->A-->CMF: same doses for Doxorubicin and Docetaxel but reverse sequence of administration, followed by oral CMF (CPA 100 mg/m2, oral, days 1-14 + MTX 40 mg/m2, i.v., days 1 and 8 + 5FU 600 mg/m2, i.v., days 1 and 8, q4wks). An analysis of treatment administration and toxicity was performed for the first six cycles of CT, in the two treatment groups.
Group 1 with 20 patients and group 2 with 14 patients were balanced in terms of patient and tumour characteristics. There was one early treatment discontinuation in each group due to toxicity (one allergic and one skin reaction to docetaxel). Median relative dose intensity was 100% for both drugs in both groups. The most relevant side effects were (overall incidence, group 1 vs group 2): Myalgia: 45% vs 72%; Arthralgia: 15% vs 57%; Skin: 35% vs 57%; Neurosensory: 55% vs 64%; Stomatitis 65% vs 36%; conjunctivitis 25% vs 57%; Neutropenic Fever 20% vs 21% and Fatigue 80% vs 93%. Grade 3/4 adverse events' rate was low in the two groups.
1) Both sequences were estimated feasible due to the optimal treatment administration and limited incidence of G3-G4 side effects. 2) The concomitant use of lenograstin might partially explain the reported incidence of myalgia and arthralgia. 3) No conclusion can be drawn on the most tolerable regimen due to the limited number of patients.
Cancer potency estimates were derived for 2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran (4-PeCDF) using data collected from the recently published National Toxicology Program bioassay in female Sprague-Dawley rats. By using a toxicokinetic model for 4-PeCDF, the dose-response relationship for combined liver tumors (hepatocellular adenomas and cholangiocarcinomas) in rats was assessed in terms of lifetime average liver concentration and lifetime average adipose concentration with data from both the lifetime and the stop-exposure components of the bioassay. Benchmark dose modeling was performed to estimate tissue concentrations at two points of departure (EC(10) and EC(01) and their 95% upper and lower confidence limits). The same toxicokinetic model with human input values was then used to back-extrapolate human equivalent doses that corresponded to the internal tissue concentration measures at the points of departure. Information regarding the cancer mode of action was used to support the development of several toxicity criterion values based on a nonlinear method, e.g., reference dose or tolerable daily intake. Nonlinear estimates of toxicity criteria based on observed noncancer toxic events as possible precursors to tumor formation were also derived and were similar in value to those based on combined liver tumors. For comparison purposes, linear estimates of cancer potency were also derived.
To investigate the association between hyperprolactinemia and variants of the dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) gene in children and adolescents in long-term treatment with risperidone.
Medically healthy 7 to 17-year-old patients chronically treated with risperidone but receiving no other antipsychotics were recruited in a cross-sectional study. Four DRD2 variants were genotyped and prolactin concentration was measured. Medication history was obtained from the medical records. The effect of the TaqIA variants of the DRD2 on the risk of risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia was the primary outcome measure.
Hyperprolactinemia was present in 50% of 107 patients (87% males) treated with risperidone for an average of 2.9 years. Age, stage of sexual development, and the dose of risperidone independently predicted a higher prolactin concentration, whereas the dose of psychostimulants was negatively correlated with it. However, these four predictors became nonsignificant when risperidone serum concentration was entered into the model. Adverse events potentially related to hyperprolactinemia were more common in participants with elevated prolactin concentration and in girls (45%) compared with boys (10%). After controlling for risperidone concentration and the dose of psychostimulants, the TaqIA A1 and the A-241G alleles were associated with higher prolactin concentration, whereas the -141C Ins/Del and C957T variants had no significant effect. In addition, adverse events potentially related to hyperprolactinemia were four times more common in TaqIA A1 allele carriers.
Prolactin concentration is closely related to central DRD2 blockade, as reflected by risperidone serum concentration. Furthermore, the TaqIA and A-241G variants of the DRD2 gene could be useful in predicting the emergence of hyperprolactinemia and its potential adverse events.
Thespesia populnea (Malvaceae) is a large tree found in the tropical regions and coastal forests of India. Various parts of T. populnea are found to possess useful medicinal properties, such as antifertility, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, purgative and hepatoprotective activity. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effects of T. populnea bark on cognitive functions, total cholesterol levels and cholinesterase activity in mice. A total of 312 mice divided into 52 different groups were employed in the present investigation. The ethanolic extract of T. populnea (TPE) was administered orally in three doses (100, 200 and 400 mg/kg) for 7 successive days to different groups of young and aged mice. The learning and memory parameters were assessed using elevated plus maze and passive avoidance apparatus. TPE (200 and 400 mg/kg, p.o.) showed significant improvement in memory of young and aged mice. TPE also reversed the amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) and diazepam (1 mg/kg, i.p.). Furthermore, TPE reduced significantly the central (brain) cholinesterase activity in mice. TPE exhibited a remarkable cholesterol lowering property comparable to simvastatin (a standard drug) in the present study. Furthermore, we observed that, T. populnea bark possessed a powerful memory enhancing activity in mice. Since diminished cholinergic transmission and increased cholesterol levels appear to be responsible for development of amyloid plaques and dementia in Alzheimer patients, TPE may prove to be a useful medicine on account of its multifarious beneficial effects, such as memory improving property, cholesterol lowering, anticholinesterase and anti-inflammatory activity. Therefore, T. populnea bark appears to be a promising candidate for improving memory and it would be worthwhile to explore the potential of this plant in the management of Alzheimer patients.
