Azaspiracids (AZAs) are marine biotoxins produced by the dinoflagellate Azadinium spinosum that accumulate in several shellfish species. Azaspiracid poisoning episodes have been described in humans due to ingestion of AZA-contaminated seafood. Therefore, the contents of AZA-1, AZA-2 and AZA-3, the best-known analogs of the group, in shellfish destined to human consumption have been regulated by food safety authorities of many countries to protect human health. In vivo and in vitro toxicological studies have described effects of AZAs at different cellular levels and on several organs, however, AZA target remains unknown. Very recently, AZAs have been demonstrated to block the hERG cardiac potassium channel. In this study, we explored the potential cardiotoxicity of AZA-2 in vivo. The effects of AZA-2 on rat electrocardiogram (ECG) and cardiac biomarkers were evaluated for cardiotoxicity signs besides corroborating the hERG-blocking activity of AZA-2. Our results demonstrated that AZA-2 does not induce QT interval prolongation on rat ECGs in vivo, in spite of being an in vitro blocker of the hERG cardiac potassium channel. However, AZA-2 alters the heart electrical activity causing prolongation of PR intervals and the appearance of arrhythmias. More studies will be needed to clarify the mechanism by which AZA-2 causes these ECG alterations; however, the potential cardiotoxicity of AZAs demonstrated in this in vivo study should be taken into consideration when evaluating the possible threat that these toxins pose to human health, mainly for individuals with pre-existing cardiovascular disease when regulated toxin limits are exceeded.
Although there is a considerable difference in the number of clinical reports of neurologic injury between spinal anesthesia and other regional techniques, there are no animal data concerning a difference in the local anesthetic neurotoxicity between intrathecal and epidural administration. In the current study, the functional and morphologic effects of lidocaine administered intrathecally and epidurally were compared in rats.
Male rats were implanted with an intrathecal or epidural catheter through L4-L5 vertebra in the caudal direction. In experiment 1, to determine relative anesthetic potency, 16 rats received repetitive injections of 2.5% lidocaine into intrathecal or epidural space in different volumes and were examined for tail flick test for 90 min. In experiment 2, to ascertain whether the relative potency obtained in experiment 1 would apply to other concentrations of lidocaine, additional rats received saline, 1%, 2.5%, or 5% lidocaine in a volume of 20 or 100 microl through the intrathecal or epidural catheter, respectively. In experiment 3, additional rats that received saline, 2.5% lidocaine, or 10% lidocaine in a volume of 20 or 100 microl through the intrathecal or epidural catheter, respectively, were examined for persistent functional impairment and morphologic damage.
In experiment 1, the two techniques produced parallel dose-effect curves that significantly differed from each other. The potency ratio calculated was approximately 4.72 (3.65-6.07):1 for intrathecal:epidural lidocaine. In experiment 2, every lidocaine solution produced a similar increase in tail flick latency for the two techniques. In experiment 3, five of eight rats given 10% intrathecal lidocaine incurred functional impairment 4 days after injection, whereas no rats in the other groups did. Significantly more morphologic damage was observed in rats given 10% intrathecal lidocaine than in those given 10% epidural lidocaine.
Persistent functional impairment occurred only after intrathecal lidocaine. Histologic damage in the nerve roots and the spinal cord was less severe after epidural lidocaine than after intrathecal lidocaine. The current results substantiate the clinical impression that neurologic complications are less frequent after epidural anesthesia than after spinal anesthesia.
The estrogen-mimicking endocrine disrupter bisphenol A (BPA) which is used in the manufacture of plastic and epoxy resins, is one of the world's most heavily produced synthetic chemicals. BPA is detected in animal tissues, and its bio-accumulation has shown to be higher in the fetus than the mother. Exposure to doses below the daily safe limit has been reported to affect the sexual differentiation of the brain and modify the behavior of the exposed rodent offspring. The aim of the present study was to investigate in the rat the possible organizational effects of low BPA exposure on glucocorticoid-regulated responses. Female breeders were exposed to 40 microg/kg b.w. BPA daily throughout pregnancy and lactation. Plasma corticosterone levels and the two types of hippocampal corticosteroid receptors (GR and MR) were determined in mid-adolescent offspring under basal conditions and following a Y-maze task. BPA treated females had higher corticosterone levels than control females and BPA males and lower GR levels than BPA males, under basal conditions. Following the mildly stressful experience of Y-maze, corticosterone levels were increased in BPA-treated animals of both sexes, compared to the controls. GR levels were also increased in BPA-treated females compared to males. No effect of BPA was observed on MR levels, whereas the Y-maze experience significantly decreased receptors' levels in both female groups. The animals' performance in the task was also evaluated. BPA exposure significantly impaired the spatial recognition memory in both sexes, and modified the behavioural coping in a sex-dependent manner. Female BPA-treated offspring exhibited increased "anxiety-like" behaviour and dramatic loss of exploration attitude during the task, in comparison to males. This study provides for the first time evidence that corticosterone and its actions in the brain are sensitive to the programming effects of BPA at a dose below the currently acceptable daily intake.
Of 19 patients who had been receiving a therapeutic dosage of lithium carbonate for 10 to 20 years, 8 (42%) were found to have some laboratory evidence of hyperparathyroidism. Of the 3 who had parathyroid surgery, 2 had hyperplasia and 1 had a solitary adenoma, an unusually high incidence of hyperparathyroidism. Unusual features of lithium-induced hyperparathyroidism in this series include (1) low urinary calcium excretion and the absence of nephrolithiasis, (2) normal urinary cyclic adenosine monophosphate excretion, and (3) normal plasma inorganic phosphate. Eight patients (42%) required treatment for hypothyroidism. Three patients (16%) had impaired kidney function. While these observations do not contraindicate the continued use of lithium carbonate in manic depression, they strongly emphasize the need for close laboratory surveillance.
The thiocarbamate alcoholism drug disulfiram blocks the P-glycoprotein extrusion pump, inhibits the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB, sensitizes tumors to chemotherapy, reduces angiogenesis, and inhibits tumor growth in mice. Thiocarbamates react with critical thiols and also complex metal ions. Using melanoma as the paradigm, we tested whether disulfiram might inhibit growth by forming mixed disulfides with critical thiols in a mechanism facilitated by metal ions. Disulfiram given to melanoma cells in combination with Cu2+ or Zn2+ decreased expression of cyclin A and reduced proliferation in vitro at lower concentrations than disulfiram alone. In electrophoretic mobility shift assays, disulfiram decreased transcription factor binding to the cyclic AMP-responsive element in a manner potentiated by Cu2+ ions and by the presence of glutathione, suggesting that thiocarbamates might disrupt transcription factor binding by inducing S-glutathionylation of the transcription factor DNA binding region. Disulfiram inhibited growth and angiogenesis in melanomas transplanted in severe combined immunodeficient mice, and these effects were potentiated by Zn2+ supplementation. The combination of oral zinc gluconate and disulfiram at currently approved doses for alcoholism also induced >50% reduction in hepatic metastases and produced clinical remission in a patient with stage IV metastatic ocular melanoma, who has continued on oral zinc gluconate and disulfiram therapy for 53 continuous months with negligible side effects. These findings present a novel strategy for treating metastatic melanoma by employing an old drug toward a new therapeutic use.
This study was designed to assess the renal capability to autoregulate total blood flow, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and local GFR in outer, middle and inner cortical layers (OC, MC, IC) in the two-kidney, one-clip (2K-1C) renovascular hypertensive rat, with or without acute infusion of the angiotensin II receptor antagonist losartan (5 mg/kg, i.v.). Age-matched, sham-operated Wistar rats were used as controls. The hemodynamic study in all animals was performed 4 weeks after clipping. The clipping increased blood pressure significantly, whereas losartan reduced the renal arterial pressure (RAP) from 165+/-8 to 125+/-6 mm Hg (p < 0.01) in 2K-1C hypertensive rats and reduced the RAP from 107+/-2 to 101+/-1 mm Hg (p < 0.05) in normotensive animals. Renal blood flow (RBF), total and local GFR were decreased in the nonclipped kidney of 2K-1C hypertensive rats compared with sham-operated rats, but losartan significantly increased the RBF and GFR. RBF was well maintained in response to reduction in RAP in the nonclipped kidneys with and without losartan treatment. The capability of total GFR autoregulation was impaired in untreated 2K-1C hypertensive rats and losartan-treated sham-operated rats, whereas losartan completely abolished GFR autoregulation in the nonclipped kidney of 2K-1C hypertensive rats. Losartan impaired autoregulation of zonal GFR to the same extent in all three cortical layers of sham-operated rats, whereas in the nonclipped kidney of 2K-1C hypertensive rats losartan had a more pronounced effect on the superficial GFR autoregulation than in middle and inner cortex, indicating that angiotensin II plays a major role in regulating the GFR response to the acute changes of renal arterial pressure.
We investigated the effects of antithrombin, a plasma inhibitor of coagulation factors, in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis, which is an experimental model of human nephrotic syndrome. Antithrombin (50 or 500 IU/kg/i.v.) was administered to rats once a day for 10 days immediately after the injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (50 mg/kg/i.v.). Treatment with antithrombin attenuated the puromycin aminonucleoside-induced hematological abnormalities. Puromycin aminonucleoside-induced renal dysfunction and hyperlipidemia were also suppressed. Histopathological examination revealed severe renal damage such as proteinaceous casts in tubuli and tubular expansion in the kidney of control rats, while an improvement of the damage was seen in antithrombin-treated rats. In addition, antithrombin treatment markedly suppressed puromycin aminonucleoside-induced apoptosis of renal tubular epithelial cells. Furthermore, puromycin aminonucleoside-induced increases in renal cytokine content were also decreased. These findings suggest that thrombin plays an important role in the pathogenesis of puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrotic syndrome. Treatment with antithrombin may be clinically effective in patients with nephrotic syndrome.
Asperger's disorder consists of negative symptoms similar to those seen in schizophrenia, autism, schizoid personality disorder, and schizotypal personality disorder. We investigated whether risperidone, which is effective in treating the negative symptoms of schizophrenia, would improve such symptoms observed in Asperger's disorder in a prospective, open-label trial.
Thirteen male patients aged 6 to 18 years who were diagnosed with Asperger's disorder by DSM-IV criteria were enrolled in a 12-week, prospective, open-label pilot study from March 13, 2002 to August 11, 2003. All subjects were started on risperidone 0.25 mg twice per day. Doses were increased based on clinical indication and tolerability. The primary efficacy variable was the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS). Each subject's baseline score served as his control. Secondary efficacy measures included the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale, Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale, Global Assessment Scale, and a modified Asperger Syndrome Diagnostic Scale.
We found a statistically significant improvement from baseline for last-observation-carried-forward (LOCF) analyses as well as for analyses of 12-week completers (N = 9) in our primary outcome measure, SANS scores (F = 13.41, p < .0001 for 12-week completers; F = 9.64, p < .0001 for LOCF). We also found statistically significant improvement in all secondary efficacy measurements (F values range, 8.41 to 15.73, p values range, < .0001 to < .005 for 12-week completers; F values range, 6.53 to 7.75, all p < .0001 for LOCF).
Subjects' symptoms significantly improved after risperidone. The open-label nature of this small pilot study suggests caution in interpreting these data, but the results suggest that placebo-controlled trials should follow.
Previous experiments showed that treatment of mice and rats with thioacetamide (TAA) induced liver cell damage, fibrosis and/or cirrhosis, associated with increased oxidative stress and activation of hepatic stellate cells. Some experiments suggest that CYP2E1 may be involved in the metabolic activation of TAA. However, there is no direct evidence on the role of CYP2E1 in TAA-mediated hepatotoxicity. To clarify this, TAA-induced hepatotoxicity was investigated using Cyp2e1-null mice. Male wild-type and Cyp2e1-null mice were treated with TAA (200 mg/kg of body weight, single, i.p.) at 6 weeks of age, and hepatotoxicity examined 24 and 48 h after TAA treatment. Relative liver weights of Cyp2e1-null mice were significantly different at 24 h compared to wild-type mice (p<0.01). Serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in Cyp2e1-null mice were significantly different at both time points compared to wild-type mice (p<0.01). Histopathological examination showed Cyp2e1-null mice represented no hepatototoxic lesions, in clear contrast to severe centriobular necrosis, inflammation and hemorrhage at both time points in wild-type mice. Marked lipid peroxidation was also only limited to wild-type mice (p<0.01). Similarly, TNF-alpha, IL-6 and glutathione peroxidase mRNA expression in Cyp2e1-null mice did not significantly differ from the control levels, contrasting with the marked alteration in wild-type mice (p<0.01). Western blot analysis further revealed no increase in iNOS expression in Cyp2e1-null mice. These results reveal that CYP2E1 mediates TAA-induced hepatotoxicity in wild-type mice as a result of increased oxidative stress.
A double-blind placebo-controlled crossover Phase I trial was conducted to assess the safety and tolerability of N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) in healthy, cocaine-dependent humans. Thirteen participants attended a three-day hospitalization in which they received placebo or NAC. Subjects were crossed over to receive the opposite medication condition during a second three-day hospitalization, which occurred the following week. Across placebo and NAC conditions, only mild side effects were noted, and the number of subjects reporting side effects did not differ. There were trends for a greater reduction in withdrawal symptoms and craving within the NAC condition. These preliminary results suggest that NAC is well tolerated in healthy, cocaine-dependent individuals and may reduce cocaine-related withdrawal symptoms and craving.
It has been postulated that the vasodepressor reaction results from a vigorous ventricular contraction in the face of a reduced cardiac volume. Paradoxic bradycardia is a major manifestation of vasodepressor reactions. Allowing for the possible extrapolation between paradoxic bradycardia in rats and vasodepressor reactions, we examined calcium's role, an essential component of cardiac contraction, in the paradoxic bradycardia reaction. Paradoxic bradycardia was induced in rats by inferior vena cava occlusion during an isoproterenol infusion, and we examined calcium's role by studying whether verapamil inhibits and CaCl2 causes paradoxic bradycardia, respectively. The maximum changes in R-R were measured during 60 s of inferior vena cava occlusion under the following conditions: (i) in control, the rate accelerated (R-R-21.8 +/- 2.4 ms (mean +/- SE), p < 0.001); (ii) during isoproterenol, paradoxic bradycardia occurred (R-R 98.0 +/- 8.1 ms, p < 0.001), and this was inhibited by verapamil (R-R 5.0 +/- 2.1 ms, p > 0.05) and restored by CaCl2 (R-R 109.3 +/- 6.5 ms, p < 0.001); (iii) during CaCl2 (without isoproterenol), paradoxic bradycardia also occurred (R-R 82.1 +/- 22.9 ms, p < 0.001), and this was also inhibited by verapamil (R-R -18.5 +/- 4.7 ms, p < 0.001). We conclude that verapamil inhibits the inferior vena cava occlusion induced paradoxic bradycardia caused by either isoproterenol or calcium, and these findings support the concept that increased cardiac contractile force triggers a vasodepressor reaction.
Anemia is a common side effect of cisplatin, especially after repeated infusions. The primary mechanisms is a myelosuppression caused by cisplatin's interference with iron metabolism, resulting in a lower count of red cell precursors. Some authors report a hemolytic anemia similar to penicillin-induced anemia, in which hemolysis is caused by an antiglobulin antibody directed against red cell membrane-bound cisplatin. The authors report two cases of cisplatin-induced anemia and suggest that the immune-complex hypothesis is responsible for hemolysis. The first case of carboplatin-induced hemolysis is also reported. Mechanisms of hemolysis and clinical practice are discussed.
Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and norepinephrine (NE) are strongly related to severity of and are independent predictors of outcome in heart failure. The long-term effects of angiotensin receptor blockers on BNP and NE in heart failure patients are not known.
Both BNP and NE were measured in 4284 patients randomized to valsartan or placebo in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT) at baseline and 4, 12, and 24 months after randomization. The effects of valsartan were tested by ANCOVA, controlling for baseline values and concomitant ACE inhibitors and/or beta-blockers. BNP and NE concentrations were similar at baseline in the 2 groups and were decreased by valsartan starting at 4 months and up to 24 months. BNP increased over time in the placebo group. At the end point, least-squares mean (+/-SEM) BNP increased from baseline by 23+/-5 pg/mL in the placebo group (n=1979) but decreased by 21+/-5 pg/mL (n=1940) in the valsartan group (P<0.0001). NE increased by 41+/-6 pg/mL (n=1979) and 12+/-6 pg/mL (n=1941) for placebo and valsartan, respectively (P=0.0003). Concomitant therapy with both ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers significantly reduced the effect of valsartan on BNP but not on NE (P for interaction=0.0223 and 0.2289, respectively).
In Val-HeFT, the largest neurohormone study in patients with symptomatic chronic heart failure, BNP and NE rose over time in the placebo group. Valsartan caused sustained reduction in BNP and attenuated the increase in NE over the course of the study. These neurohormone effects of valsartan are consistent with the clinical benefits reported in Val-HeFT.
The V617F mutation, which causes the substitution of phenylalanine for valine at position 617 of the Janus kinase (JAK) 2 gene (JAK2), is often present in patients with polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, and idiopathic myelofibrosis. However, the molecular basis of these myeloproliferative disorders in patients without the V617F mutation is unclear.
We searched for new mutations in members of the JAK and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) gene families in patients with V617F-negative polycythemia vera or idiopathic erythrocytosis. The mutations were characterized biochemically and in a murine model of bone marrow transplantation.
We identified four somatic gain-of-function mutations affecting JAK2 exon 12 in 10 V617F-negative patients. Those with a JAK2 exon 12 mutation presented with an isolated erythrocytosis and distinctive bone marrow morphology, and several also had reduced serum erythropoietin levels. Erythroid colonies could be grown from their blood samples in the absence of exogenous erythropoietin. All such erythroid colonies were heterozygous for the mutation, whereas colonies homozygous for the mutation occur in most patients with V617F-positive polycythemia vera. BaF3 cells expressing the murine erythropoietin receptor and also carrying exon 12 mutations could proliferate without added interleukin-3. They also exhibited increased phosphorylation of JAK2 and extracellular regulated kinase 1 and 2, as compared with cells transduced by wild-type JAK2 or V617F JAK2. Three of the exon 12 mutations included a substitution of leucine for lysine at position 539 of JAK2. This mutation resulted in a myeloproliferative phenotype, including erythrocytosis, in a murine model of retroviral bone marrow transplantation.
JAK2 exon 12 mutations define a distinctive myeloproliferative syndrome that affects patients who currently receive a diagnosis of polycythemia vera or idiopathic erythrocytosis.
Folate is an important B vitamin that is transported into cells by way of folate-binding proteins and transporters. Folate-binding protein-2 nullizygous (Folbp2(-/-)) mice develop normally; however, we have found them to be more susceptible to the teratogenic effects of arsenate exposure than wild-type control mice.
In the current study, we wanted to extend our findings and test the hypothesis that Folbp2(-/-) mice are more susceptible to the teratogenic effects of valproic acid (VPA), a commonly used antiepileptic drug that is known to induce neural tube defects (NTDs) in both humans and laboratory animals.
Folbp2(-/-) mice had higher VPA-induced frequencies of embryonic lethality and exencephaly than did the wild-type control mice during folate supplementation and a control diet, respectively. All other differences in response between the two genotypes were short of reaching statistical significance. Folate supplementation of wild-type, but not Folbp2(-/-) dams reduced embryonic lethality of VPA-treated wild-type embryos compared to the folate-deficient diet.
Unlike our previous findings with arsenate, enhanced susceptibility of Folbp2(-/-) mice to in utero VPA exposure was demonstrated in some dietary folate regimens. Thus, our data indicate a relatively frail relationship between Folbp2 and VPA-induced NTDs.
The Wistar-Furth (WF) rat is protected against chronic renal disease (CRD) following 5/6th ablation/infarction vs. the Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat, and protection was associated with preserved renal nitric oxide (NO) production. This study examined CRD induced with repeated administration of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN). SD PAN developed nephrotic range proteinuria (>1 g/24 h), and at 15 wk severe renal injury developed and the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was reduced to approximately 10% of sham. Total NO production, renal NO synthase (NOS) activity, and renal neuronal (n) and medullary endothelial (e)NOS abundance were reduced in the SD PAN. WF PAN exhibited less severe initial proteinuria (>400 mg/24 h), which abated within weeks, whereas GFR was normal and injury was minimal at 15 wk. Total NO production and renal NOS activity and abundance were significantly elevated compared with SD PAN. NOS mRNA (nNOS, eNOS, and inducible NOS) was not altered in WF, whereas SD showed significant increases in NOS gene expression with PAN. In conclusion, WF showed resistance to a second model of CRD with maintained renal NOS activity compared with SD.
Mesothelioma represents an aggressive tumor type with high resistance to all treatment modalities. Its pathogenesis is strongly associated with exposure to asbestos fibers and probably with free radicals. One of the most important free radical scavenging enzymes, mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), has been shown to be elevated in mesothelioma (K. Kahlos et al., 1998, Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 18:570-580). In the present study, we could detect intense ultrastructural accumulation of MnSOD in the mitochondrial compartment of malignant mesothelioma cells. There was no association between the immunohistochemical reactivity and the most common and functional polymorphic variant of MnSOD, the Ala to Val amino acid change at 9 position (16th amino acid from the beginning of the signal sequence), in the 31 mesothelioma cases investigated. Comparative genomic hybridization and fluorescence in situ hybridization did not reveal any changes in chromosome 6, where the MnSOD gene is located. Sequencing of the MnSOD promoter region in four mesothelioma cell lines showed similar nucleotide variables in the malignant and nonmalignant cells. Therefore, the intense expression of MnSOD in the mitochondria of mesothelioma cells does not appear be associated with any major chromosomal alterations or the polymorphism of MnSOD gene. Association with oxidative/nitrosative stress in mesothelioma using nitrotyrosine immunostaining pointed to a tendency for more intense reactivity in those mesotheliomas with higher MnSOD expression (P = 0.069).
This randomized, double-blind, noninferiority trial was designed to demonstrate that pharmacokinetically enhanced amoxicillin-clavulanate (2,000/125 mg) was at least as effective clinically as amoxicillin-clavulanate 875/125 mg, both given twice daily for 7 days, in the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia in adults. In total, 633 clinically and radiologically confirmed community-acquired pneumonia patients (intent-to-treat population) were randomized to receive either oral amoxicillin-clavulanate 2,000/125 mg (n = 322) or oral amoxicillin-clavulanate 875/125 mg (n = 311). At screening, 160 of 633 (25.3%) patients had at least one typical pathogen isolated from expectorated or invasive sputum samples or blood culture (bacteriology intent-to-treat population). Streptococcus pneumoniae (58 of 160, 36.3%), methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (34 of 160, 21.3%), and Haemophilus influenzae (33 of 160, 20.6%) were the most common typical causative pathogens isolated in both groups in the bacteriology intent-to-treat population. Clinical success in the clinical per protocol population at test of cure (days 16 to 37), the primary efficacy endpoint, was 90.3% (223 of 247) for amoxicillin-clavulanate 2,000/125 mg and 87.6% (198 of 226) for amoxicillin-clavulanate 875/125 mg (treatment difference, 2.7; 95% confidence interval, -3.0, 8.3). Bacteriological success at test of cure in the bacteriology per protocol population was 86.6% (58 of 67) for amoxicillin-clavulanate 2,000/125 mg and 78.4% (40 of 51) for amoxicillin-clavulanate 875/125 mg (treatment difference, 8.1%; 95% confidence interval, -5.8, 22.1). Both therapies were well tolerated. Amoxicillin-clavulanate 2,000/125 mg twice daily was shown to be as clinically effective as amoxicillin-clavulanate 875/125 mg twice daily for 7 days in the treatment of adult patients with community-acquired pneumonia, without a noted increase in the reported rate of adverse events.
A 41-year-old female patient with malignant melanoma developed a sudden hepatic vein thrombosis (Budd-Chiarisyndrome) followed by rapid deterioration and death after treatment with DTIC (dacarbazine). The event occurred after the second injection during the second therapeutic cycle and was paralleled by an increase of the number of blood eosinophils. As described before increasing blood eosinophilia appears to be a sign of imminent DTIC-complication of this type.
Our aim was to improve a method for detecting respiratory hypersensitivity by testing three confirmed respiratory allergens (trimellitic anhydride [TMA], phthalic anhydride [PA] and toluene diisocyanate [TDI]), an environmental chemical of uncertain allergenicity (2,4-d-butyl [DB]), a confirmed contact allergen (2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene [DNCB]) and a standard irritant (sodium dodecyl sulfate [SDS]). BALB/c mice were topically sensitized (nine times in 3 weeks) with these chemicals, then challenged via the trachea. One day post-challenge, samples were taken from the mice to assay for total immunoglobulin (IgE and IgG(1)) levels in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF); differential cell counts and cytokine/chemokine levels in BALF; lymphocyte counts and surface antigen expression on B-cells within lung-associated lymph nodes (LNs); ex situ cytokine production by cells from these LNs; and gene expression in BALF (CCR3) and LNs (CCR4, STAT6 and GATA-3). The three confirmed respiratory allergens and DB induced immune response characteristic of immediate-type respiratory reactions, as evidenced by increased total IgE and IgG(1) levels; influx of eosinophils, neutrophils, chemokines and cytokines in BALF; increased surface antigen expression on B-cells in LNs; increased Th2 cytokine production in LNs; and increased respiratory allergy-related gene expression in both BALF and LNs. In contrast, DNCB and SDS treatments yielded, at most, insignificant increases in all respiratory allergic parameters. Thus, the protocol was equally suitable for use with an environmental chemical of unknown allergenicity and for typical respiratory allergens. Since the protocol differentiated respiratory allergens from contact allergens and irritants, it may be useful for detecting respiratory allergy related to environmental chemicals.
We hypothesized that resveratrol administration would reverse sepsis-dependent downregulation of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-γ coactivator 1α, preserve mitochondrial integrity, and rescue animals from sepsis-induced myocardial failure.
Teaching hospital research laboratory.
Cecal ligation and puncture in mice was performed to induce sepsis. Mice that underwent cecal ligation and puncture were randomly assigned to receive resveratrol (30 mg/kg or 60 mg/kg) or vehicle 1 mL sodium chloride 0.9% subcutaneously in the scruff of the neck directly after surgery and at 16, 24, and 40 hrs, respectively.
Forty-eight hrs after cecal ligation and puncture, cardiac performance was established using echocardiography. Mitochondrial integrity was evaluated with electron microscopy, and changes in gene expression were evaluated with microarray analysis. Survival at 48 hrs was just under 50% and comparable between groups. Myocardial contractile function significantly improved after resveratrol treatment. Resveratrol-treated mice developed focal areas of edema, whereas vehicle-treated mice developed significant, diffuse myocardial edema. Electron microscopy revealed widespread swollen mitochondria with ruptured outer membranes, autophagosomes, and vacuolation of the internal compartment, which were significantly attenuated in resveratrol-treated animals. Resveratrol treatment significantly increased cardiac expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator 1a. Microarray analysis revealed that resveratrol treatment resulted in upregulation of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator gene set containing genes known to be regulated by this transcriptional coactivator. Our data strongly suggest that administration of resveratrol modulates bioenergy metabolism, substrate utilization, oxidative stress, and detoxification pathways associated with both mitochondrial and cardiac pathological conditions, but does not alter mortality from sepsis.
The salutary effects of resveratrol on cecal ligation and puncture-induced myocardial dysfunction are associated with increased peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator 1a abundance and function. Preservation of myocardial energy production capacity, prevention of secondary injury, mitigation of inflammation, and reversal of sepsis-induced myocardial remodeling are likely to underlie its beneficial effects. This however, does not result in improved survival.
Aspirin causes gastroduodenal ulcers and complications. Food bioactive compounds could exert beneficial effects in the gastrointestinal tract. We evaluated whether apple polyphenol extract (APE) reduced aspirin-induced injury to the rat gastric mucosa. Rats were treated with APE (10(-4) m catechin equivalent) before oral aspirin (200 mg/kg). Cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2), transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha) and heparin-binding epidermal-growth-factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF) mRNA and protein expression were assessed by RT-PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively; malondialdehyde (MDA) was determined by HPLC; gastric secretion was evaluated in pylorus-ligated rats. APE decreased acute and chronic aspirin injury both macroscopically and microscopically (approximately 50 % decrease in lesion score; P < 0.05). Aspirin up-regulated mRNA and protein expression of COX-2 and HB-EGF, but not of TGF alpha; APE reduced aspirin-induced mRNA and protein over-expression of COX-2 and HB-EGF; aspirin significantly increased gastric MDA and this effect was counteracted by APE pre-treatment. APE did not significantly affect gastric acid secretion. In conclusion, APE reduces aspirin-induced gastric injury independently of acid inhibition. We speculate that APE might be of therapeutic use in the prophylaxis of aspirin-related gastropathy.
Due to the broad anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory actions of phosphodiesterase (PDE) 4 inhibitors, it has been proposed that PDE4 inhibitors might be efficacious for skin disorders such as atopic dermatitis. KF66490 is a newly developed PDE4 inhibitor that inhibits PDE4B (IC(50)=220 nM) and the production of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha by mouse peritoneal exudated cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (IC(50)=855 nM). To evaluate efficacy of KF66490 in atopic dermatitis (AD) models, on skin inflammation induced by repeated application of 2,4,6-trinitro-1-chlorobenzene (TNCB) on ear in BALB/c mice and on spontaneously AD-like skin diseases in NC/Nga mice. BALB/c mice were sensitized with 0.3% w/v TNCB applied to the ear on day-7, followed by application three times a week from days 0 to 21. NC/Nga mice spontaneously developed dermatitis symptoms under conventional conditions. Test compounds were administered orally once daily during experiments. In the TNCB-induced dermatitis model, KF66490 significantly inhibited the increase in ear thickness and interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-1beta levels in the ear. Histopathological and immunohistochemical analysis revealed that KF66490 significantly inhibited the proliferation of fibroblasts and CD3-positive T cells infiltration into the ear. In addition, KF66490 significantly suppressed the development of dermatitis in NC/Nga mice on all observation days, except for 5 and 6 weeks after the first dose. Furthermore, KF66490 produced less potent emetic effects than the first generation PDE4 inhibitor, rolipram. The present results suggest that KF66490 has excellent potential as an oral medicine for the treatment of atopic dermatitis.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by aggregates of the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT). A nonsignificant trend for positive family history has been observed in two case-control studies and several pedigrees with familial clustering of parkinsonism have been described. Occasionally, mutations in MAPT are found in patients with a clinical phenotype similar to PSP. In this case-control study, we compared the occurrence of dementia and parkinsonism among first-degree relatives of patients with PSP with an age- and sex-matched control group.
Family history of dementia and parkinsonism was collected from all first-degree relatives of patients with PSP who fulfilled the international National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke criteria for PSP. Age- and sex-matched controls were selected from the Rotterdam Study. Genetic testing and pathologic examination was performed in a subset of familial PSP cases.
Fifty-seven (33%) of the 172 patients with PSP had at least one first-degree relative who had dementia or parkinsonism compared to 131 (25%) of the control subjects (odds ratio [OR] 1.5, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.01-2.13). In patients with PSP, more first-degree relatives with parkinsonism were observed compared to controls, with an OR 3.9 (95% CI 1.99-7.61). Twelve patients with PSP (7%) fulfilled the criteria for an autosomal dominant mode of transmission. The intrafamilial phenotype within these pedigrees varied among PSP, dementia, tremor, and parkinsonism. Genetic studies revealed one patient with a P301L mutation in MAPT. Pathologic examination of five familial cases confirmed the clinical diagnosis of PSP, with predominant four repeat tau pathology in affected brain areas.
This study demonstrates familial aggregation of parkinsonism in progressive supranuclear palsy.
Acute exposure to organophosphates induces a delayed neurodegenerative condition known as organophosphate-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN). The mechanism of OPIDN has not been fully understood as it does not involve cholinergic crisis. The present study has been designed to evaluate the role of mitochondrial dysfunctions in the development of OPIDN. OPIDN was induced in rats by administering acute dose of monocrotophos (MCP, 20 mg/kg body weight, orally) or dichlorvos (DDVP, 200 mg/kg body weight, subcutaneously), 15-20 min after treatment with antidotes [atropine (20 mg/kg body weight) and 2-PAM (100 mg/kg body weight) intraperitoneally]. MDA levels were observed to be higher and thiol content was lower in mitochondria from brain regions of OP exposed animals. This was accompanied by decreased activities of the mitochondrial enzymes; NADH dehydrogenase, succinate dehydrogenase, and cytochrome oxidase. In addition, mitochondrial functions assessed by MTT reduction also confirmed mitochondrial dysfunctions following development of OPIDN. The spatial long-term memory evaluated using elevated plus-maze test was observed to be deficit in OPIDN. The results suggest impaired mitochondrial functions as a mechanism involved in the development of organophosphate induced delayed neuropathy.
We present an infant who was exposed to warfarin throughout pregnancy and has warfarin embryopathy. When the child was examined radiologically at 20 months areas of calcification were visible in the septal and alar cartilages of the small external part of the nose. The location of this ectopic calcification is consistent with that seen in an animal model of the warfarin embryopathy. It supports the hypothesis that warfarin interferes with the prenatal growth of the cartilaginous nasal septum by inhibiting the normal formation of a vitamin K-dependent protein that prevents calcification of cartilage. The child also had severe abnormalities of the cervical vertebrae and secondary damage to the spinal cord. Cervical vertebral anomalies are a relatively common finding in the warfarin embryopathy and in the related Binder syndrome.
