Angiotensin II promotes cell growth and has been implicated in the development and maintenance of left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy and of structural vascular changes. We wished to examine whether an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) would influence structural vascular changes beyond the effects of blood pressure reduction.
Hypertensive patients with LV hypertrophy (age 55 +/- 9 years, blood pressure 162 +/- 19/104 +/- 8 mmHg, LV mass index 148 +/- 31 g m(-2); mean +/- SD) were randomized double-blind to the ARB irbesartan (n=52) or the beta(1) receptor blocker atenolol (n=56) for 48 weeks. Ultrasonography of the left and right common carotid artery (CCA) and echocardiography were performed at week 0 and 48.
With similar reductions in blood pressure, CCA intima-media thickness (IMT) was reduced by irbesartan (from 0.92 +/- 0.14 by 0.01 +/- 0.10 mm, NS), whereas it was increased by atenolol (from 0.94 +/- 0.21 by 0.03 +/- 0.12 mm, P=0.018; P=0.002 between groups). CCA lumen diameter was less reduced by irbesartan than by atenolol. Thus, CCA intima-media area was reduced by irbesartan (from 21.3 +/- 5.0 by 0.90 +/- 2.45 mm(2), P=0.034) but not by atenolol (from 21.3 +/- 6.1 by 0.18 +/- 2.71 mm(2), NS; P=0.037 between groups). Changes in CCA IMT or area did not relate to changes in LV mass.
The favourable effects by irbesartan on CCA IMT with an outward vascular remodelling suggest that angiotensin II mediates structural vascular changes, beyond the effects of blood pressure. This may be important in the prevention of cerebrovascular events.
The molecular mechanisms that contribute to the cholestatic condition in hepatocytes are poorly defined. It has been postulated that a disruption of normal vesicle-based protein trafficking may lead to alterations in hepatocyte polarity.
To determine if vesicle motility is reduced by cholestasis, hepatocytes cultured from livers of bile duct ligation (BDL)- or ethinyl estradiol (EE)-injected rats, were viewed and recorded by high-resolution video microscopy. Cholestatic hepatocytes were analyzed by phalloidin staining and electron microscopy. Functional analysis was done by the sodium fluorescein sequestration assay.
In cholestatic hepatocytes, there was a significant decrease in the number of motile cytoplasmic vesicles observed compared with control cells. Further examination of cells from BDL- or EE-treated livers revealed the presence of numerous large intracellular lumina. More than 24% of cells in BDL-treated livers and 19% of cells in EE-treated livers displayed these structures, compared with 1.1% found in control hepatocytes. Phalloidin staining of hepatocytes showed a prominent sheath of actin surrounding the lumina, reminiscent of those seen about bile canaliculi. Electron microscopy revealed that these structures were lined by actin-filled microvilli. Further, these pseudocanaliculi perform many of the functions exhibited by bona fide canaliculi, such as sequestering sodium fluorescein.
Both mechanically and chemically induced cholestasis have substantial effects on vesicle-based transport, leading to marked disruption of hepatocellular polarity.
Because few data exist on the effect of recombinant human erythropoietin (EPO) for anemia not induced by zidovudine (ZDV) in persons with AIDS, we analyzed a subset of 523 subjects not taking ZDV ('non-ZDV') who participated in an open-label EPO treatment program involving 1943 subjects. Non-ZDV subjects had a mean hematocrit of 27.3% on entry and their mean weekly EPO dose was 354-464 U/kg that was given for a mean of 17 weeks. EPO was well tolerated with an adverse event discontinuation rate of 2.3%. The mean hematocrit increased to 30.8% at week 6 and remained between 32 and 34% for the next 18 weeks. Subjects requiring one or more transfusion per 6-week period decreased from 43% before study entry to 14% for weeks 13-18 and 18% for weeks 19-24. These changes were comparable to those observed in the entire group of 1943 patients. We concluded that EPO was safe and as effective for anemia in persons with AIDS not taking ZDV as for those receiving it.
1-Amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone (ADBAQ) is an anthraquinone-derived vat dye, and a potent carcinogen in laboratory animals. In a 2-year study with dietary exposure to 10,000 or 20,000 ppm ADBAQ, increased incidence of forestomach and lung tumors were observed in B6C3F1 mice. The present study indentified genetic alterations in H-ras and K-ras proto-oncogenes in ADBAQ-induced tumors. Point mutations in ras proto-oncogenes were identified by restriction fragment length polymorphism, single-stranded conformational polymorphism analysis and cycle sequencing of polymerase chain reaction-amplified DNA isolated from paraffin-embedded squamous cell papillomas and carcinomas in the forestomach, and alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas and carcinomas in the lung. A higher frequency of ras mutations was identified in ADBAQ-induced forestomach (23/32, 72%) and lung tumors (16/23, 70%) than in spontaneous forestomach (4/11, 36%) and lung tumors (26/86, 30%). H-ras codon 61 CTA mutations were detected in (4/8, 50%) ADBAQ-induced forestomach squamous cell papillomas and (10/24, 42%) squamous cell carcinomas, but not in the spontaneous forestomach tumors examined. H-ras codon 61 CGA mutation (6/24, 25%) was also detected in ADBAQ-induced forestomach squamous cell carcinomas. K-ras codon 61 A to T transversions and A to G transitions were prominent in ADBAQ-induced lung alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas and alveolar/bronchiolar carcinomas. The major finding of A to T transversions or A to G transitions in forestomach and lung tumors suggests that ADBAQ or its metabolites target adenine bases in the ras proto-oncogenes and that these mutations play a dominant role in multi-organ
Obesity has been implicated in several inflammatory diseases and in different types of cancer. Chronic inflammation induced by exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation has been implicated in various skin diseases, including melanoma and nonmelanoma skin cancers. As the relationship between obesity and susceptibility to UV radiation-caused inflammation is not clearly understood, we assessed the role of obesity on UVB-induced inflammation, and mediators of this inflammatory response, using the genetically obese (leptin-deficient) mouse model. Leptin-deficient obese (ob/ob) mice and wild-type counterparts (C57/BL6 mice) were exposed to UVB radiation (120 mJ/cm(2)) on alternate days for 1 month. The mice were then euthanized and skin samples collected for analysis of biomarkers of inflammatory responses using immunohistochemistry, western blotting, ELISA and real-time PCR. Here, we report that the levels of inflammatory responses were higher in the UVB-exposed skin of the ob/ob obese mice than those in the UVB-exposed skin of the wild-type non-obese mice. The levels of UVB-induced cyclooxygenase-2 expression, prostaglandin-E(2) production, proinflammatory cytokines (i.e., tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6), and proliferating cell nuclear antigen and cell survival signals (phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase and p-Akt-Ser(473)) were higher in the skin of the ob/ob obese mice than the those in skin of their wild-type non-obese counterparts. Compared with the wild-type non-obese mice, the leptin-deficient obese mice also exhibited greater activation of NF-kappaB/p65 and fewer apoptotic cells in the UVB-irradiated skin. Our study suggests for the first time that obesity in mice is associated with greater susceptibility to UVB-induced inflammatory responses and, therefore, obesity may increase susceptibility to UVB-induced inflammation-associated skin diseases, including the risk of skin cancer.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is currently the most prominent form of dementia among the elderly. Although AD manifests in late adult life, it is not clear when the disease actually starts and how long the neuropathological processes take to develop AD. The major unresolved question is the timing and the nature of triggering leading to AD. Is it an early or developmental and/or late phenomenon and what are the factors that trigger the cascade of pathobiochemical processes? To explain the etiology of AD one should consider the neuropathological features, such as neuronal cell death, tau tangles, and amyloid plaque, and environmental factors associated with AD, such as diet, toxicological exposure, and hormonal factors. Current dominant theories of AD etiology are "protein-only", they attribute the cause of the disease directly to the activities of associated proteins once they have been produced; the major limitation is that protein aggregations occur "late in the game". Development and progression of AD has not been explained by protein-only models. In view of this limitation, we propose a "Latent Early-Life Associated Regulation" (LEARn) model, which postulates a latent expression of specific genes triggered at the developmental stage. According to this model, environmental agents (e.g., heavy metals), intrinsic factors (e.g., cytokines), and dietary factors (e.g., cholesterol) perturb gene regulation in a long-term fashion, beginning at early developmental stages; however, these perturbations do not have pathological results until significantly later in life. For example, such actions would perturb APP gene regulation at very early stage via its transcriptional machinery, leading to delayed overexpression of APP and subsequently of Abeta deposition. This model operates on the regulatory region (promoter) of the gene and by the effect of methylation at certain sites within the promoter of specific genes. Promoters tend to have both positive and negative regulatory elements, and promoter activity can be altered by changes in the primary DNA sequence and by epigenetic changes through mechanisms such as DNA methylation at CpG dinucleotides or oxidation of guanosine residues. The basis of the LEARn model is that environmental factors, including metals and dietary factors, operate by interfering the interaction of methylated CpG clusters with binding proteins, such as MeCP2 and SP1. The LEARn model may explain the etiology of AD and other neuropsychiatric and developmental disorders.
The present study aimed to prospectively investigate the influence of thymidylate synthase (TS) polymorphisms (5'-TSER, 3'-TSUTR) on the disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) who were treated with adjuvant 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) therapy. Patients were followed up for 19+/-14 months (median+/-SD). TS genotypes were determined from the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 166 patients by polymerase chain reaction-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and restriction fragment length polymorphism methods. 5'-TSER 3R homozygotes showed significantly longer DFS (P = 0.048) and OS (P = 0.009). The 5'-TSER and 3'-TSUTR genotype combination groups showed a significant difference for DFS (P = 0.039) and OS (P = 0.029). Significantly better DFS (P = 0.049) and OS (P = 0.043) were observed for 6 bp/6 bp genotypes in 5'-TSER heterozygotes (n = 80). Based on this, and on hazard ratios obtained by Cox regression analysis of the DFS of genotype-combinations, the patients were classified as belonging to prognostic groups A and B. The DFS and OS of these two groups showed a highly significant difference (P = 0.002 and 0.001). In the multivariate Cox regression model, beside tumour location, the prognostic classification (groups A and B) proved to be an independent prognostic factor. Our data suggest that those TS genotypes and their combinations (group A: 3R/3R with any 3'-TSUTR genotype and 2R/3R with 6 bp/6 bp), which have been reported earlier as having high TS expression, predict significantly longer DFS and OS. We found that a combination of germline TS polymorphisms is an independent prognostic marker in selecting CRC patients with worse prognosis, and it may be worthwhile to examine whether these patients would benefit from an alternative therapy.
Hepatic fibrosis represents a process of healing and scarring in response to chronic liver injury. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a cytokine that downregulates the proinflammatory response and has a modulatory effect on hepatic fibrogenesis. The aim of this study was to investigate whether IL-10 gene therapy possesses anti-hepatic fibrogenesis in mice. Liver fibrosis was induced by long-term thioacetamide administration in mice. Human IL-10 expression plasmid was delivered via electroporation after liver fibrosis established. IL-10 gene therapy reversed hepatic fibrosis and prevented cell apoptosis in a thioacetamide-treated liver. RT-PCR revealed IL-10 gene therapy to reduce liver transforming growth factor-beta1, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, collagen alpha1, cell adhesion molecule, and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase mRNA upregulation. Following gene transfer, the activation of alpha-smooth muscle actin and cyclooxygenase-2 was significantly attenuated. In brief, IL-10 gene therapy might be an effective therapeutic reagent for liver fibrosis with potential future clinical applications.
Glioblastoma, the most aggressive and least treatable form of malignant glioma, is the most common human brain tumor. Although many regions of allelic loss occur in glioblastomas, relatively few tumor suppressor genes have been found mutated at such loci. To address the possibility that epigenetic alterations are an alternative means of glioblastoma gene inactivation, we coupled pharmacological manipulation of methylation with gene profiling to identify potential methylation-regulated, tumor-related genes. Duplicates of three short-term cultured glioblastomas were exposed to 5 microM 5-aza-dC for 96 h followed by cRNA hybridization to an oligonucleotide microarray (Affymetrix U133A). We based candidate gene selection on bioinformatics, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), bisulfite sequencing, methylation-specific PCR and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Two genes identified in this manner, RUNX3 and Testin (TES), were subsequently shown to harbor frequent tumor-specific epigenetic alterations in primary glioblastomas. This overall approach therefore provides a powerful means to identify candidate tumor-suppressor genes for subsequent evaluation and may lead to the identification of genes whose epigenetic dysregulation is integral to glioblastoma tumorigenesis.
Glyceryl trinitrate (GTN), also known as nitroglycerin, has been used to treat angina and heart failure for more than 130 years. Recently, it was shown that mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 (ALDH2) is responsible for formation of NO, the metabolite needed for GTN efficacy. In the present study, we show that the common G-to-A polymorphism in exon 12 of ALDH2--resulting in a Glu504Lys replacement that virtually eliminates ALDH2 activity in both heterozygotes and homozygotes--is associated with a lack of efficacy of sublingual GTN in Chinese subjects. We also show that the catalytic efficiency (Vmax/Km) of GTN metabolism of the Glu504 protein is approximately 10-fold higher than that of the Lys504 enzyme. We conclude that the presence of the Lys504 allele contributes in large part to the lack of an efficacious clinical response to nitroglycerin; we recommend that this genetic factor be considered when administering nitroglycerin to patients, especially Asians, 30-50% of whom possess the inactive ALDH2*2 mutant allele.
Oxidative stress has been well documented in the substantia nigra in Parkinson disease (PD), but little is known about oxidative damage, particularly lipoxidation, advanced glycation (AGE), and AGE receptors (RAGE) in other structures, including the cerebral cortex, in early stages of diseases with Lewy bodies. The present study was undertaken to analyze these parameters in the frontal cortex (area 8), amygdala, and substantia nigra in selected cases with no neurologic symptoms and with neuropathologically verified incidental Lewy body disease-related changes, comparing them with healthy age-matched individuals. Results of the present study have shown mass spectrometric and immunologic evidences of increased lipoxidative damage by the markers malondialdehyde-lysine (MDAL) and 4-hydroxynonenal-lysine (HNE), increased expression of AGE in the substantia nigra, amygdala, and frontal cortex, and increased and heterogeneous RAGE cellular expression in the substantia nigra and frontal cortex in cases with early stages of parkinsonian neuropathology. In addition, increased content of the highly peroxidizable docosahexaenoic acid in the amygdala and frontal cortex. These changes were not associated to alpha-synuclein aggregation in cortex, contrasting with aggregates found in SDS-soluble fractions of frontal cortex in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) cases. The pattern of lipidic abnormalities differed in DLB and incidental Lewy body disease. Furthermore, although AGE and RAGE expression were raised in DLB, no increase in the total amount of HNE and MDAL adducts was found in the cerebral cortex in DLB. Preliminary analyses have identified 2 proteins with lipoxidative damage, alpha-synuclein and manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2), in incidentally Lewy body disease cortex. This study demonstrates abnormal fatty acid profiles, increased and selective lipoxidative damage, and increased AGE and RAGE expression in the frontal cortex in cases with early stages of parkinsonian neuropathology without treatment. These findings further support antioxidant therapy in the treatment of PD to reduce cortical damage associated with oxidative stress.
Propylthiouracil (PTU) has been known to induce myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (MPO-ANCA) positive vasculitis. Our previous study indicated that the increase of avidity of MPO-ANCA might be associated with the occurrence of clinical vasculitis in patients with PTU-induced ANCA. The current study aimed to follow-up the avidity and titre of anti-MPO antibodies in sequential sera from patients with PTU-induced ANCA-associated systemic vasculitis (AASV).
Six patients with PTU-induced vasculitis were enrolled in the current study. Serial sera in both active phase and in remission were collected. MPO-ANCA avidity was assessed by antigen-inhibition enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs), and avidity constant (aK) was determined as the reciprocal value of the MPO molar concentration in the liquid phase resulting in 50% inhibition of anti-MPO antibody binding to MPO in solid phase ELISA. Titres of MPO-ANCA were determined by using serial serum dilutions in MPO-ELISA.
After cessation of PTU and initiation of immunosuppressive therapy, the avidity and titre of MPO-ANCA decreased significantly during follow-up in sera from all the patients, and the avidity decreased much more quickly than the titres.
Our study indicates that avidity of anti-MPO antibodies might be more closely associated with clinical vasculitis than titre.
The dopamine (DA) transporter DAT1 is a major target bound by cocaine in brain. We examined the influence of functional genetic variants in DAT1 on cocaine addiction. Repeat polymorphisms, including a 30-bp variable-number tandem repeat (VNTR) in intron 8 (Int8 VNTR) with two common alleles, were genotyped in cocaine-dependent abusers (n = 699) and in controls with no past history of drug abuse (n = 866) from São Paulo, Brazil. Positive association was observed with allele 3 of the Int8 VNTR and cocaine abuse (allele odds ratio = 1.2, 95% confidence interval = 1.01-1.37, P = 0.036; 3/3 homozygote odds ratio = 1.45, 95% confidence interval = 1.18-1.78, P = 0.0008). Population stratification was assessed and did not affect the results. Haplotypic analyses using additional polymorphisms indicated that the Int8 VNTR is responsible for the observed association. Functional analyses in reporter-gene constructs, demonstrated that allele 3 mediates significant (P < 0.05) but small reduced expression compared with the "protective" allele 2. This difference increased when 1 and 10 muM cocaine was added to the cell culture ( approximately 40% reduction of the 3 allele expression versus the 2 allele). The 3 allele also demonstrated approximately 3-fold-increased expression over the 2 allele in response to KCl plus forskolin challenge. We demonstrate a robust association between cocaine dependence and a VNTR allele in SLC6A3, conferring a small but detectable effect, and we show that this VNTR may be functional. This study suggests that DAT1 gene variation may play a role in cocaine dependence etiology.
This study was conducted to evaluate the toxicity and efficacy of Epidoxoform, a prodrug of the active metabolite of epidoxorubicin, in a mouse model of mammary carcinoma. A dose escalation trial established a maximal tolerated dose of 20 mg/kg given intraperitoneally (i.p.) to 6-8 week old female C3 HeJ mice. Two days following injection of 10(6) Gollin-B mouse mammary tumor cells into the mammary fat pad, Epidoxoform was given and tumor growth compared to mice treated similarly with the maximum tolerated dose of epidoxorubicin and untreated controls. In all efficacy trials, a significant difference was found for tumor volume between Epidoxoform and epidoxorubicin treated mice and controls. In mice treated with a two-dose regimen, significantly increased efficacy was also found between Epidoxoform compared to epidoxorubicin. Epidoxoform appears to be efficacious in this model of mammary carcinoma, with improved efficacy over the parent compound epidoxorubicin. Further evaluation of this analogue appears warranted.
The matrix metalloproteinase system (MMP and the TIMP inhibitors), and the ADAM metalloproteinases, have roles in maintaining vascular plaque stability and the shedding of cell surface molecules, such as TNF-alpha and adhesion molecules; aspirin suppresses MMP expression and ADAM activity from some cell lines in vitro. In a randomised prospective controlled study, we examined peripheral venous monocyte MMP-9, TIMP-1 and ADAM mRNA levels, and protein expression, in subjects with type 2 diabetes (n=10) and controls (n=14) before and after oral aspirin therapy (150mg daily for 14 days) or no active intervention. Baseline monocyte TIMP-1 mRNA levels were significantly lower in the diabetes group (p=0.0014), although monocyte MMP-9 mRNA, and MMP-9 and TIMP-1 protein expression after culture did not differ significantly between groups. Plasma MMP-9 (p=0.027) and TIMP-1 (p=0.016) concentrations were significantly greater, and the ratio of plasma TIMP-1:MMP-9 concentrations significantly lower, in the diabetes group (p=0.023). ADAM mRNA levels did not differ significantly between groups and oral aspirin therapy had no significant effect on any variable. Type 2 diabetes is characterised by reduced monocyte TIMP-1 mRNA levels, and a lower plasma MMP-9 to TIMP-1 protein ratio compared to controls, a pattern that would promote coronary plaque instability if reproduced within vascular plaque. Monocyte ADAM mRNA levels do not differ between group and oral aspirin has no significant effect on these variables.
Carbamazepine-induced cardiac conduction disturbance is reported in 2 patients suffering from epilepsy. The cardiac defects disappeared in both patients after carbamazepine was discontinued, and reappeared in 1 patient after treatment was resumed.
Results of premarketing and postmarketing trials have raised doubts about the cardiovascular safety of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) rofecoxib, especially at doses greater than 25 mg. Between Jan 1, 1999, and June 30, 2001, we did a retrospective cohort study of individuals on the expanded Tennessee Medicaid programme (TennCare), in which we assessed occurrence of serious coronary heart disease (CHD) in non-users (n=202916) and in users of rofecoxib and other NSAIDs (rofecoxib n=24 132, other n=151 728). Participants were aged 50-84 years, lived in the community, and had no life-threatening non-cardiovascular illness. Users of high-dose rofecoxib were 1.70 (95% CI 0.98-2.95, p=0.058) times more likely than non-users to have CHD; among new users this rate increased to 1.93 (1.09-3.42, p=0.024). By contrast, there was no evidence of raised risk of CHD among users of rofecoxib at doses of 25 mg or less or among users of other NSAIDs.
Individual variations in sensitivity to the ototoxic effects of aminoglycoside antibiotics are well documented. Our research demonstrates that there is an apparent difference in serum from patients who are resistant or susceptible to aminoglycoside ototoxicity. In the first study, the cytotoxicity of sera from patients with and without hearing loss after various time periods following the discontinuation of aminoglycoside treatment was assayed using the isolated outer hair cell toxicity assay. The results indicate that sera from patients with hearing loss were significantly more toxic than sera from patients with normal hearing or minimal hearing loss. This toxicity may persist for up to 1 year after discontinuation of aminoglycoside therapy. In a second study, sera were obtained from patients who had received aminoglycoside therapy several years previously. None of these sera was toxic to isolated outer hair cells in vitro. Streptomycin was then incubated with the sera or a protein fraction isolated from sera, and the incubation mixtures were tested for toxicity. The percentage of damaged outer hair cells was significantly higher when streptomycin had been treated with sera or a serum protein fraction from patients with hearing loss (58+/-10% and 68+/-9%, respectively) than with sera or a serum protein fraction from a control group (10+/-5% and 17+/-4%, respectively). In addition, several incubation mixtures were analyzed using high performance liquid chromatography. A new chromatographic peak was only found in the incubations of streptomycin with serum protein from patients with hearing loss. The results suggest that sera from individuals sensitive to aminoglycoside antibiotics may metabolize these drugs to cytotoxins.
Several toxicological manifestations of deoxynivalenol (DON), a mycotoxin, are well documented; however, dermal toxicity is not yet explored. The effect of topical application of DON to mice was studied using markers of skin proliferation, inflammation and tumor promotion. Single topical application of DON (84-672nmol/mouse) significantly enhanced dermal hyperplasia and skin edema. DON (336 and 672nmol) caused significant enhancement in [(3)H]-thymidine uptake in DNA along with increased myeloperoxidase and ornithine decarboxylase activities, suggesting tissue inflammation and cell proliferation. Furthermore, DON (168nmol) caused enhanced expression of RAS, and phosphorylation of PI3K/Akt, ERK, JNK and p38 MAPKs. DON exposure also showed activation of transcription factors, c-fos, c-jun and NF-κB along with phosphorylation of IkBα. Enhanced phosphorylation of NF-κB by DON caused over expression of target proteins, COX-2, cyclin D1 and iNOS in skin. Though a single topical application of DMBA followed by twice weekly application of DON (84 and 168nmol) showed no tumorigenesis after 24weeks, however, histopathological studies suggested hyperplasia of the epidermis and hypertrophy of hair follicles. Interestingly, intestine was also found to be affected as enlarged Peyer's patches were observed, suggesting inflammatory effects which were supported by elevation of inflammatory cytokines after 24weeks of topical application of DON. These results suggest that DON induced cell proliferation in mouse skin is through the activation of MAPK signaling pathway involving transcription factors NFκB and AP-1, further leading to transcriptional activation of downstream target proteins c-fos, c-jun, cyclin D1, iNOS and COX-2 which might be responsible for its inflammatory potential.
Dynamic myocardial SPECT data acquired with 15-(123)I-(p-iodophenyl)-3-(R,S)-methylpentadecanoic acid (BMIPP) were analyzed by the Rutland method. The relative time-activity curves generated from dynamic SPECT in normal control subjects were compared with similar curves from patients with established ischemic heart disease (IHD) and doxorubicin-induced myocardial damage (DxMD). Comparison of such time-activity curves may provide some indirect information concerning qualitative differences in BMIPP metabolism.
Thirteen patients with various malignancies who received doxorubicin, 16 patients with IHD, and 15 normal control subjects were examined. Immediately after the bolus injection of BMIPP, dynamic data acquisition with a 3-head SPECT system was started and continued for 15 min. Using the time-activity curves of the myocardium as the output function (Mo(t)) and the time-activity curves of the left ventricular cavity as the input function (B(t)), the Rutland equation was calculated: Mo(t)/B(t) = F + K integral B(t)dt/B(t), where F is the blood - background subtraction factor and K is the uptake constant. The duration of the linear portion in this equation and the K values were evaluated.
Mo(t)/B(t) was plotted against integral B(t)dt/B(t). Mo(t)/B(t) showed a good linear correlation with integral B(t)dt/B(t) from 30 s to 230 +/- 57 s in normal control subjects. The duration of this linearity was prolonged to 317 +/- 79 s in DxMD (P = 0.0014) and shortened to 182 +/- 58 s in IHD (P = 0.039). The mean K value was 0.0740 +/- 0.0184 in normal control subjects, significantly higher than the K values of 0.0599 +/- 0.0148 in DxMD patients (P = 0.026) and 0.0497 +/- 0.0189 (P = 0.0020) in IHD patients.
Analysis of BMIPP dynamic SPECT data by the Rutland method is useful for detecting qualitative differences in BMIPP metabolism in various types of myocardial damage. It is speculated that the fatty acid metabolic disorder is characterized by a delay in metabolism in DxMD and by increased backdiffusion in IHD.
To evaluate the effects on PONV and headache after tympanoplasty of prochlorperazine 0.2 mg.kg-1 i.m., ondansetron 0.06 mg.kg-1 i.v. or placebo (isotonic saline) 0.02 ml.kg-1 i.v. given immediately after induction of anaesthesia prior to tracheal intubation.
The study was randomised, double blind and prospective. One hundred and forty-eight patients, aged 9-61 yr, received a standardised balanced inhalational anaesthetic with controlled ventilation and induced hypotension. Postoperatively, the frequencies of retching and vomiting in the PACU and of nausea, retching, vomiting, headache, analgesic and antiemetic requirements in the surgical ward for 24 hr were recorded.
The four test groups (n = 37 each) were comparable. The incidences of vomiting in the PACU were similar. During the first 24 hr after surgery the antiemetics produced no reductions in the incidence of nausea alone or of vomiting alone. However, the combination of nausea and vomiting was reduced from 53% (placebo) to 16% (P < 0.0005), 19% (P < 0.0005) and 30% (P < 0.05) by i.m. prochlorperazine, i.v. ondansetron and i.v. prochlorperazine, respectively. The frequency of those experiencing no PONV was increased from 27% (placebo) by prochlorperazine i.m. to 57% (P < 0.01), by ondansetron i.v. to 62% (P < 0.005) and by prochlorperazine i.v. to 43% (P = NS). The onset of PONV was delayed in those given prochlorperazine im, and vomiting was less severe in those given ondansetron i.v. Headache occurred with similar frequency in each group.
Prophylactic prochlorperazine 0.2 mg.kg-1 i.m. and ondansetron 0.06 mg.kg-1 i.v. are similarly efficacious in reducing nausea with vomiting after tympanoplasty, while prochlorperazine 0.1 mg.kg-1 i.v. is less efficacious. Neither drug given as described appeared to reduce the frequency of postoperative nausea alone or vomiting alone.
NAD(P)H:Quinone Oxidoreductase1 (NQO1) also known as DT-diaphorase is a flavoprotein that catalyzes the two-electron reduction of quinones, quinone imines and azo-dyes and thereby protects cells against mutagenicity and carcinogenicity resulting from free radicals and toxic oxygen metabolites generated by the one-electron reductions catalyzed by cytochromes P450 and other enzymes. High levels of NQO1 gene expression have been observed in liver, lung, colon and breast tumors as compared to normal tissues of the same origin. The transcription of the NQO1 gene is activated in response to exposure to bifunctional (e.g. beta-naphthoflavone (beta-NF), 2, 3, 7, 8 tetrachorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)) and monofunctional (phenolic antioxidants/chemoprotectors e.g. 2(3)-tert-butyl-4-hydroxy-anisole (BHA)) inducers. The high level of expression of the NQO1 gene and its induction by beta-NF and BHA require the presence of an AP1 binding site contained within the human Antioxidant Response Element (hARE) and are mediated by products of proto-oncogenes, Jun and Fos. Induction of NQO1 gene expression involves transfer of a redox signal from xenobiotics to unknown 'redox protein(s)' which in turn, modify the Jun and Fos proteins for greater affinity towards the AP1 site of the NQO1 gene and activates transcription. The expression and regulation of the NQO1 gene is complex as many additional cis-elements have been identified in the promoter region and is a subject of great future interest. In addition to established tumors, NQO1 gene expression is also increased in developing tumors, indicating a role in cellular defense during tumorigenesis. It has been proposed that low molecular weight substance(s) can diffuse from tumor cells into surrounding normal cells and activate the expression of the NQO1 gene. Purification and characterization of such substance(s) may provide important information in regard to the mechanism of activation of NQO1 gene expression and the role of increased NQO1 expression in tumor development. In view of the general consensus that NQO1 is over-expressed in tumor cells and the realization that NQO1 may either activate or detoxify xenobiotics, it is important to establish the role of NQO1 in the activation, and the detoxification of xenobiotics and drugs and in the intrinsic sensitivity of tumors to bioreductive alkylating aziridinyl benzoquinones such as diaziquone (AZQ), mitomycin C (MMC), and indoloquinone EO9, as well as to the dinitrophenyl aziridine, CB1954, and the benzotriazine-di-N-oxide, SR 4233.
In Alzheimer's disease there is abnormal brain copper distribution, with accumulation of copper in amyloid plaques and a deficiency of copper in neighbouring cells. Excess copper inhibits Abeta (amyloid beta-peptide) production, but the effects of deficiency have not yet been determined. We therefore studied the effects of modulating intracellular copper levels on the processing of APP (amyloid precursor protein) and the production of Abeta. Human fibroblasts genetically disposed to copper accumulation secreted higher levels of sAPP (soluble APP ectodomain)alpha into their medium, whereas fibroblasts genetically manipulated to be profoundly copper deficient secreted predominantly sAPPbeta and produced more amyloidogenic beta-cleaved APP C-termini (C99). The level of Abeta secreted from copper-deficient fibroblasts was however regulated and limited by alpha-secretase cleavage. APP can be processed by both alpha- and beta-secretase, as copper-deficient fibroblasts secreted sAPPbeta exclusively, but produced primarily alpha-cleaved APP C-terminal fragments (C83). Copper deficiency also markedly reduced the steady-state level of APP mRNA whereas the APP protein level remained constant, indicating that copper deficiency may accelerate APP translation. Copper deficiency in human neuroblastoma cells significantly increased the level of Abeta secretion, but did not affect the cleavage of APP. Therefore copper deficiency markedly alters APP metabolism and can elevate Abeta secretion by either influencing APP cleavage or by inhibiting its degradation, with the mechanism dependent on cell type. Overall our results suggest that correcting brain copper imbalance represents a relevant therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease.
Among the various pathophysiologic mechanisms proposed to explain the 5-fluorouracil cardiotoxicity, coronary vasospasm, occurring most frequently after the completion of the second or third dose of the cycle, has gained wide acceptance. We describe what to our knowledge is the first observation of typical Prinzmetal variant angina occurring very early after having started a 5-fluorouracil infusion administered as a chemotherapy regimen to a 66-year-old man with an adenocarcinoma of the right colon.
To determine the effects of a perindopril-based blood pressure lowering regimen on major cardiac events among hypertensive and non-hypertensive patients with a history of cerebrovascular disease.
A total of 6105 individuals with a history of stroke or transient ischaemic attack were randomly assigned active treatment (n=3051) or placebo (n=3054). Active treatment comprised the angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor perindopril (4 mg daily), with the addition of the diuretic indapamide at the discretion of treating physicians. Over a mean of 3.9 years of follow-up, active treatment reduced blood pressure by 9/4 mm Hg compared with placebo and reduced the primary outcome, stroke, by 28%. Major coronary events occurred in 269 participants (active 3.8%, placebo 5.0%) and heart failure was diagnosed in 264 participants (active 3.7%, placebo 4.9%). Active treatment reduced the risk of major coronary events by 26% (95% CI: 6-42%; p=0.02) and the risk of congestive heart failure by 26% (5-42%; p=0.02). For each of these outcomes, there was no clear evidence of differences between the treatment effects in participants classified as hypertensive or non-hypertensive, and those with or without a history of coronary heart disease.
Among individuals with cerebrovascular disease, blood pressure lowering with a regimen involving perindopril and indapamide not only reduced the risk of stroke, but also substantially reduced the risks of cardiac outcomes.
