Treatment with acetazolamide for pseudotumor cerebri (PTC) in a renal transplant patient led to an acute, but reversible deterioration in renal function. Possible pathogenetic mechanisms behind acute renal failure and acetazolamide are detailed. In summary, caution should be exercised in all patients with chronic renal failure who require acetazolamide. It should be avoided if possible, used in reduced doses when necessary, and coupled with a high fluid intake to avoid dehydration and/or intraluminal obstruction.
We examined the effect of glucocorticoid on intrinsic glomerular antioxidant enzyme (AOE) activities. Munich-Wistar rats were treated with daily i.p. injection of vehicle or methylprednisolone [MP, 15 mg/kg body wt, (MP15)] either for three days or nine days. Glomeruli isolated from rats given MP15 had significantly higher activities of total (T-) and manganese (Mn-) superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and catalase than vehicle-treated rats (P less than 0.05). MP15-treated rats were subjected to intrarenal arterial infusion of hydrogen peroxide (35 mumol over 1 hr). Values for urinary protein excretion rate (UprV) after hydrogen peroxide infusion were markedly lower in rats pretreated with MP15 for both three days and nine days than in untreated rats (109 +/- 18 and 55 +/- 24 vs. 416 +/- 73 micrograms/min, respectively, both P less than 0.005). To test whether the same therapeutic intervention attenuates reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated glomerular injury in another model, rats given a single i.v. dose of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) (50 mg/kg body wt) were treated with daily i.p. injection of vehicle or MP15. Two days after PAN administration, when compared to vehicle-treated controls, PAN rats given MP15 had significantly higher activities of Mn-SOD, GSH-Px and catalase. After eight days of PAN injection, T- and Mn-SOD activities were, likewise, significantly higher in MP15- than vehicle-treated PAN rats. PAN rats given MP15 also had substantially less proteinuria, compared to PAN rats given vehicle alone, UprV averaging 32.3 +/- 9.4 versus 159.0 +/- 13.8 mg/24 hr (P less than 0.05). Elevated glomerular malondialdehyde (MDA) level characteristic of PAN rats was absent in rats treated with MP15. Moreover, epithelial foot process fusion and cell vacuolization seen in vehicle-treated PAN rats were markedly attenuated in MP15-treated PAN rats. These data indicate that the mechanism for therapeutic effect of glucocorticoids on ROS-mediated renal injuries includes an enhancement of endogenous glomerular AOE activities, which attenuates lipid peroxidation of glomerular tissue.
Compounds possessing neurotrophic properties may represent a possible treatment for neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. SR 57746A, 1-[2-(naphth-2-yl)ethyl]-4-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)-1,2,5,6- tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride, is a new compound with neurotrophic activity in a number of in vitro preparations. The neurotrophic effects of this compound have been evaluated in vivo using four distinct rat models of neurodegeneration: transient global ischaemia produced by a four-vessel occlusion; septohippocampal lesion produced by injection of vincristine sulphate into the medial septum; sciatic nerve crushing; and acrylamide-induced peripheral neuropathy. Rats were administered vehicle or 2.5-10 mg/kg p.o. SR 57746A, after initiation of the degenerative process, then once daily for 10 days in the first two models, 16 days in the third and 26 days in the fourth model. Median scores for ischaemia-induced neuronal damage were reduced by 30-40% by SR 57746A treatment in hippocampal CA1, CA2, and CA3 regions, and in the dorsal striatum. Twelve days after intraseptal vincristine administration, there was a marked loss of septohippocampal cholinergic neurons, as indicated by reduced choline acetyltransferase activity in both the septum and hippocampus. SR 57746A dose-dependently reversed this reduction in both areas. These results were confirmed by histoenzymological evaluation of hippocampal acetylcholinesterase content. SR 57746A also reversed the loss of hippocampal choline acetyltransferase induced by intraseptal vincristine in marmosets. Behavioral deficits in these models (exploratory behaviour in the former and short-term social memory in the latter) were also significantly reduced by SR 57746A treatment. In the sciatic crush model, sensorimotor function improved more rapidly in rats treated with 10 mg/kg SR 57746A. In this same model, SR 57746A (10 mg/kg/day) also significantly increased the length of regenerated nerve eight days after the crush, as measured using the pinch test. Finally, SR 57746A retarded the onset, reduced the amplitude and accelerated the recovery of acrylamide-induced peripheral neuropathy. Thus, SR 57746A possesses notable neurotrophic activity in a variety of neurodegenerative models in vivo, suggesting that the compound may possess therapeutic potential for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
Several case-control studies have found an association between chronic beryllium disease (CBD) and HLA-DPB1 gene variants. However, the relationship between HLA-DPB1 and beryllium sensitization, and whether the presence of one or two HLA-DPB1(Glu69) alleles is differentially associated with CBD and beryllium sensitization have not been completely resolved.
Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis was used to address these questions in a large population-based cohort consisting of 884 beryllium workers (90 with CBD, 64 beryllium sensitized).
HLA-DPB1(Glu69) was associated with both CBD (OR = 9.4; 95% CI = 5.4, 16.6) and sensitization (OR = 3.3, 95% CI = 1.9, 5.9). Further, workers with CBD and sensitization were more likely to be homozygous HLA-DPB1(Glu69) compared to workers without disease or sensitization (P < 0.001).
Follow-up of this cohort, scrutiny of HLA-DPB1 haplotypes, and evaluation of gene-environment and gene-gene interactions will be important for fully understanding the immunogenetic nature of this occupational disease.
Cochlear blood flow (CBF) was monitored over the basal turn stria vascularis using laser Doppler flowmetry in five human subjects during middle ear surgery. The effects of systemically administered epinephrine (0.3 microgram/kg) and topically applied epinephrine (1:10,000) on the round window membrane (RWM) were examined. Topical epinephrine caused a mean reduction of 60 percent in CBF (maximum peak reduction 65-85% across subjects), which slowly recovered ( > 10 min) toward baseline following epinephrine removal from the RWM. The changes in CBF are similar to those found in animal studies, but are much larger, indicating a relatively more pronounced role of adrenergic agents in CBF control in humans. Systemic epinephrine caused a 40 percent decrease in skin blood flow, a 90 percent increase in blood pressure (BP), above a resting hypotensive mean level of 65 mmHg, and a 50 percent increase in CBF. The CBF change followed the change in BP, but recovered toward baseline more slowly. The dramatic and somewhat prolonged decreases in CBF with RWM application of epinephrine may compromise sensory function and could account for the occasional unexplained sensorineural hearing loss or tinnitus associated with middle ear procedures that use topical epinephrine. The semipermeability of the RWM may, on the other hand, offer a route for therapeutic increases in CBF with vasodilative agents and provide an appropriate treatment for some cases of sensorineural hearing loss.
Nitrate tolerance remains a problem despite an enormous number of studies on this phenomenon. The aim of the present study was to compare the efficacy of nitroglycerin transdermal patches intermittently or continuously administered to patients with myocardial ischemia evaluated by the echocardiography dipyridamole stress test. We prospectively studied 34 coronary patients with stable myocardial ischemia. A double-blind, randomized, crossover study technique was used. After a run-in period (1 week) they underwent a dipyridamole stress test to evaluate nitrate responsiveness and then were randomized to 1 week of transdermal nitroglycerine 20 mg/24 h (two patches of 10 mg/24) administered either intermittently or continuously for 1 week. During the following week all patients were given placebo. In the final week, therapy was crossed over the alternate regimen. No significant changes in heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure and rate-pressure product were observed at basal conditions and at peak of dipyridamole infusion among patients after placebo run-in period, after acute, 1 week of intermittent and 1 week of continuous nitroglycerine administration. At peak of dipyridamole infusion after acute administration of nitrate we observed a significant decrease in wall motion score index with respect to placebo. This pattern was similar during intermittent, but not continuous, patch therapy (p < 0.001). Our results suggest that transdermal nitroglycerin patches are an effective anti-ischemic medication, in reducing transient myocardial ischemia induced by dipyridamole. This anti-ischemic effect is lost when an overnight nitrate free dose interval is not used. Moreover the dipyridamole echocardiographic stress test, besides evaluating myocardial ischemia-induced wall motion abnormalities, is adequate to assess both the efficacy and the tolerance of transdermal nitrate therapy.
Lamivudine is a potent inhibitor of hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication. This prospective open study reports the results of lamivudine treatment in children with chronic hepatitis B infection who did not respond to previous interferon treatment.
Lamivudine, 3 mg/kg/day (maximum, 100 mg/day), was given for 52 weeks to 20 children and adolescents, ages 8.5 to 19 years, with chronic hepatitis B infection who had been treated with interferon 2 to 5 years earlier. We evaluated virologic and biochemical responses, the occurrence of YMDD mutants and adverse effects.
All children were HBV DNA+, hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) /anti-hepatitis B e antibody- at start of treatment. At the end of 1 year, HBV DNA declined by 95% in all patients, and 8 of 18 (44%) had sustained undetectable HBV DNA by hybridization assay. Median pretreatment alanine aminotransferase (ALT) x1.5 upper limit of normal decreased to ALT x0.9 upper limit of normal after 1 year. One child became HBeAg-negative. YMDD mutants were detected in 11 of 17 (65%) children after 1 year of lamivudine treatment. Among children with YMDD mutant variants, 54% maintained normal ALT values and 45% had undetectable HBV DNA by hybridization assay. No adverse effects were observed.
Children with chronic hepatitis B infection treated with lamivudine after failure of interferon therapy had decreased HBV replication and improved ALT values. However, lamivudine treatment resulted in an exceptionally high rate of lamivudine-resistant mutants and low HBeAg seroconversion rate.
Bisphenol-A (BPA) has been shown to influence development of the brain and behaviors. The purpose of the present report was to investigate the effects of perinatal exposure to BPA on learning/memory and its mechanism of action, especially focusing on N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). Perinatal maternal exposure to BPA at 0.5, 5, and 50mg/kg/d significantly extended the escape length to find the hidden platform in Morris water maze, and BPA at 0.5 or 5mg/kg/d markedly decreased the percentage of time spent in the quadrant where the platform had been during training both in postnatal day (PND) 21 and PND 56 mice. The results of passive avoidance test showed that the error frequency to step down from a platform after received footshock was significantly increased, and the latency of the step-down response onto the grid floor 24h after received footshock was obviously reduced by exposure to BPA at 5 and 50mg/kg/d (P<0.01) in the PND 21 offspring or at 50mg/kg/d in the PND 56 offspring (P<0.01). Furthermore, perinatal exposure to BPA significantly inhibited the expressions of NMDAR subunits NR1, NR2A, and 2B in the hippocampus during the development stage, especially in PND 56 mice. The expressions of estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) in both PND 21 and PND 56 mice were markedly down-regulated by BPA at 0.5, 5, and 50mg/kg/d. These results indicate that perinatal exposure to BPA affects normal behavioral development in both spatial memory and avoidance memory, and also permanently influences the behavior of offspring in adulthood. The inhibition of expressions of NMDAR subunits and ERbeta in hippocampus during postnatal development stage may be involved.
Podocytes are crucial for the permeability of the glomerular filtration barrier. In glomerular disease, however, reactive oxygen species (ROS) may be involved in podocyte injury and subsequent proteinuria. Here, we describe ROS-dependent gene induction in differentiated podocytes stimulated with H(2)O(2) or xanthine/xanthine-oxidase. Superoxide anions and H(2)O(2) increased mRNA and protein expression of GAS5 (growth arrest-specific protein 5) and CHOP (C/EBP homology protein). Cultured podocytes overexpressing CHOP showed increased generation of superoxide anions compared to controls. In addition, the expression of alpha(3)/beta(1) integrins, crucial for cell-matrix interaction of podocytes, was down-regulated, leading to increased cell-matrix adhesion and cell displacement. The altered cell-matrix adhesion was antagonized by the ROS scavenger 1,3-dimethyl-2-thiourea, and the increase in cell displacement could be mimicked by stimulating untransfected podocytes with puromycin, an inductor of ROS. We next performed immunohistochemical staining of human kidney tissue (normal, membranous nephropathy, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, and minimal change nephropathy) as well as sections from rats with puromycin nephrosis, a model of minimal change nephropathy. CHOP was weakly expressed in podocytes of control kidneys but up-regulated in most proteinuric human kidneys and in rat puromycin nephrosis. Our data suggest that CHOP-via increased ROS generation-regulates cell-matrix adhesion of podocytes in glomerular disease.
Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is involved in ozone (O3)-induced pulmonary hyperpermeability and inflammation, although the downstream signaling events are unknown.
The aims of our study were to determine the mechanism through which TLR4 modulates O3-induced pulmonary responses and to use transcriptomics to determine potential TLR4 effector molecules.
C3H/HeJ (HeJ; Tlr4 mutant) and C3H/HeOuJ (OuJ; Tlr4 normal) mice were exposed continuously to 0.3 ppm O3 or filtered air for 6, 24, 48, or 72 hr. We assessed inflammation using bronchoalveolar lavage and molecular analysis by mRNA microarray, quantitative RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction), immunoblots, immunostaining, and ELISAs (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays). B6-Hspa1a/Hspa1btm1Dix/NIEHS (Hsp70-/-) and C57BL/6 (B6; Hsp70+/+ wild-type control) mice were used for candidate gene validation studies.
O3-induced TLR4 signaling occurred through myeloid differentiation protein 88 (MyD88)-dependent and -independent pathways in OuJ mice and involved multiple downstream pathways. Genomewide transcript analyses of lungs from air- and O3-exposed HeJ and OuJ mice identified a cluster of genes that were significantly up-regulated in O3-exposed OuJ mice compared with O3-exposed HeJ mice or air-exposed controls of both strains; this cluster included genes for heat-shock proteins (e.g., Hspa1b, Hsp70). Moreover, O3-induced inflammation, MyD88 up-regulation, extracellular-signal-related kinase-1/2 (ERK1/2) and activator protein-1 (AP-1) activation, and kerotinocyte-derived chemokine (KC) protein content were significantly reduced in Hspa1a/Hspa1btm1Dix (Hsp70-/-) compared with Hsp70+/+ mice (p < 0.05).
These studies suggest that HSP70 is an effector molecule downstream of TLR4 and is involved in the regulation of O3-induced lung inflammation by triggering similar pathways to TLR4. These novel findings may have therapeutic and preventive implications for inflammatory diseases resulting from environmental exposures.
The prevalence of bisphenol A (BPA) in the environment has attracted increasing attention because of the toxicity of this manmade pollutant. However, the toxicity related to cardiac development remains largely unknown. In the present paper, we investigated the cardiac toxicity of BPA using marine medaka (Oryzias melastigma) embryos. At 2 days postfertilization (dpf), the embryos were continuously exposed to a low concentration of BPA (200 μg/L) for the whole embryonic stage. Heart rate and sinus venosus (SV)-bulbus arteriosus (BA) distance were measured under microscopy. The mRNA expression levels of genes were quantified by SYBR real-time RT-PCR, and hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining was used to examine the histology of fish larvae hearts. Neither the heart rate nor the SV-BA distance of the embryos was affected by BPA exposure. However, the mRNA expression levels of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase, BMP4, COX-1, FGF8, GATA4, and NKX2.5 were all downregulated at the critical developmental stages (6 and 10 dpf). Interestingly, the mRNA expression levels of COX-2 and LERP were significantly upregulated at 10 dpf. The mRNA expressions of inflammation-related genes (TNFα, IL1β, SOD, and CCL11) were all significantly upregulated after exposure. Moreover, we found that both the body length and the body width decreased in the larvae after embryonic exposure to BPA. The distributed foci of inflammation were observed in the juveniles after 2 weeks' depuration. Exposure to BPA at embryonic stages could alter the expression of heart development-related genes and inflammation-related genes of O. melastigma. The larvae hatched from exposed embryos showed the foci of inflammation in the heart ventricles and the decrease of the body length and width.
Altered intracellular calcium (Ca(i)(2+)) handling by cardiomyocytes has been implicated in drug-induced cardiomyopathy and arrhythmogenesis. To explore whether such alterations predict cardiotoxicity, Ca(i)(2+) imaging was conducted in cultured, spontaneously contracting Guinea pig cardiomyocytes to characterize the effects of 13 cardiotoxicants and 2 safe drugs. All cardiotoxicants perturbed Ca(i)(2+) at therapeutically relevant concentrations. The cytotoxic chemotherapeutics doxorubicin and epirubicin, known to cause cardiomyopathy, preferentially reduced Ca(i)(2+) transient amplitude and sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) content, whereas Torsade de Pointes (TdP) inducers and potent hERG channel blockers (amiodarone, cisapride, dofetilide, E-4031 and terfenadine) predominately suppressed diastolic Ca(i)(2+) and contraction rate, and prolonged Ca(i)(2+) transient duration. The molecularly targeted cancer therapeutics, sunitinib and imatinib, exhibited profound effects on Ca(i)(2+), combining effects of cytotoxic chemotherapeutics, TdP inducers and potent hERG channel blockers. TdP inducers lacking direct hERG inhibition, ouabain and pentamidine, significantly elevated Ca(i)(2+) transient amplitude and SR Ca(2+) content while aconitine primarily accelerated automaticity and elevated diastolic Ca(i)(2+) similar to ouabain. Finally, amoxicillin and aspirin did not exert any significant effects on Ca(i)(2+) at concentrations up to 100 microM. These results suggest that detecting altered Ca(i)(2+) handling in cultured cardiomyocytes may be used as an in vitro model for early cardiac drug safety assessment.
Results from a population-based case-control study of cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter are reported. Telephone interviews were conducted with 187 residents of Los Angeles County diagnosed with cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter over a 4-year period ending December 31, 1982, and with individually sex-, age- and race-matched neighborhood controls. The major risk factor identified for cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter was cigarette smoking. Subjects who smoked more than 25 years had a relative risk of 4.5 of developing these tumors, compared to nonsmokers (P less than 0.0001). Heavy use of over-the-counter analgesics was also associated with a significant increase in risk; it appears that an elevated risk was conveyed by all the major active constituents of those compounds currently marketed in the United States, aspirin, caffeine, and acetaminophen. Persons who had used these drugs for 30 consecutive days at any time in their life preceding diagnosis had twice the risk of developing cancer of the renal pelvis or ureter compared to persons not reporting such use (P less than 0.01). Heavy coffee drinkers (greater than or equal to 7 cups/day) had a 1.8-fold increase in risk compared to nondrinkers. Although risk tended to increase with increasing consumption, this result was not statistically significant. The risk associated with heavy coffee consumption was reduced to 1.3 after adjusting for smoking. Nine cases compared to no controls reported a first degree relative with kidney cancer. A history of kidney stones was associated with an increased risk of cancer of the ureter (relative risk = 2.5) that was not, however, statistically significant.
Two children, 1 with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome and 1 with endo-extracapillary glomerulonephritis, presented an episode of seizures and transient blindness at different times after i.v. pulse methylprednisolone (IVPMP) treatment. Neurological manifestations in patient 1 could be due to hypertension secondary to IVPMP, while the pathogenesis of such manifestations remained difficult to clarify in patient 2. The severity of uremia in patient 2 could be one of the conditions that, in association with the abrupt changes obtained with IVPMP, predispose to neurological manifestations. Careful clinical and biochemical monitoring seems necessary in children with primary glomerulonephritis, other than those transplanted, after IVPMP, and factors predisposing to neurologic sequelae should be further defined.
Cytokines may contribute to beta-cell apoptosis in the early stages of type 1 diabetes mellitus. It has been reported recently that interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) induces activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) p38 and ERK1/2 in neonatal rat islets. Since these kinases may participate in cytokine-induced apoptosis, we evaluated whether cytokines induce activation of MAPKs in FACS-purified primary rat beta-cells, and whether blockers of p38 and/or ERK1/2 prevent beta-cell death. IL-1 beta, but not interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), caused phosphorylation of the substrates Elk-1, ATF-2 and hsp25, and the phosphorylation of both Elk-1 and hsp25 were decreased by the p38 blocker SB203580 (p38i) and the MAPK/ERK blocker PD 098059 (MEKi). When added together, p38i and MEKi decreased IL-1 beta-induced nitrite production over 24 hours by 60%, but did not affect IL-1 beta-induced manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) mRNA expression. To test the effects of MAPK inhibitors on beta-cell death by necrosis or apoptosis, these cells were exposed for 6 or 9 days to IL-1 beta + IFN-gamma. This treatment induced cell death, mostly by apoptosis. The MEKi, but not the p38i, significantly decreased cytokine-induced apoptosis, thus decreasing the total number of dead cells. This protection was only partial, suggesting that ERK1/2 activation is not the only mechanism by which cytokines induce beta-cell apoptosis. We conclude that IL-1 beta induces activation of both p38 and ERK1/2, and that ERK1/2 contributes to the pro-apoptotic effects of the cytokine in primary beta-cells.
Perlecan, a large, multi-domain, heparan sulfate proteoglycan originally identified in basement membrane, interacts with extracellular matrix proteins, growth factors and receptors, and influences cellular signalling. Perlecan is present in a variety of basement membranes and in other extracellular matrix structures. We have disrupted the gene encoding perlecan (Hspg2) in mice. Approximately 40% of Hspg2-/- mice died at embryonic day (E) 10.5 with defective cephalic development. The remaining Hspg2-/- mice died just after birth with skeletal dysplasia characterized by micromelia with broad and bowed long bones, narrow thorax and craniofacial abnormalities. Only 6% of Hspg2-/- mice developed both exencephaly and chondrodysplasia. Hspg2-/- cartilage showed severe disorganization of the columnar structures of chondrocytes and defective endochondral ossification. Hspg2-/- cartilage matrix contained reduced and disorganized collagen fibrils and glycosaminoglycans, suggesting that perlecan has an important role in matrix structure. In Hspg2-/- cartilage, proliferation of chondrocytes was reduced and the prehypertrophic zone was diminished. The abnormal phenotypes of the Hspg2-/- skeleton are similar to those of thanatophoric dysplasia (TD) type I, which is caused by activating mutations in FGFR3 (refs 7, 8, 9), and to those of Fgfr3 gain-of-function mice. Our findings suggest that these molecules affect similar signalling pathways.
To report the presence of an uncommon adverse effect, pain in the tumor location, during the administration of the cytostatic agent vinorelbine.
Twenty-seven patients with non operable relapses of epidermoid carcinomas of the head and neck were treated with two combinations of cytostatics: mitomycin-c 10 mg/m2 on day 1 plus vinorelbine 25 mg/m2 on days 1, 8 and 15 in twelve patients or carboplatin 300 mg/m2 on day 1 plus vinorelbine 25 mg/m2 on days 1, 8 and 15 in fifteen patients.
Six patients had moderate/severe pain in the tumor location; concomitantly, one patient had chest pain. Four patients required major opiates. The clinical picture reverted and no patient had acute or chronic neurotoxicity. The readministration of vinorelbine triggered pain again, and all patients refused to continue the therapeutic program.
Vinorelbine can cause pain at tumor location, a nonserious adverse effect which, nevertheless, prevented the continuation of therapy.
Our previous studies support the hypothesis that activation of the renin-angiotensin system by renal ischemia elevates adenosine levels and that adenosine acts in a negative feedback loop to limit renin release and to mitigate some of the hypertension-producing effects of angiotensin II. To further test this hypothesis, we compared the time course of caffeine-induced increases in plasma renin activity with the time course of changes in plasma levels of adenosine in two models of renin-dependent renovascular hypertension. Also, we compared the effects of caffeine on plasma renin activity and arterial blood pressure in renin-dependent versus renin-independent renovascular hypertension. In comparison to sham-operated rats, plasma levels of adenosine in the left and right renal veins and aorta were elevated severalfold in two-kidney, one clip rats (2K1C) 1 week after left renal artery clipping. However, adenosine levels declined during the second and third weeks after clipping. In 2K1C rats treated chronically with caffeine, plasma renin activity was markedly elevated during the first week after operation as compared to non-caffeine-treated 2K1C rats. However, during the second and third weeks after clipping, caffeine had lesser effects on plasma renin activity. A temporal relationship between plasma adenosine levels and caffeine-induced hyperreninemia was also observed in rats with aortic ligation. Caffeine accelerated hypertension in 2K1C rats and rats with aortic ligation (renin-dependent renovascular hypertension), but it had no effect on plasma renin activity or blood pressure in one-kidney, one clip rats (renin-independent renovascular hypertension). These results lend further support to the hypothesis that adenosine functions to mitigate the renin-angiotensin system in renin-dependent renovascular hypertension.
We report a case of a 40-year-old woman with dystonic attacks precipitated by slight exercise. Episodes lasted 2-5 min and were not precipitated by sudden movements or by being startled, drinking alcohol, coffee or tea, or by stress. Secondary dystonia was ruled out and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was unremarkable. Routine and video electroencephalogram (EEG) during and between attacks were normal. Acetazolamide greatly worsened her condition, whereas gabapentin [1-(aminomethyl) cyclohexaneacetic acid] treatment markedly reduced the frequency and severity of the episodes.
Fenfluramine was administered to eight autistic outpatients in a double-blind study to determine its effects on symptomatic behavior, developmental scores, blood serotonin levels and platelet counts. Two children benefited substantially according to academic and cognitive tests, parental and teacher reports and the principal investigator's clinical impressions. They also manifested behavioral and mood swings. The remaining six children showed varying degrees of response; one was withdrawn during the study by his parents. The greatest improvement occurred in children with an IQ above 40; the more severely retarded improved little, and primarily in the motor sphere.
Nitric oxide (NO) can induce mitochondrial biogenesis in cultured cells, through increased guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP), and activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1α (PGC-1α). We sought to determine the role of NO, heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), and its reaction product (carbon monoxide [CO]) in the induction of mitochondrial biogenesis by the natural antioxidant resveratrol.
S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), an NO donor, induced mitochondrial biogenesis in HepG2 hepatoma cells, and in vivo, through stimulation of PGC-1α. NO-induced mitochondrial biogenesis required cGMP, and was mimicked by the cGMP analogue (8-bromoguanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate [8-Br-cGMP]). Activation of mitochondrial biogenesis by SNAP required HO-1, as it could be reversed by genetic interference of HO-1; and by treatment with the HO inhibitor tin-protoporphyrin-IX (SnPP) in vitro and in vivo. Cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP)-IX, an HO-1 inducing agent, stimulated mitochondrial biogenesis in HepG2 cells, which could be reversed by the CO scavenger hemoglobin. Application of CO, using the CO-releasing molecule-3 (CORM-3), stimulated mitochondrial biogenesis in HepG2 cells, in a cGMP-dependent manner. Both CoPP and CORM-3-induced mitochondrial biogenesis required NF-E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) activation and phosphorylation of Akt. The natural antioxidant resveratrol induced mitochondrial biogenesis in HepG2 cells, in a manner dependent on NO biosynthesis, cGMP synthesis, Nrf2-dependent HO-1 activation, and endogenous CO production. Furthermore, resveratrol preserved mitochondrial biogenesis during lipopolysaccharides-induced hepatic inflammation in vivo.
The complex interplay between endogenous NO and CO production may underlie the mechanism by which natural antioxidants induce mitochondrial biogenesis. Strategies aimed at improving mitochondrial biogenesis may be used as therapeutics for the treatment of diseases involving mitochondrial dysfunction.
This report updates and consolidates all previous U.S. Public Health Service recommendations for the management of health-care personnel (HCP) who have occupational exposure to blood and other body fluids that might contain hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Recommendations for HBV postexposure management include initiation of the hepatitis B vaccine series to any susceptible, unvaccinated person who sustains an occupational blood or body fluid exposure. Postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) with hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and/or hepatitis B vaccine series should be considered for occupational exposures after evaluation of the hepatitis B surface antigen status of the source and the vaccination and vaccine-response status of the exposed person. Guidance is provided to clinicians and exposed HCP for selecting the appropriate HBV PEP. Immune globulin and antiviral agents (e.g., interferon with or without ribavirin) are not recommended for PEP of hepatitis C. For HCV postexposure management, the HCV status of the source and the exposed person should be determined, and for HCP exposed to an HCV positive source, follow-up HCV testing should be performed to determine if infection develops. Recommendations for HIV PEP include a basic 4-week regimen of two drugs (zidovudine [ZDV] and lamivudine [3TC]; 3TC and stavudine [d4T]; or didanosine [ddI] and d4T) for most HIV exposures and an expanded regimen that includes the addition of a third drug for HIV exposures that pose an increased risk for transmission. When the source person's virus is known or suspected to be resistant to one or more of the drugs considered for the PEP regimen, the selection of drugs to which the source person's virus is unlikely to be resistant is recommended. In addition, this report outlines several special circumstances (e.g., delayed exposure report, unknown source person, pregnancy in the exposed person, resistance of the source virus to antiretroviral agents, or toxicity of the PEP regimen) when consultation with local experts and/or the National Clinicians' Post-Exposure Prophylaxis Hotline ([PEPline] 1-888-448-4911) is advised. Occupational exposures should be considered urgent medical concerns to ensure timely postexposure management and administration of HBIG, hepatitis B vaccine, and/or HIV PEP.
We have demonstrated that the atypical antipsychotic drugs prevent cell death in PC12 cells induced by various cytotoxins and have protective effects on methamphetamine-induced neurotoxcity in rats. The present study was designed to examine the possible effects of chronic administration of quetiapine, an atypical antipsychotic drug, on the anxiety-like behavioural consequences of a neurotoxic regimen of dl-amphetamine. Rats were treated with quetiapine (10 mg/kg/day; i.p.) for 33 days. During days 15-19 of this period, the animals were given dl-amphetamine (20 mg/kg/day; s.c.) 1 h after the administration of quetiapine. The repeated administration of dl-amphetamine resulted in a decrease of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunostaining in the caudate putamen, hyperthermia, and anxiety-like behavioural changes. The behavioural changes were indicated by a significant increase in the time spent in the light box in the light/dark box test, an increase in the ratios of ambulation distance inside the inner circle over the total ambulation distance and rearings inside the inner circle over the total rearings in the open field test, and an increase in the time spent in open arms in the elevated plus-maze test. Chronic administration of quetiapine significantly attenuated the dl-amphetamine-induced hyperthermia, and the anxiety-like behavioural changes in the light/dark box and in the open field tests. These results suggest that quetiapine can normalize the dl-amphetamine-induced anxiety-like behavioural changes, and might be helpful in the treatment for amphetamine-induced emotional changes.
We report the case of a patient who developed jaundice after receiving amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for 7 days. Laboratory features were consistent with acute cholestatic hepatitis. Histopathological examination of a liver specimen showed cholestasis. Complete recovery occurred within 2 months after withdrawal of the drug. Analysis of the 24 reported cases of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid induced hepatitis revealed a predominantly cholestatic syndrome occurring soon after drug administration. In all cases, hepatic dysfunction disappeared within 1 to 3 months after discontinuation of the drug. Because of the small number of cases in contrast with the widespread use of this drug, associated with blood hypereosinophilia or eosinophilic infiltration of portal triads in some cases, a hypersensitivity phenomenon is suggested.
Absent reflex tachycardia with captopril therapy suggests blunting of circulatory reflexes, perhaps contributing to antihypertensive efficacy, and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition may alter sympathetic function. Captopril effects on autonomic function were investigated in five severe hypertensive patients. Mean blood pressure fell in all patients (from 141 +/- 6 to 119 +/- 7 mm Hg, p less than 0.02) without orthostatic blood pressure fall or increase in heart rate (both p greater than 0.1) on captopril. Captopril did not alter baroreflex sensitivity as tested by amyl nitrile hypotension or phenylephrine hypertension (both p greater than 0.1). Comparison of these severely hypertensive patients to age matched normotensive control subjects did reveal markedly blunted baroreflex sensitivity in both the amyl nitrite test (by 89%, p less than 0.01) and the phenylephrine test (by 83%, p less than 0.01), suggesting that baseline blunting of baroreflex function may in part account for absence of reflex tachycardia. Captopril diminished the cardioacceleration after cold stress (from 61 +/- 38 to 23 +/- 43 msec, p less than 0.05) as well as the blood pressure fall after alpha-adrenergic blockade (from 46 +/- 13 to 24 +/- 9 mm Hg, p less than 0.05), suggesting diminished sympathetic stimulation of resistance vessels and decreased sympathetic participation in blood pressure maintenance, possibly at the prejunctional synaptic level. Four biochemical indices of sympathetic activity did not change. Thus captopril-treated patients had blunted reflex tachycardia, commensurate with blunted baroreflex function at baseline, and physiologic and pharmacologic evidence of diminished sympathetic activity was obtained with captopril therapy. Whether diminished sympathetic activity is involved in captopril's antihypertensive effect has not been determined.
A 7-year-old boy with multiple tic or Gilles de la Tourette's disease was treated with haloperidol. Within five months, lingual-buccal-facial movements developed that were characteristic of tardive dyskinesia. This new movement disorder disappeared after treatment with haloperidol was stopped. To our knowledge, this is the first report of tardive dyskinesia complicating the use of haloperidol in the treatment of multiple tic syndrome in a child.
