Endogenous opioids have been implicated in the neurobiological mechanisms underlying drug addiction. Although some information is available concerning effects of abused drugs on the endogenous opioid systems, the interpretation of these effects is hampered because data on the actual changes in the endogenous opioids during the dynamics of the drug addiction are lacking. The present report deals with changes in endogenous opioid activity before and after the daily self-administration session in rats offered cocaine or ethanol, using an in vivo autoradiographic receptor occupancy procedure. In separate saline-controlled experiments drug-naive rats were allowed to intravenously self-administer cocaine (30 microg/infusion) and ethanol (0.05%) for five consecutive daily sessions of 6 h. Immediately following the last session on day 5 or just before a scheduled next daily session on day 6, the rats were injected with [3H]diprenorphine and subsequently prepared for autoradiography. Decreased [3H]diprenorphine binding was observed throughout the subcortical brain after the daily session in cocaine, but hardly in animals self-administering ethanol. These changes are thought to reflect a direct or an indirect effect of the drug on endogenous opioid systems. Before the daily session, the [3H]diprenorphine binding was decreased in restricted areas of the mesocorticolimbic system and of the thalamus in both cocaine and ethanol self-administering animals. These data suggest that release of endogenous opioids at the time the desire for cocaine or ethanol is high, which may be pertinent for drug-induced craving and relapse of drug addicts.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by an elongated glutamine repeat in huntingtin. Improved understanding of the molecular effects of the mutation opens new avenues for treatment. High-throughput automated behavioral tests that produce well-defined markers of disease progression are necessary for in vivo drug screening. We have identified early behavioral deficits in tests of motor function that are amenable to cost effective automated analysis in a mouse model of HD. Running wheel activity and climbing behavior were reduced in R6/2 HD transgenics from as early as 4.5 weeks of age, at a time when rotarod performance and grip strength were still normal. Power calculations showed that the running wheel test was appropriate for efficient, high-throughput drug screening at this early age. Furthermore, the data extend the range of behavioral deficits observed in 1-month-old R6/2 mice, an age when synaptic dysfunction can already be detected in the striatum.
Proconvulsive tendency of imipenem/cilastatin is one of its well-known side effects. Most studies report incidence rates ranging from 1.5 to 3%. There is no study on the incidence rate among children with systemic malignancies. Eighty-two patients with various malignancies who received imipenem/cilastatin 143 times for neutropenic fever between March 1994 and October 1999 in Department of Pediatric Oncology, Gazi University, were identified. Three of these patients had convulsions attributed to imipenem/cilastatin; 3.6% of the patients had seizure, or 2% of imipenem/cilastatin administrations was followed by a seizure attack.
Biaryl cyclohexene carboxylic acids were discovered as full and potent niacin receptor (GPR109A) agonists. Compound 1e (MK-6892) displayed excellent receptor activity, good PK across species, remarkably clean off-target profiles, good ancillary pharmacology, and superior therapeutic window over niacin regarding the FFA reduction versus vasodilation in rats and dogs.
Schizophrenic patients who are treated with antipsychotics, especially second generation antipsychotics, such as clozapine and olanzapine, manifest an increase in cholesterol and triglycerides as well as other changes associated with diabetes or the metabolic syndrome. Previous studies have shown that polymorphisms in several genes that regulate lipid metabolism can influence the levels of these lipids and response to drug treatment. We have investigated in an exploratory study whether polymorphisms in the apolipoprotein C-III (ApoC3), apolipoprotein A-V gene (ApoA5) and lipoprotein lipase genes influence differential lipid response to treatment with three second generation antipsychotics-olanzapine, clozapine and risperidone-or treatment with a first generation antipsychotic. A total of 189 patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder who were being treated with a single antipsychotic were studied in a cross-sectional study design in which fasting serum cholesterol and triglycerides and selected single-nucleotide polymorphosms (SNPs) in the three lipid metabolism genes were assessed. The treatment with antipsychotic monotherapy makes drug haplotype ascertainment less complex. Our analyses showed several nominally significant drug x gene and drug x haplotype interactions. The rarer C allele or the ApoA5_1131 (T/C) SNP was associated with higher cholesterol levels in patients treated with first generation antipsychotics and lower cholesterol levels in patients treated with olanzapine or clozapine. The rarer C allele of the ApoA5_SW19 (G/C) SNP was associated with higher cholesterol in risperidone-treated patients. An ApoA5 CG haplotype was associated with decreased cholesterol in olanzapine- or clozapine-treated patients and higher cholesterol in patients treated with first generation antipsychotics. The presence of the rarer T allele of the ApoC3_1100 (C/T) SNP or the presence of the ApoC3 TG haplotype was associated with decreased triglyceride levels in patients treated with olanzapine or clozapine and a nonsignificant trend for increased triglycerides in patients treated with first generation antipsychotics. The presence of the ApoC3 CC haplotype was associated with increased triglycerides in patients treated with olanzapine or clozapine. The overall magnitude of the effects was not large. These results provide a potential initial step toward a pharmacogenetic approach to selection of antipsychotic treatment which may help minimize the side effect of increases in serum lipids.
To evaluate whether the enalaprilat, angiotensin I enzyme conversion inhibitor, could prevent the left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) induced by isoproterenol.
Seventy two adult Wistar-EPM rats were divided into four groups: CON, control; ENA, treated with enalaprilat (1 mg/kg via subcutaneous (s.c.) for 8 days); ISO, treated with isoproterenol (0.3 mg via s.c. for 8 days) e ENA + ISO, treated with both drugs simultaneously. Each group had the arterial blood pressure, cardiac rate and the left ventricle (LV) weight determined in 10 animals. In 8 animals from each group a small sample was taken from the LV and stained with hematoxyline-eosine and picrosirius for morphometric and ultra-structural studies with optic and transmission electronic microscopy.
The ISO group showed that the LV weight increased 47% in comparison with control. On the other hand the ENA + ISO group showed only 22.1% increase (p < or = 0.05). The morphometric and ultra-structural analyses revealed that isoproterenol induced cardiomyocite hypertrophy and augmented the content of the type I collagen in the cardiac interstitium.
Enalaprilat inhibited the isoproterenol action on the cardiomyocite, avoiding partially the LVH and decreasing the content of collagen fibers.
Five fluoro-uracil (5-FU) is a cytotoxic drug which has been extensively used for chemotherapy since 1957. Ischaemic heart disease resulting from its administration is rare. Spontaneous angina during infusions of 5-FU was observed in two patients with electrocardiographic changes suggesting coronary spasm. After treatment, clinical examination, electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, stress test, coronary angiography with left ventriculography were all normal. An Ergonovine test was performed in one patient but failed to elicit coronary spasm. In the other patient, intravenous trinitrin and diltiazem were ineffective in preventing the ischaemic changes. A review of the literature is presented (51 cases). The pathophysiology of 5-FU-induced ischaemic heart disease is not fully understood. In 9 cases, coronary angiography was normal and coronary spasm was suggested as a possible cause. However, antispastic drugs are usually ineffective. It has been shown experimentally that 5-FU has a direct toxic effect on the myocardium.
Propofol is widely used for sedation in critically ill patients. Several adult patients, all with acute neurological disorders, have been reported suffering from propofol infusion syndrome, which occurs in patients receiving high-dose propofol and catecholamines and/or steroids. We present a case of a septic patient without neurological illness who developed propofol infusion syndrome.
Adiponectin is important in the regulation of insulin sensitivity in man. Its receptors, adipoR1 and R2, have recently been identified, but their expression in adipose tissue and their regulation in response to insulin sensitisation of diabetic patients have never been assessed. We therefore explored the regulation of adipoR1/R2 and adiponectin expression in adipose tissue and skeletal muscle, and of adiponectin plasma concentrations in response to insulin sensitisation by rosiglitazone.
Patients with type 2 diabetes were studied in a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study, using in vivo arteriovenous techniques of measuring adipose tissue and muscle blood flow, combined with measurement of adipose tissue and skeletal muscle gene expression.
Rosiglitazone treatment increased adiponectin concentrations by 69%. Skeletal muscle adipoR1 expression was down-regulated from 109.0 (70.1-165.7) (median [interquartile range]) to 82.8 (63.6-89.3) relative units (p=0.04), but adipose tissue adipoR1 expression was up-regulated from 5.3 (4.4-9.4) to 11.2 (4.8-15.3) relative units (p=0.02) by rosiglitazone. In contrast to adipoR1 expression, adipoR2 expression was not altered by rosiglitazone in either of the tissues. The increase in adipose tissue adipoR1 expression with rosiglitazone was associated with increased postprandial triglyceride clearance (r=0.67, p=0.05), and increased fasting fatty acid output (r=0.78, p=0.01) measured in subcutaneous adipose tissue.
AdipoR1 expression is up-regulated in adipose tissue but down-regulated in skeletal muscle by rosiglitazone. These data suggest that adipoR1 plays a role in mediating the effects of adiponectin in specific tissues in relation to insulin sensitisation.
Exposure to excess levels of the essential trace element manganese produces cognitive, psychiatric, and motor abnormalities. The understanding of Mn neurotoxicology is heavily governed by pathologic and neurochemical observations derived from rodent studies that often employ acute Mn exposures. The comparatively sparse studies incorporating in vivo neuroimaging in nonhuman primates provide invaluable insights on the effects of Mn on brain chemistry.
The purpose of this review is to discuss important aspects of Mn neurotoxicology and to synthesize recent findings from one of the largest cohorts of nonhuman primates used to study the neurologic effects of chronic Mn exposure.
We reviewed our recent in vivo and ex vivo studies that have significantly advanced the understanding of Mn-induced neurotoxicity. In those studies, we administered weekly doses of 3.3-5.0 (n=4), 5.0-6.7 (n=5), or 8.3-10.0 mg Mn/kg (n=3) for 7-59 weeks to cynomolgus macaque monkeys. Animals expressed subtle deficits in cognition and motor function and decreases in the N-acetylaspartate-to-creatine ratio in the parietal cortex measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy reflective of neuronal dysfunction. Impaired striatal dopamine release measured by positron emission tomography was observed in the absence of changes in markers of dopamine neuron degeneration. Neuropathology indicated decreased glutamine synthetase expression in the globus pallidus with otherwise normal markers of glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission. Increased amyloid beta (A4) precursor-like protein 1 gene expression with multiple markers of neurodegeneration and glial cell activation was observed in the frontal cortex.
These findings provide new information on mechanisms by which Mn affects behavior, neurotransmitter function, and neuropathology in nonhuman primates.
Experimental and observational studies have demonstrated that short-term exposure to ambient particulate matter (PM) exacerbates myocardial ischemia.
We conducted this study to investigate the effects of concentrated ambient particles (CAPs) on myocardial blood flow during myocardial ischemia in chronically instrumented conscious canines.
Eleven canines were instrumented with a balloon occluder around the left anterior descending coronary artery and catheters for determination of myocardial blood flow using fluorescent microspheres. Telemetric electrocardiographic and blood pressure monitoring was available for four of these animals. After recovery, we exposed animals by inhalation to 5 hr of either filtered air or CAPs (mean concentration+/-SD, 349.0+/-282.6 microg/m3) in a crossover protocol. We determined myocardial blood flow during a 5-min coronary artery occlusion immediately after each exposure. Data were analyzed using mixed models for repeated measures. The primary analysis was based on four canines that completed the protocol.
CAPs exposure decreased total myocardial blood flow during coronary artery occlusion by 0.12 mL/min/g (p<0.001) and was accompanied by a 13% (p<0.001) increase in coronary vascular resistance. Rate-pressure product, an index of myocardial oxygen demand, did not differ by exposure (p=0.90). CAPs effects on myocardial blood flow were significantly more pronounced in myocardium within or near the ischemic zone versus more remote myocardium (p interaction<0.001).
These results suggest that PM exacerbates myocardial ischemia by increased coronary vascular resistance and decreased myocardial perfusion. Further studies are needed to elucidate the mechanism of these effects.
For evaluation of coronary artery spasm 201thallium sequential scintigraphy of the myocardium after ergotamine provocation was performed in 10 patients with recurrent angina pectoris at rest and normal exercise ECG. In 9 out of the 10 patients ergotamine administration in the same dosage was repeated during the coronary angiography. A reversible defect in the 201thallium scintigram representative of regional myocardial ischaemia developed in 9 patients after ergotamine. Only in 4 out of the 9 patients angina pectoris and ST elevation were present at the same time. In all cases coronary spasm after ergotamine was demonstrable in the coronary angiogram; in the 4 patients with ergotamine-induced Prinzmetal angina pectoris it consisted of complete vascular occlusion, in the asymptomatic patients of incomplete vascular narrowing of a higher degree. In all cases the spasm could be relieved by ergotamine antidotes within a few minutes.
Malignant transformation was demonstrated in UROtsa cells following 52-weeks of exposure to 50 nM monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)); the result was the malignantly transformed cell line, URO-MSC. URO-MSC cells were used to study the induction of DNA damage and the alteration of DNA repair enzymes in both the presence of MMA(III) [URO-MSC(+)] and after subsequent removal of MMA(III) [URO-MSC(-)] following chronic, low-level exposure. In the presence of MMA(III), URO-MSC(+) cells demonstrated a sustained increase in DNA damage following 12-weeks of exposure; in particular, a significant increase in DNA single-strand breaks at 12-weeks of exposure consistently elevated through 52 weeks. The persistence of DNA damage in URO-MSC cells was assessed after a 2-week removal of MMA(III). URO-MSC(-) cells demonstrated a decrease in DNA damage compared to URO-MSC(+); however, DNA damage in URO-MSC(-) remained significantly elevated when compared to untreated UROtsa and increased in a time-dependent manner. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were demonstrated to be a critical component in the generation of DNA damage determined through the incubation of ROS scavengers with URO-MSC cells. Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) is a key repair enzyme in DNA single-strand break repair. URO-MSC(+) resulted in a slight increase in PARP activity after 36-weeks of MMA(III) exposure, suggesting the presence of MMA(III) is inhibiting the increase in PARP activity. In support, PARP activity in URO-MSC(-) increased significantly, coinciding with a subsequent decrease in DNA damage demonstrated in URO-MSC(-) compared to URO-MSC(+). These data demonstrate that chronic, low-level exposure of UROtsa cells to 50 nM MMA(III) results in: the induction of DNA damage that remains elevated upon removal of MMA(III); increased levels of ROS that play a role in MMA(III) induced-DNA damage; and decreased PARP activity in the presence of MMA(III).
Hepatic microvesicular steatosis is a clinical manifestation seen in a number of liver diseases. Although the role of mitochondrial beta-oxidation in the development of the disease has been well studied, information on lipid peroxidative damage in liver subcellular organelles is scarce. The present study looked at oxidative stress in hepatic peroxisomes and microsomes in microvesicular steatosis, using an animal model of the disease.
Rats were given i.p. injections of sodium valproate (700 mg/kg bodyweight) to induce microvesicular steatosis, which was confirmed by histology.
Oxidative stress was evident in liver in steatosis, accompanied by structural and functional alterations in hepatic mitochondria. Alterations in lipid composition, with decreased phosphatidyl choline and ethanolamine and increased lysophosphatidyl choline and ethanolamine, were seen. An increase in triglyceride content was also seen. In addition, increased lipid peroxidation was also evident in peroxisomes and microsomes from steatotic rats. Pretreatment with clofibrate results in partial reversal of changes produced by valproate.
These results suggest that in addition to impaired mitochondrial beta-oxidation, oxidative stress is also seen in the hepatic peroxisomes and microsomes during microvesicular steatosis.
Previous studies have shown that the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis, and blockers of the RAS may be active as an antifibrogenic goal. However, the potential role of RAS inhibition on expression transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta-Smads in hepatic fibrosis remains unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect and mechanism of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (perindopril) and an angiotensin II receptor blocker (valsartan) on TGF-beta1 and TGF receptor II (TRII) mRNA, Smad3 and Smad7 in fibrotic hepatic livers in rats.
Sixty Wistar rats were randomly divided into four study groups (n = 15 for each group), including normal controls, hepatic fibrosis models, and two treated groups with either perindopril or valsartan, starting from the fourth week after being exposed to carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) for 4 weeks. The levels of TGF-beta and TRII mRNA in liver tissue were analyzed by RT-PCR. The expressions of TGF-beta1, Smad3 and Smad7 in liver tissues were evaluated by immunohistochemistry. The liver histopathology was examined by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and by electron microscopy, respectively. The liver function and serum hyaluronic acid were also assayed by biochemistry and radioimmunoassay.
Compared with the hepatic fibrosis models, the levels of TGF-beta1, TRII mRNA and the expression Smad3 significantly decreased in the two treated groups, and the expression of Smad7 was significantly increased in the liver of rats treated with perindopril or valsartan (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). The histological changes and ultrastructure of fibrotic liver, liver function and hyaluronic acid also remarkably improved in the treated rats.
The angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors perindopril and valsartan have a protective effect on liver injury and can ameliorate hepatic fibrosis in rats induced by CCl(4). The mechanisms may be associated with their effects of down-regulating TGF-beta1, TRII mRNA and smad3, and up-regulating Smad7.
Despite its wellknown adverse effects, Amphoterin B is an integral part of any supportive therapy in haematology/oncology. We report on a thirteen year old boy with acute myelogenous leukemia and suspected fungoid pneumonia. Shortly after iv or inhalative application of Amphotericin B he repeatedly presented with a Raynaud phenomenon of his toes, which ceased after switching to Ambisome (liposomal unilamellar encapsuled Amphotericin B). Since there is evidence that thromboxane A2-mediated arteriolar spasms of renal vessels provoke the wellknown increase in serum creatinine after Amphotericin B, and in different species pulmonal vasoconstriction has been observed, we speculate that a similar mechanism is responsible for the observed Raynaud phenomenon. Thus we suggest inhibitors of prostaglandine synthesis for therapy.
Oxidative damage of the erythrocyte membrane plays an important role in ribavirin-induced anemia. The purpose of the present paper was to assess whether supplementation of alpha-tocopherol and ascorbic acid (vitamins) causes changes in the erythrocyte membrane fatty acid composition during interferon and ribavirin combination therapy for chronic hepatitis C patients.
Fatty acid compositions in erythrocyte membrane phospholipids were determined by gas chromatography at 0, 2, 4, 8 weeks, and at the end of combination therapy (26 weeks) for interferon with ribavirin in 32 patients with chronic hepatitis C who were randomized to receive vitamins or not (controls).
Good compliance with orally administered vitamins and ribavirin were confirmed by their concentrations in erythrocytes or plasma. The hemoglobin level was negatively correlated with the ribavirin concentration at 8 weeks (r = 0.59, P = 0.01) after initiation of therapy in controls, but not in the vitamin group. Among the 26 kinds of fatty acids analyzed, only eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) significantly decreased at 8 weeks after initiation of therapy (P = 0.03) and at the end of therapy (P = 0.004) in controls. Vitamins did not inhibit ribavirin-induced anemia, but attenuated the decrease of EPA in erythrocytes. The EPA level was negatively correlated with the drop in hemoglobin levels at 8 weeks after initiation of therapy in controls (r = 0.58, P = 0.015), but not in the vitamin group.
Supplementation of alpha-tocopherol and ascorbic acid attenuates the ribavirin-induced decrease of EPA in erythrocyte membrane phospholipids in chronic hepatitis C patients.
The aim of our study was to use an in vivo radiopharmaceutical model to investigate the cytoprotective effect of amifostine against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into four groups (n = 6): 1) Saline (control); 2) Doxorubicin (DOX; 10 mg/ kg(-l) intraperitoneally); 3) Amifostine (AMI; 200 mg/kg(-1) intraperitoneally); 4) Doxorubicin plus amifostine (DOX + AMI). Amifostine was injected 30 minutes before doxorubicin in Group 4. 99mTc-MIBI, 20 MBq/0.2 ml(-1), was injected through the tail vein 72 hours after the drug administration. Rats were killed and samples of myocardium were removed by dissection 60 minutes after the injection of radiopharmaceutical. Radioactivity in each organ sample was counted using a Cd(Te) detector equipped with RAD 501 single-channel analyzer. The percent radioactivity was expressed as a percentage of the injected dose per gram of tissue (%ID/g(-1)). The %ID/g(-1) activity was calculated by dividing the activity in each sample by the total activity injected and mass of each organ. 99mTc-MIBI uptake as %ID/g(-1) was 1.194 +/- 0.502 and 0.980 +/- 0.199 in the control and AMI groups, respectively. Doxorubicin administration resulted in a significant increase in %ID/ g(-1) (3.285 +/- 0.839) (p < 0.05). Amifostine administration 30 minutes before doxorubicin injection resulted a significant decrease in %ID/g(-1) (2.160 +/- 0.791) (p < 0.05) compared with doxorubicin alone. The results showed that amifostine significantly attenuated doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
Polycythemia vera (PV) is a common cause of Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS) and portal vein thrombosis (PVT). The postpartum period is a precipitating cofactor. An additional heparin-induced thrombocytopenia/thrombosis (HIT/T) leads to a life-threatening condition in which transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunting (TIPS) seems to be the only life-saving procedure. We describe the case of a subacute BCS and PVT in the late postpartum period. The diagnosis was established using CT scan, MRI, and Doppler ultrasonography of abdominal vessels and the laboratory findings were compatible with PV. After a successful creation of TIPS, a HIT/T worsened the hemorrhagic and thrombotic picture. TIPS procedure was successfully repeated and heparin was replaced with Fondaparinux and then vitamin K antagonist. The treatment with interferon alpha-2A, started after the normalization of liver functions, resulted in a complete remission within 6 months. The JAK2 V617F mutation clone remained undetectable after 2 years' follow-up.
Lithium is used in the treatment of bipolar mood disorder. Reportedly, lithium can be neuroprotective in models of adult brain ischemia. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of lithium in a model of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Nine-day-old male rats were subjected to unilateral hypoxia-ischemia (HI) and 2 mmol/kg lithium chloride was injected i.p. immediately after the insult. Additional lithium injections, 1 mmol/kg, were administered at 24-h intervals. Pups were killed 6, 24 or 72 h after HI. Lithium reduced the infarct volume from 24.7±2.9 to 13.8±3.3 mm(3) (44.1%) and total tissue loss (degeneration + lack of growth) from 67.4±4.4 to 38.4±5.9 mm(3) (43.1%) compared with vehicle at 72 h after HI. Injury was reduced in the cortex, hippocampus, thalamus and striatum. Lithium reduced the ischemia-induced dephosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3β and extracellular signal-regulated kinase, the activation of calpain and caspase-3, the mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor, as well as autophagy. We conclude that lithium could mitigate the brain injury after HI by inhibiting neuronal apoptosis. The lithium doses used were in the same range as those used in bipolar patients, suggesting that lithium might be safely used for the avoidance of neonatal brain injury.
The effect of atorvastatin on cardiac remodeling, function, and homodynamic parameters in isoproterenol-induced heart failure was evaluated in the present study. A subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol (5mg/kg/day) for 10 days was used for the induction of heart failure. Isoproterenol administration produced intensive myocardial necrosis and fibrosis with a significant decrease in the arterial pressure indices, heart rate, contractility (LVdP/dt(max)) and relaxation (LVdP/dt(min)), but an increase in the left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. Rats were randomly assigned to control, treatment with only atorvastatin, and treatment with atorvastatin plus coenzyme Q10. Histopathological analysis showed a marked attenuation of myocyte necrosis and interstitial fibrosis in all atorvastatin treated groups (P<0.001). A low dose of atorvastatin (5mg/kg/day) significantly improved the left ventricular systolic pressure, contractility and relaxation (P<0.01). On the contrary, a high dose of atorvastatin (20mg/kg/day) worsened the isoproterenol-induced left ventricular dysfunction by a further reduction of LVdP/dt(max) from +2780 ± 94 to +1588 ± 248 (mmHg/s; P<0.01) and LVdP/dt(min) from -2007 ± 190 to -2939 ± 291 (mmHg/s; P<0.05). Co-administration of coenzyme Q10 with atorvastatin reversed the hemodynamic depression and the left ventricular dysfunction to a high level (P<0.001). There was a lower level of LVEDPs in the atorvastatin+coenzyme Q10 treated groups (3 ± 1 and 4 ± 1.4 versus 8 ± 3.5 and 14 ± 3.6 mmHg, respectively), thereby suggesting improvement in the myocardial stiffness by the combined coenzyme Q10 and atorvastatin treatment. The atorvastatin therapy attenuated myocardial necrosis and fibrosis in isoproterenol-induced heart failure. However, a high dose of the drug considerably worsened the left ventricular dysfunction and hemodynamic depression, which was reversed by coenzyme Q10 co-administration.
A patient is reported who sustained bilaterial iliacus haematoma with femoral nerve palsy during treatment with constant intravenous infustion of heparin for deep venous thrombosis. She was promptly treated with operative decompression and recovered completely from the palsy. Daily examinations of the blood revealed that the plasma heparin concentration, activated partial thromboplastin time, APTT, and thrombin time all were above the therapeutic range at the time when the bleeding started, and before the initial symptoms occurred. Early operative decompression is considered to be the ideal treatment in patients who develop this complication during anticoagulant therapy.
The case of a patient with repeated attacks of collapse induced by sublingual isosorbide dinitrate is reported. The patient was an 81 year-old female who was admitted to Yura Hospital because of attacks of precordial pain. Several minutes after the sublingual administration of isosorbide dinitrate (10 mg) for an anginal attack, she developed a sensation of general weakness, and thereafter because unconscious. Arterial blood pressure fell and became unmeasurable. Electrocardiograms recorded during the syncopal attack showed sinus tachycardia and significant elevation of ST-segment in right precordial leads. In response to a drip infusion of noradrenaline, arterial blood pressure returned to normal with recovery of consciousness. Two similar syncopal attacks induced by sublingual isosorbide dinitrate occurred in the next three days. These attacks were not due to augmentation of the vagal reflex. Decrease of venous return probably was the primary etiological factor.
Inhaling concomitants from Asian sand dust (ASD) may result in exacerbation of pneumonia by the pathogen. The exacerbating effect of ASD on pneumonia induced by Klebsiella pneumoniae (KP) was investigated in ICR mice. The organic substances adsorbed onto ASD collected from the atmosphere of Iki-island in Japan were excluded by heat treatment at 360°C for 30min. ICR mice were instilled intratracheally with ASD at doses of 0.05mg or 0.2mg/mouse four times at 2-week intervals (total dose of 0.2mg or 0.8mg/mouse) and were administrated with ASD in the presence or absence of KP at the last intratracheal instillation. Pathologically, ASD caused exacerbation of pneumonia by KP as shown by increased inflammatory cells within the bronchiolar and the alveolar compartments. ASD enhanced the neutrophil number dose dependently as well as the expression of cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-12, IFN-γ, TNF-α) and chemokines (KC, MCP-1, MIP-1α) related to KP in BALF. In an in vitro study using RAW264.7 cells, combined treatment of ASD and KP increased gene expression of IL-1β, IL-6, IFN-β, KC, MCP-1, and MIP-1α. The same treatment tended to increase the protein level of IL-1β, TNF-α and MCP-1 in a culture medium compared to each treatment alone. The combined treatment tended to increase the gene expression of Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), and NALP3, ASC and caspase-1 compared with KP alone. These results suggest that the exacerbation of pneumonia by ASD+KP was due to the enhanced production of pro-inflammatory mediators via activation of TLR2 and NALP3 inflammasome pathways in alveolar macrophages.
A 48-year-old man was admitted to our cardiac catheterization unit with severe chest pain 75 minutes after onset of symptoms. Two years before he had undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for stable angina pectoris with implantation of a drug-eluting stent (TAXUS) into the proximal left anterior descending artery. Antiplatelet therapy with 75 mg clopidogrel was given for one year, together with 100 mg aspirin. Subsequently he was put on low-dose aspirin monotherapy. Eight days before admission aspirin was discontinued because a tooth extraction was planned.
The ECG showed significant ST-segment elevation in the precordial leads V1-5.
90 minutes after onset of symptoms coronary angiography was performed and an in-stent thrombosis of the proximal left coronary artery was diagnosed. A successful PCI was performed and abiximab given. The creatine kinase concentration increased to a maximum of 3170 U/l. The pre-discharge echocardiogram showed a slightly reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. After the procedure the patient was stable and free of chest pain and he was discharged from the hospital after one week.
Discontinuing antiplatelet therapy, even years after implantation of a drug-eluting coronary stent, increases the risk of a late stent thrombosis. This should be taken into account especially before any procedure, even with a low bleeding risk such as tooth extractions. Antiplatelet treatment should be continued, even if there is a risk increasing minor bleeding complications, so that any life-threatening complication of an acute myocardial infarction is avoided.
Phenobarbital (PB) promotes hepatic tumorigenesis when chronically administered to male B6C3F1 mice after initiation with diethylnitrosamine (DENA) at 30 days of age. In contrast, when male B6C3F1 mice were initiated with DENA at 15 days of age, an inhibition of hepatic tumorigenesis occurred. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the influence of gender on the inhibiting ability of PB in the 15 day old DENA-initiated B6C3F1 mouse. Mice were injected with either DENA (5 micrograms/g) or saline at 15 days of age. At weaning mice were given either PB (500 p.p.m.) containing drinking water or deionized drinking water for 24 weeks. Male mice treated with DENA and PB demonstrated a significant decrease in the number of hepatocellular adenomas compared to males receiving DENA only. In contrast, females exposed to DENA and PB exhibited an enhancement of hepatic adenoma number compared to those receiving only DENA. In an additional experiment, individual preneoplastic foci from male and female B6C3F1 mice initiated with DENA at 15 days of age were examined for their responsiveness to the mitogenic stimuli of PB. Mice were exposed to either PB-containing or PB-free drinking water for 7 days. In non-PB treated males and females, preneoplastic hepatocytes demonstrated higher rates of DNA synthetic labelling compared to normal hepatocytes with no gender difference noted. Males exposed to PB exhibited increased levels of DNA synthesis in normal cells but not in preneoplastic foci. Females treated with PB, however, demonstrated significant increases in DNA synthesis in both preneoplastic and normal hepatocytes compared to non-PB treated females and PB-treated males. These findings suggest that in male mice initiated with DENA at 15 days of age, the preneoplastic foci are refractory to the proliferative effects of PB which may account for the observed inhibition of hepatic tumorigenesis by PB in this mouse strain.
Cannabis use is a hypothesized gateway to subsequent abuse of other drugs such as heroin. We currently assessed whether Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) exposure during adolescence modulates opiate reinforcement and opioid neural systems in adulthood. Long-Evan male rats received THC (1.5 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.)) or vehicle every third day during postnatal days (PNDs) 28-49. Heroin self-administration behavior (fixed ratio-1; 3-h sessions) was studied from young adulthood (PND 57) into full adults (PND 102). THC-pretreated rats showed an upward shift throughout the heroin self-administration acquisition (30 microg/kg/infusion) phase, whereas control animals maintained the same pattern once stable intake was obtained. Heightened opiate sensitivity in THC animals was also evidenced by higher heroin consumption during the maintenance phase (30 and 60 microg/kg/infusion) and greater responding for moderate-low heroin doses (dose-response curve: 7.5, 15, 30, 60, and 100 microg/kg/injection). Specific disturbance of the endogenous opioid system was also apparent in the brain of adults with adolescent THC exposure. Striatal preproenkephalin mRNA expression was exclusively increased in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell; the relative elevation of preproenkephalin mRNA in the THC rats was maintained even after heroin self-administration. Moreover, mu opioid receptor (muOR) GTP-coupling was potentiated in mesolimbic and nigrostriatal brainstem regions in THC-pretreated animals. muOR function in the NAc shell was specifically correlated to heroin intake. The current findings support the gateway hypothesis demonstrating that adolescence cannabis exposure has an enduring impact on hedonic processing resulting in enhanced opiate intake, possibly as a consequence of alterations in limbic opioid neuronal populations.
