Limonoids isolated from the Indian neem tree (Azadirachta indica) have been gaining global acceptance in agricultural applications and in contemporary medicine for their myriad but discrete properties. However, their mode of action is still not very well understood. We have studied the mode of action of Azadirachtin A, the major limonoid of neem seed extracts, using Drosophila melanogaster as the model system. Azadirachtin A induces moderate-to-severe phenotypes in different tissues in a dose-dependent manner. At the cellular level, Azadirachtin A induces depolymerization of Actin leading to arrest of cells and subsequently apoptosis in a caspase-independent manner. Azadirachtin A-induced phenotypes were rescued by the over-expression of Cyclin E in a tissue-dependent manner. Cyclin E, which caused global rescue of Azadirachtin A-induced phenotypes, also effected rearrangement of the actin filaments. These results suggest that probably actin is a target of Azadirachtin A activity.
Time lapse video photography was used to follow the movement of individual cells after in vitro treatment with Hg(II) acetate. Cellular changes of mercuric ions were characterized by their properties of causing reduced cellular mobility (10-50microM), and complete lack of cellular movement at higher concentrations (100-1000microM). Results show that after mercury treatment at subtoxic levels (1microM): (a) chromatin changes were the earliest signs of cytotoxicity, (b) two major parts in nuclear material of K562 erythroleukemia cells could be distinguished, highly condensed supercoiled and decondensed veil-like chromatin, (c) decondensed chromosomes were rejected as clustered puffs and (d) often the nuclear material was broken down to apoptotic bodies. Nuclear changes caused by Hg(II) acetate in the concentration range between 10 and 50microM were characterized by apoptosis seen as broken nuclei and apoptotic bodies. High concentration of Hg(2+) ions (100microM) initiated necrotic nuclear changes, with enlarged leaky or opened nuclei.
Cholestasis has been reported as a rare presentation among patients with severe liver injury secondary to amiodarone hepatic toxicity. We report an unusual case of amiodarone-induced cholestatic hepatotoxicity occurring after amiodarone had been discontinued and the initial abnormal liver function findings had improved. The patient, without jaundice at the initial presentation, developed severe jaundice about 4 months after withdrawal of amiodarone. Light and transmission electron microscopic examination of a specimen secured by computed tomographically guided liver biopsy was consistent with amiodarone hepatic toxicity as the cause of intrahepatic cholestasis. An abdominal ultrasound, endoscopic retrograde cholangiography, and dimethyl iminodiacetic acid and computed tomographic scans of the abdomen all failed to demonstrate any other causes for jaundice other than amiodarone toxicity. Thus, amiodarone hepatic toxicity may occur after drug withdrawal even if results of liver function tests improve. Histopathologic examination of a liver biopsy specimen is of value for diagnosis and prognosis. The liver biopsy findings, clinical course, and liver function test results are discussed, and the English-language literature on amiodarone cholestatic hepatotoxicity is reviewed.
The studies presented here represent our efforts to investigate the anticonvulsant activity of N-methyl-tetramethylcyclopropyl carboxamide (M-TMCD) and its metabolite tetramethylcyclopropyl carboxamide (TMCD) in various animal (rodent) models of human epilepsy, and to evaluate their ability to induce neural tube defects (NTDs) and neurotoxicity.
The anticonvulsant activity of M-TMCD and TMCD was determined after intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration to CF#1 mice, and either oral or i.p. administration to Sprague-Dawley rats. The ability of M-TMCD and TMCD to block electrical-, chemical-, or sensory-induced seizures was examined in eight animal models of epilepsy. The plasma and brain concentrations of M-TMCD and TMCD were determined in the CF#1 mice after i.p. administration. The induction of NTDs by M-TMCD and TMCD was evaluated after a single i.p. administration at day 8.5 of gestation in a highly inbred mouse strain (SWV) that is susceptible to valproic acid-induced neural tube defects.
In mice, M-TMCD afforded protection against maximal electroshock (MES)-induced, pentylenetetrazol (Metrazol)-induced, and bicuculline-induced seizures, as well as against 6-Hz "psychomotor" seizures and sound-induced seizures with ED50 values of 99, 39, 81, 51, and 10 mg/kg, respectively. In rats, M-TMCD effectively prevented MES- and Metrazol-induced seizures and secondarily generalized seizures in hippocampal kindled rats (ED50 values of 82, 45, and 39 mg/kg, respectively). Unlike M-TMCD, TMCD was active only against Metrazol-induced seizures in mice and rats (ED50 values of 57 and 52 mg/kg, respectively). Neither M-TMCD nor TMCD was found to induce NTDs in SWV mice.
The results obtained in this study show that M-TMCD is a broad-spectrum anticonvulsant drug that does not induce NTDs and support additional studies to evaluate its full therapeutic potential.
Hyperlipidemia enhances xanthine oxidase (XO) activity. XO is an important source of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Since ROS are thought to promote atherosclerosis, we hypothesized that XO is involved in the development of atherosclerosis. ApoE(-/-) mice were fed a Western-type (WD) or control diet. In subgroups, tungsten (700 mg/L) was administered to inhibit XO. XO is a secreted enzyme which is formed in the liver as xanthine dehydrogenase (XDH) and binds to the vascular endothelium. High expression of XDH was found in the liver and WD increased liver XDH mRNA and XDH protein expression. WD induced the conversion of XDH to the radical-forming XO. Moreover, WD increased the hepatic expression of CD40, demonstrating activation of hepatic cells. Aortic tissue of ApoE(-/-) mice fed a WD for 6 months exhibited marked atherosclerosis, attenuated endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine, increased vascular oxidative stress, and mRNA expression of the chemokine KC. Tungsten treatment had no effect on plasma lipids but lowered the plasma XO activity. In animals fed a control diet, tungsten had no effect on radical formation, endothelial function, or atherosclerosis development. In mice fed a WD, however tungsten attenuated the vascular superoxide anion formation, prevented endothelial dysfunction, and attenuated KC mRNA expression. Most importantly, tungsten treatment largely prevented the development of atherosclerosis in the aorta of ApoE(-/-) mice on WD. Therefore, tungsten, potentially via the inhibition of XO, prevents the development of endothelial dysfunction and atherosclerosis in ApoE(-/-) mice on WD.
To study the efficacy of lidocaine 1% in relieving pain associated with intracorporeal prostaglandin E1 and to assess its effect on the pharmacological erection.
Twenty-two patients who had previously experienced pain with intracorporeal prostaglandin E1 injections were submitted to a double-blind randomized crossover study to evaluate comparatively the effects of intracorporeal prostaglandin E1 alone and in combination with lidocaine. The signed rank test was used for statistical analysis of the results.
With prostaglandin E1 monotherapy (20 micrograms) 86.3% of patients experienced pain and 27.2% had an adequate erection. With combination therapy (prostaglandin E1 20 micrograms plus lidocaine 1% 1 cc) 45.4% of patients experienced pain and 57.8% of patients had improvement of pain compared with prostaglandin E1 monotherapy. The adequate erectile response rate with combination therapy was 63.6%; in addition, 31.8% of patients noted enhancement in the duration of erection. The signed rank test was significant for the pain response (P < 0.01) and for the degree of erection (P < 0.01). The signed rank test was not, however, significant for the increase in duration of erection after combination therapy. No significant side effects were noted after either injection.
Lidocaine 1% can be safely and usefully combined with intracorporeal prostaglandin E1 in the treatment of erectile dysfunction with alleviation of pain and enhancement of erectile effect.
Superoxide anions react with nitric oxide to form peroxynitrite and hence reduce the bioavailability of nitric oxide in the arteries. Extracellular superoxide dismutase (EC-SOD) is a major superoxide scavenger in human plasma and vascular tissues. The objective of this study is to assess whether essential hypertension is associated with an alteration in EC-SOD activity. In this report, blood samples were obtained from hypertensive (n=39) and normotensive (n=37) African-Americans. Plasma EC-SOD activity was measured using in-gel activity staining and spectrophotometric assays, EC-SOD protein level was measured using Western blotting, nitrotyrosine was measured using slot blotting, 8-isoprostane was measured with an enzyme immunoassay, and plasma copper and zinc concentrations were measured using an atomic absorption assay. Our data demonstrate that the copper, zinc, and plasma EC-SOD protein concentrations in the hypertensive and normotensive subjects are indistinguishable. Compared to normotensive controls, hypertensive patients have significantly reduced plasma EC-SOD activity. Plasma nitrotyrosine and 8-isoprostane levels are significantly higher in the hypertensive patients than in normotensive controls. Results from this study suggest that a reduction in EC-SOD activity in hypertensive patients is not due to a down-regulation of the SOD3 gene (encoding EC-SOD) or deficiency in mineral cofactors. Furthermore, the reduced EC-SOD activity might be at least partially responsible for the increased oxidative stress, as reflected by increased plasma nitrotyrosine and 8-isoprostane, in hypertensive subjects.
Drugs of abuse dynamically regulate adult neurogenesis, which appears important for some types of learning and memory. Interestingly, a major site of adult neurogenesis, the hippocampus, is important in the formation of drug-context associations and in the mediation of drug-taking and drug-seeking behaviors in animal models of addiction. Correlative evidence suggests an inverse relationship between hippocampal neurogenesis and drug-taking or drug-seeking behaviors, but the lack of a causative link has made the relationship between adult-generated neurons and addiction unclear. We used rat intravenous cocaine self-administration in rodents, a clinically relevant animal model of addiction, to test the hypothesis that suppression of adult hippocampal neurogenesis enhances vulnerability to addiction and relapse. Suppression of adult hippocampal neurogenesis via cranial irradiation before drug-taking significantly increased cocaine self-administration on both fixed-ratio and progressive-ratio schedules, as well as induced a vertical shift in the dose-response curve. This was not a general enhancement of learning, motivation, or locomotion, because sucrose self-administration and locomotor activity were unchanged in irradiated rats. Suppression of adult hippocampal neurogenesis after drug-taking significantly enhanced resistance to extinction of drug-seeking behavior. These studies identify reduced adult hippocampal neurogenesis as a novel risk factor for addiction-related behaviors in an animal model of cocaine addiction. Furthermore, they suggest that therapeutics to specifically increase or stabilize adult hippocampal neurogenesis could aid in preventing initial addiction as well as future relapse.
Warfarin treatment gives a well-documented reduction of the risk of thrombosis, but makes the patients more liable to bleedings. In Norway most patients are treated in general practice.
This study describes a 16-year-material (1988-2003) of 427 patients on warfarin in a practice with five general practitioners, based on retrospective analysis of patient files. A more detailed survey was done for the last four years (260 patients).
The prevalence of warfarin treatment in the practice increased from 0.9% to 2.7%, mostly because of increased treatment of atrial fibrillation. The average age of patients increased from 64 years to 72 years. 57% of the INR measurements were within therapeutic range. There were 16 haemorrhages pr 100 patient years with the majority occurring on therapeutic INR values. 14 serious haemorrhages were registered (2.4 pr 100 patient years), including seven cerebral haemorrhages resulting in three permanent cases of paralysis and one death. 14 patients had new disease diagnosed due to the bleeding. Only 1 patient experienced a venous thrombosis during 572 patient years of treatment. However, on 3 occasions thrombosis occurred shortly after termination of warfarin treatment.
Prevalence of warfarin treatment was higher than usual. The numbers of INR values within therapeutic range and numbers of serious bleedings were comparable to other studies. In spite of risk of haemorrhage, warfarin is a worthwhile treatment and can be carried out in general practice.
Clozapine is contraindicated in patients who experienced cardiac adverse effects during therapy. A young male (34 years old) with clozapine-responsive schizophrenia developed hypokinetic cardiomyopathy during treatment. The decision to resume clozapine therapy and to treat cardiac problems with carvedilol and captopril was made due to the failure of other antipsychotics to control symptoms. He was followed up for 5 years. Significant improvement of psychiatric conditions and persistence of normal left ventricular function were obtained with combination treatment. beta-Blockers and ACE inhibitors may allow resumption of clozapine in refractory schizophrenia in whom it was withdrawn for cardiotoxicity. A large-scale investigation may be useful to confirm the present observations.
Tardive laryngeal dystonia, a rare form of dystonic syndrome, was only reported to be induced by typical antipsychotics. Here, we report one case of ziprasidone-induced tardive laryngeal dystonia in a schizophrenic female patient, who showed dysphonia, hoarseness and dyspnea after taking ziprasidone 120 mg/day for 8 months. These symptoms were significantly improved after discontinuing ziprasidone and increasing the dose of trihexyphenidyl for 1 week. Although atypical antipsychotics are associated with a lower risk of extrapyramidal symptoms, caution should be taken for any tardive dystonic movement when using these medications.
Studies of the effects of phenytoin on aggression have produced equivocal results primarily because of a lack of (1) common objective criterion measures of aggressive acts across studies; (2) rigorous inclusion and exclusion criteria for selecting subjects; and (3) a nosologic basis for classifying different types of aggression. The current study was designed to remedy these deficiencies. Aggression was defined using a nosology that defines three types of aggression: (1) medically related; (2) premeditated; and (3) impulsive. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that phenytoin will decrease impulsive aggressive acts but not have a significant influence on premeditated aggressive acts. Sixty inmates were divided into two groups on the basis of committing primarily impulsive aggressive acts or premeditated aggressive acts while in prison. Medical aggression was ruled-out by subject selection. The study used a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design. As hypothesized, phenytoin (200 mg a.m. and 100 mg p.m.) significantly reduced impulsive aggressive acts but not premeditated aggressive acts. Event-related potentials (ERPs) measured information processing in the cortex during drug/placebo conditions. The amplitudes of P300 ERP waveforms among impulsive aggressive subjects were increased significantly during the phenytoin condition but not during the placebo condition. There were no significant changes in P300 ERP waveforms between drug/placebo conditions among nonimpulsive aggressive subjects.
Nine patients with levodopa induced psychiatric side effects were treated with L-Tryptophan in a single blind controlled study. In all patients levodopa therapy was continued and no sedative agents were given. In 8 patients all psychiatric side effects cleared within 48 hours, and without reoccurrence of these symptoms on an 8 month follow up. Only one patient did not respond to the treatment, but this patient proved to have a psychotic depression which was unrelated to levodopa therapy. Six patients with levodopa induced psychiatric disorders were used as control subjects and were not treated with L-Tryptophan. In these patients mental changes subsided only after levodopa had been discontinued for a period of 2 to 8 weeks. The rationale for treatment with L-Tryptophan is based on the findings of decreased serotonin content of the brain after levodopa treatment. This was documented by animal studies and reflected by changes in the spinal fluid concentration of 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid before and after L-Tryptophan treatment. This study confirms the results described by Dr. Birkmayer who treated levodopa induced psychosis first in 1972 in this manner.
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) is known to occur after solid organ transplantation, and is caused by immunosuppressive agents such as tacrolimus. PRES onset usually occurs within the first 2months after liver transplantation. Clinical findings include seizures, headache, focal neurological deficits, visual disturbances, and altered mental status. These are associated with characteristic imaging features of subcortical white matter lesions on brain MRI. Atypical localizations of this posterior leukoencephalopathy have been reported. Expeditious recognition of the syndrome may lead to a complete recovery. Abnormalities of EEG during follow-up might be associated with unfavorable seizure outcome, even when neuroimaging changes resolve. We report a case of late-onset PRES with atypical localization following liver transplantation. The patient developed epilepsy despite resolution of MRI lesions at 8 months of follow-up. EEG was a prognostic factor of seizure persistence, suggesting an incomplete recovery of brain lesions in contrast to neuroimaging findings.
Familial hypercholesterolemia carries a markedly increased risk of coronary artery disease. Reduction of plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels to the normal range may prevent premature atherosclerosis and usually requires a combination of cholesterol-lowering drugs such as 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors plus resins or fibrates. The current, 60-week, open-label investigation involved 22 patients whose plasma LDL-C had not reached the target level for prevention of coronary artery disease in 3 previous studies using fluvastatin alone and in combination with other cholesterol-lowering medications. At the beginning of the current study, patients were stabilized on fluvastatin monotherapy at 40 mg/day. After 6 weeks, the daily treatment changed to a combination of fluvastatin 40 mg/day in the evening and bezafibrate 400 mg/day in the morning. After a further 6 weeks, a lunchtime dose of cholestyramine 8 g/day was added, to form triple cholesterol-lowering therapy. Efficacy was determined by plasma lipid/lipoprotein analysis. Baseline levels were assessed after 4 weeks of placebo treatment, prior to active treatment, in the first fluvastatin study. Safety analyses included liver and renal function tests, creatine phosphokinase levels and blood counts. Compliance was determined by counting the fluvastatin capsules, bezafibrate tablets, and cholestyramine sachets returned by the patients at each visit. The triple-drug combination used in this study was more effective than the double therapy and resulted in stabilization of the LDL-C:high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) ratio, at a reduction from baseline ranging from -40.4 to -52.5%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It has long been recognized that insults to the cerebral cortex, such as trauma, ischaemia or infections, may result in the development of epilepsy, one of the most common neurological disorders. Human and animal studies have suggested that perturbations in neurovascular integrity and breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) lead to neuronal hypersynchronization and epileptiform activity, but the mechanisms underlying these processes are not known. In this study, we reveal a novel mechanism for epileptogenesis in the injured brain. We used focal neocortical, long-lasting BBB disruption or direct exposure to serum albumin in rats (51 and 13 animals, respectively, and 26 controls) as well as albumin exposure in brain slices in vitro. Most treated slices (72%, n = 189) displayed hypersynchronous propagating epileptiform field potentials when examined 5-49 days after treatment, but only 14% (n = 71) of control slices showed similar responses. We demonstrate that direct brain exposure to serum albumin is associated with albumin uptake into astrocytes, which is mediated by transforming growth factor beta receptors (TGF-betaRs). This uptake is followed by down regulation of inward-rectifying potassium (Kir 4.1) channels in astrocytes, resulting in reduced buffering of extracellular potassium. This, in turn, leads to activity-dependent increased accumulation of extracellular potassium, resulting in facilitated N-methyl-d-aspartate-receptor-mediated neuronal hyperexcitability and eventually epileptiform activity. Blocking TGF-betaR in vivo reduces the likelihood of epileptogenesis in albumin-exposed brains to 29.3% (n = 41 slices, P < 0.05). We propose that the above-described cascade of events following common brain insults leads to brain dysfunction and eventually epilepsy and suggest TGF-betaRs as a possible therapeutic target.
To evaluate the efficacy, onset of action, duration of action, and side effects of 1% diphenhydramine compared with 1% lidocaine when used as a local anesthetic agent.
Prospective, double-blinded, cross-over study.
Emergency medicine residency program, research section.
Ten healthy male volunteers, aged 26 to 38 years old.
Baseline levels of sensation to pinprick (18-gauge needle) within a 2.4-cm-diameter midvolar forearm area and levels of sedation were recorded on 10.2-cm visual analog scales. Subjects then underwent subcutaneous infiltration of 20 mg (2 mL) of the study agent using a 27-gauge needle. Visual analog scale sensation and sedation scores were recorded at five, ten, and 15 minutes and then every 15 minutes until return to baseline. Subjects were studied one week later with the alternate agent. Nonparametric data were analyzed using the Mann-Whitney U test with significance at P < .05.
No significant differences in mean pinprick sensation were seen from baseline to 30 minutes. Significant differences were seen at 45 (P = .036) and 60 minutes (P = .036). The mean duration of effective anesthesia was significantly longer for lidocaine than diphenhydramine (81 versus 42 minutes, P = .028). No significant differences were seen in the sedation scores or in the frequencies of local reactions. One subject developed skin necrosis at the injection site with diphenhydramine.
The duration of local anesthesia for 1% lidocaine was significantly longer and the depth of anesthesia after 30 minutes was significantly higher than that of 1% diphenhydramine. Diphenhydramine resulted in skin necrosis in one test subject.
Aqueous solutions of osmium tetroxide (OsO4) have been injected into arthritic knees for the past 45 years to chemically destroy diseased tissue, in a procedure termed "chemical synovectomy." Arthritis is an inflammatory disease. The primary inflammatory chemical species are the superoxide anion radical (O2.-) and nitric oxide (.NO), which combine to form the peroxynitrite anion (ONOO-). Here we show that OsO4 does not react with ONOO- but very efficiently catalyzes the dismutation of O2.- to O2 and H2O2. Using the pulse-radiolysis technique, the catalytic rate constant has been determined to be (1.43+/-0.04) x 10(9) M-1 s-1, independent of the pH in the 5.1-8.7 range. This value is about half that for the natural Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD). Per unit mass, OsO4 is about 60 times more active than Cu,Zn-SOD. The catalytically active couple is OsVIII/OsVII, OsVIII oxidizing O2.- to O2 with a bimolecular rate constant of k=(2.6+/-0.1)x10(9) M-1 s-1 and OsVII reducing it to H2O2 with a bimolecular rate constant of (1.0+/-0.1)x10(9) M-1 s-1. Although lower valent osmium species are intrinsically poor catalysts, they are activated through oxidation by O2.- to the catalytic OsVIII/OsVII redox couple. The OsVIII/OsVII catalyst is stable to biochemicals other than proteins and peptides comprising histidine, cysteine, and dithiols.
In a randomized open study, 120 healthy female patients were included. For short gynaecological procedures they were anaesthetized with either propofol 2.5 mg X kg-1 (n = 60) or thiopentone 5 mg X kg-1 (n = 60) in combination with nitrous oxide/oxygen (67%/33%). Supplementary doses of propofol (10-20 mg) or thiopentone (25-50 mg) were given when necessary during the procedure. Induction characteristics for propofol and thiopentone 1 min after start of induction were similar. Propofol seemed to have a more depressant effect than thiopentone on the circulatory response to anaesthesia. Recovery times from the end of the operative procedure until the patients opened their eyes on command and were orientated were shorter in the propofol patients compared to the thiopentone patients. In the propofol group, patients recalled discomfort on injection more often than patients anaesthetized with thiopentone. Otherwise, the side-effects were similar in both groups. We conclude that propofol is similar to thiopentone in its anaesthetic qualities during induction and maintenance of short anaesthetic procedures. Propofol was associated with a more rapid emergence from anaesthesia than thiopentone.
The anti lipid peroxidative and antioxidant effects of ellagic acid against isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarcted rats were reported previously. This study was designed to evaluate the protective effects of ellagic acid on the levels of cardiac troponin-T, lysosomal enzymes, and membrane bound ATPases along with the role of pro inflammatory cytokine. Male albino Wistar rats were pretreated with ellagic acid (7.5 and 15 mg/kg body weight) daily for a period of 10 days. After the pretreatment period isoproterenol (100mg/kg) was subcutaneously injected to rats twice at an interval of 24h. The protective effects of pretreatment with ellagic acid were measured by biochemical analysis and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Evidence of myocardial infarction in isoproterenol induced rats included significant increase in the serum level of cardiac troponin-T and decreased levels of creatine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase in heart tissue homogenate .The pretreatment with ellagic acid restored the levels of cardiac markers in the serum and heart tissue homogenates. The activities of lysosomal enzymes (β-d-glucuronidase, β-N-acetyl glucosaminidase, β-galactosidase, cathepsin-d and acid phosphatase) were increased significantly in the serum and heart tissue of isoproterenol-induced rats. The activity of Na(+)/K(+)ATPase declined while the activities of Ca(2+)ATPase and Mg(2+)ATPase were increased significantly in the heart of isoproterenol-induced rats. Pretreatment with ellagic acid restored the activities of lysosomal enzymes and membrane bound ATPases. The higher expressions of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1β, interleukin-6 and tumour necrosis factor-α in the isoproterenol-induced rats were controlled by the pretreatment with ellagic acid. Our results imply that oral pretreatment with ellagic acid protects the heart lysosomal membrane against isoproterenol-induced cardiac damage. The observed effects might be due to the free radical scavenging, membrane stabilizing and anti-inflammatory properties of ellagic acid.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a ubiquitous environmental chemical with reported endocrine-disrupting properties.
Our goal in this study was to determine whether prenatal exposure to BPA predisposes the adult rat mammary gland to carcinogenesis.
Pregnant rats were treated orally with 0, 25, or 250 microg BPA/kg body weight (BW) from gestation day (GD) 10 to GD21. For tumorigenesis experiments, prenatally exposed female offspring received a single gavage of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA; 30 mg/kg BW) on postnatal day (PND) 50, or PND100.
Prenatal exposure of the dam to 250 microg BPA/kg BW combined with a single exposure of female offspring to DMBA on PND100, but not on PND50, significantly increased tumor incidence while decreasing tumor latency compared with the control group. Prenatal exposure of the dam to 250 microg BPA/kg BW, in the absence of DMBA to the female offspring, increased cell proliferation and elicited differential effects at the protein level at PND100 compared with PND50. Differentially regulated proteins in the mammary gland included estrogen receptor-alpha, progesterone receptor-A, Bcl-2, steroid receptor coactivators, epidermal growth factor receptor, phospho-insulinlike growth factor 1 receptor, and phospho-Raf.
Our study demonstrates that oral prenatal exposure to BPA increases mammary cancer susceptibility in offspring and shifts the window of susceptibility for DMBA-induced tumorigenesis in the rat mammary gland from PND50 to PND100. These changes are accompanied by differential effects of prenatal BPA exposure on the expression of key proteins involved in cell proliferation.
Intracarotid 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosurea (BCNU) is now a frequently used chemotherapeutic agent for high-grade glial neoplasms. The toxicity from such therapy has not been well-documented. A 50-year-old man with a left frontoparietal grade 4 astrocytoma received three injections of intracarotid BCNU, 400 mg each, over a 2-month period. No radiation or other chemotherapy was ever given. He tolerated the BCNU injections well, with some reduction of tumor bulk, until the third dose. After his last injection, his condition gradually deteriorated; he became obtunded, and died 5 weeks later. At autopsy, the brain showed extensive cavitation and coagulative necrosis, fibrinoid vascular necrosis, edema, swollen axons, and bizarre cellular morphologic features confined to the BCNU perfusion territory. Grade 4 astrocytoma remained in the right hemisphere and in the left occipital lobe, sites outside the area of BCNU perfusion. Intracarotid BCNU can result in a severe leukoencephalopathy similar to that seen with methotrexate or delayed radionecrosis.
The protective effect of PGE1 in mice injected with propionibacterium acnes (P.acnes) and subsequently with a small dose of lipopoly-saccharide-endotoxin (LPS) 7 days later was studied. The results of this study were as follows: (1) When PGE1 was administered one hour before the injection of LPS, the survival rate of mice was significantly higher (90%), than that of a control group (17%). No necrosis was found in the liver. (2) PGE1 suppressed the release of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and secreted-interleukin-1 (SIL-1) in culture supernatants of P.acnes-elicited kupffer cells and membrane IL-1 (mIL-1) in kupffer cells in a dose-dependent manner in vitro. These results strongly suggest that PGE1 can prevent liver cell necrosis in the animal model and the mechanism of curative effect of PGE1 in massive liver cell necrosis may result from inhibition of the activity of TNF, sIL-1 and mIL-1 in the kupffer cells.
Sphingolipid metabolites inducing ceramide, sphingosine, and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) play important roles in the regulation of cell proliferation, survival, and death. Aminoglycoside antibiotics including gentamicin induce inner ear hair cell loss and sensorineural hearing loss. Apoptotic cell death is considered to play a key role in this injury. The present study was designed to investigate the possible involvement of ceramide and S1P in hair cell death due to gentamicin. In addition, the effects of other metabolites of ceramide, gangliosides GM1 (GM1) and GM3 (GM3), on gentamicin ototoxicity were also investigated. Basal turn organ of Corti explants from p3 to p5 rats were maintained in tissue culture and exposed to 20 or 35μM gentamicin for 48h. The effects of ceramide, S1P, GM1, and GM3 on gentamicin-induced hair cell loss were examined. Gentamicin-induced hair cell loss was increased by ceramide but was decreased by S1P. GM1 and GM3 exhibited protective effects against gentamicin-induced hair cell death at the limited concentrations. These results indicate that ceramide enhances gentamicin ototoxicity by promoting apoptotic hair cell death, and that S1P, GM1, and GM3 act as cochlear protectants. In conclusion, sphingolipid metabolites influence the apoptotic reaction of hair cells to gentamicin ototoxicity.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) are rare but severe cutaneous adverse drug reactions, which can be caused by a certain number of specific drugs among which is carbamazepine, an antiepileptic agent. A very strong association of carbamazepine-induced SJS with HLA-B*1502 has recently been described in the Han Chinese population. Here in, we report preliminary results from a European study (RegiSCAR) of 12 carbamazepine-induced SJS/TEN cases (nine French and three German). Among these only four had a HLA-B*1502 allele. Remarkably, these four patients had an Asian ancestry, whereas the others did not as far as we have ascertained. This shows that although the HLA region may contain important genes for SJS, the HLA-B*1502 allele is not a universal marker for this disease and that ethnicity matters.
Bladder cancer has been linked with long-term exposure to disinfection by-products (DBPs) in drinking water.
In this study we investigated the combined influence of DBP exposure and polymorphisms in glutathione S-transferase (GSTT1, GSTZ1) and cytochrome P450 (CYP2E1) genes in the metabolic pathways of selected by-products on bladder cancer in a hospital-based case-control study in Spain.
Average exposures to trihalomethanes (THMs; a surrogate for DBPs) from 15 years of age were estimated for each subject based on residential history and information on municipal water sources among 680 cases and 714 controls. We estimated effects of THMs and GSTT1, GSTZ1, and CYP2E1 polymorphisms on bladder cancer using adjusted logistic regression models with and without interaction terms.
THM exposure was positively associated with bladder cancer: adjusted odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were 1.2 (0.8-1.8), 1.8 (1.1-2.9), and 1.8 (0.9-3.5) for THM quartiles 2, 3, and 4, respectively, relative to quartile 1. Associations between THMs and bladder cancer were stronger among subjects who were GSTT1 +/+ or +/- versus GSTT1 null (P(interaction) = 0.021), GSTZ1 rs1046428 CT/TT versus CC (P(interaction) = 0.018), or CYP2E1 rs2031920 CC versus CT/TT (P(interaction) = 0.035). Among the 195 cases and 192 controls with high-risk forms of GSTT1 and GSTZ1, the ORs for quartiles 2, 3, and 4 of THMs were 1.5 (0.7-3.5), 3.4 (1.4-8.2), and 5.9 (1.8-19.0), respectively.
Polymorphisms in key metabolizing enzymes modified DBP-associated bladder cancer risk. The consistency of these findings with experimental observations of GSTT1, GSTZ1, and CYP2E1 activity strengthens the hypothesis that DBPs cause bladder cancer and suggests possible mechanisms as well as the classes of compounds likely to be implicated.
Cisapride, a gastrointestinal prokinetic agent, was recently withdrawn from the market because of its propensity to induce torsade de pointes (TdP) arrhythmias. The present study examines the electrophysiological actions of cisapride in the isolated arterially perfused canine left ventricular wedge preparation.
Transmembrane action potentials from epicardial and M regions and a pseudo-ECG were simultaneously recorded. Cisapride (0.1 to 5 micromol/L) was added to the coronary perfusate. Cisapride prolonged the QT interval and increased transmural dispersion of repolarization (TDR) at relatively low but not at high concentrations. TdP could be induced with programmed electrical stimulation only at a low concentration of drug (0.2 micromol/L), when TDR was maximally prolonged. Moreover, TdP could only be induced during epicardial (but not endocardial) activation of the wedge, which was found to augment TDR. At higher concentrations of cisapride, QT was further prolonged, TDR was diminished, and TdP could no longer be induced. Tpeak-Tend interval and Tpeak-Tend area provided reasonable electrocardiographic indices of TDR.
Our data (1) demonstrate a biphasic concentration/response relationship for the effect of cisapride to induce long-QT syndrome and TdP, (2) show the value of the left ventricular wedge preparation in identifying drugs that pose an arrhythmic risk, (3) support the hypothesis that risk for development of TdP is related to the increase in TDR rather than to prolongation of the QT interval, and (4) indicate that epicardial activation of the left ventricle, as occurs during biventricular pacing, can facilitate the development of TdP under long-QT conditions.
