Immunosuppressive environmental chemicals may increase the potency of allergens and thereby play a role in the development of allergic diseases such as allergic rhinitis, asthma and atopic dermatitis (AD).
This study's primary objective was to examine the mechanisms behind the development of allergic diseases and immunosuppression induced by some environmental chemicals. We focused on the aggravation of AD by the organophosphorus pesticide O,O-diethyl-O-4-nitro-phenylthiophosphate (parathion) and the organochlorine pesticide 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-methoxyphenyl)ethane (methoxychlor), in NC/Nga mice sensitized with extract of Dermatophagoides farinae (Df).
NC/Nga mice were exposed orally to parathion or methoxychlor prior or coinstantaneous with sensitization with Df. The mice were subsequently challenged with Df. One day after the last challenge with Df, we analyzed dermatitis severity and expression of genes in the ear auricle, immunoglobulin (Ig) E and IgG(2a) levels in serum, and in auricular lymph nodes, T- or B-cell numbers and cytokine production.
Prior exposure to parathion or methoxychlor induced marked increases in the following: dermatitis severity and gene expression in the ear auricle, IgE and IgG(2a) levels in serum, expression of surface antigens on helper T-cell and IgE-positive B-cell, production of Th1 and Th2 cytokines, and production of IgE in auricular lymph-node cells. In contrast, coinstantaneous exposure to parathion or methoxychlor yielded, at most, small but significant decreases in all parameters.
Our results indicate that atopic dermatitis can be aggravated by prior exposure to immunosuppressive environmental chemicals.
Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analogue, 3.6 mg goserelin acetate and flutamide, 375 mg per day were used to treat metastatic prostate cancer in a 66-year-old male. Marked increase in serum aminotransferases and total bilirubin levels was noted after 7 weeks of treatment. The enzyme levels returned to normal at 2 months following discontinuation of the treatment. Though incidences of severe hepatotoxicity are rare (0.003-0.18%), cases of flutamide-induced death have been reported. Careful monitoring of patients is mandatory while administering flutamide.
Statins have cholesterol-independent effects including an increased vascular nitric oxide (NO) activity and are commonly used by patients with cardiovascular disease. Such patients frequently have erectile dysfunction, which may be treated with sildenafil, a selective inhibitor of phosphodiesterase type 5. Since statins and sildenafil can activate the NO-cGMP pathway, we investigated whether pre-treatment with atorvastatin (0, 5 and 30 mg/kg/day) for 2 weeks affects sildenafil (1 pM-100 mM)-induced relaxation of aortic rings isolated from Wistar rats. We also examined the hemodynamic consequences of this interaction in Wistar rats. Plasma nitrite/nitrate (NOx) concentrations were determined using an ozone-based chemiluminescence assay. While pre-treatment with atorvastatin increased the potency of sildenafil-induced vasorelaxation (P<0.01), no differences were observed in the maximum sildenafil-induced relaxation. Pre-incubation of aortic rings with NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) reversed atorvastatin-induced increase in the potency of sildenafil relaxation. In addition, pre-treatment with atorvastatin enhanced plasma NOx concentrations and sildenafil-induced hypotension and tachycardia (all P<0.05). These results suggest that atorvastatin increases the vascular sensitivity to sildenafil through NO-mediated mechanisms.
Concomitant use of the bronchodilator theophylline and the antibacterial agent enoxacin has been associated with significant neurologic and other adverse effects. Enoxacin and certain other quinolones are known to inhibit the biotransformation of theophylline, thereby increasing the plasma concentrations of the bronchodilator. It was considered possible that this may not be the only interaction because theophylline as well as enoxacin are known to have neurotoxic potential. To explore the possibility of a pharmacodynamic interaction, rats pretreated orally with enoxacin or water (controls) were slowly infused i.v. with theophylline until the onset of a maximal seizure. Neither 100 nor 400 mg/kg enoxacin 1 hour before the infusion had any significant effect on the infused dose or on the concentrations of theophylline in serum, brain and cerebrospinal fluid at onset of seizures. On the other hand, 400 mg/kg enoxacin reduced the total serum clearance of a 12 mg/kg i.v. bolus dose of theophylline from 2.56 +/- 0.37 to 1.00 +/- 0.13 ml min-1kg-1 (mean +/- SD). It is concluded that acutely administered enoxacin in a dose sufficient to inhibit the elimination of theophylline has no direct effect on theophylline neurotoxicity in rats.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis is a rare but severe adverse reaction to heparin therapy, whose management is difficult. After heparin withdrawal, the initiation of an alternative anticoagulant therapy, such as recombinant hirudin or danaparoid, is strongly recommended before vitamin K antagonists are effective. Several reports of the efficacity of plasma exchanges in patients with life-threatening thrombosis have been made.
We report on a patient with severe aortic thrombosis related to heparin therapy in whom a unique plasma exchange resulted in both dramatic improvement in the platelet count and marked reduction of the thrombosis.
This case provides further evidence that plasma exchanges can be useful in the management of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis. They are rapidly efficient and can be used before heparin alternative treatment is effective.
Catecholamines are stress hormones and sympathetic neurotransmitters essential for control of cardiac function and metabolism. However, pathologically increased catecholamine levels may be cardiotoxic by mechanism that includes iron-catalyzed formation of reactive oxygen species. In this study, five iron chelators used in clinical practice were examined for their potential to protect cardiomyoblast-derived cell line H9c2 from the oxidative stress and toxicity induced by catecholamines epinephrine and isoprenaline and their oxidation products. Hydroxamate iron chelator desferrioxamine (DFO) significantly reduced oxidation of catecholamines to more toxic products and abolished redox activity of the catecholamine-iron complex at pH 7.4. However, due to its hydrophilicity and large molecule, DFO was able to protects cells only at very high and clinically unachievable concentrations. Two newer chelators, deferiprone (L1) and deferasirox (ICL670A), showed much better protective potential and were effective at one or two orders of magnitude lower concentrations as compared to DFO that were within their clinically relevant plasma levels. Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), dexrazoxane (ICRF-187, clinically approved cardioprotective agent against anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity) as well as selected beta adrenoreceptor antagonists and calcium channel blockers exerted no effect. Hence, results of the present study indicate that small, lipophilic and iron-specific chelators L1 and ICL670A can provide significant protection against the oxidative stress and cardiomyocyte damage exerted by catecholamines and/or their reactive oxidation intermediates. This potential new application of the clinically approved drugs L1 and ICL670A warrants further investigation, preferably using more complex in vivo animal models.
Types 1 and 3 iodothyronine deiodinases are known to be selenocysteine-containing enzymes. Although a putative human type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (D2) gene (hDio2) encoding a similar selenoprotein has been identified, basal D2 activity is not selenium (Se)-dependent nor has D2 been labeled with (75)Se. A human mesothelioma cell line (MSTO-211H) has recently been shown to have approximately 40-fold higher levels of hDio2 mRNA than mesothelial cells. Mesothelioma cell lysates activate thyroxine (T(4)) to 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine with typical characteristics of D2 such as low K(m) (T(4)), 1.3 nm, resistance to propylthiouracil, and a short half-life ( approximately 30 min). D2 activity is approximately 30-fold higher in Se-supplemented than in Se-depleted medium. An antiserum prepared against a peptide deduced from the Dio2 mRNA sequence precipitates a (75)Se protein of the predicted 31-kDa size from (75)Se-labeled mesothelioma cells. Bromoadenosine 3'5' cyclic monophosphate increases D2 activity and (75)Se-p31 approximately 2.5-fold whereas substrate (T(4)) reduces both D2 activity and (75)Se-p31 approximately 2-3-fold. MG132 or lactacystin (10 microm), inhibitors of the proteasome pathway by which D2 is degraded, increase both D2 activity and (75)Se-p31 3-4-fold and prevent the loss of D2 activity during cycloheximide or substrate (T(4)) exposure. Immunocytochemical studies with affinity-purified anti-hD2 antibody show a Se-dependent increase in immunofluorescence. Thus, human D2 is encoded by hDio2 and is a member of the selenodeiodinase family accounting for its highly catalytic efficiency in T(4) activation.
The reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome (RSDS) in organ transplant recipients has only previously been reported in patients treated with calcineurin inhibitors. We retrospectively analyzed 393 renal transplant patients treated with sirolimus, 9 of whom developed RSDS. All the patients reported varying degrees of pain in the legs, affecting the knees, ankles, and/or feet, plus cutaneous erythema. The onset of pain ranged from 1-6 months after transplantation. At the time of diagnosis of RSDS, the mean serum creatinine was 1.4 mg/dL (range 1.0-1.7) and bone scintigraphy with 99mTc pyrophosphate showed increased uptake in all cases. The symptoms remitted 3-10 months after treatment (mean, 4 months) with calcitriol, with or without nifedipine or calcitonin, and in one case with suppression of sirolimus. We conclude that sirolimus therapy may induce RSDS in renal transplant recipients.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma), a member of the ligand-activated nuclear receptor superfamily, has been shown to be implicated in anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory responses, but its role in airway mucus hypersecretion remains not clear.
To investigate the role of PPAR-gamma in airway mucus hypersecretion, we used an acrolein-exposed rat model treated with rosiglitazone, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma agonist.
Rats were exposed to acrolein (3.0 ppm, 6h/day, 7 days/week) and orally administered with rosiglitazone (2, 4, 8 mg/kg) once daily for up to 2 weeks. The expressions of Muc5ac protein and mRNA, and infiltration of inflammatory cells and levels of inflammatory cytokines (interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-8 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were detected with real-time PCR, Western blot, cell counting and ELISA. In addition, the role of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB pathway in this process was also explored.
Acrolein exposure significantly induced goblet cell hyperplasia in bronchial epithelium and Muc5ac mRNA and protein expressions in rat lungs, as well as the associated airway inflammation evidenced by the increased numbers of inflammatory cells and levels of inflammatory cytokines in BALF, which were attenuated with rosiglitazone treatment in a dose-dependent manner (P<0.05). Simultaneously, the increased expression of NF-kappaB and decreased expression of cytoplasmic IkappaB in acrolein-exposed lungs were reversed by rosiglitazone treatment.
These findings suggest that PPAR-gamma activation by its ligands can attenuate acrolein-induced airway mucus hypersecretion in rats, which may be involved in inhibition of NF-kappaB pathway.
The objective of this study was to first evaluate the developmental abnormalities and carry out the molecular analysis of external genitalia in newborn hypospadiac male rats induced by maternal exposure to di-n-butyl phthalate (DBP). Timed-pregnant rats were given DBP by gastric intubation at dose of 750 mg/kg body weight (bw)/day from gestation day (GD) 14 to GD18 to establish a hypospadiac rat model. The incidence of hypospadias was 46.67% in male offsprings. On postnatal day (PND) 7, at the newborn stage, decreased body weight and anogenital distance (AGD)/body weight ratio were observed in newborn hypospadiac male rats. The general image and transverse serial histological analysis of genitalia of newborn hypospadiac male rats confirmed the malformation. Autopsy analysis revealed development of reproductive organs (testes, genital tubercle (GT)), hollow organs (stomach, bladder), and solid organs (brain, heart, liver, spleen, lung, kidney, pancreas) in newborn hypospadiac male rats affected by DBP. Moreover, significantly decreased gene expression of important signaling molecules necessary for GT formation including sonic hedgehog signaling molecules (Shh and Ptched 1), bone morphogenetic proteins signaling molecules (Bmp4 and Bmp7), fibroblast growth factor signaling molecules (Fgf8, Fgf10 and Fgfr2), and the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily signaling molecules (TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta receptor III) were observed, for the first time, in the GT of newborn hypospadias induced by DBP. These results showed that the reproductive system and development conditions of newborn hypospadiac rats were damaged by DBP. These disturbed signaling pathways which orchestrating genital development might play an important role in the toxic process of DBP induced hypospadias.
2,5-Hexanedione (HD), a metabolite of n-hexane, causes central and peripheral neuropathy leading to motor neuron deficits. Although chronic exposure to n-hexane is known to cause gradual sensorimotor neuropathy, there are no reports on the effects of low doses of HD on neurogenesis in the central nervous system. In the current study, we explored HD toxicity in murine neural progenitor cells (NPC), primary neuronal culture and young adult mice. HD (500 nM approximately 50 microM) dose-dependently suppressed NPC proliferation and cell viability, and also increased the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). HD (10 or 50 mg/kg for 2 weeks) inhibited hippocampal neuronal and NPC proliferation in 6-week-old male ICR mice, as measured by BrdU incorporation in the dentate gyrus, indicating HD impaired hippocampal neurogenesis. In addition, elevated microglial activation was observed in the hippocampal CA3 region and lateral ventricles of HD-treated mice. Lastly, HD dose-dependently decreased the viability of primary cultured neurons. Based on biochemical and histochemical evidence from both cell culture and HD-treated animals, the neurotoxic mechanisms by which HD inhibits NPC proliferation and hippocampal neurogenesis may relate to its ability to elicit an increased generation of deleterious ROS.
Exposure to toxic methylmercury (MeHg) through fish consumption is a large problem worldwide, and it has led to governmental recommendations of reduced fish consumption and blacklisting of mercury-contaminated fish. The elimination kinetics of MeHg varies greatly among individuals. Knowledge about the reasons for such variation is of importance for improving the risk assessment for MeHg. One possible explanation is hereditary differences in MeHg metabolism. MeHg is eliminated from the body as a glutathione (GSH) conjugate.
We conducted this study to assess the influence of polymorphisms in GSH-synthesizing [glutamyl-cysteine ligase modifier subunit (GCLM-588) and glutamyl-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit (GCLC-129)] or GSH-conjugating [glutathione S-transferase pi 1 (GSTP1-105 and GSTP1-114)] genes on MeHg retention.
Based on information obtained from questionnaires, 292 subjects from northern Sweden had a high consumption of fish (lean/fat fish two to three times per week or more). We measured total Hg in erythrocytes (Ery-Hg) and long-chain n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in plasma (P-PUFA; an exposure marker for fish intake).
The GSTP1 genotype modified Ery-Hg; effects were seen for GSTP1-105 and -114 separately, and combining them resulted in stronger effects. We found evidence of effect modification: individuals with zero or one variant allele demonstrated a steeper regression slope for Ery-Hg (p=0.038) compared with individuals with two or more variant alleles. The GCLM-588 genotype also influenced Ery-Hg (p=0.035): Individuals with the GCLM-588 TT genotype demonstrated the highest Ery-Hg, but we saw no evidence of effect modification with increasing P-PUFA.
These results suggest a role of GSH-related polymorphisms in MeHg metabolism.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are a group of environmental contaminants increasing in North America. Few data are available on their growth effects at low doses exposure.
Our goal in the present study was to evaluate whether low doses of 2,2',4,4'-tetrabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-47), which is the most abundant PBDE found in human samples, affects growth and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1).
Dams were exposed either to the vehicle or low doses of BDE-47 (0.002 and 0.2mg/kgbody weight) every fifth day from gestation day 15 to postnatal day (PND) 20 by intravenous injections. Developmental landmarks, body length and body weight of pups were assessed during the first months of life. A glucose tolerance test was performed on PND 40 and 75. Plasma IGF-1 was analysed in trunk blood on PND 27.
Exposure to BDE-47 increased plasma IGF-1 and glucose uptake in male but not in female pups. Developmental landmarks were not influenced by BDE-47 while body weight and body length was increased in both exposed male and female offspring during the first months of development.
These results demonstrate alteration of growth in rat offspring induced by BDE-47 at levels found in human population. The possible involvement of the growth hormone-IGF axis is discussed.
The appropriate selection of patients for treatment with oral ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA)--a drug that has virtually no side effects--results in about 50% of patients experiencing safe dissolution of gallstones within 2 years. Eligible patients have small (less than 20 mm in diameter) radiolucent gallstones in a gallbladder visualized by oral cholecystography (OCG); ideal candidates are thin women who have gallstones that are less than 15 mm in diameter, floating when observed by OCG, or of low density on computed tomographic (CT) scanning. Contact dissolution with methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) is rapid, effective more often than UDCA, and safe but requires the expertise of an interventional radiologist. Any size and number of cholesterol gallstones that are not CT-dense will be dissolved by MTBE, leaving at most only insoluble debris that is clinically innocuous. Although gallstones recur after dissolution by UDCA or MTBE in 50% of patients within 5 years, recurrent gallstones are usually asymptomatic and/or can probably be dissolved. We conclude that oral or contact dissolution provides an alternative treatment to cholecystectomy for about 30% of patients with symptomatic gallstones.
BACKGROUND. It is generally acknowledged that amphotericin B is the most effective treatment for cryptococcal meningitis. However, administration of this drug is accompanied by substantial adverse effects. This double-blind study, performed before the routine availability of highly active antiretroviral therapy, was designed to compare the efficacy and safety of liposomal amphotericin B to conventional amphotericin deoxycholate in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and acute cryptococcal meningitis. METHODS. Patients were randomized (ratio, 1:1:1) from multiple sites in the United States and Canada to receive either amphotericin B at 0.7 mg/kg/day (n = 87), liposomal amphotericin B at 3 mg/kg/day (n = 86), or liposomal amphotericin B at 6 mg/kg/day (n = 94). RESULTS. Efficacy was similar among all 3 treatment groups. The overall incidence of infusion-related reactions was significantly lower for both the 3 mg/kg/day and 6 mg/kg/day dosages of liposomal amphotericin B, compared with conventional amphotericin B (P < .001). Significantly fewer patients who received the 3 mg/kg/day dosage of liposomal amphotericin B developed nephrotoxicity, indicated by a doubling of the serum creatinine value, compared with recipients of conventional amphotericin B (P = .004). Overall mortality at 10 weeks was 11.6%, with no significant differences among the treatment groups. CONCLUSIONS. Liposomal amphotericin B provides an equally efficacious alternative to conventional amphotericin B deoxycholate in patients with AIDS and acute cryptococcal meningitis. Liposomal amphotericin B at a dosage of 3 mg/kg/day is accompanied by significantly fewer adverse effects.
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a rapidly fatal asbestos-associated malignancy with a median survival time of <1 year following diagnosis. Treatment strategy is determined in part using known prognostic factors.
The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between asbestos exposure and survival outcome in MPM in an effort to advance the understanding of the contribution of asbestos exposure to MPM prognosis.
We studied incident cases of MPM patients enrolled through the International Mesothelioma Program at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts, using survival follow-up, self-reported asbestos exposure (n=128), and a subset of cases (n=80) with quantitative asbestos fiber burden measures.
Consistent with the established literature, we found independent, significant associations between male sex and reduced survival (p<0.04), as well as between nonepithelioid tumor histology and reduced survival (p<0.02). Although self-reported exposure to asbestos was not predictive of survival among our cases, stratifying quantitative asbestos fiber burden [number of asbestos bodies per gram of lung (wet weight)] into groups of low (0-99 asbestos bodies), moderate (100-1,099), and high fiber burden (>1,099), suggested a survival duration association among these groups (p=0.06). After adjusting for covariates in a Cox model, we found that patients with a low asbestos burden had a 3-fold elevated risk of death compared to patients with a moderate fiber burden [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.95-9.5; p=0.06], and patients with a high asbestos burden had a 4.8-fold elevated risk of death (95% CI, 1.5-15.0; p<0.01) versus those with moderate exposure.
Our data suggest that patient survival is associated with asbestos fiber burden in MPM and is perhaps modified by susceptibility.
Subcutaneous injections of cocaine hydrochloride in sterile physiological saline were administered to rats at a dosage of 20 or 40 mg.kg-1. Resultant skin lesions included focal areas of alopecia (within 1 to 2 days) which progressed to necrosis (within 2 to 7 days). Histologically, the skin lesions were characterized by necrotizing panniculitis and vascular necrosis, with only small numbers of inflammatory cells. The lesions may be ischemic in nature, and associated with cytotoxic properties of cocaine.
Sulprostone, a synthetic prostaglandin with potent uterotonic action, has been shown to have a low complication rate in a large series. We present a case in which a bolus intravenous injection of sulprostone 30 micrograms was administered to treat postpartum haemorrhage during caesarean section. The 38-year-old patient with no previous cardiac or smoking history developed complete heart block, ventricular fibrillation and subsequent asystole. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation was successful after 45 minutes. Post resuscitation there was no myocardial infarction and she had complete neurological recovery. We postulate that the bolus of sulprostone resulted in possible coronary spasm that resulted in cardiac arrest.
Class 1 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) plays a major role in cell proliferation and survival in a wide variety of human cancers. Here, we investigated biomarker strategies for PI3K pathway inhibitors in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Molecular profiling for candidate PI3K predictive biomarkers was conducted on a collection of NSCLC tumor samples. Assays included comparative genomic hybridization, reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction gene expression, mutation detection for PIK3CA and other oncogenes, PTEN immunohistochemistry, and FISH for PIK3CA copy number. In addition, a panel of NSCLC cell lines characterized for alterations in the PI3K pathway was screened with PI3K and dual PI3K/mTOR inhibitors to assess the preclinical predictive value of candidate biomarkers.
PIK3CA amplification was detected in 37% of squamous tumors and 5% of adenocarcinomas, whereas PIK3CA mutations were found in 9% of squamous and 0% of adenocarcinomas. Total loss of PTEN immunostaining was found in 21% of squamous tumors and 4% of adenocarcinomas. Cell lines harboring pathway alterations (receptor tyrosine kinase activation, PI3K mutation or amplification, and PTEN loss) were exquisitely sensitive to the PI3K inhibitor GDC-0941. A dual PI3K/mTOR inhibitor had broader activity across the cell line panel and in tumor xenografts. The combination of GDC-0941 with paclitaxel, erlotinib, or a mitogen-activated protein-extracellular signal-regulated kinase inhibitor had greater effects on cell viability than PI3K inhibition alone.
Candidate biomarkers for PI3K inhibitors have predictive value in preclinical models and show histology-specific alterations in primary tumors, suggesting that distinct biomarker strategies may be required in squamous compared with nonsquamous NSCLC patient populations.
Chloramphenicol is a broad-spectrum antibiotic used for the treatment of many infectious diseases and has become one of the major seafood contaminants. Hematologic disorders such as aplastic anemia and leukemia induced by chloramphenicol are a major concern. However, the mechanism underlying chloramphenicol-induced leukemogenesis is not known. By investigating the effects of chloramphenicol on the activation of mouse T cells stimulated with anti-CD3 antibody or staphylococcal enterotoxin B, we found that chloramphenicol induces the differentiation of activated T cells into lymphoblastic leukemia-like cells, characterized by large cell size, multiploid nuclei, and expression of CD7, a maker for immature T cells and T-cell lymphocytic leukemia, thus phenotypically indicating differentiation toward leukemogenesis. High expression of cyclin B1, but not p53, c-myc, and CDC25A, was detected in chloramphenicol-treated activated T cells, which may relate to abnormal cell differentiation. Chloramphenicol inhibited the activation-induced cell death of mouse and human T-cell receptor-activated T cells by down-regulating the expression of Fas ligand. Our findings show that abnormal cell differentiation and inhibition of apoptosis may contribute to the development of leukemia associated with clinical applications of chloramphenicol.
Perchloroethylene (perc), a solvent used in dry cleaning operations and industrial applications, has been found to produce increases in hepatocellular carcinomas and/or adenomas in mice in chronic inhalation bioassays. Perc is metabolized primarily to trichloroacetic acid (TCA), which is also a mouse hepatocarcinogen. The fractional conversion of perchloroethylene to TCA by mice was determined from physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling of TCA in mouse blood at the conclusion of inhalation exposure of male and female B6C3F1 mice to 10, 50, 100, or 200 ppm perc for 6 h/day for 5 days. The dose-dependent bioavailability of TCA in B6C3F1 mice exposed to TCA in drinking water was estimated by optimizing the fit of time course blood, plasma, and liver TCA concentrations for TCA doses ranging from 12 to 800 mg/(kg day) to predictions of a previously published TCA PBPK model. Using the PBPK models, the area under the liver TCA concentration vs. time curve (liver TCA AUC) was calculated for TCA and perc bioassays. Benchmark dose analyses were conducted to determine the dose-response relationship between liver TCA AUC and the additional risk of hepatocellular adenomas or carcinomas (combined) in mice ingesting TCA. Using the dose-response relationships derived for the TCA-exposed mice, the contribution of TCA produced by metabolism to the additional risk of liver adenomas and carcinomas in mice exposed to perchloroethylene by inhalation was computed. The analysis indicated that the levels of TCA observed in perchloroethylene-exposed mice are sufficient to explain the incidence of liver adenomas and carcinomas.
The sustained elevation of plasma and interstitial catecholamine levels, namely adrenaline (ADR), and the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) are well recognized hallmarks of several cardiopathologic conditions, like cardiac ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) and heart failure (HF). The present work aimed to investigate the proteomics and energetic metabolism of cardiomyocytes incubated with ADR and/or ROS. To mimic pathologic conditions, freshly isolated calcium-tolerant cardiomyocytes from adult rat were incubated with ADR alone or in the presence of a system capable of generating ROS [(xanthine with xanthine oxidase) (XXO)]. Two-dimensional electrophoresis with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization and time-of-flight mass spectrometer analysis were used to define protein spot alterations in the cardiomyocytes incubated with ADR and/or ROS. Moreover, the energetic metabolism and the activity of mitochondrial complexes were evaluated by nuclear magnetic resonance and spectrophotometric determinations, respectively. The protein extract was mainly constituted by cardiac mitochondrial proteins and the alterations found were included in five functional classes: (i) structural proteins, notably myosin light chain-2; (ii) redox regulation proteins, in particular superoxide dismutase (SOD); (iii) energetic metabolism proteins, encompassing ATP synthase alpha chain and dihydrolipoyllysine-residue acetyltransferase component of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex; (iv) stress response proteins, like the heat shock proteins; and (v) regulatory proteins, like cytochrome c and voltage-dependent anion channel 1. The XXO system elicited alterations in cardiac contractile proteins, as they showed high levels of cleavage, and also altered energetic metabolism, through increased lactate and alanine levels. The cardiomyocytes incubation with ADR resulted in an accentuated increase in mitochondrial complexes activity and the decrease in alanine/lactate ratio, thus reflecting a high cytosolic NADH/NAD(+) ratio. Furthermore, an increase in manganese SOD expression and total SOD activity occurred in the ADR group, as the increase in the mitochondrial complexes presumably led to higher 'electron leakage'. The modifications in proteins, enzymes activity, and energetic metabolism were indicative that different pathways are activated by catecholamines and ROS. These alterations altogether determine the I/R and HF specific features and contribute for the initiation or aggravation of those cardiopathologic conditions.
Glutamate signaling in the nucleus accumbens influences reinstatement of previously extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior in rats. Whether or not region specific glutamate signaling in the nucleus accumbens contributes to reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior is not known. We investigated whether directly stimulating ionotropic glutamate receptors (GluRs) within the nucleus accumbens core or shell would differentially influence renewed cocaine-seeking behavior following extinction training. We also tested the hypothesis that GluR1 subunit (GluR1) containing alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid (AMPA) receptors in the nucleus accumbens core and not the shell regulate reinstatement of previously extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior. Microinjection of AMPA into the nucleus accumbens shell and the nucleus accumbens core dose-dependently elicited significant cocaine-seeking behavior. Administration of antisense oligonucleotides (AS) directed against GluR1 subunit mRNA into the core and shell disrupted AMPA- and cocaine-primed reinstatement--with the most pronounced effects seen in the nucleus accumbens shell. These results demonstrate that GluRs in the nucleus accumbens core and shell influence AMPA- and cocaine-primed reinstatement, yet the nucleus accumbens shell exerts a prepotency over the nucleus accumbens core.
We have previously shown that short-term, high-dose exposure of mice to the environmentally persistent perfluorooctanoate (PFOA) results in thymic and splenic atrophy and the attenuation of specific humoral immune responses. Here we characterize the effects of a 10-day treatment with different dietary doses (1-0.001%, w/w) of perfluorooctanesulfonate (PFOS), a similar fluorochemical, on the immune system of male C57BL/6 mice. At doses greater than 0.02%, PFOS induced clinical signs of toxicity in the animals, whereas at the concentration of 0.02%, this compound caused weight loss, hepatomegaly and atrophy of the thymus, spleen and adipose tissue without toxicity. With this latter dose, histopathological and flow-cytometric analysis revealed that (i) the thymic cortex was virtually depleted of cells; (ii) the total numbers of thymocytes and splenocytes were reduced by 84 and 43%, respectively; (iii) although all populations of thymocytes and splenocytes were smaller, the thymic CD4(+)CD8(+) cells and the splenic B-lymphocytes were most decreased. These alterations resembled those evoked by analogous exposure to PFOA, but were less pronounced. At lower doses (less than 0.02%), PFOS induced hepatomegaly without affecting the thymus or spleen. Finally, comparison of male wild-type 129/Sv mice and the corresponding knock-outs lacking peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha) indicated that these effects of PFOS are not strain-dependent. More importantly, hepatomegaly is independent of PPARalpha, the thymic changes are partially dependent on this receptor, and splenic responses are largely eliminated in its absence. Thus, immunomodulation caused by PFOS is a high-dose phenomenon partially dependent on PPARalpha.
