A retrospective review of all patients who received oxacillin intravenously in doses greater than 6 g/day was done. Eight patients in whom oxacillin-associated hepatitis developed were found and compared with a control group of 46 patients who had received high-dose oxacillin and in whom oxacillin-associated hepatitis did not develop. The latent period to development of typical symptoms of hepatitis varied from 2 to 21 days. Laboratory abnormalities were compatible with anicteric hepatitis and reverted to normal after withdrawal of the drug. Oxacillin hepatitis most like represents a hypersensitivity reaction. We recommend that routine liver chemistries be done regularly in all patients receiving high-dose intravenous oxacillin.
In 14 hypertensive patients aldosterone/cortisol ratio was always lower in a peripheral vein or low IVC than in either adrenal vein. In four patients with a right-sided aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA), the aldosterone/cortisol ratio in peripheral vein was always higher than in the left adrenal vein. If only the left adrenal vein is cannulated, right-sided APA can still be diagnosed with certainty. In three patients with glucocorticoid-suppressible hyperaldosteronism, urinary excretion of both 18-oxocortisol and 18-hydroxycortisol was elevated. In four patients with APA excretion of 18-oxocortisol was elevated. In two of three patients with bilateral adrenal hyperplasia (BH), excretion of both steroids was normal. 75Se-selenomethylcholesterol scanning correctly lateralized five APA, but falsely lateralized a patient with BH. Results with CT scans were often misleading.
The aim of this study was to examine the use of risperidone in routine clinical care for very aggressive young children. This is a retrospective medical chart review of patients age less than 6 years 11 months who were treated with risperidone for 1 to 10 months during the 1-year study period. Treatment response, side effects, and Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scores were identified. One hundred and five such young children were identified; 8 had been treated with risperidone (6 boys, 2 girls: mean age 4.9 +/- 0.8 years). Risperidone was used in combination with other psychotropic medications in 7 of the 8 children. The mean daily dose of risperidone was 1.25 +/- 0.27 mg. Seventy-five percent of the children were on concomitant lithium, valproate, or carbamazepine; 63% were on stimulants or alpha adrenergics. This was a highly comorbid group, with 7 children presenting with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and 5 children with bipolar disorder not otherwise specified. The average baseline CGI severity was 5.5 (SD = 0.5), and at last visit it was 3.5 (SD = 0.5), p < 0.0001. Mean CGI improvement score was 1.9 (SD = 0.6). Adverse effects included significant weight gain (mean 5.5 +/- 4.9 kg, p < 0.05) in 6 patients. One child had hyperprolactinemia. Given the potential development of atherosclerosis in obesity and endocrine response in hyperprolactinemia, risperidone should be reserved for those children with severe aggressive behavior who failed multiple trials with other agents. Further controlled trials are needed.
To determine whether intranasal steroid treatment inhibits the increased sensitivity to histamine that occurs 24 hours after nasal antigen challenge, 12 allergic volunteers were entered into a double-blind study comparing placebo or 164 micrograms of beclomethasone dipropionate twice a day for 7 days. Beclomethasone dipropionate partially reduced the early mediator response to antigen and the influx of eosinophils 24 hours later. Comparing the initial histamine challenge with that done 24 hours after antigen with the subjects on placebo, there was a significant increase in sneezes, TAME-esterase activity, and albumin. Pretreatment with intranasal beclomethasone dipropionate resulted in a reduced response to histamine 24 hours after antigen challenge. A positive correlation occurred between the number of eosinophils in the lavage before histamine challenge and the level of TAME-esterase activity (rs = 0.67, p = 0.03) during the histamine challenge that followed antigen with the subjects on placebo. We thus confirmed the increase in nonspecific nasal airway responsiveness 24 hours after antigen challenge, with a concomitant increase in eosinophils, and demonstrate its inhibition by pretreatment with intranasal steroids.
Cancer genome and transcriptome analyses advanced our understanding of cancer biology. We performed transcriptome analysis of all known genes of peptidases also called proteases and their endogenous inhibitors in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), which is one of the most aggressive and deadly types of brain cancers, where unbalanced proteolysis is associated with tumor progression.
Comparisons were performed between the transcriptomics of primary GBM tumors and unmatched non-malignant brain tissue, and between GBM cell lines (U87-MG and U373) and a control human astrocyte cell line (NHA). Publicly-available data sets and our own datasets were integrated and normalized using bioinformatics tools to reveal protease and protease inhibitor genes with deregulated expression in both malignant versus non-malignant tissues and cells.
Of the 311 protease genes identified to be differentially expressed in both GBM tissues and cells, 5 genes were highly overexpressed, 2 genes coding for non-peptidase homologues transferrin receptor (TFRC) and G protein-coupled receptor 56 (GPR56), as well as 3 genes coding for the proteases endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2 (ERAP2), glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate transaminase 2 (GFPT2) and cathepsin K (CTSK), whereas one gene, that of the serine protease carboxypeptidase E (CPE) was strongly reduced in expression. Seventy five protease inhibitor genes were differentially expressed, of which 3 genes were highly overexpressed, the genes coding for stefin B (CSTB), peptidase inhibitor 3 (PI3 also named elafin) and CD74. Seven out of 8 genes (except CSTB) were validated using RT-qPCR in GBM cell lines. CTSK overexpression was validated using RT-qPCR in GBM tissues as well. Cathepsin K immunohistochemical staining and western blotting showed that only proteolytically inactive proforms of cathepsin K were overexpressed in GBM tissues and cells.
The presence of high levels of inactive proforms of cathepsin K in GBM tissues and cells indicate that in GBM the proteolytic/collagenolytic role is not its primary function but it plays rather a different yet unknown role.
The recently discovered repulsive guidance molecule c (RGMc or hemojuvelin) gene encodes a putative glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored protein that is expressed in striated muscle and in liver. Mutations in this gene have been linked to the severe iron storage disease, juvenile hemochromatosis, although the mechanisms of action of RGMc in iron metabolism are unknown. As a first step toward understanding the molecular physiology of this protein, we studied its biosynthesis, processing and maturation. Production of RGMc occurs as an early and sustained event during skeletal muscle differentiation in culture and is secondary to RGMc gene activation. As assessed by pulse-chase studies and cell-surface labeling experiments, two classes of GPI-anchored and glycosylated RGMc molecules are targeted to the membrane and undergo distinct fates. Full-length RGMc is released from the cell surface and accumulates in extracellular fluid, where its half-life exceeds 24 hours. By contrast, the predominant membrane-associated isoform, a disulfide-linked heterodimer composed of N- and C-terminal fragments, is not found in the extracellular fluid, and is short-lived, as it disappears from the cell surface with a half-life of <3 hours after interruption of protein synthesis. A natural disease-associated RGMc mutant, with valine substituted for glycine at residue 320 (313 in mouse RGMc), does not undergo processing to generate the heterodimeric membrane-linked isoform of RGMc, and is found on the cell surface only as larger protein species. Our results define a series of biosynthetic steps leading to the normal production of different RGMc isoforms in cells, and provide a framework for understanding the biochemical basis of defects in the maturation of RGMc in juvenile hemochromatosis.
Exposure to airborne particulate matter (PM), a major component of air pollution, has been associated with increases in both exacerbations of and hospitalizations for asthma. We have previously shown that exposure to ambient PM collected in urban Baltimore (AUB) induces airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), eosinophilic and neutrophilic inflammation, and the recruitment of T cells. However, the mechanism(s) by which it induces these features of asthma remains unknown.
We investigated whether T lymphocytes play a role in AUB-induced AHR.
We compared the effects of AUB exposure on the allergic phenotype in wild-type (WT) BALB/c mice and in mice deficient in recombinase-activating gene-1 (Rag1-/-) that lack mature lymphocytes.
We found that exposure of WT mice to AUB induced AHR concomitant with increases in the numbers of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid lymphocytes, eosinophils, neutrophils, and mucus-containing cells in the lungs of WT mice. Interestingly, we show for the first time that these effects were associated with significant elevations in interleukin (IL)-17A, IL-17F, and T-helper 2 cell (TH2) (IL-13, IL-5) cytokine levels in lung cells, as well as reductions in the levels of the suppressive cytokine IL-10. Interestingly, Rag1-/- mice failed to develop AUB-induced AHR; however, AUB-induced BAL fluid cellularity, and mucus cell changes were only partially inhibited in Rag1-/- mice.
Taken together, our results suggest that AUB exposure increases the pathophysiological features of asthma via activation of lymphocyte-dependent pathways. These results provide a plausible biological mechanism for the strong association between PM exposure and the increased severity of asthma.
For many years, benzoyl peroxide has been used as a topical treatment for acne. Although the drug has been shown to interfere with a variety of pathways, believed to be of importance in the aetiopathogenesis of acne, its mechanism of action is thought to be principally antibacterial. Recent circumstantial evidence suggests that protein kinase C might serve as an additional pharmacological target of benzoyl peroxide. In the present study, we investigated the effects of benzoyl peroxide on the release of reactive oxygen species, regulated by protein kinase C and calmodulin, from human neutrophils, a potentially important step in acne inflammation. Micromolar drug concentrations were found to inhibit the release of reactive oxygen species, but there was marked drug-induced cytotoxicity in neutrophils. However, when tested in cell-free assays, benzoyl peroxide displayed marginal inhibition of protein kinase C, but failed to antagonize calmodulin. Further investigations on its mechanism of action revealed non-specific interference with nucleotide binding sites. Therefore, the data presented here indicate that, in contrast with our previous findings with tetracycline derivatives, the clinical anti-inflammatory activity of benzoyl peroxide is unlikely to be mediated by protein kinase C or calmodulin. The differential interaction of drugs with protein kinase C and calmodulin might help to explain their different clinical usefulness in various degrees of acne severity.
Possible mechanisms underlying the gastroprotective effect of eugenol against indomethacin-induced ulcer in rats were investigated. Pyloric ligation was performed for collection of gastric juice, and gastric ulceration was induced by a single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of indomethacin (30 mg/kg). Pretreatment with a single dose of eugenol (100 mg/kg, orally), 1 h before indomethacin administration caused significant reductions in gastric mucosal lesions, gastric acid outputs and pepsin activity associated with a significant increase in mucin concentration. Additionally, eugenol significantly attenuated the elevations in gastric mucosal malondialdehyde and total nitrite, and the decrease in reduced glutathione observed with indomethacin. The protective effect afforded by eugenol was significantly inhibited by prior administration of glibenclamide, the ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channel blocker, but not by prior use of ruthenium red, the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) antagonist. The results indicate that the anti-ulcer effect of eugenol is mediated by opening of K(ATP) channels, scavenging free radicals, decreasing acid-pepsin secretion, increasing mucin production, and preventing the deleterious rise in nitric oxide level.
Safety of aviscumine by subcutaneous route was assessed in patients with advanced cancer refractory to chemotherapy. Patients with progressive disease received escalating doses twice weekly. Treatment of the accrued 26 patients (10 colorectal cancer (CRC), 6 soft tissue sarcoma (STS), 5 melanoma (MM), 5 others) was well tolerated without substance-related grade 3 or 4 toxicities. Grade 1/2 toxicities were predominantly injection site reactions. Aviscumine lacked dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) up to a maximal dose of 10 ng/kg. An increase of interleukin-1 beta and interferon-gamma from baseline was seen in the patient's plasma between the 1st and 11th injection. Highest release of both cytokines was in the dose range of 4-5.9 ng/kg. Interferon-gamma was not detected after doses higher than 6 ng/kg. Eight patients (5 CRC, 1 MM, 1 STS, 1 RCC) had disease stabilisation for 79-250 days (median122 days) associated with an increase of interleukin (IL)-1 beta and interferon (IFN)-gamma. Aviscumine was well tolerated and appeared to possess clinical activity at a biologically active dose between 4 and 6 ng/kg.
Celecoxib is a selective cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitor used to treat inflammation, while selenium is known to down-regulate the transcription of COX-2 and other pro-inflammatory genes. To expand the anti-inflammatory property, wherein celecoxib could inhibit pro-inflammatory gene expression at extremely low doses, we incorporated selenium (Se) into two Se-derivatives of celecoxib, namely; selenocoxib-2 and selenocoxib-3. In vitro kinetic assays of the inhibition of purified human COX-2 activity by these compounds indicated that celecoxib and selenocoxib-3 had identical K(I) values of 2.3 and 2.4μM; while selenocoxib-2 had a lower K(I) of 0.72μM. Furthermore, selenocoxib-2 inhibited lipopolysaccharide-induced activation of NF-κB leading to the down-regulation of expression of COX-2, iNOS, and TNFα more effectively than selenocoxib-3 and celecoxib in RAW264.7 macrophages and murine bone marrow-derived macrophages. Studies with rat liver microsomes followed by UPLC-MS-MS analysis indicated the formation of selenenylsulfide conjugates of selenocoxib-2 with N-acetylcysteine. Selenocoxib-2 was found to release minor amounts of Se that was effectively inhibited by the CYP inhibitor, sulphaphenazole. While these studies suggest that selenocoxib-2, but not celecoxib and selenocoxib-3, targets upstream events in the NF-κB signaling axis, the ability to effectively suppress NF-κB activation independent of cellular selenoprotein synthesis opens possibilities for a new generation of COX-2 inhibitors with significant and broader anti-inflammatory potential.
A series of 3-[(2,4-dioxothiazolidin-5-yl)methyl]benzamide derivatives was prepared as part of a search for antidiabetic agents. A structure-activity relationship study of these compounds led to the identification of 5-[(2,4-dioxothiazolidin-5-yl)methyl]-2-methoxy-N-[[4-(trifluorome thyl)-phenyl]methyl]benzamide (KRP-297) as a candidate drug for the treatment of diabetes mellitus.
Doxorubicin is a highly effective and widely used cytotoxic agent with application that is limited by cardiotoxicity related to the cumulative dose of the drug. A large-scale study that retrospectively evaluated the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin reported that an estimated 7% of patients developed doxorubicin-related congestive heart failure (CHF) after a cumulative dose of 550 mg/m(2). To assess whether this estimate is reflective of the incidence in the broader clinical oncology setting, the authors evaluated data from three prospective studies to determine both the incidence of doxorubicin-related CHF and the accumulated dose of doxorubicin at which CHF occurs.
A group of 630 patients who were randomized to a doxorubicin-plus-placebo arm of three Phase III studies, two studies in patients with breast carcinoma and one study in patients with small cell lung carcinoma, were included in the analysis.
Thirty-two of 630 patients had a diagnosis of CHF. Analysis indicated that an estimated cumulative 26% of patients would experience doxorubicin-related CHF at a cumulative dose of 550 mg/m(2). Age appeared to be an important risk factor for doxorubicin-related CHF after a cumulative dose of 400 mg/m(2), with older patients (age > 65 years) showing a greater incidence of CHF compared with younger patients (age < or = 65 years). In addition, > 50% of the patients who experienced doxorubicin-related CHF had a reduction < 30% in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) while they were on study.
Doxorubicin-related CHF occurs with greater frequency and at a lower cumulative dose than previously reported. These findings further indicate that LVEF is not an accurate predictor of CHF in patients who receive doxorubicin.
A growing body of evidence indicates that protracted use of methamphetamine (mAMPH) causes long-term impairments in cognitive function in humans. Aside from the widely reported problems with attention, mAMPH users exhibit learning and memory deficits, particularly on tasks requiring response control. Although binge mAMPH administration to animals results in cognitive deficits, few studies have attempted to test behavioral flexibility in animals after mAMPH exposure. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether mAMPH would produce impairments in two tasks assessing flexible responding in rats: a touchscreen-based discrimination-reversal learning task and an attentional set shift task (ASST) based on a hallmark test of executive function in humans, the Wisconsin Card Sort. We treated male Long-Evans rats with a regimen of four injections of 2 mg/kg mAMPH (or vehicle) within a single day, a dosing regimen shown earlier to produce object recognition impairments. We then tested them on (1) reversal learning after pretreatment discrimination learning or (2) the ASST. Early reversal learning accuracy was impaired in mAMPH-treated rats. MAMPH pretreatment also selectively impaired reversal performance during ASST testing, leaving set-shifting performance intact. Postmortem analysis of [(125)I]RTI-55 binding revealed small (10-20%) but significant reductions in striatal dopamine transporters produced by this mAMPH regimen. Together, these results lend new information to the growing field documenting impaired cognition after mAMPH exposure, and constitute a rat model of the widely reported decision-making deficits resulting from mAMPH abuse seen in humans.
The patient was a 62-year-old female. In June 1999, thiamazole (MMI) was orally administered under a diagnosis of hyperthyroidism. However, drug exanthema developed. In July, oral administration of propylthiouracil (PTU) was started. On October 20, 2005, palpitation and exertional dyspnea occurred. On November 1, bloody sputum was noted, and the patient consulted our hospital on November 8. In addition to severe anemia, chest X-ray and CT revealed diffuse infiltration in the bilateral lungs. The patient was admitted for detailed examination and treatment. After admission, the myeloperoxidase (MPO)-anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) level was 390 EU, suggesting ANCA-associated angitis. PTU was discontinued, and steroid pulse therapy resulted in the disappearance of alveolar hemorrhage and hematuria. Transbronchial lung biopsy suggested alveolar hemorrhage, and kidney biopsy showed glomerular necrosis and interstitial infiltration of inflammatory cells, suggesting PTU-induced ANCA-associated angitis. Posttreatment with prednisolone at 30 mg/day gradually decreased the MPO-ANCA level. There has been no relapse during the 2-years follow-up.
Troglitazone is an insulin-sensitizing agent used to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus. Several cases have been reported of troglitazone-induced hepatic injury; some requiring transplantation, others resulting in death. We here present a case of troglitazone-induced fulminant hepatic necrosis that led to the death of the patient.
To report a case of renal toxicity associated with administration of indinavir sulfate in a pediatric hemophiliac with HIV infection.
A 16-year-old white hemophiliac boy with HIV infection secondary to tainted coagulation factor VIII was treated with indinavir sulfate. The patient developed gross hematuria, proteinuria, pyuria, abdominal pain, increased bilirubin, an elevated serum creatinine (SCr) of 1.2 mg/dL (baseline 0.9-1.0), and symptoms of renal colic within 1 month of starting indinavir sulfate therapy. Approximately 2 months later the patient developed a low-grade fever with a further increase in SCr. He was prescribed a 10-day course of cefpodoxime proxetil for a possible urinary tract infection. One week later, the patient developed fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, decreased appetite, sterile pyuria, nasal congestion, and an elevated SCr of 1.3-1.7 mg/dL. Indinavir sulfate and cefpodoxime proxetil were discontinued and the patient was suspected of having tubulointerstitial nephritis secondary to indinavir sulfate. The patient's nephritis resolved and the SCr decreased to 1.1 mg/dL within 1 month of discontinuing indinavir sulfate.
This case demonstrates the potential for renal toxicity with the use of indinavir sulfate in HIV-infected hemophiliacs.
Our objectives were to ascertain the safety (cardiotoxicity) and efficacy of non-pegylated liposomal doxorubicin [Myocet (M)] compared with conventional doxorubicin (A) in patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) who had received adjuvant anthracycline treatment and were at high risk of developing iatrogenic cardiomyopathy. This retrospective analysis is based on data pooled from two prospective phase III comparative randomized clinical trials comparing Myocet versus conventional doxorubicin in combination with cyclophosphamide and as single agents, respectively, for the treatment of MBC. The outcome measures reviewed in this analysis were overall response, time to treatment failure, time to disease progression, overall survival and cardiotoxicity. The analysis was carried out by strata according to patients' previous exposure to adjuvant anthracyclines. Kaplan-Meier, log-rank chi-test, Cox proportional-hazards and Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel statistics were used for the analysis. Sixty-eight patients were included in this analysis: 29 and 39 patients from Studies 1 and 2, respectively, had received adjuvant anthracycline treatment. Study 1, with n=297, compared M 60 mg/m (M60) plus cyclophosphamide (C) 600 mg/m (C600) versus A 60 mg/m (A60) plus C600 as first-line treatment for MBC. Twenty-nine patients had received prior adjuvant doxorubicin, of whom, after randomization, 14 received M60+C600 and 15 received A60+C600 for the treatment of MBC. Study 2, with n=224, compared M 75 mg/m (M75) with A 75 mg/m (A75) as first-line treatment for MBC disease. Thirty-nine patients had received prior adjuvant doxorubicin, of whom, after randomization, 18 received M75 and 21 received A75 for their MBC. Hence, 32 patients received M-containing regimens and 36 received A-containing regimens for the treatment of MBC. Median age in both groups was 54 years. The groups were well balanced in terms of demographic characteristics. Overall response rates were 31% and 11% for M-treated patients and A-treated patients, respectively (Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel P=0.04, odds ratio=4.0). Median time to progression was 4.5 versus 3.4 months [log-rank P=0.66, hazard ratio (HR)=1.14], median time to treatment failure was 4.2 versus 2.1 months (log-rank P=0.01, HR=2.06) and median survival time was 16 versus 15 months (log-rank P=0.71, HR=1.12). Cardiac events occurred in 22% of M-treated patients [one congestive heart failure (CHF)] versus 39% of A-treated patients (three CHFs) (log-rank, P=0.001). Median lifetime dose at onset of cardiotoxicity was 780 mg/m for M versus 580 mg/m for A (log-rank P=0.001, HR=4.8). This retrospective analysis shows that treatment based on non-pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (Myocet) significantly reduced the risk of cardiotoxicity in patients with MBC who had received prior adjuvant doxorubicin. Furthermore, anti-tumor activity and time to treatment failure were significantly improved compared with patients who received treatment based on conventional doxorubicin for their MBC. This analysis revisits the therapeutic option of including doxorubicin in the treatment of MBC patients who have had prior adjuvant anthracycline exposure.
Long-term neuroplastic changes to dentate granule cells have been reported after seizures and were shown to contribute to recurrent excitatory circuitry. These changes include increased numbers of newborn granule cells, sprouted mossy fibers, granule cell layer dispersion, increased hilar ectopic granule cells and formation of hilar basal dendrites on granule cells. The goal of the current study was to determine the acute progression of neuroplastic changes involving newly generated granule cells after pilocarpine-induced seizures. Doublecortin (DCX) immunocytochemical preparations were used to examine the newly generated granule cells 1-5 days after seizures were induced. The results showed that there are rapid neuroplastic changes to the DCX-labeled cells. At 1 day after seizures were induced, there were significant increases in the percentage of DCX-labeled cells with hilar basal dendrites and in the progenitor cell population. At 2 days after seizures were induced, an increase in the thickness of the layer of DCX-labeled cells occurred. At 3 days after seizures were induced, the number of DCX-labeled cells was significantly increased. At 4 days after seizures were induced, developing synapses were observed on DCX-labeled hilar basal dendrites. Thus, newly generated granule cells in the adult dentate gyrus display neuroplastic changes by 1 day after pilocarpine-induced seizures and further changes occur to this population of cells in the subsequent 4 days. The presence of synapses, albeit developing ones, on hilar basal dendrites during this period indicates that newly generated granule cells become rapidly incorporated into dentate gyrus circuitry following seizures.
To clarify the profile of the tacrolimus (FK506)-induced nephrotoxicity and its mechanism, 1, 2 and 4 mg/kg/day of tacrolimus was administered intramuscularly (i.m.) to spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHR) for 2 weeks, and biochemical and pathological parameters were studied in the animals. The acute nephrotoxicity of tacrolimus was characterized as increase of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and plasma creatinine (P-Cr) levels in the groups of 1 mg/kg/day and more, decrease of creatinine clearance (CCr) value in the groups of 2 mg/kg/day and more, and histopathologically luminal narrowing of the arteriole adjacent the glomerulus in the groups of 1 mg/kg/day and more. These changes were associated with an increase of plasma renin activity (PRA) and urinary thromboxane B2 content and decrease of 6-keto-prostagrandinF1 alpha (6-keto-PGF1 alpha) content. Nilvadipine, which is one of the Ca2+ antagonist and is known to have renal vasodilating activity, prevented both biochemical and histopathological changes due to tacrolimus. The results indicated that the acute nephrotoxicity of tacrolimus was derived from impairment of glomerular function associated with the constriction of the renal arteriole brought about by the drug. All of these renal disorders induced by tacrolimus recovered completely or partially when the drug was withdrawn for 2 or 4 weeks. Consequently, the acute nephrotoxicity of tacrolimus in SHR was considered to be reversible.
A genome-wide association scan in individuals with Crohn's disease by the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium detected strong association at four novel loci. We tested 37 SNPs from these and other loci for association in an independent case-control sample. We obtained replication for the autophagy-inducing IRGM gene on chromosome 5q33.1 (replication P = 6.6 x 10(-4), combined P = 2.1 x 10(-10)) and for nine other loci, including NKX2-3, PTPN2 and gene deserts on chromosomes 1q and 5p13.
These studies were undertaken to examine the contribution of central nervous system mechanisms to the cardiovascular and sympathoadrenal effects of cocaine. Changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate and plasma catecholamine concentrations were determined in response to cocaine injected i.a. or i.c.v. in conscious unrestrained rats. Systemically administered cocaine produced brisk, transient dose-related increases in systolic and diastolic pressure at doses of 0.05 to 5 mg/kg i.a. Plasma catecholamine concentrations increased in a dose-related manner, reaching peak levels at 5 to 10 min after i.a. cocaine injection. Only the higher doses of cocaine induced reflex vagal bradycardia that was blocked by atropine (0.4 mg/kg i.a.). Propranolol (1 mg/kg i.a.) prolonged the duration of cocaine-induced hypertension and bradycardia. Ganglionic blockade with chlorisondamine (7.5 mg/kg i.a.) antagonized completely the cardiovascular and sympathoadrenal effects of cocaine, indicating that intact ganglionic transmission is required for full expression of the autonomic responses. Antagonist drugs selective for the D-1 or D-2 dopamine receptors attenuated effects of cocaine on plasma catecholamine concentrations but not on cardiovascular parameters. Intracerebroventricular injection of cocaine (50-250 micrograms) increased systolic pressure and plasma catecholamine concentrations, providing direct evidence for an action of cocaine in the central nervous system. These results demonstrate that cocaine acts centrally to increase sympathetic outflow leading to hypertension and reflex bradycardia in conscious rats.
This study was to characterize the neuroprotective effects of nortriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant, in mouse models of chronic neurodegeneration [amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Huntington's disease (HD)]. Nortriptyline was originally selected from a library screening of 1040 FDA-approved drugs by using isolated mitochondria. It emerged as a strong inhibitor of mitochondrial permeability transition (mPT). Our results showed that nortriptyline significantly delayed disease onset and extended the lifespan of ALS mice although its effect on mortality was less than that on onset. We also tested promethazine, another compound which emerged from the same screening, in ALS mice. Promethazine-treated ALS mice exhibited a significant delay in disease onset but not in mortality. Histochemistry analysis found that nortriptyline treatment indeed protected motor neurons from death and reduced ventral horn atrophy in ALS mice. Furthermore, release of cytochrome c and activation of caspase 3, two molecular phenomena associated with mitochondrial-pathway-mediated cell death, were inhibited by nortriptyline. We also demonstrated similar beneficial effects of nortriptyline in HD mice: it extended the presymptomatic portion of the disease but had no effect on mortality. In an established cellular model of HD, nortriptyline inhibited cell death and decreased loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. In summary, this study indicated the potential therapeutic usefulness of nortriptyline in ALS and HD. In addition, our data suggested a role for mPT in chronic neurodegeneration, particularly at the early rather than the advanced disease stages.
To evaluate the effect of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) or trimethaphan (TMP) induced hypotension on epidural blood flow (EBF) during spinal surgery, EBF was measured using the heat clearance method in 30 patients who underwent postero-lateral interbody fusion under isoflurane anaesthesia. An initial dose of 0.1 microgram.kg-1.min-1 of PGE1 (15 patients), or 10 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 of TMP (15 patients) was administered intravenously after the dural opening and the dose was adjusted to maintain the mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) at about 60 mmHg. The hypotensive drug was discontinued at the completion of the operative procedure. After starting PGE1 or TMP, MAP and rate pressure product (RPP) decreased significantly compared with preinfusion values (P < 0.01), and the degree of hypotension due to PGE1 remained constant until 60 min after its discontinuation. Heart rate (HR) did not change in either group. EBFF did not change during PGE1 infusion whereas in the TMP group, EBF decreased significantly at 30 and 60 min after the start of TMP (preinfusion: 45.9 +/- 13.9 ml/100g/min. 30 min: 32.3 +/- 9.9 ml/100 g/min (P < 0.05). 60 min: 30 +/- 7.5 ml/100 g/min (P < 0.05)). These results suggest that PGE1 may be preferable to TMP for hypotensive anaesthesia in spinal surgery because TMP decreased EBF.
In an effort to understand how genetics can influence individual sensitivity to environmentally induced disease, we performed a linkage analysis to identify murine loci in addition to the Ahr locus that influence the incidence of cleft palate and hydronephrosis in developing mice exposed to the pollutant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (dioxin). Administration of 64 microg/kg dioxin to C57BL/6J (B6) dams at embryonic day 9 (E9) led to palatal clefting and hydronephrosis in nearly 100% of embryos by E17. In contrast, similar exposure of CBA/J (CBA) dams led to cleft palate in only 8% and hydronephrosis in 69% of embryos. To determine the genetic basis for this strain-dependent sensitivity, linkage analyses on the progeny of a B6CBAF1 intercross and a CBAxB6CBAF1 backcross were performed. The incidences of cleft palate and hydronephrosis were assessed and genomic DNA from embryos was analyzed at informative simple sequence length polymorphism (SSLP) markers. One locus segregating with dioxin-induced cleft palate was identified (p < 0.01) and designated as chemically mediated teratogenesis number 1 (Cmt1). The Cmt1 locus is located on chromosome 3.
Because of the National Acute Spinal Cord Injury Studies (NASCIS), high-dose methylprednisolone became the standard of care for the acute spinal cord injury. In the NASCIS, there was no mention regarding the possibility of acute corticosteroid myopathy that high-dose methylprednisolone may cause. The dosage of methylprednisolone recommended by the NASCIS 3 is the highest dose of steroids ever being used during a 2-day period for any clinical condition. We hypothesize that it may cause some damage to the muscle of spinal cord injury patients. Further, steroid myopathy recovers naturally and the neurological improvement shown in the NASCIS may be just a recording of this natural motor recovery from the steroid myopathy, instead of any protection that methylprednisolone offers to the spinal cord injury. To our knowledge, this is the first discussion considering the possibility that the methylprednisolone recommended by NASCIS may cause acute corticosteroid myopathy.
The effect of oral diltiazem 120 mg, on the responses to baroreflex activation and deactivation by phenylephrine and nitroglycerin, respectively, were investigated in normotensive subjects, with simultaneous measurement of plasma catecholamine levels. Diltiazem significantly reduced the tachycardia induced by bolus injections of nitroglycerin and abolished the concomitant increase in plasma noradrenaline. It also significantly decreased the bradycardiac response to phenylephrine infusion. Diltiazem reduced, although not significantly so, the bradycardia induced by boluses of phenylephrine. The overall reduction in baroreflex sensitivity, which might contribute to the limited tachycardiac effect of diltiazem in man, is consistent with the drug-induced attenuation of the sympathetic and also of the parasympathetic components of the baroreceptor reflex.
Previous investigators have demonstrated amelioration of lipid-soluble drug toxidromes with infusion of lipid emulsions. Clomipramine is a lipid-soluble tricyclic antidepressant with significant cardiovascular depressant activity in human overdose. We compare resuscitation with Intralipid versus sodium bicarbonate in a rabbit model of clomipramine toxicity.
Thirty sedated and mechanically ventilated New Zealand White rabbits were infused with clomipramine at 320 mg/kg per hour. At target mean arterial pressure of 50% initial mean arterial pressure, animals were rescued with 0.9% NaCl 12 mL/kg, 8.4% sodium bicarbonate 3 mL/kg, or 20% Intralipid 12 mL/kg. Pulse rate, mean arterial pressure, and QRS duration were sampled at 2.5-minute intervals to 15 minutes. In the second phase of the experiment, 8 sedated and mechanically ventilated rabbits were infused with clomipramine at 240 mg/kg per hour to a mean arterial pressure of 25 mm Hg. Animals received either 2 mL/kg 8.4% sodium bicarbonate or 8 mL/kg 20% Intralipid as rescue therapy. External cardiac compression and intravenous adrenaline were administered in the event of cardiovascular collapse.
Mean difference in mean arterial pressure between Intralipid- and saline solution-treated groups was 21.1 mm Hg (95% confidence interval [CI] 13.5 to 28.7 mm Hg) and 19.5 mm Hg (95% CI 10.5 to 28.9 mm Hg) at 5 and 15 minutes, respectively. Mean difference in mean arterial pressure between Intralipid- and bicarbonate-treated groups was 19.4 mm Hg (95% CI 18.8 to 27.0 mm Hg) and 11.5 mm Hg (95% CI 2.5 to 20.5 mm Hg) at 5 and 15 minutes. The rate of change in mean arterial pressure was greatest in the Intralipid-treated group at 3 minutes (6.2 mm Hg/min [95% CI 3.8 to 8.6 mm Hg/min] Intralipid versus -0.25 mm Hg/min [95% CI -1.9 to 1.4 mm Hg/min] saline solution) and 5 minutes (4.4 mm Hg/min [95% CI 3.0 to 5.9 mm Hg/min] Intralipid versus 0.06 mm Hg/min [95% CI -0.9 to 1.1 mm Hg/min] saline solution). In the second phase of the experiment spontaneous circulation was maintained in all Intralipid-treated rabbits (n=4). All animals in the bicarbonate-treated group developed pulseless electrical activity and proved refractory to resuscitation at 10 minutes (n=4, P=.023).
In this rabbit model, Intralipid infusion resulted in more rapid and complete reversal of clomipramine-induced hypotension compared with sodium bicarbonate. Additionally, Intralipid infusion prevented cardiovascular collapse in a model of severe clomipramine toxicity.
