Impaired gating by hippocampal dentate granule cells may promote the development of limbic epilepsy by facilitating seizure spread through the hippocampal trisynaptic circuit. The second synapse in this circuit, the dentate granule cell≫CA3 pyramidal cell connection, may be of particular importance because pathological changes occurring within the dentate likely exert their principal effect on downstream CA3 pyramids. Here, we utilized GFP-expressing mice and immunolabeling for the zinc transporter ZnT-3 to reveal the pre- and postsynaptic components of granule cell≫CA3 pyramidal cell synapses following pilocarpine-epileptogenesis. Confocal analyses of these terminals revealed that while granule cell presynaptic giant boutons increased in size and complexity 1 month after status epilepticus, individual thorns making up the postsynaptic thorny excrescences of the CA3 pyramidal cells were reduced in number. This reduction, however, was transient, and 3 months after status, thorn density recovered. This recovery was accompanied by a significant change in the distribution of thorns along pyramidal cells dendrites. While thorns in control animals tended to be tightly clustered, thorns in epileptic animals were more evenly distributed. Computational modeling of thorn distributions predicted an increase in the number of boutons required to cover equivalent numbers of thorns in epileptic vs. control mice. Confirming this prediction, ZnT-3 labeling of presynaptic giant boutons apposed to GFP-expressing thorns revealed a near doubling in bouton density, while the number of individual thorns per bouton was reduced by half. Together, these data provide clear evidence of novel plastic changes occurring within the epileptic hippocampus.
Using a rat model of drug craving, we found that the responsiveness to cocaine cues progressively increases or incubates over the first 60 d of cocaine withdrawal. Here we studied whether alterations in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein levels within the mesolimbic dopamine system are associated with this incubation phenomenon. BDNF is involved in synaptic plasticity and was found to enhance responding for cues associated with natural rewards. Rats were trained to press a lever to receive intravenous cocaine or oral sucrose for 6 hr/d for 10 d; each earned reward was paired with a tone-light cue. Resumption of lever-pressing behavior was then assessed on days 1, 30, or 90 of reward withdrawal. First, resistance to extinction was assessed during 6 hr in which lever presses were not reinforced and the cue was absent. Second, cue-induced reinstatement was assessed after extinction during 1 hr in which responding led to cue presentations. Other rats were killed without testing on days 1, 30, and 90 of reward withdrawal, and BDNF and nerve growth factor (NGF) protein levels were measured in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), accumbens, and amygdala. Lever pressing during extinction and cue-induced reinstatement tests of cocaine craving progressively increased after cocaine withdrawal. Time-dependent changes also were observed during the tests for sucrose craving, with maximal responding on day 30. BDNF, but not NGF, levels in the VTA, accumbens, and amygdala progressively increased after cocaine, but not sucrose, withdrawal. Time-dependent increases in BDNF levels may lead to synaptic modifications that underlie enhanced responsiveness to cocaine cues after prolonged withdrawal periods.
Toxicogenomic studies are increasingly used to uncover potential biomarkers of adverse health events, enrich chemical risk assessment, and to facilitate proper identification and treatment of persons susceptible to toxicity. Current approaches to biomarker discovery through gene expression profiling usually utilize a single or few strains of rodents, limiting the ability to detect biomarkers that may represent the wide range of toxicity responses typically observed in genetically heterogeneous human populations. To enhance the utility of animal models to detect response biomarkers for genetically diverse populations, we used a laboratory mouse strain diversity panel. Specifically, mice from 36 inbred strains derived from Mus mus musculus, Mus mus castaneous, and Mus mus domesticus origins were treated with a model hepatotoxic agent, acetaminophen (300 mg/kg, ig). Gene expression profiling was performed on liver tissue collected at 24 h after dosing. We identified 26 population-wide biomarkers of response to acetaminophen hepatotoxicity in which the changes in gene expression were significant across treatment and liver necrosis score but not significant for individual mouse strains. Importantly, most of these biomarker genes are part of the intracellular signaling involved in hepatocyte death and include genes previously associated with acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity, such as cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A (p21) and interleukin 6 signal transducer (Il6st), and genes not previously associated with acetaminophen, such as oncostatin M receptor (Osmr) and MLX interacting protein like (Mlxipl). Our data demonstrate that a multistrain approach may provide utility for understanding genotype-independent toxicity responses and facilitate identification of novel targets of therapeutic intervention.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are widespread persistent and bioaccumulative environmental contaminants. Recent scientific attention has focused on the developmental toxicity of PBDE commercial mixtures following perinatal exposure of rodents; however, these studies do not necessarily predict toxicity to highly exposed top predators, such as mink (Mustela vison). Here we assessed the effects of environmentally relevant doses (0, 0.1, 0.5, and 2.5 ppm [wt/wt] in feed) of a technical pentabrominated diphenyl ether mixture, DE-71, on reproductive performance of mink and on development of offspring exposed perinatally and post-weaning until 33 weeks. A dietary concentration that causes no effects on reproduction in rodents, 2.5-ppm DE-71, resulted in complete reproductive failure in these mink, while whelping rates were not affected at all lower does. Developmental effects in offspring were evident in 33-week-old juveniles, which were more sensitive to effects than their respective dams. Juvenile thyroid hormone homeostasis was also much more sensitive compared to rodents, and at 0.5-ppm DE-71, total triiodothyronine (T3) was significantly decreased in all males and females, even despite a compensatory increase of total thyroxine (T4) in females. T4-outer-ring deiodinase activity, mainly contributed by type II deiodinase, was not affected at any dose for any life stage, but thyroid follicular epithelium cell height was elevated in the 0.5-ppm-treated juveniles (p = 0.057). Ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activity was significantly induced in all offspring at 33 weeks, most likely as a consequence of polybrominated dioxin, furan, or biphenyl impurities in DE-71. Biomonitoring of wild mink in the Great Lakes region indicated that most populations had lower concentrations than what are expected to affect thyroid hormone homeostasis, but margins of safety are small and mink around Hamilton Harbour exceeded the no observed adverse effect level for T3 disruption.
Some anticancer drugs can result in increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Alkylating agents are the most frequently used drugs in chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of malignant melanoma. It is known that triazenes exhibit in vivo activity by alkylation of nucleic acids and proteins, but there is no data about ROS formation during oxidative metabolism. Single agents of most interest for treatment of malignant melanomas include 5-(3,3-dimethyltriazene-1-yl)-imidazole-4-carboxamide (DTIC) and nitrosoureas such as 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (CCNU), but complete response to these drugs is rare. The present study aimed to determine whether an oxidative stress occurs during the clinical course of melanoma and the influence of therapy on the antioxidant status of patients with melanoma. For this purpose, we investigated plasma concentrations of MDA as indices of the levels of lipid peroxidation products. In addition, we studied the activities of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutases (SOD) and catalase (CAT) in patients with melanoma before any treatment, after surgical removal of melanoma, and after chemotherapy with DTIC or in combination with CCNU of the operated patients.
Twenty one patients with melanoma were studied. Patients were operated prior to chemotherapy. After recovery for 10-20 days postoperatively, they were studied again for MDA, SOD and CAT activity. The patients were divided into two groups according to the chemotherapy (3-7 treatment cycles): with DTIC-given orally daily for 5 days, every 3 weeks as a single 2200 mg/kg dose and with the combination-DTIC (the same dose) + CCNU-administered orally at a dosage of 120 mg/m(2) once every 40 days in accordance with protocols, approved by the Bulgarian Ministry of Health. The total amount of lipid peroxidation products in plasma was assayed.
Plasma levels of MDA and CAT activity were significantly higher, and erythrocyte SOD activity significantly lower, in patients with melanoma, than in control healthy volunteers (P < 0.0001). Ten to twenty days after surgery, oxidative stress decreased but levels of MDA increased as a result of therapy. Important sources of increased ROS production may be the monocytes, phagocytosis of tumour cells and the cancer tissues. Plasma MDA in patients treated with DTIC + CCNU were significantly higher (P < 0.001), but erythrocyte SOD statistically lower (P < 0.00001), compared with patients treated with DTIC only. However, a combination of DTIC + CCNU did not attenuate oxidative stress, or reduced antioxidant status. Patients treated with this combination are at bigger risk of oxidative injury. Therefore, this disturbance might be due to augmented generation of toxic ROS, possibly from the metabolism of CCNU.
Increased oxidative stress follows an imbalance in antioxidant defence in non-treated patients with melanoma. The impaired antioxidant system favours accumulation of ROS, which may promote the cancer process. After complete removal of melanoma tissues, oxidative stress decreased. The antioxidant status of melanoma patients operated on was influenced by the different chemotherapeutic regimens used and may play an important role in the response. Patients on DTIC + CCNU are at higher risk of oxidative injury. This drug combination probably exerts its toxic activity by ROS, which could be products of the metabolism of CCNU.
Current treatment strategies for levodopa-induced psychosis in Parkinson's disease have had limited success. Remoxipride, a selective D2 receptor antagonist, was administered in an open label pilot study to seven parkinsonian patients exhibiting thought disorder. Symptoms improved significantly in six patients after treatment durations of 1-6 months and cleared completely in two individuals. One patient (at age 90 the oldest in the group) could not tolerate the compound due to significant motor deterioration, and the drug had to be discontinued after 1 week. In all remaining patients, no motor complications appeared, and therapeutic effects of remoxipride continued for up to 3 months after treatment cessation and have lasted for 2 years now in one individual. Further study of this compound in the context of treatment-induced psychosis in Parkinson's disease appears to be warranted.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is involved in the underlying pathophysiology of all vascular headaches, including migraines. Elevated levels of CGRP during migraine are restored to normal coincident with headache relief after treatment with the antimigraine drug sumatriptan. We have used primary cultures of trigeminal neurons under conditions simulating migraine pathology and therapy to study the mechanisms controlling the CGRP promoter. Using reporter genes in transient transfection assays, we demonstrate that an 18 bp enhancer containing a helix-loop-helix element is both necessary and sufficient for full promoter activity. NGF treatment and cotransfection with an upstream activator of the extracellular signal-regulated MAP kinases (MAPKs) activated the enhancer. Treatment with sumatriptan repressed NGF- and MAPK-stimulated CGRP promoter activity. Repression was also observed using a synthetic MAPK-responsive reporter gene. Sumatriptan regulation of CGRP gene expression did not couple to a G(i)/G(o) pathway, but rather caused a prolonged increase in intracellular calcium. The importance of the prolonged calcium signal in repression of MAPK activity was demonstrated by using the ionophore ionomycin to mimic sumatriptan action. We propose that activation of MAPK pathways may increase CGRP gene expression during migraine, and that sumatriptan can diametrically oppose that activation via a prolonged elevation of intracellular calcium.
In a randomized double-blind study, 20 parkinsonian patients (suffering from the disease for 2-18 years), chronically treated with levodopa (500-750 mg/day for 0.5-12 years), received terguride (1 mg b.i.d.) or placebo for 4 weeks. Growth hormone (GH), prolactin (PRL), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) secretions were studied before and after the morning dose of levodopa (250 mg p.o.), both before and at the end of study period. At the beginning of the study, basal hormonal levels were within normal limits, and levodopa administration induced a significant suppression in PRL and TSH levels (both p < 0.01)) and a significant increase in GH (p < 0.01). The same results were observed at the end of the study period in the placebo group. Addition of terguride induced a significant suppression in basal PRL levels (p < 0.01), whereas levodopa-induced hormonal changes were unaffected. These data suggest that the hypothalamic dopaminergic function that controls anterior pituitary hormones is preserved in parkinsonian patients, regardless of both the duration of the disease and the long-term treatment with levodopa. The strong additional prolactin-lowering effect of terguride indicates long-lasting dopaminergic effects, as is already known from hyperprolactinemic conditions. The dopaminergic effects of levodopa on TSH, GH, and IGF-I secretion were unchanged by terguride treatment. The anti-dopaminergic effects of terguride observed in the motor system in animal studies, as well as in levodopa-induced dyskinesias in parkinsonian patients, could not be observed in the case of the dopaminergic control of anterior pituitary hormones under the conditions of this study.
We present a series of cases of phenytoin toxicity where the diagnosis was initially missed. These patients all suffered unnecessary morbidity or investigations. The side-effects and unusual pharmacokinetics of phenytoin are discussed, as well as the array of potential drug interactions. We remind clinicians that phenytoin toxicity can easily mimic a cerebellar lesion or alcohol intoxication, and suggest that in accordance with National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines phenytoin should no longer be used as a first-line treatment for epilepsy.
The P301S mutation in exon 10 of the tau gene causes a hereditary tauopathy. While mitochondrial complex I inhibition has been linked to sporadic tauopathies. Piericidin A is a prototypical member of the group of the piericidins, a class of biologically active natural complex I inhibitors, isolated from streptomyces spp. with global distribution in marine and agricultural habitats. The aim of this study was to determine whether there is a pathogenic interaction of the environmental toxin piericidin A and the P301S mutation.
Transgenic mice expressing human tau with the P301S-mutation (P301S+/+) and wild-type mice at 12 weeks of age were treated subcutaneously with vehicle (N = 10 P301S+/+, N = 7 wild-type) or piericidin A (N = 9 P301S+/+, N = 9 wild-type mice) at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg/d for a period of 28 days via osmotic minipumps. Tau pathology was measured by stereological counts of cells immunoreative with antibodies against phosphorylated tau (AD2, AT8, AT180, and AT100) and corresponding Western blot analysis.
Piericidin A significantly increased the number of phospho-tau immunoreactive cells in the cerebral cortex in P301S+/+ mice, but only to a variable and mild extent in wild-type mice. Furthermore, piericidin A led to increased levels of pathologically phosphorylated tau only in P301S+/+ mice. While we observed no apparent cell loss in the frontal cortex, the synaptic density was reduced by piericidin A treatment in P301S+/+ mice.
This study shows that exposure to piericidin A aggravates the course of genetically determined tau pathology, providing experimental support for the concept of gene-environment interaction in the etiology of tauopathies.
We report four patients with Parkinson's disease who had an unusual pattern of severe chorea and dystonia in the evenings only. The temporal pattern of abnormal movements and simultaneous monitoring of plasma levodopa and clinical state were consistent with dyskinesias associated with subtherapeutic (low dopa dyskinesias) rather than peak concentrations of levodopa (high dopa dyskinesias). In two patients, addition of a direct-acting dopamine receptor agonist was helpful in ameliorating this complication of antiparkinson therapy.
Institutionalized adults with severe developmental disabilities have a high rate of minimal trauma and appendicular fracture. There is little information about osteoporosis treatment in this population. In this efficacy and safety study, men and women with severe developmental disabilities and osteoporosis received 20 mcg teriparatide subcutaneously daily for 18-24 months. Markers of bone formation [procollagen type 1 intact N-terminal propeptide (P1NP)] and resorption [C-telopeptide (CTx)] were measured at three-month intervals. Serum calcium was measured at two-week intervals for 12 weeks and thereafter at three-month intervals. Twenty-seven individuals received at least one injection. The incidence of hypercalcemia was 11.1% but was persistent and led to medication discontinuation in only one participant. Biomarkers of bone formation increased rapidly, doubling by three months. At 12 months, P1NP and CTx remained elevated from baseline; P1NP had risen from 66.95 +/- 83.71 microg/l (mean +/- SD) to 142.42 +/- 113.85 microg/l (P = 0.05), and CTx had increased from 0.377 +/- 0.253 to 1.016 +/- 1.048 ng/ml (P = 0.01). The majority of participants had an increase in P1NP of over 10 microg/l. In conclusion, teriparatide is safe and effective in developmentally disabled institutionalized adults. Serial calcium measurements are warranted, particularly during the first three months of therapy.
In humans and experimental animals, high fat diets (HFD) are associated with risk factors for metabolic diseases, such as excessive weight gain and adiposity, insulin resistance and fatty liver. Mice lacking the glutamate-cysteine ligase modifier subunit gene (Gclm(-/-)) and deficient in glutathione (GSH), are resistant to HFD-mediated weight gain. Herein, we evaluated Gclm-associated regulation of energy metabolism, oxidative stress, and glucose and lipid homeostasis. C57BL/6J Gclm(-/-) mice and littermate wild-type (WT) controls received a normal diet or an HFD for 11 weeks. HFD-fed Gclm(-/-) mice did not display a decreased respiratory quotient, suggesting that they are unable to process lipid for metabolism. Although dietary energy consumption and intestinal lipid absorption were unchanged in Gclm(-/-) mice, feeding these mice an HFD did not produce excess body weight nor fat storage. Gclm(-/-) mice displayed higher basal metabolic rates resulting from higher activities of liver mitochondrial NADH-CoQ oxidoreductase, thus elevating respiration. Although Gclm(-/-) mice exhibited strong systemic and hepatic oxidative stress responses, HFD did not promote glucose intolerance or insulin resistance. Furthermore, HFD-fed Gclm(-/-) mice did not develop fatty liver, likely resulting from very low expression levels of genes encoding lipid metabolizing enzymes. We conclude that Gclm is involved in the regulation of basal metabolic rate and the metabolism of dietary lipid. Although Gclm(-/-) mice display a strong oxidative stress response, they are protected from HFD-induced excessive weight gain and adipose deposition, insulin resistance and steatosis.
We examined whether phosphatidylcholine inhibited growth of hepatic cancer, as previously shown for menaquinone-4 (vitamin K2).
Growth inhibitions by phosphatidylcholine and/or menaquinone-4 and apoptosis induction by phosphatidylcholine were evaluated in vitro using human hepatic cancer cell lines (Hep-3B, Hep-G2, HuH-7, and Alexander). Effects of these agents were then investigated in male Sprague-Dawley rats against hepatocarcinogenesis induced by diethylnitrosamine plus phenobarbital. All rats were killed to examine livers to evaluate inhibitory potential macroscopically and immunohistochemically using an antibody against the marker of carcinogenesis, glutathione S-transferase and apoptotic induction by phosphatidylcholine using TUNEL staining. Blood samples were obtained by cardiac puncture.
In vitro, phosphatidylcholine and menaquinone-4 each inhibited cancer cell growth and phosphatidylcholine induced apoptosis dose-dependently. Moreover, exposure to both synergistically inhibited growth in Hep-3B. In vivo, diets containing phosphatidylcholine with or without menaquinone-4 significantly reduced the number of macroscopic hepatic tumor nodules and the extent of abnormally immunoreactive foci conserving hepatic function on serum examinations compared with controls given only the carcinogens. Moreover, phosphatidylcholine supplementation induced apoptosis on TUNEL staining of liver sections.
Given together, phosphatidylcholine and menaquinone-4 may exhibit synergy against hepatocarcinogenesis conserving hepatic function that could benefit patients at high risk for hepatocellular carcinoma.
Human hibernating myocardium (HHM) is characterized by reversible contractile dysfunction during chronic ischemia. A disturbed calcium-homeostasis is a decisive factor for reduced functional capacity in heart diseases. We therefore investigated calcium-handling proteins in HHM. In 12 patients suffering from multi-vessel coronary artery disease and contractile dysfunction with indication for bypass surgery, HHM was detected preoperatively by thallium scintigraphy, radionuclide ventriculography and dobutamine echocardiography. Transmural biopsies of these regions were taken and analyzed by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. Furthermore, SR-calcium ATPase (SERCA2a), phospholamban (PLN), the phosphorylated forms of PLN (PLN-Ser16, PLN-Thr17) as well as sodium-calcium exchanger (NCX) and ryanodine receptor (RyR2) were investigated by RT-PCR and Western-blotting. Additionally, SERCA2a activity was measured by an enzyme-coupled assay. In all patients complete functional recovery could be documented 3 months after revascularization by repeating all preoperative investigations. In HHM maximal SERCA2a activity was significantly reduced (HHM: 424.5 +/- 33.9, control: 609.0 +/- 48.5 nmol ATP mg protein(-1) min(-1), p <or= 0.05), whereas SERCA2a protein levels were unchanged. mRNA levels (HHM: 1.36 +/- 0.08 vs. control: 0.78 +/- 0.04, p <or= 0.05) and protein amount (HHM:1.67 +/- 0.14 vs. control: 1.00 +/- 0.04, p <or= 0.05) of PLN (A1) were increased resulting in an increased PLN:SERCA2a-ratio. PLN-Ser16 (HHM: 0.60 +/- 0.08 vs. control: 1.00 +/- 0.11, p <or= 0.05) and PLN-Thr17 (HHM: 0.63 +/- 0.11 vs. control: 1.00 +/- 0.06, p <or= 0.05) phosphorylation was significantly decreased. RyR2 and NCX showed no significant alteration. In HHM a decreased activity of SERCA2a due to an impaired phosphorylation of PLN contributes to contractile dysfunction. The increase in the relative ratio of PLN/SERCA2a leads to a decreased calcium affinity of SERCA2a.
Lipid peroxidation may contribute to the nephrotoxicity of cephaloridine, a beta-lactam antibiotic. Copper and Se may protect against free radical damage, and dietary Se deficiency potentiates cephaloridine nephrotoxicity. The objectives of this study were to further investigate potentiation of cephaloridine toxicity by Se deficiency and to determine whether Cu deficiency increases cephaloridine-induced injury. Weanling male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed adequate, Cu-deficient, Se-deficient, and Se and Cu-deficient diets for 4 wk and subsequently injected i.p. with cephaloridine (1200 mg/kg body wt) or saline. Nephrotoxic response to cephaloridine occurred, with increased plasma urea, kidney weight, excretion of urinary enzymes, and kidney lesions. Cephaloridine also increased plasma sorbitol dehydrogenase activity. Selenium deficiency depressed kidney glutathione peroxidase activity (78%) and potentiated cephaloridine nephrotoxicity. Copper deficiency did not increase cephaloridine nephrotoxicity; the small depression (13%) in kidney Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase activity may not have been sufficient to impair antioxidant status. However, the marked depression in kidney glutathione peroxidase activity during Se deficiency may have impaired antioxidant status and enhanced cephaloridine-induced injury. In contrast to results in the kidney, neither Se deficiency nor Cu deficiency potentiated cephaloridine hepatotoxicity, as assessed by plasma SDH activity.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) is used clinically to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia and has activity in vitro against several solid tumor cell lines, where induction of differentiation and apoptosis are the prime effects. As a novel anticancer agent for treatment of solid cancers, As(2)O(3) is promising and the mechanism has been not still fully understood. Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) is one common tumor in head and neck cancers. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of As(2)O(3) on LSCC cell line HEP-2, and their possible involvement in As(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis.
The cell viability was analyzed by MTT assay method and the morphological changes were observed by an inverted microscope and acridine orange (AO) staining. The caspase-3 activity was measured by a fluorophotometer. The expression of survivin mRNA was evaluated by RT-PCR.
In this study, we demonstrated an apoptotic effect of As(2)O(3) in LSCC cell line Hep-2. In Hep-2 cells, As(2)O(3) decreased the cell viability, inhibited the growth and proliferation, induced apoptosis and increased the activity of caspase-3 in a dose-dependent manner. And the expression of survivin mRNA was also decreased in a dose-dependent manner.
We concluded that As(2)O(3) induced the apoptosis of Hep-2 cells via down-regulating the expression of survivin mRNA.
A 39-year-old man was found to have hyperproteinemia after being treated with zonisamide for 10 years. Laboratory examination revealed a serum M-protein which consisted of IgG (lambda) and an increased number of plasma cells in the bone marrow, resulting in a diagnosis of smoldering myeloma. Considering his age, zonisamide was suspected to play an etiologic role in the occurrence of smoldering myeloma. Zonisamide was changed to sodium valproate. Subsequently the M-protein did not increase over 13 months. When zonisamide is used, the monitoring of serum levels of M-protein and patterns of gammaglobulin is warranted.
Critical flicker fusion frequencies and visual contrast sensitivity were determined in 27 adult epileptic patients receiving carbamazepine monotherapy and in 24 healthy, drug-free control subjects. Flicker fusion thresholds were the same in patients and control subjects, whereas the contrast sensitivity was significantly reduced in the patient group at all spatial frequencies. There was a significant negative correlation between the plasma concentration of carbamazepine and the contrast sensitivity at 11.4 and 22.8 cycles per degree, indicating that the reduced contrast sensitivity was due to the drug therapy.
Gene expression of regucalcin (Rgn), a calcium-binding protein, was investigated in kidney of male Wistar rats treated with proximal tubule segment-specific nephrotoxicants, namely hexachloro-1:3-butadiene (HCBD), specific for S(3) segment (pars recta) and potassium dichromate (chromate) specific for S(1)-S(2) segments (pars convoluta), according to age of animals and dose of chemicals. In the age-dependent study, male Wistar rats were treated with a single injection of HCBD (100mg/kg b.w. i.p.) or chromate (25 mg/kg b.w. s.c.) at 5 weeks or 12 weeks of age; in dose-response study, rats were treated with a single injection of three doses of HCBD (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg b.w. i.p.) or chromate (8, 12.5, and 25mg/kg b.w. s.c.) at 8 weeks of age. Forty-eight hours after treatment, Rgn and glutamine synthetase (GS) activity in kidney cortex, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and plasma creatinine were measured; light microscopy was performed also. The results show that young rats are less susceptible to chromate (severe necrosis is evident only in adult rats), whereas age does not influence HCBD nephrotoxicity. Rgn is down regulated by HCBD at both age points, but not by chromate at 5 weeks of age. In addition, HCBD causes down-regulation of Rgn from the low dose in 8-week-old rats, whereas chromate causes the same effect at the high dose only. GS activity in kidney cortex shows a similar behavior, even if sensitive to low doses of chromate also, whereas BUN and creatinine increase after the high dose of both chemicals only. Accordingly, light microscopy shows a segment-specific, dose-dependent increase of severity of damage caused by the chemicals. Rgn gene expression appears a sensitive genomic marker to evaluate the renal impairment caused by chemicals and its down-regulation seems to be related to damage, early or already established, to S(3) segment of the proximal tubule.
An 11-year-old boy with glomerulonephritis developed acute renal failure 4 days after beginning piperacillin (PIPC) treatment. Renal biopsy revealed acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (ATIN) with marked eosinophils. A lymphocyte stimulation test (LST) for PIPC demonstrated an extremely high LST index of 626%. The serum levels of immunoglobulin E and eosinophil cationic protein also showed a significant increase at 9021 IU/mL and greater than 150 micrograms/L, respectively. These observations suggest that a hypersensitivity reaction might play a role in the pathogenesis of ATIN. This is the first report to describe PIPC-induced ATIN in a child.
The efficacy of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) with two hepatitis B virus (HBV) vaccines was investigated for prevention of vertical transmission of HBV to infants born to e antigen-positive HBV carrier mothers. Infants received 150 mg of the F(ab')2 fraction of HBIG intravenously within 2 hr of delivery, and serum titers of antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) were kept greater than 1:4 (passive hemagglutination) by subcutaneous injection of HBIG thereafter. HBV vaccine was started three or six months after delivery. Of 50 infants older than nine months, 49 were actively immunized against hepatitis B surface antigen. Vaccine containing alum adjuvant immunized the infants in a shorter period than did vaccine without adjuvant. Serum titers of anti-HBs of actively immunized infants were well maintained afterward. None of the infants treated with HBIG and HBV vaccine was positive for serum antibody to hepatitis B core antigen at 12 months of age. No side effects were observed.
In the search for novel natural compounds effective against visceral nociception, the triterpenoid mixture alpha- and beta-amyrin, isolated from Protium heptaphyllum resin, was assessed in two established mouse models of visceral nociception. Mice were pretreated orally with alpha- and beta-amyrin (3, 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg) or vehicle, and the pain-related behavioral responses to intraperitoneal cyclophosphamide or to intracolonic mustard oil were analyzed. The triterpenoid mixture showed a dose-related significant antinociception against the cyclophosphamide-induced bladder pain, and at 100 mg/kg, the nociceptive behavioral expression was almost completely suppressed. Intracolonic mustard oil-induced nociceptive behaviors were maximally inhibited by 10 mg/kg alpha- and beta-amyrin mixture in a naloxone-reversible manner. While pretreatment with ruthenium red (3 mg/kg, s. c.), a non-specific transient receptor potential cation channel V1 (TRPV1) antagonist, also caused significant inhibition, the alpha (2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, yohimbine (2 mg/kg, s. c.), showed no significant effect. The triterpene mixture (10 mg/kg, p. o.) neither altered significantly the pentobarbital sleeping time, nor impaired the ambulation or motor coordination in open-field and rotarod tests, respectively, indicating the absence of sedative or motor abnormalities that could account for its antinociception. These results indicate that the antinociceptive potential of alpha- and beta-amyrin possibly involves the opioid and vanilloid (TRPV1) receptor mechanisms and further suggests that it could be useful to treat visceral pain of intestinal and pelvic origins.
In a study to compare the prophylactic efficacy of passive and passive-active immunization against hepatitis B virus (HBV) among newborn infants of HBV carrier mothers positive for hepatitis B e in Korea, both regimens resulted in effective protection against development of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg): 10 of 12 recipients of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and 25 of 29 recipients of HBIG and vaccine during nine months of follow-up. Among untreated controls in the same population just before the present study, 12 of 16 developed HBsAg within nine months of birth. Seven recipients of HBIG and vaccine and four untreated infants who had HBsAg in their blood at birth were excluded. The declining antibody levels in infants who received only HBIG as compared with the rising antibody levels in infants who received HBIG followed by three doses of HBV vaccine suggest that long-term protection will be seen only in the latter group.
