This study was designed to define the dose-response relationships for cortisol-induced hypertension in humans and to test the hypothesis that cortisol-induced hypertension is a consequence of classical mineralocorticoid actions using the mineralocorticoid antagonist spironolactone.
In study 1, six normal men were given cortisol orally every 6 h for 5 days at doses of 40, 80 and 200 mg per day. In study 2, six normal men were given spironolactone at 400 mg/day for 6 days and cortisol at 80 mg/day for 5 days, commencing on the second day of spironolactone treatment.
Systolic blood pressure increased significantly with cortisol at 80 and 200 but not 40 mg/day. There was no difference between 80 and 200 mg/day. Weight increases were seen at the two higher doses and serum potassium concentration fell with each dose. Spironolactone prevented the increase in body weight and the decrease in serum potassium but did not affect the increase in blood pressure produced by cortisol.
Cortisol at 80 and 200 mg per day produces similar blood pressure and metabolic effects. Spironolactone blocked the mineralocorticoid effects of cortisol but not the blood pressure rise, suggesting that these mineralocorticoid effects are not responsible for cortisol-induced hypertension.
Cisplatin (CP) is a potent anticancer drug. However, it has side effects on kidney such as nephrotoxicity. Abnormal production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) has been accused in the etiology of CP-induced nephrotoxicity. Several ROS scavengers have been reported to prevent nephrotoxicity after CP administration. In this study, we used prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) analogues misoprostol (MP) to reduce this damage. MP has gained considerable interest as a ROS scavenger. Rats were received a single injection of CP (5 mg/kg, i.p.) with or without MP pretreatment (200 mcg/kg, orally). The renal tissue morphology was investigated by light microscopy. Trunk blood was also obtained to determine lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde (MDA) and activity of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT). CP administration increased MDA production and decreased SOD and CAT levels in the kidney tissue when compared to the control group. Morphological damage in CP administrated rats was also severe in the kidney tissue. MP treatment after CP application protected the renal tissues from CP's side effect. These findings indicate that MP has beneficial effects on CP induced nephrotoxicity in rats.
Inhibition of VEGF signalling effectively suppresses localized tumour growth but accelerates tumour invasiveness and micrometastasis by unknown mechanisms. To study the dynamic and reciprocal interactions between tumour cells and their microenvironment during these processes, we established a xenograft model by injecting tumour cells into the blood circulation of transparent zebrafish embryos. This reproducibly results in rapid simultaneous formation of a localized tumour and experimental micrometastasis, allowing time-resolved imaging of both processes at single-cell resolution within 1 week. The tumour vasculature was initiated de novo by remodelling of primitive endothelial cells into a functional network. Roles of myeloid cells in critical tumourigenesis steps such as vascularization and invasion were revealed by genetic and pharmaceutical approaches. We discovered that the physiological migration of neutrophils controlled tumour invasion by conditioning the collagen matrix and forming the metastatic niche, as detected by two-photon confocal microscopy and second harmonic generation. Administration of VEGFR inhibitors blocked tumour vascularization and a localized tumour growth but enhanced migration of neutrophils, which in turn promoted tumour invasion and formation of micrometastasis. This demonstrates the in vivo cooperation between VEGF signalling and myeloid cells in metastasis and provides a new mechanism underlying the recent findings that VEGFR targeting can promote tumour invasiveness.
Effects of coadministration of buspirone were investigated on the time course of haloperidol-induced extrapyramidal symptoms in rats. Rats treated with haloperidol at a dose of 1 mg/kg exhibited impaired motor coordination and a decrease in exploratory activity. Coadministration of buspirone at a dose of 1 mg/kg attenuated haloperidol-induced deficits of motor coordination but no effect was produced on the deficits of exploratory activity, possibly because of a 'floor effect'. Long-term administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg) twice a day for 5 weeks did not produce tolerance to haloperidol-induced deficits of exploratory activity. The deficits of motor coordination were attenuated after 4-5 weeks of drug administration. Coadministration of buspirone for 3-5 weeks attenuated and reversed haloperidol-induced deficits of exploratory activity. Deficits of motor coordination were smaller in rats cotreated with buspirone after 1 week but not after 2-5 weeks. Administration of haloperidol for 2 weeks elicited vacuous chewing movements with twitching of facial musculature that increased in a time-dependent manner as the treatment continued to 5 weeks. Animals cotreated with buspirone exhibited a gradual reversal of the response during 2-5 weeks of treatment. The mechanism involved in the attenuation/reversal of haloperidol-induced extrapyramidal symptoms by buspirone is discussed. Prior administration of buspirone for 2 weeks may be of help in the improvement of extrapyramidal symptoms induced by antipsychotic drugs.
Some evidence in the literature supports the topical application of papaverine to the cochlear nerve to prevent internal auditory artery vasospasm and cochlear ischemia as a method of enhancing the ability to preserve hearing during acoustic neuroma surgery. The authors report a case of transient facial nerve palsy that occurred after papaverine was topically applied during a hearing preservation acoustic neuroma removal. A 58-year-old woman presented with tinnitus and serviceable sensorineural hearing loss in her right ear (speech reception threshold 15 dB, speech discrimination score 100%). Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a 1.5-cm acoustic neuroma in the right cerebellopontine angle (CPA). A retrosigmoid approach was performed to achieve gross-total resection of the tumor. During tumor removal, a solution of 3% papaverine soaked in a Gelfoam pledget was placed over the cochlear nerve. Shortly thereafter, the quality of the facial nerve stimulation deteriorated markedly. Electrical stimulation of the facial nerve did not elicit a response at the level of the brainstem but was observed to elicit a robust response more peripherally. There were no changes in auditory brainstem responses. Immediately after surgery, the patient had a House-Brackmann Grade V facial palsy on the right side. After several hours, this improved to a Grade I. At the 1-month follow-up examination, the patient exhibited normal facial nerve function and stable hearing. Intracisternal papaverine may cause a transient facial nerve palsy by producing a temporary conduction block of the facial nerve. This adverse effect should be recognized when topical papaverine is used during CPA surgery.
All classes of antiretroviral (ARV) therapy have been associated with asymptomatic elevations of alanine aminotransferase/aspartate aminotransferase (ALT/AST) levels, and much less frequently with serious, and at times life threatening, clinical liver hepatotoxicity. The relationship between the risk of developing serious clinical liver injury and the rate and severity of elevated asymptomatic ALT/AST levels is poorly understood. Boehringer Ingelheim has recently completed the Viramune Hepatic Safety Project; its primary objective was to identify risk factors for antiretroviral-associated hepatotoxicity. Data from 1731 nevirapine-treated patients and 1912 control patients who took part in Boehringer Ingelheim-controlled clinical trials as well as 814 nevirapine-treated patients in uncontrolled trials were analyzed. Risk factors for asymptomatic ALT/AST elevations during nevirapine therapy included baseline elevations of ALT/AST levels > 2.5x upper limit of normal (RR = 4.3, p < .01) and co-infection with hepatitis B (RR = 2.3, p < .01) or hepatitis C (RR = 5.2, p < .01). An analysis of ALT/AST elevations > 5x ULN for patients stratified by baseline CD4 cell count demonstrated that men with > or = 400 CD4 cells/mm3 were at increased risk of asymptomatic transaminase elevations while taking nevirapine (RR = 1.6, p < .01). No consistent CD4 cell count cutoff could be identified in women that was associated with an increased risk of ALT/AST elevations. Analyses from five large observational cohorts (N = 8711) demonstrated no significant differences in the rate of serious hepatic events among antiretroviral regimens, including between the non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors nevirapine and efavirenz. Use of nevirapine was not associated with a significantly increased risk of clinical hepatotoxic events, including liver failure or liver related death, compared to therapy with other antiretroviral drugs.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a burgeoning health problem of unknown etiology that varies in prevalence among ancestry groups. To identify genetic variants contributing to differences in hepatic fat content, we carried out a genome-wide association scan of nonsynonymous sequence variations (n = 9,229) in a population comprising Hispanic, African American and European American individuals. An allele in PNPLA3 (rs738409[G], encoding I148M) was strongly associated with increased hepatic fat levels (P = 5.9 x 10(-10)) and with hepatic inflammation (P = 3.7 x 10(-4)). The allele was most common in Hispanics, the group most susceptible to NAFLD; hepatic fat content was more than twofold higher in PNPLA3 rs738409[G] homozygotes than in noncarriers. Resequencing revealed another allele of PNPLA3 (rs6006460[T], encoding S453I) that was associated with lower hepatic fat content in African Americans, the group at lowest risk of NAFLD. Thus, variation in PNPLA3 contributes to ancestry-related and inter-individual differences in hepatic fat content and susceptibility to NAFLD.
Bak is a pro-apoptotic gene, which plays an important role in the multi-step process of gastrointestinal tumorigenesis. We hypothesized that downregulation of Bak expression in normal enterocytes will result in a transformed phenotype. The nontumorigenic intestinal epithelial cell line (IEC18) was transfected with the vector pMV12-AS-bak (encoding anti-sense bak). Three clones, with Bak protein levels similar to those seen in colon cancer cell lines and significantly lower than those found in the parental cells, were further evaluated. The three clones proliferated faster, demonstrated anchorage-independent growth in soft agar and a higher saturation density and plating efficiency. Furthermore, when injected into nude mice, these cells generated tumors after approximately 2-3 weeks. The cells were more resistant to the induction of apoptosis by sulindac sulfide and sulindac sulfone but more sensitive to COX 2 inhibitors (celecoxib and nimesulide). The levels of p16, cyclin D1 and COX 2 were higher in the three transformed clones. In summary,downregulation of Bak expression in normal enterocytes contributes to abnormal growth and tumorigenesis. COX 2 inhibitors may serve as important agents in the prevention and treatment of CRC as they only inhibit the growth of malignant cells.
The effects of a combination of simvastatin, a cholesterol-lowering agent, and carmustine (BCNU; N,N'-bis(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosourea) on experimental C6 glioma were studied in vitro and in vivo. In vitro simvastatin and BCNU alone inhibited cell proliferation in a dose-dependent fashion. A subliminal concentration of simvastatin (0.1 microM) markedly and synergistically increased the BCNU toxicity to C6 glioma cells. The cytofluorimetric analysis of DNA from simvastatin-treated C6 glioma cells showed, besides the already described arrest in G1, an arrest/retardation in G2-M. Mitotic index from C6 cells incubated with simvastatin (10 microM) decreased by about 90%, indicating a specific C6 arrest/retardation in G2. The drug effects could be completely reversed by simvastatin withdrawal or mevalonate addition to the cultured cells. The combination of simvastatin and BCNU resulted predominantly from the profound retardation of cells in the G2-M compartment of the cell cycle. In vivo simvastatin (administered daily mixed with food) and BCNU (single i.p. injection), when given separately, caused a dose-dependent inhibition of labeling index in C6 glioma homografts (ID50, 61 mg/kg/day and 8.7 mg/kg, respectively). The combination of the lowest doses tested (simvastatin, 25 mg/kg/day and BCNU 0.3 mg/kg) resulted in a significant growth delay (compared to either drug alone) in C6 glioma (P < 0.05). There was no significant increase in toxicity as assessed by myelosuppression (WBC counts and bone marrow labeling index) and body weight. The results provide in vivo support for the combined use of simvastatin, a cholesterol-lowering agent, and BCNU in brain tumor treatment.
A 59-year-old man, who was being trieated for schizophrenia, exhibited a concurrence of obsessive compulsive (OC) symptoms and neuroleptics-induced deficit syndrome (NIDS). His symptoms were remarkably improved by the discontinuation of neuroleptics followed by the introduction of fluvoxamine. He was originally a prudent, suspicious and unsociable person, the character of which corresponds to a schizotypal personality disorder. From his early twenties OC-symptoms appeared along the theme of cleanliness, health, and ethics. After the first half of his forties OC-symptoms worsened with the emergence of a depressive state. He consulted a psychiatric unit at the age of 49 for the first time and was diagnosed as having schizophrenia of a negative symptoms-dominant type associated with obsessive-compulsive disorder. He was started on haloperidol but the condition did not improved at all so that the dose was gradually increased. When he finally moved to our hospital at the age of 57, serious NIDS such as slow thinking, difficulty in concentration, decrease in emotional reaction, and dysphoria was recognized, in addition to parkinsonism. In order to improve the NIDS, we gradually decreased the dose and reduced the variety of neuroleptics and substituted them for risperidone alone. During these periods, no emergence of psychotic symptoms or worsening of OC-symptoms was realized. Accordingly he was admitted to our hospital and started on fluvoxamine, and the NIDS and OC-symptoms were markedly improved. In conclusion the use of neuroleptics specifically for OC-symptoms should be done very carefully in consideration of the possibility of provoking NIDS.
It is well known that diabetes aggravates brain damage in experimental and clinical stroke subjects. Diabetes accelerates maturation of neuronal damage, increases infarct volume, and induces postischemic seizures. The mechanism by which diabetes increases ischemic brain damage is still elusive. Our previous experiments indicate that mitochondria dysfunction may play a role in neuronal death. The objective of this study is to determine whether streptozotocin-induced diabetes activates cell death pathway after a brief period of focal cerebral ischemia. Both diabetic and nondiabetic rats were subjected to 30 min of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion, followed by 0, 0.5, 3, and 6 h of reperfusion. We first determined the pathological outcomes after 7 days of recovery by histopathology, and then detected key components of programmed cell death pathway using immunocytochemistry coupled with confocal laser-scanning microscopy and Western blot analysis. The results show that the cytosolic cytochrome c increased mildly after reperfusion in nondiabetic samples. This increase was markedly enhanced in diabetic rats in both ischemic focus and penumbra. Subsequently, caspase-3 was activated and poly-ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) was cleaved. Our results suggest that activation of apoptotic cell death pathway may play a pivotal role in exaggerating brain damage in diabetic subjects.
A total of 30 patients (27 males and 3 females) with a mean age of 62.6 +/- 3.9 years, suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease were recruited into this open study to evaluate the clinical efficacy and the safety of a short course of treatment with 100 mg acebrophylline, twice daily for 14 days. To assess the effectiveness of the drug, symptoms and signs, such as cough intensity and frequency, auscultatory pattern, dyspnoea, cyanosis, difficulty of expectoration, sputum quantity, appearance and density, were evaluated at baseline and after 1, 3, 5, 7, 10 and 14 days of therapy. In addition the rheological properties of the bronchial mucus (viscosity and spinnability) were measured and respiratory function tests were performed before and after treatment. There was a progressive improvement of all evaluated symptoms and signs, resulting in improvement of the auscultatory pattern, as well as dyspnoea. This was accompanied by improvement or normalization of the respiratory function indices, which showed statistically significant differences (P < 0.01) between the baseline and the endpoint values, apart from total lung capacity. Blood-gas analysis demonstrated a significant increase of PaO2 and a significant decrease of PaCO2 values at the end of the treatment period (both P < 0.01). In general, acebrophylline was well tolerated. No clinically relevant or significant changes in any of the routine laboratory parameters were found on comparing the values obtained before and after treatment. Only three patients complained of epigastric pain, but this was not so severe or long-lasting as to require the discontinuation of the treatment.
The electrocardiogram was recorded and serum and bulk myocardial electrolytes were determined in male Sprague Dawley rats, subjected to dietary magnesium deficiency for various periods, to assess the time course of development and cessation of the enhanced arrhythmogenic action of isoproterenol (150 micrograms/kg, subcutaneously) and to establish possible relationships between electrolyte changes and severe ventricular dysrhythmias. Ventricular fibrillation occurred within 60 min following isoproterenol injection in 25, 25, 62.5, 50, and 62.5% of rats on magnesium deficient diet for 4, 7, 11, 15, and 19 days (N = 8), respectively, and resulted in death in most animals (83%). Reintroduction of normal chow following a 30-day period on magnesium-deficient diet normalized serum magnesium (from 1.42 +/- 0.23 to 1.90 +/- 0.08 mEq/liter, mean +/- SD) but did not significantly reduce the incidence of ventricular fibrillation. Magnesium deficiency did not produce statistically significant alterations in bulk myocardial content of sodium, potassium, magnesium, and calcium. However, sodium was elevated and potassium diminished in hearts from rats that died in ventricular fibrillation, but not in those that had recovered. Magnesium-deficient rats sacrificed 30 min after isoproterenol injection, that is before the occurrence of ventricular fibrillation, exhibited hypomagnesemia and hypokalemia as well as elevated sodium and diminished potassium and magnesium in the myocardium. In contrast, rats on Purina Chow exhibited hypermagnesemia, but also showed hypokalemia and diminished cardiac potassium. The results indicate that magnesium deficiency enhances the arrhythmogenic propensity of isoproterenol and that the development of ventricular fibrillation is preceded by serum and myocardial electrolyte alterations.
We have examined the role of reactive oxygen metabolites (ROM) in gentamicin nephrotoxicity and in glycerol-induced acute renal failure, a model for myoglobinuric acute renal failure. Several agents which affect mitochondrial respiration have been shown to enhance the generation of hydrogen peroxide. Based on gentamicin's ability to alter mitochondrial respiration both in vitro and in vivo we postulated that gentamicin may enhance the generation of ROM by renal cortical mitochondria. Gentamicin, in a dose-dependent fashion, enhanced hydrogen peroxide production by rat renal cortical mitochondria as measured by the decrease in scopoletin fluorescence. At the highest concentration of gentamicin tested (4.0 mM), the rate of hydrogen peroxide generation was markedly increased from 0.17 +/- 0.02 to 6.21 +/- 0.67 nmol/mg/min. We next demonstrated that hydroxyl radical scavengers and an iron chelator provide a marked functional and histological protection in gentamicin-induced acute renal failure in rats. Hydroxyl radical scavengers and the iron chelator deferoxamine also protected renal function in glycerol-injected rats, a model for acute renal failure due to muscle injury. Although these data suggest that ROM may be important mediators of toxic renal injury, in vivo generation of ROM by kidney in normal and pathological states has not been previously examined. Aminotriazole (AT) irreversibly inactivates catalase only in the presence of hydrogen peroxide and previous studies have shown that AT-mediated inhibition of catalase in a sensitive measure of in vivo changes in the hydrogen peroxide generation. Using this method, we have demonstrated the in vivo generation of hydrogen peroxide under normal conditions and enhanced generation of hydrogen peroxide in rats treated with gentamicin or glycerol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Prepubertal exposure to low, but elevated levels of manganese (Mn) can induce increased secretions of puberty-related hormones resulting in precocious pubertal development in female rats. These events are due to an action of the element within the hypothalamus to induce the secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). Because of these prepubertal effects of Mn and because precocious puberty is a serious neuroendocrine disorder, we have assessed whether early life exposure to this environmental element is capable of precociously upregulating the expression of a select group of genes previously associated with tumor growth or suppression, and that have more recently been shown to increase at the normal time of puberty. Female rat pups received a daily dose of either 10mg/kg manganese(II) chloride or an equal volume of saline by gastric gavage from postnatal day 12 through day 22 or 29. At this time, blood was collected for estradiol analysis and hypothalamic brain tissue frozen on dry ice until assessed for gene expressions. Rats exposed to the elevated levels of Mn showed a precocious increase in GnRH gene expression in the preoptic area and rostral hypothalamus on day 29, an action associated with precociously increased expressions of specific tumor-associated, puberty-related genes. These results demonstrate for the first time that prepubertal Mn exposure is capable of activating specific upstream genes regulating hypothalamic GnRH and suggest that these actions are involved in the mechanism by which this element can induce precocious puberty.
2-o-Chlorobenzoyl-4-chloro-N-methyl-N alpha-glycylglycinanilide hydrate (45-0088-S), a dipeptido-aminobenzophenone compound, inhibited pentetrazole-induced convulsion and suppressed electroshock-induced fighting behavior in mice, reduced conflict behavior in rats and monkeys, and induced muscle relaxation in cats at lower doses than did diazepam. This pharmacological profile suggests that 45-0088-S can be an active, water-soluble antianxiety agent in man.
Experiments in vitro with cultured rat conceptuses demonstrated that 9-cis-retinoic acid (9-cis-RA) (300 ng/mL amniotic fluid) produced branchial arch and somite defects similar to those elicited by equal concentrations of all-trans-retinoic acid (all-trans-RA), but with an increase in cephalic defects that included missing optic vesicles. After conceptuses were intraamniotically microinjected with 600 ng 9-cis-RA/mL amniotic fluid on day 10 of gestation, an unusual heart defect was also observed. HPLC analyses indicated that 9-cis-RA readily underwent conversion to the less active metabolite, 13-cis-retinoic acid (13-cis-RA), in cultured conceptuses during the first 4 hr after treatment but only after 6 hr could elevated levels of the potent dysmorphogen all-trans-RA be detected. In separate experiments, conversion of 13-cis-RA or of all-trans-RA to 9-cis-RA could not be detected during a 6-hr embryo culture period. Endogenous levels of 9-cis-RA in whole rat embryos also were below limits of detection but small quantities of this isomer could be detected in neonatal rat eye and human embryonic brain. Our present study strongly suggests that 9-cis-RA is a direct-acting dysmorphogen with probable specific target sites of action.
The effect of propranolol was assessed against myoclonus induced by picrotoxin (a known GABA antagonist) in a dose of 3 mg/kg and allylglycine (the inhibitor of GABA synthesis and release) in a dose of 150 mg/kg. A dose-dependent (0.5-2 mg/kg) protective effect was found against both models. Pretreatment of rats with a GABA-reducing dose (100 mg/kg, nonmyoclonic) of allylglycine produced no change in the effect of propranolol against picrotoxin-induced myoclonus. Propranolol thus inhibited myoclonic responses when both the receptor activity and the functional pool of GABA were impaired, suggesting that it produces as antimyoclonic action without the involvement of GABA. However, the drug seems to show a synergistic action with GABA-ergic agents, as greater protection was observed in rats treated concurrently with propranolol and amino-oxyacetic acid, an inhibitor of GABA degradation.
Diminazene aceturate is a commonly used antibabesial agent. It has been postulated that diminazine may induce a decrease in blood pressure and exacerbate the hypotension presented in dogs with babesiosis. This study was undertaken to assess the effect of diminazine aceturate on the blood pressure of healthy dogs. Six healthy German shepherd dogs between 18 and 24 months of age with a mean weight of 30.4 +/- 2.75 kg were used. Blood pressure was directly measured at the following time intervals: -5, 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 50, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after treatment with diminazine aceturate (4.2 mg/kg) intramuscularly. No statistical difference (P > 0.05) was found in blood pressure between any of the time intervals. An increase in heart rate was seen 5 minutes after the administration of diminazine aceturate but no change in blood pressure was evident. This study concluded that diminazene aceturate in its current formulation with antipyrine does not alter blood pressure in healthy adult dogs.
Neurotoxicity is an unusual complication of cephalosporin therapy. Only few cases of neurotoxicity induced by Cefepime have been described and probably the frequency of Cefepime-induced status epilepticus is underestimated. We report a case of an 82 year-old male, ESRD patient on chronic hemodialysis program affected by pneumonia, who received a treatment with intravenous Cefepime (1 g/day) and developed a seizure 4 days after the starting antibiotic therapy. Cefepime-induced neurotoxicity was suspected and its administration was immediately discontinued. In order to increase Cefepime clearance a hemodialysis session was urgently started and an improvement of his conscious level was observed. On the following day, after a second hemodialysis session his clinical condition and the status of neurotoxicity were completely recovered. The patient was discharged from the hospital in stable clinical condition one week later. At variance with the cases previously reported, the daily dose of Cefepime administrated to our patient was 50% lower and respected drug prescription dosage. Thus, we speculate on the hypothesis that advanced age of our patient and metabolic encephalopathy induced by chronic uremia made him more sensitive to the neurotoxicity induced by the drug. In conclusion, our case suggests that, in very old patients on long-term hemodialysis, it should be considered, to avoid neurotoxicity, to monitor the clinical neurological status, to use Cefepime at lower dosage than that allowed in patients with severe renal impairment (1 g/day) and, when possible, to evaluate Cefepime plasma levels. However, in these patients, other agents of the same class should be considered such as Cefotaxime and Ceftriaxone which are characterized by both an hepatic and renal excretion. In alternative to cephalosporins, antibiotics with the same action spectrum in the absence of neurological toxicity (i.e. Meropenem) should be recommended.
Although there is a critical need for effective contraception in the immediate postpartum period for women who are not breastfeeding, this need must be balanced against the inherent risks. The most effective form of contraceptive protection--oral contraceptives (OCs)--can present an increased risk of thromboembolism in the period after delivery. The thrombotic changes associated with pregnancy, and the statistics and vascular damage following a delivery, can combine to create greater potential for thromboembolism after delivery than during pregnancy. Reported here is the case of a 21-year-old woman who, 4 weeks postpartum, developed pain and swelling in the right lower calf and mottled discoloration extending from the proximal thigh to the toes. A diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis was made and heparin was administered. In the hospital, the patient experienced pleuritic chest pain and diaphoresis. A ventilation-perfusion scan indicated a pulmonary embolism. 1 week after delivery, the patient had initiated use of Triphasil. Although this woman had other risk factors (obesity, light cigarette smoking, and a sedentary life-style), OC use in the immediate postpartum period may have been the final factor precipitating the thromboembolic event. It is recommended that OC use should be delayed until at least 2 weeks postpartum in women without other risk factors for thromboembolism and until 4-6 weeks postpartum in those with such factors.
The therapeutic effect of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) was evaluated among 15 APL patients at relapse after all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) induced and chemotherapy maintained complete remission (CR). As2O3 was administered intravenously at the dose of 10 mg/d. Clinical CR was achieved in nine of 10 (90%) patients treated with As2O3 alone and in the remaining five patients treated by the combination of As2O3 and low-dose chemotherapeutic drugs or ATRA. During the treatment with As2O3, there was no bone marrow depression and only limited side effects were encountered. Pharmacokinetic studies, which were performed in eight patients, showed that after a peak level of 5.54 micromol/L to 7.30 micromol/L, plasma arsenic was rapidly eliminated, and the continuous administration of As2O3 did not alter its pharmacokinetic behaviors. In addition, increased amounts of arsenic appeared in the urine, with a daily excretion accounting for approximately 1% to 8% of the total daily dose administered. Arsenic contents in hair and nail were increased, and the peak content of arsenic could reach 2.5 to 2.7 microg/g tissue at CR. On the other hand, a decline of the arsenic content in hair and nail was observed after withdrawal of the drug. We conclude that As2O3 treatment is an effective and relatively safe drug in APL patients refractory to ATRA and conventional chemotherapy.
Recent clinical studies in China showed that As2O3 is an effective and relatively safe drug in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). We found previously that As2O3 can trigger apoptosis of APL cell line NB4 cells, which is associated with downregulation of bcl-2 gene expression and modulation of PML-RAR alpha chimeric protein. To further understand the mechanisms of this alternative therapy for APL, we investigated in this report the effects of a wide range of concentrations of As2O2 on cultured primary APL cells, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-susceptible (NB4 cells) and ATRA-resistant (MR2 subclone) APL cell lines. The results indicated that As2O3 had dose-dependent dual effects on APL cells: inducing preferentially apoptosis at relatively high concentrations (0.5 to 2 micromol/L) and inducing partial differentiation at low concentrations (0.1 to 0.5 micromol/L). The rapid modulation and degradation of PML-RAR alpha proteins, which was induced by As2O3 at 0.1 to 2 micromol/L, could contribute to these two effects. Bone marrow and peripheral blood examination showed that myelocyte-like cells, probably as a result of partial in vivo differentiation, and degenerative cells increased after 2 to 3 weeks of continuous in vivo As2O3 treatment when leukemic promyelocytes decreased. In conclusion, combination of induction of apoptosis and partial differention could be the main cellular mechanisms of As2O3 in the treatment of APL, and PML-RAR alpha could play an important role in determining the specific effects of As2O3 on APL cells.
Cytotoxic chemotherapy has shown little antitumor activity against renal cell carcinoma (RCC). It has been demonstrated that RCC cells secrete interleukin 6 (IL-6) and express IL-6 receptors (IL-6Rs). IL-6 inhibits apoptosis and enhances manganese superoxide dismutase expression. Several anticancer chemotherapeutic agents exert their cytotoxic activity in part through the induction of apoptosis and the production of free radicals. Thus, the resistance of RCC cells to the anticancer agents might correlate with IL-6 expression. The present study tested this hypothesis by examining the effect of anti-IL-6 mAb and anti-IL-6R mAb on the sensitivity of human RCC cells to anticancer chemotherapeutic agents. Treatment of Caki-1 cells with anti-IL-6 mAb or anti-IL-6R mAb in combination with cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (CDDP) or mitomycin C overcame their resistance to CDDP or mitomycin C. However, treatment of Caki-1 cells with anti-IL-6 mAb or anti-IL-6R mAb in combination with Adriamycin, vinblastine or 5-fluorouracil did not overcome their resistance to these anticancer agents. Treatment of CDDP-resistant Caki-1 cells (Caki-1/DDP), two other RCC cell lines (ACHN and A704), and three freshly derived RCC cells with CDDP in combination with anti-IL-6 mAb or anti-IL-6R mAb reversed the resistance to CDDP in all these tumors. We then studied the effectiveness of other platinum derivatives. Treatment of Caki-1 cells with anti-IL-6 mAb or anti-IL-6R mAb enhanced their sensitivity to carboplatin, but not to trans-diamminedichloroplatinum(II). Several experiments investigated the mechanism of the antibody-mediated sensitization of RCC cells to CDDP. Incubation of Caki-1 cells with anti-IL-6 mAb or anti-IL-6R mAb did not change the intracellular accumulation of CDDP. The expressions of the multidrug resistant phenotype (gp170) and c-myc oncogene were not affected by the antibody-mediated sensitization. Treatment of Caki-1 cells with the anti-IL-6 mAb or anti-IL-6R mAb down-regulated the expression of glutathione S-transferase pi mRNA. This study demonstrates that treatment of RCC cells with CDDP in combination with anti-IL-6 mAb or anti-IL-6R mAb can overcome their CDDP-resistance and that the down-regulation of glutathione S-transferase pi expression by anti-IL-6 mAb or anti-IL-6R mAb might play a role in the enhanced cytotoxicity obtained.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Some long work or shift work schedules necessitate an elevated and prolonged level of vigilance and performance but often result in sleep deprivation (SD), fatigue and sleepiness, which may impair efficiency. This study investigated the effects of a slow-release caffeine [(SRC) at the daily dose of 600 mg] on vigilance and cognitive performance during a 64 h continuous wakefulness period. Sixteen healthy males volunteered for this double-blind, randomised, placebo controlled, two-way crossover study. A total of 300-mg SRC or placebo (PBO) was given twice a day at 21:00 and 9:00 h during the SD period. Vigilance was objectively assessed with continuous electroencephalogram (EEG), the multiple sleep latency tests (MSLT) and wrist actigraphy. Cognitive functions (information processing and working memory), selective and divided attention were determined with computerised tests from the AGARD-NATO STRES Battery (Standardised Tests for Research with Environmental Stressors). Attention was also assessed with a symbol cancellation task and a Stroop's test; alertness was appreciated from visual analogue scales (VAS). Tests were performed at the hypo (02:00-04:00 h, 14:00-16:00 h) and hypervigilance (10:00-12:00 h, 22:00-00:00 h) periods during SD. Central temperature was continuously measured and safety of treatment was assessed from repeated clinical examinations. Compared with PBO, MSLT showed that SRC subjects were more vigilant from the onset (P=0.001) to the end of SD (P < 0.0001) whereas some cognitive functions were improved till the thirty third of SD but others were ameliorated through all the SD period and alertness was better from the thirteenth hour of SD, as shown by Stroop's test (P=0.048). We showed that 300-mg SRC given twice daily during a 64-h SD is able to antagonize the impairment produced on vigilance and cognitive functions.
Cyclophosphamide and its isomer ifosfamide are cell cycle-nonspecific alkylating agents that undergo bioactivation catalyzed by liver cytochrome P-450 enzymes. The therapeutic efficacy of these oxazaphosphorine anticancer drugs is limited by host toxicity resulting from the systemic distribution of activated drug metabolites formed in the liver. Since tumor cells ordinarily do not have the capacity to activate oxazaphosphorines, we examined whether introduction into tumor cells of a cDNA encoding CYP2B1, a major catalyst of oxazaphosphorine activation, sensitizes the cells to the cytotoxic effects of cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide. Here we show that 9L gliosarcoma cells stably transfected with a cDNA encoding rat CYP2B1 are highly sensitive to cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide cytotoxicity as compared to parental 9L cells or 9L cells transfected with an Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase gene. The CYP2B1 enzyme inhibitor metyrapone protects the CYP2B1-expressing 9L cells from oxazaphosphorine cytotoxicity, demonstrating that the chemosensitivity of these cells is a direct consequence of intracellular prodrug activation. Moreover, CYP2B1-expressing 9L cells potentiate the cytotoxic effects of cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide toward cocultured CYP2B1-negative 9L tumor cells. This "bystander effect" does not require cell-cell contact, and therefore may have the therapeutic advantage of distributing cytotoxic drug metabolites to a wide area within a solid tumor mass. In vivo experiments using Fischer 344 rats implanted s.c. with CYP2B1-expressing 9L tumor cells demonstrated that intratumoral expression of the CYP2B1 gene provides a substantial therapeutic advantage over that provided by liver cytochrome P-450-dependent drug activation alone; cyclophosphamide treatment resulted in complete growth inhibition of CYP2B1-positive tumors, whereas only a modest growth delay effect was obtained with CYP2B1-negative tumors. These studies establish that drug-activating CYP genes may be useful for the development of novel combined chemotherapy/gene therapy strategies for cancer treatment utilizing established cancer chemotherapeutic agents.
To investigate the role of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in pathogenesis of experimental hepatorenal syndrome (HRS).
Rats were divided into liver cirrhotic group, zinc protoporphyrin IX (ZnPP) treatment group, cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP) treatment group and sham group. Biliary cirrhosis was established by bile duct ligation in the first three groups. Rats in the ZnPP and CoPP treatment groups received intraperitoneal injection of ZnPP and CoPP, respectively, 24 h before sample collection. Expression of HO-1 mRNA in kidney was detected by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, while protein expression was determined by immunohistochemical analysis. Hematoxylin and eosin staining was performed to observe liver cirrhosis and renal structure. Renal artery blood flow, mean arterial pressure and portal vein pressure, 24 h total urinary volume, serum and urine sodium concentrations, and creatinine clearance rate (Ccr) were also measured.
The HO-1 mRNA and protein expression levels in kidney, 24 h total urinary volume, renal artery blood flow, serum and urine sodium concentration and Ccr were lower in cirrhotic group than in sham group (P < 0.05). However, they were significantly lower in ZnPP treatment group than in cirrhotic group and significantly higher in CoPP treatment group than in cirrhotic group (P < 0.05).
Low HO-1 expression level in kidney is an important factor for experimental HRS.
Tamoxifen administered in the diet (420 ppm) to Wistar rats (TOX:P) for only 3 months caused cumulative hepatic DNA damage as assessed by 32P-postlabeling, consistent with the proposal that tamoxifen is a genotoxic carcinogen in this species. Promotion of tumor development with phenobarbital after discontinuation of dietary tamoxifen resulted in the formation of liver carcinomas after 9 months. At 12 and 20 months in this study, the majority of these rats had liver carcinomas. Rats treated with tamoxifen for 3 months but not promoted with phenobarbital also developed liver tumors over a longer period of time. These tumors were predominantly adenomas, with one carcinoma, and occurred at a lower incidence than the tumors produced by promotion with phenobarbital. Rats treated with phenobarbital alone did not develop tumors after 20 months. Tamoxifen-induced DNA adducts were relatively persistent, with only a 38% decrease 3 months after tamoxifen treatment had been discontinued. This demonstrates that, in a susceptible species (the rat), tamoxifen can cause initiation of liver cancer after only 3 months exposure. It is proposed that the persistence of such DNA adducts may account for the ability of phenobarbital to promote a high incidence of liver carcinoma, even after discontinuation of tamoxifen treatment. These data are relevant to the concern for women given prophylactic tamoxifen for long periods in that even if there is a relatively small amount of cumulative tamoxifen-induced liver DNA damage, liver tumors could be promoted by other agents, even after the cessation of tamoxifen treatment.
To examine rates and predictors of severe hepatotoxicity with combination antiretroviral therapy in a developing country setting: the eight HIV-NAT randomized controlled trials in Thailand.
All patients (n = 692) received at least two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors; 215 also received a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) and 135 also received a protease inhibitor. Severe hepatotoxicity was defined as an increase in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level to five times the upper limit of normal and an increase of at least 100 U/l from baseline. Liver function tests were available at baseline and weeks 4, 8, 12, 24, 36 and 48. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) testing was performed on stored serum.
Mean age was 32.3 years; 52% were male, 11% had Centers for Disease Control and Prevention category C HIV disease at baseline, and 22% had received prior antiretroviral therapy. Prevalence of HBV, HCV and HBV/HCV coinfection was 8.7%, 7.2%, and 0.4%, respectively. Incidence of severe hepatotoxicity was 6.1/100 person-years [95% confidence interval (CI), 4.3-8.3/100]. In multivariate analysis, predictors of severe hepatotoxicity were HBV or HCV coinfection, and NNRTI-containing therapy. Incidence of severe hepatotoxicity was particularly high among patients receiving nevaripine (18.5/100 person-years; 95% CI, 11.6-27.8) and nevirapine/efavirenz (44.4/100 person-years; 95% CI, 12.1-113.7).
Incidence and risk factors for severe hepatotoxicity appear similar among these Thai patients to those in other racial groups. Development of standardized antiretroviral therapy regimens for developing country settings should consider potential toxicity and capabilities for monitoring of toxicity.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic intestinal inflammation caused by hyperactivated effector immune cells that produce pro-inflammatory cytokines. Recent studies have shown that the cannabinoid system may play a critical role in mediating protection against intestinal inflammation. However, the effect of cannabinoid receptor induction after chronic colitis progression has not been investigated. Here, we investigate the effect of cannabinoid receptor-2 (CB2) agonist, JWH-133, after chronic colitis in IL-10(-/-) mice. JWH-133 effectively attenuated the overall clinical score, and reversed colitis-associated pathogenesis and decrease in body weight in IL-10(-/-) mice. After JWH-133 treatment, the percentage of CD4(+) T cells, neutrophils, mast cells, natural killer (NK1.1) cells, and activated T cells declined in the intestinal lamina propria (LP) and mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) of mice with chronic colitis. JWH-133 was also effective in ameliorating dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis. In this model, JWH-133 reduced the number and percentage of macrophages and IFN-γ expressing cells that were induced during colitis progression. Treatment with aminoalkylindole 6-iodo-pravadoline (AM630), a CB2 receptor antagonist, reversed the colitis protection provided by JWH-133 treatment. Also, activated T cells were found to undergo apoptosis following JWH-133 treatment both in-vivo and in-vitro. These findings suggest that JWH-133 mediates its effect through CB2 receptors, and ameliorates chronic colitis by inducing apoptosis in activated T cells, reducing the numbers of activated T cells, and suppressing induction of mast cells, NK cells, and neutrophils at sites of inflammation in the LP. These results support the idea that the CB2 receptor agonists may serve as a therapeutic modality against IBD.
