Synthetic oligodeoxynucleotides expressing CpG motifs (CpG-ODN) are a Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) agonist that can enhance the antitumor activity of DNA-damaging chemotherapy and radiation therapy in preclinical mouse models. We hypothesized that the success of these combinations is related to the ability of CpG-ODN to modulate genes involved in DNA repair. We conducted an in silico analysis of genes implicated in DNA repair in data sets obtained from murine colon carcinoma cells in mice injected intratumorally with CpG-ODN and from splenocytes in mice treated intraperitoneally with CpG-ODN. CpG-ODN treatment caused downregulation of DNA repair genes in tumors. Microarray analyses of human IGROV-1 ovarian carcinoma xenografts in mice treated intraperitoneally with CpG-ODN confirmed in silico findings. When combined with the DNA-damaging drug cisplatin, CpG-ODN significantly increased the life span of mice compared with individual treatments. In contrast, CpG-ODN led to an upregulation of genes involved in DNA repair in immune cells. Cisplatin-treated patients with ovarian carcinoma as well as anthracycline-treated patients with breast cancer who are classified as "CpG-like" for the level of expression of CpG-ODN modulated DNA repair genes have a better outcome than patients classified as "CpG-untreated-like," indicating the relevance of these genes in the tumor cell response to DNA-damaging drugs. Taken together, the findings provide evidence that the tumor microenvironment can sensitize cancer cells to DNA-damaging chemotherapy, thereby expanding the benefits of CpG-ODN therapy beyond induction of a strong immune response.
The incidence of nephrotoxicity in patients receiving vancomycin alone or in combination with an aminoglycoside was prospectively evaluated. A total of 231 courses of antibiotic therapy in 224 patients were consecutively monitored over 28-month period. One hundred and sixty-eight patients received vancomycin alone, 63 patients received vancomycin with an aminoglycoside, and 103 patients received gentamicin. Nephrotoxicity was defined as an increase in serum creatinine of 0.5 mg/dl or a 50% increase above baseline, whichever was greater. Eight patients (5%) receiving vancomycin alone, 14 patients (22%) receiving vancomycin with an aminoglycoside, and 11 patients (11%) receiving gentamicin alone were found to have nephrotoxicity. Factors found to be associated with increased risk of nephrotoxicity in patients receiving vancomycin were concurrent therapy with an aminoglycoside, length of treatment with vancomycin (greater than 21 days), and vancomycin trough serum concentration (greater than 10 mg/l). Although the incidence of vancomycin nephrotoxicity is low, patients receiving vancomycin therapy with the above risk factors should be closely monitored.
To understand the association between gene polymorphism of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) and suicide attempters taking pesticides orally and to provide a scientific base for the prevention of suicidal behavior.
107 suicide attempters taking pesticides orally were collected from The People's Hospitals in Shandong Province from January 2003 through December 2003. The informations of all the attempters were obtained and 1 ml whole blood from of them were collected. Molecular biological techniques were used to study the gene type of each subject.
In the 107 suicide attempters, the ratio of male to female is 1:1.55; 67.3% of them were in age range of 20 - 44 years; 59.8% of them had education level of elementary school or lower. 13 suicide attempters (12.1% of all the attempters) had psychiatric disorders. 84 suicide attempters (78.5% of all the attempters) had affective conflicts with others in the recent year. 30 suicide attempters (28.0% of the suicide attempters) had impulsive behavior. Multivariate logistic regression model analysis showed that suicide impulsion and psychiatric disorders were significantly associated with COMT Val/Val, their OR values were 0.052 (95% CI: 0.006 - 0.437), 2.917 (95% CI: 1.097 - 7.760).
In this population, more attention should be paid to young female people with psychiatric disorders or having affective conflicts with others in the recent year so as to prevent suicide. This study supported that there is heterogeneity in COMT gene in suicide attempters and there is interaction between COMT Val/Val and suicide impulsion and psychiatric disorders.
The fetal hydantoin syndrome is a variable pattern of altered growth (pre and postnatal), mental deficiency, unusual facies, distal phalangeal hypoplasia, and other defects occurring in some infants exposed in utero to hydantoins. This altered pattern of morphogenesis is distinct from other recognized disorders. It has been reported only in the offspring of women using hydantoins. One case is presented and several aspects of the diagnosis are discussed.
Bone marrow-derived liver stem cells (BDLSCs) are very robust cells that can differentiate into liver epithelial cells. These stem cells are promising targets for gene therapy treatment of liver diseases. Liver fibrosis results from chronic liver damage characterized by an accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) and levels of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) play an important role in ECM degradation. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic effects of uPA gene-modified BDLSC transplantation on carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced liver fibrosis in rats.
BDLSCs were obtained from the bone marrow of cholestatic rats. These stem cells were selected and proliferated in medium containing 5% cholestatic serum. BDLSCs transfected with adenovirus-mediated human urokinase-plasminogen activator were transplanted into rats with CCl(4)-induced hepatic fibrosis. Liver function and the area of hepatic fibrosis were correlated with the development and prognosis of hepatic fibrosis.
Hepatocyte-like colony-forming units were formed by bone marrow cells after 2 weeks in culture. In the uPA gene-modified BDLSC group, the areas of hepatic fibrosis were smaller and liver function was markedly ameliorated compared to controls. The expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin protein, transforming growth factor-beta1 protein and collagen types I and III mRNA were downregulated. By contrast, the levels of matrix metalloproteinases-2, -3 and -9 mRNA, hepatic growth factor mRNA and proliferating cell nuclear antigen protein increased.
Transplantation of uPA gene-modified BDLSCs may suppress hepatic fibrosis and ameliorate liver function.
To determine the causative factors of persistent diplopia after retrobulbar anesthesia.
Strabismus Section, Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea.
Prism and alternate cover tests in the diagnostic positions of gaze and ductions/versions were performed in 28 patients with persistent diplopia 6 months after retrobulbar anesthesia. The Lancaster test, Bielshowsky head tilt test, double Maddox rod test, fundoscopic examination for torsion, forced duction test, force generation test, tensilon test, thyroid function test, and/or orbit computed tomography were performed when necessary.
Most of the patients (26 patients, 93%) did not have diplopia before retrobulbar anesthesia. Of the 14 patients with extraocular muscles imbalance, 12 patients showed vertical rectus overaction (11 superior recti, 1 inferior rectus) and 2 patients, mild vertical rectus underaction. Nine patients were presumed to have a sensory strabismus related to the preoperative poor vision, but this went unnoticed preoperatively. Three patients showed a small vertical deviation without any specific causative factors.
Fifty percent of the cases of diplopia were associated with either direct trauma or anesthetic myotoxicity to the extraocular muscles, in which overactions were more common than underactions. Thirty-two percent of the patients were presumed to have sensory strabismus, which suggested the importance of preoperative examination for strabismus as well as providing an explanation about the risk of postoperative diplopia before surgery.
We present an unusual case of a patient with extreme lymphoplasmacytosis and hepatic failure in association with a reaction to sulfasalazine and a concurrent Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. Sulfa drugs can cause a wide range of allergic and hypersensitivity reactions and occasionally can lead to a fulminant illness. In the case under discussion the patient had hepatotoxicity, skin rash, fever, and peripheral blood atypical lymphocytosis. Initial impressions suggested the possibility of a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder. Flow cytometry of peripheral blood and a bone marrow biopsy provided clear evidence for a reactive, polyclonal process as opposed to a malignant disorder. Cessation of the offending drug and administration of steroids led to dramatic improvement. This case illustrates that drug hypersensitivity reactions can be manifested by an extreme lymphocytoid leukemoid reaction.
The most serious side effect from statin treatment is myopathy, which may proceed to rhabdomyolysis. This is the first study to investigate whether the pharmacokinetics of either atorvastatin or its metabolites, or both, is altered in patients with atorvastatin-related myopathy compared with healthy controls.
A 24-hour pharmacokinetic investigation was performed in 14 patients with atorvastatin-related myopathy. Relevant polymorphisms in SLCO1B1 (encoding organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B1), MDR1/ABCB1 (encoding P-glycoprotein), and CYP3A5 (encoding cytochrome P450 3A5) were determined. Data from 15 healthy volunteers were used as controls.
No statistically significant difference in systemic exposure of atorvastatin was observed between the 2 groups. However, patients with atorvastatin-related myopathy had 2.4-fold and 3.1-fold higher systemic exposures of the metabolites atorvastatin lactone (P<.01) and p-hydroxyatorvastatin (P<.01), respectively, compared with controls. There were no differences in frequencies of SLCO1B1, MDR1, and CYP3A5 polymorphisms between the 2 groups.
This study disclosed a distinct difference in the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin metabolites between patients with atorvastatin-related myopathy and healthy control subjects. These results are of importance in the further search for the mechanism of statin-induced myopathy.
Indigofera suffruticosa Mill is used as an herbal medicine for the treatment of inflammation. The aim of this study is to assess the anti-inflammatory potency of I. suffruticosa and its likely molecular mechanisms of action in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages. Both water and ethanolic extracts of I. suffruticosa significantly decreased LPS-induced nitric oxide (NO) as well as the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), tumor necrosis factor-α, and pro-interleukin-1β. Moreover, LPS-induced inhibitory factor-κB-α phosphorylation, nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) nuclear protein-DNA binding affinity, and NF-κB reporter gene activity were dramatically inhibited by I. suffruticosa extracts. Exogenous addition of I. suffruticosa significantly induced heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression, and the presence of HO-1 small interfering RNA partly reversed the inhibitory effects of I. suffruticosa on LPS-induced NO production and iNOS expression. Furthermore, I. suffruticosa induced HO-1 expression may be through activation of the ERK/nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 pathway. Eight phenolic compounds were found in the I. suffruticosa extracts, but salicylic acid was the only one detected in the plasma of mice fed with I. suffruticosa extracts. In summary, I. suffruticosa have a strong anti-inflammatory property that diminishes pro-inflammatory mediator expressions by lessening LPS-induced NF-κB activation and inducing HO-1 expression in macrophages.
The vanin gene family encodes secreted and membrane-bound ectoenzymes that convert pantetheine into pantothenic acid and cysteamine. Recent studies in a mouse colitis model indicated that vanin-1 has proinflammatory activity and suggest that pantetheinases are potential therapeutic targets in inflammatory diseases. In a microarray analysis of epidermal gene expression of psoriasis and atopic dermatitis lesions, we identified vanin-3 as the gene showing the highest differential expression of all annotated genes that we studied (19-fold upregulation in psoriasis). Quantitative real-time PCR analysis confirmed the microarray data on vanin-3 and showed similar induction of vanin-1, but not of vanin-2, in psoriatic epidermis. Immunohistochemistry showed that vanin-3 is expressed in the differentiated epidermal layers. Using submerged and organotypic keratinocyte cultures, we found that vanin-1 and vanin-3 are induced at the mRNA and protein level by psoriasis-associated proinflammatory cytokines (Th17/Th1) but not by Th2 cytokines. We hypothesize that increased levels of pantetheinase activity are part of the inflammatory-regenerative epidermal differentiation program, and may contribute to the phenotype observed in psoriasis.
Cutaneous reactions to propylthiouracil and methimazole occur in 3%-5% of adults. Generalized maculopapular and papular purpuric eruptions are perhaps the most common thionamide-induced reactions. We report 3 patients who developed cutaneous vasculitis which is a rare and serious side-effect during antithyroid drug therapy. The observation of cutaneous vasculitis during administration of propylthiouracil suggested that clinical awareness of this complication should be of considerable importance.
Diplopia, nystagmus, visual hallucinations, and internuclear ophthalmoplegia developed in a 30-year-old woman 84 days after she received a matched, unrelated bone marrow transplant for chronic myeloid leukemia. A regimen of tacrolimus had been administered since the transplantation was performed. MR imaging revealed bilaterally symmetric regions of signal abnormality with abnormal contrast enhancement in the brain stem. No supratentorial abnormality was present. Tacrolimus therapy was discontinued, and the symptoms resolved. MR imaging that was performed 10 days after tacrolimus was discontinued showed resolution of the abnormalities.
First dose hypotension after the administration of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor in patients with acute myocardial infarction is one of the most important adverse events of this type of treatment. There is no information about first dose hypotension after angiotensin type 1-receptor blocker in this type of patient.
To compare the first dose responses to low dose captopril and losartan in patients with acute myocardial infarction.
Single blind, randomised, multicentric, prospective study. Patients (n=320) with confirmed acute myocardial infarction, age >18 years, treated by direct percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, thrombolysis and/or heparin, were randomised to receive a single dose of 6.25-12.5 mg captopril or 12.5-25 mg losartan within 24 h of hospital admission. Baseline laboratory and clinical examinations were performed before entering the study. Blood pressure monitoring started at hospital admission and continued for at least 8 h after the medication (second dose of captopril was given after 8 h).
The maximal blood pressure fall appeared about 1 h after the first dose of captopril and 3.5 h after the first dose of losartan. Patients in the captopril group had significantly higher incidence of asymptomatic hypotension (38%) than patients treated with losartan (24%) (P<0.001). No difference in hypotension requiring a change in medication was observed.
Low dose of losartan is safe for initiating therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction within 24 h of hospital admission.
To determine the predictors of desipramine-refractory depression, the authors examined the outcome in patients with major depression who were admitted to a general hospital and treated with desipramine adjusted to an adequate blood level.
Sixty-eight consecutive inpatients with DSM-III nonpsychotic unipolar major depression who had failed to respond to 1 week of hospitalization without drug treatment were studied. Outcome was assessed with the Yale Depression Inventory after a 4-week desipramine trial in which 24-hour plasma concentrations were used to rapidly achieve a therapeutic desipramine level.
Poor response to a therapeutic desipramine trial, which occurred in 15 of 50 patients, was significantly associated with definite personality disorder, prior treatment failure, near delusional status, age < or = 35 years, duration of depressive episode, recurrence of depression, dysthymia, and secondary depression. The first four items remained significantly correlated with poor response when the presence of the other items was accounted for using multiple regression. Drug response was not predicted by the diagnosis of melancholia (DSM-III and DSM-III-R) or initial severity of the depressive episode.
The four strongest correlates of outcome were highly predictive of drug response. In patients with two or more predictors, only 25% (4 of 16) responded, while in those with one or no predictors, 91% (31 of 34) responded.
The aim of the present study was to examine the possible role of personality traits, in accordance with Cloninger's theory, and gender, in the variability of responsiveness to opioids. Specifically, it was intended to test whether or not the three personality dimensions - harm avoidance (HA), reward dependence (RD) and novelty seeking (NS) - as suggested by Cloninger, can predict inter-personal differences in responsiveness to morphine after exposure to experimental cold pain. Thirty-four healthy volunteers (15 females, 19 males) were given the cold pressor test (CPT). Pain threshold, tolerance, and magnitude (VAS) were measured before and after (six measures, 30 min apart) the administration of either 0.5 mg/kg oral morphine sulphate (n=21) or 0.33 mg/kg oral active placebo (diphenhydramine) (n=13) in a randomized, double blind design. Assessment of the three personality traits, according to Cloninger's Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire, was performed before the CPT. A high HA score (but not RD, NS, or baseline values of the three pain parameters) predicted a significantly larger pain relief following the administration of morphine sulphate (but not of the placebo). Women exhibited a larger response in response to both treatments, as indicated by a significantly increased threshold and tolerance following morphine sulphate as well as significantly increased tolerance and decreased magnitude following placebo administration. The present study confirms the existence of individual differences in response to analgesic treatment. It suggests that high HA personality trait is associated with better responsiveness to morphine treatment, and that females respond better than men to both morphine and placebo.
Abnormal involuntary movements (dyskinesias) of variable intensity eventually emerge in the majority of Parkinson's disease patients chronically treated with standard oral levodopa. They create social and physical embarrassment and narrow the therapeutic options normally proposed to improve Parkinsonian symptoms. Thus far, indirect clinical and experimental evidence has implicated the potential role of dopamine D1 receptor activation in the generation of dopa dyskinesia. In recent years, our group has tested several dopaminergic agonists of variable half-life and selectivity in monkeys rendered parkinsonian following toxic exposure to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). These monkeys readily develop dyskinesia when treated with levodopa and provide the best animal model to study this complication. Our results in "drug-naive" and "dyskinesia-primed" MPTP animals suggest that pathological sensitisation of D2 receptor-mediated striatal outflow is necessary and sufficient for the induction of dopa dyskinesia, with perhaps a synergistic contribution from D1 receptors, and that repeated short-lived stimulation is important in the sensitisation process. This model supports the hypothesis that more continuous forms of dopaminomimetic therapy represent the best therapeutic approach for Parkinson's disease and calls for the development of novel D1 agonists for further clinical testing.
Flutamide is a nonsteroidal antiandrogen used in the treatment of prostatic carcinoma. We have investigated the disposition of flutamide and its two major metabolites in ten urological in-patients without significant liver or renal disease. After oral administration flutamide is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract with a tmax of about 2 h. Flutamide undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism, and its major metabolites are 2-hydroxyflutamide and the hydrolysis product 3-trifluoromethyl-4-nitroaniline. After the oral administration of a single dose of 250 mg or 500 mg maximum flutamide plasma concentrations of 0.02 and 0.1 micrograms.ml-1 respectively were observed. Maximum plasma concentrations of 2-hydroxyflutamide for the same flutamide doses were 1.3 and 2.4 micrograms.ml-1 (mean of n = 2 or n = 3). Steady-state concentrations of the biologically active metabolite 2-hydroxyflutamide (0.94 +/- 0.23 micrograms.ml-1, mean +/- SD, n = 5) were found at 2-4 days after the administration of 250 mg every 8 h. The area under the plasma concentration time curve for 2-hydroxyflutamide averaged 11.4 (10.6 and 12.1) and 24.3 (21.5-29.4, n = 3) micrograms.ml-1.h for 250 mg and 500 mg flutamide orally. 2-Hydroxyflutamide and 3-trifluoromethyl-4-nitroaniline were eliminated monoexponentially with half-times of 4.3-21.9 and 4.3-17.2 h (n = 5) respectively.
The use of tobacco products significantly contributes to the progression of periodontal disease and poor response to healing following periodontal therapy. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of nicotine, a major component of cigarette smoking, on human periodontal ligament fibroblast (PDLF) growth, proliferation, and protein synthesis to elucidate its role in periodontal destruction associated with its use. Human PDLFs were derived from three healthy individuals undergoing extraction for orthodontic reasons. At a concentration higher than 2.5 mM, nicotine was found to be cytotoxic to human PDLFs (P < 0.05). Nicotine also significantly inhibited cell proliferation and decreased protein synthesis in a dose-dependent manner. At concentrations of 50 and 200 microM, nicotine suppressed the growth of PDLFs by 48% and 86% (P < 0.05), respectively. A 10-mM concentration level of nicotine significantly inhibited the protein synthesis to only 44% of these in the untreated control (P < 0.05). Furthermore, the effects of antioxidants (superoxide dismutase (SOD); catalase and 2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylic acid (OTZ) and buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) were added to search for the possible mechanism of action, as well as a method for the prevention, of cigarette smoking-associated periodontal diseases. The addition of OTZ, a precursor of cysteine that metabolically promotes GSH synthesis, acted as a protective effect on the nicotine-induced cytotoxicity. However, SOD and catalase did not decrease the nicotine-induced cytotoxicity. In contrast, the addition of BSO, a cellular GSH synthesis inhibitor, enhanced the nicotine-induced cytotoxicity. These results indicate that thiol depletion could be the mechanism for nicotine cytotoxicity. The levels of nicotine tested inhibited cell growth, proliferation, and protein synthesis on human PDLFs. This suggests that nicotine itself might augment the destruction of periodontium associated with cigarette smoking. In addition, these inhibitory effects were associated with intracellular thiol levels. Factors that induce glutathione synthesis of human PDLF may be used for further chemoprevention of cigarette smoking-related periodontal diseases.
Rats injected intrastriatally with picrotoxin and carbachol showed sustained myoclonic jerks of the contralateral forelimb. The role of acetylcholine and dopamine in picrotoxin myoclonus was examined by measuring the effects of intrastriatal pharmacological agents on the frequency and intensity of the jerks. Atropine and hemicholinium-3, which reduce acetylcholine function, antagonized the myoclonus. Apomorphine, which has been shown to reduce striatal dopamine function via "autoreceptors", potentiated the jerking, whereas D-amphetamine antagonized the myoclonus. The findings are discussed in relation to proposed interconnections of striatal neurones.
The effects of chronic intracochlear electrical stimulation on the cochlear nucleus (CN) were studied in eight cats that were neonatally deafened by daily intramuscular injections of neomycin. Profound hearing loss was confirmed in each animal by auditory brainstem response (ABR) and frequency following response (500 Hz) testing. Five of the kittens were implanted unilaterally with a scala tympani electrode array at ages 8-16 weeks. These kittens were stimulated daily for four hours at 2 dB above the evoked ABR threshold, over a period of three months, and subsequently euthanized for histological analysis at 26-32 weeks of age. The three remaining deaf kittens were maintained without stimulation over prolonged periods in order to study the long-term consequences of neonatal deafening, and were euthanized at 66-133 weeks of age. This study compares the CN of these deafened experimental animals and the CN of normal adult cats. Three experimental parameters were examined: CN volume, cross-sectional area of spherical cells in the rostral anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN), and spherical cell density in this same region. The CN in animals that received electrical stimulation showed significant bilateral degenerative changes in all three measured parameters. Total nuclear volume was reduced by 35-36%, spherical cell size was reduced by 20-26%, and spherical cell density decreased by 36-42%, as compared to the normal cat CN. Comparisons were also made in the stimulated animals between CN ipsilateral to the stimulated cochlea and the contralateral, unstimulated CN.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Accumulating data on experience of long therapy with levodopa revealed the pathomorphosis of clinical presentations of Parkinson's disease during its progression, in particular, described, the occurrence of motor fluctuations and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. In later stages of the illness, these disturbances attracted special attention of both the patient, and the attending, worsening quality of a life of patients. The article describes the main issues of the pathogenesis of this type of disorders and the currently available strategies for its treatment. We present our own experience of treatment motor fluctuations by means of the combined three-component medical product stalevo containing levodopa, carbidopa and entacapone.
The aim of study was to evaluate the effect of commonly used lisinopril, rosuvastatin and their combined action on site-specific nephrotoxicity in rats using clusterin and microalbumin nephrotoxic biomarkers and other related parameters using oral gavage. Rosuvastatin at 2 different doses showed increase in urinary microalbumin levels whereas lisinopril and its combination with rosuvastatin at 2 different doses did not show urinary microalbumin excretion indicating beneficial effects of lisinopril in terms of reducing microalbumin. Urinary clusterin levels significantly increased in high-dose treated animals of lisinopril and rosuvastatin. The use of lisinopril plus rosuvastatin at low dose also led to worsened renal function by raising urinary clusterin levels (217 ± 4.6 ng/ml) when compared with the control (143 ± 3.3 ng/ml). Renal histopathology showed multifocal regeneration of tubules indicating proximal tubule damaged. These results indicate that lisinopril (50 mg/kg), rosuvastatin (100 mg/kg), lisinopril+rosuvastatin (20+40 mg/kg) and lisinopril+rosuvastatin (50+100 mg/kg) showed toxicity only on proximal tubules.
The growing use of illicit ketamine among young adults poses a public health concern in Malaysia. In contrast to medical use of ketamine, illicit use has been reported to produce adverse effects on the urinary tract and, in particular the bladder. APPROACH AND KEY FINDINGS: This case report describes a young Malay woman who developed severe bladder symptoms (urinary frequency) after consuming illicit ketamine. A history of illicit ketamine use was initially missed, and she was consequently diagnosed and treated for a urinary tract infection. Her symptoms persisted despite several courses of antibiotics. The patient was subsequently referred to an urologist where cystoscopic examination and biopsy of the bladder found changes consistent with interstitial cystitis. This was despite the absence of haematuria. Renal function was normal.
The patient's ketamine use was the most likely cause for the urinary symptoms and bladder changes.
Illicit ketamine use may lead to severe urinary tract problems that can be irreversible even after ketamine has ceased. Early diagnosis is critical although difficult when ketamine use is not divulged during the consultation with the physician. Physician consideration of this new clinical entity is important, particularly in cases where the symptoms do not resolve with usual treatment.
This paper deals with the determination of red blood cell phosphorilated compounds, by automated ion exchange chromatography, in clinically healthy subjects, in two patients with hypochomic iron deficiency anemia and in four patients with macrocytic folic acid deficiency anemia. In the cases of nutritional anemia examined significant variations in the level of glycolitic phosphorilated compounds have been observed. The total acid-soluble phosphate content presents a marked increase in patients with anemia, compared with clinically healthy subjects. Very high increase in the 2,3 DPG, F1, 6DP, R5P, G1, 6DP and IMP red blood cell content is observed. On the contrary, ATP red blood cell concentration presents a marked decrease in all the patients.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are ubiquitous environmental contaminants often present in aquatic systems as complex mixtures. Embryonic fish are sensitive to the developmental toxicity of some PAHs, but the exact mechanisms involved in this toxicity are still unknown. This study explored the role of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) in the oxidative stress response of zebrafish to the embryotoxicity of select PAHs. Embryos were exposed to two PAHs, benzo[k]fluoranthene (BkF; a strong AHR agonist) and fluoranthene (FL; a cytochrome P4501A (CYP1A) inhibitor), alone and in combination. CYP1A, CYP1B1, CYP1C1, and redox-responsive genes glutathione s-transferase pi 2 (GSTp2), glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPx1), the glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit (GCLc), MnSOD and CuZnSOD mRNA expression was examined. CYP1 activity was measured via an in vivo ethoxyresorufin-O-deethlyase (EROD) activity assay, and the area of the pericardium was measured as an index of cardiotoxicity. BkF or FL alone caused no deformities whereas BkF+FL resulted in extreme pericardial effusion. BkF induced CYP activity above controls and co-exposure with FL inhibited this activity. BkF induced expression of all three CYPs, GSTp2, and GCLc. BkF+FL caused greater than additive induction of the three CYPs, GSTp2, GPx1, and GCLc but had no effect on MnSOD or CuZnSOD. AHR2 knockdown protected against the cardiac deformities caused by BkF+FL and significantly inhibited the induction of the CYPs, GSTp2, GPx1, and GCLc after BkF+FL compared to non-injected controls. These results further show the protective role of AHR2 knockdown against cardiotoxic PAHs and the role of AHR2 as a mediator of redox-responsive gene induction.
In 1996 and 1997 the Dutch Pharmacovigilance Foundation LAREB received 6 reports of patients with convulsions that were attributed to prophylactic use of mefloquine. Five patients had no neurological history; one patient had a history of epilepsy but had not had any convulsion during the preceding 5-year period. The convulsions took place 1 to 23 days after start of the treatment with mefloquine. Because of the convulsions, the treatment was discontinued. The 4 patients with known follow-up showed full recovery with regard to the convulsions. The practising physician should be aware of the possible occurrence of rare neuropsychiatric adverse events like convulsions during the prophylactic use of mefloquine.
