Multidrug resistance (MDR) is a serious obstacle encountered in cancer treatment. This study was performed to explore the reversal of MDR by doramectin from the avermectin family and nemadectin belonging to the milbemycin family.
The MTT assay was used to evaluate the abilities of the two compounds to reverse drug resistance in adriamycin-resistant human breast carcinoma cells (MCF-7/adr). Intracellular accumulation of adriamycin was determined by HPLC. The effects of the two compounds on inhibiting P-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux was demonstrated by accumulation of rhodamine 123 in MCF-7/adr cells. To investigate the mechanism of reversal by the two compounds, the expressions of P-gp and the MDR1 gene encoding P-gp were tested by flow cytometry and reverse-transcriptase PCR.
Doramectin and nemadectin at the high dose of 8 mumol/l significantly increased the sensitivity of MCF-7/adr cells to adriamycin by 49.35- and 23.97-fold, respectively. They also increased the intracellular accumulation of adriamycin and rhodamine 123 in MCF-7/adr cells in a dose-dependent manner. Expression of both P-gp and MDR1 were down-regulated.
Doramectin and nemadectin are promising agents for overcoming MDR in cancer therapy. Doramectin was more potent in reversing MDR.
A patient with chronic active hepatitis developed vomiting, dyspnoea, tachycardia, diarrhoea and diffuse pains. For several years she had been treated with azathioprine and for a few weeks before admission with phenformin for mild diabetes. Laboratory examination revealed acute disseminated intravascular coagulation and lactacidaemia. Despite intensive treatment the patient died a few hours after admission, the post-mortem examination revealing diffuse pulmonary haemorrhages. The present case report and those published in the literature suggest that phenformin should not be given to diabetics who also have renal or hepatic disease. In any case, if phenformin is given, it should be stopped if hepatic, renal, infectious or thrombotic complications occur. In these cases and those of sudden unexplained deterioration in diabetics, hospitalisation is essential and lactic acid levels should be determined and coagulation tests performed.
Diglycidyl resorcinol ether (DGRE), a pale, yellow, translucent, amorphous solid at room temperature, is used as a liquid spray epoxy resin, as a diluent in the production of other epoxy resins used in electrical, tooling, adhesive, and laminating applications, and as a curing agent for polysulfide rubber. Approximately 3,000 workers are exposed to DGRE. The quantity of DGRE produced in the United States is not known. Toxicology and carcinogenesis studies of technical grade diglycidyl resorcinol ether (81% pure) were conducted by administering the chemical in corn oil by gavage to groups of 50 male and 50 female F344/N rats at doses of 25 or 50 mg/kg and to groups of 50 male and female B6C3F1 mice at doses of 50 or 100 mg/kg. A supplemental study of similar design in male and female rats (0 or 12 mg/kg) was started approximately 12 months later because of high mortality in the 50 mg/kg dose groups. Doses were administered five times per week for 103 weeks. Groups of 50 rats and 50 mice of each sex received corn oil by gavage on the same dosing schedule and served as vehicle controls. Throughout most of the primary study, mean body weights of high dose male and female rats and female mice were lower than those of the corresponding vehicle controls. In the supplemental study, body weights of both sexes of the dosed rats were unaffected by administration of DGRE. Survival of dosed rats of each sex in the primary study was dose related and was shorter (P<0.001) than that of the vehicle controls. No high dose male rats and only 1/50 high dose female rats lived to the end of the study. Bronchopneumonia was the most frequent cause of early death among the rats and may have resulted from the animals' aspiration of corn oil containing diglycidyl resorcinol ether. Survival of the dosed male rats in the supplemental study was reduced (P<0.005) when compared to controls. There was no significant difference in survival between dosed and control female rats in the supplemental study. Survival of dosed and control mice was comparable but poorer in females, with 20/50 (40%) of the controls, 13/50 (26%) of the low dose, and 10/50 (20%) of the high dose groups alive at the end of 2 years. These early deaths were due to suppurative and necrotizing inflammation of the reproductive tract, possibly caused by a Klebsiella sp. infection. The incidences of rats and mice with hyperkeratosis and hyperplasia of the forestomach were compound related. For rats and mice of each sex, incidences of animals with squamous cell papillomas, squamous cell carcinomas, or both occurred with statistically significant positive trends and the incidences observed in other organs in dosed groups relative to the controls. An audit of the experimental data was conducted for the 2-year studies of diglycidyl resorcinol ether. No data discrepancies were found that influenced the final interpretations. Under the conditions of these 2-year gavage studies, technical grade diglycidyl resorcinol ether caused hyperkeratosis and hyperplasia of the forestomach in rats and mice. DGRE was carcinogenic for male and female F344/N rats and for male and female B6C3F1 mice, causing both benign and malignant neoplasms of the forestomach. Levels of Evidence of Carcinogenicity: Male Rats: Positive Female Rats: Positive Male Mice: Positive Female Mice: Positive Synonym: DGRE
Anesthetic agents cause cell death in the developing rodent brain and long-term, mostly hippocampal-dependent, neurocognitive dysfunction. However, a causal link between these findings has not been shown. Postnatal hippocampal neurogenesis affects hippocampal function into adulthood; therefore, the authors tested the hypothesis that isoflurane affects long-term neurocognitive function via an effect on dentate gyrus neurogenesis.
The S-phase marker 5-bromodeoxyuridine was administered at various times before, during, and after 4 h of isoflurane given to postnatal day (P)60 and P7 rats to assess dentate gyrus progenitor proliferation, early neuronal lineage selection, and long-term survival of new granule cell neurons. Fear conditioning and spatial reference memory was tested at various intervals from 2 weeks until 8 months after anesthesia.
In P60 rats, isoflurane increased early neuronal differentiation as assessed by BrdU/NeuroD costaining, decreased progenitor proliferation for 1 day, and subsequently increased progenitor proliferation 5-10 days after anesthesia. In P7 rats, isoflurane did not induce neuronal lineage selection but decreased progenitor proliferation until at least 5 days after anesthesia. Isoflurane improved spatial reference memory of P60 rats long-term, but it caused a delayed-onset, progressive, persistent hippocampal deficit in P7 rats in fear conditioning and spatial reference memory tasks.
The authors conclude that isoflurane differentially affects both neurogenesis and long-term neurocognitive function in P60 and P7 rats. Neurogenesis might mediate the long-term neurocognitive outcome after isoflurane at different ages.
In a group of 23 children with acute leukemia, all but one of whom had entered complete remission, retrospective analysis of hematological profiles demonstrated that administration of consolidation chemotherapy, with a combination of cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) and 6-thioguanine (TG), was associated with a fall in the erythrocyte concentration in peripheral blood, the rate of which was at least as fast as would have occurred with total marrow ablation and consequent red cell aplasia. In the absence of profound myelosuppression or detectable hemorrhage, drug-induced erythrocytotoxicity was suspected, prompting in vitro studies of erythrocytes from children with acute leukemia and normal adults. At therapeutic concentration, Ara-C and TG, individually and in combination, produced significant stomatocytosis in samples from both groups. Since phenothiazines are stomatocytogenic and are administered as anti-emetics in conjunction with cancer chemotherapy, chlorpromazine was investigated in parallel studies that demonstrated stomatocytosis at therapeutic concentration, but no consistent interaction with the effects of Ara-C and TG in this regard. These observations suggest a possible pathogenetic mechanism for the development of anemia resulting from drug-induced erythrocytotoxicity.
In the past decades, a greater understanding of acute pancreatitis has led to improvement in mortality rates. Nevertheless, this disease continues to be a health care system problem due to its economical costs. Future strategies such as antioxidant supplementation could be very promising, regarding to beginning and progression of the disease. For this reason, this study was aimed at assessing the effect of exogenous administration of resveratrol during the induction process of acute pancreatitis caused by the cholecystokinin analog cerulein in rats. Resveratrol pretreatment reduced histological damage induced by cerulein treatment, as well as hyperamylasemia and hyperlipidemia. Altered levels of corticosterone, total antioxidant status, and glutathione peroxidase were significantly reverted to control levels by the administration of resveratrol. Lipid peroxidation was also counteracted; nevertheless, superoxide dismutase enzyme was overexpressed due to resveratrol pretreatment. Related to immune response, resveratrol pretreatment reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1β levels and increased anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 levels. In addition, pretreatment with resveratrol in cerulein-induced pancreatitis rats was able to reverse, at least partially, the abnormal calcium signal induced by treatment with cerulein. In conclusion, this study confirms antioxidant and immunomodulatory properties of resveratrol as chemopreventive in cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis.
Nitric oxide-releasing nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NO-NSAID) are promising chemoprevention agents; unlike conventional NSAIDs, they seem free of appreciable adverse effects, while they retain beneficial activities of their parent compounds. Their effect on colon carcinogenesis using carcinoma formation as an end point is unknown. We assessed the chemopreventive properties of NO-indomethacin (NCX 530) and NO-aspirin (NCX 4016) against azoxymethane-induced colon cancer. Seven-week-old male F344 rats were fed control diet, and 1 week later, rats received two weekly s.c. injections of azoxymethane (15 mg/kg body weight). Two weeks after azoxymethane treatment, rats (48 per group) were fed experimental diets containing NO-indomethacin (0, 40, or 80 ppm), or NO-aspirin (1,500 or 3,000 ppm), representing 40% and 80% of the maximum tolerated dose. All rats were killed 48 weeks after azoxymethane treatment and assessed for colon tumor efficacy and molecular changes in colonic tumors and normally appearing colonic mucosa of different dietary groups. Our results suggest that NO-indomethacin at 40 and 80 ppm and NO-aspirin at 3,000 ppm significantly suppressed both tumor incidence (P < 0.01) and multiplicity (P < 0.001). The degree of inhibition was more pronounced with NO-indomethacin at both dose levels (72% and 76% inhibition) than with NO-aspirin (43% and 67%). NO-indomethacin at 40 and 80 ppm and NO-aspirin at 3,000 ppm significantly inhibited the colon tumors' (P < 0.01 to P < 0.001) total cyclooxygenase (COX), including COX-2 activity (52-75% inhibition) and formation of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), PGF2alpha, and 6-keto-PGF1alpha, and TxB2 from arachidonic acid (53-77% inhibition). Nitric oxide synthase 2 (NOS-2) activity and beta-catenin expression were suppressed in animals given NO-NSAID. In colonic crypts and tumors of animals fed these two NO-NSAIDs, there was a significant decrease in proliferating cell nuclear antigen labeling when compared with animals fed the control diet. The results of this study provide strong evidence that NO-NSAIDs possess strong inhibitory effect against colon carcinogenesis; their effect is associated with suppression of COX and NOS-2 activities and beta-catenin levels in colon tumors. These results pave the way for the rational design of human clinical trials.
Dyskinesias commonly appear during L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) therapy of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) and can occur in both dose-related and dose-independent patterns. Clozapine exerts a dose-related suppression of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias by shifting the i.v. L-DOPA dose-response curve for production of dyskinesias without altering relief of parkinsonism. We report our outpatient experience with 13 patients on daily clozapine therapy (maximum dose 400 mg/day), followed for 3-21 months (median 10). Beneficial effects of clozapine, determined from twice-weekly diaries, included increased "on time" and decreased "off time" and time "on with dyskinesia." Improvements were statistically apparent by 75 mg/day and remained so through 200 mg/day. Sedation was a common problem, reflected by increased time "asleep" which was significant by 50 mg/day. Sedation was dose limiting in most patients. Orthostatic hypotension and sialorrhea were variably present. No patients had seizures, bone marrow toxicity, or detectable loss of efficacy of clozapine with chronic use. We conclude that clozapine is an effective agent for suppression of dyskinesias in PD with an effective daily dose for most patients of 100-200 mg/day.
A 68 year old man developed progressive cognitive impairment with an akinetic-rigid syndrome which was atypically responsive to levodopa. The patient died after 18 months and the postmortem examination showed typical Lewy bodies in the substantia nigra and pale bodies in the cortex which were unlabelled by ubiquitin antibodies. This case is particular by the neuropathological examination (no immunoreactivity to antibodies against ubiquitin) and by the abnormal response to treatment (dystonia). These two aspects are discussed.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia on trabecular bone mineral density (BMD) in children and adolescents.
Medically healthy 7- to 17-year-old males chronically treated, in a naturalistic setting, with risperidone were recruited for this cross-sectional study through child psychiatry outpatient clinics between November 2005 and June 2007. Anthropometric measurements and laboratory testing were conducted. The clinical diagnoses were based on chart review, and developmental and treatment history was obtained from the medical record. Volumetric BMD of the ultradistal radius was measured using peripheral quantitative computed tomography, and areal BMD of the lumbar spine was estimated using dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry.
Hyperprolactinemia was present in 49% of 83 boys (n = 41) treated with risperidone for a mean of 2.9 years. Serum testosterone concentration increased with pubertal status but was not affected by hyperprolactinemia. As expected, bone mineral content and BMD increased with sexual maturity. After adjusting for the stage of sexual development and height and BMI z scores, serum prolactin was negatively associated with trabecular volumetric BMD at the ultradistal radius (P < .03). Controlling for relevant covariates, we also found treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) to be associated with lower trabecular BMD at the radius (P = .03) and BMD z score at the lumbar spine (P < .05). These findings became more marked when the analysis was restricted to non-Hispanic white patients. Of 13 documented fractures, 3 occurred after risperidone and SSRIs were started, and none occurred in patients with hyperprolactinemia.
This is the first study to link risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia and SSRI treatment to lower BMD in children and adolescents. Future research should evaluate the longitudinal course of this adverse event to determine its temporal stability and whether a higher fracture rate ensues.
We investigated the efficacy of prophylactic radiotherapy for gynecomastia/breast pain induced by 150 mg bicalutamide in a prospective, randomized, multi-institutional trial.
After definitive treatment for localized prostate cancer 125 patients were randomized to 12 Gy radiotherapy before bicalutamide as prophylactic radiotherapy (53) or bicalutamide only for nonprophylactic radiotherapy (72). The incidence of gynecomastia, breast pain and tenderness, and discomfort perceived by the patients was assessed by physical examination and direct questioning at 3, 6 and 12 months of followup.
At the end of 12 months the gynecomastia rate was 15.8% in the prophylactic group and 50.8% in the nonprophylactic group (p <0.001). On patient evaluation the breast enlargement rate was 34.4%. The severity of breast pain and tenderness was not different between the groups. The breast pain rate was 36.4% and 49.2% by 12 months in the prophylactic and nonprophylactic groups, and the rate of patients who felt discomfort from gynecomastia was 11.4% and 29.5%, respectively.
In this prospective study the incidence of gynecomastia was not as high as previously believed. Although prophylactic breast irradiation seemed to decrease the gynecomastia rate in patients on 150 mg bicalutamide, our study proves that not all patients need prophylaxis since only 52% were significantly bothered by gynecomastia. Thus, individual assessment is needed to select patients who need prophylactic radiation while on 150 mg bicalutamide.
The relationship between the dose of tacrolimus, trough tacrolimus blood concentration, and selected clinical endpoints (acute rejection, nephrotoxicity, and other toxicities) were examined in a prospective, multicenter clinical trial to validate the use of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for monitoring whole-blood concentrations of tacrolimus in liver transplant patients. A total of 111 subjects from six transplant centers were evaluated over 12 weeks posttransplantation. In addition to trough tacrolimus blood concentrations, hematocrit, ALT, AST, GGTP, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin, serum creatinine, BUN, serum potassium, serum magnesium, blood glucose, and serum albumin were also measured. The relationship between trough tacrolimus blood concentrations and clinical endpoints was analyzed using both a logistic regression model and a Cox proportional hazard model. By logistic regression analysis, a statistically significant (p = 0.0465) relationship between increasing trough tacrolimus blood concentrations and decreasing risk of acute rejection was demonstrated over a 7-day time window. Nephrotoxicity and other toxicities also demonstrated statistically significant relationships with trough tacrolimus blood concentrations. The results of the Cox analysis were consistent with the logistic regression analysis. Using receiver operator characteristic curves, trough tacrolimus concentrations as measured by the ELISA method were able to differentiate the occurrence of nephrotoxicity and toxicity from nonevents. To minimize nephrotoxicity of tacrolimus, it is necessary to maintain trough blood concentrations below 15 ng/ml. This study demonstrates that the ELISA method used to measure tacrolimus blood concentrations in this study provides information of predictive value for managing the risk of nephrotoxicity, other toxicity, and rejection in liver transplant patients.
To investigate the incidence of HBV reactivation and its clinical characteristics in the non-active HBsAg carriers receiving chemotherapy or immunosuppressant treatment, and to evaluate the role of nucleos(t)ide analogues against HBV reactivation.
Non-active HBsAg carriers suffering from cancer, autoimmune diseases recieving immunosuppression therapy or cytotoxic chemotherapy were enrolled in the study. The in-patients from June 2002 to April 2007 in the Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University were assigned in the control group. The outpatients or in-patients with the similar disease condition from April 2007 to July 2008 were enrolled in the preventive group. The characteristics of HBV replication, liver damage, clinical symptoms and effectiveness of nucleos(t)ide analogues as prophylaxis for HBV reactivation were observed. The nucleos(t)ide analogues were used before chemotheraphy or immunosuppressive agents. The characheristics and clinical manifestations about HBV reactivation were investigated.
Of the 32 patients in preventive group, the amount of HBV DNA was detected in the 1rst, 3rd, 6th and 12th month after nucleos(t)ide analogues treatment. After chemotherapy or immunosuppressant treatment, only 9.4% (3/32) of them suffered from HBV reactivation, as indicated by positive HBV DNA in the serum and abnormal liver function. Ot the 77 patients in control group without nucleos(t)ide analogues treatment before chemotherapy or immunosuppression therapy, 58.4% (45/77) shown HBV reactivation, 4 patients in the control group died of liver failure, and one liver failure patient recieved liver transplantation.
HBV can be activated in immunosuppressed patients, nucleos(t)ide analogues should be used in early phase to prevent HBV reactivation.
Sotalol is together with amiodarone the most effective antiarrhythmic. Compared to class I antiarrhythmics it has less mortality. However, sotalol can, like class IA antiarrhythmics, release life-threatening attacks of torsade de pointes ventricular tachycardia (TdP-VT), as proarrhythmia or by overdosing. TdP-VT appears in 2% of all patients treated with sotalol. In patients treated for ventricular tachycardias TdP-VT appears in 4%. Some factors increase the incidence of TdP-VT: reduced left ventricular function, hypokalaemia, hypomagnesiaemia, bradycardia, extended QT-interval and daily doses exceeding 320 mg. We recommend increased attention to these predisposing factors so as to prevent TdP-VT. Pharmacologically induced TdP-VT may be misdiagnosed as "genuine" ventricular tachycardia. This often results in increased doses of sotalol, which worsen the TdP-VT. Sotalol is renally excreted and TdP-VT can appear in patients with reduced renal function where normal doses are used. QTC prolongation above 550 ms. or severe bradycardia indicates risk of TdP-VT and should result in end of treatment or dose-reduction. Six case-stories are presented.
Isradipine is a new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist reported to have minimal effects on cardiac electrophysiology. Of 19 patients with normal cardiac electrophysiological profiles, 11 received isradipine intravenously at doses of 0.0010, 0.0020, 0.0040 and 0.0080 mg.kg-1 (0.0150 mg.kg-1 total dose), and eight received verapamil intravenously at 0.0125, 0.0250, 0.0500 and 0.1000 mg.kg-1 (0.1875 mg.kg-1 total dose). One patient experienced hypotension several minutes after receiving the third isradipine dose. With isradipine, systolic blood pressure (BP) decreased from 154 +/- 24 to 151 +/- 22, 143 +/- 25, 133 +/- 19 and 124 +/- 17 mmHg, respectively. Diastolic BP decreased from 83 +/- 10 (baseline) to 80 +/- 12, 76 +/- 10, 74 +/- 7 and 68 +/- 9 mmHg, respectively. With verapamil, systolic BP changed from 132 +/- 20 (baseline) to 135 +/- 29, 132 +/- 24, 130 +/- 25 and 115 +/- 17 mmHg, respectively, and diastolic BP changed from 80 +/- 14 to 84 +/- 14, 81 +/- 9, 78 +/- 6 and 73 +/- 5 mmHg, respectively. Isradipine had no significant effect on the PR, QRS, QT and QTc intervals, nor were there changes in the atrial-His (AH) and His-ventricle (HV) intervals, atrioventricular nodal effective refractory period. Wenckebach cycle length or sinus node recovery time. Similarly, verapamil at the doses studied did not significantly affect PR, QRS, QT, QTc, AH or HV intervals. However, with verapamil, the Wenckebach cycle length changed significantly from 394 +/- 82 (baseline) to 448 +/- 93 ms. Despite the significant fall in BP with isradipine, heart rate did not change significantly. These results support the electrophysiological neutrality of isradipine on the cardiac conduction system.
This study aimed to assess the protective effect of cinnamic acid (CA) and cinnamaldehyde (CD) against cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity. A single dose of cisplatin (5 mg/kg), injected intraperitoneally to male rats, caused significant increases in serum urea, creatinine levels, and lipid peroxides measured as the malondialdehyde content of kidney, with significant decreases in serum albumin, reduced glutathione, and the activity of antioxidant enzymes (catalase, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione peroxidase) of kidney as compared with the control group. On the other hand, administration of CA (50 mg/kg, p.o.) or CD (40 mg/kg, p.o.) for 7 days before cisplatin ameliorated the cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity as indicated by the restoration of kidney function and oxidative stress parameters. Furthermore, they reduced the histopathological changes induced by cisplatin. In conclusion, CA and CD showed protective effects against cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity where CD was more effective than CA; affects that might be attributed to their antioxidant activities.
The effect of butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), which is used widely as an antioxidant, on IgE-dependent allergic responses in vivo and in vitro was investigated. For in vivo study, passive cutaneous anaphylaxis (PCA) was elicited in rats by i.d. injection of anti-DNP IgE and 48 h later by i.v. injection of DNP-HSA. BHT was i.p. given immediately after anti-DNP IgE injection. For in vitro studies, the rat mast cell line RBL2H3 sensitized with monoclonal anti-dinitrophenol (DNP) IgE was challenged with the multivalent antigen DNP-human serum albumin (DNP-HSA) in the presence or absence of BHT. beta-Hexosaminidase and histamine released from RBL2H3 cells, as indicators of degranulation of the cells, the concentration of intracellular Ca2+, the level of phosphorylated-Akt, and global tyrosine phosphorylation as indicators of mast cell activation, were measured. The results showed that BHT given to anti-DNP IgE-sensitized rats augmented DNP-specific PCA in a dose-dependent manner. In the presence of BHT, IgE-induced releases of beta-hexosaminidase and histamine from RBL2H3 cells were increased. BHT also further elevated IgE-mediated increased concentrations of intracellular Ca2+ and the levels of phosphorylated-Akt, but did not affect global tyrosine phosphorylation, in RBL2H3 cells. Moreover, the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 inhibited IgE-dependent degranulation and its enhancement by BHT. These findings indicate that BHT may upregulate PCA by enhancing mast cell degranulation associated with enhancements of intracellular Ca2+ concentration and PI3K activation, suggesting that BHT might affect allergic diseases such as allergic rhinitis and asthma.
Hypertension intensifies the cardiac dysfunction of diabetes. We investigated the possible role of altered exogenous fuel oxidation in this phenomenon. Diabetes was induced by streptozotocin in spontaneously hypertensive rats and normotensive Sprague-Dawley rats. Two weeks later, mechanical performance and the oxidation of glucose and palmitate were quantified in working hearts ex vivo at intermediate and high workloads. The results showed that the nondiabetic spontaneously hypertensive rat hearts, compared with those of the normotensive controls, oxidized glucose at a higher rate but oxidized palmitate at a much lower rate, as reported previously. The effects of diabetes in the hypertensive rats, compared with its effects in the normotensive strain, were characterized by (1) a more pronounced decrease in heart performance, (2) either a similar or a less marked reduction in the rate of glucose oxidation, depending on the workload, and (3) a relatively greater increase in palmitate oxidation, particularly at the higher workload. These findings suggest that the exaggerated stimulation of fatty acid oxidation by diabetes in the hypertrophic left ventricle may be a more important contributor to the premature mechanical dysfunction than the inhibition of glucose oxidation. Possible mechanisms include antagonism of energetically favorable shifts in fuel oxidation or inhibition of accelerated membrane lipid biosynthesis in left ventricular hypertrophy.
Glucocorticoids are metabolized by 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1 (11betaHSD1) and the A-ring reductases (5alpha- and 5beta-reductases). Dysregulation of these enzymes has been reported in liver and adipose tissue in obese humans and animals, potentially leading to altered intracellular glucocorticoid concentrations and compensatory activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. This dysregulation of glucocorticoid metabolism in obesity is poorly understood. We hypothesized that changes in glucocorticoid metabolism in obesity are mediated by alterations in androgen action. Steroid metabolism was studied in obese and lean male Zucker rats (age 10 wk, 10 animals per group) 4 wk after gonadectomy or sham surgery. Oral glucose tolerance tests were performed, and activities and abundances of mRNAs for steroid metabolizing enzymes were quantified in liver and adipose tissue. Gonadectomy did not consistently alter weight gain, glucose intolerance, or hyperinsulinemia in obese animals. Gonadectomy increased adrenal mass (P < 0.05), suppressed 11betaHSD1 activity and/or mRNA in liver and adipose, increased 5alpha-reductase 1 mRNA in liver (P < 0.05), and increased 5beta-reductase activity only in obese animals (P < 0.05). Differences in hepatic 11betaHSD1 mRNA expression and adipose activity between lean and obese animals were normalized by gonadectomy, whereas obese gonadectomized animals maintained elevated liver 5alpha-reductase and had an exaggerated elevation of 5beta-reductase activity. We conclude that androgens tonically increase 11betaHSD1 in liver and adipose tissue in male rats and contribute to the dysregulation of 11betaHSD1 in obesity. By contrast, androgens tonically suppress hepatic A-ring reductases in male rats and do not contribute to dysregulation of these enzymes in obesity.
While methamphetamine addiction has been associated with both impulsivity and striatal dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor deficits, human studies have not directly linked the latter two entities. We therefore compared methamphetamine-dependent and healthy control subjects using the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (version 11, BIS-11) and positron emission tomography with [(18)F]fallypride to measure striatal dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor availability. The methamphetamine-dependent subjects reported recent use of the drug 3.3 g per week, and a history of using methamphetamine, on average, for 12.5 years. They had higher scores than healthy control subjects on all BIS-11 impulsiveness subscales (p < 0.001). Volume-of-interest analysis found lower striatal D(2)/D(3) receptor availability in methamphetamine-dependent than in healthy control subjects (p < 0.01) and a negative relationship between impulsiveness and striatal D(2)/D(3) receptor availability in the caudate nucleus and nucleus accumbens that reached statistical significance in methamphetamine-dependent subjects. Combining data from both groups, voxelwise analysis indicated that impulsiveness was related to D(2)/D(3) receptor availability in left caudate nucleus and right lateral putamen/claustrum (p < 0.05, determined by threshold-free cluster enhancement). In separate group analyses, correlations involving the head and body of the caudate and the putamen of methamphetamine-dependent subjects and the lateral putamen/claustrum of control subjects were observed at a weaker threshold (p < 0.12 corrected). The findings suggest that low striatal D(2)/D(3) receptor availability may mediate impulsive temperament and thereby influence addiction.
Two cases of endocarditis, one caused by high-level gentamicin-resistant Enterococcus durans and the other by high-level gentamicin- and glycopeptide-resistant Enterococcus faecalis. successfully treated with a combination of ampicillin and a fluoroquinolone are reported. Both strains were susceptible to ampicillin. Enterococcus faecalis was susceptible to ciprofloxacin and to ofloxacin, but Enterococcus durans was moderately resistant to these agents. Microbiological and clinical cure was obtained with a 6-week course of ampicillin plus ciprofloxacin in one case and with ofloxacin in the second case due to intolerance to ciprofloxacin. The efficacy of the treatment was predicted in vitro by time-kill studies and by adequate serum bactericidal titres.
A double-blind, placebo- and amitriptyline-controlled comparison study was performed to evaluate the antidepressant efficacy of sertraline, a specific serotonin uptake inhibitor. Patients with DSM-III-defined major depression randomly received either sertraline (N = 149), amitriptyline (N = 149), or placebo (N = 150) once daily for the 8-week study period. The mean final daily medication dose for the all-patients group was 145 mg and 104 mg for the sertraline- and amitriptyline-treatment groups, respectively. As measured by the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression and the Clinical Global Impressions Scale, both the sertraline and amitriptyline treatment groups showed a significantly greater improvement from baseline (p less than or equal to .001) than the placebo group. The sertraline group had a higher proportion of gastrointestinal complaints and male sexual dysfunction than either the amitriptyline or the placebo group. The amitriptyline group showed a higher proportion of anticholinergic and sedative side effects and dizziness compared with patients who received either sertraline or placebo.
