Puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) results in a marked increase in the fractional clearance of albumin. The increase in the fractional clearance of [(3)H]albumin to approximately 0.045, as measured both in vivo and in the isolated perfused rat kidney (IPK) with PAN, occurs without an accompanying equivalent increase in glomerular capillary wall size selectivity as previously measured with dextrans. This is very similar to the marked increase in albuminuria seen with kidneys treated with inhibitors of endocytosis by the tubular epithelium, particularly lysine (T. M. Osicka, L. M. Pratt, and W. D. Comper. Nephrology 2: 199-212, 1996). The similarity is further established that, like in the presence of lysine, [(3)H]albumin excreted in urine from rats with PAN is essentially intact whereas, in both in vivo and IPK control experiments, excreted [(3)H]albumin is heavily degraded. The same observations have also been made for (3)H-labeled anionic horseradish peroxidase. These observations suggest that the significant albuminuria that occurs in PAN is primarily post-glomerular basement membrane in origin.
Previous research suggests that the G315A single-nucleotide polymorphism in the ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) gene may be a genetic marker for risk of colorectal neoplasia and may also modify the association of aspirin use with risk.
We tested these hypotheses among participants in the Aspirin/Folate Polyp Prevention Study who were randomly assigned to placebo or to aspirin treatment (81 or 325 mg daily) and followed for 3 years for the occurrence of new adenomas. Genomic DNA from 973 subjects was analyzed for ODC genotype. Relative risks (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated to test the association between ODC genotype and adenoma occurrence and interactions with aspirin treatment. All statistical tests were two-sided.
Of the 973 subjects, 54% were homozygous wild-type (GG), 7% were homozygous variant (AA), and 39% were heterozygous individuals; the allele frequencies varied statistically significantly by race and ethnicity. Among these subjects, the absolute risk of any adenoma was 45% and the risk of an advanced lesion was 10%. Overall, no association was found between ODC genotype and the occurrence of new adenomas, but genotype did modify the effect of aspirin on adenoma risk. Although aspirin treatment had no protective effect among subjects with a GG genotype, among subjects with at least one A allele, it was associated with statistically significant reduced risks of any adenoma (RR = 0.77, 95% CI = 0.63 to 0.95; P = .02, P(interaction) = .04) and of advanced lesions (RR = 0.51, 95% CI = 0.29 to 0.90; P = .02, P(interaction) = .02). Among subjects with at least one A allele, 40.8% who took aspirin versus 52.9% who took placebo developed adenomas; 7.1% versus 14.0% developed advanced lesions.
ODC genotype may modify the response to aspirin treatment for colorectal adenoma prevention.
The case concerns the sudden death of a 29-year-old male during clozapine therapy started 2 weeks before. He had a history of treatment-resistant chronic schizophrenia. A complete immunohistochemical study was performed on heart specimens. Histologically, the heart presented diffuse eosinophilic infiltrates located around perivascular structures and focal myocyte necrosis with numerous interstitial eosinophils admixed with histiocytes. The diagnosis of acute myocarditis with an eosinophilic infiltrate was established as the cause of death. The autopsy findings and a detailed medical history supported the conclusion that clozapine-induced hypersensitivity myocarditis was the most likely cause of death.
There is no proven effective treatment for tardive dyskinesia (TD). However, clozapine has been reported to be effective in suppressing TD symptoms. In this article, we report a TD case who received clozapine. The patient recovered from TD symptoms with a dose of 450 mg/day clozapine. At the end of the first year, clozapine was decreased to a dose of 250 mg/day and TD symptoms re-emerged.
Dyslipidemia and high blood pressure are both major cardiovascular disease risk factors. Niacin is an effective lipid-altering agent that has been reported to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. However, the more widespread use of niacin is limited, mainly due to the occurrence of flushing. Laropiprant (LRPT) is a selective antagonist of prostaglandin D(2) receptor subtype 1 that reduces extended-release niacin (ERN)-induced flushing without affecting its beneficial lipid effects. While the lipid effects of ERN are well known, the blood pressure effects are unclear.
The aim of this analysis was to examine the blood pressure effects of ERN and ERN/LRPT.
This was a post hoc analysis of a 24-week, worldwide, multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel, Phase III, previously published study of dyslipidemic patients, which examined the effect of ERN and ERN/LRPT on systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP).
A total of 1613 men and women, aged 21 to 85 years, with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia (66% on statins), were included in the original analysis. ERN alone, or in combination with LRPT, was associated with significant reductions in SBP and DBP at 24 weeks from baseline. The placebo-adjusted mean changes from baseline at week 24 in SBP were -2.2 and -3.1 mm Hg for the ERN and ERN/LRPT groups, respectively (P < 0.05 and P < 0.001). Similar changes in DBP were observed; -2.7 and -2.5 mm Hg in the ERN and ERN/ LRPT groups, respectively (both, P < 0.001).
This post hoc analysis of a 24-week trial found that ERN alone, or in combination with LRPT, was associated with significant placebo-adjusted reductions from baseline in blood pressure in these hyperlipidemic hypertensive or normotensive subjects.
Dipropylacetate (DPA) is an anticonvulsant, which has been successfully used in the treatment of several types of epilepsy. The mode of action has not yet been definitely elucidated, although evidence of influence on gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) turnover in brain has been presented. Several recent reports of the occurrence of hyperglycinemia in association with DPA-treatment indicate that this agent also influences other areas of amino acid metabolism. In the present study of 10 patients receiving DPA for epilepsy, high concentrations of glycine in plasma and CSF were observed, whereas the levels of all other amino acids remained virtually unchanged. The effect of DPA on urinary excretion of amino acids seems to be of considerable significance as marked elevation of urine concentrations of alanine, asparagine, cystine, glycine, histidine, isoleucine and leucine, phenylalanine and tyrosine were observed. This secondary hyperglycinemia could be due to suppression of glycine conjugation reactions, whereas DPA or its metabolites might interfere with tubular reabsorption of various amino acids, thereby causing hyperaminoaciduria.
The E-cadherin (CDH1) gene has been associated with prostate carcinogenesis. The C/A polymorphism--160 base pairs relative to the transcription start site has been shown to decrease gene transcription. We analyzed the association between this polymorphism and the risk of sporadic, familial (2 close relatives) and hereditary (3 or more close relatives) prostate cancer. We combined data from 3 population-based epidemiologic studies in Sweden encompassing altogether 1,036 prostate cancer cases and 669 controls that were genotyped for the short nucleotide polymorphism. Odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals were estimated through unconditional logistic regression. We found no significant association between the A-allele and sporadic (OR = 1.0; 95% CI = 0.8-1.2) or familial (OR = 1.4; 95% CI = 0.9-2.2) prostate cancer. In contrast, risk of hereditary cancer was increased among heterozygote CA carriers (OR = 1.7; 95% CI = 1.0-2.7) and particularly among homozygote AA carriers (OR = 2.6; 95% CI = 1.4-4.9). Our data indicate that the -160 single nucleotide polymorphism in CDH1 is a low-penetrant prostate cancer susceptibility gene that might explain a proportion of familial and notably hereditary prostate cancer.
A 79-year-old woman was admitted due to increasing dizziness during the past six days. She had been treated with clomipramine 75 mg daily for years, and in addition had received paroxetine 20 mg daily for the last eight days. Both drugs were terminated and the symptoms disappeared. Thirty-six hours after taking the last drugs, the S-clomipramine plus S-desmethylclomipramine were 790 mmol/l. The symptoms were probably related to this high serum level caused by interaction with paroxetine.
Hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) is a dose limiting side effect of cyclophosphamide (CYP).
In this study, we aimed to investigate the role of amifostine in the protection of CYP-induced HC and compare its efficacy with mesna.
This animal study was conducted in the Experimental Animals Breeding and Research Center of the Medical Faculty of Uludag University.
Male Wistar rats (150-200 g; 10 rats per group) were randomly assigned to four groups. Group I (control group) received no drugs, group II received CYP (200 mg/kg, i.p.) alone, group III received amifostine (200 mg/kg, i.p.) and CYP, and group IV received CYP and mesna (40 mg/kg, i.p.) immediately and 4 and 8 h after administration of CYP. Bladders of animals were assessed macroscopically and histologically 24 h later. Gross assessment for presence of edema and hemorrhage and histological evaluation of damage to the bladder were scored according to Gray's criteria.
For macroscopic and microscopic data, we used statistical evaluation by Kruskal-Wallis nonparametric analysis of variance followed by the Mann-Whitney U-test.
All the animals in group II had evidence of HC. Significant histological damage and macroscopic changes were present in this group compared to control group (P<0.001). The median scores for bladder damage in group III and IV were significantly lower compared to group II (P<0.001). When the median scores for bladder damage of group I, III, and IV were compared, there was no significant difference among these groups.
This study demonstrated the efficacy of amifostine in prevention of cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.
Fibrates are widely used for treatment of hyperlipidemia. It has been reported that gallbladder stones are formed by administration of clofibrate. It is thought that fenofibrate can cause the formation of gallbladder stone as a side effect. We encountered a patient with hyperlipidemia in whom a gallbladder stone was detected by computed tomographic scanning 3 months after the start of administration of fenofibrate during follow-up observation by blood biochemical examination and computed tomographic scanning. This case report will be of great value and importance.
Cardiac mitochondrial dysfunction plays an important role in the pathology of myocardial infarction. The protective effects of caffeic acid on mitochondrial dysfunction in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction were studied in Wistar rats. Rats were pretreated with caffeic acid (15 mg/kg) for 10 days. After the pretreatment period, isoproterenol (100 mg/kg) was subcutaneously injected to rats at an interval of 24 h for 2 days to induce myocardial infarction. Isoproterenol-induced rats showed considerable increased levels of serum troponins and heart mitochondrial lipid peroxidation products and considerable decreased glutathione peroxidase and reduced glutathione. Also, considerably decreased activities of isocitrate, succinate, malate, α-ketoglutarate, and NADH dehydrogenases and cytochrome-C-oxidase were observed in the mitochondria of myocardial-infarcted rats. The mitochondrial calcium, cholesterol, free fatty acids, and triglycerides were considerably increased and adenosine triphosphate and phospholipids were considerably decreased in isoproterenol-induced rats. Caffeic acid pretreatment showed considerable protective effects on all the biochemical parameters studied. Myocardial infarct size was much reduced in caffeic acid pretreated isoproterenol-induced rats. Transmission electron microscopic findings also confirmed the protective effects of caffeic acid. The possible mechanisms of caffeic acid on cardiac mitochondria protection might be due to decreasing free radicals, increasing multienzyme activities, reduced glutathione, and adenosine triphosphate levels and maintaining lipids and calcium. In vitro studies also confirmed the free-radical-scavenging activity of caffeic acid. Thus, caffeic acid protected rat's heart mitochondria against isoproterenol-induced damage. This study may have a significant impact on myocardial-infarcted patients.
Niacin is highly effective at raising high-density lipoprotein cholesterol but remains underused because of the adverse event of flushing.
The objective of this study was to determine the incidence and severity of niacin-induced flushing and their relationship to niacin discontinuation and skipping or delaying niacin doses in clinical practice. The use of aspirin to avoid niacin-induced flushing was also assessed.
Structured telephone interviews were performed with patients identified from administrative claims data as having newly initiated niacin. The main outcome measures were rate and severity of flushing, association between flushing and niacin discontinuation, and rate of prophylactic aspirin use to avoid flushing. Flushing was evaluated on a scale of none, mild, moderate, severe, and extreme.
Telephone interviews were conducted with 500 patients who had newly initiated niacin. The patients interviewed were predominantly white men with at least some college education and a mean (SD) age of 55.0 (10.9) years. The mean (SD) time between therapy initiation and interview was 9.3 (3.3) months. At the time of the interview, 27.2% of respondents reported having discontinued niacin ("discontinuers"; n = 136), with a mean duration of niacin use of 4.3 months, and 72.8% continued taking niacin ("continuers"; n = 364). Approximately 91.2% (124/136) of niacin discontinuers and 82.1% (299/364) of continues reported experiencing flushing symptoms (P = 0.013), and 54.4% of discontinuers versus 20.9% of continuers experienced severe or extreme flushing (P < 0.001). Significantly more discontinuers (79.4%) than continuers (58.0%) reported that the greatest degree of flushing they could tolerate was "mild" or "moderate" (P < 0.001). Multivariate logistic regression indicated that flushing symptom severity was a strong predictor of discontinuation as compared with no flushing symptoms (severe: odds ratio [OR], 3.19; 95% CI, 1.43-7.15; extreme: OR, 11.29; 95% CI, 4.20-30.39). Similar percentages of discontinuers and continuers reported both receiving a physician's advice to take prophylactic aspirin (42.0% vs 49.5%, respectively; P = NS) and actually taking aspirin regardless of what their physicians advised (36.0% vs 43.7%; P = NS).
Severe or extreme symptoms of flushing, which occurred in about one third of patients newly treated with niacin, were associated with discontinuation of this otherwise highly effective therapy. Less than half of patients reported being advised by their physician to take prophylactic aspirin or took aspirin regardless of their physician's recommendation to avoid niacin-induced flushing symptoms.
Improvement in the clinical outcome of lung cancer is likely to be achieved by identification of the molecular events that underlie its pathogenesis. Here we show that a small inversion within chromosome 2p results in the formation of a fusion gene comprising portions of the echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 4 (EML4) gene and the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells. Mouse 3T3 fibroblasts forced to express this human fusion tyrosine kinase generated transformed foci in culture and subcutaneous tumours in nude mice. The EML4-ALK fusion transcript was detected in 6.7% (5 out of 75) of NSCLC patients examined; these individuals were distinct from those harbouring mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor gene. Our data demonstrate that a subset of NSCLC patients may express a transforming fusion kinase that is a promising candidate for a therapeutic target as well as for a diagnostic molecular marker in NSCLC.
alpha-Hexachlorocyclohexane (alpha-HCH) was administered p.o. to female Wistar rats for periods of up to 33 months; doses were 20 mg/kg/day, 200 mg/kg every second week, or 420 mg/kg every third week. Increases of liver size, DNA, RNA, and protein (by 50 to 100%) and of drug-metabolizing enzyme activities (up to 300%) observed previously after single doses of alpha-HCH were found to persist after approximately one-third, 1, and 2 years of treatment. At 1 and 2 years, DNA synthesis was measured by [3H]thymidine uptake and was no higher than in controls. All changes regressed upon withdrawal of alpha-HCH after 1 year of treatment. These findings provide no evidence to suggest a protracted development of toxicity or of growth autonomy in the majority of liver cells. Foci of altered cells, neoplastic nodules, and in 2 animals hepatocellular carcinoma were detected histologically in the livers of 24 of 34 treated rats. In livers of 10 of 22 untreated control rats, foci of altered cells developed "spontaneously" between 12 and 34.5 months. If neoplastic lesions were induced by a single dose of diethylnitrosamine, 75 or 150 mg/kg, subsequent treatment with alpha-HCH led to the appearance of hepatocellular carcinoma with 7 months. Altogether, hepatocellular carcinoma within 7 months. Altogether, hepatocellular carcinomas were found in 18 of 21 rats treated with both agents but in only 3 of 26 animals treated with diethylnitrosamine alone. The results show that determination of tumor numbers alone in a long-term animal experiment does not allow one to decide whether alpha-HCH (and similar "xenobiotic inducers") is an initiating carcinogen or merely promotes tumorigenesis from "spontaneous" lesions. Our findings support the latter possibility by the failure to detect evidence suggesting initiating potential of alpha-HCH, by the enhanced mitotic response to alpha-HCH, by the enhanced mitotic response to alpha-HCH in foci of altered cells as reported elsewhere, and by the observation of a permanent stimulatory action on liver growth during prolonged exposure to alpha-HCH.
We retrospectively examined the results of antiemetic therapy with granisetron and dexamethasone; with granisetron, dexamethasone and aprepitant; and with palonosetron, dexamethasone and aprepitant, in patients who received chemotherapy with cisplatin at 50 mg/m2 or more for the first time. Vomiting was dramatically reduced by the concomitant administration of aprepitant. There was no difference in this effect when palonosetron was used instead of granisetron as a serotonin receptor antagonist. There was also no significant difference in the percentage of patients without nausea among the 3 groups. The results of this study indicate that vomiting in patients receiving chemotherapy can be controlled using aprepitant in combination with two other drugs.
A review of two cases of angioedema associated with therapeutic doses of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril are presented along with a review of the relevant literature. Although angioedema of the facial and oral pharyngeal regions is a relatively rare occurrence with the use of ACE inhibitors, recognition of these agents as the cause of such a condition, when subacute, can lead to a rapid cure. Knowledge of these effects may also be helpful in the management of an acute clinical manifestation and, as importantly, may help prevent a recurrent episode due to the ill-guided continuation of the drug.
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a recessive genetic disease caused by defects of the cystic fibrosis trans-membrane regulator (CFTR) gene with a median survival of less than 35 years. This work reports on the oldest living German siblings with CF. Besides clinical history, CF genotype and nasal potential difference (NPD) measurement results, the remarkably high exercise activity of the siblings is discussed as a disease-modifying factor. Both male patients have an overall mild pulmonary manifestation. They have suffered from abdominal symptoms since their early childhood, including recurrent pancreatitis and diffuse symptoms leading to partial gastric resection. They were diagnosed as having CF with positive sweat tests at the advanced ages of 45 and 43 years, respectively. Later on genotyping revealed compound heterozygosity for F508del and 2789+5G-->A. Using NPD we demonstrated a CF-typical inhibition of the NPD by the Na channel blocker amiloride, although in both siblings the remaining CFTR function and alternate chloride channel function were detected during superfusion of the nasal epithelium with isoproterenol and ATP. Long-term survival with CF is basically influenced by the CFTR genotype. The patients' genotype was discussed as a mild one with remaining CFTR function. We demonstrated this residual CFTR function in both siblings using NPD. Additionally the siblings' continuous healthy lifestyle and their engagement in a remarkably high level of exercise activities from early childhood to the present possibly have an important effect on the long-term outcome of CF as disease-modifying factors. In this regard this report can encourage CF patients to maintain a high level of physical activity in their daily lives.
We report here the final analysis of a multicentre randomized, single-blind trial of propranolol for prophylaxis of first bleeding in cirrhosis. One hundred and seventy-four consecutive patients with large esophageal varices were randomly assigned to either propranolol in doses reducing the resting heart rate by 25% (85 patients) or to a placebo (vitamin K: 89 patients). Three were lost to follow-up and 26 had to be withdrawn from propranolol because of side effects (n = 23) or low compliance (n = 3). The cumulative value over 42 months of patients free of bleeding was 74% (95% confidence interval = 85%-63%) in the propranolol and 59% (95% CI = 79%-43%) in the control group and the corresponding survival figures were 51% (95% CI = 63%-39%) and 59% (95% CI = 75%-43%): neither of the differences was significant. A retrospective analysis according to the presence of ascites at randomization showed that in the subset without ascites the proportion of patients free of bleeding was significantly higher in the propranolol group than in the control group (83% vs. 61%; 95% CI = 97%-69% and 78%-44%, respectively; P = 0.028); this difference was even more evident in the ascites-free period (94% vs. 58%; 95% CI = 100%-86% and 76%-40%, respectively; P = 0.002). No differences were found in patients with ascites at randomization. Survival was not significantly affected by treatment in any subgroup, although it was shorter in the ascitic patients given propranolol than in controls (33% vs. 49%; 95% CI = 51%-15% and 71%-27%, respectively; P = 0.07).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Paraformaldehyde is used both as a disinfectant and to devitalise inflamed pulps when local anaesthesia is ineffective. Despite the clinical benefits, paraformaldehyde is not confined to the pulp, but penetrates the dentine and is gradually released as formaldehyde. This case series describes the effects on periodontal and bone tissues of paraformaldehyde used as a devitalising or disinfectant agent.
We previously showed that hepatic expression of glutathione (GSH) synthetic enzymes and GSH levels fell 2 weeks after bile duct ligation (BDL) in mice. This correlated with a switch in nuclear anti-oxidant response element (ARE) binding activity from nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) to c-avian musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma (c-Maf)/V-maf musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma oncogene homolog G (MafG). Our current aims were to examine whether the switch in ARE binding activity from Nrf2 to Mafs is responsible for decreased expression of GSH synthetic enzymes and the outcome of blocking this switch. Huh7 cells treated with lithocholic acid (LCA) exhibited a similar pattern of change in GSH synthetic enzyme expression as BDL mice. Nuclear protein levels of Nrf2 fell at 20 hours after LCA treatment, whereas c-Maf and MafG remained persistently induced. These changes translated to ARE nuclear binding activity. Knockdown of c-Maf or MafG individually blunted the LCA-induced decrease in Nrf2 ARE binding and increased ARE-dependent promoter activity, whereas combined knockdown was more effective. Knockdown of c-Maf or MafG individually increased the expression of GSH synthetic enzymes and raised GSH levels, and combined knockdown exerted an additive effect. Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) or S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe) prevented the LCA-induced decrease in expression of GSH synthetic enzymes and promoter activity and prevented the increase in MafG and c-Maf levels. In vivo knockdown of the Maf genes protected against the decrease in GSH enzyme expression, GSH level, and liver injury after BDL.
Toxic bile acid induces a switch from Nrf2 to c-Maf/MafG ARE nuclear binding, which leads to decreased expression of GSH synthetic enzymes and GSH levels and contributes to liver injury during BDL. UDCA and SAMe treatment targets this switch.
The effects of Ganoderma lucidum polysaccharides (GL-PS) on renal complication in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice have been investigated in the present study. C57BL/6J mice were made diabetic by injection of streptozotocin and GL-PS (125 and 250 mg kg-1) was administered for 8 weeks. Body weight was monitored every week. Serum glucose, creatinine (Cr), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), triglyceride (TG) and urinary albumin excretion (UAE) were measured after 8 weeks of treatment. Glomerular size and mesangial matrix index were assayed by morphometric analysis. Renal expression of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) were determined by immunochemistry. Renal malondialdehyde (MDA) level and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities were also evaluated. GL-PS was able to reduce the serum Cr and BUN levels and UAE compared with diabetic model mice in a dose-dependent manner. Increasing serum glucose and triglyceride levels in diabetic mice could also be lowered by GL-PS. Moreover, GL-PS had the capacity to improve the renal morphometric changes and oxidative stress state of diabetic mice. In summary, GL-PS can improve the metabolic abnormalities of diabetic mice and prevent or delay the progression of diabetic renal complications.
Oxidative stresses including cigarette smoking are implicated in the pathogenesis of cerebrovascular diseases, which are associated with pneumonia because of frequent aspiration. Haem oxygenase-1 (HO-1) acts in cytoprotection against oxidants, provides anti-inflammatory effects, and inhibits atherogenesis. A (GT)(n) dinucleotide repeat in the human HO-1 promoter modulates HO-1 gene expression and shows length polymorphism, which is grouped into three classes: class S (<27 repeats), class M (> or = 27, <33 repeats), and class L (> or = 33 repeats) alleles.
To investigate the correlation between the HO-1 gene polymorphism and development of pneumonia in elderly Japanese.
The length of the (GT)n repeats was analysed in 200 elderly patients with pneumonia and 200 control subjects. The association of the HO-1 gene polymorphism with risk of pneumonia was estimated by logistic regression.
The proportion of allele frequencies in class L, and the proportion of genotypic frequencies in the L-allele carriers (L/L, L/M, and L/S), was significantly higher in patients with pneumonia than in controls (20% v 10% in class L, and 34% v 18% in L-allele carriers). After adjustment for potentially confounding factors, both cerebrovascular disorders and HO-1 gene L-allele carriers were significant and independent risk factors for pneumonia. The adjusted odds ratio for L-allele carriers v non-L-allele carrier was 2.1 (95% confidence interval, 1.2 to 3.6).
The large size of a (GT)n repeat in the HO-1 gene promoter may be associated with susceptibility to pneumonia in the older Japanese population.
The combination of indinavir, a protease inhibitor, and reverse-transcriptase inhibitors is widely used in the treatment of HIV-1 infection. However, precipitation of indinavir crystals in the renal tubular lumen due to the drug's aqueous insolubility may result in characteristic symptoms of flank pain or classic renal colic. An in vitro study has shown that addition of escin to synthetic urine containing indinavir delayed the crystallization time of indinavir.
This study examined the efficacy and tolerability of the addition of escin to highly active antiretroviral therapy containing indinavir to delay the crystallization time of indinavir in urine.
This was a multicenter, randomized, open-label, controlled, 4-period crossover trial in which each period lasted 4 weeks. HIV-1-infected adults receiving treatment with indinavir plus 2 nucleoside analogue reverse-transcriptase inhibitors in whom plasma viral loads had been undetectable (HIV-1 RNA <200 copies/mL) for at least 6 months were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 groups based on the timing of the initiation of escin. Group I received escin during the second and third treatment periods, and group II received escin during the first and fourth treatment periods. The primary end point was the in vitro crystallization time of indinavir in 24-hour urine specimens, determined at the end of each 4-week period. Tolerability was assessed based on the number of patients with a rebound in plasma viral load and on the numbers of clinically and biologically relevant adverse events (including those requiring discontinuation of treatment). Clinical and laboratory evaluations were performed throughout each 4-week period.
Fifty HIV-1-infected patients were enrolled, 47 were randomized to treatment (40 [85.1%] men, 7 [14.9%] women; median [interquartile range] age, 36 [34-45] years), and 30 completed the study. Urine pH and plasma and urine indinavir concentrations were unaffected by the addition of escin to antiretroviral treatment. The mean time to the onset of crystallization was 14.7 minutes with escin (95% Cl, 11.8-17.5) and 9.9 minutes without it (95% Cl, 6.7-13.1). Therefore, the addition of escin increased the mean crystallization time by 5.5 minutes (95% Cl, 1.5-9.5; P = 0.008), representing the overall capacity of study treatment to inhibit indinavir crystallization in the urine. Three of 47 patients had mild gastrointestinal symptoms associated with escin treatment. No episodes of nephrolithiasis were recorded during the study or after the completion of study treatment.
The results of this prospective clinical trial of the effect of escin on indinavir crystallization time support the possibility that indinavir-associated nephrolithiasis may be prevented by means other than overhydration. Further research is needed in greater numbers of patients over longer follow-up times.
Endocannabinoids act as neuromodulatory and neuroprotective cues by engaging type 1 cannabinoid receptors. These receptors are highly abundant in the basal ganglia and play a pivotal role in the control of motor behaviour. An early downregulation of type 1 cannabinoid receptors has been documented in the basal ganglia of patients with Huntington's disease and animal models. However, the pathophysiological impact of this loss of receptors in Huntington's disease is as yet unknown. Here, we generated a double-mutant mouse model that expresses human mutant huntingtin exon 1 in a type 1 cannabinoid receptor-null background, and found that receptor deletion aggravates the symptoms, neuropathology and molecular pathology of the disease. Moreover, pharmacological administration of the cannabinoid Δ(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol to mice expressing human mutant huntingtin exon 1 exerted a therapeutic effect and ameliorated those parameters. Experiments conducted in striatal cells show that the mutant huntingtin-dependent downregulation of the receptors involves the control of the type 1 cannabinoid receptor gene promoter by repressor element 1 silencing transcription factor and sensitizes cells to excitotoxic damage. We also provide in vitro and in vivo evidence that supports type 1 cannabinoid receptor control of striatal brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression and the decrease in brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels concomitant with type 1 cannabinoid receptor loss, which may contribute significantly to striatal damage in Huntington's disease. Altogether, these results support the notion that downregulation of type 1 cannabinoid receptors is a key pathogenic event in Huntington's disease, and suggest that activation of these receptors in patients with Huntington's disease may attenuate disease progression.
Although several studies have reported that dopamine D₂ receptor (DRD2) polymorphisms affect the therapeutic efficacy of antipsychotics, other studies have suggested that the plasma drug concentration is related to the clinical response. Currently, there are no definitive data regarding which factor has greater clinical significance. Sixty patients with acute exacerbations of schizophrenia received 6 mg/d of risperidone for 4 weeks. Clinical evaluations using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale and the Udvalg for Klinicke Undersøgelser Side Effect Rating Scale were performed before and after administration of risperidone. TaqI A and -141C Ins/Del polymorphisms were determined, and the plasma concentrations of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone were measured. The TaqI A polymorphism had no effect on therapeutic efficacy, but the -141C Ins/Del polymorphism was associated with an improvement in positive symptoms. In addition, the plasma concentration of the active moiety (risperidone plus 9-hydroxyrisperidone) correlated with the improvement in the total Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale score as well as with positive symptoms. Although there were no associations between DRD2 polymorphisms and psychic adverse effects, the plasma drug concentration was associated with psychic adverse effects. These findings suggest that DRD2 polymorphisms are associated with the therapeutic effects of risperidone as they relate to positive symptoms and that plasma drug concentrations are associated with overall symptoms as well as excitement and cognitive symptoms. Both the genotyping of DRD2 and the monitoring of plasma drug concentrations may be useful for improving clinically dominant symptoms. Further work involving replication in a larger sample is required to support our findings.
The contribution of nitric oxide (NO) to capsaicin-evoked airway responses was investigated in rats. The measurement of plasma NO level, airway dynamics, airway smooth muscle electromyogram, and plasma extravasation by India ink and Evans blue leakage technique was adapted. Capsaicin-evoked hypotension, bronchoconstriction, trachea plasma extravasation as well as increases in plasma NO level in a dose-dependent manner. L-732138 (NK1 receptor antagonist) or SR-48968 (NK2 receptor antagonist) pretreatment reduced capsaicin-enhanced hypotension, bronchoconstriction, plasma extravasation, and plasma NO level. N(G)-nitro-L-Arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 10 mg/kg, i.v.), a non-selective NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor, or aminoguanidine (10 mg/kg, i.v.), a selective inducible NOS (iNOS) inhibitor, reduced capsaicin-induced increases in plasma NO level and protected against capsaicin-induced plasma extravasation, whereas L-arginine (150 mg/kg, i.v.), a NO precursor, enhanced capsaicin-evoked plasma NO level and plasma extravasation. L-Arginine pretreatment ameliorated capsaicin-induced bronchoconstriction, whereas L-NAME and aminoguanidine exaggerated capsaicin-induced bronchoconstriction. In summary, NK1 and NK2 receptors and iNOS play a role in NO formation and on capsaicin-induced bronchoconstriction and plasma extravasation. NO generated by iNOS counteracts tachykinin-mediated bronchoconstriction, but exacerbates tachykinin-mediated plasma extravasation.
Intrathecally administered alpha 2-adrenergic agonists produce analgesia in humans but may also produce hypotension and bradycardia. To further characterize hemodynamic depression produced by intrathecally administered alpha 2-adrenergic agonists, clonidine (100-1,500 micrograms) was injected into the cervical, thoracic, or lumbar intrathecal space of conscious sheep. Only thoracic intrathecal clonidine injection (100 or 300 micrograms) decreased blood pressure, whereas these doses did not affect blood pressure when injected at other sites. A greater clonidine dose (1,500 micrograms) increased blood pressure to a similar degree at all sites. Hypotension after thoracic intrathecal clonidine injection was inhibited by pretreatment with the alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist idazoxan (1 mg, intrathecally) or the depleter of acetylcholine stores hemicholinium-3 (2 mg, intrathecally), suggesting an action at alpha 2-adrenoceptors on cholinergic preganglionic sympathetic neurons. ST-91, a polar clonidine analog, did not decrease blood pressure after thoracic intrathecal injection. Intrathecal injection of the muscarinic receptor agonist carbamylcholine increased blood pressure. These data describe a complex action of intrathecal alpha 2-adrenergic agonists on hemodynamic parameters that is dependent on site of injection, drug dose, and drug lipophilicity; that can be explained by anatomic factors; and that may possibly be exploited to minimize hemodynamic depression from these agents.
Amifostine has been shown to protect against xerostomia induced by radiotherapy for head and neck cancer, but its impact on the therapeutic index is unknown. This is the first report focusing on amifostine related adverse effects leading to discontinuation of amifostine treatment.
Thirty-nine patients from two centers irradiated for head and neck cancer received i.v.-infusions of amifostine prior to each radiation fraction. In a phase III study, two daily amifostine doses, 200 mg/m(2) (n = 21) and 340 mg/m(2) (n = 18), were compared for protection against radiation induced toxicity. Total radiation dose was 60-70Gy (2Gy per fraction), nine patients received concurrent chemotherapy with cisplatin/5-FU. amifostine was usually discontinued after >1 episode of serious toxicity during subsequent treatment sessions.
In 16/39 patients (41%) amifostine was discontinued due to severe adverse effects, which led to discontinuation of the phase III study. In four of 16 patients radiotherapy was delayed due to amifostine related adverse effects for 1-3 days. Discontinuation occurred more often in patients receiving chemotherapy. The results led to a literature review for amifostine treatment during radiotherapy in head and neck cancer patients. Regarding our series and published series using an amifostine schedule comparable to ours, total discontinuation rate was 27% (57/214). Discontinuation was significantly influenced by chemotherapy (P = 0.007) but not by amifostine dose (P = 0.156).
Daily i.v. administration of amifostine during radiotherapy in head and neck cancer is associated with a high rate of serious adverse effects leading to discontinuation of amifostine treatment and sometimes delay of radiotherapy.
