The present study sought to investigate the effects of prostaglandins synthesis inhibition with indomethacin on blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac weight, plasma electrolytes and cardiovascular responses to arterial baroreceptor stimulation in Oral contraceptive (OC) treated female Sprague-Dawley rats. Oral administration of synthetic oestrogen, ethinyl oestradiol in combination with progestogen, norgestrel for ten weeks significantly increased blood pressure and cardiac weight compared with those of the control rats. Concomitant treatment with indomethacin significantly abrogated increase in blood pressure but did not affect the increase in cardiac weight induced by OC. Heart rate, plasma sodium and potassium concentrations were not affected by OC and/or indomethacin treatment. OC treatment did not alter sympathetic-mediated pressor and tachycardiac responses caused by bilateral carotid baroreceptors unloading. However, these responses were significantly attenuated by indomethacin treatment. These results demonstrated that rat model of OC-induced high blood pressure developed cardiac hypertrophy that is not associated with altered sympathetic-mediated cardiovascular responses to arterial baroreceptor stimulation. The finding that indomethacin prevented OC-induced high blood pressure, but not associated cardiac hypertrophy implies that synthesis of prostaglandins may be an important determinant of OC-induced hypertension, while associated cardiac hypertrophy may not be pressure overload-dependent.
To investigate the rate and the degree of the ocular hypertensive response to dexamethasone ointment in children undergoing eyelid surgery.
Dexamethasone ointment (Dexcosil) was applied three times a day for the first week and twice a day for the second to third week postoperatively to children undergoing epiblepharon surgery. Intraocular pressure (lOP) was measured on the day before surgery, postoperative day 1, 7, 14, 21, 28 and 2 weeks thereafter until the IOP reached preoperative levels. Peak IOP, IOP net increase and time to reach a peak IOP were analyzed. Dexamethasone ointment was discontinued if the IOP was 25 mmHg or more.
A total of 96 children (mean age, 6.5 +/- 2.7 years) were included. Preoperative mean IOP was 13.6 +/- 2.9 mmHg (range 7-19). After dexamethasone ointment treatment, the children showed a significant rise in IOP as compared with the preoperative values. The peak IOP was 20.6 +/- 4.9 mmHg (range 11-39) and the time to reach peak IOP was 8.5 +/- 5.9 days. The low responders (delta IOP < or = 5 mmHg) of our group comprised 35.4% (34/96) of patients, intermediate responders (delta IOP 6-15 mmHg) comprised 56.3% (54/96) of patients and high responders (delta IOP > or =16) comprised 8.3% (8/96) of patients. A net increase in IOP was significantly higher in children 5 years old or less as compared with those older than 5 years (age < or =5, 9.4 +/- 7.5 mmHg vs. age > 5, 6.3 +/- 4.4 mmHg; p = 0.015, unpaired t-test).
Ocular hypertensive response after dexamethasone ointment to the eyelids occurred frequently in children, especially those 5 years old or younger.
A case of peripheral neuropathy following cimetidine treatment is reported. Four days after beginning cimetidine (200 mg four times a day), the patient developed muscle pain and a symmetric motor neuropathy in all 4 limbs, predominant distally and in the lower limbs. Cimetidine was discontinued. Within seven days motor function began to return and within five months recovery was complete. Electrophysiological studies showed an axonal neuropathy. Morphometric studies revealed loss of large myelinated fibers in some fascicles while other fascicles were normal. Teasing studies showed predominant axonal lesions. Microvasculitis was present in the epineurium. Such findings suggest a role for small-vessel immune-complex vasculitis in the pathogenesis of this cimetidine-induced peripheral neuropathy.
One case of isolate stenosis of the popliteal artery in a young woman is reported in this article. Since acid Methysergide maleate had been taken over a longer period, this lesion was placed into the nosological context of toxic arterial fibrodysplasia. Although such lesions usually recede at the end of treatment, the severity and abruptness of ischemia in this case led to operating the patient. This allowed an anatomopathological examination, which showed the diffusion of fibrosis into all layers of the arterial wall.
The human equilibrative nucleoside transporter (hENT1) protein transports gemcitabine into cells. Small retrospective studies in pancreatic cancer suggest that levels of hENT1 protein or messenger RNA may have prognostic value. We studied the predictive value of hENT1 levels in a cohort of pancreatic adenocarcinoma patients from the large prospective randomized adjuvant treatment trial RTOG9704.
In RTOG9704, 538 patients were assigned randomly, after surgical resection, to groups that were given either gemcitabine or 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Immunohistochemistry for hENT1 was performed on a tissue microarray of 229 resected pancreatic tumors from RTOG9704 and scored as having no staining, low staining, or high staining. Associations between hENT1 protein and treatment outcome were analyzed by unconditional logistic regression analysis using the chi-square test and the Cox proportional hazards model.
HENT1 expression was associated with overall and disease-free survival in a univariate (hazard ratio [HR], 0.51; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.29-0.91; P= .02; and HR, 0.57; 95% CI, 0.32-1.00; P= .05) and multivariate model in the group given gemcitabine (HR, 0.40; 95% CI, 0.22-0.75; P= .004; and HR, 0.39; 95% CI, 0.21-0.73; P= .003). hENT1 expression was not associated with survival in the group given 5-FU.
In this prospective randomized trial, hENT1 protein expression was associated with increased overall survival and disease-free survival in pancreatic cancer patients who received gemcitabine, but not in those who received 5-FU. These findings are supported by preclinical data; the gemcitabine transporter hENT1 is therefore a molecular and mechanistically relevant predictive marker of benefit from gemcitabine in patients with resected pancreatic cancer.
This study compared the cognitive effects of carbamazepine (CBZ) and gabapentin (GBP) in healthy senior adults by using a randomized, double-blind crossover design.
Thirty-four senior adults were randomized to receive one of the two drugs followed by a 5-week treatment period. A 4-week washout phase preceded initiation of the second drug. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) were titrated to target doses of either CBZ (800 mg/day) or GBP (2,400 mg/day). Primary outcome measures were standardized neuropsychological tests of attention/vigilance, psychomotor speed, motor speed, verbal and visual memory, and the Profile of Mood State (POMS), yielding a total of 17 variables. Each subject received cognitive testing at predrug baseline, end of first drug phase, end of second drug phase, and 4 weeks after completion of the second drug phase.
Fifteen senior adults (mean age, 66.5 years; range, 59-76 years) completed the study. Seniors completing the study did not differ significantly from noncompleting seniors in terms of demographic features or baseline cognitive performances. Fifteen of the 19 seniors not completing the study dropped out while receiving CBZ. Adverse events were frequently reported for both AEDs, although they were more common for CBZ. Mean serum levels for the completers were within midrange clinical doses (CBZ, 6.8 microg/ml; GBP, 7.1 microg/ml). Significant differences between CBZ and GBP were found for only one of 11 cognitive variables, with better attention/vigilance for GBP, although the effect was modest. Performances on the nondrug average were significantly better on 45% of cognitive variables compared with CBZ and 36% compared with GBP. The overall pattern of means favored GBP over CBZ on 15 of 17 (p < 0.001), nondrug over CBZ on 17 of 17 (p < 0.0000), and nondrug over GBP on eight of 17 (NS).
Mild cognitive effects were found for both AEDs compared with the nondrug average condition. The magnitude of difference between the two AEDs across the cognitive variables was modest. Self-reported mood was not significantly affected by either AED. However, overall tolerability and side-effect profile of CBZ were poorer than those of GBP in senior adults at doses and titration rates reported in this study.
To quantify the effects of gentamicin, kanamycin and netilmicin on renal protein reabsorption and accumulation, these drugs were administered to rats intraperitoneally (30 mg/kg/day) for 7, 14 or 21 days. Scanning electron microscopy of the glomerular endothelia, urinary measurements of sodium, potassium, endogenous lysozyme, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) as well as clearance and accumulation experiments after i.v. administration of egg-white lysozyme and measurements of inulin clearance (GFR) were done in each treatment group. Gentamicin administration decreased diameter, density and shape of endothelial fenestrae. Kanamycin and netilmicin appeared to have no effect at the dose used. All three aminoglycosides decreased GFR and increased urinary excretion of sodium and potassium. While gentamicin and kanamycin decreased the percentage reabsorption and accumulation of lysozyme after i.v. administration of egg-white lysozyme netilmicin had no effect. Daily excretion of total protein, endogenous lysozyme and NAG increased only after treatment with kanamycin and gentamicin. Thus, aminoglycosides may act as nephrotoxicants at glomerular and/or tubular level inducing impairment of renal reabsorption and accumulation of proteins.
A previously undescribed type of encephalomyelopathy after prophylactic intrathecal methotrexate (MTX) treatment for acute leukemia is reported. The patient was treated systemically with vincristine, MTX, stereoids and mercaptopurine. Radiation therapy was not given. The neurologic symptoms started 24 hours after the completion of the fifth intrathecal MTX instillation and death ensued 18 days later. The lesions consisted of superficial and sharply circumscribed areas of incomplete necrosis with astrocytosis on the base of the brain and along the insula regions, around the foramina of Luschka, and over the superior and inferior colliculi. Similar superficial lesions were found over the surface of the cerebellum and along most of the surface of the spinal cord. Most of the affected areas in the brain were located under the large subarachnoid cisterns. In the cord the lesions were most pronounced along the entrance zones of the roots. There was also a severe loss of anterior horn cells. There were no signs of meningeal leukemia, no pathological changes were caused by the intrathecal MTX treatment.
Valproate (VPA) is an effective, widely used antiepileptic drug. Unfortunately its use in pregnant women is associated with neural tube defects in the offspring. Although the etiology of neural tube defects is multifactorial, there is evidence that underlying genetic susceptibility plays a part. We describe two women taking moderate doses of VPA who repeatedly bore children with neural tube defects, despite folate supplementation. This suggests a pharmacogenetic susceptibility to the teratogenic effects of VPA.
We tested the hypotheses that Src tyrosine kinase overactivity represents a chemoresistance mechanism and that Src inhibition may enhance gemcitabine cytotoxicity in pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells.
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells PANC1, MiaPaCa2, Capan2, BxPC3, and PANC1(GemRes), a stably gemcitabine-resistant subline of PANC1, were exposed to combinations of gemcitabine and Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine (PP2). Src expression, phosphorylation (Tyr-416), and activity were analyzed by immunoblotting and in vitro kinase assay. Expression of the M2 subunit of ribonucleotide reductase (RRM2), a putative chemoresistance enzyme, was quantified by Northern and Western blot. Cellular proliferation was quantified by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. Apoptosis was characterized by YO-PRO-1/propidium iodide staining, fluorometric caspase profiling, and caspase inhibition (Z-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethyl ketone). The effects of constitutively active and dominant negative Src were determined. The therapeutic efficacy of PP2 in combination with gemcitabine was tested in nude mice orthotopically xenografted with PANC1(GemRes).
Greater gemcitabine resistance was associated with higher Src phosphorylation and activity, both of which were higher in PANC1(GemRes), relative to PANC1; total Src levels were alike. PANC1(GemRes) overexpressed RRM2. PP2 enhanced inherent gemcitabine chemosensitivity and attenuated gemcitabine resistance in PANC1(GemRes). Constitutively active Src increased gemcitabine chemoresistance; dominant negative Src impaired gemcitabine chemoresistance. PP2 augmented gemcitabine-induced caspase-mediated apoptosis, suppressed RRM2 expression, and decreased activity of the RRM2-regulating transcription factor E2F1 in PANC1(GemRes). PP2 and gemcitabine in combination substantially decreased tumor growth and inhibited metastasis in vivo.
Increased Src tyrosine kinase activity represents a potential chemoresistance mechanism and a promising therapeutic target warranting further investigation in gemcitabine-resistant pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
One hundred eighty-six depressed psychiatric inpatients were seen at our institution during 1982. Forty-five of these patients were treated with tricyclic antidepressants, 32 received maprotiline hydrochloride, a tetracyclic compound, 20 received other medications, and 82 received no drug treatment. One patient in the tricyclic group (2.2%) and five patients in the maprotiline group (15.6%) developed seizures. In four patients the seizure followed the institution of maprotiline therapy by less than three weeks. These data indicate that depressed patients taking the tetracyclic drug maprotiline are at risk for developing epileptic seizures.
We sought to investigate whether functional abnormalities in coronary vasomotion exist in young adults by studying 15 men (age 31 +/- 8 years [mean +/- SD]) with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) and a matched group of 20 healthy control subjects.
Precursors of morphologic coronary artery disease are known to be present in adolescents and young adults with a high risk factor profile.
Myocardial blood flow was measured at the basal state and during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia using positron emission tomography and oxygen-15-labeled water.
Serum total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations were higher in the patients than in the control subjects (mean +/- SD): 7.7 +/- 1.9 versus 5.3 +/- 1.5 mmol/liter (298 +/- 73 vs. 205 +/- 58 mg/dl) and 6.1 +/- 1.8 versus 3.5 +/- 1.4 mmol/liter (236 +/- 70 vs. 135 +/- 54 mg/dl), respectively (both p < 0.001). The baseline myocardial blood flow was similar in the patients and control subjects: 0.92 +/- 0.24 versus 0.83 +/- 0.13 ml/g per min, respectively (p = 0.21). A significant increase in flow was observed in both groups after dipyridamole infusion, but the flow at maximal vasodilation was 29% lower in the patients: 3.19 +/- 1.59 versus 4.49 +/- 1.27 ml/g per min (p = 0.011). Consequently, coronary flow reserve (the ratio of hyperemia flow to basal flow) was 35% lower in the patients than in the control subjects: 3.5 +/- 1.6 versus 5.4 +/- 1.5 (p = 0.0008). Total coronary resistance during hyperemia was higher in the patients than in the control subjects: 36 +/- 25 versus 21 +/- 10 mm Hg/min per g per ml (p = 0.045). Coronary flow reserve was inversely associated with serum total cholesterol concentration: r = -0.43 (p = 0.009).
Coronary flow reserve is reduced in young men with FH, and, consequently, coronary resistance during hyperemia is increased. The results demonstrate very early impairment of coronary vasomotion in hypercholesterolemic patients.
In the present study, we report a kindred with hearing loss, congenital heart defects, and posterior embryotoxon, segregating as autosomal dominant traits. Six of seven available affected patients manifested mild-to-severe combined hearing loss, predominantly affecting middle frequencies. Two patients were diagnosed with vestibular pathology. All patients had congenital heart defects, including tetralogy of Fallot, ventricular septal defect, or isolated peripheral pulmonic stenosis. No individual in this family met diagnostic criteria for any previously described clinical syndrome. A candidate-gene approach was undertaken and culminated in the identification of a novel Jagged 1 (JAG1) missense mutation (C234Y) in the first cysteine of the first epidermal-growth-factor-like repeat domain of the protein. JAG1 is a cell-surface ligand in the Notch signaling pathway. Mutations in JAG1 have been identified in patients with Alagille syndrome. Our findings revealed a unique phenotype with highly penetrant deafness, posterior embryotoxon, and congenital heart defects but with variable expressivity in a large kindred, which demonstrates that mutation in JAG1 can cause hearing loss.
The authors studied the effects of a challenging dose of the serotonin (5-HT)-releaser/reuptake inhibitor d,l-fenfluramine (FEN) on spontaneous cocaine craving in a group of cocaine-addicted users in order to evaluate the involvement of serotonergic pathways in the modulation of craving for cocaine. Nineteen cocaine-dependent male inpatients received 60 mg of FEN or placebo (double-blind). Data were compared with those obtained in a previous study of another serotonergic probe, the partial postsynaptic agonist meta-chlorophenyl-piperazine (m-CPP). FEN significantly reduced cocaine craving and increased cortisol and prolactin when compared with placebo. When the responses to the two drugs were compared, there were no differences in the cortisol and prolactin rises, but m-CPP was a more potent inhibitor of cocaine craving than FEN. These data suggest that 5-HT releasers/reuptake inhibitors and serotonergic agents with greater postsynaptic activity should be further examined.
We present a 15-year-old girl with depression, an obsessive compulsive disorder and conduct disorder, who developed EPS (torticollis, bradykinesia and cogwheel rigidity) while on fluoxetine. No other cause of EPS was present. The patient responded well to benztropine but re-experienced EPS when benztropine was stopped. Fluoxetine and benztropine were used concomitantly for 21.2 months and the patient has been off medication for 2 months without EPS. This case report shows that EPS can and does occur in youth with SSRI. Clinicians should be aware of the SSRIs as a potential causative factor for EPS.
Satraplatin is an orally bioavailable platinum analog that has activity in prostate cancer. JM118 is the most abundant species found in the plasma following the oral ingestion of satraplatin and has anti-tumor activity in vitro against cell lines that are resistant to cisplatin (DDP). The goal of the current study was to determine whether the activity of JM118 in some DDP-resistant cells can be explained by differences in the cellular pharmacology of the two drugs. The effect of each of the Cu transporters CTR1, ATP7A and ATP7B on sensitivity to the growth inhibitory effect of JM118 and its cellular pharmacology was examined to identify the characteristics of JM118 that distinguish it from DDP. These studies were performed using wild type and CTR1-/- homozygous knockout mouse embryo cells, and human Me32a Menkes disease fibroblasts that do not express either ATP7A or ATP7B plus sublines molecularly engineered to express either ATP7A (MeMNK cells) or ATP7B (MeWND cells). Knockout of the Cu influx transporter CTR1 in murine embryo cells increased their resistance to DDP and reduced its cellular accumulation but had no effect on sensitivity to JM118 or its uptake. In the case of DDP, forced expression of either of the two Cu efflux transporters, ATP7A or ATP7B, in Me32a cells rendered them resistant to DDP, increased whole cell accumulation of Pt but reduced the amount of Pt in DNA. In the case of JM118, forced expression of either ATP7A or ATP7B rendered Me32a cells resistant, increased not only whole cell Pt accumulation but also increased rather than decreased the amount of Pt in DNA. These results demonstrate that both ATP7A and ATP7B mediate resistance to JM118 as well as DDP and suggest that they sequester both DDP and JM118 into vesicular compartments within the cell resulting in enhanced whole cell accumulation and reduced cytotoxicity. We conclude that there are two important differences between DDP and JM118 with respect to the effect of Cu transporters on their cellular pharmacology. First, whereas CTR1 is involved in DDP accumulation it does not play a role in the uptake of JM118. Second, ATP7A and ATP7B, while they both mediate resistance, have opposite effects on the accumulation of Pt in DNA following exposure to the two drugs. ATP7A and ATP7B appear to be able to modulate the toxicity of the Pt that accumulates in DNA following exposure to JM118. These results suggest that JM118 will retain activity in cells in which DDP resistance is due to the loss of CTR1, but not in cells in which resistance is due to enhanced expression of ATP7A or ATP7B.
A case of acute central nervous system toxicity following the intravenous injection of vincristine was observed in a patient treated with a chemotherapy regimen including cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone for non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The neurological symptoms consisted of right-sided epileptiform jacksonian seizures limited to the face, that lasted about 10 min, followed by spontaneous recovery. A cerebrospinal fluid study and computed tomographic scan of the brain failed to reveal any central nervous system lymphomatous involvement.
The effects of antimuscarinic (atropine, scopolamine, methylscopolamine), muscarinic (RS86, pilocarpine), antinicotinic (mecamylamine, hexamethonium) and nicotinic (nicotine) cholinergic drugs on the catalepsy and stereotypies induced by acute methadone in rats treated chronically with methadone were studied. The antimuscarinic drugs potentiated and the muscarinic drugs antagonized the cataleptic effect of methadone, whereas the antimuscarinic drugs tended to antagonize and the muscarinic drugs potentiated the methadone-induced stereotypies. Nicotine initially slightly potentiated, and mecamylamine antagonized the cataleptic effect of methadone. The actions of the cholinergic drugs on the extrapyramidal motor effects of methadone were most probably central, because methylscopolamine and hexamethonium had only very weak actions. These results show that the effects of antimuscarinic and muscarinic drugs on the catalepsy and stereotypies induced by methadone are opposite to their effects on the catalepsy and stereotypies produced by drugs which are thought to act on the postsynaptic dopaminergic receptors.
In 70 adult Wistar rats submitted to pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus in early life the electro-oscillograms were recorded from neocortical areas 10, 3 and 17, from CA1 and CA3 hippocampal fields and, in 10 rats, also from the ventrolateral nuclei and amygdala. Head, eye, rostrum + vibrissae, ear and forelimb movements were recorded as well. Fifty rats were subjected to 4-hour daily recording sessions and 20 to continuous 24-hour recordings. In all the rats spike-wave discharges (SWD) were found in every site from which the electro-oscillograms were recorded, and clonic seizures were also displayed by all the animals. Most seizures (83.75%, mean = 6.59 fits/h) were concentrated in nearly 9 h and 16.25% (mean = 0. 77 fits/h) in the remaining 15 h. Eye movements occurred during 49. 2% of the total duration of motor events, the head moved in 42.8% and the rostrum + vibrissae in 8.1% of the time, departing from normal rats. Therefore, pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus produces striking changes in the wakefulness-sleep cycle characteristics.
The peripheral metabolism of Dopa has been studied in correlation with the clinical occurrence of Leyodopa-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson patients. Within the group of patients treated with a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor (PDI), the combination of all the plasma levels of O-Methyldopa from patients with dyskinesias shows significantly higher values than those from patients without dyskinesias. For Dopa itself, no significant differnece can be detected. Such high O-Methyldopa levels seem to be due to a progressive accumulation of this compound and not to a higher degree of formation. In contrast, no significantly different Dopa or O-Methyldopa levels are found within the group of patients treated with L-Dopa alone. These results are discussed in relation to some of the suspected mechanisms involved in Levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
Tumors are thought to differ in their response to cytotoxic agents for a variety of reasons including cell cycle kinetics, degree of hypoxia, differential repair, and ability to survive when stressed. Our previous studies showed that murine mammary carcinoma MCA-4 tumors are relatively sensitive to both radiation and paclitaxel and exhibit a significant apoptotic response following treatment in vivo. In contrast, murine squamous cell carcinoma SCC-VII tumors are relatively resistant to radiation and paclitaxel and exhibit relatively little apoptosis following treatment. Since dysfunctional p53 has been shown to be associated with tumor resistance, perhaps through a dysregulated cell loss mechanism, we examined the role of p53 expression in the differential apoptotic response of these two tumors following cytotoxic treatment in vivo.
Mice bearing 8-mm tumors were treated with 40 mg/kg paclitaxel i.v. or 15 Gy local tumor irradiation, and tumors were harvested at several time points up to 2 days following treatment. Histological sections of the tumors were then assessed micromorphometrically for mitotic arrest and apoptosis and immunohistochemically for p53 and p21 expression.
In the apoptosis-sensitive MCA-4 tumors, p53 expression increased rapidly following radiation from 13% at baseline to a peak of 45% within 3 h, and expression remained elevated for more than 24 h. Radiation also upregulated p21 suggesting that radiation-induced apoptosis in MCA-4 tumor is p53 dependent. Paclitaxel also induced an increase in both p53 and p21 expression in MCA-4 cells; however, the increase was delayed compared to that after irradiation. This upregulation occurred after the onset of apoptosis which would suggest that paclitaxel-induced apoptosis is p53 independent. Both radiation and paclitaxel caused p53 upregulation in the apoptosis-resistant SCC-VII tumors. The untreated SCC-VII tumor has 25% cells p53 positive and has a very high level of p21 (87% cells positive) which suggests a downstream defect in p53 response.
These results show that tumor responsiveness to paclitaxel and radiation, measured by tumor growth delay, was associated with apoptotic response. However, although both agents upregulated p53 expression in these tumors, the association between this upregulation and induction of apoptosis was not clear. Additional studies using these and other tumors are warranted to elucidate the role of p53 and its downstream effectors in the in vivo responsiveness of tumors to paclitaxel and radiation.
To develop a model of visceral pain in rats using a behavioral approach. Cyclophosphamide (CP), an antitumoral agent known to produce toxic effects on the bladder wall through its main toxic metabolite acrolein, was used to induce cystitis.
CP was administered at doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg./kg. i.p. to male rats, and their behavior observed and scored. The effects of morphine (0.5 to 4 mg./kg. i.v.) on CP-induced behavioral modifications were tested administered alone and after naloxone (1 mg./kg. s.c.). In addition, 90 minutes after CP injection, that is, at the time of administration of morphine, the bladder was removed in some rats for histological examination. Finally, to show that the bladder is essential for the CP-induced behavioral modifications, female rats also received CP at doses of 200 mg./kg. i.p. and of 20 mg. by the intravesical route, and acrolein at doses of 0.5 mg. by the intravesical route and of 5 mg./kg. i.v.
CP dose-relatedly induced marked behavioral modifications in male rats: breathing rate decrease, closing of the eyes and occurrence of specific postures. Morphine dose-dependently reversed these behavioral disorders. A dose of 0.5 mg./kg. produced a reduction of almost 50% of the behavioral score induced by CP 200 mg./kg. This effect was completely prevented by pretreatment with naloxone. At the time of administration of morphine, histological modifications of the bladder wall, such as chorionic and muscle layer edema, were observed. In female rats, CP 200 mg./kg. i.p. produced the same marked behavioral modifications as those observed in male rats. Administered at the dose of 20 mg. intravesically, CP did not produce any behavioral effects, whereas acrolein at 0.5 mg. intravesically induced behavioral modifications identical to those under CP 200 mg./kg. i.p., with the same maximal levels. Conversely, acrolein 5 mg./kg. i.v. did not produce any behavioral effects at all.
Overall, these results indicate that this experimental model of CP-induced cystitis may be an interesting new behavioral model of inflammatory visceral pain, allowing a better understanding of these painful syndromes and thus a better therapeutic approach to them.
Polyethylene glycol (PEG)-liposomal doxorubicin (Stealth R, Doxil) is a formulation of doxorubicin, which is encapsulated in liposomes formulated with PEG. It is favored in the palliative setting over doxorubicin because of its generally favorable side effect profile. Adverse reactions are predominantly skin eruptions. We report 3 cases of women with breast cancer undergoing treatment with liposomal doxorubicin who developed palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia and diffuse morbilliform eruptions. Biopsies in the 2 cases demonstrated vacuolar interface dermatitis with epidermal dysmaturation and the third case suggested a drug eruption. Additionally, we report a woman with metastatic breast cancer who developed a similar morbilliform eruption soon after completing a regimen of liposomal doxorubicin. The biopsy revealed an atypical squamous proliferation showing epidermal dysmaturation with focal evidence of interface damage. Both clinician and pathologist alike should be cognizant of this cutaneous eruption, as well as the histologic patterns.
In viral myocarditis, adeno- and enteroviruses have most commonly been implicated as causes of infection. Both viruses require the human coxsackie-adenovirus receptor (CAR) to infect the myocardium. Due to its crucial role for viral entry, CAR-downregulation may lead to novel approaches for treatment for viral myocarditis. In this study, we report on pharmaceutical drug influences on CAR levels in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and cervical carcinoma cells (HeLa) detected by immunoblotting, quantitative real time-PCR and cellular susceptibility to the cardiotropic coxsackie-B3 virus strain Nancy (CVB3). Our results indicate, for the first time, a dose-dependent CAR mRNA and protein downregulation upon Valsartan and Bosentan treatment. Most interestingly, drug-induced CAR diminution significantly reduced the viral load in CVB3-infected HUVEC. In order to assess the regulatory effects of both drugs in detail, we knocked down their protein targets, the G-protein coupled receptors angiotensin-II type-1 receptor (AT(1)R) and endothelin-1 type-A and -B receptors (ET(A)R/ET(B)R) in HUVEC. Receptor-specific gene silencing indicates that CAR gene expression is regulated by agonistic and antagonistic binding to ET(B)R, but not ET(A)R. In addition, neither stimulation nor inhibition of AT(1)R seemed to be involved in CAR gene regulatory processes. Our study indicates that Valsartan and Bosentan protected human endothelial cells from CVB3-infection. Therefore, besides their well-known anti-hypertensive effects these drugs may also protect the myocardium and other tissues from coxsackie- and adenoviral infection.
The responses of mouse urinary bladder ornithine decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.17) and S-adenosyl-L-methionine decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.50) activities were studied following topical intravesical administration of N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide (FANFT) or 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)thiazole (ANFT), potent rodent bladder carcinogens. A single bladder topical application of ANFT or FANFT resulted in a significant increase over controls of ornithine decarboxylase activity within 5 hr, with a return to control levels by 10 hr. S-Adenosyl-L-methionine decarboxylase activity demonstrated a lesser response to topical ANFT or FANFT, achieving a level 2 or 3 times that of controls at 5 to 8 hr, followed by a gradual decline to control levels. Stimulation of activities of both enzymes was dose dependent over a range of 4.6 to 460 nmol of ANFT. ANFT-induced ornithine decarboxylase activity was principally localized in the bladder epithelium and was inhibited in a linear dose-response relationship by the synthetic retinoid, 13-cis-retinoic acid. Mice given FANFT p.o. demonstrated a significant increase over controls in ornithine decarboxylase activity within 12 hr, followed by a gradual decline to control levels by 72 hr.
Propargyl alcohol (PA) is a high production volume chemical used in synthesis of many industrial chemicals and agricultural products. Despite the potential for prolonged or accidental exposure to PA in industrial settings, the toxicity potential of PA was not well characterized. To address the knowledge gaps relevant to the toxicity profile of PA, the National Toxicology Program (NTP) conducted 2-week, 14-week and 2-year studies in male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1/N mice. For the 2-week inhalation study, the rats and mice were exposed to 0, 31.3, 62.5, 125, 250 or 500ppm. Significant mortality was observed in both rats and mice exposed to ≥125ppm of PA. The major target organ of toxicity in both mice and rats was the liver with exposure-related histopathological changes (250 and 500ppm). Based on the decreased survival in the 2-week study, the rats and mice were exposed to 0, 4, 8, 16, 32 or 64ppm of PA in the 14-week study. No treatment-related mortality was observed. Mean body weights of male (≥8ppm) and female mice (32 and 64ppm) were significantly decreased (7-16%). Histopathological changes were noted in the nasal cavity, and included suppurative inflammation, squamous metaplasia, hyaline droplet accumulation, olfactory epithelium atrophy, and necrosis. In the 2-year inhalation studies, the rats were exposed to 0, 16, 32 and 64ppm of PA and the mice were exposed to 0, 8, 16 and 32ppm of PA. Survival of male rats was significantly reduced (32 and 64ppm). Mean body weights of 64ppm male rats were significantly decreased relative to the controls. Both mice and rats showed a spectrum of non-neoplastic changes in the nose. Increased neoplastic incidences of nasal respiratory/transitional epithelial adenoma were observed in both rats and mice. The incidence of mononuclear cell leukemia was significantly increased in male rats and was considered to be treatment-related. In conclusion, the key findings from this study indicated that the nose was the primary target organ of toxicity for PA. Long term inhalation exposure to PA led to nonneoplastic changes in the nose, and increased incidences of respiratory/transitional epithelial adenomas in both mice and rats. Increased incidences of harderian gland adenoma may also have been related to exposure to PA in male mice.
This study characterises two recently developed anticancer agents in vitro and in vivo, 2-methoxyoestra-1,3,5(10), 16-tetraene-3-carboxamide (IRC-110160) and STX140.
Hormone-dependent (MCF-7), hormone-independent (MDA-MB-231) and P-glycoprotein overexpressing (MCF-7Dox) cells were used for proliferation experiments. For the tumour efficacy studies, female nude mice were inoculated with MDA-MB-231 cells.
IRC-110160 is a potent inhibitor of both MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cell proliferation. Furthermore, the potency of IRC-110160 was unaffected by the over-expression of the P-glycoprotein drug efflux pump. IRC-110160 and 2-methoxyoestradiol-3,17-O,O-bis-sulfamate (STX140) induced apoptosis in a similar timeframe in the MDA-MB-231 cell line, but only STX140 caused G2/M arrest in these cells. In the MDA-MB-231 xenograft model 300 mg/kg p.o. (daily) of IRC-110160 and 20 mg/kg p.o. STX140 (daily) both completely inhibited tumour growth; however some toxicity was observed with IRC-110160. After 28 days of daily dosing STX140 (20 mg/kg p.o.) had minimal effect on the white blood population of mice with tumours. The masking of STX140 from white blood cells may be due to its interaction with carbonic anhydrase II (CAII) in the red blood cells. In contrast to STX140, IRC-110160 does not inhibit CAII. These studies highlight the activity of two orally bioavailable anti-cancer agents one of which, STX140, may offer a significant clinical advantage over existing drugs as a common dose limiting factor, haemotoxicity, may be minimised.
