Intravenous dipyridamole induces angina pectoris (AP) in some patients with significant coronary artery disease (CAD). The aim of this prospective study was to identify the angiographic, nuclear, and clinical determinants. The authors examined 50 patients consecutively with significant CAD on coronary angiography. All antiischemic medications were stopped twenty-four hours (nitrates only 6 hours) before injection of dipyridamole (0.84 mg/kg). ECGs were taken before, during, and after this injection. The regional myocardial activity of Tc-99m-Sestamibi at rest and after dipyridamole injection was measured with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). During dipyridamole injection 20 patients had AP, of whom 15 had ST segment depression on ECG (P < 0.001). The only significant difference on coronary angiography between patients with dipyridamole-induced AP and those without AP was the presence of collaterals (P < 0.05). In patients with AP and collaterals, ECG and SPECT changes were always noted in the collateralized territory. Subgroup analysis showed that patients without previous myocardial infarction (MI, n = 17, P < 0.05) or nontransmural MI (n = 17, P < 0.05) had a good correlation between collaterals and AP, whereas patients with a history of transmural MI (n = 16) did not. No further significant variables could be found as a predictor of AP after dipyridamole injection. These findings suggest that AP during dipyridamole stress test is due to ischemia, which is not related to the severity of CAD. Ischemia is probably due to coronary steal to the collateralized territory in patients without transmural MI. Dipyridamole-induced angina pectoris is predictive for collaterals and may indicate viability in patients with MI.
A dermatomyositis-like syndrome developed in a patient treated with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAI), niflumic acid, and regressed after the cessation of treatment. Previously an eruption had occurred under treatment with another NSAI, diclofenac. Our report shows that NSAI can induce not only lupus-like syndromes but also other connective tissue disorders.
We prospectively compared the efficacy and safety of netilmicin sulfate or tobramycin sulfate in conjunction with piperacillin sodium in 118 immunocompromised patients with presumed severe infections. The two treatment regimens were equally efficacious. Nephrotoxicity occurred in a similar proportion in patients treated with netilmicin and tobramycin (17% vs 11%). Ototoxicity occurred in four (9.5%) of 42 netilmicin and piperacillin and in 12 (22%) of 54 tobramycin and piperacillin-treated patients. Of those evaluated with posttherapy audiograms, three of four netilmicin and piperacillin-treated patients had auditory thresholds return to baseline compared with one of nine tobramycin and piperacillin-treated patients. The number of greater than or equal to 15-dB increases in auditory threshold as a proportion of total greater than or equal to 15-dB changes (increases and decreases) was significantly lower in netilmicin and piperacillin- vs tobramycin and piperacillin-treated patients (18 of 78 vs 67 of 115). We conclude that aminoglycoside-associated ototoxicity was less severe and more often reversible with netilmicin than with tobramycin.
Intestinal mucosal capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves mediate, in part, the mesenteric hyperemia after intraduodenal acidification. The hyperemia plays a role in protecting the duodenal mucosa against acid damage. We tested the hypothesis that bradykinin contributes to this protective hyperemia. A specific antagonist of bradykinin will attenuate the hyperemia and exacerbate duodenal villous damage induced by acid. Study 1: Intravenous vehicle, or the specific bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist (HOE 140) was administered to anesthetized rats. This was followed by intraduodenal bolus administration of 160 microM capsaicin or 0.1 N HCl, and then intravenous bradykinin. Study 2: Intravenous administration of vehicle or HOE 140 was followed by duodenal perfusion with 0.1 N HCl. Superior mesenteric artery blood flow (pulsed Doppler flowmetry) (Study 1) and duodenal villous damage (histology) (Study 2) were recorded. HOE 140 significantly reduced the hyperemia induced by bradykinin and intraduodenal capsaicin or acid. Deep villous injury was significantly increased after treatment with HOE 140. These findings support the hypothesis that acid-induced and afferent nerve-mediated mesenteric hyperemia is modulated by a mechanism that involves bradykinin B2 receptor. Antagonism of bradykinin B2 receptor also increased acid-induced deep duodenal villous damage. Thus, maintenance of bradykinin-mediated mesenteric hyperemia, is a previous unrecognized mechanism associated with protection of the rat duodenal mucosa against acid-induced damage.
The primary objective of this study was to estimate the efficacy of a recombinant hepatitis B vaccine (H-B-VAXII) in preventing chronic hepatitis B infection when given alone without concomitant hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) to healthy Thai infants born of HBeAg-positive carrier mothers. The infants received a 0.5 ml (5 micro g HBsAg) intramuscular injection of H-B-VAXII either at birth, 1, and 6 months of age (Schedule A) or at birth, 1, 2, and 12 months of age (Schedule B). Blood drawings for the determination of hepatitis B virus (HBV) serologic markers were scheduled 4, 9, and 13 months following the initial dose of vaccine. At 13 months, 5 (10%) of 50 infants vaccinated on Schedule A and 7 (14.9%) of 47 infants vaccinated on Schedule B had experienced chronic HBV infection. Based on an expected infection rate in unimmunized infants of either 70 or 90%, the overall efficacy for both schedules combined was estimated to be 82.3% (95% CI: 70.6, 90.6) or 86.2% (95% CI: 77.1, 92.7), respectively. Corresponding schedule-specific estimates were for Schedule A: 85.7% (95% CI: 68.8, 95.3) or 88.9% (95% CI: 75.8, 96.3) and for Schedule B: 78.7% (95% CI: 59.6, 91.1) or 83.4% (95% CI: 68.6, 93.1). These results suggest that in areas of high endemicity, where mothers may not always be screened for HBV infection, routine vaccination of infants at birth with a course of hepatitis B vaccine alone should be highly protective, even for very high-risk infants of HBeAg-positive mothers.
The protein product of the gene that when mutated is responsible for Lowe syndrome, or oculocerebrorenal syndrome (OCRL), is an inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase. It has a marked preference for phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate although it hydrolyzes all four of the known inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase substrates: inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate, phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate, and phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate. The enzyme activity of this protein is determined by a region of 672 out of a total of 970 amino acids that is homologous to inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase II. Cell lines from kidney proximal tubules of a patient with Lowe syndrome and a normal individual were used to study the function of OCRL. The cells from the Lowe syndrome patient lack OCRL protein. OCRL is the major phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate 5-phosphatase in these cells. As a result, these cells accumulate phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate even though at least four other inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase isozymes are present in these cells. OCRL is associated with lysosomal membranes in control proximal tubule cell lines suggesting that OCRL may function in lysosomal membrane trafficking by regulating the specific pool of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate that is associated with lysosomes.
Local gentamicin treatment in revision surgery for infected hip and knee prostheses is well established. It is a safe and effective method compared with the systemic use of aminoglycosides. Although nephrotoxic side effects are uncommon, we report a case of acute renal failure after 2-stage revision treatment of an infected knee prosthesis with gentamicin-impregnated beads and block spacers. The combined use of beads and a cement block spacer, both gentamicin impregnated, may have induced this severe complication. Use of this procedure in elderly patients warrants careful follow-up of renal function.
The aim of the present study was performed to determine whether a novel histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, N-(2-aminophenyl)-4-{[benzyl(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]methyl} benzamide (K-183), prevents a reversible cardiac hypertrophy induced by isoproterenol and improves left ventricular (LV) dysfunction in rats. Either isoproterenol or vehicle was infused for 3 days by osmotic minipump. One hour prior to the implantation of isoproterenol, K-183 or trichostatin A (TSA) was injected twice a day for 3 days. We recorded continuous LV pressure-volume (P-V) loops of in situ hearts one hour after removal of the osmotic minipump. LV work capability (systolic P-V area at midrange LV volume: PVA(mLVV)) and hemodynamics were evaluated. K-183 per se induced neither cardiac hypertrophy nor collagen production. Although K-183 did not prevent the hypertrophy, where PVA(mLVV) remained decreased, K-183, differently from TSA, significantly attenuated the decrease of cardiac output and the increase of effective arterial elastance in the hypertrophied heart. These results indicate that the novel HDAC inhibitor K-183 has some beneficial effects on hemodynamics, although K-183 has no effects of anti-hypertrophic modalities.
Many studies have established that loss of heterozygosity and/or altered expression of the fragile histidine triad (FHIT) gene is a common event in a number of tumor types including prostate carcinoma. Encompassing the most active fragile site in the human genome, FRA3B, FHIT has become the model fragile site-associated tumor suppressor gene. In a recent study, linkage and association between germline genetic variation in FHIT (specifically single nucleotide polymorphism rs760317) and prostate cancer were reported. We sought to confirm this finding in two independent samples: (a) a family-based sample of 817 men with (n = 434) and without (n = 383) prostate cancer from 323 Caucasian families, and (b) a community-based case-control sample of African American men with (n = 133) and without (n = 342) prostate cancer. Using a family-based association test, rs760317 was associated with prostate cancer in Caucasians (P = 0.031), with a reduction in the risk of prostate cancer among carriers of the minor allele (odds ratio, 0.66; 95% confidence interval, 0.42-1.04; P = 0.074). African American carriers experienced a similar risk reduction (odds ratio, 0.63; 95% confidence interval, 0.42-0.96; P = 0.032). These results are remarkably consistent across ethnic samples but are in opposition to results from the original study, which showed an association between the minor allele of rs760317 and an increased risk of prostate cancer. Taken together, the consistently significant but flipped association between single nucleotide polymorphism rs760317 and prostate cancer in three independent samples suggests that rs760317 may be in linkage disequilibrium with one or more prostate cancer susceptibility variants in or near FHIT.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) preconditioning-induced neuroprotection is known to be related to suppression of the inflammatory response in the ischemic area. This study seeks to determine if monocyte chemotactic protein-induced protein 1 (MCPIP1), a recently identified CCCH Zn finger-containing protein, plays a role in focal brain ischemia and to elucidate the mechanisms of LPS-induced ischemic brain tolerance.
Transcription and expression of MCPIP1 gene was monitored by qRT-PCR and Western blot. Mouse microglia was prepared from cortices of C57BL/6 mouse brain and primary human microglia was acquired from Clonexpress, Inc. Wild type and MCPIP1 knockout mice were treated with LPS (0.2 mg/kg) 24 hours before brain ischemia induced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). The infarct was measured by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining.
MCPIP1 protein and mRNA levels significantly increased in both mouse and human microglia and mouse brain undergoing LPS preconditioning. MCPIP1 mRNA level significantly increased in mice ipsilateral brain than that of contralateral side after MCAO. The mortality of MCPIP1 knockout mice was significantly higher than that of wild-type after MCAO. MCPIP1 deficiency caused significant increase in the infarct volume compared with wild type mice undergoing LPS preconditioning. MCPIP1 deficiency caused significant upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines in mouse brain. Furthermore, MCPIP1 deficiency increased c-Jun N terminal kinase (JNK) activation substantially. Inhibition of JNK signaling decreased the production of proinflammatory cytokines in MCPIP1 knock out mice after MCAO.
Our data indicate that absence of MCPIP1 exacerbates ischemic brain damage by upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines and that MCPIP1 participates in LPS-induced ischemic stroke tolerance.
Combination chelation therapy with desferrioxamine and deferiprone has recently been suggested as a more effective tissue iron-chelating treatment for transfusion-dependent beta-thalassemia patients, although a standard dosage protocol has not yet been established. We describe a thalassemia major patient who had been treated with combination therapy with desferrioxamine and deferiprone and who was referred to us for faintness and dizziness associated with electrocardiographic ST-T changes and arrhythmia. A brief interruption of the treatment and a subsequent decrease in the drug doses caused the reversion of symptoms and findings. This response prompted us to speculate that a causal relationship existed between the observed abnormalities and the intensive chelation therapy. The possibility of this electrical instability as an adverse cardiac event occurring in the context of treatment with these chelating agents raises questions about the time of application of this therapy, the regimen dosages, and follow-up of such patients.
In spite of the extensive use of corticosteroids, its myopathic effect on respiratory muscle is unknown with relation to the dose and duration of therapy. The present study examined the effects of dexamethasone on the morphology and function of respiratory (diaphragm) as compared to skeletal (soleus) muscle. Control rats were compared to those that received low, high and prolonged doses of dexamethasone. Body mass was reduced proportionally to the dose and duration of therapy. Atrophy of the diaphragm was greater than that of the soleus when normalized to body mass. Absolute tension and tension as a function of cross sectional area was significantly (P less than 0.05) less in the diaphragm and soleus at the high and prolonged dosages. Dexamethasone had no effect on fatigability except in the soleus after prolonged treatment. Furthermore, after prolonged therapy, it had converse effects on the Pt and 1/2RT in the diaphragm as compared to the soleus muscle. Dexamethasone improved the recovery times in the diaphragm alone. Our data suggest that dexamethasone weakens the diaphragm and soleus by reducing its mass and apparently also through some effect on the intrinsic contractile apparatus.
Estragole is a natural constituent of several herbs and spices including sweet basil. In rodent bioassays, estragole induces hepatomas, an effect ascribed to estragole bioactivation to 1'-sulfooxyestragole resulting in DNA adduct formation. The present paper identifies nevadensin as a basil constituent able to inhibit DNA adduct formation in rat hepatocytes exposed to the proximate carcinogen 1'-hydroxyestragole and nevadensin. This inhibition occurs at the level of sulfotransferase (SULT)-mediated bioactivation of 1'-hydroxyestragole. The Ki for SULT inhibition by nevadensin was 4 nM in male rat and human liver fractions. Furthermore, nevadensin up to 20 microM did not inhibit 1'-hydroxyestragole detoxification by glucuronidation and oxidation. The inhibition of SULT by nevadensin was incorporated into the recently developed physiologically based biokinetic (PBBK) rat and human models for estragole bioactivation and detoxification. The results predict that co-administration of estragole at a level inducing hepatic tumors in vivo (50mg/kg bw) with nevadensin at a molar ratio of 0.06, representing the ratio of their occurrence in basil, results in almost 100% inhibition of the ultimate carcinogen 1'-sulfooxyestragole when assuming 100% uptake of nevadensin. Assuming 1% uptake, inhibition would still amount to more than 83%. Altogether these data point at a nevadensin-mediated inhibition of the formation of the ultimate carcinogenic metabolite of estragole, without reducing the capacity to detoxify 1'-hydroxyestragole via glucuronidation or oxidation. These data also point at a potential reduction of the cancer risk when estragole exposure occurs within a food matrix containing SULT inhibitors compared to what is observed upon exposure to pure estragole.
We undertook a quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis in mice to identify modifier genes that might influence the severity of human iron disorders. We identified a strong QTL on mouse chromosome 9 that differentially affected macrophage iron burden in C57BL/10J and SWR/J mice. A C57BL/10J missense allele of an evolutionarily conserved gene, Mon1a, cosegregated with the QTL in congenic mouse lines. We present evidence that Mon1a is involved in trafficking of ferroportin, the major mammalian iron exporter, to the surface of iron-recycling macrophages. Differences in amounts of surface ferroportin correlate with differences in cellular iron content. Mon1a is also important for trafficking of cell-surface and secreted molecules unrelated to iron metabolism, suggesting that it has a fundamental role in the mammalian secretory apparatus.
The effects of nine calcium ion antagonists on exercise tolerance, heart rate and ST-segment changes were compared with those of propranolol in two hundred and eighty patients with established chronic stable angina pectoris. These patients participated in clinical trials for anti-anginal efficacy against placebo, using identical methods and similar protocols, but the comparison reported here was retrospective. The trials were all fixed dose, and the dose was determined by previous upward titration to arrive at an average maximal tolerance level. All the drugs except prenylamine increased the exercise tolerance significantly when compared with placebo. Maximal ST-segment depression on exercise was reduced during treatment with propranolol while treatment with the calcium ion antagonists had no significant effect. The time to the development of 1 mm ST-segment depression was prolonged by all the drugs. Nifedipine, PY-108-068 and nicardipine increased the resting heart rate whereas verapamil, diltiazem, gallopamil, KB-944, prenylamine and tiapamil produced a slight reduction. Propranolol produced a highly significant reduction in the resting and maximal heart rates and the rate-pressure product, whereas gallopamil increased the rate-pressure product by +8% and prenylamine reduced it by -10%. At the doses used, diltiazem, gallopamil and verapamil produced a greater increase in exercise tolerance than did propranolol, while the other drugs were inferior. None of the calcium ion antagonists matched the increase in the time taken to develop 1 mm ST-segment depression with propranolol, although the results with verapamil and gallopamil were close. The calcium ion antagonists are effective antianginal agents which produce their effects by mechanisms which are very different to the beta-adrenoreceptor blocking agents.
17q11 microdeletions that encompass NF1 cause 5%-10% of cases of neurofibromatosis type 1, and individuals with microdeletions are typically taller than individuals with intragenic NF1 mutations, suggesting that deletion of a neighboring gene might promote human growth. We identified mutations in RNF135, which is within the NF1 microdeletion region, in six families characterized by overgrowth, learning disability, dysmorphic features and variable additional features. These data identify RNF135 as causative of a new overgrowth syndrome and demonstrate that RNF135 haploinsufficiency contributes to the phenotype of NF1 microdeletion cases.
Autosomal recessive osteopetrosis is usually associated with normal or elevated numbers of nonfunctional osteoclasts. Here we report mutations in the gene encoding RANKL (receptor activator of nuclear factor-KB ligand) in six individuals with autosomal recessive osteopetrosis whose bone biopsy specimens lacked osteoclasts. These individuals did not show any obvious defects in immunological parameters and could not be cured by hematopoietic stem cell transplantation; however, exogenous RANKL induced formation of functional osteoclasts from their monocytes, suggesting that they could, theoretically, benefit from exogenous RANKL administration.
Donnai-Barrow syndrome is associated with agenesis of the corpus callosum, congenital diaphragmatic hernia, facial dysmorphology, ocular anomalies, sensorineural hearing loss and developmental delay. By studying multiplex families, we mapped this disorder to chromosome 2q23.3-31.1 and identified LRP2 mutations in six families with Donnai-Barrow syndrome and one family with facio-oculo-acoustico-renal syndrome. LRP2 encodes megalin, a multiligand uptake receptor that regulates levels of diverse circulating compounds. This work implicates a pathway with potential pharmacological therapeutic targets.
The ability of prostaglandins to protect the kidney against ischemic and toxic renal injury was evaluated by in vivo and in vitro models of renal ischemia. The prostaglandin E1 analogue, misoprostol, was found to provide significant protection against ischemia-induced renal dysfunction in rats subjected to 40 minutes of renal artery occlusion. Misoprostol-treated rats had glomerular filtration rates almost threefold greater than control animals, although renal blood flow and renal vascular resistance were not significantly different. Improved tubular function was reflected in a lower fractional excretion of sodium and a higher urine-to-plasma creatinine ratio. Misoprostol also provided similar protection in a model of toxic renal injury produced by mercuric chloride. In an in vitro model employing primary cultures of proximal tubule epithelial cells subjected to hypoxia and reoxygenation, misoprostol limited cell death. Posthypoxic cells had apical membrane disruption and loss of microvilli when examined by transmission electron microscopy. These changes were not seen in misoprostol-treated cells. The "cytoprotective" effect was also produced by prostaglandin E2 and prostacyclin. The ability of prostaglandin E to protect against toxic and ischemic renal injury did not appear to be due to an antioxidant effect because misoprostol did not limit lipid peroxidation in vivo and did not protect against oxidant injury by tert-butyl hydroperoxide in vitro. Although the exact mechanism of prostaglandin protection was not revealed, these studies demonstrate that prostaglandins protect renal tubule epithelial cells from hypoxic injury at the cellular level independent of hemodynamic factors or inflammatory responses. Such a "cytoprotective" effect of prostaglandins may be a generalized phenomenon since it has also been demonstrated in gastrointestinal epithelium.
Triethylene tetramine dihydrochloride (trien) is a copper chelating agent used as the alternative drug of choice in the treatment of Wilson's disease. Because of its apparent safety, we have used the drug in 4 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis in whom penicillamine had to be withdrawn because of serious side effects. Trien is an effective cupruretic drug in primary biliary cirrhosis, but its use is limited by the occurrence of side effects that occurred in all 4 patients. Three patients developed gastrointestinal side effects, and one of these patients developed a skin rash. The 4th patient developed acute rhabdomyolysis within 48 hr of receiving the first dose of the drug. One patient tolerated therapy for 20 wk, and, although her liver copper concentration did not show a marked fall, aspartate transaminase levels fell, and her IgM concentration fell to normal. Trien is an unsuitable copper chelating drug in primary biliary cirrhosis, although it remains the alternative drug of choice in Wilson's disease.
Recently, we demonstrated that Y-27632, a Rho-kinase inhibitor, inhibited hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) activation in terms of cellular morphology, improved the progression of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced rat liver fibrosis. The objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of Y-27632 on the established liver fibrosis.
Liver cirrhosis was induced by intragastric administration of CCl(4) once a week for 12 weeks. After the first 6 weeks of CCl(4) injection, Y-27632 (30 mg/kg body weight) or saline was continuously administered to the rats via an intraperitoneally implanted osmotic pump during the final 6 weeks of CCl(4) injection. Two days after the last CCl(4) injection, 70% hepatectomy was performed.
Y-27632 prevented the development of CCl(4)-induced liver fibrosis and improved the fibrotic changes, hydroxyproline content, and serum hyaluronic acid level in the liver. Moreover, Y-27632 reduced the number of smooth muscle alpha-actin- and transforming growth factor beta1-positive cells, and inhibited the expression of Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger mRNA which was reported to be an indicator of HSCs activation and liver fibrosis. Further, the Y-27632-treated group showed markedly increased survival rate after hepatectomy.
These findings indicated that Y-27632 may be useful therapeutically in liver cirrhosis.
Oxymatrine is a traditional Chinese herbal product that exhibits anti-inflammatory effects in models of heart, brain and liver injury. We investigated the impact of oxymatrine in an acute model of intestinal injury and inflammation. Oxymatrine significantly decreased LPS-induced NF-κB-driven luciferase activity, correlating with diminished induction of Cxcl2, Tnfα and Il6 mRNA expression in rat IEC-6 and murine BMDC. Although oxymatrine decreased LPS-induced p65 nuclear translocation and binding to the Cxcl2 gene promoter, this effect was independent of IκBα degradation/phosphorylation. DSS-induced weight loss and histological damage were ameliorated in oxymatrine-treated C57BL/6-WT-mice. While this effect correlated with reduced colonic Il6 and Il1β mRNA accumulation, global NF-κB activity as measured in NF-κB(EGFP) mice was unaffected. Our data demonstrate that oxymatrine reduces LPS-induced NF-κB nuclear translocation and activity independently of IκBα status, prevents intestinal inflammation through blockade of inflammatory signaling and ameliorates overall intestinal inflammation in vivo.
In recent years, oxidative stress has been studied extensively as a main contributing factor to male infertility. Nitric Oxide, a highly reactive free radical gas, is potentially detrimental to sperm function and sperm DNA integrity at high levels. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the associations between five polymorphisms in nitric oxide synthase genes (NOSs) and the risk of male infertility and sperm DNA damage as well.
Genotypes were determined by the OpenArray platform. Sperm DNA fragmentation was detected using the Tdt-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling assay, and the level of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) in sperm DNA was measured using immunofluorescence. The adjusted odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were estimated using unconditional logistic regression.
Our results revealed a statistically significant difference between the cases and controls in both genotypic distribution (P<0.001) and allelic frequency (P = 0.021) only for the NOS3 rs1799983 SNP. Multivariate logistic regression analyses revealed that rs1799983 was associated with a borderline significantly increased risk of male infertility (GT vs. GG: adjusted OR = 1.30, 95% CI: 1.00-1.70; GT+TT vs. GG: adjusted OR = 1.34, 95% CI: 1.03-1.74; P trend = 0.020). Moreover, NOS3 rs1799983 was positively associated with higher levels of sperm DNA fragmentation (β = 0.223, P = 0.044). However, the other 4 polymorphisms (NOS1 rs2682826, NOS1 rs1047735, NOS2 rs2297518, and NOS2 rs10459953) were not found to have any apparent relationships with male infertility risk.
Of five NOS gene polymorphisms investigated in the present study, we found NOS3 rs1799983 might cause oxidative sperm DNA damage, thereby contributing to male infertility.
We have examined the preventative effect of nafamostat mesilate, a kallikrein inhibitor, on pain on injection with propofol in a randomized, double-blind study. A control group (n = 110) and a nafamostat (n = 103) group received 5% glucose 0.02 ml kg-1 and nafamostat 0.02 mg kg-1 diluted with 5% glucose, respectively, followed 1 min later by 1% propofol injected at a rate of 200 mg min-1. Pain scores recorded during injection of propofol were significantly less in the nafamostat than in the control group. In another 10 patients, blood concentrations of nafamostat were measured after administration of nafamostat 0.02 mg kg-1 i.v. Mean nafamostat concentration 1 min after injection was 0.1 (SD 0.05) mumol litre-1, which is sufficient to inhibit plasma kallikrein activity. We conclude that pretreatment with nafamostat 0.02 mg kg-1 significantly reduced pain on propofol injection and this effect may be caused by a reduction in kallikrein activity.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma is a nuclear receptor transcription factor that regulates cell growth, differentiation and homeostasis. PPARgamma agonists have been used in the treatment of obesity, diabetes, cancer and inflammation. We and others have shown recently that PPARgamma agonists ameliorate experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), a Th1 cell-mediated autoimmune disease model of multiple sclerosis (MS). We have further shown that PPARgamma agonists inhibit EAE through blocking IL-12 signaling leading to Th1 differentiation and the PPARgamma-deficient heterozygous mice (PPARgamma(+/-)) develop an exacerbated EAE. In this study, we show that in vivo treatment (i.p.) with 100 mug PPARgamma antagonists, Bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (BADGE) or 2-Chloro-5-nitro-N-(4-pyridyl)benzamide (T0070907), on every other day from day 0 to 30, increased the severity and duration of EAE in C57BL/6 wild-type and PPARgamma(+/-) mice. The exacerbation of EAE by PPARgamma antagonists associates with an augmented neural antigen-induced T cell proliferation, IFNgamma production or Th1 differentiation. These results further suggest that PPARgamma is a critical physiological regulator of CNS inflammation and demyelination in EAE.
In search for an effective oral treatment for diabetes, we examined the capacity of glucose tolerance factor (GTF) extracted from yeast and administered orally to reduce hyperglycaemia in rat models exhibiting insulin deficiency. The cellular effect of GTF on the insulin signalling pathway was investigated in vitro. GTF (oral bolus), insulin (intraperitoneal) or their combination was administered to streptozotocin-diabetic (STZ) or hyperglycaemic Cohen diabetic-sensitive (hyp-CDs) rats. Blood glucose (BG) and insulin levels were measured in the postprandial (PP) state and during an oral glucose tolerance test. Deoxy-glucose transport and insulin signal transduction were assessed in 3T3-L1 adipocytes and myoblasts incubated with the GTF. Low dose of insulin produced a 34 and 12·5 % reduction in the PP-BG levels of hyp-CDs and STZ rats, respectively. GTF induced a 33 and 17 % reduction in the PP-BG levels of hyp-CDs and STZ rats, respectively. When combined with insulin, a respective decrease (58 and 42 %) in BG levels was observed, suggesting a partially additive (hyp-CDs) or synergistic (STZ rats) effect of the GTF and insulin. GTF did not induce insulin secretion in hyp-CDs rats, yet it lowered their BG levels, proposing an effect on glucose clearance by peripheral tissues. GTF induced a dose-dependent increase in deoxy-glucose transport into myoblasts and fat cells similar to insulin, while the combined treatment resulted in augmented transport rate. GTF induced a dose- and time-dependent phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate 1, Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinase independent of insulin receptor phosphorylation. GTF exerts remarkable insulin-mimetic and insulin-potentiating effects, both in vivo and in vitro. It produces an insulin-like effect by acting on cellular signals downstream of the insulin receptor. These results demonstrate a potential source for a novel oral medication for diabetes.
Severe thrombocytopenia, acute coronary artery thrombosis with myocardial infarction and thrombotic occlusion of both popliteal arteries occurred simultaneously in a 54-year-old man within 11 days of starting an intravenous heparin regimen as prophylaxis against deep-vein thrombosis. Popliteal artery thrombectomy was performed 12 days later and re-administration of heparin again induced thrombocytopenia with recurrent thromboses in the area of the leg arteries.
A primipara affected by late-onset diabetes and sensory deafness because of mitochondrial myopathy was hospitalized for threatened preterm delivery. Magnesium sulfate was started for tocolysis, resulting in general muscle damage, although the mitochondrial myopathy did not deteriorate during pregnancy. Magnesium sulfate may be contraindicated in pregnancy with mitochondrial myopathy.
The pattern of amphotericin B toxicity was assessed retrospectively in a group of 20 children with cancer who had received one or more courses of the drug for treatment of systemic fungal infection. Azotemia was the most frequent complication, developing during 23 of 24 treatment courses. Other major toxic effects, in decreasing order of frequency, were anemia, hypokalemia, thrombocytopenia, and neutropenia. Infusion side effects, including drug-related fever, chills, and nausea, were also frequently seen. Seventeen of 20 patients were treated for disseminated histoplasmosis. Nineteen of 20 patients had acute leukemia. Although interaction with other agents could not be excluded, amphotericin B appeared to be the major causative agent for the toxic reactions noted. In no patient, however, was administration of amphotericin B stopped because of drug toxicity.
