We showed previously that patients with progressive autonomic failure with multiple system atrophy (MSA) failed to excrete a water load while they were standing, suggesting abnormal postural regulation of vasopressin release. The rise of plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) with upright posture is modulated by central dopamine and opioid receptors. Patients with MSA may have depletion of brain dopamine and opioid peptides. We measured the plasma levels of AVP in patients with MSA and control subjects during postural stimulation by head-up tilt and the inhibition of this rise in AVP by L-DOPA (dopamine precursor) and naloxone (opiate antagonist). Since L-DOPA and naxolone can alleviate hypotension, we also studied the effects of these agents on orthostatic hypotension. Plasma AVP concentration of normal subjects rose progressively over 90 min of head-up tilt and this postural rise in AVP was abolished by L-DOPA and naloxone. Patients with MSA had similar levels of AVP while horizontal. However, they showed a severely blunted postural AVP response since their levels rose to only 10 per cent of the rise in the normal subjects despite the additional stimulus to AVP secretion of considerable postural hypotension. They also showed no inhibition of AVP secretion by L-DOPA or naloxone. Naloxone did not alter the blood pressure of either group. Although L-DOPA did not change the blood pressure of normal subjects, it lowered it in patients with MSA both while they were horizontal and tilted.
(1) the postural stimulation of AVP release is blunted in MSA; (2) this postural rise in AVP is not inhibited by a dopamine agonist or opioid antagonist in MSA suggesting loss of dopaminergic and opioid pathways involved in AVP release; (3) endogenous opioids do not contribute to orthostatic hypotension in MSA; (4) patients with MSA are supersensitive to the hypotensive effects of an acute L-DOPA infusion.
The upward trend in industrial nations in the incidence of male genitourinary (GU) conditions may be attributed to increased exposure to endocrine disruptors. Polybrominated biphenyl (PBB), a brominated flame retardant, is one such suspected endocrine disruptor.
We investigated the relationship between maternal serum levels of PBBs and GU conditions among male offspring exposed in utero.
In this cohort study of sons born to women accidentally exposed to PBBs during 1973-1974, we examined self-reported data on GU conditions among male offspring in relation to maternal serum PBB levels. We used generalized estimating equations to calculate odds ratios (ORs), controlling for gestational age at birth.
Of 464 sons, 33 reported any GU condition (13 hernias, 10 hydroceles, 9 cryptorchidism, 5 hypospadias, and 1 varicocele). Four reported both hernia and hydrocele, and one both hernia and cryptorchidism. After adjustment for gestational age at birth, sons of highly exposed women (> 5 ppb) were twice as likely to report any GU condition compared with sons of the least exposed women [< or =1 ppb; OR = 2.0; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.8-5.1]. This risk was increased when we excluded sons born after the exposure but before the mother's serum PBB measurement (OR = 3.1; 95% CI, 1.0-9.1). We found evidence of a 3-fold increase in reported hernia or hydrocele among sons with higher PBB exposure (test of trend p-value = 0.04). Neither hypospadias nor cryptorchidism was individually associated with PBB exposure.
Although cryptorchidism and hypospadias were not associated with in utero PBB exposure, this study suggests that other GU conditions may be associated with exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals during development.
The relation between plasma concentration of theophylline and number of apnea preterm infants was studied in six patients. The apnea frequency was monitored after cessation of theophylline treatment and plotted against the log plasma concentration of theophylline. It was calculated that at an average plasma concentration of 40 mumol/l (7.25 micrograms/ml) the preterm infants had two or less apnea per 12 h. On the basis of our results we suggest that 40 mumol/l is the minimum plasma concentration of theophylline for optimal effect on apnea in preterm infants.
Retrospective study based on a revision of the clinical histories of all patients carrying an intrathecal baclofen (ITB) infusion system between July 1988 and March 2007 in a neurorehabilitation hospital.
To describe the psychiatric manifestations due to intoxication or withdrawal of ITB and to explore the possible risk factors for the presentation of delirium secondary to baclofen.
Spinal Cord Injury Unit in Barcelona, Spain.
We selected patients who presented delirium related to baclofen treatment. We filtered these cases by the search of key words. All the compatible episodes were then reviewed and positive cases were confirmed to perform a descriptive analysis of the different variables. Control subjects were randomly selected for a comparative analysis of the aspects of interest.
A total of 12 of the 126 patients carrying the intrathecal system in our hospital presented delirium related to baclofen. Eight cases due to intoxication (66.6%) and four due to withdrawal (33.3%) were found. We provide a description of the psychiatric symptoms. There were no fatal cases due to delirium.
Delirium has a frequency of 9.5% in patients carrying the ITB infusion system, intoxication being more frequent than withdrawal.
Tobacco carcinogens induce Akt activation and lung carcinogenesis. We previously demonstrated that deguelin, a natural plant product, specifically inhibits the proliferation of premalignant and malignant human bronchial epithelial cells by blocking Akt activation. To evaluate the ability of deguelin to block tobacco carcinogen-induced lung tumorigenesis, we evaluated the in vivo effects of deguelin on Akt activation and lung tumorigenesis in transgenic mice in which Akt expression was induced by tamoxifen and in 4-(methylnitrosoamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK)/benzo(a)pyrene (BaP)-treated A/J mice. Deguelin suppressed Akt activation in vivo, as measured by immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting, and statistically significantly reduced NNK/BaP-induced lung tumor multiplicity, volume, and load in A/J mice, as monitored by microcomputed tomography image analysis, with no detectable toxicity. These results indicate that deguelin warrants consideration as a chemopreventive agent for early-stage lung carcinogenesis in a clinical lung cancer chemoprevention trial.
We have studied the effects of the cannabinoid receptor agonists (R)-(+)[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo[1,2, 3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenylmethanone (WIN 55,212-2, 0. 3-5 mg/kg, i.p.) and (-)-cis-3-[2-hydroxy-4-(1, 1-dimethylheptyl)phenyl]-trans-4-(3-hydroxypropyl)cyclohexanol) (CP 55,940, 0.03-1 mg/kg, i.p.), the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist (N-piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-2, 4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (SR141716A, 0. 3-5 mg/kg, i.p.) and the cannabinoid CB(2) receptor antagonist N-[-(1S)-endo-1,3,3-trimethyl bicyclo [2.2.1] heptan-2-yl]-5-(4-chloro-3-methylphenyl)-1-(4-methylbenzyl)-pyrazo le- 3-carboxamide (SR144528, 1 mg/kg, i.p.) on intestinal motility, defaecation and castor-oil (1 ml/100 g rat, orally)-induced diarrhoea in the rat. SR141716A, but not SR144528, increased defaecation and upper gastrointestinal transit, while WIN 55,212-2 and CP 55,940 decreased upper gastrointestinal transit but not defaecation. WIN 55,212-3 (5 mg/kg), the less active enantiomer of WIN 55,212-2, was without effect. A per se non-effective dose of SR141716A (0.3 mg/kg), but not of SR144528 (1 mg/kg) or the opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone (2 mg/kg i.p.), counteracted the inhibitory effect of both WIN 55,212-2 (1 mg/kg) and CP 55,940 (0.1 mg/kg) on gastrointestinal motility. WIN 55,212-2 did not modify castor-oil-induced diarrhoea, while CP 55,940 produced a transient delay in castor-oil-induced diarrhoea at the highest dose tested (1 mg/kg), an effect counteracted by SR141715A (5 mg/kg). These results suggest that (i) intestinal motility and defaecation could be tonically inhibited by the endogenous cannabinoid system, (ii) exogenous activation of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors produces a reduction in intestinal motility in the upper gastrointestinal tract but not in defaecation, (iii) endogenous or exogenous activation of cannabinoid CB(2) receptors does not affect defaecation or intestinal motility and (iv) the cannabinoid receptor agonist, CP 55, 940, possesses a weak and transient antidiarrhoeal effect while the cannabinoid receptor agonist, WIN 55,212-2, does not possess antidiarrhoeal activity.
Naofen (GenBank accession no. EF613262), a newly found intracellular protein in the WD-repeat-2 protein family, has been cloned as an anti-verotoxin II antibody immunoreactive substance, and the nucleotide- and amino acid-sequences have been clarified. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the roles of naofen especially in carbon tetrachloride (CCl4-induced cirrhosis model of rats, also in partial hepatectomy. Naofen mRNA expressions were observed from the early phases of cirrhosis development and during regenerative phases after partial hepatectomy, more remarkable in the former. Naofen immunoreactive fragments located in the vascular endothelial cells and peri-vascular spaces in normal livers especially in Glisson's areas, being strongly stained in the connective tissues 8 weeks after starting CCl4-injections, besides in the cytoplasm of hepatocytes in pseudo-lobules. In contrast, partial hepatectomy caused a small increase of naofen expressions in the whole hepatocytes, and significantly in the endothelial cells of portal veins and hepatic arterioles. Furthermore, in parallel to the degree of naofen mRNA and protein expressions, the rates of double-nuclei cells to total hepatocytes in the Glisson's areas increased in both cirrhosis and partial hepatectomy, suggesting a relationship between naofen expression and mitosis. In in-vitro studies with cell lines, vascular endothelial growth factor, a cell proliferation stimulant, increased the naofen mRNA expressions in HepG(2) cell lines, whereas paclitaxel, a cytotoxic anti-cancer drug, diminished them in NRK52E, both concentration-dependently. These results indicated that naofen immunoreactive fragments play an important role in the cell proliferation, relevant for analyzing the regenerative phases during cirrhosis developments and after partial hepatectomy.
The naturally occurring polyphenol resveratrol has been acknowledged with health-beneficial properties. Most of the studies dealing with its in vivo effects assay huge doses, not representative from a dietary point of view. Our aim was to ascertain whether resveratrol can exert anti-inflammatory activity in vivo at an attainable dietary dose. Rats were fed with 1 mg of resveratrol/kg/day (a human equivalent dose) for 25 days, and in the last 5 days, 5% dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) was administered to induce colitis. Effects on colon tissue damage, gut microbiota, reactive oxygen species, inflammatory markers and nitric oxide production as well as gene expression profile with microarrays were evaluated. Resveratrol increased lactobacilli and bifidobacteria as well as diminished the increase of enterobacteria upon DSS treatment. Resveratrol significantly protected the colonic mucosa architecture, reduced body weight loss, diminished the induced anemia and reduced systemic inflammation markers, colonic mucosa prostaglandin E(2), cycloxygenase-2, prostaglandin E synthase and nitric oxide levels. In addition, the expression of 2,655 genes in distal colon mucosa related to important pathways was varied. These results reinforce the concept of resveratrol as a dietary beneficial compound in intestinal inflammation at doses possibly attainable with resveratrol-enriched nutraceuticals.
Some investigations have looked into the ability of measurements of apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I (apoB/apoA-I) ratio to predict cardiovascular events. We hypothesized that a decrease in the apoB/apoA-1 ratio by statin therapy would act on suppression of coronary plaque progression. A 6-month prospective study was conducted of 64 patients with coronary artery disease treated with pravastatin. The plaque volume, assessed by volumetric intravascular ultrasonography, had decreased significantly by 12.6% (p <0.0001 vs baseline). Although a significant decrease of 6.4% and 14.6% was found in the serum level of apoB and the apoB/apoA-1 ratio (p = 0.0001 and p <0.0001, respectively, vs baseline), a significant increase of 14.0% of and 12.0% in the level of apoA-I and apoA-II (both p <0.0001 vs baseline). No significant changes were found in the level of apoC-II or apoE. A stepwise regression analysis revealed that the change in the apoB/apoA-1 ratio was an independent predictor of the change in coronary plaque volume (beta coefficient 0.386; p = 0.0023). In conclusion, our results have indicated that the decrease in the apoB/apoA-I ratio is a simple predictor for coronary atherosclerotic regression: the lower the apoB/apoA-I ratio, the lower the risk of coronary atherosclerosis.
In a 45-year-old woman with chronic hypokalemia, clinical, chemical and endocrinological results pointed to Bartter's syndrome as cause of the disturbance. By screening the patient's urine twice, positive results for furosemide were obtained and we came to the conclusion, that the patient was suffering from Pseudo-Bartter's syndrome due to chronic abuse of diuretics.
Vascular complications occurring during cisplatin-based chemotherapy of germ cell tumours are inadequately recognized to date.
A 49 year old man with advanced seminoma underwent two courses of chemotherapy according to the PEB regimen. Upon restaging, two thrombotic deposits were noted in the descending part of the thoracic aorta and in the infrarenal abdominal aorta, respectively. Although thrombotic plaques caused aortic occlusion of about 30%, no clinical signs of malperfusion of limbs were registered. The patient was placed on anticoagulant therapy. Six months after completion of chemotherapy, thrombotic deposits had completely resolved. In the absence of other predisposing factors, it must be assumed that cisplatin-based chemotherapy represented a strong stimulus for arterial thrombosis in the aorta.
This is the first case of endo-aortic thrombosis during chemotherapy for testicular germ cell cancer. Providers of chemotherapy must be aware of arterial thrombosis even in young patients with testicular cancer.
We report the case of a severe bronchial asthma attack 15 minutes after the ingestion of food containing small amounts of alcohol. Although an ethanol inhalation test was negative, an acetaldehyde inhalation test was positive. Furthermore, it was discovered that the patient was homozygous for a mutation of the aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 (ALDH-2) gene. We subsequently diagnosed his attack as acute severe alcohol-induced asthma. Since bronchial asthma patients who are homozygous for mutant ALDH-2 genes are susceptible to acute severe alcohol-induced asthma attacks, strict clinical attention is thought a necessity.
Inorganic arsenic (i-As) is an environmental carcinogen to which millions of people are chronically exposed mainly via drinking water. In this study, we used the comet assay to evaluate DNA damage in i-As-exposed inhabitants of the north of Mexico. The environmental monitoring and the exposure assessment were done by measuring both drinking water arsenic (As) content and total urinary As. In addition, the studied population was genetically characterized for four different glutathione S-transferase omega1 (GSTO1) polymorphisms (Ala140Asp, Glu155del, Glu208Lys, and Ala236Val) and the As (+3 oxidation state) methyltransferase (AS3MT) Met287Thr polymorphism to determine whether such variants influence As-related genotoxicity. As content in the drinking water of the population was found to range between 1 and 187 microg/l, with a mean concentration value of 16 microg/l. The total urinary As content of the exposed individuals was found to be correlated with the As content in drinking water, and subjects were classified as low (< 30 microg As/g creatinine), medium (31-60 microg As/g creatinine), and highly exposed (> 61 microg As/g creatinine). A positive association was found between the level of exposure and the genetic damage measured as percentage of DNA in tail (p < 0.001), and AS3MT Met287Thr was found to significantly influence the effect (p < 0.034) among children carrying the 287Thr variant allele. Altogether, our results evidenced that people living in As-contaminated areas are at risk and that AS3MT genetic variation may play an important role modulating such risk in northern Mexico, especially among children.
Apomorphine (APO) is a potent dopamine agonist that is partially metabolized by catachol-O-methyl transferase (COMT). Tolcapone was the first COMT inhibitor available for use as adjunctive therapy to levodopa in Parkinson's disease (PD). In order to determine whether this compound might increase the serum area under the curve (AUC) of APO and whether this results in any clinical benefit, we administered 200mg doses of tolcapone to five fluctuating PD patients taking an investigational sublingual APO preparation. Serial tapping speed and gait speed were assessed at 15min intervals over four hours, in conjunction with APO serum levels, following a single dose of APO, both before and five days after starting tolcapone (600mg/day). Serum APO levels tended to be higher (12.6%), and clinical measures suggested improvement during the APO "on" period after the addition of tolcapone (22.5% improvement in gait speed, and 7.6% improvement in tapping speed), but neither reached statistical significance. Further trials, involving larger samples are needed to clearly establish the pharmacokinetic and clinical effect of tolcapone in PD patients taking APO.
To evaluate the cognitive and behavioral effects of topiramate (TPM) versus carbamazepine (CBZ) using efficacious doses of each drug as monotherapy for children with benign rolandic epilepsy.
A multicenter, randomized, open-label, observer-blinded, parallel-group clinical trial was conducted. TPM was introduced at a dose of 12.5 mg/day with the minimum target dose of 50 mg/day in patients <30 kg and 75 mg/day in patients >30 kg over 4 weeks. CBZ was started at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day with the minimum target dose of 20 mg/kg/day over 4 weeks. Additional individual escalation was allowed up to a maximum target dose. The primary study end point was change on a neuropsychological test battery after 28 weeks of treatment.
Neuropsychological data were available for 88 patients (45 patients for TPM and 43 patients for CBZ). Of the cognitive variables measured, arithmetic showed significant worsening in TPM (p = 0.037). An additional test, for maze, also showed a significantly greater improvement for CBZ (p = 0.026). Of behavioral variables, no significant changes were found but the scores had a negative trend for the TPM. When 30 patients on the minimum target dose for TPM were compared to 40 patients treated with minimum target CBZ, there was no significant worsening of cognitive and behavioral effects in the TPM.
The pattern of neuropsychometric changes with TPM seemed to be slightly worse overall than CBZ. However, outcome with the minimum target dose did not differ significantly in comparisons between the treatment groups.
The effects of transplacental administration of diethylstilbestrol (DES) on female reproductive organs were investigated using Donryu rats. The animals were given subcutaneous injections of DES dissolved in olive oil at doses of 0.01 or 0.1 mg/kg on days 17 and 19 of gestation. In female offspring, clinical signs, body weights and estrous cycles were continuously assessed until all survivors were killed at month 18. A low mean litter size and shortening of period of pregnancy were recognized in the 0.1 mg/kg group. Disorder and/or suspension of the estrous cycle (so called persistent estrus) also appeared very early in the 0.1 mg/kg group. Macroscopically, the incidences of hypoplasia of the oviduct, cystic dilatation of the uterus and small size of the uterine cervix were higher in the 0.1 mg/kg group than those in the control group. Histologically, in the ovary, the incidence and degree of atrophy were increased in both 0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg groups. In the uterus, total incidences of endometrial hyperplasias were about the same in all groups. However, endometrial adenocarcinomas were dose-dependently increased in the treated groups, the incidence in the 0.1 mg/kg group being significant, compared to that in the control. In the vagina, mucification was more prominent in the treated animals, especially at the higher dose, but no tumors were observed. The present results indicate that prenatal exposure to DES can produce uterine adenocarcinomas in rats, as reported earlier for mice, although its carcinogenic activity is not so strong. Increase of endometrial adenocarcinoma incidence might depend on hormonal imbalance resulting from the ovarian atrophy due to transplacental treatment of DES.
Flunarizine is known as a calcium channel blocker commonly used in many countries to treat migraine and vertigo. Parkinsonism has been described as one of its side-effects in the elderly, which is in agreement with its recently characterized moderate D2 receptor antagonism.
To perform a pre-clinical evaluation of flunarizine as a potential antipsychotic.
We evaluated the action of orally administered flunarizine in mice against hyperlocomotion induced by amphetamine and dizocilpine (MK-801) as pharmacological models of schizophrenia, induction of catalepsy as a measure for extrapyramidal symptoms and impairment induced by dizocilpine on the delayed alternation task for working memory.
Flunarizine robustly inhibited hyperlocomotion induced by both amphetamine and dizocilpine at doses that do not reduce spontaneous locomotion (3-30 mg/kg). Mild catalepsy was observed at 30 mg/kg, being more pronounced at 50 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg. Flunarizine (30 mg/kg) improved dizocilpine-induced impairment on the delayed alternation test.
These results suggest a profile comparable to atypical antipsychotics. The low cost, good tolerability and long half-life (over 2 weeks) of flunarizine are possible advantages for its use as an atypical antipsychotic. These results warrant clinical trials with flunarizine for the treatment of schizophrenia.
Initial findings from the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (P-1) demonstrated that tamoxifen reduced the risk of estrogen receptor-positive tumors and osteoporotic fractures in women at increased risk for breast cancer. Side effects of varying clinical significance were observed. The trial was unblinded because of the positive results, and follow-up continued. This report updates our initial findings.
Women (n = 13,388) were randomly assigned to receive placebo or tamoxifen for 5 years. Rates of breast cancer and other events were compared by the use of risk ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Estimates of the net benefit from 5 years of tamoxifen therapy were compared by age, race, and categories of predicted breast cancer risk. Statistical tests were two-sided.
After 7 years of follow-up, the cumulative rate of invasive breast cancer was reduced from 42.5 per 1000 women in the placebo group to 24.8 per 1000 women in the tamoxifen group (RR = 0.57, 95% CI = 0.46 to 0.70) and the cumulative rate of noninvasive breast cancer was reduced from 15.8 per 1000 women in the placebo group to 10.2 per 1000 women in the tamoxifen group (RR = 0.63, 95% CI = 0.45 to 0.89). These reductions were similar to those seen in the initial report. Tamoxifen led to a 32% reduction in osteoporotic fractures (RR = 0.68, 95% CI = 0.51 to 0.92). Relative risks of stroke, deep-vein thrombosis, and cataracts (which increased with tamoxifen) and of ischemic heart disease and death (which were not changed with tamoxifen) were also similar to those initially reported. Risks of pulmonary embolism were approximately 11% lower than in the original report, and risks of endometrial cancer were about 29% higher, but these differences were not statistically significant. The net benefit achieved with tamoxifen varied according to age, race, and level of breast cancer risk.
Despite the potential bias caused by the unblinding of the P-1 trial, the magnitudes of all beneficial and undesirable treatment effects of tamoxifen were similar to those initially reported, with notable reductions in breast cancer and increased risks of thromboembolic events and endometrial cancer. Readily identifiable subsets of individuals comprising 2.5 million women could derive a net benefit from the drug.
Midazolam is a benzodiazepine which produces a dense anterograde amnesia, while permitting relatively well-preserved short-term memory, semantic retrieval, and other higher cognitive functions. Given these preserved abilities, we were interested in whether or not participants given midazolam would be aware of this anterograde amnesia.
In the present experiment, participants were given midazolam in one testing session and a saline placebo in another. Participants provided judgments-of-learning (JOLs) immediately following study of cue-target pairs. During the test phase of the experiment, confidence levels and feeling-of-knowing (FOK) judgments were collected.
Although cued recall performance was substantially impaired in the midazolam condition, mean JOLs were unaffected, indicating participants had little insight into their impairment during the study phase. Participants were relatively accurate in confidence levels and FOK judgments in the midazolam condition.
When studying items under the influence of midazolam, participants are unaware that their memory will be impaired. Implications for clinical practice and pharmacological studies of amnesia are discussed.
We have previously shown that exposure of respiratory epithelial cells to diesel exhaust (DE) enhances susceptibility to influenza infection and increases the production of interleukin (IL)-6 and interferon (IFN)-beta. The purpose of this study was to confirm and expand upon these in vitro results by assessing the effects of DE exposure on the progression of influenza infection and on development of associated pulmonary immune and inflammatory responses in vivo. BALB/c mice were exposed to air or to DE containing particulate matter at concentrations of 0.5 or 2 mg/m(3) for 4 h/day for 5 days and subsequently instilled with influenza A/Bangkok/1/79 virus. Exposure to 0.5 mg/m(3) (but not the higher 2-mg/m(3) dose) of DE increased susceptibility to influenza infection as demonstrated by a significant increase in hemagglutinin (HA) mRNA levels, a marker of influenza copies, and greater immunohistochemical staining for influenza virus protein in the lung. The enhanced susceptibility to infection observed in mice exposed to 0.5 mg/m(3) of DE was associated with a significant increase in the expression of IL-6, while antiviral lung IFN levels were unaffected. Analysis of the expression and production of surfactant proteins A and D, which are components of the interferon-independent antiviral defenses, showed that these factors were decreased following exposure to 0.5 mg/m(3) of DE but not to the higher 2-mg/m(3) concentration. Taken together, the results demonstrate that exposure to DE enhances the susceptibility to respiratory viral infections by reducing the expression and production of antimicrobial surfactant proteins.
Delirium may be induced by a variety of reasons, among them drugs and in particular the combination of drugs. In elderly people a delirium is often misinterpreted as dementia. Anticholinergic activity is the mode of action by which drugs cause delirium. Antipsychotic drugs, antidepressants, antihistamines, and of course anticholinergic drugs themselves are the major anticholinergic classes of drugs. In addition some opioids have anticholinergic effects. Other drugs may induce delirium by dehydration (loop diuretics like furosemide) or sedation (benzodiazapines like lorazepam). Elderly people are at especially high risk to develop delirium, because of the multitude of drugs often prescribed to them, because they tend to drink to little, and because their brain is more sensitive to psychoactive drugs.
Three middle-aged women treated with lithium carbonate for a manic-depressive illness have had complicating nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, renal tubular acidosis, acute reversible renal functional impairment in association with hypercalcaemia, or irreversible chronic renal damage. Renal toxicity developed in the presence of normal levels of lithium in the serum. The possibility of permanent renal damage as a result of long-term lithium therapy is of major concern.
Metronidazole (MDZ) and related 5-nitroimidazoles are the recommended drugs for treatment of trichomoniasis, a sexually transmitted disease caused by the protozoan parasite Trichomonas vaginalis. However, novel treatment options are needed, as recent reports have claimed resistance to these drugs in T. vaginalis isolates. In this study, we analyzed for the first time the in vitro effects of the natural polyphenol resveratrol (RESV) on T. vaginalis. At concentrations of between 25 and 100 μM, RESV inhibited the in vitro growth of T. vaginalis trophozoites; doses of 25 μM exerted a cytostatic effect, and higher doses exerted a cytotoxic effect. At these concentrations, RESV caused inhibition of the specific activity of a 120-kDa [Fe]-hydrogenase (Tvhyd). RESV did not affect Tvhyd gene expression and upregulated pyruvate-ferredoxin oxidoreductase (a hydrogenosomal enzyme) gene expression only at a high dose (100 μM). At doses of 50 to 100 μM, RESV also caused overexpression of heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70), a protective protein found in the hydrogenosome of T. vaginalis. The results demonstrate the potential of RESV as an antiparasitic treatment for trichomoniasis and suggest that the mechanism of action involves induction of hydrogenosomal dysfunction. In view of the results, we propose hydrogenosomal metabolism as a key target in the design of novel antiparasitic drugs.
The risk of developing a syndrome resembling lupus erythematosus when taking procainamide has been well recognized for over 15 years, although the development of myopathy has been reported on one occasion only, in this instance without histopathological evidence of muscle inflammation. The patient reported in this paper developed a severe, rapidly progressive vasculitis, apparently limited to muscle, after taking procainamide for 42 months, his myopathy remitting rapidly after withdrawal of the drug and a short course of treatment with azathioprine. Although this man had no clinical evidence of SLE, he had impressive immunological evidence to support this diagnosis.
Vitis amurensis Rupr. (Vitaceae) has long been used in Chinese/Oriental herbal medicine for the treatment of cancer, but its active compounds and mechanisms of action have not been well studied. To this end, we isolated from its root heyneanol A (HA), which is a tetramer of resveratrol (RES), and established the in vivo antitumor activity of HA using the mouse Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) model. We administered HA and RES by daily intraperitonial injection to C57BL/6 mice that were subcutaneously inoculated with LLC cells. HA dose-dependently decreased tumor growth without any adverse effect on body weight and seemed more potent than RES. The tumor inhibitory effects were accompanied by a marked increase in tumor cell apoptosis detected by cleaved caspase-3 and TUNEL assays and decreased tumor cell proliferation index and tumor microvessel density, supporting the involvement of apoptotic and anti-angiogenic activities in the anticancer effects. We next investigated the cellular and molecular processes that mediate the apoptosis and anti-angiogenesis effects using cell culture models. Mechanistically, treatment of LLC cells in vitro with HA or RES significantly increased apoptotic cells. Both HA- and RES-induced cleavage of caspase-9 and caspase-3 and PARP were completely blocked by a pan caspase inhibitor, Z-VAD-FMK. In addition, HA and RES suppressed the basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF)-induced proliferation and capillary differentiation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells, and inhibited the binding of bFGF to its receptor in a test tube assay and the bFGF-induced vascularization of Matrigel plugs in vivo. Remarkably, HA was fairly stable in cell culture medium and did not undergo intracellular conversion to RES. Therefore, HA is an active anticancer compound that induces caspase-mediated cancer cell apoptosis and inhibits angiogenesis rivaling the potency of RES and merits further evaluation for cancer chemoprevention.
To review the natural history and ocular and systemic adverse effects of patients taking hydroxychloroquine sulfate who attended an ophthalmic screening program.
Retrospective study.
Records of 262 patients who were taking hydroxychloroquine and screened in the Department of Ophthalmology were reviewed. Of the 262 patients, 14 (18%) of 76 who had stopped treatment at the time of the study experienced documented adverse effects. Systemic adverse effects occurred in 8 patients (10.5%) and ocular adverse effects, in 5 (6.5%). Thirty-five patients (13.4%) had visual field abnormalities, which were attributed to hydroxychloroquine treatment in 4 patients (1.5%). Three of the 4 patients were taking less than 6.5 mg/kg per day and all patients had normal renal and liver function test results.
The current study used a protocol of visual acuity and color vision assessment, funduscopy, and Humphrey 10-2 visual field testing and shows that visual field defects appeared before any corresponding changes in any other tested clinical parameters; the defects were reproducible and the test parameters were reliable. Patients taking hydroxychloroquine can demonstrate a toxic reaction in the retina despite the absence of known risk factors. Screening, including Humphrey 10-2 visual field assessment, is recommended 2 years after the initial baseline and yearly thereafter.
Management of acetaminophen overdose focuses on the risk hepatic failure. However, acute renal failure, although less frequent, can lead to serious metabolic complications and require hemodialysis. We report three cases of acute renal failure related to acetaminophen overdose.
Three patients, aged 17-46 yr ingested acetaminophen 19 to 32 g, and were admitted to the intensive care unit because of acute liver failure without hepatic coma. While liver function improved, each patient developed acute renal failure starting on the fourth day. Four sessions of hemodialysis were required in one patient because of anuria. Hepatic function improved from the fourth to the ninth day in each case, whereas renal function recovered later, 10-20 days after ingestion. Investigations were negative for other causes of renal failure, and acute tubular necrosis due to acetaminophen was suspected.
The pathophysiology of this type of acute tubular necrosis remains unclear and thus, there is no specific treatment. Nevertheless, in all cases of acetaminophen overdose, we suggest following serum creatinine levels during the first week, regardless of the degree hepatic failure or quantity of acetaminophen ingested.
Azathioprine was administered to 25 patients with severe, progressive polyarthritis in a mean dose of 1.4 mg/kg daily. Synovitis improved in 12 patients. Psoriasis and vasculitis were also ameliorated. The therapeutic response did not correlate with dose, concomitant steroid therapy or leukopenia, the latter occurring in nine patients. Carcinoma developed in two patients, after four and nine months of treatment respectively. Low dose azathioprine therapy may be useful in the management of some patients with refractory polyarthritis, but the unsettled issue of oncogenesis requires further investigation.
Four patients who had experienced a cimetidine-theophylline interaction are reported. All patients displayed decreases in theophylline elimination after the introduction of cimetidine. Clearances approached baseline values when cimetidine was discontinued. Patients on this drug combination should be monitored closely for signs of theophylline toxicity. When indicated, a beta agonist may be a better choice of a bronchodilator for peptic ulcer patients.
