Patients with certain CYP2C9 genetic variants have increased sensitivity to warfarin and are at increased risk of over-coagulation with standard warfarin dose. We report over-anticoagulation and hematuria manifest as a slow increase in the international normalized ratio (INR) due to warfarin treatment in a patient with the CYP2C9*3/*3 allele.
A 58-y-old man with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation received a standard warfarin dose of 2.0mg/day. Because INR was 2.00 one week after treatment initiation, he was discharged from the hospital. One month later, hematuria was present and INR had increased to 7.26. Although in normal cases (R)-warfarin plasma concentrations are higher than (S)-warfarin, this patient had the opposite warfarin enantiomer plasma concentration profile.
Increased anticoagulation was due to an increased concentration of (S)-warfarin, the more active warfarin enantiomer. INR response to warfarin in this CYP2C9*3/*3 patient was slow. The later INR response appears to be strongly affected by CYP2C9 variants. He also had the VKORC1 -1639G>A AA genotype, requiring a lower warfarin dose. In this case, increased risk of bleeding could have been identified by prospective genotyping of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 prior to initiating warfarin therapy.
The effects of several metabotropic receptor (mGluR) ligands on baseline hippocampal glutamate and GABA overflow in conscious rats and the modulation of limbic seizure activity by these ligands were investigated. Intrahippocampal mGluR group I agonist perfusion via a microdialysis probe [1 mm (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine] induced seizures and concomitant augmentations in amino acid dialysate levels. The mGlu1a receptor antagonist LY367385 (1 mm) decreased baseline glutamate but not GABA concentrations, suggesting that mGlu1a receptors, which regulate hippocampal glutamate levels, are tonically activated by endogenous glutamate. This decrease in glutamate may contribute to the reported LY367385-mediated anticonvulsant effect. The mGlu5 receptor antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (50 mg/kg) also clearly abolished pilocarpine-induced seizures. Agonist-mediated actions at mGlu2/3 receptors by LY379268 (100 microm, 10 mg/kg intraperitoneally) decreased basal hippocampal GABA but not glutamate levels. This may partly explain the increased excitation following systemic LY379268 administration and the lack of complete anticonvulsant protection within our epilepsy model with the mGlu2/3 receptor agonist. Group II selective mGluR receptor blockade with LY341495 (1-10 microm) did not alter the rats' behaviour or hippocampal amino acid levels. These data provide a neurochemical basis for the full anticonvulsant effects of mGlu1a and mGlu5 antagonists and the partial effects observed with mGlu2/3 agonists in vivo.
Representative glucocorticosteroids (GCS) and phosphodiesterase IV (PDE4) inhibitors were compared in several models of pulmonary inflammation ranging in severity. Lung tissue eosinophil peroxidase (EPO) levels rather than bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) EPO or eosinophil percentages were used to indicate eosinophil recruitment after intratracheal instillation of sephadex beads in rats or nebulized ovalbumin in sensitized guinea pigs. A single oral or intratracheal administration of a GCS was effective against mild and robust sephadex-induced eosinophilia whereas the PDE4 inhibitors evaluated appeared more effective in the milder sephadex models. The GCS were also more effective against sephadex-induced than ovalbumin-induced eosinophilia. The effectiveness of the GCS and PDE4 inhibitors improved when the severity of the ovalbumin-induced eosinophilia was decreased. Multiple day dosing also improved activity. These studies indicated that activity was influenced greatly by administration protocols, the severity of the inflammatory response and possibly the method used for estimating eosinophil recruitment.
NK4 inhibits vascularisation in tumour tissues, thereby arresting tumour growth. However, the antitumour efficacy of individual antiangiogenic molecules expressed in vivo is not sufficiently potent to induce regression in animal models. One of the strategies to overcome this disadvantage is to use chemotherapy.
This study evaluated the efficacy of combining NK4 gene therapy with cisplatin to treat experimental squamous cell carcinomas. For gene therapy, biodegradable cationised gelatin microspheres were used for the controlled release of NK4 plasmid DNA.
A combined regimen of antiangiogenic gene therapy and low-dose cisplatin led to a marked decrease in tumour volume and vascularity, and caused increased apoptosis compared to NK4 gene therapy alone. Moreover, combination treatment of NK4 gene therapy and low-dose cisplatin dramatically inhibited the formation of lung metastases.
NK4 gene therapy combined with low-dose cisplatin may be an effective regimen for treating oral squamous cell carcinoma.
Effects of 2-ethoxyethanol (EE) on semen parameters in male rats were investigated employing an animal model that allowed assessment of toxicity and recovery in the same animal. Prior to exposure, 70-d-old Long-Evans hooded males were placed with ovariectomized, hormonally primed females on several occasions and their copulatory behaviors were monitored and scored. At 100 d of age, these males were mated with females that were sacrificed 15 min postejaculation. The semen sample was recovered from the female reproductive tract and scored for sperm motility, sperm count, and abnormal sperm morphology. Following this preexposure baseline assessment, the males were intubated with 0, 936, 1872, or 2808 mg EE/kg for 5 consecutive days. The males were mated weekly for the next 14 wk. Copulatory behaviors were monitored and ejaculated semen samples analyzed on wk 1, 4, 7, 10, and 14. The males were sacrificed at wk 16 and the testes and epididymides were processed for histological evaluation. Data analyses indicated that EE produced a rapid decline in sperm counts in the two highest groups, with most of the males becoming azoospermic by wk 7. The males in the low dose group also exhibited a significant decrease in sperm counts at this week. Additionally, there was a significant increase in abnormal sperm morphology at wk 7 in the low-dose males. Partial or complete recovery was apparent in the sperm parameters by wk 14, as evidenced by an increase in sperm counts and a decrease in abnormal morphology and further supported by epididymal and testicular histological assessment at wk 16. At sacrifice, there were no significant differences between groups on body weights, organ weights, or epididymal sperm counts, except for a significant depression of epididymal weight in the middle dose group. While high doses of EE produced a decline in sperm counts starting after the first week of exposure, the early spermatid-late spermatocyte stages, represented by mature spermatozoa in the wk 7 ejaculates, appeared to be particularly sensitive to this compound. Moreover, most of the males exhibited recovery following this acute dosing regimen.
We present a case of severe optic neuropathy following linezolid treatment, which led to complete irreversible blindness, in a patient with progressive muscular dystrophy, treated with linezolid for 16 days for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) pneumonia. Interruption of antibiotic therapy did not lead to remission of ocular symptoms. Administration of linezolid may lead to severe neuropathy even in the case of short-term treatment.
Selman Waksman's laboratory at Rutgers University discovered the first aminoglycoside antibiotic, streptomycin, in 1943. Other aminoglycoside antibiotics, such as gentamicin and tobramycin, soon followed. Tobramycin is compatible with most intravenous fluids and tear substitutes, but it is incompatible with heparin and some beta-lactam antibiotics such as penicillin and cephalosporins. Due to tobramycin's broad spectrum of activity, it has proven useful in controlling both superficial and deep infections of the eye and ocular adnexa (i.e., blepharitis, conjunctivitis, keratitis, and endophthalmitis). However, since tobramycin has been associated with neuromuscular blockade, as well as possessing ototoxic and nephrotoxic effects, care must be taken to minimize toxicity by monitoring patients undergoing systemic tobramycin therapy.
The present article investigated clinical symptoms and their longitudinal clinical course following pharmacological treatment in 32 female incarcerated patients suffering from methamphetamine (METH) psychosis who were referred to psychiatric consultation. The length of METH-abuse periods of the patients ranged from 2 to 31 years. A total of 31 patients suffered from psychosis at abstinence after 5-31 months from the self-injection of METH. Nine of these 31 patients experienced episodes of psychotic relapse. The following symptoms were observed: auditory hallucination (29 cases), delusion of persecution (29 cases), thought broadcasting (24 cases), visual hallucination (22 cases), depressive mood (29 cases), and suicidal idea (22 cases). Patients exhibited symptoms of psychosis and depression, which persisted for more than several months despite commencement of administration of antipsychotics and antidepressants. There were significant correlations among length of periods required for improvement in total Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) scores, and BPRS subscale scores representing positive symptoms and depression/anxiety dimensions. Three groups of patients, according to severity of positive and depressive/anxiety symptoms, showed apparent differences in prognoses during pharmacological treatment. Average degree of extrapyramidal symptoms significantly correlated with average daily dose of antipsychotics and length-of-treatment period required for improvement in BPRS subscale scores representing positive symptom dimension. These results suggest that both psychotic and affective symptoms are involved in therapeutic response and prognosis of METH psychosis.
Two healthy obese, seven-year-old, female Rottweilers weighing 40 and 57 kg were submitted for cranial cruciate repair. They were premedicated with intravenous methadone (0.1 mg kg(-1)) and acepromazine (0.01 and 0.02 mg kg(-1)). Anesthesia was induced with propofol (3.6 and 2.5 mg kg(-1)) and maintained with isoflurane in oxygen using a circle breathing system. The dogs were placed in sternal recumbency and epidural injection of lidocaine/bupivacaine or lidocaine/bupivacaine/morphine (0.2 mL/kg, 8 and 11 mL) was carried out over 1.5 and 4 minutes. Epidural pressures were 79 and 72 mmHg at the end of the injections. The first dog's heart rate decreased from 80 to 65 beats minute(-1) with a second degree atrioventricular (AV) block. The arterial pressure decreased from 100 to 50 mmHg. These responded to atropine (0.01 mg kg(-1) IV). The second dog's heart rate decreased from 120 to 60 beats minute(-1) while arterial pressure decreased from 72 to 38 mmHg. No treatment was given and heart rate and arterial blood pressure returned to acceptable ranges.
These cases suggest that large increases in epidural pressure may cause significant cardiovascular effects. This may be avoided by using lower volumes and discontinuing injection if significant back pressure is detected.
Ventroposterolateral pallidotomy was used in the surgical treatment of 259 patients suffering from intractable Parkinson's disease. Pallidotomy was equally effective against tremor, rigor, bradykinesia, and the L-dopa-induced dyskinesias. The effect of surgery seemed to be long-lasting, and side effects were rare. The author believes that the beneficial effect of pallidotomy is based on interruption of striopallidal and pallidosubthalamic pathways.
To describe a case of a delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reaction to piperacillin/tazobactam in which painful paresthesiae were a predominant feature.
A 27-year-old man with a history of intravenous drug abuse was admitted for treatment of a pulmonary parenchymal abscess in the setting of lower-limb deep-venous thrombosis and methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. He was treated with intravenous piperacillin/tazobactam 4.5 g 3 times daily; however, after 2 weeks of therapy, he developed symptoms (eg, fever, chills) and laboratory abnormalities (eg, white blood cell count 2.1 x 10(3)/mm3, erythrocyte sedimentation rate 63 mm/h) suggestive of a DTH reaction. This was accompanied by infusion-related painful paresthesiae. The symptoms and laboratory abnormalities resolved within 48 hours of treatment being switched to flucloxacillin.
Due to the close temporal association and the absence of any other obvious explanation, we believe these paresthesiae represent an additional feature of the DTH reaction to piperacillin/tazobactam in this patient. Use of the Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable relationship between the paresthesiae and administration of piperacillin/tazobactam.
To our knowledge, as of March 24, 2006, this is the first case in which a DTH reaction to piperacillin/tazobactam manifesting as fever, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia has been associated with paresthesiae.
Brugada syndrome has been linked to mutations in SCN5A. Agents that dissociate slowly from the sodium channel such as flecainide and ajmaline unmask the Brugada syndrome electrocardiogram and precipitate ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation. Lidocaine, an agent with rapid dissociation kinetics, has previously been shown to exert no effect in patients with Brugada syndrome. We characterized a novel double mutation of SCN5A (V232I in DI-S4+L1308F in DIII-S4) identified in a rare case of lidocaine (1 mg/kg)-induced Brugada syndrome. We studied lidocaine blockade of I(Na) generated by wild-type and V232I+L1308F mutant cardiac sodium channels expressed in mammalian TSA201 cells using patch clamp techniques. Despite no significant difference in steady-state gating parameters between V232I+L1308F and wild-type sodium currents at baseline, use-dependent inhibition of I(Na) by lidocaine was more pronounced in V232I+L1308F versus wild-type (73.0+/-0.1% versus 18.23+/-0.04% at 10 micromol/L measured at 10 Hz, respectively). A dose of 10 micromol/L lidocaine also caused a more negative shift of steady-state inactivation in V232I+L1308F versus wild-type (-14.1+/-0.3 mV and -4.8+/-0.3 mV, respectively). The individual mutations produced a much less accentuated effect. We report the first case of lidocaine-induced Brugada electrocardiogram phenotype. The double mutation in SCN5A, V232I, and L1308F alters the affinity of the cardiac sodium channel for lidocaine such that the drug assumes Class IC characteristics with potent use-dependent block of the sodium channel. Our results demonstrate an additive effect of the 2 missense mutations to sensitize the sodium channel to lidocaine. These findings suggest caution when treating patients carrying such genetic variations with Class I antiarrhythmic drugs.
Malignant mesothelioma has been linked to asbestos exposure and generally has a poor prognosis because it is often diagnosed in advanced stages and is refractory to conventional therapy. Human malignant mesotheliomas accumulate multiple somatic genetic alterations, including inactivation of the NF2 and CDKN2A/ARF tumor suppressor genes. To better understand the significance of NF2 inactivation in malignant mesothelioma and identify tumor suppressor gene alterations that cooperate with NF2 loss of function in malignant mesothelioma pathogenesis, we treated Nf2 (+/-) knockout mice with asbestos to induce malignant mesotheliomas. Asbestos-exposed Nf2 (+/-) mice exhibited markedly accelerated malignant mesothelioma tumor formation compared with asbestos-treated wild-type (WT) littermates. Loss of the WT Nf2 allele, leading to biallelic inactivation, was observed in all nine asbestos-induced malignant mesotheliomas from Nf2 (+/-) mice and in 50% of malignant mesotheliomas from asbestos-exposed WT mice. For a detailed comparison with the murine model, DNA analyses were also done on a series of human malignant mesothelioma samples. Remarkably, similar to human malignant mesotheliomas, tumors from Nf2 (+/-) mice showed frequent homologous deletions of the Cdkn2a/Arf locus and adjacent Cdkn2b tumor suppressor gene, as well as reciprocal inactivation of Tp53 in a subset of tumors that retained the Arf locus. As in the human disease counterpart, malignant mesotheliomas from the Nf2 (+/-) mice also showed frequent activation of Akt kinase, which plays a central role in tumorigenesis and therapeutic resistance. Thus, this murine model of environmental carcinogenesis faithfully recapitulates many of the molecular features of human malignant mesothelioma and has significant implications for the further characterization of malignant mesothelioma pathogenesis and preclinical testing of novel therapeutic modalities.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose causes liver injury in humans and mice. DNA fragmentation is a hallmark of APAP-induced cell death, and nuclear translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) correlates with DNA fragmentation after APAP overdose. To test the hypothesis that AIF may be a critical mediator of APAP-induced cell death, fasted male AIF-deficient Harlequin (Hq) mice and respective wild-type (WT) animals were treated with 200 mg/kg APAP. At 6 h after APAP, WT animals developed severe liver injury as indicated by the increase in plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activities (8600 ± 1870 U/l) and 61 ± 8% necrosis. This injury was accompanied by massive DNA strand breaks in centrilobular hepatocytes (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling [TUNEL] assay) and release of DNA fragments into the cytosol (anti-histone ELISA). In addition, there was formation of reactive oxygen (increase in liver glutathione disulfide (GSSG) levels and mitochondrial protein carbonyls) and peroxynitrite (nitrotyrosine [NT] staining) together with mitochondrial translocation of activated c-jun-N-terminal kinase (P-JNK) and release of AIF from the mitochondria. In contrast, Hq mice had significantly less liver injury (ALT: 330 ± 130 U/l; necrosis: 4 ± 2%), minimal nuclear DNA damage, and drastically reduced oxidant stress (based on all parameters) at 6 h. WT and Hq mice had the same baseline levels of cyp2E1 and of glutathione. The initial depletion of glutathione (20 min after APAP) was the same in both groups suggesting that there was no relevant difference in metabolic activation of APAP. Thus, AIF has a critical function in APAP hepatotoxicity by facilitating generation of reactive oxygen in mitochondria and, after nuclear translocation, AIF can be involved in DNA fragmentation.
Neurodegenerative disorders are featured by a variety of pathological hallmarks, and very often they are characterized by neuronal inclusions in specific brain nuclei. Occurrence of neuronal inclusions has been often related to the onset of cell death. Recent studies demonstrated that amphetamine derivatives produce intracellular inclusions, which are reminiscent of those occurring in degenerative disorders. In the present article, we analyzed the correlation between neuronal inclusions and cell death using methamphetamine (METH) in PC12 cell cultures. We found that the dose necessary to induce cell death is higher compared with that required to induce inclusions formation. Our results demonstrate a dissociation between formation of inclusion bodies and cell death suggesting that neuronal inclusions do not necessarily lead to cell death. The conclusions of the present article suggest that the onset of inclusion bodies represents a slight consequence of toxicity, which requires a prolonged cell viability to take place.
To evaluate the possibility of radionuclide gene therapy and imaging in hepatocellular carcinoma cancer, we investigated the iodine accumulation of a human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line, SK-Hep1, by transfer of human sodium iodide symporter (hNIS) gene. By targeting NIS expression in SK-Hep1, we could also investigate whether these cells concentrate 99mTc-pertechnetate and 188Re-perrhenate as well as 125I in vitro and in vivo.
The hNIS gene was transfected to human hepatocellular carcinoma SK-Hep1 cell lines using lipofectamine plus reagent. The uptake and efflux of 125I, 99mTc-pertechnetate, and 188Re-perrhenate were measured in the transfected and parental cells. Biodistribution was studied in nude mice bearing SK-Hep1 and SK-Hep1-NIS at 10 and 30 min and at 1, 2, 6, 16, and 23 h after injection of 125I, 99mTc- pertechnetate, or 188Re-perrhenate. In tumor imaging studies, the nude mice were intravenously injected with 188Re-perrhenate and imaged with a gamma-camera equipped with a pinhole collimator at 30 and 60 min after injection. The survival rate (%) was determined by the clonogenic assay after 37 MBq/10 mL (1 mCi/10 mL) 131I and 188Re-perrhenate treatment.
SK-Hep1-NIS, stably expressing the NIS gene, accumulated 125I up 150 times higher than that of SK-Hep1. Iodine uptake of SK-Hep1-NIS is completely blocked by perchlorate. NIS gene transfection into SK-Hep1 also resulted in 112- and 87-fold increases of 99mTc-pertechnetate and 188Re-perrhenate uptake, respectively. Iodide efflux from SK-Hep1-NIS was relatively slow, with only 10% released during the initial 5 min, and 60% remained at 25 min. In the biodistribution study using SK-Hep1-NIS-xenographed mice, the tumor uptake of 125I, 188Re-perrhenate, and 99mTc-pertechnetate was 68.0 +/- 15.0, 46.2 +/- 9.1, and 59.6 +/- 16.2 %ID/g (percentage injected dose per gram) at 2 h after injection, respectively. After 188Re-perrhenate injection in SK-Hep1 and SK-Hep1-NIS-xenographed nude mice, whole-body images clearly visualized the SK-Hep1-NIS tumor, whereas the control tumor was not visualized. The survival rate (%) of SK-Hep1-NIS was markedly reduced to 46.3% +/- 10.1% and 28.9% +/- 5.2% after 37 MBq/mL (1 mCi/10 mL) 131I and 188Re-perrhenate treatment compared with the survival rates of the parental cells. These results demonstrated that SK-Hep1-NIS could be selectively killed by the induced 131I and 188Re-perrhenate accumulation through NIS gene expression.
NIS-based gene therapy using beta-emitting radionuclides has the potential to be used in hepatocellular carcinoma management.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) are postulated to play non-cholinergic roles in cellular physiology. The probable implication of cholinesterases (ChEs) in several human pathologies prompted us to study the cholinergic components in the male reproductive system. Surgical pieces of prostatic cancer (PC) and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) were analyzed for AChE and BChE activity. Loosely (S1) and tightly (S2) bound AChE and BChE forms were characterized by sedimentation analysis. The mean AChE activity in BHP samples was 2.38+/-0.56 mU/mg (nmol of the substrate hydrolysed per minute and per milligram protein) and 2.57+/-0.61 mU/mg in S1 and S2, respectively. The AChE activity did not vary with cancer, showing 2.46+/-0.45 mU/mg in S1 and 2.70+/-0.53 mU/mg in S2 from PC samples. Amphiphilic dimers and monomers and hydrophilic dimers of AChE were identified in BHP and PC tissues. Their contribution was affected by cancer with a great increase in hydrophilic dimers in the cancerous samples. Significant levels of both AChE and BChE activities were found in seminal fluid and homogenates from spermatozoids. Enzymatic activity dropped in samples with abnormal seminal parameters as sperm count and mobility.
Much evidence suggests that targeting the neurotensin (NT) system may provide a novel and promising treatment for schizophrenia. Our recent work shows that: NTS1 knockout (NTS1(-/-)) mice may provide a potential animal model for studying schizophrenia by investigating the effect of deletion NTS1 receptor on amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and neurochemical changes. The data indicate a hyper-dopaminergic state similar to the excessive striatal DA activity reported in schizophrenia. The present study was done to determine if NTS1(-/-) mice also have similar changes in behavior, in prefrontal neurotransmitters, and in protein expression, as observed in wild type (WT) mice treated with the psychotomimetic phencylclidine (PCP), an animal model for schizophrenia. Our results showed many similarities between untreated NTS1(-/-) mice and WT mice chronically treated with PCP (as compared with untreated WT mice): 1) lower PCP-induced locomotor activity; 2) similar avolition-like behavior in forced-swim test and tail suspension test; 3) lower prefrontal glutamate levels; 4) less PCP-induced dopamine release in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC); and 5) down-regulation of mRNA and protein for DA D(1), DA D(2), and NMDAR2A in mPFC. Therefore, these data strengthen the hypothesis that the NTS1(-/-) mouse is an animal model of schizophrenia, particularly for the dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex. In addition, after chronic PCP administration, the DA D(1) receptor was up-regulated in NTS1(-/-) mice, results which suggest a possible interaction of NTS1/DA D(1) in mPFC contributing to chronic PCP-induced schizophrenia-like signs.
PBDEs have been synthesized in large quantities as flame retardants for commercial products, such as electronic equipment and textiles. The rising in levels of PBDEs in tissues in wildlife species and in human milk and plasma samples over the past several years have raised concerns about possible health effects. Recently, we showed that the PBDE mixture, DE-71, delayed puberty and suppressed the growth of androgen-dependent tissues in male Wistar rat following a peri-pubertal exposure. These effects suggested that DE-71 may be either inducing steroid hormone metabolism or acting as an androgen receptor (AR) antagonist. To elucidate the potential anti-androgenic effects of this mixture, we evaluated DE-71 in several in vivo assays, which are responsive to alterations in androgen activity. In a pubertal exposure study designed to further evaluate the delay in preputial separation (PPS), we observed a dose-dependent delay in PPS with 60 and 120 mg/kg/day of DE-71 (4 and 5 days) and a corresponding suppression of ventral prostate (VP) and seminal vesicle growth at both doses. Adult males exposed to 60 mg/kg DE-71 for 3 days resulted in a significant increase in luteinizing hormone and a non-significant increase in testosterone, androstenedione and estrone. DE-71 also tested positive for anti-androgenic activity in an immature rat Hershberger assay, with decreases in mean VP and seminal vesicle weight following doses of 30-240 mg/kg. DE-71 and the individual BDE congeners which comprise the mixture (BDE-47, -99, -100, -153, -154) were also evaluated in vitro. First, AR binding was evaluated in a competitive binding assay using rat VP cytosol. In addition, we evaluated gene activation in a transcriptional activation assay using the MDA-kb2 cell line which contains an endogenous human AR and a transfected luciferase reporter. DE-71 and BDE-100 (2, 4, 6-pentaBDE) both inhibited AR binding, with IC50s of approximately 5 microM. In addition, DE-71 and two of the congeners (BDE-100 and BDE-47) inhibited DHT-induced transcriptional activation. The pattern of inhibition shown in the double-reciprocal plot for BDE-100 and the linear slope replot confirmed that the in vitro mechanism is pure competitive inhibition, with a inhibition constant (Ki) of 1 microM. The delay in puberty in the male rat and decreased growth of androgen-dependent tissues observed previously following exposure to DE-71 were likely due to this inhibition of AR binding by several of the congeners which make up this mixture.
The chemoprotective effect of vanadium, a dietary micronutrient, against chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats was investigated. Initiation was performed by a single intraperitoneal injection of diethylnitrosamine (DENA; 200 mg kg-1) followed by promotion with phenobarbital (0.05%) in the diet. Supplementary vanadium (0.5 p.p.m.) in the drinking water was provided ad libitum throughout the experiment, before the initiation or during the promotion period. At the end of the study (20 weeks), vanadium supplementation throughout the experiment reduced the incidence (P < 0.01), total number and multiplicity (P < 0.001) and altered the size distribution of visible persistent nodules (PNs) as compared with DENA control animals. Mean nodular volume (P < 0.05) and nodular volume as a percentage of liver volume (P < 0.01) were also attenuated following long-term vanadium treatment. It also caused a large decrease in the number (P < 0.001) and surface area (P < 0.01) of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT)-positive hepatocyte foci and in the labelling index (P < 0.001) of focal cells, coupled with increased (P < 0.01) remodelling. The activity of GGT, measured quantitatively, was found to be significantly less in the PNs (P < 0.001) and non-nodular surrounding parenchyma (P < 0.01) of vanadium-supplemented rats. The anticarcinogenic effect of vanadium was also reflected in the histopathological analysis of liver sections that showed a well-maintained hepatocellular architecture as compared with DENA control. Similar results were observed when vanadium was given only before the initiation. However, supplementation of vanadium during the promotion period did not result in significant alterations of these parameters. Our results, thus, strongly suggest that vanadium may have a unique anti-tumour potential which is primarily exerted on the initiation phase and only secondarily on the promotion stage.
Isoflurane has properties that suggest it may provide cerebral protection from ischemia. This study compared, in primates, neurologic outcome after a 45-min period of temporary focal ischemia during hypotension induced with either isoflurane or sodium nitroprusside (SNP). Fourteen macaque monkeys were studied. Seven animals received halothane and seven isoflurane anesthesia during surgical preparation. After transorbital exposure of the middle cerebral artery (MCA), in the halothane group, the inspired halothane was reduced to 0.75% and the mean blood pressure (BP) reduced to 50 mmHg by the infusion of SNP. In the isoflurane group, the isoflurane was titrated to reduce mean BP to 50 mmHg. Stable hypotension was maintained for 90 min, which included a 45-min period of MCA occlusion. Monitoring included intraarterial blood pressure, arterial blood gases, EEG, somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP), and temperature. After the procedure the animals were allowed to awaken and were assessed neurologically every 8 h. On the third postoperative day, they were reanesthetized and underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and SEP recording. Thereafter, they were killed with iv KCl and the brains fixed for neuropathology. All animals survived the surgical procedure, but two animals receiving halothane and none receiving isoflurane died prematurely (P less than 0.2). The SEP disappeared in all animals within 10 min of MCA occlusion and then returned partially or completely. There was no difference between groups in neurologic scores, in the size of the lesion as assessed by MRI (isoflurane 15.7 +/- 6%, halothane/SNP 10.5 +/- 4%), or in the extent or severity of the neuropathologic lesions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Gap junction intercellular communication is involved in ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury of organs. Connexins are proteins that are critical to the function of gap junctions. To clarify the role of gap junctions in IR injury in liver cells, the function of gap junctions was modulated in an in vitro hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) model. BRL-3A rat liver cells, endogenously expressing connexins Cx32 and Cx43, were used to model the process of hepatic IR injury. Suppression of gap junction activity was achieved genetically, using Cx32-specific small interfering RNA (siRNA), or chemically, with pharmacological inhibitors, oleamide, and 18-α-GA. BRL-3A cells subjected to H/R exhibited reduced cell survival and pathologies indicative of IR injury. Cx32-specific siRNA, oleamide, and 18-α-GA, respectively, decreased gap junction permeability, as assessed by the parachute assay. Pretreatment with Cx32-specific siRNA increased cell survival. Pretreatment with oleamide or 18-α-GA did not improve cell survival. Modulating gap junction by Cx32 gene silencing protected BRL-3A liver cells from H/R.
The clonidine withdrawal syndrome occurs in at least 1.2% of patients following withdrawal of the drug. Its frequency is influenced by length of treatment, daily dosage and degree of hypertension. The combination of clonidine with beta blockers favours the development of hypertensive crisis following clonidine withdrawal. The case is presented of a 49-year-old female who had had chronic renal insufficiency and hypertension for several years and who developed a hypertensive crisis after cessation of therapy with clonidine and nadolol. An overshoot hypertension after clonidine withdrawal should be treated with vasodilatatory drugs such as nitroprusside; calcium antagonists and ACE inhibitors also offer a possible new approach. It is advisable to reduce the clonidine dose slowly, and combination with labetalol or calcium antagonists during clonidine withdrawal seems to have favourable results. Beta blockers should be discontinued well before the cessation of clonidine treatment.
Levetiracetam (Keppra) is a novel antiepileptic drug approved as adjunctive treatment for adults with partial onset seizures. Although the drug is generally well tolerated, behavioral side effects have been reported in variable frequency. Most behavioral problems are mild in nature (agitation, hostility, anxiety, emotional lability, apathy, depression) and quickly resolve with discontinuation of medication. However, serious psychiatric adverse events may also occur with rare cases of psychosis and suicidal behavior. We report here the case of a 43-year-old woman who developed symptoms compatible with catatonia after being exposed to levetiracetam for the treatment of epilepsy. To our knowledge, it is the first reported case of catatonia induced by levetiracetam. We review the difficulties that may be encountered in the differential diagnosis of medical catatonia.
Perinatal exposure to a representative flame retardant, decabrominated diphenyl ether (DBDE), was shown previously to increase viral titers in the lungs of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)-infected offspring on day 5 post-infection, resulting in exacerbation of pneumonia. In this study, the significant increase of pulmonary viral titers was confirmed even on day 1 post-infection and the effect on the primary immune response to RSV infection were examined to assess a mode of DBDE action on developmental immunotoxicity. On day 1 after infection, the secretion of both TNF-alpha and IL-6 decreased significantly in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid prepared from RSV-infected offspring exposed to DBDE perinatally, but IL-1beta increased. However, in ex vivo lipopolysaccharide stimulation test, the productivity of TNF-alpha in the bronchoalveolar lavage cells, which are mainly primary immune cells responding to RSV infection, prepared from offspring mice exposed to DBDE perinatally was not lower than that in the control. The primary immune cells retained normally the ability of cytokine production after the DBDE exposure. Gene expressions of innate pattern recognition receptors (Toll-like receptor 3 and 4, melanoma differentiation-associated gene-5, and retinoic acid-inducible gene I) in lung tissues were not affected by DBDE exposure. Because the levels of TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-1beta are known to be elevated in the lungs of RSV-infected mice, these irregular productions due to perinatal DBDE exposure indicate a disorder of the primary immune response to RSV infection. Thus, perinatal exposure to DBDE was suggested to cause a functional disorder of primary immunity responding to RSV infection.
A series of appropriate aminoisopropanoloxy derivatives of 2-, 3- or 6-xanthone was synthesized and evaluated for anticonvulsant activity in the maximal electroshock seizure (MES) and subcutaneous pentylenetetrazole seizure threshold (ScMet) assays and for neurotoxicity (TOX). The most interesting result was the anticonvulsant activity of (+/-)-3-(2-propylamino)-1- [(2-methyl)-6-xanthonoxy]-2-propanol hydrochloride (10), which displayed anti-MES activity with a protective index (TD50/ED50) of 0.80. Some of the obtained compounds were also tested for their effect on the circulatory system (influence on the non-working heart perfusion, protection against adrenaline induced-arrhythmia) and acute toxicity.
