Evaluation of extracts of Diospyros fischeri Gurke (Ebenaceae), which is used traditionally for the treatment of epilepsy shows that the aqueous extract of the tem bark has no effect against picrotoxin induced convulsions in mice. However, an 80% ethanol extract of the bark caused dose-dependent suppression of convulsions induced by 10 mg/kg body wt picrotoxin, at doses between 100-3200 mg/kg body wt. Petroleum ether, 1:1 dichloromethane:methanol, and methanol extracts also suppressed picrotoxin-induced convulsions, but had a slightly lower inhibitory effect. The petroleum ether extract was the most active, but all were less active than the ethanol extract. Unlike phenobarbitone, which at 50 mg/kg body wt completely suppressed convulsions induced by 10 mg/kg body wt picrotoxin, none of the plant extracts completely suppressed convulsions in the mice. These results support the traditional uses of D.fischeri for the treatment of epilepsy. Given the seemingly innocuous nature of the extracts more work is suggested to ascertain their clinical application.
The etiology and pathogenetic mechanisms of cleft palate (CP) are rather uncertain. Both genetic and environmental factors are known to cause failure of horizontalization and/or failure of fusion of the palatal shelves resulting in CP. Retinoic acid (RA)-induced CP in the mouse is reported to exhibit two peaks of incidence separated by a less sensitive window. The morphologic bases of the differential sensitivity are not known. The objectives of this study were to determine whether the TO mouse had similar peaks of sensitivity to RA-induced CP, and if it did, to evaluate the morphologic and histologic bases of CP induced at an early [Gestation Day (GD) 8] and at a late (GD 12) stage of embryonic development. Single doses of all-trans-RA were administered to groups of mice on one of GD 8 to 15. On GD 18, fetuses were evaluated for the presence of CP, and the developmental stage of the palatal shelves was determined. All doses of RA were found to induce a high incidence of CP in the GD 8 to 13 treatment groups. GD 14 and 15 were not susceptible. There were no stage-dependent peaks or less sensitive windows, indicating that RA-induced CP in this strain is a continuum from GD 8 through 13. Morphologically clefting in the GD 8-RA treatment group was characterized by extreme hypoplasia (65% to 100%, depending on the dose) or agenesis (35% in the 200 mg/kg group) of the palatal shelves and associated with astomia, microstomia, aglossia, microglossia, and micrognathia with fusion of mandible, maxilla, and zygoma. Treatment on subsequent days of gestation resulted in CP with the shelves reaching progressively higher levels of maturity in terms of developmental staging. There was no case of CP with horizontalized shelves apposing but failing to fuse with each other. The facial skeleton of GD 12-RA group was hypoplastic but not malformed. Reduction in all dimensions of the cranium and mandible was highly significant (P < 0.001) in the GD 8-RA group, whereas there was a clear imbalance between the vertical growth and that in other directions in the GD 12-RA group. The CR length, head and body weights, and the protein content of heads of GD 8-RA-treated embryos were significantly reduced. Histologic studies showed that both the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles of the tongue and face, growth of the Meckel's cartilage, and ossification of the mandible were severely affected in the GD 8 treatment group, whereas these tissues were only moderately affected in the embryos of the GD 12-RA group. However, the quality of cytodifferentiation of the muscles was not affected in either group. These data provide evidence for the susceptibility continuum of CP in this strain. They also indicate that agenesis and hypoplasia of the palatal shelves and primordia of craniofacial skeleton and musculature contribute to CP, the relative involvement of the components depending on the stage of drug administration. In the absence of pronounced cell death, it appears that RA possibly produces its deleterious effects on the precursors of craniofacial primordia, such as the neural crest, by misexpression of developmentally important genes.
In spite of the large use of salicylates, introduced into clinical practice more than 100 years ago, their anti-inflammatory and cancer preventive mechanisms are still under study. Teratogenic effects of salicylates have been reported in experimental animals since 1959 but the pathogenic pathways and the mechanisms of action were never described until now. The aim of this work is to verify if the inhibition of embryonic histone deacetylase (HDAC) enzymes and the consequent tissue hyperacetylation could be the mechanism responsible for axial skeletal defects described after the exposure of pregnant rodents to sodium salicylate (SAL). E8 pregnant CD-1 mice were intraperitoneally treated with SAL 0-150-300-450 mg/kg and sacrificed at 1, 3, 5 h after treatment or at term of gestation (E18). E8 embryos were processed for Western blotting and immunostaining analyses, while skeletons of E18 fetuses were double stained for bone and cartilage. A group of control E8 embryos were used to prepare embryonic nuclear extract for the HDAC enzyme assay. A significant SAL dose-related HDAC inhibition activity, compatible with a mixed-type partial inhibition mechanism, was detected. A clear dose-related hyperacetylation of histones was observed in embryos exposed in utero to SAL, with a peak at 3 h after treatment of dams. The most hyperacetylated organs were somites and the heart. Histone hyperacetylation is suggested to be the mechanism accounting for SAL-related axial skeletal and cardiovascular defects and is proposed as the mechanism responsible for other biological effects of salicylates.
Lamivudine treatment is associated with frequent development of resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) and loss of treatment benefit. In preclinical and phase II studies, entecavir demonstrated potent antiviral activity against lamivudine-resistant HBV.
In this phase III, double-blind trial, hepatitis B e antigen-positive patients who were refractory to lamivudine therapy (persistent viremia or documented YMDD mutations while receiving lamivudine) were randomized to switch to entecavir 1 mg daily (n = 141) or continue lamivudine 100 mg daily (n = 145) for a minimum of 52 weeks. Two coprimary end points were assessed at 48 weeks: histologic improvement and a composite end point (HBV branched DNA <0.7 MEq/mL and alanine aminotransferase [ALT] <1.25 times the upper limit of normal).
Histologic improvement occurred in 55% (68/124) of entecavir-treated vs 28% (32/116) of lamivudine-treated patients (P < .0001). More patients on entecavir than lamivudine achieved the composite end point: 55% (77/141) vs 4% (6/145), respectively (P < .0001). Mean change from baseline in HBV DNA was -5.11 log(10) copies/mL for entecavir-treated patients and -0.48 log(10) copies/mL for lamivudine-treated patients (P < .0001). Virologic rebound because of entecavir resistance substitutions occurred in 2 of 141 of entecavir-treated patients, and genotypic evidence of resistance was detected in 10 patients. The safety profile of entecavir was comparable to lamivudine with fewer ALT flares on treatment.
In patients with lamivudine-refractory chronic hepatitis B, switching to entecavir provides superior histologic improvement, viral load reduction, and ALT normalization compared with continuing lamivudine, with a comparable adverse event profile.
Budd-Chiari Syndrome (BCS) results from obstruction to hepatic venous outflow, with myeloproliferative disorder (MPD) accounting for up to 40% of cases. A number of BCS cases labelled as "idiopathic" do not fulfill the diagnostic criteria for MPD but have features suggestive of a latent form based on hyperplastic bone marrow and erythroid progenitor cell culture; these cases may subsequently develop overt MPD. A clonal mutation in JAK2 tyrosine kinase (JAK2V617F) occurs in a high proportion of patients with MPD and is of use in the characterization of latent MPD in BCS.
We performed allele-specific polymerase chain reaction to screen for JAK2V617F in subjects with BCS (n = 41) and polycythemia vera (PV) (n = 20) and in hematologically normal controls (n = 27).
AK2V617F was detected in 24 of 41 (58.5%) subjects with BCS, 19 of 20 PV controls, and 0 of 27 hematologically normal controls. Mean hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit were significantly higher in patients with JAK2V617F. Bone marrow was hyperplastic in 16 of 41 subjects (12/16 JAK2V617F positive). Nine of 33 (27.3%) showed endogenous erythroid colony formation (7/9 JAK2V617F positive). Eleven of 41 subjects developed overt MPD (8/11 essential thrombocythemia, 3/11 PV) after the diagnosis of BCS (median, 49 months; range, 8-87 months), and in 90.9% of these JAK2V617F was detected.
JAK2V617F occurs in a high proportion of patients with BCS. Latent MPD was missed in a substantial number of our subjects by using standard techniques. Such cases should be screened for JAK2V617F and carefully observed for the subsequent development of overt MPD.
To compare oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate (OTFC) with IM meperidine, promethazine, and chlorpromazine (MPC) for conscious sedation of children.
This prospective, randomized, single-blinded study involved a convenience sample of 40 children, 3 to 8 years of age, who presented to an urban pediatric emergency department and required laceration repair. Patients were premedicated with either OTFC (10 to 15 micrograms/kg) and a mock injection or intramuscular MPC (2 mg/kg meperidine, .5 mg/kg promethazine, and .5 mg/kg chlorpromazine) followed by a placebo lozenge.
Both OTFC and MPC caused significant reductions in activity scores at 15 to 75 minutes after medication administration. Although the MPC group was more sedated, there was no difference between groups in Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale (CHEOPS) scores during the laceration repair or in the suturing physician's assessment of sedation quality (rated excellent or good for 75% and 69% of OTFC and MPC groups, respectively). Two children (both in the OTFC group) had oxygen saturation levels of less than 95% but required only transient supplemental oxygen. Other adverse events were common but not serious; they differed between groups in type but not number, with vomiting in 45% of the OTFC group and prolonged somnolence in 37% of the MPC group. Mean time to discharge was 99 minutes, with no difference between groups.
Both medications reduced activity significantly. Although MPC caused deeper sedation, the medications had comparable effects on patient behavior during the repair and yielded comparable ratings of physician satisfaction. Large numbers of nonserious adverse events occurred in both groups.
A dramatic case of ibuprofen-induced bullous leukocytoclastic vasculitis (LCV) is described in a patient with a history of prior sensitization to ibuprofen, a common household nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that has few reported adverse skin reactions. Bullous LCV is a relatively rare clinical presentation of LCV, which requires differentiation from other blistering diseases, including bullous erythema multiforme, bullous fixed drug eruption, linear IgA bullous dermatosis, and bullous pemphigoid. The distinctive histopathologic changes of leukocytoclastic vasculitis readily distinguish this bullous eruption from the others.
A 5-year-old female developed alteration of consciousness during 3 days of long-term treatment with valproic acid for localization-related epilepsy. Computed tomography revealed cerebral atrophy, and electroencephalography presented slow background activity. Consciousness cleared only 12 hours after valproic acid was discontinued, and normal electroencephalography results were evident 1 week later. Cerebral atrophy was nonexistent 2 months later. This rapidly developing but reversible alteration of consciousness in parallel with brain atrophy is recognized as a rare idiosyncratic adverse effect of valproic acid.
Three patients with drug-induced hypoplastic anemia terminating 2 to 6 years after presentation with erythroleukemia are described. All were treated for prolonged periods with androgen and corticosteroid and two of the patients showed apparent dependence on this therapy for optimal hematologic status. The leukemic phase was heralded by loss of this dependence and development of sideroblastic dyserythropoiesis with progression to bizarre erythroid hyperplasia and fatal cytopenia. The exact relationship between androgen and corticosteroid therapy and the erythroleukemia remains speculative.
Indapamide blocks multiple voltage-dependent K+ currents (Kv) in the heart and Kv have an important role in cell proliferation and apoptosis, so the aim of this work was to study the effects of indapamide on Kv and the viability of GH3 cells. Indapamide inhibited Kv of GH3 cells and the inhibition was irreversible after a 10-min washout when more than 250 microM indapamide was used. Indapamide reduced the viability of GH3 cells in a concentration-dependent manner. The decreased cell viability was because indapamide induced cell apoptosis, or even necrosis at higher concentrations. HepG2 cells, which express no apparent Kv, were used to determine the association between inhibition of Kv and the apoptotic action of indapamide. Indapamide had a similar action on cell viability and apoptosis of HepG2 cells. 4-Aminopyridine, the voltage-dependent K+ channel blocker, inhibited Kv of GH3 cells but did not induce the cell apoptosis. We concluded that while indapamide inhibited Kv and induced apoptosis of GH3 cells, the apoptotic action of indapamide was not associated with its inhibition of Kv.
Heterozygous mutations in the telomerase components TERT, the reverse transcriptase, and TERC, the RNA template, cause autosomal dominant dyskeratosis congenita due to telomere shortening. Anticipation, whereby the disease severity increases in succeeding generations due to inheritance of shorter telomeres, is a feature of this condition. Here we describe 2 families in which 2 TERT mutations are segregating. Both families contain compound heterozygotes. In one case the proband is homozygous for a novel mutation causing a P704S substitution, while his father's second allele encodes an H412Y mutation. The proband in the second family has mutant alleles Y846C and H876Q. Transfection studies show codominant expression of the mutated alleles with no evidence of a dominant negative effect or of intragenic complementation. Thus in these families the expression of both TERT alleles and the inherited telomere length contribute to the clinical phenotype.
Occlusive platelet thrombi periodically form in mechanically stenosed dog coronary arteries producing cyclical blood flow reductions occurring over 4-7 min. Cyclical coronary flow reductions are exacerbated by IV epinephrine 0.4 microgram.kg-1.min-1 for 15 min. These flow reductions can be abolished by known inhibitors of platelet function. This study assesses the effect of halothane, isoflurane, and enflurane on spontaneous- and epinephrine-exacerbated cyclical coronary flow reductions. Twenty-three open-chest dogs [1% halothane (n = 5), 0.5% halothane (n = 5), 0.25% halothane (n = 3), 1.5% isoflurane (n = 5), and 2.0% enflurane (n = 5)] with a mechanically stenosed coronary artery showed cyclical blood flow reductions. With 1.0% halothane administration, spontaneous cyclical blood flow reductions were abolished (n = 5), whereas during administration of isoflurane 1.5% (n = 5) and enflurane 2.0% (n = 5) cyclical flow reductions and myocardial ischemia continued. Subsequent administration of halothane in the isoflurane and enflurane groups showed abolition of coronary flow reductions in all animals (n = 10). In eight animals a 15-min epinephrine infusion (0.4 microgram.kg-1.min-1) was given following a control period and again following abolition of coronary flow reductions by halothane 0.5% (n = 5) and halothane 0.25% (n = 3). The magnitude of cyclical blood flow reductions (difference between initial and final coronary flow level of each flow reduction) changed from 52 +/- 11 to 61 +/- 12 ml/min (NS), and frequency increased from 0.37 to 0.57/min (P less than 0.05, n = 8) during epinephrine infusion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Chronic inflammation contributes to numerous diseases, and regulation of inflammation is crucial for disease control and resolution. Sex hormones have potent immunoregulatory abilities. Specifically, estrogen influences immune cells and inflammation, which contributes to the sexual dimorphism of autoimmunity and protection against disease seen during pregnancy in multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Although long thought to act primarily on T cells, recent evidence demonstrated that myeloid cells, such as dendritic cells (DCs), are essential in mediating estrogen's protective effects. Estriol (E3), a pregnancy-specific estrogen, has therapeutic efficacy in MS and EAE, and we evaluated whether E3 could act exclusively through DCs to protect against the inflammatory autoimmune disease EAE. Levels of activation markers (CD80 and CD86) and inhibitory costimulatory markers (PD-L1, PD-L2, B7-H3, and B7-H4) were increased in E3 DCs. E3 DCs had decreased proinflammatory IL-12, IL-23, and IL-6 mRNA expression, increased immunoregulatory IL-10 and TGF-β mRNA expression, and a decreased ratio of IL-12/IL-10 protein production. Importantly, transfer of E3 DCs to mice prior to active induction of EAE protected them from developing EAE through immune deviation to a Th2 response. This protection was apparent, even in the face of in vitro and in vivo inflammatory challenge. In summary, our results showed that E3 generates tolerogenic DCs, which protect against the inflammatory autoimmune disease EAE. Targeted generation of tolerogenic DCs with immunomodulatory therapeutics, such as E3, has potential applications in the treatment of numerous autoimmune and chronic inflammatory diseases.
The relationship between pain and cognitive function is of theoretical and clinical interest, exemplified by observations that attention-demanding activities reduce pain in chronically afflicted patients. Previous studies have concentrated on phasic pain, which bears little correspondence to clinical pain conditions. Indeed, phasic pain is often associated with differential or opposing effects to tonic pain in behavioral, lesion, and pharmacological studies. To address how cognitive engagement interacts with tonic pain, we assessed the influence of an attention-demanding cognitive task on pain-evoked neural responses in an experimental model of chronic pain, the capsaicin-induced heat hyperalgesia model. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we show that activity in the orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal cortices, insula, and cerebellum correlates with the intensity of tonic pain. This pain-related activity in medial prefrontal cortex and cerebellum was modulated by the demand level of the cognitive task. Our findings highlight a role for these structures in the integration of motivational and cognitive functions associated with a physiological state of injury. Within the limitations of an experimental model of pain, we suggest that the findings are relevant to understanding both the neurobiology and pathophysiology of chronic pain and its amelioration by cognitive strategies.
Halothane hepatitis occurs because susceptible patients mount immune responses to trifluoroacetylated protein antigens, formed following cytochrome P450-mediated bioactivation of halothane to trifluoroacetyl chloride. In the present study, an in vitro approach has been used to investigate the cytochrome P450 isozyme(s) which catalyze neoantigen formation and to explore the protective role of non-protein thiols (cysteine and reduced glutathione). Significant levels of trifluoroacetyl protein antigens were generated when human liver microsomes, and also microsomes from livers of rats pre-treated with isoniazid, phenobarbital or beta-naphtoflavone, were incubated with halothane plus a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotidephosphate (NADPH) generating system. Immunoblotting studies revealed that the major trifluoroacetyl antigens expressed in vitro exhibited molecular masses of 50-55 kDa and included 60 and 80 kDa neoantigens recognized by antibodies from patients with halothane hepatitis. Much lower concentrations of halothane were required to produce maximal antigen generation in isoniazid-induced rat microsomes, as compared with phenobarbital or isosafrole-induced microsomes (0.5 vs 12.5 microl/ml). In isoniazid-induced microsomes, antigen generation was inhibited > 90% by the nucleophiles cysteine and glutathione and by the CYP2E1-selective inhibitors diallylsulfide and p-nitrophenol, but was unaffected by inhibitors of other P450 isozymes (furafylline, sulfaphenazole or triacetyloleandomycin). Neoantigen formation in six human liver microsomal preparations was inhibited in the presence of diallylsulfide, but not by furafylline, sulfaphenazole or triacetyloleandomycin, and exhibited marked variability which correlated with CYP2E1 levels. These results suggest that the balance between metabolic bioactivation by CYP2E1 and detoxication of reactive metabolites by cellular nucleophiles could be an important metabolic risk factor in halothane hepatitis.
The role of fullerene as a pro-oxidant or anti-oxidant in Ultraviolet B ray (UV-B)-induced disorders in mouse skin was investigated. Fullerene gave no photo-toxic effect to UV-B-irradiated mouse skin. Since erythema was concentrated at the pore circumference in a UV-B irradiation experiment in mouse skin, the sebaceous gland pairs was strongly implicated as a site for the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In a histological evaluation of the skin stained with CH(3)MDFDA (ROS index) and YO-Pro-1 (apoptosis index), the fluorescence intensity of a sebaceous gland significantly increased with UV-B irradiation. With the application of fullerene to UV-irradiated mouse skin, no toxicity was recognized in comparison with the control, and erythema, the ROS index, and the apoptosis index decrease with the application of fullerene. Ascorbyl radical (AA*) increased with the application of ascorbate (AA) to UV-B-irradiated mouse skin, and AA* decreased with the application of fullerene. The co-application of AA and fullerene, which suppressed AA* in vitro, significantly suppressed erythema, and also suppressed both the ROS index and apoptosis index in mouse skin after UV-B irradiation. In both mouse skin at 48 h after UV-B irradiation and in an attempt to reproduce this phenomenon artificially in vitro, a similar high AA* peak (AA*/H*>4) was observed in electron spin resonance (ESR) charts. The binding of fullerene with AA impairs the Fenton reaction between AA and Fe-protein based on the observation of ascorbate-specific UV absorption and a linear equation for the calibration curve. Therefore, fullerene may impair the intercalation of AA to a heme pocket by binding with AA. These results suggest that the co-application of AA and fullerene is effective against oxidative skin damage caused by UV-B irradiation, and the development of an AA* inhibitor such as fullerene should be useful for reducing organ damage associated with Fe-protein oxidation.
Paclitaxel, an effective anti-neoplastic agent in the treatment of solid tumors, produces a dose-limiting painful peripheral neuropathy in a clinically significant number of cancer patients. Prior work has demonstrated paclitaxel-induced neurodegeneration and sensory loss in laboratory rodents. We describe here an experimental paclitaxel-induced painful peripheral neuropathy. Adult male rats were given four intraperitoneal injections on alternate days of vehicle or 0.5, 1.0, or 2.0 mg/kg of paclitaxel (Taxol). Behavioral tests for pain using mechanical and thermal stimuli applied to the tail and hind paws, and tests for motor performance, were taken before, during and after dosing for 22-35 days. All three doses of paclitaxel caused heat-hyperalgesia, mechano-allodynia, mechano-hyperalgesia, and cold-allodynia, but had no effect on motor performance. Neuropathic pain began within days and lasted for several weeks. We did not detect any dose-response relationship. Tests at the distal, mid, and proximal tail failed to show evidence of a length-dependent neuropathy. Vehicle control injections had no effect on any measure. No significant systemic toxicities were noted in the paclitaxel-treated animals. Light-microscopic inspection of the sciatic nerve (mid-thigh level), L4-L5 dorsal root ganglia, and dorsal and ventral roots, and the gray and white matter of the L4-L5 spinal cord, showed no structural abnormalities. Electron microscopic examination of the sciatic nerve (mid-thigh level) and the L4-L5 dorsal root ganglia and dorsal horns demonstrated no degeneration of myelinated and unmyelinated axons in the sciatic nerve and roots, but revealed endoneurial edema. This model may be useful in understanding a significant source of pain in cancer patients, and in finding ways to avoid the neurotoxicity that limits paclitaxel therapy.
The anatomical and aetiological diagnoses of peripheral nerve disease excluding its primary benign and malignant disorders, as seen in 358 Nigerians are presented. There is a male preponderance and the peak incidence is in the fourth decade. Sensori-motor neuropathy was the commonest presentation (50%). Guillain-Barré syndrome was the commonest identifiable cause (15.6%), accounting for half of the cases with motor neuropathy. Peripheral neuropathy due to nutritional deficiency of thiamine and riboflavin was common (10.1%) and presented mainly as sensory and sensori-motor neuropathy. Diabetes mellitus was the major cause of autonomic neuropathy. Isoniazid was the most frequent agent in drug-induced neuropathy. Migraine (20%) was not an uncommon cause of cranial neuropathy although malignancies arising from the reticuloendothelial system or related structures of the head and neck were more frequent (26%). In 26.5% of all the cases, the aetiology of the neuropathy was undetermined. Heredofamilial and connective tissue disorders were rare. Some of the factors related to the clinical presentation and pathogenesis of the neuropathies are briefly discussed.
The aim of this study was to determine the analgesic efficacy of a single dose intra-articular injection (i.a.) of morphine in 53 patients with unilateral arthralgia/osteoarthritis of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ). This randomized, double-blind, parallel group, multicenter study included a screening visit, a treatment visit, and a follow-up visit 1 week after treatment. Recordings of visual analog scales (VAS) pain intensity scores at maximum mouth opening (main efficacy variable) and at jaw rest were made directly before a 1-ml i.a. injection into one TMJ of either 1.0mg morphine-HCl, 0.1mg morphine-HCl, or saline (placebo). The pain intensity was also recorded at the follow-up and in a diary 3 days before and 5 days after the injection. The VAS pain score at maximum mouth opening was considerably reduced 1-10h after injection but without significant differences between groups. At the follow-up, the median VAS pain score at maximal mouth opening was significantly lower in the 0.1-mg morphine group than in the 1.0-mg morphine group (P<0.043) or the saline group (P<0.021). A significant increase in pain pressure threshold over the affected joint was seen in the 0.1-mg morphine group compared with the saline group at the follow-up but not 1 and 2h post-injection. The incidence of adverse events was small and did not differ between the treatment groups. In conclusion, one i.a. injection of 0.1mg morphine significantly increased the pain pressure threshold and mouth opening ability, but evidence for the analgesic property of the locally applied opioid was inconclusive. No dose-effect relation and no significant short-term analgesic property were seen. Although statistically significant, the magnitude of the reduced VAS pain intensity score was not clinically relevant at the 1-week follow-up.
Continuous intravenous infusion of norepinephrine norepinephrine (NE, 0.1 mg/kg/h) induced hypertrophy of the left ventricle (LV), but not of the right ventricle (RV) in rats, although RV systolic pressure (RVSP) was much more elevated than LVSP. After NE infusion, there was a time-dependent (20 min to 72 h) expression in the mRNA of interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-1 beta. The expression of IL-6 increased markedly and reached the maximum after 4 h with an 80-fold elevation. In the RV, the expression increased only 20-fold. The mRNA of IL-1 beta increased significantly after NE stimulation only in the LV and reached the maximum after 12 h with a 12-fold elevation. After 12 h of NE infusion, colligin mRNA was elevated for the first time with further progression until 72 h. The six-fold abundance of colligin mRNA seen after 72 h was significantly higher in the LV than in the RV. A similar increase was observed on the protein level (Western blotting). The expression of collagen I and III increased significantly after 24 h only in the LV. After 72 h, the mRNA expression of collagen I was increased 16-fold and that of collagen III 10-fold. This expression was significantly higher than that in the RV. Also the elevation in atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) mRNA started earlier and was more pronounced in the LV than in the RV. The alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptor blocker carvedilol normalized all functional parameters after 6 h and 72 h and prevented the development of LV hypertrophy that occurred after 72 h. The NE-induced increased expression of the mRNAs studied was either prevented (IL-6, IL-1 beta ) or attenuated (colligin, collagen I and III, ANP) by combined alpha- and beta-receptor blockade. The elevation of afterload which was associated with the NE effect was normalized by the calcium-channel blocker nisoldipin, but NE-induced LV hypertrophy and the increase in ANP and collagen mRNA were not affected.
Invasive aspergillosis is an important factor in the morbidity and mortality of patients suffering from hematologic disorders treated with chemotherapy. Treatment with amphotericin B is often limited because of toxicity, particularly nephrotoxicity. We describe a case of invasive pulmonary Aspergillus fumigatus infection in acute myeloid leukemia with renal failure due to amphotericin B therapy, which responded to treatment with a new antifungal agent, micafungin. Micafungin appears to be an effective and safe therapy for Aspergillus infections with renal failure due to amphotericin B.
We compared the effects of systemic morphine on normal (heat and cold) pain and paradoxical burning pain evoked by the simultaneous application of innocuous warm and cold stimuli to the skin. Twelve healthy volunteers participated in a randomised, double-blind, cross-over study to compare the effects of intravenous administration of morphine (0.025 or 0.1mg/kg) or placebo (saline). Stimuli were applied to the palm of the right hand with a thermode ("thermal grill") composed of six bars, whose temperatures were controlled by Peltier elements. For each session, we measured the heat and cold pain thresholds and then successively measured the intensity of: (i) paradoxical pain evoked by a combination of non-noxious warm and cold stimuli; (ii) "normal" pain evoked by suprathreshold heat or cold stimuli; (iii) non-painful sensations evoked by warm or cold stimuli at temperatures used to produce paradoxical pain. Measurements were performed before 20min after the administration of morphine or placebo and 5min after the administration of the morphine antagonist, naloxone. The administration of 0.1mg/kg of morphine, but not 0.025mg/kg, induced a significant and naloxone-reversible reduction of paradoxical pain intensity, which was directly correlated with the reduction of normal cold pain. No differences were observed for non-painful thermal sensations. The paradoxical burning pain evoked by a thermal grill can be modified pharmacologically by analgesics and share some mechanisms with normal pain. This unique experimental "illusion of pain" may represent a new model to test analgesics in healthy volunteers.
HIV-1 replication is induced by an excess of iron and iron chelation by desferrioxamine (DFO) inhibits viral replication by reducing proliferation of infected cells. Treatment of cells with DFO and 2-hydroxy-1-naphthylaldehyde isonicotinoyl hydrazone (311) inhibit expression of proteins that regulate cell-cycle progression, including cycle-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2). Our recent studies showed that CDK2 participates in HIV-1 transcription and viral replication suggesting that inhibition of CDK2 by iron chelators might also affect HIV-1 transcription. Here we evaluated the effect of a clinically approved orally effective iron chelator, 4-[3,5-bis-(hydroxyphenyl)-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]-benzoic acid (ICL670) and 311 on HIV-1 transcription. Both ICL670 and 311 inhibited Tat-induced HIV-1 transcription in CEM-T cells, 293T and HeLa cells. Neither ICL670 nor 311 induced cytotoxicity at concentrations that inhibited HIV-1 transcription. The chelators decreased cellular activity of CDK2 and reduced HIV-1 Tat phosphorylation by CDK2. Neither ICL670A or 311 decreased CDK9 protein level but significantly reduced association of CDK9 with cyclin T1 and reduced phosphorylation of Ser-2 residues of RNA polymerase II C-terminal domain. In conclusion, our findings add to the evidence that iron chelators can inhibit HIV-1 transcription by deregulating CDK2 and CDK9. Further consideration should be given to the development of iron chelators for future anti-retroviral therapeutics.
Under normal conditions, the expression of CD14, which is the principal receptor for bacterial lipopolysaccharide, is down-regulated in the intestinal mucosa but increases in response to inflammatory stimuli. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether fecal CD14 levels increased in response to infection with diarrheagenic Escherichia coli and whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the CD14 gene were associated with an increased susceptibility to traveler's diarrhea (TD) in US visitors to Mexico.
Six SNPs located at the promoter, exon, and untranslated regions of CD14 were typed in a prospective cohort study of 1360 visitors to Mexico at risk for TD. Stools from visitors with TD were studied for enteric pathogens by culture, colony hybridization, and polymerase chain reaction. Fecal soluble CD14 (sCD14) was measured in a subgroup of 203 adults with diarrhea and 66 healthy controls by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
The minor allele frequencies for CD14 SNPs were significantly different among the various racial and ethnic groups studied. Two SNPs in the promoter region of CD14 (-159 C > T; rs2569190 and -4191 C > T; rs5744441) were found to be associated with TD in White visitors. The -159 TT genotype was associated with a higher risk for TD (Relative risk [RR], 1.21; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.05-1.38; P = .008), whereas individuals with the -4191 TT genotype were protected from infection (RR, 0.82; 95% CI, 0.71-0.92; P = .006). Subjects with TD excreted higher levels of fecal CD14 than did healthy controls (33,480 pg/mL vs 6178 pg/mL; P < .02). Fecal sCD14 levels were higher in stool samples from visitors with TD and the -159 TT genotype than they were in visitors with the CC/CT genotypes (P = .02), and stool samples from subjects with the -4191 CC genotype had higher fecal sCD14 levels than did stool samples from visitors with the CT/TT (P = .005) genotype. In a multivariate analysis with haplotypes constructed with the 6 SNPs studied, subjects with the haplotype containing the -159 C and the -4191 T allele were less likely to acquire TD (P = .015).
Our study suggests that CD14 levels increase in response to bacterial diarrhea and that polymorphisms in the CD14 gene influence susceptibility to TD. Intestinal CD14 plays an important role in the innate immune response to enteric pathogens.
In male patients suffering from chronic pain, opioid administration induces severe hypogonadism, leading to impaired physical and psychological conditions such as fatigue, anaemia and depression. Hormone replacement therapy is rarely considered for these hypogonadic patients, notwithstanding the various pharmacological solutions available.
To treat hypogonadism and to evaluate the consequent endocrine, physical and psychological changes in male chronic pain patients treated with morphine (epidural route), we tested the administration of testosterone via a gel formulation for one year. Hormonal (total testosterone, estradiol, free testosterone, DHT, cortisol), pain (VAS and other pain questionnaires), andrological (Ageing Males' Symptoms Scale-AMS) and psychological (POMS, CES-D and SF-36) parameters were evaluated at baseline (T0) and after 3, 6 and 12 months (T3, T6, T12 respectively).
The daily administration of testosterone increased total and free testosterone and DHT at T3, and the levels remained high until T12. Pain rating indexes (QUID) progressively improved from T3 to T12 while the other pain parameters (VAS, Area%) remained unchanged. The AMS sexual dimension and SF-36 Mental Index displayed a significant improvement over time.
In conclusion, our results suggest that a constant, long-term supply of testosterone can induce a general improvement of the male chronic pain patient's quality of life, an important clinical aspect of pain management.
Manic depressive disorder is a recurrent illness with a variable clinical course. Before the advent of modern pharmacotherapy, ECT was a common treatment; more recently, lithium has become the long-term treatment of choice, but it is a treatment that is not without complications.
The psychiatric and medical history of an 80-year-old patient was reviewed and analyzed based on clinical interview and medical records. The findings were integrated with literature review to illustrate a number of important clinical points about manic depressive disorder and its treatment.
(1) ECT is an effective treatment for mania, (2) a sustained remission may occur spontaneously, (3) a mania-depression-euthymia episode sequence predicts favorable response to lithium, (4) lithium discontinuation is not without risk, (5) lithium continuation is not without risk (thyroid, kidneys, eyes).
The case of Mrs. L illustrates the longitudinal course of manic depressive disorder and how it can be influenced by treatment and withdrawal of treatment. It also illustrates the potential of lithium for causing adverse effects on several organ systems.
