Creatine deficiency syndromes (CDS) are newly identified genetic disorders that result in neurological impairment of cognition and communication. The purpose of our study was to screen 100 male subjects with autism spectrum disorder for mutations in the SLC6A8 gene in order to determine the frequency of this genetic disorder in this population. One hundred males ages 3-18 years diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder based on DSM-IV criteria were recruited. DNA sequence analysis was performed on all subjects for creatine transporter gene (SLC6A8) defects. One subject had a novel unclassified variant in the SLC6A8 gene exon 13: c.1890G>C. Given that autistic features are found in a number of patients with CDS, SLC6A8 deficiency as well as the treatable forms of CDS should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients with autism spectrum disorder.
Four patients had visual loss after nasal surgery. There was one instance each of branch retinal artery occlusion, central retinal artery occlusion, anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, and posterior ischemic optic neuropathy. The postulated mechanism is vasospasm. The submucosal injection, under pressure, of an anesthetic with epinephrine is deemed to be causative.
Minocycline is an antibiotic now recognized to have antiapoptotic and antiinflammatory properties. Because of these properties, minocycline may be of benefit in reducing neuronal apoptosis from ischemia and subsequent postischemic inflammation if administered soon after a stroke. We now explore the feasibility of using (99m)Tc-annexin V, an in vivo marker of apoptosis, with SPECT to monitor the antiapoptotic effects of minocycline therapy.
CB6/F1 adult male mice underwent unilateral distal middle cerebral artery occlusion (dMCA) occlusion and were imaged and sacrificed at 1, 3, 7, or 30 d after injury. Animals were given minocycline (or vehicle) 30 min and 12 h after dMCA occlusion and then given 22.5 mg/kg twice daily for up to 7 d. Before imaging, behavioral tests were performed to evaluate the neurologic function. After imaging, brains were collected for histology and assessed for the degree of apoptosis and microglial activation.
(99m)Tc-Annexin V uptake in injured hemispheres was significantly decreased 2- to 3-fold by minocycline at all time points. Minocyline reduced infarct size as seen histologically and improved behavioral indices as late as 30 d. Infarct volume as seen histologically correlated with radiolabeled annexin V uptake seen by SPECT. In situ fluorescent microscopy demonstrated that annexin V bound primarily to neurons at 1 and 3 d, with a shift toward microglia by 7 and 30 d.
We found that minocycline significantly reduces neuronal apoptosis and infarct size and improves neurologic outcome in mice after acute focal cortical ischemia.
To identify the active components of honeybee venom in production of inflammation and pain-related behaviors, five major peptidergic subfractions were separated, purified and identified from the whole honeybee venom. Among them, four active peptidergic components were characterized as apamin, mast-cell degranulating peptide (MCDP), phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2))-related peptide and melittin, respectively. All five subfractions were effective in production of local inflammatory responses (paw edema) in rats although the efficacies were different. Among the five identified subfractions, only MCDP, PLA(2)-related peptide and melittin were able to produce ongoing pain-related behaviors shown as paw flinches, while only apamin and melittin were potent to produce both thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity. As shown in our previous report, melittin was the most potent polypeptide in production of local inflammation as well as ongoing pain and hypersensitivity. To further explore the peripheral mechanisms underlying melittin-induced nociception and hypersensitivity, a single dose of capsazepine, a blocker of thermal nociceptor transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1, was treated s.c. prior to or after melittin administration. The results showed that both pre- and post-treatment of capsazepine could significantly prevent and suppress the melittin-induced ongoing nociceptive responses and thermal hypersensitivity, but were without influencing mechanical hypersensitivity. The present results suggest that the naturally occurring peptidergic substances of the whole honeybee venom have various pharmacological potencies to produce local inflammation, nociception and pain hypersensitivity in mammals, and among the five identified reverse-phase high pressure liquid chromatography subfractions (four polypeptides), melittin, a polypeptide occupying over 50% of the whole honeybee venom, plays a central role in production of local inflammation, nociception and hyperalgesia or allodynia following the experimental honeybee's sting. Peripheral transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1 is likely to be involved in melittin-produced ongoing pain and heat hyperalgesia, but not mechanical hyperalgesia, in rats.
Our goal was to report a case of malignant neuroleptic syndrome in a patient administered with both oxcarbazepine (OXCBZ) and amisulpride (AM).
We present a case of a young man who presented with symptoms of malignant neuroleptic syndrome after progressive titration of OXCBZ (1,200 mg) added to the long-term treatment with AM (800 mg).
After discontinuation of AM and administration of dopaminergic drugs, his clinical symptoms improved gradually.
This case suggests that clinicians should consider the risk of neuroleptic malignant syndrome when OXCBZ is coadministered to patients undergoing long-term treatment with neuroleptics.
Fourteen panic disorder patients were infused with isoproterenol both before and after treatment with tricyclic antidepressants. Thirteen patients had panic attacks before treatment, and only 2 after treatment. There was a significant decrease in anxiety as measured by a Panic Description Scale during posttreatment infusions, and patients were able to tolerate longer infusions posttreatment. Isoproterenol increased systolic blood pressure and decreased diastolic blood pressure in both untreated patients and in 10 normal controls. Tricyclic antidepressant treatment of panic disorder patients abolished isoproterenol-induced increases in systolic blood pressure, but did not affect diastolic blood pressure response. These changes are consistent with a decrease in sensitivity to beta-1 receptor stimulation after treatment with tricyclic antidepressants.
Autism spectrum conditions have been characterised as an extreme presentation of certain male-typical psychological traits. In addition, several studies have established a link between prenatal exposure to testosterone and cognitive sex differences in later life, and one study found that foetal testosterone (FT) is positively correlated to autistic traits in 6 to 10 year-old children. In this study, we tested whether FT is positively correlated with autistic traits in toddlers aged 18-24 months.
Levels of FT were analysed in amniotic fluid and compared with autistic traits, measured using the Quantitative Checklist for Autism in Toddlers (Q-CHAT) in 129 typically developing toddlers aged between 18 and 24 months (mean +/- SD 19.25 +/- 1.52 months).
Sex differences were observed in Q-CHAT scores, with boys scoring significantly higher (indicating more autistic traits) than girls. In addition, we confirmed a significant positive relationship between FT levels and autistic traits.
The current findings in children between 18 and 24 months of age are consistent with observations in older children showing a positive association between elevated FT levels and autistic traits. Given that sex steroid-related gene variations are associated with autistic traits in adults, this new finding suggests that the brain basis of autistic traits may reflect individual differences in prenatal androgens and androgen-related genes. The consistency of findings in early childhood, later childhood and adulthood suggests that this is a robust association.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is a regulator of rodent embryogenesis during the period of neural tube closure. VIP enhanced growth in whole cultured mouse embryos; treatment with a VIP antagonist during embryogenesis inhibited growth and development. VIP antagonist treatment during embryogenesis also had permanent effects on adult brain chemistry and impaired social recognition behavior in adult male mice. The neurological deficits of autism appear to be initiated during neural tube closure and social behavior deficits are among the key characteristics of this disorder that is more common in males and is frequently accompanied by mental retardation. The current study examined the blockage of VIP during embryogenesis as a model for the behavioral deficits of autism. Treatment of pregnant mice with a VIP antagonist during embryonic days 8 through 10 had no apparent effect on the general health or sensory or motor capabilities of adult offspring. However, male offspring exhibited reduced sociability in the social approach task and deficits in cognitive function, as assessed through cued and contextual fear conditioning. Female offspring did not show these deficiencies. These results suggest that this paradigm has usefulness as a mouse model for aspects of autism as it selectively impairs male offspring who exhibit the reduced social behavior and cognitive dysfunction seen in autism. Furthermore, the study indicates that the foundations of some aspects of social behavior are laid down early in mouse embryogenesis, are regulated in a sex specific manner and that interference with embryonic regulators such as VIP can have permanent effects on adult social behavior.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is the most common cause of acute liver failure in the West. In mice, APAP hepatotoxicity can be rapidly induced with a single dose. Because it is both clinically relevant and experimentally convenient, APAP intoxication has become a popular model of liver injury. Early data demonstrated that rats are resistant to APAP toxicity. As a result, mice are the preferred species for mechanistic studies. Furthermore, recent work has shown that the mechanisms of APAP toxicity in humans are similar to mice. Nevertheless, some investigators still use rats. New mechanistic information from the last forty years invites a reevaluation of the differences between these species. Comparison may provide interesting insights and confirm or exclude the rat as an option for APAP studies. To this end, we treated rats and mice with APAP and measured parameters of liver injury, APAP metabolism, oxidative stress, and activation of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Consistent with earlier data, we found that rats were highly resistant to APAP toxicity. Although overall APAP metabolism was similar in both species, mitochondrial protein adducts were significantly lower in rats. Accordingly, rats also had less oxidative stress. Finally, while mice showed extensive activation and mitochondrial translocation of JNK, this could not be detected in rat livers. These data support the hypothesis that mitochondrial dysfunction is critical for the development of necrosis after APAP treatment. Because mitochondrial damage also occurs in humans, rats are not a clinically relevant species for studies of APAP hepatotoxicity.
The treatment of traumatic brain injury (TBI) remains limited, and aside from surgical hematoma evacuation, clinical management is largely supportive and directed toward management of cerebral edema and intracranial hypertension. Secondary neuronal injury caused by ischemia and the development of cerebral edema may occur in the subacute phase, with intracranial pressures often peaking in the first several days following injury. Because inflammation contributes significantly to the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia and endothelial dysfunction underlies the development of cerebral edema, therapeutic strategies that target the post-traumatic inflammatory cascade and reduce endothelial dysfunction hold enormous potential to improve clinical outcomes after TBI. Statins inhibit inflammation by suppressing inflammatory cytokine release, and by interfering with multiple steps of leukocyte recruitment and migration into the CNS. In this study, we demonstrate that treatment with atorvastatin and simvastatin markedly reduced functional neurological deficits after traumatic brain injury in mice. These effects were accompanied by histological reduction in degenerating hippocampal neurons and suppression of inflammatory cytokine mRNA expression in brain parenchyma. Furthermore, statin treatment improved cerebral hemodynamics following head injury. Thus, the administration of statins may represent a viable therapeutic strategy in the acute treatment of closed head injury.
Thirty five patients of either sex suffering from tuberculosis were administered streptomycin 0.75 g (im daily, upto 14 yr and above 45 yr of age) and 1 g (im daily for age 15-45 yr) with other antitubercular drugs and followed for audiological status. Five patients were dropped as they developed vestibular dysfunction. Varying degree of hearing loss was detected in 4 of 10 patients in group I (below 15 yr), in 2 of 9 patients in group II (15-45 yr) and in 6 of 11 patients in group III (above 45 yr). Cochlear toxicity of streptomycin was not found to be related to does or duration of therapy. Supportive therapy restored hearing in 2 patients of group I and 1 of group II. None of the patients in group III showed recovery. It is recommended that patients on long-term streptomycin therapy should be periodically subjected to audiometric examination to detect any hearing loss.
We present a case of acute psychosis in a 46-year-old woman who had been treated orally with cotrimoxazole because of a severe infection of the urinary tract. She had started to develop psychotic symptoms with bizarre behavior two days before admission. Following discontinuation of antibiotic therapy, including cessation of treatment with cotrimoxazole and the induction of antipsychotic treatment, her mental state resolved to a stable premorbid level within 36 hours.
To determine whether rosiglitazone is associated with the onset or worsening of chronic heart failure (CHF) when administered to patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who receive insulin.
Retrospective cohort analysis.
Veterans Affairs medical center.
One hundred thirty-nine patients who received insulin for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus and had rosiglitazone added to their drug regimens.
Medical records were reviewed for 6 months before and 6 months after each patient's first rosiglitazone prescription. Records were assessed for the diagnosis of CHF and documented patient complaints of CHF symptoms requiring a medical intervention (unscheduled primary care or emergency room visit, start or dosage adjustment of CHF pharmacotherapy, or hospitalization).
A diagnosis of CHF was documented in Thirty-five (25%) patients in the preindex period (before receiving rosiglitazone) versus 42 (30%) in the postindex period (after receiving rosiglitazone). Fifty (36%) patients received a medical intervention for CHF signs or symptoms in the postindex period compared with only 20 (14%) in the preindex period (p<0.0001). Of the 50 patients requiring a medical intervention in the postindex period, 33 (66%) had not required an intervention in the preindex period. The most common symptom was lower extremity edema; this occurred in 25 (18%) patients in the preindex period and 50 (36%) patients in the postindex period (p<0.0001).
More patients were diagnosed with CHF during the 6 months after rosiglitazone was added to their drug regimens than in the previous 6 months, when these patients received insulin but not rosiglitazone. In addition, more medical interventions related to CHF occurred after administration of rosiglitazone. Data from this study appear to support the Food and Drug Administration's warning of an increased risk of cardiac failure in patients receiving concurrent treatment with rosiglitazone and insulin.
Despite the demonstrated efficacy of clozapine in severely refractory schizophrenia, questions remain regarding its efficacy for primary negative symptoms, comparison with a moderate dose of a first-generation antipsychotic, and adverse effects during a longer-term trial. This study examined its efficacy in partially responsive, community-based patients, compared clozapine with moderate-dose haloperidol, and extended treatment to 6 months.
Randomized, double-blind, 29-week trial comparing clozapine (n = 37) with haloperidol (n = 34). Subjects with schizophrenia who were being treated in community settings at 3 collaborating clinical facilities were enrolled.
Subjects treated with haloperidol were significantly more likely to discontinue treatment for lack of efficacy (51%) than were those treated with clozapine (12%). A higher proportion of clozapine-treated subjects met an a priori criterion of improvement (57%) compared with haloperidol-treated subjects (25%). Significantly greater improvement was seen in symptoms of psychosis, hostile-suspiciousness, anxiety-depression, thought disturbance, and total score measured on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale. No differences were detected in negative symptoms using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale or the Schedule for Assessment of Negative Symptoms. Subjects treated with clozapine experienced more excess salivation, dizziness, and sweating and less dry mouth and decreased appetite than those treated with haloperidol.
Compared with a first-generation antipsychotic given in a moderate dose, clozapine offers substantial clinical benefits to treatment-refractory subjects who can be treated in the community. Advantages are seen in a broad range of symptoms but do not extend to negative symptoms.
Recent epidemiological studies have demonstrated that metformin lowers the risk of several types of cancer in diabetic patients. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) play a crucial role in the degradation of the vascular basement membrane extracellular matrix proteins, thereby promoting endothelial cell invasion, migration and angiogenesis in the incidence and progression of tumors. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of metformin on human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) proliferation and migration, as well as on MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression. Cell proliferation was determined by cell counting and MTT colorimetric assays. Cell migration was assessed by the wound repair method. Quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR was performed to quantify the mRNA expression of MMPs. Metformin at concentrations of 0.5-3.0 mM effectively reduced the number of endothelial cells by 5.5-55%, without being cytotoxic to the cells. Similarly, cell proliferation and migration were markedly inhibited by metformin. In addition, treatment with metformin demonstrated a strong (P<0.001) suppressive effect on the mRNA levels of MMP-2 and -9 in the endothelial cells. The inhibitory effects of metformin on endothelial cell number, migration, and MMP expression were reversed partially by compound C, which is an inhibitor of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). The present study reports that metformin considerably inhibited the proliferation, migration, and MMP-2 and -9 expression of HUVECs, and the effect was partially AMPK-dependent. The obtained findings provide a molecular rationale, whereby metformin can exert anticancer effects.
Fenofibrate, a fibric acid derivative, is used to treat diabetic dyslipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and combined hyperlipidemia, administered alone or in combination with statins. Rhabdomyolysis is defined as a pathological condition involving skeletal muscle cell damage leading to the release of toxic intracellular material into circulation. Its major causes include muscle compression or overexertion; trauma; ischemia; toxins; cocaine, alcohol, and drug use; metabolic disorders; infections. However, rhabdomyolysis associated with fenofibrate is extremely rare. Herein we report a 45-year-old female patient who was referred to our department because of generalized muscle pain, fatigue, weakness, and oliguria over the preceding 3 weeks. On the basis of the pathogenesis and clinical and laboratory examinations, a diagnosis of acute renal failure secondary to fenofibrate-induced rhabdomyolysis was made. Weekly followups for patients who are administered fenofibrate are the most important way to prevent possible complications.
Acute dystonia is a dramatic form of extrapyramidal side effects of antipsychotic medications. Although extrapyramidal reactions have been noted in related drugs, there are no existing reports associated with ranitidine. This report describes a case of an acute dystonic reaction secondary to a commonly prescribed, currently approved over-the-counter drug, ranitidine.
Dietary supplementation with polyphenolic antioxidants to animals was shown to be associated with inhibition of LDL oxidation and macrophage foam cell formation, and attenuation of atherosclerosis development. We investigated the effects of pomegranate juice (PJ, which contains potent tannins and anthocyanins) consumption by atherosclerotic patients with carotid artery stenosis (CAS) on the progression of carotid lesions and changes in oxidative stress and blood pressure. Ten patients were supplemented with PJ for 1 year and five of them continued for up to 3 years. Blood samples were collected before treatment and during PJ consumption. In the control group that did not consume PJ, common carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) increased by 9% during 1 year, whereas, PJ consumption resulted in a significant IMT reduction, by up to 30%, after 1 year. The patients' serum paraoxonase 1 (PON 1) activity was increased by 83%, whereas serum LDL basal oxidative state and LDL susceptibility to copper ion-induced oxidation were both significantly reduced, by 90% and 59%, respectively, after 12 months of PJ consumption, compared to values obtained before PJ consumption. Furthermore, serum levels of antibodies against oxidized LDL were decreased by 19%, and in parallel serum total antioxidant status (TAS) was increased by 130% after 1 year of PJ consumption. Systolic blood pressure was reduced after 1 year of PJ consumption by 12% [corrected] and was not further reduced along 3 years of PJ consumption. For all studied parameters, the maximal effects were observed after 1 year of PJ consumption. Further consumption of PJ, for up to 3 years, had no additional beneficial effects on IMT and serum PON1 activity, whereas serum lipid peroxidation was further reduced by up to 16% after 3 years of PJ consumption. The results of the present study thus suggest that PJ consumption by patients with CAS decreases carotid IMT and systolic blood pressure and these effects could be related to the potent antioxidant characteristics of PJ polyphenols.
Lithium is derived from the Greek word "lithia" which means "stone." Since its discovery by the Swedish chemist Arfedsson in the year 1817, it has been used for treatment of gout, hypertension, uremia, and rheumatism. Currently, lithium is the treatment of choice for the long-term control of mania and to prevent relapse in bipolar disorder. It has a narrow therapeutic index (0.6-1.2 mEq/L). Lithium overdose has been associated with a wide range of cardiovascular complications including cardiac arrhythmias and interstitial myocarditis. We present a review of published cases relevant to lithium-related cardiotoxicity.
Anemia is the most common complication of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Control and inadequate treatment leads to a worse quality of life and increased morbidity and hospitalization. Blood loss, and to a lesser extent, malabsorption of iron are the main causes of iron deficiency in IBD. There is also a variable component of anemia related to chronic inflammation. The anemia of chronic renal failure has been treated for many years with recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO), which significantly improves quality of life and survival. Subsequently, rHuEPO has been used progressively in other conditions that occur with anemia of chronic processes such as cancer, rheumatoid arthritis or IBD, and anemia associated with the treatment of hepatitis C virus. Erythropoietic agents complete the range of available therapeutic options for treatment of anemia associated with IBD, which begins by treating the basis of the inflammatory disease, along with intravenous iron therapy as first choice. In cases of resistance to treatment with iron, combined therapy with erythropoietic agents aims to achieve near-normal levels of hemoglobin/hematocrit (11-12 g/dL). New formulations of intravenous iron (iron carboxymaltose) and the new generation of erythropoietic agents (darbepoetin and continuous erythropoietin receptor activator) will allow better dosing with the same efficacy and safety.
We describe an adolescent case of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) mimicking acute methotrexate-associated encephalopathy during chemotherapy for lymphoblastic lymphoma. Although initial presentations of hemiparesis and irritability were suggestive of acute encephalopathy, the diminished deep tendon reflexes and subsequent rapid progression to flaccid triparesis with bulbar palsy were consistent with GBS. After the initiation of intravenous immunoglobulin therapy her symptoms improved rapidly, and the diagnosis of GBS was confirmed by nerve conduction studies and cerebrospinal fluid examination in recovery phase. GBS should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute methotrexate-associated encephalopathy, although GBS is a rare neurologic complication.
Strain differences in the teratogenicity of valproic acid (VPA) have been reported in mice. Finnell and Chernoff (Proc. Grnwd. Genet. Ctr. 5:162-163, 1985) showed that 300 mg/kg of VPA twice a day on days 6-8 of gestation induced exencephaly in 82% of SWV embryos but in 0% of C57BL/6J embryos. In the present experiment, we have collected similar results and investigated this strain difference using whole embryo culture in an attempt to determine whether maternal or embryonic factors are responsible for the difference. Mouse embryos were explanted on day 8.5 (plug day 0), and embryos at the 6-8-somite stage were cultured for 48 hours in rat serum containing various doses of sodium valproate (NaVP). All the embryos died within 24 hours with 4.5-mM and higher doses of NaVP in C57BL/6NCr1BR (C57) and with 3.0-mM and higher doses in SWV. Unfused brain folds were recognized in embryos treated with 3.0-mM and higher doses in C57, and with 1.0-mM and higher doses in SWV. Irregular somite formation was observed in many embryos treated with 1.6-mM and higher doses in C57 and with 1.0-mM and higher doses in SWV. These results indicate that SWV embryos have 1.5-3 times the sensitivity of C57 embryos to the embryolethal and teratogenic effects of NaVP. Furthermore, the results suggest that the basis of the strain difference resides within the embryo rather than the mother.
Vitamin Ds have been reported to have diverse effects on cell homeostasis, leading to suggestions that they have therapeutic applications extending beyond their traditional actions on the Ca2+/parathyroid/bone axis. As some of these potential indications carry an inherent risk of acute renal failure (ARF; eg, cancer chemotherapy and organ transplantation), the goal of this study was to assess whether vitamin Ds directly affect renal tubule injury responses. Cultured human proximal tubular (HK-2) cells were exposed to physiological or pharmacological doses of either calcitriol (D3) or a synthetic vitamin D2 analogue (19-nor) for 3 to 48 hours. Their impact on cell integrity (percent lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and tetrazolium dye MTT uptake) under basal conditions and during superimposed injuries (ATP depletion/Ca2+ ionophore or iron-mediated oxidant stress) were determined. As vitamin Ds can be anti-proliferative, cell outgrowth ([3H]thymidine uptake and crystal violet staining) was also tested. Finally, the action of D3 on in vivo ARF (glycerol-induced myoglobinuria) and isolated proximal tubule injury responses were assessed. D3 induced a rapid, dose-dependent increase in HK-2 susceptibility to both ATP-depletion/Ca2+-ionophore- and Fe-mediated attack without independently affecting cell integrity or proliferative responses. In contrast, D2 negatively affected only Fe toxicity and only after relatively prolonged exposure (48 hours). D3 dramatically potentiated in vivo ARF (two- to threefold increase in azotemia), suggesting potential in vivo relevance of the above HK-2 cell results. Proximal tubules, isolated from these glycerol-exposed mice, suggested that D3 can worsen tubule injury despite a parodoxic suppression of H2O2 production. In contrast, D3 had a mild negative impact on cellular energetics (depressed ATP/ADP ratios), and it accentuated plasma membrane phospholipid breakdown. The latter was observed in both glycerol-treated and control tubules, suggesting a primary role in the injury- potentiation effect of D3. Vitamins D(s) may directly, and differentially, increase proximal tubule cell susceptibility to superimposed attack. This property should be considered as new uses for these agents are defined.
The aim of this study was to evaluate whether combination of antioxidants and mesna may prevent cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide better than mesna alone.
A total of 46 male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into six groups. Five groups received single dose of cyclophosphamide (CP, 100 mg/kg) intraperitoneally with the same time intervals: group 2 received CP only, group 3 received mesna (21.5 mg/kg for three times), group 4 beta-carotene (20 mg/kg for two times) and mesna, group 5 received alpha-tocopherol (20 mg/kg for two times) and mesna, and group 6 received melatonin (5 mg/kg for two times) and mesna on the day of CP injection. Group 1 served as control.
CP injection resulted in severe cystitis. Mesna has showed meaningful but not full protection against CP toxicity. Although beta-carotene did not show any additional beneficial effect when combined with mesna, alpha-tocopherol and especially melatonin with mesna resulted full protection that the pathologist, blinded to the slides, could not differ from sham control.
Oxidants may be important in the pathogenesis of CP-induced cystitis. Melatonin and alpha-tocopherol may help to ameliorate bladder damage along with other drugs such as mesna and diuretics.
A parturient patient with imminent gangrene of the extremity caused by oxytocin-induced arteriospasm is described. The appliance of conventional measures such as anticoagulation and vasodilatation produced an immediate and sustained reversal of the arteriospasm together with dramatic relief of symptoms and signs.
We compared the effects of single doses of 50 mg atenolol (cardioselective), 40 mg propranolol (nonselective), and placebo on both exercise- and isoproterenol-induced tachycardia in two experiments involving nine normal subjects. Maximal exercise heart rate was reduced from 187 +/- 4(SEM) after placebo to 146 +/- 7 bpm after atenolol and 138 +/- 6 bpm after propranolol, but there were no differences between the drugs. The effects on isoproterenol tachycardia were determined before and after atropine (0.04 mg/kg IV). Isoproterenol sensitivity was determined as the intravenous dose that increased heart rate by 25 bpm (CD25) and this was increased from 1.8 +/- 0.3 micrograms after placebo to 38.9 +/- 8.3 micrograms after propranolol and 8.3 +/- 1.7 micrograms after atenolol. The difference in the effects of the two was significant. After atropine the CD25 was unchanged after placebo (2.3 +/- 0.3 micrograms) and atenolol (7.7 +/- 1.3 micrograms); it was reduced after propranolol (24.8 +/- 5.0 micrograms), but remained different from atenolol. This change with propranolol sensitivity was calculated as the apparent Ka, this was unchanged by atropine (11.7 +/- 2.1 and 10.1 +/- 2.5 ml/ng). These data are consistent with the hypothesis that exercise-induced tachycardia results largely from beta 1-receptor activation that is blocked by both cardioselective and nonselective drugs, whereas isoproterenol activates both beta 1- and beta 2-receptors so that after cardioselective blockade there remains a beta 2-component that can be blocked with a nonselective drug. While there appear to be beta 2-receptors in the human heart, their physiologic or pathologic roles remain to be defined.
A 62-year-old man with a syndrome of gradually progressive cognitive deterioration accompanied by paranoid features is described. He had been taking quinidine since 1974 for a recurring supraventricular tachyarrhythmia. Examination revealed a suspicious man with widespread patchy cognitive deficits but no focal neurological signs. An exhaustive range of investigations gave unremarkable results. Within 24 hours of cessation of quinidine there was a dramatic improvement in his mental state and, after a further four days, he had returned essentially to normal with no demonstrable cognitive deficits. Several months later he suffered a recrudescence with prominent paranoid and depressive features which gradually settled after commencement of pimozide and dothiepin. It is likely that these events reflect a recurring functional psychosis which was precipitated or exacerbated in the first instance by quinidine. This represents a significant complication of quinidine therapy which has been largely unrecognized. Therapy with quinidine should be considered as a potential contributing factor in any patient with dementia or a functional psychosis who is also taking this drug.
