Entacapone and tolcapone, novel catechol-O-methyl-transferase (COMT) inhibitors, have been developed for the treatment of Parkinson's disease in combination with levodopa. Three fatal cases of drug-induced hepatitis, one with hepatic necrosis and mitochondrial changes have been reported in clinical use of tolcapone. In vitro tolcapone has been shown to induce uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation. Liver and skeletal muscle tissues from an oral rat toxicity study were used to investigate the influence of entacapone, tolcapone (300 and 500 mg/kg/day) or a known uncoupling agent, 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP), (20 mg/kg/ day) on the cell morphology. Centrolobular hypertrophy was revealed in the histopathology of the liver in tolcapone-treated rats. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of the liver and skeletal muscle tissue, revealed mitochondrial swelling and reduced matrix density with deformation of cristae in the tolcapone and DNP groups. Intermyofibrillar edema was characteristic of the skeletal muscle tissue of DNP- and tolcapone-exposed animals. In the tolcapone group, also the sarcomeres were prominent. Treatment-related light microscopic or TEM findings were not observed either in entacapone-treated or control animals. The similarity of structural damages induced by both tolcapone- and DNP suggests that uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation may contribute to the toxicity of tolcapone in the rat.
We have previously demonstrated that the chronic intervention in the cholinergic system by donepezil, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, plays a beneficial role in suppressing long-term cardiac remodeling after myocardial infarction (MI). In comparison with such a chronic effect, however, the acute effect of donepezil during an acute phase of MI remains unclear. Noticing recent findings of a cholinergic mechanism for anti-inflammatory actions, we tested the hypothesis that donepezil attenuates an acute inflammatory tissue injury following MI.
In isolated and activated macrophages, donepezil significantly reduced intra- and extracellular matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9). In mice with MI, despite the comparable values of heart rate and blood pressure, the donepezil-treated group showed a significantly lower incidence of cardiac rupture than the untreated group during the acute phase of MI. Immunohistochemistry revealed that MMP-9 was localized at the infarct area where a large number of inflammatory cells including macrophages infiltrated, and the expression and the enzymatic activity of MMP-9 at the left ventricular infarct area was significantly reduced in the donepezil-treated group.
The present study suggests that donepezil inhibits the MMP-9-related acute inflammatory tissue injury in the infarcted myocardium, thereby reduces the risk of left ventricular free wall rupture during the acute phase of MI.
Mammalian flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO) exists as six gene families and metabolizes a plethora of drugs and xenobiotics. The major FMO in adult human liver, FMO3, is responsible for trimethylamine (TMA) N-oxygenation. A number of FMO3 mutant alleles have been described and associated with a disease termed trimethylaminuria (TMAU). The TMAU patient excretes large amounts of TMA in urine and sweat. A more recent ethnically related polymorphism in expression of the major FMO in lung, FMO2, has been described. All Caucasians and Asians genotyped to date are homozygous for a CAG --> TAG amber mutation resulting in a premature stop codon and a nonfunctional protein truncated at AA 472 (wildtype FMO2 is 535 AA). This allele has been designated hFMO2*2A. Twenty-six percent of individuals of African descent and 5% of Hispanics genotyped to date carry at least one allele coding for full-length FMO2 (hFMO2*1 allele). Preliminary evidence indicates that FMO2.1 is very active toward the S-oxygenation of low MW thioureas, including the lung toxicant ethylene thiourea. Polymorphic expression of functional FMO2 in the individuals of African and Hispanic descent may markedly influence drug metabolism and/or xenobiotic toxicity in the lung.
This study was undertaken to investigate the effect of age on oral contraceptive-induced venous thrombosis. All women seen in the University of Padua Department of Medical and Surgical Science who had had two courses of oral contraceptive therapy at different ages were included. A total of 28 subjects met these criteria. Fifteen patients had a congenital or acquired prothrombotic condition, whereas 13 women were normal subjects. The mean age at which thrombosis occurred was 33.3 and 36.3 years for women with or without a prothrombotic condition, respectively. The ages during which the women remained asymptomatic were 23.1 and 23.3 years for women with or without a predisposing defect, respectively. Thrombosis occurred, during the second course of oral contraceptive therapy, after the mean duration of 6.5 cycles or 18.4 cycles in women with or without prothrombotic defects, respectively. During the asymptomatic course, approximately the same number of women took old progestins or third-generation compounds. On the contrary, during the second period, 21 of 28 women took progestins with third-generation compounds. Age seems to plays an important role in oral contraceptive-induced venous thrombosis. In normal women, thrombosis occurred after a greater number of oral contraceptive cycles as compared with the women with prothrombotic defects. Because the majority of women took preparations that contained third-generation progestins during the second course of therapy, concomitant contributing effects of these compounds cannot be excluded.
The role of human cytochrome P450 (CYP) in the metabolic activation of tobacco-related N-nitrosamines was examined by Salmonella mutation test using a series of genetically engineered Salmonella typhimurium YG7108 strains each co-expressing a form of CYP (CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP1B1, CYP2A6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5) together with human NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase. Seven tobacco-related N-nitrosamines such as 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone, N-nitrosodiethylamine, N-nitrosopyrrolidine, N-nitrosopiperidine, N-nitrosonornicotine, N-nitrosoanabasine, and N-nitrosoanatabine were used. The CYP2A6 was found to be responsible for the mutagenic activation of essentially all tobacco-related N-nitrosamines examined. On the basis of the evidence, genetic polymorphism of the CYP2A6 gene appeared to be one of the factors determining cancer susceptibility caused by smoking. Previously, we found the whole deletion of the CYP2A6 gene (CYP2A6*4C) as a type of genetic polymorphism in Japanese. We hypothesized that individuals possessing the gene homozygous for CYP2A6*4C were incapable of activating tobacco-related N-nitrosamines and showed lower susceptibility to lung cancer induced by tobacco smoke. Thus, the relationship between the CYP2A6*4C and the susceptibility to the lung cancer was evaluated. The frequency of the CYP2A6*4C was significantly lower in the lung cancer patients than healthy volunteers, suggesting that the subjects carrying the CYP2A6*4C alleles are resistant to carcinogenesis caused by N-nitrosamines because of the poor metabolic activation capacity. Taking these results into account, CYP2A6 is an enzyme enhancing lung cancer risk.
The modulation of the central cardiovascular effects of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor activation by galanin and its N-terminal fragment galanin-(1-15) has been evaluated by quantitative receptor autoradiography and cardiovascular analysis. Intracisternal coinjections of threshold doses of galanin and the selective and hypotensive alpha(2)-receptor agonist clonidine induced rapid and maintained vasopressor and tachycardic responses (p<0.001) instead of a hypotensive response, whereas the coinjections of threshold doses of the N-terminal galanin fragment (1-15) and clonidine did not elicit significant cardiovascular changes. Receptor autoradiographical experiments showed that galanin (1 nM) significantly increased the K(d) (p<0.01) and B(max) values (p<0.01) of [(3)H]p-Aminoclonidine binding sites in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) compatible with a possible antagonistic interaction with the alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, and this effect was blocked by the presence of the specific galanin receptor antagonist M35. In addition, clonidine (30 nM) induced a 50% increase in the B(0) values of galanin based on competition experiments with [(125)I]-galanin binding in the NTS. These findings suggest the existence of an antagonistic effect of galanin, but not of galanin fragment (1-15), on the cardiovascular responses mediated by alpha(2)-receptors as well as a reciprocal facilitatory effect of alpha(2)-receptors on galanin binding. These mechanisms could be mediated by a reciprocal galanin-alpha(2) receptor interaction within the NTS.
Circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) are reduced in hypertension, which inversely correlates with its mortality. Deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertension features elevated endothelin (ET) 1 and oxidative stress. We tested the hypothesis that ET-1 induces EPC dysfunction by elevating oxidative stress through the ET(A)/NADPH oxidase pathway in salt-sensitive hypertension. Both ET(A) and ET(B) receptors were expressed in EPCs, but only ET(A) receptors were significantly increased in EPCs of DOCA-salt rats. EPC number and function were reduced in DOCA-salt rats compared with sham controls, and both were reversed by in vivo blockade of ET(A) receptors or NADPH oxidase. The enzymatic activities of NAPDH oxidase and its subunits gp91(phox), p22(phox), and Rac1 were augmented in EPCs of DOCA-salt rats, with concomitantly decreased antioxidant enzymes manganese superoxide dismutase, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase, and glutathione peroxidase 1. Reactive oxygen species level was elevated in EPCs from DOCA-salt rats, accompanied by increased EPC telomerase inactivation, senescence, and apoptosis, which were rescued by ET(A) or NADPH oxidase blockade. Cell therapy of normal or treated DOCA EPCs, but not untreated DOCA EPCs, significantly increased capillary density and blood perfusion in ischemic hindlimbs of DOCA-salt rats. p53 and Bax/Bcl-2 ratios were increased in EPCs of DOCA-salt rats, which were reversed by ET(A) antagonist, NADPH oxidase inhibitor, or polyethylene glycol-superoxide dismutase. Finally, in ET(B)-deficient rats, plasma ET-1 was elevated, and EPC number and telomerase activity were diminished. These results demonstrate, for the first time, that both ET-1 activation of ET(A)/NADPH oxidase pathway and diminished antioxidants critically contribute to EPC reduction and dysfunction via increased oxidative stress in salt-sensitive hypertension.
Myocardial infarction, sudden cardiac death, cerebrovascular accidents, blood pressure control and treatment tolerability were studied in a randomized double-blind trial conducted in 6357 men and women aged 40-64 years with uncomplicated essential hypertension (diastolic blood pressures 100-125 mmHg). At the start of the trial 3185 patients received treatment based on a beta-blocker (oxprenolol), while in the remaining 3172 placebo replaced oxprenolol. Supplementary drugs, excluding beta-blockers, were used as necessary in both treatment groups, with the aim of reducing diastolic pressure to 95 mmHg or less. Patients were followed for 3-5 years, a total of 25 651 patient years at risk. In most respects the two groups fared equally well; sudden death (relative risk [RR] 1.08; 95% confidence interval [Cl] 0.68 and 1.72), myocardial infarction (RR 0.83; Cl 0.59 and 1.16) and cerebrovascular accident (RR 0.97; Cl 0.64 and 1.47) rates were similar. Beta-blocker based therapy was associated with significantly lower average blood pressures, earlier ECG normalization, less hypokalaemia and fewer withdrawals from double-blind treatment for uncontrolled hypertension. Doctor-elicited and patient-assessed unwanted effects demonstrated overall good tolerability. In smokers the cardiac event rate was doubled. We propose that beta-blocker treatment effects depend on smoking status, with a significant interaction benefiting non-smoking men. Lower blood pressures during treatment were associated with substantially lower rates for cardiac as well as cerebrovascular events. Proportional hazards analysis also underlines the importance of other cardiovascular risk factors. The IPPPSH stresses the need for a comprehensive approach to the management of blood pressure and other risk factors in hypertensive patients.
A 5 year old boy developed severe weakness after receiving vincristine for treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Although weakness improved after the discontinuation of vincristine, other symptoms suggestive of a neuropathy persisted. Neurophysiological and genetic analysis at age 8 years indicated that vincristine had induced symptoms of a hereditary sensory motor neuropathy type 1A, which had previously been asymptomatic; his genetically affected mother was also asymptomatic.
The authors sought to identify patterns and associations of prescription and over-the-counter sedative-hypnotic use in an older, rural, blue-collar, community-based cohort in southwestern Pennsylvania over 10 years.
A group of 1,627 individuals age 65 and over were recruited and assessed during 1987-1989 and re-assessed during approximately biennial waves. Data included sleep medications, demographics, depressive symptoms, sleep complaints, and cognitive functioning (Mini-Mental State Exam [MMSE]).
At Waves 1 through 5, the mean age of the cohort increased from 73.4 to 80.5 years. Use of prescription sedative-hypnotics (primarily benzodiazepines) increased from 1.8% to 3.1%, and over-the-counter sedative-hypnotic use (primarily diphenhydramine) increased from 0.4% to 7.6%. At Wave 5 (1996-1998), 8.17% of the sample reported using diphenhydramine as a sleep aid. After adjusting for age and sex, diphenhydramine use was associated with higher education and more depressive symptoms, the latter becoming nonsignificant after controlling for initial insomnia. MMSE became significantly associated with diphenhydramine use when 143 subjects with dementia were excluded from the analysis.
As the cohort aged, prescription sedative-hypnotic use remained relatively stable, whereas over-the-counter sedative use, principally diphenhydramine, increased substantially. The association of this drug with cognitive impairment in persons without dementia highlights its potential for causing adverse reactions in older adults.
Human malignant mesothelioma (MM) is an aggressive neoplasm related to occupational exposure to asbestos and characterised by a long latency time. Multiple chromosomal deletions and DNA losses have been revealed in MM by studies performed with karyotypic, comparative genomic hybridisation and loss of heterozygosity (LOH) analyses. Among frequently deleted chromosomal sites, LOH at chromosome 3p has been detected in MM, suggesting the presence of one or several tumour suppressor genes that have an important role in development of the disease. The FHIT (fragile histidine triad) tumour suppressor gene, located at 3p14.2, has been proposed to be a target to major human lung carcinogens, such as tobacco smoke and asbestos. Although many studies have indicated decreased Fhit protein expression in a variety of malignancies, there is no report of FHIT gene aberrations or Fhit protein abnormalities in MM. We examined expression of the Fhit protein and LOH at the FHIT gene in malignant mesothelioma. Altogether, 13 paraffin embedded MM tumours were analysed for Fhit protein expression, and 21 fresh tumours and 10 cell cultures for LOH at the FHIT gene with two intragenic microsatellite markers. All tumours showed less intense immunostaining than normal bronchial epithelium or mesothelium. Fhit expression was absent or reduced in 54% (7 of 13) of the tumours, with the weakest staining observed in poorly differentiated areas. Allele loss was seen in 3 of 10 (30%) of the MM cell lines, but only in 1 of the 21 fresh tumours studied, suggesting concealment of LOH by normal cells present in MM tumours. In conclusion, our present data indicate a frequent decrease of Fhit protein expression, thus supporting the significance of FHIT inactivation in development of MM.
A patient with severe cyclophosphamide cystitis was treated with intravesical silver nitrate instillation to control bleeding. This resulted in apparent reflux and extravasation of the silver nitrate solution with secondary retroperitoneal inflammation. Subsequently, the patient required treatment for a small, fibrotic bladder with persistent reflux. The precautions and recommendations for treatment of such difficult patients are discussed.
Thrombosis of the cerebral veins or sinuses is a rare cerebrovascular disorder, which seldom represents a complication of acute promyelocytic leukemia. To the best of our knowledge, it never occurred during treatment with all-trans retinoic acid. We report a case of a 35-year-old woman affected by acute promyelocytic leukemia, who developed massive thrombosis of the cerebral sinuses and veins when she was in complete morphological and molecular remission after all-trans retinoic acid and idarubicin treatment. Anticoagulant therapy contributed to progressive dissolution of the thrombosis as documented by magnetic resonance imaging with complete disappearance of neurological signs without sequelae.
Levetiracetam (LEV) is a new antiepileptic drug effective as adjunctive therapy for partial seizures. It displays a unique pharmacological profile against experimental models of seizures, including pilocarpine-induced seizures in rodents. Aiming to clarify if anticonvulsant activity of LEV occurs due to cholinergic alterations, adult male mice received LEV injections before cholinergic agonists' administration. Pretreatment with LEV (30-200 mg/kg, i.p.) increased the latencies of seizures, but decreased status epilepticus and death on the seizure model induced by pilocarpine, 400 mg/kg, s.c. (P400). LEV (LEV200, 200 mg/kg, i.p.) pretreatment also reduced the intensity of tremors induced by oxotremorine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p). [3H]-N-methylscopolamine-binding assays in mice hippocampus showed that LEV200 pretreatment reverts the downregulation on muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR), induced by P400 administration, bringing back these density values to control ones (0.9% NaCl, i.p.). However, subtype-specific-binding assays revealed that P400- and LEV-alone treatments result in M1 and M2 subtypes decrease, respectively. The agonist-like behavior of LEV on the inhibitory M2 mAChR subtype, observed in this work, could contribute to explain the reduction on oxotremorine-induced tremors and the delay on pilocarpine-induced seizures, by an increase in the attenuation of neuronal activity mediated by the M1 receptors.
It is estimated that only a few marketed drugs are able to directly induce liver steatosis. However, many other drugs may exacerbate or precipitate fatty liver in the presence of other risk factors or in patients prone to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. On the other hand, current in vitro tests for drug-induced steatosis in preclinical research are scarce and not very sensitive or reproducible. In the present study, we have investigated the effect of well-characterized steatotic drugs on the expression profile of 47 transcription factors (TFs) in human hepatoma HepG2 cells and found that these drugs are able to up- and down-regulate a substantial number of these factors. Multivariate data analysis revealed a common TF signature for steatotic drugs, which consistently and significantly repressed FOXA1, HEX and SREBP1C in cultured cells. This signature was also observed in the livers of rats and in cultured human hepatocytes. Therefore, we selected these three TFs as predictive biomarkers for iatrogenic steatosis. With these biomarkers, a logistic regression analysis yielded a predictive model, which was able to correctly classify 92 % of drugs. The developed algorithm also predicted that ibuprofen, nifedipine and irinotecan are potential steatotic drugs, whereas troglitazone is not. In summary, this is a sensitive, specific and simple RT-PCR test that can be easily implemented in preclinical drug development to predict drug-induced steatosis. Our results also indicate that steatotic drugs affect expression of both common and specific subsets of TF and lipid metabolism genes, thus generating complex transcriptomic responses that cause or contribute to steatosis in hepatocytes.
We describe the identification and delineation of an inherited 2.07 Mb microduplication in 1q42.2 in two brothers with autism and mild mental retardation. Since this duplication was not present in 1577 Belgian persons, we consider this as an extremely rare variant which has the potential to provide further insight into the genetics of autism. The duplication contains seven genes including the DISC1 gene, an interesting candidate gene that has been associated to schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, autism and Asperger syndrome. In this report we describe additional analyses undertaken to investigate the causal relationship of the duplication to the autism phenotype. We conclude that the 1q42.2 microduplication probably confers susceptibility to autism in the current family. This study is a typical illustration of the difficult interpretation of causality of a very rare variant in neuropsychiatric disease and the challenge of genetic counselling in a particular family.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of Anemarrhena asphodeloides BUNGE (AA) on cholinergic memory deficits in mice. This agent has previously been used as an antipyretic, anti-inflammatory, anti-diabetic, and antidepressant in traditional Chinese medicine. Mangiferin was isolated from AA and showed a dose-dependent inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity (IC(50) value, 62.8 microM). Cholinergic dysfunction was induced in mice by administering scopolamine, and the animals were then tested using the passive avoidance test as well as the Morris water maze test. Mangiferin (20 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly reversed scopolamine-induced deficits in the passive avoidance test, and also improved escape latencies in training trials and increased swimming times in the Morris water maze test (p<0.05). Mangiferin also reduced acetylcholine and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha levels induced by scopolamine in mice brain (p<0.05) and inhibited nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB activation in scopolamine or TNF-alpha-stimulated BV-2 microglial cells. These results suggest that mangiferin can improve long-term cholinergic memory deficits by AChE inhibition or cholinergic receptor stimulation and inhibition of NF-kappaB activation.
The present study investigated the effect of 4[(5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-5,5,8,8,-tetramethyl-2-naphthalenyl)carbamoyl] benzoic acid (Am-80), a synthetic retinoid, on spinal cord injury (SCI) in rats. Treatment with Am-80 (orally and subcutaneously) significantly promoted recovery from SCI-induced motor dysfunction. On day 28 after injury, the lesion cavity was markedly reduced, while the expression of myelin basic protein (MBP; myelin), betaIIItubulin (neuron), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP; astrocyte) was increased, in comparison with SCI controls. Interestingly, expression of neurotrophin receptor, tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) was over 3-fold higher after Am-80 treatment than in SCI controls. A lot of TrkB-positive cells as well as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-positive ones were observed around the injured site. Am-80 (10 microM) combined with BDNF (100 ng/ml) promoted extensive neurite outgrowth and TrkB gene expression by cultured SH-SY5Y cells, as did all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). Thymidine incorporation was dramatically suppressed, but there was little effect on cell viability. These findings suggest that Am-80 has the potential to be used for treating neurodegenerative disorders, including SCI. Its efficacy may be partly ascribed to promotion of cell viability and differentiation of neural stem cells through increased TrkB expression.
The urethral duct and vagina are formed from the urogenital sinus (UGS) during the early neonatal period in mice. Neonatal estrogen exposure results in hypospadias, or the malpositioning of vaginal and urethral openings, with wide cleft clitoris. We sought to characterize diethylstilbestrol (DES) influence on UGS morphogenesis and hypospadias formation. Newborn (day 0) and 1-4-day-old female mice (ICR/Jcl) were given (s.c.) oil or 3.0 microg DES. Animals were killed 24 hr later; then hypospadias formation and epithelial apoptosis and proliferation within the developing UGS were assessed. DES did not alter normal UGS morphogenesis by day 1, in comparison with controls. However, hypospadias formation was observed in DES-treated mice by day 3. In these mice, the distal dorsal urethral duct appeared to fuse with and open into the lower vaginal solid cord region. Further, DES treatment produced a gradual significant increase in dorsal urethral epithelial apoptosis (P < 0.05) just prior to and during fusion and hypospadias formation. DES-induced urethral epithelial and sinus cord proliferation appeared significantly increased (P < 0.05) and unchanged, respectively, just prior to fusion. By day 5, DES-treated mice exhibited wide cleft clitoris. In addition, if DES was given on day 3 or 5, a gradual, distinct caudal shift in the vaginal-urethral junction was observed compared to mice treated on days 0-2. Although hypospadias was not induced when neonates were given DES on day 7, these mice continued to display early vaginal opening. Dose-response analysis indicated that 0.03 microg DES for 5 days is the lowest known critical dose for hypospadias induction. We have shown for the first time that DES-induced hypospadias onset may primarily be the result of changes in developing dorsal urethral epithelial cell apoptotic and proliferative activity, and that the location of DES-induced hypospadias formation is dependent on age at time of exposure.
Adverse liver reactions associated with nitrofurantoin treatment are rare but important complications. Both acute and chronic liver damage have been described. The present report describes five patients who developed chronic liver disease after 1 to 3 years of continued nitrofurantoin treatment. Liver histology was consistent with chronic active hepatitis in four patients, while postnecrotic cirrhosis was observed in one case. Follow-up examinations 2 to 3 years after withdrawal of the drug showed marked improvement clinically and in most cases also histologically.
Dextromethorphan ((+)-3-methoxy-N-methylmorphinan, DM) has been shown to have both anticonvulsant and neuroprotective effects. The mechanisms of these CNS effects of DM have been suggested to be associated with the low-affinity, noncompetitive, N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) antagonism of DM and/or the high-affinity DM/sigma receptors. DM is largely O-demethylated into the phencyclidine (PCP)-like compound dextrorphan (DR), which may limit its therapeutic use by producing PCP-like adverse effects, such as hyperlocomotion. Dimemorfan ((+)-3-methyl-N-methylmorphinan, DF), an analog of DM, which has been safely used as an antitussive for more than 20 years, is also known not to form DR. This study therefore characterized the binding of DF to the sigma receptors and NMDA-linked PCP sites and examined the anticonvulsant as well as locomotor effects of DF in mice in comparison with those of DM and DR. We found that DF, DM, and DR were relative high-affinity ligands at sigma-1 receptors (Ki=151, 205, 144 nM, respectively) while all of them were with low affinity at sigma-2 receptors (Ki=4-11 microM). Only DR exhibited moderate affinity for PCP sites (Ki=0.9 microM), whereas DF (Ki=17 microM) and DM (Ki=7 microM) were much less active. DF, DM and DR produced prominent anticonvulsant effects in mice as measured by the supramaximal electroshock test with comparable potency (ED50 approximately 70 micromol/kg, i.p.). At the tested doses (20-260 micromol/kg, i.p.), DM and DR exhibited biphasic effects on the locomotor activity whereas DF produced a consistent dose-dependent decrease. These results revealed that, unlike DM and DR, DF did not cause a PCP-like hyperlocomotion adverse effect that is parallel with the PCP sites binding data. Furthermore, since they have equipotent anticonvulsant effects and similar binding affinities to sigma-1 receptors, the very low affinity of DF at PCP sites may suggest that acting on the PCP sites may not be the requisite for mediating the anticonvulsant activity of these DM analogs. With the history of safety and relative less adverse effects, DF appears to be worth further studying on its CNS effects other than the antitussive effect.
Myocardial necrosis is a serious adverse effect that results from the administration of some medications; therefore, when it is observed during preclinical studies it becomes a major drug development concern. Although data from preclinical monkey studies are generally extrapolated to predict effects in humans, few reports have described any mechanism that might explain the occurrence of myocardial necrosis. For this reason, we examined the association between hypokalemia and myocardial necrosis in monkeys. Four female cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) were treated with 50 mg/kg/day hydrochlorothiazide (a thiazide diuretic used for antihypertensive therapy) for 1 or 2 weeks. Clinical, hematological, plasma biochemical, and pathological examinations were conducted. Two animals were kept in a hypokalemic state from day 3 of dosing on, and their mean plasma potassium levels were 2.52 +/- 0.24 and 2.60 +/- 0.24 mmol/l. These animals were necropsied after 1 week of dosing due to an aggravated general condition. A flattened T-wave was noted during electrocardiography. A transient increase in plasma cardiac-specific troponin-I and multifocal myocardial necrosis also occurred. The rest of the animals were occasionally hypokalemic, with mean plasma potassium levels of 3.13 +/- 0.31 or 2.96 +/- 0.30 mmol/l. These animals were necropsied after 2 weeks of dosing. One animal showed evidence of focal myocardial necrosis and a transient increase in plasma cardiac-specific troponin-I. These data suggest that the severe hypokalemia induced by hydrochlorothiazide is likely to be associated with myocardial necrosis in monkeys.
Valproic acid is an anticonvulsant that has been associated with open neural tube defects. We report a family in which the maternal use of valproic acid, and other anticonvulsants, during pregnancy resulted in different malformations in two siblings, one of which had a lipomyelomeningocele. The association of valproic acid and closed neural tube defects has not previously been reported. A brief review of the teratogenic effects of valproic acid is included as well as the implications for early surgical management of lipomyelomeningocele.
The authors investigated changes of some haemodynamic parameters after sclerotization of oesophageal varices and after administration of isosorbide dinitrate in the preparation Iso Mack retard. Twenty patients with cirrhosis of the liver with oesophageal varices grade 3-4 were treated by endoscopic sclerotization only, while to a second comparable group of cirrhotic patients from the first stage of sclerotization oral Iso Mack retard was administered in daily doses of 80-120 mg, depending on tolerance. The haemodynamic parameters were investigated before the onset of treatment and again after completed sclerotherapy or at least three-month treatment with ISDN. After sclerotization of oesophageal varices the pressure in the portal circulation rises significantly as well as the flow through the portal vein due above all to an accelerated blood flow. On the other hand, ISDN prevents a rise of portal hypertension and leads even to a slight decline which is, however, not associated with a decline of the portal flow. A relative disadvantage is the adverse effect on systemic haemodynamics after large nitrate doses. The decline of the portal pressure caused by the vasodilatating effect of ISDN in the splanchnic and portal area is manifested in a very positive way by reduction of relapses of haemorrhage from oesophageal varices. ISDN may play a positive role in the treatment of portal hypertension with oesophageal varices, during acute haemorrhage as well as in the prevention of relapses of haemorrhage. A particularly favourable procedure is the combination with sclerotherapy of oesophageal varices. None of the procedures leads to reduction of the portal flow and preserves hepatic function.
Due to its lipophilicity and persistence, an organochlorine compound, beta-hexachlorocyclohexane (beta-HCH), is known to frequently accumulate in human adipose and breast tissues. An epidemiological study has indicated that exposure to beta-HCH could be one of the significant environmental risk factors for the development of human breast cancers. Additionally, beta-HCH has recently been identified as an environmental estrogen capable of activating estrogen receptor (ER) through a ligand-independent pathway. In the present investigation, we examined the impact of long-term in vitro exposure to beta-HCH on cell transformation and the metastatic potentials of MCF-7 cells. We found that continuous exposure of MCF-7 cells to beta-HCH at 100 nM and 1 microM or to 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) at 1 nM for up to 13 months (33 passages) not only enhanced their transformation tendencies but also promoted their invasiveness. Western blot analysis revealed that beta-HCH induced transformation-related biochemical changes in MCF-7 cells, such as a decline in the levels of ERalpha and p44/42 MAP kinase and a significant increase in expression of c-ErbB2 and MMP-9 levels. In contrast, long-term E(2) treatment resulted in the downregulation of ERalpha and p44/42 MAP kinase and upregulation of MMP-9 only, but no changes in c-ErbB2. Together, these results indicate that these biochemical changes induced by beta-HCH are consistent with the events taking place in these cells to promote the phenotypical expression of transformed cells. Our results provide the in vitro mechanistic basis supporting the hypothesis that beta-HCH is one of the epigenetic risk factors assisting the progression of breast cancer cells to an advanced state of malignancy.
Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) mediates neutral lipid transport in plasma, resulting in a net transfer of cholesteryl ester from high density lipoprotein to very low density lipoprotein. CETP gene expression is regulated by cholesterol, and plasma CETP level increases in patients with hyperlipidemia and with cholesterol feeding. Simvastatin, unlike cholestyramine, reduces hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activity and may decrease a cellular pool of cholesterol, which is regulatory for CETP gene expression. The effects of simvastatin and cholestyramine on plasma lipids and CETP in 24 male and 19 female patients with primary hypercholesterolemia were compared. Following a four-week placebo period, patients were randomly assigned to receive either simvastatin or cholestyramine. Medication was increased in a stepwise fashion (from 10 to 40 mg for simvastatin and from 8 to 24 g for cholestyramine) as required at six-week intervals to maintain a low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level below 3.4 mmol/L. At the end of the 18-week study, the mean dose of simvastatin was 28.6 mg/day and of cholestyramine 19.3 g/day. Simvastatin was more effective than cholestyramine in lowering LDL-C (-36.8% versus -27. 2%; P=0.031) and triglycerides (-8.5% versus +12.5%; P=0.045). Plasma CETP level decreased by 14.8% following treatment with simvastatin (P=0.003) but did not change following cholestyramine treatment. This study demonstrates that, compared with cholestyramine, simvastatin results in more favourable improvements in the plasma lipoprotein profile and also lowers plasma levels of CETP.
The nephrotoxicity and pharmacokinetics of teicoplanin were studied in an experimental rat model. Nephrotoxicity was assessed by measuring urinary excretion of tubular cells and malate dehydrogenase. The experiments revealed that 1 mg/kg or more of teicoplanin daily resulted in an increase of excretion rates of tubular cells. Similarly to vancomycin, teicoplanin is accumulated in the kidneys. Nephrotoxicity induced by teicoplanin can be reduced by coadministration of fosfomycin and D-glucaro-1.5-lactam, and enhanced by administration of tobramycin. We conclude that renal function should be monitored closely during teicoplanin therapy.
