Tin is commonly used as a coating on copper kitchen appliances, and "tinsmithing" as a trade is common in many non-Western countries, where cooking utensils are re-tinned when the cooking surface wears thin. Tinsmiths, or "tinkers," are commonly exposed to the following fumes during their work: stannic [tin(IV)] oxide, ammonium chloride, and hydrochloric acid. In this study we assessed workers from tinsmith workshops of our province for signs, symptoms, and laboratory evidence of cardiac end-organ damage. Between June 2002 and March 2003, researchers went to the main tinsmith workshop area of our province to interview tinsmiths in their workplaces and to gather addresses of their "traveling tinker" colleagues, who work with portable equipment. All workers were interviewed and underwent a complete physical examination, blood testing for lipid parameters, and echocardiography. Twenty-six tin workers (mean age 49+/- 10 y) and 25 control patients (convenience sample of hospital employees) were included in the study. Tobacco use, incidence of hypertension, and serum lipid parameters were not significantly different between the two groups (p < .05). The differences in myocardial performance index, systolic function, and mitral flow A velocity were also nonsignificant. However, the mitral inflow E velocity in the tinsmiths was significantly less than in controls (0.71+/- 0.1 vs. 0.95+/- 0.1 m/s, p < .001). The mitral deceleration time was also much longer in the tinsmith group (216+/- 71 ms vs. 143+/- 14 ms, p < .001). Eleven of the tinkers (23%) were found to have aortic valve sclerosis (severe in one, moderate in another, mild in the other nine), but aortic valve sclerosis was found in none of the control subjects. One tinsmith was found to have three-vessel coronary disease on angiogram. Another tinker with "myocarditis" in the past, and slow flow on angiography, had normalization of his cardiac tests after refraining from tin exposure for 6 mo. Thus, occupational exposure to heavy tin fumes is associated with left ventricle diastolic dysfunction and sclerosis of the aortic valve. Tin workers should minimize their exposure to tin fumes, and physicians should monitor tinsmiths closely for signs of heart disease.
Mutations within the hepatitis B virus (HBV) polymerase gene conferring drug-resistance are selected during prolonged lamivudine (3TC) or adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) treatment. Because there is no other approved drug against HBV, treatments with 3TC or ADV are used either sequentially or in addition, depending on treatment response or failure. Considering the use of de novo or add-on 3TC+ADV bitherapy, we investigated the possibility of the emergence of an HBV strain harboring polymerase mutations conferring resistance to both 3TC (rtL180M+M204V) and ADV (rtN236T). We constructed the L180M+M204V+N236T mutant and determined its replication capacity and its susceptibility to different nucleos(t)ide analogs in transiently transfected hepatoma cell lines. The triple mutant replicates its genome in vitro, but less efficiently than either the wild-type (wt) HBV or L180M+M204V and N236T mutants. Phenotypic assays indicated that the L180M+M204V+N236T mutant is resistant to pyrimidine analogs (3TC, -FTC, beta-L-FD4C, L-FMAU). Compared with wt HBV, this mutant displays a 6-fold decreased susceptibility to ADV and entecavir and a 4-fold decreased susceptibility to tenofovir. Interferon alfa inhibited equally the replication of wt and L180M+M204V+N236T HBV. In conclusion, the combination of rtL180M+M204V and rtN236T mutations impairs HBV replication and confers resistance to both 3TC and ADV in vitro. These results suggest that the emergence of the triple mutant may be delayed and associated with viral resistance in patients treated with 3TC+ADV. However, other nucleos(t)ide analogs in development showed an antiviral activity against this multiresistant strain in vitro. This provides a rationale for the clinical evaluation of de novo combination therapies.
We describe six patients with parkinsonism and another 10 patients with parkinsonian features with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. In 50% of these patients, the symptoms were precipitated by neuroleptics. In the remaining patients, no obvious cause other than HIV infection was identified. Discontinuation of the neuroleptics produced complete recovery in one patient and partial or no response in others. Rapid progression of parkinsonism was noted in two patients, one of whom was treated with high-dose zidovudine (AZT) and benztropine. We conclude that patients with AIDS are at risk of developing an akinetic parkinsonism which may be precipitated by the use of neuroleptics, response to treatment is variable, and parkinsonism may be another primary HIV-induced syndrome.
To determine if fasting bile salt concentrations are an accurate indicator of pre-existing and methotrexate-induced liver disease in patients with psoriasis, the plasma concentrations of conjugated cholate, chenodeoxycholate and sulpholithocholate were measured in 18 patients being assessed for methotrexate therapy and 21 receiving long-term therapy. The results were compared with other liver function tests and liver histology. The liver function tests were a poor indicator of occult liver disease and, whilst fasting bile salts appeared more sensitive, they were still unreliable and inadequate for the clinical assessment of the hepatopathy associated with psoriasis. The reasons for these discrepancies are discussed.
Controversy exists over the significance of associations between the SRD5A2 (5alpha-reductase type 2) polymorphisms, A49T and V89L, and risk of prostate cancer. These potentially functional polymorphisms may alter life-long exposure to androgens with subsequent effects on male health and aging. The aim of this study was to examine the association of these variants with prostate cancer risk, plasma hormone levels and androgenetic alopecia. Subjects include 827 cases and 736 controls from an Australian population-based case-control study of prostate cancer. Information on prostate cancer risk factors and patterns of balding were collected. Plasma levels of testosterone, 3alpha-diol glucuronide (3alpha-diolG), dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, androstenedione, sex hormone-binding globulin and estradiol were measured for controls. No associations with the V89L polymorphism were found. Carriers of the rarer A49T A allele were at a 60% higher risk of prostate cancer (OR = 1.60; 95% CI 1.09-2.36; p = 0.02) and 50% lower risk of vertex and frontal balding (p = 0.03) compared with men homozygous for the more common G allele. Although we found little evidence of association between this variant and plasma levels of 5 measured androgens, circulating 3alpha-diolG levels were 34% lower in A49T A allele carriers (p < 0.0001). Our study provides evidence that the SRD5A2 A49T A variant is associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer, lower levels of circulating 3alpha-diolG and decreased risk of baldness. These findings raise important questions with respect to previous assumptions concerning hormonal influences on prostate cancer risk in ageing males.
To investigate the therapeutic effects of Lycium barbarum polysaccharide (LBP) on mitomycin C (MMC)-induced myelosuppressive mice.
Mice were intravenously injected with MMC 150 mg/kg for two consecutive days from day -1 to day 0 to produce severe myelosuppression, and then treated by s.c. injections of LBP (100 or 200 mg/kg/day) from days 0 to 6. Blood samples were collected from the tail veins of mice on days 7, 10, 12, 14, 17, 19, 21, 24 and 27, and peripheral white blood cells (WBC), red blood cells (RBC), hemoglobin (HGB) and platelet counts (PLT) etc. were monitored.
LBP at 100 mg/kg (LBP-L) on day 14 and LBP at 200 mg/kg (LBP-H) on days 10, 14, 17, 19 and 21, significantly ameliorated the decrease of peripheral RBC, HGB and hematocrit (HCT) of myelosuppressive mice compared to the control. LBP-L on days 12 and days 14 and LBP-H on days 10, 12, 14, 17, 19 and 21, significantly enhanced peripheral PLT recovery of myelosuppressive mice compared to the control. LBP-H on days 12, 17, 19 and 21, significantly inhibited the increase of mean platelet volume (MPV) of myelosuppressive mice compared to the control. LBP showed no obviously effect on neutropenia induced in mice by MMC.
LBP is effective on peripheral RBC and PLT recovery of MMC-induced myelosuppressive mice.
Flupenthixol is an antipsychotic drug with known mood-elevating properties. Its propensity to induce manic symptoms has not been investigated.
We describe six patients, four with schizophrenia and two with bipolar disorder, in whom flupenthixol treatment was associated with emergence of manic symptoms.
Patients treated with flupenthixol should be carefully monitored for the emergence of manic symptoms.
Hyperglycemia is a risk factor for microvascular complications and may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes. This study tested the LDL cholesterol-lowering agent colesevelam HCl (colesevelam) as a potential novel treatment for improving glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes on sulfonylurea-based therapy.
A 26-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter study was carried out between August 2004 and August 2006 to evaluate the efficacy and safety of colesevelam for reducing A1C in adults with type 2 diabetes whose glycemic control was inadequate (A1C 7.5-9.5%) with existing sulfonylurea monotherapy or sulfonylurea in combination with additional oral antidiabetes agents. In total, 461 patients were randomized (230 given colesevelam 3.75 g/day and 231 given placebo). The primary efficacy measurement was mean placebo-corrected change in A1C from baseline to week 26 in the intent-to-treat population (last observation carried forward).
The least squares (LS) mean change in A1C from baseline to week 26 was -0.32% in the colesevelam group and +0.23% in the placebo group, resulting in a treatment difference of -0.54% (P < 0.001). The LS mean percent change in LDL cholesterol from baseline to week 26 was -16.1% in the colesevelam group and +0.6% in the placebo group, resulting in a treatment difference of -16.7% (P < 0.001). Furthermore, significant reductions in fasting plasma glucose, fructosamine, total cholesterol, non-HDL cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B were demonstrated in the colesevelam relative to placebo group at week 26.
Colesevelam improved glycemic control and reduced LDL cholesterol levels in patients with type 2 diabetes receiving sulfonylurea-based therapy.
The aim of the present study was to determine whether 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) have preventive effects on the development of cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure.
Statins have been reported to have various pleiotropic effects, such as inhibition of inflammation and cell proliferation.
Dahl rats were divided into three groups: LS, the rats fed the low-salt diet (0.3% NaCl); HS, the rats fed the high-salt diet (8% NaCl) from the age of 6 weeks; and CERI, the rats fed the high-salt diet with cerivastatin 1 mg/kg/d by gavage from the age of 6 weeks.
In HS rats, cardiac function was markedly impaired and all rats showed the signs of heart failure within 17 weeks of age. In CERI rats, cardiac function was better than that of HS and no rats were dead up to 17 weeks of age. The development of cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis was attenuated, and the number of apoptotic cells and expression of proinflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-1beta gene were less as compared with HS rats. Pretreatment of cerivastatin suppressed the adriamycin-induced apoptosis of cultured cardiomyocytes of neonatal rats.
These results suggest that statins have a protective effect on cardiac myocytes and may be useful to prevent the development of hypertensive heart failure.
Adverse reactions were evaluated from 45 double-blind controlled clinical trials involving triazolam 0.25 mg (N = 731), triazolam 0.5 mg (N = 2004), flurazepam 30 mg (N = 899), and placebo (N = 1771). Excessive CNS depression was the most frequent adverse effect, reported in 14.2% of trials with triazolam 0.25 mg, 19.5% with triazolam 0.5 mg, 23.9% with flurazepam 30 mg, and 6.4% with placebo. With the exception of orolingual complaints associated with flurazepam, all other categories of adverse reactions were equally or more frequent with placebo than with active medications. Unusual or excessive adverse reactions were not reported.
Circulating subclinical lipopolysaccharide (LPS) occurs in health and disease. Ingesting high fatty meals increases LPS that cause metabolic endotoxemia. Subclinical LPS in periodontal disease may impair endothelial function. The heart may be targeted as cardiac cells express TLR4, the LPS receptor. It was hypothesized that recurrent exposure to subclinical LPS increases mortality and causes cardiac fibrosis.
C57Bl/6 mice were injected with intraperitoneal saline (control), low dose LPS (0.1 or 1 mg/kg), or moderate dose LPS (10 or 20 mg/kg), once a week for 3 months. Left ventricular (LV) function (echocardiography), hemodynamics (tail cuff pressure) and electrocardiograms (telemetry) were measured. Cardiac fibrosis was assessed by picrosirius red staining and LV expression of fibrosis related genes (QRT-PCR). Adult cardiac fibroblasts were isolated and exposed to LPS.
LPS injections transiently increased heart rate and blood pressure (<6 hours) and mildly decreased LV function with full recovery by 24 hours. Mice tolerated weekly LPS for 2-3 months with no change in activity, appearance, appetite, weight, blood pressure, LV function, oximetry, or blood chemistries. Mortality increased after 60-90 days with moderate, but not low dose LPS. Arrhythmias occurred a few hours before death. LV collagen fraction area increased dose-dependently from 3.0±0.5% (SEM) in the saline control group, to 5.6±0.5% with low dose LPS and 9.7±0.9% with moderate dose LPS (P<0.05 moderate vs low dose LPS, and each LPS dose vs control). LPS increased LV expression of collagen Iα1, collagen IIIα1, MMP2, MMP9, TIMP1, periostin and IL-6 (P<0.05 moderate vs low dose LPS and vs control). LPS increased α-SMA immunostaining of myofibroblasts. LPS dose-dependently increased IL-6 in isolated adult cardiac fibroblasts.
Recurrent exposure to subclinical LPS increases mortality and induces cardiac fibrosis.
To investigate the direct and indirect effects of the anorexic agent phenylpropanolamine (PPA) on the heart and to determine whether nitric oxide deficiency exacerbates the myocardial toxicity of PPA.
Dose response effects using sequential drug administration.
Animal research laboratory of a large tertiary academic medical center.
Isolated hearts (n = 8) from male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 300-400 g.
Measurement of heart rate, maximal change in pressure over time (dP/dtmax), -dP/dtmax, and coronary blood flow in isolated hearts perfused on a Langendorff apparatus. PPA was infused through the aortic cannula at 0.05, 0.125, 0.25, 0.5, and 1.25 mmol/L before and after inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis with N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME).
PPA had little effect on myocardial contractility of normal hearts until the highest dose of PPA (1.25 mmol/L). However, after L-NAME, PPA significantly depressed contractility at a dose of 0.25 mmol/L. PPA had no significant effects on coronary blood flow. PPA failed to induce arrhythmias in normal hearts. However, after L-NAME, PPA induced ventricular fibrillation in 50% of the hearts.
PPA causes myocardial contractile depression without altering global coronary artery blood flow. Inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis sensitizes the heart to the myocardial depressant effects of PPA and increases the risk for ventricular fibrillation.
We describe a 2-year-old female patient who had megaloblastic anaemia caused by selective vitamin B12 malabsorption (Imerslund-Grasbeck syndrome) and del(21)(q22). To our knowledge, this is the first observation of Imerslund-Grasbeck syndrome associated with del(21)(q22) in the literature.
Involuntary upward and lateral eye movements are described in two Parkinson's disease patients who also experience levodopa-induced choreoathetoid limb movements simultaneously. These brief deviations of gaze represent a rare ocular manifestation of dyskinesia and are similar to oculogyric movements resulting from other causes.
The TO mouse exhibits a low incidence (3.65%) of spontaneous exencephaly at birth. The objectives of this study were to determine if sodium valproate (VPA) would augment this background frequency of exencephaly and to characterize its gross and histologic bases. Single doses of 200, 400, or 600 mg/kg of VPA were administered on one of gestation days (GD) 7 to 10 and fetuses were collected on GD 18. Significant augmentation of the background incidence of exencephaly was observed in the GD 7 and 8 treatment groups. Absence of the skull vault, hemorrhage, and degeneration of the exposed brain, polyhydramnios, and a female excess characterized the abnormality. Exencephalic embryos were markedly growth retarded. In addition to craniofacial and urogenital anomalies, severe axial skeletal malformations were found to be consistently associated with exencephaly. Morphometric evaluation of the alizarin red-stained skeleton confirmed significant skeletal growth inhibition. Histologic sections of GD 10 embryos revealed early onset of treatment-related growth retardation. Arrest of closure appeared to affect intermittent segments of the neural tube. The closure defect sometimes only involved the surface ectoderm of the dorsal midline. The unclosed neural tube was at times covered by a continuous layer of surface ectoderm. Cell death per se was not pronounced in the neuroepithelium. The mesenchyme was generally sparse and edema was obvious in embryos with partial closure. Growth inhibition of the optic and otic primordia was marked by pronounced cell death in these structures as well as in the otic and trigeminal ganglia and in the pharyngeal arch mesenchyme. Evidence for neural crest cell migration was also recorded. These data indicate that VPA interacts with genetic susceptibility, augments the frequency of exencephaly, and also induces other malformations in the TO mouse. The widespread malformations of the cranifacial structures are suggestive of the preferential effect of VPA on the neural crest or its derivatives.
The initiating potential of the secondary bile acids, deoxycholic acid (DCA) and lithocholic acid (LCA), was investigated using the development of preneoplastic lesions in the rat liver as a marker. In a short-term assay in which DCA and LCA were given in the diet for 3 weeks in conjunction with partial hepatectomy midway followed by the selection regimen, DCA dose-dependently induced gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (gamma-GTP)-positive foci, but the results for LCA were less unequivocal and no dose-dependency was evident. In another experiment, I extended the period of observation and examined whether the gamma-GTP-positive foci thus induced by the secondary bile acids can develop into hepatic tumors after a latent period of 52 weeks with or without the administration of phenobarbital (PB), a promoter of experimental hepatocarcinogenesis. Whereas significantly high numbers of hyperplastic liver nodules developed in the DCA-treated rats irrespective of PB promotion, no such increase was evident in the LCA-treated rats. In contrast, both DCA and LCA treatments enhanced the development of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive foci with or without subsequent PB promotion. The present data indicate that a short period of administration of DCA and LCA in the initiation stage in conjunction with partial hepatectomy results in enhanced development of preneoplastic liver lesions under selection pressure conditions with or without subsequent PB promotion. This suggests that these secondary bile acids possess possible initiating activity for rat hepatocarcinogenesis.
Apomorphine SL (TAP Holdings, Deerfield, IL) is a centrally acting treatment for erectile dysfunction (ED) that has been undergoing phase III trials. Over 3000 men have received apomorphine SL and over 75,000 doses have been taken. In the first three phase III parallel arm cross-over double-blind studies 854 patients were given a total of 8263 tablets of apomorphine SL in 2 and 4 mg doses. The patients were between 18 and 70 y old and outcome measures included per attempt rates of intercourse and erections firm enough for intercourse as well as psychometric instruments and partner responses. The majority (74.1%) had moderate and severe grades of ED on admission to the studies, 31% had hypertension, 16% had documented coronary artery disease, 16% had dyslipidemia and 16% had diabetes. Erections occurred rapidly (10-25 min) and in 54.4% of attempts at 4 mg (vs 33.8% placebo). A majority of the attempts at intercourse (50.6%) were successful at 4 mg in patients when recorded on a per-attempt basis. The most common but infrequent and mild side effect of nausea decreases with use. The phase III trials of apomorphine SL show that there is a clinically important restoration of erectile function from this new formulation of apomorphine. It has a rapid and safe effect through action in the central nervous system. Apomorphine SL brings a new choice to the management of ED that will further benefit the millions of couples affected. International Journal of Impotence Research (2000) 12, Suppl 4, S67-S73.
The flecainide test is widely used in Brugada syndrome. However, its reproducibility and safety remain ill-defined. This study included 22 patients (18 men, mean age 34 years). Mutations in the SCN5A gene were found in eight patients. Two patients had aborted sudden cardiac death, 8 had syncope/presyncope, and 12 were asymptomatic. The ECG was diagnostic in 19 patients and suggestive in 3. At baseline, 21 of 22 patients underwent a flecainide test (2 mg/kg IV bolus over 10 minutes). In 21 of 21 patients the test was diagnostic or amplified the typical ECG pattern. At the end of drug infusion, sustained VT lasting 7-10 minutes developed in two patients. A second flecainide test was performed within 2 months in 20 patients. The test was not repeated in the two patients with prior development of VT. The flecainide test was diagnostic in 20 of 20 patients. Sustained VT occurred in one patient and recurrent VF in another. The reproducibility of the flecainide test was 100%. In 4 (18%) of 22 patients major VAs were documented after the end of flecainide infusion. VA occurred in 3 (43%) of 7 patients with, versus 1 (7%) 15 without SCN5A gene mutation (P < 0.05). No diagnostic ECG changes or arrhythmias developed in 25 control patients without structural heart disease who underwent the same study protocol. This study shows a high flecainide reproducibility, supporting its diagnostic value in Brugada syndrome. However, the occurrence of major VA, significantly higher in patients with documented SCN5A gene mutation, including in asymptomatic patients, mandates the performance under appropriate medical supervision. Whether a slower rate of drug infusion can lower the risk of VA induction, while maintaining the sensitivity of the test should be explored.
To investigate the cardiovascular response to the subconjunctival injection of 0.25 ml of Mydricaine No. 1 during vitrectomy surgery.
Pulse and blood pressure were recorded at 5 min intervals before and following the subconjunctival injection of Mydricaine No. 1 in a group of 49 sequential patients undergoing vitrectomy surgery under general anaesthetic during a 6 month period. These responses were compared with a sequential and similar group of 35 patients during the following 6 months.
Ten patients in the group administered Mydricaine, but no patients in the control group, developed a sinus tachycardia of > 100 beats/min for more than 10 min which was attributable to the mydriatic regime used. The occurrence of this response was not predictable based on the patients' age, weight or the presence of conjunctival erythema. The magnitude and temporal course of the tachycardia observed were variable. Blood pressure recordings showed no clinically significant changes during the tachycardias.
Twenty per cent of patients administered 0.25 ml of Mydricaine No. 1 subconjunctivally develop a significant sinus tachycardia following injection. This response is unpredictable and all patients given Mydricaine should be monitored carefully after injection.
A patient with acute hepatitis associated with isoniazid therapy is described. The relevance fo isoniazid hepatotoxicity in Melanesian populations is discussed. Guidelines for recognition and management of INH-induced hepatitis are suggested.
To look at the incidence, symptomatology, course and reversibility of low-dose tamoxifen ocular toxicity.
Sixty-five women with breast cancer, on tamoxifen oral therapy (20 mg/day), and a totally normal eye examination, were prospectively followed up. A full ophthalmic evaluation was done every 6 months, for a median of 30 months (range 4-79 months). Any sign of toxicity in the cornea, lens, retina or optic nerve was looked for, whether associated with a change in visual acuity or not.
Ocular toxicity was documented in 8 patients, giving an incidence of 12%. Seven patients had keratopathy in the form of subepithelial deposits, whorls and linear opacities. Three of these patients had a concurrent symptomatic bilateral pigmentary retinopathy that warranted discontinuation of therapy. One patient developed bilateral optic neuritis that left her with optic nerve pallor and a decrease in vision. The patients who had the toxicity had a significantly higher tamoxifen cumulative dose (p = 0.03), and were longer on treatment (p = 0.04), than the non-affected ones. The keratopathy changes were reversible upon discontinuation of the drug.
Prompt reporting of symptoms and yearly ophthalmic examinations are mandatory in patients on tamoxifen to detect toxic effects while these are still reversible.
A 17-year-old boy with acute lymphoblastic leukemia developed acute renal failure within 48 h of an intravenous high-dose methotrexate (5 g/m2) infusion. His renal function returned to baseline 14 days later with supportive care, folinic acid rescue, and urinary alkalinization. A retrospective review revealed that the patient had been exposed to iopamidol, an intravenous contrast medium, on the day prior to the commencement of methotrexate treatment. Methotrexate-associated nephropathy is a rare complication in pediatric oncology, and a review of the literature suggests that exposure to nephrotoxic agents may be a significant but perhaps underrecognized risk factor for its development.
Observational studies assessing the association of combination therapy of metformin and sulfonylurea on all-cause and/or cardiovascular mortality in type 2 diabetes have shown conflicting results. We therefore evaluated the effects of combination therapy of sulfonylureas and metformin on the risk of all-cause mortality and cardiovascular disease (CVD) among people with type 2 diabetes.
A MEDLINE search (January 1966-July 2007) was conducted to identify observational studies that examined the association between combination therapy of sulfonylureas and metformin on risk of CVD or all-cause mortality. From 299 relevant reports, 9 were included in the meta-analysis. In these studies, combination therapy of metformin and sulfonylurea was assessed, the risk of CVD and/or mortality was reported, and adjusted relative risk (RR) or equivalent (hazard ratio and odds ratio) and corresponding variance or equivalent was reported.
The pooled RRs (95% CIs) of outcomes for individuals with type 2 diabetes prescribed combination therapy of sulfonylureas and metformin were 1.19 (0.88-1.62) for all-cause mortality, 1.29 (0.73-2.27) for CVD mortality, and 1.43 (1.10-1.85) for a composite end point of CVD hospitalizations or mortality (fatal or nonfatal events).
The combination therapy of metformin and sulfonylurea significantly increased the RR of the composite end point of cardiovascular hospitalization or mortality (fatal and nonfatal events) irrespective of the reference group (diet therapy, metformin monotherapy, or sulfonylurea monotherapy); however, there were no significant effects of this combination therapy on either CVD mortality or all-cause mortality alone.
We report here the results of 27 patients who underwent hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion with low-dose TNFalpha (1 mg) and doxorubicin (8.5 mg/l of limb volume) for locally advanced soft tissue sarcomas. A tumor response was observed in 85% of cases. After a median follow-up of 30 months, limb salvage and local disease control were achieved in 82 and 85% of patients, respectively. Locoregional toxicity was low or mild in 14 patients, while 2 patients had severe limb toxicity. Systemic side effects were negligible. The perfusate/plasma area under the curve (AUC) ratio for TNFalpha was 56. HILP with low-dose TNFalpha and DXR proved to be an active neoadjuvant drug regimen against limb-threatening STS.
We report a suicide attempt with lithium, chlorpromazine and flunitrazepam. In case of intoxication, renal excretion of lithium can be facilitated with forced diuresis by the administration of large volumes of saline solution, peritoneal dialysis or hemodialysis. In the case of our patient, treatment with saline solution was not effective, so continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration (CAVH) was performed achieving a decrease in serum lithium and obtaining a prompt clinical improvement. No secondary effects or serum lithium rebound effect were observed. We have not found any previous record of the use of CAVH in the treatment of acute lithium intoxication.
