Three women with classic rheumatoid arthritis, who were receiving weekly doses of methotrexate (MTX), developed accelerated subcutaneous nodulosis, despite good response to the drug. In 2 of the patients, the onset of nodulosis occurred within 3 months and 5 months, respectively, after starting MTX; in the third patient, it was observed only after 4 years of MTX therapy. In all 3 patients, the onset was unusually abrupt, with extensive distribution and remarkable nodule size. Additional manifestations of cutaneous vasculitis in 2 of the patients and Raynaud's phenomenon in the third appeared concomitantly with the nodulosis. Physicians prescribing MTX therapy for patients with rheumatoid arthritis should be aware of these potential complications.
Statins are thought to have tumorolytic properties, reducing angiogenesis by inhibiting pro-angiogenic factors and inducing apoptosis of mural pericytes within the tumor vascular tree.
An orthotopic mouse glioblastoma (GL-26) model was used to investigate the effect of simvastatin on glioblastoma vasculature in vivo. GL-26 cells were implanted into the striatum of C5LKa mice treated with either control, low- or high-dose simvastatin. Brains were analyzed for necrotic volume, apoptosis, morphology and pericytic cells within the vascular tree.
Low-dose simvastatin increased necrosis and apoptosis compared to both control and high-dose simvastatin groups. High-dose simvastatin increased vessel caliber by reducing pericytic cells along the tumor vessel wall compared to both control and low-dose simvastatin groups.
Simvastatin has a dual effect on tumorigenesis. At high doses, it may worsen instead of 'normalizing' tumor angio-architecture, albeit low doses affect tumor cell survival by promoting necrosis and apoptosis.
Several quinones have been found to be effective in the treatment of some forms of cancer; however, their cumulative heart toxicity limits their use. The cannabinoid quinone HU-331 [3S,4R-p-benzoquinone-3-hydroxy-2-p-mentha-(1,8)-dien-3-yl-5-pentyl] is highly effective against tumor xenografts in nude mice. We report now a comparison of the anticancer activity of HU-331 and its cardiotoxicity with those of doxorubicin in vivo. General toxicity was assayed in Sabra, nude and SCID-NOD mice. The anticancer activity in vivo was assessed by measurement of the tumors with an external caliper in HT-29 and Raji tumor-bearing mice and by weighing the excised tumors. Left ventricular function was evaluated with transthoracic echocardiography. Myelotoxicity was evaluated by blood cell count. Cardiac troponin T (cTnT) plasma levels were determined by immunoassay. HU-331 was found to be much less cardiotoxic than doxorubicin. The control and the HU-331-treated groups gained weight, whereas the doxorubicin-treated group lost weight during the study. In HT-29 colon carcinoma, the tumor weight in the HU-331-treated group was 54% smaller than in the control group and 30% smaller than in the doxorubicin-treated group. In Raji lymphoma, the tumor weight in the HU-331-treated group was 65% smaller than in the control group and 33% smaller than in the doxorubicin-treated group. In contrast to doxorubicin, HU-331 did not generate reactive oxygen species in mice hearts (measured by protein carbonylation levels and malondialdehyde levels). In vivo, HU-331 was more active and less toxic than doxorubicin and thus it has a high potential for development as a new anticancer drug.
Sodium diclofenac is one of the most widely used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Cases of acute haemolytic anaemia have been ascribed to the drug. We describe such a case, mediated by immune complexes.
Standard serologic tests were carried out for blood grouping and the detection and identification of red cell allo- and autoantibodies. Drug-anti-drug complexes were detected with an ex-vivo method.
Warm IgG drug-independent red cell and platelet autoantibodies were detected in the serum. At first, the patient was diagnosed as having the Evans syndrome, and corticosteroids were administered. Later, because of the severity of the anaemia, the possibility of an immune complex mechanism was considered. This was confirmed by the detection of diclofenac-dependent antibodies that reacted with RBC only in the presence of urine from a volunteer receiving diclofenac as a source of ex-vivo antigen. The antibodies neither reacted with an in-vitro solution of the drug nor with the volunteer's serum. Diclofenac and corticosteroids were stopped, and the clinical condition of the patient completely normalised within 15 days.
We describe a patient with acute haemolytic anaemia caused by diclofenac through an immune complex mechanism.
Studies in animals indicate that natural forms of vitamin A are teratogenic. Synthetic retinoids chemically similar to vitamin A cause birth defects in humans; as in animals, the defects appear to affect tissues derived from the cranial neural crest.
Between October 1984 and June 1987, we identified 22,748 pregnant women when they underwent screening either by measurement of maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein or by amniocentesis. Nurse interviewers obtained information on the women's diet, medications, and illnesses during the first trimester of pregnancy, as well as information on their family and medical history and exposure to environmental agents. We obtained information on the outcomes of pregnancy from the obstetricians who delivered the babies or from the women themselves. Of the 22,748 women, 339 had babies with birth defects; 121 of these babies had defects occurring in sites that originated in the cranial neural crest.
For defects associated with cranial-neural-crest tissue, the ratio of the prevalence among the babies born to women who consumed more than 15,000 IU of preformed vitamin A per day from food and supplements to the prevalence among the babies whose mothers consumed 5000 IU or less per day was 3.5 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.7 to 7.3). For vitamin A from supplements alone, the ratio of the prevalence among the babies born to women who consumed more than 10,000 IU per day to that among the babies whose mothers consumed 5000 IU or less per day was 4.8 (95 percent confidence interval, 2.2 to 10.5). Using a smoothed regression curve, we found an apparent threshold near 10,000 IU per day of supplemental vitamin A. The increased frequency of defects was concentrated among the babies born to women who had consumed high levels of vitamin A before the seventh week of gestation.
High dietary intake of preformed vitamin A appears to be teratogenic. Among the babies born to women who took more than 10,000 IU of preformed vitamin A per day in the form of supplements, we estimate that about 1 infant in 57 had a malformation attributable to the supplement.
A young schizophrenic patient developed cholestatic jaundice and agranulocytosis during chlorpromazine (CPZ) therapy. Mechanisms responsible for these complications are discussed.
For a continuous monitoring and evaluation of drug safety problems in Sweden, the Department of Drugs of the National Board of Health and Welfare has access to a number of computerised patient-, drug-, and disease-oriented registers. The usefulness and limitations of these registers are presented by examples. A recent increase in asthma deaths is presently being analysed by comparing information from death certificates and case records with drug sales and prescription data. A recent analysis of the cancer register showed no increased risk of malignant thyroid tumors after diagnostic or therapeutic doses of I 131. Similarly no increased risk of malformations after occupational exposure to hexachlorophene could be detected by analysing the malformation and medical birth-record registers in relation to hospital hexachlorophene use. The register of patient discharge diagnoses has been repeatedly used to analyse the incidence and pattern of drug induced blood dyscrasias and thromboembolism associated with oral contraceptives (OC). These analyses have resulted i.a. in the withdrawal of dipyrone and tenalidine and a decrease of the estrogen-content of OCs. At the same time about 1/3 of these serious adverse drug reactions (ADR) was found to have been reported to the ADR-register. By combining sales and prescription data with ADR-reports the risk of inducing lactic acidosis was found to be significantly higher for phenformin than for metformin. Also the incidence of tardive dyskinesia from longterm use of metoclopramide was found to be much higher than hitherto recognized. By use of these registers it is possible to obtain valuable information about the safety of drugs. The raw data must, however, be interpreted with care and often be supplemented with in depth studies of the various problems.
For a continuous monitoring and evaluation of drug safety problems in Sweden, the Department of Drugs of the National Board of Health and Welfare has access to a number of computerized patient, drug, and disease-oriented registers. The usefulness and limitations of these registers are presented by examples. A recent increase in asthma deaths is presently being analyzed by comparing information from death certificates and case records with drug sales and prescription data. A recent analysis of the cancer register showed no increased risk of malignant thyroid tumors after diagnostic or therapeutic doses of I131. Similarly no increased risk of malformations after occupational exposure to hexachlorophene could be detected by analyzing the malformation and medical birth record registers in relation to hospital hexachlorophene use. The register of patient discharge diagnoses has been repeatedly used to analyze the incidence and pattern of drug-induced blood dyscrasias and thromboembolism associated with oral contraceptives (OC). These analyses have resulted in the withdrawal of dipyrone and tenalidine and a decrease of the estrogen content of OCs. At the same time, about 1/3 of these serious adverse drug reactions (ADRs) had been reported to the ADR register. By combining sales and prescription data with ADR reports, the risk of inducing lactic acidosis was significantly higher for phenformin than for metformin. Also, the incidence of tardive cyskinesia from longterm use of metoclopramide was much higher than recognized previously. With these registers it is opossible to obtain valuable information about drug safety. The raw data must, however, be interpreted with care and often be supplemented with in-depth studies of the various problems.
Expression of Fos-like protein has been shown to increase after seizures in several types of experimentally induced epilepsies. The intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of murine corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) in rats (10 micrograms), shows an electroencephalographic (EEG) spiking activity restricted to the amygdaloid-hippocampal area. This EEG seizure pattern represents a unique model of localized epileptic activity induced by a neuropeptide. C-fos expression after icv CRF has been considered a useful tool in mapping areas involved in stress and in seizure activity. Our results show that 1 microgram and 10 micrograms CRF are able to induce c-fos activation in several brain areas. Moreover, the present study not only details c-fos expression increase in brain areas directly involved in spiking activation, such as the amygdaloid-hippocampal region, but also maps the possible contribution of other regions to seizure manifestations.
Repeated morphine treatment has been shown to induce transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) expression in the spinal cord, dorsal root ganglion (DRG), and sciatic nerve of a rat model. Increased TRPV1 expression may therefore play a role in morphine tolerance. In this study, we evaluated the hypothesis that blockage of TRPV1 may be useful as an adjunctive pain management therapy. We investigated whether blockage of TRPV1 by capsazepine, a TRPV1 antagonist, affected antinociception, development of tolerance, and physical dependence on morphine in mice.
Institute of Cancer Research mice were pretreated with capsazepine and post-treated with morphine acutely and repeatedly. Antinociception and its tolerance were assessed using the hot-plate test. Morphine dependence was examined through the manifestation of withdrawal symptoms induced by naloxone in morphine-dependent mice.
Acute capsazepine treatment (5 mg kg⁻¹, i.p.) potentiated the antinociceptive effects of morphine, as measured by the hot-plate test. Repeated co-treatment of capsazepine (2.5 mg kg⁻¹ i.p.) with morphine attenuated the development of tolerance to the antinociceptive effect of morphine. The development of morphine dependence was also reduced by capsazepine (1.25 or 2.5 mg kg⁻¹ i.p.).
Our results suggest that TRPV1 antagonists can be used adjunctively to morphine treatment because they strengthen morphine antinociception and prevent the development of tolerance, and also physical dependence, on morphine.
Chronic MAP abuse may produce a lasting vulnerability of the brain which leads to a paranoid delusional psychosis with hallucinations similar to schizophrenia. This view is based on the clinical observations that duration of the psychotic episodes could last quite long after excretion of MAP in the urine, and that reuse of MAP, alcohol ingestion and nonspecific psychological stressors lead to acute recurrence of psychotic episodes whose clinical features are almost identical to the initial episode in patients with prior MAP psychosis. The experimental studies indicate that a lasting change at the nerve terminal membranes, namely transporters of MAP and dopamine at the uptake sites, in the striatum and nucleus accumbens may be a cause for induction and expression of stimulant-induced sensitization, which may relate to vulnerability to schizophrenia-like psychotic episodes in MAP psychosis.
1) To evaluate the outcome of patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPC) on current treatment for heart failure, 2) to assess the circulating plasma levels of cytokines and Fas receptors and 3) to identify predictors of prognosis.
Previous studies in patients with PPC were done when angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and beta-adrenergic blocking agents were not routinely used in heart failure. Inflammatory cytokines play an important role in the pathogenesis and progression of heart failure of other etiologies. However, there is a paucity of data regarding cytokine expression in patients with PPC. Plasma concentrations of Fas receptors (an apoptosis-signalling receptor) have not been reported in this population.
We followed prospectively 29 consecutive black women with PPC. All patients were treated with diuretics, digoxin, enalapril and carvedilol. Echocardiograms were performed at baseline and after six months of treatment. Cytokine and soluble Fas/APO-1 plasma levels were measured at baseline.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6 and Fas/APO-1 levels were significantly elevated in the study patients compared with 20 healthy volunteers. Eight patients died. sFas/APO-1 levels were significantly higher in patients who died compared with survivors (8.98 +/- 4.5 vs. 5.33 +/- 3 U/ml, respectively, p = 0.02). At six months, ejection fraction improved from 26.7 +/- 10 to 42.7 +/- 16%, p = 0.00003, with an increment of more than 10 U in 10 patients (28.1 +/- 4 to 51.9 +/- 8%, p = 0.000008).
Cytokine and sFas levels are elevated in patients with PPC. Despite treatment with ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers, mortality remains high. However, in 34% of the patients, left ventricular function almost completely normalized.
Morphine (10 micrograms/microliter) was injected into different sites within the pontine brainstem in different groups of rats with indwelling guide cannulae. The rats were tested for the persistence of abnormal postures as a measure for the degree of akinesia. Local morphine was most effective in inducing akinesia at a site identical or close to the nucleus raphe pontis. Midline injections were effective in contrast to bilateral injections. Fenfluramine, a serotonin releaser, strongly potentiated morphine akinesia.
Griseofulvin(GF) has become the drug of choice as an antifungal agent for patients who suffer from many kinds of fungal infection. In order to clarify hepatic injury by griseofulvin(GF) overload and the effect of UDCA on GF-induced hepatic injury, the authors carried out biochemical, histologic, and ultrastructural studies of liver following treatment with griseofulvin and ursodeoxycholic acid(UDCA) in mice. Urine porphobilinogen excretion in the group treated with GF alone was significantly increased and reached the highest level in the 4th week and declined thereafter. Biochemical studies of the liver function showed no remarkable changes of serum bilirubin levels throughout the experimental period in all groups, except for SGPT and alkaline phosphatase activities which were significantly elevated and reached the highest level in the second week. Then they slightly decreased in GF treated groups(GF alone and GF plus UDCA) in comparison with the control group. Pathologic findings in the group treated with GF alone include focal liver cell necrosis(esp, zone 3), Mallory bodies in hepatocytes(esp, zone 1), Kupffer cell activation, and brown protoporphyrin pigments in the hepatocytes, bile canaliculi and interlobular bile ducts with a marked inflammatory cell infiltration in the portal tracts. Under the polarizing light microscope, bile ductular and canalicular thrombi showed a "Maltese cross" birefringence in mice treated with GF alone. There is no definite finding of fatty change in hepatocyte. Under the microscope, the liver appeared normal with an intact lobular architecture in the GF plus UDCA treated group. Electron microscopically, GF-induced changes include swelling of mitochondria, globular protoporphyrin crystals in the hepatocyte cytoplasm, markedly dilated bile cannaliculi and bile ducts and the formation of a Mallory hyaline bodies in the hepatocytes. There were no noticeable structural changes in the GF plus UDCA-treated group. Therefore the results suggest that GF causes hepatic injury, namely porphyria and cholestasis, and the treatment of UDCA may have cytoprotective and choleretic effects on GF-induced hepatic injuries.
Annexin A1 (AnxA1) is a candidate regulator of the epithelial- to mesenchymal (EMT)-like phenotypic switch, a pivotal event in breast cancer progression. We show here that AnxA1 expression is associated with a highly invasive basal-like breast cancer subtype both in a panel of human breast cancer cell lines as in breast cancer patients and that AnxA1 is functionally related to breast cancer progression. AnxA1 knockdown in invasive basal-like breast cancer cells reduced the number of spontaneous lung metastasis, whereas additional expression of AnxA1 enhanced metastatic spread. AnxA1 promotes metastasis formation by enhancing TGFbeta/Smad signaling and actin reorganization, which facilitates an EMT-like switch, thereby allowing efficient cell migration and invasion of metastatic breast cancer cells.
Non-acetylated salicylates have been recommended for use as alternatives to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in aspirin and/or tartrazine-sensitive patients. We experienced a case of an aspirin-sensitive asthmatic patient who developed a broncho-obstructive reaction after taking 100 mg of sodium salicylate. The result of this study suggests that sodium salicylate may cross-react with aspirin in aspirin-and tartrazine-sensitive patients.
Isoflurane and related anesthetics are widely used to anesthetize children, ranging from premature babies to adolescents. Concerns have been raised about the safety of these anesthetics in pediatric patients, particularly regarding possible negative effects on cognition. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of repeated isoflurane exposure of juvenile and mature animals on cognition and neurogenesis. Postnatal day 14 (P14) rats and mice, as well as adult (P60) rats, were anesthetized with isoflurane for 35 mins daily for four successive days. Object recognition, place learning and reversal learning as well as cell death and cytogenesis were evaluated. Object recognition and reversal learning were significantly impaired in isoflurane-treated young rats and mice, whereas adult animals were unaffected, and these deficits became more pronounced as the animals grew older. The memory deficit was paralleled by a decrease in the hippocampal stem cell pool and persistently reduced neurogenesis, subsequently causing a reduction in the number of dentate gyrus granule cell neurons in isoflurane-treated rats. There were no signs of increased cell death of progenitors or neurons in the hippocampus. These findings show a previously unknown mechanism of neurotoxicity, causing cognitive deficits in a clearly age-dependent manner.
To determine the efficacy and safety of rectal thiopental sodium as a sedation agent for pediatric imaging.
Four hundred sixty-two infants and children were sedated with rectal thiopental sodium for MR, CT, or nuclear imaging in 1992 and 1993. Patients received screening histories and physical examinations before sedation, and parents gave informed consent. Sedated patients were monitored by pulse oximetry and direct observation. Twenty-four-hour telephone follow-up to assess delayed side effects was performed successfully in 325 patients.
Examinations were successfully completed in 96% of patients. The average time from drug administration to sedation was 12.2 minutes. The average time from sedation to discharge from radiology was 71.1 minutes. Eleven percent of patients had desaturation below the pulse oximetric baseline easily treated with oxygen and head positioning. Twenty-four-hour telephone follow-up in 325 patients revealed a 34% incidence of minor rectal irritation and diarrhea, sleepiness, nausea and vomiting, or ataxia.
Rectal thiopental sodium is a safe and effective drug for pediatric sedation.
The pathogenesis of pulmonary hypoplasia in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is not fully understood. The serine/threonine protein kinase B (AKT) plays important roles for lung morphogenesis through epithelial-mesenchymal interaction in phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent manner. It has been reported that the lung explant morphogenesis in mice is interfered by inhibitors of the PI3K-AKT pathway. We hypothesized that PI3K and AKT gene and protein expression/distribution are altered during epithelial morphogenesis in the nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung.
Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or nitrofen on day 9 of gestation (D9). Fetal lungs were harvested on D15, D18, and D21 and divided into 3 groups as follows: control, nitrofen with CDH (CDH[-]), and nitrofen without CDH (CDH[+]) (n = 8 at each time-point, respectively). Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry were performed.
Messenger RNA expression levels of PI3K at D21 was significantly decreased in CDH(-) and CDH(+) group (5.71 +/- 0.85 and 6.80 +/- 0.88, respectively) compared to controls (8.95 +/- 3.22; P < .05). Messenger RNA levels of AKT were also significantly decreased at D18 in CDH(-) and CDH(+) lungs (1.21 +/- 0.16 and 1.20 +/- 0.32, respectively) compared to controls (1.62 +/- 0.14; P < .01). The PI3K immunoreactivity was diminished in the distal epithelium at D18 and decreased in the overall intensity at D21 in hypoplastic lungs compared to controls. The AKT immunoreactivity was decreased in mesenchyme at D18 and decreased overall intensity at D21 in CDH lungs compared to controls.
Spatiotemporal alteration of pulmonary PI3K and AKT gene and protein expression during epithelial morphogenesis may interfere with epithelial-mesenchymal interaction, causing pulmonary hypoplasia in CDH by disrupting PI3K-AKT signaling pathway.
A treatment-related coronary arteriopathy has been observed in the dog following the oral or intravenous administration of 4 potent phosphodiesterase type III inhibiting inodilators at high multiples of their ED50 for periods from 1 day to 6 months. A fifth compound of a similar pharmacological class exhibited limiting toxicity at low multiples of its ED50 and this compound failed to induce coronary arterial lesions. The earliest treatment-related findings observed were medial hemorrhage and necrosis with focal breaks in the internal elastic lamina. Later changes, observed from day 9 onwards, included intimal thickening consisting of smooth muscle proliferation with a mucoid ground substance, variable and inconsistent inflammatory changes involving one or more arterial tunics and adventitial hemorrhage, fibrosis and neovascularization. The changes were restricted to the coronary arteries including the extramural and intramural branches. The distribution of lesions varied from widespread, multifocal involvement of both coronary arterial systems to focal lesions with no obvious site of predilection. Induction of this lesion may involve changes in coronary flow and pressure as a result of an exaggerated pharmacological response to this class of compound. The susceptibility of other species (rat, cynomolgus monkey, or pig) to this effect has been investigated with no treatment-related arteriopathy being observed.
Pulmonary morbidity in survivors of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is caused by hypoplasia, barotraumas, or other reasons. We have previously shown deficient tracheal innervation in rats with CDH. Now we examine whether bronchopulmonary innervation is also abnormal in both infants and rats with CDH.
Sections of E15, E18, and E21 rat lungs were immunostained for Protein gene product 9.5 and S100 antibodies. Similar immunostaining was performed on tissue from infants dying from CDH (n = 6) and other causes (n = 6) with Neurofilament, S100, and Rearranged during transfection antibodies. Nerve trunks/bronchus were counted, and the proportion of glial and RET-positive cells/bronchial surface was calculated. Glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor protein and mRNA were measured in rat lungs.
Nerve trunks/bronchus were decreased in infants and rat fetuses with CDH. In contrast, glial and RET-positive cells/bronchial surface were increased in infants and rats with CDH. Both lungs were equally affected. GDNF protein was high, whereas GDNF mRNA was decreased in preterm animals with CDH.
The lungs of infants and rats with CDH have decreased neural components compensated by increased supporting glial cells and persistence high expression of RET and GDNF protein. Because bronchopulmonary innervation controls airway smooth muscle, vessels, and glandular secretions, it is tempting to hypothesize that these deficiencies might play a role in respiratory morbidity in CDH.
We report a case of fulminant multiple organ failure including the Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), haemodynamic, and renal failure due to community-acquired methicillin-sensitive Panton Valentine Leukocidin (PVL) positive spa-type 284 (ST121) Staphylococcus aureus septic shock. The patient's first clinical symptom was necrotizing pneumonia. Despite organism-sensitive triple antibiotic therapy with linezolid, imipenem and clindamycin from the first day of treatment, progressive abscess formation in multiple skeletal muscles was observed. As a result, repeated surgical interventions became necessary. Due to progressive soft tissue infection, the anti-microbial therapy was changed to a combination of clindamycin and daptomycin. Continued surgical and antimicrobial therapy finally led to a stabilisation of the patients' condition. The clinical course of our patient underlines the existence of a "PVL-syndrome" which is independent of in vitro Staphylococcus aureus susceptibility. The PVL-syndrome should not only be considered in patients with soft tissue or bone infection, but also in patients with pneumonia. Such a condition, which may easily be mistaken for uncomplicated pneumonia, should be treated early, aggressively and over a long period of time in order to avoid relapsing infection.
Previously, the authors reported that progesterone treatment attenuated reports of cocaine-induced high in male and female cocaine users. In this pilot clinical trial, the authors tested the safety and efficacy of oral progesterone as a treatment for cocaine dependence in methadone-stabilized male cocaine users. This was a 10-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Forty-five male methadone-stabilized cocaine users were randomized to receive placebo (n=15) or progesterone (n=30) for 9 weeks. The progesterone dose was gradually increased from 100 mg to 300 mg twice daily by Week 4 and maintained through Week 10. Treatment retention for the clinical trial was 80%, without significant group differences (log rank=2.4, p=.12). Hierarchical linear modeling estimates of obtaining a cocaine positive urine result across 10 weeks showed a very slight reduction in cocaine use for the progesterone group (Z=-2.89, p<.004). The placebo group showed a slight increase in cocaine use from Week 1 to Week 10 (Z=2.72, p<.007). These slopes significantly differed from each other (Z=-3.83, p<.0001). Overall, the placebo group showed significantly lower probability of having a cocaine positive urine result at treatment's end (Weeks 9 and 10) compared with the progesterone group (0.60 vs. 0.73; U=4837, p<.04). These preliminary findings do not support the efficacy of progesterone in male cocaine users. The efficacy of progesterone in female cocaine users remains to be determined in future studies.
A new formula for solution of etomidate has been studied. Like other lipophilic drugs etomidate may be dissolved in a non-irritating oil emulsion and used for intravenous injection. Etomidate in Intralipid was compared as induction agent with etomidate in glycolic solution (Hypnomidate) and with methohexitone (Brietal). No pain on injection occurred when etomidate/Intralipid was used.
Six patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) related chronic liver disease were treated with acyclovir, 5-15 mg/kg 8 hourly, given as an iv bolus or iv infusion over 1 h for up to 7 days. Two patients treated with 10 and 15 mg/kg 8 hourly showed a decrease in HBV-DNA polymerase and HBV-DNA when mean trough acyclovir plasma concentrations of 5.0 +/- 0.6 and 13.2 +/- 3.0 microM were attained. Inhibition of viral replication was not seen in patients treated with lower doses. Transient renal impairment was seen in two patients who received high dosage by the iv bolus mode of administration. This complication may be prevented by a high oral fluid intake or iv infusion of the drug over 1 h. Further study with acyclovir 15 mg/kg 8-hourly given as an iv infusion for longer periods is warranted.
We have previously demonstrated that ursodeoxycholic acid(UDCA) and a fluorinated analogue of vitamin D(3), F(6)-D(3),inhibited colonic carcinogenesis in the azoxymethane (AOM) model. Generalized colonic mucosal hyperproliferation and aberrant crypt foci (ACF) are intermediate biomarkers of colon cancer. Using these biomarkers, in this study we examined the anticarcinogenic mechanisms of these chemopreventive agents. Rats were maintained on AIN-76A chow or supplemented with 0.4% UDCA or F(6)-D(3) (2.5 nmol/kg chow) and treated weekly with AOM 20 mg i.p./kg wt or saline x 2 weeks. F(6)-D(3) was continued for an additional 2 weeks and UDCA for the duration of the study. At 40 weeks, animals received bromodeoxyuridine (BrdUrd) i.p. 2 h before sacrifice. A portion of each tumor was fixed in formalin and the remainder flash frozen. Colons were divided longitudinally and half-fixed in formalin and half in ethanol. The size and location of methylene blue-stained ACF were recorded. Cell proliferation (BrdUrd labeling) and apoptosis (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling assay) were measured in colonic crypts and tumors. Protein expression levels of several regulators of cell proliferation were analyzed by immunostaining and Western blotting. Colonic crypt cyclin D1 and E-cadherin mRNA levels were measured by real-time PCR. In saline injected controls, neither UDCA nor F(6)-D(3) alone had any effect on cytokinetic parameters or on the expression of mitogenic regulators. AOM significantly increased the proliferation (percentage of BrdUrd-positive cells) of both ACF (23.1 +/- 1.7%) and non-ACF crypts (17.6 +/- 1.6%), compared with normal colonic crypts (4.5 +/- 0.8%; P < 0.05). This hyperproliferation was accompanied by a 5-fold increase in cyclin D1 and >50% decrease in E-cadherin protein (P < 0.05) in ACF, both of which are predicted to be growth-enhancing alterations. UDCA and F(6)-D(3) significantly (P < 0.05) inhibited AOM-induced crypt cell hyperproliferation, ACF development, and tumor burden. These chemopreventive agents also significantly blocked AOM-induced alterations in cyclin D1 and E-cadherin protein in ACF and tumors. In ACF, changes in mRNA levels of cyclin D1, but not E-cadherin, paralleled alterations in protein expression. Cyclooxygenase-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase were increased in AOM tumors but not in ACF, and these changes were blocked by UDCA and F(6)-D(3). UDCA and F(6)-D(3) significantly inhibited ACF development and hyperproliferation, in part, by preventing carcinogen-induced alterations in cyclin D1 and E-cadherin. In established tumors, UDCA and F(6)-D(3) also limited inductions of cyclooxygenase-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase, which together with their effects on cyclin D1 and E-cadherin, contribute to their chemopreventive actions.
Minoxidil, a vasodilating antihypertensive drug, was given orally at 10 mg/kg daily for 2 days to twelve 25- to 35-kg miniature pigs. Twelve control pigs were also studied. Minoxidil-treated pigs had tachycardia and hypotension and were killed 24 hr after the second dose. Gross examination showed diffuse hemorrhage in left atrial epicardium in all pigs, and also in ventricular epicardium (2 of 12 pigs) and endocardium (3 of 12 pigs). Pale areas of necrosis were observed on incision of the left ventricular papillary muscles in 3 pigs. Light and electron microscopic studies showed acute vascular damage with hemorrhage in the left atrial epicardium. Affected arterioles had endothelial cell swelling and transmural and perivascular accumulations of leukocytes, edema fluid, fibrin clumps, and erythrocytes. The swollen endothelial cells had large, irregularly shaped nuclei with abundant euchromatin; mitotic figures were frequent. The cytoplasm contained numerous polysomes and cisterns of rough endoplasmic reticulum. Fibroblasts adjacent to damaged vessels had edematous cytoplasm and increased amounts of rough endoplasmic reticulum. In the affected left ventricular papillary muscles, necrotic myocytes showed contraction bands, mitochondrial matrical densities, lipid accumulation, initial lysis of I bands, and pyknotic nuclei. The lesions were judged to result from two mechanisms: (1) hemorrhagic lesions from drug-induced vascular injury centered on epicardial and subepicardial arterioles and (2) papillary muscle necrosis from ischemic injury from hypoperfusion during minoxidil-induced tachycardia and hypotension.
Cocaine dependence is associated with an enhanced sensitivity to stress and drug craving. Increases in stress-induced craving and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal reactivity are also predictive of cocaine relapse outcomes. More important, sex differences in these responses have also been reported. To further understand the basis of the sex differences, the authors examined the influence of sex steroid hormones on subjective and physiological stress responses and drug craving in cocaine-dependent women. Women who had low progesterone levels (n=5) were compared with those with high progesterone levels (n=5) and with those with moderate levels of estradiol and progesterone (n=9) in their responses during exposure to stress, cocaine cues, and neutral imagery conditions. The high progesterone group showed significantly lower stress-induced and drug cue-induced cocaine craving ( p<.05) and reduced drug cue-induced anxiety levels ( p<.08) and lower drug cue-induced systolic and diastolic blood pressure levels compared with the low progesterone group. These data suggest that there are significant effects of sex steroid hormones on stress and drug cue-induced cocaine craving, anxiety, and cardiovascular responses. In particular, high progesterone during the midluteal phase of the cycle was associated with decreased stress-induced and drug cue-induced craving and decreased cue-induced anxiety and blood pressure responses. These findings are consistent with previous preclinical and clinical studies of progesterone's effects on the behavioral responses to cocaine and warrant further research to examine the effects of progesterone on stress-induced cocaine craving, stress arousal, and cocaine relapse susceptibility in women.
