Environmental exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals is receiving increasing attention, with particular regard to distinct periods of development where neuroendocrine circuitries are critical for shaping the mammalian brain. Atrazine (ATZ), a widely used herbicide, has been reported to affect steroid hormones and interfere with pathways critical for sex-specific physiological and behavioral development. Aim of the present study was to evaluate effects of perinatal exposure to environmentally relevant subtoxic doses of ATZ, on neurobehavioral development in mice and investigate possible alterations in steroid hormone metabolism. Neurobehavioral development of female and male mice delivered from CD1 dams, and daily exposed from Gestational Day 14 until Postnatal Day 21 (PND 21) to 1 or 100 μg/kg bw ATZ, was investigated. Specifically, locomotor and exploratory activity, social interactions and cognitive performance were evaluated at PND 16, 31 and 60, respectively. Moreover, general toxicity clinical signs, testicular parameters, rate of testosterone metabolism and aromatase activity in F1 male liver were analyzed at adulthood. Changes in exploratory profile and in affiliative/investigative behavior were observed, revealing a feminization of behavioral profile in ATZ-exposed males. Alteration in learning performance at adulthood was also evident. A limited decreased sperm count and concentration, as well as some slight impairment in hepatic testosterone metabolism and in aromatase activity (slightly but not significantly decreased) were observed in both low and high dose exposed animals. In conclusion developmental exposure to non-toxic, environmentally relevant doses of ATZ can produce subtle functional alterations, detectable in juvenile rodents by a detailed behavioral analysis. Behavioral disturbances appeared mainly related with neurodevelopmental disorder affecting the social domain and the emotional/affective repertoire, although further research is needed to elucidate the mechanism through which the effects are induced.
Dexmedetomidine is a centrally acting alpha(2)-adrenergic agonist which is currently FDA-approved for the short-term (less than 24 h) sedation of adults during mechanical ventilation.
Given its beneficial physiologic properties, there has been increasing use of this agent in the pediatric population. As with any agent used for sedation in the Pediatric ICU setting, dose escalations may be necessary. Unlike benzodiazepines and opioids, there are limited data regarding the administration of dexmedetomidine above the current package insert dosing recommendations of 0.7 microg/kg/h.
We report a 2-year-old child with traumatic brain injury who developed hypertension following the administration of a dexmedetomidine infusion at 4 microg/kg/h for several hours. Investigation into the etiology of the hypertension was negative and the blood pressure returned to baseline with a decrease in the infusion rate.
Subsequent to this, no further issues with hypertension were noted.
Bile salt export pump (BSEP, ABC11) is a membrane protein that is localized in the cholesterol-rich canalicular membrane of hepatocytes. Its function is to eliminate unconjugated and conjugated bile acids/salts from hepatocyte into the bile. In humans there is no compensatory mechanism for the loss of this transporter. Mutations of BSEP result in a genetic disease, called progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 2 (PFIC2), that is characterized with decreased biliary bile salt secretion, leading to decreased bile flow and accumulation of bile salts inside the hepatocyte, inflicting damage. BSEP inhibitor drugs produce similar bile salt retention that may lead to severe cholestasis and liver damage. Drug-induced liver injury is a relevant clinical issue, in severe cases ending in liver transplantation. Therefore, measurement of BSEP inhibition by candidate drugs has high importance in drug discovery and development. Although several methods are suitable to detect BSEP-drug interactions, due to interspecies differences in bile acid composition, differences in hepatobiliary transporter modulation, they have limitations. This review summarizes appropriate in vitro methods that could be able to predict BSEP-drug candidate interactions in humans before the start of clinical phases.
It has previously been shown, in a neonatal rat model of hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE), that neuronal injury can be attenuated by pretreatment with dexamethasone. The mechanism by which dexamethasone exerts this protective effect is not known. Using the same neonatal rat model of HIE, we found pretreatment with dexamethasone to have no effect on the generation of superoxide radical, products of lipid peroxidation, peroxynitrite-mediated tissue damage or bcl-2 protein expression. However, dexamethasone did inhibit the induction of c-fos transcription seen following HIE, and subsequent evidence of apoptosis. We conclude that it is possible to limit hypoxic-ischemic neuronal injury, despite the continued production of reactive oxygen species, by interventions which block the cascade of events culminating in apoptosis. The involvement of apoptosis in the neuronal injury of HIE, if confirmed in acutely asphyxiated human infants, suggests that there may be a post-injury 'window of opportunity' for neuroprotective interventions.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal-dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by a poly-glutamine expansion in huntingtin, the protein encoded by the HD gene. PolyQ-expanded huntingtin is toxic to neurons, especially the medium spiny neurons of the striatum. At the same time, wild-type huntingtin has important - indeed essential - protective functions. Any effective molecular therapy must preserve the expression of wild-type huntingtin, while silencing the mutant allele. We hypothesized that an appropriate siRNA molecule would display the requisite specificity and efficacy. As RNA interference is incapable of distinguishing among alleles with varying numbers of CAG (glutamine) codons, another strategy is needed. We used HD fibroblasts in which the pathogenic mutation is linked to a polymorphic site: the Delta2642 deletion of one of four tandem GAG triplets. We silenced expression of the harmful Delta2642-marked polyQ-expanded huntingtin without compromising synthesis of its wild-type counterpart. Following this success in HD fibroblasts, we obtained similar results with neuroblastoma cells expressing both wild-type and mutant HD genes. As opposed to the effect of depleting wild-type huntingtin, specifically silencing the mutant species actually lowered caspase-3 activation and protected HD cells under stress conditions. These findings have therapeutic implications not only for HD, but also for other autosomal dominant diseases. This approach has great promise: it may lead to personalized genetic therapy, a holy grail in contemporary medicine.
Retinal ischemia leads to neuronal death. The effects of riluzole, a drug that protects against the deleterious effect of cerebral ischemia by acting on several types of ion channels and blocking glutamatergic neurotransmission, were investigated in a rat model of retinal ischemic injury.
Retinal ischemia was induced by increasing intraocular pressure above systolic blood pressure for 30 minutes. Electroretinograms were recorded before ischemia and at different periods of reperfusion. Riluzole was injected or topically applied to the eye before or after ischemia and twice daily during the reperfusion period. Retinas were harvested for histopathology (toluidine blue and silver-impregnation stainings, Tdt-dUTP terminal nick-end labeling [TUNEL] method) and immunohistochemistry for cytoskeletal glial fibrillary acid protein and c-jun NH2-terminal kinase (p-JNK).
Ischemia for 30 minutes caused a reduction of a- and b-waves of the electroretinogram. Systemic and topical treatments with riluzole significantly enhanced the recovery of the reduced a- and b-waves after defined reperfusion times. Riluzole also prevented or attenuated ischemia-induced retinal cell death (necrosis and apoptosis) and reduced the activation of p-JNK, c-jun phosphorylation, and the increase of cytoskeletal proteins induced by ischemic injury.
Riluzole acted in vivo as a potent neuroprotective agent against pressure-induced ischemia. Therefore, riluzole may be a major drug for use in protection against retinal injury.
A case of a 10-year-old asthmatic patient who had cardiac arrest during induction for elective ear surgery is presented. The patient's serum theophylline level was 21.6 micrograms/mL one hour after surgery. It is likely that, since other factors that can contribute to cardiac arrest during the perioperative period were not present, the combined use of aminophylline and halothane was responsible.
Hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) is the syndrome of hematuria combined with symptoms of lower urinary tract irritation in the absence of bacterial infection or generalized hemorrhagic diathesis. HC often occurs as a difficult complication after autologous as well as allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). It may be secondary to pretransplant preparative regimen (chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy) or viral infection by adenovirus, JC and BK viruses. The most effective treatment for HC has not been established yet. We report a case of a 17-year-old male with common acute lymphoblastic leukemia (cALL) in second CR, who was treated with high-dose chemotherapy (BuCy conditioning regimen) followed by autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT), complicated by hemorrhagic cystitis on day 0 (several hours after infusion of transplant material). The immediate use of increased dose of 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate sodium (mesna), bladder irrigation and intensive hydration with forced diuresis resulted in resolution of macroscopic hematuria on day +3 after the transplant and urinary tract recovery with normalization of urine analysis parameters on day +7.
Rats of the spontaneously hypertensive strain develop kidney damage that resembles the nephropathy seen in some cases of human essential hypertension. Previous studies with a triple drug antihypertensive regimen indicated that proteinuria and glomerular histopathology in spontaneously hypertensive rats might develop despite long-term effective control of systemic blood pressure. To investigate further the relation between hypertension and kidney disease, a group of spontaneously hypertensive rats were treated with enalapril at 15 weeks of age. Blood pressure, protein excretion, and kidney function were measured in those rats at regular intervals during the next year and a half and were compared with untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats and the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto parent strain. Kidney tissue samples from all three groups, collected at autopsy, were stained by immunohistochemical and conventional methods to assess the relative severity and nature of kidney damage. Although enalapril therapy was completely effective in controlling the blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats, it only postponed the onset of kidney disease. Enalapril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats eventually exhibited albuminuria as severe as that found in hypertensive rats. Kidney vessel pathology was completely prevented with enalapril, but the abnormal accumulation of mononuclear cells in tubulointerstitial and periglomerular sites was the same as in untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats. We have concluded that elevated protein excretion in rats of the spontaneously hypertensive rat strain is not a secondary consequence of systemic hypertension. Structural abnormalities of renal vessels also do not appear to contribute significantly to the pathogenesis of albuminuria in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Other explanations must be sought to account for the close link between spontaneous hypertension and kidney damage in this animal model. The clear dissociation of kidney disease from systemic hypertension exhibited by spontaneously hypertensive rats may also be relevant for human disease.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) is one of the mutagenic heterocyclic amines derived from cooked meat. In previous animal studies, spontaneous tumour formation in B6(Min/+) mice was associated with somatic loss of the wild-type Apc+ allele by loss of the entire chromosome 18 or by recombination. The objective of this study was to examine genetic changes caused by PhIP-exposure in a mouse intestinal cell line and in tumours from hybrid mice by keeping track of the chromosomes carrying the two Apc alleles. We transformed the SV40 T-immortalised intestinal epithelial cell line IMCE, derived from the B6(Min/+) mice by exposure to N-OH-PhIP, and studied the effect on Apc status and chromosome 18. Eighteen transformed cultures were obtained and all of them had retained the Apc+ allele. Five of seven transformed cultures were tumorigenic after implantation in nude mice. Chromosomal analysis of these five cultures and the parent IMCE cell line showed that the IMCE cells were near-tetraploid with an average of 77 chromosomes/cell, while the tumorigenic cell cultures were all triploid to hyper-triploid with a range of 61-69 chromosomes/cell. The number of copies of chromosome 18 was about four in the IMCE line and this copy number was retained in the transformed lines derived from IMCE. Changes in chromosome 18 and Apc during tumour development in vivo were examined in spontaneously formed and PhIP-induced intestinal tumours from two hybrid mice strains, i.e. B6(Min/+) - a murine FAP model - crossed with either AKR/J or A/J. We evaluated the allelic status of Apc, and the heterogenic microsatellite markers D18Mit19 and D18Mit4, located at the upper and lower ends of chromosome 18, respectively. In tumours from untreated animals, instability in the D18Mit19 and Apc was observed. Upon PhIP exposure, the B6(Min/A+) hybrid mouse tumours differed distinctly in genetic profile from those obtained from untreated animals and we detected three genetically different tumour groups, all of which had apparently retained Apc+. One group had allelic balance between the Apc(Min) and Apc+, the second had allelic imbalance between the Apc and D18Mit4 alleles, indicative of chromosomal stability in the first group and instability in the lower end of chromosome 18 in the second group, respectively. The third group showed variable allelic status of the three markers. A similar change in genetic profile was also seen in intestinal tumours of PhIP-exposed B6(Min/AKR+) hybrid mice, but it was less pronounced. Chromosomal breaks and/or recombinational events could be alternative explanations for the observed allelic imbalances in chromosome 18 markers in intestinal tumours from PhIP-exposed mice.
Tubulo-interstitial nephritis antigen (TINag) is an extracellular matrix protein expressed in tubular basement membranes. Combined mutations in TINag and nephrocystin-1 genes lead to nephronophthisis with reduced cell survival. Because certain extracellular matrix proteins are known to modulate cell survival, studies were initiated in Lewis rats lacking TINag to assess if they are more susceptible to cisplatin-induced injury. Cisplatin induced a higher degree of tubular cell damage and apoptosis in regions where TINag is expressed in a parental Wistar strain. This was accompanied by an accentuated increase in serum creatinine and Kim-1 RNA and renal expression of Bax, p53, and its nuclear accumulation, mtDNA fragmentation, and a decrease of Bcl-2. Cisplatin induced fulminant apoptosis of HK-2 cells with increased caspase3/7 activity, mtDNA fragmentation, and a reduced cell survival. These effects were partially reversed in cells maintained on TINag substratum. Far Western/solid phase assays established TINag binding with integrin αvβ3 comparable with vitronectin. Transfection of cells with αv-siRNA accentuated cisplatin-induced apoptosis, aberrant translocation of cytochrome c and Bax, and reduced cell survival. The αv-siRNA decreased expression of integrin-recruited focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and p-FAK, while increasing the expression of p53 and p-p53. Similarly, p-AKT was reduced although ILK was unaffected. Inhibition of PI3K had similar adverse cellular effects. These effects were ameliorated in cells on TINag substratum. In vivo, a higher degree of decrease in the expression of p-FAK and pAKT was observed in Lewis rats following cisplatin treatment. These in vivo and in vitro studies demonstrate an essential role of TINag in cellular survival to maintain proper tubular homeostasis utilizing integrin αvβ3 and downstream effectors.
The effects of diethylstilboestrol implants and bromocriptine administration on serum prolactin concentrations, prolactin messenger RNA (mRNA) and pituitary tumour weight were examined. Intact female Fischer 344 rats were implanted s.c. with 10 mg diethylstilboestrol (DES) under light anaesthesia. All animals except the control group carried the implant for 7 weeks at which time the rats were subdivided into five groups: A, control; B, DES for 7 weeks; C, DES for 7 weeks followed by withdrawal of DES for 1 week; D, DES for 7 weeks followed by withdrawal of DES and administration of bromocriptine for 1 week; E, DES for 8 weeks with concurrent administration of bromocriptine during the last week. Serum concentrations of prolactin were measured by radioimmunoassay, prolactin mRNA concentrations were measured by dot-blot hybridization and sodium dodecylsulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the in-vitro translated mRNA. Pituitary growth was estimated by changes in pituitary weight and assessed by light and electron microscopic examination. Treatment with DES dramatically increased serum prolactin concentrations and prolactin mRNA and induced pituitary tumour formation as shown by histological changes. Withdrawal of DES for 1 week did not lead to a decrease in pituitary tumour weight but was accompanied by a decrease in serum prolactin concentrations and prolactin mRNA from peak concentrations although they remained significantly increased above controls. Treatment with bromocriptine after DES implants were removed led to a significant reduction in pituitary tumour weight and a decrease in serum prolactin concentrations and prolactin mRNA. Histology of the pituitary tumour after the bromocriptine treatment showed pituitary cells similar to those from normal animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A trial involving patients receiving fluphenazine decanoate was designed to compare the effects of orphenadrine hydrochloride (Disipal) and its major metabolite, tofenacin hydrochloride (Elamol) on the Parkinsonian side-effects and depression occurring during fluphenazine decanoate therapy. The trial was a double-blind one, with crossover. It was found that both drugs exerted an adequate control on the Parkinsonian side-effects, but there was no significant difference between their effects. Ophenadrine, however, was shown to be significantly superior (p less than 0-05) in the control of the depressive side-effects.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rapidly progressing neurodegenerative disease, characterized by motor neuron (MN) death, for which there are no truly effective treatments. Here, we describe a new small molecule survival screen carried out using MNs from both wild-type and mutant SOD1 mouse embryonic stem cells. Among the hits we found, kenpaullone had a particularly impressive ability to prolong the healthy survival of both types of MNs that can be attributed to its dual inhibition of GSK-3 and HGK kinases. Furthermore, kenpaullone also strongly improved the survival of human MNs derived from ALS-patient-induced pluripotent stem cells and was more active than either of two compounds, olesoxime and dexpramipexole, that recently failed in ALS clinical trials. Our studies demonstrate the value of a stem cell approach to drug discovery and point to a new paradigm for identification and preclinical testing of future ALS therapeutics.
The goal of the present study was to evaluate the antifibrillatory and hemodynamic effects of pharmacologic muscarinic activation and to compare them with those of beta-adrenergic blockade.
Recent studies suggest a correlation between increased vagal activity and a reduced incidence of sudden cardiac death. Electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve reduces the incidence of ventricular fibrillation in a conscious animal model of sudden cardiac death.
Eleven dogs with healed anterior myocardial infarction, in which a 2-min left circumflex coronary artery occlusion during exercise caused ventricular fibrillation, were studied. They underwent subsequent tests with saline solution, propranolol (1 mg/kg body weight), methacholine (0.5 microgram/kg per min) and oxotremorine (8 micrograms/kg).
In the test with saline solution, 100% of the dogs developed ventricular fibrillation; this occurred in only 10% of the tests with propranolol (95% confidence interval 0.2% to 44%; p < 0.001), 60% of the tests with methacholine (95% confidence interval 26% to 88%, p = 0.05) and 37.5% of the tests with oxotremorine (95% confidence interval 8% to 75%, p = 0.005). Propranolol and oxotremorine significantly reduced heart rate compared with saline solution, whereas methacholine did not. Propranolol significantly reduced maximal first derivative of left ventricular pressure, (dP/dtmax), particularly during myocardial ischemia, compared with the other treatments (2,391 +/- 582 mm Hg/s [mean +/- 1 SD] with propranolol vs. 4,226 +/- 1,237, 4,922 +/- 584 and 4,358 +/- 1,109 mm Hg/s with saline solution, methacholine and oxotremorine, respectively, p < 0.005).
Propranolol was extremely effective against ventricular fibrillation. Methacholine and oxotremorine provided a significant, although less marked, protection and caused much less impairment of contractility compared with propranolol. Muscarinic receptor activation may represent a new approach to prevention of sudden cardiac death, particularly when beta-blockers are contraindicated and negative inotropic effects are to be avoided.
The oxytocin receptor has been implicated in the regulation of reproductive physiology as well as social and emotional behaviors. The neurochemical mechanisms by which oxytocin receptor modulates social and emotional behavior remains elusive, in part because of a lack of sensitive and selective antibodies for cellular localization. To more precisely characterize oxytocin receptor-expressing neurons within the brain, we generated an oxytocin receptor-reporter mouse in which part of the oxytocin receptor gene was replaced with Venus cDNA (a variant of yellow fluorescent protein). Examination of the Venus expression revealed that, in the raphe nuclei, about one-half of tryptophan hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons were positive for Venus, suggesting a potential role for oxytocin in the modulation of serotonin release. Oxytocin infusion facilitated serotonin release within the median raphe nucleus and reduced anxiety-related behavior. Infusion of a 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor antagonist blocked the anxiolytic effect of oxytocin, suggesting that oxytocin receptor activation in serotonergic neurons mediates the anxiolytic effects of oxytocin. This is the first demonstration that oxytocin may regulate serotonin release and exert anxiolytic effects via direct activation of oxytocin receptor expressed in serotonergic neurons of the raphe nuclei. These results also have important implications for psychiatric disorders such as autism and depression in which both the oxytocin and serotonin systems have been implicated.
We evaluated the plasma level of platelet-activating factor (PAF), a chemical mediator that induces various symptoms of bronchial asthma, and the activity of serum PAF acetylhydrolase (PAFAH), an enzyme that specifically inactivates PAF, in adults with bronchial asthma. Measurements were made by radioimmunoassay of samples obtained from 137 adult asthmatic patients (137 cases examined in remission and from among these 41 cases were also measured at the time of an asthmatic attack) 59 adult patients with untreated pulmonary tuberculosis and 106 healthy adult volunteers. It was demonstrated that the plasma PAF level was markedly higher and the serum PAFAH activity markedly lower in the asthmatic patients, both in remission and at the time of asthmatic attack, than in the healthy volunteers. The plasma PAF level was more closely associated with asthma both in remission and at the time of asthmatic attack than with pulmonary tuberculosis, whereas there was no significant difference in the serum PAFAH activity between the two diseases. The low serum PAFAH activity in the asthmatic patients may have been due to saturation as a result of continuous reaction to the increased plasma PAF level in those patients.
Benzoyl peroxide was introduced as a basic treatment already in acne therapy 1934. The mechanism of action is the reduction of anaerobe bacteria by strong oxidation processes. No resistancies have been ever reported. BPO is available in 2.5, 5 and 10 % formulations. Its efficacy is slightly related to the strength of concentrations, but the side effect profile with burning, erythema and desquamation is increasing with concentrations. BPO 5% mostly is efficient enough to control acne of grades I to II according to the Kligman & Plewig classification. BPO my bleach clothes and hair. It is the most costeffective topical drug in acne of grades I-II. Inflammatory acne of the papular-pustular type I-II can also be treated by topical antibiotics such as erythromycin, clindamycin, and, less frequent and today not anymore recommended tetracyclines. Mechanism of action is not alone an antibacterial but anti inflammatory effect. The efficacy and penetration of the topical antibiotics between the groups are similar. Randomized studies have shown that concentrations of 2-4% are equivalent to oral tetracycline and minocycline in mild to moderate acne. Combinatory formulations with BPO and with retinoids enhance the efficacy significantly. Topical antibiotics plus BPO show less bacterial resistancies as topical antibiotics alone. Antibiotics should therefore not be used as monotherapy. Moreover gram negative folliculitis may develop. Azelaic acid is acting as an antimicrobial and can also reduce comedones. It can also be used in pregnancy and during the lactation period.
Phenytoin is an effective antiepileptic drug, although, it can be associated with many side effects, including dyskinesia.
To describe the clinical characteristics of phenytoin induced dyskinesia.
We investigated the occurrence of involuntary movements in patients followed at our adult and pediatric epilepsy clinics during the period of one year.
Three patients presented with phenytoin-induced dyskinesia: one adult with axial and orofacial dyskinesia, and two children with choreoathetosis. They did not have other signs of phenytoin intoxication and had complete recovery after phenytoin withdrawal.
Phenytoin induced dyskinesia may occur during either chronic or initial treatment and with normal serum phenytoin levels. However, it occurs most often in patients on polytherapy, usually after increasing dosage and with toxic serum levels. Other signs of phenytoin intoxication may be present in these patients, but often the dyskinesia is the only side effect, which may delay the diagnosis and treatment. The clinical characteristics of the involuntary movements vary and may be focal or generalized, most often characterized by choreoathetosis and dyskinesias. These may last for hours, days or even years, but frequently disappear completely after phenytoin withdrawal.
N-tosyl-l-phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone (TPCK) is known to inhibit NF-kappaB activation and the expression of inflammation mediators in cultured cells. We measured the potential of TPCK to inhibit the pathogenesis of collagen-induced arthritis by blocking NF-kappaB activation. Arthritis was induced in DBA/1J mice by the injection of bovine type II collagen in adjuvant on days 0 and 14. Mice received either TPCK (3 or 10 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle three times a week for 3 weeks starting on day 21. TPCK moderately reduced clinical disease activity scores, whereas it markedly suppressed histological indications of joint destruction. In vitro production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 from lipopolysaccharide-stimulated spleen cells was also reduced by in vivo treatment with TPCK. Proliferation of cells isolated from spleen or draining lymph nodes and production of interferon-gamma and interleukin-17 in response to stimulation with type II collagen was decreased by TPCK. Moreover, nuclear NF-kappaB activity induced by collagen immunization was significantly reduced in mice treated with TPCK. Finally, osteoclast differentiation of bone marrow cells induced by macrophage colony-stimulating factor and receptor activator of NF-kappaB ligand was completely inhibited by TPCK. These results indicate that TPCK attenuates collagen-induced arthritis and bone erosion by suppressing NF-kappaB activation and thus expression of inflammatory and osteoclastogenic genes.
Phytoestrogens are plant-derived compounds with oestrogenic activity. They are common in both human and animal diets, particularly through soy-based foods. This study assessed whether exposure of adult male rats to a high phytoestrogen diet for 3-25 days affected their fertility, and assessed possible mechanisms through which phytoestrogens may disrupt fertility. Adult males, fed a high phytoestrogen diet for 3 days, demonstrated significantly reduced fecundity. This effect was transient, with fecundity returning to control levels by day 12. The expression of oestrogen receptor-alpha and androgen receptor mRNA was increased in the initial segment of the epididymis, but decreased in the cauda epididymis following 3 days on the high phytoestrogen diet. Epididymal sperm counts cannot account for the reduction in fertility at day 3. However, lipid peroxidation of epididymal sperm was significantly increased in animals fed a high phytoestrogen diet for 3 days. Disruption of the steroid regulation of the epididymis by phytoestrogens may alter its function, resulting in decreased quality of sperm, and thereby reducing fecundity.
High mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) protein acts as a potent proinflammatory cytokine and is involved in the pathogenesis of several vascular diseases, such as, systemic vasculitis and sepsis. Emodin-6-O-β-D-glucoside (EG) is a new active compound from Reynoutria japonica, and its biologic activities have not been previously investigated. In this study, we first investigated the antiinflammatory activities of EG on HMGB1-mediated proinflammatory responses in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and in a murine cecal ligation and puncture (CLP)-model of sepsis in mice. EG was found to suppress the release of HMGB1, the production of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and the activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) by HMGB1 in HUVECs, and to inhibit HMGB1-mediated hyperpermeability and leukocyte migration in mice. In the CLP model, HMGB1 was highly released, but this release was prevented by EG. Furthermore, EG also increased the survival times of CLP administered mice. Collectively, this study shows EG can protect barrier integrity and inhibit HMGB1-mediated inflammatory responses, which suggests a potential use as a therapy for sepsis or septic shock.
Tenofovir (TFV) has been widely used for pre-exposure prophylaxis of HIV-1 infection with mixed results. While the use of TFV in uninfected individuals for prevention of HIV-1 acquisition is actively being investigated, the possible consequences of TFV exposure for the HIV-target cells and the mucosal microenvironment are unknown. In the current study, we evaluated the effects of TFV treatment on blood-derived CD4⁺ T cells, monocyte-derived macrophages and dendritic cells (DC). Purified HIV-target cells were treated with different concentrations of TFV (0.001-1.0 mg/ml) for 2 to 24 hr. RNA was isolated and RT-PCR was performed to compare the levels of mRNA expression of nucleotidases and pro-inflammatory cytokine genes (MIP3α, IL-8 and TNFα) in the presence or absence of TFV. We found that TFV increases 5'-ecto-nucleotidase (NT5E) and inhibits mitochondrial nucleotidase (NT5M) gene expression and increases 5' nucleotidase activity in macrophages. We also observed that TFV stimulates the expression and secretion of IL-8 by macrophages, DC, and activated CD4⁺ T cells and increases the expression and secretion of MIP3α by macrophages. In contrast, TFV had no effect on TNFα secretion from macrophages, DC and CD4⁺ T cells. Our results demonstrate that TFV alters innate immune responses in HIV-target cells with potential implications for increased inflammation at mucosal surfaces. As new preventive trials are designed, these findings should provide a foundation for understanding the effects of TFV on HIV-target cells in microbicide trials.
Dietary administration of beta- and gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) to albino rats caused an abnormal excessive excretion of glucose in the urine, blood glucose level being nearly normal. Occurrence of glucosuria was also accompanied by increased excretions of the two low-threshold compounds - creatinine and urea, their levels in blood being normal. The interference of HCH isomers with renal function as evidenced by biochemical data was also indicated by histopathological lesions observed in the kidney sections, viz., hypertrophy and degeneration of the renal tubular epithelia.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is characterized by lack of hormone receptors and HER-2 and shares many features with BRCA1-associated cancer. Preclinical data indicate cisplatin sensitivity, suggesting that these tumors may have defects in the BRCA1 pathway. The carboplatin and gemcitabine (CG) combination is active in unselected anthracycline/taxane pretreated metastatic breast cancer patients, so we carried out a phase II study to evaluate the activity of the CG combination in pretreated metastatic TNBC patients. From 10/2004 to 3/2009 we enrolled 31 patients. Median age was 57 years and 29 patients out of 31 had visceral involvement. The overall response rate (ORR) was 32% (1 complete response /9 partial responses), in addition 5 patients obtained stable disease for >12 weeks. After a median follow-up of 34 months, all patients progressed with a median time to progression of 5.5 months and median overall survival of 11 months. Dose reductions, delays and omissions occurred in 75 (60%), 36 (29%) and 22 (18%) cycles. Grade 3/4 neutropenia occurred in 17 and febrile neutropenia in 4 patients. Ten patients had Grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia. Non hematological toxicities were manageable. The CG combination is a reasonable option for the treatment of metastatic pretreated TNBC patients.
