The developmental and behavioral toxicity of gestational exposure to low levels of cadmium (Cd, 4.2 and 8.4 micrograms/ml in drinking water) were assessed in rats. Significant decreases in birth weight and growth rate were observed in the 8.4 micrograms Cd/ml group. The metal exposure had no effect on the ontogeny of physical landmarks, surface and air righting reflexes and visual placing, but a significant hyperactivity and delay in the development of cliff aversion and swimming behavior were observed in the neonatal pups of either treatment group. Marked decreases in the locomotor activity shuttle box performance were evident at 60 days but not at 90 days of postnatal life. The apomorphine-induced hyperactivity was not affected in these rats at either age. These data indicate that Cd exposure during the critical periods of development might result in developmental and behavioral deficits with longterm implications on adult behavior.
Chloroprocaine is being investigated as a possible replacement for spinal lidocaine. Adding fentanyl to lidocaine increases the quality of spinal anesthesia without prolongation of block. We report the characteristics of 2-chloroprocaine (2-CP) spinal anesthesia with or without fentanyl in 8 volunteers receiving 40 mg 2-CP with saline or 20 micro g fentanyl in a double-blinded, randomized, crossover manner. Spinal anesthesia was successful for all subjects with complete block regression, ambulation, and void by 110 min. Itching occurred in all subjects receiving fentanyl, though medication was not required. No subject reported signs of transient neurological symptoms. Peak block with fentanyl averaged T5 (T3-7) and without fentanyl T9 (L1-T4) (P = 0.005). Regression to L1 was 78 +/- 7 min with fentanyl and 53 +/- 19 min without fentanyl (P = 0.02). Tourniquet was tolerated for 51 +/- 8 min with fentanyl and for 34 +/- 14 min without fentanyl (P = 0.02). Complete regression of block occurred at 104 +/- 7 min with fentanyl and by 95 +/- 9 min without fentanyl (P = 0.02). We conclude that 2-CP spinal anesthesia provides rapid onset and adequate potency, giving it a positive profile for ambulatory surgery. The addition of fentanyl lengthens regression to L1 and tourniquet tolerance while minimally lengthening block duration.
Spinal 2-chloroprocaine (40 mg) provides rapid onset and reliable blockade without signs of transient neurological symptoms, giving it a positive profile for ambulatory surgical settings. The addition of fentanyl appears to lengthen the regression to L1 dermatome and tourniquet time while minimally lengthening duration of block.
Male offspring of hooded Lister rats were fostered at birth to form experimental litters of eight. Within each litter pups were randomly allocated among drug groups. Administration of clonazepam (1-5 mg/kg/day) to pups from neonatal days 1-21 resulted in high mortality, at least partly due to impaired ultrasonic calling. Pups treated with 0.1, 0.5 or 1 mg/kg/day throughout the preweaning period were then tested undrugged during adolescence to assess any lasting behavioral changes. There were no significant changes in the social interaction test or in the acquisition or retention of a passive avoidance task. However, neonatal treatment with clonazepam (0.1 mg/kg) did produce significantly less exploratory head-dipping and locomotor activity in a holeboard. This dose also enhanced offensive behaviors when rats were resident in their home-cages and confronted with an intruder, but increased submissive behaviors when the treated rats were intruding into another rat's territory. Treatment with higher doses of clonazepam (0.5 and 1 mg/kg) produced more dominance behaviors when the pups were intruders. Since the main behavioral changes were found in the lowest dose group, which did not show any weight loss, they are unlikely to be secondary to changes in the risk of mortality.
With the availability of preservative- and antioxidant-free 2-chloroprocaine (2-CP), there may be an acceptable short-acting alternative to lidocaine for spinal anesthesia. We examined the safety, dose-response characteristics, and effects of epinephrine with spinal 2-CP. Six volunteers per group were randomized to receive 30, 45, or 60 mg of spinal 2-CP with and without epinephrine. Intensity and duration of sensory and motor blockade were assessed. When 11 of the 18 volunteers complained of vague, nonspecific flu-like symptoms, breaking of the blind revealed that all spinal anesthetics associated with the flu-like symptoms contained epinephrine. There were no complaints of flu-like symptoms in the volunteers who received 2-CP without epinephrine. No further spinal anesthetics containing epinephrine were administered, resulting in 29 anesthetics (11 with epinephrine, 18 without epinephrine.) Plain 2-CP demonstrated a dose-dependent increase in peak block height and duration of effect at all variables except time to 2-segment regression and time to regression to T10. Time to complete sensory regression with plain 2-CP was 98 +/- 20, 116 +/- 15, and 132 +/- 23 min, respectively. 2-CP with epinephrine produced times to complete sensory regression of 153 +/- 25, 162 +/- 33, and 148 +/- 29 min, respectively. Preservative and antioxidant free 2-CP can be used effectively for spinal anesthesia in doses of 30-60 mg. Epinephrine is not recommended as an adjunct because of the frequent incidence of side effects.
Hyperbaric spinal 2-chloroprocaine is effective and has an anesthetic profile appropriate for use in the surgical outpatient over the dose range of 30-60 mg without signs of transient neurologic symptoms. The addition of epinephrine is not recommended because of the frequent incidence of side effects.
Effective therapies are needed for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a debilitating and fatal motor neuron disease. Cell and animal models of ALS are beginning to reveal possible principles governing the biology of motor neuron-selective vulnerability that implicate mitochondria and the mitochondrial permeability pore (mPTP). Proteins associated with the mPTP are known to be enriched in motor neurons and the genetic deletion of a major regulator of the mPTP has robust effects in ALS transgenic mice, delaying disease onset and extending survival. Thus, the mPTP is a rational, mechanism-based target for the development of drugs designed to treat ALS. Trophos SA has discovered olesoxime (TRO-19622), a small-molecule with a cholesterol-like structure, which has remarkable neuroprotective properties for motor neurons in cell culture and in rodents. Olesoxime appears to act on mitochondria, possibly at the mPTP. Phase I clinical trials of olesoxime have been completed successfully. Olesoxime is well tolerated and achieves levels predicted to be clinically effective when administered orally. It has been granted orphan drug status for the treatment of ALS in the US and for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy in the EU. Phase II/III clinical trials are in progress in Europe.
Aspirin reduces cardiovascular events in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), but studies report a highly variable response to aspirin, often referred to as 'aspirin low-responsiveness'. We investigated whether 75 mg of daily non-enteric coated aspirin would completely inhibit the platelet cyclooxygenase-1 activity to a comparable extent in healthy individuals and stable CAD patients.
We assessed serum thromboxane B2 (S-TxB2), urinary 11-dehydro-TxB2 (U-TxM) and arachidonic acid-induced optical platelet aggregometry (OPA) in 44 CAD patients on aspirin and in 22 healthy individuals before and after aspirin. OPA was performed in duplicate for four consecutive days during aspirin treatment after one week of treatment. Compliance was optimized by face-to-face interviews and pill counting and confirmed by S-TxB(2) measurements.
Aspirin inhibited S-TxB2 >99% in healthy individuals (median 1.1 ng/mL, interquartile range (IQR) = 0.8;1.9 after aspirin) and in patients, S-TxB2 was reduced to a similar level (0.9 ng/mL (0.7;1.5)). Healthy individuals had a median U-TxM of 278.5 pg/mg creatinine (229.5;380.0) before aspirin and 68.5 pg/mg creatinine (59.0;99.7) on aspirin corresponding to an average 74% inhibition of the endogenous TxA2 biosynthesis. In patients median U-TxM was 67.5 pg/mg creatinine (54.0;85.5). Seven study participants (11%) were aspirin low-responders according to OPA, but none had S-TxB2 in the highest quartile.
Low-dose aspirin suppressed S-TxB(2) to comparable levels in CAD patients and healthy individuals. Despite an almost complete inhibition of S-TxB2, some participants were low-responders according to OPA. Thorough compliance control and use of thromboxane-specific assays are important when measuring platelet response to aspirin.
This study was performed to describe prospectively the development and prognosis of severe ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity and to define the period of recommended renal follow-up after ifosfamide chemotherapy.
Renal function was followed in 75 patients after cessation of chemotherapy starting within the first year off therapy; median follow-up time was 31 months. The glomerular filtration rate was estimated by using the Schwartz formula. Proximal tubular transport capacities were evaluated for amino acids, phosphate, sodium, and glucose. In addition, serum bicarbonate level and alkaline phosphatase were measured.
Five patients developed renal Fanconi syndrome during follow-up, and another seven patients developed a generalized subclinical tubulopathy. The latter condition always preceded Fanconi syndrome. Severe impairment of amino acid and phosphate reabsorption was seen in 28% and 17.3% of patients, respectively. Reductions in amino acid reabsorption preceded impairment of phosphate reabsorption. In patients with early impairment of phosphate reabsorption, renal prognosis was poor, whereas normal or only mildly impaired amino acid handling virtually excluded progressive tubular damage.
Ifosfamide-induced renal tubular damage is a potentially progressive disease. Along with measurement of phosphate reabsorption, additional assessment of tubular amino acid handling is suggested, because it allows early discrimination of poor from favorable renal outcomes.
Subarachnoid lidocaine has been the anesthetic of choice for outpatient spinal anesthesia. However, its use is associated with transient neurologic symptoms (TNS). Preservative-free formulations of 2-chloroprocaine are now available and may compare favorably with lidocaine for spinal anesthesia. In this double-blinded, randomized, crossover study, we compared spinal chloroprocaine and lidocaine in 8 volunteers, each receiving 2 spinal anesthetics: 1 with 40 mg 2% lidocaine and the other with 40 mg 2% preservative-free 2-chloroprocaine. Pinprick anesthesia, tolerance to transcutaneous electrical stimulation and thigh tourniquet, motor strength, and a simulated discharge pathway were assessed. Chloroprocaine produced anesthetic efficacy similar to lidocaine, including peak block height (T8 [T5-11] versus T8 [T6-12], P = 0.8183) and tourniquet tolerance (46 +/- 6 min versus 38 +/- 24 min, P = 0.4897). Chloroprocaine anesthesia resulted in faster resolution of sensory (103 +/- 13 min versus 126 +/- 16 min, P = 0.0045) and more rapid attainment of simulated discharge criteria (104 +/- 12 min versus 134 +/- 14 min, P = 0.0007). Lidocaine was associated with mild to moderate TNS in 7 of 8 subjects; no subject complained of TNS with chloroprocaine (P = 0.0004). We conclude that the anesthetic profile of chloroprocaine compares favorably with lidocaine. Reliable sensory and motor blockade with predictable duration and minimal side effects make chloroprocaine an attractive choice for outpatient spinal anesthesia.
The spinal anesthetic profile of chloroprocaine (40 mg) compares favorably with the same dose of spinal lidocaine. Reliable sensory and motor blockade with predictable duration and minimal side effects and without signs of transient neurological symptoms make chloroprocaine an attractive choice for outpatient spinal anesthesia.
ACE inhibitors induce an increase in kinin levels with subsequent release of nitric oxide (NO) and prostacyclin, as shown in cultured endothelial cells and isolated rat hearts. Isolated perfused working rat hearts continuously release kinins and prostacyclin. During ischemia after ligation of the left coronary artery kinin and prostacyclin concentrations in the venous effluent of the hearts are increased. ACE inhibition with ramiprilat increases kinin concentrations during normoxia, ischemia and reperfusion, whereas deendothelialization markedly reduces kinin and prostacyclin outflow in controls as well as in ACE inhibitor-treated hearts. Rat hearts with postischemic reperfusion arrhythmias are protected by ramiprilat- and bradykinin perfusion, cardiodynamics and metabolism of treated hearts are improved. These effects are observed in concentrations too low to increase coronary flow. The cardioprotective effects of ramiprilat and bradykinin are abolished by the specific B2-kinin receptor antagonist icatibant and by an inhibitor of NO-synthase. Long-term treatment (20 weeks) with ramipril in a blood-pressure-lowering dose (1 mg/kg/day) and a subantihypertensive dose (10 micromg/kg/day) protects spontaneously hypertensive rats (stroke prone) against hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy in the high dose. In addition, both treatment regimens induce myocardial capillary growth. Isolated hearts of these animals show increased myocardial contractility and coronary flow, reduced release of cytosolic enzymes into the coronary effluent, and improved myocardial metabolism. These changes are observed even at a dose of ramipril which does not affect blood pressure and left ventricular hypertrophy. They are abolished by chronic blockade of kinin receptors with icatibant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The role of superoxide in adriamycin-induced nephropathy (single dose; i.v. 3 mg/kg) has been studied by blocking superoxide synthesis through the administration of allopurinol (500 mg/L in drinking water). In Experiment I (EI), allopurinol administration was started 3 days prior to nephropathy induction and continued until day 14. In Experiment II (EII) allopurinol administration was started 2 weeks after nephropathy induction and was maintained until the end of the experiment (26 weeks). Affected glomeruli frequency and tubulointerstitial lesion index (TILI) were determined at Weeks 2 and 4 (EI) and Week 26 (EII). In EI, the 24 h mean proteinuria in the nephrotic control group (NCG-I) differed from that of the treated nephrotic group (TNG-I) at Week 1 (TNG = 33.3 +/- 6.39 mg/24 h; NCG = 59.8 +/- 6.3 mg/24 h; p < 0.05) and 2 (NCG-I = 80.0 +/- 17.5 mg/24 h; TNG-I = 49.1 +/- 8.4 mg/24 h; p < 0.05). No glomerular alterations were observed and TILI medians were not different in both nephrotic groups at week 2 (NCG-I = 1+: TNG = 1+) and 4 (NCG = 4+; TNG = 4+). In EII, NCG-II and TNG-II presented different 24 h proteinuria values only at Week 6, (136.91 +/- 22.23 mg/24 h and 72.66 +/- 10.72 mg/24 h, respectively; p < 0.05). Between nephrotic groups, there was no statistical difference in the median of affected glomeruli (CNG-II = 56%; TNG-II = 48%) and TILI (NCG-II = 8+; TNG-II = 9+). Thus, allopurinol was associated with a transient reduction in proteinuria and it did not alter the progression of the nephropathy.
Liver tumors from B6C3F1 mice induced by the potent peroxisome proliferator ciprofibrate, a hypolipidemic drug, were evaluated for the presence of transforming genes by the nude mouse tumorigenicity assay. As reported earlier, the tumors were not activated by a point mutation in codon 61 of H-ras. Two of the eight tumors examined contained a mutation in codon 13 or an H-ras gene mutated in codon 117. Screening of another 23 ciprofibrate-induced liver tumors by oligonucleotide hybridization analysis and direct DNA sequencing resulted in the identification of three tumor DNA samples with point mutations in codon 117 of the H-ras gene. In addition, another tumor sample contained a K-ras gene with a mutation in codon 61. Mutations in these codons have been seen only rarely in chemically induced liver tumors from this mouse strain. Of 15 spontaneous B6C3F1 liver tumors screened in the same manner, one exhibited a K-ras gene activated by a mutation in codon 13 and a second contained an H-ras gene activated by a mutation in codon 117. These ras gene mutations have not been reported previously from spontaneous liver tumors. The frequency and spectrum of ras oncogene mutations characterized in ciprofibrate-induced liver tumors differ significantly from the frequency and pattern identified in spontaneously occurring liver tumors. The results of this study with a limited number of samples suggest that ras protooncogene activation or activation of other protooncogenes that can be detected by the nude mouse tumorigenicity assay are not frequent events in the mechanism of carcinogenicity of the peroxisome proliferator ciprofibrate. However, the lower frequency and distinct pattern of H-ras mutations observed in these tumors disprove the assumption of promotion of spontaneous hepatocarcinogenesis by ciprofibrate.
Delirium has recently been shown as a predictor of death, increased cost, and longer duration of stay in ventilated patients. Sedative and analgesic medications relieve anxiety and pain but may contribute to patients' transitioning into delirium.
In this cohort study, the authors designed a priori an investigation to determine whether sedative and analgesic medications independently increased the probability of daily transition to delirium. Markov regression modeling (adjusting for 11 covariates) was used in the evaluation of 198 mechanically ventilated patients to determine the probability of daily transition to delirium as a function of sedative and analgesic dose administration during the previous 24 h.
Lorazepam was an independent risk factor for daily transition to delirium (odds ratio, 1.2 [95% confidence interval, 1.1-1.4]; P = 0.003), whereas fentanyl, morphine, and propofol were associated with higher but not statistically significant odds ratios. Increasing age and Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II scores were also independent predictors of transitioning to delirium (multivariable P values < 0.05).
Lorazepam administration is an important and potentially modifiable risk factor for transitioning into delirium even after adjusting for relevant covariates.
Norepinephrine-resistant hypotension when associated with septic shock has a high rate of mortality, which might possibly be reduced by infusion of low-dose vasopressin. However, rebound hypotension often arises after treatment is stopped, and the drug usually has to be administered for several days. We report use of terlipressin, a long-acting vasopressin analogue, in eight patients with septic shock who did not respond to corticosteroids and methylene blue. A significant rise in blood pressure that lasted for at least 5 h was seen in all patients after a single bolus, allowing reduction or cessation of norepinephrine administration in seven patients. We were able to discharge four patients from intensive care subsequently. Terlipressin seems to be an effective rescue therapy, which is able to restore blood pressure in patients with catecholamine-resistant septic shock, without obvious complication.
The effect of the ingestion of palatable fluids on the suppression of opioid withdrawals in the opioid-dependent rats was studied. Physical dependence was induced by administration of morphine over a period of 6 days. Withdrawals were precipitated with naloxone (1 mg/kg, s.c.) 4 h after the last morphine injection on the 6th day. Test drugs (10-30% sucrose solution) were given orally for 2 h prior to naloxone-induced withdrawal in 14 h water deprived rats. Somatic signs of withdrawals were scored by using the global Gellert-Holtzman rating scale. Animals pretreated with low doses of sucrose solution (10-15%) did not produce any effect on the global withdrawal scale whereas a significant decrease on the global withdrawal scores was observed at higher doses of sucrose solution (20-30%) as compared to the controls. All the individual behavioral signs of withdrawals were significantly suppressed in a dose-related manner at higher doses of sucrose solutions whereas minimal suppression was observed for facial fasciculation/teeth chattering. These findings provide support that ingestion of high concentrations of sucrose solutions for shorter duration may activate the endogenous opioid system and appears to have an important role in modifying morphine withdrawals.
Two children with Wilms' tumor and prior thoracic radiation developed congestive heart failure at cumulative adriamycin doses of 350 mg/m2 and 400 mg/m2. Details of these two cases and a summary of previously reported adriamycin cardiotoxicity in children are presented. Dose recommendations and predictive tests are discussed.
Exposure of hyperthyroid rats to halothane results in a centrilobular necrosis of the liver and an 11-fold increase in serum glutamate-pyruvate transaminase (SGPT) levels. These effects are not seen in euthyroid animals. Paradoxically, administration of diethylmaleate to hyperthyroid rats significantly decreased the levels of hepatic glutathione and blocked the halothane-induced hepatic necrosis as well as decreased the elevation of SGPT. In contrast, pretreatment of animals with N-acetylcysteine, an intracellular sulfhydryl repletor , significantly increased the severity of the halothane-induced hepatic necrosis and increased the elevation of SGPT. Similarly, cysteamine, another intracellular sulfhydryl repletor , also exacerbated halothane-induced liver injury. Halothane-induced hepatotoxicity is at least in part apparently regulated by cellular glutathione levels. Paradoxically, glutathione seems to be involved in the bioactivation rather than the detoxification of halothane.
Recently, we have described the antidyskinetic property of the GABA mimetic drug valproic acid on reserpine-induced oral dyskinesia, an animal model that has been related to tardive as well as acute dyskinesias, which are associated with important neuropathologies. The present study investigates the effects of different doses of the GABA mimetic anticonvulsant topiramate on the manifestation of reserpine-induced orofacial dyskinesia. Female EPM-M1 mice received two injections of control solution or of 0.5 mg/kg reserpine separated by 48 h. Twenty-four hours after the second reserpine or control solution injection, animals were acutely treated with control solution or topiramate (1, 3, 10 or 30 mg/kg) and were observed for quantification of oral dyskinesia or general activity in an open-field. In order to verify the effects of topiramate per se on oral dyskinesia or general activity, female EPM-M1 mice were acutely treated with control solution or 1, 3, 10 or 30 mg/kg topiramate and observed for quantification of oral dyskinesia and general activity. The highest dose of topiramate completely abolished the manifestation of reserpine-induced oral dyskinesia whereas the doses of 3 and 10 mg/kg significantly attenuated it. None of the doses of the anticonvulsant modified spontaneous locomotion frequency or oral movements, whereas spontaneous rearing frequency was decreased by 3, 10 and 30 mg/kg topiramate. The highest dose of topiramate did not modify general activity in reserpine-treated mice. These results support the potential therapeutic use of topiramate in the treatment of oral dyskinesias.
The use of antiepileptic agents for individuals with learning disabilities (mental handicap) resident both within National Health Service facilities and the community was surveyed in the UK. There was no difference in rates of polypharmacy, but there were significant differences in choice of antiepileptic agent. In particular, individuals resident in the community were more likely to be in receipt of phenytoin, primidone and phenobarbitone, which are particularly recognized as producing adverse effects on cognition and behaviour.
The relationships between environmental factors and the genetic abnormalities that drive carcinogenesis are supported by experimental and epidemiologic evidence but their molecular basis has not been fully elucidated. At the genomic level, most human cancers display either chromosomal (CIN) or microsatellite (MIN) instability. The molecular mechanisms through which normal cells acquire these forms of instability are largely unknown. The arylamine 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP) is a tobacco smoke constituent, an environmental contaminant, and a well-established carcinogen in humans. Among others, bladder, lung, colon, and breast cancers have been associated with 4-ABP. We have investigated the effects of 4-ABP and N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) on genetically stable colorectal (HCT116) and bladder (RT112) cancer cells. Cells were treated with carcinogens to generate resistant clones that were then subjected to genetic analysis to assess whether they displayed either CIN or MIN. We found that 50% to 60% of cells treated with 4-ABP developed CIN but none developed MIN as confirmed by their ability to gain and lose chromosomes. In contrast, all MNNG-treated clones (12/12) developed MIN but none developed CIN as shown by the microsatellite assay. The mismatch repair protein expression analysis suggests that the acquired mechanism of MIN resistance in the HCT116 MNNG-treated cells is associated with the reduction or the complete loss of MLH1 expression. By providing a mechanistic link between exposure to a tobacco constituent and the development of CIN, our results contribute to a better understanding of the origins of genetic instability, one of the remaining unsolved problems in cancer research.
Antihypertensive therapy has been shown to slow down the progression of chronic renal failure. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium antagonists have been emphasized as the agents with the most protective effect. Our previous study showed that captopril slowed down renal function deterioration in the early course of adriamycin (ADR) nephropathy in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). The present study was undertaken with the aim to examine morphologic changes associated with that slower renal function deterioration. Adult (24 weeks) female SHR were randomly divided into the following groups: the control group (n = 12) was given tap water to drink; the adriamycin (ADR) group (n = 25) was treated with ADR; the ADR-captopril (ADR-C) group (n = 27) was treated with ADR and thereafter with captopril (60 mg/kg/day). Rats were sacrificed at weeks 6, 12 and 18 and histologic analysis was semiquantitatively performed. In the control group the glomeruli exhibited only minor changes at the end of the study. In the ADR group slight glomerular mesangial hypercellularity appeared in the sixth week and progressed in focal and segmental sclerosis. Some glomeruli showed segmental proliferation and increased fibrular matrix of a tuft adherent to a fibrocellular crescents. In the ADR-C group, glomeruli with a slight increase of mesangial matrix were seen at the end of the sixth week, mesangial hypercellularity developed until the end of the sixth week, mesangial hypercellularity developed until the end of the 12th week and segmental glomerulosclerosis until the end of the study. Semiquantitative analysis revealed that the mean semiquantitative scores for mesangial expansion and glomerular sclerosis were significantly lower in ADR-C group than in ADR group throughout the study. We concluded that captopril slowed down mesangial expansion and reduced the development of glomerular sclerosis.
We investigated whether primary and secondary arsenic methylation ratios were associated with skin lesions and whether GSTT1, GSTP1, and GSTM1 polymorphisms modify these relationships.
A case-control study of 600 cases and 600 controls that were frequency matched on age and sex was conducted in Pabna, Bangladesh, in 2001-2002. Individual well water, urine, and blood samples were collected. Water arsenic concentration was determined using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Urinary arsenic speciation was determined using high performance liquid chromatography hydride with generator atomic absorption spectrometry and ICP-MS. Genotyping was conducted using multiplex polymerase chain reaction and TaqMan.
A 10-fold increase in primary methylation ratio [monomethylarsonic acid (MMA)/(arsenite + arsenate] was associated with a 1.50-fold increased risk of skin lesions (multivariate odds ratio = 1.50; 95% confidence interval, 1.00-2.26). We observed significant interaction on the multiplicative scale between GSTT1 wildtype and secondary methylation ratio [dimethylarsinic acid/MMA; likelihood ratio test (LRT), p = 0.01]. No significant interactions were observed for GSTM1 or GSTP1 or for primary methylation ratios.
Our findings suggest that increasing primary methylation ratios are associated with an increase in risk of arsenic-related skin lesions. The interaction between GSTT1 wildtype and secondary methylation ratio modifies risk of skin lesions among arsenic-exposed individuals.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been shown to attenuate the hypotensive actions of various antihypertensive agents. This experimental study in dogs was undertaken to find out whether NSAIDs modified the pharmacological actions of an antihypertensive drug, guanfacine. Indomethacin and enphenamic acid significantly prolonged the initial hypertensive response and blunted the subsequent hypotension produced by intravenous guanfacine. Ibuprofen and acetyl salicylic acid also interacted in a similar manner, but to a lesser extent. Phenylbutazone, on the other hand, caused a blunting of the pressor response and potentiated the hypotension following guanfacine. When indomethacin was given intracerebroventricularly, there was no interaction. These results suggest the necessity of monitoring hypertensive subjects taking guanfacine when NSAIDs are co-administered.
What is the risk of thrombolysis in patients with acute stroke who might recover without treatment? In the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke rt-PA for Acute Stroke Trial, 2.6% of patients taking placebo showed spontaneous 24-hour recovery, compared to 11.5% of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA)-treated patients (p < 0.001). There were no symptomatic ICH in the patients taking placebo; one hypertensive, rt-PA-treated patient hemorrhaged. Assuming the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke protocol is followed rigorously, patients with acute stroke rarely recover spontaneously and the thrombolytic risk is low.
Ultimately, patients with metastatic prostate cancer progress on androgen ablation therapy. The investigation of new chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC) is essential. The authors conducted a Phase II trial with vinorelbine, doxorubicin, and daily prednisone (NAP) to investigate the antitumor activity and palliative response of this regimen in patients with AIPC.
Forty-six patients entered this Phase II combination chemotherapy trial. Patients were treated with both vinorelbine and doxorubicin at doses of 20 mg/m2 on Days 1, 8, and 15 every 28 days and prednisone 5 mg twice daily. Endpoints included prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response and palliation, as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P) instrument, the Brief Pain Inventory Scale, and a narcotic analgesic log.
The median follow-up for all 46 patients was 13.4 months. Fifty-two percent of patients had impaired performance status at baseline. One responding patient remained on NAP and was progression-free at 11.5 months. Thirty-nine patients progressed, 3 patients died prior to response assessment, and 3 patients refused therapy. The median overall survival was 57 weeks (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 36-76 weeks), and the median time to disease progression was 17 weeks (range, 11-24 weeks). The PSA response among the 36 patients who completed 3 cycles of NAP was 42% (95% CI, 26-59%). There was a statistically significant improvement in quality of life measured both by the FACT-General instrument (P = .03) and the FACT-P instrument (P = .0006) over the 3 months compared with baseline measurements. Pain medicine use also improved: The median morphine equivalents among patients who were taking pain medications at the time of study enrollment showed a substantial decline after 1 cycle of treatment that was maintained. Pain (as assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory) improved compared with baseline pain at the 2nd-month assessment (worst pain, P = .08; least pain, P = .02; and average pain, P = .003). Overall, the regimen was tolerated well. The most common side effects were mild fatigue and gastrointestinal complaints (all of which were Grade 1 or 2 [according to Version 2.0 of the Expanded Common Toxicity Criteria]). Seventeen patients (37%) experienced Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia. Five patients (11%) developed a cardiac ejection fraction of <50% during treatment and had doxorubicin discontinued. No patients developed clinical congestive heart failure.
The NAP combination produced substantive palliation and a moderate response rate in men with AIPC.
Previous studies have indicated that some hypertensive patients, following a period of effective treatment with certain antihypertensive drugs, may experience prolonged normotension after drug withdrawal. We have studied the ability of carteolol, a nonselective beta-adrenoceptor antagonist with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, to produce such remissions of hypertension. Thirty-four patients whose diastolic blood pressure was controlled at 90 mm Hg or less with carteolol monotherapy (2.5 to 5.0 mg/d for an average of 328 days) were randomized to a nine-month, double-blind, placebo-controlled drug-withdrawal trial. Those patients randomized to continue carteolol therapy had initially responded to carteolol treatment with reduction in blood pressure from 151 +/- 4/99 +/- 2 to 132 +/- 4/80 +/- 2 mm Hg. Those randomized to treatment with placebo had initially responded with blood pressure reductions from 154 +/- 4/97 +/- 2 to 137 +/- 4/81 +/- 2 mm Hg. Changes in mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure (mm Hg +/- SEM) from baseline during carteolol therapy to the final visit at nine months were not different for patients receiving placebo (13 +/- 5/6 +/- 4 mm Hg, recumbent; 11 +/- 6/4 mm Hg, standing) or carteolol (11 +/- 5/7 +/- 3 mm Hg, recumbent; 12 +/- 6/7 +/- 3 mm Hg, standing). The final mean recumbent diastolic blood pressure (86.9 mm Hg) was the same in both groups. Prolonged normotension may follow a period of carteolol treatment, again suggesting the potential importance of periodic withdrawal of antihypertensive medication.
Our prior studies have indicated that ochratoxin A (OTA), a mycotoxin, has skin tumor initiating activity. In the present investigation, skin tumor promoting activity of OTA and the mechanism/(s) involved therein was undertaken. A single topical application of OTA (100 nmol/mouse) caused significant enhancement in short-term markers of skin tumor promotion such as ornithine decarboxylase activity, DNA synthesis, hyperplasia as well as expression of cyclin-D1 and COX-2 in mouse skin. In a two-stage mouse skin tumorigenesis protocol, twice-weekly exposure of OTA (50 nmol/mouse) to 7,12-dimethylbenz[α]anthracene (120 nmol/mouse) initiated mice skin for 24 weeks leads to tumor formation. Further, exposure of primary murine keratinocytes (PMKs) with non-cytotoxic dose of OTA (5.0 µM) caused (i) significant enhancement of DNA synthesis, (ii) enhanced phosphorylation and subsequent activation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and its downstream signaling pathways viz Akt, ERK1/2, p38 and JNK mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), (iii) overexpression of c-jun, c-fos, cyclin-D1 and COX-2 and (iv) increased binding of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) and AP-1 transcription factors to the promoter region of cyclin-D1 and COX-2 genes. It was also observed that knocking down the messenger RNA expression of NF-κB, c-jun, c-fos, cyclin-D1 and COX-2 results in significant inhibition in OTA-induced PMKs proliferation. These results suggest that OTA has cell proliferative and tumor-promoting potential in mouse skin, which involves EGFR-mediated MAPKs and Akt pathways along with NF-κB and AP-1 transcription factors and that cyclin-D1 and COX-2 are the target genes responsible for tumor-promoting activity of OTA.
The purpose of this investigation was to determine whether the neurotoxicity of theophylline is altered in advanced pregnancy. Sprague-Dawley rats that were 20 days pregnant and nonpregnant rats of the same age and strain received infusions of aminophylline until onset of maximal seizures which occurred after 28 and 30 minutes respectively. Theophylline concentrations at this endpoint in serum (total) and CSF were similar but serum (free) and brain concentrations were slightly different in pregnant rats. Theophylline serum protein binding determined by equilibrium dialysis was lower in pregnant rats. Fetal serum concentrations at onset of seizures in the mother were similar to maternal brain and CSF concentrations and correlated significantly with the former. It is concluded that advanced pregnancy has a negligible effect on the neurotoxic response to theophylline in rats.
