This study was undertaken to investigate the protective effects of melatonin against formaldehyde-induced neurotoxicity in prefrontal cortex of rats. For this purpose, 21 male Wistar rats were divided into three groups. The rats in Group I were used as a control, while the rats in Group II were injected every other day with formaldehyde. The rats in Group III received melatonin daily while exposed to formaldehyde. At the end of 14-day experimental period, all rats were killed by decapitation. The brains of the rats were removed and the prefrontal cortex tissues were obtained from all brain specimens. Some of the prefrontal cortex tissue specimens were used for determination of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels. The remaining prefrontal cortex tissue specimens were used for immunohistochemical evaluation. The levels of SOD and GSH-Px were significantly decreased, and MDA levels, were significantly increased in rats treated with formaldehyde compared with those of the controls. In the immunohistochemical evaluation of this group, apoptotic cells were observed. However, increased SOD and GSH-Px enzyme activities, and decreased MDA levels, were detected in the rats administered melatonin while exposed to formaldehyde. Furthermore, apoptotic changes caused by formaldehyde were decreased in these rats. The results of our study suggest that melatonin treatment prevents formaldehyde-induced neuronal damage in prefrontal cortex.
The hemodynamic effects of CGP 17582 B, a new cardio-selective beta-blocking agent with moderate intrinsic sympathomimetic activity and minimal effects on myocardial contractility, were studied in patients after cardiac surgery for coronary artery bypass graft. Each patient had been treated preoperatively with beta-blocking agents and had a cineangiographic left ventricular ejection fraction between 40 and 60%. Fourteen patients were randomized to receive either 10 mg of propranolol or 50 mg of CGP 17582 B orally. Both drugs resulted in a significant and a similar decrease in heart rate. However, this was associated with a significant decrease in stroke volume after propranolol but not after CGP 17582 B, so that cardiac output significantly decreased only after propranolol. Thermodilution right ventricular ejection fraction significantly decreased after propranolol but not after CGP 17582 B. Each drug was well tolerated during the 10 following days and the recovery was uneventful in each patient. These results indicate that CGP 17582 B is a promising beta-blocking agent susceptible to reduce heart rate without altering cardiovascular function after cardiac surgery.
Chronic myeloid leukemia is effectively treated with imatinib, but reactivation of BCR-ABL frequently occurs through acquisition of kinase domain mutations. The additional approved ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) nilotinib and dasatinib, along with investigational TKIs such as ponatinib (AP24534) and DCC-2036, support the possibility that mutation-mediated resistance in chronic myeloid leukemia can be fully controlled; however, the molecular events underlying resistance in patients lacking BCR-ABL point mutations are largely unknown. We previously reported on an insertion/truncation mutant, BCR-ABL(35INS), in which structural integrity of the kinase domain is compromised and all ABL sequence beyond the kinase domain is eliminated. Although we speculated that BCR-ABL(35INS) is kinase-inactive, recent reports propose this mutant contributes to ABL TKI resistance. We present cell-based and biochemical evidence establishing that BCR-ABL(35INS) is kinase-inactive and does not contribute to TKI resistance, and we find that detection of BCR-ABL(35INS) does not consistently track with or explain resistance in clinical samples from chronic myeloid leukemia patients.
A 55-year-old woman developed symptoms suggestive of hepatitis 12 weeks after first receiving methyldopa for hypertension. Liver biopsy showed chronic aggressive hepatitis with subacute hepatic necrosis. Methyldopa was discontinued, but after exhibiting transient clinical improvement, the patient's condition progressively deteriorated until she died of hepatic failure, in spite of therapy with massive doses of corticosteroids and other nonspecific measures. During the terminal stage, a considerable decrease in the size of the liver was observed. At autopsy, the liver was found to be small, shrunken, and scarred; histological sections demonstrated postnecrotic cirrhosis. Such a rapid and relentless progression of methyldopa-induced liver injury is undoubtedly rare, but it may be prevented by careful supervision of patients who exhibit liver function abnormalities early in the course of therapy.
Z alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency is a genetic disease associated with accumulation of misfolded AAT in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of hepatocytes. ZAAT-expressing cells display ER stress responses including nuclear factor kappaB activation and apoptosis. Using an in vitro model of ZAAT ER accumulation, we investigated the mechanism of ZAAT-mediated ER-induced apoptosis and evaluated methods to inhibit this process. Here we demonstrate that expression of ZAAT, but not normal MAAT, in HEK293 cells leads to cleavage and activation of caspase-4 and induces apoptosis that is characterized by activation of caspase-3 and caspase-7 and DNA fragmentation. Similar effects are also induced using the ER agonist thapsigargin. A caspase-4-specific short interfering RNA (siRNA) does not impair ZAAT-induced caspase-3/7 activation or cell death in these cells. However, inhibition studies performed using tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA) demonstrate its ability to inhibit caspase-4 and caspase-3/7 activation, mitochondrial cytochrome c release, and caspase-3 cleavage induced by ZAAT and to promote cell survival. The mechanism by which TUDCA (tauroursodeoxycholic acid) promotes cell survival in ZAAT-expressing cells involves phosphorylation and inactivation of the proapoptotic factor Bad. TUDCA is unable to rescue cells from apoptosis or phosphorylate Bad in the presence of LY294002, a selective P-I-3-kinase inhibitor.
These data show that caspase-4 is not essential for ZAAT-induced apoptosis in HEK293 cells and implicates P-I-3-kinase and Bad as potential therapeutic targets for the liver disease associated with ZAAT deficiency.
Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is a novel member of the tumor necrosis factor superfamily of cytokines that induces cell death by apoptosis. TRAIL has been shown to be effective in almost two-thirds of solid tumors tested thus far, but its effect on pancreatic cancer cells is unknown. We tested the effect of TRAIL on seven human pancreatic cancer cell lines (HPAF, Panc1, Miapaca2, Bxpc3, Panc89, SW979, and Aspc1) in vitro. Of these cell lines, all but Aspc1 showed a significant dose-dependent increase in apoptosis. The apoptotic rate, as detected by a terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling assay, was highest in Bxpc3 (71.5%), followed by HPAF (38.0%), Miapaca2 (24.9%), Panc1 (16.1%), Panc89 (15.8%), SW979 (13.9%), and Aspc1 (5.2%). Multiple treatments were more effective than a single treatment and caused a sustained and profound cell death in all but Aspc1 cells. There was no correlation between the effect of TRAIL and the differentiation grade of the cell lines, p53 mutation, or bcl-2 or bax expression. The resistance of Aspc1 cells to TRAIL was not related to the lack of TRAIL receptors. The combination of actinomycin D and TRAIL induced an almost complete lysis of Aspc1 cells, whereas actinomycin D alone had no effect on cell survival but inhibited the expression of the Flice inhibitory protein, which is assumed to play a role in the apoptotic pathway of TRAIL. Thus, the combination of actinomycin D and TRAIL appears to be a promising approach for the therapy of pancreatic cancers resistant to TRAIL.
Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers protect endothelial cells against ischemia and reperfusion injury, suggesting that nifedipine may increase the in vivo cardiac NO level and thus coronary blood flow (CBF) in ischemic hearts. We tested this hypothesis.
In open-chest dogs, coronary perfusion pressure (CPP) was reduced in the left anterior descending coronary artery so that CBF decreased to one third of the control level, and thereafter CPP was maintained constant (103+/-8 to 43+/-3 mm Hg, n=9). We obtained fractional shortening (FS) and lactate extraction ratio (LER) as indices of regional myocardial contraction and metabolism. Both FS (26.4+/-2.1% to 6.7+/-2.0%, n=9, P<0.001) and LER (32+/-6% to -37+/-5%, n=9, P<0.001) showed a decrease when CPP was reduced. After intracoronary infusion of nifedipine (4 microgram. kg(-1). min(-1)), CBF increased from 30+/-1 to 48+/-4 mL. 100 g(-1). min(-1) (P<0.01) without a change of CPP (n=9). Both FS (14.0+/-1.9%, n=9) and LER (-9+/-7%, n=9) also increased (P<0.01). Nifedipine increased the difference in the level of metabolites of NO (nitrate+nitrite; 9+/-3 to 25+/-5 nmol/mL, n=9, P<0.01) and bradykinin (22+/-5 to 58+/-4 pmol/mL, n=9, P<0.01) between coronary venous and arterial blood. L-NAME (an NO synthase inhibitor) or HOE-140 (a bradykinin receptor antagonist) attenuated (P<0.05) the increase in CBF (29+/-3 and 35+/-2 mL. 100 g(-1). min(-1), n=5 each), FS (4.8+/-0.6% and 6.9+/-1.7%, n=5 each), LER (-47+/-8% and -35+/-9%, n=5 each), and nitrate+nitrite (3+/-2 and 8+/-4 nmol/mL, n=5 each) due to nifedipine infusion.
These results indicate that the calcium channel blocker nifedipine mediates coronary vasodilation and improves myocardial ischemia through both bradykinin/NO-dependent and -independent mechanisms.
Velo-cardio-facial-syndrome (VCFS) is a common congenital disorder associated with typical facial appearance, cleft palate, cardiac defects, and learning disabilities. The majority of patients have an interstitial deletion on chromosome 22q11. In addition to physical abnormalities, a variety of psychiatric illnesses have been reported in patients with VCFS, including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. The psychiatric manifestations of VCFS could be due to haploin-sufficiency of a gene(s) within 22q11. One candidate that has been mapped to this region is catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). We recently identified a polymorphism in the COMT gene that leads to a valine-->methionine substitution at amino acid 158 of the membrane-bound form of the enzyme. Homozygosity for COMT158met leads to a 3-4-fold reduction in enzymatic activity, compared with homozygotes for COMT158val. We now report that in a population of patients with VCFS, there is an apparent association between the low-activity allele, COMT158met, and the development of bipolar spectrum disorder, and in particular, a rapid-cycling form.
Previous studies reveal a dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity of the C57B1/6J mouse after administration of morphine or amphetamine. Concurrent partial lesions of both the dorsomedial caudate and lateral septal nuclei resulted in a significant decrease in morphine-induced, but not amphetamine-induced, hyperactivity. Concurrent partial lesions of the nucleus accumbens and stria terminalis produced only a nonsignificant decrease in the morphine-induced hyperactivity. Lesions of the individual brain structures did not significantly affect the morphine-induced locomotor hyperactivity. Microinjections of the opiate antagonist naloxone into discrete portions of the caudate and septal nuclei produced suppression of the morphine-induced hyperactivity response without affecting the hyperactivity caused by amphetamine injections. Only a slight suppression of morphine-induced locomotion was produced when naloxone was injected into the nucleus accumbens and stria terminalis. These data suggest that portions of the caudate and septum may be involved in the mediation of morphine-induced hyperactivity in the C57B1/6J mouse.
Exposure to unopposed estrogen is a potent risk factor for developing human endometrial cancer. However, little is known about the transcriptional changes elicited by estrogens in endometrial carcinogenesis, in part, because of genetic and environmental heterogeneity of human tumors. We have begun to chart the expression signatures of endometrial tumors promoted with the synthetic estrogen, diethylstilbestrol (DES), in inbred mice. As expected, laser-capture-microdissected endometrial cancers from DES-treated mice displayed a large number of transcriptional changes when compared to uninvolved endometrial epithelium. Genes differentially expressed in carcinomas included cell adhesion and extracellular matrix genes (Decorin as 1 example), developmental genes (Hoxa11), and cytokine signaling genes (Socs3). The DES-promoted carcinomas appeared to fall into 2 distinct transcriptional classes, and expression of the tumor suppressor Pten was among the top discriminators between the 2 cancer groups. Pten was down regulated in the majority of the DES-promoted carcinomas, which is analogous to the frequent loss of PTEN expression in human endometrial tumors. Although preliminary, these observations suggest that the cancers that arise in the DES model bear similarities to human endometrial cancers and provide insights into transcriptional alterations that accompany estrogen-driven endometrial carcinogenesis.
Intrathecal fluorescein injection has a long history of use by surgeons to determine the exact site of a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak from the skull base. This method, however accurate, is not without complications. We present a case of grand mal and absence seizure after intrathecal fluorescein injection and discuss the possible aetiological factors. We also review the articles in the diagnostic methods for the CSF rhinorrhoea and the complications of the intrathecal fluorescein injection.
Cisplatin and its analogue carboplatin have been shown to cause dose-dependent growth inhibition throughout a wide dose range in the ovarian cancer cell lines OVCAR-3, 2780, HTB-77, and CRL-1572 tested. Cisplatin was 30 times more effective than carboplatin. The combination of both substances led to a less-than-synergistic effect, as was revealed by an isobologram in the OVCAR-3 cell line. Because of the different toxicity pattern, cisplatin and carboplatin theoretically are ideal candidates for combination chemotherapy in platinum-sensitive tumors.
In a Phase II study, the efficacy, the toxicity profile, and the feasibility of combining both substances were assessed in 20 previously untreated patients with ovarian cancer. The regimen consisted of carboplatin (300 mg/m2) on day 1, followed by cisplatin (100 mg/m2) on day 2 every 4 weeks.
A total of 81 cycles were administered (median, 4 cycles; range, 1-6 cycles); four patients experienced complete remission and three experienced clinical partial remissions. Limiting toxicities were thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and ototoxicity. The mean (+/- standard deviation [SD]) carboplatin and cisplatin dose intensities (DI) reached during the first four cycles of therapy were 58 mg/m2/week (+/- 18 mg/m2/week) and 21 mg/m2/week (+/- 7 mg/m2/week), respectively, which corresponded closely to the projected DI of 75 and 25 mg/m2/week, respectively. Based on the equivalence ratio of 4:1, the DI of carboplatin has been converted into the respective cisplatin DI, resulting in a total DI estimate. The overall DI of 37 mg/m2/week (+/- 14 mg/m2/week) was close to the projected one of 44 mg/m2/week.
Combining cisplatin with carboplatin was found to represent a feasible and efficacious therapeutic strategy for increasing platinum dose intensity.
Organophosphorus (OP) pesticides poison more than 3,000,000 people every year in the developing world, mostly through intentional self-poisoning. Advances in medical therapy for OP poisoning have lagged, and current treatment is not highly effective with mortality of up to 40% in even the most advanced Western medical facilities. Administration of a broadly active bacterial OP hydrolase to patients in order to hydrolyze OPs in circulation might allow current therapies to be more effective. The objective of this work was to evaluate the efficacy of a new recombinant bacterial OP hydrolase (OpdA), cloned from Agrobacterium radiobacter, in rat models of two chemically distinct but highly toxic and rapidly acting OP pesticides: dichlorvos and parathion. Without OpdA treatment, median time to death in rats poisoned with 3x LD(50) of dichlorvos or parathion was 6 min and 25.5 min, respectively. Administration of a single dose of OpdA immediately after dichlorvos resulted in 100% survival at 24h, with no additional antidotal therapy. After parathion poisoning, OpdA alone caused only a delay to death. However, an additional two doses of OpdA resulted in 62.5% survival at 24 h after parathion poisoning. In combination with pralidoxime therapy, a single dose of OpdA increased survival to 75% after parathion poisoning. Our results demonstrate that OpdA is able to improve survival after poisoning by two chemically distinct and highly toxic OP pesticides.
It is unknown whether endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) with estrogenic activities have any modifying effects on uterine carcinogenesis. In our previous study, we established a uterine-carcinogenesis model that is useful for detecting tumor-modifying effects of EDCs by the administration of N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) to female heterozygous p53-deficient CBA mice [p53 (+/-) mice]. To investigate the effects of ethinylestradiol (EE) and methoxychlor (MXC) on development of ENU-induced uterine tumors, female p53 (+/-) mice and their wild-type littermates [p53 (+/+) mice] received an intraperitoneal injection of 120 mg/kg body weight (bw) of ENU, followed, in Group 1, by no further treatment; in Group 2, by a diet containing 1 ppm EE; in Group 3, by a diet containing 5 ppm EE for 4 weeks and 2.5 ppm EE thereafter; and in Group 4, by a diet containing 2000 ppm MXC for 26 weeks. Uterine proliferative lesions that were induced were composed of both endometrial-stromal and epithelial-cell types. Endometrial stromal sarcomas were induced in p53 (+/-) mice of Groups 1 to 4, and the incidence (87%) in Group 3 was significantly increased compared to Group 1 (47%). Atypical hyperplasias (clear-cell type) of the endometrial gland in p53 (+/-) mice were seen at incidences of 0, 14, 60, and 0% in Groups 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively, while their incidence in p53 (+/+) mice was 0, 7, 53, and 0%, respectively, with a significant difference between Groups 1 and 3 in both cases. One p53 (+/-) mouse in Group 3 also had an adenocarcinoma consisting of clear cells, and the PCNA labeling indices of the clear-cell atypical hyperplasias, and this endometrial adenocarcinoma, were higher than those of glandular hyperplasias. The present study suggests that 2.5 ppm EE, but not MXC, exerts tumor-promoting effects on stromal and epithelial proliferative lesions of the uteri in p53 (+/-) mice initiated with ENU.
The putative anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive activity of the heptapeptide somatostatin analogue TT-232 ( D-Phe-Cys-Tyr- D-Thr-Lys-Cys-Thr-NH(2)) was investigated in the rat and mouse, as well as its effect on neuropathic hyperalgesia, gastric ulceration and the release of sensory neuropeptides. In the rat, carrageenin-induced paw oedema was inhibited dose dependently by TT-232 (3x2.5-20 microg/kg i.v.). Evans blue accumulation induced by intraarticular bradykinin injection (0.5 nmol in 0.1 ml) was slightly, but significantly inhibited by a single TT-232 dose (5-20 microg/kg). Cutaneous neutrophil accumulation over a 3-h period after intradermal (i.d.) injection of carrageenin (1 mg/site) or interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta, 3 pmol/site) was inhibited significantly by TT-232 (3x80 microg/kg i.v.), while diclofenac (3x10 mg/kg i.v.) elicited significant inhibition only in the IL-1beta test. In the mouse, TT-232 potently decreased oedema formation induced by 2.5% capsaicin applied topically to the ear. Mechano-nociception in the rat hind-paw during neuropathic pain induced by partial sciatic nerve injury (model of Seltzer) was measured using the Randall-Selitto test. TT-232 (5-20 microg/kg i.p. on the 7th day after the operation) dose-dependently inhibited the mechano-nociceptive hyperalgesia. In vitro release of substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and somatostatin from the isolated rat trachea in response to electrical field stimulation (40 V, 0.1 ms, 10 Hz, 120 s) of its nervous elements was inhibited significantly by 500 nM TT-232. The role of G protein-coupled receptors in the effect of TT-232 was indicated by the prevention of its inhibitory action on the release of sensory neuropeptides by incubation the tissue for 1 or 6 h with pertussis toxin (100 ng/ml). The release of sensory neuropeptides to in response to electrical nerve stimulation was not inhibited by a potent tyrosine kinase inhibitor, genistein (50 microM). TT-232 (up to 5 mg/kg i.p.) did not induce mucosal lesions in either the stomach or the duodenum. These data suggest that TT-232, a somatostatin analogue devoid of endocrine effects, is a promising lead molecule in the search for novel, broad-spectrum anti-inflammatory and analgesic agents.
Methadone, a pharmacological agent used to treat heroin dependence is relatively safe, but may cause cardiac arrhythmias in the concurrent presence of other risk factors. APPROACH AND KEY FINDINGS: This case report highlights the risk of torsade de pointes, a life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia, in a heroin-dependent patient receiving methadone substitution therapy who was prescribed itraconazole for vaginal thrush. The patient presented to the accident and emergency department for chest discomfort and an episode of syncope following two doses of itraconazole (200 mg). Electrocardiogram monitoring at the accident and emergency department showed prolonged rate-corrected QT interval leading to torsade de pointes. The patient was admitted for cardiac monitoring, and electrocardiogram returned to normal upon discontinuation of methadone.
This cardiac arrhythmia was most likely as a result of a drug interaction between methadone and itraconazole because the patient presented with no other risk factors.
Given the benefits of methadone as a substitution treatment for heroin-dependent individuals, the association between methadone and cardiac arrhythmias is of great concern. Physicians treating heroin-dependent patients on methadone substitution therapy should therefore be cautious of the potential risk of drug interactions that may lead to fatal cardiac arrhythmias.
Nicotine is a main constituent of cigarette smoke and smokeless tobacco, known to increase the risk of sudden cardiac death. This study aimed at establishing ionic mechanisms underlying potential electrophysiological effects of nicotine.
Effects of nicotine on Kv4.3 and Kv4.2 channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes were studied at the whole-cell and single-channel levels. The effects of nicotine on the transient outward K(+) current (I:(to)) were studied by use of whole-cell patch-clamp techniques in canine ventricular myocytes. Nicotine potently inhibited Kv4 current. The concentration for half-maximal inhibition (IC(50)) was 40+/-4 nmol/L, and the current was abolished by 100 micromol/L nicotine. The IC(50) for block of native I:(to) was 270+/-43 nmol/L. The steady-state activation properties of Kv4.3 and I:(to) were unaltered by nicotine, whereas positive shifts of the inactivation curves were observed. Of the total inhibition of Kv4.3 and I:(to) by nicotine, 40% was due to tonic block and 60% was attributable to use-dependent block. Activation, inactivation, and reactivation kinetics were not significantly changed by nicotine. Nicotine reduced single-channel conductance, open probability, and open time but increased the closed time of Kv4.3. The effects of nicotine were not altered by antagonists to various neurotransmitter receptors, indicating direct effects on I:(to) channels.
Nicotine is a potent inhibitor of cardiac A-type K(+) channels, with blockade probably due to block of closed and open channels. This action may contribute to the ability of nicotine to affect cardiac electrophysiology and induce arrhythmias.
Dobutamine (and dopamine) are potent positive inotropic drugs which are frequently given to treat decompensated congestive heart failure. This study reports on the use of ambulatory dobutamine (and dopamine) infusions in 21 outpatients with advanced congestive heart failure. Each patient was initially hospitalized, and hemodynamic and clinical efficacy to dobutamine (and dopamine) was assessed. These 21 patients were carefully selected from a larger population of approximately 40 patients referred for this therapy. Chronic venous access was established and a drug infusion pump was supplied. Patients and family members were trained in the use of these devices. Eleven patients were treated with intermittent dobutamine infusions for 48 consecutive hours weekly, six patients with continuous (i.e., 24 hours daily) dobutamine infusions, and four patients with continuous, daily dobutamine and dopamine infusions. Significant (p less than 0.001) increases in cardiac index (1.8 +/- 0.6 to 2.7 +/- 0.7 L/min/m2) occurred during the initial dobutamine titrations. Functional classification (3.8 +/- 0.4 to 2.8 +/- 0.7) also improved significantly (p less than 0.01) during the 1.8 to 24 (mean 7.8) months of outpatient infusion therapy with dobutamine (and dopamine). Complications during outpatient therapy included drug tolerance (two instances), infection (two with bacteremias, eight with exit site infections), drug extravasation (three instances), and pump malfunction (two instances). Twenty patients have died: eleven from heart failure, four suddenly (one of them 9 months after dobutamine was stopped), and five from noncardiac causes. Our data suggest that outpatient dobutamine (and dopamine) infusions may be an effective form of therapy for selected patients with severe congestive failure who are refractory to more conventional treatment or who are awaiting cardiac transplantation.
Twenty-three patients taking lithium carbonate alone in therapeutic dosage for a mean period of 43 months (range 6--108 months) and 23 control subjects matched for age and sex had the frequency and amplitude of postural tremor measured and extrapyramidal symptoms assessed by standard techniques. Patients on lithium had a significantly lower peak frequency of tremor than control subjects (P less than 0.05) and significantly greater extrapyramidal symptoms (P less than 0.01), indicating that tremor appearing after chronic lithium therapy is likely to be an extrapyramidal symptom. Such symptoms are common long-term adverse effects of lithium carbonate.
The haemodynamic effects of nifedipine (20 mg sublingually) were studied in 40 patients with acute myocardial infarction within 18 h of the onset of symptoms. To determine the influence of preload and afterload on the haemodynamic response to nifedipine, patients were prospectively stratified equally into four groups of 10 patients based on systemic blood pressure level (less than or greater than 160/100 mm Hg) and level of left ventricular filling pressure [pulmonary artery-occluded pressure (PAOP) less than or greater than 18 mm Hg]. In all groups, nifedipine reduced systemic arterial pressure (p less than 0.01) and vascular resistance index (p less than 0.01); heart rate (p less than 0.01) and cardiac index (p less than 0.01) were increased. PAOP was reduced by nifedipine only in those hypertensive patients in whom it was initially raised; in these patients cardiac stroke volume index also increased (p less than 0.01). In hypertensive patients with normal PAOP the cardiac stroke work index was reduced. In patients with normal systemic and pulmonary arterial pressures, nifedipine had no beneficial effects on cardiac function. These data suggested that haemodynamic criteria may allow selection of patients for nifedipine therapy following myocardial infarction; clear advantages were evident only in hypertensive patients in both the presence and the absence of left ventricular failure.
Hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion (ILP) (2 mg, TNF-alpha and 100mg, melphalan) was performed for an irresectable right thigh desmoid tumor with calf extension in a 49-year-old man. The patient had a history of four resections since the age of 19 years. Local ILP toxicity appeared with extensive edema and common peroneal neurologic impairment including paresis that remained severe 10 months later. One of the most troublesome side effects of perfusion is peripheral nerve damage, which has been reported at a rate of between 1 and 48% of perfused patients. ILP is an effective treatment in recurrence situations or where resection threatens loss of function; it, however, requires administration in specialized centers, progress in standardization and close monitoring to avoid locoregional toxicity, the mechanisms of which merit further investigation. Emergency compartmental pressure measurement may indicate fasciotomy, can be of great interest.
The neuromodulator adenosine, acting through activation of four defined metabotropic receptors called A(1), A(2A), A(2B) and A(3,) has been proposed as an endogenous anticonvulsant. Here, the consequences of deleting the adenosine A(2A) receptor have been examined in different experimental models of epilepsy. A(2A)R KO mice were not protected against seizures originating from brainstem structures, namely electroshock-induced seizures. The intensities of seizures induced by pentylenetetrazol or pilocarpine, as well as the percentages of convulsing mice, were significantly reduced in A(2A) receptor knockout (A(2A)R KO) animals. A(2A)R KO mice exhibited reduced pentylenetetrazol-induced kindled seizures, demonstrating an important role of the A(2A) receptor in the acquisition of kindling. These data suggest that adenosine stimulating A(2A) receptors modulates excitatory neurotransmission and exacerbates limbic seizures. It is therefore suggested that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists might offer protection from some epileptic syndromes.
Studies were made on the effects of butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), ethoxyquin (EQ) and acetaminophen (AAP) on the induction of neoplastic lesions in the liver and kidney of rats initiated by N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethylnitrosamine (EHEN). The number and area of histochemical gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase-positive (gamma-GT+) foci per unit area of liver section in rats given BHA, EQ or AAP were significantly less than in rats given EHEN alone. Similarly, the number of hyperplastic nodules (HN) in groups given BHA or AAP and their area in groups given BHA, EQ or AAP were significantly less than in control groups. Induction of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) was also clearly inhibited by these three chemicals. No liver lesions were found in any animals given BHA, EQ or AAP orally without EHEN. In contrast, the incidence and quantitative values of preneoplastic lesions and renal cell adenoma were significantly increased in groups given BHA, EQ or AAP. The results clearly demonstrated that BHA, EQ and AAP inhibited the development of gamma-GT+ foci, HN and HCC, whereas they enhanced the appearance of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions in the kidney.
20 consecutive adult patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia were treated with an intense induction regimen including vincristine, doxorubicin, prednisolone, L-asparaginase and cyclophosphamide. 16 patients (80%) achieved complete remission and were then given CNS prophylaxis and 3 years of maintenance therapy. With minimum follow-up of 24 months, the median duration of first remission is 37+ months. Out of 10 patients who have completed maintenance therapy, 2 have relapsed after 14 and 22 months, respectively, and 7 are in continuous complete remission 1+-55+ months off therapy.
It has been shown, that aluminum getting into the organism with drinking water in relatively low doses (0.025 mg/kg and higher) produces neurotoxic and mutagenic effects. The data of the investigations substantiate the necessity to correct the maximum allowable level of aluminum in drinking water.
