To investigate the effects of the antioxidant Tempol on prevention and reversal of adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)-induced hypertension in the rat, a model of hypertension characterized by nitric oxide deficiency.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 10 in each group) were treated with either saline or ACTH (0.2 mg/kg per day, s.c.) for 12 days. Tempol (1 mmol/l in drinking water) treatment was started on either day 8 (T8) of ACTH or saline treatment (reversal study), or 4 days prior to ACTH or saline treatment (prevention study). Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured using tail-cuff sphygmomanometry. Plasma F2-isoprostanes, a marker of oxidative stress, were measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
ACTH increased SBP (mean +/- SEM: 119 +/- 5 to 147 +/- 7 mmHg, P < 0.0005) and plasma F2-isoprostane concentration (8.4 +/- 1.2 saline versus 12.9 +/- 1.6 nmol/l ACTH, P < 0.05). Tempol alone did not alter SBP, but administration of Tempol on T8 reversed ACTH-induced hypertension (from 134 +/- 4 T8 to 118 +/- 3 mmHg, P < 0.005). Tempol pre-treatment partially prevented ACTH-induced hypertension (123 +/- 2 mmHg, P' < 0.05). However, Tempol had no effect on F2-isoprostane concentrations at the dose used in this study.
ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat is associated with increased oxidative stress. Tempol treatment reversed, and pretreatment partially prevented ACTH-induced hypertension, independent of improvement in systemic oxidative stress.
Excitatory amino acid toxicity, resulting from overactivation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors, is a major mechanism of neuronal cell death in acute and chronic neurological diseases. We have investigated whether excitotoxicity may occur in peripheral organs, causing tissue injury, and report that NMDA receptor activation in perfused, ventilated rat lungs triggered acute injury, marked by increased pressures needed to ventilate and perfuse the lung, and by high-permeability edema. The injury was prevented by competitive NMDA receptor antagonists or by channel-blocker MK-801, and was reduced in the presence of Mg2+. As with NMDA toxicity to central neurons, the lung injury was nitric oxide (NO) dependent: it required L-arginine, was associated with increased production of NO, and was attenuated by either of two NO synthase inhibitors. The neuropeptide vasoactive intestinal peptide and inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase also prevented this injury, but without inhibiting NO synthesis, both acting by inhibiting a toxic action of NO that is critical to tissue injury. The findings indicate that: (i) NMDA receptors exist in the lung (and probably elsewhere outside the central nervous system), (ii) excessive activation of these receptors may provoke acute edematous lung injury as seen in the "adult respiratory distress syndrome," and (iii) this injury can be modulated by blockade of one of three critical steps: NMDA receptor binding, inhibition of NO synthesis, or activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase.
Fourteen patients with extensive disease small cell bronchogenic carcinoma (SCBC) received ifosfamide at 2,000 mg/m2/day for 5 consecutive days with simultaneous mesna and vincristine while 26 patients with extensive disease non-small-cell bronchogenic carcinoma (N-SCBC) received the same regimen without vincristine. Eight partial responses (57%) were observed with a 40-week median survival in the case of SCBC and four partial remissions (15%) with a 31-week median survival in N-SCBC. Granulocytopenia was the dose-limiting toxicity, whereas urotoxicity was well controlled with mesna. Neuropsychiatric toxicity consisted of anxiety, agitation, confusion, and hallucination. Neurobehavioral testing detected worsened performance during ifosfamide treatment. Ifosfamide is one of the few active agents in N-SCBC.
Common carp (Cyprinus carpio), black bass (Micropterus spp.), and channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) were collected from 14 sites in the Colorado River Basin (CRB) to document spatial trends in accumulative contaminants, health indicators, and reproductive biomarkers. Organochlorine residues, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin-like activity (TCDD-EQ), and elemental contaminants were measured in composite samples of whole fish, grouped by species and gender, from each site. Selenium (Se) and mercury (Hg) concentrations in fish were elevated throughout the CRB, and pesticide concentrations were greatest in fish from agricultural areas in the Lower Colorado River and Gila River. Selenium concentrations exceeded toxicity thresholds for fish (>1.0 microg/g ww) at all CRB sites except the Gila River at Hayden, Arizona. Mercury concentrations were elevated (>0.1 microg/g ww) in fish from the Yampa River at Lay, Colorado; the Green River at Ouray National Wildlife Refuge (NWR), Utah and San Rafael, Utah; the San Juan River at Hogback Diversion, New Mexico; and the Colorado River at Gold Bar Canyon, Utah, Needles, California, and Imperial Dam, Arizona. Concentrations of p,p'-DDE were relatively high in fish from the Gila River at Arlington, Arizona (>1.0 microg/g ww) and Phoenix, Arizona (>0.5 microg/g ww). Concentrations of other formerly used pesticides including toxaphene, total chlordanes, and dieldrin were also greatest at these two sites but did not exceed toxicity thresholds. Currently used pesticides such as Dacthal, endosulfan, gamma-HCH, and methoxychlor were also greatest in fish from the Gila River downstream of Phoenix. Total polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs; >0.11 microg/g ww) and TCDD-EQs (>5 pg/g ww) exceeded wildlife guidelines in fish from the Gila River at Phoenix. Hepatic ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activity was also relatively high in carp from the Gila River at Phoenix and in bass from the Green River at Ouray NWR. Fish from some sites showed evidence of contaminant exposure as indicated by fish health indicators and reproductive biomarker results. Multiple health indicators including altered body and organ weights and high health assessment index scores may be associated with elevated Se concentrations in fish from the Colorado River at Loma, Colorado and Needles. Although grossly visible external or internal lesions were found on most fish from some sites, histopathological analysis determined many of these to be inflammatory responses associated with parasites. Edema, exophthalmos, and cataracts were noted in fish from sites with elevated Se concentrations. Intersex fish were found at seven of 14 sites and included smallmouth bass (M. dolomieu), largemouth bass (M. salmoides), catfish, and carp and may indicate exposure to endocrine disrupting compounds. A high proportion of smallmouth bass from the Yampa River at Lay (70%) was intersex but the cause of this condition is unknown. Male carp, bass, and catfish with low concentrations of vitellogenin were common in the CRB. Comparatively high vitellogenin concentrations (>0.2 mg/mL) were measured in male bass from the Green River at Ouray NWR and the Colorado River at Imperial Dam and indicate exposure to estrogenic or anti-androgenic chemicals. Anomalous reproductive biomarkers including low GSI and gonadal abnormalities (calcifications, edema, and parasites) observed in fish downstream of Phoenix are likely related to the poor water-quality of the Gila River in this area.
Misonidazole is a hypoxic cell radiosensitizer that induces a peripheral neuropathy in humans after exceeding a schedule-dependent cumulative threshold dose. Clinical studies of misonidazole have been conducted using oral administration, whereas most other radiosensitizers have been administered intravenously. Since route of exposure can potentially influence the toxicity of xenobiotics, the objective of this study was to assess the neurotoxicity of misonidazole in rats following intravenous dosing using a battery of routine clinical, neurofunctional, biochemical, and histopathologic screening methods. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered intravenous doses of misonidazole at 0 (vehicle control), 100, 200, 300, or 400 mg kg-1 once per day, 5 days per week, for 2 weeks. Animals were evaluated for neurofunctional and pathological changes following termination of treatment (Days 15-17) and at the end of a 4 week observation period (Days 43-45). During the dosing phase, hypoactivity, salivation, rhinorrhea, chromodacryorrhea, rough pelage and ataxia were observed at 400 mg kg-1, and body weight gain of the 300 and 400 mg kg-1 groups was significantly decreased relative to the vehicle controls by 24% and 49%, respectively. Corresponding reductions in food consumption were 8% and 23%, respectively. Although most 400 mg kg-1 animals appeared normal on Day 15 prior to the neurofunctional evaluations, rotorod testing precipitated a number of clinical signs including: ataxia, impaired righting reflex, excessive rearing, tremors, vocalization, circling, head jerking, excessive sniffing and hyperactivity. All of these animals recovered and appeared normal from Day 17 through study termination. There were no treatment-related effects on motor activity, acoustic startle response, rotorod performance, forelimb group strength, toe and tail pinch reflexes, tibial nerve beta-glucuronidase activity or tail nerve conduction velocity. Although hindlimb grip strength of the 400 mg kg-1 group was significantly decreased by 17% relative to the vehicle controls on Day 15, this finding appeared related to the reduced food consumption and body weight gain in these animals. No microscopic changes were detected in peripheral nerves. Necrosis and proliferation of fibrillary astrocytes (gliosis) were seen in the cerebellum and medulla of the 400 mg kg-1 animals on Day 16. Gliosis in these same brain regions was observed in the 300 and 400 mg kg-1 groups on Day 44. The results show that intravenous administration of misonidazole to rats causes dose-limiting central nervous system toxicity without effects on peripheral nervous tissue. The lack of peripheral neurotoxicity was most likely due to a combination of several interrelated factors including route of administration, duration and intensity of the dosing regimen, and total cumulative dose.
The retinoic acid receptor beta (RAR-beta) gene encodes one of the primary receptors for retinoic acid, an important signaling molecule in lung growth, differentiation and carcinogenesis. RAR-beta has been shown to be down-regulated by methylation in human lung cancer. We have used previously lung tumors induced in mice to evaluate the timing and effect of specific carcinogen exposures on targeting genes altered in human lung cancer. These studies were extended to characterize the role of methylation of the RAR-beta gene in murine lung cancers. After treatment with the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC), RAR-beta was re-expressed in silenced cell lines or expressed at a higher rate than without DAC, supporting methylation as the inactivating mechanism. Bisulfite sequencing detected dense methylation in the area of the CpG island that contained the 5' untranslated region and the first translated exon in non-expressing cell lines, compared with minimal and heterogeneous methylation in normal mouse lung. Methylation-specific PCR revealed that this gene is targeted differentially by carcinogen exposures with the detection of methylated alleles in virtually all primary tumors associated with cigarette smoke or 4-methylnitrosamino-1-(3-pyridyl)-butanone (NNK) in contrast to half of tumors induced by methylene chloride or vinyl carbamate. RAR-beta methylation was also detected in 54% of preneoplastic hyperplasias induced by treatment with NNK. Bisulfite sequencing of both premalignant and malignant lesions detected dense methylation in the same area observed in cell lines, substantiating that this gene is functionally inactivated at the earliest histologic stage of adenocarcinoma development. These studies demonstrate that aberrant methylation of RAR-beta is an early and common alteration in murine lung tumors induced by several environmentally relevant exposures.
The objective of the study was to assess the association between aspirin use and the risk of stroke in a population-based study in the elderly. The study was carried out within the framework of the Rotterdam Study, a prospective population-based cohort study. In the total study population there was a weak, nonsignificant association between aspirin use and the risk of stroke (adjusted relative risk 1.29, 95% CI 0.91-1.83). Stratification by history of vascular diseases revealed that aspirin considerably increased the risk of first-ever stroke in subjects free from vascular disease (adjusted relative risk 1.80; 95% CI 1.03-3.13). In persons with vascular disease, no association was observed between aspirin use and risk of stroke (adjusted relative risk 0.99, 95% CI 0.56-1.73). Our findings suggest that aspirin use may increase the risk of stroke in elderly subjects free from vascular disease.
Aberrant DNA methylation plays a key role in human carcinogenesis. 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine inhibits DNA methylation and induces the expression of genes putatively silenced by promoter methylation in vitro. There are few studies of the biological and clinical significance of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine in human hepatocellular carcinoma. This study explored the mechanism of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine targeting transcriptional repressor complexes affecting global gene expression in hepatocellular carcinoma cell line.
High density oligonucleotide gene expression microarrays were used to examine the effects of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine treatments on human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line SMMC-7721. The 5' ends of the genes upregulated or downregulated in this manner were compared with BLAST database to determine whether they might have promoter CpG islands. Flow cytometry was used to detect stages of the cell cycle and apoptosis of SMMC-7721 after being treated with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine.
Data obtained 3 days after 4 days of treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine showed that more genes were induced in tumorigenic cells including genes that function in cell proliferation, differentiation, regulation of transcription, and cytokine signalling. Approximately 30% of induced genes did not have CpG islands within their 5' regions, suggesting that some genes activated by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine may not result from the direct inhibition of promoter methylation. This phenomenon may contribute to a number of upregulated genes involving regulation of transcription in the treated cell. Results showed that 100 micromol/L 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine blocked cell cycle at S/G2-M phase increasing rate of apoptosis. Notably, we found differential expression of molecular action in the methylation although DNA methyltransferases did not show significant difference in the treated cell line.
5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine could restore some silenced genes expression independently of DNA methylation inhibition and expression of DNA methyltransferases.
The liver is endowed with the ability to regenerate hepatocytes in response to injury. When this regeneration ability is impaired during liver injury, oval cells, which are considered to be postnatal hepatic progenitors, proliferate and differentiate into hepatocytes. Here we have demonstrated that 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine (DDC) activates the nuclear receptor constitutive active/androstane receptor (CAR), resulting in proliferation of oval cells in mouse liver. Activation of CAR by DDC was shown by hepatic nuclear CAR accumulation and cytochrome P450 (CYP)2B10 mRNA induction after feeding a 0.1% DDC-containing diet to Car(+/+) mice. After being fed the DDC diet, Car(+/+), but not Car(-/-) mice, developed severe liver injury and an A6 antibody-stained ductular reaction in an area around the portal tract. Oval cell proliferation was confirmed by laser capture microdissection and real-time PCR; mRNAs for the two oval cell markers epithelial cell adhesion molecule and TROP2 were specifically induced in the periportal region of DDC diet-fed Car(+/+), but not Car(-/-) mice. Although rates of both hepatocyte growth and death were initially enhanced only in DDC diet-fed Car(+/+) mice, growth was attenuated when oval cells proliferated, whereas death continued unabated. DDC-induced liver injury, which differs from other CAR activators such as phenobarbital, occurred in the periportal region where cells developed hypertrophy, accumulated porphyrin crystals and inflammation developed, all in association with the proliferation of oval cells. Thus, CAR provides an excellent experimental model for further investigations into its roles in liver regeneration, as well as the development of diseases such as hepatocellular carcinoma.
1-Bromopropane (1-BP) has been used as an alternative to ozone-depleting solvents. Previous studies showed that 1-BP is neurotoxic in animals and humans. In humans, exposure to 1-BP caused various neurological and neurobehavioral symptoms or signs including depressive or irritated mood. However, the neurobiological changes underlying the depressive symptoms induced by 1-BP remain to be determined. The depressive symptoms are thought to be associated with degeneration of axons containing noradrenaline and serotonin. Based on this hypothesis, the present study examined the effects of repeated exposure to 1-BP on serotonergic and noradrenergic axons. Exposure to 1-BP induced dose-dependent decreases in the density of noradrenergic axons in the rat prefrontal cortex, but no apparent change in the density of serotonergic axons. The results suggest that depressive symptoms in workers exposed to 1-BP are due, at least in part, to the degeneration of noradrenergic axons in the brain.
Late stent thrombosis is an infrequent, but severe, complication after implantation of a drug-eluting stent. We report one such patient, a 69-year-old man with intracranial vertebral artery stenosis. He experienced very late stent thrombosis after discontinuation of clopidogrel therapy, about 16 months after the insertion of a Taxus Stent (Boston Scientific Corporation, Natick, MA, USA). The patient recovered well, with good clinical outcome, after the re-initiation of dual antiplatelet and anticoagulation therapy. No abnormality within the stent was identified on a repeat angiogram taken 4 weeks after treatment re-initiation.
Intake of isoflavones derived from soybean products may impact on prostate cancer risk. Here we evaluated the effects of Fujiflavone, a commercial isoflavone supplement, on rat prostate carcinogenesis induced by 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), the most abundant heterocyclic amine in cooked meat. F344 male rats were given intragastric administrations of PhIP at the dose of 200 mg/kg twice weekly for 10 weeks. The rats subsequently fed a diet containing 0.25% Fujiflavone showed a significantly lower incidence of prostate carcinomas than those fed a soy-free diet. Interestingly fewer carcinomas but more foci of prostatic intra-epithelial neoplasia (PIN) were observed in the Fujiflavone group although the sum of the two lesions was not altered by Fujiflavone treatment. cDNA array analyses confirmed by semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reactions (RT-PCR) revealed Fujiflavone to alter gene expression of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), prothymosin alpha (PTA) in the rat prostate. No modification of PhIP-induced colon carcinogenesis was evident, except for increased multiplicity of aberrant crypt foci >4 crypts in size. These results indicate that a commercial isoflavone supplement can inhibit PhIP-induced rat prostate carcinogenesis without any adverse effects, possibly by inhibiting progression of PIN to carcinoma, and that down-regulation of ODC and PTA could be related to the underlying mechanisms. Thus, intake of dietary isoflavones can be promising for prevention of human prostate cancer.
A large body of evidence supports the role of L-type calcium channels in epileptogenesis. The aim of the present study was to study the efficacy of the specific L-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine on seizure activity induced by picrotoxin (PTX). Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were used in these experiments. The intraperitoneal administration of nifedipine (5 mg/kg) did not significantly alter the latency to onset of clonic seizure induced by intraperitoneal injection of PTX (4 mg/kg). Higher doses of the drug (10 and 20 mg/kg) significantly increased the latency of onset of clonic seizure in a dose-dependent manner. Nifedipine (10 mg/kg) did not reduce the incidence of clonic seizures in the animals injected with PTX, but inhibited tonic seizure and the progression of clonic seizures into maximal tonic seizures in four of eight of the animals. The drug (20 mg/kg) inhibited clonic seizure in four of six of the animals and abolished minimal or maximal tonic seizures in all the animals. In conclusion, our study provides further evidence on the antiepileptic effect of L-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine by showing its protective effect on seizure activity induced by PTX.
The limited value of plasma measurements in the management of treatment with lithium is discussed in the light of the mechanisms of its therapeutic actions and toxic effects.The plasma level of lithium usually rises twofold or threefold in the three to five hours after ingestion of each dose of delayed-release tablets and then gradually falls. The precise shape and height of the lithium curve depend on gastric emptying, which can be slowed with propantheline or speeded with metoclopramide. Depressed or demented patients may be irregular in taking their tablets and variable in food intake. Both the time of the blood test and this behaviour must be considered before changing the prescribed dose of lithium salt because of a laboratory result. A lithium tolerance curve may be a safer guide to treatment than single measures.Mild intermittent thirst is a common early side effect, and severe persistent thirst with polyuria is an uncommon later effect of daily intakes of at least 1,500 mg lithium carbonate. This diabetes insipidus is reversible, non-progressive, unrelated to plasma level, and distinct in attack from lithium-induced hypothyroidism, which may occur at low dosage but is also usually of late onset and reversible or treatable with thyroxine while lithium is continued. Obesity is another occasional effect of large doses. These side effects and the antimanic and prophylactic effects may have different mechanisms.
In several models of acute renal failure leakage of glomerular filtrate out of the tubule is an important pathogenetic mechanism; however, bidirectional diffusion of solute to account for certain pathophysiologic features of acute renal failure has received meager attention. Using micropuncture and clearance methods, we assessed sequentially leakage of solutes and inulin across proximal straight tubules (PST) injured by two nephrotoxins. In d-serine-treated rats with extensive necrosis of PST, the basis for glucosuria and tubular leakage of inulin was studied. Glucose absorption by the proximal convoluted tubule and glucose delivery to the PST were normal, but glucose delivery to the distal tubule was increased nearly 8-fold, indicating diffusion of glucose from interstitial to tubular luminal fluid across the necrotic PST. Total kidney inulin clearance was greatly reduced, but single nephron glomerular filtration rate, based on proximal convoluted tubule samples, was normal, indicating tubular loss of inulin. Urinary recovery of [14C]inulin infused into tubular lumina revealed that proximal convoluted tubule and distal tubule were impermeable to inulin and that inulin diffused out of the necrotic PST. The progressive return over 6 days of tubular impermeability for inulin correlated with relining of PST with new cells. In maleic acid-treated rats the site and extent of tubular necrosis and the nature of urinary loss of solutes were studied. Microdissection revealed that maleic acid caused limited necrosis of PST which averaged 7.4% of total proximal tubular length. Increased urinary excretion of protein, phosphate, and glucose and increased tubular permeability to microinfused [14C]inulin occurred with the onset of PST necrosis, and return of these abnormalities to normal correlated with the degree of cellular repair of the PST. Together these data indicate that with severe cellular injury there is bidirectional, concentration-dependent diffusion of solutes between the interstitial and tubular fluids. Thus, experimental or human toxic nephropathies should not be classified as acquired Fanconi's syndrome unless specific tubular transport defects are present.
To investigate the use of Daclizumab (Dmab) as an immunosuppressive agent in an experimental model of hepatocyte xenotransplantation (XenoTx) in rats with fulminant hepatic failure (FHF).
Two white male New Zealand rabbits were used as donors and 68 Wistar rats as recipients. FHF was induced by intravenous application of dimethylnitrosamine (DMNA). The isolated hepatocytes of the rabbits were xenotransplanted into the spleen of the rats 24 h after FHF induction. Group A (n = 13): no treatment; Group B (n = 14): FHF and XenoTx; Group C (n = 14): FHF and XenoTx and cyclosporin (CsA); Group D (n = 14): FHF and XenoTx and Dmab; Group E (n = 13): FHF and XenoTx and CsA and Dmab. The rats were followed for 15 d.
Statistical analysis showed better survival among groups D (92.86%) and E (76.92%) compared to group A (all rats died after 72 h), group B (28.57%) or group C (71.43%), although the differences were not statistically significant. Biochemical evaluation of the liver enzymes and histology confirmed satisfactory function and engraftment, respectively.
This experimental model has shown the safe, effective and beneficial use of Dmab in a xenotransplantation model of rabbit hepatocytes in rats.
Rats treated with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) developed characteristics of the nephrotic syndrome, including albuminuria, hypoalbuminemia and hyperlipidemia. To study the regulation of apolipoprotein (apo) A-1 and apo E gene expression in nephrotic rats, we analyzed the steady-state levels (SSLs) of hepatic and intestinal apo A-1 and apo E mRNA using the Northern technique, and the plasma levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) by biochemical methods. Male Wistar rats were treated with PAN and compared with pair-fed and untreated control rats at different stages of disease. Nephrotic rats presented with marked hypoalbuminemia and albuminuria at between 6 and 11 days after PAN treatment. During this stage of disease, plasma levels of HDL were elevated in correlation with an increase of both hepatic and intestinal apo A-1 mRNA. In liver of nephrotic rats, high levels of apo A-1 mRNA together with low levels of apo E mRNA caused an increase in the ratio of apo A-1/apo E mRNA, reaching a maximum 6 days after treatment. Apo E mRNA was barely detected in small intestine of pair-fed controls and PAN-treated rats. However, contrary to nephrotic rats, the ratio apo A-1/apo E mRNA was inverted in liver of pair-fed rats due to an increase in apo E mRNA. In conclusion, in nephrotic rats, the SSL of apo A-1 mRNA is increased in liver and small intestine and appears to regulate the plasma levels of apo A-1. These results also suggest a coordinated regulation of the apo A-1 and apo E gene expression in liver of nephrotic and pair-fed rats.
The messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels of albumin, fibrinogen, alpha 1-acid glycoprotein (pAGP) and transferrin were analyzed in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-treated (nephrotic) and in pair-fed (PF) rats with the Northern and dot blot hybridization techniques. Albumin mRNA levels in nephrotic and PF rats were 2- and 1.5-fold higher, respectively, than in ad-libitum-fed control (C) rats 6 days after PAN treatment. On day 11, this mRNA in PAN-treated rats was 2.5-fold higher than in PF and 4-fold higher than in C rats. A differential expression at the level of specific mRNAs was also detected for fibrinogen, pAGP, and transferrin in nephrotic and PF rats. On day 6, the fibrinogen and transferrin mRNA levels were significantly higher (p < 0.05) in nephrotic than in PF rats. In contrast, pAGP mRNA levels were normal or low in nephrotic rats and increased 2-fold in PF rats. These studies indicate the differential expression of hepatic genes in nephrotic and PF rats and show that albumin gene expression is only partially regulated by diet during the nephrotic stage of the disease.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role of S-100 proteins in the onset of vasospasm induced by subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), which leads to severe neurological morbidity and death. It has recently been argued that modifications in the levels of expression of some intracellular signaling elements controlling the organization of the actin cytoskeleton (including the rho A small guanosine triphosphatase and its related kinases) play significant roles in the induction of smooth-muscle cell contraction, a calcium-dependent process that is pathognomonic of SAH-induced vasospasm at the molecular level. Several members of the calcium-binding S-100 protein family are known to exercise significant control over the organization of the actin cytoskeleton.
The levels of expression of S-100 proteins in SAH-induced vasospasm have never been investigated. The authors therefore used a double-hemorrhage rat model of SAH-induced vasospasm to determine whether the levels of expression of S-100B, S-100A1, S-100A2, S-100A4, and S-100A6 proteins on immunohistochemical studies were significantly modified in this pathological condition. Quantitative determination of immunohistochemically confirmed expression of S-100 proteins (accomplished with the aid of computer-assisted microscopy) revealed that SAH-induced vasospasm is accompanied by a very significant increase in S-100B, S-100A2, and, to a lesser extent, in S-100A4 and S-100A6 expression, whereas this condition is not accompanied by significant modifications to S-100A1 expression.
Such significant modifications in the levels of expression of different members of the S-100 protein family in SAH-induced vasospasm could relate to the various roles played by this specific class of calcium-binding proteins at the level of actin cytoskeleton organization. These modifications in S-100 protein expression seem relatively specific to SAH-induced vasospasm, because heparin-induced epilepsy-like symptoms were accompanied by dramatically distinct profiles of S-100 protein expression.
The diabetes-induced reduction of neurogenesis in hippocampal dentate and its reversal with antidepressant medications implies a potential mechanism for diabetes-related depression and cognitive decline. In the following article, the role of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) in hippocampal neurogenesis deficits in diabetic animals with depression has been further explained in the light of an in vitro study. Diabetes was induced in animals with the use of streptozotocin (55 mg/kg, i.p.), and the animals then divided into those with and those without depression-like behaviors as analyzed by behavioral tests. The AGE formation inhibitor aminoguanidine (10 mg/kg) was administrated for an additional 4 weeks. Proliferating cells, their survival, and their phenotype fate were monitored with bromodeoxyuridine labeling and confocal laser microscopy. The presence of AGE peptides was determined with the use of a flow injection assay. Animals with diabetes and depressive symptoms displayed a reduction in hippocampal neurogenesis and an elevated serum level of AGE peptides, both of which were reversed by a 4-week regimen of aminoguanidine (10 mg/kg, i.p.), which inhibits AGE formation; in addition, the depressive behaviors were improved. These findings provided in vivo evidence that diabetes impairs hippocampal function via the AGE-mediated generation of new neurons. This likely represents a putative mechanism that is responsible for diabetes-related depression and cognitive decline, and it suggests a potential approach for future research.
1. The effects of L-arginine treatment on dexamethasone-induced hypertension were examined in the Sprague-Dawley rat. Seventy rats were randomly divided into the following eight groups: sham, dexamethasone (5 and 10 micrograms/day, L-arginine (100 and 500 mg/kg per day), L-arginine (100 or 500 mg/kg per day) + dexamethasone (10 micrograms/day), L-arginine (520-797 mg/kg per day in food) + dexamethasone (5 micrograms/day). Systolic blood pressure (SBP), bodyweight and plasma nitrate/nitrite concentration were measured. 2. Dexamethasone (5 and 10 micrograms/day) increased SBP in both sham and L-arginine-treated rats. Dexamethasone at 10 micrograms/day decreased bodyweight, but did not alter plasma nitrate/nitrite concentrations. 3. L-Arginine (500 mg/kg per day, i.p.) increased plasma nitrate/nitrite concentrations in 10 micrograms/day dexamethasone-treated rats. L-Arginine did not alter blood pressure in either sham or dexamethasone-treated rats. 4. Dexamethasone-induced hypertension differs from adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-induced hypertension in the rat in that it is not modified by L-arginine. Thus, ACTH-induced hypertension cannot be explained simply in terms of glucocorticoid activity.
Ketamine hydrochloride is an N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor antagonist used as an anesthetic agent in human and veterinary procedures. Increasingly, it is being used as a recreational drug. Recreational ketamine users have anecdotally reported increased lower urinary tract symptoms while using the substance.
We describe a series of 9 patients, all of whom were daily ketamine users, who presented with severe dysuria, frequency, urgency, and gross hematuria. Investigations, including urine culture, microscopy, and cytology, in addition to computed tomography, cystoscopy, and bladder biopsies, were performed to identify a relationship between recreational ketamine use and these symptoms.
The urine cultures were sterile in all cases. Computed tomography revealed marked thickening of the bladder wall, a small capacity, and perivesicular stranding, consistent with severe inflammation. At cystoscopy, all patients had severe ulcerative cystitis. Biopsies in 4 patients revealed epithelial denudation and inflammation with a mild eosinophilic infiltrate. Cessation of ketamine use, with the addition of pentosan polysulfate, appeared to provide some symptomatic relief.
This case series has described a new clinical entity of severe ulcerative cystitis as a result of chronic ketamine use. As illicit ketamine becomes more easily available, ulcerative cystitis and potential long-term bladder sequelae related to its use may be a more prevalent problem confronting urologists.
