Dihydropyridine calcium antagonists have been shown to retard atherogenesis in animal models and to prevent the development of early angiographic lesions in human coronary arteries. Endothelial dysfunction is an early event in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. We investigated whether nifedipine could improve endothelial function in hypercholesterolemia, independently of changes in blood pressure or plasma lipids.
First, we compared in vivo forearm vascular responses to the endothelium-dependent and independent vasodilators serotonin (5-HT) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) in 11 patients with familial hypercholesterolemia before and after 6-weeks treatment with nifedipine GITS (60 mg, OD) and in 12 matched controls. In a subgroup of six control subjects forearm vascular function was also assessed before and after 6-weeks nifedipine GITS treatment. In vitro, we subsequently explored possible mechanisms underlying the effect of nifedipine on endothelial function. We investigated the effects of nifedipine on both NO production by recombinant endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) and endothelial cells, using 3H-arginine conversion, as well as on superoxide generation by endothelial cell lysates, using lucigenin enhanced chemiluminescence.
In hypercholesterolemia 5-HT-induced vasodilation was impaired (47 +/- 9% increase in forearm bloodflow vs. 99 +/- 8% in controls). Treatment with nifedipine completely restored 5-HT-induced vasodilation (113 +/- 13%), whereas it did not influence basal forearm vasomotion or SNP-induced vasodilation. Nifedipine did not alter forearm vascular responses in control subjects and did not alter blood pressure or plasma lipids. In vitro, we found no direct effect of nifedipine on NO production by recombinant eNOS or endothelial cells. However, we did observe a reduction in endothelial superoxide generation.
Our data show that nifedipine improves endothelial function in hypercholesterolemia. It is suggested from our in vitro experiments that this effect is due to reduced NO degradation.
International guidelines recommend that antihypertensive drug therapy should normalize not only diastolic (DBP) but also systolic blood pressure (SBP). Therapeutic trials based on cardiovascular mortality have recently shown that SBP reduction requires normalization of both large artery stiffness and wave reflections. The aim of the present study was to compare the antihypertensive effects of the very-low-dose combination indapamide (0.625 mg) and perindopril (2 mg) (Per/Ind) with the beta-blocking agent atenolol (50 mg) to determine whether Per/Ind decreases SBP and pulse pressure (PP) more than does atenolol and, if so, whether this decrease is predominantly due to reduction of aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV) (automatic measurements) and reduction of wave reflections (pulse wave analysis, applanation tonometry). In a double-blind randomized study, 471 patients with essential hypertension were followed for 12 months. For the same DBP reduction, Per/Ind decreased brachial SBP (-6.02 mm Hg; 95% confidence interval, -8.90 to -3.14) and PP (-5.57; 95% confidence interval, -7.70 to -3.44) significantly more than did atenolol. This difference was significantly more pronounced for the carotid artery than for the brachial artery. Whereas the 2 antihypertensive agents decreased PWV to a similar degree, only Per/Ind significantly attenuated carotid wave reflections, resulting in a selective decrease in SBP and PP. The very-low-dose combination Per/Ind normalizes SBP, PP, and arterial function to a significantly larger extent than does atenolol, a hemodynamic profile that is known to improve survival in hypertensive populations with high cardiovascular risk.
Since the effects of angiotensin II receptor antagonism on arterial function in nitric oxide (NO)-deficient hypertension are unknown, we investigated the influence of losartan therapy (20 mg kg-1 day-1) on the control of arterial tone in NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 20 mg kg-1 day-1)-induced hypertension.
Forty Wistar rats were divided into four groups: control, losartan, L-NAME, and losartan + L-NAME. The responses of isolated mesenteric arterial rings were examined in standard organ chambers after 8 treatment weeks.
Losartan therapy prevented the development of L-NAME-induced hypertension and the associated impairments of endothelium-independent relaxations to nitroprusside, isoprenaline, and cromakalim, vasodilators acting via the formation of NO, activation of beta-adrenoceptors and opening of K+ channels, respectively. In addition, endothelium-dependent relaxations of noradrenaline-precontracted rings to acetylcholine during NO synthase inhibition in vitro were decreased in L-NAME rats, and clearly improved by losartan therapy. The inhibition of cyclooxygenase by diclofenac improved the responses to acetylcholine more effectively in L-NAME than losartan + L-NAME rats, but the relaxations remained decreased in L-NAME rats when compared with losartan + L-NAME rats. When hyperpolarization of smooth muscle was prevented by precontractions induced by high concentration of KCl, the responses to acetylcholine during combined NO synthase and cyclooxygenase inhibition were similar and almost abolished in all groups. Furthermore, superoxide dismutase, a scavenger of superoxide anions, enhanced the acetylcholine-induced relaxations more effectively in L-NAME than losartan + L-NAME rats, although plasma antioxidant capacity was similar in all study groups.
Chronic L-NAME-induced hypertension was associated with attenuated arterial relaxation via endothelium-dependent and -independent mechanisms, both of which were improved by the losartan treatment. The mechanisms whereby losartan enhanced arterial relaxation in this model of experimental hypertension may have included enhanced hyperpolarization and increased sensitivity to NO in smooth muscle, and decreased vascular production of superoxide and vasoconstrictor prostanoids.
Domoic acid (DA) is a neuroexcitatory amino acid that is naturally produced by some marine diatom species of the genus Pseudo-nitzschia. Ingestion of DA-contaminated seafood by humans results in a severe neurotoxic disease known as amnesic shellfish poisoning (ASP). Clinical signs of ASP include seizures and neuronal damage from activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors. However, the impacts of DA exposure at levels below those known to induce outward signs of neurobehavioral exicitotoxicity have not been well characterized. To further understand the mechanisms of neurotoxic injury associated with DA exposure, we examined the transcriptome of whole brains from zebrafish (Danio rerio) receiving intracoelomic (IC) injection of DA at both symptomatic and asymptomatic doses. A majority of zebrafish exposed to high-dose DA (1.2 microg DA/g) exhibited clinical signs of neuroexcitotoxicity (EC(50) of 0.86 microg DA/g) within 5-20 min of IC injection. All zebrafish receiving low-dose DA (0.47 microg DA/g) or vehicle only maintained normal behavior. Microarray analysis of symptomatic and asymptomatic exposures collectively yielded 306 differentially expressed genes (1.5-fold, p </= 0.05) predominately represented by signal transduction, ion transport, and transcription factor functional categories. Transcriptional profiles were suggestive of neuronal apoptosis following an overwhelming of protective adaptive pathways. Further, potential molecular biomarkers of neuropathic injury, including the zebrafish homolog of human NDRG4, were identified and may be relevant to DA exposure levels below that causing neurobehavioral injury. In general, DA-modulated gene expression was consistent with other model species thereby validating zebrafish as an appropriate vertebrate model to study mechanisms of DA neurotoxicity. These data provide a basis for identifying pathways of DA-induced injury as well as biomarkers of asymptomatic and symptomatic DA exposure levels.
The present study was designed to evaluate the possible interaction of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) with the GABAA receptor complex in the rat cerebral cortex. To this purpose we studied the effect of in vitro addition and in vivo administration of GHB on the biochemical parameters currently used to evaluate the function of the GABAergic system. In vitro addition of increasing concentrations of GHB failed to modify [3H]flunitrazepam ([3H]FNZ) binding and the modulatory action of GABA on this binding. Moreover, unlike diazepam, GHB did not modify in vitro both muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake and t-[35S]butylbicyclophosphorothionate ([35S]TBPS) binding to rat cerebral cortex. In vivo administration of sedative and hypnotic doses of GHB (300-750 mg/kg IP) failed to induce in 60 min any significant change in the [35S]TBPS binding to unwashed cortical membranes. Moreover, GHB also failed to antagonize the increase in [35S]TBPS binding (+55%) induced by isoniazid (350 mg/kg SC). In contrast, at the highest doses used, this drug completely antagonized the seizure activity induced by isoniazid. In conclusion, our data show that GHB fails to alter the function of the GABAA/benzodiazepine/ionophore receptor complex in the rat cerebral cortex.
We performed a two-stage genome-wide association study of IgA nephropathy (IgAN) in Han Chinese, with 1,434 affected individuals (cases) and 4,270 controls in the discovery phase and follow-up of the top 61 SNPs in an additional 2,703 cases and 3,464 controls. We identified associations at 17p13 (rs3803800, P = 9.40 × 10(-11), OR = 1.21; rs4227, P = 4.31 × 10(-10), OR = 1.23) and 8p23 (rs2738048, P = 3.18 × 10(-14), OR = 0.79) that implicated the genes encoding tumor necrosis factor (TNFSF13) and α-defensin (DEFA) as susceptibility genes. In addition, we found multiple associations in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region (rs660895, P = 4.13 × 10(-20), OR = 1.34; rs1794275, P = 3.43 × 10(-13), OR = 1.30; rs2523946, P = 1.74 × 10(-11), OR = 1.21) and confirmed a previously reported association at 22q12 (rs12537, P = 1.17 × 10(-11), OR = 0.78). We also found that rs660895 was associated with clinical subtypes of IgAN (P = 0.003), proteinuria (P = 0.025) and IgA levels (P = 0.047). Our findings show that IgAN is associated with variants near genes involved in innate immunity and inflammation.
Reactions to an ionic and a nonionic contrast medium were compared in a randomized double-blind trial involving 1153 patients (897 men, 256 women; mean age 56 [18-84] years) who underwent left-heart catheterization with coronary angiography. 584 patients (group 1) received the ionic contrast medium meglumine diatrizoate (Urografin 76%), while 569 (group 2) received the nonionic iopromide (Ultravist -370). Reactions of skin and mucosae, heart and circulation, lungs and respiratory tract, as well as of the central nervous system were noted. There was no significant difference between the two groups with respect to age, weight, height, allergic predisposition, left-ventricular ejection fraction, or serum electrolyte concentrations. Mild reactions, not requiring any treatment, occurred in 108 of the 1153 patients (9.4%), 85 (14.6%) in group 1 and 23 (4%) in group 2 (P less than 0.001). Severe reaction requiring treatment occurred in eight patients of group 1 (1.4%) and 14 of group 2 (2.5%)--difference not significant. Ventricular fibrillation was more frequent among group 2 patients (four compared with one in group 1), while two of three asystoles requiring treatment occurred in group 1 patients. The results show that, while mild reactions not requiring treatment were clearly less frequent after nonionic contrast medium injection, the risk of severe reactions was not reduced by their use.
We examined the efficacy and safety of intravenous amiodarone in 20 unselected patients with recent-onset atrial fibrillation who were admitted to a general internal medicine department during a 6-month period. The treatment protocol included a loading dose of 1200 mg intravenous amiodarone in 24 hours, after which amiodarone treatment was continued orally. Eleven of the 20 patients (55%) converted to sinus rhythm within 48 hours of intravenous amiodarone treatment and were discharged in sinus rhythm, while 9/20 (45%) patients failed to convert during hospitalisation. Six patients (30%) failed to convert to sinus rhythm even after one further month of oral treatment. There was one death and a high frequency (25%) of thrombophlebitis during hospitalisation. The in-hospital non-convertors had a significantly lower ejection fraction and initial low ventricular response rate than the convertors. In conclusion, the acute conversion rate by intravenous amiodarone was at best modest. It is suggested that intravenous amiodarone is probably more effective in patients with rapid recent-onset atrial fibrillation and good left ventricular function.
Amiodarone decreases plasma and tissue triiodothyronine (T3) and increases plasma cholesterol levels resembling changes seen during hypothyroidism. To elucidate the mechanism of amiodarone-induced hypercholesterolemia we investigated gene expression of three key proteins in cholesterol metabolism (cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase, LDL receptor, HMG-CoA reductase) in livers of rats. Animals were treated with amiodarone or propylthiouracil (to induce mild hypothyroidism). The LDL receptor mRNA was downregulated (approximately 50%) in both amiodarone-treated and hypothyroid animals, while the other mRNA remained unchanged after 14-day treatment. The results suggest that amiodarone-induced hypercholesterolemia is associated with decreased LDL receptor mRNA levels.
The cellular basis for cognitive deficits in HIV+ patients with and without a history of methamphetamine (METH) use is unclear. We found that HIV+ METH users had more severe loss of interneurons that was associated with cognitive impairment. Compared with other markers, loss of calbindin and parvalbumin interneurons in the frontal cortex was the most significant correlate to memory deficits, suggesting a role in neurobehavioral alterations of HIV+ METH users.
We performed exome sequencing to detect somatic mutations in protein-coding regions in seven melanoma cell lines and donor-matched germline cells. All melanoma samples had high numbers of somatic mutations, which showed the hallmark of UV-induced DNA repair. Such a hallmark was absent in tumor sample-specific mutations in two metastases derived from the same individual. Two melanomas with non-canonical BRAF mutations harbored gain-of-function MAP2K1 and MAP2K2 (MEK1 and MEK2, respectively) mutations, resulting in constitutive ERK phosphorylation and higher resistance to MEK inhibitors. Screening a larger cohort of individuals with melanoma revealed the presence of recurring somatic MAP2K1 and MAP2K2 mutations, which occurred at an overall frequency of 8%. Furthermore, missense and nonsense somatic mutations were frequently found in three candidate melanoma genes, FAT4, LRP1B and DSC1.
Although numerous biochemical markers can identify putative preneoplastic altered hepatic foci (AHF) in rat liver, no consistent pattern of expression during hepatocarcinogenesis has emerged. Using quantitative stereologic analyses we demonstrated that decreased expression of the major hepatocyte gap junction protein, connexin 32 (Cx32), in rat AHF is a consistent observation in several protocols of multistage hepatocarcinogenesis. This change was observed after initiation by either ethylnitrosourea (ENU) or diethylnitrosamine (DEN), followed by promotion with phenobarbital (PB), dioxin, chlorendic acid, C.I. Solvent Yellow, or tamoxifen. AHF generated by Wy-14,643, ciprofibrate, and a choline/methionine-deficient dietary regimen also showed decreased Cx32 expression. The decrease of Cx32 in AHF was rapidly reversible after withdrawal of PB, and this change preceded a reduction in placental isozyme of glutathione-S-transferase (GST) expression in the same AHF. Within 20 days of withdrawal, fewer than 4% of GST-positive AHF were Cx32 deficient, while the volume of total AHF decreased 30%. Chronic PB treatment also resulted in a reversible decrease in Cx32 specifically in mid- and centro-lobular hepatocytes. Continuous thymidine labeling demonstrated that Cx32 could be uncoupled from the cell cycle, suggesting that some liver promoters may act directly to alter the expression of Cx32. These observations suggest that a decrease in Cx32 content was a relatively common epigenetic change in AHF induced during hepatocarcinogenesis by a number of initiating and promoting agents but that this change was not sufficient for carcinogenesis. This change, however, may be necessary for the mechanism(s) of tumor promotion, since Cx32-positive AHF did not proliferate as readily as Cx32-deficient AHF.
Hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with spheroids (HDLS) is an autosomal-dominant central nervous system white-matter disease with variable clinical presentations, including personality and behavioral changes, dementia, depression, parkinsonism, seizures and other phenotypes. We combined genome-wide linkage analysis with exome sequencing and identified 14 different mutations affecting the tyrosine kinase domain of the colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (encoded by CSF1R) in 14 families with HDLS. In one kindred, we confirmed the de novo occurrence of the mutation. Follow-up sequencing identified an additional CSF1R mutation in an individual diagnosed with corticobasal syndrome. In vitro, CSF-1 stimulation resulted in rapid autophosphorylation of selected tyrosine residues in the kinase domain of wild-type but not mutant CSF1R, suggesting that HDLS may result from partial loss of CSF1R function. As CSF1R is a crucial mediator of microglial proliferation and differentiation in the brain, our findings suggest an important role for microglial dysfunction in HDLS pathogenesis.
5-Sulphooxymethylfurfural (SMF), an electrophilic metabolite of the abundant Maillard product 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), was intraperitoneally administered to FVB/N mice. At a dosage of 250 mg/kg, most animals died after 5-11 days due to massive damage to proximal tubules. At lower dosages, administered repeatedly, tubules also were the major target of toxicity, with regeneration and atypical hyperplasia occurring at later periods. Additionally, hepatotoxic effects and serositis of peritoneal tissues were observed. SMF is a minor metabolite of HMF in conventional mice, but HMF is an excellent substrate for a major sulphotransferase (hSULT1A1) in humans. Parental FVB/N mice and FVB/N-hSULT1A1/2 mice, carrying multiple copies of the hSULT1A1/2 gene cluster, were exposed to HMF in drinking water (0, 134 and 536 mg/kg body mass/day) for 12 weeks. Nephrotoxic effects and enhanced proliferation of hepatocytes were only detected at the high dosage. They were mild and, surprisingly, unaffected by hSULT1A1/2 expression. Thus, SMF was a potent nephrotoxicant when administered as a bolus, but did not reach levels sufficient to produce serious toxicity when generated from HMF administered continuously via drinking water. This was even the case in transgenic mice expressing clearly higher HMF sulphation activity in liver and kidney than humans.
Polyphyllin D (PD) is a potent anticancer agent isolated from a traditional medicinal herb Paris polyphylla that has been used in China for many years to treat cancer. PD is not a substrate of p-glycoprotein, and it can bypass the multi-drug resistance in cancer cell line R-HepG2. However, the effect of PD on the induction of cell death in human erythrocytes remains unknown. Given that PD is a small molecule that can depolarize the mitochondrial membrane potential and release apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) in isolated mitochondria, we hypothesized that the apoptogenic effect of PD in human erythrocytes devoid of mitochondria would be minimal. This study therefore tried to evaluate the in vitro effect of PD on hemolysis and apoptosis in human erythrocytes. Apoptosis in human red blood cells (RBCs), also known as eryptosis or erythroptosis, after PD treatment was determined by flow cytometry and confocal microscopy for the phosphatidyl-serine externalization and other apoptosis feature events. False to our prediction, PD caused hemolysis and eryptosis/erythroptosis in human RBCs. Mechanistically, elevation in the cytosolic Ca²⁺ ion level seems to be a key but not the only mediator in the PD-mediated eryptosis/erythroptosis because depletion of the external Ca²⁺ could not eliminate the PD effect. Also, PD was able to permeabilize the membrane of RBC ghosts in a way similar to digitonin. Taken together, we report here for the first time the toxicity of PD in human RBCs as well as its underlying mechanism for the hemolysis and eryptosis/erythroptosis.
We sequenced eight melanoma exomes to identify new somatic mutations in metastatic melanoma. Focusing on the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase kinase (MAP3K) family, we found that 24% of melanoma cell lines have mutations in the protein-coding regions of either MAP3K5 or MAP3K9. Structural modeling predicted that mutations in the kinase domain may affect the activity and regulation of these protein kinases. The position of the mutations and the loss of heterozygosity of MAP3K5 and MAP3K9 in 85% and 67% of melanoma samples, respectively, together suggest that the mutations are likely to be inactivating. In in vitro kinase assays, MAP3K5 I780F and MAP3K9 W333* variants had reduced kinase activity. Overexpression of MAP3K5 or MAP3K9 mutants in HEK293T cells reduced the phosphorylation of downstream MAP kinases. Attenuation of MAP3K9 function in melanoma cells using siRNA led to increased cell viability after temozolomide treatment, suggesting that decreased MAP3K pathway activity can lead to chemoresistance in melanoma.
The expression of phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (p-CREB) in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) with and without cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis (150 mg/kg, i.p; 48 h) was determined in VIP(-/-) and wild-type (WT) mice. p-CREB immunoreactivity (IR) was determined in bladder (Fast blue) afferent cells. Nerve growth factor (NGF) bladder content was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Basal expression of p-CREB-IR in DRG of VIP(-/-) mice was (p < or = 0.01) greater in L1, L2, L5-S1 DRG compared to WT mice. CYP treatment in WT mice increased (p < or = 0.05) p-CREB-IR in L1, L2, L5-S1 DRG. CYP treatment in VIP(-/-) mice (p < or = 0.01) increased (p < or = 0.01) p-CREB-IR in L6-S1 DRG compared to WT with CYP. In WT mice, bladder afferent cells (20-38%) in DRG expressed p-CREB-IR under basal conditions. With CYP, p-CREB-IR increased in bladder afferent cells (60-65%; L6-S1 DRG) in WT mice. In VIP(-/-) mice, bladder afferent cells (12-58%) expressed p-CREB-IR under basal conditions, and CYP increased p-CREB expression (78-84%) in L6-S1 DRG. Urinary bladder NGF expression in VIP(-/-) mice under basal conditions or after cystitis was significantly greater than WT. Detrusor smooth muscle thickness was significantly increased in VIP(-/-) mice. Bladder NGF expression may contribute to differences in p-CREB expression.
Eighty-seven patients with anemia and absent bone marrow hemosiderin were given treatment with total dose intravenous infusions of iron dextran. The effect of rate of infusion and premedication with diphenhydramine, aspirin, and methylprednisolone on acute and delayed reactions was assessed. All patients were monitored for 72 hours after infusion. Two patients reacted to the test dose. One responded with generalized body pain that lasted approximately 5 minutes. In one an anaphylactoid reaction developed, which was promptly terminated by intravenous methylprednisolone, subcutaneous epinephrine, and intravenous diphenhydramine. Transient delayed adverse reactions easily controlled by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs occurred in 37 patients. The most common delayed reaction was a syndrome characterized by arthralgia, myalgia, and fever. Seven subjects had a chronic disease in addition to anemia with absent bone marrow iron. In all seven normal hemoglobin and hematocrit values were attained after treatment. The results of our experience with total dose intravenous iron dextran therapy suggest that it be the preferred method of replenishment in clinical situations where parenteral administration of iron is indicated. An unexpected benefit was the efficaciousness of this method of administration in patients with iron deficiency and coexisting chronic disease. A protocol for its administration is proposed.
A 78-year-old woman admitted for an elective hip operation was maintained on atenolol for control of her hypertension. She received neostigmine and atropine for reversal of muscle relaxation at the end of general anaesthesia. She then developed prolonged bradycardia and hypotension which necessitated the use of adrenaline and isoprenaline. Such an adverse reaction with atenolol has not been described previously.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo [4, 5-b] pyridine (PhIP) is one of the most abundant heterocyclic amines (HCAs) generated from overcooking meat at high temperatures. To understand the possible mechanism of PhIP-associated stomach cancer, the effects of PhIP on morphology, oxidative stress, gene expression of c-fos, c-jun and p16 in rat stomachs were investigated. The results showed that (1) 15mg/kg body weight PhIP induced obvious histopathological changes in gastric mucosa; (2) PhIP (10 and/or 15mg/kg) significantly decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathioneperoxidase (GPx) activities, while increased catalase (CAT) activity compared with the control. With the elevated doses of PhIP, malondialdehyde (MDA) contents, protein carbonyl (PCO) contents and DNA-protein crosslinks (DPC) coefficients were significantly raised in a dose-dependent manner; (3) PhIP at the doses of 10mg/kg and/or 15mg/kg significantly inhibited p16 mRNA and protein expression, whereas enhanced c-fos and c-jun expression relative to control. The data indicated that PhIP could cause stomach injury, oxidative stress in rat stomachs as well as the activation of c-fos and c-jun and inactivation of p16, which may play a role in the pathogenesis of PhIP-associated stomach cancer.
Ticlopidine has not been formally compared with aspirin in patients with a completed stroke. We therefore performed an analysis on a subgroup of patients from the Ticlopidine Aspirin Stroke Study (TASS) with a recent minor completed stroke as the qualifying ischemic event.
This was a multicenter, double-blind, randomized trial of patients with a recent history of cerebral ischemia. Eligible patients had a qualifying minor stroke within 3 months of study entry. All patients received either 650 mg aspirin twice daily or 250 mg ticlopidine twice daily for up to 5.8 years. The primary study end point was the first occurrence of nonfatal stroke or death from any cause. A secondary end point was the first occurrence of a fatal or nonfatal stroke.
Minor stroke was the qualifying ischemic event in 927 patients (463 received ticlopidine and 464 received aspirin). The cumulative event rate at 1 year for nonfatal stroke or death was 6.3% for patients receiving ticlopidine and 10.8% for patients receiving aspirin, a 42% risk reduction in favor of ticlopidine. For fatal or nonfatal stroke, the cumulative event rate at 1 year was 4.8% for patients receiving ticlopidine and 7.5% for those receiving aspirin, a risk reduction of 36% for ticlopidine relative to aspirin. The overall risk reductions were 22.1% for nonfatal stroke or death and 19.9% for fatal or nonfatal stroke. Adverse reactions were reported in 58% of the ticlopidine patients and 51% of the aspirin patients.
The results in this subgroup are consistent with the overall TASS results and show that ticlopidine is somewhat more effective than aspirin for reducing the risk of stroke in patients with a completed minor stroke.
Chlorine gas is considered a chemical threat agent that can cause acute lung injury. Studies in the early 20th century on war gases led Haber to postulate that the dose of an inhaled chemical expressed as the product of gas concentration and exposure time leads to a constant toxicological effect (Haber's Law). In the present work, mice were exposed to a constant dose of chlorine (100 ppm-h) delivered using different combinations of concentration and time (800 ppm/7.5 min, 400 ppm/15 min, 200 ppm/30 min, and 100 ppm/60 min). Significant effects of exposure protocol on survival evaluated 6 h after exposure were observed, ranging from 0% for the 7.5-min exposure to 100% for the 30- and 60-min exposures. Multiple parameters indicative of lung injury were examined to determine if any aspects of lung injury were differentially affected by the exposure protocols. Most parameters (pulmonary edema, neutrophil influx, and levels of protein, immunoglobulin M, and the chemokine KC [Cxcl1] in lavage fluid) indicated that lung injury was most pronounced for the 15-min exposure and least for the 60-min exposure. In contrast, changes in pulmonary function at baseline and in response to inhaled methacholine were similar following the three exposure regimens. The results indicate that the extent of lung injury following chlorine inhalation depends not only on total dose but also on the specifics of exposure concentration and time, and they suggest that evaluation of countermeasures against chlorine-induced lung injury should be performed using multiple types of exposure scenarios.
Guanfacine is a noradrenergic agonist that is believed to improve symptoms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) through selective actions at alpha2A-adrenoceptors in the prefrontal cortex. A recent double-blind, multicenter trial supports the efficacy and safety of guanfacine extended release (GXR) for pediatric ADHD. This long-term, open-label extension was conducted to study the safety profile and effectiveness of GXR for up to 2 years.
Subjects were 240 children 6-17 years of age with a diagnosis of ADHD who participated in the preceding randomized trial. GXR was initiated at 2 mg/day and titrated as needed in 1-mg increments to a maximum of 4 mg/day to achieve optimal clinical response.
The most common adverse events were somnolence (30.4%), headache (26.3%), fatigue (14.2%), and sedation (13.3%). Somnolence, sedation, and fatigue were usually transient. Cardiovascular-related adverse events were uncommon, although small reductions in mean blood pressure and pulse rate were evident at monthly visits. ADHD Rating Scale, Version IV, total and subscale scores improved significantly from baseline to endpoint for all dose groups (P<.001 for all comparisons, intent-to-treat population).
Long-term treatment with GXR was generally safe for up to 24 months of treatment, and effectiveness was maintained over this treatment period.
To understand whether human paraoxonase 1 (PON1) would modulate the risk for arsenic-related atherosclerosis, we studied 196 residents from an arseniasis-endemic area in Southwestern Taiwan and 291 age- and sex-matched residents from a nearby control area where arsenic exposure was found low. Carotid atherosclerosis was defined by a carotid artery intima-media wall thickness (IMT) of >1.0 mm. Prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis was increased in the arseniasis-endemic area as compared to the control area after adjustment for conventional risk factors (OR=2.20, p<0.01). The prevalence was positively associated with cumulative arsenic exposure (mg/L-year) in a dose-dependent manner. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that in the endemic group, low serum PON1 activity was an independent risk factor for atherosclerosis (OR=4.18 low vs. high, p<0.05). For those of low PON1 activity and high cumulative arsenic exposure, the odds ratio for the prevalence of atherosclerosis was further increased up to 5.68 (p<0.05). No significant association was found between atherosclerosis and four polymorphisms of the PON gene cluster (PON1 -108C/T, PON1 Q192R, PON2 A148G, PON2 C311S). However, genetic frequencies of certain alleles including PON1 Q192, PON2 G148 and PON2 C311 were found increased in the endemic group as compared to the controls and a general Chinese population, indicating a possible survival selection in the endemic group after a long arsenic exposure history. Our results showed a significant joint effect between arsenic exposure and serum PON1 activity on carotid atherosclerosis, suggesting that subjects of low PON1 activity may be more susceptible to arsenic-related cardiovascular disease.
Worldwide interest in green tea as a cancer preventive agent for humans has increased, because it is non-toxic and it is effective in a wide range of organs. (-)-Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) is the main constituent of green tea; the others are (-)-epicatechin gallate, (-)-epigallocatechin and (-)-epicatechin (EC). This paper reports the results of our latest pharmacological and biochemical studies with 3H-EGCG, along with studies on human subjects. The study on bioavailability of 3H-EGCG in mice revealed the wide distribution of radioactivity in multiple organs. Specifically, radioactivity was found in all reported target organs of EGCG and green tea extract (digestive tract, liver, lung, pancreas, mammary gland and skin) as well as other organs (brain, kidney, uterus and ovary or testes) in mice. Recently, we demonstrated that EC enhanced incorporation of 3H-EGCG into human lung cancer cell line PC-9 cells. EC along with another cancer preventive agent sulindac also synergistically enhanced apoptosis in PC-9 cells induced by EGCG. Moreover, a case-control study on breast cancer patients revealed that high daily consumption of green tea was associated with a lower recurrence rate among Stages I and II patients. All the results suggest that consumption of green tea is a practical and effective cancer preventive both before cancer onset and after cancer treatment.
We have previously described a rat model for the contribution of neuroplastic changes in nociceptors to the transition from acute to chronic pain. In this model a prior injury activates protein kinase C epsilon (PKCepsilon), inducing a chronic state characterized by marked prolongation of the hyperalgesia induced by inflammatory cytokines, prototypically prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), referred to as hyperalgesic priming. In this study we evaluated the population of nociceptors involved in priming, by lesioning isolectin B4-positive (IB4(+)) nociceptors with intrathecal administration of a selective neurotoxin, IB4-saporin. To confirm that the remaining, TrkA(+)/IB4(-), nociceptors are still functional, we evaluated if nerve growth factor (NGF) induced hyperalgesia. While pretreatment with IB4-saporin eliminated the acute mechanical hyperalgesia induced by glia-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), NGF and PsiepsilonRACK, a highly selective activator of PKCepsilon, induced robust hyperalgesia. After injection of NGF, GDNF or PsiepsilonRACK, at a time at which hyperalgesia induced by PGE(2) is markedly prolonged (hyperalgesic priming) in control rats, in IB4-saporin-pretreated rats PGE(2) failed to produce this prolonged hyperalgesia. Thus, while PKCepsilon is present in most dorsal root ganglion neurons, where it can contribute to acute mechanical hyperalgesia, priming is restricted to IB4(+)-nociceptors, including those that are TrkA(+). While PKCepsilon activation can induce acute hyperalgesia in the IB4(+) population, it fails to induce priming. We suggest that hyperalgesic priming occurs only in IB4(+) nociceptors, and that in the peripheral terminals of nociceptors separate intracellular pools of PKCepsilon mediate nociceptor sensitization and the induction of hyperalgesic priming.
The role of scalaradial (SLD) (or its 12-epi analog), a marine natural product purified from sponge (Cacospongia mollior) in human neutrophil (polymorphonuclear leukocyte, PMN) arachidonic acid metabolism was studied. SLD potently inhibited human recombinant (rh) type II-14 kDa-phospholipase A2 (PLA2) (IC50 = 0.07 microM) but displayed weak inhibition of U937 cell, 85 kDa-PLA2 (IC50 = 20 microM). Sn-2 acylhydrolytic activity expressed in human PMN acid extract, that was completely neutralized by anti-rh type II-14 kDa-PLA2 monoclonal antibody, was inhibited by SLD in a concentration-dependent manner (IC50 = 35 microM). Exposure of human PMN to SLD resulted in a concentration-dependent inhibition of calcium ionophore (A23187)-induced leukotriene B4 release (IC50 = 0.1-0.6 microM). In contrast to the action of selective 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors (WY 50295 or zileuton), SLD decreased A23187-induced PMN liberation of arachidonic acid mass and platelet-activating factor biosynthesis (IC50 = 1-2 microM). PMN acetyltransferase activity was not significantly affected by SLD suggesting that platelet-activating factor inhibition was due, predominantly, to inactivation of PLA2 activity. In vivo, topical application of SLD on mouse ear treated with phorbol ester, not only inhibited edema formation but also the increase in myeloperoxidase activity (an index of cellular infiltration). SLD had little or no effect on arachidonic acid-induced ear edema or myeloperoxidase which is consistent with an action on PLA2. Take together these data suggest that the predominant mechanism of SLD is via inhibition of 14 kDa-like-PLA2 and suggests that this enzyme may participate in PMN arachidonic acid liberation and lipid mediator formation.
