There have been few investigations of an association between poly(vinyl chloride) (PVC) dust exposure and an increase in lung cancer incidence, and their conclusions have been inconsistent.
To determine whether PVC and/or vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) is the associated risk factor(s), by means of a nested case-referent study, in order to estimate lung cancer risk, avoiding selection, information, or confounding biases.
Thirty eight cases of histologically verified lung cancer and 224 control subjects without a history of cancer were selected from an Italian cohort of 1658 vinyl chloride workers. Information sources included clinical records (diagnosis, smoking habits) and plant records (occupational history). The risk of lung cancer was estimated by odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI), calculated using logistic regression models.
In PVC baggers exposed to high levels of respirable PVC particles in the workplace, the lung cancer OR increases by 20% for each extra year of work (OR = 1.2003; 95% CI 1.0772 to 1.3469; p = 0.0010), when the influence of age and smoking habits is controlled. No relation was found between lung cancer and cumulative VCM exposure.
This nested case-control study showed, in the VCM/PVC industry, an increased risk of lung cancer associated with exposure to PVC dust; previous cohort studies failed to recognise such excess, probably because they used VCM exposure as the risk indicator.
Apart from the long-used corticosteroids, topical calcineurin inhibitors (tacrolimus, pimecrolimus) represent novel therapeutic options for the treatment of atopic dermatitis.
This study was designed to investigate the pathophysiological target cells and mode of action of pimecrolimus in atopic skin.
Twenty-two patients were randomly assigned to treatment with pimecrolimus cream 1%, matching vehicle cream, or beta-methasone-17-valerate (BMV) cream 0.1% in a randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, parallel group clinical trial. Treatment was given twice daily for 3 weeks. Cryostat sections of skin biopsies were taken before as well as at selected time points after initiation of therapy. For certain experiments, healthy volunteers were topically treated with the creams described twice a day on 5 consecutive days. Epidermal sheets were prepared from suction blisters. For in vitro experiments, untreated, healthy human skin was obtained from patients undergoing plastic surgery. The effect of pimecrolimus and BMV on Langerhans cells (LCs), inflammatory dendritic epidermal cells, and T cells was investigated by using immunofluorescence and flow-cytometry techniques.
While topical BMV treatment depleted LCs in healthy and atopic skin, pimecrolimus did not affect their number. Correlating with the disappearance of inflammatory cells, we observed a depletion of inflammatory dendritic epidermal cells and T cells on pimecrolimus and BMV treatment. Furthermore, we show that pimecrolimus depletes T cells by the induction of apoptosis.
In summary, our data show that pimecrolimus reduces pathological T cells in atopic dermatitis skin via apoptosis, whereas LCs remain unaffected.
The incidence of acute renal failure, hypertension and electrolyte disorders in 64 bone marrow transplant recipients randomized to receive either cyclosporin or cyclophosphamide was investigated. Sixty-four per cent of patients developed acute renal failure, 75 per cent hypertension, and 88 per cent significant hypomagnesemia. The incidence of diastolic hypertension and hypomagnesemia was greater in the patents treated with cyclosporin. Hypomagnesemia was due to magnesium wasting by the kidney. Both groups received similar cumulative doses of aminoglycoside antibiotics. Significant proteinuria developed in all but one patient and nephrotic-range proteinuria was noted in 21 per cent. The cause of the proteinuria is unclear; no obvious morphologic changes were seen at autopsy in patients who exhibited nephrotic-range proteinuria. The abnormalities of renal function were shown to be transient in patients who were observed for periods ranging from one to three years. It is concluded that hypertension, renal failure and hypomagnesemia are common in the setting of bone marrow transplantation. Whereas cyclosporin probably aggravates the severity of these disorders, it is likely that other factors (e.g., aminoglycoside antibiotics) play a major role as shown by the high incidence of renal and electrolyte disorders in patients treated with cyclophosphamide alone.
Antibodies and small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors targeting ErbB2 exhibit distinct, noncross resistant mechanisms of action. Here, apoptosis of ErbB2-overexpressing breast cancer cells was enhanced by combining lapatinib, an inhibitor of ErbB1 and ErbB2 tyrosine kinases, with anti-ErbB2 antibodies, including (i) trastuzumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody, and (ii) pAb, rabbit polyclonal antisera generated by vaccination with a human ErbB2 fusion protein. Treating ErbB2-overexpressing breast cancer cell lines with a relatively low concentration of lapatinib alone resulted in a minimal increase in tumor cell apoptosis with an associated decrease in steady-state protein levels of p-ErbB2, p-Akt, p-Erk1/2, and notably survivin, compared to baseline. Exposure to pAb alone reduced total ErbB2 protein, disrupting ErbB3 transactivation, leading to a marked inhibition of p-Akt; however, survivin protein levels remained unchanged and apoptosis only increased slightly. Treatment with trastuzumab alone had relatively little effect on survivin and apoptosis was unaffected. Combining lapatinib with either pAb or trastuzumab markedly downregulated survivin protein and enhanced tumor cell apoptosis. The association between the inhibition of survivin and enhanced apoptosis following the combination of ErbB2-targeted therapies provides a biological effect in order to identify therapeutic strategies that promote tumor cell apoptosis and might improve clinical response.
Two patients with bipolar affective disorder and a history of bronchospastic phenomena experienced tremor during lithium carbonate therapy. In both, metoprolol produced objective and subjective improvement of the tremor without producing bronchospasm. Objective improvement of tremor after use of metoprolol was documented by accelerometry. The authors discuss the implications of these findings.
Drug-eluting stents (DES) have been introduced successfully in clinical practice to prevent post-angioplasty restenosis. Nevertheless, concerns about the safety of DES still exist.
To investigate the vascular pathology and transcriptional responses to sirolimus and paclitaxel in a murine model for restenosis on underlying diseased atherosclerotic arteries.
Atherosclerotic lesions were induced by placement of a perivascular cuff around the femoral artery of hypercholesterolaemic ApoE*3-Leiden transgenic mice. Two weeks later these cuffs were replaced either by sirolimus- or paclitaxel-eluting cuffs. The vascular pathological effects were evaluated after two additional weeks.
Both anti-restenotic compounds significantly inhibited restenotic lesion progression on the atherosclerotic plaques. Vascular histopathological analyses showed that local delivery of sirolimus has no significant adverse effects on vascular disease. Conversely, high dosages of paclitaxel significantly increased apoptosis, internal elastic lamina disruption, and decreased medial and intimal smooth muscle cells and collagen content. Moreover, transcriptional analysis by real-time RT-PCR showed an increased level of pro-apoptotic mRNA transcripts (FAS, BAX, caspase 3) in paclitaxel-treated arteries.
Sirolimus and paclitaxel are effective in preventing restenosis. Sirolimus has no significant effect on arterial disease. In contrast, paclitaxel at high concentration demonstrated adverse vascular pathology and transcriptional responses, suggesting a narrower therapeutic range of this potent drug. Since the use of overlapping stents is becoming more common in DES technology, this factor is important, given that higher dosages of paclitaxel may lead to increased apoptosis in the vessel wall and, consequently, to a more unstable phenotype of the pre-existing atherosclerotic lesion.
Three nonsplenectomized patients were infected with Babesia microti. One had fever, abdominal pain suggesting gallbladder disease, and evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation; another was considered to have lymphoma, partly because two smears for Babesia before admission were negative. All three patients were treated with pentamidine isethionate and improved clinically. Parasites were no longer seen on smears after 5 days of therapy, but Babesia could still be recovered by hamster inoculation 5 weeks after therapy in one of the patients tested, underscoring the need for this test to properly evaluate eradication of the organism. In one patient, pentamidine was stopped after 7 days because of increased creatinine concentration, and this amount of drug appeared adequate to control the parasitemia. Pain at drug injection sites was a major side effect in all three patients. Pentamidine appears to be useful in controlling clinical manifestations of babesiosis and decreasing parasitemia, but it does not eradicate the organism.
Forty patients with definite or classical active rheumatoid arthritis were stratified by the minimization procedure to auranofin (6 mg/day) or penicillamine (go slow and low regime). This investigation is a prospective planned 3 year patient and 'doctor-open' as well as 'doctor-blind' clinical trial. This article describes the results after 12 months. Both drugs decreased disease activity and improved the functional capacity in a similar way. Two patients in the auranofin group and 5 in the penicillamine group stopped treatment due to major side effects. Four other patients in the auranofin group left treatment: 2 due to death from unrelated cause and 2 according to the Helsinki II Declaration. After one year a further patient in the auranofin group and 2 in the penicillamine group stopped treatment due to lack of clinical effect. Side effects due to auranofin were statistically more frequent distal in the gastrointestinal tract (loose stools/diarrhoea) than with penicillamine. In contrast, penicillamine produced significantly more side effects in the oral cavity (mainly taste disturbances) than auranofin. Other side effects were about equal in the two groups, but 2 cases of severe proteinuria and one with obstructive lung disease were observed in the penicillamine group. Only 3 patients did not complain of any untoward effect during the 12-month period. We conclude that on the basis of this one year investigation it is an open question whether one should select auranofin or penicillamine for the treatment of clinical active rheumatoid arthritis.
100 patients with acute myocardial infarction were given 5 mg of sublingual isosorbide dinitrate within 36 hours by the onset of their symptoms. 86 patients did not show any unusual effect after the administration of the drug; their heart rate was only slightly increased and their arterial pressure slightly reduced. 14 patients developed severe systemic arterial hypotension, associated with absolute or relative bradycardia, within 30 minutes of receiving the drug. All the patients complained of fainting and sweating, 1 patient developed a syncope. Symptoms were relieved by raising patients legs in 10 cases, by 0.5 mg Atropina e.v. in 4 cases, 1 case required also external cardiac massage. There was no significant difference between the two groups as regard to the location of myocardial infarction nor to the functional class (according to Killip classification). Possible mechanism producing bradycardia, hypotension and lipothymia after nitrates administration are considered. A vagally mediate reflex possibly elicited by a fall in venous return is the most acceptable hypothesis. The study emphasizes the importance of carefull observation of patients receiving sublingual nitrates during acute myocardial infarction, and the rapid response of bradycardia, hypotension and lipothymia following nitrates administration, to a simple therapy, which avoids other potentially hazardous treatments.
Prenatal exposure to maternal cigarette smoking in humans or nicotine in experimental animals is associated with elevated blood pressure in the offspring. This effect may be limited to genetically vulnerable individuals and related to alterations in the kidneys. Here we investigated whether prenatal exposure to nicotine (PEN) alters kidney morphology and gene expression, and whether these effects differ between two genetically distant strains, i.e. spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and Brown Norway (BN) rats. The results showed that, in SHR but not in BN offspring, PEN decreases kidney glomerular mass and increases renal expression of the angiotensin II type 1b receptor gene; the latter is not mediated through changes in DNA methylation of the proximal promoter of this gene. The results also showed that PEN alters expression of multiple genes involved in the kidney nervous system function, with mostly opposite effects being seen in SHR and BN. These results suggest that, in genetically vulnerable individuals, PEN leads to morphological and molecular changes in the kidneys that may contribute to fetal programming of hypertension.
This study was undertaken to assess the risk of developing complete heart block during general anesthesia in patients with bundle branch block. His bundle electrograms were recorded during sinus rhythm and after atrail pacing in 11 patients (5 LBBB, 2 RBBB, 3 RBBB and LAH, 1 RBBB and LBH) before and after administration of Pentothal 0.20 g e.v., Succinylcholine 1 mg/kg e.v., and breathing of fluothane 1%or Ethrane. Minimal effects on sinus functions and A-V node conduction was observed during anesthesia; Fluothane only increased slightly AH intervals (+11%). Both Fluothane and Ethrane effects on HV conduction was insignificant. In 9 patients HV intervals increased of 5% after Succinylcholine; 2 patients developed a complete heart block distal to his after the drug. Possible causes of the complete heart block are discussed and a direct effect of Succinylcholine is hypothesized.
We have demonstrated that cytokine thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP), whose expression is rapidly induced upon keratinocyte-selective ablation of retinoid X receptors (RXRs) -alpha and -beta in the mouse (RXRalphabeta(ep-/-) mice), plays a key role in initiating a skin and systemic atopic dermatitis-like phenotype. We show here that topical application of the physiologically active ligand [1alpha,25-(OH)(2)D(3); calcitriol] of the vitamin D receptor, or of its low-calcemic analog MC903 (calcipotriol; Dovonex), induces TSLP expression in epidermal keratinocytes, which results in an atopic dermatitis-like syndrome mimicking that seen in RXRalphabeta(ep-/-) mutants and transgenic mice overexpressing TSLP in keratinocytes. Furthermore, topical application of retinoic acid receptor RARgamma-selective agonist BMS961 also induces TSLP expression either on its own or synergistically with 1alpha,25-(OH)(2)D(3). Our data demonstrate that RXR/vitamin D receptor and RXR/retinoic acid receptor-gamma heterodimers and their ligands cell-autonomously control the expression of TSLP in epidermal keratinocytes of the mouse. We propose molecular mechanisms through which vitamin D3 and retinoic acid signalings could be involved in the pathogenesis of atopic diseases.
Pogostemonis Herba is an important Chinese medicine widely used in the treatment of gastrointestinal dysfunction. Patchouli alcohol (PA), a tricyclic sesquiterpene, is the major active constituent of Pogostemonis Herba. This study aimed to investigate the possible anti-ulcerogenic potential of PA and the underlying mechanism against ethanol, indomethacin and water immersion restraint-induced gastric ulcers in rats. Gross and histological gastric lesions, biochemical and immunological parameters were taken into consideration. The gastric mucus content and the antisecretory activity were analyzed through pylorus ligature model in rats. Results indicated that oral administration with PA significantly reduced the ulcer areas induced by ethanol, indomethacin and water immersion restraint. PA pretreatment significantly promoted gastric prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and non-protein sulfhydryl group (NP-SH) levels, upregulated the cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) mRNA expression, and considerably boosted the gastric blood flow (GBF) and gastric mucus production in comparison with vehicle. In addition, PA modulated the levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-10 (IL-10) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α). The levels of glutathione (GSH), catalase (CAT) and malonaldehyde (MDA) were also restored by PA. However, the gastric secretion parameters (pH, volume of gastric juice and pepsin) did not show any significant alteration. These findings suggest that PA exhibited significant gastroprotective effects against gastric ulceration. The underlying mechanisms might involve the stimulation of COX-mediated PGE2, improvement of antioxidant and anti-inflammatory status, preservation of GBF and NP-SH, as well as boost of gastric mucus production.
An increased cytoplasmatic calcium level seems to play an important role in the pathogenesis of Adriamycin (ADM)-induced cardiomyopathy. Experiments have shown that calcium channel blockers such as verapamil may prevent this type of cardiomyopathy in animals, but data are contradictory. In a clinical pilot trial, the left ventricular function of 22 patients undergoing ADM-chemotherapy in combination with verapamil was examined. M-mode echocardiograms were performed parallel to every chemotherapy course. Left ventricular function was determined by fractional shortening rate (FS) and peak fibre shortening velocity (V ef max.). Three 40-mg doses of verapamil were given p.o./day continuously. Data of these patients were compared with a control group of 61 patients treated and checked equally without additional verapamil therapy. In the course of therapy parameters of left ventricular function remained almost constant in the verapamil group but decreased significantly in the control group. In the verapamil group FS changed by -0.05 FS %/100 mg ADM/m2, V ef max. by +0.015 circ./s/100 mg ADM/m2 compared with -2.31 FS % and -0.33 circ./s in the control group (P 0.01 and 0.001, respectively). In the verapamil group no congestive heart failure occurred and no patient showed FS below 30%, whereas in the control group in 23% (14) of the cases ADM therapy had to be stopped because FS fell below 30%. One congestive heart failure was observed. These clinical results suggest that verapamil may be a useful drug for preventing ADM-induced cardiomyopathy but further investigations are necessary.
The level of atmospheric oxygen, a driver of free radical damage and tumorigenesis, decreases sharply with rising elevation. To understand whether ambient oxygen plays a role in human carcinogenesis, we characterized age-adjusted cancer incidence (compiled by the National Cancer Institute from 2005 to 2009) across counties of the elevation-varying Western United States and compared trends displayed by respiratory cancer (lung) and non-respiratory cancers (breast, colorectal, and prostate). To adjust for important demographic and cancer-risk factors, 8-12 covariates were considered for each cancer. We produced regression models that captured known risks. Models demonstrated that elevation is strongly, negatively associated with lung cancer incidence (p < 10(-16)), but not with the incidence of non-respiratory cancers. For every 1,000 m rise in elevation, lung cancer incidence decreased by 7.23 99% CI [5.18-9.29] cases per 100,000 individuals, equivalent to 12.7% of the mean incidence, 56.8. As a predictor of lung cancer incidence, elevation was second only to smoking prevalence in terms of significance and effect size. Furthermore, no evidence of ecological fallacy or of confounding arising from evaluated factors was detected: the lung cancer association was robust to varying regression models, county stratification, and population subgrouping; additionally seven environmental correlates of elevation, such as exposure to sunlight and fine particulate matter, could not capture the association. Overall, our findings suggest the presence of an inhaled carcinogen inherently and inversely tied to elevation, offering epidemiological support for oxygen-driven tumorigenesis. Finally, highlighting the need to consider elevation in studies of lung cancer, we demonstrated that previously reported inverse lung cancer associations with radon and UVB became insignificant after accounting for elevation.
Lovastatin (LS) is a potent HMG-CoA inhibitor used in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. In humans it can cause a severe, necrotizing myopathy with myoglobinuria and renal failure. To investigate the pathogenesis of LS-induced myopathy we studied the effects of LS on rat skeletal muscle. Lewis rats were gavage-fed 1 mg/g body weight/day of LS. Control rats received carboxymethylcellulose-based suspension by gavage. Gastrocnemius and soleus, fast and slow twitch muscles respectively, were studied by light and electron microscopy. By day 10 LS-treated rats became severely weak. Gastrocnemius was severely affected with degeneration of membranous organelles and microvacuole formation, but soleus was spared. Eventually, 20-50% of the gastrocnemius but none of the soleus fibers became necrotic. Non-necrotic fibers showed no increases of acid phosphatase, indicating that autophagy was not excited. We conclude that LS causes muscle injury by inducing degeneration of membranous organelles, and fast twitch muscle fibers are selectively vulnerable to LS myopathy.
In this study, it was aimed to demonstrate the possible oxidative stress caused by exposure of xylene and formaldehyde (HCHO) on liver tissue, and on body and liver weights in adult as well as developing rats. The rats (96 female Sprague-Dawley) were randomly divided into four groups: embryonic day 1 (Group 1), 1-day-old infantile rats (Group 2), 4-week-old rats (Group 3) and adult rats (Group 4). The animals were exposed to gases of technical xylene (300 ppm), HCHO (6 ppm) or technical xylene + HCHO (150 ppm + 3 ppm), 8 hours per day for 6 weeks. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities, and glutathione (GSH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were evaluated. In addition, body and liver weights were determinated. Compared to the control animals, body and liver weights were decreased in the embryonic day 1 group (P < 0.001, P < 0.01, respectively) and the 1-day-old infantile group (P < 0.001). Liver weight was increased in the 4-week-old group (P < 0.01). SOD activities were decreased in the 4-week-old rats exposed to HCHO (P < 0.01). CAT activities increased in the embryonic day 1 group (P < 0.05). GSH levels were decreased in the 1-day-old infantile group (P < 0.01), and MDA levels was increased in the embryonic day 1 group (P < 0.05) as compared with the respective control groups. As to GSH and MDA levels in adult and 4-week-old animals, no statistically significant differences were observed (P > 0.05). The present study indicates that exposures to xylene, HCHO and a mixture of them are toxic to liver tissue, and developing female rats are especially more adversely affected. Furthermore, the results of this study show that adult female rats could better tolerate the adverse effects of these toxic gases.
Stroke is a frequently reported, though uncommon, complication of drug abuse, primarily cocaine. The pathogenesis is uncertain, although such cerebrovascular events may result from sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction of cerebral vessels. Amphetamine, another sympathomimetic amine that is commonly abused, may also cause strokes by producing cerebral vasospasm and/or vasculitis. Amphetamine and its derivatives are frequent adulterants of illegally obtained cocaine and may also be used concurrently; the effect(s) of this combination of drugs upon the cerebral vasculature is not known. Our aim was to develop an animal model that would enable us to study the ability of these drugs to produce acute cerebral vasospasm and to observe the response to IV administration of amphetamine and cocaine, either alone or together. Magnified basilar artery arteriograms were obtained in 12 New Zealand white rabbits before and after IV administration of cocaine, methamphetamine, or both, at various dosages. Low doses produced mild vasodilatation. At higher doses, the animals who received cocaine and methamphetamine alone showed little or no basilar artery spasm, but coadministration produced definite basilar artery vasospasm, reflecting a synergistic vasoconstrictive effect. If a similar response exists in the human cerebral vasculature, then this could help explain the cause of strokes associated with drug abuse.
Reye's syndrome has been infrequently described in children receiving long-term salicylate therapy. We report the clinical and laboratory findings of two children in whom Reye's syndrome developed while taking salicylates for systemic inflammatory disorders. Monitoring of hepatocellular function should be considered in children who are receiving long-term salicylate therapy.
In this study we examined the effect of combination treatment of experimental stroke with Niaspan, a prolonged-release formulation of Niacin (vitamin B3), and Simvastatin, a cholesterol-lowering drug, on functional outcome, axonal damage, axonal density and the of Iba-1 immunoreactive microglia expression in the ischemic brain of rats. Adult male rats were subjected to 2 h middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) and treated with or without Niaspan alone, Simvastatin alone and combination Niaspan and Simvastatin starting 24 h after MCAo and daily for 14 days. Neurological functional tests were performed. Axonal damage and density were evaluated by Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP) and Bielschowsky silver, respectively. Nogo66 Receptor (NgR) expression and immunoreactive microglia (Iba-1) were also measured in the ischemic brain. Niaspan and Simvastatin monotherapy and combination treatment significantly promote functional outcome after stroke (p<0.05) compared to MCAo control animals. Combination treatment with Niaspan and Simvastatin induces additive but not synergetic effects when compared to Niaspan or Simvastatin monotherapy groups. Combination treatment significantly decreased APP expression and increased Bielschowsky silver expression. NGR and Iba-1 expression were significantly decreased in the ischemic brain. These data suggest that treatment of experimental stroke with combination of Niaspan and Simvastatin significantly improves functional outcome, reduces axonal damage and increases axonal density. Decreased expression of the NGR and reduced activated microglia may contribute to functional recovery after stroke.
Nephrectomy with irradiation was performed in a 3;2 year old boy with Wilms tumor stage IV (livermetastases (liver metastases). Six months later a hemihepatectomy was performed on account of the liver metatases which persisted under a combined Actinomycin Vincristin therapy. A monotherapy with Adriamycin was instituted. The patient developed acute congestive heart failure. The patient developed acute congestive heart failure and showed typical EKG changes after a total dose of 700 mg/M2 of Adriamycin. In comparison to adults children reportedly tolerate somewhat higher total doses of Adriamycin. Therefore it is discussed, if in this case a limitation of liver function by hemihepatectomy and by irradiation has favored the appearance of the Adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy.
The diagnosis of Wilms tumor stage IV was established in a girl of 5 1/2 years of age in July 1972. Nephrektomy was followed by radiotherapy of the tumorbed and the lung metastasis. Thereafter the child was treated with Vincristine (VCR) and Actinomycine D (AMD) for two years. The child has been off treatment for the last 14 months and is free of disease. An intention tremor of the right hand was noted 4 weeks after the 32nd application of VCR and 2 weeks after a viral infection of unknown etiology. The writing proved to be hypermetric. There was no loss of proprioception and thus the symptoms were localized into the right cerebellum. Having excluded other causes (hemorrhage, metastasis) as far as possible and considering unilateral cerebellar encephalitis as very unlikely the cerebellar symptoms were thought to be VCR toxicity.
To report a case of changes documented by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head probably due to accumulation of metronidazole in a patient with liver dysfunction.
A 34-year-old Hispanic man with cirrhosis and hepatitis C being treated with metronidazole for Bacteroides fragilis meningitis and bacteremia developed ataxia, disorientation, and peripheral neuropathy. An MRI at the time meningitis was diagnosed was negative. After the patient received > 60 g of metronidazole, an MRI revealed increased signal intensity below, behind, and lateral to the fourth ventricle. Concomitant metronidazole serum concentration was toxic at 35.1 micrograms/mL.
This is the second reported case of metronidazole-induced MRI changes. Metronidazole is known to accumulate in patients with liver dysfunction and can cause peripheral neuropathy and central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction; these effects may take up to two years to completely resolve.
Metronidazole dosages should be reduced in patients with liver dysfunction to prevent the accumulation of metronidazole, which can lead to CNS dysfunction and peripheral neuropathy.
One of the major side effects of ribavirin/interferon alpha combination therapy for chronic hepatitis C is hemolytic anemia. One of the causes of hemolytic anemia is considered to be decreasing deformability of erythrocytes resulting from the accumulation of phosphorylated ribavirin in erythrocytes. The administration of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), which has a wide variety of pharmacological actions, increases the deformability of erythrocytes. We conducted an uncontrolled pilot study of EPA therapy for patients with ribavirin-related anemia. Six patients with chronic hepatitis C, who had developed anemia while receiving combination therapy, were treated with an oral ethyl ester of EPA (1800 mg/day) for two months. The hemoglobin level of all six patients increased following EPA therapy. The mean hemoglobin level significantly increased from 10.8 g/dl to 11.4 g/dl one month after therapy was initiated (P<0.05), and this level was obtained again one month later (11.5 g/dl). None of the patients developed an adverse reaction. These findings suggest that EPA has a beneficial effect in patients with ribavirin-related anemia. Further study is required to confirm our results.
