Flavonoids are reported to exhibit a wide variety of biological effects, including antioxidant and free radical-scavenging activities. Evidence of oxidative reactions is often associated with various chronic disease processes characterized by accumulation of connective tissue. This study was aimed to investigate the protective effects of chronic administration of the flavonoid quercetin (150 micromol/kg body wt/day intraperitoneally) in rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced fibrosis. In animals rendered cirrhotic by administration of carbon tetrachloride for 16 weeks, cell necrosis, fibrosis, and inflammatory infiltration were found. Histological abnormalities were accompanied by a higher hepatic content of collagen and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances. Expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) was significantly increased in the liver. Treatment with quercetin during 3 weeks improved liver histology and reduced collagen content, iNOS expression, and lipid peroxidation. Those effects were associated with an increased total peroxyl radical-trapping antioxidant capacity of liver. We conclude that quercetin is effective in this model of liver damage.
Haemorrhagic radiation-induced proctitis is a serious complication of radiotherapy of pelvic organs. In severe cases, massive haemorrhage may necessitate hospitalization and repeated transfusions. Application of formaldehyde under direct vision is one of the most efficient treatments. The aim of this study was to evaluate the results of this treatment as well as the histological changes induced by formaldehyde on the rectal mucosa.
From January 1991 to September 2001, 13 patients who presented a haemorrhagic radiation-induced proctitis have been treated in our outpatient clinic with 4% formaldehyde cotton soaked applications. They were followed up to one year after the treatment. Endoscopic biopsies were performed before, immediately after the application, 1 month later, as well as at the one-year follow-up.
In eight cases bleeding stopped after the first application. In two patients a second application was necessary to control the haemorrhage and in two other patients bleeding ceased definitively after the fourth application. Follow-up evaluation at 12 months showed no sign of acute proctitis or rebleeding. One asymptomatic patient had a mild stenosis of the rectum. Baseline biopsies showed signs of acute inflammation. Those performed after the application of formaldehyde showed fresh thromboses of the vessels of the mucosa. Biopsies at 1 month and 1 year showed only chronic changes secondary to the radiotherapy.
Local application of 4% formaldehyde for the treatment of haemorrhagic radiation-induced proctitis gives good results, is well tolerated and easy to perform. Formaldehyde applied selectively causes thromboses of the bleeding vessels, without deep lesions or extended necrosis.
A patient receiving a standard dose of imipramine developed a drug-induced delirium. Her plasma antidepressant level was in the low therapeutic range. Thus, tricyclic-induced delirium may in some cases be an idiosyncratic phenomenon unrelated to plasma drug concentration.
The authors describe a case of oral-facial dyskinesia that occurred after discontinuation of amoxapine, and antidepressant which may also have neuroleptic effects. Occurrence of withdrawal dyskinesia indicates that the neuroleptic effects of amoxapine may be clinically significant.
Ischaemia has been the suggested mechanism of simultaneous left bundle branch block and chest pain on effort with normal coronary angiography. This hypothesis is very controversial and was not the mechanism in the two new cases of this syndrome. The two patients in whom effort pain and left bundle branch block were observed had been treated for paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia with flecaine. Withdrawal of the anti-arrhtymic resulted in the disappearance of this syndrome. In these cases, the ischaemic mechanism could be excluded without ambiguity. The flecaine was the only cause of rate-related LBBB by slowing conduction in the left bundle branch with no effects on coronary reserve. It would seem that LBBB alone was the cause of chest pain. The absence of coronary artery disease was confirmed in the first patient and the diagnosis was highly improbable in the second.
Chromium, a major environmental pollutant, is known for its wide toxic manifestations. The present experiment pertains to the protective role of selenium (Se) against K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-induced hepatotoxicity. Female Wistar rats were divided into four groups of six each: group I served as controls which received standard diet; group II received in drinking water K(2)Cr(2)O(7) alone (700 ppm); group III received both K(2)Cr(2)O(7) and Se (0.5 Na(2)SeO(3) mg/kg of diet); group IV received Se (0.5 mg/kg of diet) for 3 weeks. Exposure of rats to chromium promoted oxidative stress with an increase in malondialdehyde (MDA) and a decrease in glutathione (GSH) levels. A decrease in glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and an increase in superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities were observed. Se supplementation to the diet of group III improved all the parameters cited above. Yet, plasma transaminases (AST and ALT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activities, cholesterol, triglycerides (TG) and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels increased, while high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) decreased. Co-administration of Se to the diet of group III restored hepatic markers to near-normal values. The biochemical results confirmed the histopathological findings. Therefore, our investigation revealed that Se was effective in preventing K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-induced hepatotoxicity.
Granule cell neurogenesis increases following seizures, and some newly born granule cells develop at abnormal locations within the hilus. These ectopic granule cells (EGCs) demonstrate regular bursts of action potentials that are synchronized with CA3 pyramidal cell burst discharges and the bursts of hilar neurons, including mossy cells. Such findings suggest that mossy cells may participate in circuits that activate EGCs. Electron microscopic immunolabeling was therefore used to determine if mossy cell axon terminals form synapses with hilar EGC dendrites, using animals that underwent pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Pilocarpine was administered to adult male rats, and those which developed status epilepticus were perfused 5-7 months later, after the period of EGC genesis. Hippocampal sections were processed for dual electron microscopic immunolabeling (using calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) as a marker for mossy cells and calbindin (CaBP) as a marker for EGCs). Light microscopic analysis revealed large CGRP-immunoreactive cells in the hilus, with the appearance and distribution of mossy cells. Electron microscopic analysis revealed numerous CaBP-immunoreactive dendrites in the hilus, some of which were innervated by CGRP-immunoreactive terminals. The results suggest that mossy cells participate in the excitatory circuits which activate EGCs, providing further insight into the network rearrangements that accompany seizure-induced neurogenesis in this animal model of epilepsy.
We used pergolide to treat 10 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease who had first responded to, and then failed, bromocriptine therapy. At the end of 5 years, patients had improved when compared with study entry. Peak efficacy, equal with both drugs, was seen at 12 months. After a mean treatment of 29 months, bromocriptine was no longer effective, but pergolide was still beneficial.
Diabetes mellitus is associated with an increased risk of heart failure, resulting from a specific cardiomyopathy independent of coronary atherosclerosis. It is not yet established whether altered myocardial function is related to changes in molecular mechanics of myosin. Accordingly, we investigated the total number, single force and kinetics of myosin crossbridges (CB) in a rat model of streptozotocin-induced diabetic cardiomyopathy. Experiments were conducted on left ventricular papillary muscles from male diabetic (D) Wistar (n = 16) and age-matched control (C) rats (n = 15). Mechanical indices including the maximum unloaded shortening velocity V(max) and the maximum total isometric tension normalized per cross-sectional area TF(max) were determined. Using A. F. Huxley's equations, we calculated the total cycling CB number per mm(2) Psi, the elementary force per single CB Pi, the maximum values of the rate constant for CB attachment f(1) and detachment g(1) and g(2), and the turnover rate of myosin ATPase per site k(cat). The D rats exhibited a 25% decrease in TF(max) and a 34% decrease in V(max) as compared to C. This contractile dysfunction was associated with a significant reduction in Psi (9.0 +/- 1.6 in D versus 11.4 +/- 1.9 10(9)mm(-2) in C, P < 0.001) without significant change in Pi (6.1 +/- 0.8 in D versus 6.3 +/- 0.9 pN in C, NS). In the 2 groups, TF(max) correlated positively with Psi (r = 0.76, P < 0.001 and r = 0.64, P < 0.01, in D and C respectively) but no relationship was found between TF(max) and Pi. As compared to C, D showed lower values of f(1), g(1) and g(2), and a slower turnover rate of myosin ATPase. Thus, present data suggested that the cardiac contractile impairment observed in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat cardiomyopathy was mainly related to a decrease in active CB total number and CB kinetics alterations without significant change in CB single force.
The aim of this study is to provide long-term data on the effectiveness and safety of olanzapine in a group of patients with severe refractory schizophrenia.
Twenty patients who had previously received treatment with typical antipsychotic agents and who met the DSM-IV criteria of schizophrenia and refractoriness to treatment were evaluated in a 1-year prospective study after switching to olanzapine. The Positive and Negative Symptoms Scale (PANSS) and the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) were used to measure effectiveness. The extrapyramidal symptoms were also recorded. Serial laboratory tests, electrocardiograms and body weight measurements were also performed. Longitudinal statistical analyses were performed on the global changes in the scores of the scales by means of a repeated measures analysis of variance.
Significant reductions in the global scores from baseline in the PANSS, as well as in the BPRS, were observed. Furthermore, these reductions were also significant when considered only from Week 12. Olanzapine was, in general, well tolerated; a weight gain was observed between baseline and Month 4.5, but, interestingly, it decreased again from this time point to Month 12.
Olanzapine was shown to be a suitable treatment for refractory schizophrenia in this series of seriously ill patients. Although most of the effects were observed before Week 12, improvement persisted after 1 year. Weight gain stopped or even regressed when the treatment was prolonged. Large controlled clinical trials to define the role of atypical antipsychotics for the management of treatment-refractory schizophrenia are necessary.
A case is described of a 54-year-old 55 kg patient who presented for clipping of a middle cerebral aneurysm two years after a successful renal allograft. Immunosuppression was maintained with azathioprine 100 mg daily, cyclosporine 300 mg daily and prednisone 10 mg daily. The patient had chronic hypertension controlled with nifedipine 40 mg daily and furosemide 20 mg daily. The cyclosporine level taken on the morning of surgery was 166 micrograms.L-1. Induction of anaesthesia consisted of fentanyl 350 micrograms, thiopentone 125 mg and pancuronium 5.5 mg. Anaesthesia was maintained with nitrous oxide 70 per cent in oxygen and isoflurane 0.5-1.5 per cent. No additional doses of pancuronium were given during the four hour surgical procedure. At the end of surgery, four twitches were present with train-of-four stimulation, but evidence of residual muscle paralysis was present. Residual neuromuscular blockade was reversed with atropine 1.2 mg and neostigmine 2.5 mg. Residual paralysis was present in the Recovery Room and edrophonium 10 mg was given prior to extubation. Clinical testing demonstrated adequate reversal of neuromuscular blockade. Twenty minutes following extubation, increasing respiratory distress was noted. There was clinical evidence of muscle paralysis. The patient was re-intubated. It is proposed that cyclosporine potentiated the pancuronium blockade producing prolonged neuromuscular relaxation resulting in residual paralysis following surgery. The potential interactions of cyclosporine and muscle relaxants deserve further study.
Ewing sarcoma is the second most common bone tumor in childhood. Despite aggressive chemotherapy and radiotherapy, the prognosis of metastatic disease remains poor. In a nude mouse model of Ewing tumor xenografts, we recently showed that human type I interferons (IFNs) inhibit the growth of established xenografts. Combined therapy with human IFNs and ifosfamide (IFO), an alkylating agent widely used in high-dose chemotherapy of Ewing tumors, results in a strong synergistic antitumor effect. We have investigated the effect of IFNs/IFO treatment on the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9), and urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR), three key mediators of tumor growth and angiogenesis, in tumor xenografts generated either from a primary tumor (EW7) or from a metastatic tumor (COH). COH tumors expressed 5-fold higher levels of VEGF than EW7 tumors. IFNs/IFO treatment reduced by >70% the amount of VEGF in COH and EW7 tumors. We did not detect constitutive MMP-9 activity in EW7 tumors. In contrast, the metastasis-derived COH tumor expressed very high levels of active MMP-9. Although the total amount of MMP-9 remained unchanged, active MMP-9 was reduced by up to 75% in IFNs/IFO-treated COH tumors. IFNs/IFO treatment triggered in both COH and EW7 tumors the downregulation of uPAR expression, a molecule involved in vascularization and endothelial cell migration. Our results partly explain the mechanism of tumor growth inhibition by IFNs/IFO therapy and provide a rational foundation for the development of a new therapeutic approach to Ewing tumors resistant to conventional chemotherapy.
Since its approval by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), timolol has been widely used for the treatment of open-angle glaucoma. Contrary to the clinical trials before FDA approval, many reports of possible ocular and systemic side effects have now appeared. Cardiovascular, respiratory, and gastrointestinal systemic effects occur relatively often and are attributable to beta-adrenergic antagonism, but central nervous system (CNS) effects are not so explainable. The most frequent ocular side effects are instillation pain and blurred vision, often requiring discontinuation of timolol. Superficial punctate keratitis and associated reduced corneal sensitivity have been reported and pose a risk for affected contact lens wearers. The incidence of side effects in two prospective studies was about 20%, with some 40% of those having to discontinue timolol. Of optometric interest are reports that timolol increases the electro-oculogram (EOG) ratio (Arden Index), and that it may be used to lower intraocular pressure in acute angle closure when pilocarpine alone is unsuccessful.
Cefditoren pivoxil is a broad-spectrum cephalosporin that is approved for the treatment of pharyngitis, acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis, and skin and skin-structure infections.
This study was conducted to examine the efficacy and tolerability of cefditoren in the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). Amoxicillin/clavulanate was chosen as a comparator because of its established efficacy and general acceptance as a standard of care in CAP.
This multicenter, prospective, randomized, investigator-blinded, parallel-group trial compared oral cefditoren 200 and 400 mg BID with oral amoxicillin/clavulanate 875/125 mg BID for 14 days in adult outpatients with CAP.
Eight hundred two patients (404 men, 398 women; mean age, 50 years; age range, 12-93 years) with CAP were enrolled. Comparable clinical cure rates were observed among evaluable patients in all treatment groups at both the posttreatment and follow-up visits: 88.0% (125/142) for cefditoren 200 mg, 89.9% (143/159) for cefditoren 400 mg, and 90.3% (130/144) for amoxicillin/clavulanate at the posttreatment visit, and 86.5% (128/148), 86.8% (138/159), and 87.8% (129/147) for the respective groups at the follow-up visit. Of 82 Streptococcus pneumoniae strains isolated before treatment, 22 (26.8%) had reduced susceptibility to penicillin, 12 (14.6%) of them penicillin resistant. Overall eradication rates at the posttreatment visit for pathogens isolated from microbiologically evaluable patients were 84.0%, 88.6%, and 82.6% for cefditoren 200 mg, cefditoren 400 mg, and amoxicillin/clavulanate, respectively. In the respective treatment groups, 80.6%, 88.6%, and 88.0% of Haemophilus influenzae strains and 95.0%, 96.2%, and 89.5% of S pneumoniae strains were eradicated. The rates of resolution of or improvement in clinical signs and symptoms were comparable between treatment groups. The treatment regimens were well tolerated, with 4.9%, 3.0%, and 5.2% of patients in the respective treatment groups requiring discontinuation of study drug due to an adverse event.
In this study in adult outpatients with CAP, both doses of cefditoren demonstrated equivalence to amoxicillin/clavulanate based on rates of clinical and microbiologic cure. All 3 regimens were effective in resolving or improving the clinical signs and symptoms of CAP. Both cefditoren and amoxicillin/ clavulanate were well tolerated.
According to recently issued treatment guidelines, appropriate empiric choices for ambulatory patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) are a macrolide, doxycycline (for patients aged > or = 8 years), or an oral beta-lactam agent with good activity against pneumococci.
This study was designed to compare cefditoren pivoxil, a new beta-lactam, with cefpodoxime proxetil, a beta-lactam with an established role in the treatment of CAP.
This was a multicenter, prospective, randomized, double-blind study conducted in the United States and South Africa. Ambulatory patients with a diagnosis of CAP were randomized to 14 days of treatment with cefditoren 200 or 400 mg BID or cefpodoxime 200 mg BID. Assessments of clinical cure and pathogen eradication were conducted at 2 visits during treatment, 1 posttreatment visit (s48 hours after completion of treatment), and 1 follow-up visit (7-14 days after completion of treatment). The development of resistant pathogens was assessed at the follow-up visit but not thereafter. The relative cost of treatment was not assessed.
The study enrolled 851 patients. Comparable clinical cure rates were observed among evaluable patients in the 3 treatment groups at both the posttreatment and followup visits: at the posttreatment visit, cure rates were 90.5% (162/179) for cefditoren 200 mg, 89.7% (148/165) for cefditoren 400 mg, and 92.2% (153/166) for cefpodoxime 200 mg; at the follow-up visit, they were a respective 88.4% (160/181), 87.2% (143/164), and 90.4% (151/167). Of the 171 strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae isolated before treatment, 22 (12.9%) had reduced susceptibility to penicillin, 5 (2.9%) of them penicillin resistant (minimum inhibitory concentration > or = 2 microg/mL). At the posttreatment visit, the overall eradication rates of pathogens isolated from microbiologically evaluable patients were 88.7% (134/151), 89.9% (134/149), and 95.7% (134/140) in the respective treatment groups (P = 0.031, cefditoren 200 mg vs cefpodoxime). Eradication rates of S pneumoniae were 93.8% (45/48), 95.7% (45/47), and 95.6% (43/ 45) in the respective treatment groups; those of Haemophilus influenzae were 90.2% (46/51), 97.7% (43/44), and 97.4% (37/38). The rates of resolution and/or improvement in clinical signs and symptoms were comparable between groups. The study drugs were well tolerated, with 1.7%, 2.5%, and 1.4% of patients in the respective groups discontinuing study drug prematurely due to a treatment-related adverse event, the majority of these associated with the digestive system.
The results of this study suggest that cefditoren may have a role in the treatment of CAP in ambulatory patients.
To evaluate the prevalence and incidence of antimalarial myopathy in patients with rheumatic diseases treated with antimalarial drugs.
Over a three year period, all patients with rheumatic diseases who were taking antimalarial drugs were studied. Serum muscle enzymes were assessed at the time of inclusion and every six months thereafter. Muscle strength, electromyography (EMG), and muscle biopsy were assessed in patients with a persistent muscle enzyme disturbances.
119 patients were included (111 chloroquine, eight hydroxychloroquine). Of these, 22 (18.5%) had a persistent muscle enzyme disturbance: lactate dehydrogenase 19/22 (86%); creatine kinase 7/22 (32%), and aldolase 3/22 (14%). Findings of antimalarial myopathy were detected in 3/15 biopsied patients (20%) by light microscopy and in all 15 by electron microscopy. Eleven patients had myopathy at the time of inclusion (prevalence 9.2%) and four patients developed muscle injury during follow up (annual incidence 1.2%). Muscle weakness was observed in 8 of 15 patients with biopsy proven myopathy, giving a prevalence of clinical antimalarial myopathy of 6.7%. All these patients also had a myopathic pattern on electromyography.
The prevalence of antimalarial myopathy is higher than previously recognised when muscle enzyme determination is used as a screening method. When a persistent muscle enzyme disturbance is observed, clinical and electromyographic studies should be undertaken periodically to detect the development of clinical myopathy. In cases of clinical myopathy, an anatomical-pathological tissue study, including an ultrastructural study, is mandatory to confirm the diagnosis.
2-Amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ), a potent mutagen which was isolated from grilled sardines, was tested for carcinogenicity in CDF1 mice. Mice were given diet containing 0.04 or 0.01% MeIQ for 91 weeks. The incidences of liver tumors (hepatocellular carcinomas and hepatocellular adenomas) in female mice given 0.04 and 0.01% MeIQ were significantly higher than those in controls. The incidences of forestomach tumors (squamous cell carcinomas and papillomas) were also significantly higher in both sexes of mice given MeIQ. About 40% of the squamous cell carcinomas that developed in mice given diet containing 0.04% MeIQ metastasized to the liver.
Antioxidant therapy has shown some promise in critical care medicine in which glutathione depletion and heart failure are often seen in critically ill patients. This study was designed to examine the impact of glutathione depletion and the free radical scavenger, metallothionein (MT), on cardiac function.
Friend virus B and MT transgenic mice were given the glutathione synthase inhibitor buthionine sulfoximine (buthionine sulfoximine [BSO], 30 mmol/L) in drinking water for 2 wks.
Echocardiographic and cardiomyocyte functions were evaluated, including myocardial geometry, fraction shortening, peak shortening, time-to-90% relengthening (TR90), maximal velocity of shortening/relengthening (+/-dL/dt), intracellular Ca2+ rise, sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ release, and intracellular Ca2+ decay rate. Sacro (endo)plasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase function was evaluated by 45Ca uptake. Highly reactive oxygen species, caspase-3, and aconitase activity were detected by fluorescent probe and colorimetric assays.
BSO elicited lipid peroxidation, protein carbonyl formation, mitochondrial damage, and apoptosis. BSO also reduced wall thickness, enhanced end systolic diameter, depressed fraction shortening, peak shortening, +/-dL/dt, sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ release, 45Ca uptake, and intracellular Ca2+ decay, leading to prolonged TR90. BSO-induced mitochondrial loss and myofilament aberration. MT transgene itself had little effect on myocardial mechanics and ultrastructure. However, it alleviated BSO-induced myocardial functional, morphologic, and carbonyl changes. Western blot analysis showed reduced expression of sacro (endo)plasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase2a, Bcl-2 and phosphorylated GSK-3beta, enhanced calreticulin, Bax, p53, myosin heavy chain-beta isozyme switch, and IkappaB phosphorylation in FVB-BSO mice, all of which with the exception of p53 were nullified by MT.
Our findings suggest a pathologic role of glutathione depletion in cardiac dysfunction and the therapeutic potential of antioxidants.
Malignant melanoma is well known for its poor response to a variety of chemotherapeutic agents. Testing of numerous treatment strategies has identified dacarbazine as the most active single drug; however, its response rates in various clinical settings are quite limited. Defective apoptosis in combination with oncogenic proteins (such as activated Ras) in cell proliferation pathways plays a key part in both the development and disease progression of human melanoma. Farnesyl thiosalicylic acid, a novel Ras inhibitor, dislodges Ras proteins from the cell membrane, leading to inhibition of cell transformation and tumor growth. In this study we evaluated the effect of farnesyl thiosalicylic acid treatment on established human melanoma xenografts grown in mice with severe combined immunodeficiency as well as the chemosensitizing effect of farnesyl thiosalicylic acid in combination with dacarbazine. Daily administration of 10, 20, or 40 mg per kg of farnesyl thiosalicylic acid resulted in a concentration-dependent reduction in tumor growth, with growth inhibition reaching a mean value of 45+/-7%, at the highest concentration. The combination of farnesyl thiosalicylic acid (10 mg per kg per day) and dacarbazine (80 mg per kg per day) resulted in a significant reduction of 56%+/-9%, in mean tumor growth. Analysis of toxicologic parameters (mouse weight, blood cell counts, and blood chemistry) showed an acceptable and similar toxicity profile for both the single-agent farnesyl thiosalicylic acid treatment and the combination of farnesyl thiosalicylic acid plus dacarbazine treatment. Given the observed preclinical treatment responses and the low toxicity, our results support the notion that farnesyl thiosalicylic acid in combination with dacarbazine may qualify as a rational treatment approach for human melanoma.
Myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) has been used with increasing frequency and is considered a safe way to improve left ventricular border opacification. Studies have consistently documented that MCE can improve the ability to assess both global and regional left ventricular function by echocardiography. We report the case of an 83-year-old female who developed immediate and sustained hemodynamic instability after the injection of Perflutren for a contrast echocardiogram. We reviewed the literature and found no such previous reactions with Perflutren. Based on the temporal sequence of hypotension following Perflutren injection along with other clinical data, we concluded that our patient's hemodynamic instability was most likely secondary to an anaphylactic reaction.
To investigate the therapeutic effects of resveratrol (RESV) as a free radical scavenger on experimental severe acute pancreatitis (SAP).
Seventy-two male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided randomly into sham operation group, SAP group, and resveratrol-treated group. Pancreatitis was induced by intraductal administration of 0.1 mL/kg 4% sodium taurocholate. RESV was given intravenously at a dose of 20 mg/kg body weight. All animals were killed at 3, 6, 12 h after induction of the model. Serum amylase, pancreatic superoxide dismutase (SOD), malondialdehyde (MDA), and myeloperoxidase (MPO) were determined. Pathologic changes of the pancreas were observed under optical microscope.
The serum amylase, pancreatic MPO and the score of pathologic damage increased after the induction of pancreatitis, early (3, 6 h) SAP samples were characterized by decreased pancreatic SOD and increased pancreatic MDA. Resveratrol exhibited a protective effect against lipid peroxidation in cell membrane caused by oxygen free radicals in the early stage of SAP. This attenuation of the redox state impairment reduced cellular oxidative damage, as reflected by lower serum amylase, less severe pancreatic lesions, normal pancreatic MDA levels, as well as diminished neutrophil infiltration in pancreas.
RESV may exert its therapeutic effect on SAP by lowering pancreatic oxidative free radicals and reducing pancreatic tissue infiltration of neutrophils.
It is well-established that cystitis is a significant cause of morbidity after cyclophosphamide administration in clinical populations. We induced hemorrhagic cystitis in rats using cyclophosphamide and compared controls to those pretreated with prostaglandin F2 alpha. Rats were then evaluated for differences in bladder weights, gross edema, gross bleeding, and histologic changes. The weights of the bladders which had been treated with cyclophosphamide were 94% greater than the controls. The weights of the bladders which were pretreated with prostaglandin F2 alpha before cyclophosphamide were only 19% greater than controls. Significant differences were found between cyclophosphamide controls and prostaglandin F2 alpha pretreated groups for gross weight (p less than .0005), gross edema (p less than .0005), and histology (.0005 less than p less than .005). We conclude that prostaglandin F2 alpha may be helpful in preventing cyclophosphamide induced cystitis.
In the Second European Stroke Prevention Study headaches associated with dipyridamole frequently (8% of patients taking dipyridamole or dipyridamole plus acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) vs 2% of patients taking ASA or placebo) led to discontinuation of therapy. We have now used data from a recent trial comparing the bioequivalence of two formulations of the fixed combination of 200 mg dipyridamole in an extended release formulation and 25 mg ASA to explore predicting factors for headaches associated with this drug combination.
The bioequivalence trial employed a two-way crossover, randomised, open design. Trial medication was given for two periods of five days separated by a 72 h washout period. Statistical methods were employed to explore the prevalence, the time course, and the relation to individual pharmacokinetic parameters of treatment associated headaches.
Headache episodes, being mostly mild and transient, rapidly declined from 67% of the volunteers on the first day of treatment to 3% on the final days of treatment (days 4-5 of the second period). During the first days the prevalence of the headaches peaked 2-3 h after the morning administration, which coincided with the peak of the plasma concentrations of dipyridamole. The occurrence of headaches was not related to interindividual differences of the pharmacokinetic parameters.
The rapid decrease in the incidence of headaches over time implies that most patients quickly develop tolerance to dipyridamole-associated headaches. Appropriate information given to the patient when prescribing and dispensing dipyridamole/ASA may reduce early withdrawals from treatment and increase compliance.
Anaemia was induced in rats with fluorouracil (5-FU) or cisplatin (CDDP) and the mechanisms of anaemia induction were analysed. Furthermore, the therapeutic effects of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHu Epo) on these anticancer drug-induced anaemias were investigated. In 5-FU-induced anaemia, marked serum erythropoietin (Epo) elevation was observed in inverse correlation to blood Hb concentration and Hb concentration rapidly recovered to normal levels. On the other hand, in CDDP-induced anaemia, serum Epo elevation was modest and the lowered Hb concentration persisted longer. Treatment with rHu Epo significantly improved both anticancer drug-induced anaemias but rHu Epo was more effective on CDDP-induced anaemia. These results suggest that rHu Epo might be useful for the therapy of anaemia associated with anticancer chemotherapy.
FK506 (tacrolimus) and dexamethasone are potent immunosuppressants known to induce significant side effects on mineral homeostasis, including hypercalciuria and hypomagnesemia. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. The present study investigated the effects of FK506 and dexamethasone on the expression of proteins involved in active Ca(2+) reabsorption: the epithelial Ca(2+) channel TRPV5 and the cytosolic Ca(2+)-binding protein calbindin-D(28K). In addition, the renal expression of the putative Mg(2+) channel TRPM6, suggested to be involved in transcellular Mg(2+) reabsorption, was determined. Administration of FK506 to rats by daily oral gavage during 7 d significantly enhanced the urinary excretion of Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) and induced a significant hypomagnesemia. FK506 significantly decreased the renal mRNA expression of TRPV5 (62 +/- 7% relative to controls), calbindin-D(28K) (9 +/- 1%), and TRPM6 (52 +/- 8%), as determined by real-time quantitative PCR analysis. Furthermore, semiquantitative immunohistochemistry showed reduced renal protein abundance of TRPV5 (24 +/- 5%) and calbindin-D(28K) (29 +/- 4%), altogether suggesting that downregulation of these transport proteins is responsible for the FK506-induced Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) wasting. In contrast, dexamethasone significantly enhanced renal TRPV5 (150 +/- 15%), calbindin-D(28K) (177 +/- 23%), and TRPM6 (156 +/- 20%) mRNA levels along with TRPV5 (211 +/- 8%) and calbindin-D(28K) (176 +/- 5%) protein abundance in the presence of significantly increased Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) excretion. This indicated that these proteins are directly or indirectly regulated by dexamethasone. In conclusion, FK506 and dexamethasone induce renal Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) wasting, albeit by different mechanisms. Downregulation of specific Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) transport proteins provides a molecular mechanism for FK506-induced hypercalciuria and hypomagnesemia, whereas dexamethasone positively regulates these proteins.
The zebrafish model system is ideal for studying nervous system development. Ultimately, one would like to link the developmental biology to various aspects of behavior. We are studying the consequences of nicotine exposure on nervous system development in zebrafish and have previously shown that chronic nicotine exposure produces paralysis. We also have made observations that the embryos moved in the initial minutes of the exposure as the bend rates of the musculature increased. This nicotine induced behavior manifests as an increase in the rate of spinal musculature bends, which spontaneously begin at approximately 17 h post fertilization. The behavioral observations prompted the systematic characterization of nicotine-induced modulation of zebrafish embryonic motor output; bends of the trunk musculature. We first characterized embryonic motor output in zebrafish embryos with and without their chorions. We then characterized the motor output in embryos raised at 28 degrees C and 25 degrees C. The act of dechorionation along with temperature influenced the embryonic bend rate. We show that nicotine exposure increases embryonic motor output. Nicotine exposure caused the musculature bends to alternate in a left-right-left fashion. Nicotine was able to produce this phenotype in embryos lacking supraspinal input. We then characterize the kinetics of nicotine influx and efflux and demonstrate that nicotine as low as 1 microM can disrupt embryonic physiology. Taken together, these results indicate the presence of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) associated with embryonic spinal motor circuits early in embryogenesis.
