The cardiovascular response to electrical stimulation of the fastigial nucleus (FN) and microinjection of L-glutamate, kainic acid, glycine and GABA into the FN of anesthetized rats were studied. Electrical stimulation of FN produced pressor or depressor responses with a decrease or no change in heart rate depending upon the intensity or site of the stimulation. Microinjection of L-glutamate or kainic acid into the FN elicited pressor or depressor response with bradycardia, while that of glycine or GABA did not affect blood pressure or heart rate. L-glutamate or kainic acid microinjected into the FN did not affect epinephrine-induced pressor response, but attenuated the bradycardic response. These results indicate that L-glutamate in the FN may play a role in modulation of the cardiovascular regulation.
Acute respiratory infections cause considerable morbidity among Inuit children, but there is very little information on the risk factors for these infections in this population. To identify such factors, the authors performed a prospective community-based study of acute respiratory infections in an open cohort of 288 children aged 0-2 years in the town of Sisimiut, Greenland. Between July 1996 and August 1998, children were monitored weekly, and episodes of upper and lower respiratory tract infections were registered. Risk factor analyses were carried out using a multivariate Poisson regression model adjusted for age. Risk factors for upper respiratory tract infections included attending a child-care center (relative risk = 1.7 compared with home care) and sharing a bedroom with adults (relative risk = 2.5 for one adult and 3.1 for two adults). Risk factors for lower respiratory tract infections included being a boy (relative risk = 1.5), attending a child-care center (relative risk = 3.3), exposure to passive smoking (relative risk = 2.1), and sharing a bedroom with children aged 0-5 years (relative risk = 2.0 for two other children). Breastfeeding tended to be protective for lower respiratory tract infections. The population-attributable risk of lower respiratory tract infections associated with passive smoking and child-care centers was 47% and 48%, respectively. The incidence of acute respiratory infections among Inuit children may be reduced substantially through public health measures.
Rats were exposed by inhalation to either 0.5 ppm 1,4-dichlorobutene-2 (DCB) for two years or to 5.0 ppm for seven months, 2.5 ppm for five months, and no further exposure for 12 months prior to sacrifice. Malignant and non-malignant tumors of the nasal tissues were seen in both test groups with the incidence and proportion of malignant tumors being much higher in the 5.0/2.5 ppm rats. Under the conditions of this study, DCB is carcinogenic in rats of both sexes.
Morphea, a specific type of cutaneous sclerosis, is known in the pediatric age group, but not as an adverse effect to the antiepileptic valproic acid. We report a 14-year-old male patient with absence seizures who, after treatment with valproic acid, developed skin tightness on the fingers. A biopsy specimen revealed dermal sclerosis consistent with morphea. His symptoms resolved gradually after discontinuation of the medication. To our knowledge, this is the first patient reported to have an apparently valproic acid-induced localized morphea.
Three patients who developed cutaneous lesions of porphyrin cutanea tarda are reported after nearly a year or more of administration of diethylstilbestrol (Stilboestrol) for alleged carcinoma of the prostate. Two patients were benefited by protection of their skin from heat and friction. The third was free of lesions after discontinuance of diethylstilbestrol without protection. Two patients still show excessive excretion of uroporphyrin and coproporphyrin in the urine and feces (one a year after discontinuance of the synthetic estrogen). It is apparent that porphyrin cutanea tarda after diethylstilbestrol administration occurs only in those individuals who have porphyrin hepatica of the intermittent type or associated with some systemic disease.
The introduction of lactulose as a new therapeutic agent for treatment of hepatic encephalopathy was a major breakthrough in this field. It was hypothesized that lactulose might prevent postoperative renal impairment after biliary surgery in patients with obstructive jaundice. The presumable mechanism purported was the diminished endotoxinemia by lactulose. Unfortunately, such a reno-protective effect has not been shown conclusively until now in clinical studies. In chronic renal failure lactulose is known to promote fecal excretion of water, sodium, potassium, amonium, urea, creatinine and protons. Thus, lactulose could be useful for the treatment of chronic renal failure. However, compliance to the therapy represents a major problem.
To evaluate mefloquine versus halofantrine in children suffering from acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria.
Prospective non randomized study in hospitalized children during one year. Acute falciparum malaria was defined by fever and a positive thin and/or thick smear. Malaria was presumed to have been contracted in Comoros archipelago and/or Madagascar 6 months previously. Patients were excluded, when quinine had to be used, according to World Health Organization's severity criteria.
Forty-nine children were included: 29 were treated with halofantrine and 20 with mefloquine. Patients features in the two groups of treatment were identical, with exception for the mean time between first clinical signs and diagnosis (shorter in mefloquine group). Fever's and hospitalization's duration under treatment were similar. An increase in QTc interval was frequently observed in patients treated with halofantrine (56 versus 0%), although patients with mefloquine experienced vomiting (45 versus 0%). Relapses seemed to be more frequent with halofantrine (14 versus 0%).
Halofantrine and mefloquine are efficient for falciparum malaria treatment in our pediatric series, despite a high rate of adverse events. Mefloquine's tolerance may probably be improved with changes in regimen and dose. Relapses are more frequent with a single first treatment of halofantrine, than with mefloquine. Unfortunately, features of a second halofantrine treatment are not defined.
The synaptic vesicle protein synapsin II is specifically expressed in synaptic terminals of primary afferent nociceptive neurons and regulates transmitter release in the spinal cord dorsal horn. Here, we assessed its role in nerve injury-evoked molecular and behavioral adaptations in models of peripheral neuropathic pain using mice genetically lacking synapsin II. Deficiency of synapsin II resulted in reduced mechanical and cold allodynia in two models of peripheral neuropathic pain. This was associated with decreased glutamate release in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord upon sciatic nerve injury or capsaicin application onto the sciatic nerve and reduced calcium signals in spinal cord slices upon persistent activation of primary afferents. In addition, the expression of the vesicular glutamate transporters, VGLUT1 and VGLUT2, was strongly reduced in synapsin II knockout mice in the spinal cord. Conversely, synapsin II knockout mice showed a stronger and longer-lasting increase of GABA in lamina II of the dorsal horn after nerve injury than wild type mice. These results suggest that synapsin II is involved in the regulation of glutamate and GABA release in the spinal cord after nerve injury, and that a imbalance between glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission contributes to the manifestation of neuropathic pain.
A wide number of pesticides, including highly persistent organochlorinated compounds, such as lindane (LIN), may induce reproductive and developmental alterations by directly binding to the estrogen/androgen receptors or altering steroid hormone metabolism. In the present work, we have investigated whether LIN in utero exposure of CD1 mice affects the reproductive system in male offspring by causing an impairment of the CYP-dependent steroid hormone metabolism. Dam exposure to 25 mg kg(-1) b.w. LIN occurred during critical developmental periods, from gestational days 9 to 16. Effects on hepatic CYP-mediated testosterone (TST) hydroxylase, aromatase activities and testicular parameters were tested at postnatal days (PND 50, 65-69, 100) that are critical for sexual maturation in CD1 mice. In the adult F1 mice significant changes of male reproductive endpoints (testis weight, spermatid number) as well as dramatic effects on CYP-mediated TST metabolism were observed on PND 65-69, in the absence of any of systemic toxicity. The levels of TST 6beta- and 2alpha-hydroxylation and dehydrogenation showed the highest level of reduction, suggesting CYP 3A and 2C families as the major target of LIN induced effects. All changes were almost recovered on PND 100. No effects on aromatase activity were evidenced. Overall, these findings provide useful information for a better characterization of the LIN mode of action. They suggest that LIN-induced toxicity in males is linked to an impairment of steroid hormone homeostasis, due to CYP-mediated TST catabolism modulation and differs from LIN receptor-mediated mechanism previously reported in females.
To study the effects of renin-angiotensin system blockade by a novel non-peptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist, losartan, on development of hypertension and acceleration of end-organ damage in salt-loaded stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP).
One hundred and eighty-one male SHRSP were fed a 4% sodium diet from 6 to 18 weeks of age. Seventy-eight SHRSP were treated orally with losartan, 30 mg/kg per day. One hundred and three rats constituted untreated controls. Blood pressure, plasma renin activity (PRA), renal function and end-organ damage were monitored during the transition to malignant hypertension.
Losartan prevented a blood pressure rise during the first 4 weeks of salt loading. Thereafter, blood pressure rose slowly in losartan-treated rats; however, at each time-point studied blood pressure was significantly lower in losartan-treated rats than in control rats. Losartan treatment increased PRA during the first 4 weeks, but this effect was not sustained. Thereafter, PRA decreased to control (week 0) levels. In contrast, 2 weeks after high-sodium feeding started, untreated SHRSP failed to suppress PRA appropriately; thereafter, PRA rose significantly. Losartan affected renal pathophysiology by blunting the decline in glomerular filtration rate, controlling proteinuria and preventing or delaying the appearance of malignant nephrosclerosis. Losartan treatment significantly increased survival and completely prevented cerebrovascular infarcts.
The results indicate that angiotensin II blockade markedly reduces both hypertension and end-organ damage in chronically salt-loaded SHRSP and that the renin-angiotensin system may play an important role in the development of hypertensive cardiovascular disease in SHRSP.
The role of central pressor mechanisms in the maintenance of blood pressure in six hypertensive patients with angiographically proven unilateral renal artery stenosis was investigated by studying the haemodynamic and hormonal responses before and after central sympathetic blockade with clonidine. To assess the dependency of blood pressure on the direct effects of angiotensin II, the same patients were studied on a separate occasion after administration of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, captopril. There was a substantial fall in blood pressure after administration of clonidine with a smaller fall after captopril. Clonidine-induced hypotension was accompanied by a fall in cardiac output, through a reduction in the stroke volume and heart rate. Forearm vascular resistance was unchanged. There was a selective decrease in digital skin vascular resistance and plasma noradrenaline, indicating reduced sympathetic activity. Plasma renin activity and aldosterone levels did not fall. After administration of captopril, there was a fall in cardiac output due to a fall in the stroke volume but not in the heart rate. Forearm vascular resistance, digital skin vascular resistance and plasma noradrenaline were unchanged. Plasma renin activity rose and plasma aldosterone fell. We conclude that in our hypertensive patients with renal artery stenosis, clonidine lowered blood pressure by a reduction in central sympathetic activity independently of renin suppression. In these patients captopril had minimal hypotensive effects, indicating a smaller role for the direct vascular effects of angiotensin II.
While twin and adoption studies have demonstrated that up to 70% of the risk for becoming addicted to cocaine is due to genetic factors, identifying specific genes involved in the development or progression of cocaine dependence has been difficult. The purpose of this study is to determine whether single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the Homer1 and Homer2 genes associate with the cocaine-dependent phenotype in an African American population.
This study utilized a case-control design in which the genotype and allele frequencies for four single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the Homer1 gene and three single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the Homer2 gene were compared between African American individuals with a diagnosis of cocaine dependence (n=170) and African American individuals with no history of substance abuse (n=90).
The data indicate that one single-nucleotide polymorphism, rs6871510, located in intron 1 of the Homer1 gene significantly (P=0.029) associates with cocaine dependence at the genotype level, and trends toward a significant association at the allele frequency level (chi=2.62, df=1, P=0.106, OR=1.71). None of the single-nucleotide polymorphisms analyzed in the Homer2 gene associates with cocaine dependence.
The results of this study suggest that a polymorphism in the Homer1 gene, rs6871510, is a potential risk factor for the development of cocaine dependence in an African American population, whereas polymorphisms in the Homer2 gene are not.
Nephrotoxicity is an important side effect of amphothericin B deoxycholate (ampho B) and cyclosporine A (CsA). The combined administration of these drugs is frequent in patients with haematological diseases undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation.
To assess the additional renal toxicity of ampho B given as a continuous infusion in addition to CsA.
In a retrospective study renal function was investigated in patients receiving CsA alone or in combination with ampho B (24-hour infusion) after allogeneic stem cell transplantation between January 1998 and April 2001.
Of a total of 84 patients, 22 were treated with ampho B. There was a statistically significant decline in renal function in comparison to the 62 patients receiving CsA alone. However, renal insufficiency in all patients remained in a clinically acceptable range and was reversible. The residual renal dysfunction at the end of the hospitalisation was mainly due to continuing therapy with CsA.
Amphotericin B deoxycholate in addition to CsA leads to a statistically significant but clinically tolerable worsening of renal function. Using a 24-hour infusion and strict salt repletion, amphotericin B can be administered safely as deoxycholate in bone marrow transplant patients in conjunction with CsA for proven or suspected fungal infections.
The efficacy and safety of the antihypertensive drug, clonidine, were tested by open-label trial in 30 ambulatory, hypertensive patients who were concomitantly receiving the diuretic, chlorthalidone. This combined treatment followed several weeks of base line treatment with the diuretic alone. In both the recumbent and the upright position, clonidine potentiated the blood pressure-lowering effect of chlorthalidone to a noticeable degree; with combined treatment, the reductions in systolic and diastolic pressures were from 12.9% to 16.4% greater. Side-effects, consisting mostly of drowsiness and dryness of mouth, were mild and were observed mainly at the beginning of clonidine therapy. Orthostatic hypotension or weakness was experienced by 3 patients, but it subsided after dose adjustment in two of them. The drug combination was well suited for long-term management of patients with hypertension of all degrees of severity.
Considerable evidence indicates that dopaminergic mechanisms may modulate the central effects of cocaine. We investigated whether basal serum prolactin, a measure of central dopamine activity, differed between cocaine-dependent subjects and controls, and whether prolactin levels among cocaine patients were related to their response to treatment. Eighty-six African-American cocaine-dependent outpatients and 35 African-American controls were studied. Prolactin concentrations in fasting blood samples were assayed by radioimmunoassay. The outcome measures were: number of negative urine drug screens, retention in treatment, counselor ratings of improvement and discharge status. Chi-square tests and independent t-tests were used for data analyses. The basal prolactin(ng/ml) among cocaine patients (9.12 +/- 4.12) was significantly higher compared to controls (7.14 +/- 3.36) (t = 2.52, p < 0.02). Furthermore, the higher prolactin subjects (median prolactin = 7.71) had significantly fewer negative urine screens (p < 0.05) and received less favorable ratings of improvement by counselors (p < 0.01) compared to the lower prolactin group. However, the two groups did not differ significantly in treatment retention (p = 0.13) or discharge status (p = 0.08). The higher basal prolactin among cocaine patients relative to controls may reflect changes in DA activity among cocaine patients. Moreover, higher prolactin seems to be related negatively with certain measures of response to treatment among cocaine patients.
A prospective ophthalmological study was done in 86 out of a total of 100 Swedes with established thalidomide embryopathy. Forty-six (54%) of all examined individuals had eye findings, which made the eye the second most commonly affected organ in thalidomide embryopathy only surpassed by upper limbs (81%). Forty-three patients (50%) had ocular motility defects, mostly incomitant strabismus. Facial palsy and abnormal lacrimation each occurred in 17 (20%) individuals. One patient had coloboma of the uvea and optic disc and another two had coloboma of the optic disc. Infrequent anomalies were microphthalmos, congenital glaucoma, lipodermoid, and large refractive errors. The observed ocular motility defects, facial palsy and abnormal lacrimation occurred with early induced defects in thalidomide embryopathy, but not with isolated late occurring anomalies. This suggests that thalidomide exerts its effects on the development of these structures early in the teratogenic period, probably mainly during the fourth week of development.
We have recently demonstrated that in humans, circulating levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) correlate positively with severity of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) due to chronic liver failure.AIM. The main aim of this larger population study is to determine the relationship between TNF and ammonia in patients with HE and chronic liver failure due to liver cirrhosis.
Circulating levels of TNF and ammonia were measured in 108 patients with liver cirrhosis due to various etiologies in various clinical grades of HE (grades 0-4). TNF concentrations were measured in venous serum using commercially available solid-phase high sensitivity enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Ammonia levels were determined in venous plasma by the enzymatic method, using the glutamate dehydrogenase reaction.
The mean+/-SEM values of circulating levels of TNF and ammonia at presentation in patients with grade 0 of HE (n = 30) were 3.89+/-0.2 pg/mL and 49.8+/-2.8 microg/mL respectively, in patients with grade 1 of HE (n = 26) were 8.56+/-0.34 pg/mL and 101.6+/-6.5 microg/mL respectively, in patients with grade 2 of HE (n = 22) were 11.59+/-0.48 pg/mL and 160.3+/-10.7 microg/mL respectively, in patients with grade 3 of HE (n = 20) were 19.98+/-0.94 pg/mL and 228.8+/-16.1 microg/mL respectively, and in patients with grade 4 of HE (n = 10) were 51.53+/-8.59 pg/mL and 284.2+/-20.3 microg/mL respectively. A significant positive correlation was found between circulating levels of TNF and those of ammonia (r = 0.62, P< 0.0001), and also between circulating levels of both substances and severity of HE in these patients (r = 0.95, P<0.0001, and r = 0.9, P<0.0001 respectively). TNF and ammonia were both significant independent predictors of severity of HE (P<0.0001 for both variables).
The results of this study demonstrate a significant relationship between TNF and ammonia in patients with chronic liver failure and HE, and so strengthen the suggestion that TNF could be strongly involved in the pathogenesis of HE in these patients. Hence, we suggest a new theory in the pathogenesis of HE, the "TNF theory".
Cockayne syndrome B protein (ERCC6) plays an essential role in DNA repair. However, the Cockayne syndrome caused by the ERCC6 defect has not been linked to cancer predisposition; likely due to the fact that cells with severe disruption of the ERCC6 function are sensitive to lesion-induced apoptosis, thus reducing the chance of tumorigenesis. The biological function and cancer susceptibility of a common variant rs3793784:C>G (c.-6530C>G) in the ERCC6 was examined. We show that the c.-6530C allele has lower binding affinity of Sp1 by EMSA and displays a lower transcriptional activity in vitro and in vivo. We then examined the contribution of this polymorphism to the risk of lung cancer in a case-control study with 1,000 cases and 1,000 controls. The case-control analysis revealed a 1.76-fold (P= x 10(-9)) excess risk of developing lung cancer for the c.-6530CC carriers compared with noncarriers. The c.-6530CC interacts with smoking to intensify lung cancer risk, with the odds ratio (OR)=9 for developing lung cancer among heavy smokers. Our data constituted strong evidence that ERCC6 rs3793784:C>G alters its transcriptional activity and may confer personalized susceptibility to lung cancer.
Safety and efficacy of propafenone and disopyramide for long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm after electrical cardioversion was studied in 56 patients with chronic atrial fibrillation (median arrhythmia duration, 5 months). After cardioversion, patients were randomly assigned to receive double-blind propafenone 300 mg tid (25 patients) or disopyramide 250 mg tid (31 patients). Downward dose adjustment was allowed in case of intolerable side effects. The endpoints were arrhythmia recurrence; and side effects not amenable to dose reduction. For patients randomized to propafenone (mean dose, 878 +/- 65 mg/day), 66% [95% confidence interval [(CI) 46-85%] and 55% (95% CI, 34-76%) remained in sinus rhythm at 3 and 6 months, respectively (Kaplan-Meier method). Similar figures were found with disopyramide (mean dose, 704 +/- 81 mg/day): 71% (95% CI, 54-87%) and 67% (95% CI, 50-84%) at 3 and 6 months, respectively (p = NS). In the patients with a relapse of atrial fibrillation, the ventricular rate while still using the prophylactic agents did not increase significantly compared with precardioversion. However, one patient on disopyramide had an excessively high relapse heart rate (170 vs. 100 beats/min). Side effects were more frequent on disopyramide. Side effects necessitating drug discontinuation occurred in 12 patients: 4 patients (16%) on propafenone and 8 (26%) on disopyramide. Severe adverse effects occurred in two patients, who developed heart failure while on disopyramide. There were no proarrhythmic events or deaths. Thus, propafenone and disopyramide are equally effective for maintaining sinus rhythm after cardioversion of atrial fibrillation. Propafenone is, however, better tolerated than disopyramide, which may cause heart failure.
Ketoconazole was administered in a case of hirsutismus over a period of 4 months with high doses of 800 mg/day, and bilateral papilledema developed. After cessation of the drug the condition disappeared. As far as we know this is the first reported papilledema complication due to Ketoconazole.
UV-sensitive syndrome (UV(S)S) is a genodermatosis characterized by cutaneous photosensitivity without skin carcinoma. Despite mild clinical features, cells from individuals with UV(S)S, like Cockayne syndrome cells, are very UV sensitive and are deficient in transcription-coupled nucleotide-excision repair (TC-NER), which removes DNA damage in actively transcribed genes. Three of the seven known UV(S)S cases carry mutations in the Cockayne syndrome genes ERCC8 or ERCC6 (also known as CSA and CSB, respectively). The remaining four individuals with UVSS , one of whom is described for the first time here, formed a separate UV(S)S-A complementation group; however, the responsible gene was unknown. Using exome sequencing, we determine that mutations in the UVSSA gene (formerly known as KIAA1530) cause UV(S)S-A. The UVSSA protein interacts with TC-NER machinery and stabilizes the ERCC6 complex; it also facilitates ubiquitination of RNA polymerase IIo stalled at DNA damage sites. Our findings provide mechanistic insights into the processing of stalled RNA polymerase and explain the different clinical features across these TC-NER–deficient disorders.
We report the case of a 20-year-old woman who developed masseter spasm after receiving succinylcholine for rapid sequence intubation. Sometimes referred to as "jaws of steel," masseter spasm secondary to anesthetic administration may progress to malignant hyperthermia. Although succinylcholine-induced masseter spasm is uncommon, it is important to be prepared to deal with this entity when administering succinylcholine.
