The purpose of this study is to investigate whether the effect of cyclo-trans-4-l-hydroxyprolyl-l-serine (JBP485) on acute renal failure (ARF) induced by cisplatin is related to change in expression of renal Oat1, Oat3 and Mrp2 in rats. JBP485 reduced creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and indoxyl sulfate (IS) in plasma and malondialdehyde (MDA) in kidney, and recovered the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) in cisplatin-treated rats. The plasma concentration of PAH (para-aminohippurate) determined by LC-MS/MS was increased markedly after intravenous administration of cisplatin, whereas cumulative urinary excretion of PAH and the uptake of PAH in kidney slices were significantly decreased. qRT-PCR and Western-blot showed a decrease in mRNA and protein of Oat1 and Oat3, an increase in mRNA and protein of Mrp2 in cisplatin-treated rats, and an increase in IS (a uremic toxin) after co-treatment with JBP485. It indicated that JBP485 promoted urinary excretion of toxins by upregulating renal Mrp2. This therefore gives in part the explanation about the mechanism by which JBP485 improves ARF induced by cisplatin in rats.
Of a total 260 impotent patients entered in a hormonal study, serum testosterone, prolactin and hormonal abnormalities were detected in 30 (11.5%) patients (18 with hypotestosteronemia and 12 with hyperprolactinemia). The 18 cases of hypotestosteronemia included: 8 cases of hypergonadotropic hypogonadism due to klinefelter's syndrome (1), orchitis (2), chronic alcoholism (1), and idiopathic primary gonadal failure (4) and 10 cases etiologically unknown hypotestosteronemia. Nine of the 18 patients also displayed other organic etiologies (6 vasculogenic and 3 diabetic impotence). After replacement of testosterone propionate by intramuscular injection, the improvement in impotence was significant in 12 patients (excellent in 1, good in 11) and insignificant in 6 (poor in 3, no response in 3). The positive response rate was 89% (8/9) for sole hypotestosteronemia and 44% (4/9) for hypotestosteronemia accompanied by other organic causes of impotence. In the 12 patients with hyperprolactinemia, 4 had prolactinomas. Of these, 3 were treated by surgery and 1 with bromocriptine. Three (excellent in 2, good in 1) of the 4 showed a positive erection response afterwards, but the other patient's response was poor because of postoperative residual tumor. Two patients had drug-induced hyperprolactinemia (haloperidol and methyldopa) and for one, impotence was improved after withdrawal of haloperidol. However, the other responded poorly due to vasculogenic impotence. Six patients with hyperprolactinemia of unknown etiology (2 accompanied by vasculogenic impotence, 2 by diabetic impotence and 2 by sole hyperprolactinemia) were treated with bromocriptine and improvement was noted in 3. The positive response rate was 71.4% (5/7) for sole hyperprolactinemia and 40% (2/5) for hyperprolactinemia accompanied by other organic causes of impotence. Good results were achieved in prolactinoma, sole hyperprolactinemia and hypotestosteronemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Asthma is characterized as a chronic inflammatory process; however, there is no easily measured marker for airway inflammation. Such a marker, particularly in children, would be very helpful in the management of asthma even in the acute setting.
The purposes of this study were to determine whether asthmatic children have (1) elevation of exhaled breath nitric oxide (ENO) during acute exacerbations when presenting to the emergency room, (2) reduction of ENO following glucocorticoid treatment, or (3) improvement in spirometry and clinical examination accompanying reduction of ENO levels.
Peak ENO levels were measured by chemiluminescence during exhalation into the NO analyzer. Ten asthmatic children (mean age 10 years) who presented to the Pediatric Special Care Unit at National Jewish Medical and Research Center in acute respiratory distress with an asthma exacerbation were studied. The subjects were recruited, after informed consent was obtained from the parent, on the basis of specific inclusion/exclusion criteria. Measurements of ENO in parts per billion (ppb) and spirometry, including percentiles of forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1%) and peak expiratory flow (PEF%), were performed before and after at least 5 days of glucocorticoid therapy.
The mean ENO level in the asthmatic children prior to glucocorticoid treatment was 48 +/- 8ppb, and after glucocorticoid treatment the ENO level was 17 +/- 1ppb; (P < .002). Prior to glucocorticoid treatment, the mean FEV1% value was 68 +/- 3% compared with the postglucocorticoid treatment FEV1% value of 100 +/- 5%; (P < .0001). Prior to glucocorticoid treatment, the mean PEF% value was 81 +/- 7%, compared with the postglucocorticoid treatment PEF% value of 105 +/- 6%; (P < .02).
The mean peak ENO level after glucocorticoid therapy was significantly less than that measured before treatment in children with acute asthma exacerbations. Concomitant with the decrease in ENO levels, there was improvement in the spirometry values and physical examination in the asthmatic children; thus, ENO is a sensitive marker for response to anti-inflammatory treatment in children.
Acute and chronic lithium treatment reduces levels of brain myo-inositol in rats. Several biological effects of lithium can be reversed in vitro by addition of myo-inositol. The ability of myo-inositol to reverse behavioral effects of lithium was tested using chronic inositol administration or acute intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections. Chronic myoinositol elevated activity during the first 10 min in an open field, but did not reverse lithium-induced hypokinesia. Myo-inositol (i.c.v.) reversed the suppression of rearing behavior 24 hrs after an acute dose of lithium (5 mEq/kg) but did not attenuate hypokinesia 24 hrs after a high dose of lithium (10 mEq/kg). Myo-inositol, but not the inactive isomer chiro-inositol (i.c.v.), also significantly prolonged the latency to clonus in the lithium pilocarpine seizure model. These studies suggest that reduction of brain myo-inositol may be a critical mechanism for the behavioral effects of lithium.
Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) have been shown to be effective in preventing gastric and duodenal ulcers in high-risk patients taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs); by contrast, scarce information is available concerning the effects of PPIs on intestinal damage induced by NSAIDs in humans or in experimental animals. We examined the effects of lansoprazole and omeprazole on the intestinal injury induced by indomethacin in the conscious rat. PPIs were administered by the intragastric route at 30, 60 and 90 micromol/kg, 12 h and 30 min before and 6 h after indomethacin treatment. The effects of omeprazole and lansoprazole were evaluated on: (1) macroscopic and histologic damage; (2) mucosal polymorphonuclear cell infiltration; (3) oxidative tissue damage and (4) bacterial translocation from lumen into the intestinal mucosa. Lansoprazole and omeprazole (at 90 micromol/kg) significantly decreased (P<0.01) the macroscopic and histologic damage induced by indomethacin in the rat small intestine. Furthermore, both drugs greatly reduced (P<0.01) the associated increases in myeloperoxidase levels and lipid peroxidation induced by indomethacin, whereas they only moderately affected (P<0.05) the translocation of enterobacteria from lumen into the intestinal mucosa. These data demonstrate that omeprazole and lansoprazole can protect the small intestine from the damage induced by indomethacin in the conscious rat. The intestinal protection, possibly related to antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties of these drugs, may suggest new therapeutic uses of PPIs in intestinal inflammatory diseases.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are thought to facilitate tumor development by suppressing protective antitumor immune responses. However, recent clinical and laboratory studies show that Tregs are a favorable element against cancer. In this study, we provide evidence that Tregs have both promoting and inhibiting effects on tumors, depending on the stage of tumor development. By using 0.5 mg cyclophosphamide, we constructed a murine liver cancer model in which Tregs were continuously and selectively depleted. Under such conditions, we found that tumor growth was inhibited at early stages but accelerated later on. Analysis of the tumor microenvironment disclosed that long-term Treg depletion by 0.5 mg cyclophosphamide treatment induced Gr-1(+)CD11b(+) myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs). Ablation of MDSCs by anti-Gr-1 Ab blocked Treg depletion-induced promotion of tumor growth. Furthermore, lipoxygenases 5 and 12, two enzymes participating in the biosynthesis of the lipid anti-inflammatory mediator lipoxin A(4), were upregulated or downregulated by Treg depletion or adoptive transfer. Correspondingly, the levels of lipoxin A(4) were increased or decreased. Lipoxin A(4) thus regulated the induction of MDSCs in response to Treg depletion. These findings suggest that Tregs may play different roles at different stages of tumor growth: promoting early and inhibiting late tumor growth. Our study also suggests that the interplay among Tregs, MDSCs, and lipoxin A(4) tunes the regulation of tumor-associated inflammation.
Repeated peripheral administration of the micro-opioid agonist [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,gly5-ol] enkephalin (DAMGO) produces acute tolerance and dependence on its peripheral antinociceptive effect against prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-induced mechanical hyperalgesia. In this study we evaluated the roles of protein kinase C (PKC) and nitric oxide (NO) in the development of this tolerance and dependence. Repeated administration of PKC inhibitors chelerythrine and 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine dihydrochloride with DAMGO did not alter the tolerance to DAMGO; however, dependence (defined as naloxone-induced withdrawal hyperalgesia) was blocked. Repeated administration of N-(n-heptyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide, a PKC activator, which alone did not produce tolerance, mimicked the dependence produced by DAMGO. Repeated administration of the NO synthase inhibitor NG-methyl-L-arginine with DAMGO blocked the development of tolerance to DAMGO but had no effect on the development of dependence. Repeated administration of L-arginine, a NO precursor, mimicked tolerance produced by repeated administration of DAMGO (i.e. , the antinociceptive effect of DAMGO was lost); however, L-arginine did not mimic dependence. These findings suggest that the development of acute tolerance and dependence on the peripheral antinociceptive effects of DAMGO have different, dissociable mechanisms. Specifically, PKC is involved in development of mu-opioid dependence, whereas the NO signaling system is involved in the development of mu-opioid tolerance.
The present study was designed to assess the antinociceptive efficacy and gastroprotective activity of the mixture of diclofenac and misoprostol and its comparison with celecoxib in rats. The effect of diclofenac/misoprostol and celecoxib was assessed in the 1% formalin test. Female Wistar rats were fasted 12 hr before experiments and diclofenac (10 and 50 mg/kg), misoprostol (100 microg/kg), celecoxib (30 and 100 mg/kg), saline and the combination of diclofenac (50 mg/kg) plus misoprostol (25, 50 and 100 microg/kg) were administered orally. Nociceptive behavior was assessed during the following hr. Diclofenac and celecoxib dose-dependently reduced formalin-induced nociception reaching similar maximal effects. Moreover, misoprostol did not produce antinociception, but increased diclofenac-induced antinociception. Animals were sacrificed 3 hr following drug administration and stomachs examined to assess gastric damage. Misoprostol did not produce any damage to the stomach. However, diclofenac, but not celecoxib, produced significant gastric damage (number of stomach ulcers) in a dose-dependent fashion. Misoprostol dose-dependently reduced diclofenac-induced ulcers. Data show that diclofenac and celecoxib lead to similar antinociception, with diclofenac being more active to produce gastric damage. However, diclofenac-induced gastric damage can be markedly reduced by misoprostol. In addition to its gastroprotective effect, misoprostol showed a synergic effect on diclofenac-induced anti-nociception. Considering the cardiovascular effects of COX-2 selective inhibitors, the combination of diclofenac and misoprostol could represent a safer and effective alternative for patients with pain.
Cocaine use is common in opioid-dependent HIV-infected patients, but its impact on treatment outcomes in these patients receiving buprenorphine/naloxone is not known.
We conducted a prospective study in 299 patients receiving buprenorphine/naloxone who provided baseline cocaine data and a subset of 266 patients who remained in treatment for greater than or equal to one quarter. Assessments were conducted at baseline and quarterly for 1 year. We evaluated the association between baseline and in-treatment cocaine use on buprenorphine/naloxone retention, illicit opioid use, antiretroviral adherence, CD4 counts, HIV RNA, and risk behaviors.
Sixty-six percent (197 of 299) of patients reported baseline cocaine use and 65% (173 of 266) of patients with follow-up data reported in-treatment cocaine use. Baseline and in-treatment cocaine use did not impact buprenorphine/naloxone retention, antiretroviral adherence, CD4 lymphocytes, or HIV risk behaviors. However, baseline cocaine use was associated with a 14.8 (95% confidence interval [CI], 9.0-24.2) times greater likelihood of subsequent cocaine use (95% CI, 9.0-24.2), a 1.4 (95% CI, 1.02-2.00) times greater likelihood of subsequent opioid use, and higher log10 HIV RNA (P < 0.016) over time. In-treatment cocaine use was associated with a 1.4 (95% CI, 1.01-2.00) times greater likelihood of concurrent opioid use.
Given cocaine use negatively impacts opioid and HIV treatment outcomes, interventions to address cocaine use in HIV-infected patients receiving buprenorphine/naloxone treatment are warranted.
We attempted to determine whether betanin (from natural pigments) that has anti-oxidant properties would be protective against paraquat-induced liver injury in Sprague-Dawley rats. Paraquat was injected intraperitoneally into rats to induce liver toxicity. The rats were randomly divided into four groups: a control group, a paraquat group, and two groups that received betanin at doses of 25 and 100mg/kg/day three days before and two days after they were administered paraquat. We evaluated liver histopathology, serum liver enzymatic activities, oxidative stress, cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A2 mRNA expression, and mitochondrial damage. The rats that were injected with paraquat incurred liver injury, evidenced by histological changes and elevated serum aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase levels; paraquat also led to oxidative stress, an increase of cytochrome P450 3A2 mRNA expression, and mitochondrial damage, indicated by mitochondrial membrane swelling, reduced mitochondrial cytochrome C, and apoptosis-inducing factor protein levels. Pathological damage and all of the above mentioned markers were lesser in the animals treated with betanin than in those who received paraquat alone. Betanin had a protective effect against paraquat-induced liver damage in rats. The mechanism of the protection appears to be the inhibition of CYP 3A2 expression and protection of mitochondria.
Essential thrombocythemia is a clonal myeloproliferative disorder that causes thrombocytosis. Essential thrombocythemia is characterized by increased incidence of thrombosis with arterial event more than venous events and hemorrhagic complications. Acetylsalicylic acid enhances both minor and major bleedings. The authors describe pericardial hemorrhage, which is related to the use of low-dose acetylsalicylic acid in a patient with essential thrombocythemia. The patient was successfully managed with clopidogrel therapy during the 16 months follow-up without recurrent thrombotic or hemorrhagic events.
A 59 years old man jaundice, haemathologic disturbances and Splenomegaly, with epilepsy treated by Carbamazepine in the last 3 weeks is reported. He had a positive response to withdrawal carbamazepine and corticotherapy.
Prostaglandin E(1)-induced hypotension (25% reduction from the preadministration level in mean arterial pressure) was applied to thirteen patients. Eight patients among them were operated in the supine position (group I) and other five in the prone position (group II). The maintenance dose of PGE(1) was considerably lower in group II than in group I (0.067 micro g.kg(-1).min(-1) vs. 0.119 micro g.kg(-1).min(-1)). In group I, there was a significant increase in CI, with a significant decrease in SVRI and PVRI during PGE(1)-induced hypotension. Such a high dose of PGE(1) (0.119 micro g.kg(-1).min(-1)) was considered to have a direct dilating action on the systemic resistance bed as well as on the pulmonary vasculature. It was considered that the suppression of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction could be a mechanism to increase venous admixture during PGE(1)-induced hypotension. In group II, there was no significant increase in CI, and no significant decrease in SVRI and PVRI. PGE(1)-induced hypotension can be safely applied to the anesthetized patients, but we should be careful to apply it to the patients in the prone position, because lower dose of PGE(1) can induce severe hypotension, which is not accompanied by the increase in CI as occurres in the patients in the supine position.
To determine an optimal biologic dose (OBD) of decitabine as a single agent and then the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of valproic acid (VA) combined with decitabine in acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
Twenty-five patients (median age, 70 years) were enrolled; 12 were untreated and 13 had relapsed AML. To determine an OBD (based on a gene re-expression end point), 14 patients received decitabine alone for 10 days. To determine the MTD, 11 patients received decitabine (at OBD, days 1 through 10) plus dose-escalating VA (days 5 through 21).
The OBD of decitabine was 20 mg/m(2)/d intravenously, with limited nonhematologic toxicity. In patients treated with decitabine plus VA, dose-limiting encephalopathy occurred in two of two patients at VA 25 mg/kg/d and one of six patients at VA 20 mg/kg/d. Drug-induced re-expression of estrogen receptor (ER) was associated with clinical response (P < or = .05). ER promoter demethylation, global DNA hypomethylation, depletion of DNA methyltransferase enzyme, and histone hyperacetylation were also observed. In an intent-to-treat analysis, the response rate was 44% (11 of 25). Of 21 assessable patients, 11 (52%) responded: four with morphologic and cytogenetic complete remission (CR; each had complex karyotype), four with incomplete CR, and three with partial remission. In untreated AML, four of nine assessable patients achieved CR. Clinical responses appeared similar for decitabine alone or with VA.
Low-dose decitabine was safe and showed encouraging clinical and biologic activity in AML, but the addition of VA led to encephalopathy at relatively low doses. On the basis of these results, additional studies of decitabine (20 mg/m(2)/d for 10 days) alone or with an alternative deacetylating agent are warranted.
Hemolytic anemia is a well-recognized complication of sulfasalazine treatment. 17 of 40 (43%) patients with inflammatory bowel disease receiving sulfasalazine had evidence of hemolysis as detected by starch gel electrophoresis. Only 47% (8) of patients with hemolysis had Heinz body formation. The hemoglobin was significantly reduced in patients with hemolysis and 53% had a reticulocyte count of greater than 5%. A significant correlation was noted between hemolysis and serum sulfapyridine level, but no correlation was seen with serum sulfasalazine level. There was no significant difference in disease extent or activity in patients with hemolysis compared to those without hemolysis. Hemolysis is not a rare side-effect of sulfasalazine therapy. Heinz body formation is not invariably found in sulfasalazine-induced hemolysis.
Previous studies examining the development of prenatally cocaine-exposed children through 3 years of age have found no significant differences between exposed and control groups. This study explored the developmental correlates of prenatal and/or postnatal crack cocaine exposure in children between 4 and 6 years of age. Three groups were studied: Group 1, 18 prenatally-exposed children whose mothers continue to use crack; Group II, 28 children without prenatal exposure whose mothers presently use crack; and Group III, 28 children whose mothers never used crack. Mothers were street-recruited and were comparable in race and socioeconomic status. The three groups of children did not differ on neurological gross motor and expressive language measures. However, prenatally exposed children performed significantly worse than others on receptive language and visual motor drawing tests. Prenatal crack exposure predicted poor visual motor performance even after control for intrauterine alcohol and marijuana exposure, age, birth weight, and duration of maternal crack use.
We report an 81-year-old woman who suffered from theophylline-associated seizures followed by partial seizures due to vitamin B6 deficiency. She developed complex partial seizures. She had been treated with theophylline for two months because of chronic bronchitis. Brain diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed high intensity lesions in unilateral cerebral cortex and thalamus. Electroencephalogram presented periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs), and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using 123I-IMP revealed increased blood flow in the same side of the cerebrum. We diagnosed as theophylline-associated seizures though blood theophylline concentration disclosed its therapeutic dose, and her symptom improved after theophylline was discontinued. She developed partial seizures again, after she suffered from diarrhea for two days. Laboratory examination showed that serum vitamin B6 was under the limitation of measurement, and intravenous supplementation of vitamin B6 stopped her seizures immediately. Theophylline may induce seizures independent of its blood concentration, and vitamin B6 deficiency may exist in the case of theophylline-associated seizures.
The case of a 60 year old patient with Parkinson's disease is reported, who, following 2 years of treatment with bromocriptine, presented a left pleural effusion in which chronic constrictive pericarditis was demonstrated. Studies aimed at establishing the etiology were negative. Upon withdrawal of bromocriptine, the pleural effusion disappeared and the patient remained asymptomatic, with only pleural thickening persisting in the thoracic radiography. The appearance of polyserositis as an undesirable effect of the use of bromocriptine is discussed. The first case associated to chronic pericarditis is reported.
Forty-five patients receiving renal allografts were gradually converted from daily to alternate-day prednisone therapy. Indications for conversion included aseptic necrosis, growth retardation in children and adolescents, obesity, diabetes, cataract formation, and cosmetic appearance. Eight of the 45 patients developed acute or chronic rejection during or just after completion of alternate-day steroid therapy. The remaining 37 patients had a notable decrease in the degree of hypercorticism, with return of growth in children and adolescents. However, there was no improvement once aseptic necrosis or cataract formation had occurred. Although the use of alternate-day prednisone therapy is of benefit in reducing the untoward side effects of corticosteroids, the risk of precipitating allograft rejection is a significant threat and must be carefully considered whenever this form of treatment is undertaken.
Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) function was examined in normotensive (n = 20) and hypertensive (n = 16) men, by measurement of basal cortisol levels, diurnal variation and the response to dexamethasone suppression. Comparison between groups did not reveal any differences in basal cortisol concentrations, in their diurnal variation, or in response to dexamethasone suppression. In separate studies, treatment with dexamethasone did not alter blood pressure in normal men (n = 6) but produced a small fall in pressure in hypertensive subjects (n = 8), compatible with the notion that the HPA might contribute to blood pressure elevation in some subjects with essential hypertension.
To reveal the antiangiogenic capability of cancer chemotherapy, we developed an alternative antiangiogenic schedule for administration of cyclophosphamide. We show here that this antiangiogenic schedule avoided drug resistance and eradicated Lewis lung carcinoma and L1210 leukemia, an outcome not possible with the conventional schedule. When Lewis lung carcinoma and EMT-6 breast cancer were made drug resistant before therapy, the antiangiogenic schedule suppressed tumor growth 3-fold more effectively than the conventional schedule. When another angiogenesis inhibitor, TNP-470, was added to the antiangiogenic schedule of cyclophosphamide, drug-resistant Lewis lung carcinomas were eradicated. Each dose of the antiangiogenic schedule of cyclophosphamide induced the apoptosis of endothelial cells within tumors, and endothelial cell apoptosis preceded the apoptosis of drug-resistant tumor cells. This antiangiogenic effect was more pronounced in p53-null mice in which the apoptosis of p53-null endothelial cells induced by cyclophosphamide was so vigorous that drug-resistant tumors comprising 4.5% of body weight were eradicated. Thus, by using a dosing schedule of cyclophosphamide that provided more sustained apoptosis of endothelial cells within the vascular bed of a tumor, we show that a chemotherapeutic agent can more effectively control tumor growth in mice, regardless of whether the tumor cells are drug resistant.
Previous work has identified alterations in histone acetylation in animal models of drug addiction and depression. However, the mechanisms which integrate drugs and stress with changes in chromatin structure remain unclear. Here, we identify the activity-dependent class II histone deacetylase, HDAC5, as a central integrator of these stimuli with changes in chromatin structure and gene expression. Chronic, but not acute, exposure to cocaine or stress decreases HDAC5 function in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a major brain reward region, which allows for increased histone acetylation and transcription of HDAC5 target genes. This regulation is behaviorally important, as loss of HDAC5 causes hypersensitive responses to chronic, not acute, cocaine or stress. These findings suggest that proper balance of histone acetylation is a crucial factor in the saliency of a given stimulus and that disruption of this balance is involved in the transition from an acute adaptive response to a chronic psychiatric illness.
