Butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), a preservative widely found in food as a food additive, was orally administered at concentrations of 1% and 2% of the diet to B6C3F1 mice for 104 consecutive weeks. Treated animals underwent a 16-week recovery period prior to pathological examination. In male mice administered BHT, the incidence of mice with either a hepatocellular adenoma or a focus of cellular alteration in the liver was increased in a clear dose-response relationship. The incidences of male mice with other tumors and the incidences of female mice with any tumor were not significantly increased as a consequence of BHT administration. The results of this study indicate BHT to be tumorigenic to the liver of the B6C3F1 male mouse.
The zebrafish model system is one of the most widely used animal models for developmental research and it is now becoming an attractive model for drug discovery and toxicological screening. The completion of sequencing the zebrafish genome and the availability of full-length cDNAs and DNA microarrays for expression analysis, in addition to techniques for generating transgenic lines and targeted mutations, have made the zebrafish model even more attractive to researchers. Recent data indicate that the regulation of glucose metabolism in zebrafish, through the production of insulin, is similar to mammalian models, and many of the genes involved in regulating blood glucose levels have been identified in zebrafish. The data presented here show that adult zebrafish respond to anti-diabetic drugs similarly to mammalian models, by reducing blood glucose levels. Furthermore, we show that the expression of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK), which catalyzes a rate-limiting step in gluconeogenesis and is transcriptionally regulated by glucagon and insulin, is regulated in larval zebrafish similarly to that seen in mammalian systems, and changes in PEPCK expression can be obtained through real-time PCR analysis of whole larval RNA. Taken together, these data suggest that larval zebrafish may be an appropriate model for the examination of glucose metabolism, using PEPCK as an indicator of blood glucose levels.
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is a syndrome characterized by microangiopathic haemolytic anaemia, thrombocytopenia, and several variable signs of organ damage due to the platelet thrombi in the microcirculation. This article reports a case with TMA which developed after ingestion of a high-dose combination of verapamil and trandolapril. To the authors' knowledge, no prior cases of TMA induced by trandolapril (an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor) and verapamil (a calcium channel blocker) have been reported in the literature.
We investigated the time it took to develop fatty liver and changes in serum aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase levels in patients with breast cancer treated with adjuvant tamoxifen. Liver sonography to detect fatty liver and measurement of serum aspartate and alanine aminotransferase levels were performed regularly for patients with early breast cancer. The results were compared in groups of patients with and without adjuvant tamoxifen as well as those on chemotherapy. Eighty-two of 156 patients treated with tamoxifen developed fatty liver, compared with eight of 62 patients not taking it. Fatty liver appeared as early as 3 months after beginning tamoxifen and was detected within 2 years in most cases. It persisted for 48 months after discontinuing tamoxifen in 17 of the 82 patients who developed it. The incidence of fatty liver in patients receiving both chemotherapy and tamoxifen was the same as that in patients receiving tamoxifen alone. While 115 patients had elevations of aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase or both, the magnitude of the elevation was clinically significant in only 32 patients. Patients on both chemotherapy and tamoxifen had a higher incidence of elevated transaminases than those on tamoxifen alone. Adjuvant tamoxifen increases the incidence of fatty liver, but has only a minimal effect on aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase. Fatty liver may appear as early as 3 months after beginning tamoxifen and may persist for more than 4 years after discontinuing it. Therefore, long-term follow-up is warranted. Chemotherapy is not clearly associated with fatty liver, but may cause a greater degree of hepatocellular damage than does tamoxifen.
Folate and methionine metabolism is involved in DNA synthesis and methylation. Polymorphisms in the genes of folate metabolism enzymes have been associated with some forms of cancer. In the present study, 2 polymorphisms were evaluated for a folate metabolic enzyme, methylene-tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), and one was evaluated for methionine synthase (MS). The 2 polymorphisms MTHFR 677 C-->T and MTHFR 1298 A-->C, are reported to reduce the enzyme activity, which causes intracellular accumulation of 5, 10- methylene-tetrahydrofolate and results in a reduced incidence of DNA double strand breakage. The MS 2756 A-->G polymorphism also reduces the enzyme activity and results in the hypomethylation of DNA.
To test this hypothesis, genetic polymorphisms in the folate metabolic pathway were investigated using the DNA from a case-control study on 31 patients having malignant lymphoma from the Oncology Outpatient Clinic of the New Children's Hospital, Cairo University and 30 controls who were actually normal children attending for vaccination to the same hospital.
We found that there is a higher susceptibility with the MTHFR 677CC and MTHFR 1298 AA genotypes (OR=4.3, 95% CI 1.12-16). When those harbor at least one variant allele in either polymorphism of MTHFR they were defined as reference. For the MS 2756 AG genotype polymorphism there was also a higher susceptibility to developing malignant lymphoma (OR=2.6; 95% CI 1.1- 6.4).
Results suggest that folate and methionine metabolism may play an important role in the pathogenesis of malignant lymphoma. Further studies to confirm this association and detailed biologic mechanisms are now required.
Groups of subjects whose primary drug of abuse was amphetamine or heroin were compared, together with age- and IQ-matched control subjects. The study consisted of a neuropsychological test battery which included both conventional tests and also computerised tests of recognition memory, spatial working memory, planning, sequence generation, visual discrimination learning, and attentional set-shifting. Many of these tests have previously been shown to be sensitive to cortical damage (including selective lesions of the temporal or frontal lobes) and to cognitive deficits in dementia, basal ganglia disease, and neuropsychiatric disorder. Qualitative differences, as well as some commonalities, were found in the profile of cognitive impairment between the two groups. The chronic amphetamine abusers were significantly impaired in performance on the extra-dimensional shift task (a core component of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test) whereas in contrast, the heroin abusers were impaired in learning the normally easier intra-dimensional shift component. Both groups were impaired in some of tests of spatial working memory. However, the amphetamine group, unlike the heroin group, were not deficient in an index of strategic performance on this test. The heroin group failed to show significant improvement between two blocks of a sequence generation task after training and additionally exhibited more perseverative behavior on this task. The two groups were profoundly, but equivalently impaired on a test of pattern recognition memory sensitive to temporal lobe dysfunction. These results indicate that chronic drug use may lead to distinct patterns of cognitive impairment that may be associated with dysfunction of different components of cortico-striatal circuitry.
This case reported to a patient with AIDS who presented persistent sterile leukocyturia and hematuria, lower back pain, bladder suffering symptoms, and renal papillary necrosis which were thought to be secondary to urinary tuberculosis but were demonstrated to be indinavir-associated side effects. The intention of this report is to remind medical professionals involved in the care of HIV+ patients of this possible association in order to avoid unnecessary investigation and to stress the need of careful periodical assessment of renal function and urinalysis in patients treated with indinavir.
In a single patient suffering from a major depressive episode with melancholia (DSM-III), both severe psychomotor symptoms, such as stupor and mutism, and mood disturbances could be abolished completely and promptly by administration of the benzodiazepine lorazepam. Remission of symptoms was entirely and immediately reversed by the benzodiazepine antagonist Ro 15-1788. These drug effects were constantly reproducible. Possible mechanisms of action and the influence of GABAergic neurotransmission on affective and psychomotor state are discussed.
We report on a young woman who survived acute liver failure (ALF) without liver transplant. During the ALF, she developed a disabling, levodopa-unresponsive, symmetrical Parkinsonism. This was characterized by severe bradykinesia, mild rigidity, mutism, and prominent gait impairment. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed bilateral T1W pallidal hyperintensities. Parkinsonism and MRI changes remitted in parallel with normalization of hepatic function. We implicate excessive pallidal manganese deposition secondary to ALF in the pathogenesis of this neuroradiological syndrome. Though hitherto unreported, we propose that Parkinsonism with T1W pallidal hyperintensities may not be uncommon in ALF.
Fanconi anemia is a recessively inherited disease characterized by congenital defects, bone marrow failure and cancer susceptibility. Cells from individuals with Fanconi anemia are highly sensitive to DNA-crosslinking drugs, such as mitomycin C (MMC). Fanconi anemia proteins function in a DNA damage response pathway involving breast cancer susceptibility gene products, BRCA1 and BRCA2 (refs. 1,2). A key step in this pathway is monoubiquitination of FANCD2, resulting in the redistribution of FANCD2 to nuclear foci containing BRCA1 (ref. 3). The underlying mechanism is unclear because the five Fanconi anemia proteins known to be required for this ubiquitination have no recognizable ubiquitin ligase motifs. Here we report a new component of a Fanconi anemia protein complex, called PHF9, which possesses E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in vitro and is essential for FANCD2 monoubiquitination in vivo. Because PHF9 is defective in a cell line derived from an individual with Fanconi anemia, we conclude that PHF9 (also called FANCL) represents a novel Fanconi anemia complementation group (FA-L). Our data suggest that PHF9 has a crucial role in the Fanconi anemia pathway as the likely catalytic subunit required for monoubiquitination of FANCD2.
This study compared pretreatment addiction severity profiles of 339 abusers in three diagnostic groups: cocaine dependence only (CO), cocaine dependence with substance-induced major depression (SIMD), and cocaine dependence with independent major depression (IMD). Depressed subjects reported more severe problems than non-depressed subjects across numerous domains, regardless of diagnostic etiology. These findings support the need for specialized treatment approaches targeting depressive symptoms or life stress for cocaine-dependent patients with IMD or SIMD, though patients with IMD may require additional attention for chronic and comorbid psychiatric and medical problems.
Low birth weight is associated with glucose intolerance, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes (T2D) in later life. Good evidence indicates that the environment plays an important role in this relationship. However, the mechanisms underlying these relationships are defined poorly. Islets are particularly susceptible to oxidative stress, and this condition combined with fibrosis is thought to be instrumental in T2D pathogenesis. Here we use our maternal low-protein (LP) rat model to determine the effect of early diet on oxidative stress and fibrosis in pancreatic islets of male offspring at 3 and 15 mo of age. Islet xanthine oxidase (XO) expression was increased in 15-mo LP offspring, which suggests increased oxidative-stress. Manganese superoxide-dismutase (MnSOD), copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD), and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) (antioxidant enzymes) were reduced significantly in LP offspring, which indicated impairment of oxidative defense. Expression of fibrosis markers collagen I and collagen III also increased in 15-mo LP offspring. Angiotensin II receptor type I (AT(II)R(1)), induced by hyperglycemia and oxidative-stress, was significantly up-regulated in 15-mo LP offspring. Lipid peroxidation was also increased in 15-mo LP animals. We conclude that maternal protein restriction causes age-associated increased oxidative stress, impairment of oxidative defense, and fibrosis. These findings provide mechanisms by which suboptimal early nutrition can lead to T2D development later in life.
Cognitive effects have been reported during topiramate (TPM) treatment, but effects relative to standard antiepileptic drugs are unclear.
The authors compared TPM and valproate (VPA) added to carbamazepine (CBZ) in adults with partial seizures. A comprehensive neuropsychological test battery including cognitive, mood, and quality of life measures was used in this multicenter, randomized, double-blind study. After a 4-week baseline, study drug was titrated over 8 weeks to target dosages of 400 mg/d TPM, 2,250 mg/d VPA, or placebo and then maintained for an additional 12 weeks. The neuropsychological test battery was administered at baseline and at the end of titration and maintenance periods.
Slightly more patients on TPM dropped out. Neuropsychological data at all three test periods were available for 62 patients. At the end of maintenance, effects of TPM and VPA were comparable, except for two variables (Symbol Digit Modalities Test and Controlled Oral Word Association Test), in which TPM had greater negative effects relative to VPA. The statistical differences appeared to be due in large part to a small subset of patients who were more negatively affected by TPM. Cognitive effects of TPM relative to VPA were greater at the end of titration than at the end of maintenance.
With adjunctive therapy at moderate dose escalation rate, the cognitive effects of TPM are slightly worse overall than VPA in patients who tolerate therapy over several months.
The alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonists, clonidine, lofexidine and guanabenz, blocked stress- but not cocaine-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking at doses that suppressed footshock-induced release of noradrenaline in prefrontal cortex and amygdala. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/infusion, i.v; 10-12 days) and, after a drug-free period (7-13 days), were returned to the self-administration chambers for daily extinction and reinstatement test sessions. Both intermittent footshock (15 min, 0.6 mA) and cocaine priming (20 mg/kg, i.p.) reinstated extinguished drug seeking. Pretreatment with either clonidine (20, or 40 microg/kg, i.p.) or lofexidine (50, 100, 150, or 200 microg/kg, i.p.) attenuated footshock- but not cocaine-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Guanabenz (640 microg/kg, i.p.), an alpha-2 agonist with low affinity for imidazoline type-1 receptors, also attenuated footshock- but not cocaine-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. The results point to an important role for NE systems in the effects of footshock on relapse to cocaine seeking.
The efficacy of diazepam in attenuation of succinylcholine-induced muscle fasciculations was studied in the dog. Dosage levels of 0.11, 0.22, 0.55, or 1.1 mg of diazepam/kg of body weight were studied in 4 groups of 5 dogs each; another group of 5 dogs served as a control. There was no difference in the occurrence or severity of succinylcholine-induced muscle fasciculations between dogs given diazepam and nontreated controls. Using serum potassium as a quantitative index of physiologic effects of muscle depolarization, differences could not be detected between treated and nontreated dogs.
A proven biochemical method for assessing chemically induced neurotoxicity has been applied to the study of the toxic effects of misonidazole (MISO) in the rat. This involves the fluorimetric measurement of beta-glucuronidase and beta-galactosidase activities in homogenates of rat nervous tissue. The tissues analysed were sciatic/posterior tibial nerve (SPTN) cut into 4 sections, trigeminal ganglia and cerebellum. MISO administered i.p. to Wistar rats in doses greater than 300 mg/kg/day for 7 consecutive days produced maximal increases in both beta-glucuronidase and beta-galactosidase activities in th SPTN at 4 weeks (140-180% of control values). The highest increases were associated with the most distal secretion of the nerve. Significant enzyme-activity changes were also found in the trigeminal ganglia and cerebellum of MISO-dosed rats. The greatest activity occurred 4-5 weeks after dosing, and was dose-related. It is concluded that, in the rat, MISO can produce biochemical changes consistent with a dying-back peripheral neuropathy, and biochemical changes suggestive of cerebellar damage. This biochemical approach would appear to offer a convenient quantitative method for the detection of neurotoxic effects of other potential radio-sensitizing drugs.
Paclitaxel is an antineoplastic agent that is used in the treatment of a variety of solid tumors. Dose-limiting side effects of myelosuppression and peripheral neuropathy are well known. Paclitaxel has minimal penetration of the blood-brain barrier and central nervous system side effects are rare. However, transient encephalopathy following paclitaxel infusion has been described in adults but not in children. We present the case of a 14-year-old female with a recurrent suprasellar germinoma who developed an acute encephalopathy 4-6 hr following paclitaxel infusion.
Recent studies have suggested benefits of bone marrow cell transplantation for the regeneration of ischemic cardiac tissue. To extend the potential of cell transplantation, we assessed this treatment in a mouse model of acute nonischemic doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
To allow detection of engrafted cells, we used transgenic mice expressing the nuclear-located LacZ under the control of either desmin or vimentin promoters, which identify muscle lineage and mesenchymal cells, respectively. All transplanted cells were also labeled with the fluorescent dye DIL. One week after the administration of doxorubicin (15 mg/kg), mice were intramyocardially injected with either allogeneic unpurified bone marrow cells (6 x 10(6) in 30 microl, n=59) or purified sca-1(pos) cells (4 x 10(5) in 30 microl, n=22). In parallel, control normal mice received only unpurified bone marrow cells (n=28). Hearts were harvested at serial intervals until 2 weeks after transplantation and analyzed by immunohistochemistry to assess the degree of engraftment and transplanted cell differentiation.
In control mice, no differentiation of bone marrow cells was detected. In contrast, unpurified bone marrow cells grafted into diseased myocardium featured two successive phases of cell differentiation. The first yielded cells with a mesenchymal phenotype (44.1+/-10.1 cells/3 x 10(-2) mm(3) at 2 days), was transient and lasted 1 week. The second phase was characterized by cells with a muscular phenotype detected in a small number of cells (5.6+/-2.3 cells/3 x 10(-2) mm(3) at 7 days). Two weeks after transplantation, some of these cells appeared phenotypically close to cardiomyocytes, as evidenced by morphology and positive staining for myosin binding protein C, vinculin and myosin heavy chain. In sca-1(pos) hematopoietic progenitor grafted mice hearts, no transdifferentiation into cardiac cells was detected at any time point.
These data support the hypothesis of the potential for a myogenic differentiation of bone marrow cells following engraftment in a nonischemic model of global cardiomyopathy. Bone marrow-derived cells amenable to cardiac differentiation are present in total unpurified bone marrow but not in the sca-1(pos) hematopoietic progenitor cell population. However, the very small number of transdifferentiated cells raises concerns over their functional efficacy.
Anti-inflammatory actions of dexamethasone (DEXA), Cyclosporin A (CSA) and Rapamycin (RAPA) were assessed on uveitis induced by intravitreal E-coli Endotoxin (100ng) in rabbits at 24 hrs. In this model, endotoxin caused a breakdown of the blood-aqueous barrier (BAB) and polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) infiltration into the aqueous humor (AH) and iris-ciliary body (ICB). Intramuscular (I.M.) DEXA (2mg/kg) but not topical DEXA (0.1% 6 x daily) inhibited AH leukocytes and protein level. However, both routes caused an inhibition of AH Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and Leukotriene B4 (LTB4). In the ICB, I.M. DEXA significantly inhibited PGE2 synthesis and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. I.M. CSA (25mg/kg) and I.M. RAPA (10mg/kg) inhibited the AH leukocytes and protein content and MPO activity in the ICB. RAPA also inhibited AH protein and eicosanoid (except AH LTB4) levels in both the AH and ICB. Interestingly, castor oil, a vehicle of CSA, also inhibited AH leukocytes and the release of PGE2 into AH and from ICB. In summary, systemic administration of DEXA and other immunosuppressive drugs CSA and RAPA significantly inhibited endotoxin-induced uveitis in rabbits.
Sertraline is slowly absorbed after oral administration, with peak plasma concentrations at 6-8 h. Plasma concentrations are linearly related to dose. The elimination half-life is about 32 h; metabolism is by demethylation to an inactive metabolite. Once-daily dosing is recommended, with steady state being reached after about 7 days. The kinetics of sertraline in the elderly and in patients with renal impairment are similar to those in young healthy female volunteers. In young male volunteers, peak plasma concentrations were lower, and elimination half-life shorter, than in elderly men or both groups of women. Nevertheless, no reduction in dosage is recommended for these groups. Sertraline is highly active in animal models of depression, and administration of the drug to healthy human beings causes a selective, dose-related inhibition of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) uptake into blood platelets. Single doses of sertraline in volunteers caused changes in the quantitative pharmaco-electroencephalogram suggesting antidepressant and anxiolytic actions, with sedative potential evident only at doses of 200 mg or more. Sertraline does not impair psychomotor performance, including simulated car driving, and overall seems neither stimulating nor sedating: an increase in critical flicker fusion threshold suggests a slight alerting effect, whereas subjective tests indicate an increase in perceived sedation at doses of 100 mg or more. No potentiation of the effects of ethanol has been noted in either young or elderly subjects. No adverse effects on the electrocardiogram, blood pressure, or systolic time intervals have been detected, and sertraline lacks anticholinergic action. These studies imply a low probability of adverse central nervous and cardiovascular effects. Sertraline is probably a weak inducer of hepatic microsomal enzyme activity. Sertraline does not affect the clearance of lithium but there may be a pharmacodynamic interaction which leads to increased tremor when the drugs are given together. No clinically relevant effects were noted in the interaction studies with digoxin, atenolol and diazepam. The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of sertraline are generally favourable. However, caution is needed when sertraline is given to patients receiving lithium or drugs with a low therapeutic ratio, such as corticosteroids, oral hypoglycaemic agents, and warfarin.
Although oral corticosteroids are effective for the treatment of myasthenia gravis (MG), the possibility of steroid-induced exacerbation of symptoms, especially during the initial course of steroid therapy, has limited their use patients with severe MG. However, the factors influencing or predicting in exacerbation are not well understood. The purpose of this study was to identify the clinical factors that predict the initial paradoxical exacerbation of MG in response to steroid therapy. Fifty-five consecutive patients who were administered for the first time high doses of prednisone (40-80 mg) in a tertiary medical centre in Seoul, were included. Prednisone-induced exacerbation was defined as a significant reduction in a patient's Myasthenia Gravis Severity Scale (MSS) score within 4 weeks of prednisone administration. We divided the patients into two groups on the basis of whether or not they experienced prednisone-induced exacerbation, and investigated the differences between the two groups with respect to clinical, laboratory and electrophysiological features. Twenty-three patients (42%) experienced definite exacerbation after prednisone therapy. Older age, predominantly severe bulbar symptoms, and low MSS score were found to be significant clinical predictors of exacerbation by multivariate logistic regression analysis. A high daily dosage of prednisone relative to body weight was found to be neither a predictor of exacerbation nor a predictor of early improvement in bivariate correlation analysis. Steroid-induced exacerbation in MG is a frequently encountered and challenging problem. Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of exacerbation of MG when prescribing prednisone, especially when treating elderly, bulbar dominant, or severely myasthenic patients.
The central nervous system effects of flosequinan (100 mg), a chemically novel quinolone vasodilator, were assessed by a double-blind crossover comparison with placebo and diazepam (10 mg) in 12 healthy volunteers. After five practice sessions on a battery of automated psychomotor tests, assessments of psychomotor function and mood ratings were made on each volunteer at baseline and 1, 3, 6 and 24 h after dosing. Compared with placebo, diazepam (10 mg), the verum control, significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced subjective alertness, impaired critical flicker fusion threshold at 1 and 3 h, digit symbol substitution at 6 h, overall total choice reaction time and overall rate on two of five finger tapping tests. Flosequinan (100 mg), however, was indistinguishable from placebo in all tests with two contrasting exceptions: improved alternate right and left finger tapping (mean 5.1/s) compared to either diazepam (4.7/s) or placebo (4.8/s) (p less than 0.05), and impaired digit symbol substitution at 6 h (45.7/min) in comparison with placebo (50.7/min) (p less than 0.01). Ten volunteers reported 12 adverse effects after flosequinan treatment (10 of which were headaches), two reported drowsiness after diazepam and one reported headache after placebo. It was concluded that flosequinan has no central nervous system depressant effects despite the occurrence of headache in 10 volunteers.
To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of treatment with a combination of sumatriptan 50 mg (encapsulated) and naproxen sodium 500 mg administered concurrently in the acute treatment of migraine.
The pathogenesis of migraine involves multiple peripheral and central neural mechanisms that individually have been successful targets for acute (abortive) and preventive treatment. This suggests that multi-mechanism therapy, which acts on multiple target sites, may confer improved efficacy and symptom relief for patients with migraine.
This was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, four-arm study. Participants (n = 972) treated a single moderate or severe migraine attack with placebo, naproxen sodium 500 mg, sumatriptan 50 mg, or a combination of sumatriptan 50 mg and naproxen sodium 500 mg. In the latter two treatment arms, the sumatriptan tablets were encapsulated in order to achieve blinding of the study.
In the sumatriptan plus naproxen sodium group, 46% of subjects achieved 24-hour pain relief response (primary endpoint), which was significantly more effective than sumatriptan alone (29%), naproxen sodium alone (25%), or placebo (17%) (P < .001). Two-hour headache response also significantly favored the sumatriptan 50 mg plus naproxen sodium 500 mg therapy (65%) versus sumatriptan (49%), naproxen sodium (46%), or placebo (27%) (P < .001). A similar pattern of between-group differences was observed for 2-hour pain-free response and sustained pain-free response (P < .001). The incidence of headache recurrence up to 24 hours after treatment was lowest in the sumatriptan plus naproxen sodium group (29%) versus sumatriptan alone (41%; P = .048), versus naproxen sodium alone (47%; P= .0035), and versus placebo (38%; P= .08). The incidences of the associated symptoms of migraine were significantly lower at 2 hours following sumatriptan 50 mg plus naproxen sodium 500 mg treatment versus placebo (P < .001). The frequencies and types of adverse events reported did not differ between treatment groups, with dizziness and somnolence being the most common.
This is among the first prospective studies to demonstrate that multi-mechanism acute therapy for migraine, combining a triptan and an analgesic, is well tolerated and offers improved clinical benefits over monotherapy with these selected standard antimigraine treatments. Specifically, sumatriptan 50 mg (encapsulated) and naproxen sodium 500 mg resulted in significantly superior pain relief as compared to monotherapy with either sumatriptan 50 mg (encapsulated) or naproxen sodium 500 mg for the acute treatment of migraine. Because encapsulation of the sumatriptan for blinding purposes may have altered its pharmacokinetic profile and thereby decreased the efficacy responses, additional studies are warranted that do not involve encapsulation of the active treatments and assess the true onset of action of multi-mechanism therapy in migraine. This study did show that the combination of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium was well tolerated and that there was no significant increase in the incidence of adverse events compared to monotherapy.
Doxorubicin (DXR), administered iv in rats at the weekly dose of 3 mg/kg for 5 weeks, significantly impaired body weight gain and induced irreversible ECG alterations, mainly consisting of a progressive prolongation of ST and QT intervals. Five weeks after the last DXR administration, the contractile performance of atria isolated from treated animals was significantly reduced. At the same time, relevant morphologic lesions, consisting of myocyte vacuolization and myofibrillar loss, were also present in the myocardium of the same rats. The study showed that ICRF-187, administered ip at a dose of 125 mg/kg, significantly prevented body weight loss. QT and ST prolongation, and the decreased contractile force induced by DXR. In addition, ICRF-187 caused a significant reduction in incidence and severity of myocardial lesions. The cardioprotective effect of ICRF-187 is not mediated by a modification in DXR pharmacokinetics in heart, since the drug was actually found to increase DXR uptake in myocardial cells.
A series of methyllycaconitine (1a, MLA) analogs was synthesized where the (S)-2-methylsuccinimidobenzoyl group in MLA was replaced with a (R)-2-methyl, 2,2-dimethyl-, 2,3-dimethyl, 2-phenyl-, and 2-cyclohexylsuccinimidobenzoyl (1b-f) group. The analogs 1b-f were evaluated for their inhibition of [(125)I]iodo-MLA binding at rat brain alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR). In order to determine selectivity, MLA and the analogs 1b-f were evaluated for inhibition of binding to rat brain alpha,beta nAChR using [(3)H]epibatidine. At the alpha7 nAChR, MLA showed a K(i) value of 0.87 nM, analogs 1b-e possessed K(i) values of 1.67-2.16 nM, and 1f showed a K(i) value of 26.8 nM. Surprisingly, the analog 1e containing the large phenyl substituent (K(i)=1.67 nM) possessed the highest affinity. None of the compounds possessed appreciable affinity for alpha,beta nAChRs. MLA antagonized nicotine-induced seizures with an AD(50)=2 mg/kg. None of the MLA analogs were as potent as MLA in this assay. MLA and all of the MLA analogs, with the exception of 1b, antagonized nicotine's antinociceptive effects in the tail-flick assay. Compound 1c (K(i)=1.78 nM at alpha7 nAChR) with an AD(50) value of 1.8 mg/kg was 6.7 times more potent than MLA (AD(50)=12 mg/kg) in antagonizing nicotine's antinociceptive effects but was 5-fold less potent than MLA in blocking nicotine-induced seizures. Since MLA has been reported to show neuroprotection against beta-amyloid(1-42), these new analogs which have high alpha7 nAChR affinity and good selectivity relative to alpha,beta nAChRs will be useful biological tools for studying the effects of alpha7 nAChR antagonist and neuroprotection.
