In a living renal transplantation, the recipients are administered an immunosuppressive agent preoperatively. The drug exhibits a high incidence of side effects of special note. We examined the side effects of tacrolimus to evaluate the postoperative management of living renal transplantation. Hypertension, hyperglycemia, tachycardia and chest pain were found as the side effects. The blood concentration should be measured frequently to maintain the effective blood concentration and to prevent the side effect.
Iodine 123-labeled metaiodobenzylguanidine (123I-MIBG) can be used to generate a scintigraphic image of the adrenergic nervous innervation of the heart.
To test the hypothesis that doxorubicin may lead to damage of cardiac neurons, we examined 37 patients with various malignant neoplasms, 14 of whom were on therapy with doxorubicin. All patients were examined with 123I-MIBG scintigraphy and radionuclide ventriculography. Cardiac 123I-MIBG uptake was assessed by means of a heart to mediastinum activity ratio (H/M). Left ventricular ejection fraction was not different in patients with or without doxorubicin. In patients receiving doxorubicin, the H/M ratio was significantly lower (1.73 +/- 0.25 vs 2.13 +/- 0.25, p < 0.001) and correlated with doxorubicin cumulative dose (r = -0.51, p < 0.001). By using a H/M ratio of 1.73 as a cutoff point, 123I-MIBG uptake was abnormal in none of the 23 patients not receiving and 6 of 14 patients receiving doxorubicin therapy (p < 0.001). In 10 patients initially not receiving doxorubicin, 123I-MIBG scintigraphy was repeated after receiving 236 +/- 47 mg/m2 of doxorubicin. The H/M became abnormal in 3 of 10 patients, whereas the ejection fraction became abnormal in 2 of 10 patients.
123I-MIBG cardiac uptake decreases in a doxorubicin dose-dependent way, indicating a cardiac adrenergic neurotoxic effect of doxorubicin. This phenomenon appears early and generally before deterioration of the ejection fraction.
We studied 8 patients with definite multiple sclerosis (3 with acute relapse, 5 with progression), and 2 patients with acute optic neuritis, who were treated with methylprednisolone infusions, 1 g daily for 3 days. Visual, brain stem-auditory and somatosensory-evoked potentials were used to test the effect of therapy. There were no manifest changes of the evoked potentials parameters parallel to the clinical effect of high-dose therapy.
It has been reported that several naturally occurring and related synthetic organosulfur compounds exert chemopreventive effects in several target organs in rodent models. The chemopreventive actions of 40 and 80% maximum tolerated doses (MTD) of organosulfur compounds, namely anethole trithione, diallyl disulfide, N-acetylcysteine, and taurine, administered in AIN-76A diet, on azoxymethane (AOM)-induced neoplasia were investigated in male F344 rats. Also, the effects of these agents on the activities of phase II enzymes, namely glutathione S-transferase (GST), NAD(P)H-dependent quinone reductase, and UDP-glucuronosyl transferase, in the liver and colonic mucosa and tumors were assessed. The MTD levels of anethole trithione, diallyl disulfide, N-acetylcysteine, and taurine were determined in male F344 rats and found to be 250, 250, 1500, and 1500 ppm, respectively. At 5 weeks of age, animals were fed the control diet (AIN-76A) or experimental diets containing 40 or 80% MTD levels of each test agent. All animals in each group, except those allotted for vehicle (saline) treatment, were administered AOM s.c. at a dose rate of 15 mg/kg body weight once weekly for 2 weeks. All animals were necropsied during week 52 after the second AOM injection. Colonic mucosal and tumor and liver enzyme activities were measured in animals fed 80% MTD levels of each test agent. Colon tumors were subjected to histopathological evaluation and classified as invasive or noninvasive adenocarcinomas. Colon tumor incidence (percentage of animals with tumors) and tumor multiplicity (tumors/animal) were compared among various dietary groups. The results indicated that administration of 200 ppm (80% MTD) anethole trithione significantly inhibited the incidence and multiplicity of both invasive and noninvasive adenocarcinomas, whereas feeding of 100 ppm (40% MTD) anethole trithione or 100 (40% MTD) or 200 ppm (80% MTD) diallyl disulfide suppressed only invasive adenocarcinomas of the colon. Although diets containing N-acetylcysteine and taurine inhibited colon tumor multiplicity, the effect was somewhat marginal. GST, NAD-(P)H-dependent quinone reductase, and UDP-glucuronosyl transferase activities in colonic mucosa and tumor and liver were significantly elevated in animals fed anethole trithione or diallyl disulfide, compared to those fed the control diet. N-Acetylcysteine and taurine slightly but significantly increased only the GST activity in the liver. Although other mechanisms are not excluded, inhibition of AOM-induced colon carcinogenesis by anethole trithione and diallyl disulfide may be associated, in part, with increased activities of phase II enzymes such as GST, NAD(P)H-dependent quinone reductase, and UDP-glucuronosyl transferase in the liver and colon.
Pyruvate kinase isoform M2 (PKM2) plays an important role in the growth and metabolic reprogramming of cancer cells in stress conditions. Here, we report that SAICAR (succinylaminoimidazolecarboxamide ribose-5'-phosphate, an intermediate of the de novo purine nucleotide synthesis pathway) specifically stimulates PKM2. Upon glucose starvation, cellular SAICAR concentration increased in an oscillatory manner and stimulated PKM2 activity in cancer cells. Changes in SAICAR amounts in cancer cells altered cellular energy level, glucose uptake, and lactate production. The SAICAR-PKM2 interaction also promoted cancer cell survival in glucose-limited conditions. SAICAR accumulation was not observed in normal adult epithelial cells or lung fibroblasts, regardless of glucose conditions. This allosteric regulation may explain how cancer cells coordinate different metabolic pathways to optimize their growth in the nutrient-limited conditions commonly observed in the tumor microenvironment.
People with genetic variants of butyrylcholinesterase (EC 3.1.1.8, BChE) can have hours of prolonged apnea after a normal dose of succinylcholine or mivacurium.
Plasma samples from 226 people in the Vysya community in Coimbatore, India were tested for BChE activity.
Nine unrelated individuals had no detectable activity. DNA sequencing revealed a novel mutation in exon 2 of the BCHE gene, responsible for the silent phenotype of human serum BChE. All silent BChE samples were homozygous for a point mutation at codon 307 (CTT-->CCT), resulting in substitution of leucine 307 by proline. Western blot analysis with a monoclonal antibody showed no BChE protein in plasma. Silent BChE plasma samples had no organophosphate-reactive BChE, as measured with FP-biotin. Expression of recombinant Leu307Pro BChE in cell culture confirmed that this mutant is expressed at very low levels. The proline substitution most likely destabilizes the BChE structure and causes the protein to be misfolded and rapidly degraded.
This is the first report of a molecularly defined BChE mutation in the Indian population. The frequency of homozygous silent BChE in the Vysya community is 1 in 24, a value 4000-fold higher than the frequency of homozygous silent BChE in European and American populations.
Many early phase trials in stroke have not been subsequently confirmed. Randomization balance in baseline factors that influence outcome are difficult to achieve and may be partly responsible for misleading early results. We hypothesized that comparison with an outcome function derived from a large number of pooled control arms would mitigate these randomization problems and provide a reliable predictor for decision-making before proceeding to later phase trials. We developed such a model and added a novel feature of generation of multidimensional 95% prediction surfaces by which individual studies could be compared. We performed a proof-of-principle study with published clinical trials, determining whether our method correctly identified known outcomes.
The control arms from all randomized, controlled trials for acute stroke with >or=10 subjects, including baseline National Institute of Health Stroke Scale, age, and 3-month outcomes published between 1994 and May 2008, were identified. A Matlab program (PPREDICTS) was written to generate outcome functions based on these parameters. Published treatment trials were compared with these 95% intervals to determine whether it successfully identified positive and negative trials.
Models of mortality and functional outcome were successfully generated (mortality: R(2)=0.69; functional outcome, modified Rankin Scale 0 to 2: R(2)=0.81; both P<0.0001). The National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Stroke intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator trial and 3 studies yet to be subjected to Phase III study had modified Rankin Scale 0 to 2 outcomes above the 95% prediction interval. Sixteen treatment arm outcomes fell within prediction surface bounds. This group included 2 major trials, Stroke-Acute Ischemic NXY Treatment and Abciximab Emergent Stroke Treatment Trial, that initially appeared promising but went on to negative Phase III results.
This proof-of-principle analysis confirmed all positive and negative clinical stroke trial results and identified some promising therapies. The use of a pooled standard treatment group function combined with statistical bounds may improve selection of early studies for further study. This method may be applicable to any condition in which baseline factors influence outcome and at any stage of the development process.
Inorganic arsenic is a known human carcinogen, inducing tumors of the skin, urinary bladder and lung. It is metabolized to organic methylated arsenicals. 2,3-Dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonic acid (DMPS), a chelating agent, is capable of reducing pentavalent arsenicals to the trivalent state and binding to the trivalent species, and it has been used in the treatment of heavy metal poisoning in humans. Therefore, we investigated the ability of DMPS to inhibit the cytotoxicity and regenerative urothelial cell proliferation induced by arsenate administration in vivo. Female rats were treated for 4 weeks with 100 ppm As(V). DMPS (2800 ppm) co-administered in the diet significantly reduced the As(V)-induced cytotoxicity of superficial cells detected by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and the incidence of simple hyperplasia observed by light microscopy and the bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling index. It also reduced the total concentration of arsenicals in the urine and the methylation of arsenic. There were no differences in oxidative stress as assessed by immunohistochemical staining for 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8OHdG) of the bladder urothelium. No differences were detected in urine sediments between groups. These data suggest that DMPS has the ability to inhibit both arsenate-induced acute toxicity and regenerative proliferation of the rat bladder epithelium, most likely by decreasing exposure of the urothelium to trivalent arsenicals excreted in the urine. These data provide additional evidence that the effects of arsenate exposure in vivo do not appear to be related to oxidative effects on dG in DNA.
To investigate the safety and efficacy of once-daily supervised oral administration of sustained-release dexamphetamine in people dependent on methamphetamine.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Forty-nine methamphetamine-dependent drug users from Drug and Alcohol Services South Australia (DASSA) clinics.
Participants were assigned randomly to receive up to 110 mg/day sustained-release dexamphetamine (n = 23) or placebo (n = 26) for a maximum of 12 weeks, with gradual reduction of the study medication over an additional 4 weeks. Medication was taken daily under pharmacist supervision.
Primary outcome measures included treatment retention, measures of methamphetamine consumption (self-report and hair analysis), degree of methamphetamine dependence and severity of methamphetamine withdrawal. Hair samples were analysed for methamphetamine using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.
Treatment retention was significantly different between groups, with those who received dexamphetamine remaining in treatment for an average of 86.3 days compared with 48.6 days for those receiving placebo (P = 0.014). There were significant reductions in self-reported methamphetamine use between baseline and follow-up within each group (P < 0.0001), with a trend to a greater reduction among the dexamphetamine group (P = 0.086). Based on hair analysis, there was a significant decrease in methamphetamine concentration for both groups (P < 0.0001). At follow-up, degree of methamphetamine dependence was significantly lower in the dexamphetamine group (P = 0.042). Dexamphetamine maintenance was not associated with serious adverse events.
The results of this preliminary study have demonstrated that a maintenance pharmacotherapy programme of daily sustained-release amphetamine dispensing under pharmacist supervision is both feasible and safe. The increased retention in the dexamphetamine group, together with the general decreases in methamphetamine use, degree of dependence and withdrawal symptom severity, provide preliminary evidence that this may be an efficacious treatment option for methamphetamine dependence.
Pesticides have been associated with Parkinson's disease (PD), and protective gloves and workplace hygiene can reduce pesticide exposure. We assessed whether use of gloves and workplace hygiene modified associations between pesticides and PD. The Farming and Movement Evaluation (FAME) study is a nested case-control study within the Agricultural Health Study. Use of protective gloves, other PPE, and hygiene practices were determined by questionnaire (69 cases and 237 controls were included). We considered interactions of gloves and hygiene with ever-use of pesticides for all pesticides with ≥5 exposed and unexposed cases and controls in each glove-use stratum (paraquat, permethrin, rotenone, and trifluralin). 61% of respondents consistently used protective gloves and 87% consistently used ≥2 hygiene practices. Protective glove use modified the associations of paraquat and permethrin with PD: neither pesticide was associated with PD among protective glove users, while both pesticides were associated with PD among non-users (paraquat OR 3.9 [95% CI 1.3, 11.7], interaction p=0.15; permethrin OR 4.3 [95% CI 1.2, 15.6] interaction p=0.05). Rotenone was associated with PD regardless of glove use. Trifluralin was associated with PD among participants who used <2 hygiene practices (OR 5.5 [95% CI 1.1, 27.1]) but was not associated with PD among participants who used 2 or more practices (interaction p=0.02). Although sample size was limited in the FAME study, protective glove use and hygiene practices appeared to be important modifiers of the association between pesticides and PD and may reduce risk of PD associated with certain pesticides.
There is increasing interest in compounds which show selective toxicity to the resistant hypoxic portions of tumors. Cisplatin does not generally show preferential toxicity in hypoxic cells, as do nitroimidazoles. It is proposed that attachment of a nitroimidazole could add a degree of hypoxic selectivity to Pt agents. Platinum complexes containing one nitroimidazole ligand bind to DNA and show higher toxicity in hypoxic than aerobic CHO cells. Cis and trans isomers of complexes with misonidazole (a 2-nitroimidazole) and metronidazole (a 5-nitroimidazole) are compared with respect to binding to DNA (approximately the same), reduction potential (trans miso greater than cis miso greater than cis metro greater than trans metro), and toxicity (trans greater than cis miso, cis greater than trans metro, with trans miso approximately cis metro in hypoxia, despite significantly different reduction potentials). The effect of platination on nitroimidazole toxicity is not entirely explained by DNA binding and increased reduction potential. These compounds do not exhibit cross resistance with cisplatin in L1210 resistant cells. This factor, their selectivity for hypoxia, and preliminary results in vivo indicating potentiation of anti-tumor activity by the vasoactive compound, hydralazine, which increases tumor hypoxia, suggest further development of these compounds for use in tumors with resistant hypoxic portions.
One of the most promising approaches for cancer gene therapy is the use of the so-called suicide genes, which encode prodrug-activating enzymes and render transduced cells more sensitive to prodrugs. The enzyme nitroreductase (NTR) converts prodrug CB1954 into a cytotoxic DNA interstrand cross-linking agent. We have established transgenic mice in which the pro-oncogene c-myc and NTR were fused to the internal ribosome entry site and coexpressed in luminal cells of the mammary gland under the control of mouse whey acidic protein (WAP) promoter to evaluate NTR mediated ablation of mammary tumors. More than 78% of transgenic females developed in situ or infiltrating carcinomas after three to four pregnancies. By contrast, if the transgenic female mice were given the prodrug CB1954 during their third lactation, the incidence of tumors decreased to less than 40% (P < 0.05). The total number of carcinomas was even more striking with 117 carcinomas identified in 14 non-ablated transgenics compared with only five in 15 treated animals (p < 0.05, student t test). C-myc induced pleomorphic nuclei and mitotic figures were seen as a field change in over 70% of the untreated transgenics compared to 20% in the treated group. Our results suggest that the enzyme pro-drug system NTR-CB1954 efficiently inhibit myc-dependent tumor formation and malignant progression in the mammary gland.
HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitors (statins) influence lipid metabolism and have pleiotropic effects. Several statins reduce various forms of pulmonary hypertension (PH) in animal models. The relationship between atorvastatin and expression of serotonin transporter protein (5-HTT) remains unknown. This study focused on the effects of atorvastatin on the course of monocrotaline (MCT)-induced PH and its relation to 5-HTT expression. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were challenged with MCT with or without subsequent daily oral treatment with 0.1, 1, and 10 mg/kg of atorvastatin for 28 days. Over the 4-wk course, the progression of PH was followed by transthoracic echocardiography [pulmonary artery pressure was assessed by pulmonary artery flow acceleration time (PAAT), an estimate reciprocal to pulmonary artery pressure], and, at the end of the 4-wk course, invasive right ventricular pressure, right ventricular weight, quantitative morphology, and 5-HTT expression were measured. MCT caused significant PH as early as 7 days after injection. Atorvastatin treatment increased PAAT and reduced right ventricular pressure, right ventricular hypertrophy, and vascular remodeling over the 4-wk course. MCT challenge was associated with increased pulmonary vascular 5-HTT expression, and atorvastatin treatment reduced the 5-HTT expression. MCT-induced PH over the course of 4 wk can be easily followed by transthoracic echocardiography, and atorvastatin is effective in reducing the PH. Atorvastatin's effects are associated with a decrease of 5-HTT expression.
To analyse the rate of postoperative haemorrhage during a 4-year period of early postoperative administration (< 24 hours) of fractionated heparin plus compression stockings in a large cohort of patients undergoing intracranial surgery.
A total of 1564 patients who underwent intracranial surgery at our institution were included in our study. 1197 of the 1564 patients (77%) had major intracranial surgery (group 1). Group 2 was made up of 367 patients in whom ventriculoperitoneal shunting or external ventriculostomy was performed (minor intracranial procedures). All patients were investigated retrospectively for the occurrence of major postoperative haemorrhage confirmed by CT scanning and requiring surgical evacuation. The protocol for prophylaxis of thrombo-embolic events included early (< 24 hours) postoperative fractionated low-dose heparin (3 x 5000 IE subcutaneously) until discharge plus intra- and postoperative compression stockings.
Major postoperative haemorrhages were observed in 31 of the 1564 patients (2.0%). In three patients, the haemorrhage occurred on the day of surgery before the administration of heparin. The haemorrhage rate of patients receiving heparin was 1.8% (28/1564). All haemorrhages occurred in patients undergoing major intracranial procedures (group 1; 31/1197; 2.6%). There was no haemorrhage in minor intracranial procedures (group 2; 0/367; 0%).
Although retrospective, this is to date the largest study supporting the concept of postoperative pharmacological thrombo-embolic propylaxis in patients undergoing intracranial surgery. The question as to whether pharmacological prophylaxis is beneficial for a given patient can only be answered by weighing the risk reduction of thrombo-embolic events against the risk increase of postoperative haemorrhage associated with different surgical procedures and heparin protocols.
Epidemiological studies integrating genetic susceptibility with biological measurements of organochlorine exposure may provide new clues regarding these substances influence on breast cancer etiology. Initial attempts pursuing this avenue has dealt with polymorphisms in the carcinoge metabolizing enzymes cytochrome P450 (CYP1A1). This study examined if mutations in the tumor suppressor gene p53 affected organochlorine exposure related breast cancer risk and survival. The material consisted of 162 breast cancer cases and 316 matched controls, who had participated, in the Copenhagen City Heart Study (CCHS) between 1976 and 1978. Cases diagnosed between study initiation and 1993 were identified by linkage to the Danish Cancer Registry. The case group served as a cohort in the survival analyses. Information on known and suspected breast cancer risk factors was obtained from CCHS, and the Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group provided information on tumor characteristics. Lipid adjusted serum concentrations of selected organochlorines were compared between cases and controls while stratifing by p53 mutation status. A non-significant increased risk of breast cancer was observed in the highest exposure level of dieldrin and polychlorinated biphenyls among women who developed a tumor with mutant p53 (odds ratio (OR) = 3.53, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.79-15.79 and OR = 3.00, 95% CI = 0.66-13.62). There was no clear difference in overall survival between breast cancer cases with 'wild-type' and mutant p53, although a significant dose-response relationship appeared for dieldrin exposure in tumors with 'wild-type' p53. These preliminary results suggest that p53 mutations may have a modifying effect on at least the breast cancer risk associated with exposures to organochlorines.
We performed a comparative study to determine whether acute administration of MgSO4, moricizine, and verapamil to conscious dogs with normal plasma magnesium levels (0.75 +/- 0.06 mM) terminates ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia (VT). This arrhythmia is dependent on triggered activity (TA) resulting from delayed afterdepolarizations (DADs). In animals with surgically induced complete atrioventricular (AV) block, monomorphic VT was induced by programmed ventricular stimulation during continuous intravenous (i.v.) infusion of ouabain. At the moment of drug administration, VT persisted for at least 20 min, while the rate was stable for at least 5 min. A single dose of MgSO4 (100 mg/kg i.v.) abolished only VTs with cycle lengths > or = 320 ms (335 +/- 10 ms); VTs with faster cycle lengths (300 +/- 20 ms) were merely slowed, although the increase in plasma magnesium levels was considerable and comparable in both groups (3.9 +/- 1.6 and 4.8 +/- 1.9 mM). In contrast, moricizine (2 mg/kg i.v.) and verapamil (0.5-1.0 mg/kg i.v.) terminated both fast and slow VTs. The cycle length of VT ranged from 280 to 320 ms (mean 300 +/- 15 ms) for moricizine and 260-330 ms (mean 300 +/- 25 ms) for verapamil.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
With growing concerns of the safety of nanotechnology, the in vivo toxicity of nanoparticles (NPs) at environmental relevant concentrations has drawn increasing attentions. We investigated the possible molecular mechanisms of titanium nanoparticles (Ti-NPs) in the induction of toxicity at predicted environmental relevant concentrations. In nematodes, small sizes (4 nm and 10 nm) of TiO₂-NPs induced more severe toxicities than large sizes (60 nm and 90 nm) of TiO₂-NPs on animals using lethality, growth, reproduction, locomotion behavior, intestinal autofluorescence, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production as endpoints. Locomotion behaviors could be significantly decreased by exposure to 4-nm and 10-nm TiO₂-NPs at concentration of 1 ng/L in nematodes. Among genes required for the control of oxidative stress, only the expression patterns of sod-2 and sod-3 genes encoding Mn-SODs in animals exposed to small sizes TiO₂-NPs were significantly different from those in animals exposed to large sizes of TiO₂-NPs. sod-2 and sod-3 gene expressions were closely correlated with lethality, growth, reproduction, locomotion behavior, intestinal autofluorescence, and ROS production in TiO₂-NPs-exposed animals. Ectopically expression of human and nematode Mn-SODs genes effectively prevented the induction of ROS production and the development of toxicity of TiO₂-NPs. Therefore, the altered expression patterns of Mn-SODs may explain the toxicity formation for different sizes of TiO₂-NPs at predicted environmental relevant concentrations. In addition, we demonstrated here a strategy to investigate the toxicological effects of exposure to NPs upon humans by generating transgenic strains in nematodes for specific human genes.
The authors evaluated prospectively the efficacy and safety of continuous subcutaneous morphine administration for postoperative analgesia after posterior spinal fusion and instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis. Thirty patients were given the subcutaneous morphine infusion (20 mg/day), and 20 patients were not given morphine (control group). Postoperative pain control was assessed using a verbal response score (VRS) and a visual analog pain scale (VAS). The number of times the patient requested supplemental analgesics was also evaluated. VRS and VAS measurements were significantly lower in the continuous subcutaneous morphine group compared with the control group. Also, analgesic consumption in the continuous subcutaneous morphine group was lower than that of the control group. There was no respiratory depression or constipation. Preemptive analgesia using continuous subcutaneous infusion of morphine is a simple, safe, and effective method to control postoperative pain after posterior instrumentation and spinal fusion for idiopathic scoliosis.
A high incidence of renal adenocarcinoma has been observed in rats treated with ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA) but not in rats treated with aluminum nitrilotriacetate (Al-NTA). Transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha is one of the several cytokines that is known to be expressed in human and rat renal adenocarcinomas. However, its role in neoplastic transformation is still questionable. Therefore, we investigated the effect of repeated Fe-NTA and Al-NTA administration on renal TGF-alpha expression. Male Wistar rats were given Fe-NTA (n = 16, 5-10 mg Fe/kg) and Al-NTA (n = 19, 1-2 mg Al/kg) i.p., three times a week for 3 or 12 weeks. Another group of rats (n = 4) was given Fe-NTA (5-10 mg Fe/kg) three times a week for 12 weeks and then left untreated for one year. Immunoreactivity for TGF-alpha was positive in the collecting ducts and on the apical surface of proximal tubules in the outer stripe of the outer medulla in all the animals including NTA-injected control animals. However, TGF-alpha immunoreactivity in the regenerative proximal tubular epithelium was observed only in the animals treated with Fe-NTA for 12 weeks. Northern blot analysis also showed expression of TGF-alpha mRNA only in animals treated with Fe-NTA for 12 weeks. The expression of TGF-alpha mRNA in the kidney was stronger than that in the liver or brain. TGF-alpha was also positive in renal cell carcinoma found in animals treated with Fe-NTA for 12 weeks and left untreated for one year. These results suggest that TGF-alpha expression may play an important role in renal carcinogenesis and that it may be a sensitive marker during the induction stage of renal cell carcinoma.
Skin flushing after niacin (methylnicotinate, vitamin B(3)) stimulation is a biological marker of availability of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA). Decreased PUFA levels have been reported in depressive disorder, while add-on supplementation of omega-3 PUFA has been suggested to improve depressive symptoms. This study aimed to clarify whether a disturbance of niacin skin flushing occurs also in depression, and to identify patient characteristics for those who might benefit from PUFA supplementation.
We studied 30 patients with recurrent unipolar depressive disorder during a major depressive episode (treated with antidepressants), and 30 healthy volunteers matched for age and gender. Aqueous methylnicotinate was applied in three dilution steps (0.001M, 0.01M, and 0.1M) onto the inner forearm skin. Skin flushing was assessed in three-minute intervals over 15min using optical reflection spectroscopy.
While there was no overall difference in skin flushing between patients and controls, niacin sensitivity was inversely correlated with severity of symptoms, and flush deficits were significantly associated with depressed mood, feelings of anxiety and somatic symptoms (loss of appetite and weight loss).
Results are suggestive of a subgroup of depressive patients characterised by a specific symptom cluster and disturbed niacin skin flushing.
