Fucidic acid is an antibiotic essentially used to treat staphylococcal infections. Its chemical structure is very similar to that of bilary acids and hence implies competitive mechanisms between their elimination and metabolization.
A patient with a past history of alcohol-induced cirrhosis was treated with fucidic acid for a Staphylococci aureus urinary infection. On day 2 of treatment a conjugate bilirubine icterus appeared. There was no argument to suggest a decompensation of the icterus. The icterus disappeared on suspension of fucidic acid.
The occurrence of an icterus in a cirrhotic patient may evoke decompensation of the hepatopathy and an extensive exploration must be made. A thorough survey of all drug administration must be made. Notably, the possibility of the occurrence of a connective bilirubin icterus during treatment with fucidic acid must be known. The icterus always regresses on withdrawal of treatment and this etiology must be evoked before conducting invasive examinations.
Antiangiogenic therapy is a promising strategy for the treatment of cancer since tumor development and metastases require angiogenesis. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is one of the most important factors in tumor angiogenesis. In the present study, we investigated the antitumor effect of an adenovirus (AdVEGF-ExR) expressing the extracellular domain of the human VEGF receptor (flt-1) using two different urological tumor/mouse systems. RENCA, a renal cell carcinoma of BALB/c origin, and MBT-2, a poorly differentiated transitional carcinoma of C3H/He origin, were used. Both types of tumor were in vitro infected with AdVEGF-ExR and inoculated subcutaneously into the abdomens of syngenenic mice, and tumor growth was measured twice weekly. In some experiments, BALB/c mice with established RENCA tumors were injected intramuscularly with AdVEGF-ExR as a therapeutic model. The cytotoxicity of spleen cells from the tumor-rejected mice was assessed by 51Cr-release assay. Although the in vitro cell growth of either MBT-2 or RENCA was not affected by infection with AdVEGF-ExR, the in vivo growth of both AdVEGF-ExR-infected tumors was significantly suppressed in the syngeneic mice. In addition, although 2 of 5 mice rejected the AdVEGF-ExR-infected RENCA, tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes were not generated from their spleen cells, thus suggesting no cellular immune response. In a therapeutic model, intramuscular injections of AdVEGF-ExR at a remote site also significantly suppressed the growth of the subcutaneously established RENCA. These results indicate that the adenovirus-mediated expression of a soluble VEGF receptor can be an effective therapy for urological cancer treatment; however, such VEGF-targeted gene therapy is not necessarily accompanied by subsequent antitumor T cell immunity.
Cocaine-induced arterial thrombosis is uncommon, and most reported cases involved small-diameter vessels such as the cerebral and coronary arteries. This study was undertaken to review our experience with peripheral arterial thrombosis presumed caused by cocaine abuse.
Hospital records were reviewed for all patients admitted over 10 years with acute arterial occlusion involving the peripheral arterial system. Patients with confirmation of cocaine use or of its derivative, crack cocaine, within 24 hours of hospital admission formed the basis of this study. Symptoms at presentation, management, and outcome in these patients were reviewed.
Three hundred eighty-two patients with acute peripheral arterial occlusion were identified during the study period. The presumptive diagnosis of cocaine-induced arterial occlusion was made in 5 patients (4 men, mean age 38 years). Cocaine use was achieved via intranasal inhalation in 2 patients (40%), whereas the 3 remaining patients smoked crack cocaine (60%). The mean time between cocaine use and onset of arterial thrombosis was 9.2 hours (range, 2-20 hours). Symptoms at presentation included acute limb ischemia without pedal Doppler signals (3 patients, 60%) and abdominal pain without femoral pulses (2 patients, 40%). Arterial occlusion was confirmed on angiograms in all patients, which revealed aortic thrombosis in 1 patient (20%), iliac thrombosis in 2 patients (40%), superficial femoral artery thrombosis in 1 patient (20%), and popliteal artery occlusion in 1 patient (20%). Surgical thrombectomy was successfully performed in 4 patients (80%), and 1 patient (20%) underwent successful thrombolytic therapy for femoropopliteal artery occlusion. There was no perioperative mortality. All 5 patients who were discharged were available for follow-up (mean, 36 months; range, 6-75 months). There was 1 late death from myocardial infarction. In 1 patient recurrent lower extremity arterial thrombosis developed after 28 months, which was successfully treated with thrombolytic therapy.
Our study underscores cocaine abuse as a potential cause of acute arterial thrombosis. Cocaine-induced arterial thrombosis should be suspected in patients with recent history of cocaine abuse with acute limb ischemia without an identifiable source or overt cardiovascular risk factors. Prompt angiography with operative or endovascular intervention should be performed to avert arterial ischemic sequelae.
The association between common functional polymorphisms from the CYP17, CYP19, CYP1B1, and COMT genes involved in the estrogen metabolism and the risk of prostate carcinoma was evaluated.
The study investigated 1,983 white French men (1,101 patients with prostate cancer and 882 healthy controls) aged between 40 and 98 years. The different alleles and genotypes were analyzed according to case-control status, aggressiveness pattern of the tumors, age at onset, and family history of cancers.
The VV (high activity) genotype of the V432L polymorphism from CYP1B1 (odds ratio [OR] = 1.36; 95% CI, 1.03 to 1.79; P = .031), and the long allele (> 175 bp) of the TTTA repeat from CYP19 (OR, 1.26; 95% CI, 1.08 to 1.47; P = .003) were significantly associated with the risk of prostate cancer. An additive effect was observed when we combined the two at-risk alleles (OR = 1.63; 95% CI, 1.24 to 2.13; P < .001). The association was stronger for the CYP1B1 VV genotype (OR = 1.55; 95% CI, 1.13 to 2.13; P = .007) among the group of patients with highly aggressive disease. Stratification by age at onset showed that the associations of CYP1B1 and CYP19 variants were largely confined to the younger prostate cancer patients.
This association between polymorphisms from genes related to estrogen metabolism and prostate cancer risk suggest new clinical considerations in the management of prostate cancer: the development of new prevention trials based on genetic profiling and the evaluation of specific inhibitors involving the estrogen pathways.
Heart disease is the leading cause of death in diabetic patients, and defective copper metabolism may play important roles in the pathogenesis of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM). The present study sought to determine how myocardial copper status and key copper-proteins might become impaired by diabetes, and how they respond to treatment with the Cu (II)-selective chelator triethylenetetramine (TETA) in DCM.
Experiments were performed in Wistar rats with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes with or without TETA treatment. Cardiac function was analyzed in isolated-perfused working hearts, and myocardial total copper content measured by particle-induced x-ray emission spectroscopy (PIXE) coupled with Rutherford backscattering spectrometry (RBS). Quantitative expression (mRNA and protein) and/or activity of key proteins that mediate LV-tissue-copper binding and transport, were analyzed by combined RT-qPCR, western blotting, immunofluorescence microscopy, and enzyme activity assays. Statistical analysis was performed using Student's t-tests or ANOVA and p-values of < 0.05 have been considered significant.
Left-ventricular (LV) copper levels and function were severely depressed in rats following 16-weeks' diabetes, but both were unexpectedly normalized 8-weeks after treatment with TETA was instituted. Localized myocardial copper deficiency was accompanied by decreased expression and increased polymerization of the copper-responsive transition-metal-binding metallothionein proteins (MT1/MT2), consistent with impaired anti-oxidant defences and elevated susceptibility to pro-oxidant stress. Levels of the high-affinity copper transporter-1 (CTR1) were depressed in diabetes, consistent with impaired membrane copper uptake, and were not modified by TETA which, contrastingly, renormalized myocardial copper and increased levels and cell-membrane localization of the low-affinity copper transporter-2 (CTR2). Diabetes also lowered indexes of intracellular (IC) copper delivery via the copper chaperone for superoxide dismutase (CCS) to its target cuproenzyme, superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1): this pathway was rectified by TETA treatment, which normalized SOD1 activity with consequent bolstering of anti-oxidant defenses. Furthermore, diabetes depressed levels of additional intracellular copper-transporting proteins, including antioxidant-protein-1 (ATOX1) and copper-transporting-ATPase-2 (ATP7B), whereas TETA elevated copper-transporting-ATPase-1 (ATP7A).
Myocardial copper deficiency and defective cellular copper transport/trafficking are revealed as key molecular defects underlying LV impairment in diabetes, and TETA-mediated restoration of copper regulation provides a potential new class of therapeutic molecules for DCM.
A case of congestive heart failure in a child with Wilms' tumor treated Adriamycin is presented and discussed. The role of Adriamycin in the production of cardiotoxicity is reviewed.
Brain inflammation, angiogenesis and increased blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability occur in adult rodent and human epileptogenic brain tissue. We addressed the role of these events in epileptogenesis using a developmental approach since the propensity to develop spontaneous seizures, therefore the induction of epileptogenesis, is age-dependent and increases with brain maturation. Inflammation, angiogenesis and BBB permeability were studied in postnatal day (PN)9 and PN21 rats, 1 week and 4 months after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Brain inflammation was evaluated by interleukin(IL)-1beta immunohistochemistry; angiogenesis was quantified by measuring the density of microvessels identified by an anti-laminin antibody or by the intraluminal signal of FITC-albumin; BBB integrity was assessed by extravascular IgG immunostaining or detection of parenchymal extravasation of FITC-albumin. Neither inflammation nor angiogenesis or changes in BBB permeability were detected in PN9 rats after status epilepticus, and these rats did not develop spontaneous seizures in adulthood as assessed by video-EEG monitoring. Differently, status epilepticus in PN21 rats induced chronic inflammation, angiogenesis and BBB leakage in the hippocampus in 62% of rats, while in the remaining rats only transient inflammation in forebrain was observed. Epilepsy developed in about 62% of PN21 rats exposed to SE and these epileptic rats showed the three phenomena concomitantly in the hippocampus. PN21 rats that did not develop epilepsy 4 months after status epilepticus, as assessed by video-EEG monitoring, they did not show inflammation, angiogenesis or BBB damage in forebrain at this time. Our data show that age-dependent vascular changes and brain inflammation induced by status epilepticus are associated with epileptogenesis, suggesting that these phenomena are implicated in the mechanisms underlying the occurrence of spontaneous seizures.
The combination of doxorubicin and interferon alpha is supported by preclinical data. We sought to evaluate the efficacy of this combination in patients with advanced thyroid cancer.
Patients with locally recurrent or metastatic, radioiodine- refractory thyroid cancer, excluding medullary carcinoma, were treated with interferon alpha-2b 12 million units/m2 subcutaneously on days 1-5 and doxorubicin 40 mg/m2 intravenously, on day 3, every 28 days.
17 patients, 15 with well differentiated and 2 with anaplastic thyroid carcinoma, were enrolled; median age was 69 years. Three patients had received radiation plus low dose doxorubicin previously. In 16 patients assessable for response, 1 patient (6%), who had follicular carcinoma, achieved a partial response and 10 patients (62.5%) stable disease as best response. Median time to progression was 5.9 months and median overall survival 26.4 months. In 14 evaluable patients, 5 (36%) had a thyroglobulin response (30% or more reduction in serum levels). Grade 3/4 neutropenia occurred in 76% of patients and neutropenic fever in 24%. Other grade 3/4 adverse events included fatigue (41%), rigors (18%), fever (6%), nausea/vomiting (29%), anorexia (29%), stomatitis (24%), vision disturbances (18%), neuropathy (18%), and hyponatremia (6%). One patient developed heart failure.
Doxorubicin and interferon alpha was associated with considerable toxicities but modest antitumor activity in patients with advanced, non-medullary thyroid cancer.
The effects of small circulating blood volume alterations on the SNP dosage required to maintain the mean arterial pressure at 70 mm Hg were studied in 6 anesthetized dogs; (A) normovolemia, (B) hypovolemia by arterial bleeding 7 ml/kg, and (C) hypervolemia by infusing 7 ml/kg whole blood. The animals became extremely SNP sensitive during hypovolemia and resistant during hypervolemia (SNP dosage A: 25.8, B: 14.7, C: 70.0 microgram/kg/min); these changes were accompanied by significant changes in cardiac output (A: 193, B: 142, C: 249 ml/kg/min). The intravenous administration of SNP with the aim of inducing hypotension generally causes a balanced pre- and afterload reduction. This balance is rather delicate and easily disturbed by small intravascular fluid changes leading to cardiac output and thus to SNP sensitivity changes. Slowly developing tachyphylaxis can be explained on the basis of such intercompartimental fluid shifts and a case of SNP tachyphylaxis reported in literature is discussed on the basis of overinfusion. SNP tachyphylaxis or resistance might be treated by preload reducing measures like phlebotomy or the administration of nitroglycerin.
A case of mania following abrupt benzodiazepine withdrawal in an 83-year-old woman is described. It is argued that the withdrawal state acted as a significant life event in precipitating the manic episode.
To explore the effect of niacin on the serum adiponectin concentration in hypercholesterolemia rabbit and the adiponectin concentration secreted by adipocytes in normal rabbits.
Ten male New Zealand white rabbits fed with high cholesterol diet for 8 weeks were randomly divided into 2 groups: (1) The high cholesterol group maintained a high cholesterol diet for 8 weeks. (2) The same cholesterol diet plus niacin (0.4g/kg*d ) were administrated for 6 weeks in the niacin group. A control group was fed with normal diet for 14 weeks. Subcutaneous adipose from the control group was collected for adipocyte culture. Matured adipocytes were incubated with various concentrations of niacin (0, 0.25, 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0micromol/L). Adiponectin concentrations in the serum and adipocyte culture supernatant were measured by enzyme-linked-immunosorbent assay.
Compared with the control group, rabbits in the high cholesterol group showed higher serum levels of total cholesterol, and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), all of which were significantly reduced by niacin treatment (P<0.01),and serum high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) significantly increased (P<0.01). At 8th week, the mean adiponectin concentration of rabbits fed with high cholesterol diet was significantly lower than that of the control group[(1.268+/-0.039)mg/L vs.(1.449+/-0.107)mg/L,P<0.01]. Niacin treatment significantly elevated the serum adiponectin level which was positively related to HDL-C,and negatively related to TC and LDL-C. Cell experiment in vitro indicated that niacin could significantly induce the adiponectin secretion of adipocytes in a dose-dependent manner.
Niacin can significantly promote the adiponectin secretion of adipocytes, suggesting that niacin probably has an ability of elevating the serum adiponectin level in addition to lipid-lowering effect.
A patient is described who developed hypokalemia and cardiac arrhythmia after acute intoxication with haloperidol.
To evaluate whether the discontinuation of furosemide treatment resulted in a decrease in PaCO(2) and an increase in daytime and nocturnal oxygenation.
Furosemide is widely prescribed in patients with COPD for the treatment of peripheral edema. It is known that furosemide causes a metabolic alkalosis. A diminished chemoreceptor stimulation may cause a decreased alveolar ventilation.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial.
Department of Pulmonology, Rijnstate Hospital Arnhem, the Netherlands.
Twenty patients with stable COPD (10 men; median age, 70 years [range, 58 to 81 years]; FEV(1) 35% predicted [range, 19 to 70% predicted]). Subjects were included if they had received furosemide, 40 mg/d, for the treatment of peripheral edema for at least a month and if they had a mean nocturnal arterial oxygen saturation (SaO(2)) < 92%. Patients with cardiac left and/or right ventricular dysfunction, sleep apneas, and patients receiving other diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, potassium or chloride replacement therapy, or long-term oxygen treatment were excluded.
Furosemide was discontinued for 1 week and replaced by placebo treatment in the first or the second week.
Ventilation, daytime arterial blood gas levels, and nocturnal SaO(2) were measured at baseline, after 1, and after 2 weeks. Sixteen subjects completed the study. Ventilation increased from 10.4 L/min (range, 6.7 to 15.4 L/min) at baseline to 11.6 L/min (range, 8.7 to 14.0 L/min) after discontinuation of furosemide (p < 0.05). PaCO(2) decreased from 45 mm Hg (range, 35 to 64 mm Hg) to 41 mm Hg (range, 32 to 61 mm Hg; p < 0.01). Daytime and nocturnal oxygenation did not improve.
Although it does not improve oxygenation, the discontinuation of furosemide decreases PaCO(2) in patients with COPD.
The case of a 4-year-old boy with dipyridamole-induced ischemia is herein reported. The patient developed typical Kawasaki syndrome at 2 years of age, accompanied by coronary aneurysms in the left coronary artery (LCA) and the right coronary artery (RCA). The LCA was totally occluded at segment 6 and a distal area of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) was supplied by collaterals from the conus branch and the posterior descending artery (PD). Thallium-201 (Tl-201) myocardial scintigraphy was performed with intravenous administration of dipyridamole (DIP). DIP was infused at a dosage of 0.6 mg/kg for 5 min. Three minutes after the injection, myocardial ischemia occurred. Although 4 mg/kg of aminophylline was administered, the symptoms lasted for 20 min. Electrocardiogram suggested that ischemic lesions were located in the anteroseptal and inferior wall. Collaterals from PD could be recognized as jeopardized vessels and these collaterals probably participated in the ischemic attack. DIP could have increased the coronary flow into the uninvolved proximal branches of RCA. Subsequently DIP reduced coronary flow in the distal region of the stenotic RCA. Although T1-201 myocardial scintigraphy with DIP is a useful technique to estimate viability of the ischemic myocardium, it should be performed prudently in patients with multivessel diseases, such as those with jeopardized collaterals secondary to Kawasaki syndrome.
Agarwood (Aquilaria sinensis, Aquilaria crasna) is well known as an incense in the oriental region such as Thailand, Taiwan, and Cambodia, and is used as a digestive in traditional medicine. We investigated the laxative effects and mechanism of agarwood leaves extracted with ethanol (EEA-1, Aquilaria sinensis; EEA-2, Aquilaria crasna). EEA-1, EEA-2, the main constituents of EEAs (mangiferin, and genkwanin-5-O-primeveroside), and senna increased the frequency and weight of stools in loperamide-induced constipation model mice. EEA-1 and EEA-2 did not induce diarrhea as a side effect, but senna induced severe diarrhea. EEA-1 and senna increased gastro-intestinal (GI) transit in the model mice. EEA-1, but not senna, also increased the intestinal tension of isolated jejunum and ileum in guinea pigs, and the tension increase was blocked by atropine, a muscarinic receptor antagonist, but not by other inhibitors (granicetron, pyrilamine, or bradykinin-antagonist peptide). Furthermore, the increase in frequency and weight of stools induced by EEA-1 were blocked by pre-administration of atropine in the model mice. These findings indicate that EEAs exerted a laxative effect via acetylcholine receptors in the mouse constipation model.
A prospective cohort study of Norplant use in the immediate postpartum period among asymptomatic HIV-1-positive women was conducted in Bangkok, Thailand. The objectives of this study were to evaluate side effects and menstrual patterns of the Norplant system in this group. A total of 88 asymptomatic HIV-1-positive mothers were recruited for this study. All of them voluntarily accepted the use of the Norplant implant as a contraceptive method immediately postpartum. Their mean age was 24.9 years. Most of them had completed primary school. The follow-up period was 24 weeks. There were eight participants lost from the study because of loss of contact. Irregular bleeding was the most common menstrual pattern in these participants. The major side effects were headache, followed by hair loss. No subject terminated Norplant use during the study period. The Norplant implant appears to be safe and well tolerated in asymptomatic HIV-1-positive parturients when inserted immediately postpartum.
To eliminate the noncardiac toxicities associated with Adriamycin (Pharmacia Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI) and to avoid the need for surgical implantation of a coronary artery catheter, we proposed serial intracoronary infusions of Adriamycin (Pharmacia Upjohn) with a Judkins catheter to develop a nonsurgical but selective model of dilated cardiomyopathy in dogs.
Twenty-two dogs were entered onto the study. Each dog received four weekly injections of Adriamycin (Pharmacia Upjohn; 15 mg/wk) through a Judkins catheter and verapamil orally (5 mg/kg twice daily) for 4 weeks. Dogs were evaluated with echocardiography, right-sided cardiac catheterization, and endomyocardial biopsy at times 0 and 10 weeks. The left ventricular ejection fraction decreased from 0.65 +/- 0.04 to 0.48 +/- 0.11 (P = .0006). The left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic diameter indices increased from 42.00 +/- 2.17 to 46.92 +/- 5.81 mm (P = .0029) and from 27.65 +/- 2.59 to 35.00 +/- 6.84 mm, respectively (P = .0210). The mechanical cardiac efficiency decreased from 28.55% +/- 13.30% at baseline and 15.64% +/- 9.09% at 10 weeks (P = .001). Cardiac myocyte vacuolation was present on histological examination at 10 weeks. The mortality rate was 41%. Minimal systemic Adriamycin (Pharmacia Upjohn) toxicity was noticed.
Intracoronary injection of Adriamycin (Pharmacia Upjohn) in dogs induced a chronic dilated cardiomyopathy.
Vitamin C, when administered concurrently with a pesticide (endosulfan, phosphamidon or mancozeb), could significantly decrease the frequency of pesticide-induced clastogenic and mitosis-disruptive changes in the bone marrow cells of young Swiss albino mice. Of the three doses (10, 20 or 40 mg/kg b.wt./day) of the vitamin, the one which is double the human therapeutic dose (20 mg/kg b.wt./day) was most effective as an antimutagen to be followed by 40 mg and 10 mg. None of these doses of vitamin C showed any genotoxicity of their own for the parameters studied here.
Epinephrine-induced hypokalemia appears to be mediated by beta 2-agonist activation of Na+/K+ ATPase. To determine whether dopamine and dobutamine induce hypokalemia, eight adult mongrel dogs were anesthetized and studied in random crossover fashion. Potassium [K+] was measured with an ion-selective microelectrode, and central hemodynamics were measured continuously. After stabilization, dopamine and dobutamine were infused at doses of 2, 4, 8, and 20 micrograms/kg/min (15-min increments/dose), and 0.9% NaCl was infused at equivalent volumes, with a 1-h washout between treatments. The mean change in [K+] at each infusion rate was compared between treatments among dogs with an adequate hemodynamic response. Among dopamine responders (n = 5), [K+] decreased from 3.74 +/- 0.42 mEq/L at baseline to 3.63 +/- 0.51 at 2 micrograms/kg/min (p less than 0.02) and was not significantly different at higher doses. Among dobutamine responders (n = 7), [K+] decreased from 3.52 +/- 0.74 at baseline to 3.31 +/- 0.87 at 8 micrograms/kg/min (p less than 0.02) and 3.25 +/- 0.86 at 20 micrograms/kg/min (p less than 0.02), and was not significantly different at lower doses. We conclude that dopamine and dobutamine induce significant hypokalemia, consistent with their adrenergic agonist activity, and this may be related to the known arrhythmogenicity of these agents.
The effect of aspirin (0.45 mg/100 g body wt, orally for 60 days) on mitochondrial lipids induced by isoproterenol (200 mg/Kg body wt, Sc for 2 days) was studied in rats. In isoproterenol treated rats, marked increases in cholesterol, free fatty acids, triglycerides and lipid peroxides in heart mitochondria were observed. The phospholipid level was lowered with a significant increase in the activity of phospholipase. The activity of Na+K(+)-ATPase registered a decrease and the activity of Ca(2+)-ATPase increased in isoproterenol treatment. Aspirin treatment is found to counteract the effect of isoproterenol on lipid and lipid peroxide formation and associated enzyme changes in heart mitochondria.
Multipotent mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) have become a popular and promising therapeutic approach in many clinical conditions. MSC are beneficial in animal models of acute kidney injury (AKI), by mediating differentiation-independent paracrine properties, and have prompted ongoing clinical trials to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MSC. Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is induced in response to stress including AKI and has important anti-apoptotic, anti-inflammatory, and proangiogenic properties in these settings. We therefore examined whether HO-1 plays a role in the beneficial effects of MSC in AKI. We isolated MSC from bone marrow of age-matched HO-1+/+ and HO-1-/- mice. Our studies indicate that while differentiation of MSC into osteo- and adipocytic lineages did not differ between cells isolated from HO-1+/+ and HO-1-/- mice, MSC from HO-1-/- mice had significantly lower angiogenic potential. Moreover, HO-1-/- MSC demonstrated reduced expression and secretion of several important growth and proangiogenic factors (stromal cell-derived factor-1, vascular endothelial growth factor-A, and hepatocyte growth factor) compared with MSC derived from HO-1+/+ mice. In addition, conditioned medium of HO-1+/+ MSC rescued functional and morphological changes associated with cisplatin-induced AKI, while the HO-1-/--conditioned medium was ineffectual. Our studies indicate that HO-1 plays an important role in MSC-mediated protection. The results expand understanding of the renoprotective effects of MSC and may provide novel strategies to better utilize MSC in various disease models.
Pentachlorophenol (PCP) was a commonly used fungicide, herbicide, insecticide, and bactericide in industrial, agricultural, and domestic settings; however, it was also contaminated with polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs). It has been reported that technical grade PCP had immunosuppressive effects and that the immune system was the major target of PCDD/PCDFs toxicity. Although the immune response after exposure to PCP or 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) has been studied, the toxic effects of exposure to both PCP and TCDD have not yet been reported. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects on immune cells from mice intraperitoneally immunized with OVA and subsequently treated with PCP or TCDD alone or in combination by gavage. The animals were terminated on day 7 and 14, and the spleen and plasma samples were collected for immunotoxicity evaluation. The numbers and populations of splenocytes, T cell-derived cytokines produced by splenocytes, splenocyte-generated cytotoxicity and OVA-specific antibodies in plasma were investigated. Our results indicate that the spleen/body weight ratio and splenocyte number was reduced by TCDD alone; in addition, this reduction was enhanced when TCDD was combined with PCP. Exposure to TCDD alone or in conjunction with PCP suppressed many ovalbumin (OVA)-stimulated cytokines, including IL-2, IFN-γ, IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10. Furthermore, the immunoglobulins IgG and IgM were suppressed in mice administered by PCP alone, but the suppressive effects were greater in mice treated with TCDD alone or in combination with PCP. Co-exposure to PCP and TCDD resulted in an antagonistic effect on TCDD-induced suppression of IFN-γ and IL-10. Our results demonstrate that PCP alone is immunotoxic, regardless of the presence of TCDD. PCP led to mild changes in cytokine secretion, and it compromised splenocyte-generated cytotoxicity and IgM and IgG antibody production on day 7. The finding that PCP antagonizes TCDD-induced IFN-γ suppression could be due to the competitive binding of PCP to AhR (aryl hydrocarbon receptor).
Cysteinyl leukotrienes are inactivated by acetyl coenzyme A-dependent N-acetyltransferase (NAT). Thus, functional alterations of the NAT gene may contribute to the risk of aspirin-intolerant asthma.
Asthmatics (n = 438) were categorized into aspirin-intolerant asthma (15% or greater decrease in the forced expiratory volume in 1 s or cutaneous reactions, n = 170) or aspirin-tolerant asthma (n = 268) groups. In total, 14 polymorphisms of the NAT2 gene were genotyped by a single-base extension method.
The distributions of all loci of the 14 SNPs were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (p > 0.05). Among the 14 SNPs, six common SNPs (minor allele frequency >5%) in a Korean population were used for haplotype construction and further statistical analysis. The logistic regression analysis demonstrated that NAT2 -9246G>C and haplotype 2 (TCACGG) were significantly associated with the risk of aspirin-intolerant asthma. The rare allele frequencies of the SNP and Ht2 were significantly higher in the aspirin-intolerant asthma group than in the aspirin-tolerant asthma group (p(corr) = 0.03 and p(corr) = 0.02 in codominant model).
In a large genetic epidemiology study of aspirin-intolerant asthma in a Korean population, genetic polymorphisms of NAT2 were found to be related to a risk of aspirin hypersensitivity among asthmatics.
The addition of rituximab to doxorubicin-containing standard chemotherapy significantly improves response to therapy and reduces the risk of death in B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) patients. However, the impact of this approach on doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity has not been elucidated.
Patients who had been planned to receive CHOP or rituximab plus CHOP (R-CHOP) combination chemotherapy with a diagnosis of NHL were included in the study. In all patients, systolic and diastolic parameters were measured by using conventional and pulsed-wave tissue Doppler echocardiography, which is more sensitive than conventional lead-dependent techniques, both before and in the sixth month of therapy.
There were 28 (M/F; 14/14) patients on CHOP and 33 (M/F; 16/17) patients on R-CHOP. Median age in CHOP and R-CHOP was 49 and 50 years (P = 0.44), respectively. Cumulative doxorubicin doses were 280 and 286 mg/m(2) on CHOP and R-CHOP (P = 0.65), respectively. None of the patients developed clinically evident congestive heart failure. Parameters of systolic function such as LVEF and FS did not significantly change in any patients. In both arms, tissue Doppler parameters of diastolic function such as lateral E and septal E velocity of mitral annulus decreased significantly after therapy (P < 0.001). However, the decrease in diastolic function was similar in both arms (P > 0.05). Conventional Doppler echocardiography yielded consistent findings.
Both CHOP and R-CHOP cause diastolic dysfunction in the early period following their administration. The addition of rituximab to CHOP chemotherapy does not significantly increase the risk of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity during this period.
