Numerous studies demonstrated a close relationship between cannabis abuse and schizophrenia with similar impairments in cognitive processing, particularly in P300 generation. Recently, an (AAT)n triplet repeat polymorphism within the cannabinoid receptor gene CNR1 has been found to be associated with both schizophrenia and substance dependence, and to modulate the P300 potential. As previously reported, both acute oral Δ(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ(9)-THC), the main psychoactive constituent of cannabis, and standardized cannabis extract containing Δ(9)-THC and cannabidiol (CBD) revealed a significant reduction of P300 amplitudes in healthy subjects but did not show any differences among each other. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the (AAT)n polymorphism differentially modulates the effects of Δ(9)-THC and cannabis extract on P300 generation in 20 healthy volunteers during an auditory choice reaction task. For the >10/>10 genotype, there was a significant decrease of P300 amplitude as well as a significant prolongation of P300 latency under pure Δ(9)-THC but not under cannabis extract. Moreover, we found a significant correlation between the number of AAT repeats and P300 variables for the Δ(9)-THC condition. Our data thus indicate that the CNR1 gene seems to be involved in the regulation of the P300 wave as a marker of selective attention and working memory. Moreover, it appears that variations within CNR1 may differentially alter the sensitivity to the acute effects of cannabinoids on P300 generation in healthy subjects.
Epidemiological studies indicate that overweight and obesity are associated with increased cancer risk. To study how obesity augments cancer risk and development, we focused on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the common form of liver cancer whose occurrence and progression are the most strongly affected by obesity among all cancers. We now demonstrate that either dietary or genetic obesity is a potent bona fide liver tumor promoter in mice. Obesity-promoted HCC development was dependent on enhanced production of the tumor-promoting cytokines IL-6 and TNF, which cause hepatic inflammation and activation of the oncogenic transcription factor STAT3. The chronic inflammatory response caused by obesity and enhanced production of IL-6 and TNF may also increase the risk of other cancers.
A 26-year-old woman who had been taking an oral contraceptive preparation for two years developed malignant hypertension. Investigation failed to elicit any renal or other cause for her hypertension, but control of blood pressure was obtained by withdrawal of the oral contraceptive agent and antihypertensive therapy. Subsequently, after withdrawal of therapy, the blood pressure remained near normal. The patient had a previous history of hypertension during pregnancy; she was also overweight.
Total and regional cortical blood flow was measured in dogs by the radioactive microsphere technique after renal damage of varying severity had been induced by combining selective injection of diatrizoate, iopamidol, or normal saline with a 10 min occlusion of the renal artery. There was extensive tubular and glomerular damage in the kidneys exposed to diatrizoate, but not in the kidneys exposed to saline. Iopamidol caused intermediate changes. Average cortical blood flow was reduced from baseline levels in all groups 5 min after perfusion was restored. After 1 hr the flow had returned to the baseline level. Analysis of variance did not show a statistically significant difference among the groups. A tendency for redistribution of flow from outer to inner cortical layers was seen, but this was present in all groups. The flow changes detected in this study cannot explain the varying severity of renal damage.
To observe the effects of angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker valsartan in preventing hepatic fibrosis induced by dimethylnitrosamine in rats.
Except rats in the control group, all were given intraperitoneal injections of 1% dimethylnitrosamine (DMN 1 ml/kg, two or three consecutive days/a week for 6 weeks). From the first day of the intraperitoneal injection, rats in treatment groups were given valsartan for 8 weeks by gastric gavage. Liver tissue and blood samples of all rats were examined at 56 days (8 weeks). AngII levels were determined by radioimmunoassay. Hepatic mRNA levels of Collagen type I (Col I) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase1 (TIMP1) were evaluated by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
Valsartan significantly attenuated the degree of liver fibrosis and decreased the hepatic AngII content compared with DMN treated rats (P<0.01). mRNA levels of Col I and TIMP1 were upregulated in DMN treated rats compared with normal rats. Valsartan downregulated the elevation of Col I and TIMP1 mRNA levels (P<0.01).
Hepatic AngII content of the model group was increased, the local tissue RAS was activated in DMN induced liver fibrosis. Valsartan can retard the progression of hepatic fibrosis and may provide an effective new strategy for anti-liver fibrosis therapy.
Protease-activated receptor-2 (PAR-2), a receptor activated by trypsin/tryptase, modulates smooth muscle tone and exocrine secretion in the salivary glands and pancreas. Given that PAR-2 is expressed throughout the gastrointestinal tract, we investigated effects of PAR-2 agonists on mucus secretion and gastric mucosal injury in the rat. PAR-2-activating peptides triggered secretion of mucus in the stomach, but not in the duodenum. This mucus secretion was abolished by pretreatment with capsaicin, which stimulates and ablates specific sensory neurons, but it was resistant to cyclo-oxygenase inhibition. In contrast, capsaicin treatment failed to block PAR-2-mediated secretion from the salivary glands. Intravenous calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and neurokinin A markedly elicited gastric mucus secretion, as did substance P to a lesser extent. Specific antagonists of the CGRP1 and NK2, but not the NK1, receptors inhibited PAR-2-mediated mucus secretion. Pretreatment with the PAR-2 agonist strongly prevented gastric injury caused by HCl-ethanol or indomethacin. Thus, PAR-2 activation triggers the cytoprotective secretion of gastric mucus by stimulating the release of CGRP and tachykinins from sensory neurons. In contrast, the PAR-2-mediated salivary exocrine secretion appears to be independent of capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons.
To investigate the cases of chronic hepatitis B relapse after lamivudine withdrawal, and to find clinical characteristics and related factors to them.
46 cases of chronic hepatitis B relapse after lamivudine withdrawal were investigated and followed up. The diagnosis and the course of the diseases before therapy with lamivudine, the dosage, effects, period of treatment, the reasons for lamivudine withdrawal, the biochemistry, immunological and virulogical data in each period, YMDD mutation, pre-C mutation and prognosis after relapse were recorded.
The periods of treatment of 32.6% of patients in this group were shorter than 52 weeks. The HBV DNA of 93.6% of patients turned negative at the time of lamivudine withdrawal and returned to positive in all of those patients when relapsed; of the 6.4% of patients who did not turn negative at the time of lamivudine withdrawal, their HBV DNA was elevated more than 2 log when relapsed. A majority of patients (71.7%) did not ask their physicians when they decided to withdraw from lamivudine. There were 61.5% of the other patients who withdrew from lamivudine on the advice of physicians but they were not followed up. The state of their illness in 71.7% (33/46) patients was more severe than before their lamivudine therapy. In these cases, the YMDD mutation was detected in 78.8% of patients (chi2 = 23.23, P<0.01), and pre-C mutation was detected in 84.8% of patients (chi2 = 21.04, P<0.01), higher than that in the cases with aggrevation of their illnesses before the lamivudine therapy. The median time between lamivudine withdrawal and relapse was 12 weeks; it was negatively correlated with ALT (r = 0.32, P<0.05) detected at the time of lamivudine withdrawal. The severity of the illness at the time of relapse was related with age (r = 0.40, P<0.01) and YMDD mutation (r = 0.31, P<0.05). The prognosis was related with the age of the patient (r = 0.49, P<0.01), the diagnosis (r = 0.39, P<0.01), TBil (r = 0.46, P<0.05) and ALT (r = 0.32, P<0.05) detected before lamivudine therapy, HBeAg became negative when lamivudine was withdrawn (r = 0.31, P<0.05), TBil (r = 0.55, P<0.01) and PTA (r = 0.57, P<0.01) detected when relapsed.
A majority of patients did not follow the lamivudine treatment recommendation of the experts group on lamivudine clinical practice in China. The major reason for relapse perhaps was revived HBV DNA multiplication, which induces damage of hepatocytes after lamivudine withdrawal. The YMDD mutation and/or pre-C mutation may be one of the factors that aggravate the damage of hepatocytes during the relapse. The factors including age of the patient, diagnosis before the treatment, TBil and ALT detected before lamivudine therapy, HBeAg turning to negative when lamivudine is withdrawn, and TBil and PTA detected during relapse may all impact the prognosis.
Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) is an uncommon eruption most often provoked by drugs, by acute infections with enteroviruses, or by mercury. It is characterized by acute, extensive formation of nonfollicular sterile pustules on erythematous background, fever, and peripheral blood leukocytosis. We present clinical and immunological data on four patients with this disease, which is caused by different drugs. An involvement of T cells could be implied by positive skin patch tests and lymphocyte transformation tests. Immunohistochemistry revealed a massive cell infiltrate consisting of neutrophils in pustules and T cells in the dermis and epidermis. Expression of the potent neutrophil-attracting chemokine IL-8 was elevated in keratinocytes and infiltrating mononuclear cells. Drug-specific T cells were generated from the blood and skin of three patients, and phenotypic characterization showed a heterogeneous distribution of CD4/CD8 phenotype and of T-cell receptor Vbeta-expression. Analysis of cytokine/chemokine profiles revealed that IL-8 is produced significantly more by drug-specific T cells from patients with AGEP compared with drug-specific T cells from patients that had non-AGEP exanthemas. In conclusion, our data demonstrate the involvement of drug-specific T cells in the pathomechanism of this rather rare and peculiar form of drug allergy. In addition, they indicate that even in some neutrophil-rich inflammatory responses specific T cells are engaged and might orchestrate the immune reaction.
Understanding the basis for ethanol's teratogenic effects may inform the etiology of fetal alcohol syndrome. Here we investigate how genetic background and susceptibility to ethanol-induced neural crest apoptosis contribute to the distinctive craniofacial phenotype observed after prenatal alcohol exposure.
Nine different chick strains were exposed to ethanol at gastrulation. The sensitivity of these embryos to ethanol-induced neural crest apoptosis was reported elsewhere (Debelak and Smith, 2000). Here, these embryos were permitted to develop until embryonic day 10, when facial morphogenesis was largely complete, and cephalometric measurements were made on cleared skulls. Shifts in facial growth were correlated against the severity of ethanol-induced apoptosis in facial precursors.
The facial shape produced by ethanol exposure was a function of the embryos' genetic strain. Three general responses were observed: apparent midfacial flattening (Babcock B300 x Hampshire Red, ISA-Babcock, HyLine W98, and HyLine W36 strains), overall facial expansion (Spafas and Babcock B300 strains), or overall facial hypoplasia (DeKalb strains). When dose and timing of exposure were held constant, the embryo's genetic background predicted the facial outcome. For ethanol-sensitive strains, apoptosis of facial precursor populations was required to produce the facial defects. That some strains had essentially normal faces despite extensive cell death indicated a capacity to recover from the earlier neural crest losses.
We propose that ethanol's effects on craniofacial development are multifactoral, and these influences may include susceptibility to apoptosis, regenerative capacity, and compensatory outgrowth of the facial primordia. The embryo's genetic background may modulate these events. The high and low responder chick strains are useful tools to dissect these contributions.
The present study was designed to examine the potential preventive effect of curcumin (CMN; CAS 458-37-7), rosiglitazone (RGN; CAS 155141-29-0), N-acetylcysteine (NAC; CAS 616-91-1), resveratrol (RSV; CAS 501-36-0), and losartan (LOS; CAS 114798-26-4) on sodium valproate-induced hepatotoxicity. Sodium valproate (SVP; CAS 1069-66-5) was given at a dose of 250 mg/kg i. p. 3 times daily for one week. The tested compounds were given simultaneously with SVP for one week. The results demonstrate that CMN, RGN and NAC treatment can confer protection from SVP-induced hepatotoxicity. The second part of the study includes an evaluation of the effect of CMN, RGN and NAC on the anticonvulsant activity of SVP against pentetrazole-induced seizures in mice. The results demonstrate that CMN, RGN and NAC do not affect the anticonvulsant activity of SVP. Combined administration of either of CMN, RGN and NAC with valproate appears to be beneficial in reducing valproate-induced hepatotoxicity.
A 22-year-old man with a history of cocaine abuse from 2003 to 2005 developed recurrent bleeding of the nasal septum and a progressive cough and dyspnoea. He was admitted to the intensive care unit because of fulminant pneumonia, impaired renal function and progressive general deterioration. While hospitalized, he developed cutaneous vasculitis, thrombosis of the right subclavian and right jugular veins, testicular pain and, eventually, expanding red papules and plaques on the limbs. The symptoms were a diagnostic challenge, until skin biopsy showed immunoglobulin deposits in small vessels and kidney biopsy focal and segmental pauci-immune, crescentic glomerulonephritis. This led, together with anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (cANCA and PR3-ANCA), to the diagnosis of Wegener granulomatosis. The number of affected organ systems in our patient exceeds that commonly found in the literature. Several clinical observations of cocaine abuse followed by Wegener granulomatosis suggest an active induction of a PR3-ANCA-positive vasculitis by cocaine.
The effects of long-term oral administration of quinapril on the occurrence of stroke and on mortality were investigated in young salt-loaded stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR-SPs) during the treatment period (8th-34th week of age) and up to 6 weeks thereafter. Simultaneously, blood pressure, saline intake, diuresis, and proteinuria were investigated at regular intervals, and cerebrovascular, renal, and cardiac lesions were assessed after death. Untreated SHR-SPs served as controls. Quinapril completely suppressed stroke and mortality, afforded only limited protection v blood pressure rise, and prevented any increase in saline intake, diuresis, and proteinuria both during and after the treatment period. Quinapril long-lastingly prevented vascular fibrinoid necrosis development at the cerebral, but also at the renal and cardiac levels. In the kidneys, vascular intimal and medial hyperplasia were strongly reduced, as were the glomerular and tubulo-interstitial lesions. At the cardiac level, intimal and medial hyperplasia were slightly reduced but infarction and fibrosis were hardly affected. As the renin-angiotensin system is highly stimulated in SHR-SPs and as angiotensin II (AII) is responsible for fibrinoid necrosis formation, vessel obstruction, and stroke in these animals, we conclude that the long-lasting protection afforded by quinapril v stroke and mortality in SHR-SPs both during and after the treatment period is mostly due to the drug-induced interruption of the renin-angiotensin system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lindane, a persistent organochlorine pesticide, is recognized as a major public health concern because of its potential toxic effects on human health. Despite observations pointing to the toxicity of lindane, mechanisms underlying its deleterious effects in liver have yet to be understood. In this study, we investigated the effects of lindane on autophagic, apoptotic and necrotic cell death in primary cultured rat hepatocytes. We found that lindane deregulated the autophagic process as demonstrated by (1) the formation of enlarged acidic vesicles labeled with LC3, Rab7 and LAMP1 (specific markers of autophagic vacuole maturation), (2) the conversion of LC3-I (the cytosolic form) into LC3-II (membrane bound), (3) the deregulation of the Beclin 1 protein expression and (4) the enhanced formation of the Bcl-xL/Beclin 1 complex. Lindane induced vacuolization together with the inhibition of spontaneous and intrinsic apoptosis. This disruption of cell suicide was linked to Bcl-xL up-regulation, Bax down-expression, prevention of cytochrome c release, and inhibition of caspase-9 and -3 activities. Lindane-induced disruption of apoptosis and autophagy occurred in parallel with necrosis induction in rat hepatocytes. In consequence, we proposed that lindane toxicity in primary rat hepatocytes could be jointly attributed to the disruption of autophagic process, the inhibition of apoptotic cell death and the induction of necrosis. These events account, at least in part, for the involvement of both cytotoxic and carcinogenic signaling pathways in the action of lindane in the liver.
Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) is found ubiquitously in the environment, and is known to cause developmental toxicity, including cleft plate (CP). The aim of the present study was to elucidate the mechanism of CP associated with in utero exposure to PFOS in mice. We first examined whether the concentration of PFOS in fetal serum was related to susceptibility to CP. We compared palatogenesis following the administration of various concentrations of PFOS to dams. We conducted histological examination on gestational day (GD) 15 and 18, and alizarin red/alcian blue staining of fetal heads on GD18. Finally, we cultured palatal shelves (PSs) of GD14 fetuses, which had not yet made contact with each other, for 48h, to examine whether the shelves maintained the ability to fuse. The incidence of CP increased from 7.3% with a fetal serum concentration of PFOS of 110.7+/-13.4microg/ml (13mg/kg) to 78.3% with 138.6+/-0.9microg/ml (20mg/kg). PFOS at 50mg/kg on GD11-15 caused CP at a rate of 6.1%, meanwhile PFOS at 20mg/kg on GD1-17 caused a CP rate of 89.3%. Failure of palatal shelf elevation was observed with 20mg/kg PFOS. PFOS at 20mg/kg on GD1-17 and 50mg/kg on GD11-15 inhibited mandibular growth to the same extent, even though the rate of CP was different. Explants exposed to PFOS 20mg/kg and Tween 20 showed 94% (34/36) and 100% (31/31) fusion, respectively. We demonstrated that increasing the oral dose of PFOS from 13 to 20mg/kg resulted in a significant increase in CP even though there was only a small increase in serum concentration of PFOS. PFOS prevented elevation of the PSs above the tongue because their growth/fusion potential was maintained. Mandibular hypoplasia did not seem to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of CP.
Sulfur mustard (SM) inhalation causes airway injury, with enhanced vascular permeability, coagulation, and airway obstruction. The objective of this study was to determine whether recombinant tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) could inhibit this pathogenic sequence.
Rats were exposed to the SM analog 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES) via nose-only aerosol inhalation. One hour later, TFPI (1.5mg/kg) in vehicle, or vehicle alone, was instilled into the trachea. Arterial O2 saturation was monitored using pulse oximetry. Twelve hours after exposure, animals were euthanized and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and plasma were analyzed for prothrombin, thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT), active plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) levels, and fluid fibrinolytic capacity. Lung steady-state PAI-1 mRNA was measured by RT-PCR analysis. Airway-capillary leak was estimated by BALF protein and IgM, and by pleural fluid measurement. In additional animals, airway cast formation was assessed by microdissection and immunohistochemical detection of airway fibrin.
Airway obstruction in the form of fibrin-containing casts was evident in central conducting airways of rats receiving CEES. TFPI decreased cast formation, and limited severe hypoxemia. Findings of reduced prothrombin consumption, and lower TAT complexes in BALF, demonstrated that TFPI acted to limit thrombin activation in airways. TFPI, however, did not appreciably affect CEES-induced airway protein leak, PAI-1 mRNA induction, or inhibition of the fibrinolytic activity present in airway surface liquid.
Intratracheal administration of TFPI limits airway obstruction, improves gas exchange, and prevents mortality in rats with sulfur mustard-analog-induced acute lung injury.
A female patient aged 22 with fully developed symptoms of anorexia nervosa presented the following metabolic disturbances: persistent hyperuricemia, hyponatruria, (sometimes with sodium lack in urine) as well as frequent hyponatremia and hyper-uricosuria. The patient's low arterial blood pressure (70/40 mm Hg on average) was not improved by pharmacological treatment, and only high oral doses of table salt (20-70 g/24 h) did prove effective in the therapy. The subject passed seven renal calculi composed of sodium urate and uric acid. Numerous urinalyses did not reveal any changes, and bacterial cultures of the urine were also negative. After 14 years of anorexia nervosa, the patient was treated for pneumonia with gentamicin at doses of 2 x 80 mg/24 h. Following third dose of the antibiotic, the patient developed acute renal failure and was treated by haemodialysis for six weeks. The renal function came gradually to the norm. Simultaneously, all the anorexia nervosa symptoms subsided along with sodium metabolism disturbances, while purine metabolism disorders got considerably alleviated. The patient started to have her menstrual cycles again, gained 12 kg in body weight, and one year afterwards bore a son. A further 10-year follow-up period was free of any pathological changes except for a slight hyperuricemia. To the best of our knowledge, the similar case has not been reported in the medical literature and electronic data bases.
One hundred eighteen patients, aged between 65 and 87 years with mild-to-moderate hypertension were given placebo or isradipine (1.25 to 5 mg twice daily, or 2.5 to 10 mg once daily) following a three-week placebo period to evaluate its safety and efficacy in elderly patients. Dosage step-up was at three-week intervals. Blood pressure measurements were taken immediately before the morning dose (12 to 24 hours after the previous dose). At the end of the study, both supine and standing diastolic blood pressures were significantly lower with isradipine than with placebo. A 10-mm Hg reduction in supine diastolic blood pressure was achieved with once-daily isradipine in 65 percent and with twice-daily isradipine in 52 percent of patients, indicating sustained blood pressure control over the dose interval (12 to 24 hours). Adverse events were usually mild, transient, and typical for vasodilators. Isradipine did not produce more laboratory, clinical, or electrocardiographic abnormalities than did placebo. In conclusion, isradipine either once or twice daily at doses between 2.5 and 10 mg is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for mild-to-moderate hypertension in elderly patients.
The basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) receives cholinergic innervation from the basal forebrain and nicotine, via activation of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), can improve performance in amygdala-based learning tasks. We tested the hypothesis that acute and prenatal nicotine exposure modulates cortico-amygdala synaptic transmission. We found that low-dose, single-trial exposures to nicotine can elicit lasting facilitation, the extent of which is dependent on the level of stimulation of the cortical inputs to the BLA. In addition, sustained facilitation is ablated by prenatal exposure to nicotine. This study examined synaptic transmission in 238 patch-clamp recordings from BLA neurons in acute slice from mouse brain. Pharmacological studies in wild-type and nAChR subunit knock-out mice reveal that activation of presynaptic alpha 7, containing (alpha 7*) and non-alpha 7* nAChRs, facilitates glutamatergic transmission in an activity-dependent manner. Without prior stimulation, application of nicotine elicits modest and transient facilitation of glutamatergic postsynaptic currents (PSCs) in about 40% of BLA neurons. With low-frequency stimulation of cortical inputs nicotine elicits robust facilitation of transmission at about 60% of cortico-BLA synapses and synaptic strength remains elevated at about 40% of these connections for >15 min after nicotine washout. Following paired-pulse stimulation nicotine elicits long-lasting facilitation of glutamatergic transmission at about 70% of cortico-BLA connections. Nicotine reduces the threshold for activation of long-term potentiation of cortico-BLA synapses evoked by patterned stimulation. Prenatal exposure to nicotine reduced subsequent modulatory responses to acute nicotine application.
A case of a 60-year-old male patient, suffering from benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), with deterioration of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) during antihypertensive treatment with bisoprolol was presented. Discontinuation of beta-blocker resulted in giving a relief whereas the resumption of its use caused repeated deterioration. Bisoprolol deteriorated lower urinary tract symptoms in patient with benign prostatic hyperplasia. Increase of lower urinary tract symptoms caused by beta-blockers can be more significant in elderly men.
It is not known whether sensory nerves are involved in the insulin, glucagon or glucose responses to autonomic nerve activation induced by 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG). We therefore treated mice neonatally with capsaicin which permanently destroys sensory afferent nerve fibers. Immunohistochemistry of the pancreas at 13-14 weeks of age revealed a substantial reduction of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive nerves and a partial reduction of substance P-immunoreactive nerves. In contrast, no effect was observed on galanin-immunoreactive nerves. At age 10-12 weeks, the mice were injected intravenously with 2-DG (500 mg/kg). In controls, 2-DG stimulated insulin and glucagon secretion and induced hyperglycemia (P less than 0.01). Capsaicin treatment partially reduced the glucose and glucagon responses to 2-DG (P less than 0.01). In contrast, the insulin response to 2-DG was not affected by capsaicin. It is concluded that the mouse pancreas contains capsaicin-sensitive sensory CGRP- and substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibers, whereas the galanin-immunoreactive nerve fibers are not sensitive to capsaicin. Furthermore, capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerve fibers are partially involved in 2-DG-induced glucagon secretion and hyperglycemia, whereas sensory nerves are not involved in 2-DG-induced insulin secretion.
We have previously demonstrated that simvastatin attenuates myocardial cell necrosis after acute myocardial ischemia and reperfusion via induction of endothelial cell NO synthase. However, it remains unknown whether the cardioprotective effects of statins can persist after extended periods of reperfusion. Furthermore, it is unknown whether simvastatin therapy can attenuate postischemic cardiac dysfunction. Pretreatment with simvastatin attenuated myocardial injury after 30 minutes of myocardial ischemia and 24 hours of reperfusion. However, the protective effects are not recognized unless simvastatin is given at least 3 hours before myocardial ischemia. Subsequently, we pretreated mice with vehicle or simvastatin and subjected the mice to 30 minutes of myocardial ischemia and 6 months of reperfusion. Myocardial infarct size (percentage of left ventricle) was significantly reduced by 51% in the simvastatin-treated group compared with the vehicle-treated group. Left ventricular diastolic and systolic dilatation was significantly (P<0.05) reduced in simvastatin-treated mice compared with vehicle-treated mice. Additionally, the decrement in fractional shortening after 6 months of reperfusion was minimized in simvastatin-treated mice (P=NS versus baseline) compared with vehicle-treated mice (P<0.05 versus baseline). Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was significantly (P<0.01) elevated in vehicle-treated mice (21+/-4 mm Hg) but not simvastatin-treated mice (5+/-2 mm Hg) compared with baseline values. These data demonstrate that simvastatin treatment before myocardial ischemia attenuates infarct size and preserves myocardial function after chronic reperfusion in mice.
Nanoparticulate titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) has been demonstrated to decrease immunity of mice, but very little is known about the injury of spleen involved immunomodulation and its molecular mechanism. In order to understand the spleen injury induced by intraperitoneal injection of TiO(2) nanoparticules (NPs) for consecutive 45 days, the spleen pathological changes, apoptosis, the expression levels of the apoptotic genes and their proteins, and oxidative stress in the mouse spleen were investigated. The results demonstrated that TiO(2) NPs had obvious accumulation in the mouse spleen, leading to congestion and lymph nodule proliferation of spleen tissue, and splenocyte apoptosis. TiO(2) NPs effectively activated caspase-3 and -9, decreased the Bcl-2 the levels of gene and protein, and increase the levels of Bax, and cytochrome c genes and their protein expression, promoted ROS accumulation. Taken together, this study indicated that TiO(2) NPs-induced apoptosis in the mouse splenocyte via mitochondrial-mediated pathway. These findings provide strong evidence that the TiO(2) NPs can induce the spleen pathological changes, apoptosis, leading to the reduction of immunity of mice.
Gastric cancer (GC) has been associated with a complex combination of genetic and environmental factors. In contrast to most countries, available information on GC mortality trends showed a gradual increase in Mexico. Our aim was to explore potential interactions among dietary (chili pepper consumption), infectious (Helicobacter pylori) and genetic factors (IL1B-31 genotypes) on GC risk. The study was performed in three areas of Mexico, with different GC mortality rates. We included 158 GC patients and 317 clinical controls. Consumption of capsaicin (Cap), the pungent active substance of chili peppers, was estimated by food frequency questionnaire. H. pylori CagA status was assessed by ELISA, and IL1B-31 genotypes were determined by TaqMan assays and Pyrosequencing in DNA samples. Multivariate unconditional logistic regression was used to estimate potential interactions. Moderate to high Cap consumption synergistically increased GC risk in genetically susceptible individuals (IL1B-31C allele carriers) infected with the more virulent H. pylori (CagA+) strains. The combined presence of these factors might explain the absence of a decreasing trend for GC in Mexico. However, further research on gene-environment interactions is required to fully understand the factors determining GC patterns in susceptible populations, with the aim of recommending preventive measures for high risk individuals.
To describe a new method of quantifying the amount of plaque-like hard exudates after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection in diabetic macular edema.
This study included 22 eyes of 14 patients (mean age, 63 years) with chronic diabetic macular edema and plaque-like hard exudates. The patients were injected with a single dose of 4 mg intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide. The optic disc size as relative size unit was taken to quantify the hard exudates: Total areas of exudates and the optic nerve head were computed from fundus pictures with a digital analysis program on magnified images. The former was divided by the latter, and the results were expressed as a percentage value. The ratio was used to track improvements in a given eye over 6 months.
Average ratio of hard exudates to optic nerve head area reduced to 81% of its initial value at 1 month (P=0.007), to 54% at 3 months (P<0.001) and to 41% at 6 months (P<0.001).
The new method allowed detection of a significant reduction of ratio of hard exudates to optic disc area of diabetic plaque-like hard exudates following 4 mg intravitreal triamcinolone.
Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) pose a possible human health risk for lung disease as a result of inhalation exposure. Mice exposed to MWCNTs develop pulmonary fibrosis. Lung macrophages engulf MWCNTs and produce pro-fibrogenic cytokines including interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and osteopontin (OPN). Atomic layer deposition (ALD) is a novel process used to enhance functional properties of MWCNTs, yet the consequence of ALD-modified MWCNTs on macrophage biology and fibrosis is unknown.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether ALD coating with aluminum oxide (Al2O3) would alter the fibrogenic response to MWCNTs and whether cytokine expression in human macrophage/monocytes exposed to MWCNTs in vitro would predict the severity of lung fibrosis in mice. Uncoated (U)-MWCNTs or ALD-coated (A)-MWCNTs were incubated with THP-1 macrophages or human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and cell supernatants assayed for cytokines by ELISA. C57BL6 mice were exposed to a single dose of A- or U-MWCNTs by oropharyngeal aspiration (4 mg/kg) followed by evaluation of histopathology, lung inflammatory cell counts, and cytokine levels at day 1 and 28 post-exposure.
ALD coating of MWCNTs with Al2O3 enhanced IL-1β secretion by THP-1 and PBMC in vitro, yet reduced protein levels of IL-6, TNF-α, and OPN production by THP-1 cells. Moreover, Al2O3 nanoparticles, but not carbon black NPs, increased IL-1β but decreased OPN and IL-6 in THP-1 and PBMC. Mice exposed to U-MWCNT had increased levels of all four cytokines assayed and developed pulmonary fibrosis by 28 days, whereas ALD-coating significantly reduced fibrosis and cytokine levels at the mRNA or protein level.
These findings indicate that ALD thin film coating of MWCNTs with Al2O3 reduces fibrosis in mice and that in vitro phagocyte expression of IL-6, TNF-α, and OPN, but not IL-1β, predict MWCNT-induced fibrosis in the lungs of mice in vivo.
Identifying genetic factors responsible for serious adverse drug reaction (SADR) is of critical importance to personalized medicine. However, genome-wide association studies are hampered due to the lack of case-control samples, and the selection of candidate genes is limited by the lack of understanding of the underlying mechanisms of SADRs. We hypothesize that drugs causing the same type of SADR might share a common mechanism by targeting unexpectedly the same SADR-mediating protein. Hence we propose an approach of identifying the common SADR-targets through constructing and mining an in silico chemical-protein interactome (CPI), a matrix of binding strengths among 162 drug molecules known to cause at least one type of SADR and 845 proteins. Drugs sharing the same SADR outcome were also found to possess similarities in their CPI profiles towards this 845 protein set. This methodology identified the candidate gene of sulfonamide-induced toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN): all nine sulfonamides that cause TEN were found to bind strongly to MHC I (Cw*4), whereas none of the 17 control drugs that do not cause TEN were found to bind to it. Through an insight into the CPI, we found the Y116S substitution of MHC I (B*5703) enhances the unexpected binding of abacavir to its antigen presentation groove, which explains why B*5701, not B*5703, is the risk allele of abacavir-induced hypersensitivity. In conclusion, SADR targets and the patient-specific off-targets could be identified through a systematic investigation of the CPI, generating important hypotheses for prospective experimental validation of the candidate genes.
An alcoholic patient had a gradual increase of BP while he was treated with disulfiram. The BP returned to normal after the disulfiram was withdrawn. Increased BP should be considered a possible side effect of long-term disulfiram therapy, especially in the presence of alcohol-induced liver damage.
