Recurrent upper respiratory tract infections (URTI) are very common in patients of all ages. Rhinitis, bronchitis, chronic sinusitis and otitis appear to be the prevalent forms of recurrent respiratory infections in the paediatric population. The aim of treatment is so the solution of the respiratory pathology and the also the prevention of their complications. Antibacterial therapy is still the classical treatment approach in patients both with respiratory tract infections and with otitis media, despite the fact that antibacterials have several well known drawbacks, especially when used to treat recurrent infections. Eighty-four paediatric patients of both sexes (range: 4-14 years) with otitis were enrolled in the study. Patients were included if they had a >2 years' history of recurrent or chronic respiratory infections, and/or had experienced at least three episodes requiring medical consultations and/or treatment during the winter prior to the study. The young patients were randomised to receive Immucytal (group A) or placebo (group B) treatment according to the following protocol: (1) starting therapy (1 month): one tablet daily in the morning 4 days per week for 3 consecutive weeks; (2) maintenance period (5 months): one tablet daily in the morning 4 days per week for 1 week every month. Placebo and Immucytal tablets were identical in shape and size, in order to maintain double-blind conditions. Patients of group A with recurrent URTI had a significantly decreased incidence of ENT infections, fever and shorter duration of illness, decreased requirement for ancillary medications and fewer work-days lost. The reduction in the incidence of infectious episodes became significant vs. placebo. A significantly improved outcome vs. placebo was also observed on the incidence of fever, frequency and duration of infectious episodes, ancillary therapies. Immucytal treatment was associated with significant changes in both immunological and auditory function parameters. Serum concentrations of immunoglobulins were significantly increased in Immucytal. For both evaluations, a significant difference between treatment groups was found (P>0.001). Preventive strategies, such as ribosomal immunotherapy, may represent a valid alternative approach.
Cadmium is a toxic heavy metal and distributed widely in the environment. In addition to damaging the liver, kidneys, and bone, cadmium causes anemia through hemolysis, iron deficiency, and insufficient erythropoietin (EPO) production (renal anemia) along with changes in iron metabolism. Here, we investigated the role of iron in the interdependent progress of three types of anemia in cadmium-injected rats fed iron-sufficient or iron-deficient diets for 1 or 3 months. Cadmium injections for 1 month induced renal anemia without renal injury. Injections for 3 months induced hemolysis, iron deficiency, and renal anemia, accompanied by hepatic and renal damage. Iron concentrations in the liver, kidney, and spleen were increased, derived from internally released iron from hemolyzed red blood cells, increased duodenal iron absorption, insufficient erythropoiesis, and hepatic ferritin overproduced by cadmium-induced interleukin-6. Therefore, the iron deficiency anemia was actually apparent. Cadmium suppressed renal EPO production through a direct effect, accumulated iron, and destruction of EPO-producing cells. Increased duodenal iron absorption could be attributed to hypertrophy of the duodenal mucosa derived from anemia. Thus, insufficient EPO production and iron accumulation are the central factors driving anemia in cadmium toxicity.
Renin secretion is regulated by coordinated signaling between the various cells of the juxtaglomerular apparatus. The renin-secreting cells (RSC), which play a major role in the control of blood pressure, are coupled to each other and to endothelial cells by Connexin40 (Cx40)-containing channels. In this study, we show that Cx40 knockout (Cx40-/-) mice, but not their heterozygous littermates, are hypertensive due to the increase in the number of RSC, renin biosynthesis, and plasma renin. Treatment with the angiotensin II receptor AT1 antagonist candesartan or the angiotensin II-converting enzyme inhibitor ramipril reduced the blood pressure of the Cx40-/- mice to the same levels seen in wild-type (WT) mice. The elevated blood pressure of the knockout mice was not affected by clipping one renal artery (2K1C, renin-dependent model of hypertension) or after a high salt diet. Under these conditions, however, Cx40-/- mice showed an altered production and release of renin. The renin mRNA ratio between the clipped and the non-clipped kidney was lower in the knockout than in the WT 2K1C mice. This indicates that the response to a change in blood pressure was altered. The RSC of the Cx40-/- mice did not have a compensatory increase in the levels of either Cx43 or Cx37. Our data show that renin secretion is dependent on Cx40 and suggest the Cx40-/- mice may be a genetic model of renin-dependent hypertension.
Membranous nephropathy is an autoimmune-mediated glomerulonephritis and a major cause of nephrotic syndrome. We studied the kinetics of adaptive immunity in the pathogenesis of membranous nephropathy in T1/T2 double transgenic mice (T1/T2 TG mice) that express human Thy1 protein under the control of interferon-gamma (INF-gamma) and mouse Thy1.1 protein under the control of interleukin (IL)-4. Nephropathy was induced by cationic bovine serum albumin. We found that splenocytes expressed a progressive Th2 response and a subsequent compensatory T-helper 1 (Th1) response, with a gradual augmentation of IL-4-producing Th2 cells and INF-gamma-producing Th1 cells. Increased Th2 marker expression was seen in peripheral blood and kidney cells, with the immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) antibody isotype predominant in the serum and kidneys. We found that CD8+ T cells contribute more to the augmented INF-gamma production than CD4+ T cells. Moreover, CD19+ B cells demonstrated a greater production of IL-4 than the CD4+ T cells. Cytokine-related gene expression in kidneys and splenocytes showed an upregulation of proinflammatory Th1 and Th2 cytokines. Th2 cells but not Th1 cells were significantly correlated with serum cholesterol and proteinuria. Our study shows that both peripheral and renal immune reactions are strongly polarized toward Th2-type immune responses during the course of membranous nephropathy. The T1/T2 mouse model may help decipher the kinetic changes of adaptive immunity in glomerulonephritis.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the possible hepatoprotective effects of neohesperidin dihydrochalcone (NHDC) on carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced acute oxidative injury in vivo and in vitro. In a mouse model, intraperitoneal injection of CCl4 resulted in a significant increase in serum aspartate transaminase (AST) and alanine transaminase (ALT) activities. Histopathological examination revealed severe hepatocyte necrosis and destruction of architecture in liver lesions, and immunohistochemical staining illustrated a remarkable enhancement of COX-2 and iNOS expression. The levels of hepatic antioxidant, such as, catalase (CAT), total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GP-X) and glutathione (GSH) were decreased, compared to the control group. However, pretreatment of NHDC for six consecutive days significantly ameliorated these changes. Moreover, Western blotting assay indicated pretreatment with NHDC also down-regulated CCl4-induced protein expressions of NF-κB, IL-6, caspase 3 and caspase 8. In HepG2 cell model, CCl4-treatment caused significant decrease in cell viability, antioxidant activities and GSH level, increase in intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) level. Interestingly, pretreatment of NHDC effectively relieved CCl4-induced oxidative damage in a dose-dependent manner. In conclusion, NHDC appeared to possess promising anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory capacities, it is possible to be used as a hepatoprotective agent.
Seventy parkinsonian patients were treated continuously with levodopa for five years. During the first year, sixty-three patients (90 per cent) improved. After five years, however, only thirty-seven patients remained improved while thirty-three patients (48 per cent) experienced progressive disease. Complications of treatment, albeit nonfatal, increased in frequency during the five-year interval. The reason for early improvement and subsequent deterioration of parkinsonian symptoms and signs in spite of levodopa therapy remains unexplained. It suggests that Parkinson's disease may not be simply a striatal dopamine deficiency syndrome and that treatment with levodopa is more than replacement therapy.
YM-393059 is a novel phosphodiesterase (PDE) 7A and PDE4 dual inhibitor that inhibits both Th1 [interleukin (IL)-2 and interferon-gamma] and Th2 (IL-4) cytokines in vitro [Yamamoto, S., Sugahara, S., Naito, R., Ichikawa, A., Ikeda, K., Yamada, T., Shimizu, Y., 2006. The effects of a novel phosphodiesterase 7A and -4 dual inhibitor, YM-393059, on T-cell-related cytokine production in vitro and in vivo. Eur. J. Pharmacol. 541, 106-114]. To characterize the pharmacological profile of YM-393059, its effects on several acute and chronic inflammation models were examined. In acute inflammation models, YM-393059 significantly suppressed the delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction to sheep red blood cells in mice with an ED(50) value of 17.1 mg/kg. YM-393059 failed to suppress paw edema in the carrageenin-induced edema model in rats. These pharmacological effects were similar to those of cyclosporine, a typical T-cell immunosuppressant. However, YM-393059, but not cyclosporine, significantly inhibited zymosan-induced neutrophil accumulation in mice with an ED(50) value of 25.7 mg/kg. In mouse toluene-2,4-diisocyanate-induced contact dermatitis, a chronic inflammation model, YM-393059 and cyclosporine significantly suppressed ear edema at doses of 30 and 20 mg/kg, respectively. In this model, YM-393059 also tended to reduce the serum immunoglobulin E antibody level, whereas cyclosporine dramatically potentiated it. These results suggest that YM-393059 inhibits both Th1- and Th2-cell-dependent reactions and also the function of neutrophils.
A case of warfarin-induced dermatitis in a 79 year-old patient with Protein S deficiency is described. Both total Protein S antigen and free Protein S were moderately reduced (about 50%). The skin lesion did not progress to frank necrosis and it was associated with elevated creatin phosphokinase (CPK) levels in plasma and with thrombosis of the anterior tibial vein localized to the area of dermatitis (probably warfarin-induced deep venous thrombosis). After warfarin withdrawal and beginning of heparin therapy, serum CPK rapidly normalized and the skin lesion improved.
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) and pseudoephedrine are sympathomimetics contained in over-the-counter cold preparations. A case-control study linked PPA use with hemorrhagic stroke in women. Twenty-two patients with stroke associated with use of these drugs are described.
In a consecutive stroke registry since 1988, 22 patients had stroke associated with over-the-counter sympathomimetics. Sympathomimetic dosage and type, time interval until stroke onset, and neuroimaging findings are described.
Ten male and 12 female patients were included. Intracerebral hemorrhage occurred in 17 patients, subarachnoid hemorrhage in 4, and ischemic stroke in 1. Stroke was associated with PPA use in 16 patients (dose 75 to 675 mg), with pseudoephedrine in 4 (dose 60 to 300 mg), and with others administered by the nasal route in 2 (oxymetazoline and phenylephrine). Stroke occurred after a single dose in 17 patients and after daily use during several days in 5. The interval between drug exposure and clinical onset varied from 30 minutes to 24 hours. Stroke occurred after recommended doses of PPA (50 to 75 mg) in 32% and pseudoephedrine (60 mg) in 50% of patients. Eight patients had acute hypertension at stroke onset. Cerebral angiography was normal in 8 cases and showed diffuse vasospasm or beading in 10 patients.
Stroke related to over-the-counter sympathomimetics was associated with acute hypertension and/or vasospasm or angiitis mechanisms, most related to the use of PPA; however, stroke also occurred with the use of other sympathomimetics, particularly pseudoephedrine. Although stroke complications occurred when doses were used that were higher than recommended doses, apparently there is also a stroke risk when these agents are taken properly.
The present study determined the effect of caffeine co-administration on the core body temperature response and long-term serotonin (5-HT) loss induced by methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; "Ecstasy") and its metabolite methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA; "Love") to rats. In group-housed animals, caffeine (10 mg/kg) enhanced the acute toxicity of MDMA (15 mg/kg) and MDA (7.5 mg/kg), resulting in an exaggerated hyperthermic response (+2 degrees C for 5 h following MDMA and +1.5 degrees C for 3 h following MDA) when compared to MDMA (+1 degree C for 3 h) and MDA (+1 degree C for 1 h) alone. Co-administration of caffeine with MDMA or MDA was also associated with increased lethality. To reduce the risk of lethality, doses of MDMA and MDA were reduced in further experiments and the animals were housed individually. To examine the effects of repeated administration, animals received MDMA (10 mg/kg) or MDA (5 mg/kg) with or without caffeine (10 mg/kg) twice daily for 4 consecutive days. MDMA and MDA alone induced hypothermia (fall of 1 to 2 degrees C) over the 4 treatment days. Co-administration of caffeine with MDMA or MDA resulted in hyperthermia (increase of up to 2.5 degrees C) following acute administration compared to animals treated with caffeine or MDMA/MDA alone. This hyperthermic response to caffeine and MDMA was not observed with repeated administration, unlike caffeine + MDA, where hyperthermia was obtained over the 4 day treatment period. In addition, 4 weeks after the last treatment, co-administration of caffeine with MDA (but not MDMA) induced a reduction in 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) concentrations in frontal cortex (to 61% and 58% of control, respectively), hippocampus (48% and 60%), striatum (79% and 64%) and amygdala (63% and 37%). However, when caffeine (10 mg/kg) and MDMA (2.5 mg/kg) were co-administered four times daily for 2 days to group-housed animals, both hyperthermia and hippocampal 5-HT loss were observed (reduced to 68% of control). Neither MDMA nor MDA alone induced a significant reduction in regional 5-HT or 5-HIAA concentrations following repeated administration. In conclusion, caffeine promotes the acute and long-term toxicity associated with MDMA and MDA. This is a serious drug interaction, which could have important acute and long-term health consequences for recreational drug users.
Scabies is a common infestation for patients of all ages throughout the world. One of the standard therapies for scabies is 1% lindane lotion. Lindane has been associated with neurotoxic reactions, specifically seizures. We describe a case of a middle-aged adult man with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection who was found to have typical scabies and was treated with a single topical application of lindane. Two hours after the application, the patient experienced a new-onset generalized seizure. We believe that the triad of HIV infection, medications that reduce seizure thresholds, and percutaneous absorption factors, in the aggregate, induced the seizure. We believe that lindane should not be prescribed for patients with HIV infection.
In this study, we investigated some factors contributing to renal regeneration after acute renal failure (ARF) induced by vitamin E (VE) deficiency and glutathione (GSH) depletion. Acute renal failure was induced by feeding rats a vitamin E-deficient diet for 6 weeks and then injecting buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), a glutathione-depleting agent. The level of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), a renotropic factor for regeneration in the kidney, showed a transient increase at 5 hr after the BSO treatment. Subsequently, renal ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity, a marker of G1 phase, and labeling index (LI) of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), a marker of DNA synthesis (S phase), reached peaks at 10 and 53 hr after the injection, respectively. Thus, it appears that the increase in ornithine decarboxylase activity and subsequent elevation in proliferating cell nuclear antigen labeling index following the increase in the hepatocyte growth factor level in the kidneys are closely related to the renal regenerative response after acute renal failure.
A single intravenous injection of daunomycin into rats induced severe glomerular injury with massive proteinuria. Mesangial thickening due to an increase in the matrix appeared as early as 5 weeks after injection. Focal and segmental glomerular tuft distortion developed by 10 weeks associated with a progressive mesangial change, which was accompanied by detachments of endothelial cells and podocytes from the glomerular basement membrane (GBM) resulting in obliteration of the affected tufts. After 20 weeks, the lesion ultimately progressed to cause diffuse and global glomerular obliteration. Scattered glomeruli also showed frank shrinkage with a mild obliterative change. By observing a number of isolated glomeruli in scanning electron microscopy, it was revealed that podocyte alterations were variable from case to case and foot processes remained discrete in some cases until 10 weeks, despite the presence of marked proteinuria. Anionic sites distributed throughout the GBM and on the surface of podocytes were usually preserved in proteinuric rats as far as evaluated by ruthenium red and colloidal iron stainings. Our results indicate that loss of foot processes and of glomerular anionic sites are not causative factors but consequences of proteinuria.
Executive functioning impairments have been demonstrated following consumption of drugs of abuse. These executive impairments could play an important role on the development of the addictive process and rehabilitation of substance abusers. Recent neuropsychological models of executive functioning assume a multicomponent organization of these processes, suggesting different functions could contribute differentially to performance on executive tasks. The aim of this study was to analyze the relationship between severity of consumption of different drugs and neuropsychological performance on tasks sensitive to impairment in the executive subprocesses of working memory, response inhibition, cognitive flexibility, and abstract reasoning. Instruments sensitive to impairment in these four components were administered to 38 polysubstance abusers along with a severity of drug consumption interview. Multiple regression analyses were used. Results showed a differential impact of severity of MDMA abuse on working memory and abstract reasoning indices, of cocaine severity on an inhibitory control index and of cannabis on a cognitive flexibility index. Metabolic reorganization of monoamine frontal-subcortical pathways after drug exposure are proposed as possible explanations for these impairments.
To review some of the types of drug-induced pulmonary disease reported in Australia.
Reports of pulmonary side effects made to the Australian Adverse Drug Reaction Advisory Committee between December 1972 and March 1991. Reports of drug-induced pulmonary disease from other countries are also reviewed.
Only reports involving large patient numbers are included in the review to limit the bias likely from limited patient numbers.
The incidence of adverse responses to a range of commonly used drugs from other countries is compared with reports to the Australian Adverse Drug Reaction Advisory Committee in the last 19 years.
Of adverse drug reactions reported in Australia in the last 19 years 7.7% were of a pulmonary side effect and 55% of these involved a syndrome of airway dysfunction. Bronchospasm and cough were the two most common symptoms of airway dysfunction and beta-blocking drugs and radio contrast media were the drug groups most commonly reported to cause them. These figures are similar to data reported from other countries. Some of the more commonly occurring types of drug-induced disease affecting either the airways or the lung interstices are reviewed.
Medical practitioners should maintain a high index of clinical suspicion that any unexplained pulmonary disease could be caused by a drug. Most of these reactions are reversible if the drug is withdrawn in time and if additional appropriate measures are taken as required.
To compare the effects of clopidogrel on ex vivo thrombogenesis with those on ADP-dependent platelet aggregation, and to compare single and double loading-dose regimens.
Step 1: Volunteers (n=12) received clopidogrel 75 mg/day for 8 days. ADP-induced platelet aggregation was measured in platelet-rich plasma (PRP). Thrombogenesis was measured in an ex vivo model. Clopidogrel produced rapid platelet inhibition, increasing up to day 5. Maximal intensity of platelet aggregation correlated with density of platelet thrombus, surface of collagen covered by platelets and thrombus cross-sectional surface (p<0.001). Step 2: On day 1, volunteers (n=60) randomly received clopidogrel 75 mg, a single 300-mg loading dose or two 300-mg loading doses separated by a 12-h interval. On day 2, all volunteers received clopidogrel 75 mg. Both loading dose regimens enhanced platelet inhibition at all time points (p<0.03 vs. clopidogrel 75 mg). After 3 h, the antiplatelet effect of a loading dose was substantial, and the mean decrease in dense thrombus surface was greater in the loading-dose groups than in the 75 mg group (p=0.041 for the single loading dose). Ex vivo, there were no significant differences between loading-dose groups.
Clopidogrel reduces arterial thrombus cohesion by an effect that correlates with inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation. A single 300-mg loading dose provides a rapid onset of such an antithrombotic effect, which was more significant at 24 h with the double loading dose.
Many structurally unrelated nonmutagenic peroxisome proliferators induce altered areas, neoplastic nodules, and hepatocellular carcinomas in rats. Unlike the lesions induced by genotoxic hepatocarcinogens, these lesions do not stain positively for the phenotypic markers gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) and glutathione-S-transferase P (GST-P). To ascertain whether the absence of immunocytochemically detectable GST-P and GGT proteins in peroxisome proliferator-induced neoplastic lesions is due to the absence of specific mRNAs, we analyzed the total RNA isolated from hepatocellular carcinomas induced by three different peroxisome proliferators (ciprofibrate, Wy-14643, and BR-931) and the genotoxic carcinogens, 2-acetylaminofluorene and aflatoxin B1 (AFB), for the presence of GST-P, GGT, and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) mRNAs. Northern and dot blot analysis of total RNA isolated from liver tumors induced by three different peroxisome proliferators revealed no detectable GST-P, GGT, and AFP mRNAs. GST-P mRNA was also not detected in a transplantable hepatocellular carcinoma established from a liver tumor induced by ciprofibrate. In contrast, GST-P mRNA levels were high in primary liver tumors induced by both 2-acetylaminofluorene and AFB and the two transplantable hepatocellular carcinomas established from such tumors. By immunoblot method, GST-P protein was found to be abundant in both primary and transplantable liver tumors induced by genotoxic carcinogens but not in those derived from peroxisome proliferator treatment. The GGT and AFP mRNAs were also not found in all 18 liver tumors induced by peroxisome proliferators that were analyzed and also in the ciprofibrate-derived transplantable liver tumor. The expression of GGT and AFP genes in liver tumors induced by 2-acetylaminofluorene and AFB was variable. These studies with peroxisome proliferators show that the GST-P and GGT gene derepression is not essential for the hepatocarcinogenesis or successful tumor transplantation. Further characterization of the molecular basis for the differential expression, particularly of the GST-P gene in liver tumors, may help identification of the critical event(s) in hepatocarcinogenesis by genotoxic carcinogens and nongenotoxic peroxisome proliferators.
A coagulation disorder was seen after penicillin-G administration (10 million units/day) in uraemic patients and after high-dose penicillin G (40 million units/day) in patients with a normal glomerular filtration-rate (5 patients after cardiac surgery). This disorder was characterised by: prolongation of bleeding-time, appearing immediately after penicillin-G administration and persisting until 4 days after withdrawal of therapy; disturbance of collagen-induced and ristocetin-induced platelet aggregation; increase of antithrombin-III activity; and inhibition of factor-xa activity. The inhibition of factor-xa activity corresponded to that seen after low-dose-heparin prophylaxis. The clinically latent coagulation disorder, when super-imposed upon pre-existing coagulation abnormalities (uraemia, treatment with anti-coagulants) may cause severe bleeding, as observed in 1 patient with acute renal failure on haemodialysis.
In bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), alveolar septae are thickened with collagen and α-smooth muscle actin, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β-positive myofibroblasts. Periostin, a secreted extracellular matrix protein, is involved in TGF-β-mediated fibrosis and myofibroblast differentiation. We hypothesized that periostin expression is required for hypoalveolarization and interstitial fibrosis in hyperoxia-exposed neonatal mice, an animal model for this disease. We also examined periostin expression in neonatal lung mesenchymal stromal cells and lung tissue of hyperoxia-exposed neonatal mice and human infants with BPD. Two-to-three day-old wild-type and periostin null mice were exposed to air or 75% oxygen for 14 days. Mesenchymal stromal cells were isolated from tracheal aspirates of premature infants. Hyperoxic exposure of neonatal mice increased alveolar wall periostin expression, particularly in areas of interstitial thickening. Periostin co-localized with α-smooth muscle actin, suggesting synthesis by myofibroblasts. A similar pattern was found in lung sections of infants dying of BPD. Unlike wild-type mice, hyperoxia-exposed periostin null mice did not show larger air spaces or α-smooth muscle-positive myofibroblasts. Compared to hyperoxia-exposed wild-type mice, hyperoxia-exposed periostin null mice also showed reduced lung mRNA expression of α-smooth muscle actin, elastin, CXCL1, CXCL2 and CCL4. TGF-β treatment increased mesenchymal stromal cell periostin expression, and periostin treatment increased TGF-β-mediated DNA synthesis and myofibroblast differentiation. We conclude that periostin expression is increased in the lungs of hyperoxia-exposed neonatal mice and infants with BPD, and is required for hyperoxia-induced hypoalveolarization and interstitial fibrosis.
Plasma and total body potassium have been measured in 151 patients with chronic heart-disease, 83 of whom were taking diuretics and potassium supplements. After allowance for age and body-size, the deficit in total body-potassium was only 3-5% (100-150 mmol) in the diuretic group. 13 of the 83 patients taking diuretic had hypokalaemia (less than 3-5 mmol/1) but the potassium deficit was no greater than in the patients with normal plasma-potassium. There was no relation between the dose of potassium supplements and either the plasma-potassium or the total body-potasium. It is suggested that potassium depletion is not a major problem in patients with heart-failure treated with diuretics. The dose of potassium supplements should therefore be determined entirely by the plasma-potassium.
The fungicide mancozeb has been suspected of causing thyroid cancer and neural tube defects. The aim of the study was to investigate associations of indicators of mancozeb exposure with thyroid cancer and neural tube defects in farmers' families.
National registers in Norway, identifying 105 403 female and 131 243 male farmers, born in 1925-1971, and their 300 805 children available for analyses, born in 1952-1991, were cross-linked with national agricultural censuses, 1969-1989, and the population register. Neural tube defects (ICD-8 740-742) at birth among the 102 703 children conceived between May 1973 and April 1991 were identified in the medical birth register. Likewise thyroid cancer (ICD-7 194) was identified in the cancer register through 2000. Data on farm production and fungal forecasts (humid and temperate weather conditions) in 1973-1990, obtained from agricultural censuses and meteorological measurement stations, respectively, served as the mancozeb exposure indicators. The adjusted rate ratio or prevalence ratio (PR) estimates with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) were computed in a Poisson regression analysis.
Neural tube defects (131 cases, prevalence 12.8/10 000 births) was moderately associated with potato cultivation (PR 1.6, 95% CI 1.1-2.3) and paternal work of > 500 hours/year (PR 1.6, 95% CI 1.1-2.5). Altogether 319 thyroid cancer cases were identified: 141 in female farmers (incidence 10.2/100 000 person-years), 79 in male farmers (incidence 3.2/100 000 person-years), and 99 in offspring (female and male incidence 3.4 and 0.6/100 000 person-years, respectively). Mancozeb exposure was not associated with thyroid cancer.
A moderate association seems to exist between mancozeb exposure and neural tube defects, but not between mancozeb exposure and thyroid cancer.
Gemcitabine, a cytidine nucleoside analogue, has schedule-dependent antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo. Gemcitabine also has dose- and time-dependent radiosensitization properties in vitro. Thus it may have therapeutic application in combination with radiation. The aims of this study were to investigate whether gemcitabine could enhance radiation-induced tumor regrowth delay in a human squamous carcinoma (FaDu) xenograft in nude mice and to examine the effect of gemcitabine on radiation-induced apoptosis in in vivo tumors. Radiation was given locally to the tumors twice daily in 2 Gy fractions over 2 weeks for 5 days/week. Significant regrowth delay enhancement was observed which was dependent on gemcitabine schedule. Effective schedules using maximum tolerated gemcitabine doses were twice weekly and once weekly, but not daily. Significant toxicity occurred with radiation plus twice weekly gemcitabine, but enhancement was seen using gemcitabine doses well below the maximum tolerated dose. Both gemcitabine and radiation led to apoptotic cell death, but this was not increased when both treatments were combined. These results indicate that gemcitabine may be of therapeutic value as a radiation enhancer in the treatment of human cancers. Preliminary studies suggest that increased apoptotic cell death is not a mechanism leading to this enhancement.
A comparative kinetic study of antitumor activity of seven alkyl derivatives of nitrosourea in the process of ascites leucosis L 1210 was undertaken. The efficacy was estimated on the basis of determining the coefficient of inhibition chi and the increase of an average survival of treated mice. The tumor was found to be mostly sensitive to nitroso derivatives containing chloroethyl groups--1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, 1-(2-chloroethyl)-(3-cyclohexil)-1-nitrosourea, 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-(4-methylcyclohexil)-1-nitrosourea. 1-nitroso-1-methylbiuret and 1-nitroso-1-methylurea proved to be highly effective too, while 1,3-dimethyl-1-nitrosourea and 1,3-diethyl-1-nitrosourea were found to be insignificantly effective.
The emerging concept of opioid peptides as a new class of chemical messengers of the neuroimmune axis and the presence of a number of immunological abnormalities in infantile autism prompted us to correlate biological (hormonal and immunological) determinations and behavioural performances during treatment with the potent opiate antagonist, naltrexone (NAL). Twelve autistic patients ranging from 7 to 15 years, diagnosed according to DSM-III-R, entered a double-blind crossover study with NAL at the doses of 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 mg/kg every 48 hours. The behavioural evaluation was conducted using the specific BSE and CARS rating scales NAL treatment produced a significant reduction of the autistic symptomatology in seven ("responders") out of 12 children. The behavioural improvement was accompanied by alterations in the distribution of the major lymphocyte subsets, with a significant increase of the T-helper-inducers (CD4+CD8-) and a significant reduction of the T-cytotoxic-suppressor (CD4-CD8+) resulting in a normalization of the CD4/CD8 ratio. Changes in natural killer cells and activity were inversely related to plasma beta-endorphin levels. It is suggested that the mechanisms underlying opioid-immune interactions are altered in this population of autistic children and that an immunological screening may have prognostic value for the pharmacological therapy with opiate antagonists.
The cells with nuclear DNA fragmentation related to apoptosis were detected by TUNEL technique in the seminiferous epithelium of control rats and of rats with experimental hyperprolactinemia induced by metoclopramide. The percentage of convoluted tubules with apoptotic cells and the number of apoptotic cells (predominantly spermatogonia and spermatocytes) was increased in the experimental group. The results indicated stage-specific germ cell apoptosis. In the experimental group, apoptotic cells were most evident at early (I-IV), middle (VII-VIII) and late (XII-XIV) stages of the seminiferous epithelium cycle, as revealed by light and electron microscopy. We suggest that a decreased concentration of testosterone and an increased concentration of prolactin could disturb spermatogenesis and contribute to the intensive apoptosis of germ cells in rats with hyperprolactinemia. Sertoli cells which have receptors for testosterone and prolactin and play an important role in spermatogenesis and in the initiation of apoptosis in seminiferous epithelium, could mediate such an influence of both hormones.
The hemodynamic effects of two cyanide antidotes, hydroxocobalamin and cobalt edetate were compared.
This experimental study was performed in chronically instrumented conscious dogs and at equipotent cyanide antidotal doses (hydroxocobalamin 70 mg.kg-1; cobalt edetate 10.5 mg.kg-1).
Peak plasma cobalt concentrations did not differ in the two groups (412 +/- 183 vs 400 +/- 160 mumol.l-1). Hydroxocobalamin induced a slight increase in mean arterial pressure (+17 +/- 9%, p < 0.05) and systemic resistance (+19 +/- 15%, p < 0.05). In contrast, cobalt edetate induced an increase in heart rate (+78 +/- 33%, p < 0.05), in cardiac output (+63 +/- 39%, p < 0.05), and in maximum rise of left ventricular pressure (+33 +/- 15%, p < 0.05), did not modify mean arterial pressure, and decreased systemic resistance (-36 +/- 15%, p < 0.05). These hemodynamic effects were associated with an increase in plasma catecholamine concentrations (epinephrine: 2524 +/- 3025 vs. 58 +/- 37 pg.ml-1, p < 0.05; norepinephrine: 1106 +/- 609 vs. 343 +/- 146 pg.ml-1, p < 0.05), which in contrast remained unchanged after hydroxocobalamin administration. Cobalt edetate also induced an increase in blood glucose concentrations (9.9 +/- 1.9 vs. 6.1 +/- 1.2 mmol.l-1, p < 0.05) and a moderate metabolic acidosis, whereas hydroxocobalamin did not. After adrenergic (alpha 1, beta) and cholinergic receptor blockade, cobalt edetate did not modify heart rate and various indices of cardiac function, suggesting that it has no direct cardiac effects.
Considering its lack of hemodynamically relevant effects, these results indicate that hydroxocobalamin is potentially a safer cyanide antidote than cobalt edetate.
