The effect of berberine (BER) on scopolamine (SCOP)-induced amnesia was investigated in a step-through passive avoidance task in rats. It was observed that BER at the doses of 0.1 and 0.5 g/kg after 7-day or 14-day administration significantly improved SCOP-induced amnesia. The anti-amnesic effect of BER after 14-day administration on the SCOP-induced amnesia was significantly augmented by physostigmine or neostigmine, and completely reversed by scopolamine N-methylbromide. These results suggest that the antiamnesic effect of BER after 14-day administration may be related to the increase in the peripheral and central cholinergic neuronal system activity.
Two infants' death associated with paracervical anesthesia are reported. In both cases a severe fetal bradycardia which developed 5 and 10 minutes, respectively, after paracervical injection of 10 ml of 0.5% Bupivacain, was the reason for Caesarean section. The clinical signs of the infants were similar: low Apgar score, primary apnea, grey colour, flaccidity, no reactions; after a few hours, however, general muscular hypertonus, and repeated attacks of tonic seizures. Accidental injection of Bupivacain into the fetus cannot be excluded in both cases. -- The fetal risks through paracervical anesthesia are being reviewed.
As observed in tobacco-associated carcinogenesis, genetic factors such as the polymorphic metabolic/oxidative enzyme myeloperoxidase (MPO) could modulate individual susceptibility to asbestos-associated carcinogenesis.
RFLP-PCR analysis identified the MPO genotypes in 375 Caucasian lung cancer cases and 378 matched controls. An epidemiological interview elicited detailed information regarding smoking history and occupational history and exposures.
Asbestos exposure was associated with a significantly elevated risk estimate (OR = 1.45; 95% CI 1.04-2.02). On stratified analysis, we found the MPO genotypes modified the effect of asbestos exposure on lung cancer risk. Specifically, G/G carriers who were exposed to asbestos had an odds ratio (OR) of 1.72 (95% CI; 1.09-2.66), while A-allele carriers (G/A + A/A) exposed to asbestos exhibited a reduced OR of 0.89 (95% CI; 0.56-1.44). The OR was further reduced to 0.73 (0.49-1.06) for A-allele carriers not exposed to asbestos. A similar trend was observed for the joint effects between the MPO genotypes and pack-years smoking. Next, all three risk factors (MPO genotypes, asbestos exposure, and smoking) were analyzed simultaneously for joint effects. Heavy smokers with the G/G genotype and a history of asbestos exposure demonstrated a statistically significant elevated risk estimate (OR = 2.19; 95% CI 1.16-4.11), while the A-allele carriers with the same exposure profile were at a lower risk for lung cancer (OR = 1.18; 95% CI 0.58-2.38). The A-allele genotypes demonstrated similar protective effects for the other three exposure profiles.
For a similar level of exposure to established carcinogens, individuals with the MPO A-allele genotypes appear to have a reduced risk of lung cancer.
Conradi-Hünermann-Happle syndrome, or X-linked dominant chondrodysplasia punctata, is a rare genetic disorder characterized by skeletal dysplasia, stippled epiphyses, cataracts, transient ichthyosis and atrophic residua in a mosaic pattern. Mutations in the gene encoding the emopamil-binding protein have been identified as an underlying cause. A 5-year-old girl presented for evaluation of ill-defined patches of cicatricial alopecia. In addition, subtle follicular atrophoderma, esotropia, craniofacial asymmetry and short stature were noted. Her history revealed widespread scaly erythema and eye surgery for congenital cataract in the first months of life. Diagnosis of Conradi-Hünermann-Happle syndrome was confirmed by plasma sterol analysis showing markedly elevated levels of 8(9)-cholestenol and 8-dehydrocholesterol and by detection of a missense mutation (c.307G>A; p.E103K) in the emopamil-binding protein gene. We suggest that plasma sterol analysis is a reliable method of establishing the diagnosis of Conradi-Hünermann-Happle syndrome, even in patients with less striking phenotypical changes beyond infancy.
Methotrexate (MTX) is currently under study for use in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. One complication of MTX is hepatotoxicity. Although liver function tests may be abnormal with its use, in this setting they do not correlate well with the development of hepatic fibrosis. Periodic liver biopsy is required to monitor for the hepatotoxic changes secondary to MTX. We describe and discuss the case of a 17-year-old woman who developed evidence of hepatic fibrosis after 3 years of MTX therapy.
Converging evidence points to a pivotal role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in neuronal protection and a lack of its activity in neurodegenerative disorders. To investigate this possible association, we screened the VEGF gene promoter for various well-known single-nucleotide polymorphisms in a series of 249 consecutively recruited Italian patients with sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). Genetic analysis indicated different distributions of two single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the AD population compared with healthy control subjects. In particular, the frequencies of -2578A/A and -1198C/T genotypes were significantly greater in AD patients than in control subjects (23.7 vs 14.7% and 2.8 vs 0%, respectively). The -2578A/A genotype was associated with an increased risk for disease, independently of apolipoprotein E genotype. The risk was significantly increased with respect to various VEGF genotype combinations. In contrast, no difference in serum VEGF levels was detected comparing 96 patients and 49 control subjects. These findings suggest that polymorphisms within the promoter region of the VEGF gene confer greater risk for AD, probably by reducing its neuroprotective effect, and confirm the biological role of VEGF in neurodegenerative processes.
DYX1C1 has been associated with dyslexia and neuronal migration in the developing neocortex. Unexpectedly, we found that deleting exons 2-4 of Dyx1c1 in mice caused a phenotype resembling primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD), a disorder characterized by chronic airway disease, laterality defects and male infertility. This phenotype was confirmed independently in mice with a Dyx1c1 c.T2A start-codon mutation recovered from an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) mutagenesis screen. Morpholinos targeting dyx1c1 in zebrafish also caused laterality and ciliary motility defects. In humans, we identified recessive loss-of-function DYX1C1 mutations in 12 individuals with PCD. Ultrastructural and immunofluorescence analyses of DYX1C1-mutant motile cilia in mice and humans showed disruptions of outer and inner dynein arms (ODAs and IDAs, respectively). DYX1C1 localizes to the cytoplasm of respiratory epithelial cells, its interactome is enriched for molecular chaperones, and it interacts with the cytoplasmic ODA and IDA assembly factor DNAAF2 (KTU). Thus, we propose that DYX1C1 is a newly identified dynein axonemal assembly factor (DNAAF4).
Calcitriol has long been used as the main therapy in renal osteodystrophy, but the efficacy of the oral route is not always as high as expected.
To asses the safety and efficacy of intraperitoneal calcitriol in infants undergoing peritoneal dialysis (PD).
PD patients on oral calcitriol therapy, with serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) >1000 pg/mL during the previous 3 months of treatment, were switched to intraperitoneal calcitriol therapy, 1 microg twice per week. Dose was increased to 1 microg three times per week if PTH remained >1000 pg/mL, and was later readjusted. Target PTH was 200-300 pg/mL according DOQI guidelines.
All results are expressed as mean +/- SE. The Wilcoxon signed rank test was used to evaluate differences in measurements for each pair of values. The confidence interval for differences between population medians was 96.9%. A p value less than 0.05 was considered significant.
Six male children, mean age 17 +/- 3.86 months, completed a 12-month follow-up. Mean pretreatment PTH was 1654 +/- 209 pg/mL. Mean PTH at months 0, 3, 6, 9, and 12 was 1448 +/- 439*, 1277 +/- 723, 910 +/- 704, 582 +/- 282*, and 465 +/- 224* pg/mL, respectively (*p < 0.05). Twelve hypercalcemic and 10 hyperphosphatemic episodes were successfully treated.
Infants on PD who fail to respond to oral calcitriol therapy can be safely treated with intraperitoneal administration of active vitamin D.
Cocaine and multiple drug abuse among young adults has spawned research interest in fetal exposure and the sequela of that exposure during the formative developmental years. Previous study of the language development of exposed children has not specifically addressed phonological acquisition. In the present study, the speech of 25 children prenatally exposed to cocaine and multiple drugs was analyzed and compared to that of 25 children who were not prenatally exposed to determine if differences were evident in their phonological patterns. The children ranged in age from 22 months to 51 months. The number and type of phonological processes produced, number of utterances needed to produce a 50-word sample, number of unintelligible words produced, and Home Observation for Measurement of the Environment (HOME) scores were recorded and analyzed. The use of cocaine and multiple drugs during pregnancy was associated with an increase in the use of phonological processes.
Brugada syndrome is a rare cardiac arrhythmia disorder, causally related to SCN5A mutations in around 20% of cases. Through a genome-wide association study of 312 individuals with Brugada syndrome and 1,115 controls, we detected 2 significant association signals at the SCN10A locus (rs10428132) and near the HEY2 gene (rs9388451). Independent replication confirmed both signals (meta-analyses: rs10428132, P = 1.0 × 10(-68); rs9388451, P = 5.1 × 10(-17)) and identified one additional signal in SCN5A (at 3p21; rs11708996, P = 1.0 × 10(-14)). The cumulative effect of the three loci on disease susceptibility was unexpectedly large (Ptrend = 6.1 × 10(-81)). The association signals at SCN5A-SCN10A demonstrate that genetic polymorphisms modulating cardiac conduction can also influence susceptibility to cardiac arrhythmia. The implication of association with HEY2, supported by new evidence that Hey2 regulates cardiac electrical activity, shows that Brugada syndrome may originate from altered transcriptional programming during cardiac development. Altogether, our findings indicate that common genetic variation can have a strong impact on the predisposition to rare diseases.
To find out whether chloroquine by itself can induce a manic syndrome and to study the course of illness in such cases.
All cases of manic episodes occurring in clear consciousness were scrutinized and those occurring after the use of chloroquine were included in the study. One case seen by one of the authors in the community was included. The cases were followed for variable periods.
Six cases of chloroquine induced mania were identified of which two subtypes could be delineated with heterogeneous course, variable severity and difference in susceptibility of recurrence with rechallenge.
It is concluded that chloroquine can cause secondary mania and it should be used cautiously in the predisposed.
A patient with Crohn's disease receiving vitamin D and calcium had normal serum calcium levels when serum magnesium was low. Hypercalcaemia was precipitated when supplemental magnesium was given. The reason why serum calcium was initially normal is probably related to the effect of magnesium deficiency in reducing serum calcium level.
Registration of new plant protection products (e.g., herbicide, insecticide, or fungicide) requires comprehensive mammalian toxicity evaluation including carcinogenicity studies in two species. The outcome of the carcinogenicity testing has a significant bearing on the overall human health risk assessment of the substance and, consequently, approved uses for different crops across geographies. In order to understand the relevance of a specific tumor finding to human health, a systematic, transparent, and hypothesis-driven mode of action (MoA) investigation is, appropriately, an expectation by the regulatory agencies. Here, we describe a novel approach of prospectively generating the MoA data by implementing additional end points to the standard guideline toxicity studies with sulfoxaflor, a molecule in development. This proactive MoA approach results in a more robust integration of molecular with apical end points while minimizing animal use. Sulfoxaflor, a molecule targeting sap-feeding insects, induced liver effects (increased liver weight due to hepatocellular hypertrophy) in an initial palatability probe study for selecting doses for subsequent repeat-dose dietary studies. This finding triggered the inclusion of dose-response investigations of the potential key events for rodent liver carcinogenesis, concurrent with the hazard assessment studies. As predicted, sulfoxaflor induced liver tumors in rats and mice in the bioassays. The MoA data available by the time of the carcinogenicity finding supported the conclusion that the carcinogenic potential of sulfoxaflor was due to CAR/PXR nuclear receptor activation with subsequent hepatocellular proliferation. This MoA was not considered to be relevant to humans as sulfoxaflor is unlikely to induce hepatocellular proliferation in humans and therefore would not be a human liver carcinogen.
Dichlorvos was applied as spray at 1 and 2% concentrations daily for a period of 28 and 21 consecutive days, respectively to buffalo calves. Animals sprayed with 1% dichlorvos displayed mild to moderate clinical signs of toxicosis during the 4th week of exposure. The higher concentration (2%) produced clinical signs of poisoning after 12-16 applications, and was lethal to one of three animals. Daily spraying of dichlorvos at both concentrations inactivated erythrocyte cholinesterase (ChE) (15-21%), plasma ChE (17-20%) and serum carboxylesterase (5-10%) within 3 days. The extent of inhibition of esterases was increased with repeated treatment and maximal inhibition of erythrocyte ChE (80-89%), plasma ChE (81-91%) and serum carboxylesterase (33-54%) with 1 and 2% concentrations was observed on the 28th and 21st day after start of application, respectively. In surviving animals, blood esterases remained inactivated to the extent of 14-65% on the 14th day after the termination of treatment. Dichlorvos at both concentrations significantly (P less than 0.01) elevated the serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, acid phosphatase and alkaline phosphatase. The activities of these enzymes in surviving animals recovered to control values within 14 days after the final application of dichlorvos.
Recently, a few genetic abnormalities were identified in congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS or Ondine's curse). CCHS is often associated with other neurocristopathies, especially with Hirschsprung's disease (HSCR). Mutations of the genes involved in the receptor tyrosine kinase RET (REarranged during Transfection) (RET)-glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and/or endothelin 3 (EDN3)-endothelin receptor-B (EDNRB) signaling pathway have been found in some of HSCR patients. In this study, we analyzed candidates for HSCR, namely the RET, GDNF, EDN3 and EDNRB genes in three isolated CCHS patients to confirm the hypothesis that some CCHS patients have a common genetic abnormality with patients having HSCR or other neurocristopathies. We found a novel R114H mutation of the RET gene in one patient. The R114H mutation is unlikely to be a polymorphism and appears to be associated with CCHS. In addition, we also examined the HOX11L2 (RNX) gene, for which knock-out mice showed CCHS-like syndrome in these isolated CCHS patients and did not detected any mutation. Further cases should be analyzed for more candidates to clarify the pathophysiology of CCHS.
Lung cancer is considered the number one killer among all cancers. Recent observations have altered the treatment paradigm for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The discovery of activating mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor and anaplastic lymphoma kinase positivity has made personalized treatment for NSCLC more feasible. Both erlotinib and crizotinib have been shown to be effective and safe for subgroup populations, and now personalized treatment for nonsquamous NSCLC has progressed even further. New tyrosine kinase inhibitors are being tested, resistant mutations are being studied, and new detection systems are being incorporated; all these developments will make the detection and treatment of the deadliest cancer more affordable, practical, and effective. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network has already incorporated these new developments into their guidelines for advanced nonsquamous NSCLC.
We evaluated the behavior of 38 children with standard-risk and high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia who received corticosteroids as part of their antileukemia chemotherapy. Each patient was assessed on two occasions: 16 weeks following remission and 1 year thereafter. Parent reports on emotional lability, attention span/hyperactivity, sleep disturbance, listlessness, peer relations, and depressed mood were obtained for 4 consecutive weeks: week before, week during, and 2 weeks after treatment administration. At the 16 week evaluation, standard-risk (N = 17) and high-risk (N = 21) treatment differed by steroid dose and systemic chemotherapy, while at the 1 year testing, treatment differed only by steroid dose (prednisone 40 mg/m2 vs. 120 mg/m2). Statistically significant changes in all measures were observed during treatment as compared with before and after treatment for both risk groups and assessment times. High-risk patients exhibited greater behavioral effects than standard-risk patients only for emotional lability, listlessness, and depressed mood at the 16 week testing, when both steroid dose and chemotherapy differed. Girls had slightly greater behavioral effects than boys, while no influence of age was observed. At the doses tested, steroid dose per se does not appear to be the primary variable affecting behavioral changes.
Human paraoxonase-1 (HuPON1) has been proposed as a catalytic bioscavenger of organophosphorus (OP) pesticides and nerve agents. We assessed the potential of this enzyme to protect against OP poisoning using two different paradigms. First, recombinant HuPON1 purified from cabbage loopers (iPON1; Trichoplusia ni) was administered to guinea pigs, followed by exposure to at least 2 times the median lethal dose (LD(50)) of the OP nerve agents tabun (GA), sarin (GB), soman (GD), and cyclosarin (GF), or chlorpyrifos oxon, the toxic metabolite of the OP pesticide chlorpyrifos. In the second model, mice were infected with an adenovirus that induced expression of HuPON1 and then exposed to sequential doses of GD, VX, or (as reported previously) diazoxon, the toxic metabolite of the OP pesticide diazinon. In both animal models, the exogenously added HuPON1 protected animals against otherwise lethal doses of the OP pesticides but not against the nerve agents. Together, the results support prior modeling and in vitro activity data which suggest that wild-type HuPON1 does not have sufficient catalytic activity to provide in vivo protection against nerve agents.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is a common life-threatening birth defect. Recessive mutations in the FRAS1-related extracellular matrix 1 (FREM1) gene have been shown to cause bifid nose with or without anorectal and renal anomalies (BNAR) syndrome and Manitoba oculotrichoanal (MOTA) syndrome, but have not been previously implicated in the development of CDH. We have identified a female child with an isolated left-sided posterolateral CDH covered by a membranous sac who had no features suggestive of BNAR or MOTA syndromes. This child carries a maternally-inherited ~86 kb FREM1 deletion that affects the expression of FREM1's full-length transcripts and a paternally-inherited splice site mutation that causes activation of a cryptic splice site, leading to a shift in the reading frame and premature termination of all forms of the FREM1 protein. This suggests that recessive FREM1 mutations can cause isolated CDH in humans. Further evidence for the role of FREM1 in the development of CDH comes from an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea -derived mouse strain, eyes2, which has a homozygous truncating mutation in Frem1. Frem1(eyes2) mice have eye defects, renal agenesis and develop retrosternal diaphragmatic hernias which are covered by a membranous sac. We confirmed that Frem1 is expressed in the anterior portion of the developing diaphragm and found that Frem1(eyes2) embryos had decreased levels of cell proliferation in their developing diaphragms when compared to wild-type embryos. We conclude that FREM1 plays a critical role in the development of the diaphragm and that FREM1 deficiency can cause CDH in both humans and mice.
Associations between self-report symptom profiles for nicotine withdrawal, personality (TPQ, EPQ-R), life-time history of psychopathology and smoking history were examined in data obtained from 553 female adult Australian twins (246 regular smokers), aged 32-48 years, who had participated in a telephone interview survey that included life-time assessments of smoking history, nicotine dependence and symptoms of withdrawal. Two hundred and two respondents were from high-risk pairs where either the respondent or the respondent's co-twin had reported a life-time history of alcohol dependence; 351 were from control pairs. Latent class analysis was used to identify subtypes ('classes') of smokers reporting similar withdrawal symptom profiles. Three major classes were identified which appeared to represent a continuum from mild to severe nicotine withdrawal. Smokers from the severe withdrawal class were best characterized by hands shaking and by the prominence of depressive features. There were marked increases in life-time alcohol dependence rates as a function of severity class. In contrast, significantly elevated rates of major depression, conduct disorder and anxiety disorder were observed only among smokers from the most severe withdrawal class. Neuroticism was the only personality factor strongly associated with the development of withdrawal symptoms.
Autosomal dominant brachydactyly with hypertension is the only form of monogenic hypertension which is not sodium dependent. The disease is characterized by brachydactyly type E, short stature, arterial hypertension and aberrant loop of posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) causing neurovascular conflict. So far the syndrome was described in one family in Turkey and two in Canada. We report a case of a 15-year-old boy who was admitted because of arterial hypertension 160/100 mmHg. He complained also of attacks of bilateral numbness of hands with deterioration of visual field. Examination revealed short stature (156 cm) and bone deformities of hands and feet consistent with brachydactyly type E. Ophthalmoscopy showed mild narrowing of retinal arteries. Serum electrolytes, blood gases, and renal function were normal. Renin activity and aldosterone concentrations were raised, and 24-h urinary excretion of catecholamines and urinary steroid profile were in normal range. Renal Doppler ultrasound was normal, but renal scintigraphy suggested vascular changes in the left kidney. Echocardiographic examination, besides mild left ventricular hypertrophy, was normal. Magnetic resonance angiography (angio-MR) revealed bilateral abnormal PICA loops and neurovascular conflict. Spiral angiotomography of renal arteries revealed narrow additional left renal artery. Both nonconsanguineous parents and younger brother were healthy, with normal height, without bone deformities, and had normal intracranial vessels. Amlodipine and metoprolol were given, and blood pressure lowered to 143/87. Adding rilmenidine gave no effect and enalapril was then added. It led to further improvement in blood pressure control. To our knowledge, this is the first pediatric description of a sporadic form of autosomal dominant brachydactyly with hypertension with abnormalities of brain and renal arteries.
1-Naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT), but not 2-naphthylisothiocyanate (BNIT), produces cholangiolitic hepatitis in rats after a single, oral administration. The mechanisms responsible for the disparate toxic outcomes for these closely related structural isomers are not fully understood. Recent reports suggest that ANIT-induced hepatotoxicity is dependent upon the formation and biliary excretion of a reversible glutathione-ANIT conjugate. To understand better the relationship between hepatic glutathione, secretion into bile and hepatotoxicity, the bile concentrations and hepatotoxicities of ANIT and BNIT were examined in rats with and without pretreatment with buthionine sulfoximine (BSO). ANIT (100 mg/kg, p.o.) caused a 3-fold elevation of plasma alanine aminotransferase activity (ALT), a 6-fold elevation of total plasma bilirubin, and a > 90% reduction in bile flow 24 hr after administration. BNIT, at this same dose and route of administration, did not alter significantly these markers of liver injury. Accumulation of ANIT and BNIT in bile occurred with the same temporal characteristics; however, BNIT accumulated to markedly larger concentrations (292 +/- 83 and 235 +/- 100 microM BNIT and 78 +/- 19 and 29 +/- 13 microM ANIT at 1 and 4 hr, respectively). The accumulation of ANIT and BNIT in bile was coincident with a > 2-fold elevation of reduced glutathione in bile. Pretreatment of rats with BSO decreased hepatic glutathione concentration and reduced the concentration of naphthylisothiocyanates in bile by 85%. Associated with this reduction was an attenuation of ANIT hepatotoxicity. Altogether, these findings indicate that both ANIT and BNIT accumulate in bile in a glutathione-dependent manner, yet they yield different hepatotoxic outcomes. Therefore, the disparity in hepatotoxicities observed with these isomers is not related to a difference in ability to enter bile. Other differences, such as in metabolism, chemical reactivity, conjugate stability and/or cytotoxic potential to bile duct epithelial cells may be more important determinants of hepatotoxicity.
Palpable purpura is a concerning clinical finding in pediatric patients and can have many causes, including infectious and autoimmune processes. A rare cause, drug-induced vasculitis, may result from the production of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCAs) in response to a medication. We report a girl with Turner syndrome and Graves' disease who presented with palpable purpuric lesions. The diagnosis of propylthiouracil (PTU)-associated vasculitis was made by observation of consistent clinical features, the detection of elevated ANA and ANCA in the blood, and the observed clinical resolution of symptoms following withdrawal of PTU. Subsequent treatment of persistent hyperthyroidism with radioablation did not result in an exacerbation of the vasculitis, a complication described in prior case reports.
To evaluate the impact of dietary exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) during the sensitive period of brain sexual differentiation, maternal Sprague-Dawley rats were fed three representative chemicals, methoxychlor (MXC; 24, 240, and 1200 ppm), genistein (GEN; 20, 200, and 1000 ppm), or diisononyl phthalate (DINP; 400, 4000, and 20,000 ppm), from gestational day 15 to postnatal day 10. Soy-free diet was used as a basal diet to eliminate possible estrogenic effects from the standard diet. Offspring were examined in terms of anogenital distances, prepubertal organ weights, onset of puberty, estrous cyclicity, and organ weights and histopathology of endocrine organs at adult stage (week 11) as well as the volumes of sexually dimorphic nucleus of preoptic area (SDN-POA). All chemicals caused signs of maternal toxicity at high doses. MXC, at 1200 ppm, facilitated and delayed the onset of puberty in females and males, respectively, females also showing endocrine disrupting effects thereafter, such as irregular estrous cyclicity and histopathological alterations in the reproductive tract and anterior pituitary. GEN, at all doses, reduced body weight (BW) at week 11, but did not affect endocrine parameters. Treatment with DINP at 20,000 ppm resulted in degeneration of meiotic spermatocytes and Sertoli cells in the testis and decrease of corpora lutea in the ovary at week 11, although changes remained minimal or slight. The SDN-POA volume remained unchanged with all three chemicals. The results demonstrated that perinatal dietary exposure to EDCs for a limited period causes endocrine disruption in offspring only at high doses.
A single intravenous injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) results in marked proteinuria and glomerular morphological changes that are similar to minimal change disease in humans. We examined the effect of hydroxyl radical scavengers and an iron chelator on PAN-induced proteinuria. PAN in a dose of 5 mg/100 g body wt significantly increased urinary protein by day 5 (saline: 15 +/- 2, N = 24: PAN: 63 +/- 17, N = 23, P less than 0.001); the proteinuria rapidly increased thereafter, reaching 216 +/- 34, N = 23 by day 7. Concurrent administration of hydroxyl radical scavengers dimethylthiourea, (DMTU 500 mg/kg followed by 125 mg/kg i.p. twice a day) and sodium benzoate (BENZ, 150 mg/kg followed by 125 mg/kg i.p. twice a day) starting the evening before PAN injection markedly reduced proteinuria throughout the course of the study (urinary protein, mg/24 hours on day 7, mean +/- SEM: PAN: 229 +/- 45, N = 15; PAN + DMTU: 30 +/- 5, N = 18; PAN + BENZ: 80 +/- 18, N = 16. Because of the participation of iron in biological systems to generate hydroxyl radical, we also examined the effect of deferoxamine (DFO, 30 mg/day), an iron chelator, on the PAN-induced proteinuria. Concurrent administration of DFO was also protective. In a second series of experiments, DMTU and DFO (administered as described above and then for two additional days after the PAN) provided marked protection even when they were stopped prior to the onset of proteinuria. The protective effects of two hydroxyl radical scavengers and iron chelator implicate an important role for hydroxyl radical in PAN-induced nephrotic syndrome.
Chloroquine (Hydroxychloroquine)-induced cardiomyopathy is a rare but potentially life-threatening condition. Cessation of the culprit drug, along with aggressive afterload reduction therapy, has been associated with halting of disease progress and even improvement in patients' clinical and histologic status. Echocardiography is a fundamental tool in the identification and assessment of patients with cardiomyopathy, with particular utility in the detailed assessment of biventricular systolic and diastolic function. It also provides an objective and non-invasive means of assessing treatment response. We present a case of a 51-year-old woman with hydroxychloroquine-induced restrictive cardiomyopathy and correlate clinical, echocardiographic and anatomic pathologic findings both at initial presentation and following treatment.
Eleven McLean Hospital (Belmont, Mass) depressed patients who experienced seizures while receiving maprotiline hydrochloride are presented, as are data on 87 cases reported to the manufacturer (Ciba-Geigy). Most seizures occurred at high dosages, sometimes after many weeks at a stable dose, but neither rapid dosage escalation nor high drug plasma levels seemed related to seizure occurrence. Our experience suggests that a long-acting metabolite might be responsible for seizures. Ten of the 11 McLean Hospital seizures occurred in patients receiving dosages outside of the since-revised current dosage guidelines, as did 60% of the seizures reported to the company. Data in this study suggest that reductions in maximum dosage of maprotiline prescribed after the initial six weeks of treatment could result in a further decrease in risk of seizures beyond that obtained from previous alterations in regimens.
To investigate the expression and activity of NAD(P)H quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) in human liver specimens obtained from patients with liver damage due to acetaminophen (APAP) overdose or primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC).
NQO1 activity was determined in cytosol from normal, APAP and PBC liver specimens. Western blot and immunohistochemical staining were used to determine patterns of NQO1 expression using a specific antibody against NQO1.
NQO1 protein was very low in normal human livers. In both APAP and PBC livers, there was strong induction of NQO1 protein levels on Western blot. Correspondingly, significant up-regulation of enzyme activity (16- and 22-fold, P< 0.05) was also observed in APAP and PBC livers, respectively. Immunohistochemical analysis highlighted injury-specific patterns of NQO1 staining in both APAP and PBC livers.
These data demonstrate that NQO1 protein and activity are markedly induced in human livers during both APAP overdose and PBC. Up-regulation of this cytoprotective enzyme may represent an adaptive stress response to limit further disease progression by detoxifying reactive species.
