To evaluate the effects of dihydropyridine calcium antagonists on the cerebral circulation in stroke patients. DESIGN OF STUDIES: Mean cerebral circulation parameters were studied in chronic stroke patients with hypertension and treated acutely or chronically (2 weeks) with nicardipine or nifedipine retard. The effects of nicardipine on local cerebral blood flow were also studied in patients with a subacute brain infarction.
Mean cerebral blood flow was significantly increased after a single oral administration of nicardipine but not after nifedipine retard. Both calcium antagonists reduced mean arterial pressure. Nifedipine retard acted mainly by reducing blood pressure and nicardipine mainly by reducing cerebrovascular resistance.
Dihydropyridines have a beneficial effect in the control of hypertension in stroke patients.
Norepinephrine (NE) uptake and NE receptor mechanisms play important modulating roles in the discriminative stimulus and stimulant effects of cocaine. The present study investigated the role of NE mechanisms in cocaine priming-induced reinstatement of extinguished drug seeking. Squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) were trained to stability under a second-order fixed interval, fixed ratio schedule of drug self-administration in which operant responding was maintained jointly by i.v. cocaine injections and presentations of a cocaine-paired stimulus. Drug seeking was then extinguished by replacing cocaine with vehicle and eliminating the cocaine-paired stimulus. In test sessions during which the cocaine-paired stimulus was reintroduced but only vehicle was available for self-administration, priming with cocaine, the dopamine transport inhibitor 1-[2-[bis-(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy]ethyl]-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine (GBR 12909), and the NE transport inhibitors nisoxetine and talsupram induced dose-dependent reinstatement of drug seeking. The maximum effect of the NE transport inhibitors was less than half that of cocaine. Both nisoxetine and talsupram augmented the priming effects of a low but not a high dose of cocaine. The priming effects of nisoxetine were blocked by the alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin, the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine, and the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol, but not by the dopamine receptor antagonist flupenthixol. The priming effects of cocaine were antagonized by clonidine and flupenthixol. Neither nisoxetine nor cocaine increased physiological (salivary cortisol) or behavioral (self-directed behaviors) markers of stress. These findings suggest that NE transporter inhibition and alpha2-adrenoceptor mechanisms play a significant role in cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug seeking that is not secondary to activation of brain stress pathways.
We examined the effect of albumin administration on L-tryptophan (Trp) levels in the serum and tissues of rats with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis. PNA-injected rats showed increased urinary protein and serum non-esterified fatty acids levels and decreased serum albumin level at 8 days after the injection. The nephrotic rats showed a decrease in total serum Trp level and increases in free serum Trp and liver and kidney Trp levels but no change in urinary Trp level. At 5 min after intravenous injection of bovine serum albumin, the nephrotic rats had serum albumin concentration similar to the level of non-nephrotic rats and showed a recovery of decreased total serum Trp with the reduction of increased free serum Trp and liver Trp.
Natural-killer-(NK)-cell activity and blood levels of interleukin 2 (IL-2), dehydro-epiandrosterone (DHEA), DHEA sulphate (DHEA-S) and cortisol were measured in 17 patients with major depression and 10 control subjects. Depression severity was evaluated using the Zung Self-rating Depression Scale. NK-cell activity and IL-2 levels were measured using a chromium-51 release test and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. Radio-immunoassays were used to measure serum cortisol, DHEA and DHEA-S. As would be expected, patients with major depression had a higher score on the Zung Self-rating Depression Scale than healthy controls. Compared with controls, NK-cell activity and levels of cortisol and DHEA were reduced in patients with major depression, whereas IL-2 levels were increased. No difference was observed in DHEA-S levels between patients and controls. A reduction in NK-cell activity and DHEA levels, and an increase in IL-2 levels appear to be associated with major depression. Whether these changes are the cause or the consequence of the depression remains to be determined.
There is no established systemic therapy for patients with stage IV melanoma refractory to prior systemic treatment. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is capable of inducing T-lymphocyte cytotoxicity against melanoma in vitro and in vivo. Famotidine may enhance the activity of T-cells further by allowing for increased IL-2 internalization by the IL-2 receptor on lymphocytes. Cyclophosphamide may decrease the immunosuppressive effects of regulatory T-cells. Daily short intravenous (i.v.) infusions (pulses) of IL-2 were used to treat 14 patients with metastatic melanoma, all of whom had experienced disease progression despite prior systemic therapy. The patients received 21.6 million IU/m(2) of pulse IL-2 i.v. for 15-30 minutes, preceded by 20 mg of famotidine i.v. (13) patients received 350 mg/m(2) of cyclophosphamide i.v. on day 1 (1 patient did not). Eight (8) patients were treated in an oncology inpatient unit while, most recently, 6 patients have received therapy on an outpatient basis. The cycles were repeated every 3 weeks until disease progression occurred. The patients included 10 males with a median age of 56 (range 31-87) with an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of -1 (range 0 - -1). Common metastatice sites included lymph nodes (13), lungs (8), liver (4), and subcutaneous (4). Prior systemic therapy included IL-2 (11), interferon (7), and chemotherapy (7). The median number of cycles the patients underwent was 3 with a range of 1-7. The most common toxic reactions were fever, rigors, nausea/emesis, hypomagnesemia, and hypophosphatemia. One complete response and four partial responses were observed (response rate, 36%; 95% confidence interval: 14%-64%). Responses occurred in the lungs, liver, lymph nodes, and subcutaneous sites. The median response duration was 3.4 months, with a median survival of 8.3 months for the entire group. Six (6) patients remain alive with a median survival of 10.3 months. Pulse IL-2 with famotidine and cyclophosphamide produced activity in previously treated patients with melanoma and may be given on an outpatient basis to selected individuals.
A longitudinal, base-to-apex myocardial perfusion gradient has been described in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and was attributed to diffuse coronary luminal narrowing. We asked whether an abnormal perfusion gradient also existed in patients without CAD but with coronary risk factors. We measured myocardial blood flow (MBF) with (13)N-ammonia and PET at rest and during hyperemia in patients with coronary risk factors but without CAD.
Regional MBF was measured in absolute units with (13)N-ammonia and PET at rest and during dipyridamole hyperemia in 36 patients with coronary risk factors (age, 55+/-10 years) and in 36 age-matched (age, 53+/-10 years) and in 28 young (age, 25+/-5 years) normal subjects. MBF was determined globally, for each of the 3 coronary territories, and in the mid and mid-to-apical sections of the left ventricle (LV). Myocardial perfusion on qualitative analysis was normal at rest and during hyperemia, and no flow defects were present. MBF in absolute units was similar in the 3 coronary territories. However, hyperemic MBFs in the mid-to-apical LV section were lower than in the mid LV section in the "at-risk" group (2.04+/-0.61 versus 1.71+/-0.40 mL. min(-1). g(-1); P<0.004) but not in the age-matched or in the young normal subjects.
The abnormal longitudinal, base-to-apex perfusion gradient observed during dipyridamole MBF suggests the presence of a functional and/or structural alteration of the coronary circulation associated with coronary risk factors, possibly reflecting developing coronary atherosclerosis or preclinical CAD.
31P-NMR spectroscopic studies were performed in vivo on brains of rats administered cocaine. Cocaine.HCl (1-5 mg/kg) administered systemically to lightly anesthetized rats resulted in significant and progressive deficits in whole brain intracellular free Mg ([Mg2+]i). Intracellular pH (pHi) also fell in a progressive manner but only after a significant fall in brain [Mg2+]i was noted. Both [Mg2+]i and pHi returned to normal in most rats. Brains of rats that exhibited stroke-like events, however, demonstrated continued intracellular acidosis associated with progressive loss of phosphocreatine and elevation of Pi up until death. These observations are consistent with the tenet that injection of cocaine can result in severe cerebral vasospasm, ischemia and rupture of cerebral blood vessels as a consequence of depletion of brain [Mg2+]i.
Using the excitotoxic animal model of Huntington's disease, two experimental treatments were evaluated. The first experiment explored the effect of MK801 (a systemically active anticonvulsant, and noncompetitive NMDA antagonist) pretreatment on quinolinic acid (QA)-induced striatal degeneration and behavioral deficits. MK801 prevented QA-induced neuropathological changes in the striatum and the anatomical protection was correlated with the absence of deficits in the cataleptic response to haloperidol. The second experiment tested the ability of three types of fetal grafts to reverse behavioral deficits induced by kainic acid (KA) lesion. Fetal (E15-16) striatal, cortical and tectal grafts were delivered into the KA-lesioned striatum one week or one month after lesion. Animals in this experiment were evaluated on a motor coordination task, haloperidol-induced catalepsy and amphetamine-induced locomotor activity. Striatal grafts attenuated the deficits induced by KA in all of the tasks observed, and no effect of time of grafting was detected. Tectal grafts had a partial beneficial effect, attenuating the decrease in the cataleptic response to haloperidol observed after KA lesions. No effect of time of grafting was detected for these grafts. In contrast, a clear effect of time of grafting was detected for the cortical grafts. Early cortical grafts reversed the exaggerated response to amphetamine observed after KA lesions whereas late cortical grafts resulted in sham-like scores on the catalepsy test. Histochemical analysis showed that most of the grafts survived, had acetylcholinesterase (AChE) positive fibers and cell bodies, and were metabolically active as indicated by cytochrome oxidase (CO) positive staining. It is suggested that striatal grafts may have restored to some extent the striatal GABAergic control over output structures, and that trophic factors play a role in behavioral recovery as is evident from the beneficial effects of the tectal grafts. Although the mechanisms underlying the differential effects observed after early or late cortical grafts are unknown, the interaction between the cellular components and trophic factors present in the cortical grafts and the condition of the lesioned host at the time of grafting may yield a host-graft complex with a unique profile.
Acute kidney injury following folate administration is characterized by a vascular remodeling that is initially proliferative but subsequently results in vascular endothelial loss. Interventions directed toward promoting endothelial growth may preserve vascular structure and therefore renal function. However, angiopoietin-1 therapy in the setting of folate-induced acute kidney injury resulted in an expanded fibrotic response despite apparent preservation of the vasculature, indicating that renal repair responses are complex and vascular-directed therapies should be approached with caution.
Treatment with pegylated interferon (Peg-IFN) and ribavirin, now the standard of care, has been shown to achieve sustained viral response (SVR) in up to 60% of patients with hepatitis C (HCV). Studies of response to this combination in HCV-infected haemophilia patients are scarce. The aim of the study was to report the results and safety of interferon/ribavirin treatment in HCV and HCV-/HIV-infected patients at the Israeli National Hemophilia Center. A retrospective observational cohort study was conducted on haemophilia patients infected with HCV or HCV/HIV. Patients received combination of Peg-IFN and ribavirin. Few were still treated with standard interferon. The primary end-point was sustained viral response (SVR). The secondary end-point was safety, with emphasis on increased bleeding episodes. Some 18/43 (42%) HCV mono-infected haemophilia patients achieved SVR. Relapse occurred in 14 (33%), while 11 patients (25%) were non-responders. SVR was achieved among 17/37 (46%) naïve patients receiving Peg-IFN and ribavirin. Among patients with genotype-1, SVR was achieved in 12/36 (33%) and 11/30 (37%) in the whole group and Peg-IFN treated naïve patients, respectively. In HCV/HIV co-infected patients only 1 patient achieved SVR. Severe anaemia occurred in 14/50 (28%) patients, four received erythropoietin. None maintained stable haemoglobin levels. Two patients had significant bleeding episodes. In our cohort of haemophilia patients, SVR was achieved in a lower than expected rates. A relatively high relapse rate in the HCV mono-infected patients and a very high non-response rate in the HCV/HIV co-infected patients were observed as anticipated. Anaemia was a major side effect and the use of growth factors seemed unrevealing.
Increased lung vascular permeability leading to increased plasma protein extravasation and accumulation (PPA) is a characteristic feature of acute lung injury. Using a previously described technique, PPA was monitored in the lungs of patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)--an extreme example of acute lung injury in man. An external radiation probe detector was used to monitor the pulmonary accumulation of the plasma protein transferrin radiolabelled in-vivo with 113mIn. Ten patients with ARDS exhibiting increased PPA indices (greater than 1.0 x 10(-3)/min) were given an intravenous infusion of terbutaline (7 micrograms/kg) over 30 min. Of the four patients in whom the post-drug PPA indices remained within the ARDS range, none survived, whilst five of the six patients in whom the post-drug PPA indices were reduced to below 1.0 x 10(-3)/min survived. PPA indices prior to the administration of terbutaline were not significantly different between the survivor (n = 5) and non-survivor (n = 5) groups. There was a significant decrease in the PPA indices following terbutaline in survivors (p less than 0.01) but not in non-survivors. Thus beta-2-agonists in therapeutic doses can inhibit increased lung vascular permeability in man. These findings may have prognostic and therapeutic implications for beta-2-agonists in ARDS.
Previous studies have given conflicting results as to whether or not folate metabolism is altered in Down syndrome. Folate is necessary to facilitate metabolism of one-carbon units. Folate accepts one-carbon units from one-carbon unit donors, including formiminoglutamate (FIGLU). Folate deficiency leads to accumulation of FIGLU and impairment of one-carbon unit metabolism. FIGLU is a functional measure of folate deficiency.
Archived anonymized amniotic fluid specimens were obtained from normal pregnancies and those with Down syndrome. Gas liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry was used to quantitate FIGLU, which is elevated in folate deficiency. A tetra-deuterated FIGLU was used as a standard, and single-ion monitoring was performed. Nonparametric statistical analysis was performed with the Mann-Whitney U test.
FIGLU was significantly lower in pregnancies with Down syndrome. The median FIGLU level was 0.9 micromol/l in amniotic fluid from fetuses with Down syndrome. The median FIGLU level was 1.3 in amniotic fluid from control fetuses. This difference was statistically significant (p = 0.009). No statistically significant differences were found with histidine or glutamate.
There was no evidence of folate deficiency. FIGLU was decreased, not increased. Decreased FIGLU might result from accelerated activity of one or more genes on chromosome 21, by a gene dosage effect. Genes which might explain the reduced FIGLU include one which degrades FIGLU (glutamate formiminotransferase-cyclodeaminase), one which participates in purine synthesis, and one which degrades homocysteine (cystathionine-beta-synthase).
Melatonin's actions in organisms are more widespread than originally envisaged. Over three decades ago, the changing pattern of nocturnal melatonin production was found to be the signal for the annual cycle of reproduction in photoperiodic species. Since then, melatonin's actions also have been linked to circadian rhythms, immune function, sleep, retinal physiology and endocrine functions in general. In recent years, however, the sphere of influence of melatonin was further expanded when the indole was found to be an effective free radical scavenger and antioxidant. Free radicals are toxic molecules, many being derived from oxygen, which are persistently produced and incessantly attack and damage molecules within cells; most frequently this damage is measured as peroxidized lipid products, carbonyl proteins, and DNA breakage or fragmentation. Collectively, the process of free radical damage to molecules is referred to as oxidative stress. Melatonin reduces oxidative stress by several means. Thus, the indole is an effective scavenger of both the highly toxic hydroxyl radical, produced by the 3 electron reduction of oxygen, and the peroxyl radical, which is generated during the oxidation of unsaturated lipids and which is sufficiently toxic to propagate lipid peroxidation. Additionally, melatonin may stimulate some important antioxidative enzymes, i.e., superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase. In in vivo tests, melatonin in pharmacological doses has been found effective in reducing macromolecular damage that is a consequence of a variety of toxic agents, xenobiotics and experimental paradigms which induce free radical generation. In these studies, melatonin was found to significantly inhibit oxidative damage that is a consequence of paraquat toxicity, potassium cyanide administration, lipopolysaccharide treatment, kainic acid injection, carcinogen administration, carbon tetrachloride poisoning, etc., as well as reducing the oxidation of macromolecules that occurs during strenuous exercise or ischemia-reperfusion. In experimental models which are used to study neurodegenerative changes associated with Alzheimer's and Parkinson disease, melatonin was found to be effective in reducing neuronal damage. Its lack of toxicity and the ease with which melatonin crosses morphophysiological barriers and enters subcellular compartments are essential features of this antioxidant. Thus far, most frequently pharmacological levels of melatonin have been used to combat oxygen toxicity. The role of physiological levels of melatonin, which are known to decrease with age, is being investigated as to their importance in the total antioxidative defense capacity of the organism.
Enhanced vascular arginase activity impairs endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation by decreasing l-arginine availability to endothelial nitric oxide (NO) synthase, thereby reducing NO production. Elevated angiotensin II (ANG II) is a key component of endothelial dysfunction in many cardiovascular diseases and has been linked to elevated arginase activity. We determined signaling mechanisms by which ANG II increases endothelial arginase function. Results show that ANG II (0.1 μM, 24 h) elevates arginase activity and arginase I expression in bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAECs) and decreases NO production. These effects are prevented by the arginase inhibitor BEC (100 μM). Blockade of ANG II AT(1) receptors or transfection with small interfering RNA (siRNA) for Gα12 and Gα13 also prevents ANG II-induced elevation of arginase activity, but siRNA for Gαq does not. ANG II also elevates active RhoA levels and induces phosphorylation of p38 MAPK. Inhibitors of RhoA activation (simvastatin, 0.1 μM) or Rho kinase (ROCK) (Y-27632, 10 μM; H1152, 0.5 μM) block both ANG II-induced elevation of arginase activity and phosphorylation of p38 MAPK. Furthermore, pretreatment of BAECs with p38 inhibitor SB-202190 (2 μM) or transfection with p38 MAPK siRNA prevents ANG II-induced increased arginase activity/expression and maintains NO production. Additionally, inhibitors of p38 MAPK (SB-203580, 5 μg·kg(-1)·day(-1)) or arginase (ABH, 8 mg·kg(-1)·day(-1)) or arginase gene knockout in mice prevents ANG II-induced vascular endothelial dysfunction and associated enhancement of arginase. These results indicate that ANG II increases endothelial arginase activity/expression through Gα12/13 G proteins coupled to AT(1) receptors and subsequent activation of RhoA/ROCK/p38 MAPK pathways leading to endothelial dysfunction.
3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) have effects that extend beyond cholesterol reduction. We used an angiotensin (Ang) II-dependent model to test the hypothesis that cerivastatin ameliorates cardiac injury.
We treated rats transgenic for human renin and angiotensinogen (dTGR) chronically from weeks 4 to 7 with cerivastatin (0.5 mg/kg by gavage). We used immunohistochemistry, electrophoretic mobility shift assays, and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction techniques. Compared with control dTGR, dTGR treated with cerivastatin had reduced mortality, blood pressure, cardiac hypertrophy, macrophage infiltration, and collagen I, laminin, and fibronectin deposition. Basic fibroblast growth factor mRNA and protein expression were markedly reduced, as was interleukin-6 expression. The transcription factors NF-kappaB and AP-1 were substantially less activated, although plasma cholesterol was not decreased.
These results suggest that statins ameliorate Ang II-induced hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy, fibrosis, and remodeling independently of cholesterol reduction. Although the clinical significance remains uncertain, the results suggest that statins interfere with Ang II-induced signaling and transcription factor activation, thereby ameliorating end-organ damage.
It is postulated that nicotine, as the main neurotoxic constituent of cigarette smoke, influences SIDS risk through effects on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in brainstem nuclei that control respiration and arousal. This study compared α7 and β2 nAChR subunit expression in eight nuclei of the caudal and rostral medulla and seven nuclei of the pons between SIDS (n=46) and non-SIDS infants (n=14). Evaluation for associations with known SIDS risk factors included comparison according to whether infants had a history of exposure to cigarette smoke in the home, and stratification for sleep position and gender. Compared to non-SIDS infants, SIDS infants had significantly decreased α7 in the caudal nucleus of the solitary tract (cNTS), gracile and cuneate nuclei, with decreased β2 in the cNTS and increased β2 in the facial. When considering only the SIDS cohort: 1-cigarette smoke exposure was associated with increased α7 in the vestibular nucleus and increased β2 in the rostral dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, rNTS and Cuneate, 2-there was a gender interaction for α7 in the gracile and cuneate, and β2 in the cNTS and rostral arcuate nucleus, and 3-there was no effect of sleep position on α7, but prone sleep was associated with decreased β2 in three nuclei of the pons. In conclusion, SIDS infants demonstrate differences in expression of α7 and β2 nAChRs within brainstem nuclei that control respiration and arousal, which is independent on prior history of cigarette smoke exposure, especially for the NTS, with additional differences for smoke exposure (β2), gender (α7 and β2) and sleep position (β2) evident.
Environmental exposure to respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a leading cause of respiratory infections in infants, but it remains unknown whether this infection is transmitted transplacentally from the lungs of infected mothers to the offspring. We sought to test the hypothesis that RSV travels from the respiratory tract during pregnancy, crosses the placenta to the fetus, persists in the lung tissues of the offspring, and modulates pre- and postnatal expression of growth factors, thereby predisposing to airway hyperreactivity.
Pregnant rats were inoculated intratracheally at midterm using recombinant RSV expressing red fluorescent protein (RFP). Viral RNA was amplified by RT-PCR and confirmed by sequencing. RFP expression was analyzed by flow cytometry and viral culture. Developmental and pathophysiologic implications of prenatal infection were determined by analyzing the expression of genes encoding critical growth factors, particularly neurotrophic factors and receptors. We also measured the expression of key neurotransmitters and postnatal bronchial reactivity in vertically infected lungs, and assessed their dependence on neurotrophic signaling using selective biological or chemical inhibition.
RSV genome was found in 30% of fetuses, as well as in the lungs of 40% of newborns and 25% of adults. RFP expression was also shown by flow cytometry and replicating virus was cultured from exposed fetuses. Nerve growth factor and its TrkA receptor were upregulated in RSV- infected fetal lungs and co-localized with increased cholinergic innervation. Acetylcholine expression and smooth muscle response to cholinergic stimulation increased in lungs exposed to RSV in utero and reinfected after birth, and blocking TrkA signaling inhibited both effects.
Our data show transplacental transmission of RSV from mother to offspring and persistence of vertically transmitted virus in lungs after birth. Exposure to RSV in utero is followed by dysregulation of neurotrophic pathways predisposing to postnatal airway hyperreactivity upon reinfection with the virus.
A case of erythema nodosum in a 26-year-old woman who took Minilyn for 3 years is reported. The occurrence of erythema nodosum corresponded to the periods of use and discontinuation of Minilyn; it was assumed that Minilyn was responsible for the condition. After a challenge with 4 unknown types of pills, 1 of which was Minilyn, the erythema nodosum did not recur. It is possible that desensitization to Minilyn had occurred in the meantime.
Nutrigenomics seeks to understand the interplay between an individual's genes and their diet. This approach can potentially be harnessed to reduce the incidence or symptoms of chronic diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). It becomes desirable to interrogate the vast number of discrete compounds present in foods for their ability to influence the phenotype of a cell carrying a variant single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). Here we describe two cell-based assays that can now be used to test the ability of food components or extracts, to overcome the functional effects of certain variant SNPs that may be important in human IBD. The first monitors the signal transduction pathways of key pattern recognition receptors, in which SNPs associated with IBD have been identified, and tests for food components or extracts that can modulate these pathways for potential therapeutic benefit. The second models the NOD2 3020insC SNP, which is the most common and highest risk variant in Crohn's disease, and examines the ability of food components or extracts to restore the normal phenotype in the mutant cell line. Such screens provide a scientific basis for the rational choice of foods to be more rigorously investigated in animal models of IBD.
Cranial multineuropathy is an uncommon occurrence. We observed two cases of multinevritis of the cranial nerves which had many features in common: acute onset after toxic inhalation, occurrence of neuroparaxic block, and rapid resolution after corticosteroid therapy. We believe physicians should be aware that multinevritis of the cranial nerves may be related to acute exposure to toxic substances. Missing this diagnosis could lead to a delay in therapy.
The neuroleptic malignant syndrome is an uncommon but occasionally fatal reaction to antipsychotic medication characterized by fever, movement disorder, and stupor. A case is reported of a 16-year-old retarded male who progressed into coma after an injection of fluphenazine. The syndrome is discussed, and new pharmacological treatment approaches are reviewed. Brain-damaged patients are thought to be more susceptible to this syndrome. As recognition of the syndrome grows, there may well be more cases identified in the mentally retarded population.
Accelerated gastric emptying of solids may play a role in the pathogenesis of obesity. Orlistat, a potent lipase inhibitor, induces fat malabsorption and body weight loss but might accelerate gastric emptying as a result of suppressed CCK release. The aim was to investigate the role of fat restriction and lipase inhibition in CCK release and gastric emptying.
A total of 28 patients (three male (M)/25 female (F); mean (s.d.) BMI 37.4(3.9) kg/m2) entering a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
CCK release and gastric emptying by scintigraphy at the start (T0), after 1 month of an energy- and fat-restricted diet and placebo (T1), and after 1 month (T2) and 1 year (T3) of randomization to placebo or 120 mg orlistat three times a day.
One month of dieting and a weight loss of 2.3 kg (2.1% of initial weight) did not affect gastric emptying of liquids and solids. Basal and meal-stimulated CCK levels remained unaltered. Placebo-treated subjects who continued the diet for 1 month demonstrated a borderline significant suppressed CCK secretion and a weight loss of 1.2 kg (1.0%) without an effect on gastric emptying. After 1 year, the CCK secretion recovered to or beyond values at the start. A significantly slower emptying of solids (17.6 (T3) versus 25.9 (T1)%/h) and a weight loss of 10.4 kg (9.9%) was observed. Subjects on 120 mg orlistat lost 2.5 kg (2.5%) after 1 month, and 9.8 kg (9.9%) after 1 year. Basal and postprandial CCK release decreased significantly after the first month of orlistat treatment but normalized after 1 year. Diet and lipase inhibition did not have any influence on gastric emptying.
Energy and fat restriction of 1 month did not alter gastric emptying in the whole group. Continuation of the diet for 1 year resulted in a delayed gastric emptying of solids. Lipase inhibition did not result in a sustained depressed CCK release and the anticipated acceleration of gastric emptying did not occur.
To examine a possible role of endogenous bradykinin in the regulation of blood pressure (BP) and renal blood flow (RBF), a newly synthesized competitive antagonist of bradykinin (B4147) was studied in anesthetized rats. Also, the question of whether the hypotensive effect of the converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, is mediated partly by an accumulation of endogenous bradykinin was considered. The intravenous infusion of B4147 (25 micrograms/min) inhibited the depressor effect of exogenous bradykinin (0.5 microgram, i.v.) by 69%. After an intravenous injection of B4147 at doses of 25, 50 and 100 micrograms, BP increased and RBF decreased in a dose-dependent fashion. The increase in BP was not blocked by pretreatment with an angiotensin II antagonist (1-Sar-8-Ile angiotensin II; 20 micrograms/kg per min) or an alpha 1-blocker (prazosin; 0.1 mg/kg). The administration of captopril (1 mg/kg) decreased mean BP from 110 +/- 3.5 to 71 +/- 1.9 mmHg (P less than 0.001). However, the injection of B4147 (50 micrograms) after the administration of captopril elicited an increase in BP of 43% of the initial decrease induced by captopril. These results suggest that the effects of B4147 on BP and RBF are not mediated through angiotensin II or sympathetic alpha 1-stimulation. Endogenous bradykinin could contribute to the maintenance of BP and RBF in anesthetized rats, probably counter-balancing the vasoconstrictor mechanisms. It is also suggested that bradykinin may partly participate in the acute hypotensive effect induced by the converting enzyme inhibitor captopril.
We evaluated the effects on cardiovascular structure of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor enalapril and of the angiotensin II receptor blocker losartan, administered either at hypotensive or nonhypotensive dosage in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). SHR were treated from ages 4 to 12 weeks with low-dose (1 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) enalapril, low-dose (0.5 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) losartan, high-dose (25 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) enalapril, or high-dose (15 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) losartan. Untreated WKY and SHR were also studied. Rats were killed at 13 weeks of age, and the heart was weighed. Mesenteric small arteries were dissected and mounted on a micromyograph for determination of media thickness and lumen diameter. In fixed arteries, cell volume, number of cells per segment length, and number of cell layers were measured using the unbiased "disector" method. Systolic blood pressure was significantly reduced by the high doses of both drugs, but the hypotensive effect was greater with enalapril than with losartan (P<0.05). In the high-dose enalapril and losartan groups, there were similar reductions in relative left ventricular mass, media/lumen ratio, and number of cell layers of resistance arteries; however, there were no differences in the cell volume or number of cells per segment length of resistance arteries. Low-dose enalapril did not affect systolic blood pressure or any of the structural parameters. The results show that the hypotensive effects of both losartan and enalapril were associated with outward remodeling of resistance arteries at the cellular level. The effect of losartan on resistance artery structure was equal to that of enalapril, despite the smaller hypotensive effect.
The efficacy of interferon-alpha therapy in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C is still limited. A combination therapy of interferon-alpha with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) was tested for its efficacy in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C by a randomized controlled study. Eighty consecutive Japanese patients with chronic hepatitis C were randomly divided into two groups: one group was treated with interferon-alpha (group A, n = 40) and the other with a combination of interferon-alpha and UDCA (group B, n = 40). In both groups, human interferon-alpha (6 million units per day) was intramuscularly injected daily for 2 weeks and then three times a week for 22 weeks: this 24-week period was followed by 24 weeks of observation. In group B, UDCA was also administered, daily at a dose of 600 mg orally, from the beginning of the interferon therapy and administration was continued for 48 weeks. The rates for ALT normalization and clearance of hepatitis C virus (HCV) viremia at the end of the 24-week interferon therapy were similar for groups A and B (58% vs 60% and 55% vs 48%, respectively). At the end of the 24-week follow-up, the sustained normalization rates for ALT levels for the two groups were not different (35% vs 43%), while the rate of clearance was higher in group B (40%) than in group A (23%), but the difference was not significant (P = 0.14). The sustained complete response, i.e., HCV RNA negativity at the end of the follow-up, as well as the maintenance of ALT normalization during the follow-up period, was more frequent in group B (38%) than in group A (18%) although the difference was not significant (P = 0.08). The rate of HCV reactivation after interferon was discontinued was significantly lower in group B (16%) than in group A (59%) (P < 0.01). Although this combination therapy did not lead to a sufficiently sustained complete response, it could serve as adjuvant antiviral therapy when a suitable dosage and administration period are determined.
The origin of infertility in patients with endometriosis without tubal occlusion has not yet been clearly defined. Several reports show an abnormal pituitary-ovarian axis in this group of patients. Moreover, prolactin (PRL) and growth hormone (GH) secretion is closely related to reproductive status. This study aimed to evaluate PRL and GH secretion after metoclopramide and thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) infusion in infertile patients with minimal/mild endometriosis.
A total of 64 women participated in the study: 33 fertile patients without endometriosis; 10 fertile patients with minimal/mild endometriosis; and 21 infertile patients with minimal/mild endometriosis. TRH or metoclopramide was administered randomly in two sequential menstrual cycles (cycle days 3-5). Serum PRL and GH secretion before and after dopaminergic type 2 (DA2) receptor blockade and TRH were compared.
Higher serum PRL levels were observed in patients with endometriosis at baseline and after 15 and 30 min of TRH administration. Also, infertile patients with endometriosis had lower serum estradiol levels than fertile patients. Moreover, the dopaminergic blockade did not result in abnormal PRL or GH secretion.
Decreased serum estradiol levels and altered PRL secretion after TRH administration in infertile patients with minimal/mild endometriosis are related to ovulatory dysfunction and infertility in this group of patients without tubal occlusion.
The accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGE) is a key factor in diabetic nephropathy (DN). Pyridoxamine inhibits AGE formation and protects against type I DN. Herein we tested: (1) whether C57BL6 db/db mice as a model of established type II DN resembled patients treated with drugs which inhibit angiotensin II action; (2) whether pyridoxamine was effective as a single therapy; and (3) whether pyridoxamine would add to the benefit of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition (ACEi) by enalapril. In first set of experiments mice were treated with ACEi (benazepril) and an angiotensin II receptor blocker (valsartan) combination for 16 weeks after the onset of diabetes. In second group, mice with established DN were treated with pyridoxamine for 8 weeks. In a third set, mice with established DN were treated with pyridoxamine and enalapril combination for 16 weeks. Benazepril and valsartan combination partially prevented the development and progression of DN. Pyridoxamine treatment, as single therapy, decreased the progression of albuminuria and glomerular lesions. The combination of pyridoxamine with enalapril reduced both mortality and the progression of DN. In conclusion, (1) C57 BL6 db/db mice are a model of progressive type II DN; (2) The combination of pyridoxamine with enalapril decreased progression of type 2 DN and overall mortality. Thus, pyridoxamine could be a valuable adjunct to the current treatment of established type II DN.
This study evaluates the relative effectiveness and side-effects of risperidone as compared with conventional neuroleptics in the treatment of schizophrenia, by meta-analysis of 11 double-blind, randomized controlled trials. The proportion of patients showing clinical improvement; use of medications for extrapyramidal side-effects (EPS); the treatment drop-out rates; and the changes in negative PANSS scores were measured. Compared with conventional neuroleptics, slightly more patients in the risperidone group showed clinical improvement [57 vs 52%; odds ratio 1.27, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.04, 1.56]. The use of concomitant medications for EPS was significantly less in the risperidone group than in the conventional neuroleptic group (22.8 vs 38.4%; odds ratio 0.51, 95% CI: 0.41, 0.63). The overall drop-out rate was lower in the risperidone group than in other neuroleptic group (29.1 vs 33.9%; odds ratio 0.75, 95% CI: 0.61, 0.94). The difference in changes in negative PANSS score between the risperidone and the haloperidol group was -0.74 (95% CI: -1.50, 0.02). Weight gain and tachycardia are more common in patients treated with risperidone. Sensitivity analysis of different analytic approaches did not materially change the main estimates. It was concluded that the short-term efficacy of risperidone is comparable to other neuroleptics in the treatment of schizophrenia. It is associated with significantly fewer EPS than conventional neuroleptics (mainly haloperidol).
