Tropisetron, ondansetron, and granisetron are considered equally efficacious, supported by several international studies. However, there are interindividual variations in their metabolism that could affect efficacy. The clustering of such variations may change from one to another nation. Therefore, their equality must be validated in Turkish patients. The aim of this study was to compare their efficacies, side-effect profiles, and costs in the prophylaxis of emesis induced by moderate to high emetogenic chemotherapies.
A total of 158 patients with a median age of 48 years, 115 (72.8 percent) female and 43 (27.2 percent) male, were included, respectively. Fifty-one, 61, and 46 patients were allocated to tropisetron (5 mg), ondansetron (8 mg), and granisetron (3 mg IV) in combination with 8 mg dexamethasone, which were continued 5 mg once a day, 8 mg b.i.d. and 1 mg b.i.d. PO for 5 days, respectively.
The complete response (CR) rates in the control of acute emesis were 80.4 percent with tropisetron, 72.1 percent with ondansetron, and 71.7 percent granisetron (p = 0.877). CR rates in delayed emesis (Days 2-5) were 68.6 percent, 68.9 percent, and 76.1 percent, respectively (p = 0.527). Rates of freedom from nausea in the same period were 37.3 percent, 35.9 percent, and 33.9 percent (p = 0.949). Nausea control rates, side-effect profile did not differ. However, headache seemed to be encountered higher (45.6 percent) in Turkish patients than others (3.9-9 percent). Tropisetron is the least expensive one ($95.3 per cycle) according to current prices in Turkey.
There were no differences among the 3 serotonin antagonists with respect to efficacy and frequency of side-effects in our patients. Tropisetron is the least expensive at current prices. The choice may be based on other parameters, such as ease of administration and patient preference.
A 62 year old man developed an inferior wall myocardial infarction during ambulatory ST segment monitoring. Before the onset of persistent ST segment elevation he had taken several glyceryl trinitrate tablets, which was followed by bradycardia and symptoms of hypotension. Whether a paradoxical reaction to glyceryl trinitrate may have triggered the development of myocardial infarction in this case is uncertain.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and peptide YY (PYY) are members of the pancreatic polypeptide family which have a high degree of primary and tertiary structural homology. They function as neurotransmitters and humoral agents in central nervous system and gastrointestinal function. During the last two decades, NPY body fluid concentrations and NPY/PYY brain receptor numbers have been demonstrated to be altered during the course of Alzheimer's disease. Recent research has shown that both NPY and PYY may be involved in aluminum metabolism in animal models. A brief discussion of the structure, biological activity and possible involvement of these peptides in aluminum metabolism and Alzheimer's disease is contained herein.
The endothelial cell-specific form of nitric oxide synthases (ecNOS) was mapped at 7q35-q36 and plays an important role in vascular development and tumor growth in human prostate cancer. Bone metastasis, clinical T-stage, tumor grade, and serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) have been shown to have prognostic importance in the outcome of prostate cancer. The purpose of this study was to evaluate ecNOS polymorphism as a genetic indicator of the outcome of the disease.
In this study, we characterized the Glu-Asp298 ecNOS polymorphism in a series of 161 prostate cancer cases. Logistic regression models were used to assess the contribution of these genotypes to prostate cancer progression.
For Glu-Asp298 polymorphism, we found that GG genotype was associated to advanced disease [P = 0.020; odds ratio (OR), 2.12; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.12-4.03] and bone metastasis (P = 0.038; OR, 2.23; 95% CI, 1.03-4.84). Furthermore, after logistic regression analysis with step-wise routine to identify predictive parameters of metastasis, which included age at diagnosis, advanced stage, GG genotype, high grade, and high serum PSA, we observed that Glu-Asp298-GG genotype (P = 0.004; OR, 7.4; 95% CI, 1.87-29.26), high grade tumor (P = 0.009; OR, 6.15; 95% CI, 1.56-24.17), and high serum PSA (P < 0.001; OR, 245.12; 95% CI, 19.93-3013.90) were significantly associated with bone metastasis.
This study demonstrates a strong association between Glu-Asp298-GG genotype as a nitric oxide-related genetic factor and advanced disease and bone metastasization. The establishment of a genetic profile for each patient may be useful in the prediction of the outcome of prostate cancer patients.
Thrombomodulin is an endothelial cell receptor for thrombin. It functions as a natural anticoagulant by greatly accelerating activation of protein C by thrombin. Using a direct gene screening strategy we identified a frameshift insertion mutation, insT 1689, in the thrombomodulin gene of a patient with myocardial infarction. The mutation predicts an elongated gene product because of substitution of the 12 C-terminal amino acids by 61 abnormal residues. Pedigree analysis showed that the mutation was also likely to have been present in a sibling who had had fatal myocardial infarction. Carriers of the mutant allele express significantly lower amounts of thrombomodulin on the surface of their monocytes detected by flow cytometry and have lower levels of soluble thrombomodulin in plasma. Wild type and the mutant thrombomodulin were expressed in COS-7 cells. Cellular distribution of the expressed proteins was evaluated by immunofluorescence microscopy, which showed reduced cell surface expression and intense juxtanuclear localization of the abnormal protein. This suggests impaired translocation through the endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi apparatus. Cells expressing abnormal thrombomodulin had reduced ability ( approximately 2.5-fold) to accelerate the thrombin mediated activation of protein C. This is the first demonstration of reduced expression arising from a natural thrombomodulin gene mutation. The results provide support for the suggestion that gene mutation of thrombomodulin may be important in the pathogenesis of some cases of occlusive thrombotic disease. (Blood. 2000;95:569-576)
Varenicline is a promising agent with demonstrated efficacy in the promotion of smoking cessation. However, from the time of initial trials, it has been associated with significant psychiatric adverse effects. We describe a case where mixed mood and psychotic disturbance developed in an individual with a history of depression and a family history of bipolar disorder. Based on this case, we hypothesize a possible mechanism of action for these adverse effects and preventive measures that could be undertaken in its effective use.
There are very few reports about asterixis as a side effect of treatment with psychopharmacologic agents. In this report we present four patients treated with a combination of different psychotropic drugs, in whom asterixis was triggered either by adding carbamazepine (CBZ) to a treatment regimen, or by increasing its dosage. Neither dosage nor serum levels of CBZ were in a higher range. We consider asterixis to be an easily overlooked sign of neurotoxicity, which may occur even at low or moderate dosage levels, if certain drugs as lithium or clozapine are used in combination with CBZ.
Myocardial no-reflow, has been associated with alterations in endothelial junctions, which is regulated in part by endothelial dysfunction. Carvedilol is an alpha1 and nonselective beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist with antioxidative properties known to protect endothelial function. Therefore, we hypothesized that carvedilol might also have protective effects on myocardial no-reflow and endothelial junctions.
Thirty-two mini-swines were randomized into 4 study groups: 8 in control, 8 pretreated with carvedilol (1 mg/kg/d) for 3 days, 8 in propranolol (nonselective beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist)-pretreated for 3 days and 8 in sham-operated. Acute myocardial infarction and reperfusion model was created with 3 h occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 1 h reperfusion. Coronary ligation area (LA) and area of no-reflow were determined with both myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) in vivo and pathological means (Path). Myocardial vascular endothelial (VE)-cadherin, beta-catenin and gamma-catenin were assessed by immunoblot.
Compared with the control group, carvedilol significantly improved ventricular function, increased coronary blood flow from 50.6+/-3.1% to 72.1+/-3.8% of the baseline at 1 h of reperfusion (P<0.01), decreased area of no-reflow (MCE: from 78.5+/-4.5% to 24.9+/-4.1%, Path: from 82.3+/-1.9% to 25.8+/-4.3% of LA respectively, all P<0.01), reduced necrosis area from 98.5+/-1.3% to 74.4+/-4.7% of LA (P<0.05). The levels of VE-cadherin, beta-catenin, and gamma-catenin in the reflow myocardium were significantly greater in the carvedilol group (all P<0.05). However, propranolol failed to significantly modify area of no-reflow, VE-cadherin, beta-catenin and gamma-catenin levels (all P>0.05).
Pretreatment with carvedilol preserves endothelial junctions and reduces myocardial no-reflow after acute myocardial infarction and reperfusion. The beneficial effect of carvedilol was not due to its beta-blocking action.
A 17-year-old male with anorexia nervosa developed atypical prolongation of his corrected QT interval (QTc) when placed on isoproterenol for profound sinus bradycardia. His QTc normalized after the infusion was discontinued. Autonomic imbalance may explain the observed QTc lengthening. Because bradycardia associated with weight loss in anorexia is usually a physiologic adaptation and rarely symptomatic, aggressive chronotropic therapy may be not only unwarranted, but potentially deleterious.
Earlier studies have demonstrated that antagonism of sigma1 receptors attenuates the convulsive, lethal, locomotor stimulatory and rewarding actions of cocaine in mice. In contrast, the contribution of sigma2 receptors is unclear because experimental tools to selectively target this subtype are unavailable. To begin addressing this need, we characterized UMB24 (1-(2-phenethyl)-4-(2-pyridyl)-piperazine) and (+/-)-SM 21 (3alpha-tropanyl-2-(4-chorophenoxy)butyrate) in receptor binding and behavioral studies. Receptor binding studies confirmed that UMB24 and (+/-)-SM 21 display preferential affinity for sigma2 over sigma1 receptors. In behavioral studies, pretreatment of Swiss Webster mice with UMB24 or (+/-)-SM 21 significantly attenuated cocaine-induced convulsions and locomotor activity, but not lethality. When administered alone, (+/-)-SM 21 produced no significant effects compared to control injections of saline, but UMB24 had locomotor depressant actions. Together, the data suggest that sigma2 receptor antagonists have the potential to attenuate some of the behavioral effects of cocaine, and further development of more selective, high affinity ligands are warranted.
Prenatal testosterone (T) treatment leads to polycystic ovarian morphology, enhanced follicular recruitment/depletion, and increased estradiol secretion. This study addresses whether expression of key ovarian genes and microRNA are altered by prenatal T excess and whether changes are mediated by androgenic or estrogenic actions of T. Pregnant Suffolk ewes were treated with T or T plus the androgen receptor antagonist, flutamide (T+F) from d 30 to 90 of gestation. Expression of steroidogenic enzymes, steroid/gonadotropin receptors, and key ovarian regulators were measured by RT-PCR using RNA obtained from fetal ovaries collected on d 65 [n = 4, 5, and 5 for T, T+F, and control groups, respectively] and d 90 (n = 5, 7, 4) of gestation. Additionally, fetal d 90 RNA were hybridized to multispecies microRNA microarrays. Prenatal T decreased (P < 0.05) Cyp11a1 expression (3.7-fold) in d 90 ovaries and increased Cyp19 (3.9-fold) and 5α-reductase (1.8-fold) expression in d 65 ovaries. Flutamide prevented the T-induced decrease in Cyp11a1 mRNA at d 90 but not the Cyp19 and 5α-reductase increase in d 65 ovaries. Cotreatment with T+F increased Cyp11a1 (3.0-fold) expression in d 65 ovaries, relative to control and T-treated ovaries. Prenatal T altered fetal ovarian microRNA expression, including miR-497 and miR-15b, members of the same family that have been implicated in insulin signaling. These studies demonstrate that maternal T treatment alters fetal ovarian steroidogenic gene and microRNA expression and implicate direct actions of estrogens in addition to androgens in the reprogramming of ovarian developmental trajectory leading up to adult reproductive pathologies.
Rizatriptan represents a major advance in the treatment of migraine attack: inhibition of peripheral trigeminal nerve and constriction of intracranial extracerebral blood vessels have been proposed as its main antimigraine mechanisms of action. Although many studies may suggest that rizatriptan causes highly selective vasoconstriction within intracranial extracerebral vessels (i.e., meningeal arteries), no literature data are available to date on possible cerebral hemodynamic changes in humans after treatment with rizatriptan. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of rizatriptan on cerebral blood flow velocity performing transcranial Doppler during spontaneous attacks of migraine without aura. Fourteen patients suffering from migraine without aura were monitored to evaluate mean flow velocity changes on both middle cerebral arteries during migraine attack 30 min before and 120 min after oral administration of rizatriptan 10mg. Monitoring was repeated for 30 min during the pain-free period. All patients turned out to be drug responders and no significant mean flow velocity changes were observed between the pain-free period and pre-treatment phase; besides no significant difference in mean flow velocity value have been detected between the periods after the drug administration during the attack versus both pre-treatment period and pain-free phase. These findings indicate that the antimigraine action of rizatriptan is not associated with clear intracranial cerebral hemodynamic changes and may support its cerebrovascular safety.
Mean arterial blood pressure, heart rate and splanchnic sympathetic discharge were recorded in conscious and anaesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Administration of prazosin (1 mg/kg i.v.) reduced heart rate in most rats and this effect was closely parallelled by a decrease in sympathetic discharge. In contrast, administration of hydralazine (1 mg/kg i.v.) caused a sustained tachycardia and increased sympathetic nervous activity. The cardiovascular effects of prazosin (0.2-0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg i.v.) were examined in different rat strains. Sprague-Dawley and Wistar-Kyoto rats responded with tachycardia whereas a significant bradycardia was observed in SHR following the higher doses of prazosin. It is suggested that the bradycardia obtained after prazosin administration is due to a central inhibition of sympathetic outflow, an effect possibly caused by blockade of alpha-adrenoreceptors. The different heart rate responses in different rat strains may be interpreted to reflect differences in sensitivity of central alpha-adrenoreceptors.
Parasympathetic neural activity modulates some ventricular arrhythmias in man. Therefore, a canine model of arrhythmias produced by the interaction of halothane and catecholamines was used to study the effects of vagal stimulation on the induction of ventricular fibrillation. The dose of catecholamine required to induce ventricular fibrillation was determined during a constant heart rate. Vagal stimulation reversibly raised the norepinephrine dose that produced ventricular fibrillation from 16.4 +/- 2.4 to 30.0 +/- 3.8 micrograms (p less than 0.001, n = 10), and the epinephrine dose from 15.5 +/- 2.0 to 22.5 +/- 2.6 micrograms (p less than 0.001, n = 5). Following atropine, vagal stimulation failed to raise the threshold dose of norepinephrine (16.8 +/- 2.4 vs. 18.3 +/- 3.3 micrograms, nonsignificant, n = 6) or epinephrine (15.5 +/- 2.0 vs. 16.0 +/- 2.3 micrograms, nonsignificant, n = 5). Ligation of the cervical vagus nerves did not affect the epinephrine threshold dose (16.3 +/- 3.3 vs. 17.5 +/- 2.7 micrograms, nonsignificant, n = 5). Following elevation of basal vagal tone by morphine premedication, the norepinephrine threshold of 53.0 +/- 9.2 micrograms declined by a nonsignificant amount to 46.5 +/- 11.5 micrograms after vagotomy (nonsignificant, n = 5). Thus resting vagal tone does not prevent catecholamine-halothane-induced ventricular fibrillation, whereas increasing vagal tone by electrical stimulation substantially protects against this arrhythmia. The protection is mediated through a muscarinic cholinergic receptor.
Itraconazole is widely used to treat onychomycosis because of its significant therapeutic effects. An otherwise healthy 30-year-old man treated with itraconazole developed frequent premature ventricular contractions (PVC). He presented with a dry cough and palpitation. The results of 12-lead electrocardiography (ECG) were essentially normal, but Holter ECG revealed 17,484 (18%) uniform PVC, including 4 short runs among 96,930 beats/day. Another Holter ECG after withdrawing itraconazole revealed 1,032 premature atrial contractions but no PVC. The corrected QT interval was 0.39 s without itraconazole, 0.41 s with itraconazole, and 0.43 s when multiple PVC were documented. Itraconazole inhibits the fungal cytochrome P450 that is involved in fungal cell membrane formation, interrupts human cytochrome P450A4 in the liver and causes adverse interactions with various drugs such as antiarrythmics, but its cardiac side-effects are obscure. Both patients and physicians should be aware that itraconazole can cause PVC as a side-effect.
The 5-year survival rate for stage IB-III non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains 15%. Surgical resection followed by adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin and vinorelbine is one standard-of-care. We sought to determine in a preclinical model whether (a) the combination of cisplatin and vinorelbine could positively modulate components of the immune system independent of antitumor activity, and (b) there were synergistic effects of this drug combination and vaccine immunotherapy. We examined the effect of cisplatin/vinorelbine on gene expression, cell-surface phenotype, and CTL-mediated cytolysis of murine lung carcinoma cells in vitro; we also assessed the effects of cisplatin/vinorelbine on immune subsets and function of Tregs in vivo. Finally, we evaluated the potential synergy between chemotherapy and a recombinant yeast-CEA vaccine in a murine model transgenic for CEA with mice bearing lung tumors. These studies demonstrate that exposure of lung tumor cells to the platinum doublet cisplatin/vinorelbine modulates tumor cell phenotype and increases sensitivity to CTL-mediated cytolysis. These studies also demonstrate that cisplatin/vinorelbine (a) induces sub-myeloablative leucopenia that differentially modulates reconstitution of Treg versus effector T-cell subsets and (b) can be employed synergistically with vaccine, exploiting homeostatic peripheral expansion of T cells. Antitumor studies show for the first time that cisplatin/vinorelbine combined with vaccine increases the survival of mice with established NSCLC. These findings provide the rationale for the potential clinical benefit of the combined use of vaccine with cisplatin/vinorelbine chemotherapy regimens.
A case is reported of mesenteric venous occlusion in a young woman who by mistake received oral contraceptives during pregnancy. A resection of the damaged small bowel was performed followed by an end to end enteroenterostomy. It is suggested that the hypercoagulable state normally found in pregnancy was aggravated by the hormonal intake and lead to the mesenteric vein thrombosis.
This paper reports the case of a 30-year old woman, para 2, with mesenteric venous occlusion associated with inadvertent oral contraceptive (OC) use during pregnancy. The patient presented with vomiting, diffuse abdominal pain, and dysuria. Despite a 4 month history of amenorrhea, the patient continued OC use (Ovral)(. Ultrasonography revealed a fetus of 14 weeks gestation. Despite treatment, the patient's condition deteriorated and thrombotic occlusion of the mesenteric veins with hemorrhagic infarction of the intestine was noted. A resection of the damaged small bowel was performed, followed by an end to end enteroenterostomy. It is suggested that the hypercoagulable state normally found during pregnancy was aggravated in this case by the hormonal intake. In addition to OC use, this patient had another risk factor for mesenteric venous thrombosis: heavy cigarette smoking. The risk of venous thromboembolic disease associated with OC use declines within 1 month to the level found among nonusers of OCs. Thus, patients at risk of this condition (those who suffer from collagen disease or are obese and heavy smokers) should be advised to avoid pregnancy in the 1st month after OC discontinuance.
Autocrine and paracrine growth mediated by the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)/PDGF receptor (PDGFR)-signaling pathway plays an important role in the progression of solid tumors. The authors assessed the effect of STI571 on the tumor growth of gastric carcinoma in combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or paclitaxel targeting the PDGF/PDGFR-signaling pathway.
In MKN-45 gastric carcinoma cells, the cytotoxic effect was evaluated by 3-(4,5 dimethiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay, and the in vivo antitumor effect was evaluated in a nude mouse xenograft. Both STI571 and an antitumor drug were administered intraperitoneally. Gene expression was assessed by Western blot analysis and immunohistochemical staining. Apoptotic cell death was evaluated by the terminal deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick-end labeling assay, and tumor angiogenesis was evaluated by microvessel density analysis.
Treatment with STI571 alone was not effective in vitro, as assessed by a 50% inhibitory concentration value of 24.3 microM. Combination treatment with STI571 and 5-FU or paclitaxel enhanced the cytotoxic effect somewhat when the concentration of STI571 was increased to 10 microM. Combination treatment with STI571 and 5-FU or paclitaxel enhanced the antitumor effect of the antitumor drug significantly in vivo. The enhanced antitumor effect was associated with increased apoptotic cell death and inhibition of tumor angiogenesis. Treatment with STI571 down-regulated the expression of PDGF-BB and PDGFR-beta in tumor cells and decreased the production of phosphorylated PDGFR-beta and phosphorylated Akt. Furthermore, treatment with STI571 inhibited the expression of PDGFR-beta in stromal cells.
STI571 was an effective chemosensitizer of antitumor drugs, such as 5-FU and paclitaxel for gastric carcinoma, targeting the PDGF/PDGFR-signaling pathway of tumor cells and stromal cells in disease progression and angiogenesis.
Previously, we demonstrated a candidate region for susceptibility to airspace enlargement on mouse chromosome 5. However, the specific candidate genes within this region accounting for emphysema-like changes remain unrecognized. c-Kit is a receptor tyrosine kinase within this candidate gene region that has previously been recognized to contribute to the survival, proliferation, and differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells. Increases in the percentage of cells expressing c-Kit have previously been associated with protection against injury-induced emphysema.
Determine whether genetic variants of c-Kit are associated with spontaneous airspace enlargement.
Perform single-nucleotide polymorphism association studies in the mouse strains at the extremes of airspace enlargement phenotype for variants in c-Kit tyrosine kinase. Characterize mice bearing functional variants of c-Kit compared with wild-type controls for the development of spontaneous airspace enlargement. Epithelial cell proliferation was measured in culture.
Upstream regulatory single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the divergent mouse strains were associated with the lung compliance difference observed between the extreme strains. c-Kit mutant mice (Kit(W-sh)/(W-sh)), when compared with genetic controls, developed altered lung histology, increased total lung capacity, increased residual volume, and increased lung compliance that persist into adulthood. c-Kit inhibition with imatinib attenuated in vitro proliferation of cells expressing epithelial cell adhesion molecule.
Our findings indicate that c-Kit sustains and/or maintains normal alveolar architecture in the lungs of mice. In vitro data suggest that c-Kit can regulate epithelial cell clonal expansion. The precise mechanisms that c-Kit contributes to the development of airspace enlargement and increased lung compliance remain unclear and warrants further investigation.
To investigate whether intracameral injection of the adenovirus vector AdhGRE.MMP1 would reduce or prevent elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) induced by corticosteroids in living animals.
Glucocorticoid-inducible adenovirus vectors carrying wild-type or mutant forms of human metalloproteinase 1 (MMP1 and mutMMP1) cDNAs were generated. An adenovirus carrying no gene (Ad5.CMV.Null) was used as an additional control. Sheep were injected intracamerally with 30 microL of each vector, either previously or after the induction of increased IOP with topical prednisolone or sub-Tenon triamcinolone under various protocols. IOP was measured with a Perkins tonometer. Inflammation was monitored by visual inspection.
In eyes in which IOP was already elevated to 24 to 30 mm Hg, injection of AdhGRE.MMP1 reduced IOP by 70% in 24 hours and to 10 to 13 mm Hg in 48 hours. In eyes with normal IOP (9-11 mm Hg), preinjection of the virus protected against the increase in IOP normally produced by the corticosteroid. IOP remained at a level of approximately 12 mm Hg for 5 days despite the continuous application of the corticosteroid. Injections of the control viruses had no hypotensive effects. There were no signs of ocular inflammation or discomfort to the animals.
A single dose of a gene therapy vector carrying an inducible metalloproteinase human gene can both protect against the IOP increase produced by corticosteroid instillation in the sheep model and quickly reverse the IOP increase previously elicited by the corticosteroid. These results are a first step toward a treatment of steroid-glaucoma with inducible overexpression of extracellular matrix modulator genes.
Epigenetic modification of gene expression plays an important role in the development of human cancers. The inactivation of SPARC through CpG island methylation was studied in colon cancers using oligonucleotide microarray analysis and methylation specific PCR (MSP). Gene expression of 7 colon cancer cell lines was evaluated before and after treatment with the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5Aza-dC) by oligonucleotide microarray analysis. Expression of SPARC was further examined in colon cancer cell lines and primary colorectal cancers, and the methylation status of the SPARC promoter was determined by MSP. SPARC expression was undetectable in 5 of 7 (71%) colorectal cancer cell lines. Induction of SPARC was demonstrated after treatment with the demethylating agent 5Aza-dC in 5 of the 7 cell lines. We examined the methylation status of the CpG island of SPARC in 7 colon cancer cell lines and in 20 test set of colon cancer tissues. MSP demonstrated hypermethylation of the CpG island of SPARC in 6 of 7 cell lines and in all 20 primary colon cancers, when compared with only 3 of 20 normal colon mucosa. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that SPARC expression was downregulated or absent in 17 of 20 colon cancers. A survival analysis of 292 validation set of colorectal carcinoma patients revealed a poorer prognosis for patients lacking SPARC expression than for patients with normal SPARC expression (56.79% vs. 75.83% 5-year survival rate, p = 0.0014). The results indicate that epigenetic gene silencing of SPARC is frequent in colon cancers, and that inactivation of SPARC is related to rapid progression of colon cancers.
Persistent endobronchial inflammation is in part responsible for the attrition of lung function seen in cystic fibrosis. Leukotrienes act as pro-inflammatory mediators. The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast as a potential anti-inflammatory agent in the treatment of adult patients with cystic fibrosis.
Clinically stable patients were enrolled in the study if they had no history or clinical evidence of asthma, bronchial hyper-reactivity, or aspergillosis. They were randomised to receive zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily with all routine treatment for four months or routine treatment alone in an open cross-over design. Primary endpoints were changes in respiratory function tests and a modified NIH clinical score.
Thirty patients were enrolled and 25 completed. There was a significant improvement in the modified NIH clinical score but no significant increase in respiratory function with zafirlukast.
Patients receiving a leukotriene receptor antagonist in addition to routine treatments showed significant improvement in a clinical score which is a composite of clinical wellbeing, chest radiograph appearance, and physical examination. Respiratory function showed a non-significant trend towards improvement with treatment. Zafirlukast may benefit patients with CF. An adequately powered study is justified on the basis of these results.
2'-hydroxycinnamaldehyde (HCA) has been shown to have inhibitory effects on farnesyl protein transferase in vitro, angiogenesis, and tumor cell growth. However, mechanism for these inhibitions remains unknown. As a derivative of HCA, BCA (2'-benzoyl-oxycinnamaldehyde) was synthesized by replacing hydroxyl group with benzoyl-oxyl group. When p53-mutated cancer cell lines (MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell and SW620 colon cancer cell) were treated with 10 microM HCA or BCA, it induced growth arrest and apoptosis of tumor cells. Markers of apoptosis such as degradations of chromosomal DNA and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase and activation of caspase-3 were detected after HCA or BCA treatment. BCA-induced apoptosis was blocked by pretreatment of cells with anti-oxidants, glutathione, or N-acetyl-cysteine. In addition, BCA-induced activation of caspase-3 and degradation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase were abolished by pretreatment of cells with the anti-oxidants. These results suggest that reactive oxygen species are major regulator of BCA-induced apoptosis. HCA or BCA-induced accumulation of reactive oxygen species was detected by using DCF-DA, an intracellular probe of oxidative stress. Furthermore, when BCA (100 mg/kg) was administrated intraperitoneally or orally into a nude mouse, it inhibited >88 or 41% of tumor growth, respectively, without any detectable weight change. These results suggest that BCA is a good drug candidate for cancer therapy.
Liver cell necrosis was induced in rats by a galactosamine injection. Cell death was due to an increase of Ca++ intracellular levels and was also under the control of genes. Rats were then either exposed or not to a 6 mT 100 HZ pulsed magnetic field (PMF) and they either received or not methylsilane-triol injections. Animals were sacrificed twenty-seven hours after a galactosamine injection. On the one hand it appeared from transaminase levels that the PMF increased the number of animals which were sensitized to galactosamine but decreased transaminase levels. On the other hand PMF decreased the protective effect of MST against galactosamine. We may suggest that PMF should be considered as an additional cellular signal received through genes which would determine the evolution towards or against apoptosis according to the age of the cell itself but also the Ca++ intracellular level.
Acute intravascular hemolysis developed when a diabetic patient, previously treated with glyburide, was started on another oral sulfonylurea drug, chlorpropamide. Immunoglobulins were not found in the patient's serum and the red cells were coated with C3 only, suggesting an "innocent bystander" reaction. This case demonstrates that there is no cross reactivity between glyburide and chlorpropamide in producing hemolytic anemia.
Citalopram is the newest selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) available in the United States. It is currently approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of major depression. However, a number of studies have found it to be effective in the treatment of panic disorder as well. While there have been no previous case reports of citalopram inducing panic attacks in patients, this phenomenon has been reported with other members of the SSRI class of antidepressants. We present the case of a 61-year-old woman who had frank panic attacks after her citalopram dose was increased. She had had no history of anxiety symptoms. Anxiety abated completely upon discontinuance of citalopram therapy.
A case of prolonged encephalopathy and worsened parkinsonism in a Parkinson disease patient exposed to a short course of metoclopramide is described. Parkinson disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease in the United States. Because of the increased susceptibility to adverse drug effects, PD presents a special challenge to physicians. Anti-emetic drugs such as metoclopramide are widely used and may be particularly deleterious to PD patients due to blockade of dopamine receptors.
A patient developed polyneuropathy during carbimazole treatment for thyrotoxicosis. Electrophysiological data and a neuromuscular biopsy suggested a combined axonal and demyelinative lesion together with microvasculitis. Physiopathological hypotheses are discussed.
