Central dogma suggests that rifampicin resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis develops solely through rpoB gene mutations.
To determine whether rifampicin induces efflux pumps activation in rifampicin resistant M. tuberculosis strains thereby defining rifampicin resistance levels and reducing ofloxacin susceptibility.
Rifampicin and/or ofloxacin minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) were determined in rifampicin resistant strains by culture in BACTEC 12B medium. Verapamil and reserpine were included to determine their effect on rifampicin and ofloxacin susceptibility. RT-qPCR was applied to assess expression of efflux pump/transporter genes after rifampicin exposure. To determine whether verapamil could restore susceptibility to first-line drugs, BALB/c mice were infected with a MDR-TB strain and treated with first-line drugs with/without verapamil.
Rifampicin MICs varied independently of rpoB mutation and genetic background. Addition reserpine and verapamil significantly restored rifampicin susceptibility (p = 0.0000). RT-qPCR demonstrated that rifampicin induced differential expression of efflux/transporter genes in MDR-TB isolates. Incubation of rifampicin mono-resistant strains in rifampicin (2 μg/ml) for 7 days induced ofloxacin resistance (MIC > 2 μg/ml) in strains with an rpoB531 mutation. Ofloxacin susceptibility was restored by exposure to efflux pump inhibitors. Studies in BALB/c mice showed that verapamil in combination with first-line drugs significantly reduced pulmonary CFUs after 1 and 2 months treatment (p < 0.05).
Exposure of rifampicin resistant M. tuberculosis strains to rifampicin can potentially compromise the efficacy of the second-line treatment regimens containing ofloxacin, thereby emphasising the need for rapid diagnostics to guide treatment. Efflux pump inhibitors have the potential to improve the efficacy of anti-tuberculosis drug treatment.
Injury of a spinal nerve or dorsal root ganglion (DRG) during selective spinal nerve blocks is a potentially serious complication that has not been adequately investigated. Our hypothesis was that local anesthetic injection into these structures may result in an inflammatory response and hyperalgesia.
We evaluated inflammatory and behavioral responses after injection of 4 microL lidocaine or saline into the L5 spinal nerve or DRG of rats after partial laminectomy. Behavioral testing was performed before and after surgery to examine hyperalgesia in response to nociceptive mechanical stimulation of the foot. DRGs were harvested and stained, and rings of immunoreactive glial cells around neurons were counted.
Animals demonstrated hyperalgesia on the ipsilateral paw up to 4 days after lidocaine injection into the DRG but not after injection into the spinal nerve. The number of glial fibrillary acid protein immunopositive glial cell rings, which represent activation of satellite cells, significantly increased in DRGs after injection of lidocaine into either the DRG or the spinal nerve. The number of glial fibrillary acid protein-positive cells in the lidocaine-injected group was significantly larger than in the saline-injected group. Sporadic OX-42 immunopositive cells, which represent activated microglia, were also seen in lidocaine-injected DRGs. Testing for Pan-T expression, which labels activated T lymphocytes, showed no positive cells.
Lidocaine injection into the DRG may produce hyperalgesia, possibly due to activation of resident satellite glial cells. In a clinical setting, local anesthetic injection into the DRG should be avoided during selective spinal nerve blocks.
KC is a mouse homolog of human chemokine gro-alpha (CXCL1), expression of which is increased in liver diseases. We show that activated, but not quiescent, hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) express KC. Hepatic stellate cells constitutively express the KC receptor, CXCR2. Addition of recombinant KC to HSCs undergoing activation in culture increases secretion and processing of Type I collagen. Overexpression of endogenous KC in the mouse liver could be achieved by an intraperitoneal injection of CCl(4), followed after 24 hrs by an injection of recombinant KC into circulation. This protocol resulted in about a 14-fold increase in concentration of KC protein in the liver. Overexpression of KC was associated with upregulation of the mRNA for CXCR2 and MIP-2 and with necrosis and increased synthesis of Type I collagen. This suggests that KC has a direct hepatotoxic effect, which led to a massive liver necrosis after 48 hrs. No accumulation of neutrophils was seen in the livers as judged by histology and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis of myeloperoxidase mRNA. Autostimulation of KC and CXCR2 expression by recombinant KC protein in the mice with preexisting liver injury indicates a positive feedback regulation. Such regulation and direct hepatotoxicity of KC with increased collagen synthesis represent novel findings about the role of KC/ gro-alpha in liver pathology.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is known to induce neurodevelopmental deficits such as poor cognitive development and motor dysfunction. However, the mechanism of TCDD-mediated neurotoxicity remains unclear. Since PKC signaling is one of the most pivotal events involved in neuronal function and development, we analyzed the effects of TCDD on the PKC signaling pathway in cerebellar granule cells derived from PND-7 rat brain. Immunoblot analysis revealed the presence of PKC-alpha, betaII, delta, epsilon, lambda and iota in both cytosol and membrane fractions of cerebellar granule cells, but PKC-gamma was below the detectable level. TCDD induced a significant translocation of PKC-alpha, -betaII and -epsilon from cytosol to membrane fraction (p<0.05) and a marginal translocation of PKC-delta at high dose only (p<0.1). It also increased RACK-1, an adaptor protein for PKC, in a dose-dependent manner. Exposure to TCDD induced a dose-dependent increase of both [3H] PDBu binding and the intracellular calcium level. The results suggest that the selective PKC isozymes and RACK-1 are involved in TCDD-mediated signaling pathway and these proteins may be possible molecular targets in neuronal cells for TCDD exposure. Our study provides basic data to understand mechanism of TCDD-induced neurotoxicity with respect to PKC signaling pathway and a scientific basis for improving the health risk assessment of neurotoxicants by identifying intracellular target molecules in neuronal cells.
Mefenamic acid (MFA) has been associated with rare but severe cases of hepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, gastrointestinal toxicity, and hypersensitivity reactions that are believed to result from the formation of reactive metabolites. Although formation of protein-reactive acylating metabolites by phase II metabolism has been well-studied and proposed to be the cause of these toxic side effects, the oxidative bioactivation of MFA has not yet been competely characterized. In the present study, the oxidative bioactivation of MFA was studied using human liver microsomes (HLM) and recombinant human P450 enzymes. In addition to the major metabolite 3'-OH-methyl-MFA, resulting from the benzylic hydroxylation by CYP2C9, 4'-hydroxy-MFA and 5-hydroxy-MFA were identified as metabolites resulting from oxidative metabolism of both aromatic rings of MFA. In the presence of GSH, three GSH conjugates were formed that appeared to result from GSH conjugation of the two quinoneimines formed by further oxidation of 4'-hydroxy-MFA and 5-hydroxy-MFA. The major GSH conjugate was identified as 4'-OH-5'-glutathionyl-MFA and was formed at the highest activity by CYP1A2 and to a lesser extent by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. Two minor GSH conjugates resulted from secondary oxidation of 5-hydroxy-MFA and were formed at the highest activity by CYP1A2 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A4. Additionally, the ability of seven human glutathione S-transferases (hGSTs) to catalyze the GSH conjugation of the quinoneimines formed by P450s was also investigated. The highest increase of total GSH conjugation was observed with hGSTP1-1, followed by hepatic hGSTs hGSTA2-2 and hGSTM1-1. The results of this study show that, next to phase II metabolites, reactive quinoneimines formed by oxidative bioactivation might also contribute to the idiosyncratic toxicity of MFA.
The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of verapamil on early versus late reinfarction after an index myocardial infarction. A total of 1775 consecutive patients < 76 years of age, with acute myocardial infarction, included in the Danish Verapamil Infarction Trial II, were followed for 18 months. Reinfarctions during the observation period were retrospectively divided into the 50% earliest occurring and the 50% latest occurring (early and late reinfarction, respectively). Cox regression analysis was applied to assess the significance of clinical baseline variables and treatment group (verapamil vs. placebo) on early, late, and total reinfarction. One hundred and ninety-one reinfarctions were registered during the 18-month observation: 96 in the first 5 months (early) and 95 in the last 13 months (late). On univariate analysis verapamil significantly reduced the rate of total reinfarction (P = 0.04, hazard ratio [HR] = 0.77; 95% confidence Interval [CI] 0.58-1.03) and early reinfarction (P = 0.007, HR 0.56; 95% CI 0.37-0.86), but not late reinfarction (P = 0.99, HR = 1.05; 95% CI 0.70-1.56). In a multivariate model, only the rate of early reinfarction was reduced by verapamil (P = 0.012, HR = 0.59, 95% CI 0.39-0.90). Additionally, predictors of early and late reinfarction were quite different in this model. After an index myocardial infarction verapamil reduces the rate of early but not late reinfarction.
Podocalyxin (Podxl) is a type I membrane sialoprotein of the CD34 family, originally described in the epithelial glomerular cells of the kidney (podocytes) in which it plays an important function. Podxl can also be found in megakaryocytes and platelets among other extrarenal places. The surface exposure of Podxl upon platelet activation suggested it could play some physiological role. To elucidate the function of Podxl in platelets, we generated mice with restricted ablation of the podxl gene in megakaryocytes using the Cre-LoxP gene targeting methodology. Mice with Podxl-null megakaryocytes did not show any apparent phenotypical change and their rates of growth, life span and fertility did not differ from the floxed controls. However, Podxl-null mice showed prolonged bleeding time and decreased platelet aggregation in response to physiological agonists. The number, size-distribution and polyploidy of Podxl-null megakaryocytes were similar to the floxed controls. Podxl-null platelets showed normal content of surface receptors and normal activation by agonists. However, the mice bearing Podxl-null platelets showed a significant retardation in the ferric chloride-induced occlusion of the carotid artery. Moreover, acute thrombosis induced by the i.v. injection of sublethal doses of collagen and phenylephrine produced a smaller fall in the number of circulating platelets in Podxl-null mice than in control mice. In addition, perfusion of uncoagulated blood from Podxl-null mice in parallel flow chamber showed reduced adhesion of platelets and formation of aggregates under high shear stress. It is concluded that platelet Podxl is involved in the control of hemostasis acting as a platelet co-stimulator, likely due to its pro-adhesive properties.
Infusion of terbutaline sulphate (0.25 mg) was followed by increases of plasma insulin and blood glucose concentrations and by a decrease in plasma potassium. Similar metabolic changes were seen on the first day of oral terbutaline administration (5 mg, 3 times daily). Heart rate was moderately increased by terbutaline over the entire period (13 days) of oral dosing. Hand tremor always increased after terbutaline, but to a lesser degree on days 5 and 13 than after the first oral dose. On day 13, there was a very small increase in plasma insulin and no reduction in plasma potassium. Blood glucose increased slightly from an elevated morning value. Plasma terbutaline showed similar maximum concentrations on days 1 and 13. Since the concentration at the effector organs should be at least as high on day 13 as on day 1, these findings indicate that the tolerance was mediated through reduced response of the effector organs.
Dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons in the ventral tegmental area express both KCNQ2 and KCNQ4 channels, which opening is expected to decrease neuronal excitability via neuronal hyper-polarization. Because psychotic symptoms are believed to be associated with an increased excitability of dopamine (DA) cells in the mesencephalon, KCNQ channels might represent a new potential target for the treatment of psychosis. The aim of our study was to investigate the antipsychotic-like potential of KCNQ channel opening via modulation of neuronal activity within the mesolimbic DAergic system. We report that retigabine [N-(2-amino-4-(fluorobenzylamino)-phenyl)carbamic acid ester], a KCNQ opener, dose-dependently reduced basal DA firing rate and more potently suppressed burst firing activity in the ventral tegmental area, whereas XE-991 [10,10-bis(pyridinylmethyl)-9(10H)-anthracenone], a selective KCNQ blocker, induced opposite effects. In addition, retigabine prevented d-amphetamine-induced DA efflux in the nucleus accumbens and d-amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity. In contrast, XE-991 potentiated both the locomotor hyperactivity and DA efflux evoked by d-amphetamine. These data strongly suggest that the activation of KCNQ channels attenuates DAergic neurotransmission in the mesolimbic system, particularly in conditions of excessive DAergic activity. In a model predictive of antipsychotic activity, the conditioned avoidance response paradigm, retigabine was found to inhibit avoidance responses, an effect blocked by coadministration of XE-991. Furthermore, retigabine was found to significantly inhibit the hyperlocomotor response to a phencyclidine (PCP) challenge in PCP-sensitized animals, considered as a disease model for schizophrenia. Taken together, our studies provide evidence that KCNQ channel openers represent a potential new class of antipsychotics.
The brain pathophysiological abnormalities underlying autism remain unclear. Neuroimaging and histological studies suggest cellular abnormalities early in the course of the disease.
To measure the in vivo chemical profile of gray and white matter tissues in autism.
Cross-sectional spectroscopic imaging study comparing 3- to 4-year-old children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) with age-matched comparison groups of children with delayed development (DD) and typical development (TD).
The University of Washington Diagnostic Imaging Sciences Center, Seattle.
Forty-five 3- to 4-year-old children with ASD, 12 age-matched children with DD, and 10 age-matched children with TD.
Estimates of gray and white matter concentrations for choline-containing compounds (Cho), creatine plus phosphocreatine, N-acetylaspartate (NAA), and myo-inositol (mI). Transverse relaxation times for Cho, creatine plus phosphocreatine, and NAA expressed relative to control subjects with TD were examined to evaluate tissue compactness.
The children with ASD demonstrated decreased gray matter concentrations of Cho (P < .001), creatine plus phosphocreatine (P = .02), NAA (P = .02), and mI (P = .008) compared with children with TD. Gray matter Cho transverse relaxation was also prolonged for the ASD sample compared with the TD group (P = .01). The children with ASD demonstrated significantly decreased levels of Cho (P = .04) and mI (P = .008) and trend-level NAA (P = .09) in gray matter compared with the DD group. For white matter, both children with ASD and children with DD showed a similar pattern of NAA and mI level decreases (for children with ASD vs children with TD: NAA, P = .03; mI, P = .04; for children with DD vs children with TD, NAA, P = .03; mI, P = .07). In several analyses, cerebral volume contributed significantly as a covariate.
Reduced gray matter chemical concentrations and altered Cho transverse relaxation, in a pattern distinct from that in children with DD, suggest decreased cellularity, or density, at this early time point in ASD. Possibly reflecting shared developmental features, white matter results were common to ASD and DD groups. The relationship between cerebral volume and neurochemistry at this early time point may indicate processes related to unit scaling.
Arterial effects evaluated by carotid-femoral, brachial-radial, and femoral-tibial pulse wave velocity and antihypertensive effect evaluated by 24-h ambulatory blood pressure (BP) monitoring were measured in 17 hypertensive patients before and 24 h after once-daily nitrendipine (20 mg) administration. After a 15-day placebo period, a double-blind study of nitrendipine versus placebo was performed for 1 month. After nitrendipine dosing, BP measured by sphygmomanometer 24 h after the last drug intake showed a significant decrease as compared with the pretreatment period. Ambulatory BP mean values were also significantly decreased for systolic and diastolic BP (SBP, DBP). This decrease predominated during the day but was observed nocturnally only after 6 a.m. Twenty-four hours after the last tablet intake of nitrendipine, carotid-femoral and brachial-radial pulse wave velocities were significantly reduced, whereas femoral-tibial wave velocity was unchanged, indicating that markers of arterial rigidity might be substantially modified and that the modifications were partly unrelated to BP changes. The results provide evidence that in hypertensive subjects nitrendipine 20 mg given once daily for 1 month produces an arterial effect for 24 h, in association with BP reduction.
A double-blind crossover study, with placebo periods preceding each active treatment, was carried out in 29 patients with ischaemic heart disease to compare the clinical efficacy of isosorbide 5-mononitrate 40 mg twice daily and the same regimen of sustained-release isosorbide dinitrate. Assessment was by bicycle ergometry, symptomatology and blood nitrate level measurements. After 2-weeks' therapy with isosorbide 5-mononitrate, mean ST segment depression at the highest comparable exercise level for each patient was reduced by 32.5% (p less than 0.01), the mean maximum exercise level was increased from 87 to 102 Watts (17.8%, p less than 0.01), and mean work capacity was increased from 581 Watts-minutes to 783 Watts-minutes (34.6%, p less than 0.01). With sustained-release isosorbide dinitrate, ST segment depression was reduced by 16.5% (p less than 0.05); maximum exercise level showed only a small non-significant increase, from 89 to 97 Watts (8.6%), but work capacity increased (p less than 0.05) from 593 Watts-minutes to 705 Watts-minutes (18.9%). There was no significant difference between drugs as regards ST segment reduction but a slight difference in favour of isosorbide 5-mononitrate (p less than 0.05) in terms of maximal exercise level and work capacity. Both drugs resulted in very small reductions in blood pressure (p less than 0.001 for systolic with isosorbide 5-mononitrate; p less than 0.01 for systolic and p less than 0.05 for diastolic with sustained-release isosorbide dinitrate). Heart rate and rate-pressure product changed little with either drug.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A multicenter trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of paclitaxel every 2 weeks in patients with advanced or recurrent gastric cancer who had previously received fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy.
The subjects were patients with gastric cancer who had disease progression or recurrence while receiving fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy. All patients had adequate major organ functions with an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (PS) of 0-2. Paclitaxel 140 mg/m(2) was administered intravenously on days 1 and 15 of a 4-week cycle. The primary endpoint was the response rate. Secondary endpoints were progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival and safety.
Response was assessable in 40 of 41 enrolled patients. Their median age was 63 (range: 48-77) years, and PS was 0 in 22 patients, 1 in 13 and 2 in 5. Previous treatment included S-1 (1 M tegafur-0.4 M gimestat-1 M otastat potassium) monotherapy in 32 patients and S-1-based combination therapy in 5. The median number of administered courses of paclitaxel was 3.5 (1-14). The response rate was 17.5% (95% confidence interval: 7.3-32.8%, partial response: 7, stable disease: 21, progressive disease: 10 and not evaluable: 2). The disease control rate was 70.0%, the median PFS was 111 days and the median overall survival was 254 days. Major adverse events of Grade 3 or 4 were neutropenia (27.5%), anemia (12.5%), diarrhea (2.5%) and sensory neuropathy (2.5%).
Biweekly paclitaxel seemed to be one of the useful chemotherapies after failure of fluoropyrimidine-based treatment in patients with advanced or recurrent gastric cancer.
Baicalin is an important medicinal herb purified from the dry roots of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of baicalin in gerbils subjected to transient global cerebral ischemic-reperfusion injury. Baicalin at doses of 50, 100 and 200mg/kg was intraperitoneally injected into the gerbils immediately after cerebral ischemia. Seven days after reperfusion, hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining was performed to analyze hippocampal CA1 pyramidal damage histopathologically. In addition, in order to understand the potential protective mechanism of baicalin, we examined anti-oxidative enzymes, such superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX), non-enzymatic scavenger glutathione (GSH) and measured the content of malondialdehyde (MDA) in hippocampus. The mRNA and protein expressions of BDNF were determined in ischemic hippocampus by real-time RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. Evidence for neuronal apoptosis was detected by real-time RT-PCR, Western blot and caspase-3 activity measurement. Histopathological examination showed that the administration of baicalin by the dose of 100 and 200mg/kg significantly attenuated ischemia-induced neuronal cell damage. Reduced level of MDA, obviously elevated activities of SOD and GSH as well as GSH-PX were also found in baicalin-treated groups. Further investigation demonstrated that treatment with baicalin remarkably promoted the expression of BDNF and inhibited the expression of caspase-3 at mRNA and protein levels by real-time RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. Besides, caspase-3 activity assay also elucidated that the administration of baicalin could significantly suppress caspase-3 in ischemic gerbils hippocampus. Theses findings suggest that baicalin's neuroprotection appears to be associated with its anti-oxidative and anti-apoptotic properties in global cerebral ischemia in the gerbils.
Previous studies have strongly implicated a role for GABA(B) receptors in modulating the reinforcing effects of cocaine.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the efficacy of two novel positive allosteric modulators of the GABA(B) receptor, CGP7930 and GS39783, to decrease cocaine self-administration in rats responding under various schedules of reinforcement.
Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine under progressive ratio (PR), fixed ratio (FR) and discrete trials (DT) schedules of reinforcement, and the ability of CGP7930 and GS39783 to decrease cocaine-maintained responding was examined.
On a PR schedule, CGP7930 markedly decreased break points maintained by 1.5 mg/kg per injection cocaine in a dose-dependent manner. GS39783 produced only modest decreases in cocaine-reinforced break points, with only the highest dose decreasing break points relative to baseline. On an FR1 schedule of reinforcement, both drugs decreased responding for a threshold dose of cocaine, but did not alter responding for higher doses of cocaine. In a DT procedure, 1.5 mg/kg per injection cocaine was made available during three 10-min trials each hour during 24-h sessions (DT3), engendering a circadian pattern of responding characterized by high numbers of infusions during the dark phase and low numbers of infusions during the light phase. Doses of 30 mg/kg CGP7930, 3.0 mg/kg GS39783 and 2.5 mg/kg baclofen significantly decreased cocaine-maintained responding when administered at the beginning of the dark phase of the cycle. Across all schedules, CGP7930 was more effective at decreasing cocaine self-administration than GS39783, a finding that may be due to differences in bioavailability between the two drugs.
These findings suggest that positive allosteric modulators of the GABA(B) receptor may hold promise as potential pharmacotherapies for cocaine abuse and dependence.
Increased expression of mac25/insulin-like growth factor binding-protein related protein-1 (IGFBP-rP1) in human breast and prostate epithelial cell lines results in the suppression of tumor growth. CDNA expression array analysis revealed increased manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD-2) expression in the mac25/IGFBP-rP1-transfected M12 human prostate cancer cell line compared to M12 control cells. SOD-2 has been postulated to be a tumor suppressor. SOD-2 was also increased in LNCaP cells stably transfected with mac25/IGFBP-rP1, but not in mac25/IGFBP-rP1-transfected PC-3 cells. Mac25 LNCaP cells had a marked decrease in tumor growth in nude mice compared to controls, but there was no difference in tumor growth in mac25 PC-3 cells compared to control. Phosphorylated Erk and Akt were increased in the M12 and LNCaP transfected mac25/IGFBP-rP1 cells but not PC-3 mac25. Inhibition of PI-3 kinase results in a marked decrease in viability of the M12-mac25 cells compared to M12 controls. Cells treated with H(2)O(2) result in an increase in phospho-ERK. Transfection of SOD-2 in M12 cells markedly decreased tumor growth, apoptosis, G1 delay in the cell cycle, and expression of senescence associated beta-galactosidase. These results suggest that one of the downstream mediators of the senescence-associated tumor suppression effect of mac25/IGFBP-rP1 is SOD-2.
Here we report the effects of gentamicin treatment on cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) production and function in CF airway cells and patients with CF with premature stop mutations. Using immunocytochemical and functional [6-methoxy-N- (3-sulfopropyl) quinolinium (SPQ)-based] techniques, ex vivo exposure of airway cells from stop mutation CF patients led to the identification of surface-localized CFTR in a dose-dependent fashion. Next, five patients with CF with stop mutations and five CF control subjects were treated with parenteral gentamicin for 1 wk, and underwent repeated in vivo measures of CFTR function (nasal potential difference [PD] measurements and sweat chloride [Cl(-)] testing). During the treatment period, the number of nasal PD readings in the direction of Cl(-) secretion was increased approximately 3-fold in the stop mutation patient group compared with controls (p < 0.001), and four of five stop mutation patients with CF had at least one reading during gentamicin treatment with a Cl(-) secretory response of more than -5 mV (hyperpolarized). A response of this magnitude was not seen in any of the CF control subjects (p < 0.05). In an independent series of experiments designed to test the ability of repeat nasal PDs to detect wild-type CFTR function, evidence of Cl(-) secretion was seen in 88% of control (non-CF) nasal PDs, and 71% were more than -5 mV hyperpolarized. Together, these results suggest that gentamicin treatment can suppress premature stop mutations in airway cells from patients with CF, and produce small increases in CFTR Cl(-) conductance (as measured by the nasal PD) in vivo.
Although animal experiments have shown that cadmium exposure results in severe dental caries, limited epidemiologic data are available on this issue.
We aimed to examine the relationship between environmental cadmium exposure and dental caries in children 6-12 years of age.
We analyzed cross-sectional data, including urine cadmium concentrations and counts of decayed or filled tooth surfaces, from the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. We used logistic and zero-inflated negative binomial (ZINB) regression to estimate the association between urine cadmium concentrations and caries experience, adjusting these analyses for potential confounders including environmental tobacco smoke (ETS).
Urine cadmium concentrations ranged from 0.01 to 3.38 ng/mL. Approximately 56% of children had experienced caries in their deciduous teeth, and almost 30% had been affected by caries in their permanent dentition. An interquartile range (IQR) increase in creatinine-corrected cadmium concentrations (0.21 microg/g creatinine) corresponded to a 16% increase in the odds of having experienced caries in deciduous teeth [prevalence odds ratio (OR)=1.16; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.96-1.40]. This association was statistically significant in children with low ETS exposure (prevalence OR=1.30; 95% CI, 1.01-1.67). The results from the ZINB regression indicated that, among children with any caries history in their deciduous teeth, an IQR increase in cadmium was associated with 17% increase in the number of decayed or filled surfaces. We observed no association between cadmium and caries experience in permanent teeth.
Environmental cadmium exposure may be associated with increased risk of dental caries in deciduous teeth of children.
Distal symmetrical polyneuropathy and neuromuscular weakness is common neurological problem in recovery phase of acute organophosphate (OP) poisoning. Various types of extra pyramidal syndromes are uncommon sequel after OP poisoning. These are reported to be reversible within few weeks and characteristically associated with normal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In this report we are presenting a case with extra pyramidal syndrome after acute OP poisoning with few interesting MRI changes in striatum.
The present series of three experiments was concerned with the effects of morphine and the morphine antagonist naloxone on the development of a classical aversive heart rate (HR) conditioned response (CR) to a tone conditioned stimulus (CS) paired with an electric shock unconditioned stimulus (US). In the first study, separate groups of rats received preconditioning sc injections of either 0.25 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, or 10 mg/kg of morphine. Three other groups were given 0.1 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, or 10 mg/kg of naloxone alone. All of the morphine groups showed attenuation HR responses to the CS on preconditioning CS-alone trials. During conditioning, the 10-mg/kg morphine group showed a markedly decremented bradycardia CR and tachycardia unconditioned response (UR), whereas the 5-mg/kg morphine group showed a normal CR in combination with a decremented UR. Naloxone had no measurable effects on HR. In the second study, naloxone (1 mg/kg) given after conditioning failed to reverse the CR and UR losses produced by 10 mg/kg of morphine given prior to conditioning. Administration of 10 mg/kg of morphine produced only a minor reduction in a HR CR established in a drug-free state, but the tachycardia UR was severely reduced. The results of the third study showed that 1 mg/kg of naloxone was effective in reversing analgesia induced by 10 mg/kg of morphine, as indexed by the tail-flick test. Taken together, the results suggest that the 10-mg/kg dose of morphine interfered with the learning of a HR CR, perhaps principally by reducing the aversive or emotional consequences of the shock US. Direct cardiovascular effects of morphine seemed to interfere with the performance of the tachycardia UR, but not with the performance of the bradycardia CR.
CP-31398 (N'-[2-[2-(4-methoxyphenyl)ethenyl]-4-quinazolinyl]-N,N-dimethyl-1,3-propanediamine dihydrochloride) is a styrylquinazoline that stabilizes the DNA binding conformation of p53, thereby maintaining the activity of p53 as a transcription factor and tumor suppressor. In consideration of the potential use of p53 stabilizers for cancer prevention and therapy, 28-day studies (with recovery) were performed to characterize the toxicity of CP-31398 in rats and dogs. In the rat study, groups of 15 CD rats/sex received daily gavage exposure to CP-31398 at 0, 40, 80, or 160mg/kg/day (0, 240, 480, or 960mg/m(2)/day). In the dog study, groups of five beagle dogs received daily gavage exposure to CP-31398 at 0, 10, 20, or 40mg/kg/day (0, 200, 400, or 800mg/m(2)/day). The high dose of CP-31398 induced mortality in both species: seven male rats and four female rats died as a result of hepatic infarcts, and two female dogs died as a result of hepatic necrosis without evidence of thrombosis. No deaths were seen in the mid- or low-dose groups in either species. In dogs, sporadic emesis was seen in the high dose and mid dose groups, and reductions in body weight gain were observed in all drug-exposed groups. CP-31398 induced mild anemia in both species; clinical pathology data also demonstrated hepatic toxicity, renal toxicity, inflammatory reactions, and coagulopathies in rats in the high dose and mid dose groups. Treatment-related microscopic changes in high dose and mid dose rats were identified in the liver, kidney, heart, bone marrow, lung, adrenals, spleen, thymus, skeletal muscle, and ovary; microscopic changes in the liver, heart, lung, and adrenals persisted through the recovery period. In dogs, microscopic changes were identified in the central nervous system, lung, and liver; changes in all tissues remained at the end of the recovery period. The liver is the primary site of limiting toxicity for CP-31398 in rats, and is also a key site of toxicity in dogs. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for subchronic oral administration of CP-31398 is 80mg/kg/day (480mg/m(2)/day) in rats and 20mg/kg/day (400mg/m(2)/day) in dogs. Although only modest and apparently reversible toxicities (microscopic changes in rats; reductions in body weight gain and alterations in red cell parameters in dogs) were seen in the low dose groups, no observed adverse effect levels (NOAELs) for CP-31398 could not be established for either species. The toxicity of CP-31398 suggests that this agent may not be suitable for use in cancer prevention. However, should in vivo antitumor efficacy be achievable at doses that do not induce limiting toxicity, CP-31398 may have utility as a cancer therapeutic. Modification of the primary sites of CP-31398 metabolism (N-demethylation of the alkyl side chain; hydroxylation and O-demethylation of the styryl benzene group) may result in the development of CP-31398 analogs with comparable pharmacologic activity and reduced toxicity.
Acetaminophen, aspirin, and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are widely consumed. Each is theoretically capable of elevating blood pressure by altering prostaglandin homeostasis; however, there is little prospective information on the relation between these agents and physician-diagnosed hypertension. We examined the association between the use of aspirin, acetaminophen, or NSAIDs and incident hypertension in a prospective cohort study of 51 630 women 44 to 69 years of age in 1990 who had no history of hypertension or chronic renal insufficiency. Analgesic use was assessed in 1990 by a mailed questionnaire, and the women were followed for 8 years. The primary outcome was physician-diagnosed hypertension reported on a follow-up biennial questionnaire. During 381 078 person-years of follow-up, 10 579 incident cases of hypertension were identified. Compared with nonusers, women who used aspirin or acetaminophen at least 1 day per month or NSAIDs 5 or more days per month were at a significantly higher risk for development of hypertension. After adjusting for potential confounders, the odds ratios for women in the highest frequency of use category (> or =22 days per month) compared with no use were as follows: aspirin, 1.21 (95% CI, 1.13 to 1.30); acetaminophen, 1.20 (1.08 to 1.33); and NSAIDs, 1.35 (1.25 to 1.46). For each analgesic type, there was a significant trend toward an increased risk of incident hypertension with increasing frequency of use (P<0.001). Given the observed odds ratios, biologic plausibility, and the sizeable population at risk, health professionals should consider potential hypertensive effects of aspirin, acetaminophen, and NSAIDs when counseling their patients about the use of nonnarcotic analgesics.
In patients with Parkinson's disease, the therapeutic efficacy of L-DOPA medication is gradually lost over time, and abnormal involuntary movements, dyskinesias, gradually emerge as a prominent side-effect in response to previously beneficial doses of the drug. Here we show that dyskinesia induced by chronic L-DOPA treatment in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway is critically dependent on the integrity and function of the serotonergic system. Removal of the serotonin afferents, or dampening of serotonin neuron activity by 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B agonist drugs, resulted in a near-complete block of the L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias, suggesting that dysregulated dopamine release from serotonin terminals is the prime trigger of dyskinesia in the rat Parkinson's disease model. In animals with complete dopamine lesions, the spared serotonin innervation was unable to sustain the therapeutic effect of L-DOPA, suggesting that dopamine released as a 'false transmitter' from serotonin terminals is detrimental rather than beneficial. The potent synergistic effect of low doses of 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B agonists to suppress dyskinesia, without affecting the anti-parkinsonian effect of L-DOPA in presence of spared dopamine terminals, suggests an early use of these drugs to counteract the development of dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease patients.
Bromate (BrO(3)(-)) is a drinking water disinfection by-product (DBP) that induces renal cell death via DNA damage-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Drinking water contains other DBPs in addition to BrO(3)(-). We tested the effect of two of these, sodium chlorite (NaClO(2)) and bromochloroacetic acid (BCAA), on BrO(3)(-) cytotoxicity in normal rat kidney (NRK) cells. NaClO(2) and BCAA alone induced cytotoxicity at concentrations of over 20ppm, while BrO(3)(-) was only moderately cytotoxic at concentrations of 200ppm. Combining BrO(3)(-) with NaClO(2) or BCAA alone enhanced cytotoxicity 1.5-4 fold. Exposing cells to all three compounds induced synergistic-like increases in cytotoxicity. This effect did not correlate to increases in reactive oxygen species (ROS), even though all three compounds induced ROS formation alone. NaClO(2), but not BCAA, increased BrO(3)(-)-mediated DNA damage as measured by 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) staining. In addition, NaClO(2), but not BCAA, decreased BrO(3)(-)-induced G2/M cell cycle arrest. Both compounds increased apoptosis in the presence of BrO(3)(-) as assessed by annexin V, PI, and DAPI staining. This is in contrast to BrO(3)(-) treatment alone, which induced necrosis. Immunoblot analysis showed that both NaClO(2) and BCAA increased p38 activation; however, consistent with 8-OHdG staining, only NaClO(2) increased BrO(3)(-)-induced histone H2AX phosphorylation, a marker of DNA damage. In contrast, BCAA, but not NaClO(2), increased BrO(3)(-)-induced phosphorylation of p53. These data support the novel finding that mixtures of DBPs increase BrO(3)(-)-induced renal cell death by DNA-dependent and -independent mechanisms, and could alter how the risk of these DBPs towards humans is assessed.
The modifying potential of ethyl tertiary-butyl ether (ETBE) on tumor development was investigated in a medium-term multi-organ carcinogenesis bioassay using male F344 rats. Animals were sequentially given 5 carcinogens with different target sites in the first 4 weeks for multi-organ initiation. After one week they received ETBE by gavage at dose levels of 0 (control), 300 or 1000mg/kg/day until experimental week 28. Further groups were also given ETBE at doses of 0 or 1000mg/kg/day without prior carcinogen application. Incidences and multiplicities of follicular cell hyperplasias and neoplasms in the thyroid were significantly increased at dose levels of more than 300mg/kg/day. Combined incidences of squamous cell hyperplasias and papillomas of the forestomach were also significantly increased at 300 and 1000mg/kg/day. Incidences and multiplicities of adenocarcinomas in the colon were increased at 1000mg/kg/day. The numbers and areas of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci per unit area of the liver sections, and the incidence of hepatocellular adenomas were also significantly increased at 1000mg/kg/day, along with multiplicities of atypical hyperplasias of renal tubules of the kidney and the incidence of papillomatosis of the urinary bladder. This latter lesion was also seen at low incidence at 1000mg/kg/day without initiation. Thus, the current results indicate that ETBE has tumor promoting potential for the thyroid and forestomach at dose levels of 300mg/kg/day and more, and for the colon, liver, kidney and urinary bladder at 1000mg/kg/day, under the present experimental conditions.
