Nicotine-induced seizure sensitivity was assessed in 19 inbred mouse strains. Two routes of drug administration were utilized: acute intravenous (IV) infusion and intraperitoneal (IP) injection. Dose-response curves for sensitivity to IP nicotine-induced seizures were constructed for the 19 inbred strains and a heterogeneous stock (HS/Ibg) of mice. Differences were observed among the strains both in ED50 values and slopes of the dose-response curves following IP injection of nicotine. ST/bJ mice were the most sensitive having an ED50 of 2.34 +/- 0.09 mg/kg nicotine. DBA/1J mice were the most resistant strain with an ED50 value of 6.16 +/- 0.02 m/kg nicotine. Latency to clonic seizure was measured in the 19 inbred mouse strains using the acute IV route of drug administration. Again, ST/bJ mice were the most sensitive and DBA/2Ibg were the most resistant to IV nicotine-induced seizures. Significant correlations were observed between latency to IV nicotine-induced seizures and both ED50 values and the slope of the dose-response curves for IP nicotine-induced seizures. However, the pattern of results differed between the two routes of drug administration. The relationship between seizure sensitivity and nicotinic receptor concentration in three brain regions, cortex, midbrain and hippocampus, was also assessed using alpha-bungarotoxin (BTX) as the ligand. A significant relationship was observed between BTX binding in the three brain regions and sensitivity to IV nicotine-induced seizures such that strains with greater concentrations of BTX binding sites were more sensitive to nicotine-induced seizures than were strains with lower concentrations of BTX binding sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We compared the effects of telmisartan and olmesartan in 20 patients with chronic heart failure and metabolic syndrome. The subjects underwent once-daily 40 mg telmisartan for at least 3 months before switching to once-daily 20 mg olmesartan for the next 3 months (post 1). They were then treated with 3 months of once-daily 40 mg telmisartan (post 2). Systolic and diastolic blood pressure in the early morning, plasma B-type natriuretic peptide, serum total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride levels were increased at post 1 (p < 0.005, p < 0.05, p < 0.05, p < 0.05, p < 0.05, and p < 0.005 vs. baseline, respectively) before returning to their baseline values at post 2. The changes in plasma B-type natriuretic peptide levels correlated significantly with the shifts in systolic and diastolic blood pressure in the early morning at posts 1 and 2. Meanwhile, there were no fluctuations in either blood pressure in the late evening or in the outpatient room; nor were there fluctuations in heart rate. Simultaneously, neither serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol nor fasting blood sugar levels differed significantly between posts. Moreover, telmisartan had more beneficial effects on glucose and lipid profiles in patients with relatively high HbA1c, serum total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride levels. Therefore, we concluded that telmisartan was more beneficial than olmesartan for controlling blood pressure in the early morning, as well as for improving glucose and lipid profiles in patients with hypertension, chronic heart failure, and metabolic syndrome.
The use of oral contraceptives is a well-established acquired risk factor for venous thrombosis. In 1995, a number of epidemiological studies were published which suggested that women who use third generation oral contraceptives that contain desogestrel or gestodene as progestagen are exposed to a two- to threefold higher risk for venous thrombosis than women using second generation oral contraceptives which contain levonorgestrel. In this paper, the effects of oral contraceptives on the haemostatic system are discussed. It appears that plasma from oral contraceptive users is resistant to the anticoagulant action of activated protein C (APC). This phenomenon, called acquired APC resistance, is more pronounced in users of desogestrel or gestodene-containing oral contraceptives than in women who use oral contraceptive pills with levonorgestrel. On the basis of these observations, it was proposed that acquired APC resistance may be the mechanistic basis of the increased risk for venous thrombosis during oral contraceptive use and for the further increased thrombotic risk of third generation oral contraceptive users. Furthermore, the results of a recent cross-over study are discussed. This study indicated that a large number of other haemostatic parameters were changed during oral contraceptive use. Some of these changes were more pronounced on desogestrel-containing oral contraceptives. The cross-over study also showed that the increased fibrinolytic activity during OC use is counterbalanced by an enhanced activity of thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI), a protein that participates in the inhibition of fibrinolysis.
Although benzene is known to be myelotoxic and to cause myeloid leukemia in humans, the mechanism has not been elucidated.
We focused on 1,2,4-benzenetriol (BT), a benzene metabolite that generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) by autoxidation, to investigate the toxicity of benzene leading to leukemogenesis.
After exposing HL-60 human myeloid cells to BT, we investigated the cellular effects, including apoptosis, ROS generation, DNA damage, and protein damage. We also investigated how the cellular effects of BT were modified by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) scavenger catalase, hypochlorous acid (HOCl) scavenger methionine, and 4-aminobenzoic acid hydrazide (ABAH), a myeloperoxidase (MPO)-specific inhibitor.
BT increased the levels of apoptosis and ROS, including superoxide (O2•-), H2O2, HOCl, and the hydroxyl radical (•OH). Catalase, ABAH, and methionine each inhibited the increased apoptosis caused by BT, and catalase and ABAH inhibited increases in HOCl and •OH. Although BT exposure increased halogenated DNA, this increase was inhibited by catalase, methionine, and ABAH. BT exposure also increased the amount of halogenated tyrosines; however, it did not increase 8-oxo-deoxyguanosine.
We suggest that BT increases H2O2 intracellularly; this H2O2 is metabolized to HOCl by MPO, and this HOCl results in possibly cytotoxic binding of chlorine to DNA. Because myeloid cells copiously express MPO and because halogenated DNA may induce both genetic and epigenetic changes that contribute to carcinogenesis, halogenative stress may account for benzene-induced bone marrow disorders and myeloid leukemia.
The use of agents to prevent the onset of and/or the progression to breast cancer has the potential to lower breast cancer risk. We have previously shown that the tumor-suppressor gene p53 is a potential mediator of hormone (estrogen/progesterone)-induced protection against chemical carcinogen-induced mammary carcinogenesis in animal models. Here, we show for the first time a breast cancer-protective effect of chloroquine in an animal model. Chloroquine significantly reduced the incidence of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea-induced mammary tumors in our animal model similar to estrogen/progesterone treatment. No protection was seen in our BALB/c p53-null mammary epithelium model, indicating a p53 dependency for the chloroquine effect. Using a human nontumorigenic mammary gland epithelial cell line, MCF10A, we confirm that in the absence of detectable DNA damage, chloroquine activates the tumor-suppressor p53 and the p53 downstream target gene p21, resulting in G(1) cell cycle arrest. p53 activation occurs at a posttranslational level via chloroquine-dependent phosphorylation of the checkpoint protein kinase, ataxia telangiectasia-mutated (ATM), leading to ATM-dependent phosphorylation of p53. In primary mammary gland epithelial cells isolated from p53-null mice, chloroquine does not induce G(1) cell cycle arrest compared with cells isolated from wild-type mice, also indicating a p53 dependency. Our results indicate that a short prior exposure to chloroquine may have a preventative application for mammary carcinogenesis.
1. We have studied the effects of three betaAR ligands (carvedilol, alprenolol, and ICI-118551) with different pharmacological profiles and negative efficacy at the beta2AR on cardiac in vivo, in vitro, biochemical and gene expression parameters in mice with permanent occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. 2. Cardiac in vivo parameters were determined using Doppler studies. Mitral-wave E peak velocity (EPV) and aortic peak velocity (AoPV) decreased in the first 2 weeks postocclusion. After 3 weeks of drug treatment, EPV was improved in the carvedilol group to preocclusion values; however, a further reduction in EPV in the alprenolol and control permanent occlusion group was measured and there was no change after ICI-118551 treatment. AoPV was unchanged between weeks 2 and 5 in all groups. 3. The left atria were isolated to record isometric tension responses to isoprenaline. Permanent occlusion significantly reduced the maximum isoprenaline response to 30% of control and carvedilol increased the maximum response to isoprenaline significantly to 60%. 4. The biochemical and gene expression studies revealed different effects of the three betaAR ligands. Most notably, carvedilol reduced gene expression of myosin heavy chain beta. 5. These results indicate that chronic treatment with carvedilol is beneficial in a mouse model of myocardial damage resulting from ischaemia. We hypothesise that these beneficial effects of the drug may be because of the negative efficacy at the beta2AR, combined with beta1AR antagonism.
Very few patients have been described with isolated 17,20-lyase deficiency who have had their mutations in P450c17 (17alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase) proven by DNA sequencing and in vitro characterization of the mutations. Most patients with 17,20-lyase deficiency have mutations in the domain of P450c17 that interact with the electron-donating redox partner, P450 oxidoreductase (POR).
Our objective was to clarify the genetic and functional basis of isolated 17,20-lyase deficiency in familial cases who were previously reported as having 17,20-lyase deficiency.
Four undervirilized males of an extended Bedouin family were investigated. One of these has previously been reported to carry mutations in the CYP17A1 gene encoding P450c17 causing isolated 17,20-lyase deficiency.
Serum hormones were evaluated before and after stimulation with ACTH. Urinary steroid metabolites were profiled by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Exons 1 and 8 of CYP17A1 previously reported to harbor mutations in one of these patients and all 15 coding exons of POR were sequenced.
Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) urinary steroid profiling and serum steroid measurements showed combined deficiencies of 17,20-lyase and 21-hydroxylase. Sequencing of exons 1 and 8 of CYP17A1 in two different laboratories showed no mutations. Sequencing of POR showed that all four patients were homozygous for G539R, a previously studied mutation that retains 46% of normal capacity to support the 17alpha-hydroxylase activity but only 8% of the 17,20-lyase activity of P450c17.
POR deficiency can masquerade clinically as isolated 17,20-lyase deficiency.
Resveratrol, a natural phytoestrogen found in red wine and a variety of plants, is reported to have protective effects against lung cancer; however, there is little work directed toward the understanding of the mechanism of its action in this disease. In this study, we used a combination of experimental approaches to understand the biological activity and molecular mechanisms of resveratrol. Microarray gene expression profiling and high-throughput immunoblotting (PowerBlot) methodologies were employed to gain insights into the molecular mechanisms of resveratrol action in human lung cancer cells. In this report, we confirm the up-regulation of p53 and p21 and the induction of apoptosis by the activation of the caspases and the disruption of the mitochondrial membrane complex. We show the arrest of A549 cells in the G(1) phase of cell cycle in the presence of resveratrol and also report alterations in both gene and protein expressions of cyclin A, chk1, CDC27, and Eg5. Furthermore, the results indicated that resveratrol action is mediated via the transforming growth factor-beta pathway, particularly through the Smad proteins. Results showed the down-regulation of the Smad activators 2 and 4 and the up-regulation of the repressor Smad 7 as a result of resveratrol treatment. Resveratrol is a potent inhibitor of A549 lung cancer cell growth, and our results suggest that resveratrol may be a promising chemopreventive or chemotherapeutic agent for lung cancer.
Glucocorticoids (GCs), despite having many undesirable side effects, remain effective for the treatment of many inflammatory diseases and are commonly used as benchmark drugs in animal models of disease. However, the molecular mechanisms underling systemic GC effects in these models are poorly characterized. In this study, prednisolone and dexamethasone were evaluated in the fully established Lewis rat adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) model. In AIA, adjuvant administration induced polyarticular and systemic inflammation, which included spleen and liver. In the liver, multifocal hepatic granulomas were observed. To characterize the systemic response and the pathways responsible for GC effects, histology, transcriptional profiling, and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were performed. There was a decrease in the incidence and histologic severity score for granulomas with GC treatment. There was no effect on cellular composition of granulomas as assessed by IHC for CD3+ lymphocytes, macrophages, and B cells, but there was a significant reduction in infiltrating lymphocytes in the hepatic parenchyma. By Affymetrix microarray analysis, 10% of hepatic transcripts were altered (P<.01) in livers from AIA rats, with ~31% of them partially reversed with treatment with dexamethasone and ~13% with prednisolone. Many of these altered hepatic transcripts correspond to human genes that are dysregulated in the synovium in human rheumatoid arthritis (RA), indicating that the rat AIA model shares features with human RA. These data establish molecular changes in the liver and the effect of GCs in rat AIA, which can be used to aid in understanding the mechanism of action of novel anti-inflammatory compounds in this animal model.
A practical monitoring procedure utilizing frequencies higher than those tested by conventional audiometry for the detection of ototoxicity has the potential for preventing or minimizing irreversible communication deficits in patients receiving aminoglycoside antibiotic therapy. If ototoxicity produced by these drugs could be detected before it progresses to involve the frequencies essential for communication, it might be possible to lower the dose or to change to another antibiotic to prevent a permanently handicapping hearing impairment. From a total of 77 patients monitored by serial audiograms, three case studies illustrate the various types of auditory sensitivity changes observed with high-frequency audiometry. Ototoxicity was generally detected by high-frequency auditory testing before it could be detected by conventional audiometric procedures. These cases demonstrate the utility of monitoring audition at frequencies higher than those tested conventionally in patients receiving aminoglycoside antibiotics.
The effects of repeated electroconvulsive shock (ECS) and/or lidocaine treatment in the rat were studied by means of biochemical markers: GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein), NCAM (neural cell adhesion molecule), NSE (neuron specific enolase) and D3-protein. In adult rats given daily either ECS alone or in combination with lidocaine (experiment 1) we found that ECS significantly increased the concentration of the glial marker GFAP in limbic areas: hippocampus, amygdala, and piriform cortex. The maximal increase in GFAP was found in the piriform cortex (77%). In both piriform cortex and amygdala ECS also induced a significant decrease in D3-protein (a marker of mature synapses), but no change in NCAM (especially enriched in newly formed synapses). In piriform cortex the ratio between NCAM and D3-protein was significantly increased (4%) by ECS. The lidocaine treatment, which induced seizures in some of the animals, was without significant effect on the biochemical markers. However, multiple lidocaine-induced seizures (experiment 2) were found to be associated with a significant increase in GFAP in amygdala and piriform cortex. The study shows that seizures, whether electrically or pharmacologically induced, activate astrocytes in certain brain regions. This activation is especially pronounced in the piriform cortex and may be caused by a particularly marked synaptic vulnerability and remodeling in this area, as demonstrated by the increased NCAM/D3-ratio. Synaptic remodeling and activation of astrocytes may well influence brain function and could play a role in the chain of neurobiological events underlying the clinical effects of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT).
Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation is a rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by iron deposition in the basal ganglia and neuroaxonal dystrophy. Familial cases with mutations in the pantothenate kinase gene are associated with a specific phenotype. In contrast, sporadic cases are heterogeneous in their clinical presentation.
To describe an atypical case of sporadic late-onset neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation.
Case report of a patient who presented with psychiatric features at age 22 years followed by progressive gait disturbance, extrapyramidal symptoms, epilepsy, and corticospinal tract involvement.
Magnetic resonance imaging showed iron deposition in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra. Cortical biopsy revealed Lewy bodies with predominant alpha-synuclein and less extensive tau-positive neurites.
Our findings in association with previously reported cases suggest that cortical neuritic and Lewy body pathology is a feature of atypical neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation, clinically characterized by adult onset and psychiatric symptoms. These observations raise the possibility that these cases of atypical neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation represent a distinct clinicopathological syndrome and suggest a molecular link between iron deposition and alpha-synuclein accumulation.
Hamsters were experimentally infected with Leishmania garnhami and then treated for 10 days with N-methyl-glucamine antimoniate (Glucantime); 60 mg/kg/day by intramuscular (im) or intralesional (il) routes. Hydride generation-atomic absorption spectroscopy was used to determine the concentrations of SbIII and SbV in the blood serum and total Sb in the tissues of the hamsters from 1 to 30 days after initiation of the treatment. Serum concentrations of SbIII and SbV were always similar. Total Sb concentrations were significantly higher in the relatively parasite-rich spleen and lesion than in any other tissue, whether treatment had been given im or il. Reduction of SbV to SbIII is probably associated with decreasing size and healing of the leishmanial ulcers. Tissue Sb kinetics is related to Leishmania behaviour and attention is drawn to the use of antimonial pentavalent compounds for diseases, other than leishmaniasis, that can affect the heart, liver and/or spleen, such as Chagas disease.
Bladder infections are very common in otherwise healthy women, and short-course antimicrobial treatment appears effective for many episodes of cystitis. This study reports the results of short-course ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole therapy.
We performed a randomized, double-blind study of the efficacy and safety of a 3-day course of oral ciprofloxacin 100 mg twice daily, ofloxacin 200 mg twice daily, or trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole 160/800 mg twice daily in women with acute, uncomplicated, symptomatic lower urinary tract infection.
A total of 866 patients were enrolled, of whom 688 (79%) were evaluated for the efficacy of treatment (229 treated with ciprofloxacin, 228 treated with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, and 231 treated with ofloxacin). The most frequent reason for exclusion was the failure to identify a pretreatment pathogen. The most commonly isolated pathogen was Escherichia coli (81%). Eradication of the pretreatment pathogen at the end of therapy occurred in 94% of ciprofloxacin, 93% of trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, and 97% of ofloxacin-treated patients. At follow-up evaluation at 4 to 6 weeks, recurrence rates (relapse or reinfection) were 11% in the ciprofloxacin, 16% in the trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, and 13% in the ofloxacin treatment group. Clinical success at the end of therapy was 93% in the ciprofloxacin, 95% in the trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, and 96% in the ofloxacin treatment groups. The frequency of all adverse events was 31% for ciprofloxacin, 41% for trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, and 39% for ofloxacin-treated patients (P = 0.03). Premature discontinuation of study drug due to an adverse event was more common in trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole-treated patients (n = 9) compared with those given ciprofloxacin (n = 2) or ofloxacin (n = 1; P = 0.02).
Ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole had similar efficacy when given for 3 days to treat acute, symptomatic, uncomplicated lower urinary tract infection in women.
Continuous exposure to doxorubicin (DOX) accelerates hyposensitivity to the drug-elicited lethality of gastric cells, with increased risks of the recurrence and serious cardiovascular side effects. However, the detailed mechanisms underlying the reduction of DOX sensitivity remain unclear. In this study, we generated a DOX-resistant variant upon continuously treating human gastric cancer MKN45 cells with incremental concentrations of the drug, and investigated whether the gain of DOX resistance influences gene expression of four aldo-keto reductases (AKRs: 1B10, 1C1, 1C2 and 1C3). RT-PCR analysis revealed that among the enzymes AKR1B10 is most highly up-regulated during the chemoresistance induction. The up-regulation of AKR1B10 was confirmed by analyses of Western blotting and enzyme activity. The DOX sensitivity of MKN45 cells was reduced and elevated by overexpression and inhibition of AKR1B10, respectively. Compared to the parental MKN45 cells, the DOX-resistant cells had higher migrating and invasive abilities, which were significantly suppressed by addition of AKR1B10 inhibitors. Zymographic and real-time PCR analyses also revealed significant increases in secretion and expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 2 associated with DOX resistance. Moreover, the overexpression of AKR1B10 in the parental cells remarkably facilitated malignant progression (elevation of migrating and invasive potentials) and MMP2 secretion, which were lowered by the AKR1B10 inhibitors. These results suggest that AKR1B10 is a DOX-resistance gene in the gastric cancer cells, and is responsible for elevating the migrating and invasive potentials of the cells through induction of MMP2.
Carbachol microinjections into the mesencephalic and pontine reticular formation in rats induced intense and long-lasting catalepsy. Systemically administered haloperidol potentiated, while apomorphine and L-DOPA reduced the cataleptogenic effect of carbachol. These results indicate the existence of functional relations between the cholinergic cataleptogenic mechanism in the reticular formation and the dopaminergic system. They are interpreted in the light of known anatomical ascending and descending interconnections between the reticular formation and basal ganglia.
In the rodent liver, hepatocarcinogens inhibit the glucocorticoid induction of several liver-specific genes, including tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT). A distinct positive correlation exists in mice between the extent of inhibition of TAT induction after acute administration of o-aminoazotoluene (OAT) and the frequency of liver tumors after chronic exposure to the carcinogen. To elucidate the mechanism of the carcinogenic action, the effects of OAT on the DNA-binding activity of several transcription factors participating in the glucocorticoid regulation of TAT gene expression were studied. The experimental inbred male mice were sensitive (A/He and SWR/J, tumor induction frequency of 75-100%, TAT induction inhibition of 35-50%) and resistant (CC57BR/Mv and AKR/J, 0-6% and 10-15%, respectively) to OAT. Gel retardation experiments showed that hepatocyte nuclear factor 3 (HNF3)gamma DNA-binding activity was strongly reduced in nuclear extracts from the livers of OAT-treated A/He and SWR/J mice but only slightly reduced in CC57Br/Mv and AKR/J mice. The DNA-binding activities of Ets, AP1 family members, and GME binding proteins were unaffected. HNF3gamma DNA-binding activity was reduced by 1 h after OAT administration and remained low for 1 mo, as did inhibition of TAT induction in the liver. These results suggested that the inhibitory effect of OAT on the glucocorticoid induction of TAT is mediated by reduced HNF3gamma DNA-binding activity.
Acute interstitial nephritis due to Dyazide therapy, ie, a combination of hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg) and triamterene (50 mg), has been recently reported in the literature. This had been characterized by nonoliguric renal failure after a long latent period (weeks) following exposure to the drug. Pathologic data have indicated a drug-induced hypersensitivity reaction. We report here one case of oliguric acute renal failure after a massive Dyazide intoxication. Based on the results of the renal biopsy and clinical course, we propose that the oliguria was secondary to a direct toxic effect on the tubules, and intrarenal obstruction was secondary to triamterene crystals and crystal-laden cells. In addition, pathologic findings also suggested a moderate hypersensitivity reaction. After hemodialysis and short-term steroid therapy, the patient achieved complete recovery of renal function within 12 days. Recent knowledge of triamterene-induced nephrolithiasis helps to explain the pathogenesis of acute renal failure in this patient, and is briefly reviewed here.
An 18-year-old man with mild factor VIII deficiency developed hematuria and, subsequently, acute renal failure due to high-grade urinary obstruction by clots during therapy with cryoprecipitate, epsilon-aminocaproic acid, and acetazolamide administered for ocular trauma. Discontinuation of therapy with the latter two agents and induction of a brisk diuresis with intravenous (IV) fluid therapy resulted in return of renal function concomitant with spontaneous clot passage. A review of previous literature suggests that hemophiliacs may be more susceptible than nonhemophiliacs to high-grade urinary obstruction due to clot formation when epsilon-aminocaproic acid is administered during episodes of hematuria. Acute flank pain, fever, and delayed dense nephrograms on IV pyelogram are characteristic of the syndrome and distinguish it from other forms of acute renal failure associated with epsilon-aminocaproic acid.
Lormetazepam, an investigational hypnotic, was evaluated for efficacy and withdrawal phenomena in doses of 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0 mg in four separate sleep laboratory protocols, each including four placebo baseline nights, seven drug nights, and three placebo withdrawal nights. A moderate degree of efficacy was shown across the four doses, but this was quite variable. There was no dose-response effect for efficacy for either the first three or last three nights of this short-term administration period. In general, there was less efficacy on the later drug nights, indicating a potential for the development of tolerance over a relatively short period of time. Following drug withdrawal, there was a dose-related worsening of sleep above baseline levels (rebound insomnia). The peak degree of worsening of sleep following drug withdrawal was more than two times greater than the peak degree of improvement of sleep with drug administration.
1. The marine product cacospongionolide B, a sesterterpene isolated from the Mediterranean sponge Fasciospongia cavernosa, is an inhibitor of secretory phospholipase A(2) with anti-inflammatory properties. In this work, we have studied the mechanism of action of this compound in the inflammatory response induced by zymosan in primary cells and in the mouse air pouch. 2. In mouse peritoneal macrophages, cacospongionolide B was able to downregulate the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), resulting in decreased production of NO and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)). This compound also reduced tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) mRNA expression and TNF-alpha levels. 3. Cacospongionolide B inhibited nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB)-DNA binding activity and the nuclear translocation of this transcription factor. 4. Treatment of cells with cacospongionolide B impaired NF-kappaB inhibitory protein (IkappaB-alpha) phosphorylation and enhanced IkappaB-alpha expression. 5. Inhibition of iNOS, COX-2 and inflammatory mediators was confirmed in the mouse air pouch. 6. These results show that cacospongionolide B is able to control NO, PGE(2) and TNF-alpha production in vitro and in vivo, effects likely dependent on NF-kappaB inhibition.
Cyclophosphamide (CYP) is an antineoplastic agent used for the treatment of many neoplastic and inflammatory diseases. Hemorrhagic cystitis is a frequent side effect of CYP. Several studies show that simvastatin has important pleiotropic (anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory) effects. The purpose of the study was to investigate the effect of simvastatin on bladder, ureter and kidney injury caused by CYP.
Adult male Wistar rats were randomly divided into three groups. The CYP/SIM group received simvastatin microemulsion by gavage during 7 days (10 mg/kg body wt) before the administration of CYP and the CYP/SAL group rats received saline 0.9%. The control rats were not treated. After that, all rats were treated with a single dose of CYP 200 mg/kg body wt intraperitoneally. The rats were killed 24 h after CYP administration. Plasma cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6) were measured by ELISA. Macro and light microscopic study was performed in the bladder, kidney and ureter.
In the bladders of CYP/SIMV treated rats edema of lamina propria with epithelial and sub-epithelial hemorrhage were lower than in CYP/SAL treated rats. The scores for macroscopic and microscopic evaluation of bladder and ureter were significantly lower in CYP/SIMV rats than in CYP/SAL rats. The kidney was not affected. The expression of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 was significatly lower in CF/SINV rats (164.8 + or - 22, 44.8 + or - 8 and 52.4 + or - 13) than in CF/SAL rats (378.5 + or - 66, 122.9 + or - 26 e 123.6 + or - 18), respectively.
The results of the current study suggest that simvastatin pretreatment attenuated CYP-induced urotelium inflammation and decreased the activities of cytokines.
Melanoma is the most aggressive skin cancer and a serious health problem worldwide because of its increasing incidence and the lack of satisfactory chemotherapy for late stages of the disease. The marine depsipeptide Aplidin (plitidepsin) is an antitumoral agent under phase II clinical development against several neoplasias, including melanoma. We report that plitidepsin has a dual effect on the human SK-MEL-28 and UACC-257 melanoma cell lines; at low concentrations (</=45 nM), it inhibits the cell cycle by inducing G(1) and G(2)/M arrest, whereas at higher concentrations it induces apoptosis as assessed by poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage and the appearance of a hypodiploid peak in flow cytometry analyses. Plitidepsin activates Rac1 GTPase and c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK). In addition, it induces AKT and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation. By using inhibitors, we found that JNK and p38 MAPK activation depends on Rac1 but not on phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), whereas AKT activation is independent of Rac1 but requires PI3K activity. Plitidepsin cytotoxicity diminishes by Rac1 inhibition or by the blockage of JNK and p38 MAPK using 4-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-(4-methylsulfinylphenyl)-5-(4-pyridyl)1H-imidazole (SB203580), but not by PI3K inhibition using wortmannin or 2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenyl-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one (LY294002). It is remarkable that plitidepsin and dacarbazine, the alkylating agent most active for treating metastatic melanoma, show a synergistic antiproliferative effect that was paralleled at the level of JNK activation. These results indicate that Rac1/JNK activation is critical for cell cycle arrest and apoptosis induction by plitidepsin in melanoma cells. They also support the combined use of plitidepsin and dacarbazine in in vivo studies.
The United States Food and Drug Administration-approved antibiotic doxycycline (DOX) inhibits matrix metalloproteases, which contribute to the development of cardiac hypertrophy (CH). We hypothesized that DOX might serve as a treatment for CH. The efficacy of DOX was tested in two mouse models of CH: induced by the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol (ISO) and induced by transverse aortic banding. DOX significantly attenuated CH in these models, causing a profound reduction of the hypertrophic phenotype and a lower heart/body weight ratio (p < 0.05, n >/= 6). As expected, ISO increased matrix metalloprotease (MMP) 2 and 9 activities, and administration of DOX reversed this effect. Transcriptional profiles of normal, ISO-, and ISO + DOX-treated mice were examined using microarrays, and the results were confirmed by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Genes (206) were differentially expressed between normal and ISO mice that were reversibly altered between ISO- and ISO + DOX-treated mice, indicating their potential role in CH development and DOX-induced improvement. These genes included those involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and fate, stress, and immune responses, cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix organization, and cardiac-specific signal transduction. The overall gene expression profile suggested that MMP2/9 inactivation was not the only mechanism whereby DOX exerts its beneficial effects. Western blot analysis identified potential signaling events associated with CH, including up-regulation of endothelial differentiation sphingolipid G-protein-coupled receptor 1 receptor and activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase, p38, and the transcription factor activating transcription factor-2, which were reduced after administration of DOX. These results suggest that DOX might be evaluated as a potential CH therapeutic and also provide potential signaling mechanisms to investigate in the context of CH phenotype development and regression.
The potent tumor promoter 12-0-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate (TPA) and phenobarbital (PB) were tested for their abilities to promote effect of these agents on the in vitro malignant transformation of the fetal rat brain cells exposed in utero to Ethylnitrosourea (ENU). Rat fetal brain cells were transferred to cultured system at 72 hours after single pulse of ENU (50 mg/kg B. W.) to pregnant SD-JCL rats on the 18th day of gestation. Primary cultured cells were divided into 20 groups, and graded doses of PB from 1.0 mM to 5.0 mM or that of TPA from 0.1 ng/ml to 50.0 ng/ml were added continuously into cultured medium. In the ENU group treated with TPA, it was found the results of more early appearance of "piled up focus" for about 90 days, more early capacity of colony formation in semisolid soft agar for about 110 days, and more early appearance of tumorigenicity for about 90 days than that in the ENU groups treated with or without acetone. An increased agglutinability to Concanavalin A (200 micrograms/ml) was appeared more early in the ENU groups treated with TPA than in the ENU groups. On the basis of these results, it is suggested that TPA promoted the in vitro malignant transformation of the fetal rat brain cells with a transplacental carcinogen of ENU, and TPA might effect as a tumor promoter on the neurogenic carcinogenesis. As for the mechanisms of the promoting effect of TPA, it is speculated that TPA might modulate the function of cell membrane from the results of Concanavalin A agglutinability, and might modulate the differentiation on cell function from the results of morphological analysis.
The nature of morphine-induced urinary retention was studied in anesthetized rats in which the bladder contraction accompanying micturition could be observed. Morphine (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.) prolonged the micturition interval and increased the level of micturition threshold. Morphine (1 mg/kg, i.v.) completely inhibited bladder contraction and bladder pressure was elevated until solution leaked from the penis, but the bladder pressure after inhibition by morphine (1 and 5 mg/kg, i.v.) did not significantly rise over the peak pressure level during micturition before injection of morphine. The inhibitory effect of morphine (1 and 5 mg/kg, i.v.) was reversed by naloxone (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.). Morphine (5 mg/kg, i.v.) did not increase the pressure induced by infusion of solution from near the bladder neck to the urethra. After intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) and intrathecal (i.t.) administration of morphine (1 microgram), the micturition interval was prolonged and the level of micturition threshold was increased. Morphine (5 micrograms, i.c.v. and i.t.) inhibited bladder contraction and naloxone (5 micrograms, i.c.v. and i.t.) reversed the inhibitory effect of morphine injected by the same administration route. From these results, urinary retention induced by systematically injected morphine was considered to result from inhibition of bladder function mediated via opioid receptors of the micturition centers in the supraspinal and spinal regions.
Peroxisome biogenesis disorders, including Zellweger syndrome (ZS), neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD) and infantile Refsum disease, are lethal hereditary diseases caused by abnormalities in peroxisomal assembly. To date, 12 genotypes have been identified. We now have evidence that the complete human cDNA encoding Pex13p, an SH3 protein of a docking factor for the peroxisome targeting signal 1 receptor (Pex5p), rescues peroxisomal matrix protein import and its assembly in fibroblasts from PBD patients of complementation group H. In addition, we detected mutations on the human PEX13 cDNA in two patients of group H. A severe phenotype of a ZS patient (H-02) was homozygous for a nonsense mutation, W234ter, which results in the loss of not only the SH3 domain but also the putative transmembrane domain of Pex13p. A more mildly affected NALD patient (H-01), whose fibroblasts showed the temperature-sensitive (TS) phenotype, was homozygous for a missense mutation in the SH3 domain of Pex13p, I326T. This mutant PEX13 cDNA expression in a PEX13-defective CHO mutant showed I326T to be a TS mutation and thus suggested that Pex13p with the I326T mutation in the SH3 domain is stable at 30 degrees C but is somewhat unstable at 37 degrees C.
Risks and benefits involved in the use of lindane preparations for the treatment of scabies and head louse infestations are evaluated. Although lindane per si is moderately toxic, capable of inducing neurotoxic and hemotoxic effects, there is little evidence that the preparations used in the treatment of scabies and pediculosis give rise to toxic symptoms when applied according to directions. Current evidence does not support the view that lindane is intrinsically carcinogenic, although very high doses have induced hepatomas in mice. It is concluded that the benefits obtained in the use of lindane as a scabicide and pediculicide outweigh risks involved in its use for these purposes. Comparison with other preparations available for the control of scabies and pediculosis indicate that lindane is probably the most effective scabicide, although it also shows the greatest toxic potential. Malathion and pyrethrin preparations seem equally effective against head lice. Suggestions for even safer use of lindane are discussed.
