In order to investigate the potential effects of microcystin-LR (MC-LR) on the expression of metalloproteinases (MMPs), Mice were orally administered with MC-LR in drinking water (0, 1, 40 and 80 μg/L) for 180 d, and hepatic MMP-2/-9 expression was evaluated at the levels of enzyme activity, protein level and mRNA expression. Histopathologic observation showed the obvious hepatic lymphocyte infiltration and fatty degeneration in the mice exposed to 40 and 80 μg/L MC-LR. Immunohistochemical staining and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) revealed that excess MMP-2/-9 proteins were produced in livers of the mice exposed to MC-LR at the higher concentrations. Hepatic MMP-9 level was elevated from 0.6 ng/g liver weight in control to 1.4 ng/g liver weight in 80-μg/L group, but a slight increase was found for MMP-2 level. Real time PCR showed that MMP-2/-9 mRNA expression was up-regulated by 6.9 fold and 5.0 fold after 80-μg/L-MC treatment, respectively. MMP-2/-9 expression showed a good dose-dependent manner at both protein and mRNA levels. ELISA demonstrated that MC-LR stimulated phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases, a potential signal transduction pathway of the MMP-2/-9 expression alteration. This study revealed a significant alteration in hepatic MMP-2/-9 expression induced by MC-LR, which might be involved in cell invasion and metastasis.
Renal failure and ototoxicity developed in two patients following wound irrigation with neomycin. In both patients the renal failure was reversible, but the deafness was progressive despite withdrawal of the neomycin. In one patient the serum neomycin concentration was still markedly elevated (42 microgram/ml) 2 days after use of the drug was discontinued. The authors suggest that irrigation of large open wounds with neomycin is dangerous since toxic blood concentrations may ensue. The benefits conferred by neomycin irrigation should be weighed against the possible danger of permanently impaired hearing.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of docetaxel in patients with paclitaxel-resistant metastatic breast cancer (MBC).
Docetaxel (100 mg/m2) was administered every 3 weeks to 46 patients registered at four centers. Patients had previously received < or = two chemotherapy regimens for MBC. All patients had progressive disease while receiving paclitaxel therapy. Treatment was repeated until there was evidence of disease progression or for a maximum of three cycles after best response.
Objective responses were seen in eight of 44 assessable patients (18.1%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 6.7% to 29.5%). Seven patients had partial responses and one patient responded completely. Response rates were not significantly different by previously received paclitaxel dose or resistance. No responses were seen in 12 patients who had previously received paclitaxel by 24-hour infusion, but the response rate in 32 patients who had received paclitaxel by 1- to 3-hour infusion was 25%. The median response duration was 29 weeks and the median time to disease progression was 10 weeks. Median survival was 10.5 months. Clinically significant (severe) adverse events included neutropenic fever (24% of patients), asthenia (22%), infection (13%), stomatitis (9%), neurosensory changes (7%), myalgia (7%), and diarrhea (7%).
Docetaxel is active in patients with paclitaxel-resistant breast cancer, particularly in those who failed to respond to brief infusions of paclitaxel. Response rates were comparable to or better than those seen with other therapies for patients with paclitaxel-resistant MBC. This confirms preclinical studies, which indicated only partial cross-resistance between paclitaxel and docetaxel.
A patient underwent an emergency Caesarean section under general anaesthesia for an antepartum haemorrhage. Following delivery of a live infant, cyclizine was administered in accordance with departmental anti-emetic protocol. On awakening she was confused, slow to articulate and had slurred speech. A computed tomography (CT) scan, which was performed to exclude an intracranial event, was normal. Her symptoms were suggestive of a lingual-facial-buccal dyskinesia as seen with dopamine antagonists. A presumptive diagnosis of a dystonic reaction to cyclizine was made. She received two doses of procyclidine before her symptoms completely resolved. Cyclizine has had a resurgence in popularity owing to the recent withdrawal of droperidol and anaesthetists should be aware that, although extremely rare, dystonic reactions may occur with this agent.
A case of cortical blindness developed in an infant who suffered from congenital adrenal hyperplasia and was hospitalized for enteritis is reported. The severe but transient hypertension recorded raises the possibility that the increased doses of steroid administered may have contributed to the pathogenesis of visual impairment.
Aneuploidy, a chromosomal numerical abnormality in the conceptus or fetus, occurs in at least 5% of all pregnancies and is the leading cause of early pregnancy loss in humans. Accumulating evidence now suggests that the correct segregation of chromosomes is affected by events occurring in prophase during meiosis I. These events include homologous chromosome pairing, sister-chromatid cohesion, and meiotic recombination. In our current study, we show that mutations in SYCP3, a gene encoding an essential component of the synaptonemal complex that is central to the interaction of homologous chromosomes, are associated with recurrent pregnancy loss. Two out of 26 women with recurrent pregnancy loss of unknown cause were found to carry independent heterozygous nucleotide alterations in this gene, neither of which was present among a group of 150 fertile women. Analysis of transcripts from minigenes harboring each of these two mutations revealed that both affected normal splicing, possibly resulting in the production of C-terminally mutated proteins. The mutant proteins were found to interact with their wild-type counterpart in vitro and inhibit the normal fiber formation of the SYCP3 protein when coexpressed in a heterologous system. These data suggest that these mutations are likely to generate an aberrant synaptonemal complex in a dominant-negative manner and contribute to abnormal chromosomal behavior that might lead to recurrent miscarriage. Combined with the fact that similar mutations have been previously identified in two males with azoospermia, our current data suggest that sexual dimorphism in response to meiotic disruption occurs even in humans.
A case history of treatment with verapamil for verapamil-sensitive ventricular tachycardia with a left bundle branch block pattern is reported. Verapamil suppresses and prevents supraventricular tachycardias. Idiopathic ventricular tachycardias of the left ventricular outflow tract origin are verapamil sensitive. In this case sustained ventricular tachycardia was developed suddenly a year later after ablation, despite the treatment with low dosage verapamil (80 mg/tid). The restoration of Sinus rhythm was not obtained by electrical cardioversion, but was achieved with high dosage verapamil (360 mg/daily). This case proves pharmacological therapy with verapamil is still the treatment of choice for idiopathic left ventricular tachycardia because of a good long term prognosis. Radiofrequency ablation is effective and safe with no complication recorded.
Although doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine (ABVD) is considered the standard chemotherapy regimen for Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL), information on the results of this therapy in human immunodeficiency (HIV)-related HL is scarce. We analyzed the results of the ABVD regimen and highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in patients with advanced stage, HIV-related HL.
From January 1996 to December 2005, 62 HIV-infected patients with newly diagnosed HL were treated in 15 Spanish hospitals. Six to eight cycles of ABVD and HAART were planned. Response to chemotherapy, overall survival (OS) and event-free survival (EFS) were recorded.
The median age of the patients was 37 years (range, 24-61) and 29 (47%) had a previously known diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. The median CD4 lymphocyte count at diagnosis was 129/muL (range 5-1,209). The histologic subtype of HL was nodular sclerosis in 17 patients (27%), mixed cellularity in 25 (41%), lymphocyte depletion in 10 (16%) and non-specified in the remaining 10 (16%). Twenty-one (34%) patients were in stage III and 41 (66%) in stage IV. The scheduled six to eight ABVD cycles were completed in 82% of cases. Six patients died during induction, 54 (87%) achieved a complete response (CR) and two were resistant. After a median follow-up of 39 and 47 months, 5-year EFS and OS probabilities were 71% (47-95) and 76% (65-87), respectively. An immunological response was observed in 24 out of 43 patients (56%) and a virological response in 27 out of 40 (68%). The immunological response to HAART had a positive impact on OS and EFS (p=0.002 and p=0.001, respectively).
In patients with advanced stage, HIV-related HL, treatment with ABVD together with HAART is feasible and effective. This supports the concept that patients with HIV-related HL should be treated in the same way as immunocompetent patients if HAART, adequate supportive therapy and anti-infectious prophylaxis are given concomitantly. An immunological response to HAART has a positive impact on OS and EFS.
RU486 (mifepristone) followed by a prostaglandin (PG) analogue has been marketed in France since April 1990 as a medical alternative to surgery for early pregnancy termination. By law, the drug is used only in the centres approved for voluntary pregnancy termination, and its distribution is strictly controlled. Before being marketed, it was distributed to more than 20,000 women, as part of a training programme for the prescribers. Analysis confirmed an efficacy rate of 95.3%. Failures included incomplete ovular expulsion (2.8%), premature vacuum aspiration (0.7%) and ongoing pregnancy (1.2%). Pelvic pain and malaise were reported as side-effects in 1.6 and 1.2% of the cases respectively. Infectious complications were reported in 0.2% of the cases. Three severe adverse events (one of which was fatal) occurred, including myocardial infarction and ventricular arhythmia, in the hours following PG administration and justify a careful medical monitoring in the centre 3-4 h after administration of PG. For this reason, a trial was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy of an oral form of a PGE1 analogue (misoprostol). When RU486 was followed 36-48 h later by 400 micrograms of misoprostol, the efficacy rate was 96.9%, indicating an efficacy equivalent to that obtained with the other PG analogues. The distribution procedures were adequately followed by the prescribers and by the patients. In summary, RU486 constitutes a safe and efficient medical means of pregnancy termination, provided that the manufacturer's recommendations are properly followed.
Prostaglandin receptor agonists have intraocular pressure-lowering effects in humans and are of interest in the treatment of glaucoma. The prostanoid receptor agonist PF-04475270 is a potent and selective agonist of the prostaglandin E(2) receptor EP4. This paper characterizes the toxicity associated with topical ocular administration of PF-04475270 in beagles. Dogs were given PF-04475270 topically to the eye on a consecutive daily dosing schedule for one or four weeks followed by a one-or four-week reversal period, respectively. Clinical observations, ophthalmic, and laboratory parameters were recorded. Necropsies were conducted at the end of the dosing and recovery phases, and histologic examinations performed. Corneal neovascularization that was considered adverse was observed at doses of >or=1.0 microg/eye and was not reversed by the end of the recovery phase. Dogs dosed with >or=0.25 microg/eye developed a dose-related conjunctival hyperemia that persisted throughout the reversal period. Corneal neovascular cells stained positive with EP4 and the endothelial biomarker Factor VIII-vWF. Other histopathology findings observed at doses of >or=1.0 microg included single-cell necrosis and neutrophils in the cornea, inflammatory cell infiltrates in the iris/ciliary body, and iridal endothelial cell hypertrophy. A resolving acute to subacute inflammation in the iris/ciliary body was observed after the four-week recovery period.
During postnatal skeletal growth, adaptation to mechanical loading leads to cellular activities at the growth plate. It has recently become evident that bone forming and bone resorbing cells are affected by the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) inhibitor imatinib mesylate (STI571, Gleevec®). Imatinib targets PDGF, ABL-related gene, c-Abl, c-Kit and c-Fms receptors, many of which have multiple functions in the bone microenvironment. We therefore studied the effects of imatinib in growing bone. Young rats were exposed to imatinib (150mg/kg on postnatal days 5-7, or 100mg/kg on postnatal days 5-13), and the effects of RTK inhibition on bone physiology were studied after 8 and 70days (3-day treatment), or after 14days (9-day treatment). X-ray imaging, computer tomography, histomorphometry, RNA analysis and immunohistochemistry were used to evaluate bone modeling and remodeling in vivo. Imatinib treatment eliminated osteoclasts from the metaphyseal osteochondral junction at 8 and 14days. This led to a resorption arrest at the growth plate, but also increased bone apposition by osteoblasts, thus resulting in local osteopetrosis at the osteochondral junction. The impaired bone remodelation observed on day 8 remained significant until adulthood. Within the same bone, increased osteoclast activity, leading to bone loss, was observed at distal bone trabeculae on days 8 and 14. Peripheral quantitative computer tomography (pQCT) and micro-CT analysis confirmed that, at the osteochondral junction, imatinib shifted the balance from bone resorption towards bone formation, thereby altering bone modeling. At distal trabecular bone, in turn, the balance was turned towards bone resorption, leading to bone loss.
The usefulness of diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DT-MRI) is still in debate, and the development of clinically feasible scan protocol is encouraged. The purpose of this study was to investigate the afferent fiber system to the cerebellum in patients with phenytoin (PHT)-induced cerebellar atrophy in comparison with cerebellar atrophy of other etiologies by using DT-MRI.
Thirteen patients (M/F ratio, 7:6; mean age, 42.5 years) and age-matched normal controls (n = 8) participated in this study. The patient group consisted of epilepsy patients who had received PHT therapy (n = 9) and clinically diagnosed as having olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA; n = 4). DT-MRI was performed by using diffusion weighting of b = 600 s/mm2, and fractional anisotropy (FA) and color-coded vector maps were generated. FA of the middle cerebellar peduncle (MCP), the cerebellum, and transverse pontine fibers (TPF) was measured and compared between PHT and OPCA patients.
Normal subjects showed FA values of 0.81 +/- 0.07 in MCP, 0.69 +/- 0.04 in TPF, and PHT users showed FA values of 0.84 +/- 0.09 in MCP, 0.72 +/- 0.08 in TPF, and 0.21 +/- 0.04 in cerebellum. OPCA patients showed FA values of 0.39 +/- 0.11 in MCP, 0.46 +/- 0.12 in TPF, and 0.22 +/- 0.07 in cerebellum. PHT users showed a statistically significant reduction of FA only in cerebellum, whereas OPCA demonstrated significant decrease of FA in MCP, TPF, and cerebellum (one-way analysis of variance, p < 0.01). Three-dimensional reconstruction of fiber tracts demonstrated decreased volume and altered fiber integrity within the peduncles and transverse pontine fibers in the OPCA group, whereas fiber course patterns in PHT users were similar to those in controls.
PHT users showed normal orientation and anisotropy of MCP and TPF, whereas OPCA demonstrated impaired values, suggesting that PHT directly affects the cerebellum. DT-MRI can demonstrate detailed fiber configurations in degenerative diseases of brainstem and cerebellum and provides insight into the pathomechanisms of cerebellar atrophy.
Human epidermis is routinely subjected to DNA damage induced by UVB solar radiation. Cell culture studies have revealed an unexpected role for C/EBPα (CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein-α) in the DNA damage response network, where C/EBPα is induced following UVB DNA damage, regulates the G(1) checkpoint, and diminished or ablated expression of C/EBPα results in G(1) checkpoint failure. In the current study we observed that C/EBPα is induced in normal human epidermal keratinocytes and in the epidermis of human subjects exposed to UVB radiation. The analysis of human skin precancerous and cancerous lesions (47 cases) for C/EBPα expression was conducted. Actinic keratoses, a precancerous benign skin growth and precursor to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), expressed levels of C/EBPα similar to normal epidermis. Strikingly, all invasive SCCs no longer expressed detectable levels of C/EBPα. To determine the significance of C/EBPα in UVB-induced skin cancer, SKH-1 mice lacking epidermal C/EBPα (CKOα) were exposed to UVB. CKOα mice were highly susceptible to UVB-induced SCCs and exhibited accelerated tumor progression. CKOα mice displayed keratinocyte cell cycle checkpoint failure in vivo in response to UVB that was characterized by abnormal entry of keratinocytes into S phase. Our results demonstrate that C/EBPα is silenced in human SCC and loss of C/EBPα confers susceptibility to UVB-induced skin SCCs involving defective cell cycle arrest in response to UVB.
Highly invasive tumor cells are characterized by a metabolic switch, known as the Warburg effect, from "normal" oxidative phosphorylation to increased glycolysis even under sufficiently oxygenated conditions. This dependence on glycolysis also confers a growth advantage to cells present in hypoxic regions of the tumor. One of the key enzymes involved in glycolysis, the muscle isoform of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH-A), is overexpressed by metastatic cancer cells and is linked to the vitality of tumors in hypoxia. This enzyme may be considered as a potential target for new anticancer agents, since its inhibition cuts cancer energetic and anabolic supply, thus reducing the metastatic and invasive potential of cancer cells. We have discovered new and efficient N-hydroxyindole-based inhibitors of LDH-A, which are isoform-selective (over LDH-B) and competitive with both the substrate (pyruvate) and the cofactor (NADH). The antiproliferative activity of these compounds was confirmed on a series of cancer cell lines, and they proved to be particularly effective under hypoxic conditions. Moreover, NMR experiments showed that these compounds are able to reduce the glucose-to-lactate conversion inside the cell.
Lung disorders induced by inhaled inorganic particles such as crystalline silica are characterized by chronic inflammation and pulmonary fibrosis. Here, we demonstrate the importance of type I interferon (IFN) in the development of crystalline silica-induced lung inflammation in mice, revealing that viruses and inorganic particles share similar signaling pathways. We found that instillation of silica is followed by the upregulation of IFN-beta and IRF-7 and that granulocytes (GR1(+)) and macrophages/dendritic cells (CD11c(+)) are major producers of type I IFN in response to silica. Two months after silica administration, both IFNAR- and IRF-7-deficient mice produced significantly less pulmonary inflammation and chemokines (KC and CCL2) than competent mice but developed similar lung fibrosis. Our data indicate that type I IFN contributes to the chronic lung inflammation that accompanies silica exposure in mice. Type I IFN is, however, dispensable in the development of silica-induced acute lung inflammation and pulmonary fibrosis.
We evaluated the anti-diabetic effects of ginsenoside Re in adult male C57BL/6J ob/ob mice. Diabetic ob/ob mice with fasting blood glucose levels of approximately 230 mg/dl received daily intraperitoneal injections of 7, 20 and 60 mg/kg ginsenoside Re for 12 consecutive days. Dose-related effects of ginsenoside Re on fasting blood glucose levels were observed. After the 20 mg/kg treatment, fasting blood glucose levels were reduced to 188+/-9.2 and 180+/-10.8 mg/dl on Day 5 and Day 12, respectively (both P<0.01 compared to vehicle group, 229+/-9.5 and 235+/-13.4 mg/dl, respectively). The EC(70) of ginsenoside Re was calculated to be 10.3 mg/kg and was used for subsequent studies. Consistent with the reduction in blood glucose, there were significant decreases in both fed and fasting serum insulin levels in mice treated with ginsenoside Re. With 12 days of ginsenoside treatment, glucose tolerance of ob/ob mice increased significantly, and the area under the curve for glucose decreased by 17.8% (P<0.05 compared to vehicle treatment). The hypoglycemic effect of the ginsenoside persisted even at 3 days of treatment cessation (blood glucose levels: 198+/-13.1 with ginsenoside treatment vs. 253+/-20.3 mg/dl with vehicle, P<0.01). There were no significant changes in body weight or body temperature. Preliminary microarray analysis revealed differential expression of skeletal muscle genes associated with lipid metabolism and muscle function. The results suggest that ginsenoside Re may prove to be useful in treating type 2 diabetes.
Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is attributable to mutations in the gene coding for 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase. Low to absent enzyme activity accounts for the accumulation of both 7-dehydrocholesterol and 8-dehydrocholesterol in plasma and other tissues. Since oxysterols can participate in the regulation of cholesterol homeostasis, we examined the possibility that they are formed from these dehydrocholesterol intermediates. In patients with SLOS, we found serum levels of 27-hydroxy-7-dehydrocholesterol ranging from 0.1 to 0.25micro M and evidence for circulating levels of 27-hydroxy-8-dehydrocholesterol (0.04-0.51 micro M). Picomolar quantities of 27-hydroxy-7-dehydrocholesterol were identified in normal individuals. Biologic activities of 27-hydroxy-7-dehydrocholesterol were found to include inhibition of sterol synthesis and the activation of nuclear receptor LXRalpha but not that of LXRbeta. These activities occurred at concentrations found in plasma and presumably at those existing in tissues. Thus, patients with SLOS have increased levels of metabolites derived from intermediates in cholesterol synthesis that are biologically active and may contribute to the regulation of cholesterol synthesis in vivo.
The effects of angiotensin converting-enzyme inhibitor, benazepril, on diastolic function in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy, with (n = 4) or without (n = 11) mitral regurgitation, were examined with the time-volume curve of the left ventricle derived from cine magnetic resonance images. Peak filling rate/end-systolic volume and ejection fraction were increased in the group without regurgitation (p < 0.01) but not in the group with regurgitation after treatment. There was a strong correlation between peak filling rate/end-systolic volume and ejection fraction (r = 0.89) and between the change in peak filling rate/end-systolic volume and that in ejection fraction after treatment (r = 0.74) in the group without regurgitation. These findings suggest that in some patients with dilated cardiomyopathy benazepril has favorable effects on diastolic function, which seem to be related to improvement in systolic function. This drug may not be as beneficial in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy complicated by mitral regurgitation.
The Oral Contraception Study of the Royal College of General Practitioners is a long-term, controlled, prospective survey which is not in its 14th year. The substantial data accumulated permits assessment of the effects of particular brands upon morbidity. We have shown that the progestogen content of the Pill is associated with the incidence of hypertension, benign breast disease and, more important, of total arterial disease. The data support the findings of other investigators who have shown that progestogens lower HDL-cholesterol levels and that low HDL-cholesterol increases the risk of arterial disease. The implications are that the progestogen content of an oral contraceptive and the relative potency of estrogen and progestogen it contains must be considered carefully not only in terms of present clinical practice, but also in terms of the direction of new Pill formulation development.
It is well known that long-term exposure to psychostimulants induces neuronal plasticity. Recently, accumulating evidence suggests that astrocytes may actively participate in synaptic plasticity. In this study, we found that in vitro treatment of cortical neuron/glia co-cultures with either methamphetamine (METH) or morphine (MRP) caused the activation of astrocytes via protein kinase C (PKC). Purified astrocytes were markedly activated by METH, whereas MRP had no such effect. METH, but not MRP, caused a long-lasting astrocytic activation in cortical neuron/glia co-cultures. Furthermore, MRP-induced behavioral sensitization to hyper-locomotion was reversed by 2 months of withdrawal following intermitted MRP administration, whereas behavioral sensitization to METH-induced hyper-locomotion was maintained even after 2 months of withdrawal. Consistent with this cell culture study, in vivo treatment with METH, which was associated with behavioral sensitization, caused a PKC-dependent astrocytic activation in the cingulate cortex and nucleus accumbens of mice. These findings provide direct evidence that METH induces a long-lasting astrocytic activation and behavioral sensitization through the stimulation of PKC in the rodent brain. In contrast, MRP produced a reversible activation of astrocytes via neuronal PKC and a reversibility of behavioral sensitization. This information can break through the definition of drugs of abuse and the misleading of concept that morphine produces a long-lasting neurotoxicity.
A case of fatal acute hepatic vein thrombosis occurred during treatment for Hodgkin's disease. At necropsy no evidence of Hodgkin's disease or obliterative venoocclusive disease of the liver was found. We speculate that Adriamycin, DTIC and/or vinblastine may have been responsible for this unusual disorder.
Hard-metals are made of tungsten carbide (WC) and metallic cobalt (Co) particles and are important industrial materials produced for their extreme hardness and high wear resistance properties. While occupational exposure to metallic Co alone is apparently not associated with an increased risk of cancer, the WC-Co particle mixture was shown to increase the risk of lung cancer in exposed workers. We have previously shown that WC-Co specifically induces a burst of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and in vitro mutagenic/apoptogenic effects in human peripheral blood mononucleated cells (PBMC) used as a validated experimental model. In the present study, PBMCs were treated during a short period (15 min) to focus on the very rapid ROS burst induced by WC-Co. We investigated by microarray the response to WC-Co versus Co(2+) ions (CoCl(2)) after 15 min exposure and found that the oxidative stress response HMOX1 gene was highly expressed in WC-Co-treated samples. This result was confirmed by qRT-PCR, and western blotting was carried out to analyze translational and post-translational regulation of genes belonging to the HMOX1 pathway. We show here that WC-Co, and metallic Co particles although with slower kinetics, but not CoCl(2) or WC alone, induced a temporally ordered cascade of events. This cascade implies p38/MAP kinase activation, HIF-1α stabilization, HMOX1 transcriptional activation, and ATM-independent p53 stabilization. These events, and in particular HIF-1α stabilization, could contribute to the carcinogenic activity of WC-Co dusts.
Melamine is an important and widely used organic industrial chemical. Recently, clinical findings of renal failure and kidney stones in infants have been associated with ingestion of melamine-contaminated infant formula. To understand the toxicity and clinical outcome of melamine exposure, repeated oral dose studies in rats and monkeys were performed to characterize the subchronic toxicity of melamine. Assessment of toxicity was based on mortality, clinical signs, body weights, ophthalmic findings, clinical pathology, gross pathology, organ weights, and microscopic observations. The first rat study was intended to be a 14-day oral study followed by an 8-day recovery period. The dose levels were 140, 700, and 1,400 mg/kg/day (lowered to 1,000 mg/kg/day subsequently due to mortality). Oral administration of melamine at 700 mg/kg/day for 14 consecutive days in rats produced compound-related clinical signs (red urine), decreased body weights, and changes in clinical pathology (increased serum urea nitrogen and creatinine) and anatomical pathology (renal tubular cell debris, crystal deposition, and hyperactive regeneration of renal tubular epithelium). The kidney was identified as the target organ. Oral administration at 1,400 mg/kg/day (subsequently lowered to 1,000 mg/kg/day) resulted in animal death and moribundity. There were no treatment-related findings in the 140 mg/kg/day group. There were no compound-related findings in the high-dose recovery animals. The second rat study was a 5-day oral toxicity study with genomic biomarkers assayed in the kidney tissues. At the top dose of 1,050 mg/kg/day, similar clinical and anatomical pathology findings as described above were observed. The genes measured, Kim-1, Clu, Spp1, A2m, Lcn2, Tcfrsf12a, Gpnmb, and CD44, were significantly up-regulated (fivefold to 550-fold), while Tff3 was significantly down-regulated (fivefold). These results indicated that genomic markers could sensitively diagnose melamine-induced kidney injury. A 3-month oral study with 4-week recovery in monkeys was also conducted. In this monkey study, the animals were treated with melamine at doses of 60, 200, or 700 mg/kg/day. The administration of 700 mg/kg/day melamine by nasal-gastric gavage to monkeys resulted in test article-related clinical signs including turbid and whitish urine, urine crystals, red blood cell changes, increased serum alanine aminotransferase and kidney and/or liver weights, and microscopic findings including nephrotoxicity, pericarditis, and increased hematopoiesis. Nephrotoxicity was also noted at 200 mg/kg/day. It was concluded that the kidney is the primary target organ and the NOAEL was estimated to be 140 mg/kg/day in rats following a 14-day oral administration and 60 mg/kg/day in the monkey study.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) agonists, such as the thiazolidinediones (TZDs), decrease acute inflammation in both pancreatic cell lines and mouse models of acute pancreatitis. Since PPAR-gamma agonists have been shown to exert some of their actions independent of PPAR-gamma, the role of PPAR-gamma in pancreatic inflammation has not been directly tested. Furthermore, the differential role of PPAR-gamma in endodermal derivatives (acini, ductal cells, and islets) as opposed to the endothelial or inflammatory cells is unknown. To determine whether the effects of a TZD, rosiglitazone, on caerulein-induced acute pancreatitis are dependent on PPAR-gamma in the endodermal derivatives, we created a cell-type specific knock out of PPAR-gamma in pancreatic acini, ducts, and islets. PPAR-gamma knockout animals show a greater response in some inflammatory genes after caerulein challenge. The anti-inflammatory effect of rosiglitazone on edema, macrophage infiltration, and expression of the proinflammatory cytokines is significantly decreased in pancreata of the knockout animals compared with control animals. However, rosiglitazone retains its effect in the lungs of the pancreatic-specific PPAR-gamma knockout animals, likely due to direct anti-inflammatory effect on lung parenchyma. These data show that the PPAR-gamma in the pancreatic epithelia and islets is important in suppressing inflammation and is required for the anti-inflammatory effects of TZDs in acute pancreatitis.
We studied whether Pycnogenol (PYC) may attenuate the development of experimental streptozotocin-induced diabetic cardiomyopathy in rat. In addition, we aimed to study whether PYC affects cardiac oxidative stress and the protein expression of reactive oxygen species (ROS)-producing molecules (gp91(phox)-containing NADPH oxidase and NO-signalling proteins). Experimental diabetes mellitus was manifested by hyperglycaemia and impaired cardiac function estimated using left ventricular catheterisation in vivo. PYC lowered fasting plasma glucose and normalized basal cardiac function. Excessive oxidative stress in streptozotocin (STZ) hearts, evidenced by 40% increase (P < 0.05) of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) concentration, was associated with increased expression of gp91(phox) (by 75%, P < 0.05), iNOS (by 40%, P < 0.05) and alpha-tubulin (by 49%, P < 0.05), but unchanged expression of eNOS and its alosteric regulators, as compared to CON. PYC failed to affect these expression abnormalities. Our study shows that PYC corrects diabetic cardiac dysfunction, probably by its metabolic and direct radical scavenging activity without affecting the molecular maladaptations of ROS-producing enzymes and cytoskeletal components.
Astrocytes are relatively resistant to injury compared to neurons and oligodendrocytes. Here, we report transient region-specific loss of astrocytes in mice early after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). In the dentate hilus, immunoreactivity for glial acidic fibrillary protein (GFAP) was decreased, and the number of healthy appearing GFAP- or S100beta-positive cells was significantly reduced (> or =65%) 1 and 3 days after pilocarpine-induced SE. Many remaining GFAP-positive cells were shrunken, and 1 day after SE electron microscopy revealed numerous electron-dense degenerating astrocyte processes and degenerating glial somata in the hilus. Degeneration of GFAP-expressing cells may be linked to hilar neuronal death, because we did not observe loss of astrocytes after kainate-induced SE, after which hilar neurons remained intact. Ten days after SE, hilar GFAP immunoreactivity had returned, partially from GFAP-positive cells in the hilus. Unlike control mice, many GFAP-positive hilar processes originated from cell bodies located in the subgranular zone (SGZ). To investigate whether proliferation contributes to hilar repopulation, we injected 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) 3 days after SE. Five hours later and up to 31 days after SE, many BrdU/GFAP colabeled cells were found in the hilus and the SGZ, some with hilar processes, indicating that proliferation in both areas contributes to generation of hilar astrocytes and astrocyte processes. In contrast to pilocarpine-induced SE in mice, astrocyte degeneration was not found after pilocarpine-induced SE in rats. These findings demonstrate astrocyte degeneration in the mouse dentate hilus specifically in the mouse pilocarpine epilepsy model, followed by astrogenesis leading to hilar repopulation.
Amino acids 5 and 7, two potent and selective competitive GluR5 KA receptor antagonists, exhibited high GluR5 receptor affinity over other glutamate receptors. Their ester prodrugs 6 and 8 were orally active in three models of pain: reversal of formalin-induced paw licking, carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia, and capsaicin-induced mechanical hyperalgesia.
In order to study the presence of possible renal damage, 12 patients who had been chronically treated with 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol therapy, 1,25(OH)2D3, for hypoparathyroidism, pseudohypoparathyroidism, and hypophosphatemic rickets were examined by renal ultrasound. Two patients had normal values while 10 subjects showed nephrocalcinosis (NC) of mild, medium, or severe degree. The echographic results have been related to some calcium-phosphorus metabolism and therapeutic parameters. In those subjects with medium to severe NC, the age at the beginning of therapy was significantly younger and the dose of 1,25(OH)2D3 was significantly higher, than in the other patients. Laboratory data were not predictive of NC. Renal ultrasound is, therefore, a useful means of screening to detect even early stages of NC; its use in the follow-up is also recommended.
