In the present study, the protective role of purified C-phycoerythrin (C-PE) against diabetic complications and Cu-mediated lipoprotein oxidation was evaluated. C-PE (25 and 50 mg/kg body weight per d) was administered to experimental streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced type 2 diabetic male rats for 28 d. C-PE treatment successfully ameliorated diabetic complications by decreasing food intake, organ weights, serum concentrations of glucose, cholesterol, TAG, VLDL-cholesterol, creatinine, uric acid and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), with increases in body weight, Hb, total protein, bilirubin and ferric-reducing ability of plasma values. Hepatic and renal tissues demonstrated significant decreases in TBARS, lipid hydroperoxide and conjugated diene contents, with increases in superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, reduced glutathione, vitamin E and vitamin C levels. Furthermore, the 4-week ex vivo and in vitro administration of C-PE (0.5 and 1.0 mg/ml) indicated a decrease in Cu-mediated serum oxidation. The kinetics of the LDL oxidation profile showed significant prolongation of the lag phase with declines in oxidation rate, conjugated dienes, lipid hydroperoxide and TBARS. Results indicated the involvement of C-PE in the amelioration of diabetic complications by significant reductions in oxidative stress and oxidised LDL-triggered atherogenesis.
Acute renal failure is a well recognized complication from the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in patients with severe bilateral renovascular disease. A 54-year-old woman presented with acute pulmonary edema with intractable hypertension and a history of lower limb claudication. The addition of lisinopril to her antihypertensive regimen resulted, within 48 h, in the development of acute renal failure that remitted with cessation of the drug. She was found to have a heavily calcified occlusion of her aortic arch and another occlusion of the aorta below the renal arteries. Angiography and Doppler ultrasonography showed normal renal arteries. This is the first reported case of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-induced renal failure occurring in a patient with atherosclerotic occlusion of the aorta. The literature on suprarenal aortic occlusion is reviewed to determine the manner of presentation, prevalent risk factors and physical findings that typify this unique clinical entity.
We have examined the anticonvulsant properties of propofol in high doses in two experimental models of status epilepticus: generalized pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced seizures and partial, cortically applied penicillin G-induced seizures. Propofol was administered either as a single bolus injection or as a bolus injection followed by an infusion for 1 h. When administered as a single bolus injection, propofol 12 mg kg-1 suppressed electrical and clinical seizures in PTZ generalized epileptic status, and an infusion of 50 mg kg-1 h-1 prevented the reappearance of electrical and clinical signs. In focal epileptic status, the single dose stopped paroxysmal activity and the associated clonic jerks for a few seconds. When the bolus dose was followed by an infusion, the firing bursts were replaced by isolated spikes, and contralateral jerks became sporadic and feeble. The greater efficacy of propofol against PTZ convulsions may be a reflection of the opposite action of the two drugs on neural membrane conductance: PTZ induces paroxysmal neural discharge by enhancing membrane conductance while propofol appears to decrease membrane conductance, thus suppressing paroxysmal discharge. There was no close relationship between blood concentration of the anaesthetic and its clinical effects, at least after a short-term infusion, as used in the present experiments. We suggest that propofol may be a potentially useful drug in status epilepticus in patients in whom benzodiazepines, barbiturates and phenytoin have failed.
A 21-year-old man presented to the emergency department with atypical chest pain, diaphoresis and shortness of breath. His electrocardiogram revealed ST segment elevation in leads II, III, aVF, V5 and V6, elevated creatine kinase-MB subunit levels and positive troponin I. He denied the use of cocaine, and smoking was his only risk factor for coronary artery disease. The patient was diagnosed with an acute myocardial infarction, yet an emergency coronary angiogram revealed normal coronary arteries. His medication history revealed recent commencement of bupropion for smoking cessation and pseudoephedrine as a nonprescription influenza remedy. It was postulated that this patient experienced acute coronary vasospasm in the presence of these two known sympathomimetic agents. The present case is the first report linking bupropion to an acute coronary syndrome, and one of a few cases associated with pseudoephedrine.
The function of the pancreatic beta-cell is the storage and release of insulin, the main hormone involved in blood glucose homeostasis. The results in this article show that the widespread environmental contaminant bisphenol-A (BPA) imitates 17beta-estradiol (E2) effects in vivo on blood glucose homeostasis through genomic and nongenomic pathways. The exposure of adult mice to a single low dose (10 microg/kg) of either E2 or BPA induces a rapid decrease in glycemia that correlates with a rise of plasma insulin. Longer exposures to E2 and BPA induce an increase in pancreatic beta-cell insulin content in an estrogen-receptor-dependent manner. This effect is visible after 2 days of treatment and starting at doses as low as 10 microg/kg/day. After 4 days of treatment with either E2 or BPA, these mice developed chronic hyperinsulinemia, and their glucose and insulin tolerance tests were altered. These experiments unveil the link between environmental estrogens and insulin resistance. Therefore, either abnormal levels of endogenous estrogens or environmental estrogen exposure enhances the risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and dyslipidemia.
Seventy patients with rosacea were treated with systemic tetracycline for 6 months. Sixty-eight of them cleared with treatment. After withdrawal of the drug seventeen relapsed immediately and the overall relapse rate over 4 years was 69%. The serum tetracycline levels were not significantly different in two patients who failed to respond. Six patients had rosacea keratitis and responded dramatically within 1 month. Symptoms recurred as the drug was withdrawn. It is suggested that rosacea patients with keratitis should receive early and prolonged tetracycline medication.
A patient with severe liver disease and mildly obnormal but stable renal function was given cimetidine on two occasions for gastrointestinal hemorrhage. In each course, dosing was initiated at half the recommended dosage of 600 mg daily, and mental status deteriorated shortly after dosing began. A further dosage decrease to 300 mg daily allowed continuation of cimetidine therapy in absence of mental status alterations. In this patient, mental status changes occurred at lower serum concentrations than we have previously reported. This discrepancy was explained by analysis of cimetidine CSF concentrations, as this patient had abnormally high cimetidine blood to CSF permeability. Although the cause of increased CSF concentrations is unclear, cimetidine-associated mental confusion was dose related and completely reversible upon a decrease in dosage. Patients who develop cimetidine-associated mental status changes and who cannot have treatment stopped may be safely treated by individualizing the dosing rate.
The most common toxicity in clinical trials with 5-FU, in mono or polychemotherapy, is stomatitis, diarrhea, hand-foot syndrome. In this case report, the 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) cardiotoxicity, an uncommon 5-FU-related toxicity, has been investigated. Cardiotoxicity reports are uncommon because the problem is not well known. This study is also a review of the recent literature and it recommend to take care in prescribing chemotherapy to patients with heart disease history.
To confirm a microarray study that suggested that Kindlin-2 might play a role in the development and progression of bladder cancer. There has been no previous examination of Kindlin-2 expression in human bladder cancer.
A combination of real-time polymerase chain reaction, Western analysis, and immunohistochemistry was used to characterize Kindlin-2 expression in arsenite (As(+3))- and cadmium (Cd(+2))-transformed human cell lines, their tumor transplants in immunocompromised mice, and in archival specimens of human bladder and bladder cancer.
The results show that the Kindlin-2 expression patterns in the cell lines were not duplicated in the tumor tissues. However, it was shown that Kindlin-2 was expressed in the stromal element of all the transplanted tumors and archival specimens of human bladder cancer. It was also shown that a small number of high-grade invasive urothelial cancers have focal expression of Kindlin-2 in the tumor cells.
Kindlin-2 is expressed in the stromal component of most, if not all, human bladder cancers. Kindlin-2 is not expressed in normal urothelium. Kindlin-2 is expressed in a small subset of high-grade invasive bladder cancers and may have potential as a prognostic marker for tumor progression.
In the rat, 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) induces lung tumors independent of the route of administration. To exert its carcinogenic potential, NNK must be metabolically activated. Like most nitrosamines NNK is activated by alpha-hydroxylation. The striking tissue specificity of tumor induction by nitrosamines has been primarily attributed to the efficient alpha-hydroxylation of a particular nitrosamine by its target tissue. Two other factors which may contribute to this are the following: the relative capacity of different tissues to detoxify the alpha-hydroxynitrosamine and the preferential uptake of the active metabolite by the target tissue. In the present study we report the characterization of the O-glucuronide of 4-((hydroxymethyl)nitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (alpha-hydroxymethylNNK-Gluc). The formation of this glucuronide could either serve as a detoxification pathway or provide a stable transport form of the alpha-hydroxylated metabolite. In addition, the metabolism of NNK to a glucuronide of the alpha-hydroxynitrosamine provides the first definitive evidence for the formation of alpha-hydroxymethylNNK. alpha-HydroxymethylNNK-Gluc was present in the urine of rats treated with phenobarbital (PB) and NNK. It was also formed by hepatocytes from PB-treated rats, accounting for 4% of the total metabolites in the media following incubation with 1 microM NNK. The data that support the identity of this metabolite as alpha-hydroxymethylNNK-Gluc are as follows. (1) Incubation of this metabolite with beta-glucuronidase resulted in the quantitative release of 4-hydroxy-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (HPB), the decomposition product of alpha-hydroxymethylNNK.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Characteristics of patients on penicillamine therapy for rheumatoid arthritis were correlated with the occurrence of different side-effects. Patients developing proteinuria tended to have lower sheep-cell agglutination test titres prior to therapy, but no other correlations were found. It is postulated that rheumatoid factor reacts with immune complexes, causing their precipitation and reducing renal glomerular deposition and therefore the incidence of proteinuria. Penicillamine would surely be the first choice of anti-rheumatic therapy if it were not for its side-effects. It is capable of controlling the disease, but in many cases treatment must be interrupted because of some potentially serious side-effects, such as thrombocytopenia, rash or nephropathy. Understanding the mode of action of a drug may lead to the development of new and better compounds. Similarly, understanding the mechanism of the side-effects may lead to their elimination. This survey was designed to identify factors which influenced the development of particular side-effects in patients receiving penicillamine for rheumatoid arthritis.
A 62-year-old woman had been treated with propylthiouracil(PTU) for hyperthyroidism. Because bloody sputum, dyspnea, and severe hypoxemia developed, the patient was admitted to our hospital. Chest X-ray and chest computed tomographic (CT) films disclosed diffuse infiltrative shadows in both lung fields. Bronchoalveolar lavage revealed abundant hemosiderin-laden macrophages. Alveolar hemorrhage associated with myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (MPO-ANCA) positive vasculitis syndrome was diagnosed because of the high serum level of MPO-ANCA. After the initiation of steroid therapy and termination of PTU, the infiltrative shadows in both lung fields disappeared, PaO2 improved, and MPO-ANCA decreased. There have been some reports of MPO-ANCA positive vasculitis syndrome developing during PTU therapy, but most were concerned with renal disease. We concluded that PTU and similar agents should be given consideration as one of the possible causes of MPO-ANCA-induced alveolar hemorrhage.
Tumor recurrence after curative resection is a major problem in the management of colon cancer therapy. Identifying molecular markers for tumor recurrence is critical for successfully selecting patients who are more likely to benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy. We analyzed the value of thymidylate synthase (TS) and methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene polymorphisms as a prognostic marker in stage II and stage III colon cancer patients treated with 5-fluorouracil-based adjuvant chemotherapy.
Between 1987 and 2007, blood samples were obtained from 197 patients with stage II or stage III colon cancer at medical facilities at the University of Southern California. DNA was extracted from peripheral blood, and the genotypes were analyzed using PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism technique.
Patients harboring the TS 3RG/+6-bp haplotype were at greatest risk to develop tumor recurrence [relative risk (RR): 2.25; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.04-4.85; adjusted P value=0.032]. TS enhancer region 3RG alone (RR: 3.48 years; 95% CI: 1.61-7.54; adjusted P value=0.013) or in combination with TS 1494del6 bp (RR: 3.41 years; 95% CI: 1.33-8.75; adjusted P value=0.044) proved to be adverse prognostic markers in both univariate and multivariable analysis.
'High-expression' variants of TS 2R/3R repeat, TS enhancer region 3R G/C, TS 1494del6 bp, and TS haplotype analysis might help to identify stage II and stage III colon cancer patients who are at great risk of developing tumor recurrence, and also those who are more likely to benefit from 5-fluorouracil-based adjuvant chemotherapy. Larger, independent, prospective studies are, however, needed to confirm and validate our preliminary findings.
Inhaled corticosteroids have been used in the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) for many years. However the adverse effects of corticosteroids on bone formation may require special consideration in these patients. This study was undertaken to investigate the effects of long-term inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate treatment on the biochemical markers of bone formation. For this purpose, serum osteocalcin, alkaline phosphatase, free calcium, and inorganic phosphate levels were measured in 65 male COPD patients. Patients in the control group (n = 30) had not taken oral or inhaled corticosteroids for at least 1 year. Only those patients using beclomethasone with metered-dose inhalers were included in the treatment group (n = 35). The mean age of the control group was 61.63 +/- 1.84 (mean +/- SEM). In the treatment group, the mean age was 59.10 +/- 2.29 and patients in this group had taken beclomethasone for an average time of 23.94 +/- 2.72 months (for at least 12 months) at an average concentration of 1,142.0 +/- 79.64 microg/d. The mean serum osteocalcin levels in the control group and treatment group were 7.03 +/- 0.19 ng/mL and 3.74 +/- 0.12 ng/mL, respectively. Comparison of values between groups indicates that serum osteocalcin levels in patients using beclomethasone were significantly lower than that of patients in the control group. Serum alkaline phosphatase levels were 167.96 +/- 1.49 U/L and 168.17 +/- 1.60 U/L for the control and treatment groups, respectively. There was no statistically significant difference among these values (Student's t test; P >.05). The mean values of total serum calcium and inorganic phosphate were not statistically different between the groups (P >.05). These results indicate that long-term inhaled beclomethasone treatment in COPD patients may induce significant changes in osteocalcin levels and require close monitoring for osteoporotic changes.
To further understand the mechanism of analgesic activity and structural requirements of pyrrolidinoindoline alkaloids identified in Psychotria colorata, we here report the analgesic activity of the trimer hodgkinsine on thermal and chemical models of analgesia. Results show that hodgkinsine produces a dose-dependent naloxone reversible analgesic effect in thermal models of nociception, suggesting that activation of opioid receptors participates in hodgkinsine's mode of action. Hodgkinsine shows a potent dose-dependent analgesic activity against capsaicin-induced pain, indicating the participation of NMDA receptors in hodgkinsine-induced analgesia. Such a dual mechanism of action may be of interest for developing innovative analgesics.
Epidemiological studies have pointed to a correlation between the oestrogen content of oral contraceptives and the risk of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). The correlation has been strongest in studies which partially consisted of adverse drug reaction reports to the Swedish Adverse Drug Reaction Advisory Committee (SADRAC). The present study analyzes the epidemiological basis of the adverse drug reaction reports on DVT in women on oral contraceptives to SADRAC. It verifies the reported correlation between the oestrogen content of the pills and the risk of DVT but it also demonstrates that this correlation probably was secondary to differences in the diagnostic standard of DVT, to differences in reporting policies to SADRAC and to an age difference between women on low-oestrogen-pills and those on high-oestrogen pills and is thus due to bias. It is concluded that adverse drug reaction reporting on oral contraceptives has been very unreliable, for which reason it cannot support any epidemiological conclusion concerning the relative thrombogenicity of high-oestrogen pills compared with that of low-oestrogen pills.
Immunologic abnormalities have been described in patients with Hodgkin lymphoma, including autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) and immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). In this report, we describe a rare case of a 59-year-old woman who had autoimmune-mediated hepatitis and Hashimoto's thyroiditis at initial presentation of Hodgkin lymphoma. She was treated with ABVD (doxorubicin/bleomycin/vinblastine/dacarbazine), which induced a complete remission. One year later, she developed a sudden Coombs-positive hemolytic anemia and immune thrombocytopenia. She was diagnosed with Evans syndrome and was treated with prednisolone and intravenous immunoglobulin. However, the response of the therapies was poor; she died of progressive thrombocytopenia. The autopsy revealed the relapse of Hodgkin lymphoma of cervical lymph nodes. Although autoimmune disorders are described in Hodgkin lymphoma, our case shows a rare instance of a patient who had various immunologic abnormalities, including autoimmune-mediated hepatitis, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, AIHA, and ITP.
We present here a case of MPO-ANCA positive rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN) after 34 months of D-penicillamine (D-PC) therapy for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). A 27-year-old Japanese woman was diagnosed as having RA in June 1994 at our out-patient clinic. Oral D-PC administration was initiated at a dose of 100 mg per day in January 1995. In August 1997, proteinuria, hematuria, renal insufficiency, and anemia developed. D-PC was withdrawn promptly, and prednisolone 5 mg per day was started. The patient was admitted to our hospital in September. On admission, anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody against mycloperoxidase (MPO-ANCA) was strongly positive in the serum. Renal biopsy showed glomerulonephritis with cellular crescent formation in 60% of the glomeruli observed. Immunofluorescence examinations revealed deposits of granular IgG, IgA, C 1 q, and C 3 in the mesangium. The patient was treated with steroid pulse therapy along with administration of anti-coagulation and anti-platelet agents under the diagnosis of MPO-ANCA positive D-PC-induced RPGN. The renal function was gradually recovered and MPO-ANCA disappeared. Since RPGN is potentially a fatal disease, frequent monitoring of renal function and discontinuation of D-PC are required. In case MPO-ANCA becomes positive, prompt and correct diagnosis of the renal disorder could lead to a good prognosis as in this case. The present case may provide some important immunological insights into medical procedures to treat D-PC-induced RPGN and MPO-ANCA related glomerulonephritis.
Mixed D1/D2 dopamine (DA) antagonists, perphenazine (5 mg/kg) and haloperidol (2 mg/kg) induced catalepsy in rats. SCH 23390 (1 mg/kg), a D1 DA antagonist, also produced catalepsy. Co-administration of perphenazine (0.5 mg/kg) and SCH 23390 (0.1 mg/kg), at low doses, produced a marked increase in cataleptic response. B-HT 920, a D2 agonist, reversed the cataleptogenic effects of perphenazine, haloperidol and SCH 23390. SKF 38893 (5 mg/kg) reduced the cataleptogenic effect of SCH 23390 but failed to reverse haloperidol- or perphenazine-induced catalepsy. SKF 38393 (10 mg/kg), however, protected the animals against perphenazine- induced catalepsy. Combined administration of B-HT 920 (0.1 mg/kg) and SKF 38393 (5 mg/kg) enhanced the protective effect of B-HT 920 in SCH 23390-treated animals but not in animals treated with haloperidol or perphenazine. MK-801 (0.025-0.5 mg/kg), a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, reduced the cataleptogenic effects of perphenazine, haloperidol as well as SCH 23390. The anticataleptic action of MK-801 was enhanced by scopolamine (0.1 mg/kg) but not by bromocriptine (1 mg/kg) or clonidine (0.05 mg/kg) in perphenazine-treated rats. Unlike B-HT 920 (0.1 mg/kg), SKF 38393 (5 mg/kg) potentiated the anticataleptic effect of MK-801 (0.01 mg/kg) against SCH 23390-induced catalepsy. The above data suggests D1/D2 interdependence in catalepsy and a modulatory role of D1 and D2 DA receptor stimulation on the anticataleptic effect of MK-801.
Exposure to manganese via inhalation has long been known to elicit neurotoxicity in adults, but little is known about possible consequences of exposure via drinking water. In this study, we report results of a cross-sectional investigation of intellectual function in 142 10-year-old children in Araihazar, Bangladesh, who had been consuming tube-well water with an average concentration of 793 microg Mn/L and 3 microg arsenic/L. Children and mothers came to our field clinic, where children received a medical examination in which weight, height, and head circumference were measured. Children's intellectual function was assessed on tests drawn from the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, version III, by summing weighted items across domains to create Verbal, Performance, and Full-Scale raw scores. Children provided urine specimens for measuring urinary As and creatinine and were asked to provide blood samples for measuring blood lead, As, Mn, and hemoglobin concentrations. After adjustment for sociodemographic covariates, water Mn was associated with reduced Full-Scale, Performance, and Verbal raw scores, in a dose-response fashion; the low level of As in water had no effect. In the United States, roughly 6% of domestic household wells have Mn concentrations that exceed 300 microg Mn/L, the current U.S. Environmental Protection Agency lifetime health advisory level. We conclude that in both Bangladesh and the United States, some children are at risk for Mn-induced neurotoxicity.
The mechanism of estrogen-induced and -dependent kidney carcinogenesis in Syrian hamsters and the cell of origin of the tumor are not well understood; they have been investigated in this study by mapping the cellular locations of estrogen receptor (ER) in estrogen-dependent tumors, in kidney tissue of hamsters treated with estradiol for 0.5 and 5.5 months, and in kidneys of age-matched controls. To validate the methods used, receptors have also been localized in uteri of hamsters and rats and in female hamster kidneys. ERs have been identified in cryostat sections by immunocytochemical techniques using an affinity-purified ER antibody, ER-715. Nuclei of tumors were intensely stained for ERs. In estrogen-treated kidneys and in controls, ER protein was identified in interstitial cells and capillaries, in arteries, and in renal corpuscles, particularly in podocytes and in the parietal layers surrounding the renal corpuscles. There was no ER protein in tubular epithelia even when tubuli were surrounded by tumor cells. The ER distribution in female hamster kidneys closely matched that in male kidneys. However, the staining intensity was stronger in female than in male kidneys. In hamster uteri, there was an intense ER-positive reaction in the nuclei of stroma, in stromal vessels, and in the luminal epithelia as demonstrated previously by others in rat uteri. ER mRNA has also been demonstrated by Northern blot analysis in estrogen-treated kidneys which contained tumors but was undetectable in untreated kidneys. The localization of ERs in estrogen-dependent tumors and in interstitial cell types but not in tubular epithelia supports previous conclusions of an interstitial origin of estrogen-induced hamster kidney tumors.
3,4-Dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia is associated with molecular and synaptic plasticity in the basal ganglia, but the occurrence of structural remodeling through cell genesis has not been explored. In this study, rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions received injections of the thymidine analog 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) concomitantly with L-DOPA for 2 weeks. A large number of BrdU-positive cells were found in the striatum and its output structures (globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, and substantia nigra pars reticulata) in L-DOPA-treated rats that had developed dyskinesia. The vast majority (60-80%) of the newborn cells stained positively for endothelial markers. This endothelial proliferation was associated with an upregulation of immature endothelial markers (nestin) and a downregulation of endothelial barrier antigen on blood vessel walls. In addition, dyskinetic rats exhibited a significant increase in total blood vessel length and a visible extravasation of serum albumin in the two structures in which endothelial proliferation was most pronounced (substantia nigra pars reticulata and entopeduncular nucleus). The present study provides the first evidence of angiogenesis and blood-brain barrier dysfunction in an experimental model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. These microvascular changes are likely to affect the kinetics of L-DOPA entry into the brain, favoring the occurrence of motor complications.
Vitamin D deficiency is associated with cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure, and vitamin D therapy prevents the progression of cardiac hypertrophy in animal models. Here, we examine whether vitamin D therapy prevents progression of pre-existing cardiac hypertrophy and development of heart failure.
When male Dahl salt-sensitive rats were fed a high salt (HS) diet, all rats developed cardiac hypertrophy after 5 weeks. Thereafter, rats were treated with vehicle (V), paricalcitol (PC, an active vitamin D analogue, at 200 ng, IP 3x/week), enalapril (EP, 90 μg/day), and PC + EP. All groups were continued on the HS diet and evaluated after 4 weeks of therapy. The PC and PC + EP groups, but not the V and EP only groups, showed significant prevention of progression of pre-existing cardiac hypertrophy. The signs of decompensated heart failure were evident in the vehicle-treated group; these heart failure parameters significantly improved with PC, EP or PC + EP therapy. The expression of PKCα, which is regulated by Ca(2+)and known to stimulate cardiac hypertrophy, was significantly increased in the vehicle group, and PC, EP or PC + EP effectively decreased PKCα activation. We also observed normalization of genetic alterations during progression to heart failure with PC treatment.
PC treatment resulted in both the prevention of progression of pre-existing cardiac hypertrophy and the development of heart failure, compared with improvement in progression to heart failure by EP alone. These beneficial findings in heart were associated with inhibition of PKCα activation and reversal of gene alterations.
Mutations in the SLC4A1 gene encoding the anion exchanger 1 (AE1) can cause distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA), a disease often due to mis-trafficking of the mutant protein. In this study, we investigated whether trafficking of a Golgi-retained dRTA mutant, G701D kAE1, or two dRTA mutants retained in the endoplasmic reticulum, C479W and R589H kAE1, could be functionally rescued to the plasma membrane of Madin-Darby Canine Kidney (MDCK) cells. Treatments with DMSO, glycerol, the corrector VX-809, or low temperature incubations restored the basolateral trafficking of G701D kAE1 mutant. These treatments had no significant rescuing effect on trafficking of the mis-folded C479W or R589H kAE1 mutants. DMSO was the only treatment that partially restored G701D kAE1 function in the plasma membrane of MDCK cells. Our experiments show that trafficking of intracellularly retained dRTA kAE1 mutants can be partially restored, and that one chemical treatment rescued both trafficking and function of a dRTA mutant. These studies provide an opportunity to develop alternative therapeutic solutions for dRTA patients.
The central cardiovascular effects of the calcium channel blocker nifedipine and the calcium channel activator BAY k 8644 were studied in anesthetized and ventilated normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) or spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Both drugs were administered in a 1.5-microliter volume into the lateral ventricle of the brain (i.c.v.) or into the cisterna magna (i.c.). The injection of vehicle alone (i.c. or i.c.v.) did not significantly change mean arterial pressure (MAP) or heart rate. Nifedipine (5 and 50 micrograms/kg) and BAY k 8644 (5 and 50 micrograms/kg) induced opposite effects on MAP when centrally injected. Nifedipine decreased MAP and induced a bradycardia (i.c.v.) or no change in heart rate (i.c.), and BAY k 8644 increased MAP without any significant change in heart rate (i.c. or i.c.v.). These effects were more marked with the highest dose of either drug. These effects seemed to be of central origin, since they were suppressed by ganglionic blockade by hexamethonium (100 mg/kg i.v.), whereas after hexamethonium the hypotensive and the hypertensive responses to intravenously injected nifedipine and BAY k 8644, respectively, were preserved. Bilateral vagotomy suppressed the bradycardia induced by i.c.v. administered nifedipine. Previously i.c.v. administered nifedipine (5 micrograms/kg) antagonized the pressor response to BAY k 8644 (5 micrograms/kg i.c.v.). Changes in MAP and heart rate were significantly more marked in SHR than in WKY. These results indicate that a calcium channel inhibitor and a calcium channel activator can modulate in opposite fashion central mechanisms involved in blood pressure control.
