Malignant syndrome is a disease characterized by high fever, extrapyramidal syndrome and dysautonomia recognized during or at the time of stopping administration of antipsychotic medication and it is the most severe and lethal side effect of antipsychotic medication. In the present case, triggered by the use of haloperidol and chrorpromazine, lisp of the tongue, trembling of both hands, perspiration on the hands and legs and other symptoms appeared. Later, difficulty of breathing, trembling of whole body and massive perspiration appeared, and disturbance of autonomic nervous system such as mydriasis and perspiration occurred. By blood analysis, CPK showed a high value of 518 U.l-1 and malignant syndrome was suspected. After i.v. administration of dantololene 20 mg, the perspiration was and the trembling were reduced. With this improvement of symptoms the patient was released from the hospital after about one month. These care suggests that a fundamental knowledge of antipsychotic agents must be acquired and attentive care be given when such drugs are administered.
alpha-Synuclein (alphaSYN) plays a central role in the neural degeneration of Parkinson's disease (PD) through its conformational change. In PD, alphaSYN, released from the membrane, accumulates in the cytoplasm and forms Lewy body. However, the mechanism behind the translocation and conformational change of alphaSYN leading to the cell death has not been well elucidated. This paper reports that in the dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra containing neuromelanin from PD patients, alphaSYN was modified with acrolein (ACR), an aldehyde product of lipid peroxidation. Histopathological observation confirmed the co-localization of protein immunoreactive to anti-alphaSYN and ACR antibody. By Western blot analyses of samples precipitated with either anti-alphaSYN or anti-ACR antibody, increase in ACR-modified alphaSYN was confirmed in PD brain. Modification of recombinant alphaSYN by ACR enhanced its oligomerization, and at higher ACR concentrations alphaSYN was fragmented and polymerized forming a smear pattern in SDS-PAGE. ACR reduced 20S proteasome activity through the direct modification of the proteasome proteins and the production of polymerized ACR-modified proteins, which inhibited proteasome activity in vitro. These results suggest that ACR may initiate vicious cycle of modification and aggregation of proteins, including alphaSYN, and impaired proteolysis system, to cause neuronal death in PD.
Nineteen transfusion-dependent beta-thalassemia major patients were included in the study. Six of these patients underwent chelation therapy with desferrioxamine by subcutaneous infusion (50 mg/kg/12 hr) and 13 received intravenous infusion (50 mg/kg/6 hr or 100 mg/kg/24 hr). BUN, creatinine, creatinine clearance, beta 2-microglobulin, urinary beta 2-microglobulin and urinary growth hormone excretion were evaluated during desferrioxamine treatment. Thirteen out of nineteen patients presented tubular damage indicated by increased excretion of urinary beta 2-microglobulin. 85% (11 of 13) of these patients showed more serious tubular damage, as demonstrated by concurrent increased urinary growth hormone excretion. Moreover, a positive correlation between urinary growth hormone excretion and urinary beta 2-microglobulin was observed (P < 0.05).
Ginsenosides, the main effective components of the root of Panax ginseng, have been reported to modulate morphine action. In the present study, ginsenosides Rd, Rb2, Rgl and Re were divided into two groups according to their effects in mice on morphine-induced hyperactivity and conditioned place preference (CPP). Ginsenosides Rd, Rb2, Rgl had no effect on morphine-induced hyperactivity, but antagonized morphine-induced CPP. On the contrary, ginsenoside Re increased morphine-induced hyperactivity whereas it showed no effect on morphine-induced CPP.Furthermore, Re antagonized the inhibitory effect of the mixture involving Rd, Rb2 and Rgl on the morphine action. These results suggest that ginsenosides with different structures have antagonizing properties in the regulation of morphine-induced reinforcement.
Clozapine is a dibenzodiazepine neuroleptic with atypical pharmacological and clinical profiles. Treatment with this drug may be complicated with agranulocytosis (AGR). It is likely that defective oxidative mechanism may be the cause of AGR. A candidate gene, dihydronicotinamide riboside (NRH) quinone oxidoreductase 2 (NQO2), which is involved in detoxification of drugs, was selected. This gene has been mapped to the short arm of chromosome six. The gene was studied by single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis and direct sequencing in 98 schizophrenic patients that were treated with clozapine. Eighteen of these patients developed AGR. Ten polymorphisms in the coding regions, in intron 1, and in the promoter region were found, two of which were novel. Comparisons of the polymorphisms in the first intron in AGR patients and controls suggested that this site might be connected with AGR. Quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that the level of NQO2 mRNA is low in AGR patients compared with the control group. Such a reduction in message suggests that the NQO2 gene may be involved in the development of clozapine-induced AGR.
We have examined the effect of antioxidants (vitamin E, and selenium) on the blood-brain barrier permeability during adreneline-induced acute hypertension in the female rats. The rats supplemented with nontoxic doses of sodium selenite in drinking water for three months or vitamin E was given intraperitoneally before adrenaline-induced acute hypertension. Evans-blue was used as a blood-brain barrier tracer. Mean values for Evans-blue dye were found to be 0.28 +/- 0.04 microg/g tissue in control animals and 1.0 +/- 0.2 microg tissue after adrenaline-induced acute hypertension (p < .01). Rats pretreated with selenium or vitamin E also showed macroscopic leakage of Evans-blue albumin after adrenaline injection i.e., there was no significant difference in protein extravasation between untreated and treated animals (p > .5). The mean value for Evans-blue dye was found to be 1.0 +/- 0.2 microg/g tissue in acute hypertension group, 0.9 +/- 0.2 microg/g tissue in selenium pretreated animals and 1.0 +/- 0.2 micrg/g tissue vitamin E injected animals after acute hypertension. The results show that antioxidants did not influence the blood-brain barrier breakdown during adrenaline-induced acute hypertension.
A case report revealing two previously unreported adverse side effects of meprobamate and tridihexethyl chloride (Milpath) drug therapy for a spastic colon is presented. The two previously unreported adverse effects are a diffuse loss of color discrimination and an increased time course to complete dark adaptation.
PMM is a water-soluble alternative to HMM. PMM has been administered as an intravenous infusion to 17 patients in a Phase I clinical trial. The dose-limiting toxicities were nausea and vomiting which were observed in all patients at 500 mg m-2 and above. The dose was not escalated above 1300 mg m-2 where nausea and vomiting were severe, prolonged (greater than 24 h) and poorly controlled by anti-emetics. Haematological, hepatic and renal toxicities were not observed. Neurological toxicity was not observed at low doses (less than 500 mg/m2) but could not be determined at higher doses due to intensive anti-emetic therapy. Pharmacokinetic studies (100-500 mg m-2) indicated that PMM plasma levels are dose-dependent and that the PMM disposition-phase half-life is prolonged in patients with abnormal liver function. It is concluded that the severe toxicity of PMM will limit the clinical utility of this compound and hence Phase II trials are not recommended.
The incidence of postoperative respiratory apnoea was compared between five patients receiving a continuous i.v. infusion of morphine (mean 73.6 mg) and five patients receiving a continuous extradural infusion of 0.25% bupivacaine (mean 192 mg) in the 24-h period following upper abdominal surgery. Monitoring consisted of airflow detection by a carbon dioxide analyser, chest wall movement detected by pneumatic capsules, and continuous electrocardiograph recorded with a Holter ambulatory monitor. Both obstructive (P less than 0.05) and central apnoea (P less than 0.05) occurred more frequently in patients who had a morphine infusion. There was also a higher incidence of tachyarrhythmias (P less than 0.05) and ventricular ectopic beats (P less than 0.05) in the morphine infusion group.
Abnormalities in vascular constriction and dilatation are associated with early diabetes and contribute to diabetic vascular complications. However, mechanisms underlying such vascular dysfunction remain to be fully elucidated. The current study tests the role of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in diabetic vascular smooth muscle dysfunction.
Small mesenteric artery and aorta are isolated from type 2 diabetic db/db and control mice. Isometric contractions in response to serotonin, angiotensin II, phenylephrine and high potassium are determined in small spiral mesenteric arterial or aortic strips. COX-2 mRNA and protein levels are analyzed by using DNA microarray, real-time PCR and immunoblot.
Contractions induced by serotonin, angiotensin II, phenylephrine and high potassium are significantly higher in endothelium-denuded smooth muscle strips isolated from db/db mice than in those isolated from control mice. The contractile hyperreactivity is observed in aortic and third-order branch small mesenteric arterial smooth muscle strips. DNA microarray, real-time PCR and immunoblot analysis show that compared with control mice, COX-2 mRNA and protein are significantly increased in db/db mice aortic smooth muscle. The COX-2 up-regulation is temporally associated with the development of diabetes mellitus and vascular smooth muscle contractile hyperreactivity. Inhibition of COX-2 with NS-398 or SC-58125 partially--but significantly--alleviates agonist-induced but not potassium-induced contractile hyperreactivity. In addition, serum isolated from db/db mice induces COX-2 expression and increases thromboxane A2 production in primary cultured vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC). SQ-29548, a TP receptor antagonist, diminished the db/db mice vascular smooth muscle contractile hyperreactivity.
COX-2 is up-regulated and contributes at least in part to the vascular smooth muscle contractile hyperreactivity in db/db mice.
Patients undergoing surgical procedures using sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension were studied to determine the role of the renin-angiotensin system in the pathogenesis of rebound hypertension (RH) after discontinuing sodium nitroprusside (SNP) infusion. Retrospective observations documented RH in 9 of 12 patients (group I) with a systolic blood pressure (SBP) increase from 112 +/- 3.92 before SNP to 144 +/- 5.60 torr 10 min after SNP (p less than 0.001). In 12 patients (group II), plasma renin activity (PRA) rose from 950 +/- 432 to 3,611 +/- 1.874 pg/ml/hr (p less than 0.0005) during SNP and remained elevated (2,504 +/- 792 pg/ml/hr) 30 min after cessation of SNP. SBP rose from a control (pre-SNP) value of 112 +/- 5.24 to 129 +/- 8.52 torr after discontinuation of SNP (p less than 0.05). Significant PRA and SBP changes did not occur in a matched group of patients (group III) who did not receive SNP. That RH after cessation of SNP infusion was associated with persistent elevation of PRA leads us to suggest that RH may be attributable to the unopposed effects of the renin-angiotensin system after the rapid plasma disappearance of SNP.
Pain on injection is a common adverse effect with propofol used for general anesthesia.
The aims of this study were to evaluate the analgesic effect of dexamethasone during propofol injection and investigate whether a combination of dexamethasone and lidocaine produced additional analgesic efficacy compared with either treatment alone.
In a double-blind, prospective trial, patients scheduled to undergo elective plastic surgery were randomized to receive lidocaine 20 mg, dexamethasone 6 mg, combination lidocaine 20 mg and dexamethasone 6 mg, or normal saline with venous occlusion for 1 minute, followed by administration of 25% of the total calculated dose of propofol (2.5 mg/kg) into a dorsal hand vein. Pain intensity and incidence were evaluated during a 10-second pause before the induction of anesthesia, using a 4-point verbal rating scale (0=none, 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe); a score of 1 to 3 was counted as pain. Patients were monitored hourly for 24 hours postsurgery by a blinded investigator for adverse effects at the injection site (eg, pain, edema, wheal, flare response).
A total of 140 (35 per group) Korean patients (91 women, 49 men; mean [SD] age, 47 [14] years; mean [SD] height, 162 [8] cm; and mean [SD] body weight, 60 [8] kg) completed the study. Demographic variables were similar among groups. With respect to pain intensity, mean pain score was significantly less in the combination group than in the lidocaine or dexamethasone groups (P<0.01, respectively), although the median pain scores for all groups were 0. The incidence of pain associated with propofol injection was reduced significantly in the combination group compared with the lidocaine or dexamethasone group (0% vs 34.3% and 37.1%, respectively; both, P<0.01). One patient (in the combination group) complained of perineal itching immediately following injection; however, this subsided within a few seconds and did not require any intervention. No other adverse effects at the injection site were observed in any patient in the 24 hours post surgery.
Combination lidocaine 20 mg and dexamethasone 6 mg, with venous occlusion for 1 minute, was more effective than lidocaine 20 mg or dexamethasone 6 mg alone for pain control during propofol injection in these Korean patients.
Atrial flutter is a serious form of neonatal tachyarrhythmia. Maternal drug use of cocaine and/or opiate is associated with central and autonomic nervous signs in fetuses and newborn infants. The fetal cardiovascular effects of cocaine and opiate exposure are not well characterized. We present the case of isolated atrial flutter in a late preterm infant who has been perinatally exposed to cocaine and opiate.
Ventricular fibrillation was electrically induced in 60 rats and the effects of adrenergic stimulation ad blockade on the time taken to spontaneous reversion to sinus rhythm were determined. Alpha adrenergic stimulation by norepinephrine and phenylephrine infusion shortened ventricular fibrillation from 3.21 +/- 0.42 (+/- S.E.M.) to 1.48 +/- 0.17 sec (P less than .001) and from 5.13 +/- 0.77 to 2.18 +/- 0.27 sec (P less than .001), respectively. Nonselective beta adrenergic stimulation with isoproterenol prolonged the time to defibrillation from 1.65 +/- 0.20 to 7.01 +/- 0.95 sec (P less than .001), whereas beta-2 adrenergic stimulation with salbutamol produced no change. Alpha adrenergic stimulation antagonized the effect of a concomitant isoproterenol infusion (P less than .05). Alpha adrenergic blockade with phenoxybenzamine prolonged ventricular fibrillation (P less than .001) whereas beta blockade with propranolol or metoprolol shortened the duration of fibrillation. It was concluded that these effects were due to direct stimulation and blockade of cardiac adrenergic receptors. These actions were associated with changes in ventricular refractoriness. Cardiac alpha adrenergic stimulation prolonged the ventricular effective refractory period and promoted spontaneous defibrillation. Beta adrenergic stimulation shortened the ventricular effective refractory period and prolonged the time to defibrillation.
Synaptic plasticity is important for formation of long-term memories and in re-establishment of function following injury. Seven cDNAs enriched following lesion in the hippocampus of the rat have been isolated using a PCR-based cDNA suppression subtraction hybridization. Sequence analysis resulted in the identification of two genes with known roles in synaptic development and neuronal activities: astrotactin and calcineurin. These two neuron-specific genes have established roles in development or synaptogenesis. Sequence analysis of the other five additional genes shows that two are likely to be involved in G-protein signaling pathways, one is a WD repeat protein, and the remaining two are entirely novel. All seven candidates are expressed in the hippocampus and, in some cases, cortical layers of adult brains. RT-PCR data show that expression increases following synaptogenic lesion. Immunocytochemical analysis in primary hippocampal neurons showed that Calcineurin immunoreactivity was redistributed in neurons during 2 weeks in culture. This redistribution suggests that Calcineurin's role changes during neurite outgrowth immediately prior to synapse formation in vitro. In addition, inhibiting Calcineurin activity with cyclosporin A enhanced neurite outgrowth, suggesting that Calcineurin has a regulatory role in axon sprouting. The discovery of previously unknown genes involved in the response to neurodegeneration will contribute to our understanding of neural development, responses to CNS trauma, and neurodegenerative diseases.
A 34-year-old woman developed megaloblastic anemia and peripheral polyneuropathy following the use of oral contraceptives for 4 years. Low levels of folic acid and vitamin B12 were found. Both the complete recovery after therapy with the vitamins, and the absence of other causes of vitamin B12 and folate deficiency, suggest that the vitamin deficiencies were caused by the oral contraceptives and resulted in the rare combination of megaloblastic anemia and polyneuropathy. The poor response to vitamin B12 alone, and the development of anemia and polyneuropathy 4 months after cessation of vitamin B12 therapy suggest that folate deficiency was the primary problem.
A 34-year old woman developed megaloblastic anemia and peripheral polyneuropathy following the use of oral contraceptives (OCs) for 4 years. Low levels of folic acid and vitamin B12 were found. Both the complete recovery after therapy with the vitamins and the absence of other causes of vitamin B12 and folate deficiency suggest that these were caused by OCs and resulted in the rare combination of megaloblastic anemia and polyneuropathy. The poor response to vitamin B12 alone, and the development of anemia and polyneuropathy 4 months after cessation of vitamin B12 therapy suggest that folate deficiency was the primary problem.
1 beta-Endorphin (2 micrograms injected into the lateral ventricles) produced a significant decrease in the urine outflow and in the excretion of Na+ and K+ in Brattleboro rats, animals suffering from severe diabetes insipidus. Morphine intracerebrally also produced antidiuresis, as compared to saline-treated controls. 2 Morphine injected intraperitoneally caused a dose-dependent decrease in the urine outflow, and in the excretion of Na+ and K+. 3. Rats chronically treated with morphine (72 h of morphine pellet implantation) were less sensitive to the antidiuretic effect of a challenge dose of morphine than control Brattleboro rats implanted with placebo pellets, but otherwise treated similarly. 4 After chronic morphine administration, Brattleboro rats became dependent on morphine. Challenge with 1 mg/kg naloxone (s.c.) precipitated an abrupt opiate withdrawal syndrome characterized, among other symptoms, by increased urination in contrast to the antidiuresis observed before naloxone.
1 Anti-tremor action of decamethylene bis-(hydroxyethyl)-dimethylammonium bromide (C10Dichol), a peripheral acetylcholine synthesis inhibitor, was investigated. 2 C10Dichol inhibited tremor induced by oxotremorine, nicotine and physostigmine and afforded partial protection from physostigmine-induced mortality in mice. 3 In non-paralysing doses, C10Dichol antagonized the neuromuscular effects of oxotremorine, nicotine and physostigmine. 4 Prior administration of C10Dichol failed to prevent tremor and neuromuscular paralysis induced by harmine and arecoline. 5 In the absence of any antimuscarinic property of C10Dichol, its neuromuscular effects appeared to be casually related to its anti-tremor action. 6 This study reveals a possibility for the development of peripherally acting anti-Parkinson drugs.
Strain differences in susceptibility to promotion by the liver carcinogens 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) and phenobarbital (PB) were examined in the medium-term bioassay system initially developed in our laboratory using male F344 rats as the test animal and glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive foci as the lesion end-point. Numbers and areas per cm2 of induced GST-P-positive hepatocellular foci were compared in LEW, F344, NAR, SD, WBN, SHR, Wistar and ODS rats initiated with diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and subjected to partial hepatectomy during subsequent administration of 2-AAF or PB. LEW, SD, WBN, and F344 rats were most susceptible to hepatopromotion by both compounds, with a hundred fold increase in lesion area being observed for 2-AAF in the LEW case. NAR and SHR strains demonstrated an intermediate response, while Wistar and, in particular, the related ODS rats demonstrated very low susceptibilities. The obvious strain differences could be expressed in terms of comparative indices of promoting effects of 2-AAF and PB as well as DEN itself regarding each of the 8 strains tested. The use of F344 rats for the bioassay model was validated by the relatively high sensitivity to both DEN and 2-AAF initiation as well as second-stage promotion stimulus exhibited.
The objective of this study was to compare the success of resuscitation attempts with different cardioactive drugs after bupivacaine-induced asystole. Saline, amrinone (1 mg/kg), dopamine (5 micrograms/kg), norepinephrine (2 micrograms/kg), epinephrine (10 micrograms/kg), or isoproterenol (1 microgram/kg) were tested. Sixty rats assigned to six treatment groups (n = 10/group) were lightly anesthetized (0.5% halothane, 70% N2O), paralyzed (doxacurium), and given bupivacaine intravenously at 4 mg.kg-1.min-1 until asystole. Five seconds later up to three treatment drug doses were given at 30-s intervals. Then external cardiac massage was instituted as needed. Spontaneous heartbeat was restored in all animals given norepinephrine or epinephrine. It was not restored in one saline-treated, one dopamine-treated, one isoproterenol-treated, and three amrinone-treated animals. The highest (best) arbitrary scores for overall resuscitation success were achieved with norepinephrine and the lowest with amrinone (P < 0.05). The incidence of ventricular arrhythmias after resuscitation was significantly higher (P < 0.05) in epinephrine- and isoproterenol-treated animals versus other animals. Cardiac rhythm disturbance disappeared within 20 min after successful resuscitation with norepinephrine. Amrinone was no more effective than saline in treating bupivacaine-induced asystole. A drug such as norepinephrine, which has both cardiostimulator (beta 1-receptor agonist) and peripheral vasoconstrictor (alpha 1-receptor agonist) activity, may be the drug of choice for treating asystole induced by bupivacaine.
We report seizures induced by adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), which were demonstrated clinically and electro-encephalographically, in a severely handicapped 7-month-old infant with West syndrome due to perinatal hypoxicischemic encephalopathy. Although tonic spasms (original seizures) decreased soon after starting ACTH treatment, new brief tonic seizures, somewhat more slowly motioned than the original tonic spasms, frequently appeared only during sleep after consecutive ACTH injections for 11 days, in place of the tonic spasms seen in the waking state. After discontinuation of ACTH therapy with the last injection on the 16th day, the brief tonic seizures began to decrease and finally disappeared in 8 days. Ictal EEG of new brief tonic seizures revealed diffuse fast spiky wave bursts, 50-150 microV and 10-20 c/s, with a duration of 0.5-4 seconds, which were different from attenuation associated with low voltage rhythmic fast activity corresponding to tonic spasms, the original seizures. Therefore, we considered that the new brief tonic seizures, which appeared only during sleep in the course of ACTH therapy, were ACTH-induced seizures.
Busulfan has been previously only available in an oral formulation due to its poor water solubility. We report the results of a phase I study of multiple escalating doses of intravenous busulfan (Spartaject Busulfan, Orphan Europe, Paris, France) for myeloablation prior to stem cell transplantation (SCT) in 12 patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia or acute lymphocytic leukemia. One patient received allogeneic SCT; the other 11 patients received autologous SCT. The first six patients received i.v. busulfan diluted in 50 ml of 0.9% normal saline and the last six patients received busulfan in a 500-ml 5% dextrose solution. All patients experienced profound myelosuppression and all but one demonstrated hematopoietic engraftment. Toxicity was mild or moderate and there were no toxic deaths attributable to busulfan. Of note, there were no cases of veno-occlusive disease of the liver. Busulfan plasma concentrations were determined by gas chromatography with electron capture detection and showed little intrapatient variability. In most cases there was no significant difference between the first and last dose PK parameters. These data suggest that dose adjustment based on first dose PK data could allow uniformity of busulfan dosing for patients receiving SCT.
Penicillamine is the standard therapy for Wilson's disease in children. We report an 8-year-old-girl with liver disease due to Wilson's disease who developed extrapyramidal symptoms following administration of penicillamine. Symptoms resolved within 20 hours of stopping the drug but recurred within 24 hours when gradually increasing small doses were recommenced.
Melanoma is highly resistant to conventional chemotherapy. We have demonstrated that redox regulation in melanoma cells is aberrant, and redox-modulating agents can induce cell apoptosis. We have currently explored the effect of disulfiram (DSF), a member of the dithiocarbamate family, on apoptosis of melanoma cells in vitro. Human metastatic melanoma cells c81-46A, c81-61, and c83-2C were treated with DSF and apoptosis measured. DSF, at a dose of 25-50 ng/ml, consistently caused a 4-6-fold increase in apoptosis. The same dose of DSF did not significantly affect apoptosis in melanocytes. Coincubation of N-acetyl-cysteine reversed the DSF-induced apoptosis. Buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of gamma-glutamyl-cysteine synthetase, as a single agent caused a approximately 2-fold increase in apoptosis when incubated with melanoma cells for 4 days. BSO slightly enhanced the level of apoptosis induced by DSF (4-10% higher than DSF alone). Intracellular glutathione was remarkably depleted with BSO treatment. DSF did not cause glutathione depletion; however, the ratio of reduced and oxidized glutathione was significantly decreased (14% of control), and N-acetyl-cysteine partially restored the ratio to 30% of control. There was a transient (2-fold) elevation of intracellular superoxide level after 24 h of DSF treatment (before the overt apoptosis). The intracellular H2O2 level progressively decreased with time. DSF decreased the mitochondrial membrane polarization in a time-dependent manner, and there was a significant inverse correlation between apoptosis and mitochondrial membrane polarization. We propose that DSF-induced apoptosis is redox related but involves a different mechanism from BSO-induced apoptosis in tumor cells. Our findings have provided new data for additional understanding of drug-induced apoptosis in melanoma cells and suggests an alternative therapeutic approach to melanoma.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and thromboxane B2 (TxB2) levels were measured in rats following experimental traumatic brain injury. Rats (n = 36) were prepared for fluid percussion brain injury under pentobarbital anesthesia. Twenty-four hours later, rats were lightly anesthetized using methoxyflurane, injured (2.3 atm), and killed 5 or 15 min later. Twelve of the rats died before and are not included in the analyses. The following groups were used for data analysis: group I (n = 6) were sham-injured rats prepared for injury but not injured: group II (n = 6) were injured and killed 5 min later; group III (n = 12) were injured and killed 15 min posttrauma. Thirty seconds prior to sacrifice by decapitation into liquid nitrogen, all rats were injected with indomethacin (3 mg/kg, intravenously [IV]) to prevent postmortem PG synthesis. After sacrifice, brains were removed, weighed, and homogenized in a small quantity of phosphate buffer with indomethacin (50 micrograms/ml). PGE2 and TxB2 levels were determined using double-label radioimmunoassays. Posttraumatic convulsions were observed in 5 of 12 rats in group III and these rats were analyzed separately. PGE2 and TxB2 levels increased significantly (p less than 0.05) in both hemisphere and brainstem 5 min posttrauma. Fifteen minutes after injury, both PGE2 and TxB2 levels remained elevated but the levels were lower than at 5 min in the rats that did not exhibit posttraumatic seizures. This decrease in PG levels at 15 min was not observed in the rats that had seizures after injury and both PGE2 and TxB2 levels remained high in hemispheres and brainstem. Thus, fluid percussion brain injury results in substantial elevations in PGE2 and TxB2 levels and posttraumatic seizures exacerbate the observed increases.
A 5-year-old child with epilepsy and underlying brain damage developed choreo-athetosis during intoxication with phenytoin. Drug intoxication was suggested by the dose the child was taking (75 mg 3 times a day) and confirmed by measuring the serum phenytoin concentration which was 229 mmol/l (therapeutic range 40-80 mmol/l). The choreoathetoid movements ceased 4 weeks after discontinuation of the drug, although the blood level returned to the therapeutic range after 2 weeks.
A multi-site, open-label study of methylphenidate for treating patients with comorbid diagnoses of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder and cocaine dependence was performed. Forty-one participants, who met DSM-IV criteria for adult attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder and cocaine dependence, were enrolled into this ten week outpatient study. The targeted total daily dose of methylphenidate was 60 mg (20 mg TID). Participants received individual substance abuse therapy throughout the trial. Safety measures included adverse events, vital signs, and electrocardiograms. Methylphenidate's efficacy was assessed by both objective and subjective measures. Seventy percent of the participants completed final study measures. Safety measures indicated that methylphenidate was well tolerated by the participants. Subjective efficacy measures suggested that participants evidenced improvement in both cocaine dependence and adult attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder symptoms. Quantitative benzoylecgonine indicated that only those participants categorized as being compliant showed improvement. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study of methylphenidate for this population may be warranted.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a demyelinating disease of the central nervous system caused by the JC polyomavirus. We describe a rare case of PML in a 48-year-old female patient with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma who received rituximab plus cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone (R-CHOP) therapy. While she was undergoing five cycles of R-CHOP, she noticed gradually progressive neurological symptoms, such as slurred speech and gait disturbance, and she eventually developed high-grade fever. She also developed Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia. The neurological symptoms deteriorated thereafter, and she developed spastic quadriparesis and bulbar palsy. Magnetic resonance imaging showed hyperintensity within the right cerebellar hemisphere on T2-weighted images. Polymerase chain reaction-based tests of the cerebrospinal fluid revealed the presence of the JC virus. Despite intravenous and intrathecal cytarabine treatment, the patient died of PML 5 months after it was diagnosed. Retrospective analysis of her laboratory data showed that her CD4(+) T-cell count before R-CHOP therapy had decreased to 68 microL(-1). Thus, when administering rituximab-containing chemotherapy, even to patients with no prior history of opportunistic infections, attention should be paid to the potential occurrence of PML, particularly in patients with low CD4(+) T-cell counts.
