To reemphasize potential risks associated with chronic nitrofurantoin use and to report a case of combined pulmonary and hepatic toxicity precipitated from acute use of fluconazole concomitantly with chronic nitrofurantoin.
A 73-year-old white man taking nitrofurantoin 50 mg/day for 5 years developed combined hepatic and pulmonary toxicity after taking fluconazole acutely for onychomycosis. Two months after starting fluconazole, the patient's hepatic enzymes showed elevation 5 times the upper limits of normal. In addition, the patient reported fatigue, dyspnea on exertion, pleuritic pain, burning trachea pain, and a cough. Chest X-rays showed bilateral pulmonary disease consistent with nitrofurantoin toxicity. Both drugs were determined to be the cause of the patient's pulmonary and hepatic toxicity, so they were discontinued. Pulmonary function tests measured after discontinuation were abnormal and also consistent with nitrofurantoin toxicity. The patient's hepatic and pulmonary toxicity resolved upon discontinuation of both drugs and use of inhaled corticosteroids.
Changes in hepatic enzyme measurement, pulmonary function measurements, and chest X-rays indicate that our patient developed hepatic and pulmonary toxicity due to his drug therapy. An objective causality assessment revealed that these adverse events were probably due to fluconazole given with nitrofurantoin. Either drug may have caused the hepatic toxicity. However, it is possible that pharmacokinetic changes induced by an interaction with fluconazole precipitated the nitrofurantoin-induced pulmonary toxicity.
Our patient developed pulmonary and hepatic toxicity after starting fluconazole in combination with chronic nitrofurantoin. A potential drug interaction of unknown mechanism may have been the cause of the toxicities.
In this study, we focused on the in vitro effects of Kuguacin J (KuJ), a purified component of bitter melon (Momordica charantia) leaf extract (BMLE), on the androgen-independent human prostate cancer cell line PC3 and the in vivo effect of dietary BMLE on prostate carcinogenesis using a PC3-xenograph model. KuJ exerted a strong growth-inhibitory effect on PC3 cells. Growth inhibition was mainly through G1-arrest: KuJ markedly decreased the levels of cyclins (D1 and E), cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdk2 and Cdk4) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen. Interestingly, KuJ also dramatically decreased the levels of survivin expressed by PC3 cells. In addition, KuJ exerted anti-invasive effects on PC3 cells, significantly inhibiting migration and invasion: KuJ inhibited secretion of the active forms of MMP-2, MMP-9 and uPA by PC3 cells. In addition, KuJ treatment significantly decreased the expression of membrane type 1-MMP (MT1-MMP) by PC3 cells. In vivo, 1% and 5% BMLE in the diet resulted in 63% and 57% inhibition of PC3 xenograft growth without adverse effect on host body weight. Our results suggest that KuJ is a promising new candidate chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic agent for prostate cancer.
Previously, we reported that several of the toxic effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) were not fully expressed in c-src -/- and -/+ mice (1). In the current study, we studied the basic molecular mechanism of their differential responses. First, we could show that chemical inhibition of c-src kinase could produce practically the same phenomenon of reduced toxicity of TCDD in wild-type mice cotreated with geldanamycin, a specific chemical inhibitor known to suppress c-src kinase. Second, we established that the level of the Ah receptor associated with c-src kinase (2) is indeed low in c-src deficient mice as well as geldanamycin-treated mice. We could show, at the same time, that the effect of c-src deficiency on the toxicity of TCDD is very selective; that is, despite the reduction of many of its toxic signs, the enlargement of liver, induction of cytochrome P450, and other drug-metabolizing enzymes took place normally in those c-src-deficient mice. Apparently, induction of these detoxification enzymes are independent of c-src-mediated pathway. Based on the known signaling pathways of c-src, we tested c-fos-deficient mice and found that some of the c-src-dependant toxic signs of TCDD such as thymic atrophy and decrease in adipose tissue weight were also reduced in c-fos-deficient mice, indicating that these two toxic effects are likely to be mediated through both c-src and c-fos. However, other TCDD responses noticeable in c-fos-deficient mice; downregulation of receptors for epidermal growth factor (EGF), tumor necrosis factor (TNF alpha), and retinoic acid; and up-regulation of the T3 receptor. These findings clearly show that c-fos mediates only a part of c-src signaling pathway in transducing these specific toxic actions of TCDD as mediated by c-fos.
Previously, we reported that acetaminophen (APAP) showed selective toxicity towards melanoma cell lines. In the current study, we investigated further the role of tyrosinase in APAP toxicity in SK-MEL-28 melanoma cells in the presence of a short hairpin RNA (shRNA) plasmid, silencing tyrosinase gene. Results from tyrosinase shRNA experiments showed that APAP led to negligible toxicity in shRNA plasmid-treated cells. It was also found that APAP selectively caused escalation in reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation and intracellular GSH (ICG) depletion in melanocytic human SK-MEL-28 and murine B16-F0 melanoma cells that express functional tyrosinase whereas it lacked significant effects on ROS formation and ICG in amelanotic C32 melanoma cells that do not express functional tyrosinase. These findings suggest that tyrosinase plays a major role in APAP selective induced toxicity in melanocytic melanoma cell lines. Furthermore, the in vivo efficacy and toxicity of APAP in the skin melanoma tumor model in mice was investigated. Mice receiving APAP at 60, 80, 100 and 300 mg/kg/day, day 7 through 13 post melanoma cell inoculation demonstrated tumor size growth inhibition by 7+/-14, 30+/-17, 45+/-11 and 57+/-3%, respectively. Mice receiving APAP day 1 through 13 post melanoma cell inoculation showed tumor size growth inhibition by 11+/-7, 33+/-9, 36+/-20 and 44+/-28%, respectively.
Chemotherapy of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is frequently hampered by drug resistance. The monoclonal antibody rituximab specifically targets the CD20 antigen and sensitizes B-cell lymphoma cells to standard anticancer drugs. In the present investigation, we analyzed, whether a combination of rituximab and artesunate may act in a complementary manner and eventually synergize in tumor cell killing. Artesunate is an anti-malarial drug, which also exerts profound activity towards cancer cells. While rituximab alone was minimally cytotoxic, rituximab increased cytotoxicity to artesunate in Ramos cells. Artesunate induced apoptosis, induced Fas/CD95 expression and the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and resulted in a breakdown of mitochondrial membrane potential. This argues for the involvement of both receptor-driven extrinsic and mitochondrial intrinsic routes of apoptosis. Rituximab increased Fas/CD95 expression and ROS formation and decreased mitochondrial membrane potential ultimately leading to increased apoptosis induced by artesunate. The transcription factors YY1 and Sp1 are upstream regulators of apoptosis by controlling the expression of apoptosis-regulating genes. YY1 and Sp1 were down-regulated and Fas/CD95 was up-regulated by rituximab and artesunate indicating that artesunate activated the Fas/CD95 pathway and that rituximab increased the susceptibility of tumor cells to artesunate-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, rituximab affected the expression of antioxidant genes. The antibody decreased artesunate-induced up-regulation of catalase expression and increased artesunate-induced down-regulation of glutathione S-transferase-phi expression. Manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase expression was not changed by artesunate. Antioxidant proteins may help to detoxify artesunate-induced ROS. Rituximab reversed the artesunate-induced expression changes of antioxidant genes and, hence, reduced the detoxification capacity of Ramos cells. The effects of rituximab on antioxidant genes represent a novel mechanism of rituximab for chemosensitization.
The transfer of tolerance between drugs may indicate a common mode of action. The development of cross-tolerance to the anticonvulsant effect of felbamate after long-term treatment of mice with diazepam, a positive modulator of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated transmission, was therefore studied in order to clarify the mechanism of this action of felbamate. A challenge injection of felbamate, administered 36 h after the last dose of chronic diazepam treatment, antagonized convulsions elicited by administration of isoniazid. In contrast, felbamate had no effect on the isoniazid-induced increase in t-[35S]butylbicyclophosphorothionate binding to cerebral cortical membranes of diazepam-tolerant mice. These results suggest that the action of felbamate on GABAergic transmission is not required for the anticonvulsant effect of this drug. This conclusion is consistent with studies that have indicated that the antiepileptic activity of felbamate depends on its modulatory activity at excitatory amino acid receptors.
In this discussion of Depo-Provera (DMPA) attention is directed to the following: pharmacology and mode of action; clinical considerations; cervical dysplasia; breast cancer; and endometrial carcinoma. DMPA, a microcrystalline suspension of medroxy-progesterone acetate, is used widely around the world as a contraceptive, particularly in developing countries. MPA (medroxy-progesterone acetate) is a synthetic progesterone which in its mycrocrystalline depot form can be delivered by simple intramuscular injection or jet injector to that depending on the dose administered plateau contraceptive blood levels will be maintained for 90-180 days when doses of 150 mg and 300 mg respectively are used. The effect of DMPA in suppressing ovulation is at the hypothalmic level where it inhibits the gonadotrophic release responsible for the midcycle surge in luteinizing hormone responsible for ovulation. When 150 mg is administered every 3 months pregnancy rates range from 0.0-1.2/100 women years. The pregnancy rates range from 0.0-3.8/100 women years when 300 mg is administered every 6 months. The drug is usually administered initially in the first 7 days of the menstrual cycle to avoid possible effects on an established pregnancy. Menstrual disturbances are the major reason for discontinuation of DMPA. The usual side effects are amenorrhea, irregular but infrequent bleeding, and a few instances of prolonged or heavy bleeding. There is no evidence to suggest that DMPA increases the risk of invasive cancer of the cervix, but the evidence regarding the incidence of cervical dysplasia is ambiguous. There have not been any cases of breast cancer that can be related to DMPA use, but DMPA toxicology studies on beagle bitches revealed an increased incidence of benign and malignant breast tumors. It is well established that in adenocarcinoma of the endometrium DMPA is effective in causing regression and preventing recurrence of this tumor.
Renal vasoconstriction with resultant tissue hypoxia, especially in the renal medulla, has been suggested to play a role in contrast media (CM)-induced nephropathy. Endothelin (ET) is released into the blood stream following CM injection and has been proposed as a potential mediator through its vasoconstrictive properties.
To investigate the possible protective influence of ET-receptor antagonists against CM-induced reduction in renal function, we studied the effects of injection of iopromide with and without pretreatment with BQ123 (ET-A antagonist) or BQ788 (ET-B antagonist) on renal superficial cortical flow (CBF), outer medullary blood flow (OMBF) and outer medullary oxygen tension (pO2) in normal rats.
Administration of CM (1600 mg I/kg b.w.) did not affect CBF in any of the groups. However, a transient decrease in OMBF occurred, which was unaffected by both BQ123 and BQ788. Also a transient decrease in outer medullary pO2 was induced by CM administration. The pO2 reduction was significantly smaller after pretreatment with BQ123, than after injection of CM alone or together with BQ788, and pO2 returned more rapidly to the control level. Neither receptor antagonist had an effect on CM-mediated increases in electrolyte excretion.
In the normal rat, activation of ET-A receptors is partly involved in the depression of outer medullary pO2 caused by injection of iopromide. However, the decrease in OMBF after iopromide injection is not mediated by ET receptors. The beneficial effects of the ET-A receptor antagonist on CM-induced changes in outer medullary pO2 seem therefore not primarily mediated on the hemodynamic level but may rather involve tubular transport mechanisms.
Traumatic superior oblique dysfunction from cataract surgery appears to be rare, with only 3 reported cases of postoperative Brown syndrome and 1 reported case of postoperative superior oblique weakness. We are not aware of any prior reports of superior oblique overaction occurring after cataract surgery. We describe a patient with acquired superior oblique overaction as a cause of vertical strabismus after cataract surgery. Ocular torsion analysis was essential in localizing the malfunction to the superior oblique muscle. The most likely etiology is myotoxicity from inadvertent intramuscular injection of local anesthetic before cataract surgery.
Recently we indicated that pancreatic secretory stimulation with pancreozymin superimposed on chronic alcohol intake increases the tissue necrosis in rat pancreas caused by intraductal bile salt administration, and proposed a new theory of the pathogenesis of acute alcoholic pancreatitis. The purpose of the present work was to study whether secretin and alcohol have a similar damage-expanding coeffect in this experimental model of acute pancreatitis. Though secretin treatment seemed to increase the pancreatic necrosis slightly in both alcoholic animals (four groups, n = 5 in each group) and control animals (four groups, n = 5 in each group), no difference was found in the amount of tissue necrosis between alcohol-treated and control animals after secretin treatment and intraductal taurocholate. The mean percentages of necrosis in pancreatic parenchyma were 21.7, 16.1 and 16.3% in alcoholic groups and 15.9, 19.9 and 17.6% in control groups, when secretin was given 15, 45 and 90 min before sodium taurocholate. When preceding secretin stimulation was not given, the mean percentage of necrosis caused by taurocholate was 13.3% in alcoholic animals and 12.0% in control animals. Taken together with our earlier studies the results suggest that the synergism between chronic alcohol intake and pancreozymin formerly reported is neither due to a different response of alcoholic animals from that of control animals to increased flow of pancreatic juice during taurocholate-induced experimental acute pancreatitis nor caused by malnutrition often associated with chronic alcoholism. These results give indirectly further support to the theory that alcohol-induced alterations in the pancreozymin pathway, particularly, may play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of acute alcoholic pancreatitis.
The present study was designed to evaluate the relationship between renal lipid peroxidation and acute renal damage induced by six nephrotoxic compounds: mercuric chloride (MC), glycerol (GL), maleic acid (MA), cephaloridine (CER), gentamicin (GM) and cisplatin (CDDP) in rats. Urine and blood biochemical analyses, determination of renal lipid peroxidation and its scavengers, and histopathological examination were performed in the time or day course after a single dose, or during consecutive administration of these compounds. Moreover, the effects of the antioxidant N,N'-diphenyl-p-phenylene-diamine (DPPD) on the renal damage induced by each compound were studied. 1. MC was administered subcutaneously once at doses of 2 or 4 mg/kg. At a dose of 4 mg/kg, the increase of renal malondialdehyde (MDA) as an index of lipid peroxidation was observed 12 hours after administration. The increase of renal MDA was associated with the development of mild necrosis in proximal straight tubules (PST). Pretreatment of rats with DPPD 600 mg/kg, i.p. ameliorated MC-induced nephrotoxicity. These results indicate that lipid peroxidation plays a significant role in MC-induced renal damage. 2. GL was administered subcutaneously once at doses of 2.5 or 5.0 ml/kg. The increase of MDA was observed on and after 24 hours at a dose of 2.5 ml/kg, 12 hours at a dose of 5.0 ml/kg. These changes were associated with the development of mild necrosis in proximal convoluted tubules (PCT). Pretreatment of rats with DPPD ameliorated GL-induced nephrotoxicity. These results indicate that lipid peroxidation plays a significant role in GL-induced renal damage. 3. MA was administered intraperitoneally once at doses of 100 and 200 mg/kg. Renal MDA did not increase at any observation times. At both doses, vacuole formation, mitochondrial swelling and condensation in PCT were observed 3 hours, and tubular necrosis occurred 3 and 6 hours after administration, which were associated with a decrease of renal glutathione. Pretreatment of rats with DPPD did not ameliorate MA-induced nephrotoxicity. These results suggest that lipid peroxidation does not play a significant role in MA-induced renal damage. 4. CER was administered intravenously once at doses of 500 and 1000 mg/kg. Renal MDA did not increased at any observation times. At both doses, vacuole formation and mitochondrial swelling in PCT were observed 1 hour, and mild necrosis in PCT was induced 6 hours after administration. On the other hand, DPPD ameliorated CER-induced renal histopathological changes. These results indicate that lipid peroxidation play a possible role in CER-induced renal damage. 5. GM was administered subcutaneously on 7 consecutive days at a dose of 40, 80 and 120 mg/kg. Renal MDA increased from first to 7th day at a dose of 120 mg/kg. At all doses, lysosomes which contained many myeloid bodies in PCT were observed 1st day after administration. Daily pretreatment of rats with DPPD 300 mg/kg, i.p. did not affect GM-induced histopathological changes, but ameliorated a part of the urinary biochemical parameters. These results suggest that lipid peroxidation plays a possible role in GM-induced renal damage. 6. CDDP was administered intraperitoneally once at a dose of 4 or 8 mg/kg. Renal MDA increased on 7th day, but at both doses, necrosis in PST had observed 3rd day after administration. Daily pretreatment of rats with DPPD 300 mg/kg, i.p. did not ameliorate CDDP-induced nephrotoxicity. These results suggest that lipid peroxidation does not play a significant role in CDDP-induced renal damage. From these results, lipid peroxidation will be a possible toxicological mechanism of acute renal damage induced by well established nephrotoxic compounds.
With an estimated 12 million consumers in Europe, cocaine (COC) is the illicit drug leading to the most emergency department visits. The aim of this study was to examine a consecutive series of sudden deaths (SDs) to focus on the prevalence, the toxicological characteristics, and the causes of death in COC-related fatalities.
Prospective case-control study of forensic autopsies was carried out in the time interval November 2003 to June 2006 at the Institute of Legal Medicine, Seville, south-west Spain, with a reference population of 1 875 462 inhabitants. Toxicology included blood ethanol analysis and blood and urine investigation for drugs of abuse and medical drugs. Autopsy was performed according to the European standardized protocol. Ten age- and sex-matched patients who died of violent causes with no antecedents of COC consumption and negative toxicology served as controls. During the study period, 2477 forensic autopsies were performed, including 1114 natural deaths. Among the latter, 668 fulfilled the criteria of SD and 21 (all males, mean age 34.6 +/- 7.3 years) resulted to be COC-related (3.1%). Cocaine was detected in 67.1% of the blood (median 0.17 mg/L, interquartile range 0.08-0.42) and in 83.0% of the urine samples (median 1.15 mg/L, interquartile range 0.37-17.34). A concomitant use of ethanol was found in 76.0% and cigarette smoking in 81.0%. Causes of SD were cardiovascular in 62.0%, cerebrovascular in 14.0%, excited delirium in 14.0%, respiratory and metabolic in 5.0% each. Left ventricular hypertrophy was observed in 57.0%, small vessels disease in 42.9%, severe atherosclerotic coronary artery disease in 28.6%, and coronary thrombosis in 14.3%.
Systematic toxicology investigation indicates that 3.1% of SDs are COC-related and are mainly due to cardio-cerebrovascular causes. Left ventricular hypertrophy, small vessel disease, and premature coronary artery atherosclerosis, with or without lumen thrombosis, are frequent findings that may account for myocardial ischaemia at risk of cardiac arrest in COC addicts.
The cataleptic effect of remoxipride was examined in the horizontal bar test after i.v.,i.p. and s.c. administration to male rats. Remoxipride induced immediate catalepsy after high i.v. doses (ED50 = 49 mumol/kg) while peak effects were seen 60-90 min after i.p. administration (ED50 = 38 mumol/kg). Following s.c. administration remoxipride failed to produce a statistically significant catalepsy in the 20-100 mumol/kg dose range (ED50 > 100 mumol/kg). In contrast, haloperidol was found to be more effective in inducing catalepsy after i.v. (ED50 = 0.4 mumol/kg) than after i.p. or s.c. administration (ED50 = 0.9 mumol/kg). The atypical antipsychotic profile of remoxipride was more pronounced when the compound was given i.v. or s.c. as compared with the i.p. route. Plasma and brain (striatum and nucleus accumbens) concentrations of remoxipride and its active phenolic metabolites FLA 797(-) and FLA 908(-) were measured by high performance liquid chromatography. The 40 mumol/kg dose of remoxipride resulted in plasma and brain concentrations of remoxipride which were 300-1000-fold higher (depending on the route of administration) than the most potent of the phenolic metabolites, e.g., FLA 797(-). The plasma and brain concentrations of remoxipride and its phenolic metabolites were related to DA D2 receptor blocking potency and to the temporal course and effectiveness to induce catalepsy. This analysis suggested that the unbound concentrations of the phenolic metabolites were too low to play a major role in the DA blocking action of remoxipride. However, FLA 797(-) may contribute marginally to the cataleptic effects following high (i.p.) doses of remoxipride.
Zolpidem is a unique nonbenzodiazepine sedative hypnotic drug that selectively binds to omega-1 gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors in the brain. Although used for years in Israel and abroad for insomnia, there have been periodic reports of unusual or remarkable neurologic effects in patients with various brain pathologies. Here, we report on a 50-year-old woman 18 months after severe anoxic brain injury in a minimally conscious state. Residual deficits included mutism, athetoid movements of the extremities, and complete dependence for all personal care. After the administration of 5 to 10mg of zolpidem, within 45 minutes, the patient's condition improved markedly, including the cessation of athetoid movements, regained speaking ability, and ability to perform various tasks including self-feeding. These effects lasted 3 to 4 hours, after which the patient returned to her former state. This effect was repeatable on a daily basis. Existing evidence and possible mechanisms to explain zolpidem's effects in brain injury are described.
Central to fibrogenesis and the scarring of organs is the activation of fibroblasts into matrix-secreting myofibroblasts. We demonstrate that Galectin-3 expression is up-regulated in established human fibrotic liver disease and is temporally and spatially related to the induction and resolution of experimental hepatic fibrosis. Disruption of the Galectin-3 gene blocks myofibroblast activation and procollagen (I) expression in vitro and in vivo, markedly attenuating liver fibrosis. Addition of exogenous recombinant Galectin-3 in vitro reversed this abnormality. The reduction in hepatic fibrosis observed in the Galectin-3(-/-) mouse occurred despite equivalent liver injury and inflammation, and similar tissue expression of TGF-beta. TGF-beta failed to transactivate Galectin-3(-/-) hepatic stellate cells, in contrast with WT hepatic stellate cells; however, TGF-beta-stimulated Smad-2 and -3 activation was equivalent. These data suggest that Galectin-3 is required for TGF-beta mediated myofibroblast activation and matrix production. Finally, in vivo siRNA knockdown of Galectin-3 inhibited myofibroblast activation after hepatic injury and may therefore provide an alternative therapeutic approach to the prevention and treatment of liver fibrosis.
Thirty-five patients with advanced gynecologic malignancies were entered into a phase I study evaluating thio-TEPA in combination with cisplatin (50 mg/m2) intravenously every 4 weeks. Thirty-four patients were evaluable for toxicity and response, and one was evaluable for toxicity only. Median age was 53 years (range 28-72), and performance status less than or equal to 2. Prior treatment included chemotherapy in 21 patients, radiation in 15, hormonal therapy in 3, and immunotherapy in 1. Thio-TEPA was given to three or more patients at each of the following dose levels: 15, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, and 60 mg/m2. Thio-TEPA's primary toxicity was myelosuppression; at 50 mg/m2, grade 3 or 4 granulocytopenia occurred in 13 of 17 cycles, and grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 8 of 17 cycles. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of thio-TEPA was 40 mg/m2; in 35 cycles at this dose, grade 3 or 4 granulocytopenia occurred in 19, and grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 10 cycles; median granulocyte nadir was 1100 (range 110 to 3600) and median platelet nadir was 90,000 (range 10,000 to 289,000). Fifteen patients received three or more cycles at one dose level; cumulative myelosuppression was observed in 11. Two cases of partial alopecia occurred at 40 and 60 mg/m2 thio-TEPA. Responses were as follows: complete response, 5; partial response, 7; stable disease, 14; progressive disease, 8. In 16 patients with ovarian cancer (15 of whom had previously received cisplatin), there were 4 complete responses and 5 partial responses (overall response rate of 56%). The thio-TEPA dose recommended in combination with cisplatin (50 mg/m2) in phase II trials is 40 mg/m2. Cumulative hematologic toxicity may occur with this regimen.
Although escalation of consumption is an important characteristic of cocaine dependence, the neurobiological mechanisms that mediate this phenomenon have not been fully described. In this study, we used male, Sprague-Dawley rats to measure the effects of acute and continuous intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, LY235959, on cocaine self-administration behavior under various schedules of reinforcement and access conditions. Single ICV infusions of LY235959 (0.03-0.3 microg/5 microl) produced dose-dependent and statistically significant decreases in the number of cocaine infusions earned under a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement. In a second experiment, vehicle or LY235959 (0.2-0.3 microg/day) was continuously administered ICV to rats via surgically-implanted subcutaneous osmotic minipump/intracranial cannula assemblies. Both vehicle- and LY235959-treated rats significantly escalated cocaine self-administration over the 10 long access sessions; however, rats treated with LY235959 escalated cocaine self-administration faster and to a greater degree than vehicle-treated rats. There was a statistically significant increase in cocaine infusions earned under the PR schedule in LY235959-treated rats, but not vehicle-treated rats, after 10 long access cocaine self-administration sessions. These data support the hypothesis that escalation of cocaine consumption is mediated by hypo-glutamatergic tone in the central nervous system and this facilitation of escalation is associated with an increase in motivation to respond for cocaine.
Praeruptorin C (Pra-C), one of the principal bioactive components derived from the root of Peucedanum praeruptorum Dunn, has been widely used as an antioxidant and a calcium antagonist to treat diseases. The present study investigated the protective effect of Pra-C on cultured cortical neuron injury induced by glutamate. After challenge with 200μM N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) for 30min, loss of cell viability and excessive apoptotic cell death were observed in cultured cortical neurons. Pra-C conferred protective effects against loss of cellular viability in a concentration-dependent manner. Pra-C also significantly inhibited neuronal apoptosis induced by NMDA exposure by reversing intracellular Ca(2+) overload and balancing Bcl-2 and Bax expression. Furthermore, Pra-C significantly reversed the upregulation of GluN2B-containing NMDA receptors by exposure to NMDA but did not affect the expression of GluN2A-containing NMDA receptors. These findings suggest that Pra-C partially protects cortical neurons by inhibiting the expression of GluN2B-containing NMDA receptors and regulating the Bcl-2 family.
Infants passively exposed to morphine or heroin through their addicted mothers usually develop characteristic withdrawal syndrome of morphine after birth. In such early life, the central nervous system exhibits significant plasticity and can be altered by various prenatal influences, including prenatal morphine exposure. Here we studied the effects of prenatal morphine exposure on postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95), an important cytoskeletal specialization involved in the anchoring of the NMDAR and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), of the hippocampal CA1 subregion from young offspring at postnatal day 14 (P14). We also evaluated the therapeutic efficacy of dextromethorphan, a widely used antitussive drug with noncompetitive antagonistic effects on NMDARs, for such offspring. The results revealed that prenatal morphine exposure caused a maximal decrease in PSD-95 expression at P14 followed by an age-dependent improvement. In addition, prenatal morphine exposure reduced not only the expression of nNOS and the phosphorylation of cAMP responsive element-binding protein at serine 133 (CREB(Serine-133)), but also the magnitude of long-term depression (LTD) at P14. Subsequently, the morphine-treated offspring exhibited impaired performance in long-term learning and memory at later ages (P28-29). Prenatal coadministration of dextromethorphan with morphine during pregnancy and throughout lactation could significantly attenuate the adverse effects as described above. Collectively, the study demonstrates that maternal exposure to morphine decreases the magnitude of PSD-95, nNOS, the phosphorylation of CREB(Serine-133), and LTD expression in hippocampal CA1 subregion of young offspring (e.g., P14). Such alterations within the developing brain may play a role for subsequent neurological impairments (e.g., impaired performance of long-term learning and memory). The results raise a possibility that postsynaptic density proteins could serve an important role, at least in part, for the neurobiological pathogenesis in offspring from the morphine-addicted mother and provide tentative therapeutic strategy.
Transgenic mice with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) promoter driven-astrocyte production of the cytokines interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) were used to determine whether the pre-existing production of these cytokines in vivo might modulate the sensitivity of neurons to excitotoxic agents. Low doses of kainic acid (5 mg/kg) that produced little or no behavioral or electroencephalogram (EEG) alterations in wild type or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-TNF animals induced severe tonic-clonic seizures and death in GFAP-IL6 transgenic mice of 2 or 6 months of age. GFAP-IL6 mice were also significantly more sensitive to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)- but not pilocarpine-induced seizures. Kainic acid uptake in the brain of the GFAP-IL6 mice was higher in the cerebellum but not in other regions. Kainic acid binding in the brain of GFAP-IL6 mice had a similar distribution and density as wild type controls. In the hippocampus of GFAP-IL6 mice that survived low dose kainic acid, there was no change in the extent of either neurodegeneration or astrocytosis. Immunostaining revealed degenerative changes in gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA)- and parvalbumin-positive neurons in the hippocampus of 2-month-old GFAP-IL6 mice which progressed to the loss of these cells at 6 months of age. Thus, GFAP-IL6 but not GFAP-TNF mice showed markedly enhanced sensitivity to glutamatergic- but not cholinergic-induced seizures and lethality. This may relate, in part, to a compromise of inhibitory interneuron function. Therefore, pre-existing IL-6 production and inflammation in the central nervous system (CNS) not only causes spontaneous neurodegeneration but also synergizes with other neurotoxic insults to induce more severe acute functional neurological impairment.
The effects of clonidine and minoxidil on sympathetic nervous activity has been studied in 10 patients with accelerated or resistant hypertension. Clonidine 150 to 900 micrograms/day caused a significant decrease in blood pressure of 18.6 mm Hg, of heart rate 16.4 beats/min, of plasma renin activity 1.13ng/ml h, and of urinary noradrenaline excretion 11.55 micrograms/day, and a significant lengthening of the pre-injection period of 12.4 ms. Minoxidil 5 to 22.5 micrograms/day caused a further significant decrease in blood pressure of 24.2 mm Hg, and significant increases in heart rate 8.2 beats/min, plasma renin activity 1.68 ng/ml h and of urinary noradrenaline excretion 5.0 micrograms/day, and a significant shortening of the pre-ejection period of 20.6 ms. Neither clonidine nor minoxidil altered plasma dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity or the cardiovascular responses to treadmill exercise. It is concluded that clonidine is a useful alternative agent to block a minoxidil-induced increase in sympathetic nervous activity.
CI-921 (NSC 343499; 9-[[2-methoxy-4-[(methylsulphonyl)amino]phenyl]amino] -N,5-dimethyl- 4-acridinecarboxamide) is a topoisomerase II poison with high experimental antitumour activity. It was administered by 15 min infusion to 16 evaluable patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (7 with no prior treatment, 9 patients in relapse following surgery/radiotherapy) at a dose (648 mg/m2 divided over 3 days, repeated every 3 weeks) determined by phase I trial. Patients had a median performance status of 1 (WHO), and median age of 61 years. The histology comprised squamous carcinoma (11), adenocarcinoma (1), mixed histology (2), bronchio-alveolar carcinoma (1) and large cell undifferentiated carcinoma (1). Neutropenia grade greater than or equal to 3 was seen in 15 patients, infections with recovery in 3, and grand mal seizures in 1 patient. Grade less than or equal to 2 nausea and vomiting occurred in 66% courses and phlebitis in the infusion arm in 37%. 1 patient with squamous cell carcinoma achieved a partial response lasting 5 months. Further testing in this and other tumour types using multiple daily schedules is warranted.
To explore the correlation between fatty content of fatty liver and the difference of CT attenuation value in dual-energy CT, and to evaluate the value of dual-energy CT in the quantitative diagnosis of fatty liver in rabbits.
Dual-energy CT at 120 kVp and 90 kVp was performed in 16 rabbits of experimental groups that were induced to various degrees of fatty liver by feeding carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). Four healthy rabbits in the control group underwent dual-energy CT at the same time. The CT attenuation values of liver tissues at 120 kVp (H120), 90 kVp (H90) and the difference (Delta H) between them were obtained. The specimens of liver tissues were examined with freeze section (9 microm) and an oil red O stain histologically. The ratio of fatty content in liver to the liver volume (VP value) was measured using the image analyzer system.
The change of CT attenuation values between 120 kVp and 90 kVp was not obvious (Delta H between -0.4 HU and 1.4 HU) in the control group. The density of the liver in the experimental groups decreased differently, and the change in CT attenuation values between high and low energy levels were very clear. H120 values were between 51.0 HU and 91.7 HU and H90 values were between 37.0 HU and 89.2 HU. Delta H values were between 2.5 HU and 14.0 HU. Significant negative linear correlation (r = -0.92, -0.93, t = 8.51, 9.76, p < 0.001, 0.001, respectively) were found between VP values and H120 and H90, respectively, while significant positive linear correlation (r = 0.95, t = 11.89, p < 0.001) was found between VP values and Delta H.
The amount and degree of fat in the fatty liver can be assessed exactly by dual-energy CT. It will be a potential new effective method for quantitative diagnosis of fatty livers.
Heptaminol is a molecule with experimental cardiovascular analeptic properties. In this double-blind vs placebo trial, the potency, so far unproven, of the injectable form of a 626 mg dose of heptaminol chlorhydrate on spontaneous or induced orthostatic hypotension (OH), was assessed. Nineteen patients were included in the study: 7 displayed spontaneous OH, and in the other 12 OH was induced by bromocriptine, as monitored 103 min/after an oral intake of 6.6 mg on average. Neither spontaneous nor induced OH were recorded in 32% of the Parkinsonian population registered, with no obvious distinctive characteristics. Potency tilt-trials, performed 15, 30 and 45 min after parenteral administration of heptaminol, revealed a significant and expressive potency of the molecule on the systolic blood pressure after 15 min (P less than 0.05). Clinical and biological tolerance was excellent. Low plasma renin activity and the absence of response to orthostatism indicated, in this population of Parkinsonian extrapyramidal syndromes, a loss in positive tonus likely to be of sympathetic origin. The anti-hypotensive action of heptaminol does not seem to be related to any renal or even sympathetic interaction.
