From the age of 6 months until their natural deaths, female CBA mice were given melatonin with their drinking water (20 mg/l) for 5 consecutive days every month. Intact mice served as controls. The results of this study show that the consumption of melatonin did not significantly influence food consumption, but it did increase the body weight of older mice; it did not influence physical strength or the presence of fatigue; it decreased locomotor activity and body temperature; it inhibited free radical processes in serum, brain, and liver; it slowed down the age-related switching-off of estrous function; and it increased life span. However, we also found that treatment with the used dose of melatonin increased spontaneous tumor incidence in mice. For this reason, we concluded that it would be premature to recommend melatonin as a geroprotector for long-term use.
It has been shown that orexin neuropeptides contribute to morphine-induced physical dependence. The locus coeruleus (LC), which receives a dense extra-hypothalamic orexinergic projection, is a key brain region implicated in the expression of somatic signs of morphine withdrawal syndrome. The aim of the present study is to investigate the role of LC orexin type 1 receptors (OXR1) on naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal signs in rats. Adult male Wistar rats were rendered dependent on morphine by subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of morphine sulfate (10mg/kg) at an interval of 12h for 9 days. On day 10, naloxone (1mg/kg i.p.) was injected 2h after morphine administration. Somatic signs of withdrawal were then evaluated in a clear Plexiglas test chamber (30 cm diameter, 50 cm height) for 25 min. One group of animals received intra-LC SB-334867-A, a selective OXR1 antagonist, (100 microM, 0.2 microl) immediately before naloxone. In the control group, SB-334867-A vehicle was microinjected into the LC in the same manner. The results showed that intra-LC OXR1 receptor blockade significantly decreased the somatic signs of withdrawal including chewing, diarrhea, scratching, teeth chattering, wet-dog shake and ptosis. These results suggest that activation of OXR1 in the LC might be involved in the expression of withdrawal signs in morphine dependent rats.
We previously reported that phenylpropanoids isolated from the roots of Scrophularia buergeriana Miquel (Scrophulariaceae) protected cultured cortical neurons against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity [Kim and Kim, Phytochemistry, 54 (2000) 503-509; Kim et al., Br. J. Pharmacol. 135 (2002) 1281-1291]. In the present study, we examined the anti-amnestic activities of phenylpropanoids in mice with amnesia induced in vivo by scopolamine. Among the phenylpropanoids tested through passive avoidance tasks, buergeriside A1, buergeriside C1, E-p-methoxycinnamic acid (E-p-MCA) and E-isoferulic acid significantly improved the deficit of memory induced by scopolamine. This suggested that the alpha,beta-unsaturated carboxyl moiety and the para-methoxy group in phenylpropanoids (E-p-MCA) might be a crucial component in their cognition-enhancing activity. Indeed, E-p-MCA (0.01-2 mg/kg body weight, i.p.), given in pre- or post-treatment paradigms, significantly ameliorated scopolamine-induced amnesia as determined by passive avoidance tasks and prevented or aided in the recovery of memory to a level that was about 60% of control. In addition, E-p-MCA (0.1-1.0 mg/kg body weight, i.p.) significantly improved impairments of spatial learning and memory induced by scopolamine; the compound reduced deficits in both long- and short-term memories as measured by the Morris water maze test. We suggest, therefore, that E-p-MCA may ultimately hold significant therapeutic value in alleviating certain memory impairments observed in dementia.
A patient with primary myocardial disease and left bundle-branch block who developed marked QT prolongation and torsade de pointes following an intravenous injection of ajmaline during an electrophysiologic study is reported. The patient could be resuscitated successfully 1 h after the onset of tachycardia.
Variability of thrombotic disease among individuals homozygous for factor V Leiden has been described. It has been shown that some thrombotic patients carry an additional genetic risk factor such as protein C, protein S, antithrombin deficiency or the G20210A mutation on the prothrombin gene. The occurrence of a deep vein thrombosis during enoxaparin prophylactic treatment in a pregnant woman homozygous for factor V Leiden, without other known prothrombotic genetic factors, led us to investigate her thrombomodulin gene. We found that the patient was heterozygous for the previously described G127-->A mutation, which results in an Ala25-->Thr substitution. Furthermore, for this patient, the allelic combination at the 1418 polymorphic site was C/T, which predicts an Ala455-->Val replacement. Although larger studies are required, this case report suggests that thrombomodulin gene mutations could be an additional genetic risk factor for thrombosis in carriers of the factor V Leiden mutation.
The case of an 11-year-old boy is reported who was known to have Fanconi's anemia for 3 years and was treated with androgens, corticosteroids and transfusions. Two weeks before his death he was readmitted because of aplastic crisis with septicemia and marked abnormalities in liver function and died of hemorrhagic bronchopneumonia. At autopsy peliosis and multiple hepatic tumors were found which histologically proved to be well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. This case contributes to the previous observations that non-metastasizing hepatic neoplasms and peliosis can develop in patients with androgen- and corticosteroid-treated Fanconi's anemia.
In men, the inflammatory response to intravenous endotoxin depresses apparent oral clearances of antipyrine, hexobarbitone, and theophylline. The aim of this study was to investigate whether there might be gender differences in the regulation of hepatic cytochromes P450.
Experiments were carried out in seven healthy women volunteers (ages 19-51, median 22 years). Each woman received a cocktail of the three drugs on two occasions, once after a saline injection and again after endotoxin.
Endotoxin injections, but not saline, caused the expected physiologic responses of inflammation including fever and increases in circulating tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, and C-reactive protein. When compared with the saline control studies, endotoxin significantly decreased clearances of all probes: antipyrine, 31% (95%CI 21%-41%); hexobarbitone, 20% (95%CI 10-31%); and theophylline, 20% (95%CI 10%-30%). The decreases were comparable with those found in the men previously studied (35%, 27%, and 22%, respectively).
These data show that endotoxin-induced inflammation decreases hepatic cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism of selected probe drugs in women as it does in men.
Adenosine is a major negative neuromodulator of synaptic activity in the central nervous system and can exert anticonvulsant and neuroprotective effects in many experimental models of epilepsy. Extracellular adenosine can be formed by a membrane-anchored enzyme ecto-5'-nucleotidase. The purposes of this study were to characterize the role of adenosine receptors in modulating status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine and evaluate its neuroprotective action. Ecto-5'-nucleotidase activity was studied during the different phases of pilocarpine-induced epilepsy in rats.
Adult rats were pretreated with different adenosinergic agents to evaluate the latency and incidence of SE induced by pilocarpine in rats. The neuroprotective effect also was evaluated.
A proconvulsant effect was observed with DPCPX and DMPX that reduced the latency of SE in almost all rats. Pretreatment with the MRS 1220 did not alter the incidence of SE but reduced the latency to develop SE. An anticonvulsant and neuroprotective effect was detected with R-PIA. Rats pretreated with R-PIA had a decreased number of apoptotic cells in the hippocampus, whereas pretreatment with DPCPX did not modify the hippocampal damage. An intensification of neuronal death was observed in the dentate gyrus and CA3 when rats were pretreated with DMPX. MRS-1220 did not modify the number of apoptotic cells in the hippocampus. An increase in the ecto-5 -nucleotidase staining was detected in the hippocampus during silent and chronic phases.
The present data show that adenosine released during pilocarpine-induced SE via A1-receptor stimulation can exhibit neuroprotective and anticonvulsant roles. Similar effects could also be inferred with A2a and A3 adenosinergic agents, but further experiments are necessary to confirm their roles. Ecto-5 -nucleotidase activity during silent and chronic phases might have a role in blocking spontaneous seizures by production of inhibitory neuromodulator adenosine, besides taking part in the mechanism that controls sprouting.
The anticatatonic action of various antidepressants in moderate doses and their combination with sub-effective doses of diphenhydramine was correlated with brain histamine levels. The catatonia was induced by perphenazine with a concomitant and remarkable increase in the brain histamine level. Diphenhydramine partially protected the animals from the increase in brain histamine and mitigated the catatonia. The antidepressants, i.e. monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants, partially protected animals both the increase in brain histamine and also the catatonia. The tricyclic antidepressants were, however, found to be more potent in both respects. The combination of sub-effective doses of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and diphenhydramine was effective in terminating experimental catatonia and the elevation of brain histamine while tricyclic antidepressants failed. A relationship between the duration of protection against catatonia and brain histamine level due to antidepressants alone and their combination with diphenhydramine was observed.
Shark cartilage and shark cartilage extracts have been reported to have anti-angiogenic and anti-neoplastic properties. This study reports the effects of oral administration of powdered shark cartilage on tumor progression in a murine renal tumor model.
Renal tumors were induced in CBA female mice by a single bolus of IV streptozotocin. 57 mice were fed shark cartilage and the numbers and rate of development of dysplastic convoluted tubules, papillary and solid renal epithelial tumors was compared with 57 control mice over an 88 week follow-up period.
In the shark cartilage fed group dysplasia was first observed after 23 weeks (control 19 weeks), papillary tumors after 24 weeks (control 23 weeks) and solid tumors after 55 weeks (control 19 weeks). There was no significant difference in the rate of development of dysplastic tubules between test and control animals. The development of papillary and solid tumors was significantly delayed in the test group.
In this tumor model oral shark cartilage delays, but does not abolish, tumor progression.
This study was designed to evaluate the potential chronotropic actions of several cardiac neuropeptides in pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs. After bilateral vagotomy and stellectomy and muscarinic receptor blockade, I injected vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, peptide histidine isoleucine, neuropeptide Y, neurotensin, and calcitonin gene-related peptide into the intact sinus node artery. Neurotensin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and neuropeptide Y exhibited no physiologically significant changes in heart rate. However, the structural homologues vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and peptide histidine isoleucine each augmented heart rate with maximal increases (approximately 120 beats/min) similar to those of norepinephrine. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and peptide histidine isoleucine were twice and 1/18, respectively, as potent as norepinephrine. The cardioacceleratory responses to vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and peptide histidine isoleucine were more slowly developing and longer lasting than those of norepinephrine. The responses to these two peptides were unchanged after beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol in a dose sufficient to eliminate or greatly attenuate the norepinephrine tachycardia. These results indicate a potential role of endogenous vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and peptide histidine isoleucine in nonadrenergic, noncholinergic heart rate control in the dog.
2 cases of cholestatic hepatitis due to preajmaline recovered when the drug was stopped. One was a 40-year-old woman, and the other a 74-year-old man whose jaundice lasted for 8 months. Approximately 40 patients with preajmaline-induced hepatitis have been described in the literature. All recovered except 1, who developed biliary cirrhosis while using preajmaline in conjunction with other hepatotoxic drugs.
We investigated whether the interoceptive discriminative stimulus (IDS) arising from ethanol withdrawal was related to decreased activity of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) system by determining whether the sensitivity of rats to the GABA antagonists was altered by chronic treatment with ethanol. Rats were trained to obtain food reward by responding on one lever following pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) and the other lever following saline. Whereas all of the trained rats selected the PTZ-appropriate lever after PTZ, no more than 50% of them selected this lever following an optimum dose of bicuculline or picrotoxinin. After either saline or diazepam (5 mg/kg), all of the rats selected the saline-appropriate lever. Ethanol (0.24 mol/kg/day) was then administered to the rats for 4 days via a nutritionally balanced liquid diet. Between 48 and 96 hours postethanol, 30% of the rats selected the PTZ-appropriate lever following saline, whereas selection of this lever was increased to 80% following either bicuculline or picrotoxinin. Thus, further antagonism of GABAergic activity increased the subjective effect of ethanol withdrawal. These data support the hypothesis that the PTZ-like IDS produced during withdrawal from ethanol is related to an ethanol-induced deficit in the activity of the GABA-benzodiazepine receptor-coupled chloride channel.
We conducted a genome-wide association (GWA) study of lung cancer comparing 511,919 SNP genotypes in 1,952 cases and 1,438 controls. The most significant association was attained at 15q25.1 (rs8042374; P = 7.75 x 10(-12)), confirming recent observations. Pooling data with two other GWA studies (5,095 cases, 5,200 controls) and with replication in an additional 2,484 cases and 3,036 controls, we identified two newly associated risk loci mapping to 6p21.33 (rs3117582, BAT3-MSH5; P(combined) = 4.97 x 10(-10)) and 5p15.33 (rs401681, CLPTM1L; P(combined) = 7.90 x 10(-9)).
Acute liver failure occurred in a 59-year-old man with congestive heart failure within 4 days of oral loading with amiodarone. Hepatic toxicity of amiodarone leads to 2 histologic pictures: pseudo-alcoholic hepatitis and phospholipoidosis. Immune mechanisms are possible in amiodarone hepatotoxicity.
Irradiation interrupts spermatogenesis and causes prolonged sterility in male mammals. Hormonal suppression treatment with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogues has restored spermatogenesis in irradiated rats, but similar attempts were unsuccessful in irradiated mice, monkeys, and humans. In this study, we tested a stronger hormonal suppression regimen (the GnRH antagonist, acyline, and plus flutamide) for efficacy both in restoring endogenous spermatogenesis and in enhancing colonization of transplanted stem spermatogonia in mouse testes irradiated with a total doses between 10.5 and 13.5 Gy. A 4-week hormonal suppression treatment, given immediately after irradiation, increased endogenous spermatogenic recovery 1.5-fold, and 11-week hormonal suppression produced twofold increases compared with sham-treated irradiated controls. Furthermore, 10-week hormonal suppression restored fertility from endogenous surviving spermatogonial stem cells in 90% of 10.5-Gy irradiated mice, whereas only 10% were fertile without hormonal suppression. Four- and 11-week hormonal suppression also enhanced spermatogenic development from transplanted stem spermatogonia in irradiated recipient mice, by 3.1- and 4.8-fold, respectively, compared with those not given hormonal treatment. Moreover, the 10-week hormonal suppression regimen, but not a sham treatment, restored fertility of some 13.5-Gy irradiated recipient mice from donor-derived spermatogonial stem cells. This is the first report of hormonal suppression inducing recovery of endogenous spermatogenesis and fertility in a mouse model treated with anticancer agents. The combination of spermatogonial transplantation with hormonal suppression should be investigated as a treatment to restore fertility in young men after cytotoxic cancer therapy.
The use of desipramine in treating major depressive disorder in the hospitalized medically ill patient is described. Desipramine has a low incidence of anticholinergic side effects, causes little orthostatic hypotension, and has a quinidine-like effect on cardiac arrhythmias. Desipramine should be used with caution in patients with risk of heart block and bundle branch block. Guidelines for administration of desipramine in the medically ill are discussed, and drug interactions with medications commonly used in this population are reviewed. Finally, the importance of providing psychotherapy along with desipramine treatment in treating the medically ill depressed patient is emphasized.
Sensorineural hearing loss was detected in nine (33%) of 27 patients with beta-thalassaemia major. All were receiving regular hypertransfusion and nightly subcutaneous infusions of desferrioxamine. A retrospective analysis of these patients was undertaken to determine the risk factors for the development of deafness. No statistically significant differences were found between the affected and unaffected groups with respect to age, ferritin levels or lengths of time that they had received desferrioxamine, but the trends were similar to those reported by other authors. However, the desferrioxamine dosage was similar in both our groups (less than 60 mg/kg a day), and lower in the affected group than other authors have reported. Two patients experienced some resolution of their deafness when their dosage of desferrioxamine was lowered. These results suggest that the ototoxic effect of desferrioxamine is dose-related and can occur at relatively low doses of the drug.
GAP43 has been thought to be linked with mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) in various experimental models of epilepsy. To investigate how GAP43 expression (GAP43-ir) correlates with MFS, we assessed the intensity (densitometry) and extension (width) of GAP43-ir in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (IML) of rats subject to status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine (Pilo), previously injected or not with cycloheximide (CHX), which has been shown to inhibit MFS.
CHX was injected before the Pilo injection in adult Wistar rats. The Pilo group was injected with the same drugs, except for CHX. Animals were killed between 30 and 60 days later, and brain sections were processed for GAP43 immunohistochemistry.
Densitometry showed no significant difference regarding GAP43-ir in the IML between Pilo, CHX+Pilo, and control groups. However, the results of the width of the GAP43-ir band in the IML showed that CHX+Pilo and control animals had a significantly larger band (p = 0.03) as compared with that in the Pilo group.
Our current finding that animals in the CHX+Pilo group have a GAP43-ir band in the IML, similar to that of controls, reinforces prior data on the blockade of MFS in these animals. The change in GAP43-ir present in Pilo-treated animals was a thinning of the band to a very narrow layer just above the granule cell layer that is likely to be associated with the loss of hilar cell projections that express GAP-43.
To review the reports of prolonged neuromuscular blockade secondary to vecuronium and atracurium administration. To propose mechanisms for prolonged blockade, as well as methods to avoid prolonged blockade.
A literature search was conducted of articles published from 1980 to 1993. Articles pertaining to pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic alterations, prolonged neuromuscular blockade, and continuous infusion administration of vecuronium and atracurium were obtained.
Studies and case reports pertaining to prolonged neuromuscular blockade in intensive care unit patients were reviewed and summarized.
All articles were reviewed by both authors. Primarily, the critical care literature and anesthesia literature were reviewed. Case reports were divided into two groups, based on end-organ function and possible cause.
Prolonged neuromuscular blockade can be divided into two types. One is pharmacokinetically based, due to alterations in clearance and metabolite formation. The second occurs in patients without an etiology for drug clearance problems. Functional neuromuscular junction defects are the problem and may be due to the underlying disease state in addition to, or regardless of, the use of neuromuscular blocking agents.
Controlled studies assessing the appropriate drug, administration method, use of drug in end-organ dysfunction, and monitoring techniques are unavailable. From the available case reports, length of neuromuscular blockade has been associated with end-organ dysfunction, concomitant drug use, severity of the underlying illness, length of therapy, monitoring techniques used, and perhaps method of drug administration. Steroidally based neuromuscular blocking agents may be particularly hazardous in patients receiving systemic corticosteroids. It is premature to determine the safety of one particular neuromuscular blocking drug in relation to another. Further studies are needed to optimize the use and safety of neuromuscular blocking agents in intensive care unit patients.
We describe the use of a clinically relevant pharmacological intervention that alters the clinical history of status epilepticus (SE)-induced spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS) in the pilocarpine model and the possible plastic changes underlying such an effect.
Two hours after pilocarpine-induced SE (320-350 mg/kg, i.p.), rats received scopolamine 1-2 mg/kg i.p. or saline, every 6 h for 3 days. After that, osmotic minipumps were implanted for continuous delivery of scopolamine or saline for an additional 14 days. Animals were video-monitored for 12 h/week during the following 3-month period for the occurrence of SRS and, thereafter, were perfused, processed, and coronal brain sections were stained for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and for the presence of supragranular mossy fibers (Timm).
Treatment with scopolamine led to significantly fewer SRS. Staining for AChE in the dentate gyrus was significantly more intense in naïve animals. The scopolamine group had the least intense AChE staining of all groups. However, regression analysis of the AChE staining for this group did not correlate with the presence or absence of SRS, or the latency or frequency of SRS. Supragranular mossy fiber sprouting developed in all animals experiencing pilocarpine-induced SE, irrespective of whether or not they were treated with scopolamine.
Pilocarpine-induced SE in the presence of scopolamine might produce animals that, despite mossy fiber sprouting, were not seen to exhibit spontaneous seizures. In addition, our data suggest that the encountered changes in the AChE staining in the dentate gyrus that followed treatment with scopolamine do not help to explain its disease-modifying effects.
Most myxoid liposarcomas (MLS) are characterized cytogenetically by a t(12;16)(q13;p11). It is reasonable to assume that this translocation corresponds to the consistent rearrangement of one or two genes in 12q13 and/or 16p11, and that the loci thus affected are important in the normal control of fat cell differentiation and proliferation. We have used Southern blot technique to test whether a gene of the CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP) family, CHOP, which maps to 12q13 and is assumed to be involved in adipocyte differentiation, could be the 12q gene in question. Using a cDNA probe that spans the CHOP coding region, we detected one rearranged and one wild type allele in nine of nine MLS with t(12;16). Using PCR generated, site-specific probes corresponding to the non-coding exons 1 and 2 and intron 2 of CHOP, rearrangements in five of seven tumors mapped to the 2.4 and 1.6 kbp PstI fragments that contain the first two exons and introns of the gene and the upstream promoter region. In contrast to the findings in MLS, no tumor without a t(12;16) exhibited aberrant CHOP restriction digest patterns. These tumors included one highly differentiated liposarcoma with abnormal karyotype but no involvement of 12q13, seven lipomas with various cytogenetic aberrations of 12q13-15, two uterine leiomyomas with t(12;14) (q14-15;q23-24), and one hemangiopericytoma and one chondroma, both of which also had 12q13 changes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The combination of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), budesonide, and a rapid long-acting β(2)-agonist (LABA), formoterol, in a single inhaler for use as maintenance and reliever therapy (Symbicort Turbuhaler SMART™) effectively achieves a high level of asthma control and reduces exacerbations and asthma-related hospitalizations. The COSMOS study, a multinational, 12-month study (N = 2143), compared budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy with salmeterol/fluticasone propionate plus as-needed salbutamol, allowing physicians to modify maintenance doses of both combinations according to routine clinical practice.
The aim of this post hoc sub-group analysis of the COSMOS study is to provide focused data on budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever therapy compared with salmeterol/fluticasone propionate plus as-needed salbutamol in patients (aged ≥16 years) enrolled across Asian countries, specifically China, Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.
This sub-analysis of the COSMOS study concerns all 404 randomized patients ≥16 years of age (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV(1)] 69.1%) who were recruited from Asian countries. Patients received either budesonide/formoterol (Symbicort Turbuhaler SMART™, n = 198), starting dose 160 mg/4.5 mg two inhalations twice daily (bid) [plus additional as-needed inhalations], or salmeterol/fluticasone propionate (Seretide(®) Diskus(®), n = 206), starting dose 50 mg/250 mg bid (plus salbutamol [Ventolin(®)] as needed). Maintenance doses could be titrated by clinicians after the first 4 weeks (budesonide/formoterol maintenance plus as needed, n = 198; salmeterol/fluticasone propionate plus salbutamol, n = 206). To allow for free adjustment in maintenance doses in both arms, the trial was performed open-label; maintenance doses could be titrated by clinicians after the first 4 weeks. The time to first severe exacerbation (defined as deterioration in asthma resulting in hospitalization/emergency room treatment, oral corticosteroids for ≥3 days or unscheduled visit leading to treatment change) was the primary variable.
The time to first severe exacerbation was prolonged in patients using maintenance plus as-needed budesonide/formoterol compared with salmeterol/fluticasone propionate plus salbutamol (log-rank p = 0.024). The risk of a first exacerbation was reduced by 44% (hazard ratio 0.56; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.32, 0.95; p = 0.033) in patients using the adjusted budesonide/formoterol regimen versus titrated salmeterol/fluticasone propionate. The overall exacerbation rates were 0.16 versus 0.26 events/patient-year, respectively, with a 38% reduction (rate ratio 0.62/patient/year; 95% CI 0.41, 0.94; p = 0.024) in favour of the budesonide/formoterol regimen. Compared with baseline, both regimens provided clinically relevant improvements in asthma control, quality of life and FEV(1); no statistically significant differences between the treatment groups were observed. Mean adjusted (standard deviation) ICS dose (expressed as beclomethasone dose equivalents) during treatment, including as-needed budesonide doses, was 944 (281) and 1034 (394) μg/day, respectively, in patients using maintenance plus as-needed budesonide/formoterol compared with salmeterol/fluticasone propionate.
In patients (aged ≥16 years) enrolled from Asian countries as part of the COSMOS study, the budesonide/formoterol maintenance and reliever regimen was associated with a lower future risk of exacerbations versus the physicians' free choice of salmeterol/fluticasone propionate dose plus salbutamol. Single inhaler combination treatment with maintenance plus as-needed budesonide/formoterol was also at least as efficacious as salmeterol/fluticasone propionate dose plus salbutamol in improving current asthma control.
Renal fibrosis is the final common pathway of chronic kidney disease, and its progression predicts the degree of renal dysfunction. We investigated the renoprotective properties of pirfenidone in a remnant kidney model of chronic renal failure to determine its pharmacological potency compared to enalapril. Five-sixths nephrectomized rats were fed diet containing pirfenidone (approximately 700mg/kg/day) for 8weeks. Pirfenidone steadily inhibited the progression of proteinuria, but not to a significant degree. Pirfenidone prevented the elevation of plasma creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. At the end of the experiment, pirfenidone had reduced systolic blood pressure by means of its renoprotective effect. In a histological study, pirfenidone improved interstitial fibrosis in the renal cortex. These effects were supported by the suppression of the expression of TGF-beta and fibronectin in the mRNA of the kidney. In contrast, pirfenidone had little effect on the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin, which is one of the proteins responsible for epithelial-mesenchymal transition. This property was confirmed by the TGF-beta-induced transdifferentiation observed in cultured normal rat kidney tubular epithelial NRK52E cells. These results suggest that pirfenidone improves the progression of chronic renal failure via its antifibrotic action, although pirfenidone has less effective TGF-beta-induced epithelial to mesenchymal transdifferentiation.
Recently there are a number of reports on the cardiotoxicity of tacrolimus in post-transplant patients. There is no protocol for cardiovascular evaluation in these patients. This study was performed to evaluate the cardiotoxicity of tacrolimus in liver transplant recipients.
We evaluated 63 post-liver transplant patients who received tacrolimus. They were evaluated for cardiovascular complications by physical examination, electrocardiographic and echocardiographic examinations within three and six months following liver transplantation. Serum tacrolimus levels were checked by ELISA. For comparison, we selected 50 post-liver transplant patients who received no tacrolimus and evaluated them for cardiovascular function identically.
Among 63 patients, 42 were male (66.7%) and 21 were female (33.3%); 70% of the patients were adults, and 19 (30%) were within the pediatric age group. The cardiovascular examinations, electrocardiogram and echocardiography of all patients three months post-transplantation were normal except for two children who developed tacrolimus related cardiac complications. Both had high serum tacrolimus levels. No adults developed cardiovascular complications. In the control group, the results of the cardiovascular evaluations were normal in all cases.
The cardiovascular toxicity of tacrolimus, such as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, may be observed in pediatric patients. Therefore, we recommend routine regular cardiovascular evaluation of children after liver transplantation.
Since steroid-induced psychoses often appear as mood disorders and since catatonia may be associated with psychotic mood disorders, the possibility exists for a steroid-induced psychotic mood disorder to present with associated catatonia. In a computer review of the medical literature, however, I found no such cases in adult patients. This report is presented as a possible case of steroid-induced catatonia in a 62-year-old woman following treatment with melphalan, prednisone, and cimetidine for multiple myeloma of the IgA class with associated mild hypercalcemia.
Fluridone is a herbicide extensively utilized in agriculture for its documented safety in animals. Fluridone contains a 4(1H)-pyridone and a trifluoromethyl-benzene moiety, which are also present in molecules with analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties. The established absence of adverse effects of Fluridone on animals prompted us to investigate whether it could represent a new anti-inflammatory compound targeting human cells. In stimulated human monocytes, micromolar Fluridone inhibited cyclooxygenase-2 expression and the release of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and prostaglandin-E2, to a similar extent as Acetylsalicylic acid. Fluridone also inhibited the proliferation of aortic smooth muscle cells and reduced proliferation and cytokine release by human activated lymphocytes. The mechanism of Fluridone seems to rely on the dose-dependent inhibition of the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-κB, a transcription factor playing a pivotal role in inflammation. Fluridone also inhibited the release from stimulated human monocytes of abscisic acid, a plant stress hormone recently discovered also in mammalian cells, where it stimulates pro-inflammatory responses. Interestingly, the mechanism of Fluridone's toxicity in plants relies on the inhibition of the enzyme phytoene desaturase, involved in the biosynthetic pathway of ß-carotene, the precursor of absciscic acid in plants. Finally, administration of Fluridone reduced peritoneal inflammation in Zymosan-treated mice. These results suggest that Fluridone could represent a new prototype of anti-inflammatory drug, also active on abscisic acid pro-inflammatory pathway.
