We previously reported a proteome map of lung adenocarcinomas in serine-threonine kinase of the Raf family (c-raf) transgenic mice. We now extend our initial studies to serum proteins at early stage (1 month) and advanced stages of tumorigenesis (12 months). Notably, serum proteins from wild-type and tumor bearing mice were extracted with a lysis buffer containing 5 mol/L urea, 2 mol/L thiourea, 40 mmol/L Tris, 4% CHAPS, 100 mmol/L DTT, 0.5% BioLyte 3-10, separated by 2-DE and studied by image analysis. On average 400 protein spots per gel were excised and analyzed by MALDI-TOF MS. We identified 45 common and 5 uniquely expressed proteins in wild-type and tumor bearing mice. Apart from uniquely identified proteins we observed for n = 9 proteins differential expression when wild-type and tumor bearing mice were compared. This included serpins and other protease inhibitors, lipocalins, transthyretins, globins, and Igs. Notably, we demonstrate significant regulation of alpha-1-antitrypsin, alpha-2-macroglobulin, hemoglobin subunit alpha, vitamin D-binding protein, major urinary proteins, and transthyretin (up to eight-fold) in serum of lung tumor bearing mice. Disease association of these proteins in human malignancies has been reported. Thus, an identification of regulated serum proteins in this lung cancer disease model provides excellent opportunities for the search of novel biomarkers.
Nitrogen Mustard (NM) is an alkylating agent that damages cellular nuclear DNA after penetrating tissue. This results in cytostatic, mutagenic and cytotoxic effects. We used the electron microscope to investigate the effect of NM gas administered through the dermal and respiratory routes to rats on the brain cortex and also tried to show whether the antioxidant Proanthocyanidin (PC) could decrease this effect.
A total of 32 rats were randomized into four groups: Group I: Control group, Group II: PC group, Group III: NM group, Group IV: NM + PC group. The rats were sacrificed 3 days after NM gas exposure. A segment of the cortical tissue was prepared for electron microscopy.
We used the electron microscope for cellular analysis of NM on cortical neural cells. These investigations revealed degeneration of the cortical neural cell nuclei together with oedema and axonal degeneration in the subcortical neural tissue. The group receiving antioxidants was found to have less oedema and degeneration.
These findings imply that structural changes induced by mustard gas can be prevented and restored by proanthocyanidin treatment.
Methadone is still regarded as a second line opioid for patients suffering from severe pain, and is rarely used in hospitalized patients. The infrequent use of methadone is probably due to its long plasma half-life that could lead to accumulation and toxicity. In the present study we report that clinically effective analgesic doses of methadone, given either epidurally or orally, can be used safely for prolonged treatment in hospitalized patients.
Over a five-year period we administered methadone at Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem to 3,954 in-patients with severe pain, 12% of whom were younger than 17 yr. Satisfactory pain relief was recorded in more than 85% of the patients. None of the patients treated with oral methadone developed serious side effects. Three patients, treated with epidural methadone (0.09%), developed a clinically significant respiratory depression. In all three cases, epidural pump failure or pump misprogramming resulted in methadone overdose. None of the children or adults treated with methadone developed addiction during hospitalization.
Based on its analgesic properties and marked safety profile, we suggest that methadone could be added to the analgesic armamentarium of in-hospital health-care providers. Moreover, methadone could serve as the opioid of first choice in some in-patient populations.
1. The relative roles of endothelin (ET) and vasopressin (AVP) in the regulation of blood pressure (BP), cardiac output (CO) and total peripheral resistance (TPR) were investigated in the early stages (24 - 31 days) of development of hypertension in the conscious deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rat model. 2. BP was recorded with radiotelemetry devices and CO with ultrasonic transit-time probes. TPR was calculated from the BP and CO recordings. The contributions of endogenous ET and AVP were studied by infusing [d(CH(2))(5)(1),O-Me_Tyr(2),Arg(8)]-vasopressin, a V(1)-receptor antagonist, and bosentan, a mixed ET(A)/ET(B) receptor antagonist (Study 1). Vascular responsiveness was estimated from the changes in TPR evoked by i.v. infusions of ET-1 and AVP (Study 2). 3. In study 1, infusion of bosentan reduced TPR and BP dramatically in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats but not in SHAM control rats, and this effect was greater when the AVP system had been blocked. In contrast, the V(1) receptor antagonist alone failed to change TPR and BP in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats. However, subsequent infusion of the V(1) receptor antagonist during the plateau phase of the response in bosentan pretreated DOCA-salt hypertensive rats led to significant decreases in both BP and TPR. 4. In study 2, TPR and BP responses to ET-1, but not AVP, were greater in DOCA-salt rats than in control rats. CO responses to ET-1 or AVP were similar in the two groups. 5. The results suggest that both ET and AVP play a role in the maintenance of TPR and BP; when one system is blocked the other compensates. However, the magnitude of the contribution to the hypertensive state appears greater for ET than for AVP. Enhanced vascular responses to ET appear to contribute to this greater role.
Mutations in the gene coding for selenoprotein N (SelN), a selenium containing protein of unknown function, cause different forms of congenital muscular dystrophy in humans. These muscular diseases are characterized by early onset of hypotonia which predominantly affect in axial muscles. We used zebrafish as a model system to understand the function of SelN in muscle formation during embryogenesis. Zebrafish SelN is highly homologous to its human counterpart and amino acids corresponding to the mutated positions in human muscle diseases are conserved in the zebrafish protein. The sepn1 gene is highly expressed in the somites and notochord during early development. Inhibition of the sepn1 gene by injection of antisense morpholinos does not alter the fate of the muscular tissue, but causes muscle architecture disorganization and greatly reduced motility. Ultrastructural analysis of the myotomes reveals defects in muscle sarcomeric organization and in myofibers attachment, as well as altered myoseptum integrity. These studies demonstrate the important role of SelN for muscle organization during early development. Moreover, alteration of myofibrils architecture and tendon-like structure in embryo deficient for SelN function provide new insights into the pathological mechanism of SelN-related myopathy.
This investigation was performed to verify a previous hypothesis which correlates the catamenial seizures with the stoppage of progesterone secretion. White rats from a Wistar strain were tested with an electric bell. Thirty-five animals refractory to the acoustic stimulus were selected for the experiment. Each animal received 9 daily injections with progesterone, 5 mgr/day. The animals were tested with the acoustic stimulus after the 5th and the 9th injections, 24 hours after the administration of the last dose. Audiogenic seizures were obtained in 29.4% of the rats tested after 5 injections and in 40.0% of the rats tested after the 9th injection. The increased seizure susceptibility lasted 3-8 days after the hormone withdrawal. In conclusion, the withdrawal of high doses of progesterone exerts a seizure-activating effect.
Isoniazid (INH) continues to be a sheet anchor in treatment of tuberculosis, however its chronic administration is known to cause hepatotoxicity through a poorly defined mechanism. Ellucidation of mechanism underlying INH induced hepatotoxicity may be beneficial in devising ways to counteract toxic manifestations. In view of this concentration dependent effects INH were evaluated in hepatoma cell line (Hep-G2). INH exposure produced cytotoxic effects in Hep-G2 cells in a characteristic dose dependent manner. There was considerable cell detachment, loss of viability and alterations in cellular morphology that were indicative of toxic insult. We observed cell shrinkage at highest concentrations (88 microM) suggesting an involvement of apoptosis. This finding was substantiated by the flow cytometry data and DNA fragmentation analysis which clearly indicated that INH induced cytotoxicity, was being mediated by induction of apoptosis. Furthermore there was mitochondrial dysfunction as indicated by significant inhibition of MTT Reduction as compared to control at all the concentrations and depletion of cellular glutathione (GSH) content along with increased production of Reactive oxygen species (ROS). Collectively these findings led us to conclude that INH induced apoptosis in Hep-G2 cells is mediated by generation of oxidative stress.
Thalidomide is reported to suppress levels of several cytokines, angiogenic and growth factors including TNF-alpha, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and interleukin-6 (IL-6). The resulting anti-angiogenic, immunomodulatory and growth suppressive effects form the rationale for investigating thalidomide in the treatment of malignancies. We have evaluated the use of high-dose oral thalidomide (600 mg daily) in patients with renal carcinoma. 25 patients (all men; median age, 51 years; range 34-76 years) with advanced measurable renal carcinoma, who had either progressed on or were not suitable for immunotherapy, received thalidomide in an escalating schedule up to a maximum dose of 600 mg daily. Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity were encountered. 22 patients were assessable for response. 2 patients showed partial responses (9%; 95% CI: 1-29), 7 (32%; 95% CI: 14-55) had stable disease for more than 6 months and a further 5 (23%; 95% CI: 8-45) had stable disease for between 3 and 6 months. We also measured levels of TNF-alpha, bFGF, VEGF, IL-6 and IL-12 before and during treatment. In patients with SD > or = 3 months or an objective response, a statistically significant decrease in serum TNF-alpha levels was demonstrated (P = 0.05). The commonest toxicities were lethargy (> or = grade II, 10 patients), constipation (> or = grade II, 11 patients) and neuropathy (> or = grade II, 5 patients). Toxicities were of sufficient clinical significance for use of a lower and well tolerated dose of 400 mg in currently accruing studies.
Macrophages are characterized by a marked phenotypic heterogeneity depending on their microenvironmental stimulation. Beside classical activation (M1), it has been shown that macrophages could follow a different activation pathway after stimulation with interleukin (IL)-4 or IL-13 (M2). Recently, it has been postulated that those "alternatively activated" macrophages may be critical in the control of fibrogenesis. In an experimental model of silicosis, where pulmonary macrophages play a central role, we addressed the question of whether lung fibrosis development would be associated with alternative macrophage activation. As available markers for alternative macrophage activation, type-1 arginase (Arg-1), Fizz1, Ym1/2, and mannose receptor expression were evaluated at the mRNA and/or protein levels at different stages of the disease. Nitric oxide synthase-2 (NOS-2) expression was also examined to investigate the classical counterpart. We found that the expression of Arg-1, Fizz1, and NOS-2 in adherent bronchoalveolar lavage cells was highly up-regulated 3 days after silica administration but returned to control levels during the fibrotic stage of the disease (60 days). By comparing the early response to silica in C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice, we observed that the amplitude of Arg-1 mRNA up-regulation was not associated with the severity of lung fibrosis. Using a model of manganese dioxide particles (resolutive alveolitis), we showed that this early Arg-1 mRNA was not specific to a fibrogenic lung response. Our data indicate that the modifications of M1/M2 marker expression are limited to the early inflammatory stage of silicosis and that the establishment of a fibrotic process is not necessarily associated with M2 polarization.
Uni- or bilateral injection of morphine (MO) (3-13 nmoles) into the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR) produced tonic activity in the electromyogram (EMG) recorded from the gastrocnemius-soleus (GS) muscle of non-anesthesized rats. This activity was antagonized by naloxone (NAL) (10 nmoles) coadministered with MO into the SNR. Bilateral lesion of the caudate nucleus (CN) with kainic acid did not prevent the tonic EMG activity occurring after the injection of MO into the SNR. Unilateral injection of MO (40 nmoles) into the CN also induced tonic EMG activity in the GS-muscle, which was antagonized by NAL (10 nmoles) administered into the SNR ipsilaterally and simultaneously to the intrastriatal injection of MO. The results suggest that enkephalinergic mechanisms in the SNR seem to play a crucial role in the function of striatal efferent pathways relayed in the SNR.
The intraneural injection of 25 micrograms/ml of mitomycin C produced a prolonged conduction block of delayed onset within the injected nerve. No change in electrophysiological parameters was seen for 6 days after injection, but thereafter a marked drop in the compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitude from stimulation proximal to the site of injection occurred, with recovery not being complete until day 97. CMAP amplitude from stimulation distal to the injection site remained unchanged. The reason for this prolonged period of conduction block was apparent from histological examination of the nerve. Light and electron microscope studies demonstrated Schwann cell death, clearly evident at day 8 and followed by subsequent macrophage removal of myelin and Schwann cell debris. Remyelination was not seen until day 40. Hence for periods of about 30 days naked axons persisted through the area of injection. Schwann cells associated with unmyelinated fibres were relatively unaffected, suggesting that myelinating Schwann cells were vulnerable to this agent by virtue of the metabolic processes associated with their myelin maintenance and renewal. These findings indicate that mitomycin C injected intraneurally provides an excellent model to study the effects of Schwann cell disease.
The microtubule-disrupting agent colchicine is known to be particular toxic for certain types of neurons, including the granule cells of the dentate gyrus. In this study we investigated whether colchicine could induce such neuron-specific degeneration in developing (1 week in vitro) and mature (3 weeks in vitro) organotypic hippocampal slice cultures and whether the induced cell death was apoptotic and/or necrotic. When applied to 1-week-old cultures for 48 h, colchicine induced primarily apoptotic, but also a minor degree of necrotic cell death in the dentate granule cells, as investigated by cellular uptake of the fluorescent dye propidium iodide (PI), immunostaining for active caspase 3 and c-Jun/AP-1 (N) and fragmentation of nuclei as seen in Hoechst 33342 staining. All four markers appeared after 12 h of colchicine exposure. Two of them, active caspase 3 and c-Jun/AP-1 (N) displayed a similar time course and reached a maximum after 24 h of exposure, 24 h ahead of both PI uptake and Hoechst 33342 staining, which together displayed similar time profiles and a close correlation. In 3-week-old cultures, colchicine did not induce apoptotic or necrotic cell death. Attempts to interfere with the colchicine-induced apoptosis in 1-week-old cultures showed that colchicine-induced PI uptake and formation of apoptotic nuclei were temporarily prevented by coapplication of the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. Application of the pancaspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk almost completely abolished the formation of active caspase 3 protein and apoptotic nuclei induced by colchicine, but the formation of necrotic nuclei increased correspondingly and the PI uptake was unaffected. We conclude that colchicine induces caspase 3-dependent apoptotic cell death of dentate granule cells in hippocampal brain slice cultures, but the apoptotic cell death is highly dependent on the developmental stage of the cultures.
Atrial flutter with 1/1 nodo-ventricular conduction is a classical complication of Vaughan-Williams's Class I antiarrhythmic drugs. The increase of the flutter cycle and weak action of the antiarrhythmic on the atrioventricular node leads to 1/1 conduction of atrial depolarisation to the ventricles. In view of their marked action on the atrioventricular node, this type of pro-arrhythmic effect is very unexpected with Class III antiarrhythmics. The authors report 7 cases of 1/1 atrial flutter with oral amiodarone observed between 1994 and 2001. The patients were 6 men and 1 woman with an average age of 58 +/- 14 years. Four of them had underlying cardiac disease; none were hyperthyroid. The initial arrhythmia was 2/1 atrial flutter (n = 4), 1/1 atrial flutter (n = 2) and atrial fibrillation (n = 1). Treatment was preventive with doses of 400 mg/day associated with carvedilol in one patient and 200 mg/day in another. The other five patients all received loading doses of 9200 +/- 2400 mg over 10 +/- 4 days. The symptoms were palpitations (n = 2) associated in one patient with hypotension, one syncope, one near syncope and one cardiogenic shock. The ventricular cycle of the 1/1 flutter was 287 +/- 33 ms. The QRS duration was 136 +/- 35 ms with ventricular tachycardia-like appearances in 3 cases. An adrenergic trigger factor was noted in 5 patients. One patient required emergency cardioversion. The authors discuss the physiopathology of 1/1 flutter and theoretical diagnostic methods are proposed. In conclusion, amiodarone does not always prevent the occurrence of 1/1 nodo-ventricular conduction in atrial flutter.
To evaluate the frequency, severity and preventability of warfarin-induced cerebral haemorrhages due to warfarin and warfarin-drug interactions in patients living in the county of Ostergötland, Sweden.
All patients with a diagnosed cerebral haemorrhage at three hospitals during the period 2000-2002 were identified. Medical records were studied retrospectively to evaluate whether warfarin and warfarin-drug interactions could have caused the cerebral haemorrhage. The proportion of possibly avoidable cases due to drug interactions was estimated.
Among 593 patients with cerebral haemorrhage, 59 (10%) were assessed as related to warfarin treatment. This imply an incidence of 1.7/100,000 treatment years. Of the 59 cases, 26 (44%) had a fatal outcome, compared to 136 (25%) among the non-warfarin patients (p < 0.01). A warfarin-drug interaction could have contributed to the haemorrhage in 24 (41%) of the warfarin patients and in 7 of these (12%) the bleeding complication was considered being possible to avoid.
Warfarin-induced cerebral haemorrhages are a major clinical problem with a high fatality rate. Almost half of the cases was related to a warfarin-drug interaction. A significant proportion of warfarin-related cerebral haemorrhages might have been prevented if greater caution had been taken when prescribing drugs known to interact with warfarin.
Prolonged QT interval is usually seen on routine electrocardiogram (ECG), but in some patients it may only be seen immediately before the evolution of torsades de pointes (Tdp). To unmask the potential risk of Tdp in a patient with normal or borderline prolongation of QTc interval and recurrent syncope, dobutamine was given intravenously at a rate of 20 microg/kg/min. Strikingly, QTc prolongation was induced along with syncope after dobutamine infusion. Torsades de pointes occurred 5 d later when the patient received an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). Genetic testing revealed a mutation of the KNCQ(1)-gene encoding serine instead of glycine. The patient was treated with 75 mg of metoprolol twice daily, and at 12 mo follow-up he had no syncope or chest tightness. The ICD revealed no ventricular tachyarrhythmias or therapy delivered.
To determine whether quantification of myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity could be a useful laboratory technique to detect granulocyte infiltration in equine intestinal tissues.
Intestinal tissue (inflamed or healthy) collected from 16 age- and sex-matched Shetland Ponies.
Intestinal tissue MPO activity was determined, and histologic assessment of adjacent specimens from healthy and inflamed intestine was done.
Intestinal tissue MPO activity and histopathologic score increased with time after castor oil challenge and peaked at 16 hours in an equine diarrhea model in which individual ponies provided their own control tissues.
Intestinal tissue inflammation scores correlated positively with tissue MPO activity in adjacent specimens.
Tissue MPO assay may be a useful laboratory tool to quantify intestinal mucosal inflammation in ponies.
Felodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist which selectively relaxes vascular smooth muscle. By acting at peripheral arterioles, it lowers systemic vascular resistance and thereby produces substantial decreases in blood pressure and increases in cardiac output. Felodipine is indicated for the management of hypertension, and in patients with mild to moderate disease felodipine monotherapy markedly lowers blood pressure. It proved as effective as atenolol, and equivalent to hydrochlorothiazide, either with or without amiloride, in terms of antihypertensive activity. Comparative studies also demonstrated that once daily administration with an extended-release formulation provides equivalent antihypertensive efficacy to the same amount of drug administered twice daily as the standard tablets. As a second- or third-line treatment for patients with moderate to severe hypertension refractory to standard drug combinations, felodipine produced considerable reductions in blood pressure when added to beta-blockers and diuretics, either alone or in combination, in studies lasting up to 48 weeks. In comparative studies of multiple-drug treatments felodipine was found to have superior efficacy to hydralazine and prazosin, and was at least as effective as nifedipine, minoxidil and propranolol, when used with diuretics and/or beta-blockers. As an alternative to hydrochlorothiazide, in combination with beta-blockers, felodipine consistently controlled blood pressure in a greater percentage of patients and usually provided greater decreases in blood pressure. The main side effects with felodipine are ankle oedema, headache and flushing. Although the overall incidence of effects is quite high, they are usually mild in nature. Nevertheless, withdrawal due to side effects has been necessary in about 7% of patients overall. Thus, the efficacy of felodipine has been demonstrated in mild, moderate and severe hypertension. At the present time it seems particularly suitable as a second- or third-line treatment in refractory hypertension, but it also can be used as monotherapy for mild to moderate disease.
Diclofenac, like selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, which alter vascular levels of platelet active prostaglandins, has been reported to increase rates of acute myocardial infarction.
The study was performed to investigate, in an animal model of arterial thrombosis in vivo, whether diclofenac differentially influences platelet activation and thrombosis in vessels under non-stimulated conditions or during acute systemic inflammation, such as induced by tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha).
Platelet-vessel wall interaction (PVWI), firm platelet adhesion and arterial thrombosis following vessel injury were analyzed by intravital microscopy in arterioles of hamsters in the dorsal skinfold chamber model. Prostacyclin [prostaglandin I(2) (PGI(2))] and thromboxane A(2) (TxA(2)) metabolites were measured. In vitro, endothelial adhesion molecule expression in cultured human microvascular endothelial cells was analyzed.
Under non-stimulated conditions, diclofenac (1 mg kg(-1)) enhanced PVWI, which was not mediated by increased adhesion molecule expression, but by decreased systemic PGI(2) levels. Following ferric chloride-induced endothelial injury, diclofenac accelerated thrombotic vessel occlusion time, an effect that was reversed by the stable PGI(2) analog iloprost. TNF-alpha, through induction of endothelial adhesion molecule expression, also enhanced PVWI, firm adhesion, and arterial thrombosis, but simultaneous treatment with TNF-alpha and diclofenac did not have an additive effect.
By decreasing levels of PGI(2) without, at the same time, altering prothrombotic TxA(2) levels, diclofenac can exert prothrombotic effects. However, this is not the case when an inflammatory situation is created by TNF-alpha treatment. These data may explain the enhanced risk of acute myocardial infarction observed in patients taking diclofenac.
There has been a long-standing concern over the cardiovascular effects of tricyclic antidepressants, particularly in patients with preexisiting cardiac disease. Recent studies have demonstrated that imipramine causes no deleterious effect on ejection fraction as determined by radionuclide angiography in patients with impaired left ventricular function (LVF). However, the high rate of severe orthostatic hypotension induced by imipramine makes use of the drug problematic in these patients. Bupropion is a new antidepressant of the aminoketone class which is structurally unrelated to the tricyclics and which is relatively free of cardiac side effects in healthy depressed patients. We compared imipramine and bupropion in 10 depressed patients with impaired LVF in a random, double-blind crossover study. Neither imipramine nor bupropion adversely affected ejection fraction or other indices of LVF. However, as previously reported, severe orthostatic hypotension requiring discontinuation of drug developed in 50% of patients on imipramine. This difficulty did not occur with bupropion. From a cardiac perspective, bupropion may offer a safe alternative to imipramine in depressed patients with congestive heart failure.
We investigated the incidence of acute cholecystitis in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation in complete remission.
Thirty-five consecutive acute myeloid leukemia patients were given oral busulfan 4 mg/kg/day for 4 days and IV cyclophosphamide 50 mg/kg/day for 4 days followed by reinfusion of autologous bone marrow purged with 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide.
Five of 35 patients developed clinical evidence of acute cholecystitis, manifested by fever, nausea, vomiting, right-upper-quadrant pain, and abdominal guarding, within 18 days after autologous bone marrow infusion. Ultrasonography and CT scans of the abdomen supported the diagnosis of cholecystitis. Three patients underwent cholecystectomy, while two patients were treated medically; all recovered uneventfully. A review of 338 consecutive bone marrow transplant patients who underwent marrow transplantation for a variety of diseases and were treated with other high-dose cytotoxic regimens during the same time period revealed significantly fewer cases of cholecystitis, i.e. two, (p < 0.0001).
Five of 35 AML patients undergoing autologous bone marrow transplant using busulfan, cyclophosphamide, and purged bone marrow developed evidence of acute cholecystitis. These findings suggest that the busulfan/cyclophosphamide preparative regimen may be associated with acute cholecystitis. The true incidence of this injury and its pathogenesis remain to be elucidated.
