Vinorelbine (VNB) shows high antitumoral activity in advanced breast cancer due to its high affinity for mitotic tubulin and differs from the other vinca alkaloids with regard to its low degree of neurotoxicity because of its low affinity for axonal tubulin. Preclinical data show the existence of different binding sites on tubulin for vinca alkaloids and paclitaxel (P), suggesting a lack of cross-resistance. Thus, VNB was chosen eligible for a phase II study to evaluate both the therapeutic efficacy and the toxicity of VNB in patients (pts) with advanced breast cancer failing first- or second-line chemotherapy with P. A total of 14 pts with advanced breast cancer pretreated with P were entered into the study. Therapy consisted of VNB at 30 mg/m2 diluted in 500 ml of normal saline given over 30 min after a minimal interval of 4 weeks since the last application of P. For the first four cycles, injections were repeated at 2-week intervals; thereafter they were repeated at 3-week intervals until evidence of progressive disease or severe toxicity developed. All but one pt was considered assessable for response and all pts were evaluable for toxicity. No objective response was observed; two pts showed no change in their disease. In four pts therapy had to be stopped because peripheral neurotoxicity increased from a pretherapeutic level after therapy with P from National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) grade 1 (n = 3) and 2 (n = 1) to neurotoxicity grade 3 after 1, 2 (n = 2), and 3 cycles of therapy with VNB, respectively. In addition, constipation of grade 2 occurred in 10 pts. Hematologic toxicity was negligible. No other evaluable toxicity exceeded NCI-CTC grade 1. Both observations of this study, the complete resistance to VNB and the increase in peripheral neuropathy, let us assume the existence of a preclinically not anticipated but clinically relevant cross-resistance between these two spindle poisons and the presence of common functional targets. Therefore, P-pretreated pts should be excluded from consecutive VNB-containing therapies.
We have tested the effects of calcium channel blockade with diltiazem on methotrexate-induced nephrotoxicity in patients with biopsy-proven malignant disease. The patients were randomized in a cross-over fashion to receive MTX (4 g.m-2 body surface area) with or without Diltiazem (360 mg per day orally) during two consecutive periods separated by a 3-week interval. Methotrexate caused reversible acute renal failure, with an increase in serum creatinine from 89 (7)mumol.l-1 on day 0 to 150 (6)mumol.l-1 on Day 6. The patterns of beta 2-microglobulin and N-acetyl glucosaminidase urinary excretion were similar, with a sharp increase from Day 0 to Day 3. Urinary beta 2-microglobulin excretion increased from 161 (57) micrograms.l-1 on Day 0 to 1160 (840) micrograms.l-1 on Day 3 and fell to 918 (530) micrograms.l-1 on Day 10. Urinary N-acetyl glucosaminidase excretion increased from 250 (100) mmol.h-1 per mg of creatinine on Day 0 up to 655 (261) on Day 3 and fell to 285 (82) on Day 10. The evolution of renal function was not influenced by diltiazem. In patients receiving diltiazem, serum creatinine increased from 93 (0) mumol.l-1 on Day 0 to 151 (68) mumol.l-1 on Day 6 (p = NS when compared with control values). Urinary enzyme excretion also markedly increased from Day 0 to Day 3 to the same extent as in the group not receiving diltiazem. Our data indicate that acute deterioration in renal function caused by methotrexate is accompanied by tubular damage. Diltiazem was ineffective in preventing the acute renal failure induced by methotrexate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are a widely used antihypertensive modality. While they have a favorable side effect profile, there is a .1% to .2% incidence of potentially life threatening angioedema. The edema usually presents in the head and neck, especially the face, lips, tongue, and glottis. Patients may initially be treated with standard anti-allergic therapy; however, the situation may dictate a more aggressive therapeutic approach. The authors present the case of a patient who presented with angioedema 18 times over a 3-year period to qualified emergency physicians before the correct diagnosis of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-induced angioedema was made. Despite recent literature on the subject, there appears to be a lack of familiarization among emergency department physicians regarding this relatively common adverse effect.
We examined the association between arsenic exposure and peripheral neuropathy in Bangladesh, where the population has been chronically exposed to arsenic in drinking water.
We conducted a cross-sectional study of 137 subjects derived from a larger cohort. Exposure measures included individual water arsenic concentration, cumulative arsenic index, and urinary arsenic concentration taken at two time points (2001 and 2003). The primary outcome measurement was elevated vibrotactile threshold, as measured by a vibration sensitivity tester (Vibratron II).
Arsenic exposure was associated with elevated toe vibration threshold (TVT). Specifically, cumulative arsenic index and urinary arsenic (2001) were both significantly associated with elevated TVT (P = 0.02 and P = 0.009, respectively) after adjustment for age and gender.
Increased arsenic exposure, as measured by both cumulative and urinary measures, was associated with evidence of subclinical sensory neuropathy.
The main objective of the present study was to determine alterations of calcium handling in the diabetic rat heart during the transition from adaptive to maladaptive phase of cardiomyopathy. By inhibiting the nuclear enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), we also investigated the possible role of this enzyme in the sequence of pathological events. Six weeks after induction of type I diabetes by injection of streptozotocin in rats, the hearts were perfused according to Langendorff. Intracellular-free calcium (Ca(2+)(i)) levels were measured by surface fluorometry using Indo-1 AM. Cyclic changes in Ca(2+)(i) concentrations and hemodynamic parameters were measured simultaneously. The hearts were challenged by infusion of isoproterenol. Six weeks of diabetes resulted in reduced inotropy and lusitropy. The diabetic hearts (DM) expressed a significantly elevated end-diastolic Ca(2+)(i) level (control, 111-/+20 vs DM, 221-/+35 nM). The maximal transport capacity of SERCA2a and conductance of RyR2 were reduced. These changes were not accompanied by major alterations in the tissue content of SERCA2a, RyR2, phospholamban and Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger. In response to beta-adrenergic activation, SERCA2a transport capacity and RyR2 conductance were stunted in the DM hearts. Inhibition of PARP induced minor changes in the mechanical function and calcium handling of the DM hearts. In conclusion, the observed changes in contractility and in Ca(2+)(i) handling are most likely attributable to functional disturbances of SERCA2a and RyR2 in this transitional phase of diabetes. At this stage of diabetes, PARP does not appear to play a significant pathogenetic role in the alterations in contractile function and calcium handling.
We studied the use of botulinum-a toxin (BTX-A) injections into the bladder as an alternative approach in patients with neurogenic detrusor overactivity due to multiple sclerosis (MS) with drug-refractory overactive bladder (OAB) symptoms.
Sixteen MS patients--11 women, 5 men; mean age 48.6 years--with refractory OAB symptoms were included in a one-center prospective study. For outcome analysis, we used a bladder diary, a complete urodynamic study, and validated questionnaires for subjective assessment. We injected 300 U of BTX-A (Botox) into the bladder and into the external sphincter muscle to reduce the probability of posttreatment urine retention.
There was an increase in residual volume from 81.3 +/- 23.8 to 126.3 +/- 32.9 ml after 4 weeks. In one woman, transient self-catheterization was unavoidable. Four weeks and 3 and 6 months after BTX-A injection, the significant results were as follows: daytime frequency was reduced by 29%, 44%, and 30%, respectively. Nocturia diminished by 33%, 72%, and 40%. Use of pads was be reduced by 38% after 4 weeks and by 64% after 3 months. Urodynamically, reflex volume and maximal cystometric bladder capacity increased by 73%, 77%, and 58% (at 6 months, the increase was not significant) and by 36%, 27%, and 36% (not significant). Maximal detrusor pressure decreased by 35%, 22%, and 57%. Subjective outcome indicated significant improvement of symptoms at 4 weeks and 3 months, but not at 6 months. Patient satisfaction with the therapy was very high.
BTX-A detrusor injections are very effective in the treatment of drug-resistant OAB symptoms in MS patients as reflected in urodynamic measurements and in patient satisfaction. Build up of residual urine remains a problem of which patients must be informed.
Diabetes mellitus has reached epidemic proportions in many countries and is the most common cause of end stage renal disease (ESRD). The angiotensin II receptor-1 (AT(1)) antagonists losartan and irbesartan have recently been evaluated as renoprotective agents in large clinical trials of patients with Type 2 diabetes and nephropathy. In the Reduction of End points in Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with the Angiotensin II Antagonist (RENAAL) study, losartan decreased the number of patients reaching the primary end point of a composite of measures of neuropathy. The relative risk reduction was approximately 15% with losartan and this was due to a reduction in both the doubling of creatinine concentration (25%) and of ESRD (28%) but not in death. In the Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT), the beneficial effect of irbesartan was mainly against the doubling of the baseline creatinine concentration (37% risk reduction) but there was also a 20% reduction in the onset of ESRD. Irbesartan had no effect on mortality. Beneficial effects occurred in addition to blood pressure being controlled by agents other than the AT(1) antagonists. These clinical trials suggest that there may be a class renoprotective action with AT(1) antagonists, although the mechanism is not clear. Patients with Type 2 diabetes and nephropathy should receive either an AT(1) antagonist or the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor ramipril to ensure renoprotection.
Recently, several reports have indicated instability of the ecstasy market in the Netherlands and other EU countries. In the current study, we demonstrate this instability in the Netherlands, showing a decrease of ecstasy tablets containing 3,4-methylenedioxymetamphetamine (MDMA) by more than 50% in 2009. In addition, we describe a partial replacement of MDMA in tablets sold as ecstasy by a previously unseen substance, mephedrone (or 4-methylmethcathinone). Mephedrone was quantified and ecstasy tablets contained between 96 and 155 mg of this new compound. So far, no studies about mephedrone's effects have been published. For this study, we gathered information on the acute subjective effects of mephedrone from 70 regular ecstasy users. Overall, the majority of users considered the effects enjoyable. Mephedrone seemed to evoke effects similar to other amphetamine type psychostimulants, including MDMA. In contrast to MDMA, however, mephedrone induced strong feelings of craving in most users. If the unstable ecstasy market situation persists, the potential of mephedrone to substitute for MDMA might be substantial. Mephedrone, sold as ecstasy, is therefore likely to be a valid cause for health concern.
To investigate the chemopreventive potential of resveratrol, a phytoalexin found in seeds and skin of grapes, berries and peanuts in 7,12 dimethyl benz(a)anthracene (DMBA) induced mouse skin tumorigenesis.
Topical treatment of resveratrol was given to the animals 1 h prior to DMBA for 28 weeks. At the end of the study period, the skin tumors were dissected out and western blotting was carried out to examine the regulation of proteins involved in anti-tumorigenesis in response to resveratrol.
Chemopreventive properties of resveratrol were reflected by delay in onset of tumorigenesis, reduced cumulative number of tumors, and reduction in tumor volume. Results of the western blotting showed that resveratrol treatment increased the DMBA suppressed p53 and Bax while decreased the expression of Bcl-2 and Survivin. Further, resveratrol supplementation resulted in release of cytochrome C, caspases activation, increase in apoptotic protease-activating factor-1 (Apaf-1) as mechanism of apoptosis induction. Resveratrol was also found to inhibit skin tumorigenesis through regulation of Phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/ and AKT proteins which are implicated in cancer progression because it stimulates proliferation and suppresses apoptosis.
Based on the results we can conclude that resveratrol regulates apoptosis and cell survival in mouse skin tumors as mechanism of chemoprevention hence deserve to be a chemopreventive agent.
Discontinuation of benzodiazepine (BZ) treatment results in a well-characterized withdrawal syndrome in 40-50% of anxious patients. While numerous studies have established the role of BZ dose, treatment duration, half-life, potency, rate of withdrawal and severity of underling anxiety disorder in predicting severity of withdrawal symptoms, fewer studies have examined the role of psychological and personality factors.
In 123 panic disorder patients undergoing gradual tapered discontinuation of alprazolam in conjunction with pre-treatment with carbamazepine or placebo, the relationship between measures of 'symptom sensitivity' and 'harm avoidance', and severity of withdrawal symptoms measured as peak severity of symptoms, time before taper needed to be slowed due to symptoms, and ability to complete taper, was examined.
After controlling for the less substantial effects of dose, treatment duration, pre-taper anxiety and panic attack frequency, measures of symptom sensitivity and harm avoidance accounted for an additional 3-6% of withdrawal variance.
These results show an effect of symptom sensitivity and harm avoidance on BZ withdrawal symptoms, comparable to prior findings linking dependent personality characteristics to withdrawal severity. Failure to show the expected effect on ability to complete taper may be due to either the more symptomatic nature of the patients in this study.
Depression occurs frequently in patients with diabetes mellitus. Chromium picolinate, an essential trace element is recommended for diabetes and also has been reported to benefit depression, but its mechanism is still debated. To investigate the mechanism, we studied its effects on serum insulin, serum glucose and on modified forced swimming test, a behavioural paradigm for depression in rats. The study involving co-administration of sub-active doses of glimepiride, a K(+) channel blocker and chromium picolinate on blood glucose levels and modified forced swimming test was also performed to probe any role of K(+) channels in its antidiabetic and antidepressants effects. Streptozotocin (55 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) was injected in rats to induce diabetes (Type 1). After a week, chromium picolinate (8 microg/ml in drinking water) was administered for 4 weeks. Normal rats received similar drug treatment. The sub-active doses of chromium picolinate (4 microg/ml in drinking water) and glimeperide (2.5 mg/kg, orally) were co-administered and their effects on modified forced swimming test and on glucose levels were measured. Chromium picolinate (8 microg/ml in drinking water) produced hypoglycaemia in diabetic and normal rats. It had no effects on the streptozotocin-induced reduction in insulin levels. Chromium picolinate (8 microg/ml in drinking water) increased swimming with subsequent decrease in immobility. The sub-active doses of chromium picolinate and glimeperide showed significant additive effects in modified forced swimming test and reduction in serum glucose concentrations, though statistically insignificant. In conclusion chromium picolinate shows antidepressant action on modified forced swimming test affecting only swimming that suggests serotonergic pathways involvement. The additive effects on swimming in modified forced swimming test and reduction in serum glucose levels shows involvement of K(+) channels in antidiabetic and antidepressant actions of chromium picolinate.
Although the exact role of the diphenylhydantoin treatment on the immune system is still unclear, prolonged administration of diphenylhydantoin has been suggested to be associated with immune-based disorders and syndromes.
A case of fibrillary glomerulonephritis associated with DPH treatment is reported. This is the first reported case of fibrillary glomerulonephritis associated with this commonly used common anticonvulsive drug.
A more routine surveillance for proteinuria in patients receiving DPH is recommended.
This study was a collaboration between Western public health researchers and Suriname indigenous communities. The question asked was "how can Western researchers effectively engage traditional indigenous communities in Suriname, South America, in public health research". The approach used a combination of Participatory Action Research methods in which "Western" researchers became participating observers in an indigenous-led research initiative. The Wayana communities of Puleowime (Apetina) and Kawemhakan (Anapayke) defined a single objective: determine for themselves whether they are at risk from exposure to mercury (Hg) contamination. Community members collected hair samples for analysis. Hair samples were analyzed using a portable Hg analyzer. Individual, community and hazard quotient indices were used to quantify risk. Results showed the Wayana were at a high lifetime risk of adverse effects from exposure to Hg. This study showed that the community-led approach is an effective way Westerners can engage indigenous communities and address serious public health threats. While factors that appealed to indigenous communities were identified, obstacles inherent to Western research methodology were also encountered.
Twenty-two patients with metastatic breast cancer refractory to conventional chemotherapeutic agents were treated with 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine (Ara-C) at a dose of 2 g/m2 over 2 h every 12 h for 3 doses at 21-day intervals. Two patients achieved partial remission, 3 patients had less than partial response.
The main adverse effects of salazopyrin are usually dose-dependent and mild. Exceptionally, idiosyncratic reactions occur which may be life-threatening.
Two 10-year old children were treated for Crohn's disease with salazopyrin. At day 21 and day 10 respectively, pharyngitis, rash, and fever were noted. During the following days, high-grade fever persisted, while jaundice, severe cytolysis and acute liver failure also occurred. Drug hepatotoxicity was suspected and salazopyrin was withdrawn on day 29 and day 24 respectively. Development of hepatic encephalopathy led to urgent liver transplantation in both cases.
Salazopyrin is a possible cause of fulminant immunoallergic hepatitis. Prompt therapeutic interruption is urgent, but it may not alter the outcome and or preclude the need for liver transplantation. We suggest that salazopyrin therapy be avoided in pediatric inflammatory bowel disease whenever possible, and that the use of pure amino-salicylates be preferred.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a superfamily of enzymes that conjugate glutathione to a wide variety of both exogenous and endogenous compounds for biotransformation and/or removal. Glutathione S-tranferase omega 1 (GSTO1) is highly expressed in human cancer cells, where it has been suggested to play a role in detoxification of chemotherapeutic agents. Selective inhibitors of GSTO1 are, however, required to test the role that this enzyme plays in cancer and other (patho)physiological processes. With this goal in mind, we performed a fluorescence polarization activity-based protein profiling (fluopol-ABPP) high-throughput screen (HTS) with GSTO1 and the Molecular Libraries Small Molecule Repository (MLSMR) 300K+ compound library. This screen identified a class of selective and irreversible α-chloroacetamide inhibitors of GSTO1, which were optimized to generate an agent KT53 that inactivates GSTO1 with excellent in vitro (IC(50) = 21 nM) and in situ (IC(50) = 35 nM) potency. Cancer cells treated with KT53 show heightened sensitivity to the cytotoxic effects of cisplatin, supporting a role for GSTO1 in chemotherapy resistance.
The clinical presentation of kala-azar in 43 children and 45 adults was compared. In both groups fever, left upper quadrant abdominal pain and swelling, and weight loss were equally the most common presenting symptoms. Lymphadenopathy was observed in 86 per cent of children and 76 per cent of adults. Splenomegaly was absent in 2 per cent of children and 7 per cent of adults. No significant difference was found in frequency distribution of symptoms and signs between children and adults. Haematological indices were compared in both children and adults with kala-azar and their control groups. In both children and adults with kala-azar, haemoglobin concentration, total white cell count, and platelet count were significantly lower before than after treatment. Only haemoglobin concentration was lower in children with kala-azar as compared with adults with the disease. Children in the control group had lower haemoglobin and higher total white cell count than adult controls. Response to therapy was evaluated in 693 patients. Two-hundred-and-fifty children and 373 adults were treated with sodium stibogluconate 10 mg/kg for 30 days; in both groups 12 per cent deaths and 4 per cent relapses occurred. Thirty children and 40 adults were treated with sodium stibogluconate 2 x 10 mg/kg for 15 days. In children, 3 per cent deaths and 7 per cent relapses were noted; in adults there were 8 per cent deaths and 5 per cent relapses. No significant difference in death rate or relapse rate was found between children and adults in both regimens. Both regimens performed equally well in children and adults with regard to death rate and relapse rate.
The epidemiology, clinicopathological features, and response to therapy of 63 Saudi patients with visceral leishmaniasis are described. The clinical features in our cases were similar to those described from Asir province, India, and Ethiopia, except for the presence of lymphadenopathy. Fever, hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopenia, and liver dysfunction were common findings. The unusual feature is the seasonal variation in the distribution of the disease. The response to sodium stibogluconate was excellent and the mortality rate was low (less than 1 per cent).
While propofol is associated with an infusion syndrome (PRIS) that may cause death, the incidence of PRIS is unknown. Determining the incidence of PRIS and the frequency of PRIS-related clinical manifestations are key steps prior to the completion of any controlled studies investigating PRIS. This prospective, multicenter study sought to determine the incidence of PRIS and PRIS-related clinical manifestations in a large cohort of critically ill adults prescribed propofol.
Critically ill adults from 11 academic medical centers administered an infusion of propofol for [>or=] 24 hours were monitored at baseline and then on a daily basis until propofol was discontinued for the presence of 11 different PRIS-associated clinical manifestations and risk factors derived from 83 published case reports of PRIS.
Among 1017 patients [medical (35%), neurosurgical (25%)], PRIS (defined as metabolic acidosis plus cardiac dysfunction and [>or=] 1 of: rhabdomyolysis, hypertriglyceridemia or renal failure occurring after the start of propofol therapy) developed in 11 (1.1%) patients an average of 3 (1-6) [median (range)] days after the start of propofol. While most (91%) of the patients who developed PRIS were receiving a vasopressor (80% initiated after the start of propofol therapy), few received a propofol dose >83 mcg/kg/min (18%) or died (18%). Compared to the 1006 patients who did not develop PRIS, the APACHE II score (25 +/- 6 vs 20 +/- 7, P = 0.01) was greater in patients with PRIS but both the duration of propofol use (P = 0.43) and ICU length of stay (P = 0.82) were similar.
Despite using a conservative definition for PRIS, and only considering new-onset PRIS clinical manifestations, the incidence of PRIS slightly exceeds 1%. Future controlled studies focusing on evaluating whether propofol manifests the derangements of critical illness more frequently than other sedatives will need to be large. These studies should also investigate the mechanism(s) and risk factors for PRIS.
The infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (INCL) is a devastating neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disease. Despite our knowledge that palmitoyl-protein thioesterase-1 (PPT1)-deficiency causes INCL, the molecular mechanism(s) of neurodegeneration and the drastically reduced lifespan of these patients remain poorly understood. Consequently, an effective treatment for this disease is currently unavailable. We previously reported that oxidative stress-mediated abnormality in mitochondria activates caspases-9 pathway of apoptosis in INCL fibroblasts and in neurons of Ppt1-knockout (Ppt1-KO) mice, which mimic INCL. Since mitochondria play critical roles in maintaining cellular energy homeostasis, we hypothesized that oxidative stress-mediated disruption of energy metabolism and homeostasis may contribute to INCL pathogenesis. We report here that, in cultured INCL fibroblasts and in the brain tissues of Ppt1-KO mice, the NAD(+)/NADH ratio, the levels of phosphorylated-AMPK (p-AMPK), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ) coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) and Silent Information Regulator T1 (SIRT1) are markedly down-regulated. This suggested an abnormality in AMPK/SIRT1/PGC-1α signaling pathway of energy metabolism. Moreover, we found that, in INCL fibroblasts and in the Ppt1-KO mice, phosphorylated-S6K-1 (p-S6K1) levels, which inversely correlate with lifespan, are markedly elevated. Most importantly, resveratrol (RSV), an antioxidant polyphenol, elevated the NAD(+)/NADH ratio, levels of ATP, p-AMPK, PGC-1α and SIRT1 while decreasing the level of p-S6K1 in both INCL fibroblasts and in Ppt1-KO mice, which showed a modest increase in lifespan. Our results show that disruption of adaptive energy metabolism and increased levels of p-S6K1 are contributing factors in INCL pathogenesis and provide the proof of principle that small molecules such as RSV, which alleviate these abnormalities, may have therapeutic potential.
Human endothelial cells use the multidrug resistance protein-1 (MRP1) to export glutathione disulfide (GSSG). This can promotes thiol loss during states of increased glutathione oxidation. We investigated how MRP1 modulates blood pressure and vascular function during angiotensin II-induced hypertension.
Angiotensin II-induced hypertension altered vascular glutathione flux by increasing GSSG export and decreasing vascular levels of glutathione in wild-type (FVB) but not in MRP1-/- mice. Aortic endothelium-dependent vasodilatation was reduced in FVB after angiotensin II infusion, but unchanged in MRP1-/- mice. Aortic superoxide (O2*-) production and expression of several NADPH oxidase subunits were increased by angiotensin II in FVB. These effects were markedly blunted in MRP1-/- vessels. The increase in O2*- production in FVB vessels caused by angiotensin II was largely inhibited by L-NAME, suggesting eNOS uncoupling. Accordingly, aortic tetrahydrobiopterin and levels of NO were decreased by angiotensin II in FVB but were unchanged in MRP1-/-. Finally, the hypertension caused by angiotensin II was markedly blunted in MRP1-/- mice (137+/-4 versus 158+/-6 mm Hg).
MRP1 plays a crucial role in the genesis of multiple vascular abnormalities that accompany hypertension and its presence is essential for the hypertensive response to angiotensin II.
We describe four pediatric patients with ulcerative colitis and cerebral sinovenous thrombosis and review the pediatric and adult literature on the treatment of sinovenous thrombosis. All of our patients had headache as the initial complaint with onset during an ulcerative colitis flare. Evaluation for hypercoagulable states revealed heterozygosity for prothrombin gene mutation and increased homocysteine level in one patient and mild elevation of anticardiolipin antibodies in two patients. Treatment in the acute period included thrombolysis, heparin, and low-molecular-weight heparin. Chronic therapy included warfarin, low-molecular-weight heparin, and aspirin. Peripheral vein thrombosis occurred in two patients while not on antiplatelet or anticoagulation therapy. Neurologic outcome was positive in this series without complications of therapy, suggesting that aggressive therapy should be considered. Although anticoagulation therapy of sinovenous thrombosis is controversial, particularly in the context of intestinal hemorrhage, it can be beneficial given the possibility of an ongoing hypercoagulable state.
The hepatorenal reflex, activated by intrahepatic adenosine, is involved in the regulation of urine production in healthy rats and renal pathogenesis secondary to liver injury. Hepatic adenosine A1 receptors regulate the hepatorenal reflex. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether caffeine mediates renal natriuresis and diuresis in healthy and diseased liver through this mechanism. Rats were anesthetized and instrumented to monitor systemic, hepatic, and renal circulation and urine production. Intrahepatic (intraportal but not intravenous) caffeine (5 mg·kg-1) increased urine flow (~82%) in healthy rats. This effect was abolished by liver denervation. Intraportal infusion of adenosine decreased urine production, and this response was abolished by intraportal but not intravenous caffeine. Liver injury was induced by intraperitoneal injection of thioacetamide (500 mg·kg-1), and functional assessment was performed 24 h later. Liver injury was associated with lower (~30%) glomerular filtration rate, lower (~18%) renal arterial blood flow, and lower urine production. Intraportal but not intravenous caffeine improved basal urine production and renal ability to increase urine production in response to saline overload. The liver-dependent diuretic effect of caffeine is consistent with the hypothesis for the adenosine-mediated mechanism of hepatorenal syndrome.
Evaluation of the effects of naltrexone on hyperinsulinemia and hyperandrogenemia in hyperandrogenemic, hyperinsulinemic women.
Controlled clinical study.
Department of Gynecologic Endocrinology and Reproductive Medicine, Center of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Austria.
Thirty-nine hyperandrogenemic, hyperinsulinemic women were studied.
Women were treated with naltrexone (50 mg/d) for >or=3 weeks.
Body mass index (BMI), gonadotropin (LH, FSH) and androgen (T, free T, DHEAS) levels, and plasma levels of glucose, insulin, and C-peptide, during a standard 75-g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), were determined before and during chronic opiate receptor blockade.
The BMI did not change during therapy. When OGTT was repeated after treatment with naltrexone, glucose levels were not different from those before treatment. Insulin response, however, had dramatically declined. We also observed a significant decrease in the levels of serum androgens.
Hyperinsulinemia associated with hyperandrogenemia can be improved or completely abolished by chronic opiate receptor blockade. This observation suggests that endogenous opiates play a critical role in the process leading to hyperinsulinemia in hyperandrogenemia.
Cardiac toxicity was evaluated in 24 patients who received epirubicin as a single chemotherapeutic agent, in doses of either 30 mg/m2 every week (11 patients) or 90 mg/m2 every 3 weeks (13 patients). The total doses of epirubicin ranged from 180 mg/m2 to 918 mg/m2 (mean, 491 +/- 187). No patient had prior heart disease, hypertension, mediastinal irradiation, or chemotherapy with other anthracycline agents. None of the patients developed overt heart failure, significant arrhythmias, ECG alterations, or roentgenographic changes in heart size. There was no significant change in the mean value of echocardiographic percent fractional shortening before and after epirubicin therapy. Patients receiving epirubicin doses less than 450 mg/m2 had minimal hemodynamic disturbances; however, no cut-off point separating two significantly different subpopulations could be demonstrated. Endomyocardial biopsy was performed on all patients; 20 biopsies were evaluable. Histologic and ultrastructural changes were similar to those caused by other anthracycline agents. A strong correlation was demonstrated between total dose of epirubicin and pathologic change as quantified using the Billingham scale (r = .7, P = .0006). A cut-off point beyond which there was a probability of increased pathologic damage was statistically defined at 450 mg/m2 of epirubicin. Severe pathologic alterations and moderate hemodynamic changes were observed in only one patient, who received 918 mg/m2 of epirubicin. Patients who are expected to receive epirubicin in excess of 450 mg/m2 should be monitored for cardiac toxicity, and continuation of epirubicin therapy beyond 900 mg/m2 should be based on the results of monitoring.
The clinical utility of neutrophil (polymorphonuclear leukocyte, PMN) transfusion therapy has been compromised, in part, by the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of functional neutrophils from donors. Mobilization of PMNs in the peripheral blood of normal volunteers has been shown to be superior when G-CSF is administered in conjunction with dexamethasone to that when either agent is administered alone. The current study was conducted to determine the optimal dosages of G-CSF and dexamethasone to be administered to donors in a granulocyte transfusion program.
Five normal subjects were randomly assigned to each of the following single-dose regimens over five consecutive weeks: 1) subcutaneous (SC) G-CSF at 600 microg and oral (PO) dexamethasone at 8 mg; 2) SC G-CSF at 450 microg and PO dexamethasone at 8 mg; 3) SC G-CSF at 450 microg and PO dexamethasone at 12 mg; 4) SC G-CSF at 450 microg; and 5) PO dexamethasone at 12 mg. Venous blood was collected at 0, 6, 12, and 24 hours after drug administration for determination of absolute neutrophil count (ANC). Side effects of drug administration were recorded by using a standardized symptom questionnaire.
Maximal ANC was achieved at 12 hours after administration of drugs under each regimen. All four regimens containing G-CSF caused greater than 10-fold increases in the ANC. When administered in conjunction with dexamethasone, G-CSF resulted in statistically similar PMN mobilization at dosages of 450 microg and 600 microg. The combined single-dose regimen of SC G-CSF at 450 microg and PO dexamethasone at 8 mg increased the mean ANC from a baseline value of 2800 per microL to 37,900 per microL at 12 hours after administration. This regimen was well tolerated by the normal volunteers.
In a single-dose format designed for clinical granulocyte transfusion programs, optimal PMN mobilization can be achieved in normal donors with a combined regimen of SC G-CSF at 450 microg, and PO dexamethasone at 8 microg.
