To assess the efficacy of late active immunization against hepatitis B concomitant with diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, and polio vaccine in high-risk infants receiving hepatitis B immune globulin at birth.
Randomized study of infants born to mothers positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and hepatitis Be antigen (HBeAg).
Three large city hospitals and one rural area providing prenatal care and obstetric services.
Eighty neonates of HBsAg- and HBeAg-positive carrier mothers received 0.5 mL/kg of body weight hepatitis B immune globulin within 2 hours of birth and hepatitis B vaccine (10 micrograms) at 0, 1, 2, and 11 months of age (group A) or at 3, 4, 5, and 11 months of age concomitant with diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, and polio immunization (group B). A second dose of hepatitis B immune globulin was given to infants on schedule B at 3 months.
Blood samples were collected at 0, 3, 6, 11, and 12 months of age and tested for antibodies against hepatitis B core antigen and HBsAg. Follow-up visits were scheduled annually up to 5 years of age.
Eight infants were excluded from analysis. During the study period, six children became HBsAg carriers, three in each group, which corresponds to a 5-year incidence of infection of 9% and 8% for groups A (three of 35) and B (three of 37), respectively. Subclinical infections (persistent anti-HBc positivity beyond month 12 or appearance of anti-HBc) were encountered in another eight infants (four in each group).
Late active immunization starting at 3 months of age appears to provide similar protective efficacy as active immunization starting at birth when combined with hepatitis B immune globulin at 0 and 3 months of age.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is common in countries where chronic parasitic infestations are endemic. However, the relationship between parasitic infection and IBS is not clear. The aim of this study was to examine whether chronic parasitic infection is accompanied by gut dysfunction and whether the continued presence of the parasite is required for the maintenance of the dysfunction. We used chronic Trichuris muris infection in Th1-biased susceptible AKR mice to evaluate this relationship. AKR mice were infected with T. muris and were euthanized on various days postinfection (pi) to examine worm burden, muscle function, and immune and inflammatory responses. Mice were treated with the anthelmintic oxantel pamoate to assess the effect of eradication of infection on muscle function. Infection resulted in persistence of the parasite, elevated IFN-γ, and increased MPO activity evident at 45 days pi. This was accompanied by a reduction in muscle contractility and excitatory innervation. Whereas parasite eradication at 7 days pi normalized IFN-γ and muscle contractility, eradication at 28 days pi failed to normalize muscle contractility. Administration of dexamethasone after parasite eradication normalized all parameters. Anthelmintic treatment improved histology except for eosinophils, which were normalized by subsequent dexamethasone therapy. Persistent gut dysfunction is independent of the continued presence of the parasite and is maintained by inflammatory process that includes eosinophils. Thus data in this preclinical model suggest that parasitic infection could be a cause of IBS, and the lack of symptomatic improvement following eradication is insufficient evidence to refute a causal relationship between the infection and IBS.
We have previously demonstrated that intrathecal morphine given after a noninjurious interval of spinal cord ischemia induced transient spastic paraparesis in a rodent model. However, the mechanism of this paraparesis is unknown. We hypothesized that morphine inhibits gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic interneurons that control the tonus of spinal cord alpha-motoneurons and that inhibition of spinal cord interneurons may cause spastic paraparesis. In this study, we investigate interactions between morphine and GABAergic agonists or antagonists on motor function after spinal cord ischemia and then clarified the mechanism of the spastic paraparesis induced by intrathecal morphine. Spinal cord ischemia was induced by aortic occlusion lasting 6 min. We first determined whether intrathecally administered GABA agonists (muscimol or baclofen) improve the spastic paraparesis in this model. GABA agonists did not improve the paraparesis. Next, we examined the effect of GABA antagonists (bicuculline or 5-aminovaleric acid) and determined the interaction between morphine and GABA antagonists. In an isobolographic analysis, the 50% effective dose decreased below the theoretical additive line, indicating a synergistic interaction between morphine and GABA antagonists. These results indicate that the spastic paraparesis induced by intrathecal morphine may be mediated in part by GABA receptors.
The purpose of this study was to investigate interactions between morphine and GABAergic agonists or antagonists on motor function after spinal cord ischemia and then clarify the mechanism of the spastic paraparesis induced by intrathecal morphine. The spastic paraparesis induced by intrathecal morphine may be mediated in part by GABA receptors.
Little is known about mechanisms underlying female rodent aggression during the late postpartum period with no pups present. Studies of aggression, dominance, and oxytocin (OT) response in cocaine-treated females are sparse.
This study was designed to examine dominance (drinking success) and aggression in a limited-access drinking model of water competition. Acute OT level measures were made on postpartum day (PPD) 36 in several brain regions of interest. Chronic and intermittent cocaine- and saline-treated and untreated rats 10 days post-weaning were tested (without pups) over PPDs 31-35 following cessation of cocaine treatment 10-30 days before testing.
Subjects were water-deprived overnight, and triads consisting of an untreated control (UN), a chronic continuous saline-treated (CS), and chronic continuous cocaine-treated (CC; 30 mg/kg/day throughout gestation) or a UN, an intermittent saline-treated (IS), and an intermittent cocaine-treated (IC; 30 mg/kg two consecutive days every 4 days throughout gestation until PPD 20) female were tested for aggression and drinking behavior during 5 min sessions on five consecutive days. The amygdala, medial preoptic area (MPOA), and ventral tegmental area were assayed for OT levels.
CC and IC females were more aggressive than controls, but only IC females drank more often than controls. OT levels were lower in the MPOA of IC and CC females than in controls.
Findings demonstrate that long after cessation of treatment, CC- and IC-treated non-lactating females (no pups present) had higher rates of aggression, altered drinking behavior, and acutely lower MPOA OT levels.
The dog heart-lung preparations were prepared. The "equilibrium point", which could be defined as the point at which the cardiac output (CO)-curve and the venous return (VR)-curve crossed, when the CO and VR were plotted against the right atrial pressure, was recorded directly by utilizing an X-Y recorder. The CO-curve was obtained, as a locus of the equilibrium point, by raising and lowering the level of blood in the venous reservoir (competence test). The meaning of the procedure was shown to increase or decrease the mean systemic pressure, and to cause the corresponding parallel shift in the VR-curve. The VR-curve was obtained by changing myocardial contractility. When heart failure was induced by pentobarbital or by chloroform, the equilibrium point shifted downwards to the right, depicting the VR-curve. During development of the failure, the slopes of CO-curves decreased gradually. Effects of cinobufagin and norepinephrine were also analyzed. Utilization of the X-Y recorder enabled us to settle the uniform experimental conditions more easily, and to follow the effects of drugs continuously on a diagram equating the CO- and VR-curves (Gyton's scheme).
To determine the effects of prenatal cocaine exposure on intrauterine growth and neurologic function, 30 term infants were evaluated prospectively: 14 cocaine-exposed and 16 unexposed. Cocaine-exposed infants had significantly lower mean birth weights, birth lengths, and head circumferences than urine-negative controls. Neurologic abnormalities among cocaine-exposed newborns included hypertonia of any type (86% vs 33%), axial hypertonia (79% vs 19%), plantar extension (46% vs 19%), and coarse tremor (57% vs 12%). The degree of hypertonia was sufficiently severe to warrant a diagnosis of "hypertonic tetraparesis" in 64% of cocaine-exposed and 12% of unexposed infants (P = .007). This diagnosis was highly correlated to small head size (r = 0.48; P = .01). Persistent tonic downward gaze was evident in two neurologically abnormal cocaine-exposed newborns. Gaze abnormalities improved slightly over the next 3 weeks of observation. One such infant re-evaluated at 6 months of age revealed resolution of tonic downward gaze and neurologic findings. We conclude that prenatal cocaine exposure is associated with tone and movement abnormalities in newborn infants.
Opioid-induced glial activation and its proinflammatory consequences have been associated with both reduced acute opioid analgesia and the enhanced development of tolerance, hyperalgesia and allodynia following chronic opioid administration. Intriguingly, recent evidence demonstrates that these effects can result independently from the activation of classical, stereoselective opioid receptors. Here, a structurally disparate range of opioids cause activation of signaling by the innate immune receptor toll like receptor 4 (TLR4), resulting in proinflammatory glial activation. In the present series of studies, we demonstrate that the (+)-isomers of methadone and morphine, which bind with negligible affinity to classical opioid receptors, induced upregulation of proinflammatory cytokine and chemokine production in rat isolated dorsal spinal cord. Chronic intrathecal (+)-methadone produced hyperalgesia and allodynia, which were associated with significantly increased spinal glial activation (TLR4 mRNA and protein) and the expression of multiple chemokines and cytokines. Statistical analysis suggests that a cluster of cytokines and chemokines may contribute to these nociceptive behavioral changes. Acute intrathecal (+)-methadone and (+)-morphine were also found to induce microglial, interleukin-1 and TLR4/myeloid differentiation factor-2 (MD-2) dependent enhancement of pain responsivity. In silico docking analysis demonstrated (+)-naloxone sensitive docking of (+)-methadone and (+)-morphine to human MD-2. Collectively, these data provide the first evidence of the pro-nociceptive consequences of small molecule xenobiotic activation of spinal TLR4 signaling independent of classical opioid receptor involvement.
The fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 gene is differentially spliced to encode two transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor proteins that have different ligand-binding specificities and exclusive tissue distributions. We have used Cre-mediated excision to generate mice lacking the IIIb form of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 whilst retaining expression of the IIIc form. Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2(IIIb) null mice are viable until birth, but have severe defects of the limbs, lung and anterior pituitary gland. The development of these structures appears to initiate, but then fails with the tissues undergoing extensive apoptosis. There are also developmental abnormalities of the salivary glands, inner ear, teeth and skin, as well as minor defects in skull formation. Our findings point to a key role for fibroblast growth factor receptor 2(IIIb) in mesenchymal-epithelial signalling during early organogenesis.
The present study was aimed at investigating the effects of Daucus carota seeds on cognitive functions, total serum cholesterol levels and brain cholinesterase activity in mice. The ethanolic extract of Daucus carota seeds (DCE) was administered orally in three doses (100, 200, 400 mg/kg) for seven successive days to different groups of young and aged mice. Elevated plus maze and passive avoidance apparatus served as the exteroceptive behavioral models for testing memory. Diazepam-, scopolamine- and ageing-induced amnesia served as the interoceptive behavioral models. DCE (200, 400 mg/kg, p.o.) showed significant improvement in memory scores of young and aged mice. The extent of memory improvement evoked by DCE was 23% at the dose of 200 mg/kg and 35% at the dose of 400 mg/kg in young mice using elevated plus maze. Similarly, significant improvements in memory scores were observed using passive avoidance apparatus and aged mice. Furthermore, DCE reversed the amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) and diazepam (1 mg/kg, i.p.). Daucus carota extract (200, 400 mg/kg, p.o.) reduced significantly the brain acetylcholinesterase activity and cholesterol levels in young and aged mice. The extent of inhibition of brain cholinesterase activity evoked by DCE at the dose of 400 mg/kg was 22% in young and 19% in aged mice. There was a remarkable reduction in total cholesterol level as well, to the extent of 23% in young and 21% in aged animals with this dose of DCE. Therefore, DCE may prove to be a useful remedy for the management of cognitive dysfunctions on account of its multifarious beneficial effects such as, memory improving property, cholesterol lowering property and anticholinesterase activity.
Residual depression and medication-induced sedation remain significant problems for many patients with bipolar disorder (BD). Some evidence indicates that bipolar depression may be more responsive to dopaminergic agents, suggesting that adjunctive stimulant medication may be an effective treatment for bipolar depression as well as for medication-induced sedation. However, there are few data regarding the use of these medications in BD, likely due in part to concerns regarding potential stimulant-induced switching and stimulant abuse.
In order to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of psychostimulants in BD, we retrospectively reviewed the cases of eight consecutive individuals from our clinic (five with bipolar I and three with bipolar II) who received adjunctive stimulants (either methylphenidate or amphetamine) within the last 2 years. Primary target symptoms of stimulant therapy included residual depression and medication-induced sedation. The degree of clinical change in target symptoms was estimated, and the Clinical Global Impression-BP Version scale (CGI-BP) was used to evaluate the overall severity of illness at baseline, 6 months after stimulant initiation, and at last visit.
The eight patients generally showed moderate clinical improvement in their target symptoms and substantial improvement of overall bipolar illness (mean change in CGI-BP overall score 2.9). There was no evidence of stimulant-induced switching or abuse. The stimulants were well tolerated.
The present case series suggests that adjunctive stimulants may be a reasonable therapeutic option for treating residual depression and medication-induced sedation in some patients. Controlled trials are needed to assess the safety and effectiveness of stimulant augmentation in BD.
A case history of a 19-year old epileptic woman with diffuse encephalopathy of unknown aetiology and frequent attacks of status, epilepticus, whose last episode of the status epilepticus was successfully treated with intravenous lidocaine, after several first-line antiepileptic drugs failed to control, it, is presented. Although highly effective in treating refractory status epilepticus this treatment received little attention in clinical practice. We observed no un desired side effects of such treatment. The authors shortly reviewed current knowledge about several widely used treatment protocols. Some specific pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of lidocaine during convulsions were also mentioned. A warning was drawn to toxic fide effects of lidocaine which were precipitated by increasing brain-blood pH gradient during convulsions, which in high doses included seizures caused by lidocaine per se. The effects of high dose lidocaine on the latencies and the amplitudes of the BAER and possible ways for mechanism of drug action were also reviewed.
Currently, there is no effective treatment for neurological complications of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus that persists despite the use of combination antiretroviral therapy. A medium throughput assay was developed for screening neuroprotective compounds using primary mixed neuronal cells and mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid. Using this assay, a library of 2,000 compounds was screened. Out of 256 compounds that showed variable degrees of neuroprotection, nine were related to epicatechin, a monomeric flavonoid found in cocoa and green tea leaves that readily crosses the blood-brain barrier. Hence, catechin, epicatechin, and the related compound, epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) were further screened for their neuroprotective properties against HIV proteins Tat and gp120, and compared to those of resveratrol. Epicatechin and EGCG targets the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its precursor proBDNF signaling pathways, normalizing both Tat-mediated increases in proapoptotic proBDNF and concomitant Tat-mediated decreases in the mature BDNF protein in hippocampal neurons. Epicatechin and epigallocatechin gallate were more potent than catechin or resveratrol as neuroprotectants. Due to its simpler structure and more efficient blood-brain barrier penetration properties, epicatechin might be the best therapeutic candidate for neurodegenerative diseases including HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders where oxidative stress is an important pathophysiological mechanism.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the most common indication for the development of end stage renal diseases. Inflammation is increasingly seen as the core process in the development of diabetes. Inflammatory markers e.g. NFkappaB (p65 levels), TNFalpha, COX-2 and TGFbeta-smad signaling are the key elements in the development of DN. Renin-angiotensin system suppressors like telmisartan have been used to treat DN, but they are not able to prevent completely because of development of resistance against them. Anti-inflammatory agents like, aspirin acts through both COX dependent and COX independent pathways. Hence, we thought that combining aspirin with telmisartan will be better therapeutic option in preventing the progression of nephropathy in diabetes. In the present study we studied the effect of this combination on inflammatory markers [COX-2, NFkappaB (p65 levels), TNFalpha], TGFbeta-smad expression in preventing the progression of streptozotocin-induced type I diabetic nephropathy. Treatment of aspirin significantly prevented the progression of nephropathy and inhibited the augmented COX-2, NFkappaB (p65 levels), TNFalpha, and TGFbeta-smad expression. Combination of aspirin with telmisartan resulted in a further decrease in the development of nephropathy and inflammatory markers in comparison to aspirin alone treatment. This is the first report which shows that aspirin in combination with telmisartan is more proficient in the treatment of diabetic nephropathy than any single drug therapy and involves the change in expression of inflammatory markers and TGFbeta-smad signaling.
This retrospective chart review evaluated the use of zonisamide as adjunctive treatment in patients with bipolar depression.
The charts of outpatients with bipolar I or II disorder treated with adjunctive zonisamide were reviewed. The efficacy of zonisamide was assessed via comparison of physician-rated Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) and Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S) Scale scores at baseline and after 6 weeks of therapy using paired t-tests. Patients who scored < or = 2 on the CGI-S after 6 weeks of zonisamide therapy were considered good responders to zonisamide.
Charts for 12 patients (four men and eight women) with a mean (+/- SD) age of 39.6 (+/- 7.6) years were evaluated. Patients received a mean (+/- SD) zonisamide dosage of 236 (+/- 68) mg/day. Mean GAF scores significantly improved from 44.0 at baseline to 59.3 at week 6 (P = 0.05). Mean CGI-S scores improved from 4.54 at baseline to 3.42 at week 6, but the change was not statistically significant. Six patients (50.0%) were considered responders to zonisamide. Four patients discontinued zonisamide therapy, two for an adverse event (sedation) and two for lack of efficacy.
Zonisamide may be a useful adjunctive treatment for some patients with bipolar depression. Conclusions from this study are limited due to its retrospective design. Further investigation of zonisamide in the treatment of bipolar depression is warranted.
This study compared the ability of nine oximes (HI-6, HLö7, MMB-4, TMB-4, carboxime, ICD585, ICD692, ICD3805, and 2-PAM) to reactivate in vivo cholinesterase (ChE) in blood, brain, and peripheral tissues in guinea pigs intoxicated by one of four organophosphorus nerve agents. Two bis-pyridinium compounds without an oxime group, SAD128 and ICD4157, served as non-oxime controls. Animals were injected subcutaneously with 1.0 x LD(50) of the nerve agents sarin, cyclosarin, VR or VX and treated intramuscularly 5 min later with one of these oximes. Toxic signs and lethality were monitored; tissue ChE activities were determined at 60 min after nerve agent. Some animals exposed to sarin or cyclosarin, with or without non-oxime treatment, died within 60 min; however, no animal treated with an oxime died. For VR or VX, all animals survived the 60 min after exposure, with or without non-oxime or oxime therapy. The four nerve agents caused differential degrees of inhibition in blood, brain regions and peripheral tissues. The tested oximes exhibited differential potency in reactivating nerve agent-inhibited ChE in various peripheral tissues, but did not affect ChE activity in the brain regions. There was no direct relation between blood and peripheral tissues in the reactivating efficacy of oxime treatments. ChE inhibited by sarin was the most susceptible to oxime reactivation while cyclosarin the least susceptible. There was no difference in the ChE reactivating potency between the dimethanesulfonate and dichloride salts of HI-6. MMB-4 significantly reactivated the ChE inhibited by these four nerve agents in blood and all three peripheral tissues of the guinea pig, and among all the oximes tested it was the most effective in vivo ChE reactivator against all four nerve agents.
Valproic acid (VPA), cytochalasin D (CD) and 7-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene (7-OH-AAF) each caused abnormal closure of the anterior neuropore in rat embryos cultured in vitro in the absence of an exogenous bioactivation system. Morphological comparisons showed that although all three compounds prevented normal neural tube closure, each did so in a distinctive manner. Modulation of GSH in cultured rat conceptuses was evaluated to determine whether common responses occurred relative to the ability of different chemicals to elicit neural tube defects. Malformation incidence in embryos (10-14 somites) varied widely following exposure to CD (44%), 7-OH-AAF (29%) or VPA (17%). The incidence of CD-elicited malformations was increased by 50% following GSH depletion by L-buthionine-S, R-sulfoximine (BSO) and was decreased by nearly 60% when the cysteine pro-drug 2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylate (OTC) was added to the culture medium. GSH modulation also exerted significant effects on the incidence of abnormal neurulation caused by VPA or 7-OH-AAF. A relatively low incidence of open neural tubes produced by VPA or 7-OH-AAF alone was shown to be a function of the state of maturation in the embryos. Conceptuses cultured in the presence of VPA or 7-OH-AAF from an earlier gestational age (6-10 somites) showed 2-3 fold increases in the number of embryos with open neural tubes. Differential alterations in protein and DNA content were observed among embryos and yolk sacs after various treatments indicating possible differences in the site of embryotoxicity. These results demonstrate the role of GSH status on the capacity of three chemically diverse compounds to elicit abnormal neurulation in cultured rat embryos and suggest some possible mechanisms by which normal neurulation may be compromised.
Tanshinone IIA is a widely used Chinese herbal medicine isolated from Danshen (Salvia miltiorrhiza). Recent studies indicate that tanshinone IIA may have anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties, as well as cytotoxic activities against multiple human cancer cell lines. This study was performed to determine the anti-cancer activity of tanshinone IIA on human breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo and to elucidate the underlying mechanism of this activity. Human breast cancer cell lines (estrogen receptor-positive and -negative) were treated with tanshinone IIA and tamoxifen. The inhibitory effects of tanshinone IIA and tamoxifen on breast cancer cell proliferation were examined using MTT assays, BrdU incorporation, immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. Upon treatment with tanshinone IIA, breast cancer cell proliferation was significantly inhibited in a dose- and time-dependent manner (IC50 = 0.25 microg/ml) and apoptotic cell populations increased, while tamoxifen inhibited only ER-positive breast cancer cells prominently and had no effect on ER-negative cells. In addition, tamoxifen had significantly weaker inhibitory effect than tanshinone IIA on ER-positive breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, tanshinone IIA decreased the expression of P53 and bcl-2, but not of cerbB-2, in estrogen receptor-positive and negative xenografted nude mice. Our findings suggest that tanshinone IIA might have potential anti-cancer activity that is stronger than tamoxifen in both ER-positive and ER-negative breast cancers. This function could be attributed in part to its inhibition of proliferation and apoptosis induction in cancer cells via the downregulation of multiple genes involved in cell cycle regulation, cell proliferation, apoptosis and DNA synthesis.
We have hypothesized that the 5-hydroxytrypta-mine-1A receptor agonist tandospirone reduces postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV). In a double-blinded, randomized design, 3 groups of 30 patients each received 1 of the following oral medications 90 min before arrival in the operating room, together with famotidine 20 mg: 1) placebo (P group), 2) tandospirone 10 mg (T10 group), or 3) tandospirone 30 mg (T30 group). Standard anesthetic regimens and techniques were applied for all patients. All episodes of PONV were recorded during the following time intervals: 0-3 h and 3-24 h after the end of general anesthesia. The incidence of a complete response, defined as no PONV and no need for other rescue antiemetics, was significantly more frequent in the T30 group than in the P group during 0-24 h (P = 0.019), especially during 3-24 h (P = 0.007) after general anesthesia. In conclusion, premedication with oral tandospirone is effective against PONV in patients undergoing tympanoplasty under general anesthesia.
Oral tandospirone reduced the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting without significant adverse effects in adults undergoing tympanoplasty under general anesthesia.
The iron chelating activity of deferoxamine (DFO) has been exploited to obtain protection against the peroxidative damage in rat heart which was induced by the administration of an acute dose of doxorubicin (DXR, 25 mg x kg(-1), i.v.). The peroxidative lesions were evaluated both biochemically and histopathologically, 48 h after DXR administration. Abnormal biochemical changes including a marked increase in the levels of serum creatine kinase isoenzyme (CK-MB), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), as well as elevated serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and transaminases (ALT and AST) levels were observed. Myocardial tissue from DXR treated rats showed a marked increase in malondialdehyde (MDA) production and depletion of reduced glutathione (GSH) contents. Similar results were also observed in both kidney and liver tissues. Pretreatment of rats with DFO, given i.p. 30 min prior to DXR injection, substantially reduced the peroxidative damage in the myocardium, hepatic and renal tissues and markedly lowered the serum CK-MB, LDH and the other biochemical variables. The protective effects obtained by DFO administration, however, were not complete and did not reach those of the control group. The significant protection against DXR-induced cardiomyopathy by DFO was evident from the histopathological findings observed by light microscopy. DFO at a dosing level equivalent to 10-fold of that of DXR was useful to obtain protective effects. Higher DFO dosing levels did not, however, show more improvement in the DXR-induced cardiotoxicity and at the same time exhibited hepatoxicity which was confirmed by microscopical examination. These results strongly suggest that DFO protects against acute DXR-induced cardiotoxicity in a dose-dependent manner with recognizing the presence of mild DFO-related biochemical and cytological hepatic toxicity.
We report a case of acute sacroiliitis with severe disability after only 3 weeks of isotretinoin therapy with graduate reduction of pain, limitation and muscle incompetence after discontinuation of the drug and ACTH-depo injection and Ethodolac therapy. Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable relationship between isotretinoin therapy and bilateral sacroiliitis. We discussed possible mechanisms of sacroiliitis and disability due to isotretinoin treatment.
Eighteen patients with poor risk Ewing's sarcoma (including 11 patients with metastatic disease at presentation) received consolidation therapy of busulphan and melphalan with autologous stem cell rescue. There were nine females. The median age at diagnosis was 14.2 years (range 2.75-30 years). There was one early death due to cytomegalovirus pneumonitis. One patient developed a single generalised convulsion during busulphan therapy. Severe renal toxicity was not encountered. One patient developed veno-occlusive disease of the liver (VOD) which eventually resolved. With a median follow up of 2 years, 13 patients survive including six with initial metastatic disease. We conclude that high-dose busulphan/melphalan is well-tolerated and should be evaluated for efficacy in a larger series of patients with high risk Ewing's sarcoma.
microRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression by targeting messenger RNA (mRNA) transcripts. Recently, a miRNA expression profile of human tumors has been characterized by an overall miRNA downregulation. Explanations for this observation include a failure of miRNA post-transcriptional regulation, transcriptional silencing associated with hypermethylation of CpG island promoters and miRNA transcriptional repression by oncogenic factors. Another possibility is that the enzymes and cofactors involved in miRNA processing pathways may themselves be targets of genetic disruption, further enhancing cellular transformation. However, no loss-of-function genetic alterations in the genes encoding these proteins have been reported. Here we have identified truncating mutations in TARBP2 (TAR RNA-binding protein 2), encoding an integral component of a DICER1-containing complex, in sporadic and hereditary carcinomas with microsatellite instability. The presence of TARBP2 frameshift mutations causes diminished TRBP protein expression and a defect in the processing of miRNAs. The reintroduction of TRBP in the deficient cells restores the efficient production of miRNAs and inhibits tumor growth. Most important, the TRBP impairment is associated with a destabilization of the DICER1 protein. These results provide, for a subset of human tumors, an explanation for the observed defects in the expression of mature miRNAs.
The purpose of this study was to develop a high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) and peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) regimen for treatment of patients with ovarian carcinoma that could be administered in an outpatient setting. Fourteen patients with advanced ovarian (n = 9) or breast (n = 5) carcinoma, who had failed conventional chemotherapy, were entered into a dose-escalation trial to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of carboplatin that could be administered with fixed doses of melphalan (160 mg/m2) and mitoxantrone (50 mg/m2). Twenty-five additional patients were included in a phase II trial at the MTD. Two of two patients had grade 4 severe regimen-related toxicities (RRT), one fatal, at a dose level of 1600 mg/m2. Two of 29 patients (6.9%) treated at the MTD (carboplatin, 1400 mg/m2) died of RRT. All three patients who died of toxicity had a calculated AUC for carboplatin >30 mg/ml/min. Thirty-one patients with ovarian cancer who had failed chemotherapy were treated, 24 at the MTD. Fourteen of 20 patients (70%) with ovarian carcinoma with evaluable disease achieved a CR and seven (35%) are alive disease-free a median of 20 months (range, 7-26). Five of seven patients with ovarian cancer who had failed chemotherapy but were rendered clinically disease-free following surgery survive without progression a median of 13 months (range, 9-19). Eight of 16 (50%) platinum-resistant and 4/12 (33%) platinum-sensitive patients with ovarian cancer survive disease-free.
Rat postimplantation whole-embryo culture (WEC) is a promising alternative test for the assessment of developmental toxicity. Toxicogenomic-based approaches may improve the predictive ability of the WEC model by providing a means to identify compound-specific mechanistic responses associated with embryotoxicity in vivo. Furthermore, alterations in gene expression may serve as a sensitive, objective, and robust marker, which precedes the observation of classical developmental toxicity endpoints in time. In this study, in combination with morphological developmental assessments, we studied transcriptomic responses associated with four distinct teratogens (caffeine [CAF], methylmercury [MM], monobutyl phthalate, and methoxyacetic acid) after 4 h of exposure, well before apparent embryotoxicity in WEC. We evaluated gene expression changes associated with similar levels of induced morphological embryotoxicity for each teratogen (as determined by total morphological score), evaluating for functional enrichment and quantitative changes in response. Concentrations selected for each of the four teratogens used induced a number of common effects on embryonic development (neural tube closure and optic/otic system). Despite inducing common morphological effects, our analysis suggests limited overlap in terms of toxicogenomic response at the gene expression level and at the level of biological processes across all four test chemicals. Many unique responses associated with each chemical correlated with previously hypothesized modes of developmental toxicity. For example, alterations in developmental signaling and cholesterol metabolism were observed with MM and CAF, respectively. This initial study suggests that distinct chemically induced toxicogenomic responses precede morphological effects in WEC and that these responses are relevant with mechanisms of toxicity previously observed in vivo.
High-dose carboplatin, etoposide and ifosfamide (CEI) is an active chemotherapy regimen (HDCT) in solid tumors and lymphomas. In patients with previous exposure to cisplatin, its nephrotoxicity is dose-limiting. To determine the implications of nephrotoxicity on hematological recovery and clinical outcome, we analyzed 150 consecutive patients with germ cell tumors treated between August 1989 and September 1995 with carboplatin 1500-2000 mg/m2, etoposide 1200-2400 mg/m2, and ifosfamide 0-10 g/m2 followed by either BM or PBPC rescue. Five patients died (3%), three in the context of severe renal toxicity and early multiorgan failure. Overall, acute nephrotoxicity occurred in 43/150 (29%) patients, particularly at doses of carboplatin >1500 mg/m2. Hemodialysis was required in 12/150 (8%) patients, but could be discontinued until discharge in all except two survivors. Nephrotoxicity did not delay hematologic recovery when adjusted for the use of PBPC and hematopoietic growth factors by multivariate analysis, but resulted in higher transfusion requirements, more overall toxicities and a longer hospital stay. There were no differences in the response rates or survival in patients with or without nephrotoxicity. Acute nephrotoxicity is a frequent and clinically relevant complication of CEI in germ cell tumors. The acute side-effects from CEI are reversible in the majority of patients.
There is relatively little information regarding the critical xenobiotic-metabolizing cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes in Caenorhabditis elegans, despite this organism's increasing use as a model in toxicology and pharmacology. We carried out experiments to elucidate the capacity of C. elegans to metabolically activate important promutagens via CYPs. Phylogenetic comparisons confirmed an earlier report indicating a lack of CYP1 family enzymes in C. elegans. Exposure to aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)), which is metabolized in mammals by CYP1, CYP2, and CYP3 family enzymes, resulted in significant DNA damage in C. elegans. However, exposure to benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), which is metabolized in mammals by CYP1 family enzymes only, produced no detectable damage. To further test whether BaP exposure caused DNA damage, the toxicities of AFB(1) and BaP were compared in nucleotide excision repair (NER)-deficient (xpa-1) and NER-proficient (N2) strains of C. elegans. Exposure to AFB(1) inhibited growth more in xpa-1 than N2 nematodes, but the growth-inhibitory effects of BaP were indistinguishable in the two strains. Finally, a CYP-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate reductase-deficient strain (emb-8) of C. elegans was found to be more resistant to the growth-inhibitory effect of AFB(1) exposure than N2, confirming that the AFB(1)-mediated growth inhibition resulted from CYP-mediated metabolism. Together, these results indicate that C. elegans lacks biologically significant CYP1 family-mediated enzymatic metabolism of xenobiotics. Interestingly, we also found that xpa-1 nematodes were slightly more sensitive to chlorpyrifos than were wild type. Our results highlight the importance of considering differences between xenobiotic metabolism in C. elegans and mammals when using this alternative model in pharmaceutical and toxicological research.
We examined the association of common variants at the NPPA-NPPB locus with circulating concentrations of the natriuretic peptides, which have blood pressure-lowering properties. We genotyped SNPs at the NPPA-NPPB locus in 14,743 individuals of European ancestry, and identified associations of plasma atrial natriuretic peptide with rs5068 (P = 8 x 10(-70)), rs198358 (P = 8 x 10(-30)) and rs632793 (P = 2 x 10(-10)), and of plasma B-type natriuretic peptide with rs5068 (P = 3 x 10(-12)), rs198358 (P = 1 x 10(-25)) and rs632793 (P = 2 x 10(-68)). In 29,717 individuals, the alleles of rs5068 and rs198358 that showed association with increased circulating natriuretic peptide concentrations were also found to be associated with lower systolic (P = 2 x 10(-6) and 6 x 10(-5), respectively) and diastolic blood pressure (P = 1 x 10(-6) and 5 x 10(-5)), as well as reduced odds of hypertension (OR = 0.85, 95% CI = 0.79-0.92, P = 4 x 10(-5); OR = 0.90, 95% CI = 0.85-0.95, P = 2 x 10(-4), respectively). Common genetic variants at the NPPA-NPPB locus found to be associated with circulating natriuretic peptide concentrations contribute to interindividual variation in blood pressure and hypertension.
Little information exists about the effects of newer antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) on sexual function in men with epilepsy. We report a series of three male veterans whose sexual disorders improved with lamotrigine. All three had partial seizures. One patient was taking phenobarbital and gabapentin and complained of decreased potency and anorgasmia. After lamotrigine was added for better seizure control and the dosage of gabapentin was tapered, anorgasmia improved. The second patient complained of impotence after a rash while taking phenytoin and carbamazepine. Impotence persisted with phenobarbital, valproate, and gabapentin. Eight months after gabapentin was replaced with lamotrigine, impotence improved. The third patient complained of long-standing impotence. Treatment with five AEDs had no effect on the dysfunction. Lamotrigine was added to the carbamazepine regimen; impotence improved with decrease in carbamazepine and increase in lamotrigine. The favorable effect of lamotrigine on sexual disorders in these three patients suggests this drug should be considered under appropriate circumstances for men who have sexual dysfunction while taking other antiepileptic agents.
