To investigate whether phospholipase A2 (PLA2) plays a role in the pathogenesis of spinal cord injury (SCI).
Biochemical, Western blot, histological, immunohistochemical, electron microscopic, electrophysiological, and behavior assessments were performed to investigate (1) SCI-induced PLA2 activity, expression, and cellular localization after a contusive SCI; and (2) the effects of exogenous PLA2 on spinal cord neuronal death in vitro and tissue damage, inflammation, and function in vivo.
After SCI, both PLA2 activity and cytosolic PLA2 expression increased significantly, with cytosolic PLA2 expression being localized mainly in neurons and oligodendrocytes. Both PLA2 and melittin, an activator of endogenous PLA2, induced spinal neuronal death in vitro, which was substantially reversed by mepacrine, a PLA2 inhibitor. When PLA2 or melittin was microinjected into the normal spinal cord, the former induced confined demyelination and latter diffuse tissue necrosis. Both injections induced inflammation, oxidation, and tissue damage, resulting in corresponding electrophysiological and behavioral impairments. Importantly, the PLA2-induced demyelination was significantly reversed by mepacrine.
PLA2, increased significantly after SCI, may play a key role in mediating neuronal death and oligodendrocyte demyelination following SCI. Blocking PLA2 action may represent a novel repair strategy to reduce tissue damage and increase function after SCI.
A 45-year-old patient developed shortness of breath, intensive cough, hemoptysis, chest pain and acute bilateral pulmonary infiltrates following the inhalation of crack-cocaine. The bronchoalveolar lavage and transbronchial biopsy revealed infiltrations of polymorphonuclear neutrophils and the formation of foreign body granulomas. The diagnosis of a crack-syndrome was made and the patient rapidly improved under temporary discontinuation of cocaine inhalation and symptomatic therapy. Crack-cocaine is the free-base of cocaine-hydrochloride and its chemical properties allows it to be inhaled tobacco-like. Therefore the lungs become the principal organs exposed and affected. In addition to our findings, diffuse damage of the alveolar wall and capillary injury due to vasoconstriction and toxic action were reported, in some cases rapidly progressing into pulmonary oedema and ARDS. As the consumption of crack cocaine in Germany has markedly increased over the past decade, a higher prevalence of the reported syndrome has to be assumed.
Between February 1994 and November 1998, 56 oncology patients infected with vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) were treated with quinopristin-dalfopristin (Q-D) plus minocycline (MIN). Infections included bacteremia, urinary tract infection, pneumonia, and wound infection. The response rate was 68%, and the most frequent adverse event was arthralgia or myalgia (36%). Q-D-MIN is effective for VRE infection in cancer patients but is associated with a substantial frequency of arthralgia or myalgia.
Fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, is gaining increased acceptance in the treatment of adolescent depression. Generally safe and well tolerated by adults, fluoxetine has been reported to induce mania. The cases of five depressed adolescents, 14-16 years of age, who developed mania during pharmacotherapy with fluoxetine, are reported here. Apparent risk factors for the development of mania or hypomania during fluoxetine pharmacotherapy in this population were the combination of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and affective instability; major depression with psychotic features; a family history of affective disorder, especially bipolar disorder; and a diagnosis of bipolar disorder. Further study is needed to determine the optimal dosage and to identify risk factors that increase individual vulnerability to fluoxetine induced mania in adolescents.
The nociceptin receptors (NOPs) are expressed in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract on muscle cell membranes and neurons, as well as the immune cells that infiltrate the mucosa. The involvement of NOPs in the pathophysiology of GI inflammation has been suggested, but due to the lack of selective NOP agonists, it never fully elucidated. Our aim was to characterize the anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive effect of the NOP agonist, SCH 221510 [3-endo-8-[bis(2-methylphenyl)methyl]-3-phenyl-8-azabicyclo [3.2.1]octan-3-ol], as a potential therapeutic strategy in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). The anti-inflammatory action of SCH 221510 was determined after intraperitoneal, oral, and intracolonic administration of SCH 221510 (0.1-3.0 mg/kg once or twice daily) in mice treated with 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS). Antinociceptive action of SCH 221510 was evaluated in the mouse model of mustard oil (MO)-induced abdominal pain. Relative NOP mRNA expression was assessed in patients with IBD using real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. We found that the expression of NOP mRNA was significantly decreased in patients with IBD. The administration (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg i.p. twice daily and 3 mg/kg p.o. twice daily) of SCH 221510 attenuated TNBS colitis in mice. This effect was blocked by a selective NOP antagonist [J-113397 [(±)-1-[(3R*,4R*)-1-(cyclooctylmethyl)-3-(hydroxymethyl)-4-piperidinyl]-3-ethyl-1,3-dihydro-2H-benzimidazol-2-one]]. The intracolonic injections of SCH 221510 did not improve colitis in mice. The antinociceptive effect of SCH 221510 was observed after oral administration of SCH 221510 in MO-induced pain tests in mice with acute colitis. In conclusion, our results show a potent anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive effect upon selective activation of NOP receptors and suggest that the NOP agonist SCH 221510 is a promising drug candidate for future treatment of IBD.
The lethality, and concentrations of chloroquine in plasma, brain liver and heart, in control and pyrogen-treated rats were investigated. Pyrogen treatment increased the lethality, the convulsive activity, plasma and myocardial concentrations of chloroquine significantly. The results suggest that the initiation of therapy with chloroquine in acute febrile conditions may require smaller than usual dosage.
Fifty children were induced with busulphan and cyclophosphamide before bone marrow transplantation. Our standard dose of cyclophosphamide was 2 g/m2 daily for 4 days, but this dosage was reduced if necessary so as not to exceed 75 mg/kg/day. A basal pulse rate that increased by more than 20 beats/min or a reduction in ECG voltage were indications for stopping cyclophosphamide. As a consequence, the fourth dose of cyclophosphamide was omitted for four children. One child died of cardiac arrest related to cyclophosphamide. We used busulphan at a dosage of 4 mg/kg/day for 4 days; neither 'busulphan lung' nor veno-occlusive disease occurred in any patient. The use of busulphan and cyclophosphamide did not guarantee freedom from interstitial pneumonitis, but this seemed to be related rather to the nature of prior treatment and the cytomegalovirus antibody status of the patient. Thus, we have developed a safe chemotherapy schedule for transplantation that avoids the need for radiotherapy and can, if necessary, be repeated after a 3-month interval.
The histological appearances of liver biopsies of 13 patients who developed cholestasis following courses of flucloxacillin are presented. In most of the cases jaundice and pruritus were protracted and in nearly all cases liver function tests are yet to return to normal after mean follow-up of 18 mths. One patient died after 7 mths of jaundice and another shows clinical evidence of secondary biliary cirrhosis. Biopsies typically showed hepatocellular and canalicular bile stasis with minimal or no hepatitis. Mild portal fibrosis and a patchy portal lymphocytic infiltrate were usually present. In 4 cases bile ducts were reduced in number and in 6 cases reduced in size. Bile duct epithelium showed degenerative changes but only occasional infiltration by inflammatory cells. Ductular proliferation was quite variable and in some cases--most noticeably the fatal case--was inconspicuous despite depletion of bile ducts. The appearances suggested damage not only of hepatocytes but also of bile ducts and proliferating ductules. This may explain the prolonged and occasionally irreversible hepatic disease associated with the use of flucloxacillin. Flucloxacillin should be included amongst the causes of vanishing bile duct syndrome.
Doxorubicin (DOX), an anthracycline drug widely used for the treatment of various cancers, causes a cumulative dose-dependent cardiotoxicity that is characterized by an irreversible dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure. Antarth (ANT) a polyherbal preparation was evaluated for its cardioprotective properties against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in mice. Mice were treated with 25 mg/kg ANT orally once daily for 5 consecutive days before a single intraperitoneal injection of 15 mg/kg doxorubicin. The animals were killed 30 h after DOX treatment. DOX induced a significant elevation in the serum levels of glutamic pyruvic transaminase (GPT), glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT), creatine kinase (CK-MB) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), indicating its acute cardiotoxicity. The treatment of mice with ANT before DOX administration significantly reduced the serum levels of GPT, GOT, CK-MB and LDH indicating that ANT protected against the DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Pretreatment of mice with 25 mg/kg ANT inhibited the DOX-induced decline in the antioxidant status. Intraperitoneal injection of 1.25 mg/kg DOX once daily for 9 consecutive days significantly improved the survival of mice bearing Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC). Treatment of EAC with 25 mg/kg ANT alone did not affect the anticancer activity of DOX since ANT did not alter the tumor cell growth, the median survival time and average survival time of tumor bearing mice. The present study demonstrates that ANT protects mice against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity, without compromising the antineoplastic activity of DOX.
Several investigations have reported associations the serotonin 1A (5-HT1A) receptor to schizophrenia and psychotic disorders, making 5-HT1A receptor gene (HTR1A) an adequate candidate gene for the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and methamphetamine (METH)-induced psychosis. Huang and colleagues reported that rs6295 in HTR1A was associated with schizophrenia. The symptoms of methamphetamine (METH)-induced psychosis are similar to those of paranoid type schizophrenia. It may indicate that METH-induced psychosis and schizophrenia have common susceptibility genes. In support of this hypothesis, we reported that the V-act murine thymoma viral oncogene homologue 1 (AKT1) gene was associated with METH-induced psychosis and schizophrenia in the Japanese population. Furthermore, we conducted an analysis of the association of HTR1A with METH-induced psychosis.
Using one functional SNP (rs6295) and one tagging SNP (rs878567), we conducted a genetic association analysis of case-control samples (197 METH-induced psychosis patients and 337 controls) in the Japanese population. The age and sex of the control subjects did not differ from those of the methamphetamine dependence patients.
Rs878567 was associated with METH-induced psychosis patients in the allele/genotype-wise analysis. Moreover, this significance remained after Bonferroni correction. In addition, we detected an association between rs6295 and rs878567 in HTR1A and METH-induced psychosis patients in the haplotype-wise analysis. Although we detected an association between rs6295 and METH-induced psychosis patients, this significance disappeared after Bonferroni correction.
HTR1A may play an important role in the pathophysiology of METH-induced psychosis in the Japanese population. However, because we did not perform a mutation scan of HTR1A, a replication study using a larger sample may be required for conclusive results.
A female neonate, born by cesarean section at 37 weeks of gestation, presented with respiratory distress syndrome, right pneumothorax and anuria. A sonogram showed increased echogenicity, with neither hydronephrosis nor macroscopic cysts. Peritoneal dialysis was started on the 14th day because of renal insufficiency, but the newborn died on the 33rd day. Family history was unremarkable, except that the mother received piroxicam at about the 26th week of gestation. A sonogram at the 28th week showed oligohydramnios. Histopathological study of the kidneys revealed crowded glomeruli and only few differentiated proximal convoluted tubules in the inner cortex, abnormally differentiated microcystic tubules and microcystic glomeruli in the outer cortex. Periodic acid-Schiff staining showed only traces of brush border in the dilated tubules of the outer cortex. Immunoperoxidase staining for epithelial membrane antigen was positive in the luminal border of all tubules. Electron microscopy confirmed the presence of brush border remnants and other proximal tubular characteristics in some segments. The renal abnormality bears some similarities to that found in familiar renal tubular dysgenesis, but it fits better with those described after maternal use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The lesion in this case appears to have resulted from fetal exposure to piroxicam. Recently, a second pregnancy ended in a completely normal female newborn.
High doses of nicotine, the addictive component of tobacco, induce clonic-tonic seizures in animals. Pharmacological and biochemical data have suggested that alpha 7-containing neuronal nicotinic receptors (nAChRs) contribute to these seizures. To study potential alpha 7 contributions, we examined alpha 7 subunits with a Leu250-to-Thr substitution in the channel domain, which creates a gain-of-function mutation. Previous studies have shown that mice homozygous for the alpha 7 L250T mutation (T/T) die shortly after birth, but animals heterozygous for the mutation (+/T) are viable and grow to adulthood. Hippocampal neurons from the +/T mice exhibited altered alpha 7-type currents with increased amplitudes and slower desensitization kinetics, confirming a partial gain of function for the alpha 7 nAChR. We found that +/T mice were more sensitive to the convulsant effects of nicotine compared with their wild-type (+/+) littermates. Furthermore, although their behavior was normal in basal conditions, +/T mice showed a unique nicotine-induced phenotype, consisting of head-bobbing and paw-tapping movements. Increased sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures occurred despite a 60% decline in brain alpha 7 nAChR protein levels. There were no changes in the levels of alpha 4, alpha 5, alpha 6, alpha 7, beta 2, and beta 4 mRNA, or in [(125)I]epibatidine and [(3)H]nicotine binding between +/T and +/+ mice. Recent data from our laboratory show that alpha 7-null mice maintain normal sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. Hence, these present findings suggest that alterations in the properties rather than absence of alpha 7 nAChRs might affect the mechanisms underlying the convulsive properties of nicotine.
From a clinical point of view, orthostatic hypotension is a significant side effect during antidepressant treatment, particularly in the case of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). This prospective, randomized clinical trial evaluated the effects of clomipramine and moclobemide on orthostatic blood pressure during treatment for depression. One hundred and fifteen depressed inpatients, age up to 70 years, were randomized to treatment with either moclobemide (400 mg/day) or clomipramine (150 mg/day) after 1 week of placebo treatment. Orthostatic blood pressure was measured weekly over the 6-week study period. Clomipramine, but not moclobemide, caused a statistically significant fall in systolic (F = 9.37, P = 0.0037) and diastolic orthostatic blood pressure (F = 3.74, P = 0.0017). In the clomipramine-treated group of patients, we found no correlation between subjective complaints of orthostatic dizziness and the size of systolic orthostatic blood pressure. In conclusion, this study indicates that moclobemide does not induce orthostatic side effects, which is a significant problem in treatment with TCAs. However, the choice of antidepressants depends on other factors as well, e.g. the therapeutic efficacy.
The association between former amphetamine dependence and cognitive performance was studied in a sample of 12 individuals with former amphetamine dependence who had been abstinent for at least 1 year and in 12 age-, gender- and verbal IQ-matched controls. The groups were compared by cognitive tests on attention, memory, executive function and fluid intelligence. Individuals with former amphetamine dependence performed significantly poorer than controls in memory domain. Follow-up analysis of variance showed minor deficits in tests of delayed verbal memory. The results remained essentially the same when participants with current DSM-IV axis I diagnosis were excluded from the analysis. It is concluded that individuals with former amphetamine dependence have normal cognitive function with the possible exception of verbal memory. Thus, if widespread cognitive deficits are found in individuals with former amphetamine dependence, etiologies other than amphetamine abuse as such should be carefully investigated.
IBR positive cattle after vaccination with dead vaccine may excrete IBR/IPV (BHV-1) virus when facing a stress situation. On cattle exhibitions the share of such individuals may vary between 8 and 34%. Since 1988 in order to protect animals against infections IBR negative cattle and cows on 7 regional, one national and one international exhibitions were treated with Duphamun and Baypamun, respectively. After returning of animals to their owner IBR outbreaks were confirmed in 8 forms. This is low incidence compared with breeding exhibitions that where held in the same place or elsewhere. For protection against BHV-1 virus infection the use of a para-immunity-inducer is recommended. Nevertheless strict quarantine and following serological investigations are essential.
Diazoxide, a potent vasodilator and antidiuretic, was used to examine the relationship between hypotension and thirst in conscious rats with indwelling arterial and venous catheters. Bolus iv. injections (5-50 mg/kg) caused prompt, long-lasting, and dose-dependent reductions in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and stimulated drinking. Water intake and degree of hypotension were closely correlated when MAP was 10-65 mmHg below normal. At the time of drinking there were no significant changes in central venous pressure, plasma osmolality, or Na+ or K+ concentration. Plasma glucose increased approximately 35%, and blood volume increased approximately 10% (based on hematocrit changes and dilution of Evans blue). Captopril (100 mg/kg sc to block the renin-angiotensin system) enhanced the depressor response to diazoxide but abolished the dipsogenic response over the same range of arterial pressures tested in controls. Angiotensin II iv infusion restored drinking in captopril-treated animals. The combination of captopril and diazoxide did not block drinking to iv infusions of hypertonic saline or water deprivation. These results confirm that hypotension potently stimulates thirst and support the hypothesis that angiotensin II mediates the dipsogenic response in rats.
Sixty steroid-treated patients with asthma were evaluated for the presence of muscle weakness by use of both manual muscle testing and the Cybex II isokinetic dynamometer. The patients were compared to age and sex-matched sedentary control subjects. Forty-eight percent of the patients (12/25) taking greater than or equal to 40 mg per day of prednisone had hip flexor strength greater than or equal to 2 SD below the mean of age and sex-matched control subjects by Cybex testing (CT). Sixty-four percent of the patients (16/25) taking greater than or equal to 40 mg per day of prednisone were found on manual muscle testing to have hip flexor weakness. Only one patient taking less than 30 mg per day of prednisone was found to have muscle weakness. Biochemical parameters, including CPK, aldolase, SGOT, LDH, and LDH isoenzymes were measured to assess the degree of steroid-induced muscle damage. They neither correlated with the degree of hip flexor weakness as measured by CT, nor did they discriminate between patients receiving small doses and large doses of steroids. Changes in urinary excretion of creatine did not help to confirm the diagnosis of steroid myopathy. Although CT provides an objective means of assessing muscle strength in these patients, at this time no definitive chemical test is available for the diagnosis of steroid myopathy.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is found in plastics and other consumer products; exposure may lead to insulin resistance and development of type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) through over-activation of pancreatic β-cells. Previous studies using data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) showed an inconsistent association between prevalence of self-reported T2DM and urinary BPA. We used a different diagnosis method of T2DM (hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c)) with a larger subset of NHANES.
We analyzed data from 4,389 adult participants who were part of a sub-study of environmental phenol measurements in urine from three NHANES cycles from 2003 to 2008. T2DM was defined as having a HbA1c ≥ 6.5% or use of diabetes medication. The weighted prevalence of T2DM was 9.2%. Analysis of the total sample revealed that a two-fold increase in urinary BPA was associated with an odds ratio (OR) of 1.08 of T2DM (95% confidence interval (CI), 1.02 to 1.16), after controlling for potential confounders. However, when we examined each NHANES cycle individually, we only found a statistically significant association in the 2003/04 cycle (n = 1,364, OR = 1.23 (95% CI, 1.07 to 1.42) for each doubling in urinary BPA). We found no association in either the NHANES cycle from 2005/06 (n = 1,363, OR = 1.05 (95% CI, 0.94 to 1.18)); or 2007/08 (n = 1,662, OR = 1.06 (95% CI, 0.91 to 1.23)). Similar patterns of associations between BPA and continuous HbA1c were also observed.
Although higher urinary BPA was associated with elevated HbA1c and T2DM in the pooled analysis, it was driven by data from only one NHANES cycle. Additional studies, especially of a longitudinal design with repeated BPA measurements, are needed to further elucidate the association between BPA and T2DM.
The use of water extract (ip or ig) of Valeriana jatamansii together with pentobarbital sodium can enhance sedative and hypnotic effect in mice, inhibit the spontaneous activity in mice, and antagonize convulsive action induced by thiosemicarbazide (TSZ). Although ineffective on the convulsion induced by picrotoxin (PT), it can prolong the latent period of convulsion induced by PT in mice. The number of writhings in mice can be reduced after ip or ig water extract.
In Oriental medicine, roots of Polygala tenuifolia Willdenow have been known to be an important herb that exhibits sedative effects in insomnia, palpitation with anxiety, restlessness, and disorientation in humans. We previously reported that BT-11, extracted from those roots, improved scopolamine-induced amnesia in rats and inhibited acetylcholinesterase activities in vitro. Therefore, we proposed that BT-11 could remedy stress-induced memory deficits in rats. In this study, the stress-induced memory impairments in rats were significantly reversed almost to the control level by BT-11 treatment. To seek an active component of BT-11 that plays an important role in antipsychotic effects, we compared BT-11 with 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid (TMCA), which is a constituent of those root extracts. However, the effects of TMCA were less or were not consistent with those of BT-11 in some of tests. In particular, BT-11 reversed the stress-induced reduction of glucose utilization by [(18)fluorodeoxyglucose]FDG-PET and the levels of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) in rat brains to the control levels, whereas TMCA did not. Therefore, BT-11 improved stress-induced memory impairments through increment of glucose utilization and total NCAM levels in rat brains. In conclusion, BT-11 may be strongly effective against stress-induced amnesia in rats, through the combined effects of TMCA and other active components of BT-11.
The authors investigated changes of some haemodynamic parameters after sclerotization of oesophageal varices and after administration of isosorbide dinitrate in the preparation Iso Mack retard. Twenty patients with cirrhosis of the liver with oesophageal varices grade 3-4 were treated by endoscopic sclerotization only, while to a second comparable group of cirrhotic patients from the first stage of sclerotization oral Iso Mack retard was administered in daily doses of 80-120 mg, depending on tolerance. The haemodynamic parameters were investigated before the onset of treatment and again after completed sclerotherapy or at least three-month treatment with ISDN. After sclerotization of oesophageal varices the pressure in the portal circulation rises significantly as well as the flow through the portal vein due above all to an accelerated blood flow. On the other hand, ISDN prevents a rise of portal hypertension and leads even to a slight decline which is, however, not associated with a decline of the portal flow. A relative disadvantage is the adverse effect on systemic haemodynamics after large nitrate doses. The decline of the portal pressure caused by the vasodilatating effect of ISDN in the splanchnic and portal area is manifested in a very positive way by reduction of relapses of haemorrhage from oesophageal varices. ISDN may play a positive role in the treatment of portal hypertension with oesophageal varices, during acute haemorrhage as well as in the prevention of relapses of haemorrhage. A particularly favourable procedure is the combination with sclerotherapy of oesophageal varices. None of the procedures leads to reduction of the portal flow and preserves hepatic function.
17β-estradiol (E) and progesterone (P) are neuroprotective factors in the brain preventing neuronal death under different injury paradigms. Our previous work demonstrates that both steroids compensate neuronal damage and activate distinct neuroprotective strategies such as improving local energy metabolism and abating pro-inflammatory responses. The current study explored steroid hormone-mediated protection from brain damage and restoration of behavioral function after 1h transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO). Male and ovariectomized female rats were studied 24h after stroke. Both steroid hormones reduced the cortical infarct area in males and females to a similar extent. A maximum effect of ~60-70% reduction of the infarct size was evident after P and a combined treatment with both hormones. No infarct protection was seen in the basal ganglia. Testing of motor and sensory behavioral revealed an equal high degree of functional recovery in all three hormone groups. Gene expression studies in the delineated penumbra revealed that estrogen receptor (ER) alpha and beta are locally up-regulated. tMCAO-mediated induction of the pro-inflammatory chemokines CCL2, CCL5 and interleukin 6 was attenuated by E and P, whereas the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was fortified. Local expression of microglia/macrophage/lymphocyte markers, i.e. Iba1, CD68 and CD3, were significantly reduced in the penumbra after hormone treatment suggesting attenuation of microglia and lymphocyte attraction. These results demonstrate the neuroprotective potency of a combined treatment with E and P under ischemic conditions in both sexes and point at the regulation of chemokine-microglia/lymphocyte interactions as a supposable mechanism implicated in cell protection.
Not only is cocaine a powerfully addictive and dangerous drug of abuse, the use of the purified cocaine derivative crack has also reached epidemic proportions. Apart from causing fatal cardiorespiratory complications, crack cocaine is capable of producing surgical emergencies, which may or may not be associated with the pharmacology of cocaine itself. This is a report of crack-induced pneumoperitoneum, the mechanism of which seemed to be related to the prolonged Valsalva manoeuvre during crack smoking. Other differential diagnoses of crack related pneumoperitoneum are also discussed.
PCB 180 (2,2',3,4,4',5,5'-heptachlorobiphenyl) is a persistent and accumulating polychlorinated biphenyl abundantly present in food and the environment. In this study, we used highly purified PCB 180 (dioxinlike impurities: 2.7 ng TEQ(WHO)/g PCB 180) in a 28-day toxicity study in young adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Male and female rats were given total doses of 3, 10, 30, 100, 300, 1000 or 1700 mg/kg b.w. PCB 180 by gavage. Increased liver weights were observed at ≥ 300 mg/kg b.w. in males and females. No increases in serum ALT or ALP activities were found. A significant increase in liver pentoxyresorufin O-dealkylase (PROD) activity was found in males at ≥ 10 mg/kg b.w. and in females at ≥ 30 mg/kg b.w. In both genders, a significant induction of hepatic 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activity was also observed in males at ≥ 10 mg/kg b.w. and in females at ≥ 300 mg/kg b.w. Western blotting showed that mainly cytochromes P450 (CYPs) 2B1/2 and 3A1 were induced while slight effects were seen on CYP1A1, CYP1A2 and CYP1B1. However, no induction of CYP1A1, 1A2 and 1B1 was found on the mRNA level, except for a slight effect in females at 1000 mg/kg b.w. Furthermore, hepatic UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) 1A1 and 1A6 were markedly induced in males and slightly induced in females. The hepatic concentrations of apolar retinoids were decreased in males at ≥ 30 mg/kg b.w. and in females at ≥ 300 mg/kg b.w. Taken together our findings show that pure PCB 180 leads to hepatic changes in a dose range which did not cause CYP1A1 induction but causes centrilobular liver hypertrophy, affects drug-metabolizing enzymes involved in the metabolism of exogenous and endogenous substrates and leads to changes in liver retinoid levels. A benchmark dose (BMD) approach is presented in order to model lowest effective dose levels for these effects. Comparison of PCB 180 liver level related to BMDL₅ for hepatic hypertrophy in rats with human data on 'total' hepatic PCB levels in individuals without history of specific exposure suggests a relatively small margin of tissue burden in the range of 37-fold. Our results show that the highly pure non dioxin-like PCB 180 exerted strong effects different to dioxin-like compounds and that the low TEQ contamination allowed a characterization of the PCB as non-dioxinlike.
The authors present the results obtained during an audiometric screening of 153 children aged 5-18 years, affected by beta-thalassemia and treated with regular blood transfusions and iron overload chelation by means of desferrioxamine. Thirty-eight percent of the patients showed a significant sensorineural hearing loss at high frequencies with recruitment. Younger patients had a greater hearing loss, indicating that cochlear damage was not due to the disease itself. Furthermore, hearing loss appeared to be correlated with the mean and peak desferrioxamine doses administered and was higher in subjects with lower iron load. Thus, the ototoxic effect seems to have been higher when a good iron chelation had been obtained. Among our patients, conductive hearing loss was not more frequent than in patients without beta thalassemia.
